Markus stared at the creature to the left of Elasar, which, true to his words, had three fucking heads, and each of them was about the size of Markus’ torso. It almost looked like a patchwork creature, if not for the lack of awkward Frankenstein stitches, with a green head, a red head, and a blue head all morphing into a body that constantly changed colour and hue.

It was like an unholy mix between a hydra and a chameleon, its body four feet high and easily twelve feet long, the heads reaching higher than even Elasar did at seven or eight feet tall. The creature continued to remain still as Elasar spoke, not even screeching, as if it were totally placid and calm.

“Naturally, I have tamed this creature in its entirety, but I have also taken the liberty of crafting a Ring of Control for whosoever might purchase the creature, ensuring you won’t have to waste any time teaching it to beg or fetch.”

More laughter. More stares. Markus wondered what the fuck this thing might beg for. A ‘treat’ for it would probably be a full stable of horses.

“Show us what it can do!” one patron insisted, his voice childish and gleeful.

“Of course! That’s exactly what these are for!”

As he spoke, Elasar grabbed the cart with an exceptional show of magic, levitating it multiple feet into the air and dumping it about ten feet away from the trimander. Markus looked around him, heart pounding, and found that the bindings had been slipped away from everyone around him, and each of them were scrambling to pull the coverings off of their heads.

“Now, I’m afraid I must attend to a private matter for the next half hour, so my wonderful associates will handle the bidding on this creature.” A short laugh. “I thought it’d be fun if the bidding commence now! Start somewhere small… say a hundred thousand gold?”

“A hundred-fifty!” someone immediately shouted as the trimander stirred, spitting flames from one of its heads.

Markus grabbed his glaive as he and the other prisoners scrambled to their feet. He hadn’t been singled out from the rest of the crowd as someone not meant to be there, but he seriously didn’t think it mattered anymore. Just what in the fuck had he gotten himself into?

“Also, a big thanks to our helpers today! This demonstration would be impossible without all of you!” He paused. “Or rather, it would be impossibly dull… Anyways! I bid you all adieu, and happy bidding!”

“One-seven-five!” a burly voice roared, rivalling the blood-curdling screech of the trimander the second Elasar left. Was that… acid dripping from its third head?

“Wh-what the fuck… what do we do?!”

“Told you this would happen.”

“Not now, Daven!”

Markus leapt on top of the cart, grabbing his glaive in both hands, staring down the new threat he’d come to face, an experimental monster that he and his fellow prisoners had literally been put here to be eaten by.

Couldn’t say his life was dull.

“Get behind me!” Markus shouted, absolutely zero plan in mind, draining just enough mana from the Essence Stone as he did to tick him back over where he’d been hovering at 99% and push him into Overcharge once more.

“What the fuck do we do behind you?!”
