I do admit—I’m staring, and I ate some leaves at that point.
 
——
 
Six minutes later, I have the immense satisfaction of Pusher running into the jungle, covering her head. Ryoka Griffin doesn’t follow her. She wobbles—and I grab her before she goes over.
“Ow.”
“You okay, Ryoka? How many fingers am I holding up?”
“Eight? Uh oh.”
She’s got a black eye, and her nose is bleeding badly. I can see some very nasty bruises already showing up, but the wind shielded her, I think. And it certainly made an impact. I don’t think that I could knock Pusher head-over-heels with a punch, but with enough wind at your back, anything’s possible.
“You did a great job.”
“I didn’t sign up for getting punched. Do I have all my teeth?”
I reassure Ryoka that they’re all there, and we limp over to Erek. He’s looking mightily pleased with Ryoka. Even Smoothie gives Ryoka a sniffing over and offers her a mango of all things.
Seems like negotiations are successful. The Goldstreak Gorillas crowd around Ryoka, patting her curiously, clearly amazed that someone so scrawny could beat Pusher down. She endures it pretty well as I wash the blood off her face.
“Please tell me that worked, Erek?”
He’s nodding. Smoothie and him are giving each other pats, and she has this…melancholy expression, I’d say. Not triumphant, more like resolute and determined.
He’s set something in motion. She glances around, and several of the bigger gorillas excluding Pusher gather. They gaze at the rocks she and Erek were arguing over and begin arguing.
“Do we get reinforcements? Because I’m willing to put Pusher up against a Gorgon.”
Ryoka pants. Erek shakes his head.
“No? Not even one…?”
I’m imagining how that would even work, to get them to Elvallian since Ryoka can’t fly them. Erek makes a gesture and points at Smoothie and her tribe. He makes a shooing motion, then circles his finger. Points at the rocks, then points at himself.
“When?”
I ask him, and he shrugs. But then he bares his teeth and taps my chest, then his. He lopes over to Smoothie, and she approaches. She reaches out and taps my chest solemnly. She seems to want me to do the same, so I do. Then she nods.
“Hoom.”
It’s done. The entire tribe sighs, and I almost burst into tears. I don’t know why—until I see them gathering around the six gorillas that Smoothie pointed out. Some young, some old, and they pat each other. Comb the six’s hair…and I see Smoothie peering at Erek. Not like a friend, but like…someone who’s put into place something terrible.
He avoids her gaze as he lopes over to us. I bend over.
“Erek? What have they done?”
He ooks a bit and gestures. Ryoka and I hesitate, but this time, he doesn’t bother with a guessing game. Instead, he picks out a piece of paper and writes delicately.
They go. Find other tribes. All send some.
I turn and see it. Oh my fur.
Pathforgers. Six of them. Ryoka looks at Erek and then Smoothie. Then the stones. The map.
“Wait, they know where other gorilla tribes are.”
Erek shakes his head, and I answer for him.
“Not just gorillas. They must know…monkeys and apes. They know each other, Ryoka. Erek is calling on them for help.”
“Wh…how many?”
The silly-looking Orangutan bares surprisingly white teeth and raises that piece of paper.
All.
Then I shiver. Ryoka turns to Erek.
“All for us? Why? Because of Seve?”
“No, Ryoka. Because of me. Because of the promise. If I succeed, surely they have a chance. But the cost—we’re going to war, Erek.”
He just nods. Smoothie is giving orders, and I have a terrible sensation of loss. The tribe is moving, and I wonder if their home will remain when they’re done. How many? The six gorillas watch me, and I just nod to them. Clasp a hand over my heart, and they nod back to me as well.
No wonder Pusher was trying to stop them. I don’t think Ryoka gets the enormity of it all. She’s trying, but she’s never been that species willing to pour hundreds of Sariants into a breach, commit all it has again and again to failure’s jaws.
That’s only for Erek and me. Ryoka just thanks the gorillas. Then she turns and says, almost plaintively—
“So no one for now. I assume they’ll find us? Niers isn’t going to be happy about all the stuff we took. Can we show him something they’ve got?”
That lifts the mood a bit. Erek scratches his head. He goes back to Smoothie, and after some consideration, she turns and motions to an ape. He casts around, then finds a wrapped leaf. He unwraps it and presents Ryoka with the biggest, fattest caterpillar I’ve ever seen in my life.
Turns out Gorillas eat caterpillars. She stares at it so blankly he gives it a few encouraging squeezes until a vigorous squeeze explodes its face straight onto her.
Alas, poor Ryoka. Me and Erek watch her flying off, and she’s so upset we have to wait almost an hour for her to come back and get us.
The caterpillars don’t taste that bad, frankly. I’ve had worse. Either way, negotiations are successful. Smoothie gives me a look and touches my arm once. Then she just points up. And I see big brown eyes, that alien face staring at me. I see her fully and nod.
“Yeah. Way too high up.”
She understands that perfectly and pats my arm until we’re flying away.
 
——
 
The end of the log for now. I’m washing off grime and sweat in Elvallian, and Ryoka is getting checked out by a very amused Beth, who wants to know why she went for six rounds in a bare-knuckle match against a gorilla. We’re all heading out tomorrow, and Niers gave us a little speech at dinner wishing us well. He’s taking his students to war—but he’ll let us have Wil and Yerranola.
Bushrangers, Geneva, Beth, and the mixed Selphid-Lizardfolk forces. Tyrion Veltras out there, Rabbiteater’s group in danger, and Erin as a Fraerling while the Dyed Lands explode and Jungle Tails war with the Forgotten Wing company.
A mysterious facility. And Paxere’s deal with me. Not to mention Rhir, Erribathe, and tons of nations wanting me dead.
So much fun. How could it get worse? Well, I’m just happy to have an ally in Ryoka, so I’m signing this one as a good day for me.
 
 
Entry #50 — A Man Named Murphy
 
Emergency update. Writng on rd to Oel. Full move east. Ryoka flying ahead.
Woke up from sleep when broadcast began. Niers says—imposters. Ryoka told me about Murphy’s Law.
‘Whatever can go wrong will.’
If there were a god of Sariants, it would be him. Don’t tempt Murphy. And it seems like I invoked it in true Erin fashion.
We have someone else to rescue…if they’re even alive. However, we have a new priority mission. Another Earther was heading towards Baleros.
Cara O’Sullivan. Her ship went down just off the eastern coast.
It wasn’t the Bloodtear Pirates.
