Records of Pathforger 77-1 of the former Wending Hills colony, now integrated under the designation ‘Blindman’s Pact’ station. Entry #40.
 
If you’re reading this, I’m dead. Or I’ve made contact with another colony or Pathforger group large enough to surrender these records. Those are the two options I envision—the third being that you’re Niers Astoragon and you’ve somehow managed to decode my writings.
If so, congratulations. You’re even smarter than we think you are. I know for a fact it’s not easy; even a [Translation] spell only gives you gibberish.
It’s one thing to translate languages, written or otherwise, another to codebreak a cipher, and our written codes are all encrypted. If you were smart, you would have picked up on the translation-codes in the journal, but those won’t do you any good unless you know our language.
Since I’m writing this as if you’re reading this, let me first explain how damn hard it is to write anything with tiny hooves. Doing this with fingers? Infinitely easier. But with a hoof, all you can do is scratch at the ground. Words, the common tongue, can be done, but it’s tiring. So we adopted the chickenscratch design, throwing in our hoofprints, and the owners laugh at our silly writing in the dirt.
Enough mewling. This is a record of events, my debt to Erin Solstice, my attempt to move us even an inch closer to completing one of the Trials of Levelling, and my journey since landing in Baleros.
Normally, it would be a record for another Pathforger in my hoofsteps to use to copy my identity or continue pushing an objective. I’m sure the Pathforger assigned to The Wandering Inn read my notes. However…I don’t think anyone’s copying me this time.
I’d say that’s terrifying, but I’m beyond terror, I think. I have the greatest opportunity afforded to any Sariant Lamb since Eydole the Creator’s death. Damn her to torture in the afterlife, if there is one still. I can’t mess this up. This record, since my last ones were lost at sea or are still in the inn, will at least steady my mind. It’s a habit. So, to outline myself for any other colonies I may meet, here is my background.
I am Pathforger 77-1, the seventy-seventh member of my colony to be sent on an objective that advances the Trials of Levelling. First of my particular assignment, formerly to The Wandering Inn. Sometimes…that number is different. 6-173, I think, is the highest number of Pathforgers sent on a task that I know of on Izril’s shores. One hundred and seventy-three Pathforgers who tried to cutesy up to Barnvorr the Madman and earn his respect. He ate half of them, and it came to naught.
We know the odds. I’ve been ‘training’, as much as a Sariant Lamb can train, since I was old enough to walk. I don’t know how other continents’ colonies do it, but Pathforgers are volunteers. It’s too much stress and pressure for other lambs to do the job; they’re just told to make themselves cute, gain their owners’ sympathies, and to report in and do small tasks for the colony.
Gather intelligence. Smuggle food out if not all of the colony is being fed. Nab a magical item—rarely. Mostly, the largest task a Sariant Lamb that’s not a Pathforger will be asked to do is poison a mutt that enjoys savaging us, or stand lookout while a braver lamb does what has to be done.
My name is Nerry. I’m not sure if it’s my Petname or…my real one. Half the Wild Colonies would spit on me just for using it, but I like it. It’s Nerry, short for ‘Nerrhavia’, as in the Immortal Tyrant. Even if it was suggested to me by my last owners…they’re a special case, and I like it.
 
——
 
I’ve written the summary of my actions at The Wandering Inn and my other observations about Nanette Weishart, Ryoka Griffin, and Erin Solstice as Pathfriends above. Any Sariant colony who reads this journal will understand it is paramount to keep them alive. Pathfriends are so rare…few people can even hear of the Trials of Levelling and not forget. Let alone be on our side.
Not that I plan for this journal to be in anyone’s hands…but I have put some signals out, publicly. Assuming any lambs could read my foot gestures. If they have, I haven’t made contact with any, yet.
I’m alone. Baleros has few colonies I know of. I shall make do.
What else shall I say? I wrote of how I got here. It has been about a week since Niers Astoragon admitted me into his academy. I think I’ve played the part of Erin Solstice well enough, but I have my doubts.
He’s smart. Too smart, and I don’t know her. Ryoka already seems to have suspicions, and despite my ‘Warform’ abilities from that Lucifen, Paxere, I can’t display any of Erin’s actual Skills.
I can only do as I swore when I awoke with Silvenia’s magic on me. It might be a joke from the Death of Magic or perhaps a simple trick to save the truly important person’s life, Erin’s. Or perhaps she knows? If so, she’s not on any list of Pathfriends I’ve ever known. Regardless—
I have sworn to push forwards the Trials of Levelling as far as I can while I am disguised as Erin Solstice. I have also sworn to make myself the magnet to attract all the death drawn her way. The two are connected; if I impress or terrify foes above Level 56 while I am ‘her’, I fulfill the pact. So don’t think it’s all self-sacrifice and a debt to her.
I have one chance. If I die, let me die bringing us one step closer to that promised day. Or let the illusion break and cast us into despair that we may emerge from the other side at last. We are drowning in these shallow seas of indifference, unnoticed, uncared for, the cute creatures who never desired to be made thusly. Such unserious waters, but our limbs can barely tread a puddle’s length. Let us have our promised levels or drown.
So we pray.
 
 
Entry #41 — Strategy and bodies.
 
No matter how many times I wake up, I cannot get used to being a Human. Don’t get me wrong, I’ve dreamed of it, and I’m sure you have as well, if you’re a Pathforger like me.
It feels…amazing. I know Erin’s no Grimalkin, no great warrior, and I doubt it copied any Skill-based strength she has, the transformation spell. But she feels strong.
She’s twenty-one years old, I think. In the prime of her life. When I kick the silk sheets off me, I can leap to my feet, even do a cartwheel. And I am exercising.
Sariant Lambs, you might think you’re tough, that you can run fast, and that you’re strong—for our people. But it’s nothing like the ability to reach down, pick something up, and feel muscle, real muscle working. In my old body, I was considered to be the strongest of lambs because I could push a wheelbarrow a few dozen paces by myself.
Erin runs. Erin’s body can dance, spin, kick, punch—
 
——
 
My hand still hurts from punching the wall, so I’m writing this with my other. At least Sariant Lamb cipher is easy to write, regardless of hand.
I may get a tad exuberant when no one is watching me. And there are downsides! The nose is one.
It drips. It has boogers. It…it’s gross. Sariant Lambs have noses, obviously, but not a proboscis like Humans do. As for Human physiology, it’s weird. It’s so much more reactive than a Sariant Lamb’s.
We were made by Eydole the Delightful, a Level 69 [Beast Master] a mere 600 years ago. No one ever said she did it perfectly. Our limbs are too fragile. To make us the cutest animals in the world, she sacrificed all our ability to defend ourselves while enhancing our brains to be perfect pets. Well, she made us too smart, but part of her compromises were sacrifices to our…what does Geneva call it?
Ah, yes. ‘Nervous systems’. We don’t have the same level of nerve endings as Humans. To a Sariant, things feel ‘bad’, like if our hoof gets crushed or we’re hurt, or ‘good’.
There’s no in-between. No fine sensation, just levels of pleasure because we’re supposed to be good-natured little shits. Human bodies?
When I stub my toe or crack a finger, I can tell you exactly how much that fucking smarts. Erin’s body is delightfully unhappy sometimes. If I eat too many hot pepper dishes, it comes out in the bathroom, and I’m not happy.
It’s great. But also concerning, because it attunes me to other things I didn’t even realize about myself. Like, uh…
Well, let me describe the recent problem I’ve encountered in Niers’ company headquarters in the city of Elvallian. He’s put me up in the top rooms in his academy, and I’m given a free run of the place. I have guards—I can tell they’re there, and the Bushrangers led by Daly Sullivan guard me as well, but I am being treated like his honored guest.
Ryoka’s here as well as Geneva and ‘Beth’, Geneva’s Selphid clone. The two [Doctors] are always doing research or setting up their medical equipment and such. More on them later. Ryoka? She’s in and out of Elvallian constantly, flying jobs for the local Runner’s Guild, visiting Tyrion Veltras, searching for Rabbiteater’s group.
I think I upset her. I haven’t told her—yet—who I am, but she’s stopped trying to hang out and talk out her feelings or cheer me up. She gives me the side-eye and whispers to Shaestrel, one of the ‘Winter Sprites’, a lot.
I like Shaestrel. There’s something about that little green Faerie, that tiny Human-like creature with insect-eyes and green gossamer wings, that makes me feel like she’s trustworthy. For one thing, I’m pretty sure she’s figured me out. For another, I respect anything as small as I am that can kill, that has power. She’s got power. So do the other Winter Faeries, but they’re always with Ryoka.
Hard to know who I can trust besides Ryoka on my mission. I’m worried she’ll freak out and accuse me of replacing Erin. If she turns on me, Niers Astoragon will boil and eat me, I’m sure of it.
But is he onto me? I fear he is.
 
——
 
“Alright, who here knows how to counter a [Knight]-charge with lances if they’ve got [Light Bridges]? Erin Solstice! Let’s see your Izrilian wisdom.”
He’s picking on me. I know he is, and the class knows he is. They shift, and four dozen pairs of eyes lock onto me, the ‘[Innkeeper]’, and then swing back to Niers as they wait for me to stand and report.
“I was going to say ‘pikes and crossbows’, Professor. But I bet that’s not the answer, huh?”
I try to speak like Erin would have, without respect, with that ironic way she has, or, if she’s playing it up, dimwitted-sounding. Or just—hard and intense, like I know she can be.
My smile’s good, but Niers never returns it. He scowls at me, and I feel my heart lurch, an unfamiliar sensation of anxiety coursing through me. Sariants never get anxious to the same degree as Humans.
“Unless that plan has your pikes able to move and reposition anywhere the enemy’s galloping, that formation is worthless against a mobile, magic-using army. I would have thought you’d seen better formations in all the battles you’ve survived.”
His tone isn’t quite icy, but it’s direct, without his usual raspy slowness when he likes you—right now, he’s the Professor, and he’s not taking it easy on me.
A sharp contrast to how he first received ‘Erin’ in his citadel. It could be because I’m in class. I asked him for lessons on strategy, and I’m getting them; he’s treating me like one of his special students, with high expectations.
But that’s not the Niers that I first met. There’s an aloofness to him. A sense of…I want to say spitefulness. As if he’s trying to tear down the façade of me. It makes my stomach turn into a knot, but all I can do is play the part.
Play the part…and also be as smart as I can, because Erin needs to be smart, and because I genuinely want to learn. So I give him one of her raised eyebrows.
“Gee, I dunno. I’ve seen lots of Drake spear-formations, but they seem, y’know, lame? I bet they’d be able to turn around and poke those horsies, but I thought that was a worse answer.”
I hear a snort from my audience, his higher-level students and younger-ones mixed. It’s probably from one of his senior students; the young ones are scared stiff of him. But the answer makes Niers pause and—grudgingly, I think—project an image of a bunch of Drakes lined up shoulder-to-shoulder on the board in his lecture hall.
He stands on his high lecturing podium, pointing a magical wand at the Drake formations, which makes me think I was correct.
“Drake spear-walls are famous for their adaptability. See their spears? Far shorter than regular pikes. But they can indeed pivot fast enough to brace even if a [Knight] charge gallops over their heads to strike them from the rear. Pikes have more trouble. Crossbows…is that your answer to everything, Erin?”
“I like crossbows. Numbtongue has lots.”
His eyes narrow as some of the students laugh, but I’m being honest here. I love crossbows. I have the custom-made one from Paeth on my hip, even here, and I love it. I wish my entire colony had them.
Crossbows and magical wands are the weapons I’ve trained with as a Sariant Lamb Pathforger. They’re some of the few weapons we can use, being without hands. All you have to do is aim and click—even if we have to pull the triggers with strings instead of fingers—and I’m a crack shot.
Even in Erin’s body, I’m a good shot. Niers throws up his hands.
“I suppose I’ll accept ‘crossbows’, but a sufficient amount of any kind of ranged weapon stops most foes, so it’s not impressive. I could down a thousand [Knights] with ten thousand [Slingers] without a casualty. I’ve done that. Alright, enough. Here’s the prompt: you’re a [Strategist] assigned with formulating a counter to an invading army of Terandrian [Knights]. Let’s call it the Order of Haegris; 2,000 [Knights] spoiling for a damn good fight. And they’ve brought 14,000 peasant [Conscripts] augmented by a core of actual [Soldiers] 4,000 strong. You have no intelligence other than this. Nor will you be fighting the battle. Devise a plan to repel this army at all costs. You have fifteen minutes.”
The class focuses fast. Niers was mostly just picking on me with the flash answer, but he does that—originality or quick replies win you points. This is a mixed class of junior students, like that [Princess] who’s only in her first year here, and his best students.
This is the real test—I write fast as the other students scrawl down their plans. It’s not something I’m familiar with, but this is something I’m passionate about studying. After fifteen silent minutes where Niers walks on our desks and offers comments—mostly to younger students—he begins evaluating our plans.
“Alright, let’s see how many of our people you just murdered. Who’s first? Hm, hmmm…Wil?”
