He gives me a side-long look, and I smile.
“If we used Skills, they’d wipe the floor with me.”
“True, but even winning the un-Skilled battles like this isn’t something an outsider can do. You’ve got experience from Liscor, but I’m rather impressed. Your sense of strategy is vastly inferior to theirs—”
That stings, but Niers glances at my panting [Soldiers].
“…but your poise and leadership ability are top-notch. Tactically, you beat most of my students. They haven’t seen enough combat. Or they simply don’t have your charisma.”
I puff up a bit, I know. It makes my heart flutter in a pleased way to have the Titan compliment me, a mere Sariant Lamb. If he says it, it’s true, and it means…I’m not a little, cute pet or a Sariant Lamb armed with a few wands and dreams of ferocity.
It’s also true; Kissilt isn’t exactly an inspiring leader, and the ‘training soldiers’ that Niers lets us command do respond better to someone they like. Niers doesn’t try to get them to fight equally; being liked by your troops is an essential ability in a leader. These factors mean I’ve been winning very well, and I offer Niers a slight shrug.
“Well, if those Lizardfolk and Selphids stick around, I’ll have to learn to lead them. The Bushrangers too.”
I’m referring to the captives I took during the battle where I fought to help bail out the Selphid forces trying to fulfill their contract with Niers. Both the enemy and Selphids volunteered to join me—not many, but enough to actually be a fighting force.
Niers grunts.
“They’d better put some work in. Paying and feeding them means they owe you a battle already. [Mercenaries] know the score; they should be loyal. But I’d rather you not endanger yourself given an entire continent wants you dead.”
I meet his eyes.
“If Rabbiteater’s in trouble, I have to do what I can.”
Again, he seems to grudgingly respect that. Niers nods to me and goes off to arrange the next battle.
Kissilt’s neck spines are all droopy when he comes up to me. His polished armor is all battered; he mutters as we step back.
“How are you so good at leading troops, Miss Erin? Wil told me you’d seen fighting, but you roar as well as Venaz.”
I smile at him and panic inside. I never know what to say. I’m…not Erin. I don’t know her secrets. I haven’t been in her company long, and while I try to be her, I have to lie and make things up. So I tell the truth. In a sense.
“I’ve fought in a few battles where we had to lure someone away, Kissilt. I’ve been there before.”
He gives me a searching look, then nods, and I relax as Marian and Venaz—a classic matchup—begin. It’s true what I said, even if he probably thinks it was with Drakes or Humans.
Sariant Lambs fight. It’s bloody, ugly, and we always die. We always die. We’re small, and even if we’re armed, whenever something gets close to us, they shred us to pieces. Every Sariant Lamb battle has us retreating, falling back, holding the line to buy time for a trap to go off or our comrades to reload.
As a Pathforger, I’d had to lead our colony in battle before we decided moving to Riverfarm was the best move. I’ve seen more lost battles, more dead, than any of the students here. More pyrrhic victories where we’re scattered across the ground like flies to take down one monster.
As always…I can feel the memories surge in my chest. Dark emotions, the pain of trotting away from dead friends and family, unable to even bury them because we can’t dig the hard earth well, or mewling around a monster that’s kept us captive to eat us, having to smile and pretend we’re idiots while we wait to kill it in its sleep—
All of that is like fuel in my chest. Hatred, despair, desperation—if I call on it, if I compress it into fury and rage, it’ll burst out of my skin. Literally explode until my hair changes into a mane of curls, my height increases, and I have hooves, horns—
My Warform. My pact with Paxere. The only power I actually have. Poor Paxere. I know who the Lucifen are; we have a station devoted to them, and it’s a dangerous job, staying in the Lucifen’s graces. We’re all over the world, after all, or in hiding, trying to survive the wilds without levels and with only our lamb bodies.
It serves the Lucifen right trying to make an infernal pact with Erin Solstice and getting me instead. I laughed myself sick that first night when I realized Paxere’s mistake. I grin, teeth flashing, and I want to activate the Warform, but it’ll just make Niers suspicious. I watch the two sides fighting, and it bubbles under my skin.
Battle.
I love battle. I love hefting the crossbow and wand the Fraerlings gave me and fighting. Winning. Do you have any idea what it feels like to be a little lamb who can’t recharge the wands in her holsters, who has to trot along and hope she can take an enemy by surprise, to be able to fight and kill the giants she’s feared all her life?
I’m not crazy.
I’m just a bit broken. That’s okay.
It’s all to forge a path for better days.
“There you are. I knew I’d find you here. Are you still…playing wargames?”
Someone claps a hand on my shoulder. It’s so tentative, despite the brown-skinned arm having enough muscle in it, and her voice is low, rough, and panting. But she’s so uncertain I don’t even have to turn to know who it is.
Ryoka Griffin is like the definition of indecisiveness and nervousness if you put it in a bottle and shook it up. She wasn’t this bad on Izril, but I think the Forgotten Wing company spooks her. I know I do.
She’s sweating, wearing her wingsuit, which seems hot in this humid weather, and her hair’s a mess.
“Hey, Ryoka, just got back from another delivery? How’s War Crimes Tyrion? Finger guns!”
I point them at her, and Ryoka pauses.
“Please stop calling him that.”
“Okay, Stoneballs Tyrion.”
She spits her drink out and wipes at her mouth, choking. Then she gives me a look, and I fear I’ve gone too far.
“Erin—! I haven’t seen him in days. I’ve been trying to run deliveries for other groups. You know, establish my bonafides as a Courier in Baleros? And figure out where the hell Rabbiteater’s group is…or find Ulvama.”
“No luck?”
Now I’m serious, and Ryoka rubs at one shoulder.
“No, I mean…Niers is in more contact with them than me. I’ve got to find a route south from spot to spot, Erin. I can’t just fly across Baleros. It’s too much energy and too damn dangerous. Getting all the way south where they are is hard.”
I nod. Ryoka’s the most mobile person here, and her flying ability lets us link up with Rabbiteater and other parties on Baleros like Tyrion Veltras’ forces…in theory.
In practice, flying across a continent isn’t easy. Ryoka has to learn safe routes, and I think she’s also playing politics with the mercenary companies. A flying monster is one threat—being shot at because you might be an enemy Courier is another. So, I clap her on the shoulder.
“Let’s get a drink. I mean, you drink, I’ll have a banana smoothie.”
Erin doesn’t drink. I’d love to—but I don’t think I can play off being immune to alcohol, which she is. Ryoka grimaces.
“Sure, but give me a second, Erin? I was doing a run for Erek, and Geneva is gonna bug me about—hey, Geneva! I didn’t get to that city you wanted, sorry. Rainstorm.”
I turn and stop smiling. Here comes the person who likes me least in the city.
Geneva Scala isn’t smiling. She never does. I think when she became a [Doctor] she medically inserted a metal rod up her ass. Or maybe it’s just me.
Warcrimes Erin meet Saint Geneva. We never hit it off when we met, due to me joining a battle, and I just…don’t like her. I don’t know what the real Erin would do, but Geneva’s preachy, focused on her medical work to the exclusion of reality, as if it’ll fight off a monster or win a war, and she’s all-in on saving lives.
Which I can admit is noble, but she just annoys me.
Beth’s great. She’s a Selphid, bouncing after Geneva with huge leaps in a Lizardfolk body. She enjoys life, and I wave at her as Geneva stops.
“No samples? Ryoka, I really could use those willow bark and poppy samples! Aspirin and morphine or some kind of painkiller that won’t interfere with other magical cures—”
“I know, I know. I’m really sorry. It’s the rain. I can’t fly in it, and it keeps…raining. I couldn’t meet with Tyrion either. Hey, Beth. How’s it going? At least I did spot that forest Erek mentioned.”
And here’s the rest of the gang. Geneva, Beth, Siri, Daly, two more Bushrangers, and Erek are the entire ‘team’ I can rely on here. The Earthers, or those fully aligned with them. Niers is one thing, but he’s busy fighting wars in the Dyed Lands and against Jungle Tails.
This is the group I can call on, along with a few hundred Selphids and Lizardfolk. If we go to rescue Rabbiteater, I need to be aligned with them. As for Erek…he nods at me and ooks.
He’s the only person who I’ve told who I really am. The Orangutan, all brown-orange fur and long arms, may seem like a simple monkey, but he can wield a lightning-infused longsword like a [Fencer], and with his other hand, he’s strong enough to rip off your arm. He’s smart as can be, the former comrade of Seve-Alrelious…and I’d trust him with my life.
He, like me, is a being who can think but does not level. He gets it.
Erek and I do a complicated little hand game where I tap my fists on top of his, then go under, then we high-five across each shoulder and go to slap hands before pulling ours away. Even Daly smiles at that. Geneva just sighs.
“I need painkillers. I thought there was enough of that, but it’s all magical and thus in shorter supply. The Dyed Lands offensive is bloody.”
“I thought every Great Company but the Eyes of Baleros was fighting there.”
Ryoka responds, and Daly answers for Geneva.
“It looks like a fucking shagfest with a cactus, Ryoka. All those color strains of monsters are rampaging outwards, and the closer you get, the more monsters. The companies are holding the line, but it’s a slow, slow advance.”
“Filled with complications due to the magical abilities of each monster group! And no one in this world has a history of medical operations! At best they know how to stitch a wound closed. Classes are appearing, but we need manufacturing.”
Geneva is saying the same thing she’s said for ages. I know she’s right, but it still makes me want to slap her on the back of the head. Ryoka opens her mouth to apologize again and grovel at Geneva’s feet—she seems to think Geneva’s a hero, despite Ryoka having risked her life many more times than Geneva ever has—when she frowns and turns to Daly.
“Is…’shagfest with a cactus’ Australian slang?”
Another grin. I like the Bushrangers’ leader, Daly Sullivan. He’s tanned too and has on some enchanted leather armor that makes him blend with anything he stands next to. He has a crossbow on his back, and he shrugs.
“I dunno. I just made that up.”
Everyone laughs at that. Ryoka apologizes to Geneva, saying she’ll try again, and the [Doctor] rushes off to continue her work. I stand there, glancing at the battle, which Venaz is going to win this time, and Ryoka turns to me.
“So, Erin…heard anything from Lyonette? What’s the plan?”
She always asks me that. I pause.
“I had a word with Lyonette. No one else from the inn’s talked to me.”
I think I pissed her off again. It’s hard to talk to her when I don’t know her, and so every conversation is unsatisfying. Ryoka waits. I swallow.
“I’m waiting for Rabbiteater’s group to signal where they are. Niers says it’s too far to travel and filled with jungle. I’m going to review the troops later.”
“The tr—oh, the [Mercenaries]?”
She has a dubious expression, and I respond as my heart beats faster.
“They have to drill together and organize to be a fighting force. If we’re saving Rabbiteater, we need an army, and Niers says he can’t spare that many forces for us.”
He’s fighting two wars at once, so the great Forgotten Wing Company isn’t the asset we want. Daly nods.
“Erin’s good at that, Ryoka. You should have seen her take Kissilt apart on the field.”
He nods at me, and I nod back, but Ryoka just swallows more water.
“Well, I have seen her fight. Cool. I’ll, uh—I’ll see if Niers has any news once he’s free, then catch up with you tonight, huh, Erin?”
I nod. What else am I to say? I don’t know if I should march off to Rabbiteater now or hold position here with Niers and see events unfolding.
I don’t know. If we leave Elvallian, Niers has been upfront about the fact that even with protections, he can’t guarantee we’ll be safe. Not with so many [Assassins] and the size of the bounty on my head. That’s why he had his [Generals] defending me on the way here. So I’m stuck, but I know Erin would be doing something.
Ryoka just nods at me, awkward, and jogs over to Niers. Then she screams, and all the bright blue faeries laugh. The green one, Shaestrel, flies over to scold her.
“Ye fucking idiot! I told ye, if you’re gonna walk around barefoot like some shite-brained idiot, at least grow hooves like Vofea! Where’s your footwraps?”
“The stupid Fraerlings borrowed them again! Leave me alone, Shaestrel!”
The Wind Runner had stepped on a burr in the grass. Even I shake my head at that, along with the Bushrangers. The one thing Sariant Lambs have on Humans is our hooves, tiny though they may be. Beth, of course, leaps out of her shoes.
“[Medic] on-scene! Barefoot gals tog—ooh. That’s a lot of burrs. Hold still, Ryoka, I’ll just get some tweezers…”
Poor Ryoka. I’m yawning and stretching when I see a panting [Soldier] staggering away from the fight toss down a painted ‘sword’. He passes by me, a Human, swivelling, and Siri’s head snaps around. Daly’s mouth opens.
“He’s got—”
The edge of the spell clips me as I pivot, and it burns. I fall, clawing at my chest, as some of the Fraerlings’ ward-magic on me tries to fight off—acid?
Oh, that’s ironic. I tear off my shirt as Niers whirls, Ryoka shouts, and Siri shoots once. It’s burning and burning deeper into my flesh—but don’t worry.
I’m writing this, aren’t I? The next bit’s a blur as Geneva comes running back, and Niers locks down the training field. The acid’s dissolving a hole in my breast and collarbone from where it hit me as Geneva does the only thing she can—cut faster than the acid.
I’m missing chunks out of my chest, and Niers offers me a healing potion, despite the limited quantities. I lie in my rooms, chest still burning with pain since they can’t heal it all the way. I’m grinning, or trying to.
It’s okay. Better me than her.
 
——
 
