“Hey, Viscount Visophecin! I’m amazed to see you here for the first time! Ever! How’d you appear like that?”
She screamed at him, red-faced, and the Viscount wore an unusual expression of chagrin. He coughed into one fist.
“I regret that immensely. I was overly tired from my journey. Besides—”
His teeth flashed in a sharp, predator’s grin, and his slightly grey skin, red eyes, and his elegant suit made him seem like he was truly otherworldly in this span of brush.
“—do you think I would be moved by anything you could show me?”
She gave him a long look, then tried to blast him into the forest with the wind. She took off and flew westwards, ignoring his shout.
 
——
 
He shot her down sixteen miles later. A web exploded across her glider, and she cursed, then dropped as it grew heavy. A [Featherhop] spell slowed her at the last moment, and Visophecin appeared.
“Ryoka Griffin, I have reached you because—”
He dodged the flying kick, and she sprang upwards with her wingsuit, abandoning the glider. He pointed, and she rolled out of the way of one spell, then darted up.
Visophecin tried to tag her twice more, appearing behind rocks and then the forest, with a cloud spell and then what she assumed were invisible arrows; the wind told her where it was, and she evaded.
She was just thinking she had to talk to him when she went blind.
“Aaaaaaaaaah! Visophecin!”
She lost track of where the ground was and felt herself rushing downwards—then he caught her in his arms. Ryoka punched him in the face as her vision cleared. The Viscount seemed pleased with himself as he let her down.
“Shall we begin again, Ryoka?”
She sat, cross-legged, and put her head in her hands.
“I thought Rhisveri told you that you weren’t allowed to speak to me!”
His smile vanished. Then he stood still, and Ryoka glanced up and realized his suit wasn’t as immaculate as she remembered. It was still clean and neat, but she got the impression it was slightly lived-in, not pressed, ironed, and barely worn.
Too, he seemed less purely confident than he had been. He glanced down, adjusting his tie, and his voice was suddenly soft.
“I have been exiled from House Shoel and left Ailendamus. Whatever Rhisveri’s orders, they no longer apply to me.”
“Oh. I’m sorry. The dead. Paxere’s parents.”
“Yes. Igolze and Azemith and twenty-two others. The greatest blunder of a deal struck since the age of Cormelex. I have come to help you fulfill your pact, Ryoka. There is…I can do little else for House Shoel to make amends now. And I come bearing vital information.”
Ryoka turned and wanted to protest, to tell him she was done with Ailendamus’ issues, but she couldn’t. They needed help in Baleros, and he was a powerful spellcaster second to none. It did make her fear all the problems of Ailendamus would follow her here, but if Rhisveri wasn’t here…
I can’t kill another Dryad. This time, I’m saving one—ah, fuck. I left the wand in the inn.
She recalled that again, and Visophecin spoke.
“Part of my unique abilities would be my knowledge of many aspects of Baleros, Ryoka, that I have accumulated over my lifespan. My magic also enables me to transport myself to other continents, albeit with great effort. Enough to aid you should you have…misplaced vital objects.”
He gave her his best, mysterious-superior smile, and Ryoka almost fell for it until she noticed him adjust the tie again. And she had a thought.
It’s almost like he’s pitching himself to me. Even if he’s telling me he can get the wand…she folded her arms.
“I already have Tyrion Veltras and the entire Forgotten Wing company on my side.”
The Lucifen wavered, then smirked.
“Indeed, countless allies. But you may have forgotten that Baleros is no straightforward continent. Treachery is baked into the Great Companies and their dealings. Tell me, how is Erin Solstice recovering? The attempts on her life have failed, even the last one, though was she cured before the acid left a mark?”
Now Ryoka’s brain was moving, she leapt to a conclusion before he led her there. She narrowed her eyes, then smirked.
“I already know she’s someone else. Do you know who?”
Ryoka was delighted to see his face actually fall for a moment before he covered it by brushing at his hair.
“—I can see you’ve grown more adept than you were in Ailendamus. However, do you know where Erin Solstice truly is?”
Ryoka did not and felt her heart leap, but she was now feeling her advantage, and she folded her arms, pretending to be unimpressed.
“Erin’s been in contact with us. Try again.”
It was sort of true, since she’d spoken to Nerry, but not Ryoka, which definitely didn’t hurt Ryoka’s feelings one bit. At this point, Visophecin seemed genuinely flummoxed. He bit his tongue gently with his canines, glanced at her—and then spoke, glancing to the side.
“I—had forgotten how much you disliked being chased. I don’t feel anything but amusement. I apologize for that and our reintroduction.”
She said nothing. He stared past her, suddenly forlorn. His head bowed, and Ryoka’s heart hurt. She burst out.
“We definitely need your help, and I don’t know exactly where Erin is. Especially if you can get the Dryad seed wand to me!”
She was way too bad at being tough. Nerry was tougher than she was, and the Sariant Lamb was as big as a sirloin steak! However, the light of relief in Visophecin’s gaze made her half-smile. He regarded the Wind Runner, then bowed to her after a moment.
“I have thought myself humbled, but it seems fate intends for it to be a permanent lesson. I am here to assist you, Ryoka. I think the first step might be for me to recover said wand. But if you have magical need or there is something amiss—”
Ryoka walked over and hugged him before he could react. He went stiff as a board, but she hugged him long as she dared, then peered at him.
“I’m sorry about House Shoel, Visophecin. They died protecting Erin. That’s a debt I want to repay.”
She meant it. He just blinked at her, astounded twice in such a short span of time, then put something behind one of her ears.
The black rose of Izril, used for shame and cowardice. It was also pretty—though it had thorns on it. She stabbed a finger taking it out, and he caught her hand.
Black magic closed the cut, scabbing it over, and she yanked her hand free as his gloved ones moved away.
Okay, that wasn’t the reaction I was going for—Visophecin’s eyes alit on Ryoka, and he smiled, relieved.
“The mistake was mine. But I shall reclaim that wand first—and rejoin with you the moment I have it. Finding you was actually quite difficult given your speed. I have no bond with you. May I offer you this?”
He handed her a bracelet of black stone, carved with a single rune on the largest stone. Ryoka blinked at it, then narrowed her eyes at him.
“Wait a second. A connection with Erin? Did you make a deal when you rescued her from Roshal? What is it? Tell me! If she gave you anything, I’ll pay for it. Don’t—”
He had to assure her that the deal had actually been annulled and explain about the crack in Erin before Ryoka calmed down slightly. She sat down on the ground and patted it for him to sit. He conjured a chair and sat on it and made one for her. She didn’t rise.
“And…she needs to mend it?”
“I—do not know if I can assist her in that regard. I have been reluctant to show myself around her. She is Fraerling-sized and lost in Baleros. I think she would refuse my aid, and I am…wary of her.”
He confessed, glancing away from Ryoka. She blinked at him.
“Do you hate her for killing so many Lucifen?”
He was silent a long moment.
“No. I wish I did, but the regret and guilt are not things Lucifen feel. Just like sympathy. It is instead wariness. She bested me. A strange feeling, because I know how Uziel would feel. Even for my fellow Lucifen, I don’t feel the—pain I have heard described. Just a quiet sense of loss and miscalculation. I think Paxere feels differently, but I don’t feel anything…appropriate.”
He chuckled, touching his breast, and she did feel bad for him then. He knew he should be broken up about Azemith and the others…and he couldn’t be.
Or perhaps he was breaking up differently. He avoided her gaze as he continued.
“At any rate, I observed her landing. Silvenia’s magic wore off at some point, and I had—funerals to attend to in Ailendamus. I did not do much. When I located her, she was on the move, riding some sort of beetle. I cleared monsters ahead of her. Then she ran into a Fraerling village I was reluctant to approach. I think one of their protectors sensed me. He kept moving around the outskirts towards my position.”
“Waitwaitwaitwait—Erin’s Fraerling-sized and riding a beetle? Then she reached a Fraerling village?”
Ryoka wanted to laugh, because it was so funny. Visophecin’s eyes lit on Ryoka’s face, and he smiled too, in anticipa…
“The Hobgoblin was with her. Erin Solstice is alive, though I gathered she was melting from mana overload. I was considering how to save her, but the Fraerlings had an expert. I believe she would have died of her wounds without their intervention. Her scars from Roshal are considerable.”
…tion. Ryoka’s face crumpled up, and the wave of remorse and anger and grief swept over her. She glared at Visophecin.
“Stop enjoying telling me bad news!”
He tried to seem contrite. Then he frowned, glancing over his shoulder.
“I saw you had called on other allies. Lord Tyrion Veltras himself, even debilitated, is a considerable asset. If you can call on him as well as Niers Astoragon, we may well reach Erin Solstice in good order. I assume the Calanferian detachment is also an objective? Combining all these assets will allow us to form a sizable force—then plant the Dryad seed.”
Oh. He thought the Dryad seed was the biggest objective. Ryoka felt guilty and bit her lip.
“I don’t even know where to begin with the seed, Visophecin. You might have to get the wand and take it to Nalthaliarstrelous. Or I’ll ask Shaestrel about it. She’s, uh—not here because she doesn’t really care for when I meet Tyrion. Well, she doesn’t care for it. The other faeries want to watch.”
His brows rose, uncomprehending, and Ryoka tried to give him a grin of her own.
“Er—how do you think I got Tyrion Veltras to follow me?”
The Lucifen blinked, and then he chuckled, sounding endlessly amused. Ryoka turned beet red by his urbane amusement. She blurted out the rest.
“That’s a joke, by the way! It’s not really that. Anyways! Can you get the wand and instructions? It might be everything we need to do is in Izril with Oteslia or something. In which case…”
“In which case, I shall divide and conquer. Very well, Ryoka. It seems we have an accord.”
He offered her a hand up, and she rose. Ryoka glanced up at Visophecin. Their dance in the moonlight seemed ages ago now.
“I am sorry about the other Lucifen, Visophecin. If you want to talk—I’m here. I’m not good at it, but I—”
His eyes lingered on her. Then he put the flower back behind one ear and bowed as he stepped back.
“I do not deserve any sympathy at the moment, Ryoka. When I return with the wand and knowledge, we shall begin.”
But he seemed better as he stepped behind a tree, his smile the last thing to vanish in a shadow. Ryoka sighed as he left. She turned, forgetting that a Lucifen didn’t have to vanish right away through their gateway spells, and muttered.
“This is one crazy day. The next thing you know, Rhissy the sock puppet will pop up with a magic sword and offer to take the ring to Mordor. Then again, I’d take even him if we’re up against, what, two Great Companies? Ow, ow…this balm only works for an hour? Fuuuuuck—”
She leapt into the air, and the Lucifen thought—well, he had one ally in this world. It would be a long, arduous trip to The Wandering Inn; he had to save up mana for it, for all he’d boasted to her about his abilities. He began to portal to the nearest city so he could spend the time waiting there.
He could find her again with the bracelet, which doubled as a way for them to send messages. Not efficiently; the spell would slowly transmit, so it was only good for sporadic updates, not real-time talk, given the distances.
While he waited, Visophecin had a thought to buy one of those hot-selling romance books by…who were they? Sandquen and Heartslayi? He usually thought of them as drivel, but suddenly, he was quite interested by the idea.
He was untethered from House Shoel, who only married between themselves to keep up appearances anyways. If he was so ‘free’, there were few people who even knew his nature, let alone had—sympathy.
Sympathy for a Lucifen.
 
——
 
Viscount Visophecin paid several silvers for the small booklet and wondered if it was worth the price as he eyed the cover. A very muscular Antinium and a blond-haired woman with silver arms were on the cover.
“Enjoy!”
The Lizardman winked at him, and Visophecin almost asked for his money back. Then he thought of Ryoka.
Ludicrous. House Shoel played such games; Agelum did not, because it was too real, too close, and they would break their hearts too much. He almost put the book back before he thought of her eyes.
Unshed tears. Sympathy and anguish for the Lucifen, emotions he normally revelled in. In her eyes…was the reflection of the agony and guilt he craved for his actions.
“Why not? Besides, she’s entangled with Tyrion Veltras, one of the foremost [Lords] in the world.”
Visophecin found a cafe and ordered a treat as he sat and read. Charming someone in a relationship was the fun part—for Lucifen.
He was still twisted by Human standards. Visophecin’s brows rose as he read through the novel, and he decided this was less of a guide, even vague instruction manual, and more wild fiction. Oh well. He’d get another book right after…
He glanced at the menu as a Centaur trotted out.
“Excuse me? Did I read this correctly?”
“Yes, sir! We’ve got gelato right here! I bet you don’t have that in other continents, eh? You are from abroad.”
The Centaur was young and beaming with pride. Visophecin blinked down at the soft serving of chocolate gelato melting in the heat.
“I have encountered it before, but every shop is selling some. It’s quite impressive.”
We had to steal the recipe ourselves from that damn [Cook] in Terandria. The Centaur puffed up even further, straining his uniform.
“We’ve had it longest of any continent! Over a year ago!”
“I was going to ask about that very thing.”
Visophecin tapped the menu and hesitated.
“Iced Gelato, invented by…King Loran of Lorandia?”
The Centaur nodded.
“He lets us use his recipe for a small fee. He invented the stuff, and the other continents just copied his recipe.”
“I see.”
