It used to be, according to Geneva, that she’d give Okasha time in control of her body, and they’d essentially trade off possession. Even to the extent where she wasn’t aware of what Okasha was doing? That sounds horrific.
These days, it’s closer to a partnership; Geneva tends to lead most of the time, but sometimes it seems like she’s tired or she wants Okasha to step up.
Like when she’s not working in her laboratory or talking to Niers—she goes down to a bar in Elvallian and Beth tags along, and I see Okasha appear.
It’s quite subtle. But Geneva appears to be more animated, more friendly, and certainly enjoys eating and sitting around more. To me, as an actress myself, it’s an amazing job. The biggest clue is Geneva’s tolerance for small talk with people who come up to her. It’s like her social battery is refreshed…because it is. The real Geneva has a pretty small tolerance for socialization, and perhaps even Okasha isn’t that friendly, but between the two of them, they can be quite personable.
But perhaps it’s more than that? I found myself sitting at a bar in the evening as Beth flirted with a pair of Dullahans. More for practice than anything serious was my guess; they traded jokes with her, clearly uninterested in a Selphid. There are a lot of things I observe that other species will say or comment on a Selphid that would be outlandishly rude to any other species.
The Dullahans make fun of her decay, wondering aloud how she’d even enjoy sex or who’d be interested in her after she backs off. She pretends not to hear and joins a group throwing darts as we watch.
“It hurts her feelings, you know. I’m used to it, but Beth’s not born to being one of us. She can’t even talk to other Humans the same way because how would she explain any of it? It has to be secret. I’m glad she’s with you Earthers.”
Geneva-Okasha tells me as we have ales, and I can’t tell if it’s Okasha at first. I raise my eyebrows. We talk in code, of course.
“And you, Geneva? I bet it’s pretty hard for you. How’re you managing it now compared to before?”
Okasha adjusts her glasses and smiles.
“Well, I focus on the work. I may not be as bright, but I’m getting to the same perspective. It’s not me being trapped, it’s more like—being a team. All-in, wanting to help. Repaying debts. Plus, it doesn’t hurt either of us if we drink what we want and don’t feel the effects. Say, that’s a handsome fellow, isn’t he?”
She points out a Lizardman walking past who’s more colorful than most; a [Captain] of Niers’ company, perhaps. I can’t speak to his handsomeness since most Baleros species are foreign to me on multiple levels, but then I hear Geneva agreeing.
“Mm. A bit.”
They’re oddly in sync. I watch as Okasha gets up and does what Geneva Scala’s probably too shy or busy for, and they chat. Nothing comes of it, but I wonder…how much of Okasha is changing to fit Geneva instead of trying to take over? Symbiosis versus parasitism. A distinction we Sariants know well. It might be Okasha’s molding herself too much to Geneva after what happened last time.
Well, not my problem to interfere with. The point is that I get to see Geneva actually smile, and we’re throwing darts after a few drinks with Beth. Which, of course, I lose at.
Two Selphids versus me, in Erin’s body, means they have the precision of [Sharpshooters] while I’m fumble-hoofed. I pull off the act well enough with walking, talking, and so on—because I practiced extensively on the raft when I was marooned!
A month of that got me in place well enough to fool Paeth’s Fraerlings, and then I had a lot of practice while I could feign being sick, but there’s always something new that I don’t know how to do. Like playing darts.
Worse, Siri just has to come over with the Bushrangers, so then it’s two experts and a literal [Sniper] nailing the bull’s eye, even without Skills. But there’s my opening, you see.
“I’m tired of playing games I suck at. How about…a game of chess?”
Everyone turns to me, and Daly raises his brows.
“Really, Erin? I thought you weren’t interested anymore.”
I give him a crooked smile as my pulse quickens.
“Well, I changed my mind. If I have to play some games, it beats throwing pointed sticks around. Any takers?”
Tofte instantly volunteers, as do a lot of Bushrangers.
“I’d love to play the world’s best chess player. But we’re amateurs…”
Maybe they have suspicions about me too. But I just wink, and with a confidence I don’t deserve, I look around.
“Anyone got a blindfold? I’ll play whoever wants to match me all at once. I assume the Forgotten Wing company has enough chessboards.”
That’s a crazy offer, and they all stare at me before Daly whoops, and they begin setting up games. It ends up with me playing six people simultaneously—blindfolded. But I do it. I don’t even need Beth to whisper which board and where the pieces are to me.
Erin just knows the game, and because of her boon—I do too.
 
——
 
I beat all six players, and then everyone in the bar is hunting for the best players they can find to go up against me.
Me, Erin Solstice, who is probably the best player in the world without Skills. I saw her famous chess tournament. She claims she wasn’t the best back on Earth, but I think that only the best can take her on now. Perhaps it’s levels or her class or just experience, but there’s no contest. I just sit in the bar, destroying everyone who comes to play me.
Instantly, I think Niers got wind of it, and Venaz just popped up. To test me? He’s one of the better players in the academy.
Beaten blindfolded. Then Wil played me, and then one of Niers’ actual [Strategists]—he was definitely using Skills and took a game off me after using all of them in the one match. After that, he lost four games fast.
I tore through most of the academy after that. The trick is putting time limits on how long each player has, or the games can take hours. Speed chess is something Erin’s good at; it rattles even experienced players, but she’s got over a decade of practice.
Niers tried to avoid me the entire day, I think. Denial. But he had to play me after I started beating Fraerlings. He just sat down and played the most aggressive game straight at me.
We tied. You tie at higher levels, and we just tied six straight games in a row before I finally took a victory off of him; he was getting frustrated and slipped up, so I forked a queen—
I know way too much about chess now. The point is that it rattled him. I’m pretty sure he suspected I was a fake, but no one just develops that level of chess ability overnight.
(Unless you have a boon Skill from Erin herself.) He probably considered that, but I think he was enjoying the chess despite himself at the end. I also think that Erin takes it easy on him.
Maybe not, but I was starting to go full-tilt near the end there. I was so much into playing that I didn’t even greet Ryoka when she arrived, and neither did he. Maybe Erin has to tone it down or else she just plays chess all day, which is a waste of her time and Niers’.
I was feeling good after that, so I snagged Ryoka for a quick chat. She was apprehensive at first, since she’d heard about me playing chess and seemed to be second-guessing herself too. But the conversation…
The worst had already happened: Erin knows. Ryoka? I had high confidence that she’d take my side if I could prevent her from freaking out; she’s nice to helpless people. My colony has her listed in our notes as a sucker for help if they need it, which isn’t fair.
Most people we think we can manipulate are idiots who don’t treat us like real beings at all. They’re vacuous, empty-headed—a Sariant Lamb can write a note on their desk or drop something we want them to pay attention to where they’ll find it, and they never figure it out.
But Ryoka would help us…my fear was, would she help me?
Well, as I said, she took it well. I sat her down in my rooms and just went for it. Here’s more or less how it went:
 
——
 
I was watching Ryoka fiddle with a big bandage on one cheek. A reminder that she hadn’t done her flying without cost. My heart was pounding a bit too hard. Strange, again, to feel emotions so strongly. Or maybe I had more to lose than before.
“Are you going to have a scar from that?”
“What? Oh…probably not. The Fraerlings have some scar-removal creams, and the Centaurs gave me a skin-patch.”
“A what? They’ve got that level of technology?”
I’m always surprised and envious these large people are so advanced. Jealous; I want that for my people. Ryoka shrugged.
“Their Archmage, Uenoix? He’s a [Blood Mage], I think. He was actually scanning my blood for parasites. So I’ll be fine. How’s it going, Erin? You’re feeling better if you’re trouncing everyone at chess.”
Ah, that makes me smile. Now I can see Ryoka second-guessing herself, and triple-guessing herself, probably. She sits on her bed, watching as Frost Faeries fly around the room. We’re fairly certain the faeries could keep them from being eavesdropped on. Once, Shaestrel ripped the head off of a large moth she’d claimed had been lousy with magic. If that was Niers, I respect the attempt.
“I’m feeling good, Ryoka. Sorry I laughed at you the other day. I didn’t mean to. You’ve done a lot for me, and I forgot how stupid you were.”
“Th—hey.”
“Stupidly brave. I respect that.”
I avoid Ryoka’s eyes and take a deep breath.
“Anyways, if you hadn’t run off, I would have told you I’m not Ulvama. She’s fine, I just learned. So is Erin. The chess playing ability is from her.”
Ryoka is fiddling with her magical footwraps and biting her tongue, but her head snaps up. She goes completely stiff, and I swear, for a second, I’m nervous. Because she has her hand on the Faeblade, and to my knowledge, Ryoka’s never cut up a person with it. Wait, Eldavin. The wind rushes around my room, and I see her hand gripped on the handle. She stares at me—and says—
“…You’re not Silvenia. N-Nerry?”
I stand up and take a bow. And she goes a bit insane.
“W—no way. No way. This is—I’m such an idiot! You didn’t tell me? Why didn’t you—where’s Erin? Oh, fuck. She’s missing, and—wait, you know where she is? Who else knows? Erek? Now it makes sense! He’s helping you! But what the hell was that Warform thing and—Shaestrel, did you know about this?”
I’m prepared for a lot of anger and shouting, which I deserve, but Ryoka goes after someone else instead. A green Faerie rises from a bowl of fruit with a laconic eyebrow raised. She’s eating fruit flies like popcorn; she snorts.
“Of course we figured that part out, Ryoka. Though it took us a second to figure out who, it was obvious even before we laid eyes on her. Yon lamb plays her part well enough, I suppose.”
“You knew and you didn’t tell me? Stop laughing! I’ll put you in a jar and use you as emergency healing potions, you, you—”
All the Frost Faeries are laughing at her, swooping around and collecting bets on how long it took Ryoka to find out or for me to tell her. She’s so mad at them that she only directs her wrath on me after several minutes.
“Nerry! Nerry? Holy…that’s you, Nerry? Really? You can…speak?”
And that hurts my feelings. I scowl at her in a way we both find familiar. My voice…I know it wobbles. Because she’s one of three people who knows who I am. Even she didn’t really believe I could talk if someone gave me a voice.
“I’ve always been smart enough to write.”
“I—of course you are. I’m sorry. Wow, I guess I am an idiot.”
Ryoka hangs her head to my gratification. Then she’s walking around in a circle.
“So…Silvenia transformed you. I was so close! I knew you were off. I thought it was PTSD or something, but—you were a really good actor.”
“Eh, she’s not that good. More impressive is one without a voice learning to speak so well.”
Shaestrel comments, and I agree. But Ryoka just eyes the Spring Fae and shakes her head.
“You had me fooled long enough, Nerry. Even when I figured it out, I thought it was Ulvama.”
“It was a good guess. I’d have probably guessed her or Silvenia first.”
I have to admit a Sariant Lamb is wildly unbelievable. Ryoka nods.
“That wasn’t what made me guess it wasn’t Erin, though. It was just your lack of Skills in the siege. Erin might have gone in there, but she’d have used her flames. That Warform…”
“Someone named Paxere of the Lucifen cut me a deal, thinking I was Erin.”
I comment blandly, and Ryoka’s eyes bulge. Then she starts laughing.
“Paxere? Wait, a deal? There’s only one kind of deal they’d—she made a contract with you? For what?”
“My soul. I didn’t sell it to her, I just loaned her a bit.”
“Oh my stars. A Sariant Lamb contracted to a Devil.”
Now the Wind Runner seems like she wants to laugh or cry on behalf of Paxere. She turns to me, and I’m worried as she gives me a once-over, but all that suspicion’s gone. Ryoka just gets a nod from Shaestrel, which is smart, and then she tries to hug me.
“Thank…the buddha. No, wait, thank Silvenia, I guess. I’m so mad at you, Nerry, but at least now I know you’re not an actor that Niers thought up or something worse. I was really thinking I was going to have to do something extreme.”
“Like tie me up and torture me?”
Ryoka gives me an odd gaze.
“No, more like tell Foliana we have a problem.”
For some reason, that makes me shiver a lot more than Ryoka saying she’d do anything personally. We both know that Three-Color Stalker wouldn’t play any games. I guess I did make the right call: Ryoka’s not an idiot, and if she thought the wrong person was impersonating Erin…
“I’m keeping it private from everyone. No one else knows. Not Daly, not the Genevas, nor Niers. The only other person who knows is Erek—I had to tell him.”
Ryoka frowns, then works it out.
“Because he’s also someone attempting the Trials of Levelling. Dead gods! Nerry, the trials—!”
I’m smiling again, that desperate feeling of panic and uncertainty in my chest.
“I have the best chance of any lamb since we were created. Please, help me, Ryoka. I promise I won’t ruin Erin’s reputation, and I’ll be her decoy until she gets to safety. I’ve made contact with her and gotten her blessing.”
That focuses Ryoka. She sits down.
“You talked to her? Tell me how she is. If no Fraerlings ever found her—is she badly hurt? You were going to melt, the Fraerlings said. And—is she in one piece? You had no scars. I remember hers.”
Oh, she is a good friend. I close my eyes as I remember the real Erin Solstice. Then I tell her everything.
 
 
Entry #46 (cont’d).
 
