“She certainly pokes her nose everywhere. I’ve heard the Titan’s done all kinds of stuff over the years. But nothing war crimes-y. Well, not more than any other Great Company. What’s the file?”
“Over a decade’s worth of records about deliveries of supplies to one location. [Healers], alchemical items—what’s interesting is that aside from lots of healing potions, much of it is…sleeping draughts. Calming tonics. And along with food—clothing. Children’s clothing, and then over the years, toys—everything from chess sets to equipment for sports, even practice weapons…and restraints. Enchanted chains. All to one location.”
Beth swallowed hard, not liking Geneva’s list of items. Erin just frowned.
“Where?”
“It says ‘Oelnnox’. I have the location here, but it’s—Erin?”
The innkeeper had gone quiet, and her eyes narrowed.
“I know that name. I’ve heard it before…where?”
Geneva blinked, and Erin went pacing around the room. Then she stopped.
“Hold on, give me one second.”
She strode out and was back within ten minutes, puffing, but holding something she’d fetched from her rooms. She opened a journal full of odd scratch marks—angling it so Beth couldn’t see. Then frowned.
“Someone’s been reading this. Oh well. Hold on…”
She paged back through the journal and glanced up.
“A Lizardman was begging me to help with it. Oelnnox. Something the Titan once did that involved a lot of children. I talked to him about it, and he was cagey about it. Not his sins, he claimed, but Jungle Tails’.”
The [Doctor] was chewing her lip before she heard that. Now, she grew visibly agitated, as did Beth. They both remembered the Selphids’ experiments on her…Geneva glanced at Beth and nodded, face firm.
“We have to know what that is. And how he’s—managing them. I’ll ask him to his face.”
Erin raised her brows.
“And if he tells you nothing? Let me ask. He promised me that I could see the place if I wanted to, but he described it as bad as a Creler’s nest.”
Geneva hesitated, then nodded. Her eyes glinted as she glanced at Filax and then spoke directly to Erin.
“If he refuses to answer, I know where it is. And with due respect to my position on killing people—I’d ask Daly and the Bushrangers to go there if no one else will. I don’t believe in doing nothing, Erin. I just disagree with violence being your first option.”
They locked eyes, and then Erin stuck out a hand, and they shook. And that was that. Beth felt her neck tingling, despite her dead body, and resolved to start packing. Geneva clearly felt it too, because she waved at Erek, then rose to let some unhappy Fraerlings into the room.
Time, once more, to move. But first, Erin had to have a conversation with Niers about permission to go there. According to her, it was a bit of a fraught conversation, but not for the reasons you might think.
 
——
 
The Titan of Baleros was drinking not half past noon when Erin came into his study. She was Fraerling-sized, which seemed to annoy him as Atmodeca, the Crocodile Beastkin woman, placed her on the table. However, he grunted and indicated the bottle.
“I’m not in a good mood for chess or conversation, Erin. If you want to talk, let’s talk something interesting.”
“Fine by me. What’s the occasion?”
Atmodeca offered her a wine glass with some tweezers, and Erin saw her step back though the doors of the office, a giant Crocodile who vanished like a shadow. She sat on Niers’ messy desk, huge, Tallfolk-sized reports standing next to a bed and filing cabinets. Like a doll’s toys mixed with a grown man’s possessions.
The entire room around them was much like that; a rich study filled with trophies and documents, but bestrewn with Fraerling-sized objects. A rope ladder so Niers could haul himself up and down a filing cabinet; the aforementioned hot baths in a mansion set in a corner of the room.
And the Titan himself, sitting in his chair at a table, feet put up next to a sheaf of notes, frumpled in a flashy red jacket and black leggings, a sword leaning against his chair. Eying her with clear displeasure and that silent hunger that seemed to always pervade him in these moods.
Not a hunger for power, to be glorified—but that brooding intensity of someone who wanted to be understood. To have a peer. A frustrated monster contained in the shell of a tiny man.
Niers spoke abruptly as he lowered his goblet.
“Half an army buried at the Seitr river. Ambushed.”
Erin went still as he poured her a wine glass and then drank.
“I’m sorry.”
“We’re at war. There’s nothing I could have done when I found out. Those bastards always held territory on the west coast, even after we took it. Bleed territory, reconsolidate. Push back. It was easier when we were so much smaller. Never mind me. Do you like codes?”
He wore a sunshine smile on his face, and Erin raised her brows.
“Only a little bit. I am from Earth. I know a bit about other languages.”
“I had your people teach me morse code, at least, some of it. None of them actually know the stuff, but I find it fascinating. Have you studied Drake ciphers? It’s advanced, but I’ll wager you’re better than that.”
Erin smiled slightly.
“I might know my way around their ciphers. I did play chess with Chaldion—”
“Yes, yes. Pallassian ciphers are second-hardest. Worst is…”
“Manus?”
“Hah! Yes! Good answer!”
Niers cheered up and jostled his wine cup a bit before drinking deeper. He grinned at her.
“The City of War thinks they’re the best, but they’ve got too many idiots in their military. They just have a mathematical cipher. I have a few copies of their codebooks. Pallass actually has multiple rotations they use, and Admiral Asale beefed up Zeres’ stuff. But the hardest is…”
“Oteslia. Duh.”
She shot him two finger guns, and he laughed.
“Damn flower symbology and scent-based codes. I don’t have a Gnoll’s nose! Do you know any other?”
“Uh…I’ve heard Drowned Folk do something clever, but I don’t know much.”
“Ah, they put it on the boards of boats. No one notices if you swap a dinghy. They have to account for weathering, though, so sometimes it’s a marking, other times they lodge the message onto the hull of the vessel with a barnacle creature.”
“Interesting. I’ve heard about Calanferian ciphers.”
“Demons-damned hard, especially after Queen Ielane took power. Sometimes, I think she invents new ciphers just to mess with us. There’s a mind like a razor.”
They had an actually enjoyable exchange about ciphers for a while without ever mentioning her journal. Niers almost seemed pleased as he sat back.
“So what did you want to bring up? If it’s more food for your people, I’ll take a thirty percent cut of whatever you make and let you take as much as you want. Deal?”
“I’ll take that offer, if you give me supplies to make more and an escort and access into Oelnnox. Like you promised.”
Niers’ smile slipped, and he put down his wine cup a second and pressed his fingers against his temples.
“That’s not a safe trip. Especially now. Oelnnox is south and east of here, which is good because Jungle Tails holds in strength on the western side of the continent and the Dyed Lands. East is safer, but you’re at risk of [Assassins], and it’s not like they don’t have forces there. What brought this on?”
Erin gave him a sweet smile.
“I just felt like investigating some of your secrets, Niers. Y’know, I have to call your bluff sometimes or it’s just blind trust. And we both don’t work on blind anything.”
He grunted and folded his arms.
“…Geneva Scala’s been looking through my reports, hasn’t she? It’s not a secret. I told you.”
“Then you’re definitely not defensive about it and we can see, can’t we?”
“It’s dangerous. They’re dangerous. I can see if I refuse, you’ll go anyways and get suspicious, but it’s going to be a waste of your time.”
“Rabbiteater’s on the eastern coast. So is Tyrion. We have to head that way anyways.”
“It means you’ll be out of Elvallian. Potentially for a long time.”
He snapped, getting annoyed again, and Erin made a face.
“You have to fight your war, Niers. I can tell you’re getting your students ready for actual combat. Don’t grump at me. In fact, if I’m slowing you down, I should go right now. Your company matters far more than my company.”
For a moment, she sounded…not like the Erin he knew, but close. Too close. Like Erin and someone else mixed, and Niers shifted and glared at a stack of maps. He was spared from replying when someone knocked on the door.
“Lord Astoragon. The Minotaur is here to seek a private meeting with you. Again. Shall I throw him out a window?”
Niers twisted in his seat and shouted.
“Venaz! You’ve caught me at a bad moment, which is every moment you get on my nerves! Get in here, and if it’s not good, I will have Atmodeca throw you out a window!”
There was a pause, then Venaz strode into the room. His confident stride slowed when he saw Erin there.
“Ah, Miss Solstice. I had hoped for a private word, Professor—this is on behalf of the House of Minos.”
“You won’t get it. I’ve just lost half an army, and I’m in a bad mood. If the Minotaur King wants to say something, Erin can hear it too. Since I’m not a secretive person.”
He growled as Venaz hesitated, and Erin twinkled at him with a brilliant smile.
“Me neither. I’m all unsecretive.”
He actually laughed at that, despite not wanting to. Venaz gave Erin a dubious gaze, which showed how well he did at reading into any situation. Niers wished he’d had Venaz take a course in the art of intrigue…or just subtlety. He was going to need it even if he worked in the House of Minos.
“Professor…well, perhaps the Minotaur King will think it funny. It’s pertinent. I have a verbal message to deliver to you, sir. King Inreza compliments you on your book, Goblin [Mercenaries], which she has read cover-to-cover with great interest. She would earnestly wish to converse on the matter, should circumstances allow.”
Niers’ scowl vanished. His head turned, and Erin’s ears perked up. She peered at Venaz, and the Minotaur glanced at her.
“The Minotaur King is a well-read individual, Innkeeper Solstice.”
“Did she have a preference on where we should meet, Venaz?”
“I assume the House of Minos, Lord Astoragon. She does not travel far, due to her injuries.”
The Titan of Baleros chuckled and sat back, thinking, then rose and strode over to some book shelves. He sorted through them, then shouted for Atmodeca to bring an archived section of his library.
She had an entire shelf of books in one claw she placed down, and he sorted through them before coming out with a book. He tossed a copy at Erin.
“Have you read this?”
“I’ve heard of it. Aren’t most copies of it burned?”
Niers grunted.
“Oh, yes. I had most of them burned myself after Velan became the Goblin King. It was not the time for…so the Minotaur King has read my work. Did she say anything else?”
Venaz shifted uncomfortably. He could tell there was an undercurrent to this conversation.
“Only that she found it fascinating. It is topical to the House of Minos, Professor, Miss Solstice. We battle the Isle of Goblins each year.”
“And the Minotaur King sees the point. She’s offering me warships. Well, well, well. Looks like the House of Minos is making a play for the New Lands. Such a funny thing to find common ground over.”
Niers was suddenly striding about, peering at maps of Baleros, the seas, muttering about the distance between the House of Minos and Baleros, and Venaz grew alarmed.
“Professor! It’s merely an invitation to meet!”
“The Iron Vanguard once swore to sink me if I ever sailed off Baleros, Venaz. But if the House of Minos sailed in…there’s two naval powers who’d square off, and I don’t know who I’d back in that match. Minotaur ships are well-made. Excellently armed. Did she say how many ballistae I could buy?”
“Professor, she said nothing of the sort!”
Niers rolled his eyes.
“Did she mention how many siege weapons you were producing when you visited?”
Venaz hesitated.
“Only that the engagement this year with the Isle of Goblins was light. We spent a third of our usual ammunition due to Prince Khedal’s duel with Greydath of Blades, and then the Goblin exodus threw off our usual exchange of fire.”
“Hm. You normally lose dozens of siege weapons when the Goblins hit back. Even a third of that’s wonderful. Let me see, let me—Atmodeca! Find me a copy of my Goblin [Mercenaries] book for Tallfolk!”
Niers was bouncing around now, and he signed the huge book the Crocodile woman got for him with a flourish. Venaz was fully alarmed.
“Professor, Professor. I thought it was just a passing comment, so I haven’t even brought it to you for, er, months! If I thought this was official correspondence—”
Niers turned a glower on him, but not hugely.
“Venaz, you clown! If you’d thought it was official, you would have been obvious as the sun! Nothing’s set in stone, it’s just interesting. The clue, if you’d searched for it, is that the House of Minos has a damn embassy with us. If King Inreza wanted anything quickly, they’d call me! Now, tell me, did she say anything else? She has to have a price beyond gold for all this.”
Now, poor Venaz was searching his mind, and Erin was sitting forwards. The Minotaur mumbled.
“I was not in her presence long. If I don’t extrapolate? She merely wanted to speak to you about your first-hand experiences. She said you had insights even the House of Minos lacked.”
“Did she quote a chapter?”
“Er…twenty-two?”
It struck Venaz, belatedly, that it would have really been good to read the book Niers and Inreza clearly knew by heart. But only the Titan had copies. Erin flipped to the chapter, and she blinked, then her brows shot into her hairline. Niers just checked the chapter, and his animated bouncing about stopped.
“Ah. Well…that is a price. Dead gods.”
Venaz peered at the book Atmodeca had cracked open. The Crocodile Beastkin was taller than he was and shielded the book until he gave her such a pleading look she showed him the chapter.
 
Chapter 22 — Parlaying with Goblin tribes
 
This time, Erin spoke quietly.
“Does she want you to make peace with the Isle of Goblins? Because I’m definitely for that.”
Venaz was so alarmed and frightened that Niers put an arm out to touch her shoulder. He spoke.
“That’s an extrapolation, and I warn you, Venaz, if you go bleating about it to other Minotaurs, it’ll only cause alarm. I doubt it’s that simple. I do think she wants me to…reach out to some old contacts. But I’m hesitant to do so, even if they’ve recently broken their silence.”
