Visophecin stared at the menu. He went back to reading his book. After a moment, his eyebrows rose.
“Now that’s not physically possible. I think.”
 
 
Entry #48 — Of Gorillas
 
Ryoka gets back, and I only needle her a bit about visiting Tyrion. I get it, as a Sariant Lamb. Imperfect allies beat no allies and he’s got an army.
Nor am I that nauseated by anything sexual, like Erin is. Sariants see a lot, and we also have fairly short lifespans both naturally and due to the many dangers to us. Low libidos, though; another thing our wonderful creator didn’t want was us being annoying.
The point is, Ryoka seems steadier now that she’s back and being a heroine, and so she’s trying to wrap up business before our travels. Thus, she takes me and Erek on a hang-glider to his gorilla tribe. I asked to come with when I heard what he was doing. Anything Erek wants to do I feel is worth pursuing.
Plus, I get to fly.
 
——
 
It’s an exhilarating experience for me that’s only slightly terrifying; I’m sitting in her belt pouch, peeking down at the ground.
Fraerling-sized. Ryoka doesn’t have the ability to carry two big people, and this is the only way I can tag along.
It’s funny that we’re going to visit Erek’s contacts, but he was quite insistent we do that before we head off on our trip. Well, he ooked a lot. I suppose this is the only force he can call on, and I want to meet these giant gorillas.
We’re also able to talk openly between the three of us, which is a relief. Ryoka keeps shouting over the wind.
“I can’t believe she’s a Fraerling still! I hope Ulvama is taking good care of her.”
“You trust her to do that?”
I’m surprised; my impression of Ulvama is a pretty lazy, self-centered Hobgoblin. But Ryoka just gazes down at me.
“She’s nicer than you think. Erin talked about how she got her dancing.”
“True…”
“Mrsha said Ulvama took care of her too. Between the two of them, I think I’d trust Ulvama in the wilds. So long as they’re together, they have a chance, but we’ve got to get to them and bring them to Paeth, ASAP!”
“I have no idea what ‘asap’ means. You’re going to have to teach me more Earth-slang, Ryoka. I nearly shat pellets when you tried to get us singing together.”
Ryoka snorts.
“As soon as possible. It’s an acronym. Wow, this is going to be tough…Erek, what do you think about all this?”
He’s hanging from the glider with one arm as he scratches himself with the other.
“Ook.”
“…Any chance you could speak perfect English if we transformed you?”
“Ook! Ook!”
“Okay, okay, I get it, that’s a stupid question. Stop poking me! I’ll crash us all!”
I twist to stare up at Ryoka.
“Hang on, do you actually know what he’s saying or is this some faerie-power? Because I’m just guessing.”
She shrugs.
“No, I’m guessing too. I’m pretty sure he was telling me that he’s plenty smart and he could speak English—if he wanted to wear a crappy Human body.”
Erek nods several times, and I eye him.
“Well, his people know about the Trials of Levelling. So do the other ape tribes. Erek has offered to protect and aid me in my quest, and this gorilla tribe must be useful too if he’s insistent we connect with them. What was the problem last time?”
“Ook-oook. Ooooook. Och. Mrmbr.”
“Last time, there was a female Gorilla who hated my guts. I made some peace offerings, but whatever Erek was asking, it was probably a lot. We’re coming back with stuff he picked out; I think it’s a bribe. How’s that for translation, Erek?”
He thinks about it, then offers her a two and a half.
“Out of five? Damn. You try, Nerry.”
I think about it.
“—Probably, he’s saying that this gorilla tribe isn’t going to win us any battles. How many did you say there were? Dozens at best? There’s some other reason he wants to communicate with them.”
Erek nods vigorously, and Ryoka sighs.
“Well, here we go. Everyone, watch out for damn bugs, and Nerry, if that female Gorilla comes after you, be nice.”
I bare my teeth.
“I’m plenty nice.”
In truth, I already have a plan as we circle in on the landing site. This time, it seems we’re anticipated, because I see a gorilla stand up and begin howling the moment we come down.
“Huh, Erek must have said we’d be back. Do you think I could learn other languages? Shaestrel, is that a power you have?”
The Spring Faerie flies down next to us.
“Eh, it’s all ooks to me. But I was never good with languages outside of home.”
 
——
 
It takes a while for the tribe of gorillas that Ryoka met to appear again, but when they do, they have expectant looks. I’m mostly okay with the bugs; Ryoka freaks out, but you have to get used to bugs when you’re a Sariant Lamb. Ticks are the worst; ever tried removing them without digits?
Mostly, I am trying to pick up on the interplay between Erek and the gorilla, whom Ryoka calls ‘Smoothie’ for reasons I don’t get. She’s got a name for the mean gorilla female as well: ‘Pusher’—it’s rather apt.
However, here is where my ability does come in handy: Sariant Lambs have to study more than just the levelling species in the world. We can befriend wild dogs and boars and everything else—my ability to ‘read’ other species extends to Antinium as well as Goblins.
So, if I may, here was the analysis I provided to Ryoka:
 
Goldstreak Gorilla Tribe. Population ~60. Nearly a third young adults or children. Hostility levels…low with notable exceptions. Wariness levels? High.
This tribe has seen repeated skirmishes with local Lizardfolk. It’s clear they have lost a lot of their adults and warriors, and while the Lizardfolk have paid for such clashes, the gorillas lose more.
At the same time, my guess is that they aren’t willing to abandon this forest; it’s the home they know, and they risk clashing with monsters or tribes in a risky migration.
However, it explains Smoothie’s wariness around Erek. They treat him like what he is: an outsider, but with a degree of respect as well. No one, not the males or even Pusher, are willing to directly offend him. He’s much like an [Explorer] to them; his wisdom appears to be unquestioned.
It’s Ryoka and I who represent the unwelcome facets. Pusher harasses us both, trying to literally knock us around, and I think it’s not just her being ornery. This is an argument on a tribal level. She’s trying to break whatever bargain Erek has—and Smoothie is torn.
He’s asking something hard of the gorillas. Something that necessitates Erek offering a lot. He had Ryoka and me bring bags of holding full of stuff I suspect he bought or stole from Niers’ company. Just what is interesting.
Pots, pans, but even axes. Medicinal poultices, big needles, and salves for ridding the gorillas of bugs. Even a full camping tent. They’re interested in this stuff, and I think Erek’s chosen more technological goods deliberately. He could offer them food, and my guess is they’d be happy, but this is a negotiation for something more.
Something about the Trials of Levelling. I know that, because he points at me, and Smoothie nearly slaps him off his feet. She doesn’t believe I’m a Sariant Lamb and sniffs at and prods me; I have to transform into a Fraerling to even get her to listen to Erek, and then he’s describing things like Barelle the Bard. All the other gorillas listen, wide-eyed. However, they’re still split, and Smoothie studies me and Ryoka, and I think she’s weighing whether or not it’s worth putting her people in danger to help two weak-looking Humans.
 
Ryoka broadly concurs with my analysis. She leans over as Erek spreads his arms wide, gesturing with huge sounds.
“I think he’s telling them about the battle at sea. What do you think he wants from them?”
“They have a map. See those stones he was placing with her? I think he’s asking them to go somewhere. Not with us.”
I murmur back, and Ryoka nods. She’s miming with some of the other gorillas, showing them how a few objects work. She’s pretty good; she even has a few kids come over and blows air around, entrancing them like any other children. Now, I’m reminded she is a Courier, and Erek glances at us approvingly.
The problem…is Pusher. Ryoka’s showing one of the gorillas how the tent is set up when Pusher sneaks up behind her and gives her a shove.
A gorilla shove. Ryoka hits the tent so hard she comes up with a bloody nose. The Courier whirls, and Pusher bares her teeth at Ryoka and makes a very aggressive display of striking her chest. The other gorillas watch—torn, I think. Some made vague ‘go away’ gestures, but Pusher’s mad.
My guess is she’s lost family or friends to Lizardfolk. And she’s got a good idea of how many might die for Erek’s plans. I even sympathize with her—but her grief and desire for isolation doesn’t work for me.
I need help. There are Sariant Lambs like her. Those who think the trials are a big curse and that we should hide away, try to be independent. Isolationists…they can do what they want, but if they get in the way of us Pathforgers, we deal with them. They can die without tools, at the mercy of a single coyote, if they want. But not drag us down with them.
“Hey, you. Back away.”
I’ve figured out enough of their language and body gestures to know what to do. I stride forwards, making myself bigger, and bare my teeth and look her right in the eyes.
“Nerry, not a good idea! Don’t meet her—”
“We don’t have time to play nice, Ryoka. Hey, Pusher, you want a fight? Here I am.”
She stares at me darkly and looms over me; she’s huge and has to outweigh me, what, six times? More? But I have a trick up my sleeve: the Warform.
I activate it and grow. I call on the rage, the anger that defines me, and horns sprout from my head. Black flames race around me, my feet turn to hooves, and fur grows on my arms.
A Sariant Lamb’s Warform. The rest of the tribe moves away the moment they see my powers activate, and Pusher backs off, alarmed. Erek and Smoothie turn, watching me. I make a fist and beckon at her. Pusher eyes me as I stomp a hoof. Erek wants to show this tribe we mean business? I can do that.
I see Pusher eye me, then knuckle back several paces. I’m smiling as I turn to Smoothie. Assure her I’m on her side. Out of the corner of my eye, I see Pusher’s head go down.
“Ah—”
She charges, and I spin. Then a four hundred pound gorilla is coming at me, silent and huge as a brick wall, arms raised. I make a mistake; I throw a punch and expect my Warform to put me on equal footing with her.
With a Gorgon? Sure, it gives me strength. With a Level 30 [Warrior]? I can punch and brawl with them, and I’m tougher, stronger. But against a charging gorilla?
 
——
 
I do confess, I don’t actually recall the next bit. When I wake up, Erek is threatening Pusher with a sword, and she’s punching me on the ground. I hope I put up a good fight, but my guess is that she smashed me off my feet and just hit me for however long it took me to come around.
I should have shot her first. I try to roll out of the way as Pusher bites at Erek, only to realize she’s sitting on my feet. I punch at her again; she catches my fist and raises one the size of my face.
The rest of her tribe is watching this showdown. I think Smoothie is waiting to see if I have some more fight in me, if Erek is going to hurt Pusher, or if he’s good with the sword—which he is. The enchanted blade and his own abilities would kill Pusher in a fight, but that might turn the tribe against us, and Erek knows it. He hesitates, and that’s when Ryoka Griffin speaks.
“Pusher, get off my friend.”
Her voice is loud, and Pusher blinks around and then sees Ryoka. She’s not scared of Ryoka, out of all of us, and snorts. But Ryoka just says it again.
“I said get OFF her.”
A blast of wind. I feel it tearing at my hair and whipping up everything around me; it hits Pusher like a solid thing, and she recoils. Goes stumbling back, shielding her face. When she lowers her hands, snarling…there’s Ryoka.
“You can push me around, but not her. You want a fight? I’ll give you a fight.”
Uh oh. I shove myself up, about to shout at her to get back. Pusher’s mad now, and unlike me, Ryoka has no Warform! But when I roll to the side, I don’t see Pusher charging Ryoka. My head rises, and I get it.
It’s a bad idea. Even the angry gorilla can tell that.
Ryoka Griffin is standing in a cleared patch of the jungle. Well, I say cleared—the wind’s snapped every branch in a dozen feet, and it’s all whirling around her like a contained tornado.
The Wind Runner’s bandaged feet are planted on the ground, but she’s facing Pusher side-long. And she’s hopping on her feet, making fists—is she going to take Pusher on bare-handed?
That’s a really bad idea, as I can attest. But the female gorilla is hesitating. The wind—the wind’s howling.
Every time her feet leave the ground, it takes a bit too long for Ryoka to land. Like gravity’s half as effective on her. But that’s not the ominous part. The ominous part is her left hand. I swear I can see the air distorting around her fist. Like a miniature cyclone is swirling in a vortex, encasing her hand. And I have this instinct, the same as the other gorillas.
It looks like if that hits me, all the force of a storm is going to come with it. So, Warform or not, I don’t fancy eating one of Ryoka’s punches.
The wind is blowing her black hair around crazily. And she’s mad on my behalf; her green eyes are flashing. I hold my breath and nearly eat a flying piece of bark.
I think she’s levelling up! In her own way.
“Ook?”
Erek makes a worried sound as Pusher walks back and forth on her fists, clearly weighing whether she wants whatever Ryoka’s got. But the Wind Runner just winks at Erek.
“Turns out Baleros’ winds are nicer than I thought. Or they’re just always down for a fight. Well, Pusher? You want to do this?”
The female gorilla hesitates and glances at her tribe. They’re watching her. If she backs down, she loses her authority. She gives Erek a second peek—and I can see her make her decision. She makes a loud, hooting sound—and then almost hesitantly, she charges forwards. Halts when Ryoka takes a step forwards.
“Ryoka—”
The Wind Runner’s eyes are on Pusher.
“Fuck, I was hoping she’d back down. This is Calruz all over again. Hey, uh, Nerry? Pull me out before she kills me?”
She swallows hard, and Pusher sees it. Her eyes narrow—and she throws herself at Ryoka with a two-handed slam. But the Wind Runner’s gone. She takes one step back and moves nearly a dozen feet, like she’s floating. Then she grits her teeth, squats down slightly—and jumps. She comes forwards like a storm, and when she kicks Pusher in the chest, the thunderclap of wind blows up a storm of debris.
