I related the events above as best I could. I feel like noting down exactly how Ryoka was acting is important. As far as I could tell, she was shocked, but not outraged. That’s important. I need to have her on my side.
She promised not to tell anyone, though she wanted to reveal my identity to Lyonette and the others. I told her that was a bad idea because the secret spreads, and besides. If Erin contacted me, she can do it with the inn, surely.
Now that Ryoka understands what’s going on, she’s…okay, she’s not calmer. She’s an anxious person, and she doesn’t like the idea of fighting battles. Her idea is to locate Rabbiteater and guide him out of the jungle. I asked her how she was going to manage the monsters and the Dullahans. They’re pissed at Calanfer, and they don’t play games. We need forces to muster. She promised to fly to Tyrion and ask for his aid.
I focused on Elvallian and spent half my day trying out my new Skill, the other half…socializing.
[Wondrous Fare] is great. It’s an efficient Skill that makes magical food with powerful buffs at a fraction of the cost of potions. The only downside is that the food spoils and only I can make it, or Erin. But it’s essentially power for merely hard work. Wonderful.
I put in five hours with a [Cook] in one of the spare kitchens. I don’t know why Erin isn’t cooking with all the time she has. Is it just…laziness? Certainly, my hands hurt.
We were working on reinventing the recipes Erin knows. Funnily, Niers knows almost all of them. Talk about obsession. Or maybe it’s Foliana who wanted to know?
The Scaleguard soup tastes…okay at best, even in sandwich form. It’s really not great. Nothing is. Even the Bulkup Bisque is more like a mediocre crab bisque. So after figuring out I can pretty much make all of her foods, I set about doing some experiments.
How do you make a bad soup good? Well, you render it down until it’s essentially mush, use the stock instead of water, and dry the mush and combine it with flour.
Scaleguard Bread. It actually looks great. Okay, so the paste on the bottom of the pot turns hard as rock, and you have to keep working it to keep it from solidifying. We mixed it with the bread, and I was afraid it’d be like hiding rocks in the bread, but it rose during the leavening process.
Now that’s magic. The end result is, well, ‘scales’ on top of the bread that we paint with a bit of dyed egg. Then you have a colorful scale bread that tastes as good as any bread you want, though with an admittedly-hard rind on top. But it’s not teeth-breaking hard, and it tastes really good fresh.
Bulkup Bisque? Different problem, better solution. We just added pasta and some cheese. It’s a very decadent bowl of pasta that I bet Erin would like because she loves that disgusting macaroni and cheese. Maybe the crab taste would put her off, but—no, she’s not that picky, surely. Wait, did her bisque even have crab in it? Sprinkle some bread crumbs in there and put a salad together and you have a full meal.
Oh, salad. Right, so, I just asked for a bunch of plants that insects hate. The bastards bite everything, so I got some lemongrass, mint, marigolds, and mixed them together with Wideleaf Lettuce. You roll it up because the marigolds are, uh, not good by themselves. I debated garlic, but that’s disgusting and something Erin would do.
It didn’t work. However, we were only two hours in and waiting for the bread, and the [Cook], who’s a Dullahan, put me onto a tea made of catnip that annoys mosquitos. So I had the idea to soak the rolls in the tea, but that made them too soggy.
Catnip, lemongrass, and the rolls just…do not taste good.
Idea. Do you know what also kills insects?
Nali-sticks. They’re actually so damn sweet that most insects can’t handle them and just die. So a tiny amount cuts the taste and keeps the wraps tasty. The end result is what I’m calling a Bugkiller Wrap.
You just sprinkle the ingredients together, roll up the huge leaf of lettuce, and chomp it down. Or—you can light it like a puffer stuff if it dries out. Both seem to keep bugs away. The [Cook] tried that. I swear, give some [Smokers] anything cylindrical and they’ll try to smoke it…
I got so into it that after five hours passed, I had thirty varieties of Scaleguard Bread and enough Bulkup Pasta to feed an army. So I made two hundred of the Bugkiller Wraps. The [Cook] helped; he can prepare the ingredients, and his Skills made me work faster, but it was a lot of work. Anyways, we packed it all up, and I went to feed lunch to my command.
I was relaxing there a bit. Might have compromised my cover a tiny bit, but I like singing. And Erin’s a [Singer], isn’t she?
 
——
 
Daly Sullivan was pacing around Elvallian, feeling useless and out of sorts after seeing Ryoka fly into the Dyed Lands while he sat here with his thumbs up his ass. She was like Luan, but potentially even more insane. A Courier doing amazing things.
It was Dawson who grabbed him.
“Hey, Daly, check out Erin. She’s in one of the barracks, and Siri’s teaching her songs. Also, she’s made her magical food.”
“Get out.”
Daly followed Dawson at a trot and found Tofte playing on a guitar as Siri’s phone played songs. Erin was singing along as Lizardfolk waved their hands to the beat of the songs. Selphids were sitting in the barracks, patching up their bodies or also singing with her.
The [Mercenaries] who’d switched onto ‘her’ side after Gloriam’s siege of the Lizardfolk city were eating what smelled like good food. Erin broke off from singing when she saw Daly. She hucked an entire loaf of round bread at him, and he caught it.
“What’s this?”
“Scaleguard Bread. Come on in, there’s plenty for everyone.”
She grinned at him, and Daly broke off a piece of the bread with bright yellow scales on top with a bit of effort. He worried, but aside from the tougher crust, it tasted great. Then someone passed him a bowl of the Bulkup Pasta, and his brows rose.
“Daly, check this out!”
Dawson lifted up one of the other Bushrangers with one hand as they swore and kicked; they fell, but it didn’t even hurt because of the Scaleguard Bread.
“You can make this stuff whenever you want?”
Daly was stunned, and Erin winked at him.
“Enough to feed a few hundred people. I wish I’d had time to do that before our city siege. I’ll make more if we’re bound for fighting. Siri, what’s that song?”
“Another one Cara’s already done. Are you sure you don’t know any of these? I’m from Sweden, and I know more than you do!”
Erin shrugged casually.
“I wasn’t into music back home, and I didn’t come here with a phone. Teach me another one.”
“I didn’t know you sang.”
Daly found a seat, chatting, as Beth skidded into the doorway; she’d heard there was magical food on offer. Erin paused a moment.
“I don’t show it off, but it’s one of those things I liked doing with people. Privately.”
“Like dancing? You’ve got a lot of talents.”
She shrugged, a slight smile on her face.
“What else can you do with your spare time other than dance or sing? I mean, besides playing chess.”
Fair point, Daly supposed. He would have said swimming, kicking a ball about, travel, games on a computer, or…
Where was she from again? Michigan? Was that the midwest or something? He didn’t know America-land well. They probably had nothing to do but eat confectionary, poor bastards. He settled back on a seat as Erin practiced a few more songs.
“Commander, you’re being pretty good to us. Here I thought we’d end up working for the Titan again. But even he doesn’t give out magical food like this. Not to regular soldiers.”
One of the Selphids called out. She was wearing a Human’s body that had several holes in the chest; every time she inhaled, she made a faint whistling sound from the perforations in her lungs. Erin pointed at her.
“Sergeant Azhang, right? Who’s my Lizardfolk leader?”
“Me!”
Three Lizardfolk leapt up. Then they began punching at each other. The one who won the dustup gave Erin a gap-toothed salute.
“High Naga Follower Nexxi, at your service, Commander Solstice ma’am! That’s like a [Captain], I guess. Only, we can’t hold a full command role. Only Naga can lead us in the Jungle Tails company.”
Daly tensed a bit, remembering this group of Lizardfolk had been on the enemy side in the city they’d fought for. But the Selphids seemed relaxed. [Mercenaries] fought and died, and it wasn’t personal.
“Nexxi and Azhang—where’s Lieutenant Vossk? I’m going to say that Vossk is the most senior leader here, and Nexxi and Azhang are second to that. That’s our order of command. For reference, if we’re working with the Bushrangers, Daly would have equivalent rank to Vossk. Got it? Stick to the chain of command you know under those two until we sort out different groupings.”
Erin gave orders as another Selphid, Lieutenant Vossk, stepped forwards. Daly was again shocked; she gave the orders in a practiced way that seemed to make the [Mercenaries] happy.
“You got it, Commander! Are we working for the Titan then?”
Erin gave Nexxi a crooked grin.
“Is he paying you? Or am I? Technically, he is, but he lent me the money to do it. Don’t worry, I’m not fighting his battles. I want to keep my people safe, which means we’ll fight whomever’s after the Calanferians. Could be Iron Vanguard. Does that bother anyone?”
There was a moment of hesitation, but then Nexxi stuck out his tongue and made a face.
“The Ironheads? Just so long as Tulm the Mithril’s gone, we’ll dust up any local battalion they’ve got. They’re no different from any other company unless their bigshots take the field. Besides, we’re dead if we go back to Jungle Tails after deserting. The Nagas’ll eat us. But we’re all sick of dying. Fighting for the Crazy Innkeeper of Liscor sounds safer!”
The Lizardfolk let out a big cheer at that, and Erin pointed at Vossk, who was munching on the lettuce wraps.
“Any objections on the Selphid side? You were all leaving the Forgotten Wing company.”
He hooked his thumbs in his belt, a pale smile on his face as the Selphid replied.
“The same for us, Commander Solstice. Our Minds are calling us, but we don’t have to obey. After you came in and bailed us out, we thought we’d find loot and levels your way.”
“I’ve got good food. Good start?”
The grins answered Erin as she carved up a pear with a knife. She chewed on a slice as she handed one to Daly. He was fascinated and listened with the rest, trying to get a sense of her. When Erin was done chewing, she gazed around.
“What did you think about the fight with the green monsters?”
“Don’t do it?”
More laughter from Lizardfolk, and Erin waved that off.
“Not that or even Ryoka. We all heard that person telling Ryoka she’d get help. The Serpentborn. I heard that was their equivalent of a top leader in the company. They managed to break into the communication spell Niers was using. That’s not a good look, is it?”
Everyone cast around, but they were in a long, half-cylinder barracks where soldiers could stay, and if there were listeners…Vossk answered, glancing at the doors.
“Anyone can breach a spell, even from one of the Four Great Companies, Commander.”
“But it makes the Titan look bad. It makes people think Jungle Tails isn’t going to roll over, even if he gave them a bloody nose. What do the [Soldiers] think? There’s a reason the Selphids left en-masse, even if it was because he burned a Gathering Citadel.”
Erin pointed her knife at Vossk, and the Selphids went quiet. They shifted uncomfortably, perhaps not liking how much she knew about Selphids. Their Gathering Citadels. Then one called out.
“Well, the Jungle Tails company has a lot of magic. More than anyone thought if they’re throwing spells across the continent. Everyone knows all the Lizardfolk are sympathetic to them.”
Instantly, Nexxi and the other Lizardfolk demurred.
“We quit because Nagas can suck! We say Nagas, but that just means all of them. Some are petty and stupid, and no one knows why they got to evolve. Jungle Tails was always big until Niers kicked them out of the top four! Of course they have magic!”
Here Erin broke into the discussion before it got heated. She put out a hand, and Azhang shut her mouth. The Human woman gave Nexxi a hard look.
“Oh, come on. We all know your people are waiting for the Eyes of Baleros. Saving up artifacts, preparing—you can be straight with us. If the Nagatine Empire comes back, you’ll be happy, right? That’s why the other two Great Companies aren’t jumping Niers. They’re worried the Eyes are going to fall into your clutches too.”
This time, all the Bushrangers stared at Daly, who shrugged. His eyes were on Erin, and he was astounded. She knew more about Baleros than he did! Nexxi fidgeted, avoiding Erin’s gaze.
“I, uh—well, come on, it’s not like we’ll stab you in the back if we get the Eyes. It’s just, y’know—”
“I’m not blaming you, Nexxi. Who wouldn’t want to have enough power to keep your people safe?”
Erin’s gentle voice made Nexxi peek up, and the Naga Follower burst out.
“Yeah! We’re always picked on or attacked because there are so many of us! It’s not like we’ll all join Jungle Tails if they get the eyes. Just…we’ll be tougher. More equal, you know? Anyways, even if Jungle Tails gets the Eyes, it doesn’t mean we’ll all be on the same side. The Nagas infight a lot. They just all think it’s time to fight Forgotten Wing and the Gazers right now. Everyone says the Titan’s lost his edge.”
Nexxi clapped two clawed hands over his mouth, but Erin barely reacted as the room shifted to gaze at the doors.
“Aha. And why’s that?”
She turned to Vossk, but he demurred, and Azhang appeared nervous as she played with the holes in her chest.
“—It’s not that he’s weak. He tore down that Selphid fortress last year. And he beat the Jungle Tails army practically by himself. He’s still the Titan. It’s just…”
Her appeal made Vossk murmur.
“He’s not as dangerous as before. Maybe it was that curse of luck they say he’s under, but I still feel he’s not as sharp as he used to be. I’d still put him over Tulm the Mithril in a fight, any day. But that’s not the Titan of Baleros. He used to be crazy.”
“Crazier than outflanking Maelstrom’s Howling and dropping fucking bombs on their heads?”
Dawson interjected, skeptical. They’d seen that, but the [Mercenaries] just laughed at him. Nexxi wore a huge grin.
“No, that’s just good strategy. He used to be so scary that three Great Companies would team up against him and then run with their tails between their legs! He went up against the King of Destruction and won!”
