She and Pellmia ended up watching as Tyrion mounted his stallion and tilted with Rethra. At first, she avoided his lance, using that nimbleness and unwillingness to face him in a straight charge that had foiled him, but then she started taking blows. After the fifth pass, she reeled like she’d told the two, upper body flopping back on the Centaur’s torso before she dragged herself up.
“Ow. You’re paying for that.”
She began coming at him in earnest, and it transpired that Centaurs had no qualms about attacking the horse. Tyrion defended his mount quite adeptly, though, and the surprised Centauress galloped around him, cursing as he followed her, impossible to shake.
“He’s learning fast. Think he’ll survive on Baleros?”
Ryoka watched, arms folded, and Pellmia kept glancing at her. He hesitated, then decided they were on a different continent, so to hells with it.
“He is the best [Lancer] I have ever known. Even despite his—recent setbacks—he’d have given the Centaurs a nasty surprise had they actually wanted blood. You’re looking well, Ryoka, and I am glad you seem to think we’re needed. I agonized the entire trip whether I’d have to drag Tyrion back if this was some impulse that was unwanted. You, ah, know she’s flirting with him?”
Ryoka glanced up at Pellmia as Rethra surrendered and trotted over to ask Tyrion how he fought like he did; she used a single lance in two arms, not his shield and lance combo.
“Oh, I know. Poor Rethra. If she actually manages to seduce him, I think I’d just ask to watch. Because on multiple levels, that’s not happening. It’s Tyrion.”
She had a point. Pellmia felt a surge of sympathy for the Centauress as Tyrion showed her how to handle a lance without a hint of anything else. He coughed.
“And you do need our help?”
She gave him a long gaze that snapped him out of his amused state.
“If Tyrion is willing to, I won’t turn down any help on this continent, Pellmia. I just hope you know what you’re getting into.”
He hesitated, then bowed his head.
“I…have duties on Izril I should attend to. The Vampires, for one. But I came because…”
He glanced at Tyrion and sighed.
“This is simpler and, in a sense, morally easier than anything else, even if we’re fighting [Mercenaries]. There’s something about Tyrion that is straightforward, even when he errs. Like someone throwing a rock. Regardless of what it hits, it is always the rock.”
The Wind Runner laughed and grinned at Pellmia, and he did see what Tyrion saw in her.
“That’s exactly why I like him too. Besides…”
She grew somber a moment.
“…I need his help, and like N—Erin said, I do like problems. It’s definitely not a thing, though.”
“Absolutely not.”
Lord Pellmia lied. After a while, Ryoka strode over, and Tyrion followed her as she waved at a very crestfallen Rethra. Lord Pellmia walked over, and the Centauress stood there.
“I asked if he wanted to get on my back and see if he could ride a Centaur, and he asked me if that was considered impolite. You got them together, those two?”
“Somehow.”
She gave him a long look.
“I’ve never met someone above Level 50 before. Can I have your autograph, and do you do consultations?”
 
——
 
Tyrion Veltras was no idiot. He’d been suspecting he was being flirted with, but Ryoka Griffin confirming it made him nod to himself when they were in his tent.
“I thought so.”
She just stared at him, exasperated, amused, mildly horrified—he didn’t know why he provoked that expression in her, but then she leaned over.
“Alright. I have to unpack that with you. However, we have to attend a dinner with the Centaurs, so if you wanted to have fun, now’s the time.”
He waited a second, hoping that meant what he thought it meant. She gestured several times in increasingly explicit ways that had him color. He glanced at the tent flaps and hissed, despite the silencing spells.
“N-now?”
She gave him such an amazed expression…then hesitated and bit her lip.
“Oh, if you don’t want to—”
“Absolutely.”
He interrupted her very quickly, in case this windfall were to vanish. Let no one think Tyrion Veltras wasn’t interested. Indeed and nay, more so than when he was in his forties. Dead gods, the sleepless nights he’d had where he’d had to dunk his head in water if he even thought of her—
She was removing her clothes in front of him, and he covered his crotch. Ryoka seemed delighted.
“I forgot you liked watching me undress.”
“That sounds—vulgar. I’m just not used to—are you sure this is appropriate?”
She actually stopped as he fumbled with his armor and gave him a strange look.
“Okay, you have to explain this one to me, Tyrion. Seriously, is something wrong? Did one of the Centaurs kick you in the balls?”
He cleared his throat. Damn this to the Five Families, if this ended things, he was going to be very unhappy. But he had to ask, because it was the right thing to do.
“No! It’s just—it’s only Nendas.”
“…The 4th day of the week?”
She was new to this world, this strange woman who’d hooked him like a fish out of his steady river. Tyrion was staring at her chest, and he mumbled.
“Yes.”
“…And?”
“Well, it would usually be Gnorna or Zenze, surely. For…marital matters.”
She stopped, shirt in her hands, and her mouth was so open and she held still for so long that Tyrion searched around for the bucket of water. Damn it. He was reaching for his water flask when she snuck up on him from behind and grabbed a certain part of him.
 
——
 
In a—moment of rest, Ryoka Griffin asked about it. She lay on the bed, half uncovered, and turned to him. He pretended he hadn’t been staring.
“Explain that to me, please. You only had sex on weekends?”
“Technically, there are three days to the weekend. It’s the last two days of—”
“Dead gods. How did you not explode?”
Tyrion grew defensive, and he didn’t know why.
“We were busy. Salva and I—”
Oh, there went his arousal. He stopped, and Ryoka bit her lip.
“Uh—let’s change the subject a second. Unless you want to talk about how you’re feeling?”
“Subject change, please.”
“Okay. So! Why are you so surprised I want to get it on after not seeing you for a week, second, did you actually notice poor Rethra flirting with you, and third—no, that’s good for now.”
His stomach lurched, and he turned to her.
“I was just surprised you wished for…intercourse. It surprised me, but I am grateful. And I apologize. I had—stared at Rethra. Purely stared with no intentions!”
But he still bowed his head so low he nearly headbutted her. Ryoka’s mouth opened.
“Tyrion—did you want to sleep with her? Because for one, I have no idea how—”
“No! I swear on House Veltras’ name! My indiscretion was in looking, and I promise you, there was no more than that. I am ashamed for my wandering eyes.”
He was alarmed, but she rested a hand on his arms.
“Tyrion. I stared at her belly. She’s hot, at least the Human-half of her is. Calm down, please. It’s not wrong to stare, or I think most people would be in trouble.”
The [Lord] stopped bowing and gave her an odd look, a duplicate of the concerned one she was giving him. And then he realized…they were going to have a Talk About Things.
It was semi-common, and the Wind Runner brushed at her hair.
“You know that’s not…everyone looks. It’s doing anything that’s the problem. You’ve got a lot of guilt buried around everything, Tyrion.”
“I don’t think so, Ryoka.”
“You don’t think—ask Pellmia. Ask him if he’d admire someone’s tasteful belly button despite him being as loyal as anyone to his wife.”
“Ask another man about that sort of thing? Let alone another [Lord]—Ryoka, it’s just not done.”
“I know it’s not. But it’s done more than you think. Tyrion…!”
He promised her he would ask, if only to prove she was mistaken and this came from her other world. Then she addressed the other point.
“Okay, I am going to furnish you with the sacred knowledge of my gender, Tyrion. Are you prepared?”
“I swear to keep it secret.”
She leaned forwards, face very serious.
“Sometimes…no, almost as often as you…women get horny.”
She waited. He raised a finger.
“That means they want to have sex.”
He sat back. Folded his arms. Stared up at the ceiling, then nodded at her calmly.
“Impossible.”
The Wind Runner of Reizmelt got up and paced around, naked. She turned, raised a finger—pulled at her hair mildly—and then gave him a sweet smile. She sat on the bed and scooted up—he scooted back, but she had a target in mind. She parked her behind on his stomach.
“Let’s do an object lesson.”
 
——
 
He was somewhat convinced after that. But then he had questions.
“All women?”
“Um. It varies? And I’m pretty sure we’re not as randy as boys.”
“You’re sure?”
“If they’re not asexual? I get why you’re mistaken; you’re from this medieval-Victorian era with old-fashioned notions, and you were raised a [Lord] around [Ladies], but believe me, Tyrion. Have you ever met Fierre?”
“I do recall her.”
“How about…aha! Lady Ieka!”
“Of course, I campaigned with her.”
“And?”
“And she’s a brilliant mind, a gifted [Mage], very attentive to her serving staff. I wish I had half as much care as she did with her help. I’ve heard some scurrilous rumors about her, but nothing—”
Ryoka was doing that open-mouth thing again, which made him sure he was missing something, but how could his life be this full of mistakes? She exploded.
“Tyrion! She loves women! I have never seen someone as thirsty for another lady as her in my life, and I’ve watched documentaries about people dying of dehydration in deserts! She is the most—I thought one time, when I met her, that if I took off my pants she’d carry me into bed.”
His mouth opened, and then he blurted out.
“But that would be a scandal of immense proportions for a [Lady] of Izril! I had heard rumors, but I assumed it was malicious gossip. If she’s in love with other women—is anyone helping her with her condition?”
The Wind Runner’s eyes narrowed, and he realized she had gotten actually mad because there was a breeze in the tent. He braced himself, but she didn’t slap him. Ryoka merely blew out her cheeks after a moment, and the gust subsided.
“Tyrion…wow. That’s, uh—we had an entire conversation about this at dinner, remember?”
He nodded, cautious.
“We did. However, I sense a lesson is coming on. Should I get dressed?”
“Why? It’s not like you haven’t seen—this is a modesty thing, isn’t it? One battle at a time, Ryoka, one battle…let’s talk about—homosexuality. No, just people being people. Tyrion, I thought you were more progressive on the topic!”
She had him sit cross-legged and said a lot of things he instinctively felt were wrong. But she was so passionate about it he did listen.
“We touched on the matter, and I said that it was a known fact among soldiers on campaign. But open frivolity would scandalize all of Izril.”
“But why, Tyrion? What’s wrong with two people of the same gender finding each other’s company?”
He shifted, uncomfortable, and fell back to what he knew.
“Nothing, but it isn’t something to be publicly addressed. Let’s take, ah, [Soldiers] for example.”
He knew military matters and always defaulted to them as examples because everything was clear there. Ryoka sighed and nodded.
“Okay, you find two gay lovers. What happens?”
Easy. Tyrion nodded.
“I would not discipline them as their leader. Even if it were brought up, I would ignore it or dole out a small punishment if it became a large issue. Such things are excusable, best ignored. I have heard it made an issue—a waste of time. If it were Lady Ieka, though—I imagine I would take her side refuting the matters quite plainly.”
“But you’d assume she’d deny it?”
She was giving him a searching look, and he murmured.
“I cannot imagine it would do anything but harm her reputation, so certainly.”
“Okay. But is it a bad thing? If you were in, say, a position to endorse or speak up for people being openly gay—that’s the term, by the way, I don’t mean just ‘happy’—would you?”
A harder question to answer. He could tell the answer she wanted, but he didn’t believe in lying, so he couldn’t just tell her, ‘yes, of course’. He braced himself as he responded.
“I…would have difficulty endorsing such things. For instance, the act itself. I could never imagine doing—that. How would I defend it?”
Even the thought made him pucker up inside, and Ryoka gave him an earnest eye.
“We just had sex, Tyrion. You’re not into partners of the same gender, but who does it harm?”
“Their lovers? Their families’ reputations?”
“Assume they don’t have lovers because they want to be with each other. And as for the families’ reputations—why would that matter?”
Because everyone knows it to be wrong. However, Tyrion’s mind connected the dots she was leading him to. If everyone assumes it to be wrong, then it becomes so. But where does the actual problem begin?
“This is…I see your point, Ryoka Griffin, but what would happen if this practice were adopted across Izril? How many children might not be born or—”
She was giving him such an amused and appalled gaze he hesitated.
“What?”
“Nothing. You just sound like, uh, people back home. Tyrion, these people exist already. I don’t think humanity has exactly decreased in number. And you don’t find it a problem, do you?”
“I find it an odd practice. And with respect to my position, I cannot imagine a peer of the north accepting the matter. If I, as the leader of House Veltras, made any statement on the matter contrary to public opinion, I imagine I would stand alone.”
She raised an eyebrow at him.
“Except for Lady Ieka. Ask Pellmia about it. And then tell me what he says, because he might be old-fashioned, but you trust me, don’t you, Tyrion?”
“You saved my sons. I would trust you with my life.”
He gave her that same reply, and she seemed so—surprised, then gratified she smiled.
“Let’s leave the ‘Ryoka Lessons’ with that for today. Just think on the fact that if two men kiss, no one gets hurt unless they’re dumb as shit. Or there’s something in them that is challenged by the idea. Now, onto Centaurs. Do you get why they were so upset at you for coming into their territory?”
“They conflated us with Terandrians. I see the mistake, and I would have educated them about it had I understood.”
Tyrion growled, getting annoyed, and Ryoka gave him a patient look.
“It might be wrong of them, but you can’t blame them for being gun-shy after Humans of any kind made a colony in their lands.”
“But—”
