“I think he’s still fairly crazy. And if he’s not, he’s got a Great Company behind him. I just wanted to know what you thought was going on. Now that he’s low on Selphids, his armies will have more trouble, won’t they?”
Erin addressed the others, but she was glancing at Daly. He didn’t like any sign of weakness in the cart they’d hitched themselves to, but the [Mercenaries] just shrugged. Azhang replied with a hint of forlorn pride.
“He’s the Titan. He’s always got tricks, and it’s not like every Selphid quit. Just a lot of his regulars. It’s just old Hoisq leaving that really pulled his tail. He said the Selphids were one of his best pieces. He’ll have more. Speaking of, if we’re fighting the Iron Vanguard, how many pieces do you have, Commander? Because even if the Bushrangers are great at fighting…the moment a War Walker comes at us, I’m gonna be sweating orange, even with all your magic.”
She nodded to the food, and Daly swallowed hard. The idea of fighting a War Walker, even with two hundred soldiers and the Bushrangers…Erin rubbed at her face.
“I’m working on it. We’ve got a [Lord] on one end of the continent who’s very good at war. He’d be a great [General] if we could link up. Rabbiteater’s out there, and he’s one of the best fighters I know. Punching towards any of them is the hard part.”
Nexxi sighed.
“Good luck on that Veltras guy getting here. No one likes foreigners. He’ll be fighting his entire way here. Same with the Calanferians. And why would he work with you, Commander?”
“Well, I know for a fact Ryoka’s sleeping with him. That usually works.”
Tofte spat out his drink through his nose, and the entire barracks erupted into laughter. Daly shook his head as Erin slapped her knees and rose.
“Alright, pipe down. Don’t be jealous you missed your chance with the Wind Runner. What I’m hearing is—we need a few more specialists before any of you think we’ll survive a march into the jungles.”
“Specialists in fighting and survival, Commander! The jungles will eat us alive, even us Selphids!”
Azhang called out. Erin put her hands in her pockets, frowning thoughtfully.
“Eat up. I’ll experiment—I mean, bring you cooked meals—until I have a plan. Keep drilling together. I might have you all join the practice games so you can beat down some of Niers’ students for me. We might want one of them with us, if we can. I hear Niers is putting them to work against the Dyed Lands and even Jungle Tails. Daly, have you seen Erek?”
He had not. The Orangutan might be reading a book or something. Erin nodded to him and strode out. Only after she was gone did the chatter start up.
“Fucking hells, Daly. Do you think she really did lead an army at Liscor? She sounds like a general.”
Dawson leaned over to whisper to the Bushrangers, and the chatter from the Selphids and Lizardfolk sounded just as approving. Vossk came over and squatted down, chewing on some bread.
“She sounds like Hoisq. I thought it was just an act, but she’s got the air of a veteran. It makes me think I chose the right Centaur in this race.”
Daly agreed, though he worried about how Erin talked. She was going to take them into battle? He wondered if she understood he hadn’t signed the Bushrangers up for fighting for their lives.
Then Daly wondered if he told the Bushrangers to quit—how many would follow her anyways. They were aimless with Paeth providing the United Nations company and Talenqual with so much protection. But were they going to fight for her friends, whom they’d never even met? He was conflicted as he chewed on the bread.
“Damn, she’s good at cooking food.”
 
——
 
Beth ran after Erin to have a word. She was worried about all this talk of battle. She wasn’t like Geneva and completely opposed to any part in a conflict; she was a [Medic], and she’d seen the necessity of Niers taking the Gathering Citadel to free them all, for instance.
But she didn’t want the Earthers to die. She caught up with Erin as the innkeeper slowed to eye her.
“I think I know where Erek is, Erin. He’s probably with Geneva. He was interested in what we were doing. He’s the smartest Orangutan I’ve ever met. Uh, even though that’s only one. You know what I mean.”
“Yep. Let’s walk, Beth. Would you come with us if we moved out to find Rabbiteater? We could use a [Medic].”
Beth stumbled at the sudden question.
“Me? I—I don’t know. I’d like to. The Bushrangers might get hurt, and without potions, they’ll need me. But I’m not sure I want to join the fighting. The Dyed Lands are my focus…”
“You don’t have to fight, just save lives. Think about it. We didn’t ask for a fight, but if they’re after Calanfer, the Iron Vanguard are going to get a battle. I just need…help. Erek said he was trying to get assistance from his people. But a bunch of gorillas aren’t going to stop a War Walker.”
“Huh? Gorillas?”
Erin was crazy. She wanted to enlist animals to fight with her? The innkeeper strode along, talking over one shoulder.
“Niers can’t or won’t spare the soldiers we need, Beth. Anyone under his command makes it look like the Forgotten Wing company is doing things, and he can’t just have them quit and join me. Plus, he’s fighting two wars. If we can’t use his people, we need another mercenary company. We just don’t have much gold or influence besides our names. Someone’s got to save the Calanferians.”
This was true. Beth wanted to meet this ‘Ser Solstice’ herself. She had a suspicion, along with Geneva, that they knew what lay under that helmet. If so, Erin was on a double mission of mercy that Beth wanted to discuss with her, but not here in the academy with listeners. So Beth fell into step.
“I’ll think on it. Geneva’s restless herself, you know. She keeps saying she feels useless here with Fraerlings who can out-magic anything she can do. And there’s something else. You should, uh, ask her about the files she’s been reading.”
Erin glanced at Beth, but said nothing until they reached the rooms devoted to Geneva’s laboratory work. She was in there as always, and an Orangutan was present too.
Erek was actually in the room with Filax, the Lizardgirl who sat, rolling a ball back and forth to him. He stayed out of arm’s reach, but she was pushing it back and forth—with the serpents attached to her arms.
They’d become part of her body, even taking on her light green scales. Her neck-frills had a snake’s head that peered at Erin and Beth through the glass wall. She had four snakes on her. Around her neck, one on each arm, and one that had joined her tail, so there were two tails.
“Damn.”
Erin muttered quietly, but she didn’t draw back like so many did. As far as Beth could tell, the snakes were fused with Filax’s nervous system but not taking over. Geneva had debated removing them, but they were connected to a lot of Filax’s nerves; she felt what they did, and there was a worry that removing them might cause trauma, so embedded were they in her body.
Certainly, the two snake heads could catch the ball and push it back with astonishing coordination. Erek ooked as he bounced the ball; a snake caught it instantly.
“Erin, Beth. How can I help you?”
Geneva was tired as she drank coffee; it was her fifth cup judging by the other mugs scattered around. She hadn’t slept, clearly. Beth nudged her.
“We’re checking in. Okasha, why haven’t you put Geneva to bed?”
“I’m not doing that without her consent! I keep asking her to, but she’s worried about Filax being possessed by the snakes while she sleeps.”
Okasha protested with Geneva’s mouth. Geneva grimaced.
“I might take a nap after the last tests come in. It looks like the snakes’ brains aren’t really that functional. We put them to sleep, and Filax says they just feel ‘dead’, but she can still move them. My guess is that it’s how the green works: the snakes become extra appendages and only if they get the brain or into the spine or something do they override the host. It makes sense; otherwise, they’d all be fighting for control.”
“There’s a lot of possibilities there, Geneva! You could potentially replace amputated limbs or harness that ability.”
Beth was intrigued, but Erin just shuddered. Geneva instantly clarified.
“All this needs years, decades of testing, but as long as Filax can grow without issue…Erek’s trying to get the snakes to react on their own.”
Indeed, the Orangutan had come over to play a game of patty-cake with the girl. He’d bop a snake on the snout, and she’d try to touch his hands, giggling. He was fast, and the snakes didn’t seem to react to the gestures like they might if they were wild.
Leaving an Orangutan in a room with a girl infested with snake-monsters was not proper protocol back on Earth, Beth was almost positive. However…they were changing how they operated. Erin rested her weight on a table.
“I’m thinking of moving the Bushrangers and my forces out of Elvallian, Geneva. It’s time. Niers has been a generous host, but even if it puts me in danger, I have to help Rabbiteater. I know you’d rather eat your scalpels than shed a drop of even a [Slaver]’s blood, but will you join us? We could use your talents.”
Beth winced as Geneva’s eyes flashed, and she adjusted her glasses. The two did not like each other, and Geneva replied stiffly.
“I’ve had enough of being a warfront surgeon. If that’s how you’re going to ask me, the answer is no. What would motivate me to go marching through the jungle while you kill people, anyways?”
“Well—you might run into more Earthers besides me and Ryoka. And you could level.”
Beth’s brows rose.
“What other Earthers? You said Rabbiteater had no one with him.”
“And that you murdered at least one Earther from Rhir.”
Geneva added coolly. Erin waved this off.
“I have a feeling that there’s one more Earther on the go. When Ryoka Griffin was saving Filax, did you hear music? Channel 2 was featuring the Singer of Terandria, and she was performing live.”
“I remember that. She was using a Skill to help Ryoka. The Wind Runner’s met her, right?”
Okasha volunteered. Erin nodded.
“She’s met Ryoka. But riddle me this: how did Cara throw her Skill that far? Even if she’s high-level, even Niers struggles with it. It’s almost like she was closer to Ryoka than Terandria. I asked—and the Singer of Terandria’s on tour. She left Terandria nearly three weeks ago.”
“She did?”
Geneva and Beth were startled by this, and Erin smiled crookedly.
“She did. She’d announced her tour last year, actually. Here’s the interesting thing: she said it was for Izril. The ‘New Lands Tour’, though she wasn’t headed straight there. Oddly…it seems her ship’s gone the wrong way. It’s been heading past Wistram, towards southern Baleros.”
“That’s strange. Why would she be heading there? Unless—”
Geneva’s eyes sharpened, and Erin held up a hand.
“Ryoka told me that one of the few people Cara knows and cares about is Seraphel du Marquin. The 4th Princess of Calanfer. My guess is that she’s gone after her friend. So there’re two reasons to join us, Geneva. I hope she doesn’t try to land in the jungle. Even if she has guards, she’s not going to survive alone.”
The Singer of Terandria? Beth was excited instantly. Possibly the most famous Earther in the world was on the move! Geneva was unconvinced, though.
“If she’s high-enough level to make a difference, it means I shouldn’t go after all. We’re more useful here, making medicine to combat the Dyed Lands monsters or researching the Selphids’ wasting. If Beth wants to go, she has my blessing.”
“Thanks, boss. I didn’t know I needed permission.”
Beth rolled her eyes, and Geneva bit her lip. Erin just frowned.
“Suits me. I don’t like you, and you don’t like me. I have a feeling we’d have to settle it at some point or other, and since you’re a pacifist, it’d just be me kicking the hell out of you.”
The [Doctor] stiffened, and Okasha shot back.
“She’s got me! I’ll fight you for her!”
“No one’s fighting anyone! We can settle this like adults, Erin, even if we disagree!”
Geneva snapped, and Erin gave her a twisted grin.
“Adults are the ones who kill each other, haven’t you noticed? Alright, fine. You know the plan, and you can make up your mind. Beth said you were troubled about some research?”
This time, The Last Light of Baleros grew distracted and eyed the door. She closed it—then reached up for a hatch that let Fraerlings enter and closed that too. She sat down and beckoned everyone against the window where Erek was doing a dance and making Filax laugh.
The Lizardgirl had plenty of toys, Beth was relieved to see. She’d been…quiet when they asked her what had happened. She’d told them her parents were gone. Then asked about Ryoka, but the Wind Runner had flown off to Tyrion. Beth hoped Geneva had a plan to get the poor child therapy and someone to foster her.
Geneva glanced at Filax as if the girl was on her mind, then whispered as Erin leaned in with Beth.
“You didn’t see these files, Beth, because I’ve been digging through the Forgotten Wing company’s old medical records. Niers gave me everything, and most of it’s just monsters he ran into. Terrible injuries, that sort of thing. He takes care of veterans, though that’s more about giving them gold. The Forgotten Wing company used to have Fraerling-grade magical items they doled out to their troops and allotted about 5% of their supply yearly to healing their long-term wounded.”
“Generous of them.”
Erin muttered. Geneva’s sniff indicated she thought there should have been another digit behind the 5%.
“At any rate, that ceased over a decade ago. Something must have happened with his supplies or relationship with the city. However…he still has a number of [Healers] and [Alchemists] on-staff who produce lesser elixirs for his people. Countless items sent across the Forgotten Wing company. He’s quite organized. His systems remind me of a hospital’s—he ensures everyone has supplies.”
“I presume you found something odd, though?”
Beth leaned over the files that Geneva brought out. Some of the papers were old, crinkled with age and, the two other women thought, marked as if rescued from fire or something else.
“This. It caught my eye. They’re top-secret files. I don’t even know if I should have them, but either Niers gave me full access or the Fraerlings are messing with his secrecy. They can go everywhere, and they use their magic to copy everything.”
“Is Eirnos investigating Niers?”
Erin asked with raised brows. Beth folded her arms.
