Aria was hesitant, but then someone else spoke, cutting over the two voices.
“If you’re serious, you’ll have your opening, Wind Runner. A Naga’s word on it.”
Her blood chilled, and Ryoka twisted as if to see the new speaker.
“Wh-who’s this?”
“The Serpentborn of Jungle Tails. Our people’s defenders. Forty seconds, just off your position.”
“Ryoka, abort—”
Niers tried to cut in, but his voice was silenced. Ryoka’s mouth went dry. The Jungle Tails company? She twisted around, and Kaelis grinned.
“I have no idea what’s going on, do you?”
Ryoka shook her head, then turned to Shaestrel. The faerie was motioning at her, but weakly. As if she knew no future, but she knew Ryoka. And so, the Wind Runner spoke.
“Geneva?”
“Ryoka…?”
“Get ready for a patient. Probably two of them.”
Then her heart was thundering in her chest. The Wind Runner adjusted her angle, and then she saw the magic building overhead. The Frost Faerie, Kaelis, was laughing in her ears, and it no longer sounded like crystal tinkling, but a larger, different being bubbling with deep echoes of water and mirth. But Ryoka’s eyes were locked on the ground.
Then—the burning pillar of flames shot down, and the blast of heat buffeted her. She soared up, fighting her glider, as a hole appeared in the swarm below her. Ryoka cried out as the flames baked her—then flew towards the hole. She was diving, then, and she heard a voice in her ears.
“Come on, you cowards! In the name of Titania! For the Queen of the Faeries!”
Then Ryoka’s heart squeezed in her chest, and the blue faerie was diving ahead of her. The Wind Runner heard Niers shouting in her ears, but he really didn’t know her. None of these people on Baleros did. The Wind Runner was laughing as she descended into the green.
 
——
 
It was a familiar sight.
Not the monsters. Nor the landscape. But some things didn’t change no matter how much you might expect them to.
The Wind Runner, her black hair blowing in a ponytail behind her, flight goggles on her face, all that was visible of her was the wingsuit catching the air. Then the flames—and her figure heading for the hole punched in the green swarm.
She was going to dive into that village. Despite it being filled with the flying snakes—she was going to do it.
Because she was Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner, a Courier.
The little Gnoll girl knew it. She could see the future as well as the young [Lords] sitting next to her watching the broadcast, despite Lyonette’s attempts to turn it off in case they saw…the worst. But she knew Ryoka.
So did the Vampiress, Fierre, who was frozen with Lady Ieka. They were as transfixed as Tyrion Veltras, who watched the scrying orb resting on the pommel of his saddle. Even Archmage Eldavin had halted his lesson in class and was just staring at the empty air, face tense.
The Wind Runner was fighting to get to the opening that Jungle Tails’ [Mages] had punched before the swirling, agitated flying snakes closed the gap. She was almost above it, and the hot air was blowing her upwards, rising. But then there was a glimmer of blue.
“Winter Sprites?”
Sir Relz was watching the event unfold, his notes crumpled up in his claws. Seven blue dots dove into the ring of charred air, and the roaring heat vanished. They dove ahead of the Wind Runner, and she dropped as cold air filled the gap. Then she was diving straight down, her glider cutting through the startled snakes, which twisted after her.
She was falling in a vertical dive towards the surprised Lizardfolk below. All three seemed stunned, despite their pleas to the sky. The Wind Runner hit a layer of serpents as she evened out, and then she was amidst them. Now, the monsters knew that something was attacking them. There was prey amidst their number.
They descended on her in a moment.
 
——
 
“That fool! Someone throw down a barrier spell! A barrier—is there not one decent [Mage] in all of Baleros?”
Rhisveri was shouting as he swung his head right and left at the shouting Titan’s perspective and Aria Fellstrider, who was galloping and yelling in excitement. Useless, muscle-headed warriors!
He didn’t have a lock on Ryoka’s position, and she was even further away than she’d been when he’d hit her with spells. He curled up his tail as he watched. Her protective spells—
A pink glow. The Faeblade slashed wildly, and Ryoka burst out of a cloud of the snakes, slicing through them with the insanely sharp blade she wielded. She was screaming.
A parasite-snake had landed on her uncovered face. It had bit through her cheek and was trying to invade her. She ripped it free with her other hand and spat its head out of her mouth. Then she was flying faster, covering her face as her blade swung. Rhisveri was frozen in place, mouth open—until his eyes swung left.
“Whomever is playing that music, I will melt you if you don’t turn it off!”
He roared, and Dame Chorisa, one of the Thirsting Veil Knights allowed in his presence, whirled. But there was no one making music in his silent chambers. Then who…?
 
——
 
The Singer of Terandria was performing on Channel 2 of Wistram News Network. She was in a cramped room that swayed and rocked methodically. And her entire band seemed unprepared, but the [Singer] was performing.
“This one’s for the Wind Runner of Reizmelt! Walk Thru Fire, for the girl who defies serpents! Hit it!”
They were playing as her voice surrounded the confused Courier. Cara was sweating with concentration as she tried to throw a song across the world. She winked one painted eyelid into the camera.
Cara’s eyes were fixed on the obscured image of the Wind Runner. She was well below the layer of serpents chasing her now, an arrow bearing down on the child and the two parents running towards her. They stumbled, as if fighting something, and one pushed the Lizardgirl forwards. Ryoka Griffin reached out, her free hand grasping desperately—
Green shapes obscured both. Cara’s voice faltered. Thien, the [Drummer], lost the beat, and every eye was fixed on the swirling storm of green shapes.
 
——
 
Nerry was watching, fists clenched on the war room table as Geneva Scala glanced around, as if Niers or Foliana could do something. The transformed Sariant Lamb didn’t make a sound. She knew better than to believe in miracles.
—But even so, she was waiting. Then she saw it.
Pink flames. The Wind Runner blasted up out of the swarm of charred serpents, holding a small figure in her arms. She was rocketing upwards as the Faeblade burned, emitting fire now, not the energy blade. The pink flames extended, and now she was racing past the serpents, away.
“She’s going to make it!”
Daly shouted, and Niers cursed.
“She’s going to pull the entire color of green on her! She can’t keep that speed up forever! Bannermare, get ready to cover her!”
The image shifted. Now, it was locked onto the front lines of the Maelstrom’s Howling’s forces. Nerry could see the shifting cloud of green contorting in the distance. But for a second, her attention was drawn away from Ryoka, towards a wave of Centaurs galloping after the familiar Bannermare, whose standard was held high.
“We’re ready for them. Maelstrom’s Howling, cover that Courier! Archmage Uenoix, prepare a welcome for these green invaders!”
Archmage…? A second Centaur was galloping next to the Bannermare. He had no Lizardfolk rider, and he wore robes adjusted for a Centaur’s body. He was holding a staff overhead as he galloped, and then the Wind Runner burst out of the snake cloud. They were trailing after her as her Faeblade deactivated, Ryoka tearing them off her and her passenger, and she was slowing.
The entire wave of green came after her. They were hissing now, not a loud shriek, just a terrible rushing sound. But the Bannermare and thousands of Centaurs were galloping at them full tilt.
Aria Fellstrider held up a hand as Ryoka Griffin passed by, eyes wide, shouting—and the Centaur threw her head back. Then her hand slashed down, and she shouted.
“Now!”
So saying, she hopped on all four hooves, turning sideways, and skidded across the ground. The Archmage of Baleros did likewise, and so did the warriors behind him. They turned, hooves tearing up the earth as they slid, then kicked as they streaked right, away from the cloud of insects. The Bannermare shouted one Skill:
“[Unit: Kick Dirt]!”
It was a Skill you’d get under Level 10, but magnified by the numbers of Centaurs and her level. To Nerry, it looked like the ground had exploded upwards in a shower of clouds of dirt, actually blotting out the wave of green serpents for a second.
That alone would have knocked a great number of the first wave to the ground, but it was only half the trick. The Archmage of Baleros, the Centaur, Uenoix, twisted around at the torso and pointed his staff at the shower of dirt at precisely the right moment. And he too cast a single spell.
“[Mass Transmutation: Earth to Fire]!”
A firestorm rolled through the serpents, and then their momentum did falter. The Bannermare was galloping across the reeling serpents not turned to ash, and she shouted.
“All ranks, volley!”
She had a wand in her free hand, and she fired a plume of flames into the serpents as her Centaurs streamed behind her, breaking away as the swarm rolled forwards. Lizardfolk on their backs were whirling strange slings that knocked down the snakes trying to strike the centaurs, and barrier spells flashed as the Maelstrom’s Howling company engaged.
But all that Nerry and the audience were paying attention to was the hang glider which crashed to the ground just inside of Maelstrom’s Howling’s camp. Ryoka Griffin sat up, tearing the last few snakes off her, reaching down. She was bloody and burnt, but when she sat up, the thunder of Centaurs stomping their hooves and Lizardfolk applauding sounded like the beating of Nerry’s heart.
Nerry caught Geneva’s eye, and the two women stood there, silent and watching the Wind Runner of Baleros. They’d forgotten or underestimated who she was.
Even the Titan of Baleros stopped grinding his teeth long enough to take a gulp of water. He gave several orders, instructing his forces to move up, then turned.
“Doctor Scala, get ready to treat Ryoka and her patient now. If she can’t fly back, I want you relaying orders to the [Healers] in Aria’s company now. Use one of our dedicated rooms to communicate.”
Geneva nodded and ran out of the war room. Niers rubbed at his face; he glared at the cheering Fraerlings. Then he muttered to Foliana out of the corner of his mouth.
“Well, there goes using her as a scout for anything else.”
“Mhm. You have to have a coward. Brave people are terrible scouts.”
Three-Color Stalker agreed, smiling faintly at the image in the scrying orb. Niers stood there, arms folded. Trying very hard not to like Ryoka Griffin’s idiocy.
 
——
 
She didn’t say a word for a while. Having a snake burrowing through your cheek did that to you, and besides, everyone else had plenty of words for her. But after a while, once they’d cleared her of the infestation, she pushed past the [Healers] and knelt. The first thing the Wind Runner spoke was to the little girl.
“Hey, are you…”
She hesitated, because ‘okay’ didn’t fit. Not to the little Lizardgirl surrounded by Centaur [Healers], who had snakes growing out of her limbs. She looked up with huge eyes, and Ryoka Griffin changed what she was going to say.
“…I’m sorry I couldn’t take anyone else with me. I’m very sorry. Can I ask your name?”
No one had asked, but the child just spoke, face blank.
“Filax. Mama and Papa weren’t there anyways. Not all of them.”
“Oh. I see. But they helped you.”
“Yeah.”
Ryoka reached out, and a Centaur caught her hand.
“Excuse me, Courier. That’s dangerous. She might be—”
The Wind Runner’s glare silenced the objections. She held out her hand, and Filax took hold of it. Ryoka looked her in the eyes and saw how she was very tired and very…sad. Oh, this poor girl.
“Well, these people are checking you out to make sure you’re going to be okay, but when they’re done, I’m going to take you somewhere safe, alright, Filax?”
The girl blinked.
“You promise? You won’t leave me?”
That made the Wind Runner hurt worse, because the image of Mrsha…and even Hethon and Sammial flashed before her eyes. But she just nodded.
“Hey. I won’t let go. I promise.”
The girl met eyes, then her claw tightened on Ryoka’s hand ever-so-slightly.
“Thank you, Miss Wind Runner.”
Only then did Ryoka cast around as someone sighed. She turned, and Aria Fellstrider was standing behind her. Filax and Ryoka were reminded they were in the presence of one of Baleros’ legends, and Ryoka rose.
“I, uh—”
“Well said, Miss Courier. And if the Forgotten Wing Company were not to have a place for you, we surely would, Filax.”
The Bannermare smiled, and her entire face lit up with such confident passion that Filax half-smiled herself.
“You’re her. The Bannermare of Baleros.”
She whispered shyly, suddenly hiding behind Ryoka. Some of her snake-limbs reacted, squirming around her, and the armed Centaurs tensed slightly, but then stepped back as Aria tossed her head at them. She glowered and spoke conversationally to Ryoka and Filax.
“Cowards as meek as foals, the lot of them. I am indeed the Bannermare. Though it’s no huge matter. I’m merely famous because of my mother.”
Ryoka doubted that. Aria Fellstrider had a presence that even Ryoka had rarely felt—as if the world revolved around her in a literal sense.
She has to be over Level 50. Chaldion and Saliss could both act like that, but neither one liked to show off how powerful they were. By contrast, when Aria walked, it felt like the rest of the world—copied her.
Her pace was mimicked by Centaurs thousands of paces away. When she spoke, it was like a cadenza. She had a rhythm she spoke and acted to.
Bannermare indeed. She seemed to love music as well, because there was a band playing as she trotted out of the healer’s tent with Ryoka. Filax needed a few more check-ups, but she clutched a gift that Aria had given her with a delighted smile.
She’d asked, in the way of people these days, for an autograph. Aria had instead cut a piece of her hair off; she had a long ponytail, and from the way the Centaurs were gazing at the gift, Ryoka bet they’d have paid for it.
They were surrounded by Centaurs. Not jostling close, but they followed in a wave—Lizardfolk too, often riding on backs. Many of them male. And not-so-subtly staring at Aria.
Dead gods. I’ve never seen so many desperate men in my life. The Centauress noticed Ryoka looking and chuckled.
