“Tyrion, you hate Drakes. We’ve talked about Drakes. If you saw an army of Drakes coming north, and they said they were from Mawrsh, not a Walled City, would you react any differently?”
He hated it when she gave him arguments he had to reason out. They argued over whether you should assign guilt broadly or whether the Centaurs were overreacting, and she did acknowledge there were other factors in their decision-making. Then she sighed.
“I’m tired. I’ve gotta fly back to Elvallian tomorrow, Tyrion. I was just checking in, and I’m glad I did—”
But she’d just spent two hours in a mix of ‘private time’ and explaining things. He felt bad about that.
“I came here to make you less burdened, not to make you explain things or tire you out—”
Her foot nearly hit him in the face. But she pulled the actual blow, which he appreciated. Being with Ryoka was a contrast to the only other person he’d ever had a relationship with, Salva. He often made mistakes, but he also noticed there were differences.
Ryoka often felt more…insecure than Salva had. Was it wrong to compare the two? He couldn’t help but notice that he often reassured Ryoka or talked her out of what she termed ‘spiraling’, which did sometimes involve her walking around in circles.
And she carried far different views than Salva on many issues, often discussing the matters with him. In a way, they had more strife than he had ever had with his wife. On the other hand, he was surprised that the Courier was far gentler in private for someone so capable physically.
She almost never slapped him or hit him in a moment of fury. Though she seemed to run as hot as Salva…well, maybe a bit less. Even her way of solving disagreements was to look him in the eye and speak levelly. No, not like Salva at all…Ryoka gave him a direct stare now, with that earnestness he found charming.
“Tyrion. Remember what I said?”
“Women get…horny.”
She sat up, trying to untangle her hair, and he helped her. She was surprised he knew how to use a comb with any delicacy. He pointed out he had his stallion, Surmount. She still hadn’t laughed at his name, and Tyrion was wondering if he should point out the joke to her. Ryoka sighed.
“Thank you. I dunno, I’ve been running around helping Erek—damn, I need to do that too—Geneva, Niers…I feel like they’re pushing me around a bit, but I don’t mind it. I like being helpful. I know I’m gonna burn out or crash—”
“You were amazing when you rescued that child. Is she well?”
Tyrion assured her, and Ryoka smiled. He thought that added another burden to her, but her head rose, and she breathed in and out. Her brown skin was glistening with sweat, and he admired her from the side. Just…stared. With admiration and other things filling him.
“I’ll check. I don’t know what’s coming next, Tyrion. I learned something—strange today. Worrying, but maybe good? I’ll let you know what happens, but if I do run out of energy and I need help…that’s when I’ll need someone to come running and give me a hand, no matter what. Can I count on you for that?”
She turned to him, and then she was vulnerable and uncertain. Seeing her own inevitable moment of crisis and afraid no one would come when she herself needed the help she gave to others.
As if half of Izril wouldn’t rush to her aid, like the Centaurs to the Bannermare. Tyrion got to one knee and held her hand.
“I swear it.”
She stared at the serious, completely naked man kneeling to her in bed and started giggling so hard she nearly fell out. Which slightly hurt his feelings, but she embraced him so hard he felt better. Then she blinked, and her hand went down.
“Wait a second. What th—are you ready to go again? That’s not normal! I’m positive it’s not!”
“We don’t have to—stop touching it. You’re making it worse.”
He protested, and she grinned at him.
“That’s not a problem with me. I’m just amazed you, uh…were you like this when you were actually young?”
Tyrion gave her a puzzled expression.
“That is why we booked out an entire day, usually.”
Ryoka’s mouth opened, and she swallowed.
“—Well, that just recontextualized that. But you seriously don’t know anything other than, uh, the most generic methods, do you?”
“Am I getting another Ryoka Lesson?”
He tried not to sound happy this time. He kept finding new things in life, and sometimes—often—they were quite delightful.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin was the center of attention as the Centaurs feasted with the House Veltras soldiers that night, and she cut the tension after so many weeks of standoff. Tyrion, on the other hand, stayed more to himself, drinking with Revvan and the other Centaurs—but talking with Pellmia.
Dalen wasn’t with him; he was cautiously trying to dance with the Centaurs, and Rethra seemed to find it hilarious to dance with a ‘two-legger’. They watched as Dalen bowed to her, embarrassed, and the crowd whooped and cheered. Tyrion kept talking.
“—Which leads me to inquire whether or not you, personally, know of more positions. I can count fifteen so far, and the first is—”
Pellmia put his hands over his ears.
“Tyrion, please stop, or I may throw myself into the bonfire.”
Tyrion stopped talking, and the [Lord of Love and Wine] took a long, long drink from his cup.
“Ryoka told you to tell me about that?”
“She…didn’t specify that part. I was to ask about something else that is private, though.”
Pellmia glanced at the roaring flames everyone was dancing around, as if wondering how long he’d burn. But then he spoke, red-faced.
“Very well, it’s true I know of—sometimes I think I should have had a talk with you. Poor Salva. But then again, she probably took the lead in…”
“Yes.”
Tyrion said simply. For a second, Pellmia drank, and then he continued.
“Very well, ask the other parts. I don’t want to know the—particulars. Alright, dead gods damn it, tell me.”
He took down an entire cup. And Tyrion whispered. Revvan, leaning over the other side, gawped.
“Humans can do that? Centaurs can’t—”
“Yes, yes, alright, I know that! It’s very common!”
“It is?”
Tyrion was stunned. The Centaur gave Pellmia the same awestruck expression, and Pellmia called for more wine, his special stocks.
“It’s actually fairly basic! I can see why Centaurs…alright, I’m not thinking of that. To your second point, Tyrion, of course everyone stares at—bodies. It’s nothing to chastise oneself over. Unless one’s staring far too hard. Keireen has herself pointed out a very attractive [Lady] to me before. Purely because anyone with eyes would notice. I, the same. I think it’s a mark of how steady one is in a relationship…it’s purely preferential.”
Ryoka was right. Tyrion took a drink to hide his dismay at being proven wrong. Revvan got up—and instantly approached an [Archer] from Oswen, possibly to see if the rumors were true.
Tyrion and Pellmia made warning gestures at the [Archer], who glanced at them, alarmed. Then Tyrion asked the really strange question.
“Lord Pellmia. What is your stance on buggery amongst men and women?”
The Winebreath Blaster was perhaps one of the most powerful ever performed due to Pellmia’s class. An entire group of Centaurs and Humans was covered—it had to be a spray ten feet across. He coughed, wiped at his face, and gaped at Tyrion. Then at Ryoka.
“Alright. Start from the beginning, just as she told you.”
Pellmia listened, and this time, his face grew troubled.
“That’s…an interesting attitude. Stitch-folk. I’ve heard they don’t care, but Ryoka Griffin would be ostracized from many groups in the north if you repeated what she said to you.”
“I see. And you think…?”
Tyrion trusted Pellmia. The man went to tap at his teeth.
“We’ve all heard of [Sailors], and you and I know things happen on the campaign, though if it’s a mixed-gender army…no, even then. I agreed with your take. As a commander—look the other way. What do I think?”
He ran a hand through his hair and chose his words carefully.
“I think…it squares with things I’ve been seeing of late, Tyrion. You know I can see affection?”
Tyrion had a feeling he knew where he was going with this and nodded. Pellmia murmured.
“Many people came to me for help. Sometimes with earnest problems, petty ones, or just bad matches or dreams. Sometimes I felt like a client was saying one thing, while silently asking for help…or a family intending to set up a couple that would never work. I would see them looking at someone else. Someone of the same gender, and I wouldn’t know what to say. I played it off. Said nothing. Because I felt like should I object, point it out, decry it, I might violate the thing my class is built on.”
Tyrion’s brows were so high up he felt at them. Pellmia continued.
“Of course, that’s not a hard and fast rule. One time, the age discrepancy was such that I called for the Watch. But this is different. It is, dare I say it, not the same as deviancy in other regards. I say that purely based on my eyes, Tyrion. Affection looks different than something twisted or wrong.”
He tapped under one eye, and Tyrion had to ask.
“You trust all to one Skill?”
Pellmia took a deeper drink and then leaned over.
“Well, no. I of course talked it over with Keireen. She told me she’d kissed several [Ladies] before meeting me.”
This time, it was Tyrion’s turn to spray wine out his mouth.
“And it didn’t bother you?”
“Tyrion, my boy. The things Keireen and I do to each other assure me we’re quite happy. Far more advanced techniques I’m sure Ryoka has failed to teach you yet.”
Pellmia waggled his eyebrows, and Tyrion wished never to bring the subject up again. Discussing his—lessons with Ryoka was one thing, but Pellmia!
It seemed Pellmia and Ryoka were fairly aligned. When she came back to check on them, Pellmia indicated as such, and she actually reached out and shook him by the hand!
“So you’re an ally?”
She grinned, and Pellmia frowned.
“I don’t know what of, but ensuring young Lord Veltras reaches his old age knowing something of the world? Certainly.”
Ryoka laughed.
“I’m going to have to explain polyamory to him next if he keeps meeting people like Rethra. Although I think Dalen just went off with her.”
Pellmia’s wine spit was such that everyone actually stopped dancing or partying around the two men. He shook his head.
“You are a lucky man, Tyrion. Some would say that adventure and excitement landed in your lap.”
“No, it was a delivery.”
Tyrion murmured with a smile, and Pellmia clapped him on the shoulders, then rose to show the Centaurs how Humans danced in House Quellae. They were cheering him, and Ryoka swung on by afterwards to pull Tyrion up.
He was no great dancer, but she was having fun and grinned.
“I have to fly off early in the morning, but I’ve got one night left! Let’s make the most of it!”
He hoped that meant what he thought it did.
 
——
 
It did. Tyrion Veltras was very sorry Ryoka Griffin had to go, but he enjoyed his time with her, whenever it occurred. She said she would do some flying around the area to gather goods for Geneva Scala before heading back—he hoped to meet the famous [Doctor] and perhaps ask her to join House Veltras.
He’d be riding hard the next day, but he felt his spirits lifted and very…refreshed. There was only one strangeness to the day.
Practically at dawn, Ryoka was getting ready to go flying when someone scratched at the tent flap. It was Lord Pellmia Quellae, who fiddled with his helmet in his hands. He cleared his throat, as if not knowing what to say.
“Tyrion, Ryoka, I, ah—”
He gave them an uncertain gaze as Tyrion reached for his sword and Ryoka drew in a sharp breath.
“—I just learned the [Winebreath Blaster] Skill. It wasn’t even green.”
They stared at him, and then even Tyrion Veltras started laughing.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin was in such good spirits after Pellmia’s hilarious Skill that she flew to two cities before she realized she had a problem.
“Oh come on. Argh. Fuck, fuck, fuck—”
She did a quick circle, landed in the city she’d just been to, and then flew far away from the city and found some forest along the Centaurs’ plains.
It really was how she’d heard America used to be described in places: empty land cleared of trees, the greatest pastoral lands you could imagine. Ryoka Griffin circled until she was positive no one was around, then landed, ripped off her pants, and yanked the balm she’d bought out.
“Aaah, that stings!”
She’d never had problems with chafing, but only Tyrion Veltras could make that an issue. Her windsuit did not help matters. It didn’t help that the Naga behind the counter had laughed herself onto the floor and then asked for Ryoka’s autograph.
“Think of the positives. Think of the—at least I taught him some good lessons this time.”
Ryoka muttered as she waited for it to take effect, wincing as she sat in a position she was glad no one could see. She knew Erin had a point. And Nerry.
And Lyonette. And everyone else who couldn’t stand Tyrion. But Ryoka saw both a man capable of terrible deeds and someone who was, well, as inept as she was.
“Sex on Saturdays. Dead gods. And he just doesn’t—know things.”
If she could get him to abandon his hatred of Drakes, even though he had an excellent reason for it, the world would be better. Not that Ryoka disliked Tyrion and was around him purely to ‘fix’ him. It was just—he had this pure admiration for her that she was drawn towards, like a moth.
Probably something in her to work on, there. If it could be complimentary, that was good, right? Ryoka muttered.
“Okay, if we’re talking relationships longer than a single night stand, who have I been interested in? Well, Relc…and there’s lot of things that never happened, like Fierre. And there was—but now Tyrion—uh—do I have a problem with fathers on top of immortals? Nope! Not thinking of that.”
She poked herself and decided she was almost ready to fly. Ryoka was fumbling for her pants when, at that moment, someone decided it was his time to step out from behind a tree.
Possibly, he’d only heard her voice and not peeked first. She chose to believe that, because Viscount Visophecin stepped smoothly out from behind a tree with a black rose in hand.
“Miss Ryoka—”
He stopped, stared at her, and she crossed her legs and turned bright red. The Lucifen stared, blank-faced. Then he gave her an unconvincing smile, as if he’d intended to do this purely for humiliation’s sake.
He stepped behind the tree. Ryoka put her pants on. She got up, swung herself onto her glider, and took off.
Visophecin grabbed the glider before she could whip into the skies.
“Ryoka—”
