No one’s particularly eager to get the Titan analyzing their warplans in front of the class in the mood he’s in. However, Wil Kallinad, a young [Lord] from Terandria, raises his head with a sigh as Niers projects the report onto the blackboard behind him. Wil always dresses formally in what he probably thinks is appropriate student attire. A fancy, lightweight vest over an undershirt of ruffled linen and pants—in this heat! Even in the magically-cooled classrooms, he looks stuffy, but he’s sharp.
He’s survived battles with [Pirates]; he’s one of the ‘special’ students everyone knows will become a good [Strategist] someday. I have him earmarked as someone to befriend or use, if I can. He’s a bit intimidated by Erin from his past meetings, but even more so by Niers.
But he’s sharp. He clears his throat as Niers looks at him.
“I see you’ve assumed this battle is taking place in Pheislant. Describe this plan of action to me, Strategist Kallinad.”
“Not to be flippant, sir, but in a word—trees?”
There’s faint laughter in the class, but Niers just inspects the lists of troops and their placement.
“Go on, Wil.”
The [Lord] explains.
“My sister’s a [Knight], and she talks about training with the lance, Professor. Trees, dense enough, would put paid to a [Knight] charge. You can see I’ve actually ordered for the construction of several traps.”
“Triplines stretched between tree cover, archers in the branches. Even trees ready to drop on them. It’s decent, but I counter with this: the Order of Haegris engages your forces in several bloody offensives that decimate their peasantry. Fewer [Knights] fall due to their damn armor, and they surrender. After debate, a core of two hundred [Knights] breaks off from the fighting and begins to incinerate the forest. Your troops are caught in the blaze and run down when they escape.”
Wil appears crestfallen.
“May I object? The Order of Haegris or another [Knight] order would never do that, Professor!”
The Professor’s snort makes it clear what he thinks of that.
“Knights get imaginative if they lose too much. If not them, then the [General] attached to the force might drop a few lanterns by accident. Would you like to clarify your strategy?”
Wil nods.
“The infantry dug trenches, and we have [Rainfall] scrolls to counter any fires. Even gravel makes a horse lose its footing. If I knew I were on the wrong side of a [Knight] Order charging, I’d have pitfalls dug in a heartbeat.”
Someone snorts.
“Trenches, Wil, really? What about [Light Bridges]? Any idiot would use that!”
Kissilt, the Drake, had a rivalry with everyone. Wil just glances over coolly.
“Not if the infantry are in the trenches, Kissilt.”
“Hah! You want to leave them at the mercy of the other army? Are you mad? They’ll be chopped down from above!”
Kissilt scoffs, but Wil just shakes his head.
“Not in a forest. Archers in the trees, traps and chokepoints—and trenches or dirt enclosures that prohibit horses. The [Knights] can either go in on foot or must fall back. And they don’t do well when they’re mobbed.”
Niers’ voice is dry.
“Ten [Peasants] versus one [Knight]. Or a hundred to one. A tale as old as Terandria. Pass, but boring. A good, solid answer. I’m bored. Wil’s solution is probably ideal for a commander he doesn’t trust, but it isn’t going to win any awards for saving his people from the grinder. Anyone else have anything interesting? Anyone?”
He’s avoiding a hand reaching straight up towards the ceiling. Niers goes through a few more battle plans from younger students that feature interesting gimmicks, like ‘geomancy’ or ‘lightning magic’, both of which would work on [Knights], but you can’t rely on having access to them.
If your entire plan is having a Level 30 [Geomancer] open the ground and snap it closed over the [Knights], you get told that an arrow kills your [Mage]. A plan should be resilient enough to withstand unpredictable elements and not fall apart, or have fallbacks. The Professor finds little he respects. Then he sighs and gazes our way again, pinching at the bridge of his nose.
“I know I’m going to regret this…Venaz. If you say something Minotaur-related, I will defenestrate you. Knights with [Light Bridge] spells?”
He gives the Minotaur an almost pleading expression. Everyone settles back and waits, and even I smile. I can’t help it. Also…I feel various parts of me tingling as the huge Minotaur sitting in front of me gets up.
Alright, fine. He’s attractive. Okay? I don’t know whether it’s some Sariant Lamb thing in me or not, but I like his horns. And fur. And hooves! I’m allowed to look, just not mess up Erin’s position.
He barks his answer in a booming voice as he strides with his warplans up to the lectern.
“Professor, engagement in an open field. Long-handled axes—”
He ducks as Niers shoots a miniature bolt of lightning his way. More laughter. Venaz protests.
“But Professor, the enemy would be wearing armor! Few weapons can reach someone on horseback, let alone counter hard enough to unhorse or dehorse a foe!”
“And how, pray tell, does your axe-wielding group survive the lance-charge, Venaz?”
“Well, if you observe, my forces engage the peasantry first, forcing a melee—”
Niers reads out Venaz’s plan, which is indeed to dive into the enemy army and force the [Knights] into a melee. He actually says it might work—if Venaz’s forces have spines like iron and he’s willing to lose half his people in the bloodbath. Then Niers points.
Venaz gets up and gloomily stomps over to a corner where a stool is waiting. He sits there. It’s amazingly childish as punishments go; I saw the same thing in Mrsha’s classrooms in Liscor. But I’ve seen Venaz there more days than not.
In fairness, the Minotaur does it on purpose, I think, to see if a dedicated force of veterans can overtake the situations Niers throws at us. The answer is actually often ‘yes, but the cost is too high’. And the Professor? He wants creativity more than elegance or even competence.
The tiny Fraerling rubs at his face again. To my disappointment, he doesn’t pick on me. Too obvious, maybe.
“I was hoping for something else. Let’s put those brains to better use, please. Most of you played entirely too defensive, even if your strategy works like Wil’s. Maybe it’s my fault for giving you too many resources. Jekilt and Umina’s plans were the best. Of course, they drew from history. I’ve seen Terandrian crusades dying on Baleros’ soil. New assignment.”
He leans on his desk as everyone looks over to the two [Strategists], who sit up, smiling. I eye their plans—oh. All mobile, and one species predominates.
Interesting. Niers taps his little wand for attention.
“Let’s say your formation is, uh…two thousand [Soldiers] from Calanfer armed with a diverse set of weapons. They’re loyal, brave enough, and can follow orders, but they’re not specialists with any set of levels in the field. You’ve lost your commanding officer, so you have no dedicated Skills. Using only your wits, how do you counter a Drake battalion that spots you and moves to engage? They have no [Mages] or air-support or heavy Oldblood presence, but they’re higher-level, better-armed, and coming at you in tight formation. Go.”
He fields a few suggestions, then looks my way. My hand’s up. Again, I think he hesitates. And he takes a breath.
“Alright, our guest-student has another idea. Miss Solstice?”
I can’t help but feel like he wants me to answer wrongly. So he can snap at me. He accepted my request to learn strategy from him, but he’s been distant. Cold. No more hot tubs or invitations to dine alone.
But he has one problem. Just one, and it’s this. I give him a determined look—then speak, having thought my answer out fast and carefully as I place my strategy on the desk.
“Well, Professor. I’d surrender.”
Laughter, especially from Kissilt, the Drake, who calls out.
“Good answer!”
Niers just narrows his eyes at me.
“Untenable situation, Miss Solstice? Trying to save your Calanferians?”
His voice is quiet, and I can sense his hostility, but he’s hesitating. Because my reply is…
“No, because Drakes would love to take my army captive. They’re all about rules. I’d wait for them to come closer, then rush them. If it’s about the psychology of the enemy—Drakes love rules and order. Regardless of whether or not that worked, you can see my plans here.”
I point to the projection, which is a series of arrows and plans of movement. Venaz frowns from his seat as he sees it’s less of a battle formation and more of a map.
“I’d split my forces up into a hundred bands and scatter. I bet they’d adhere to protocol and either clump up and refuse to chase or organize into smaller bands to hunt them down. Then I’d group up my forces and overwhelm their hunting parties one-by-one using night or cover.”
The laughter stops. It’s not a bad answer, I think, and Niers gives me a searching gaze.
“You think you’d win engagements when they’re better-armed and trained, eh, Miss Solstice? Very well, let’s say you wounded a hundred Drakes in your feint. And saved a good portion of your troops from their chase. You ambush a group of two hundred Drakes with twice that number, but the rest of their army is in line-of-sight. Six hundred feet distant. How do you overwhelm them before they close on you?”
He’s trying to stay professional. I just grin at him with all of Erin’s teeth.
“Flanking charges, sir. Throw smaller groups of Calanferian [Peasants] at the oncoming army to slow them down.”
“Awfully confident you can overwhelm the famous Drake spear formation.”
“If they’re small enough, any group folds to enough numbers. Besides…we’d always wipe them out or inflict heavy casualties if we choose our ambushes. Because they’ll never regroup and retreat properly. ‘Drakes don’t run’.”
Then it’s quiet, and Kissilt is glaring at me. I return the glare as several students give me slightly admiring looks, even the older ones. Niers taps his foot loudly, and I think he’s trying to find fault with my argument. Then he gazes past me.
“I’d give you less than 50% odds of that working, even if your Calanferians were fighting for house and home. Terrible strategy, but original enough. In our practical segment, you will get to demonstrate exactly how fun it is to ambush a force like that when they know it’s coming. Next?”
He hates it. He hates the fact, I think, that I’m trying to speak his language. So he directs his attention to Kissilt next, bullying him about his national pride like he bullies Venaz. Me?
I have a journal full of his lessons, and I write down all his advice. I even have the homework he assigned last lesson done. I love strategy.
I think…if he knows I’m not Erin…that really annoys him.
 
 
Entry #42 — Wargames and awkwardness.
 
Leading troops in the field is what I’m good at. It’s when he has an army of volunteers and lets us [Strategists] and students field them against each other that I have fun.
“Fall back! Fall back!”
I shout as pretend-soldiers run back around me. I see the enemy coming up hard, wearing blue; all my forces are wearing red. They’re mostly Lizardfolk, Selphids, and some Humans, all wearing padded armor and helmets. They fight with paint-covered sticks to simulate real weapons.
I heard it was largely Selphids before, but most have quit. These volunteer-soldiers have to take breaks and get broken bones. We can only do this once a week when I heard it was near-daily for Niers’ students before.
More signs the Forgotten Wing company has changed, that Baleros is changing. But I have to get some experience in. I want experience. And sadly—I’m really good at this.
“Press the attack! Don’t let her reform!”
I can hear Kissilt’s voice as he leads his forces in. He plays a great defensive game, but his troops just come at me from the front, over-eager to claim victory. I’m grinning. I know I am; I can’t help it.
“Fall back! They’re coming—brace—brace or I’ll rip your tails off!”
I nearly forget myself, but the threat works on Lizardfolk. They brace, shouting, and the first wave of Kissilt’s soldiers crashes down on them. Both sides jab spears and clash, fighting, shouting—
“I’m wounded! Stop hitting! Stop—”
“Argh! Broken bone! Broken—”
They separate, the ‘dead’ moving off the field, wounded using one hand or limping. And I’m striding back. Kissilt pushes again, another wave, another clash, falling back—
He’s got my troops on the run, uphill, and his [Archers] are raining down padded arrows. Kissilt’s not an idiot; I can’t flank him with a hidden force like I have in previous battles. He can see my army here, and he knows I can’t pull more forces in.
But still—his wave of troops is running at us, his entire army save for his [Archers], pressing in to try and sweep my forces. He’s lost his head. I’m cold.
I’ve led forces before. That’s what he doesn’t realize, even Niers and the [Students] watching me. So when I shout, the [Soldiers], even if they’re volunteers, seem to listen.
“Hold! Hold! Give me five more seconds—fall back and break ranks!”
The front ranks holding back the tide coming uphill fall back one last time, and I grin. I see Kissilt hesitate as a new wave of troops emerges, the curtains of my people sweeping to the left and right.
“Huh? Where’d she get so many—”
Then the double-rank of my [Archers] opens fire and starts taking down his forces. Kissilt didn’t even notice they’d stopped firing and moved up through my army. What kind of idiot puts [Archers] on the front?
The idiot who knows his troops are tired from fighting uphill, that they’re not wearing heavy armor, and that he’s got no mage-spells. Moreover—they keep firing as my forces grind his from the left and right. If his infantry try to charge, well, they’re shot down that killing field as my [Archers] have a clear shot at them, far better than his groups stuck in the back.
It’s a rout. By the end of it, Kissilt is covered in painted welts from being pelted with arrows—he’s a combatant on the battlefield, and if he’s killed, that affects the battle—and Niers Astoragon is surveying the battle.
“Miss Erin has half her forces remaining with two disadvantage points for her forces. Kissilt, what did I tell you about snatching defeat from the jaws of victory?”
“…Not to?”
Kissilt’s shoulders slump, and Niers gives me a half-salute as someone carries his pedestal over so he can speak to us at head-height.
“Well done, Erin. You’re going to crush my best students’ egos. Which isn’t the worst thing. A few more victories and you’ll be in the hall of fame for your winning streak.”
