“Eight flying carpets. Each one is entrusted to either a top [Messenger] or being used in combat, Erin. They’re valuable artifacts. I’ve lost two already; one to combat with Jungle Tails, the other to the Dyed Lands monsters. Ryoka Griffin is faster and nimbler in the air than they are. I don’t leave resources if they can be used.”
“Ah. Smart of you. But you’re not endangering my friend, are you?”
Erin locked eyes with the Fraerling, and he offered her a slight bow.
“We’ve established there’s a safe-zone two hundred feet above the top of the ‘green zone’ by having [Beastmasters] fly birds up there. To be safe, we’ll have her at four hundred feet.”
“And why not put a scrying mirror on a bird…?”
Niers sounded distinctly annoyed now. One of the other high-level [Strategists] shifted, and Iuncuta Eirnos, the Fraerling in charge of her forces, grinned as she sat on the rim of a cup, resting her chin in her hands.
“Because, Erin—the birds are terrified and refuse to do a proper reconnaissance. I’ve tried other reasonable options.”
“Just checking.”
Geneva would never have thought to use birds as scouts like that. Erin was sharp…but Niers was always one step ahead. He glanced at her as Geneva rustled in her bag.
“Doctor Scala, if you’re going to eat chips—”
“Sorry.”
“—share them around.”
He accepted a fragment of a potato chip and broke what were, to Fraerlings, huge, hand-sized pieces off to eat. Geneva always envied that quality about Fraerlings. In fact, on seeing him do that, Erin tapped a ring on her finger.
She shrank, pulling herself onto the table, and accepted a chip as big as she was! Then she munched on it as the Fraerlings gathered around. Soon, Geneva was out of chips.
Ryoka was out of the war room and flying through the air as everyone else talked. Commander Rozcal was scrubbing at his tongue.
“Garlic. Eugh. Sorry, Doctor Scala. I haven’t been able to eat garlic since the Garlic Wars of ‘17.”
She gave him a suspicious gaze as Niers grinned. Fraerlings loved to tell jokes.
“What were you fighting, Garlic Zombies?”
The Tallguard looked insulted.
“What kind of monsters do you think—no! It was a wild magic surge that animated a bunch of garlic we’d been growing. Giant garlic bulbs. We had to mash ‘em up before they stopped trying to turn us into fertilizer. A bloodless battle…but a terrible one. I got so sick of the smell—and weeping. Because there were some onions in the crop too.”
A sideways glance at Niers, and he coughed into one fist.
“That actually happened, as far as I know. It’s gone down in Fraerling history as a contender for Top 50 silliest battles.”
Rozcal saluted comically as he accepted a sea-salt potato chip from Daly.
“An honor to serve! Now, what’s this new ‘colored zone’? We haven’t been able to fight the Dyed Lands buggers yet.”
“Not our job, Rozcal. We’re rescuing fellow Fraerlings and punishing the Jungle Tails company. If you fight monsters, it’ll be when we find a settlement that needs bailing out in that mess.”
Eirnos shot at him as several other Fraerling commanders studied the magical map that glowed under their feet. They seemed like proper Giants as Niers pointed from his perch, staring down at a huge…spiral around the famous Dyed Lands.
A spiral, yes. Up to a hundred miles away, the Dyed Land’s expansion had overtaken entire cities, forcing their inhabitants to flee, and arrows and figurines marked where companies were fighting the monsters’ advance. A green group of Centaurs was right in front of the area where Niers had sent Ryoka, and the Forgotten Wing’s blue forces were moving in like a wave to halt the western edge of the Dyed Lands.
However, they were up against armies of monsters, powerful ones. The spiral had arms, each of a different color, which radiated outwards, hence the nickname ‘colored zone’. Each zone contained monsters of a certain color. They’d fight with other colors of monsters—and anyone caught in their path—and each color had different abilities.
That was as much as Geneva had heard; she had her interest in the Dyed Lands as a possible cure for Selphids and because a lot of the monsters were generating new injuries she needed to combat, but she wasn’t doing any of the fighting. The current color that had rolled across the eastern approach was…green. Lime green, and a bright purple icon appeared from Elvallian and headed south and slightly west.
“She’s fast.”
It was Ryoka! She moved fast enough for her progress to be visible on the map, and Niers commented.
“We have [Weather Mages] throwing wind her way. She told me she can hit an excess of two hundred miles per hour…we’re below that, but the Maelstrom’s Howling company is joining the effort. The Bannermare herself is at the front, so we’re sharing everything Ryoka does on live television. Mind yourselves so you don’t appear on the news, Fraerlings.”
That produced grumbles.
“You just don’t want us hogging your spot!”
“You’re a secret group devoted to fighting Jungle Tails, Rozcal. The less of you they know are here, the better.”
“I’d look great on television. Alright, alright…do you think this will even get on the television outside of Baleros? It’s all New Lands on the news.”
Niers shrugged.
“This is a purely Balerosian problem, and the other continents have never worried about our struggles. Frankly, they’re happy we have the Dyed Land distracting us or else we’d be in the New Lands showing them how to conquer territory. The Iron Vanguard is the only Great Company able to make the journey in force…it splits their attention, which suits me, and I imagine the Terandrians won’t be the only ones who have a fun time fighting those hardheads.”
That earned a laugh from all of his people and the Fraerlings, and it made Geneva uncomfortable. She was reminded every now and then that she was working with one of the world’s best warlords. For all his intelligence and seeming sympathy for her mission, she had to be aware of that.
As if he could read her mind, Niers turned to Geneva.
“Doctor Scala, I’d like you to review our notes on the ‘green’ monsters and advise us on what Ryoka reports in, if you’re willing. So far, my forces have had most experience with Black, White, and Purple. Green…seems nasty.”
Daly raised his hand.
“Aren’t some of the monsters in White invisible? How does it get worse than that?”
“Parasites.”
Geneva shuddered, and Daly lowered his hand and stopped eating chips.
“Right, well…gross.”
 
——
 
Parasites. Geneva had only sketches and reports to review, but by the time Ryoka was in sight of the green zone, she had an idea of what was so nefarious about these monsters.
Green had a lot of flying creatures—many of them serpentine. They were closer to flying snakes, actually, and they ranged from smaller than the width of a finger to huge serpents like the ones Daly and his Bushrangers had been forced to kill.
What defined ‘green’ was their willingness to parasitize hosts, apparently. Much like Selphids, they’d fuse with anything alive. Nothing dead, thankfully, but the notes indicated they’d even ‘steal’ other colors to add to their ranks.
“They have venom attacks, and it’s largely a numbers problem with them. The danger is that they just overwhelm us. It’s closer to fighting the weather than monsters. Maelstrom’s Howling is well equipped to push them back in that sense; their [Weather Mages] have been turning the wind against the green and keeping them locked in place, but Maelstrom’s Howling’s commander on the ground is the exact wrong one.”
Their analysis had begun, and all the joking and comments had gone silent. He was speaking to Foliana, who was perched in a chair, nibbling on some mac and cheese, her new favorite treat. She murmured.
“Mm. Bannermare? Aria would be as bad at that as me.”
“She’s refusing to retreat her forces. I suppose she’ll be useful once this color shifts out of our way.”
They knew the famous Bannermare, one of the most important Centaurs in the world, and spoke so casually about her. Foliana scratched her back with a sheathed dagger.
“How old is she now?”
“Twenty-six?”
“Hm. So young. Too high-level. I should have stabbed her in that battle when I had the chance.”
“We’re on the same side, Foliana.”
“I meant back then.”
“We were on the same side in that—Aria! Our Courier’s almost on top of you.”
A scowling young Centauress appeared in the huge scrying mirror on one wall; on another, Geneva saw a feed of Sir Relz commenting on ships bound for the New Lands. Ryoka was on a third mirror, a hang glider as seen from above, passing over lands cleared of the usual jungle. Then over tents and what Geneva swore were bands of soldiers seen from over a thousand feet up.
Aria Fellstrider, the 2nd-in-command of Maelstrom’s Howling, snapped back.
“Niers, I want to advance on the green tonight! Your recon is costing us momentum! I’ve got the band ready to play, and our [Mages] are getting tired!”
“I want to know how deep this wave is, Aria, and if they have any hidden units. I have two Chess Towers ready to screen your advance, but your musical tricks won’t do much good when you’re breathing those damn green things in.”
“Hah! We’ve dealt with swarms before. Our Lizardfolk backfighters are armed with swarm slings, and we have enough magic to burn this entire cloud to ash.”
“Assuming they’re not eating you. Give my Courier one hour, Aria. She’s flying overhead now.”
Aria tilted her head back. She was, Geneva saw, a very striking Centauress. Her fur was almost blueish silver that became cream as it reached her flanks, and she carried a banner with a Centaur on it, galloping between tornadoes.
The Maelstrom’s Howling’s beloved Battle Hymnist could barely sit still; her light, colorful armor jingled as hundreds of Centaurs behind her stamped their hooves. All of them, even she, had a small Lizardfolk riding on their back, not in a saddle, but balanced on stirrups, even standing up and waving at Niers.
“She’s so cool, Geneva. She’s the youngest Centaur to reach her level in centuries! Niers, Foliana, Aria—I never thought I’d lay eyes on so many legends!”
Okasha, the native of Baleros, was delighted, and Geneva sub-vocalized, a trick she’d learned to use to talk to Okasha so no one could hear them.
“What’s her ability?”
“Leading armies! She always does it with music playing. A hundred Centaurs led by the Bannermare could sweep an army of ten thousand! Well, according to the rumors. She’s over Level 50.”
And she’s only 26 years old? Geneva knew she herself wasn’t one to talk, but that was astounding! Aria pranced sideways, then squinted.
“Is that Foliana with you? Hey, Stalker. Mother says her left hindleg was hurting. She hopes you get eaten by a giant hawk.”
“Hello, little girl.”
Foliana waved back, and Aria snorted, tossed her head, then peered up.
“Hey, wait, that’s no Garuda! Is that—wait, is that the Wind Runner? How’d you get her? I heard she was in Baleros!”
Then she was galloping off, and whomever had the scrying orb was racing to keep up. Aria waved her arms up, grinning, and Niers raised his brows.
“Miss Ryoka Griffin? She’s been a guest of Elvallian off-and-on. Are you a fan of hers?”
“I’m a fan of anyone fast! And she’s been on the news—tell her to come down! I want an autograph!”
That was the amazing thing, Geneva supposed. Here was a legend of Baleros, one of the Four Great Companies’ leaders, and she was taken with Ryoka. Well, not that taken; Aria slowed and appeared merely disappointed after Niers told her there would be time for that afterwards.
“I hope she can do her job quick. We’re ready to gallop! Alright, Niers, I’m watching. Do your thing. Say, is that weird Human you’ve been trying to mate with there? I’ve been dying to lay eyes on her.”
Niers scowled and reddened as Foliana chuckled, and Aria tossed her head, fearlessly grinning at the Titan of Baleros. Then she sombered, and her eyes focused on the screen she was clearly watching. Ryoka flew into the green zone, and Geneva shuddered.
It was a lot of monsters.
 
——
 
“Dead gods. Niers, are you seeing this?”
“We have magnified the scrying spell so wherever you’re going, we see. Fly over anything you want us to look at. Don’t worry; we’re recording all of this. Also, you may be on television. Local broadcasts, for now.”
Now he told her. Ryoka was cold, stiff, and unhappy after flying for over five damn hours to get here, even with wind spells speeding her way. At least the [Mages] had cleared the skies for her, and she knew it mattered, she just hated feeling like an object someone could just—
“Hey, Wind Runner, move left a bit, would you? I want to see that clump of snakes or whatever it is in the air.”
Someone else gave her orders, and Ryoka growled.
“Who is this?”
“Aria Fellstrider, Bannermare of the Maelstrom’s Howling company. Left. [Move It, Soldier]!”
Ryoka jerked left and only caught herself after a second. She shuddered, nearly shouted an insult, and then remembered who that was.
Today sucks. She heard the fae sniggering as Aria peered through the scrying spell.
“Yep, that’s gross. Okay, back to you, Niers.”
He, at least, sounded a tiny bit sympathetic as he directed Ryoka to continue flying over the…cloud of green monsters below her. Ryoka had been skeptical when he told her he wanted four hundred feet above the top of their formations. She was so high up she was freezing, but after seeing the green monsters of the Dyed Land, she had zero desire to get closer.
What did they look like? Well, here was a question. Had you ever walked into a cloud of midges? Those invisible swarms of gnats that could be as large as you were, alarming as they buzzed around you? Ryoka had run into them countless times on runs, and she hated the bastards.
Imagine that, but denser by a factor of ten, a virtual cloud of wriggling shapes in the air, some as long as she was. Longer.
Snakes. Or…vaguely snakes. They had wings on their backs, transparent membrane mostly, and long, aerodynamic appendages sprouting from their necks and along their bodies.
They were, in fact, half insectoid with the eerie grace of serpents flying through the air. Ryoka heard no buzz from below, and she saw many of them wriggling as if they were able to keep themselves in place by that motion.
Millions of these snake-things. They blanketed the skies, flying against the winds that were keeping them from advancing. Ryoka had been warned they could burrow into flesh, and she was damned if she was getting closer. Whenever one opened their mouth, she saw familiar fangs—but the ground was far more alarming.
