Tyrion informed Ryoka, and she wrinkled her nose up at him. Ryoka Griffin was tired, slightly triumphant after her flight to save Filax, but also just exhausted from Elvallian. However, Tyrion…she looked him up and down.
He seemed to be in good shape, repeated head injuries aside. He was young, fit, having trimmed his usual goatee, and his black hair, messed from his helmet, and his dark blue eyes on his sharp face did something to her stomach. He looked like a young man, but his bearing was that of someone older.
An inconsistency between his current levels and appearance and who he was. He seemed frustrated, as well he might.
He had used to be a Level 40+ [Lord] and [Lancer]—now, he was in his Level 30s in both classes. The difference was incomparable. He’d refused to tell Ryoka exactly how many Skills he’d lost, but ten levels in two classes was an insane amount. He’d nearly lost his sons due to the Circle of Thorns and had fought a war against Ailendamus.
Despite that, he’d sailed to Baleros. Just because of her, as stupid and fairytale dumb as that sounded. So, with all due respect to Erin—to Nerry’s comments about his past misdeeds, Ryoka couldn’t help but find affection for him.
Nerry, wearing Erin’s face. Dead gods. She definitely needed a break from that. Ryoka glanced at the tents as Tyrion spoke.
“The Dyed Lands seem as dangerous as I thought. I’ve written a complaint to Lord Astoragon about putting you in danger, and he assured me he wouldn’t involve you in further scouting trips.”
He hesitated.
“I apologize if that overreaches, but the danger is clear.”
Ryoka rather suspected that Niers had agreed purely because she’d disobeyed orders, but she smirked slightly.
“At least everyone respected it. You’re barely more than thirty miles inland. Have the Centaurs given you that much grief?”
His glower said it all. Landing a force of Humans into Baleros in any port was a task and a half. Every city and [Mercenary] company saw them as potential threats or targets, but his voice was clipped.
“I apologize for our delay. Once we deal with these blockades, we will make better time. Is Erin Solstice…well? She was not on the news. Have you located Ser Solstice?”
He was all business. You could respect that. Ryoka towed Tyrion towards his tents.
“I’ll tell you all about it, but it’s been, what, over a week since we last saw each other? Why don’t you and I catch up in private?”
He gave her a weird eye as he motioned to Dalen.
“Dalen has our projected route on maps. It’d be more optimal to speak with everyone else. Dalen, show her.”
Ryoka reddened, and the [Soldier], who’d been drifting away tactfully, paused with that expression of silent agony that people around Tyrion sometimes wore. She coughed.
“Or I could share private intelligence with you, Tyrion. In private. Together.”
“Ah, of course. Let me rub down Surmount and check on his injuries first.”
He snapped his fingers and took his horse’s reins.
“I can do that for you, Lord Veltras.”
Dalen interrupted, and Ryoka felt her head starting to ache. Just slightly. She’d forgotten how this went. Or maybe all those head injuries had given him a relapse? She did a hop, and Tyrion blinked.
Ryoka leapt like a feather and landed in his arms. She hooked one leg around his back and was amazed his arms didn’t even tremble. He was still strong.
“I think you and I should acquaint ourselves, Tyrion. Personally?”
She whispered, turning even redder, and he finally locked onto her blushed skin, and his eyes widened. He hesitated.
“Now? Er—that is—”
He glanced at the tent as Dalen stepped back, and Ryoka Griffin put her arms around him, grinning—
—and met Lord Pellmia’s eyes as the [Lord of Love and Wine] tried to tiptoe back.
 
——
 
Lord Pellmia Quellae, a failure to his class, winced as Ryoka exploded out of Tyrion’s arms like a startled chicken. He spun, and both of them turned red. Pellmia lifted his hands.
“I was just coming over to greet Ryoka. Don’t mind me. I’ll just be over here, humming. Loudly.”
The two red-faced twenty-something year olds assured him that they weren’t doing anything and were delighted to see him. Once again, Lord Pellmia asked himself why he’d even come to Baleros.
Oh, right. Because if Ryoka saw Tyrion’s manifest problems, then Pellmia, who had known Tyrion since he was a boy, couldn’t leave well enough alone. Plus, his ties to House Veltras were such that he’d taken a small force to aid Tyrion when even the man’s family had gone back to their holdings after his last war.
Perhaps it was the feeling he might yet still level, if only as a [Matchmaker] fighting one of the hardest battles he’d ever encountered—even after Tyrion and Ryoka had found mutual acquaintanceship. Perhaps it was because his daughter, Betta, and his wife, Keireen, had all but tossed him aboard the ship and threatened him with sleeping outdoors if he didn’t keep the duo together—and send all the spicy gossip back for them.
Sent on campaign just so they can tell everyone about what was going on over tea. Well, he had to own that Tyrion needed help. The [Lord]’s usual tactic of forcing what he wanted to happen wasn’t going well on another continent, especially with his reduced levels.
Oh yes, Pellmia knew the secret; he was the official excuse they used to explain the change. The old Tyrion would have knocked those Centaurs down, despite their advantages. This young one…
“Ryoka, you are a delight as ever to see flying about. I hope I’ll never grow less amazed at the sight. Your heroism? I had my heart in my throat, but you’ve done it again. I just landed; Keireen sends her blessings. I’m afraid things are as you see them. The Centaurs do not like us, and they control the trade roads.”
“Who heard of blocking us from moving down the road?”
Tyrion grumbled, and Ryoka sighed.
“I heard some companies owned the roads. Can I help negotiate?”
“Please do. I’ve shared wine and conversation with them, and they’re in good humor, but they steadfastly refuse to let us travel anywhere.”
Pellmia always admired Ryoka. He had since the first moment he saw her flying through a storm to save Tyrion’s sons. You knew people from their deeds at their worst, Keireen always said. His first wife, Eirness, had been more of the opinion you knew them from their rank, but he was sure she would have admired Ryoka Griffin too.
Perhaps it was merely fame; the Centaurs came out as a full party of thirty-six, including some of the ones who’d just bested Tyrion, and they spent most of the time shaking Ryoka’s hands.
And flirting with her. Pellmia saw the flashes of affection, the hints of what he presumed might be lust or interest, flickering around their interactions with her. It was one of the new features of his class—he saw romance in the air, the many forms of it.
The [Lord of Love and Wine] wasn’t blind, either. Ryoka was flattered by the attention, though anyone probably would be, but there was a spark when Tyrion came over and she introduced them.
Half the Centaurs glared at the younger Veltras, but then they began to negotiate—more in good faith, Pellmia felt, than before.
“We told you already. We don’t want Veltrases or whomever your group is, not on the plains. We remember the last time Terandria had their stupid colonies here, and a bunch of clanking [Soldiers]? No thanks. Maelstrom’s Howling never gave you permission to ride, so you can sail down the coast. Forgotten Wing has territory down there. Ask them.”
“Why can’t we simply ride through your lands? You’ve held us up long enough that we could be gone by now!”
Tyrion snapped, and Pellmia put a hand on his arm. He spoke for the [Lord].
“You are not Maelstrom’s Howling. You’re the Keirgrass Hooves company. Can we not buy permission to transit through your lands to avoid more unnecessary altercations?”
One of the Centaurs glowered; he was a tall roan. He was armored light, at least by Pellmia’s standards, with quilted padding under light lamellar armor of wood or some-such.
Raiders. They’d hit us a hundred times each day if we had to fight. Pellmia knew House Veltras was mobile, and Tyrion had brought a lot of his riders, but Pellmia didn’t want to clash with Centaurs on their own turf.
All the Centaurs pawed the ground with their hooves, except a female Centaur who wore a slightly amused expression as she eyed Tyrion, but Ryoka frowned.
“Hold on, Ken told me about this. Maelstrom’s Howling’s your species’ Great Company. Are you taking orders from the top to stymie House Veltras?”
Tyrion and Pellmia glanced at her sharply, and the Centaur leader, Revvan, snapped.
“No Centaur group wants Humans in our territory. If you cause trouble, it reflects on the group that let you in. And Maelstrom’s Howling doesn’t like the Terandrians.”
“We’re not Terandrian.”
Tyrion snapped.
“You’re Human. Close enough.”
The response flummoxed Tyrion for a moment, and Ryoka jumped in. She smiled at Revvan.
“But you’re also not Maelstrom’s Howling’s lackeys, are you? Are you really going to just do what they say when I’m asking for a favor? Plus, they can pay.”
Revvan smiled at Ryoka and hesitated as the female Centaur nudged him.
“She’s got you there, Revvan. How much coin are we wasting hitting the Humans with sticks?”
“I’m not backing down, Rethra! How’s it going to look if we give way before the first group of foreigner Humans who ran into us?”
He growled back, pawing the ground. Tyrion drew breath, and Ryoka kicked him. She smiled at Revvan.
“You just beat them. It’s not giving way if you stymied Lord Tyrion Veltras, one of the most famous [Lords], into paying you, is it? C’mon. Or is there another reason you’re being so asinine?”
“Don’t call us asinine.”
That was her one mistake—the Centaurs bridled at the comparison to a donkey. Pellmia was about to invite them to drink—they did appreciate free wine like most species—when Rethra trotted over. She was a Centaur of the same coloration and type, so he assumed she was a sister, and she whispered to Ryoka.
“It’s not just because it’s Maelstrom’s Howling, Wind Runner. It’s because it’s Maelstrom’s Howling and Aria Fellstrider. Revvan thinks doing little favors like this will get her attention.”
She laughed, and Revvan turned bright red and slapped at her side. She trotted back, having a slap-fight with him, and Ryoka Griffin started laughing.
“Is that it?”
Half the male Centaurs avoided looking at her, and Revvan glared.
“She’s the Bannermare of Baleros! The most beautiful, dashing, eligible, uh—”
He ran out of superlatives, and Pellmia did recall that Centaurs put a lot of stock in, well, prestige. They took raising children seriously, because of all the species, theirs had the longest childbirths and the most complications. Even so, for an entire mercenary company—however small—to do favors in hopes of getting the Bannermare’s attention…
“Aria Fellstrider is fighting the Dyed Lands. She doesn’t have time to pay attention to the eastern coast.”
Ryoka pointed out, and Revvan appeared crestfallen. However, the Wind Runner demonstrated that tact he’d noticed in her.
“I’ve met her. She likes me. If I ever run into her, I’ll mention you to her. Deal? Plus, you’re missing the fact that you have the world’s greatest expert in romance right here! Lord Pellmia!”
She pointed at him, and he jumped. The Centaurs goggled at him, then remembered his reputation. Revvan pointed with both hands.
“You’re that [Lord]? And wait, didn’t you turn some other guy young?”
“That ‘guy’ would be me.”
Tyrion growled, and the Centaurs goggled at him, and then they were falling over themselves to strike a deal—if Pellmia would share his love potions and Skills with them.
Dead gods. Pellmia had so much hassle trying to explain to them it didn’t work like that, and then trying to give them solid advice, he only managed to escape thirty minutes later and after promising to have dinner with them that night.
They got their pass, at least, and the Centaurs promised to throw in a good word for them with the other companies, which apparently mattered a lot. Pellmia found Ryoka and Tyrion talking with the female Centauress, who seemed amused by all this to-do.
“So you’re the famous [Lancer]-[Lord]. I thought you’d knock Revvan flat, but I saw you trying not to stick him with your lance. You might want to get some light lances like we use; some Centaurs will fight you, and if you can avoid killing them, that’s good.”
“I was worried I’d run them through, even with a blunted tip. I can kill a horse hitting it too hard.”
Rethra grinned. She had no garments on save for a tunic; many Centaurs might wear nothing from the waist down where their horse-parts began, not even a kilt. Her belly was showing where it met fur, which Pellmia considered mildly indecent to be staring at. Tyrion kept glancing at her bellybutton as if he’d never seen one before.
So did Ryoka, actually. Rethra grinned as she bent back at the waist, and all three Human’s mouths dropped open. She could move that spine back way further than they assumed!
“Don’t worry about hitting us too hard! See how far we can bend? Hit someone with a lance right and you’ll knock us senseless, but we won’t break. Aim right here or here. Hit us here—and we’re going to be in lots of pain.”
She gestured at her chest and, oddly, ribs and stomach while she indicated the section where Human-half met horse-half as a dangerous spot.
“I don’t understand. Those are the worst spots to hit a person.”
Tyrion protested, and Rethra grabbed his hands. She put them on her stomach and then moved them to her chest. He jumped and tried to pull away.
“There’s not as much in here. See? We have lungs and a heart, but we also have more of your internal bits down here.”
She slapped her flank.
“If our upper-body parts get badly hurt, we can still survive. If you ever see a Centaur flopping around at the waist, it means someone’s hit them hard enough to damage their upper body, but they can probably still make it.”
Tyrion yanked his hands away and nodded stiffly. Rethra grinned.
“And we’re great at fighting people on horseback. You’re used to horses. They’re dead weight around us. Want to try me? I wasn’t going to get hurt if your people attacked, but I’d like to joust a famous [Lord].”
Tyrion hesitated, but Ryoka pushed him forwards.
“It’s a good lesson, Tyrion. Go for it.”
