“Welcome to the Maelstrom’s Howling company. Sorry about the eyes. It comes with being, well, important. And eligible as a partner.”
“I think I’d rather fly back into the green zone than live like this.”
It was the only thing the Wind Runner could think to say. It popped out of her mouth, and Aria threw her head back and laughed. She was so delighted that she whirled and picked Ryoka up in a hug.
“I knew I liked you the moment I saw you! And not just because you’re fast! How come the Titan meets all the interesting people? You’re mad, you know that? I like that.”
She put Ryoka down, and the Wind Runner was amazed by the strength of Aria’s arms. She hesitated.
“I, uh—thank you? I hope I didn’t put your people in danger!”
From what she’d seen, they’d attacked and fallen back like lightning. One of the Four Great Companies indeed. Aria waved one hand airily.
“We took some blood, but we were ready for that. Besides, it was worth it. We’ll be beginning our offensive; we sent two waves in, and we’ll launch seven more before nightfall.”
Indeed, as she pointed past their temporary camp, ringed by a literal fence—albeit clearly magical—Ryoka saw a wave of Centaurs and Lizardfolk riders storming back from the green swarm they were keeping at bay with the wind.
Despite herself, Ryoka was amazed by how fast the Centaurs were moving—and she saw thousands galloping forwards.
“Whoa. Are you rotating through the entire army?”
“No, we have a reserve. I’ll be going out—but I wanted to see you. It’s how we fight. We attack, fall back, and attack again! Fighting four battles in a day is normal for our tactics.”
“You must use stamina potions like crazy.”
Ryoka was familiar with how even veteran [Soldiers] tired in combat, which was one of the most strenuous burners of energy out there. But to her startlement, Aria just snorted.
“Stamina potions? Maybe if we fought eight battles. We’re Centaurs, Wind Runner! Ah, but you don’t know any of them.”
Ryoka was about to say she knew one, but then she developed a funny idea and closed her mouth. Aria struck one of her forelegs with a hand.
“We store energy and use it when needed. Ever heard of stories of Centaurs running for two days and nights straight? We do that and more! Although we sleep for ages afterwards.”
Really? Ryoka had heard Charlay claiming to run for 24 hours straight, but she’d put that down to her friend bragging. She realized there were actually legitimate biological differences with the Centaurs from other species.
They reminded her a lot of the nomadic peoples from her world, actually. The Centaurs were highly mobile and could pack their camps up in a flash—with bags and chests of holding, they could store entire tents with ease. Add that to their stamina and coordination, and she wondered why they hadn’t spread far and wide beyond Baleros’ shores.
Oh, right, they suck with stairs and swimming. Even so—Aria just turned and grinned down at Ryoka again.
“Now, it’s your turn to give me an autograph! And you must let me race you!”
Once again, Ryoka blinked and realized that someone important and powerful had taken an interest in her. It was a sign of her personality that she wondered why this kept happening to her. As if she’d forgotten flying into the heart of a storm minutes ago.
 
 
Entry #44 — Further Ryoka updates.
 
Ryoka needs armor. I seriously don’t understand how she’s survived half the things she has without at least some kind of higher-grade barrier spell. She’s got to be rich enough to afford a personal amulet that shields her from attack, right?
…Well, actually, I’ve heard how damn expensive and rare they are. Even a high-quality deflector spell like a Ring of Lesser Protection is on par with Relics for value. No lamb has ever managed to steal a barrier charm; the Owners always notice.
Anyways, enough about me. After seeing Ryoka’s incredibly stupid stunt to save that Lizardkid, everyone was agog. It’s been…seven hours since my last entry?
I haven’t slept. Erin wouldn’t while Ryoka’s in danger, and we weren’t sure if she was infested with those snake-things. They nearly got a flying carpet to send Geneva to the front, but the Archmage of Baleros was able to do a lot of the work she wanted.
Full-body scans, decontamination, even scanning with vision spells and [Detect Life] calibrated to check for eggs of parasites. They were properly paranoid, but I just saw Ryoka exiting the [Healer]’s tent.
It was a stupid stunt. Let’s be clear. I know I was gushing a bit, and when I read the previous entry, I wince, but the record stands. I was thinking about it, and I’ve decided that I was mistaken.
Ryoka’s not any different than she was yesterday. I just saw her go to shake Aria Fellstrider’s hand when the Centauress was going for a high-five. She’s still fundamentally ‘cringe’, to use the parlance of Troydel.
…We just see her differently. She has to remind us now and then she’s still the Wind Runner who woke the Archmage of Izril, who defied the Assassin’s Guild, and who flew through a magical hurricane to save lives. If you remember that about Ryoka, you see her properly. If not, you treat her like a silly, airheaded Runner you can push around, and she’ll let you do it until she decides to just ignore you.
A lesson for me, for Niers, and, I think, for Geneva and the others. Certainly, the good [Doctor] seems quite remorseful about how she treated Ryoka. She’s actually consulting with Beth on whether they can make a cake for Ryoka’s return—as well as prepping a room to treat that poor Lizardkid.
She’s a girl and not fully taken over by the snakes, as far as I was told by Geneva and the Fraerling [Healers] consulting. But they’re not removing the snakes in her body; they’re ‘attached’ in ways Ryoka escaped, and the less I know about that the better.
…I’ll write down all I’ve got, obviously, but the idea of being assimilated into the green swarm gives me the shudders.
At any rate, I might catch some sleep in a second. Ryoka’s getting the hero worship she deserves with the Centaurs. Whether or not that’s a good thing?
Aria Fellstrider, the Bannermare, is hugging Ryoka and seems determined to make the Wind Runner her friend. I think it’s a speed thing; people who move fast like each other’s company. That or they’re close enough in age and Ryoka’s famous enough for even the 2nd-in-command of Maelstrom’s Howling to like her.
Hm. I think it’s both Ryoka’s ability, her selflessness and insanity, and the fact that she’s actually fairly level-headed around the Bannermare. I’ve talked with other Pathforgers and lambs assigned to high-level targets, and they always note how isolated high levels make you. Ryoka’s personable in her way, and she’s met more famous people than I can count.
Damn. I don’t know Aria’s exact level, but she’s close enough to count for the Trials of Levelling, I’m certain. Then again, I’m not good at being ‘nice’. Ryoka? Here’s a snippet of conversation I wrote down word-for-word.
Aria: “So you’re new to Baleros and you’re already doing missions like these? I thought Izrilian Couriers weren’t anything special, no offense.”
Ryoka: “I don’t, uh, actually know that many of the ones on Izril, but they’re braver than I am. Four of them took on [Assassins] during my run for Tyrion Veltras, and I’ve met Mihaela.”
Aria: “Oh, the Courier of Izril herself? I didn’t mean all Couriers. Just…you know what, Mother always tells me I generalize. Are they all like you, then? Also, how do you like Baleros? We must be very strange to you, since I doubt you’ve ever met a Centaur before now. We hate boats.”
Ryoka: “Actually, I’m friends with a famous Centaur Runner. She’s practically a Courier herself; we’re rivals.”
Aria: “A famous Centauress on Izril? I’ve never heard of her!”
Ryoka (just imagine the shit-eating grin on her face): “She’s called Dustrider Charlay. Hey, Charlay! It’s me! You and Aria should race sometime!”
Then she waves at the camera. Aria grins until someone tells her that Charlay’s a City Runner, and she laughs and slaps Ryoka on the shoulders and asks about her flying.
That’s…clever. Seriously, it is. I’ve never had to charm a Centaur—they’re not Izrilian, and they don’t take to Sariant Lambs like other species, probably because we’re both four-legged and they’re so huge and mobile. However, I do understand that Centaurs love jostling each other, poking fun, and being somewhat pushy, if not aggressive in some cases. You don’t win them over by being polite and reserved, like Dullahans. How shall I put it? Unlike Lizardfolk, Centaurs like you to have a bit of bite to the play. But they’re also big on loyalty. Herd mentality?
That’s Ryoka’s strange charisma for you. It activates after she’s done something important. And again—I don’t think I’d necessarily want to trade places with her, because the downside of being popular among Centaurs is that they’re all over you. I think, even on live television, I saw her getting propositioned at least eleven times by male Centaurs.
—Enough about Ryoka, at least until she returns. I’m going to go catch some sleep, and then I plan on talking with the ‘troops’. My command of Lizardfolk and Selphids. If I want them to actually fight with me for reasons beyond pay, I hav—
 
 
ENTRY #45 — CONTACT WITH ERIN.
 
She summoned me. I don’t know how, but one moment I was writing and then the conversation with her…appeared in my mind. As if it had happened and I just remembered it.
I don’t know how to describe it. I remember a door appearing in front of me and pulling it open, walking into another realm. Like I did with Paxere, but instead of that dark room and the ominous chains and table, I was in an empty gazebo in the middle of nowhere.
Have you ever stood in an open place before the stars come out at night? It was like that—nothing but blackness in every direction, save for two doors that were connected by little pathways to the Gazebo.
And she was there. Erin, the real [Innkeeper]. I
don’t know
how do I write this?
 
——
 
Ignore the poetry above. I’ve been trying for an hour to figure out how to write it. I’ll just do what I can, and you’ll understand I can’t do it justice.
I’ve never been more scared in my life. I thought she was going to kill me. She looks like the genuine article. She’s scarred. It seems like her hair’s been washed by magic, and she’s missing part of her ear. She’s got burn marks on her wrists, neck, and she’s thinner. That doesn’t really capture it.
All my acting and attempting to be her was so far off. I thought she’d be—tough. Hard after surviving all of that, and she is. But she was concerned about me.
Not angry.
I told her everything. It’s this pavilion…that’s all I’m going to write about her secrets here, even for other lambs. I told her what I’d been doing, and I expected her to tell me to stop impersonating her or to only do what she wanted.
But she just listened to me when I told her why I was doing all of this. With a voice—and then she gave me her blessing. A boon. Her boon.
Okay.
Let me try again.
She looks like she’s melting. Or burning herself away. As if the color in her hair, her very skin were fuel for the fires she conjured. Even her hat’s different now. The fire falls like tears.
She’s hit Level 50. There’s no question of that. She looks so damned tired. I had the best healing in the world thanks to the Fraerlings in Paeth, and shelter and safety. I don’t even know if anyone was taking care of her since the battle at sea. It doesn’t seem like it.
Despite all of that, she was just worried about me. A Sariant Lamb who stole her body. She wasn’t victorious about killing Prince Iradoren. She barely remembered him. She wasn’t grieving either. Just worried she wouldn’t be strong enough to do the same thing next time. I thought, when the last spells rained down and everything went black and I woke up on that raft at sea, that the battle was over.
It’s like it never ceased for Erin. But she’s not out there, fighting to kill the [Prince of Men]. I forgot that. It was always just to protect one of her friends, her guests. I don’t know how you’d scare her away or stop her if you were fighting her. There’s no bravado or wrath, just this quiet…she’ll survive wherever she is. And I?
I have to tell Ryoka. Maybe not Niers, but she gave me her blessing.
[Boon of the Guest: Erin Solstice].
My hands are itching. I’m still shaking. I’ll do her name justice. Enough playing around.
 
 
Entry #46 — Skill and Niers’ secrets.
 
The [Boon of the Guest] Skill gave me some of Erin’s powers. The better to fool everyone with, I think. Not all of them, but enough.
[Wondrous Fare] and her ability at chess are the two big standouts. They make sense. I’d have liked the fire, but I bet that’s too much to ask for, and besides, I can fake it with the Warform and the black flames.
But I have a Skill.
Me, a Sariant Lamb. It’s even more amazing than the Warform. Am I the first Sariant to ever gain a Skill…? This is what we’ve longed for our entire lives.
It changes everything.
I’m getting ahead of myself. Ryoka’s back now. She brought the Lizardkid in—it’s a girl named ‘Filax’, and Geneva and Beth and the Fraerlings have been studying her condition in sealed rooms. Apparently, Niers wanted Ryoka to take them anywhere but the citadel for the risk, but Foliana overrode him.
The moment I finished writing about the Erin meeting, I got some sleep, then set about putting together a better imitation of her than last time. I’ve adjusted my personality slightly; I still have to present as the Erin I pretended to be, but I’m loosening up a bit.
Remembering to not be such a monster to people. Smiling more. It’s weird that it’s genuine sometimes.
I can’t help but smile after trouncing people in chess. It feels good. If the boon gave me Erin’s playing level, then she’s taking it easy on everyone but Niers. It’s like I can see the future on the board, read dozens of moves ahead. It’s so easy I can play it blindfolded. Which I did earlier today in several chess games.
I, uh, may have gotten carried away showing off. Of course, I need an excuse for why I suddenly wanted to play chess after so long of avoiding it. So I found one, while hanging out with Geneva and Beth. Or rather, Okasha, Geneva, and Beth.
 
——
 
It’s a weird thing, knowing that Geneva is harboring a Selphid inside her. Horrific? I’ve heard tales of the body-snatchers of Baleros, and the old Selphid empire certainly comes to mind. But Okasha and Geneva seem to have a balance, albeit one struck after countless mistakes.
