Now, his glance at Erin made the young woman hesitate. She narrowed her eyes.
“Those two Goblins who approached me?”
“Professor, you know Goblins on Baleros? I heard they were all wiped out! As for the Minotaur King, she’d never parlay with Goblins!”
Venaz was beyond shaken now, and Niers twitched as if wanting to throw some chalk at him. But his voice was gentle as he took a breath.
“Venaz…the Minotaur King is as complex and thoughtful as most Minotaurs, even the Beriad, are not. She doesn’t play chess, sadly. It may simply be she’s decided the Minotaurs’ punishment of keeping the Goblins in check is at an end. Or she may have other notions. What is certainly true is that both she and I are aware of a Goblin Lord in our respective domains, both of whom don’t fit the traditional mold of Greydath of Blades or that one in Izril.”
He glanced at Erin.
“With due respect, Erin, I would have stomped that particular Goblin Lord who fought your people. That was a more traditional upstart who wanted a war, it seems to me. These two are the old ones. Kanadith the Herald and Izikere the Guardian.”
“The Goblin Lord who heralded Velan the Kind? Professor, that one above all else should be killed!”
Venaz had forgotten his audience. It was Erin who hopped off the desk and shot to her six-foot tall form. She tapped Venaz on the chest.
“You’ve got some nerve saying that to the Goblinfriend of Izril, Venaz.”
“I’ve made my position on Goblins clear, Miss Solstice—”
She nearly shoved a finger up his snout.
“And so have I. Your Professor is telling you there’s more subtlety to the Goblin species than you think. Your King just sent you with a message proving that! Shut the fuck up or I’ll rip off a horn and make you sit on it.”
Venaz wasn’t someone to back down even in the face of Erin Solstice’s threats. He bristled and grabbed the hand she was poking him in the face with. Her eyes went black. Niers signalled to Atmodeca and smiled, despite himself, as a pair of horns grew from her head and her hair turned into a mane. Venaz swallowed.
“Wait, I’m not here t—”
 
——
 
Six very entertaining minutes later, Erin had Venaz in an arm-lock, much to his chagrin. He’d expected her to just swing on him, and instead, she’d put him into an arm-bar. He seemed willing to break his arm to get out of it, if he had to, but Niers called them off.
“Venaz, all you have to do is tell King Inreza I am considering her offer. That, exactly. As for you, Erin…don’t you have some packing to do if you’re headed to Oelnnox?”
She glanced up, surprised, and stopped messing with Venaz’s hair. He growled as she planted a kiss on his neck and rolled off him. Her Warform faded as she smiled.
“If we’re agreed I can, sure. Can I have him?”
Niers eyed Venaz. The Minotaur sat up, confused.
“I don’t think he’s that useful to where you’re going. And you’d have to ask. Umina’s a native.”
“Umina’s not someone I know from Izril. I’d take Feshi.”
“Me too. She was always the closest to graduating…I want Marian. She’s mobile enough to keep up with my faster strategies.”
“I want Marian.”
“Take Wil and Yerranola. They’re probably going to come as a pair, and he’s mobile enough. Plus, he can do logistics. Top of his class.”
Erin made a face, but Venaz sat up, startled.
“Professor, you’re sending Miss Solstice on the road? But the danger—!”
“She’ll have some guards, but she’s willing to take the risk, and a good [Strategist] keeps their commanding officer safe. I hope Wil and Yera can do the job, because if they fail, tradition is for me to have them drawn and quartered. Not that Forgotten Wing does it that way. Too messy.”
Niers was sort of smiling. Venaz’s mouth opened. Then he leapt up.
“In that case, I volunteer—!”
“You’re as subtle as a bull anywhere, Venaz. I’m pulling you and Marian for my campaigns. That damn greatsword of yours better pull some weight.”
For his—then they were going to war? The Minotaur was so stunned he said nothing. Erin just nodded to Niers. He gave her a slightly worried gaze as he rose.
“I’ll have the manager on the ground brief you what it looks like right now. I don’t actually know. But Erin—be careful when you go after Rabbiteater. I’ll be mobile, but I won’t be near you as often as I need to to ensure you’re safe.”
“Don’t worry about me, Niers. You and I will have a chat sooner or later, I hope, when these wars are more settled. A happy one. Possibly not in a hot tub.”
She winked, and Venaz’s mouth opened, and Niers offered her a quiet smile. His shoulders hunched, and he murmured.
“Yes. I’d like that.”
He waited until she was gone, then glared until Venaz scrambled to his feet and fled. Then, slightly relieved, Niers sat back down.
He stared, frustrated, at his reports, then exhaled.
“Atmodeca? I’m going on campaign. Pack my travel bags. But first, get me Foliana.”
 
 
Entry #47 — To Oelnnox.
 
It’s a good place to go, at least, to start. Tyrion Veltras is further north, having landed in the plains region of Baleros. He can move fast in Maelstrom’s Howling’s territory—if he can get past the Centaurs.
We’re bound along trade roads to Oelnnox, which is a closed facility in a jungle, semi-isolated from some coastal cities. It’s actually decently on the way towards the region where Rabbiteater is, further south and along the eastern coast. Lots of empty jungle down there.
Well. ‘Empty’. Either way, everyone’s going. We’re leaving tomorrow, since it’s not easy to pack up, but Niers didn’t stop me.
He knows I’m not Erin. But I think…he trusts that we’re on the same side. As much as he trusts anything.
The Goblin conversation was interesting. The fact that he knows the Goblin Lord of Heralds means the two must be able to talk. Or at least, Forgotten Wing has a truce with them?
I may be in a position to do Erin’s will more than I thought, if there are Goblins in Baleros in any numbers. Time to go. I wish I’d gotten his respect or some strong emotion out of him to satisfy the Trial of Respect.
…I should have slept with him. But I couldn’t quite do that to Erin. Oh, well. If I can help the [Innkeeper], perhaps that’s one already. Onwards to Oelnnox and the secrets of Titans.
PS. Geneva’s coming. Alas.
 
——
 
Tyrion Veltras was being hit in the head when Ryoka Griffin found him. He wished she hadn’t shown up when she did. It was so…embarrassing.
The twenty-something [Lord] hit the ground—hard. He heard shouting around him.
“Protect Lord Veltras! Engage! Engage the—”
Someone else was unhorsed. Tyrion rose, his sheathed sword in hands. As in, he hadn’t drawn the sword but kept it sheathed, but he slashed at passing hooves, flanks—then one of the Centaurs kicked him, and he hit the ground hard despite his enchanted armor.
When he sat up, they were breaking away for another pass, and Tyrion had a muzzy thought as Ryoka shouted down at him.
I haven’t lost a jousting match in years.
But Dionamella had stolen over a decade and a half of time from him, and now, the Level 33 [Lord of the Pursuit] feared everyone could tell how much he’d weakened.
He mounted up hard, raising a lance in hand. He’d been cautious before, but the Level 37 [Lancer of the Ages] whirled his horse, Surmount, as the stallion screamed a challenge.
“They’re coming. Set yourselves—”
He wished Jericha were here. She’d be casting magics if she were, or Buscrei with her bow would keep them off him. His party rode forwards at a canter, then a gallop as the enemy, two dozen for his two dozen, closed.
And Tyrion Veltras lost a joust for the second time in his life. He missed the first laughing figure who twisted away, receiving three impacts on his shield and armor. When he whirled his head—the bolas hit him on the helmet, and the rest of his [Lancers], some of House Veltras’ finest, fell, unhorsed, or failed to strike their targets.
They hadn’t been trying to kill, but even so…Tyrion Veltras swayed in his saddle as the rest of his forces shouted in alarm and began to advance.
He remembered something from House Veltras’ manuals on warfare. They had sword techniques and, of course, lancing instructions. Millennia of battle. Notes on how to fight Gnolls, Drakes, and countless species. Except when it came to jousting, there was one species where Tyrion had once read some words of wisdom from his ancestors:
‘Don’t joust with Centaurs. Just don’t.’
He’d thought it was a joke.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon had put a question to his class: how do you stop a rank of [Lancers] coming at you? The question was open-ended, allowing his class to answer with creativity or factual accuracy, demonstrating their knowledge of engagements.
However, it was a trick. Because there was also a correct answer that you could say that would have won full marks. He’d been sort of disappointed Marian hadn’t said it, but possibly she’d thought it was egotistical or she just didn’t know.
How do you stop [Knights] with lances?
Centaurs.
That was it. Full stop. There were many, many battles that proved that the famous [Knight]-charge from Terandria, which could humble countless nations, did not do well against Centaurs. There were exceptions, of course, but Centaurs were…Centaurs.
Human and horse. A combination of the two that often beat a [Rider] on horseback because however in-tune they were, the Centaur was one being. Ryoka, in fact, got to see this band of Centaurs galloping rings around House Veltras.
“Break left.”
They split without needing more than that. A Centaur twisted, jabbing a light lance at one of House Veltras’ riders, adjusting his steps to keep himself in range, then dancing away as the [Lancer] tried to riposte.
“Damn, they’re high-level.”
It was true the Centaurs seemed a cut above most warriors, but the truth of it was they appeared even more coordinated than Tyrion’s forces, who were superlative [Lancers]. Mind you, Ryoka noticed they kept away from the [Lord], and mostly, they just pulled tricks.
Tricks, such as making screaming sounds or braying calls like the horses, which distracted even the mounts and made them lose focus and disobey their riders’ commands. A Centaur would toss some sharp stones at a horse and scratch it, or kick dirt, and then, when the [Rider] got out of formation, they’d swing back and hit the Humans hard.
The battle wasn’t bloody, though. After the second pass, the Centaurs galloped away as Tyrion’s actual army advanced over the grass. However, more Centaurs were racing around in the distance, whooping in triumph, and Ryoka guessed this was an attempt from Tyrion to push into their lands to reach Elvallian.
A push that had failed roundly. He was shaking his head like a dog as she landed. Then he tried to smooth his hair and yanked off his helmet.
“Ryoka. You’re safe. [Healer]! For her, not me! We saw you on the news. Are you unharmed? Your cheek—”
He almost reached out with his gauntlets, then realized they were dirty and lowered his hand sharply. She grinned at him.
“Hey, Tyrion. I haven’t ever seen you lose a jousting match before.”
“It was four on one.”
His cheeks turned red, and he coughed into one fist, then glared at the Centaurs riding in front of his forces in the distance.
“They’ve refused to let us cross their lands. We offered to pay, but they have been harassing us all week. I thought to chase them off…”
“…And they beat you. They look like they’re over Level 30 as well. If your entire army fought, you’d chase off this group, but then every Centaur company across the plains would be on you. Great.”
Ryoka nodded at his forces, and Tyrion rubbed at his shaved chin. There were only eight hundred of House Veltras’ people. Quite a large number to send across the ocean.
Hardly an army to mend all problems. But then, she hadn’t asked him to come after her. He’d just done it of his own accord.
“No Battle Golems from the Terlands nor the House of El’s specialists nor any Reinharts—not that they’d come. I wish some had or I’d taken Jericha with me. Then again, this isn’t a land for Sammial and Hethon. Ullim could have cared for them.”
He seemed—annoyed. Bad-tempered, and that was unusual in itself. Ryoka was panting from her long flight, but she slung an arm around Tyrion’s shoulder as the other [Soldiers] bowed to her.
“Milady Griffin.”
“Don’t call me that, please. Do I, uh, know you?”
“Captain of the Bodyguard, Dalen.”
The [Soldier] saluted her sharply, and she eyed a man well into his forties, which would have been Tyrion’s age until he’d suffered his accident. Dalen looked as annoyed as Tyrion, and a bruise on one cheek showed where he’d been hit.
“Lord Veltras, your orders? The Centaurs wish to parlay.”
They had a white flag and were pointing at Ryoka. She blinked, then grinned.
“I bet they saw me with the Bannermare. Maybe I can help negotiate?”
“I’ll be damned before I negotiate with that lot of flea bitten nags. We can chase them off. We just need to adjust tactics.”
Tyrion growled, which made both Ryoka and Dalen blink at him. Then she realized…he was sulking! Ryoka grinned broadly, and Dalen hesitated. Like a lot of House Veltras’ people who hung around Tyrion, he seemed to be a bit of a stick-in-the-mud, but she had seen him fighting with Tyrion from Liscor to Ailendamus.
Plus, it seemed Dalen approved of Ryoka, at least insofar as to call her ‘Lady Griffin’. Probably because she’d saved Hethon’s and Sammial’s lives.
“Lord Veltras, perhaps Lady Griffin requires rest? Her wounds from the Dyed Lands may not be healed.”
That drew Tyrion’s attention, and he instantly focused on Ryoka’s cheek bandage and raised a hand.
“Fall back! Signal for the parlay—in an hour. Set up camp! Ryoka, do you need food? Healing? We have some potions—”
“I’m fine, Tyrion. I’m just sorry I didn’t make it here earlier. Storms. I hate the weather here. Er, thanks, Dalen.”
He bowed.
“In Jericha’s place, I am acting as Lord Veltras’ right hand until a more suitable replacement can be found. If I can render assistance, do not hesitate to ask. Lord Veltras, your tent.”
Ryoka turned and blinked. Say this about House Veltras—they might be on the wrong continent, but they were so seasoned at campaigning, even the Centaurs were amazed at the panoply of tents that had appeared within less than a minute. True, some of that was down to the tents being magical, but the [Soldiers] had halfway dug a latrine by the time she and Tyrion got to the tents.
“Dalen’s been serving in my vanguard since I first entered combat. He and I were friends as boys. You can trust him like Jericha, though he lacks her manners and finesse.”
