“Uh, Erek? She seems pissed at me. Should I go?”
Erek scratched at his head. He was smaller than the gorillas by half, and he gestured at the female gorilla. Ryoka translated as best she could.
“Ook.”
“You want to be friends? Okay, so you don’t know her?”
“Ook.”
“Ah. I, uh, thought you did. Because you called them. Well, um, can we be friends?”
“Ook?”
“What do you mean you don’t know? Don’t shrug at me! Is she cool or not? She’s right there, Erek.”
“Ook—oooook ooke.”
Erek mimed clapping his hand open and closed, pointed at his mouth, the gorilla’s leader, and saw Ryoka’s blank expression. He wrote in big letters on her arm, and she stared in horror.
“Translation? Oh come on, you don’t speak her language?”
Evidently, that was the problem. The female gorilla motioned, and the orangutan knuckled over, and they tried again. They were gesticulating, one side trying something, the other doing a different inflection of dialect of sound. Even scream-howling.
Ryoka shifted from foot to foot before a centipede crawled over her toes. Then she leapt twelve feet up in the air and scared all the gorillas. They were running away into the brush before they came back, and the female gorilla leader pointed at her angrily.
Erek patted Ryoka’s shoulder urgently, and the Courier realized she had to do something. So she took a breath, met the gorilla leader’s eyes—
The gums peeled back on the gorilla’s face, and Ryoka jerked her eyes to the ground. Wait, didn’t she remember in some kind of National Geographic show that you shouldn’t smile or meet a gorilla’s eyes?
Even for her odd list of facts, this was not high on Ryoka’s retention list. However, she was still a Courier.
She was in new lands, not literally like the New Lands, but a foreign continent. She had to help her friends. Ryoka took a deep breath, then reached for her bag of holding. Slowly, and very carefully, she brought out an offering.
Mixmelt had lots of mangos they’d given her, and Ryoka had food on her at all times. She piled up the fruits in front of the gorillas’ chieftain and added six tacos from Elvallian’s mess and a smoothie in a container she’d been saving for later. The gorilla chieftainess inspected the offerings and clearly recognized the mangos. She bit one, then picked up the taco.
“Uh, do gorillas eat meat, Erek?”
He seemed as worried as she did, but after unfolding one taco and licking the inside, the female gorilla seemed to get that it was food. She hooted loudly, then tasted the smoothie with Erek’s help. The cold shock of the smoothie in its chilled container had her running backwards, but then she realized how sweet it was.
She went crashing away, and after a second, everyone followed. Ryoka jogged after her to find a tree-fort in the branches; the female gorilla was feeding the cold drink to a bunch of little gorillas who fought over it! The female gorilla shared it around with the rest of the food, then seemed sad the container was empty.
“Hold on—Erek, show her that it’s magic.”
Ryoka had an idea here and handed Erek a flask. He swung over and gently poured water into the cup, then sealed the lid. Then opened it, and the cold water, refrigerated by the container’s magic, made the gorilla hoot excitedly. She was delighted!
Who knew gorillas wanted a cool drink in this heat like everyone else? Ryoka smiled as the tribe warmed up considerably to Erek, and soon, he and the female gorilla were in deep conversation about something. She kept peeking at Ryoka, making tentative gestures, and Ryoka felt accomplished.
Right until she felt a presence to her right. She turned, gazed up into the eyes of the angry female gorilla who’d charged her before, and flinched.
The female gorilla pushed her out of the trees. Ryoka shouted on the way down as Erek spun.
 
——
 
The tribe were the Golden Band tribe—according to Erek. The matriarch and female leader of the group Ryoka had decided to call Smoothie, because…she really liked the smoothie container. She wasn’t the problem; she seemed to think Erek was fascinating and Ryoka was decent. The problem was Pusher.
Pusher was the second-biggest gorilla in the tribe. She did not like Ryoka. She’d come charging up and scare the Wind Runner away, bare her teeth, or even try to strike Ryoka. Erek she seemed to give a pass to, if warily, but Ryoka grew used to running away from her approach.
The problem was that Erek had come here for business, and Pusher wasn’t having it. She’d make that terrifying growl-howl in her throat while he and Smoothie were trying to talk until the chieftain would run at her challenger, and they’d stand chest-to-chest, glaring at each other.
Pusher had scars from fighting someone with blades—local Lizardfolk? Most of the tribe had scars, but Ryoka could see why no adventurers had rooted them out of their home. Even if they were animals without levels…they were gorillas. And smarter than ones from her world. One of them could probably take a hundred Lizardfolk if it was pissed enough. Or a hundred Humans.
After six failed attempts due to Pusher, Erek and Smoothie had to break off their talks. Frustrated, but making gentle gestures, he backed off, and Ryoka flew him back to Elvallian. She asked him as they flew—
“Why do you want to get a tribe to help you so bad, Erek? Do they have anything to trade for?”
He shook his head as they flew and let go. One-handed, he gestured as she screamed at him to hold onto the damn glider—and she thought he was making some kind of point with his arms. Gathering them up, raising multiple fingers.
“Reinforcements?”
He thought about that and shrugged. Held up a hand palm-out.
Close enough? She didn’t know what to make of it, so she flew back to Elvallian. Then she had dinner with everyone until Foliana sniffed the air and asked why she smelled so bad. Ryoka slunk off to the nearest bathhouse. She felt out of sorts and useless.
So the next day, she went to find Tyrion. Or rather, tried to.
 
——
 
Geneva Scala didn’t want to say it, but Ryoka Griffin and Erin Solstice were disappointing. After a week in their company, she didn’t see the two heroines she’d envisioned.
The Wind Runner, who’d raced across Izril to save two children, and Erin Solstice, who’d delivered the penicillin mold all the way to Baleros…she’d had expectations of them.
Everyone let down Geneva, though, including herself. She knew she was a bit obsessed with making a difference, but she felt like so many lives depended on her actions. The one thing that kept her sane was knowing there were other Genevas fighting the essential fight.
Okasha said that was crazy and that Geneva needed to relax and do more fun things like singing Earth-songs with friends. But Geneva couldn’t. She wasn’t like…Beth.
Possibly, it was because she just wasn’t doing much in the Forgotten Wing company that felt useful. People would come in with so many diseases and problems thanks to Niers’ connections, and Geneva would note down the symptoms. Her notes were mostly: ‘this is terrible, I need so many more things to deal with this’.
In fancier, academic writing, of course. For instance, here was one of her previous patient notes she’d written down that Foliana had asked about. Foliana thought it was a code of some kind.
 
The patient presents with persistent hyperthermia and continuous emesis characterized by excessive magilous output. On physical examination, the abdominal region exhibits an abnormal luminescence not attributable to known physiological processes. The patient emits a pronounced odor reminiscent of combusted organic material. Vital signs indicate sustained pyrexia.
Unconventional diagnostic assessments (classified under “magirite”) reveal extreme anomalies, significantly exceeding established reference ranges. Symptomatology appears to respond favorably to cryotherapeutic intervention, with notable reduction in clinical severity upon exposure to temperatures ranging from -4 °F to 50 °F.
Given the constellation of findings and severity of presentation, the patient’s survival is clinically extraordinary and currently defies conventional pathophysiological understanding.
 
Translated, it meant that the patient, a Dullahan hit by war magic, had a glowing orange chest and spat heated liquid out. Magilous—her word for the glowing discharge unknown to her world’s medical terminology. Only extreme cold applied at all times reduced the burning gel enough for them to survive…but Geneva had no clue what to do.
The only reason they were alive was because they were a Level 33 [Warrior]. This was an example of someone who Geneva couldn’t help. Who exceeded her abilities as a doctor and exposed her lack of magical knowledge or the ability to combine modern medicine with magical treatments.
…There were so many of these kinds of cases when you were part of the Forgotten Wing company. Worse, Niers was all too willing to move them to Elvallian for Geneva to research. When she objected to the term, he gave her a polite, monstrous answer.
“They’re going to die anyways, Doctor Scala. They know it. Paeth is the only other hope they have, and since there are Fraerlings here willing to help you heal them, I have no shortage of volunteers. Level up as fast as you can. The New Lands are only making this worse.”
It was enough to make her start drinking at night. Well, Geneva would let Okasha have an hour to head down to a bar in the city and drink, and the two would complain about things. It was a balance, having a Selphid in her body. She was doing that a bit better—a bit. But dead gods, if only she had backup.
Iuncuta Eirnos and the Fraerlings were helpful, they were, but there was something esoteric about their methods. Most of the [Healers] who’d come with the strike teams were magically-focused. They didn’t stitch up patients, and Geneva got the impression her medical techniques horrified them as primitive.
They’d prescribed the patient a high-level dispelling charm via multiple pellets he ingested; this nearly completely reduced the magilous liquid, but his lungs and chest were still permanently above any safe temperature and damaged. The Fraerling [Healer], Megride, had told Geneva he’d recommend a regenerative diet over the course of a month to recover the damage, but that the Fraerlings couldn’t afford to give a Tallfolk their entire supply of medicines.
Thus—they fixed the problem, but their solution was one-note. Superior magic. That might be a bit reductive, but they didn’t try to understand the problem and cut the root issue out; they just blasted it with dispel magic because it was the most expedient method. Which was fair and an accurate prognosis, but Geneva couldn’t use that as a solution. She was trying, but only Beth would help, and Beth was more focused on racing around acting like a [Medic], not the [Doctor] trying to find long-term solutions.
As for Erin, Ryoka, and the Bushrangers…they just didn’t care like Geneva did. Especially Erin. She was willing to just fight in these constant, insane wars. Even if Geneva had made a bit of peace with her since their first meeting, it was disappointing.
Ryoka had been a bit better, especially since she ran deliveries, but she was just as imperfect. Much like anyone else…Geneva had heard she was in a relationship with some Human [Lord] who’d landed on the coast. Which was fine, she had no problem with that until she’d heard Erin describing him as ‘War Crimes Tyrion’. Then she’d asked Ryoka about it and learned the man had killed thousands of Goblins and then tried to siege a Drake city.
So yes, she respected Ryoka, but it was just…Geneva didn’t stick up for Ryoka when Niers came by to bully her into working for him.
“Miss Griffin, we could really use your abilities. There are few fliers in Baleros. A few Beastkin, rarely you get a flying Lizardfolk evolution, but most are land-locked if they’re not Garuda or Oldblood Drakes from other continents. A Courier of your level? We need someone to scout the Dyed Lands push. We’ve run into a ‘colored zone’, and it’s expanding right into the line of our advance.”
Geneva was chomping down potato chips when she heard the argument. Ryoka protested as Geneva licked the garlic-flavored seasoning off the hot, fresh chips.
The thing about the Forgotten Wing company was that they could make almost anything from Earth you could ask for, if they had the materials. They had the best [Chefs], [Smiths], [Woodworkers], and [Mages]—they just couldn’t upscale everything. Niers had no desire to go into making potato chips, but he’d had bags and bags of it made for Geneva.
She loved garlic and onion-flavored potato chips, and she was stress-eating. Okasha was making delighted ‘omnomnomnomnom’ sounds in her head. Ryoka sounded stressed too.
“I was actually going to see how Tyrion’s doing, Niers—”
“Surely you can spare a day. We’ll use wind spells to throw you at the front. All we need you to do is fly higher than the green zone. There’re all kinds of…well, flying insects or serpents. We need your eyes on it.”
“What about scrying spells…?”
“We can’t move them freely. If we put one on your back, we’ll have perfect accuracy. I imagine a scrying mirror will be too cumbersome, and they can be hacked far too easily, our [Diviners] say. Scrying spell. Though you’ll have to explain how we’re failing to scry you already.”
“That’s, uh—sort of a secret—”
“Wonderful! I won’t share it. Listen, Ryoka, the Maelstrom’s Howling company is trying to throw this wave back with my forces. If we don’t get intelligence on what they’re facing, thousands of people will die.”
He knew how to bully her. Geneva munched on her chips, feeling bad for not interjecting and asking Niers why he didn’t use a flying carpet or something. She knew he had some. Ryoka seemed so crestfallen as she muttered about her name being written in a different language that someone did speak up.
Erin. She was watching, arms folded, as she peered around Niers’ war room.
“I thought you had flying artifacts of your own, Niers. Do you have to put Ryoka in danger?”
He glanced at her and took a breath. Oddly, he was more curt with her than Geneva expected. The [Doctor] crunched on another chip, loudly. She was taking a break from her work, which meant watching the world’s highest-level [Strategist] in his war sanctum. He didn’t even seem to mind, despite the chips.
The Dyed Lands concerned her greatly. So did Niers, who replied to Erin with a nod.
