Ryoka Griffin was upset before Erin nearly got melted. She’d been upset ever since she’d landed in Baleros. Having her Faeblade stolen by Niers, then harboring suspicions that Erin wasn’t really…Erin…didn’t help. At least he’d given the Faeblade back when it was clear even Fraerlings couldn’t figure out how it worked.
Ryoka felt unsettled, off-kilter, and as if the healing and maturity from Reizmelt had been stripped away and replaced with old Ryoka, who was nervous, couldn’t do the right thing, and at a loss for what to do.
“New continent blues.”
“Nah, you’re just a nervous creature, ain’t ya? I wonder why Ivolethe likes you so much. Then again, she’s flighty as ye are.”
Shaestrel was always mean. She draped herself over a chair, chewing on fat grapes as Ryoka paced outside of Erin’s room. The only good things about Baleros were all the fruits and exotic beverages and such.
The rest of it sucked. Even flying sucked.
Flying! Sucking! But Ryoka hadn’t realized how much damn insect life was in Baleros. She’d known it was a jungle, but there was something about running into a cloud of insects while flying hundreds of feet up that really left an impact. And then goo.
The rain was just as bad. Rain grounded the famous Wind Runner, or reduced her speeds immensely. Her wingsuit might be adapted for flight, as well as her hang glider, but rain weighed it down or just made visibility virtually nonexistent, and thus flying so much more treacherous.
Everything was different in Baleros. Ryoka wanted to go home. She wanted Erin to be back in the inn, for no one to be in danger, for people to be alive…she rested her head on Erin’s door for a while.
“Mm. Weird.”
Foliana hopped by Ryoka, and the Wind Runner started. She tried Erin’s door handle, then knocked.
“Enter.”
A rasping voice. Ryoka popped her head in the door and saw Erin putting something aside. A journal? She tried to smile.
“Hey, how’re you feeling?”
“Like I just had someone slice a chunk out of my chest. Two chunks.”
Erin was lying on her bed, bandaged up, and Ryoka winced. She shuffled into the room, barefoot, as Erin lay back. Ryoka stared at her friend.
She was the same…but not. The same physically that Ryoka remembered, but she was so much more serious. Militant. Warlike—which you could put down to her experiences at sea. And yet…Ryoka took a deep breath.
Today was the day. She’d done all the math in her head, thought out how this could be a fake Erin, and speculated with Shaestrel and the Winter Fae until they shouted at her to ‘get it fecking over with and ask already!’, and she was going to do it.
Ryoka nodded to Erin, took a breath, and sat down on the bed.
“Listen. I know you nearly died and, uh, maybe this isn’t the best time for this. But can we talk about what’s really going on here? Especially if…you’re…still in danger?”
She looked Erin in the eyes and sensed the young woman tense slightly. Ryoka smiled weakly.
“I know we haven’t always been friends or perfectly aligned. But I have to know, and I’d like you to be honest with me, even if you’re scared…Ulvama.”
 
 
Entry #43 — Ryoka knows.
 
She figured it out and came to me to talk about my identity. Only, she thought I was Ulvama.
I felt bad about how much I laughed at her. I hurt her feelings because she’s flown off.
The fae laughed as much as I did, to be fair.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin put her head down in the Runner’s Guild of Mixmelt, a Lizardfolk town about fifty-five miles south of Elvallian.
The Guildmaster, a Lizardman, patted her on the back. Then offered her an autograph card. Ryoka didn’t look up.
“Miss Wind Runner, life’s not that bad. One day you’re flying, the next day you put your foot in it—look on the bright side! I have no idea why you’re actually bummed, but you come in here like this and—hey, another glass of mango-milk for the Courier!”
She shuddered as more orange…milk was placed in front of her.
“Is this a specialty of Mixmelt? Is that why your town’s named that?”
She drank the juice-milk mixture as the other local Runners crowded around her. She was famous in places like these; she’d come flying in with all their monthly deliveries and felt bad about taking the work. But Ryoka signed autographs and let a few of them try her hang glider, and they were delighted.
There was, in fact, an army of Lizardfolk on the roofs, leaping off it with her hang glider, sometimes six at a time. That was Lizardfolk for you.
Crazy. They were so numerous and friendly, though, at least from her week of deliveries. The Guildmaster waited until Ryoka took another sip before responding.
“Nope. Tastes like poo, don’t it? We’re called Mixmelt because we like mixing stuff together. Mostly, it tastes terrible.”
Ryoka nearly spat the drink out, then swallowed with a grimace. She pushed the cup back.
“Thanks. I’ve had a rough day. Sorry about dropping in unannounced…can I get directions to that forest?”
“Sure, sure! Someone’s getting a map. And no worries about taking all our income! If you’d just sign this autograph card for me…for my aunt…my sister…my cousin…I’ll take two more for my cousin…”
Ryoka’s hand hurt after signing twenty cards, and the Guildmaster noticed her impatient expression. He clapped his hands together.
“You’ve been blowing across Baleros, haven’t you, Miss Courier? How do you like our continent? New Couriers always get overwhelmed when they visit, or so I hear. I wouldn’t know; I was only a City Runner when I retired! I’m not even a Naga!”
He laughed uproariously, then glared when no one laughed with him. Ryoka smiled weakly.
“I’ve mostly been introducing myself. The wind is, uh, dangerous here. And there’s a lot of storms and bugs. Not that I’m complaining—”
“Oh, no, complain away. It sounds terrible. Worst continent for flying! Besides Rhir, probably. And maybe Chandrar with all the sand, but at least it’d be clear along the coast. Baleros has tons of animals. What’s the worst one you’ve seen up there?”
“…Geese.”
Balerosian Deathgeese didn’t stop fighting. They’d fly at you with all the hatred, ornery fighting spirit, and danger of big geese—but these ones were renowned for attacking even after you’d cut their heads off. An entire flock of them had pecked so many holes in Ryoka she’d been too traumatized to fly for two whole days.
“Hah! They’re not even the worst of it! Ever find a cloud of invisible mosquitoes? Or invisible leeches. Actually, most invisible things suck.”
“You ever step into a pool of piranhas? Guess how I got this wooden leg. Gangrene. I had terrible boots…piranhas actually don’t hunt together unless they’re really hungry.”
“Can I have an autograph for my sister’s sister’s…not-born-yet son?”
The Lizardfolk—it was nearly full Lizardfolk in here—were chattering nonstop. A harassed-looking Dullahan in light leather armor gave Ryoka a glance as if to say ‘take me with you’, but she was really here just for intelligence. Ryoka cast around.
“Where’s that map? If you’d just tell me if you saw that tribe, I can be on my way…”
“Not yet, miss. I have to have words with you! Ahem!”
The Guildmaster sat on the counter and pulled some spectacles out, then gave her a serious gaze. Or tried to; the twinkling in his eyes didn’t help.
“As the Guildmaster of this Runner’s Guild, it is my sworn duty to take you to task for a few infractions upon your record! To whit! Er…”
He fiddled with the papers, and Ryoka groaned.
“Someone wrote me up? I haven’t had a writeup since I was a City Runner! What, did I break something?”
The Guildmaster checked his list.
“Nope! In fact, the cited complaint is ‘unprofessionalism on duty’. Also, involvement of ‘non-Courier Runners on delivery errands’. Tsk, tsk. My oh my. Well, I am severely disappointed in you, Miss Ryoka, and you shouldn’t have any non-Couriers with you! I’ll just write down in the fields how contrite you are and that you’re not doing it again.”
He gave her a few gigantic winks as he eyed the fae, who flew around Ryoka. She was slightly annoyed.
“The Frost Faeries? No one’s ever complained about them before!”
“Never you mind that, Miss Wind Runner. Let me just file this…and don’t be unprofessional again! Another autograph, please?”
She sighed. A dressing down for being unprofessional. It just added to her rotten day. Rainstorm, letting Geneva down, burr in foot, Erin nearly melted, getting laughed at, and now this.
At least people here seemed to like her, by and large. She was from the television and famous, it seemed, across a lot of Baleros.
I just wish I were doing more good. Ryoka felt useless. She could indeed fly from place to place in Baleros, but she was no warrior. No great fighter. Picking up deliveries for Geneva was all she could do.
Erin, if that was Erin, had over two hundred fighters at her beck-and-call, and the Bushrangers could fight. Geneva was saving lives daily, and Ryoka…
If I only got more word from Rabbiteater about where they are now, I could fly after them. But I need to learn to fly in these skies. The problem was experience, her own abilities, and the wind.
Baleros’ wind…
Didn’t like her as much.
 
——
 
The wind had personalities. It could be flippant, wrathful, playful, loyal, or anything in between. Baleros had jungle storms.
Ryoka knew she needed to fly harder, faster, and better than ever before. She was the Wind Runner, a Courier, but she hadn’t been able to do anything. Not at the Winter Solstice, not really, and not when Erin was kidnapped.
Roshal. Erribathe. Now the Jungle Tails company or the Iron Vanguard? She had to fight.
Erin was strong. She’d killed her way across multiple [Pirate] ships, and Ryoka…
Ryoka didn’t like killing. Nor was she the best at flying. She could fly, but she was realizing she was like a Bronze-rank flier. She could barely carry anyone on her hang glider if the wind liked her, and Baleros’ winds were unpredictable.
Stubborn. The vast gusts fought with her glider, and her personal wind power could stabilize her, but it was scary. Shaestrel explained it like this:
“It doesn’t know ye. You’re a pushover around it, and unlike Izril’s breeze which knew you, you ran with, and Ivolethe talked to, this one’s all stormy spring. You’ll have to either fight through it or make peace. Also, your magic’s weak. You have to fly faster and stronger.”
Certainly, Ryoka’s first passenger did not appreciate being swung and buffeted about, despite his grip on her hang glider. Actually, it was somewhat insulting. You’d think, of all beings, an Orangutan wouldn’t mind holding onto the bars of the glider and swinging a bit while flying sixty-some miles towards a large forest next to the Lizardfolk town of Mixmelt.
However, he spent the next twenty minutes barfing on the ground between giving Ryoka betrayed looks.
“Erek, I’m sorry. I’m sorry—I’ll try to make it an easier ride next time, but you did want to fly.”
His ooking at her suggested he regretted trusting her to know what that word meant. Ryoka put her hands in her pockets and sulked. Then she saw a huge bug buzz past her face and activated a few anti-insect charms she had hanging from one wrist.
“…Are we in the right place?”
They were in the middle of the forest, having landed on some rocks visible from the tree cover. Erek stopped hurling and put a finger up. He fished a water flask out, drank, spat, and then wiped his mouth.
It was such a Human-like gesture that Ryoka was amazed. But then the Orangutan threw his head back and screeched into the jungle. He hooted and banged on his chest, and after mere seconds of Ryoka covering her ears, she heard more hooting calls.
Monkeys. No, wait.
Apes.
 
——
 
Gorillas. They were huge, with bands of pale golden fur around their chests and on their backs, and fourteen of them were sniffing Ryoka.
She was frozen, much like most Humans would be while in arms-reach of a creature that could stretch out and kill you in a moment. One of them, a scarred female gorilla bigger than most, bared her teeth. She hooted, low and aggressively, as Ryoka breathed.
“H-hi. I’m Ryoka, Erek’s friend, and I’m just here to make contact with—”
A hand reached out, pushed her so hard she slammed into another gorilla, and the angry female nearly charged her—before another female gorilla and Erek interposed themselves. They made angry sounds as Ryoka scrambled up and hid behind Shaestrel. The Spring Faerie scratched her head.
“Wait, why the feck are we here?”
Ryoka gave her an incredulous glance.
“Shaestrel, you’ve been with me all day! What do you mean—we’re helping Erek meet different monkey and ape tribes!”
She didn’t know why he wanted that, exactly, but Erek had asked and communicated to her he knew there was a tribe in this forest, and the Lizardfolk of Mixmelt had agreed and warned her they were considered Silver or Gold-rank threats if they were in a pack. Shaestrel cast right and left, eying the huge gorillas.
“…I was sort of zoning out. Looking to the future. How the heck does this help us?”
“I—don’t know. Does it have to?”
The Spring Fae appeared slightly disconcerted.
“I hope so. Tits on a Treant, I hate not being able to see the future.”
That was part of why Ryoka was so worried. With their ability to see the fates gone at the Winter Solstice, the fae seemed so much less sure of themselves. Well, Shaestrel at any rate. One of the Winter Fae was sticking her hand up a gorilla’s nostril.
“Hah! I bet there’s gold in here! Eugh. There is.”
The affronted gorilla snorted and swiped at the Winter Fae, who fled, cackling, and Erek raised his hands in an universal gesture of peace. He was gesticulating and talking with the female gorilla, and Ryoka edged over as the matriarch made beckoning, inquisitive motions to her.
“Hey, Erek, what’s going on? Is, uh, is everything good? I’m Ryoka. Hello.”
She waved at the female gorilla, and Erek pulled her aside. He made a few gestures as the matriarch sniffed at Ryoka, and then found a magical quill. Erek knew both a type of sign language and could write, and so contrived to communicate with Ryoka. It was faster just to guess what he was trying to say.
“Why are we…allies. Got it. Allies and…”
He mimed handing the quill to her, then cupped his hands.
“Trade? Seve mentioned you traded with that other tribe. Trade stuff? Information?”
Thumbs up. Ryoka nodded; this was much like her helping ferry deliveries of things Geneva found worthwhile. She and Erin owed Erek, so she smiled at the leader of the gorillas.
She got a very suspicious gaze in return and a big huffing sound that made the gorilla’s chest expand. Ryoka edged back.
