“…They’re big.”
That was Foliana. Ryoka glanced down and shuddered; she saw something huge prowling forwards, covered in writhing snakes. It seemed to have snakes for legs, be festooned with them, like a Medusa’s head gone wild. Niers commented.
“I think that’s one of the other colors’ monsters, infested. Four legs…I’m guessing it’s twenty-four feet long. The green zone clearly accumulates everything it can. This is like a zombie horde. Potentially worse since they won’t need dead bodies and can commandeer living ones. Your forces might not want this matchup, Aria. The Iron Vanguard’s armor might be necessary. I’ll contact the Seer of Steel.”
“Hah! My forces can outrun them. We storm in, storm out, hit and run while containing them. All we have to do is force this color back, and another will take its place.”
That was how the Dyed Lands seemed to work. One colored arm would expand outwards, attacking everything in its path, and be forced back, eventually sent fleeing by another color trying to establish dominance. Ryoka could see red if she squinted past the green zone’s monsters.
So many monsters, all one color. I wonder what the Dyed Lands was before…whatever happened to it happened. Erin said it was a time-based Seamwalker. Timewalker. I wonder if ‘this’ Erin would know about it?
She focused, flying a circle over the monster as people analyzed it in her earpiece. Then she flew onwards, the good Courier helping the nice [Mercenaries] out.
In truth, Ryoka did like to be helpful. She just hated how pushy they all were. And she couldn’t deny this was bad; she was flying over a town, next, or what was left of it.
Niers exhaled hard as Ryoka saw houses practically writhing with more serpents.
“Damn. Most of the buildings are intact. Was it green who did this?”
“Nope. White. Invisible monsters wiped out anyone who hadn’t fled. Poor bastards. Hang on—I think I just spotted more monsters than the parasite-serpents. Do we have a name for them?”
“Parasite Serpents works for me. We’ll let the Adventurer’s Guilds name the rest. I see your new monsters. Ryoka?”
She had trouble seeing them, actually. Ryoka had to use a spyglass one-handed, and she spotted a huge…well, what the hell was that?
“It looks like a giant ball of spikes. Only, it’s moving.”
She commented, and Aria snapped.
“Get me a [Combat Predictor] now! Okay…my [Strategist] really doesn’t like that, Niers. An average Centaur group dies without inflicting notable damage. Best guess is that it’s spraying or extending the spikes. Hey, run it against an armored group? Better? It’s better. We’ll stay away from it and hit it with spells.”
“That’s assuming your forces can use those barrier spells and survive, Aria. Ryoka, please drop the first package you were issued. Arm it first…I think it’s time we saw how much damage these things do.”
They’d given her a bunch of pre-packaged objects for this mission. Ryoka had to respect Niers’ organization and Aria’s Skills, at least. She fumbled with a few tags and ripped one off. Instantly, a shriek made her wince, and Shaestrel swear.
“You fecking bastards! My ears!”
“Who said that? Is someone else flying with you, Miss Ryoka?”
Aria was curious, but Ryoka was ripping at a second object, a stone, which began glowing. She dropped the pack attached to the jade orb, and she saw it float downwards, still shrilling, as a green bubble appeared around it.
“That’s a [Threefold Arcane Barrier] spell, Aria. We’re going to see how effective your barriers are very shortly.”
The green monsters did not like the sound of the package falling. They roiled, first breaking away from the green bubble, then surging back towards it and up, like some collective organism. They engulfed the arcane bubble, and Ryoka gulped and flew higher.
“It’s holding. It’s holding—and it’s broken. Looks like they just crushed it. Well, that’s nasty. We can expect that to happen. I can outrun that with my people.”
Aria was confident, but Niers just coolly instructed Ryoka to drop a second package, this one without the sound spell. This time, he had one of Aria’s people use an [Attract Foe] Skill on it; a smaller clump of serpents latched onto it and bit, and they analyzed the protective layers of the shields.
They weren’t happy with what they found.
“Okay, fine. Their fangs go through magic. But our barriers probably still hold.”
“All it takes is one of them getting through, Aria. Is one enough to turn you into one of them or does it take a huge amount? We have an expert in the room who thinks they have to reach your brain or spine, but it’s not something she wants to bet on. She’s worried about venom. Ryoka, we’re going to have you drop a third sample that should teleport back to Aria’s lines for analysis.”
As Ryoka got that ready, Aria’s voice turned cunning.
“That’s the Last Light of Baleros, isn’t it? Can I say hello to her, Niers?”
“We’re on broadcast, Aria. Later.”
“Oh, I forgot we are! Hello, Baleros! And hello—hey! We’re not on the main news? What’s wrong with that stupid Drake, Mr. Monocle?”
She began insulting Sir Relz as Ryoka dropped a third package, this one a basket, and watched it drift down into the cloud of green. Then Ryoka saw someone fly past her.
A Winter Faerie. Not Shaestrel; she was still staring into the green cloud of monsters with a frown on her face. The Winter Faerie…one of seven left wasn’t one Ryoka knew by name. Only Vofea, Theillige, and Shaestrel had ever offered names, but she had a warning look in her eyes.
“Hey, Ryoka Stonefecker. There’s badness ahead. Turn on back regardless what yon mouthbreathers say.”
She pointed inward where the swirl of colors were coming from. Ryoka couldn’t even see into the center of where the Dyed Lands had been; mist of every color swirled together until it was impossible to see that changed place. Ryoka swerved her glider and snapped.
“Don’t call me that. How do you know how dangerous it is?”
“Aside from it looking like the portal to the realm of the damned? Lots of magic in there. This green swarm might not be that dangerous, but there’re other things flying about the other colors. So shoo, g’wan.”
She motioned, and Ryoka nodded. The fae might be tricksters, but they had her best interests at heart most of the time, and one of them had already died to fight the dead gods. They were her only real friends in Baleros right now…actually, even Shaestrel had been distant and preoccupied, hanging out with Foliana more than Ryoka. But the Frost Faerie flew with Ryoka, speaking conversationally.
“Yon greenies look nice and edible. If it weren’t so many of them, I’d fly down and eat the littles myself. Bite off their heads, but we’re weaker now. ‘Swhy Shaestrel’s pissing herself now we can’t see the future.”
That did rouse Shaestrel. The green faerie snapped back at the Winter Faerie.
“Hush yourself, you stupid pixie! Stop chattering and keep a lookout!”
“Nyeh! We’re here to make a difference, not hide behind skirts, Lady Shaestrel! Some of us were never good at seeing the future. Stop coddling the Wind Fecker and let her do her work!”
The Frost Faerie joined the others, and Ryoka blinked. Normally, Shaestrel was the unquestioned leader of the group, being from the highest rank of the fae as Ryoka understood it. She’d never heard a Frost Faerie giving her that much sass.
She was turning to Shaestrel to ask a question as she flew back over the ruined town. Niers was telling her to do another pass along a new section of the green zone before she was done; it seemed like they were onto a battle strategy, so she’d be able to go soon. That was when Ryoka saw an odd flare of light from below.
She did a roll instantly, avoiding…but the light barely penetrated the swarm of green. It was, she realized, not even an attack, just an orange flare of—
“Magic? Did anyone see that?”
“We saw it, Ryoka. Tier 1 spell. Do you have eyes on it? Circle over the spot!”
Ryoka was already doing that, but she could see what eluded the observers’ perspective. Now, her heart began to beat faster.
“Niers…I think there’s someone alive down there. Someone just came out of that house. Do you see that? It’s three Lizardfolk!”
There was a gasp, and then Ryoka heard a voice.
“I see it too! Dead gods! How are they alive down—oh. Mare’s mercy.”
It was three Lizardfolk, but they were covered in those wiggling, green snakes. Ryoka’s stomach roiled as she saw two taller Lizardfolk shielding a smaller one. One of them had a wand and fired another orange flare up; the other was making a gesture with his…her…arms. It was raising them out wide, crossing them at the wrists, and then bringing the cross down in front of them.
“That’s an emergency signal for help. Titan, do you see that? They’re alive down there! But they’re covered in those snake-worms! Do you think it means they’re conscious?”
Aria cried excitedly. Ryoka felt her skin prickling harder, and Shaestrel pivoted.
“More scrying spells, Ryoka. Seems like we’re on television.”
She raised two middle fingers up, though they’d just see her as a green blob. Ryoka didn’t even glance up—her eyes were locked on the trio below. Niers’ voice was cold in her ears.
“It’s bait, Aria. And if it is, it means the swarm is thinking or subverting intelligence. Circle for a minute, Ryoka. Someone zoom in on that child.”
He’d noticed something was off about the small Lizardfolk standing between the other two. Ryoka was staring too. It looked to her like the parents were all but writhing with the parasitic snakes. But the small one…the enchanted spyglass suggested she had some of the snake-things on her, but not as many by far. Even as Ryoka watched, some flew down and were brushed off by the two parents.
“Are they keeping her from being possessed? Is she alive? Is that what they want?”
Aria was thinking along Ryoka’s same line of thought. Niers’ voice had gone even colder.
“Impossible to say. Either way—they’re not in full command of their faculties. I’ve spotted multiple Lizardfolk among the green, all possessed. [Mark Targets]. These must be survivors who escaped the White monsters. Aria, I want you to re-issue an evacuation warning across all the territory in the Maelstrom’s Howling’s lands.”
“Done. And I see the others, but look at the kid, Niers.”
The glow made Ryoka peer down and spot several Lizardfolk mindlessly moving forwards with the rest of the possessed creatures. However…the trio stood there, and now the two adults were waving up at her.
“Courier Griffin, fall back to the Maelstrom’s Howling’s frontline. Your job is done.”
Niers’ voice was in Ryoka’s ears. She did another circle, and her voice was suddenly dry.
“Niers…that kid down there.”
“It’s a trap. If it’s not, I’ve marked her area for extraction. We’ll put together a group to burn in and claim her before the color shifts. Fall back; that’s an order.”
Another circle above the cloud. Ryoka could see hundreds of feet down. The flying serpents were everywhere. They might seem tranquil as they flew forwards against the wind, but she’d seen them mob the test packages. It’d be suicide.
“Ryoka. Go. This isn’t worth the risk.”
Shaestrel’s voice shocked the Wind Runner. She twisted in midair and eyed the Spring Fae.
“It’s just a trap? She’s not actually still…her?”
Shaestrel’s eyes darted to the girl, then away.
“I don’t know. I can’t see the future anymore. Don’t be a fool. Yon Titan can get her. Come on.”
The fae angled herself away, flying back the way they’d come. Ryoka Griffin hung in the air a moment and gazed down.
The Wind Runner of Reizmelt saw one of the adults falter and stop waving, as if they realized there was no way the distant Courier would descend. They brushed at more serpents trying to bite the little child, and the other kept waving, the spent wand in their claws. Ryoka Griffin stared at the Lizardchild and saw a hand rise. It did not perform the signal for ‘help’.
Instead, it just waved at her. A tentative wave, and Ryoka’s breath caught. Now, Niers’ voice was audible, crackling in her ears.
“Ryoka Griffin. Fly back. That’s an order. [Hear Me].”
His authority washed over her, and she began to turn. Then stopped. Ryoka’s hands shook on her glider, and she mumbled.
“I hear you, Niers. That kid…she looks fine.”
“Looks fine? She’s infested—”
“Not to me.”
The Wind Runner’s perception shifted. She used the trick of the fae and gazed down. What she saw were dying colors. A sea of murky green, absorbing and corrupting…other colors.
That lumbering beast was ‘black’, but it was dying itself green, covered in their fog. The other creatures below were all green. The two parents? Dying colors, a mix of them slowly becoming green. But the kid was like a little sun with green tendrils buried in her. Reaching for the center, but not able to take over. Not yet.
“We’ll put a strike force together within the hour. Don’t do it.”
“Ryoka! Don’t be a fool!”
Shaestrel and Niers were shouting at her. But one of the Winter Fae was looking at Ryoka. Just…looking.
There were seven of them, and they formed a formation like a flock of miniature, frozen geese in front of Ryoka. Their leader spoke, a smile on her face.
“Well, Wind Runner? What is Ivolethe’s mortal friend going to do?”
Ryoka’s fingers were sweaty on the hang-glider’s bar. She swallowed and peered down at the little figure. Then her eyes rose to meet the Winter Fae’s eyes.
“Something stupid. But that’s nothing new. My question is—are you going to help or do you know something I don’t? Because I’d really appreciate some honesty.”
There was a chorus of laughter from them, and then the faerie drifted forwards. Some of the others were shouting at Ryoka not to be a ‘daft cunt’ and obey Shaestrel, but the one in front tapped Ryoka on the nose with a finger like frost.
“Know aught? I’m no grand seer. Just a fool far less important than Theillige or Lady Shaestrel. But if ye go down, I’ll go down too. Upon my sacred name, I swear it without lies or trickery.”
“And what is that name…?”
Two black, insectoid eyes glittered, and the sharp teeth formed a grin.
“Why, ‘tis Kaelis. A name of no great power.”
Ryoka doubted that, but she forced a smile. Then she breathed.
“Okay then, Kaelis. You watch my back. Niers? I need someone to punch a hole in that cloud. Otherwise, I’m not going to make it. Nothing fancy; just get me an opening.”
“Denied! Get out of there, Ryoka—”
“Hey, Wind Runner, I think you should listen to the Titan. This is a bad idea, even for a Courier—”
