The North River flowed up from below the Lower Wall of Ar’Kendrithyst, where it ascended through the North River Tower before pouring out in the upper part of the Upper Layer. All three of Ar’Kendrithyst’s rivers were similarly made. The kilometer-wide North River roared out of its great kendrithyst tower then spilled onto a similarly wide aqueduct, where it flowed mostly south, but also west. But there was a point, thirty kilometers from its headwaters, where it abruptly curved north.

This was where Erick found Dorofiend’s lair. Or rather, where Fallopolis guided him. This place was halfway down the Upper Layer, where the sky was almost completely hidden by towering, glowing kendrithyst, moisture filled the air, and a constant pounding of water on water echoed for kilometers upon kilometers.

Upon this bend in the waters, there was a deepening, and a stretching. The bend had to be a few hundred meters deep and a few thousand meters wide at its largest points, but its most noticed part were the good two dozen waterfalls that poured from high to low along the entire length. It could have been a pretty place. It was not. The entire place was a mess, with rainbow algae in some spots, green in others, and trees made of body parts growing everywhere. Some of the trees stretched up a good thirty meters. Others, were more like bushes. Every one of the trees were slightly animated. They’d probably get more animated if Erick deigned to get closer. He would not be doing that, though, if he had any choice.

He could tell that this land had not always been this way. He guessed, that if he put down his [Domain of Light], it would probably expose beaching areas all along that coast. His light would turn mud-covered stone into patios and decks, where people could sit beside the river and enjoy the ambiance. If it weren’t for all the awfulness, Erick could easily see this waterfall-laden land to be rather fun to swim in. But as it was, the water lapped against obviously dangerous algae, and rushed under moving limb-trees. No one in their right mind would think to take a dip in that. Besides, the waters were dark, too. That was another problem. The North River drank in the light of the city, all around, and it shouldn’t have. Water could be dirty, yes, and this water certainly was that, but the shadows were too thick, in Erick’s opinion.

Hovering a good twenty meters above the center of the riverbend, and with his [Lodestar] and [Greater Lightwalk] in full effect, Erick asked, “Why is the water so dark?”

Fallopolis, similarly glowing with her own dark magics, said, “Because it’s full of darkness.”

“Thank you for the non-answer.”

Without the slightest bit of rancor, Fallopolis said, “You are quite welcome.” She pointed with her kendrithyst staff to the largest of the waterfalls, near the beginning of the falls. “That’s the entrance to his underwater lair.”

“Do you care how much I destroy to get in there?”

“Not at all!” Fallopolis added, “But in this specific instance, I can tell you what will happen if you try anything aside from floating in and manually assisting whoever might be inside. If you want to hear it, anyway.”

“Please enlighten me.”

“[Watershape] will cause the limbtrees to react and attempt to destroy whatever they can reach. Since Dorofiend is dead, he is not there to stop the limbtrees inside from doing the same thing inside of his abode. If you go in with force, the limbtrees will tear any possible survivors apart. [Stoneshape] upon the kendrithyst is always a bad idea, but you knew that.” Fallopolis said, “The best way to proceed in ransacking a Shade’s abode is with [Greater Shadowalk], or similar defensive and offensive magics. You go in through the front, spread yourself out, and take what you can find, while keeping yourself as hidden as possible. I suggest speed, above all else.”

Her suggestions against [Stoneshape] and [Watershape] were things Erick had already heard from Killzone, and which were printed in bold in the ‘list of warnings’ given to everyone who dared to venture into this dark land. The kendrithyst was already under the control of shadows, so expecting either of those two spells to work how the caster wanted, was a fool’s endeavor. As far as infiltration was concerned: her suggestion about [Greater Shadowalk], or in Erick’s case [Greater Lightwalk], was something Killzone had already suggested to him. Speed, positioning, and perception were paramount when fighting in Ar’Kendrithyst, or for exploring and fighting in any odd areas.

Fallopolis added, “Good luck.”

Erick turned to the Shade, and said, “I’ll likely Domain this place, but try to keep it to the waters.”

Fallopolis smirked, and began ascending. “Thanks for the warning.”

Erick watched her step into the air, higher and higher, shooting up a good ten meters with each pump of a leg. When she was a good distance above and stopped to look down at him, he turned his attention back to the waters below. He turned insubstantial, fully falling into his lightform self, while his [Lodestar] aura held centimeters above his glowing body. His shoulder Ophiels also turned to light, mixing into Erick’s own. [Hunter’s Instincts] flared on, and he walked forward, toward the largest waterfall.

Gloom filled the wind; a thick, cloying mixture of shadows and air that Erick hadn’t considered existent until his lesson with Syllea, and that Esoteric Elements book. If he were not inside his [Lodestar], producing an aura-sized Domain of Light, he would certainly be unable to step upon the dim light of this area, because of those shadows. He would have been blocked from continuing his walk down, into the hovering shadows above the swift waters.

He was not blocked, though. His presence burned away the shadows in the air. When he touched down onto the surface of the river, his presence burned away the shadows in the water—

Showing him why Dorofiend was the Shade of ‘Dead Waters’.

Bodies laid under the swift-moving surface. Rotten, in some cases. Bones, in others. All of them naked. All of them tied up, and tied together by rainbow algae, and stuffed under the surface of the river like sardines in a can. How deep did these stacked corpses go? Too deep. Even one was too deep.

And then, one of the bodies turned a head and stared up at Erick. It slowly reached up, trying to breach the surface, but rainbow algae pulled it back down tight, wrapping harder around the wiggling corpse.

Erick paused.

… It was just an undead body, right? He had never heard of ‘living undead’, but all undead were just souls put into a body like any other. Angels, demons, undead, summoned creatures. All of them were in the same category of ‘soul shoved in body’. In many cases, it was a temporary arrangement.

Erick had never heard of sapient undead before. But as he looked down at the bodies below…

Ahh…

This was shit. This was terrible. Why did the Shades have to be like this? Insanity was not enough to explain this behavior. Erick had known certifiably insane people back on Earth. None of them he had ever worked with were like the Shades. Some of them had dark thoughts and needed a lot of medication to keep away from those thoughts, but…

This was pretty damned shitty. And it all smelled like shit, too!

Worse than shit, actually. If he were in human-form, he would have been unable to think through the stench.

Erick had the Ophiel on his left shoulder-space cast a [Cascade Imaging], searching for ‘people’.

He had never cast this spell inside a [Domain of Light], like the one that was his [Lodestar]. He had expected some sort of nice effect from ‘supercharging’ his Imaging, and he got that. A white map instantly sprung into being, while the orb above radiated power, like a miniature sun with too many solar flares. Things happened very fast, from there.

The instant-map was of a ten kilometer radius area. It was a good map, too. Towers appeared in miniature. The river showed itself as a bend in white light. The bottom of the river appeared, as well as what laid beneath; under the aqueduct. Dorofiend’s whole sub-river structure was exposed to Erick, in a few shining moments.

Not too many caves, but there were more than a few.

And then the limbtrees began to shake as they noticed a spell happening around them. They tried to grab at anything they could; anything nearby, really. Limbs broke from the surface of the waters; limbtrees or whatever they were, which were hiding. This was not a problem for Erick, as he was nowhere near the closest one. The other thing that happened was that ten blue markers appeared, one for Erick, and nine for each of the people down below, inside the caves under the river.

Fallopolis was still high in the air; a blot of shadows hovering in the only part of the air that showed the sky, beyond the kendrithyst towers. She did not count as ‘people’, apparently. Erick would leave that problem for later. With a thought, he had an Ophiel cast a [Domain of Light] upon the entire river, Shaping the magic to just above the waters, and all the way down, as far as it would go.

The river turned spectacular and awful, as shadows fled and the atrocity below the surface was revealed. But the bodies were locked into algae, and there were more pressing concerns than contained undead.

Erick rode the Domain down into the underwater lairs to solve those concerns.

With the speed of thought and a concentrated flick of his lightform self, expertly wielded like a hundred individual swords, Erick prevented the deaths of nine people. They had been struggling against what was either suddenly active limbtrees, or torture devices, but whatever the case, illuminated swords turned undead limbs to little more than discarded body parts. The trapped people fell to the filthy floor. With another thought, an Ophiel above, with Erick’s bag, phased through the domain to bring him a rod of [Treat Wounds]. With another thought, and with help from other Ophiel, two [Mirage Slimes] popped into the underground, turning filth to thick air, ridding the stench from the place, and making undead limbtrees into considerably less than what they were before. It would take several passes for the [Mirage Slime]s to clean up everything down here, but they would.

Five seconds after Erick began his attack, it was over, and it was also just beginning. The people were each wearing collars around their necks. Erick tentatively recognized them as drain collars. He had never studied them, and the ones around these people might be something else, but they had spikes poking inward, and that was one of the sure signs of those types of items that drained Health and Mana rather fast...

Well. Actually. If they were exploding collars, then Erick’s solution would likely solve that problem, too. Erick grabbed everyone’s collars with his lightform self, then pulled them into his light, leaving the people behind; collar free. Problem solved.

Some people did not react well to the collars coming off; worried and thrilled, terrified and already crying, arms thrown wide and screaming yet stopping after four seconds when they didn’t get a reaction they were expecting. They probably expected to die? Ah. Maybe. Erick casually discarded the collars up above, just above the waters of the river.

They exploded.

… Erick needed to brush up on his enchanting some more.

They were draining and exploding collars. He hadn’t seen any indication that they were exploding collars. He was just being safe rather than sorry.

And then another thought occurred. Dorofiend was obviously not as ‘completely insane’ as Fallopolis made him out to be. How else could he be able to keep items like those around? Or maybe he was insane, and he just had a supplier? Erick decided: He probably had a supplier.

Fifteen seconds after the whole encounter started, Erick spoke over the distraught people he had saved, “Dorofiend is dead; I killed him. But it’s Shadow’s Feast up there and you’d die if you stepped outside.”

People looked to the air, wondering where the voice was coming from. Some of them finally noticed the saturated brightness to the air. More than one person called out, asking who was there. One woman conjured a blood-red greatsword and chopped at the air around her.

… And Erick realized he was still in his lightform, nebulous self.

There were obviously some kinks to work out with regard to this form and its foibles, and when it came to adventuring in person. [Lodestar] and [Greater Lightwalk] either had some sort of mental stabilizing effect, or perhaps his current thoughts were just an occurrence of thinking he was safe, even in the most dangerous city in the world. Dorofiend hadn’t been able to penetrate this combination of spells, after all. [Hunter’s Instincts] was certainly affecting his mental state, but he wasn’t going to let that drop, either.

He did decide to return to his human-shaped lightform self. Not his fully human self; not yet.

Three nearby tortured people immediately formed ranks, pointing at him. Since the entire place was made of filth and kendrithyst, which was now getting cleaned, and thus the clear kendrithyst was now see-through, three others in a nearby torture chamber also saw Erick form into being. All of the victims were spread out in three nearby different rooms; all of them soon saw Erick.

One of them ripped a [Lightshape] at his body.

It did not work. Erick only recognized it as a [Lightshape] because it flickered rainbows against the edge of his [Lodestar].

One sarcastic young woman immediately screamed, “Who the FUCK ever heard of a Light-Shade!”

