The voice came from behind the woman; from the dark shield still covering most of the plateau. The woman balked, turning a bit greener, before she swiftly recovered. Her, and several others, shouted out threats against Erick, as an orcol man stepped out of the dark shield, onto the parapet and into the air. He wore a short, formal kilt made of dark leathers, and nothing else, showing off his rather normal orcol body, but with many, many scars crisscrossing and pebbling his dark green skin. They formed patterns, for sure, though Erick was unsure if there was a meaning to them, or if they were just normal scars, accented with pebbled markings.

Hollowsaur fixed his bright white eyes upon Erick, as he said, “These people poached on my land. It is my right to be able to use them until they are used up.”

Erick spoke without enthusiasm, as if he were on the last hour of a double shift, “Would you please restore them to their previous bodies and let them go?” He added, “Peacefully.”

“No.” He sneered, “So what are you gonna do about it?”

“What would you like me to do about it?”

His sneer turned into a smirk. “I want twenty-five, fifty point, All-Stat gems. Artifact version.”

Erick paused. “… That’s it?”

“I also want a silver rainstorm spread out over my entire Jungle. I want this place well and overgrown, many times larger than it already is.”

Erick asked, “Any plants in there that qualify for a Kill and Exterminate Quest?”

The Shade laughed, “Damn you’re dumb. No. Why would I do that to myself?” He looked down, to the glowing tree below Erick. “And I want [Tree of Light], 5000 mana version, cast over every ikabab in the Jungle.”

“… This tree?”

“The ikabab; yes.”

Erick briefly studied the tree under him, using Ophiel’s eyes. He almost recoiled. At the bottom of the tree was a pile of bodies four meters deep. Tiger-like cats. Dozens of shaggy, silver wolves. Snakes, birds, monkeys, long-necked reptiles. Most of the bodies were little more than skeletons, though some of the bodies were not yet corpses; still struggling to move away from the pile, for each and every one of them had horrendous holes drilled though their flesh. He wasn’t sure, but maybe the tree itself had poked those holes through the monsters? Did it trap them somehow? Or did something else stick the beasts onto the tree? Like the bird, the Shrike, back on Earth? Or. No. The tree did this, itself. It was a shrike-tree.

Hollowsaur smiled as Erick couldn’t contain his expression. The Shade said, “That you sit upon it without knowing that it kills everything that comes near, shows that you would not last a day in a real jungle, but that is no concern of mine. All I want is what I have declared, and then I will heal these people and let them go.” He stressed, “I will let them go into the Jungle. I will not prevent you from helping them escape to a lesser part of Kendrithyst.”

Erick almost gave his answer, but another joined the conversation.

“Hello!” A girl child’s voice cut the air. “Can I get in on this?”

Ophiels stood to the side, allowing the new Shade to make her presence known. In a second, a dark blot in the air resolved into a young girl of blue hair, blue horns, and blue skin. She wore a simple, frilly black dress that you might see on any child. Erick knew who this was, but it was still difficult to imagine the circumstances in which a freshly matriculated child could become a Shade. She was no longer a child, obviously, but she still retained the same body.

Undine hardly ever made a direct appearance, but when she did, she had never had any form other than the one she wore right now, and there were records of her going back to before the Great Purge of Spur. She always made indirect appearances, though. Riding the back of a leviathan, as the great monster tore through the waves of Lake Leviathan. Waving to adventurers who crossed the demarcation between Jungle and Lake. Trying to foist a clutch of leviathan eggs to Killzone, to then foist them onto Erick, for the lake she wanted him to build at Candlepoint; Killzone had managed to talk her down to a book on monsters that he then left at Candlepoint. Erick never read the book. It was still there, sitting behind the counter of the gazebo under the Crystal.

“Hello!” Undine said to both of them, as she floated in the air, equidistant from Erick and Hollowsaur. She cheerfully asked Erick, “Did you read my book? I made it especially for you!”

“No, for it is hard to deal honestly with people who are historically quite evil.” Erick said, “I still have the book, and will read it when I feel comfortable doing so.”

Hollowsaur’s eyes went wide, as he got an evil grin, but then Erick kept talking, and his expression turned to annoyance.

Undine, however, went from disturbed, to angry, to suddenly okay. It was a whiplash of emotions, that left Erick truly annoyed.

Undine moved on, though, saying, “If you still have it, then that’s fine. I can prove myself as friendly. That’s the purpose of this year’s Feast, isn’t it?” She looked to Hollowsaur, her voice turning a bit sterner, “Isn’t it?”

Hollowsaur stood taller, and smiled, showing fangs, as he said, “Yup. Correct.”

“Good!” Undine said, “Okay! So! … Uh.” She looked from one to the other. “What’s the deal you two were working out? I heard some of it.”

Hollowsaur replied, “I get 25, 50-point All-Stat artifact gems from him, as well as an overgrowth of the Jungle and 5000 point [Tree of Light]s, cast upon each of the ikabab trees in the Jungle, of which there are 21. He has already cast that spell upon the one he is currently sitting on. He gets the release of all of my current captured adventurers, of whom I will heal to full bodily functionality before I release them into the Jungle.”

Undine smiled wide as Hollowsaur went on, doing a little up and down dance. When he was finished, she rapidly said, “Then I’ll grant them free passage to the Beach! They’ll be safe there, because—!” She delightfully added, “I will ensure their safety! As long as they stay on the beach, of course.” She asked Erick, “How does that sound?”

Erick asked, “Is there a place for them to stay on the beach, and live for the next ten days?”

“Oh yeah.” Undine dismissed, “I can put them up where there’s lots of space. Hardly any monsters. Freshwater lake. They can [Grow] some junk in the shallows.” She staunchly added, “I will not be holding their hands, though. If they run out of bounds or whatever, then they’re… Well they could make it? Eh. Veteran adventurers are a wily bunch. I won’t stop them from running away, though. I can barely guarantee safety as it is.”

“Deal,” Erick said.

Undine smirked, then looked like she smelled a fart. “Oh wait. I need something out of this trade.”

“You get my goodwill,” Erick said. “For now.”

“Nooo… That’s not good enough…” Undine thought. She stood in the air, and put a hand to her chin. She dropped her hand, and said, “I want one of them shiny lights you made that one time.”

“… You’re going to have to be way more specific.”

The Shade of Leviathan Lake bobbed left and right a few times, grumbling, mumbling, then she stopped, and said, “It was a double-pyramid thing that flexed into more triangles and the interior was a shadow-shifted light that you gained from Syllea’s [Shadow Conversion]. You made the working just before midnight. Or maybe just after. It was magnificent. But since you don’t have access to her spells, you can either make that buff spell right now and use it, or do a similar working but with a much more complex shape. Either option works for me.”

Erick would have sighed, if he was still in his body. It always surprised him just how much other people in power knew of what he did. By this point, it shouldn’t surprise him. But it still did. Every time.

Undine said, “Alternatively: Go kill Spinner, of the Aerie.”

Hollowsaur piped up, “I changed my mind. Kill Spinner, and you’ll get these adventurers back.”

Undine said, “Yes, yes! Very good.”

Erick countered, “If I go there, and Spinner gives me a better deal to kill you two, then I could do that instead, and damn whoever you have under your power; I’ll probably end up killing them myself in the crossfire. The world would be better off with two Shades dead instead of one.”

Hollowsaur turned fractionally darker, his eyes radiating malevolence, as the black scar markings across his body seemed to shift, wider, deeper. “If you think you can—”

Undine cut him off, saying, “Drat. Okay. Fine. Original deal!”

Hollowsaur lost his anger, turning less dark. He frowned. “Original deal.”

“Deal,” Erick said, for the second time. He looked to Undine, and said, “Any shapes you’re partial to?”

“Something that fractals in three dimensions.” She added, “I am partial to webs, water, spheres, cubes, and crystals. And it needs to be made of rainbows.”
