The Jungle was one of the largest areas of Ar’Kendrithyst, and if one included Lake Leviathan in the center of the Jungle, as well as the Aerie to the north of the lake, which most people did, you’d have an area nearly 45 by 45 kilometers large, and almost 50 kilometers deep. The lake itself was practically in the Lower Layer, and the size of Candlepoint’s lake, while the Jungle wrapped around the whole body of water, and extended well above and below what people would usually consider the Middle Layer. The Aerie was wholly in the Upper Layer, to the north of Lake Leviathan, sticking high out of the Jungle, reaching well into what some people called the ‘Sky Layer’. The North River flowed around the entire place, encircling it, sending small streams into the growing greenery, and feeding Lake Leviathan.

Erick approached the Jungle from the east, near the center of the three-land area.

Red-purple towers loomed overhead, suffocating in their light, for Erick knew it was a false light, put on just to illuminate the shadows prowling through the crystal all around. Tendrils swirled all around; shadows of shadows. And yet none approached as Erick approached the Jungle. None of the obvious monsters stuck a tentacle or a claw or anything out of that swirling inky space. Erick hadn’t suffered a monster attack in a while, ever since they descended beyond the Upper Layer. The shadows down here were more cautious about who they preyed upon. Erick figured if he was alone, he would have been fighting off monsters, but there was currently a greater shadow hovering at his side, and the shadows down here knew to stay away from Shades.

Fallopolis pointed forward, to a bend in the chasm. “Past there is the Jungle.” She lowered her staff, and continued to walk forward, saying, “Hollowsaur will come if you kill any of the larger animals, for he is an unparalleled Beastmaster, and he knows his flock. Eye Birds from the Aerie will keep you in their sights, and if you attract too many, Hollowsaur will know you are here. But know this: He is a purely reactionary Shade. If you trip no [Alarm Wards]. If you harm none of his Prized Flock. If you get in and get out, you might be able to rescue the 25 people he usually keeps mutated and alive for their parts, in his animal farm.” Fallopolis said, “Normally, I would suggest you trip everything and murder the man, but he’s about the best Shade of the Jungle we’ve had since well before the Great Purge of Spur. People are always trying to poach his herds, though, so your rescue attempt is the easiest way to prod him past the point of civility. Good luck.”

The two of them rounded a particularly large kendrithyst tower, and the world opened up beyond.

Greenery under starlight, and illusionary planes of existence. Tall, gnarled trees, where vines and moss hung and connected from one canopy to the next. Bright blue birds flying in the sky. Plateaus of kendrithyst lopped off with edges glowing, but otherwise covered in soil and more plants.

The Jungle was a land out of time, at the bottom of a crater of kendrithyst, with mist hanging in the air, and no towers above. There was a faint luminescence here and there in the primeval greenery; a bit of barely exposed kendrithyst. But mostly, it was dark. A nighttime forest, waiting for the sun to come back up, but the sun wouldn’t appear for over nine more days.

Erick looked further, ignoring the cries of something dying in the darkness down below, to a kilometer-wide kendrithyst plateau, far ahead, almost to the horizon. Lights hugged that plateau; brighter lights than simply that of exposed crystal, meant to expose anyone coming from below. People lived there, atop that space. But they were not exposed. There was a dome of darkness over the whole plateau. A [Darkness] spell, or something similar. Definitely not a natural structure.

Fallopolis stood a good four meters away, her feet supported by darkness, just as Erick’s was supported by light.

She said, “They see you.”

Erick said, “We are in the middle of the sky.”

“Did you mean to just walk out here?” Fallopolis said, “I came this way because it was fine for me to do so, and I know they can’t see me yet, but you’re rather bright.”

“All true.” Erick said, “I knew before I came this way that there was no saving those people without a direct confrontation.”

And there wasn’t. So Erick didn’t bother to hide, or approach in any other way than the direct way. If Fallopolis chose to believe that he had simply followed her, then she could continue to believe that if she wanted.

When Killzone had spoken of Shades, he had spoken of Hollowsaur. Everything Fallopolis had said, just now, confirmed what the General of Spur’s Army had already told Erick.

Hollowsaur’s ‘animal farm’ was a place where he turned people into parts, so that he could take those parts and make them into monsters of his own designs. Killzone had told a story of the Shade making an ‘Eyebeast’ for the upcoming Shadow’s Feast, too. He had also spoken of sneaking into the production area and mercy-killing the people who were the resource for that ‘eyebeast’. The usual response to this problem is a mercy-killing.

But Fallopolis knew that by luring Erick here, she was testing him with a hard choice.

So he made that choice, as soon as he viewed the shadowed ‘animal farm’.

He looked to the sky, and cast—

No. He couldn’t. He couldn’t. No. No. No. No. No.

Erick breathed deep, or at least tried to. He was currently made of light, and [Lodestar], and [Hunter’s Instincts]. And he had almost committed a horrible sin. He had almost thrown a [Vivid Gloom] onto the animal farm. The target was the right size. The people therein were all mutated and kept alive only through alchemy, according to everything Erick had heard. He wasn’t a healer; he couldn’t save them. He knew all this. And yet, he couldn’t simply end the problem, and move on.

He had to risk that there was another way. But there would be no way to do this without Hollowsaur finding out. Killzone had made that quite clear. So…

Erick steeled himself. He whispered, “Fallopolis. You can stay back, if you wish.”

Fallopolis grinned wide, and faded backward, into shadows.

Maybe he was being stupid. Maybe he was being smart. Maybe it would all work out. Maybe Hollowsaur would die, tonight, or maybe not. Whatever would happen, would happen, and Erick would find a way to live with himself afterward.

Erick burst into brighter lights; radiant and true, he became a second sun, briefly lighting up the night. And then, to make the effect even more, he had his Ophiels pair up. Three of them turned to [Lodestar]s and expanded their own [Greater Lightwalk]s, while others huddled in the light.

Erick simply stepped forward, ten meters a stride, bringing light to the green land, turning the illusion-filled sky into a bright, radiant day, filled with four different suns. The response was immediate, and it came from all sides. A flock of blue birds turned into fire and raced at Erick and his Ophiel. They cawed, attacking, or at least trying to. They couldn’t get past Erick’s innate defenses; they bounced off hardened shells of light.

Screams and roars sounded out below.

A slippery, flame-red snake, ten meters long, maybe, flowed through the treetops nearby, trying to get close. When it reached the absolute peak of the largest, closest tree, it coiled, then launched at Erick. It hit the edge of his light and bore down with its fangs, yet found no purchase. Venom flowed away on solid illumination, as the snake itself slipped off, and crashed back to the trees below.

All the while, the dark plateau of the animal farm had dropped its outermost shadows. A bubble of darkness still held in the center of the area, but creatures appeared on revealed parapets, rapidly deploying across balconies and into small towers, where they took positions next to swiveling kendrithyst spikes, each twice as large as Fallopolis’ staff. The creatures were tiny and green, like shrunken orcols, perhaps, but with longer limbs. Erick didn’t recognize them, but when the first kendrithyst spike lit up, Erick recognized it as a cannon-wand. They were capable of casting spells up to tier four, and were usually only used in city defense, and only for cities that relied on that sort of thing.

The first cannon-wand shot out a beam of green light that struck Erick’s sunform—

He would need to ask the Headmaster if this combo was part of the his 'Sun Style'.

—struck Erick’s sunform and deflected wide, like a water stream hitting a solid object, sending a shower of green power up, then over, to fall in a slowly descending sprinkle across a vast swath of jungle. The first wand-cannon fired for ten full seconds, moving on from targeting Erick when it was clear the attack had no effect. It had no effect on the Ophiels, either. The attacking birds instantly retreated down below when the deflecting green light caught two of them fully, and the rest partially. The two who had touched the green light instantly died, midair, as feathers turned to nothing and flesh gave way, revealing bone, that soon gave way to nothing.

Four more beams shot out from four other cannons. One was lightning. This zapped into Erick, and chained to every part of his entourage, but it only struck the outer parts of the sunspheres. Electromagnetism was capable of deflecting lightning rather easy, after all. Beams of frozen Force deflected just as easy as the first green beam, and the subsequent beam of red-hot fire. It seemed all things readily deflected against tightly controlled light. That theory was the basis behind Erick’s [Pure Reflection Ward], after all.

The Jungle below caught on fire, decayed under green light, and froze in tiny bits.

A beam of white light struck Erick, and on a whim, he sent it back. He wasn’t sure how he did it, exactly, as it happened on instinct, but the beam attempted to strike Erick, and was sent back, almost instantaneously. The wand-cannon exploded, launching the green person backward, into the dark sphere in the center of the plateau.

A beam of shadows died upon reaching Erick. There was nothing to send back, there was nothing to deflect. Shadows met light, and shadows died. Erick had no idea how he caused that, either.

… Shadow was a stupid element, anyway. How was the absence of something, something in of itself? Void was a thing that existed, too, but that was easy to understand. It was the designation of nothing as something! Shadow and Void were completely different, though, and that still made no sense to Erick.

Erick stepped to within twenty meters of the plateau, and stopped his advance. Green people scurried about, some of them rushing into the darkness in the center, others down hiding holes in the edge of the plateau.

He called out, “I would like to speak to Hollowsaur.”

“He’s at the Feast!” yelled a small woman. She wore little more than a wrap of brown cloth around her chest, and a loincloth of the same material. Her face was smushed a little, but comparing her to the others, her smushed face was normal. “Go away!”

Erick said, “I can wait.” He gestured to a nearby tree that was larger than most. He guessed it was ten or twelve meters shorter than the plateau, but Erick could fix that. “I’ll be right over here.”

The woman watched him, warily, but also curiously. As Erick actually began to step away, she shouted, “Yeah! You better run! Coward!”

She was joined by a sudden dozen other people, each shouting variations of the same, some of them cheering that they had driven away the invader.

And then Erick got to the tree. Cries of victory turned to confusion, as an Ophiel cast [Tree of Light] with a good 5000 mana, turning the plant into a bioluminescent solar event. Erick directed it to grow. A fifty meter tall tree became sixty meters tall in a matter of moments. Wicked thorns poked out from every part of the plant, causing a minor cacophony of screaming animals and various monsters. Erick saw no less than ten red snakes, smaller than the one that attacked him, fly out of the tree, aiming for another.

Erick had no idea what that was about, but he had more pressing concerns, such as projecting an air of confidence.

The cries of confusion from the green people were now silent, as Erick directed the plant to give him a nice seat on the top, please. The plant obliged, its lush canopy flowing out, soaking up Erick’s magic, as its highest part split into three different branches. The tree was now maybe a meter higher than the plateau. It stopped growing. Thorns retreated. Bioluminescence dimmed to a brown glow in the cracks of the bark, a green glow in the veins of leaves, and a purple glow in the few stray thorns that remained. There were no thorns at the top, though.

Erick sat his sunform down on one of the thick branches. The tree expanded under him, seeming to be happy for the light. Maybe. With a cast from an Ophiel, Erick conjured a curved bench, four meters wide, and opened toward the plateau. He sat down on the left side of the bench. The tree made itself more comfortable, then settled around Erick.

The small woman shouted, “What do you want!”

“I want you to release the people you have in there.”

“Livestock ain’t for sale, service, or settin’ free!” The woman said, “Go away!”

“She’s right.”

