His team had agreed they would each spend as much of their afternoon as they could working on alternative Coursing strategies so that they could flood their instructor with options tomorrow morning. Alden had been doing just that for hours, until he finally needed to shut his laptop and hide the growing list of bad ideas from himself.

He’d pulled the candle forward from its place on the back of the desk a couple of minutes ago. The lighting of wicks, or promise sticks, had become a simple thing. But he was giving the matter more in-depth consideration than usual.

He wanted to learn to light the candle with an abbreviation of the normal series of finger flicks.

Setting things on fire by pointing at them would be cool, but that might be too abbreviated…. What if it worked, though? A wizard has to try these things, doesn’t he?

He imagined himself casting the spell properly, trying to focus his authority like he would if this were a normal attempt, but without any of the usual gestures. When it seemed like something might be possible, maybe, he pointed a finger at the wick.

“Burn,” he said in Artonan.

It did feel like he’d tried to cast, but the effect was nothing.

All right. So that doesn’t work like that. Is there a remnant of the command left to find? Like when Stuart and I built the keda bean spell.

He closed his eyes and tried to listen for it.

Daharsee. My own voice but distorted. A reflection of me. It makes sense that it must be here, but it also makes sense that it would be almost impossible to detect for something like this.

The spell hadn’t succeeded. And it was a tiny, tiny spell in the first place.

Finding a needle in a haystack wouldn’t be this hard. This is more like listening for the echo of a sneeze at a rock concert.

He opened his eyes. It had been worth a try to satisfy his curiosity. And he was in no hurry to go back to the list of strategies. They’d been getting more and more absurd.

Suggesting that his team could take out Jupiter, steal all her plant material, and then build a functional ladder out of it in the middle of the run levels of absurd.

He hoped the other guys were having more luck, because he really should switch to rehearsing his story for Warin-doyis’s class soon. He had to present it tomorrow.

He’d be going with a version that was supposed to make the audience laugh. It stuck close to the original through the middle, but at the beginning, the witch told the prince why he was being cursed—for stabbing a klerm that had gotten lost and ended up in his room. And then, for doing the same thing to the klerm prince, the princess was going to get cursed, too.

The pair of klerm royals started whining to each other about it so loudly that they woke another princess, who grabbed a knife and headed downstairs to take care of the odious racket.

Alden was thinking of having the witch sigh and crack her knuckles in the final line as she imagined the number of curses she’d have to cast before these people learned their lesson. But he was still trying to figure out what the equivalent of a “Let’s get down to business” knuckle-cracking would be for Artonan audiences.

Telling a story that made sense to two species was part of the challenge.

I feel bad about not working more on the one where the golden ball gives an ordinary creature dreams about magic and other worlds. I liked that frog.

He wanted to say things about that. But it was harder to get right, and he had to be practical.

Can’t pull an all-nighter tonight when the story I’ve already got is good.

And I imagine the class would rather hear the funny one, anyway. The other doesn’t even have an ending. I’m not sure it has a point that’ll make sense to anyone but me.

That version of the frog is like…my daharsee story. I’ll just let it exist in my head.

He drummed his fingers on the desk and stared up at the underside of his bed.

I should put some more lights under here. Or tape up a poster. It’s not as cozy as it could be, especially when the blackout curtains are shut like this. Since I’m not dying or being banished from Earth in the next few months, it won’t be wasted effort.

Connie had sent a message last week asking if she could put string lights in his old bedroom. Then, once she’d gotten to the store, she’d started sending him pictures of every single item she was thinking of purchasing, like she thought he had important opinions about the color of wastebaskets. He wasn’t sure if she’d been having an unusually indecisive moment, or if he’d said or done something to make her think it was necessary to involve him specifically in this one aspect of home decorating.

He’d called her and teased her about it a little, insisting that the old wastebasket he’d melted one side of was a very important part of his life and should be kept on display so that her fiancé’s nieces could really appreciate it when they visited.

So much new, he thought. Just…new thing, new thing, new thing. One after another.

I wonder how much I missed in intake because I was a freaked-out insomniac. And how much of the new high school experience got washed away by the attack on Matadero. And how many little new things get devoured and forgotten every day because of the big ones.

He’d bought a bunch of furniture and special bedding. He owned rugs and a white noise machine. A gym membership. That was all fancy grown-up stuff. Some part of him remembered to be excited about it for a few seconds every other week, and then it was scenery again.

He was sure if he’d paid to furnish his own place during a calmer period of his life, he’d still be getting daily thrills just from sitting on the sofa in their living room.

I bought a whole sofa. And it’s a nice sofa. I looked at the price, and then I ignored the price, and I bought it. And my three Avowed friends sit on it with me. We have a system for washing dishes together and a guitar.

It’s so much. It would be enough to be excited about for at least a year. If nothing else had happened.

He let his fingers fall flat on the desk and drummed them that way so that he could hear the tapping of his rings against the surface.

Having too many new things in your pond has consequences. Even if a lot of the things themselves are good.

He straightened up in his chair and refocused on the candle. This spell was a short one anyway. Six quick motions was how Gwen-lor had taught it.

I’ll start by halving it, he decided. Turn six motions into three, but be more insistent with my authority than usual.

Hey, Candle. Remember all the times I’ve lit you? We’re going to do it again.

He drew two fingers slowly down in squiggles, used all ten to make the motion that Instructor Gwen-lor had told the children was called ‘the felling of a small tree’, and then, taken by a sudden whim and caught up in the realization that it was working this time, he changed the final motion.

He was talking. The universe was listening. Abundance—the potential for all—was here.

So he snapped his fingers.

A bunch of sparks flew off the wick the instant before the candle lit, which wasn’t how it usually happened.

“Oh!” Excited, Alden pulled the candle right to the edge of his desk and turned it around slowly, looking at every inch of it to see if anything else different had happened. It was burning like normal now.

His first abbreviation had taken the same amount of time as the regular spell, perhaps even more since he’d been going slow on purpose. But that didn’t dim his delight at all. He was so pleased he took a picture without bothering to question what he was going to do with a random candle picture.

Sparky Snappy Lighter. My own special version of the spell. I wonder if it’ll still spark when I get better at it. Could I make that happen on purpose? More sparks? Can Stuart make candles do this?

He blew it out and did it a dozen more times before he made himself go back to his homework. He managed to reduce the number of gestures to two, and he increased his speed. Getting to the instant snap-to-light effect he was now imagining was just going to take a little longer.

******

BREAK

******

In the bottom of that pond, the frog kicked away the mud that the ball had fallen into. He burrowed under it and lifted it. It was very heavy, but he kept going because he wanted to see it shine again as brightly as it had when it was near the surface.

“Does anyone see this?” he kept shouting as he went. “Does anyone see this wonderful round thing I’ve found? I’m kicking and kicking! Won’t someone celebrate the golden ball and help me with it?”

He shouted down into the pond.

He shouted up toward the surface.

He waited for a reply.

******

******

“Alden!” said Rahul. “It’s good to hear from you. Your text said you wanted advice about Instructor Ash’s Coursing class?”

“I do,” said Alden. “But you didn’t have to call me right away if you’re in the middle of something.”

Rahul was with a group of at least eight people who Alden was guessing were also university students, loading what might literally be a ton of equipment into carts at the Apex Wright shop.

“It’s fine,” said Rahul. “I’ve already picked out what I need for our project. We’re building a vending machine for this place’s annual competition. Hopefully, it’ll be launching your purchases into your hands one day when you shop here. No guarantees about those purchases staying in one piece.”

“Fill it with temper spheres,” said Alden. “They’re pretty hard to break.”

Rahul looked interested. “Good idea.”

Despite his attempt to be polite, Alden was glad Rahul had answered now instead of waiting until the end of his shopping trip.

He’d decided to finish his Thursday with a relaxing trip to the recovery sauna, to make sure that he’d be as physically well as possible tomorrow if they did get to run. But while he’d sat there steaming, he’d started steaming mentally, too, over the strategy lists the others had shared with their team chat group. It was obvious that everyone had spent so much time on it throughout the day, and it was also obvious that doing the work had only made them all more frustrated than they had been this morning.

And more lost than ever when it came to what Ash considered worthy of floor time.

Alden should be climbing into bed now, but instead he was drinking his supper in giant smoothie form while he left North of North, messages scrolling fast in the right corner of his vision. Kon, Lexi, and Mehdi were talking about the feasibility of building a ladder during a run. They were talking about using pieces of the course itself instead of vegetation they’d stolen from a defeated Jupiter, but Alden was certain the fact that it had come to this, even for Lexi, was proof they were all going crazy.

“It’s like this,” he said to Rahul. “We have to get Ash’s permission to run during the once-weekly time slot we have for the gym. He picks which teams get to go based on strategies we submit for the two obstacles we know about in advance and then based on vibes as far as I can tell once we’re actually in the gym that day. He didn’t pick my team last week or this week, and there is enough time for every team to run if he wanted to do it that way. So two weeks back to back of not getting to even touch the floor feels like… ”

“Like he’s picking on you?”

“Well, there’s another team it’s happened to as well,” said Alden. “If another teacher did it, I’d think it was a harsh criticism of our planning. But seven of us just spent hours each coming up with different plans for those obstacles, and I think most of them are worse than what we already presented. Unless we take equipment onto the course specifically for the floating island…I could reasonably take a rope, but we can’t reasonably present that to him as our strategy.”

“You’re doing the standard competition rule where opposing teams can object to equipment that’s not on the basics list?” Rahul asked, tossing a coil of tubing onto the top of the nearest cart.

“Right,” said Alden. “So for our basics, elemental weights and piles will be there. And normal clothes are allowed over our suits. I know that rule’s primarily to allow for team costumes, but we were actually going to use the clothes.”

“O-mix usually has rope.”

“O-mix?”

“The pile of random objects?”

“I didn’t know people called it that,” said Alden.

He decided to take a slightly longer route back to his dorm since finishing the monster smoothie and this call were both going to take more time. He continued on past the walkway that would lead him deeper into campus and straight toward Garden Hall, and headed instead for the street that would join up with Celena Circle. The last of the emergency housing was gone. Being able to cross the circle again and hanging out there when the weather wasn’t terrible were things he’d been looking forward to.

“I know the O-mix usually has some amount of some kind of rope,” he said. “And other teams probably aren’t going to object if we ask to carry our own. But doing that for a submitted strategy?”

“I can’t imagine most instructors being okay with it,” Rahul agreed. “A strategy relying on tools you might have on race day instead of ones you can guarantee sounds like lazy homework.”

