291

******

Waiting for Instructor Ash’s verdict about who should be allowed to run tomorrow was anxious business. Halfway through the hour, their team chat screen was mostly just Haoyu using one random word at a time to react to the videos playing at the front of the room.

At least one of us is getting something from it.

At the moment, without anyone explaining what was good or bad about the way the Avowed in the clips were moving through the cities where they worked, Alden didn’t feel like he was learning from them. He’d stopped trying to take notes on what he saw a few minutes ago and switched to reviewing his own footage from this morning.

This morning’s class was two hours of proof for why hiring a personal trainer was a good choice, he thought, watching himself move.

Correct form when using his trait, knowing exactly where jumps were going to land him, carving away wasted motion—he was far from perfect, but it was starting to come together in a way he could see.

I should use my sand scattering to trick a few people this term. Get everyone used to me throwing it down when I want to make bigger or faster moves, and then just not activate my trait. It’ll be fun to pull it off against Reinhard.

Kind of useless against demons, though.

That made him less excited about it.

He was really happy to see himself moving so well. A few weeks ago, he knew he couldn’t have put up such a good fight in the duels against Rex and Jeffy. He was trying not to stay miffed about Rex suggesting that he had now taken Alden’s measure and found it lacking to such an extent that there was no need to measure again.

That was a good duel.

He watched it again.

It was better than I thought it was in the moment even.

Of course Rex wouldn’t value the same things he did. Alden had a list of goals he was working on, and nobody else needed to be impressed by them or even notice that he was doing them. But he thought treating his shield more like something that should be protected, with its usefulness as a tool taking more of a backseat, was part of the reason he’d been moving better through everything. Including in the duel against the Strength Brute.

It’s really too easy to not care about whatever I’m preserving in a class setting. I  know it’s a skill for keeping things safe, but I’ve been getting slack about that without realizing. He watched himself try to get out of the way of a strike he definitely would have thrown his preserved object in front of last term…and succeed. That was good for me. If this was something more serious, trying to buy time for Stuart to pull my ass out of the fire…

He ran through an assortment of things he might be protecting in such a situation—a bomb, a supply of critically important something or others, an enchantment, someone’s severed foot.

Being the Bearer of All Burdens isn’t simple. If I’m protecting stuff, I’m never working with the same weapon or the same set of considerations. When I’m stronger than the place we’re going to, I’ll have more options.

That was the problem, though, wasn’t it? No matter what sort of training he did, he wasn’t going to be as strong as Stuart before Stuart was ready to go off and make his Intensity 99.9 debut.

He watched his duel with Rex one last time.

This is good, but it’s a long way from good enough. I want to bear burdens, not be one to my partner.

Maricel hadn’t even wanted to duel him.

He glanced over at her. She sat on the other side of Vandy, leaning forward in her seat, knuckles pressed against her mouth while she watched the video at the front of the room…or possibly her interface, like Alden was doing. She was focused, whatever it was.

He pulled up footage of her duels from the last class. She’d had five. All against other S-ranks. All starting with a technique that was hard for most people to deal with.

Yeah, lifting the entire floor of the dirt dueling block up and dropping it to create a dirt storm in a bottle is pretty advantageous for her. The visibility was so bad that the System provided overlays of the bodies moving through the cloud of falling earth instead of relying on the drones. Maricel obviously couldn’t see what was happening either. Once all the dirt was clogging the air, she was basically sweeping the whole block in front of her with force and taking out her blinded opponents that way.

She hadn’t won them all easily.

Vandy had nearly gotten a draw, and Alden thought she’d be able to the next time Maricel tried the dirt storm technique. Vandy tended to lose the first time she saw something unexpected from another powerful member of the class, but she’d have a solution for it when they dueled again if a solution was possible.

And Tuyet destroyed her. I guess they must have agreed to go all-out. The outcome was so predictable that way, though. Why bother?

They stood facing each other. Maricel started to lift her hands. Tuyet lifted her hand to throw a dart faster because she had a ton of Speed and Maricel didn’t. Maricel took a dart dead center between the eyes.

That was Tuyet’s finishing move for most people these days. Not her starting move. She got better practice if duels lasted longer than a second, too.

Alden glanced at Maricel again. What the heck? Why’d you two fight that way? If going up against me wasn’t a good use of your dueling time, that wasn’t either.

He shook his head. It’s their business. Maybe Maricel’s trying to inspire herself to get faster by facing faster people.

The dirt storm method. Couldn’t I have held out for a while against that? Even without something boring like a dome shield.

He went back to studying himself and his own flaws, but he could feel the minutes of the class ticking closer to the end. People were starting to shift and whisper. Heads kept turning toward Instructor Ash, who looked disengaged sitting at the teacher’s desk with his arms crossed. His eyes were moving, so he was watching things or reading on his interface.

Hopefully it’s not our strategy with that expression.

Alden found himself bouncing his leg and spinning his stylus.

It’ll be great to run with a team. More practice with partners. People will need preserving on runs. Objects will. Attackers I’ve never fought before will come at us, and with the pressure of not wanting to let an entruster down being more than usual, maybe I’ll figure some stuff out.

The list of chosen teams went up at the very last minute of class, like last time.

Unfortunately…it was exactly like last time.

Alden’s disappointment was huge, but he could barely hear himself think over the square-headed guy who was probably Rex’s brother Ram saying, “That’s not right!”

The same teams that hadn’t gotten to run last week weren’t getting to go this week either.

And Ash was already out in the hall.

More importantly, Kon was running out into the hall, chasing their instructor. By silent mutual impulse, every member of their team jumped out of their desks and went after him.

They found Kon hitting his knees by the lockers, shaking his fist at the ceiling.

“Whhyyyy???”

“Ah…Kon?” said Ignacio.

“This was still fluttering in the air!” Kon hissed, showing them his fist. “It was fluttering, and I caught it before it hit the floor.”

“Are you going to punch Ignacio?” Jeffy asked. “You shouldn’t.”

Kon’s fist opened, and a paper packet that had once held sugar fell out. “Do you all see this?!”

“Wow,” said Haoyu. “He ran so fast his trash was still in the air when you got out here? Do teachers do that?”

“Kon, don’t be too dramatic about this.” Lexi was making a soothing gesture with one hand even though he sounded angry himself. “It’s not fair, but we don’t have to make a scene.”

“Are teachers allowed to run from students that hard outside of gym? It doesn’t seem right.” Haoyu picked up the packet and sniffed it like that was going to tell them something about why they were being repeatedly snubbed.

“I went over the strategies—down to where I put the commas in our explanations—fifty times last night. You guys, I swear I wrote them up really well. They were good. We have valid plans. We had Lexi and Writher to bust up the pincushion alley! They were going to destroy that obstacle better than any other team.”

Lexi looked concerned. “Thanks for the vote of confidence, but I’m not sure I could do that better than any other team.”

“YOU COULD!”

“Kon…we’ll talk to him tomorrow during runs and try to come up with something he approves of. Remember, he says he’ll put people in if he likes something they think of at the last minute.”

“What if he’s just randomly picking the teams while he sits there relaxing at his desk?” Kon said. “What if it’s all meaningless?”

Vandy was coming down the hall now. Her teammates, smiling and excited about what they’d be doing tomorrow, were following. Vandy, though, was shaking her head at Kon with mild disapproval. “I’m sure Instructor Ash doesn’t randomly decide these things. And you can’t chase him like that. What will he think of you?”

Kon gave her a look so icy Everly should have applauded.

“What were your strategies?” Vandy asked. “They must not have been ideal. Maybe I could give you advice about revisions?”

“I was going to help with the floating island,” Alden offered, hoping to add his voice to the calming ones. “We’ve practiced for it. We had a really valuable practice together even without the gym, didn’t we, guys?”

“It would have been more valuable if we were getting to run tomorrow,” said Mehdi.

Everyone on the girls’ team was looking at Alden like they were trying to see where he was hiding his ability to fly. Except for Heloísa, who suddenly beamed.

“Were you going to throw them all?” she asked in a whisper loud enough to be heard down the hall. “That’s how I wanted to do it, but Vandy said we couldn’t list that as our strategy because it was stupid.”

“I…I didn’t say it was stupid…” Vandy was now turning that judgmental gaze on Alden. “But it isn’t safe. Maybe if you just threw Haoyu.”

“What good is it to just throw Haoyu, though?” Alden asked. “Your team has multiple Shapers, so you have really practical solutions for that obstacle. Of course our strategy for it can’t be as…sleek…as yours.”

“We included video for Ash proving Alden could manage it and everything,” said Kon. He hadn’t bothered to get up from the floor. “Maybe it’s me. Ash doesn’t seem to hate me when I’m practicing my own thing in Superlatives, but he’s prejudiced against me in Coursing.”

“Against you?” The question came from Probably Ram. The all-Brute team had just come out of the classroom, dragging their feet and looking surly. “Yeah, I’ve heard your magic is something weird, but you’re not even the one he made a point of calling out on the first day.”

Did some people have a meeting and decide to look down on me extra hard today or what?

One of the girls on the Brute team elbowed the guy hard enough to send him a step sideways. He looked at her then back at Alden.

“I’m just saying I’d have lost my shit like a Wright on the run if your team got to go this week and ours didn’t.” He spoke in an apologetic tone even though there was no apology within miles of that statement. “We’ve put together a serious contender here. We’re going for interschool championships. Your team is like a mixed bag of friends instead of a competition team. Which is fine for you guys. Whatever. But for us…the rumors about Ash hating Brutes might be true.”

Then he stalked off down the hall, bristling to himself.

“Please tell me he smells like unwashed armpit or goat sweat or something, Jupiter,” said Alden.

She looked pleasantly surprised. “He smells like he ate onions for breakfast.”

“Good.”

“You eat a lot of garlic.”

Alden felt his face heat.

“Don’t worry about it,” said Jupiter. “I like alliums.”

******

******

…I think I’d rather tell a story about a frog that doesn’t start out as a prince.

Others must have lived in that same pool in the forest. Maybe one of them was enjoying a good life, knowing almost nothing but frog stuff, and then his whole world changed because the princess dropped that golden ball into the water.

One day you’re kicking around in the pond, and then this alien mystery falls right past your nose. It’s a color you’ve never seen before, a warm glow in the cool dark. You can tell it’s not a frog thing, but there’s something wonderful about it anyway.

Makes you feel.

Makes you dream.

I don’t know…does that sound like the start of a funny story?

It doesn’t seem right to make fun of a frog like that one. I like that frog.

Forget it, I guess. I’ll go back to the one where the royalty gets punished for trying to kill people.

Maybe the witch was actually trying to fix the prince with temporary froggification? Like a therapist?

Yenu-pezth, but immoral.

To Do:

* Commit to the funny version. Memorize!

*Buy a dry erase board or something cooler than that for visual? Lute’s making a puppet already.

*Learn a few more words that could mean “odious” in Artonan.

That’s enough for right now.

There’s something real, though. About that ball falling into the pond. It’s just a toy to the cursed prince, but to the frog?

Magic.

******

******

******

Alden’s cedar-scented practice candle was going to need replacing soon, but it was waiting for him now on the center of his desk, blackened wick still willing to burn.

