“The thing is, the strategies we already submitted are pretty close to the best we can do with the team we have,” said Alden. “As far as we can tell, anyway. Everything else we come up with that sounds equally good is also equally dicey. Part of me hopes we’ve missed something obvious, because if not, the alternative is that Instructor Ash was just going to refuse us this week no matter how close our group came to our best answer for the obstacles. And that’s bullshit. That would mean we’ve been trying for no reason. What does he like? Do you know?”

“Just a second.” Rahul told his friends he was going to go get a temper sphere, then set off down the broad aisle. A flash from something on display stained his white shirt red as he passed it. “You know I never did get him to give me anything but the bare minimum amount of attention. I told you that. And you’ve noticed he prefers S-ranks by now, I’m sure.”

Rahul didn’t bother to lower his voice.

“Sort of… ” said Alden. “He made what sounded like a dig about me being the weakest member of the class, but then I’ve started thinking he’s actually calling on me in class more than some of the S’s. So…I don’t know what that’s about.”

“Coursing has desk classes. That’s different than being in the gym. S’s aren’t doing magic behind desks. You asked what he likes. As far as I can tell, he likes magic he hasn’t seen before, magic that can kill him, magic rings, faculty gym hours—he never misses them, and sweets. He doesn’t like boredom, things he’s already seen before in class, me, or vegetables.” Rahul had reached the vending machine where Alden always bought his temper spheres. “He likes really perfect execution, too, but his standards are beyond high school level for that.”

Alden mulled over that peculiar list of likes and dislikes while he turned onto Celena Circle.

The atmosphere was right. Big, glow-in-the-dark beachballs had been scattered around. Most of them were being played with. He spotted Søren hanging out with a couple of guys he didn’t know, sharing a pizza on the grass.

“It sounds like you’re describing some kind of six-year-old. Veggies and boredom bad. Playtime and magic good. I mean, perfect execution probably isn’t something a little kid would find interesting, but everything else… ”

“I may be leaving a few important factors out. But that’s because I never cracked the code myself. I’m surprised you signed up for something with him.” Rahul collected his temper sphere from the machine. “I’m glad I didn’t scare you off….Should I have tried harder to scare you off?”

“No,” said Alden. “A bunch of my friends are doing Coursing. People I want to help out and spend time with. And I needed some more floor hours and teamwork opportunities. It just worked out.”

“Is your team planning to go official?”

“We’re really not on track to beat a bunch of other teams in the next half year and go on to bring CNH glory versus Li Jean and Naya Din. We’re just learning together. Having an established group to meet for regular practices is already fun.”

“That’s good. If you ever figure Ash out, let me know. Honestly, assume the six-year-old analogy is right, and try it out. I never put it that way in my head, but maybe it’ll work for you.”

“I will. Thanks, Rahul.”

He ended the call and looked ahead at the street lamps lining the central walk.

Magic he hasn’t seen before. Or that’s so good it’s dangerous to him. How often does a teacher encounter that here? It’s nonsense. My skill is technically one he hasn’t seen before, so is it just not fun enough for him? Or is it because it’s not scary en—

All of the sudden, something small, cold, and slimy touched the back of his neck. He jumped forward with a yelp, slapping back there. He expected, illogically, to find that a klerm had landed on him. Instead, he spun at the sound of familiar laughter and saw Natalie—way too proud of herself—waving something that looked like ice cream in a push-up tube.

“Natalie Choir, did you just smoosh some kind of frozen dessert against my neck? You animal! Where did you come from?” He wiped off whatever it was and sniffed his hand. “Where did this come from? You didn’t make this.”

It smelled alarming. Like cherries and gasoline.

“This isn’t even edible,” he decided.

“I got you! I snuck up on you even though you’re a trained person. I should be in the hero program for my stealth.” She was holding her frozen thing up in what he was clearly supposed to recognize as a victory pose. She was dressed casually tonight. Cargo pants and a gray sweater. She had a loaded backpack. “It is edible. It’s made of a powdered root bagruoodas like. We mixed it with water like they do, but then nobody could really swallow much of it at once because of the texture. So we froze it while we listened to their drums and learned the different meanings.”

“It’s alien food from your culture club meeting. That’s why you’re on campus late.”

“You should come sometime. Why haven’t you joined yet?” She was licking the gasoline pop.

“Are you sure that’s not bad for you?”

“I can eat twice this much without digestive problems. I’m trying to learn what there is to appreciate about the flavor.” She pointed toward a small group—three guys and a girl—waiting several meters back on the sidewalk. “They all gave up even though it’s a really rare import!”

The looks they were pointing in Alden’s direction were bereft. Like I’ve stolen their core member.

“It’s good to see you,” he said. “Or not see you until after you’d attacked.”

She’d been busy through the holidays. Their paths had barely crossed since break ended. He’d talked to Emilija more since she was still keeping an eye on his social media for him.

People who are upset with you don’t press their frozen root water to your neck. Is that why she did it?

“Are you hanging out with those guys or heading back to Boomtown?” he asked.

“Home,” she said. “They’re just walking me to the bus.”

“The Nine-edge Son is back at Garden Hall. Do you want to fly instead?”

“That would be so much faster! Are you too busy?”

He had to wake up in six hours for his devastatingly early Coursing class with an instructor who might be some kind of sugar-slurping child trapped in a powerful Adjuster’s body.

“Nope,” he said. “I’ve got a little time.”

******

It was a short flight that he made longer by taking them up and up, above the drones and all the usual sky traffic toward a night sky half covered by clouds.

She told him one of the pink sledgehammers he’d sent to their apartment was in the corner of her room. She said that it was the best Christmas present she’d gotten this year. And that she’d propped it up at an angle so that Wobble Gobble could stand on it without falling over onto his origami tail.

Then she told him she’d kissed somebody on New Years, placing the words carefully on top of him and waiting. For some answer she must imagine he was wise and mature enough to have.

He stood beside her on the nonagon’s edge, and he didn’t feel wise enough for anything. He was mature enough not to remind her that she’d told him, only a month or so ago, that now was the wrong time in her own life for her to be kissing people.

I wrote you a letter saying I might never see you again, he thought. And it was very hard to write, but not the hardest to write. I’m swimming with my gold ball here, still wishing for so much. I hope for a profound bond with a knight named Stu-art’h. Something magical I’ve only heard about and don’t fully understand.

I’m not someone who will kiss people without explaining that. I’m not going to explain that to you anytime soon.

So when you tell me things like this and then wait like this, I’m just your friend who says…

“Cool! You scored a kiss? Was it a good kiss?”

“Pretty good,” she said. “It was a spur of the moment thing. Not serious.”

Every bit as casually as him. Like there hadn’t been a weird pause for him to think in.

“Was he a handsome dude? Is there a picture of him on your Trime?”

“You don’t have opinions about how people look, do you? You don’t have to pretend just so we can gossip.”

He blinked. “Tragically, I was born without opinions. And I try to hide it, but due to an eyeball malfunction, all people look like the System to me.”

Her eyes went wide. “I said something rude without meaning to!”

“When I’ve given you compliments in the past, I was lying.” He shook his head sadly. “You’re the same plain white mannequin thingy as everyone else.”

“I’m sorry!”

“It’s fine,” said Alden, watching the lights of a helicopter get farther and farther away. “You put it strange, so I jumped on it. Of course I have opinions about how people look. I can judge the cuteness of all kinds of things. Puppies, plants, post drops—”

She groaned.

“If you have trouble figuring out who’s cute or not, it’s no biggie. Just ask me for help, and I’ll let you know what your acquaintances look like. Emilija is cute-cute and funny. Hadiza is hot-cute and cool.”

“Stop!” said Natalie slapping his shoulder and laughing. “I’m really sorry. Don’t start talking about specific body parts, or I’ll never get whatever you say out of my head.”

“Lexi’s arms, though,” said Alden. “Have you seen them?”

“No!”

“He works hard, and they prove it.”

He thought he’d made the feeling between them right again, so he didn’t keep going in that direction.

Instead, he told her as much as he’d told his roommates the other day. That he was training with the goal of following his wizard friend to dangerous places. That he meant to have a life like that. That he was very serious about it.

“But… ” she said.

The syllable hung there until it died.

“Will you be able to?” she finally asked. “I don’t know how strong an Avowed really has to be for…going to places like you were stuck in. They won’t take B’s for Matadero or battlegroups, will they? So maybe you can’t.”

“I’ll figure it out.”

She was frowning worriedly through the nonagon toward the glitter of the city below.

“My birthday is in March,” he said.

“That’s right.” She looked back up at him. “Isn’t Lute’s next week?”

“Yes, but Lute is taken care of. My birthday is much more important than his, and it’s in March, and I have specific cake requirements.”

“Not cake requirements. What will you do?”

“If only I knew a baker.”

“If only.” She paused. “It’s good you’re asking now, though. I’ve got so much work for the next few months. I might have gotten carried away and said yes to a few too many rich people during the hop parties.”

“I still kick ass at washing dishes. Call me if you need me for that.”

“I’ll do it.”

“And if you ever want some ingredients from the Artonas, I could be your import man.”

“Really!?” She whirled so fast, he grabbed her arm reflexively to make sure she stayed onboard the nonagon. “I’ll send you my main list right this second.”

“The list already exists?”

“Of course! Natalie’s Dream Ingredients Main List.”

“Main list? There are sublists? Why would there be sublists for something like that?”

“I’ll have money soon, so it’s not like you have to buy any of it. I’ll pay!”

I hope Stuart doesn’t mind going shopping for way too many groceries.

******

******

Before bed, he snapped at the cedar candle several times. He was getting faster and faster. Watching it light up with all the sparks was just as delightful as it had been earlier.

And just as solitary.

I wish Stuart would call, he thought.

I wish Boe was ready for a real conversation.

I’d like to crush that course in gym tomorrow with the guys, and I want that somehow to make it easier for Konstantin to talk to his family.

I wish I could tell my favorite version of the frog’s story to Warin-doyis’s class tomorrow.

Even more than that…I wish I knew how it ends.

******

******

“In old times,” the original story begins, “when wishing was having… ”

As if all of those characters live closer to their wishes than we do. Like knowing your heart’s desire is enough, and getting it is the natural conclusion.

It doesn’t seem to work like that for my real frog, whose whole world was changed by the golden ball.

He just keeps swimming with it. Struggling upwards with the burden. Calling out. Wanting.

Waiting.
