Tala saw the savage grin on Rane’s face a moment before he capitalized on his dual grip.

Rane reared back, letting Tod drop some before he planted a massively magic enhanced kick to the wolf-kin’s hip, keeping firm hold on the throat and ankle.

Her husband’s bare foot exploded out the other side in a shower of blood, bone, and other bits.

There was a collective intake of breath from all the spectators, and as Rane tossed Tod to the side, he let out a yell of adrenaline and berserker fueled catharsis.

He kept the leg, holding it like a fleshy club.

Tod hit the ground, twisting his body in the air after he bounced, coming around to land on his one leg. He held his balance for a long moment before collapsing down to one knee. His hands followed a moment later, stabilizing him upon the sand.

Rane shook his head vigorously as if to clear it before meeting Tod’s gaze across the torn up, bloody sand. He raised a finger to point at the wolf-kin in a decidedly threatening manner—aided by his opponent’s leg still dangling in his other hand—then barked out a single word—a command—the utterance almost a scream once more, despite the depth of the tone. “Yield!”

Tala’s smile had taken on a sad tinge despite her pride in her husband. Lea noticed when she glanced at her mother. “Mom? What’s wrong?”

“He won, but he’ll see this as a loss.”

“Why? …Oh… The boon.”

Tala nodded. “Yes, the boon, and he’ll believe he lost control of himself. I don’t believe that he did—his opponent is alive after all—but your father holds himself to a higher standard.”

Lea gave a slow nod in turn, not needing to say anything more.

Tod threw his head back and howled in what was clear frustration and his own pent up rage and pain. When he finished, he nodded once with gritted teeth, looked toward the official, and spoke loudly and clearly. “I yield.”

The official clapped once, and immediately, arcanes with clear healing concepts and magics sprinted onto the sand, almost entirely oriented on Tod.

Rane slumped, taking deep breaths before he tossed the leg to a gesturing arcane healer. Once that was done, he held out his hand and pulled Force back to him.

As the sword whipped across the arena, Tod’s eyes widened in shock. In that moment, the arcane finally seemed to understand that Rane had been holding back. The wolf-kin likely hadn’t pulled out all his capabilities, but he’d most likely dug much deeper than Rane had.

Tod gave a slow nod, seemingly fully accepting that he’d likely never had a chance.

Tala stood. “Come on, Lea. Dad will need us now.”

Lea joined her mother, and the two of them jumped down, landing easily on the sand.
