“Besides,” Lyeneru added. “There is a good chance I will reach my second evolution somewhere in the Ciradyl dungeon. With the help of your shrine, that should make the outcome of any fight against the Blind Lich’s dungeon far more certain.”

Wait, second evolution? What level is she?

Archer [Pathfinder of Legends] – Night Elf – level 221 (Fire / Lightning)

Wow, Lyeneru! She was at the upper range of Ali’s ability to even Identify her, but Ali’s surprise was short-lived, interrupted immediately by Calen continuing the strategy discussion.

“I propose a scouting party to return to the Crypt of Kings,” Calen said. “I can lead a small group of assassins and scouts – people with good stealth skills – through the dungeon and learn the location of the Phylactery.”

“Can we afford the time?” Vivian asked. “I’m certain the phylactery will be warded and well concealed. Do you think it’s even worth it?”

“Ali left a teleportation circle hidden outside the dungeon,” Calen answered. “We can return in minutes. I also gained a True Sight advancement from fighting the eldritch boss, and I’ve already identified the secret exit from Kryostria’s cavern. My tracking skills tell me there is at least one more boss through there. I’m sure the phylactery will be near the dungeon core artifact.”

“The raid on Ciradyl will require a few days of preparation,” Lyeneru put in. “We should make time for this.”

“Very well,” Vivian said. “That information will be priceless if you can get it. Just… be careful.”

Calen nodded soberly.

“Ok, volunteers for Calen’s scouting mission?” Lyeneru said, and instantly several hands shot up, Pathfinders and rogue classes, all with powerful illusion or stealth concealment skills and tracking abilities.

Ali just sat back and listened while they hashed out the final details. She had been certain that Kryostria guarded the phylactery and that they would find it somewhere in her cavern. The news that Calen had been alert enough during their rout to spy the exit deeper into the dungeon and deduce the existence another boss had come as an unfortunately large surprise to her. If the difficulty ramp in the Crypt of Kings continued to skyrocket as steeply as they had experienced, there was no way they would have survived whatever came next. She hated to admit it, but Lyeneru was right. They would need to grow much stronger. They would need the legendary archer herself to ascend to the next evolution, and even then, it would likely be a great challenge.

She had more on her mind to worry about, too. While they had met with much success on their delve, she had to confront the fact that she was now marked and trackable by the Well guardian in the Crypt of Kings. Even though the dungeon’s domain did not have perception skills, if she showed up again, Nevyn Eld could likely sense her directly using his minion. Sending her out to Ciradyl would be far less risky, perhaps even bolstering Lyeneru’s effort to draw his attention there instead.

Ok, not my first plan, but I think this is a good one. Let’s claim the Well of Souls for Lira.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
