The first five were normal Frost Owls, according to the Kill Notifications. The sixth was the primal frost owl, for sure. She lay in the back of the owl’s nest. She was the mother of killers, sized like an SUV, but she was barely breathing. Someone had chopped off her wing, and recently, too. The stump was covered in red ice, and dripping blood. She would not survive. The other owls had been trying to feed her, to nurse her back to health, but she lay in the back of their shared cave, dying of wounds, both new, and old. A small ice slime the size of her clouded, white eyes, crawled across her face. She flinched at the disturbance, but did not do more than that. She had probably been dying for a long time.

Jane could definitely see that she had been a majestic monster, at one point in time. Her single intact wing was splayed out across the nest. It had to be five meters long. Her coloring was magnificent. Bright whites, all the way, except for nodes of blue ice here and there.

Jane ended her quickly. Then she carved out the matriarch’s grand rad, and her heart. Both of them were tangled up with each other, with the grand rad caught up in the veins and arteries just above the heart. She separated the organ from the grand rad, then used a [Cleanse] to wipe away the messy, tangled bits of flesh wrapped into the shimmering jewel, revealing a hunk of not-ice that shone with a bright blue glow. The brain was an easier extraction. For all the matriarch’s size, the brain was only the size of a watermelon.

One shadowspider transformation and meal later, Jane switched out her air slime for a primal frost owl. It wouldn’t be good for normal fights, but it would be great against bigger foes. Jane decided she still wanted a Razorwing. Maybe.

She changed back to human, and held up the matriarch’s grand rad, saying, “Quest complete. Your verdict?”

“You need to stop using [Personal Ward]s. They are holding you back. You need [Melee Reflection].” Tinawa said, “The two reflective [Ward]s prove themselves at all levels of combat, but especially at the higher levels. You could have killed those owls many times over, with a lot less stress, with a few properly timed, 50 mana counters.”

Jane immediately wanted to argue. “That’s!…” She stopped herself. She frowned. “That’s actually a really good point. But...” She asked, “Is Warder a good Class?” She could have more than one [Personal Ward] active at the same time, if she were a Warder.

“They’re all good! Just pick one.” Tinawa looked to the corpse of the matriarch. “You going to harvest the rest of it?”

Jane turned to the body. She was fine with her grand rad, but, she asked, “What does it have?”

“Air-aspect feathers. Great for making flying vehicles.” Tinawa rattled off, “Shame about the eyes, but each one would have made a great long-distance [Scry]ing orb. Take the blood and the talons and you can treat those talons to easily accept a [Hunter’s Instincts] enchantment. Cuts better, higher Critical chance. Hard to wield, though. A feather cape can be enchanted with [Fly], while a different feather cape can be enchanted with [Cold Weather Ward]. All of those enchantments last longer than if you’d enchant some other kind of bird parts with the same magics...”

Tinawa continued to list uses for the primal frost owl’s carcass, and Jane realized, again, how much money she left on the floor, with almost every kill she had ever made. It was an uncomfortable feeling. It was, in fact, almost the same feeling she had when they had to abandon the Ancient Unicorn’s corpse in the Forests north of Killtree.

Jane interrupted, “Let’s just… I don’t want to hang around for oozes to come up here. You can have anything else you want of the corpse, but I get the grand rad. I killed it.”

Tinawa acted offended, saying “What! No treat for your teacher?! I work hard, you know!”

“You can have the rads in the ones down below.”

“And brave all those oozes? No way!” Tinawa teased, “Besides! I’m not hauling that crap through thirty [Teleports].”

Jane grunted, “Hrm.”

Tinawa held out his hand.

Jane kept the grand rad in one hand, but took his hand with her other, saying, “[Teleport] in the correct direction, please.”

Tinawa smiled.

The world shifted yellow, once, twice, three times, and then a lot more. They took a break on the beach, in the dark. Jane conjured a backpack and put the grand rad inside of it, as she asked about magical martial techniques. Tinawa answered. Then they blipped some more. It wasn’t long before Tinawa pointed in a direction, and told her to start [Teleport]ing as far as she could, wherever she felt like.

Jane ended up in the ocean more than once. But that was fine. It was only a minor setback. Tinawa never touched the water. He just hovered in the air, laughing, each time Jane slipped down into the drink. He reminded her that using her single [Personal Ward] to make [Fly] was a good idea, since she shouldn’t be using a [Personal Absorption Ward] anymore, anyway.
