“Wrong.” Tinawa cracked the ice over her shadowy body. “Try again.”

Jane thought about… fluffy blankets and happy hearts and cozy warmth—

Three meters away, where a building’s doorway was covered in ice and the building itself was layered with the stuff, the door was not actually covered in ice at all. The not-ice slipped from the doorway, to ooze a tendril forward, onto the cracked ice where Jane had hidden. Jane just moved a bit to the right, still under the ice, avoiding the ooze’s tendril. The ooze slipped into the crack. It poked around. It found nothing. It repaired the cracked ice, restoring the road to ice-covered perfection, then moved back to the doorway where it pretended to be a part of the environment.

Tinawa’s voice came from directly above Jane’s new hiding spot. “You imbued the thoughts of fire into a diffusion of shadow, catching that ooze in your effect.” He said, “The best way to [Erase Presence] is to think like the people or monsters in the area, in a way that directly aligns with whatever Elemental Body you’re currently using. What is natural? What is normal? What bears no need for investigation? Shadow has feelers into every aspect of magic, so this is one of the better tools to start with, but this also means you must control your thoughts more. Do not think of anything outside of the background.”

… I am ice. I exist here. I am nothing.

Jane created a mantra and repeated it on loop as she moved down a city street. The road widened, as she moved deeper into dangerous territory. This walled city was tiered sort of like Kal’Duresh. It wasn’t long until Jane came to an intersection. To the right, lay a broken city gate, much larger than the side entrance she and Tinawa used to gain egress into the city. To the left, lay a broken road that wound back and forth, up to another tier. Barren planters rested at each side of the upward path. Since the winding road was right beside a main entrance, it had probably been full of greenery back when this place was still in use. Maybe it was something of a display of opulence? A lot of the city looked that way to Jane. But these days, a lot of the city was smashed, just like the entrance. Someone, or likely a lot of someones, had broken this place up right good.

And then the oozes came and frosted it all over, locking down ruins under thin sheets of ice.

Where to go, now? Well... Owls liked to nest high, so she would have to go up to find the nest and kill—

The ice cracked over her shadowy body. “I can see you again.” Tinawa added, “And you were doing so well.”

“Bite me,” Jane vibrated.

Immediately, three walls of not-ice that had been attached to nearby buildings, detached from those buildings and swarmed forward, rushing to the place where Jane had spoken. It was like glaciers crashing at sea. The oozes broke upon each other, breaking the stone and road.

Jane had already slipped away, under the thin ice, up the curving road, into the city proper.

Tinawa spoke above her moving shadow, “Those ones must have been hungry.”

Jane returned to her mantra.

Ice ice ice ice ice ice ice ice.

She crawled upward, moving fast enough. [Greater Shadowalk] cost 2.5 mana every second, but her Meditation-fueled Regeneration was 1.7 every second. She was losing mana, but the drain wasn’t too bad. What made the drain slightly intolerable, though, was [Silent Movement]. That cost 1 Health every two meters moved. The subsequent drain to her mana was thus increased, every time she used [Invisible Rejuvenation] to restore her missing Health.

But it wasn’t too bad. The owls had to be in the city, right? She had to be on the right track, and if she was on the right track, then she had more than enough time to practice pulling her body and her thoughts together in an attempt to learn [Erase Presence]. How often would she have the Professor of War personally guiding her growth? She was going to take as much advantage of this as she could. So that’s what she did, as she looked for birds besides the frost eagles that circled overhead.

Normally, she extended her shadowy self in every direction in order to ‘see’ in a large area around her body. But this method had her condensed down into her own shadow.

… Maybe she should have picked the ‘defense’ option. Defense was better than attack in a world like Veird, wasn’t it?

Eh. She’d stick with this, for now. She’d learn the other way, another time.

Jane slipped past crashed buildings, and old ruins. She flickered over gaps in the frozen road. She took a peek down a deep sewer hole, and decided that the only thing that lived down there were oozes. She got to half mana, and the temporary light of the sky was almost gone. Night was almost here.

She made it all the way to the top buildings, which were, as she expected, devoid of oozes. But there weren’t any owls anywhere. Just those same eagles hovering in the same sky up above. The last bits of daylight vanished.

Tinawa spoke from directly above her hiding spot, “You won’t get [Erase Presence] today, but a few days of this, and you probably could. You’re on the right path.”

That was all well and good, but where were the owls?

The deep greys of the sky flickered darker. A storm was moving in.

Jane saw the storm, and reluctantly asked, “Time to leave?”

“What? Why?” Tinawa asked, surprised. “The fight is just about to begin? Do you need a mana break?” He said, “Oh! Did you not— Look up! Use [Scry] if you have to. They’re pretty high up there. They should be coming down soon, though.”

Jane stared into the sky. And then she used [Scry].

… She should have noticed.

Those birds were not eagles, at all. And they had been much, much higher than Jane had thought. They had started close to the city, while there was still daylight, but as the light waned, and Jane crawled up through the city, they must have flown higher. But as night arrived, the flock descended, one followed by another. And they were huge.

Tinawa asked, “Were we not just taking the scenic route? Did you not recognize them?”

Jane grumbled, “I thought they were eagles. I’ve never seen a frost owl in person.” She added, “The book I read must have been wrong.”

“And now you get to see five.” He added, “Pull back that killing intent, girl. They might not sense it much, but I certainly can, and so can every enemy that matters.”

Jane frowned to herself, and then she spread her senses wide, imagining herself as ice, as she watched the flock descent.

Tinawa said, “That’s pretty good diffusion. Maybe we should have started with that.”

The frost owls were grey and white, with flat faces and large, black eyes. Ice tipped their wings. The first owl entered the city’s airspace, like a five meter wide silent predator of calculating frost. And then it began chittering; calling out with tiny echos. It dipped down into the streets, flying slower than a beast that size had any right to fly.

Oozes poked out from hiding spots, searching for whatever disturbed them. One ooze flopped directly into the middle of a road, marking itself as the owl’s target. The first owl dipped down from above, aiming directly at its prey. Jane watched through the shadows as the owl slipped through space around the ooze, jumping from one location to the next, leaving bisected goo in its wake. The ooze shivered in pain. It had no time to gather up its lost mass. The second and third owls slipped through the very same space, carving the ooze into cold, gelatinous treats. The final two owls, which were smaller than the first three, descended to the ground and quickly gobbled up the dead oozes. The first three came back and cleaned up the still-flopping remains on the ground.

Jane whispered, “Oozes should not be that easy to kill.”

“They’re not. The acid in the owls’s stomach does most of the work, but if they overeat the ooze can reform inside of them, consuming them from the inside out.”

“… I’m almost tempted to try killing them that way… but no.”

Tinawa laughed.

Owls 4 and 5 led the kill of the next three oozes, while the others ate their fill. It was full dark by the time the owls came down to nest, in the buildings right above Jane, at the top of the city. They chittered and chirped with each other.

Then one of them came out of their nest, almost directly where Jane was, and began heaving.

Bones and metals and other indigestible material landed on the ground, in the shadows, to join the other bones already there. Human-sized bones.

Jane whispered, “I need a break, then I’m coming back.”

“Back where we entered?”

“Yes.”

Jane blipped through shadows.

Tinawa still beat her to the mountain path, where the [Gate] had dropped them into this land. He stood there in his yellow armor, revealed for all the world to see. Jane stepped up out of the ground. Tinawa gestured to the mountainside, where the land slipped open, creating a small space to rest. Jane filled the minor cave with a [Weather Ward] and a [Warmth Ward]. Tinawa filled it with a [Silence Ward]. Jane only noticed his Ward when she stepped into the hole in the ground and the sounds of the wind disappeared.

With both of them inside the cave, Tinawa said, “You were doing well out there. You might be stronger at defense. Just something to consider.”

Jane nodded, still thinking about the human-sized bones.

After a minute of silence, Jane said, “I’m not going to practice anything against them. They move too fast. They need to die even faster.”

“A fair choice.” Tinawa leaned against the back of the cave.

Jane asked, “Is [Erase Presence] the way toward the Special Action you get when you get all the Elemental Bodies?”

“Yes and no.” Tinawa said, “I spoke of condensation or diffusion earlier. That is the way toward your desired Special Action. You can only pick one. Broadly, and incorrectly, they are [Prismatic Attack], or [Prismatic Defense]. You either focus your killing intent to a point, and the world conspires to enact your bloody will. Or you focus on your own well being, and the world conspires to make you safe.” He added, “The exact nature of the ability is different for each individual.”

Jane Meditated, recovering her mana, as she thought.

Eventually, she asked, “Is there a Class linked to that ability?”

“Nope. None. I changed my Class three times, but I completed that Special Action when I still had Soldier. The only thing I unlocked was a Class Ability that has been different for every Class I’ve had.” Tinawa said, “I’ve known others who have had empowered [Strike]s. One woman I knew, years and years ago, had an empowered shield. That was a strong ability.” He added, “And no. I’m not telling you what I have until you get yours.”

Jane nodded.

And she thought.

When she was ready to go kill the owls, she went. Tinawa followed.

She killed the first owl in a surprise beheading. Jane leapt out of the wall and swung her sword with all her might. The owl’s head flew to the other side of their nest.

The other four owls zipped after her, faster than the eye could see. Jane retreated, bloody and hurt. The owls gave chase, following Jane’s shadow as she moved across the city. She had not expected to be hurt in their counterattack, but that’s what [Greater Treat Wound]s was for. Jane managed to throw off the owls, losing them to the deep darkness of the frozen city.

She killed the second and third owl when she purposefully appeared to them, giving them a target in the middle of the street, between three very awake oozes. The oozes caught the second owl. Jane clipped a wing of the third. Jane didn’t actually kill the second and third owls, but she got 10 and 25% Participation, so she sorta did.

The fourth owl did the speedy thing that all the owls could do. In a moment of transition, she tried to strike the owl, but the owl countered her, managing to clip Jane’s leg. Said leg turned solid as ice , then cracked off, flying into one of the many awake oozes Jane’s battle had awoken across the city. That was okay, though. Jane was in pain, but she kept her mind together. She dropped her father’s rings and everything she was wearing into one of the nearby buildings, then rushed back into the fight. At the right moment, she transformed into a flame ooze, and used [Greater Treat Wounds] again, ballooning her body back up to full mass and size.

The ice oozes of the city almost attacked her, but they were suddenly very, very confused. The oozes oozed, as oozes were wont to do, just on the edge of the zone created by her lava-hot body, not daring to get closer, but not daring to let her out of their encirclement. Soon, Jane had at least twenty ice oozes circling her, not one of them getting more than ten meters closer.

The fourth and fifth owl tried to kill flame ooze Jane like they tried to kill normal oozes. That did not work, at all. They swooped in for their slashing kill technique, but Jane reached up, fully exposing herself to harm, but knowing she would be okay.

She was not okay, as the owls flew through her, but she’d had worse injuries. Her scattered, flaming body, was now attached to the owls, and doing a great job of murdering them. She helped along the process by turning into an airy, flying flame ooze, giving chase, inflaming her owl-coating remnants into an inferno.

Fire and air went together so, so well.

Jane retrieved her gear, while frost oozes raged across the lower levels of the city, looking for whatever was out there.

There was a sixth owl.

