Emline rubbed Steve's back gently, one arm braced on his shoulder. Where was Kelegas, anyway? He had been interrogating that new arrival for what seemed like hours, now. It was unusual for someone like him to be gone so long. "You'll be okay," she comforted. "Is it as bad as last time?"

"Not as bad, but..." Steve shook his head, shivering. "It's cold, for some reason. I don't think that's a good sign. If this doesn't stop soon, we might be in trouble."

"The fabric of time again?" Emline asked.

"Yeah," Steve said. "Whoever's messing with it needs to take a break or they're going to rip a hole straight through. Even time needs time to heal, you know. I've always said it."

"I don't think that wisdom is very well-known," Emline said dryly, hiding the true extent of her worry. She had never seen Steve like this, even when he practiced his strongest chronomancy spells.

Hopefully, Kelegas would be back soon, and then they could figure this out.

When Cale and his friends found themselves on steady footing once more, it was at the end of a massive banquet table. He blinked in surprise, in part at the lavish spread of food, and in part at the fact that they were not, in fact, surrounded by demons and fighting off the end of the world.

Adam's voice—old now, from the far end of the table—spoke up. "I suppose I am unsurprised that it is this moment you would appear in," he said wearily. Cale stared at him. How much had he aged? He had a massive beard now, and his skin was wrinkled and spotted with age. Entire decades must have passed.

"It has been fifty years," Adam told him. "And humanity is about to end. Welcome, Cale, to the feast at the end of the world."

There was a slight pause as Cale stared at him, then at the piece of parchment he had retrieved from his robes. That was the report on what had happened to the University's instructors, presumably. He took it, scanned through it briefly, then turned to Sternkessel.

"I changed my mind," he said plainly. "Can we come back in like three weeks? I think I need a break from all this."

Sternkessel's rings rotated in a way that, impressively, somehow managed to convey the idea that he was raising an eyebrow. "You are certain?"

"Very." Cale glanced at Adam. "You'll be fine, right?"

Adam shrugged. "It is a strange thing you have created," he said. "Truebridge or not, this place will be held in stasis if you leave. There would be little consequence to it, if you need more time."

"Good." Cale noticed everyone else staring at him and made a face. "What? I think we've earned a break! And there are things I need to look into before we get any further with this. This isn't a Vital situation."

"Right," Flia said. She sounded a little skeptical, but Cale thought there was a hint of relief in her tone, which only reinforced his decision.

Though that wasn't the only reason he had changed his mind, of course. He gripped the parchment a little more tightly. Adam hadn't entirely spelled out what caused the so-called end, at least for humanity, but he had included in his report enough of a hint that Cale could make an educated guess.

Just enough, in fact, to tell Cale he didn't have all the magics he needed yet. And judging by the lack of surprise on Adam's face and the knowing glint in his eye...

"Well," Cale said. "We'll see you soon, I guess. Three weeks for me, no time at all for you."

"Indeed." Adam smiled. "I look forward to it. May the Fifth go with you."

"I would really rather she didn't," Cale muttered, mostly to himself. From what Damien had told him of her, that would just create a mess. This was probably just a saying, though, right? She wasn't actually going to follow them back through into the Abyss.

"Are we ready?" Sternkessel asked, his tone oddly gentle. Cale took a moment to look around at the feast Adam had prepared and memorize every detail—the food he had laid out, the ostentatious, golden decorations, the overly-large room. He had the odd feeling it was important.

Adam had prepared for this for fifty years, after all, and he was a clever man. Not all things could be put to writing.

"We're ready," Cale decided. "Let's go home."

Steve let out a breath of relief just as Kelegas hurried into the room. "It stopped," he said as the dark lord approached worriedly. He pushed himself gingerly to his feet. "That was... unpleasant. Feels like it's still there, sort of like an unfinished stitch, but it's not tearing itself open anymore."

"Ah," Kelegas said, slowing his pace, though the worried look didn't leave his face. "You are alright, then?"

"For now." Steve grimaced, rubbing his temples as Emline moved to the dark lord's side and gave him a kiss on the cheek. "I'll let you know if anything changes. Did you learn anything from our new... uh, guest? Prisoner? What is he, anyway?"

Kelegas hesitated. That stuck out to Steve, who had never seen Kelegas hesitate like this on anything that was important.

"I do not know," he answered eventually, and he seemed troubled by that fact. "I have yet to decide if he can be trusted. But regardless, we must act on the information he has given us. If there is any chance at all that he speaks the truth, then this Cale Cadwell Cobbs may be the greatest threat to our plans on Utelia."

"What will we do, then?" Emline asked.

"I will disguise myself as a student or professor of a rival academy," Kelegas said. "Joining Brightscale would bring too much attention, but I believe there will be joint exercises before the tournament, and it will allow me to infiltrate the tournament itself as well."

Emline frowned at that. "You're going to do this yourself?"

"I will not risk anyone else being exposed to Cale or his apprentices," Kelegas said. Whatever he had heard from Echo must have truly worried him. "So yes. Keep things stable in my absence, will you?"

"Only if you keep your rage in check." Emline's voice was soft with concern, and Steve was equally worried, though he couldn't bring himself to voice it.

To operate within the domain of the divine like this would exacerbate the effects of being a dark lord. Kelegas could fight it off more than most, but even he was vulnerable to the anger that came with it.

Could he help? He wasn't technically an aberration, unlike Emline. He could live on any of the other continents without any adverse effect. He was here because he had chosen to stay and help, but if Kelegas was going to get personally involved—

"I'll come with you," Steve said, before he could think twice about it. Both Emline and Kelegas looked at him, and he coughed awkwardly, looking away. "I can't... organize things like Emline can. And I can help keep you in check. If you want."

"I would appreciate that," Kelegas said softly. "Emline?"

"It's a good idea," Emline agreed, smiling at Steve. "Take care of him for me, would you?"

Steve nodded, clenching his fists in determination. "I'll do my best."

Ashvali perked up. There it was! Her opportunity! Cale was returning to Utelia, to her relief—she had been briefly worried, when he had chosen to continue on with the Bitter Path. But he had changed his mind, which not only meant things were back on track, but that she could finally find out what exactly the man was.

Or at least how he reincarnated. That, she thought, would give her some kind of hint about his origin. Probably.

Normally such secrets were obscured from her, but here she had three advantages: one, she needed only to look at a moment within Cale's past, which was well within her domain. Two, Cale and his companions were in the space between the Abyss and the Fog, and in that transitory space there was a weakness in the fabric of the worlds that she could take advantage of.

Three, Cale still hadn't dismissed his [Eyes of Ashvali], which gave her direct access to it.

Excellent. The Fifth Intersection tapped into her eyes, then peered excitedly into what would have been the moment just before Cale's very first reincarnation.

If only she had known at the time what she would see.
