“Are you done, mom?” I look next to me and see mother bent over with her arms on her calves, breathing heavily.

“I think I’m done for today. Are you going to keep running, I hope you’re not going to overdo it again?” She doesn’t raise her head up while she questions me.

“No, I’m going to take it easy. I’m just going to do another lap… or ten before I head over to Del’s place.” I smile at my mother. I didn’t think she was serious about wanting to join me in my morning runs.

“No need to show off. It’s only my second day. Give me a few months and I’ll be able to keep up with you.”

“If you say so. See you tonight, love you.” I activate Double Step knowing mother is watching me. I hope she knows I’m messing with her.

I slow down and come to a stop after I’m out of my mother’s view. I lean over and massage my legs. I don’t want mother to worry but my legs have been giving me problems since our run together yesterday.

I pull up my status page, trying to add a more detailed view of my experience gains.

LV: 60 Experience: 333,105/ 420,152

Health: 1,875.91/2,030

Stamina: 891.77/1,343

Mana: 1,000/1,000

Vitality: 203.00

Endurance: 80.07

Strength: 120.02

Dexterity: 113.01

Senses: 60.18

Mind: 62.24

Magic: 100.24

Clarity: 75.16

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV77), Running (LV70), Axe Skills (LV55), Blacksmithing (LV54), Cleaning (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV48), Chanting (LV44), Mining (LV42), Drawing (LV37), Cooking (LV36), Dagger Skills (LV31), Acting (LV30), Trading (LV26), Sewing (LV24), Wood Carving (LV21), Sword Skills(LV9), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV77), Double Step (LV52), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV38), Axe Arts (LV36), Hammer Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Mathematics (LV30), Intimidating Shout (LV29), Dagger Arts (LV12), Increase price (LV7), Marching (LV5), Lower Price (LV4), Gourmet (LV2), Sword Arts (LV1)

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV55), Mana Manipulation (LV46), Precise Strike (LV25), Double Strike (LV23), Weighted Strike (LV8), Flash Step (LV8),

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV41), Mana Skin (LV40), Mental Resistance (LV37), Extract Mana (LV6), Magic Blacksmithing (LV2)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV27)

Increased Skill Levels

Running (LV70) 3,500exp

Sword Skills (LV1-9) 2,250exp

Double Step (LV52) 5,200

Sword Arts (LV1) 100exp

Expel Mana (LV55) 8,250exp

Mana Manipulation (LV45-46) 13,650exp

Flash Step (LV5-8) 3,900exp

Inject Mana (LV41) 10,250exp

Mana Skin (LV38-40) 29,250exp

Mental Resistance (LV35-37) 27,000exp

Extract Mana (LV1-6) 5,250exp

Sense Soul (LV26-27) 26,500exp

Skill Experience: 135,100exp

Crafting Experience: 1,293exp

Fighting Experience: 156exp

Total experience Gained: 136,549exp

Mother was right, at this pace, I’ll reach level 61 soon. My three days of rigorous training bore a lot of fruit but it came with a cost.

I move my left shoulder in a circular motion. I can feel my arms and legs throbbing each time I stretch. I didn’t feel it while I was pushing myself but after a day of rest, my body is telling me I really fucked up. I bottled up my emotions again and put the weight of the village on my shoulders. I tuned out my parents and probably would have done more damage to myself if my mother didn’t stop me.

Even now my Health is refusing to recover the whole way and is slowly ticking up a percentage of a point at a time. I’ll have to stick to light jogging and stretching until my body fully recovers.

I was planning on forging up a storm today only to realize I shot myself in the foot during my training. My skills will help me to forge but I’ll have to take my time and make sure I don’t overdo it.

I start walking around the village and stop when I reach the road to Del’s clearing. I don’t even feel like doing another lap right now.

Walking down the forest path I think about my gains over the last few days. Inject Mana is finally past its first test.  The skill leveled when I successfully channeled my mana into my magic sword and extracted the mana that hadn’t fully assimilated into the sword. I also gained the new skill Extract Mana which I’ve already found some major benefits from.

The opposite of Inject Mana, I can remove and absorb mana from spaces close to me. My new skill lets me deactivate my sword and extinguish the flames when I need to. Extract Mana also allows me to absorb the mana from my Mana Skin barrier. I also tried absorbing the mana from nature hoping it would increase the recovery time for my mana pool. My recovery speed increased by a hair but my body still needs to convert the environmental mana into my own personal mana before it recharges my mana pool.

I need to be careful I don’t mana poison myself with my new skill. The same thing happens when I absorb the mana from my sword. I always pull out a part of my mana that’s being converted into the flames making my mana pool feel like it’s on fire until my body converts the magic into my own.

While I passed the test in Inject Mana, Mana Skin reached level 40. I’ll have to experiment to see how I can pass this new test.

Every night I tried diving into my memories pushing Sense Soul and Mental Resistance up a few levels. Sense Soul is only three levels away from reaching its first test. The tier 4 tests have already proven difficult, I’m a little worried how hard a tier 5 test will be.

I managed to raise my Sword Skills to level 9 by converting my experience with the other weapons I’ve learned to wield. Sadly, manga and anime have not improved my sword skills in this life. Controlling a sword is difficult and I’ll need to ask the headman if he can give me a few pointers. He had a few swords in his little armory, so I’m assuming he has the skill to use them.

Master said blacksmiths often gain a few levels in the basic weapon skills, maybe he can give me a few pointers as well?

The first thing I do when I enter Master Del’s clearing is to scan the surrounding trees. My laps around the village don’t go this far into the woods and I need to make sure nothing is creeping around my workspace.

Master isn’t sleeping on his favorite bench, I’m happy he took my advice.

I check over our workplace as I make my way over to master’s hut and everything is as exactly as I left it.

“Master! You up yet!?” I pound on his door.

“You back already?” I hear him groan from the other side.

“Nope, this is a bad dream. You should probably wake up.” I tease through the door.

“Funny.” Master flings the door open. “Enjoy your break?” I try not to let the disappointment show on my face.

“It was productive. I should’ve spent more time with my family but I raised some of my skills.” I turn around and move over to start the forge for the day.

“Oh.” Master doesn’t pry into my business, I’m sure he noticed the complicated look on my face.

I glance at master as he takes up his usual resting spot. I imagine the impression his butt must have made on the stone by now. It’s a good thing I’m facing away from master, these days he notices when I make a joke about him in my head.

“What are you making today?” He asks after he lays down and closes his eyes.

“I’m going to make the grill I wanted and then forge some spears.”

“Llaif gamfr ol e nnamse!”

I quickly chant the fire spell and light the forge. I wait a minute before I add the first big log to the flames.

Once the fire is really going, I move over to the materials shed and grab a few bars of the steel we made last week. I plan on using three bars of steel, that’s 165 pounds, to make a good size barbecue for our house.

The flames rise higher but the surroundings aren’t becoming brighter. Looking up I see some clouds moving in. ignoring the weather I move on.

When the fire is hot enough, I place my first bar into the forge. Once the steel turns the right color, I move it over to my anvil. I swing my hammer down hard on the ingot.

“Sssss!” I suck in a quick breath through my teeth. I was too excited and forgot I need to take it easy. I raise my hammer again and activate my Double Strike skill only without my full strength behind the blows this time.

I don’t need my full strength to forge properly. I did good work a month ago when my strength was only around 50 and my skills are a lot higher now than back then.

I continue to work the metal until I have a flat rectangle of steel. The rectangle is 4’ by 1’ and still pretty thick.

I start rolling the steel into a circle for the base of my grill. I’ll fill the inside of the steel with powdered stone and add some water to make a concrete-like mix. I’ll burry a foot of the pole into the ground and pack its surroundings with the same stone I put inside the tube.

I’m going with a more functional and sturdier grill design rather than a fancy barbeque someone would buy back on earth. My design is going to be a larger form of grills commonly found inside parks and campgrounds. Those grills withstand the elements and would be a large improvement compared to cooking in our fireplace.

I mana quench my base and study the welding seam I made. I don’t detect anything wrong with the weld so I move on to the body of the grill.

Another bar of steel goes into the forge.

I have to flatten the steel again but this time I make a bulky upside-down T-shape. I’ll fold the ends up, making an open box with a side removed.

Before I fold the steel, I use my Measurement skill and mark the two edges that will form the sides of the grill. I want to be able to adjust the grate’s distance from the fire, so I need to carve notches in the steel where I can lock the grate in.

Precise Strike helps me move the steel and create mirroring designs on each of the sides. If I didn’t have my Measurement skill at a high enough level my grill would be lopsided.

My Mana Skin is helping with the heat of the forge but I’m sweating for another reason. The little jolts of pain around my body are making me tense up. Glancing at my work, I also can’t help but think I would normally be done with this part by now

“You’re moving slow today.” Master’s watching me from his bench.

“I over practiced my swordsmanship during my break. I can still forge but my body is complaining about my stupidity.” I turn away from master and heat up the metal again. I need to fold the sides up now.

“You need to learn to relax, you know that?” I hear behind me as I watch the metal heat up.

“Yes, master.” I give a half-hearted response over the roar of the forge.

“You’re not as good as me yet, so you can’t laze around like your amazing master but you can still have a lazy day once and a while. It will do you some good.”

“Maybe after Kervin comes again and we check the forest for any signs of the chameleon spiders. Maybe then I’ll have some free time for a lazy day.” I laugh at the idea of me doing nothing for a whole day. And maybe I’ll get a tier 6 skill while I’m at it.

The steel is ready now. I move the hot metal over to my anvil and slowly bend the sides up. I need to weld the two seams together to properly form the body of my grill.

“You going to cook me something when you’re done?” Master is oddly chatty today. He must have missed me the last five days.

“I’m going to bring some tools home with me and set it up tomorrow morning before I come here. You can join us for dinner tomorrow if you’d like?” I want my parents to spend some more time with Master Del. Father’s slowly forgiving Del and mother uses Del as a source of information about how I’m doing. I’d be nice if they can all get along better.

“I’ll think about it.” He rolls over onto his other side so I can’t see his expression.

Crafting something like this is a good way to start off my day. Tools and stuff like this don’t need as much rigorous focus as a weapon or piece of armor does. I still make the best product I can but if something goes wrong with my grill the person won’t die, presumably.

Armor and weapons require me to have a different mindset when I’m making them. Armor needs to be flexible but strong enough to save someone’s life when they’re in danger. Weapons require an even stricter focus.

When someone draws a weapon, whether they’re in a battle or for self-defense reasons, the weapon in many cases is the only thing keeping them from entering their next life. Armor is important but a man wearing armor without a weapon is only prolonging the inevitable.

The spears I’m going to make after this are either going to be sold to the army defending a fort or be placed in the headman’s armory in case the village needs them. I can’t afford any mistakes no matter where they go.

I’m almost finished with the body of the grill. The last part of the body I need to make is the fitting where I’ll connect the base and body of the grill. I place the third ingot in the flames. The rest of the work will be more delicate.

When the steel is hot enough, I move it over to my anvil and grab the axe we use to split metals. I move the metal back and forth from the forge and my anvil as I split the ingot into different sections.

When I have my steel bar separated into different pieces, I take the biggest chunk left and put it back in the forge. This chunk of steel will become the fitting for my steel cylinder. I’ll weld the cap-like fitting to the bottom of the body of the grill but I won’t weld the cap and base together, that way the grill can swivel on top of the base and if I need to move the grill for some reason I’ll only have to make a new base for the grill.

After the cap is formed and welded to the body of the grill, I move on to the grate that will go inside the body of the grill.

I’ll form the chunks of steel I cut from the ingot into cylinders. The cylinders are then welded together to make my cooking surface.

