“Camden sent you out here on your own, why?” Camden seemed serious when he told the village the new rules regarding our buddy system. I don’t think he would break his own rules. If someone saw Ronald in the woods by himself it could outrage the hunters who spoke out against his rules.

“Delivering message to village.”

It takes me a minute to decipher his meaning. I can only guess the headman wanted him to take an urgent message to our closest sister village. We’re the village furthest in the forest but the closest village to us isn’t that much farther from the mana rich parts of the woods. A message delivered by our best hunter would show how serious our warning is. The village is even farther from the spiders than we are so it makes sense only one person was required to go.

“Did he send other hunters to the farther villages?” Ronald nods his head in confirmation.

The headman isn’t taking any risks. He’s spreading word to the other villages even if the spiders will probably never make it that far. Thinking about the siders.

“Would you like a new bow?” I offer my silent companion. He turns his head and I can barely notice his questioning look. His facial ticks are hard to spot on his straight face.

“I need money so I thought I’d offer you the best bow I can make in exchange for the chameleon spider materials. I’ll also throw in some arrows to sweeten the deal.” I make my offer, hoping my Trading skill is working overtime.

His eyes bore into me and I feel like a rabbit staring up at a wolf even though we're close to being the same height.

I might have to throw something else in to sweeten the deal.

“Fine.”

…

He turns around and keeps walking.

Was he happy with the deal or did he just not care enough to haggle?

I never realized silence could be used like that during negotiations. I might have to try that out on Kervin when he comes again.

I have to push myself a little bit to catch up with Ronald. “How strong are you?” He sends me another questioning glance. “Just an estimation. It looked like your current bow was too easy for you to draw and didn’t have enough power behind it. I want to make you something better suited towards your stats.” I plan on putting the same amount of effort I did on my sword into making Ronald a new bow. I have an idea but I’m not sure if it will work with my materials.

“160.” I’m surprised by the number he gives me, he’s stronger than me. I won’t question his stat allocation but judging by what I’ve seen during the goblin extermination he has an even higher Dexterity stat.

I see my house in the distance.

Ronald follows me up to my front door and kindly opens it for me. Chivalry must not be dead yet in this world. I carefully place my grill parts off to the side of our entryway. Father and mother glance at me and look surprised at the pile of steel I brought home.

I hear the door start to close behind me. whirling around, I stop the door with my hand.

“Ronald!” I call out to the back of the man walking through the rain. He turns around and faces me. “I’ll make the best bow you’ve ever had!” I swear I think I see him smile for a second.

He gives me one more of his trademarked head nods and continues to make his way towards Camden’s house.

I made a promise and I’ll make sure I keep it.

“Aaliyah, shut the door! You’re letting the rain in!” Mother's voice reminds me of the storm I’m still half standing in.

“Sorry, mom.” I shut the door and clean myself of the day’s filth.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

So much I need to do…

… I can’t wait!
