It might not be my prettiest work but I’m still happy with it. Starting tomorrow, we can start grilling our meat and vegetables instead of having to make soup every night. I’ll have to remember to bring some charcoal back home with me tomorrow.

I bet once master and the other villagers see how useful it is, I’ll probably be commission to make a few more.

Now for the hard stuff.

I make my way back to the materials shed and start bringing two more bars of steel over to my work station.

I usually only made spearheads in the past but I think I’m going to make both the pole and blade from steel. Warriors and most of the villagers have enough strength that they can wield a 20-pound spear without too much trouble.

I want to make a full tang spear, a spear that is one solid piece of steel with no welds or seams in the structure.

I start heating up the fourth ingot of the day. The clouds overhead are darker than when I first started. Watching the steel in the forge, I think about the weapons I’m about to make.

Spears were underrated in films back on earth. TV and movies preferred swords for their big cinematic battles but it was the humble spear that was favored for true medieval warriors. The spear had a better reach to a sword and was considerably cheaper to make.

I move my hot steel over to my anvil and split the ingot long ways this time. I’ll use each ingot to make two good spears. I should have enough time to make four by the time the day is over if the weather permits it.

Moving the metal over such a large distance is a challenge that I’m not used to. I need to be careful I don’t stretch the meatal too thin or in a wrong way that will form cracks in its structure.

Spears commonly have a pole between 6’ and 8’ long and have a blade that usually reaches over 12’’ on top of that.

This world has many factors a blacksmith needs to consider when making a weapon. Different stats allow people to wield weapons differently. Depending on the situation a person could want a shorter spear rather than a longer one. If a person has more strength, he would probably want a longer spear but if the person is dexterity based a shorter more maneuverable spear would be better.

I’m going to use the same amount of steel for each spear but I’ll make two longer spears and two shorter spears. The longer ones will have a 7’ 6’’ pole and a 1’ blade. The shorter spears will have a 6’ pole and an 18’’ blade. There will only be a foot difference between the two but they will be wielded in completely different manners.

I start working the longer spears first because drawing out the steel will take the most time.

The trick is to leave enough material in one end to make the spear point while drawing out the other side for the pole.

As I work, I keep an eye on the structure of the steel with my mana sense. Any fracture I spot, no matter how small, I stop and don’t proceed until I fix it. Sense Mana is tied with Running as my highest leveled skill but Sense Mana is a tier 2 skill, so I would say it’s marginally considered my best skill. I use Sense Mana on a daily basis now. The skill is only deactivated when I go to sleep. If I do shut the skill of it feels like my world loses a part of its color.

The first spears pole is finished so I move on to the spear tip. I need to decide on how I’m going to shape the blade.

Dozens of designs filter through my head. Everyone knows the basic spear point but master has taught me about many designs I never considered. There’s the trident design which resembles a large fork. You have the war scythe which is a curved blade on the end of the pole that looks almost like a sword stuck on the end of a spear.

I could also make a halberd from earth but I’ve never tried anything like that. Making an axe at the end of a spear wouldn’t be necessarily hard for me to make but I doubt a particular weapon like that would be in high demand right now.

I don’t know the opposing army’s armor or formations, so I’ll keep the design simple for now.

I form the spearhead into a long point and only have the blade reach 3’’ at its widest point.

I heat up the pole part of the spear again and this time I add in grooving to improve the grip. A soldier could easily attach material for the handle if they want to customize the spear but I want it to be wieldable without much work. I put my new maker’s mark on the base of the blade when I finish improving the grip.

All that’s left is to quench the spear.

Heating up something so long and quenching it presents its own problems. I have to constantly move the spear around so that everything heats up evenly.

Using all my mana skills, I force all the fire mana out of the tip of the spear. I could mana quench an item in only two seconds before, but with my new levels and Extract Mana I was able to reduce that time to only three-quarters of a second.

The fire mana is ejected from the spear so quickly a fireball shoots out of the spear tip!

The fireball is a mass of fire mana in my Sense Mana skill. The fireball only travels a foot and a half before the mana disperses into the surrounding space. Could I cast fire magic safely if I only gathered fire mana without mixing it with anything else? I’ll have to try that out during one of my off days.

I file the magic idea away for now, I still have three more spears to make.

I have four spears laid out before me. Two shorter spears next to two of the longer ones laid out for me to inspect them one last time.

I can’t see any flaws on their outsides and my mana sense can’t spot any micro-fractures inside them either. I’ll set one of each aside for the village and sell the other two to Kervin.

I clean up a little around my station and prepare for sharpening the spears.

I glance up at the sky as I sharpen the first spear. The sun is nowhere to be found. The black clouds stretch from one side of the horizon to the other. I miss the days I could check the weather on my phone, I wonder if there’s a spell for that?

I can see the first raindrops in the distance. I reactivate my Mana Skin before the rain reaches us. Sitting on one of the stone benches, I start sharpening my work. Take that nature, Mana Skin wins again.

In-between spears I look over at master. Even in the rain, he’s still laying on his bench. Wet clothes apparently aren’t a problem for someone close to level 90. It’s a good thing I straightened up before I started sharpening, cleaning in the rain is annoying.

“Aren’t you going to go inside, master?” I don’t take my eyes off of the spear tip.

“I’m fine. The snow is worse than this. One time I managed to fall asleep out here during the winter and I woke up with a foot of snow covering everything but my mouth. Apparently, I snore loud enough that the snow can’t block my face.” He’s laughing while I smile at the absurdity of the notion.

“Your barrier skill leveled again I see.” I look up after I finish with the first spear. The rain is coming down even harder now. I didn’t notice because I was focusing so hard on the spear tip in front of me. The rain is impacting my barrier but quickly sliding off without leaving any trace. A small amount of water used to make it through my barrier causing raindrops to condense on my Mana Skin.

“It finally reached level 40. I’m not sure how hard it’s going to be to level now?” I move on to my next spear. Despite my sore limbs, I hurry up my pace.

“I see you using the skill all the time, you’ll get it eventually. Needing to pass a tier 4 test at your age, I’m sure heroes around the world are rolling in their graves as we speak.” Master tries to tease me again.

“Well, I just passed my first tier 4 test a few days ago. Let’s hope it doesn’t take as long with the second one.”

“What a monster, you are.” I smile as I continue sharpening the spear.

“Hey master, do you know anything about Sword Skills?”

“You mean gaining the skill, I thought you already have it?”

“I do. I was practicing a lot during my break but I only managed to get it to level 9. Do you have any tips for me?”

“You’re disappointed you didn’t get the skill to 100 on your first day?”

“It’s not that. Sword Skills was my fifth weapon skill. I was able to use knowledge from my various other weapon skills to level it quickly but I don’t know why I couldn’t get it to at least 10.”

“What’s your point?”

“I put in a lot of effort. I practiced with different footwork I usually use from hammer, axe, and knife skills while trying out different swinging motions from all three different types of weapons. Have any hints for me?”

“I wish I could help you but I can’t. My Sword Skills is only level 6.” I stop sharpening the spear in my hands and look up at master.

“You’re wondering why my skill is so low? When you practice with so many weapons the skills start to hinder you rather than help you. Your skills subliminally taint each other and you end up using the same techniques you use with a hammer when they barely relate to you swinging a sword. Practice will help you overcome it but frankly, it’s amazing you managed to reach level 9 in Sword Skills this quickly. A proper teacher would be helpful pointing out your mistakes your skills helping you to make.” I never thought skills could clash like that. It makes sense to a degree. If you have skill that helps you dodge attacks you won’t be able to level a defensive skill unless you suppress the knowledge you get from your evasion skill. Weapon skills probably do the same thing on a smaller scale. I’m practicing swordsmanship by myself and the only thing that lets me know if I’m improving is my rising skill level.

“Do you think Camden could give me some pointers?”

“He might be able to spar with you at least.” That might help me a little.

I focus back on my work, trying to not be sidetracked with my growing to-do list. There’s so much I need to practice I don’t know when I’ll ever be able to take some time off.

A small chuckle escapes me.

In my past life, I never felt any real motivation for anything and now I have too much I want to do. Master Del and my family were right I need a day off. A day where I won’t practice my skills or forge something… maybe some passive magic practice? I can keep my Mana Skin skill up while I relax, that shouldn’t count as training, right?

I might have a problem.

I move my finished spears over to one of our sheds, while master stands in his doorway ringing out his shirt.

“You coming tomorrow?!” Master shouts over the pouring rain.

“Yep, I need to forge more spears. The weather can’t stop me with only this much.” I gather the pieces of my grill along with a shovel and a leather bag filled with the crushed stone for my concreate mixture.

I’m easily carrying 200 pounds in my arms and back. A month ago, this would be difficult for me and something I would never willingly do in the rain.

*BOOM!*

The heavens open up with a beautiful light show. The first few fall storms always give off amazing displays of lightning. The storms are high up in the sky and the lightning rarely touches the ground around here.

I glance at the big pieces of steel in my arms.

Maybe I shouldn’t tempt nature to prove me wrong. “See you tomorrow, master.” I make my way out of Del’s clearing.

The trees stretching above me provide me with a small umbrella effect. The rain pools on the branches and leaves turning each tree into its own unique waterfall. The trees of this world are amazing and not just for their crafting uses. It may be fall but the trees only shed their weakest leaves before it starts snowing. Most of the forest trees are broadleaf in nature, meaning they would lose their leaves if they were back on earth in a similar situation. Again, I think the presence of mana makes the tree’s more resilient than their otherworldly counterparts.

I reach the village proper but I choose to take the long way home and loop around the village staying a few feet inside the forest. Most people are probably inside their homes already but I don’t want to chance people seeing my Mana Skin skill.

We have a month of rain heading our way before the four months of winter take hold. The rain signals that half of the year is almost over.

*Crack!*

I stop in place and turn around when I hear a branch snap in the distance. I push my mana sense out in the direction I heard the noise originate from. A human’s silhouette is approaching me. I can’t see the fine details of the person but I watch it purposely step on a branch in front of it. Whoever they are they’re alerting me to their approaching on purpose.

I’m about to deactivate my Mana Skin when I realize the mana I’m sensing is a familiar one.

Ronald appears through the trees like a specter in a green rain poncho. The only sound he makes is from his footsteps. He must be heading home from one of his farther hunting trips. He probably noticed me long before I noticed him. I am curious why he’s alone though?

“Evening, Ronald.” I nod my head to him. As usual, he only responds with his own head nod in return.

“Are you heading home? You care to walk with me?” I don’t wait for his response as I continue my walk home.

He takes a position to my left and follows beside me. A silence falls between us but before I can ask him another question he speaks quietly, “Visiting Camden.”

Aww, he must be answering my previous question.  “Going to turn yourself in for entering the forest by yourself?” I try to tease the man.

He doesn’t even look at me when he responds with, “You too.” I almost stumble when he seamlessly redirects my question back at me.

“I’m the only one who can see the chameleon spiders, what’s your excuse?”

“Headman’s orders.”

