Erick flew across the ground back to Ar’Cosmos. Jolts of Benevolence lightning scattered across the ground as he went, flickering small black lines across the soil, showing his inner emotional state as something less than happy.

Fairy Moon and Inferno Maw caught up.

Fairy Moon happily hopped across the dark ground, matching Erick for speed without seeming to expend any effort at all to keep up. “You need to gain [Gate].”

Erick flinched. Ahhh. Right.

That.

He did not slow down. “Are the wrought gone?”

“Gone to give your gracefully-given words to their gods!” Fairy Moon said.

Inferno Maw floated on Fairy Moon’s other side, asking, “He’s actually ready for [Gate]?”

“Erick cannot contain himself here anymore.” Fairy Moon turned to him, and instead of hopping along, she simply floated forward. Her words weighed upon the world, as she said, “Your true trial begins. Make your gateway and gain the way to a new world, one where your blessing of benevolence might manifest all the wonders you wish.”

Erick slowed down. Fairy Moon slowed, too. Inferno Maw slipped forward, through the dark, the monochromatic fires of his mouth lighting up so very little of the dark forest all around. The other Death dragons circled, and spread out. The wrought might be gone, but this Twisted Vision was still a land of monsters. Controlled monsters, for sure, but still… Monsters.

Erick stopped. He floated there, atop the loamy soil, and had a think.

Maybe he was ready.

Or, maybe he could make himself ready.

Fairy Moon stopped right in front of him. She seemed so small, and fragile; probably because she was. Her thin pink dress did nothing to protect her from anyone, or anything. Her white corset wasn’t anything resembling protection, either. Not like she needed protections, though. She would revive every time she died.

Her easy immortality made Erick wary about her insistence that he make [Gate] right now. What did she know about the risks involved with making difficult magic? And yet, as soon as Erick had that thought, he realized how wrong he was. Of course Fairy Moon, the last living fae (of two; where was the other one?) would know when it was best for a person to attempt to open a rift into the mana; into the world where the fae naturally lived.

From Inferno Maw’s expression, the dragon had gone through his own version of Erick’s thought process and arrived at his same conclusions, but not due to the fact that Fairy Moon was fae. He trusted Fairy Moon’s decisions because he trusted Fairy Moon.

Erick wasn’t there quite yet. He might never be. His first introduction to Fairy Moon had been after she murdered one of Erick’s teachers; Kydyr the bismuth wrought dragon. Apparently she had been murdering people all around Stratagold for the last year as the Letter Killer, too. She murdered men routinely, according to Archmage Riivo, of Archmage’s Rest. If that was all she had done, then Erick might have been able to approach her as one would a very dangerous monster.

But then she kidnapped Erick and mind controlled him…

And now they were here.

Did he trust her? Not really.

And yet...

Did he trust that Fairy Moon had certain desires, and those desires coincided with his own? Yes. Erick trusted that much. And yet...

Erick said, “There’s more to do in Ar’Cosmos, for I need to know my allies, and I need to hear the wroughts’ response.”

And he needed to keep an eye on Bright Smile, if only to understand what was going on with the ring of Benevolence lightning around her neck.

Fairy Moon said, “You spoke splendidly. The wrought response will either be to eradicate you the next time they see you, or they will work well with your wishes. Either way, your presence precipitates danger to Ar’Cosmos. They could breach the bulwarks and drive dragons to mayhem, and so, this most dangerous of ends needs to be eliminated. You need to leave, for your time is terminated in this land of no lies. But fret not! With [Gate], you can go where you wish, and we have hiding holes all over the overworld. If the best scenario shall come to call, then you already know of the sandy space set aside for the building of House Benevolence. This land will be open to you always.” Fairy Moon warned, “But if the worst of wars should come to this land, then run, and run well, Erick, for we will be running as well.”

Inferno Maw gave a sad, slow nod.

Erick felt a spike of worry. “The dragons would fight, though?”

“The Forest of Glaquin has been laid low by the crawling of the Curse into Ar’Cosmos many times before.” Fairy Moon said, “Some dragons will secure safety. Most will not. Most will fight each other as the Curse takes hold. While all that transpires, the wrought will do as the wrought will do, to fulfill the designs of that rapacious Rozeta, and her kin-killer, Kirginatharp.” She frowned at Erick, adding, “I am mad at you for offering a crown to that kin-killer, but means mean little in the light of a founded firmament.”

Inferno Maw nodded, then looked to Erick. “An odd offer, that one, but understandable given the circumstances.”

Erick said, “It might work to solve the Curse without actually solving the Curse, and he wants power, right? Just might take a while to actually happen.”

Fairy Moon waved a hand. “It is what it is! And it is acceptable.”

“It is acceptable; I agree. I doubt that he would actually agree to such an arrangement for the Curse might compel him otherwise, but...” Inferno Maw pulled back a fraction, saying, “I am not one to give in to unfounded hope, but that conversation just now did not seem like the wroughts’ usual overtures of war. We might actually be fine— Well. For a certain definition of ‘fine’.”

There was one more problem, though. Bright Smile.

As if knowing his thoughts, Fairy Moon floated in front of Erick, and said, “If you are worried about Bright Smile, do not, for I have designs to control that possible calamity.”

Erick flinched again, because yes, he was deeply worried about Bright Smile.

Inferno Maw pulled back again, eyeing Fairy Moon. He said nothing, but he would certainly be asking later. ‘What’s all this talk of Bright Smile?’ he would ask. Would Fairy Moon answer him properly? Or would she evade the question? Probably evade.

Erick turned halfway toward Inferno Maw, but he asked Fairy Moon, “Do you think I should tell him?”

Inferno Maw narrowed his eyes, first at Erick, and then at Fairy Moon.

Fairy Moon glanced at Inferno Maw, then turned back to Erick. “Do you believe you should?”

“I don’t like leaving problems behind me, so I think I should.” Erick said, “And yet again, I am not sure if she is an enemy. I might be making an enemy by letting that particular information get out. I don’t want to make more enemies… I won’t make more enemies. Never mind, Inferno Maw. Bright Smile is probably fine.”

Was that suitably cryptic? Would that cause Inferno Maw to investigate more, and then form his own opinions? Hopefully.

Inferno Maw frowned, and then he slowly nodded, and that was it.

With a sudden return to brightness and joy, Fairy Moon said, “Your access to Ar’Cosmos is forever granted, as long as you go with the flow of fairness and freedom. Keep the amulet, though, for it will annul your worldline and keep you out of [Witness] sight. Won’t do anything against normal Sights, though; it’s not my Amulet of Non-Presence.”

Erick touched the amulet on his neck. It would ‘annul his worldline’? Useful. Erick hadn’t even noticed it, but yes, as he glanced through his mana sense, into the nearby past, the path he had taken through the air of the Twisted Vision was already fading away.

Erick grinned. “It’s a good gift.”

Inferno Maw moved past the ‘warnings’ about Bright Smile, and spoke plainly, “We have allies in Quintlan if the worst should happen. With [Gate], you should be able to get there without much difficulty.”

Erick chuckled once as all his worries seemed to melt, just a little. Everything would be fine, and if it wasn’t fine, then it would make it fine. Erick said to Fairy Moon, “You did add another step to my Worldly Path, didn’t you.”

Fairy Moon shrugged. “We are beyond the Worldly Path, my walker of Benevolent Light. Have been for a long while.”

Erick shuddered.

Gods, he was past the Worldly Path, wasn’t he?

Erick’s sunform flickered out a handful of lightning jolts, sparking against the ground and leaving black streaks in their passing. Erick shook his head, then landed. Dark lines sparked across the ground where he touched down. He didn’t want to leave on such a poor note, and he certainly didn’t want whatever [Gate] came out of this to be so tainted with… burning, or whatever the blackening was.

He turned to Inferno Maw. “It was very nice to meet you, Inferno Maw. I might head over to Quintlan, but only if absolutely necessary. How well do you know that land? Do you know of Quilatalap? I met him at Last Shadow’s Feast and I hope he made it out okay.”

Inferno Maw smiled brightly. “Do I know Quilatalap? Ha! Yes. I know the most ancient and powerful of liches; the man who brought Necromancy to Veird and who has tried to bring the profession into respectability hundreds of times before. Though I must confess: my knowledge of Quilatalap is like the knowledge that a commoner might have of their king. Far removed from any semblance of truth. He has tried to come to Ar’Cosmos before, but that was long before my time and he has never tried again. I have sent overtures to him, but…” Inferno Maw glanced to Fairy Moon.

“We had a disagreement,” Fairy Moon said, and left it at that.

“That.” Inferno Maw digressed, “Quilatalap should be hale and whole, but even if he is not, I have a hard time imagining anything could overly harm him, though not for lack of trying. He’s made it through every single Forgotten Campaign, including one or two that should have culled him, but which failed. I suspect… He might be at the Temple of Shadow’s Light? It’s a Melemizargo cult, but they’re not that evil and destructive. They’re mainly just smugglers, though we’ve only ever dealt with their material operations. I don’t know how they actually operate.”

Erick sighed. “Ah. Right. I have to go back to dealing with Melemizargo, too.”

Inferno Maw said, “If you have to run to Quintlan, look up the Lavamancer Society. Tell them that ‘The Maw of Death’ sent you, though I am sure that they would want to have you as their guest anyway, just because of your own exploits. They’re a decent sort of people, and they are ours.”

“I hope to not have to do that. But.” Erick smiled, and said, “The offer is appreciated. Truly.”

Erick felt better—

Fairy Moon took an instant step back, more like a leap, actually. A fraction of a second later, Inferno Maw reared back, pulling out of the way of—

Now why would they…

Erick looked down. Ah. It was happening like this, eh?

His lightning had stopped leaving black marks. Casual jolts were even eliciting tiny white cap mushrooms out of the loamy soil. For a deep moment, Erick was intrigued. How was it doing that? Exactly? It was obviously a magical effect that seemed near to [Grow], and yet it was not [Grow] at all. That spellwork was more time and nourishment based. This seemed almost like… Pure manifestations of what could be, becoming real. Whatever Benevolence was doing, exactly, this was a good sign of things to come. This manifestation boded well for Elemental Benevolence’s ability to support life, which meant that whatever sort of place he made in the mana would be as nice as Ar’Cosmos, perhaps—

Flowers, now. In every color and glowing brightly. The flowers spread outward, turning a small patch of the forest floor around Erick into illuminated springtime. His lightning was still controlled, and under his Domain, but at seeing the sudden bounty of life all around, Erick decided to let his sunform relax. To let his power do as it would. Lightning crawled across the ground like trailing vines of iridescent white growth, touching upon seeds in the soil, and upon nothing at all, eliciting ferns and mushrooms and flowers out of both.

Erick smiled—

Something clicked inside of him, and mana began to pour outward like an uncontrolled river, sweeping away all outside influences and cementing his power in this space.

Fairy Moon’s pink and green eyes went wide as she laughed and danced away, far, far into the deeper gloom, getting out of the way of Erick’s magic. Inferno Maw and all of his Death dragon cohort vanished into the gloom, too, as fast as they could go, rushing to get away from whatever the heck Erick was doing.

Erick laughed at that, and then, a cycle began.

He felt a feedback loop begin.

He liked growing things.

That action caused him joy.

That joy caused more flowers, ferns, and mushrooms to grow all around. Even the largest trees more than thirty meters away seemed to be sprouting new growth in his direction, effortlessly stretching upward out of the ground like mountains rising. Sprigs of green branches began to knot out of the sides of those trees and grow toward Erick like arms raised in triumph.

The ferns under Erick’s feet spread wide, unfurling their leaves and popping glowing spores into the air. The mushrooms joined in next, streaming red and pink and green and blue glowing spores into an unexpected breeze. Flowers turned to seed, and then glowing white dandelion puffs floated away on a sweeping wind.

That wind spiraled around, falling in line with Erick's own personal tsunami of thick air.

Breezes danced to his whim. Flowers grew at his lightning touch. A rainbow of light surrounded him, looking like the [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] crown that surrounded each and every Yggdrasil. Yggdrasil, still sitting on Erick’s shoulder, noticed the resemblance. His [Scry] eye brightened as he hopped upward, into the air, to join in the breeze. Ophiel fluttered into the air next, to play in the colorful wind.

It was a magical moment in every sense of the word, but it was also the culmination of everything in Erick’s Worldly Path. All his magical knowledge. Every lesson gained and trick learned from every master of their own particular magics. Rift Magic. Harmonics. Proper mana shaping and aura control. Elemental Mystical shenanigans allowed for a great deal more effect than normally possible. The Undertow Effect, but refined into [Renew]. Runic webwork to string it all together and to allow for continued growth. And of course, his personal Truth, that everything could be made better.

Erick took everything he was, and had done, and went one step further with Wizardry.

