This place was to be a pathway, and therefore, it should probably have a lot more dirt than this.

As Erick had that thought, brown soil expanded from where his feet touched the invisible ground, expanding in every direction like the tilling of soil to aerate the good dirt. At that thought, a breeze filled the iridescent white air, and Erick realized that the breeze was coming from him. Mana still poured out of his body like a thick wind, inundating this Benevolent space with his power. He had forgotten about that outflow of power… or maybe that outflow of power had been invisible since there had been no air for his mana to interact with, and now, there was air. Atmosphere and soil and light all around. It seemed this space was still malleable, but it was not as transformative as it had been before.

All Erick had right now was a dirt floor and air to breathe and light to see. It was a simple space that could support life. It was not enough. And yet, how far did Erick want to go with this? Erick had a sudden, urgent thought regarding Ar’Cosmos, and about what he did not want this place to become.

He decided, and decreed, “A space for those in need, and absolute defenses for those who reside, but we are not hermits. We will connect to those outside, and in that connection, we will create civilizations.”

The mana responded.

The brown dirt underneath turned to solid hexagonal stonework one flashing brick at a time, spreading outward from Erick’s feet, brown dirt becoming simple, sturdy white stone. Something to stand upon, and build upon. Within moments the transformation reached a culmination, and Erick stood upon a rough circle of stonework ten meters across, hanging in a white sky that was about half a kilometer spherical…

A half kilometer? Ten meters across? Apparently he could just sense this land as though it was the inside of his body, but it wasn’t inside of him at all…

Ah! Well. Wasn’t that fun? Erick thought so. He smiled as he inspected what he had made.

It was a good start, actually.

Then wind picked up as Erick opened his mouth, to spread his words far and wide, “Let’s—”

He cut himself off. He had been about to say, ‘let’s have an ocean’, but right before he spoke those words a sudden awful feeling crept into his throat. A premonition warning? Yes. That’s exactly what he had experienced.

Creating an ocean would have been too much.

Way, way too much. In fact… Erick wasn’t quite sure, but he felt like he was about a third of the way to his limit, like he had used up half of a limited, yet still growing resource.

So he went smaller. But where to start—

Ah. Of course. Erick looked down. He was in the center of the platform, and this space could use a central marker. Something that would last for a long time and continue to support growth all the while. Something like that node of Ar’Cosmos’s that Erick had used to heal that land from the damage his Benevolence had caused. Redflame had once spoken of how he used his own core to stabilize and grow Ar’Cosmos, so Erick was pretty sure that every single node was actually one of Redflame’s cores, but Erick wasn’t going to take out his core and plant it here. Not yet, anyway.

There was another way.

Erick grinned as he stepped to the side, to stand far off center. He turned to the center of the platform, and said, “An ever-flowing fountain to continuously create this land of Benevolence, and grant succor to all who exist in this space.”

Magic took hold of the stone before him, and a weakness crawled into Erick’s body. He wasn’t worried, not yet anyway, so he just watched the magic make a miracle.

The hexagonal stones lifted from their bedrock in a wide circle about two meters across, like someone had pushed up from the other side, like the whole platform was a push pin toy. At half a meter high, they stopped, and the stone shifted directions again. The outside hexagons remained where they were, forming a lip, but the center dipped down, forming a well. Then, in the very center, the seven hexagons upon which Erick had first stood upon began to rise, and the center hexagon vanished. The stones stilled. The first part was done.

It was a basic construction made of columnar basalt.

Erick liked the looks of it a whole lot, for it felt primeval, and powerful—

Deep in the center of the platform, magics twisted the space where the center column had been. Water formed out of nothing, and then began flowing out of the top of the fountain like a hose barely turned on. That water flowed down the sides of the fountain to splash into the basin, filling the air with the soft sounds of a gentle creek. It was a lovely sound. It was the only sound in this space besides the wind.

The fountain was suddenly full from one second to the next. Half a meter of clear water sat inside the basin, just below the edge.

Erick wanted to sit down by the fountain and listen to the sound for a while, for he was tired, but he couldn’t rest; not yet. He was only about two thirds done, and his mana felt the same. The ground was almost set. One or two more magics should do it. This next one was perhaps the most dangerous, though.

“Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye whipped around and locked on Erick’s face.

Erick looked down at the little, big guy. “We’re going slowly, this time. No big growth. This land cannot contain all of you right now, but it will, someday, and yet you must be here at the beginning. So you must start small, and grow steadily. Like a real tree, you must start as a seed.”

A distant rustling of leaves filled the sky as Yggdrasil’s eye nodded; he understood.

Ophiel trilled a questioning guitar sound on Erick’s other shoulder. What about him?

Erick smiled, saying, “You’re going to stay with me, following me around for many years to come, but Yggdrasil needs stability. You’re both just built differently, and that’s okay.”

Ophiel trilled in happy violins and fluffed out a bit on Erick’s shoulder. He had been a bit scared of this space before, but he was acclimating.

And Yggdrasil was ready. He knew what was happening. He was ready to become Erick’s ultimate defense, here in the mana.

Erick gestured to the right as he spoke to the fountain, “A stream of water leading off that way, to support the growth of Yggdrasil, who will become this land’s greatest defender, supporter, and continual creator.”

The fountain and the ground barely shifted. A dip formed on top of the basin’s edge, on the right side. That dip led to a winding groove between the hexagonal stones, forming a pathway for water to travel out to the edge of the platform. Water began flowing through that dip, and into that groove, creating a stream, etching a winding, tiny canyon into the platform.

That stream did not fall when it reached the edge. Water simply floated out into open air, into the nearby distance, like a tendril reaching out to touch something that had yet to be planted, which was exactly Erick’s intention.

Erick readied Yggdrasil, and Yggdrasil readied himself.

Erick cast.

Rushing cold ripped through Erick’s body as his eyes fluttered shut and—

And then it was over.

Erick barely noticed the gold threads of divine power reorganizing inside his soul, securing Yggdrasil within him, for floating in the sky, just twenty meters away, was the big guy. Erick almost admonished Yggdrasil for not starting out as a seed, but this was fine, and maybe Erick had blacked out for a moment and missed that part. Yggdrasil wasn’t nearly as large as he usually was, anyway. He was rather small, actually, but he was still ten meters tall from top of crown to his lowest root…

Actually really small for a tree. Normal oak trees were bigger than him, but Erick had asked him to start small, and he had. This was good.

Half of Yggdrasil was a bright green canopy with a rainbow crown, while the other half was bright white roots, floating in iridescent white space. The waters of the fountain already circled around the base of his trunk, trickling through his upper roots, linking him to the core of this Benevolent domain in a way that nothing would ever be able to sever. Sure, it merely looked like a free-floating stream of water, but it was anything but that. And this way, Yggdrasil could grow himself and this land as large as he wanted, and move himself and the platform around as needed…

In fact.

Erick had expected Yggdrasil’s planting to take a lot more out of him than it did, but while he felt that cold chill, it went away rather fast. Yggdrasil’s planting hadn’t taken much out of him at all. Maybe because Yggdrasil was already made, long before this land was made? And Erick was laying down actual Truths in this land as he made this land? The laying of Truths was what cost Erick some power… Perhaps? Just spending mana was easy.

He wasn’t sure, but that seemed right.

Whatever the case, Erick felt he had one more trick in him.

And he knew just what it needed to be.

Stone land. Water fountain. Windy sky. Light all around. Shadows down below. There was even some Darkness down in the depths of the water…

This place was missing Fire. Or at least something to drive away the chill—

Yes. That was it. Something to make people feel more welcome. A refuge was not a refuge without a fire to give warmth, after all.

Erick smiled, and spoke to the fountain, “And a gentle, renewing fire, to bring healing warmth to this new age.”

The air sparked above the fountain. Six small fireballs took hold of the air above the six hexagonal pillars of the fountain; one fireball per stone column. And then the fire shifted. One final fireball manifested in the air above the water, and then transformed, its center vanishing, leaving a ring of gentle orange flames with a gap in the top. It was the rune of [Renew]. That same rune was mirrored upon the hexagonal pillars under the waters of the fountain, and at the top of each central pillar. Inside, where the water generated from nothing, was yet another rune of [Renew].

It was all connected. It was all as it had to be.

Erick stretched a little, feeling the warmth in the air. That warmth helped to counter the cold that filled Erick’s bones and threatened to drag down his very soul to the bottom of his feet. He was exhausted. But he was done.

This was good. This was balanced. This would grow with time, and with mana. Yggdrasil would grow, too, and ensure that everything here continued to grow as it should. But for now, Yggdrasil hung out in the sky just over there, tethered to this stone platform by a ribbon of flowing water. The water looked stable. The platform was very stable. The wind was steady…

And this was enough, for now.

Erick breathed deep. He had received no notifications, but he would probably be getting some as soon as he returned to normal space. But this was definitely [Gate]—

Something clicked, metaphysically.

Perception shifted.

Erick blinked several times and—

The land solidified. Everything seemed more real.

Nothing had actually changed, though, for the platform still hung here in the middle of the sky and a tendril of water still connected to Yggdrasil and the runic fire still radiated warmth from atop the fountain… But Erick had changed. Yes. That is what happened.

The fugue was over.

The time of creation had passed.

Erick’s torrent of inner mana began to wane, turning into a trickle, and then shutting off entirely. Ah! He hadn’t even noticed that he was still leaking that much mana, but now that it was gone, he was back to normal. The Script had reconnected to him. That was good. Erick wasn’t ready to go on his own yet.

A small blue box appeared, followed by a very large blue box.

Special Quest Complete!

The Worldly Path 1/1

Reward: The ability to cast Gate

Gate, instant, special range, 50 mana + Variable

Primary Function: Open a gate to another location.

Special Function, Special Cost: Open a gate into <Elemental Benevolence> to a known location OR create a node inside <Elemental Benevolence> to claim a portion of that space as your own gate space.

None may enter or interact with your gate space without your awareness. Expand your gate space by fortifying your node, or casting another node. The size of your gate space determines the distance you can cross through this spell’s primary function. Multiple nodes are possible, but be aware that nodes decay without proper upkeep. If all your nodes should decay all the way, the cost to founding a new node is a Special Cost.

Personal features: <Your nodes will not decay. All of your nodes are naturally connected and support each other. Your nodes will naturally grow due to the presence of the World Tree Yggdrasil. Your nodes naturally support life of most types. Your nodes massively support the growth of elemental benevolence.>

<All approved beings will gradually heal all mental and physical wounds when inside your gate space. All approved beings are at Rest while inside your gate space. All approved beings are immune to mana fatigue and health exhaustion while inside your gate space.>

<All beings inside your gate space will naturally grant their excess resources to your nodes, ensuring that growth always occurs. At will, you or Yggdrasil may designate a being as ‘malevolent’, ‘approved’, or both. Malevolent beings will be drained of all resources.>

<Elemental Benevolence is your element, therefore you have innate primacy over all other nodes built by all others inside benevolence. Your senses inside your gate space are 100x the size of the gate space claimed by your nodes, and may reach much further than that. The outside distance your nodes are capable of reaching is 100x larger than your gate space would suggest.>

<Should an apocalypse-type event occur, your gate space might intervene on its own in order to prevent such an occurrence. The nature of this intervention will vary, and is based upon the strength of your nodes. You and World Tree Yggdrasil will be warned if such an event should occur, or is occurring.>

<World Tree Yggdrasil is capable of growing and expanding your gate space on his own.>

Erick smiled as he read the blue box. It was a large box. It even rivaled [Ward] for size. Ha! Erick’s smile grew. He felt good.

This was good.

“This is good, Yggdrasil.” Erick patted Ophiel, adding, “Ophiel. This is great.” He giggled a little, then openly wondered, “I wonder what the anti-Sundering stuff looks like…” His voice trailed off as his eyes went wide.

… And nothing happened?

Erick looked up. He had expected the iridescent white sky to open up with lightning and show him the way to the next problem. But… Why would it?

Erick’s smile returned.

“The Worldly Path is over.”

No more Fate shenanigans. Even the problem posed by Bright Smile wasn’t that pressing…

