Elemental Benevolence responded, and like a vase spontaneously coming together in a world without magic, or life suddenly springing into being out of the primordial universe, Erick found the beginning of a Pathway that had not yet existed, until now.

Standing in a field of illuminated life, driving back the gloom, Erick spoke,

“We plow the fields and sow the seeds

“then call the rain to grow with speed,

“creating life out of the loam

“allowing us to make a home.

“Enspell the land! Create defense!

“Yet reach out with Benevolence.

“Enshrine the ways to better fates!

“Part the haze!

“Open the [Gate]s!”

Lightning unleashed across the land, exploding the forest into brilliance.

The storm passed quickly, racing out to infinity.

The light faded. Everything had changed. The Twisted Vision of Ar’Cosmos was awash in light from a million small sources, from ferns, to mushrooms, to lichen and flowers, and to the fresh new leaves on the newest branches of all the nearby trees. The brightest source of light was still Erick, still flickering Benevolent lightning in his sunform, but there was another source of light in front of him.

An archway made of white lightning stood before Erick, like the leafless branches of Yggdrasil. And yet green flickers and rainbow light held all around that gateway, like it was an abstract deconstruction of the World Tree.

Erick stood on one side of the archway.

And on the other side, was destiny.

He breathed deep, and stepped through.

The lightning archway collapsed, for its creator had passed beyond the horizon like the setting of a sun.

The forest plunged into shadow.

Some light still lingered in the flowers and the mushrooms but that light was barely a fraction of what had come before. It was enough to turn the dark forest to twilight, though.

- - - -

At least one person was thrilled with everything.

Fairy Moon laughed bright and happy as she hopped among the large toadstools, and smelled the flowers. Inferno Maw had a much more subdued reaction, gauging everything with his eyes, and with all of his other senses. Soon, he and his people were all collecting samples, but they stayed away from the epicenter.

Lightning still lingered in that space and Fairy Moon wasn’t answering questions about how long that would last, so Inferno Maw set a trio of guards to watch over it, and then he left. Other people had already reported what had happened to Erick, as Inferno Maw had instructed, so when Inferno Maw crossed the Silver Gate into the city, Bright Smile and Illustrious Moon were there waiting for him. Neither looked happy, but what did they expect? Did they want him to stop Erick from creating [Gate]? What nonsense!

Well… Perhaps Bright Smile would have liked Inferno Maw to interfere…

And wasn’t that telling.

In that moment, Inferno Maw had a hundred thoughts going through his head, but mostly he was worried over Bright Smile. What had Erick seen there? What did Fairy Moon continue to see? Their Sights had to be Elemental Benevolence related, and if that were the case, and since that Element was directly opposed to Sundering-type scenarios…

Well.

That could only mean one thing, yes? Perhaps Inferno Maw was making an unfounded leap of logic, but he felt he was more or less correct. Inferno Maw had never thought of Bright Smile as a worldwide danger, and Erick had expressly said that he was unsure what he had seen, and that he didn’t want to make Bright Smile an enemy if he didn’t have to… But he wasn’t sure.

Whatever the case, Erick had not wanted to mark Bright Smile as an enemy.

And therefore, Bright Smile was not an enemy. Not yet.

Besides whatever was going on with her and Elemental Benevolence and Erick and Fairy Moon, Inferno Maw had always liked Bright Smile. Sure, she was rather dangerous, but she was fair in all her dealings, which was why she had risen to become the head of House Carnage. If she were a wyrm then she would have been put down long before now, but she was not that at all. Her desire to create an empire was a rather popular desire, too, so the people liked her well enough.

Inferno Maw also desired to get as many of his people out there and to secure as large of an empire as he could, just so that he could protect his people in the best possible way. Illustrious Moon felt the same way about her own people.

Bright Smile was a bit of a warmonger, but who could blame her! War came to Ar’Cosmos 9 times out of 10 attempts to interact with the outside world, and the only way to throw out those aggressors was with total domination.

Would that be a problem once Ar’Cosmos wasn’t limited in size? Would Bright Smile’s warlike ways lead to some unexpected, true danger—

Inferno Maw could easily see the woman inciting the wrought in some way. Perhaps that was the true danger. Whatever the case, the situation with Bright Smile was not a current danger. There were more important matters to discuss.

Inferno Maw said, “Erick is a Wizard and an ally. What did you expect me to do? Impede his Path? No thank you. I have seen what happens when people get in his way. I’m honestly surprised that Fairy Moon hasn’t been ripped apart and remade into something better suited to his sensibilities.”

Illustrious Moon paled.

But Bright Smile balked, laughing loud, saying, “You speak nonsense, Inferno Maw! He could never do such a… thing.” She frowned. She looked at Illustrious Moon, then at Inferno Maw. “… No? I am willing to receive tutoring from my fellow heads of house, if you think me this wrong. Your expressions worry me.”

“We’re lucky he left.” Illustrious Moon shivered, her entire body wriggling once in a flowing wave from her neck down to her tail. She looked to Bright Smile. “Erick is a strong Wizard. Do not mistake his easy going nature for weakness. Fairy Moon barely managed to get him here to Ar’Cosmos before he could break free. Many people are calling him the reincarnation of Xoat.”

Bright Smile lost some of her smile. She eyed Illustrious Moon, and Inferno Maw. “I have heard those rumors but I put no weight to them.”

Fairy Moon popped out of the air to stand level with the three of them. She wore a crown of gently-glowing flowers and carried a basket of gently growing mushrooms in the crook of one arm. “He has more weight to him than the whole of Ar’Cosmos. If he requests reasonable events to enact a path of peace, we will respond with real and authentic attempts at peace.” She waved an arm, saying, “Provided the wrought settle for the same, of course.”

Bright Smile pulled back and reevaluated several things at once. “We will have to wait and see, then.”

Illustrious Moon asked, “Where did he land, anyway?”

Inferno Maw shook his head. “Unclear. I could not see past the lightning. My people report the same.”

“He’s inside Benevolence. When he is done with that...” Fairy Moon said, “He will land where necessity needs.”

“Yes, but that could be anywhere,” Inferno Maw said, his natural sarcasm coming out a bit harder than intended. “Ahh. It’s out of our hands, anyway. I must return to Redflame’s laboratory and continue our experimentation. Erick told the wrought of our new capabilities, so we might only have days to get a fighting force ready to fight outside of these lands.”

Bright Smile laughed, her characteristic smirk coming back. “We must prepare for war, but first we must evacuate the Free Dragons.”

Fairy Moon said, “Transform those who wish to leave behind their battered and bruised lives to better swell our ranks of ravagers.”

Bright Smile said, “I already had plans to do that, but those tables will need to be adjusted.”

“What about ensuring that [Reincarnation] isn’t going to lead to problems down the road?” Illustrious Moon asked.

“The initial procedure works well.” Inferno Maw said, “The interactions between cores and [Reincarnation] is something to pull apart next year, when we’re not in crisis mode, but the ‘reset to normalcy’ of Erick’s original design works exactly as he wished it to work. The one person with a core we have tested this on has gone through that process and come out the other side perfectly healthy. Without Dragon Essence, though, the man cannot accrete nearly as well as before. It is a problem; one of many.”

Bright Smile recognized what Inferno Maw wasn’t saying. She asked, “Something happened to the rats with cores.”

“Yes.” There was little point in hiding it, he supposed. Inferno Maw said, “As soon as the rats could, they tried to accrete, and since all they had was ambient mana, they monsterized. Spirit Beasts are likely not on the table, right now. We might be able to revive wyrms or anything else with a bit of smarts to it, who can listen and hear that accreting with a normal core is bad, but, as I said: we will have to work on that later. For now, we can likely field a coreless army within days.”

Illustrious Moon frowned. “Disappointing.”

“I’m sure Uncle Redflame and yourself can figure it out, and if nothing else, they can go back in the tanks when needs demand.” Bright Smile said, “This could be a good thing. It would be a self-limiting magic. Good for shock troops and ensuring our shock troops come back to us.”

“I prefer summons.” Inferno Maw said, “Or ensorcelled monsters. Much more disposable. And much less likely to get you slapped with the anti-Slavery protections of the Script.”

“Something to work around!” Bright Smile said, happily.

Illustrious Moon just frowned.

Fairy Moon said nothing, though Inferno Maw could not help but notice how she looked at Bright Smile, and specifically at Bright Smile’s neck, as though there was something there that no one else could see.

- - - -

Floating halfway off a cloud, Rozeta read the transcripts and watched the memories of the latest envoy to Ar’Cosmos for the third time. Her jaw still hung open in disbelief. Erick had not solved the Dragon Curse, but he had sidestepped the issue by giving [Reincarnation]s to all half-dragons. Also, he wanted to give Kirginatharp the next world to come along.

ALSO, he was ALLIED WITH AR’COSMOS NOW.

Rozeta had a hard time deciding which was worse, and if any of them were actual problems. They were shifts, of course. The alliance with Ar’Cosmos was perhaps the biggest shocker, but the threat of a Forgotten Campaign was a real threat to Wizards with Erick’s sort of power, so… Rozeta couldn’t really blame him for that.

She was going to blame everyone else who had made him uncomfortable, actually. She had half a mind to go down to Veird and yell at Alfonin and Kromolok and—

SITNAKOV.

That petulant, problematic child.

This was his fault.

It certainly wasn’t Kirginatharp’s fault, for Rozeta had already had a long talk with him and—

A very specific warning siren blared loud, filling the blue sky with noise, and then a notification came through, confirming yet another monumental shift in the balances of power of Veird.

Erick had just made [Gate].

Rozeta took half a second to sigh, and then she stopped time and stepped outside of her current thoughts. She reevaluated everything, checked on the futures and the past, and then began plotting what would likely be the best course for all. Then she took a while to check on the most obvious objections that everyone else would have and began running scenarios where she killed specific problematic people, or acquiesced to their demands. None of the scenarios would survive contact with Erick, or any of the other powers that would necessarily become involved, but she could at least prepare herself and her forces for the worst case scenarios…

She had an idea.

… She plugged some Elemental Benevolence into her calculations.

She had to use approximations, of course. She didn’t know Elemental Benevolence like she knew Book, and Stone, and all the rest. But her approximations worked well enough.

Strangely, or perhaps not that strangely at all, when using Benevolence in her strategies the outcomes were usually… softer, than they would have been otherwise. A little less violence, a lot more talking, and sometimes that talking actually worked. Usually less deaths all throughout, though, so that was qualitatively good. Rozeta still didn’t have a comprehensive grasp on the Element, but she would eventually.

She really shouldn’t have been surprised by what Benevolence seemed able to do, but she was.

When she was done with all that she spent several days and several half seconds making her final decisions.

Then, she started gathering people. Not many; only the ones that mattered and who could catch up quickly, who could best control the coming future. Erick had made [Gate] seven and a half minutes ago and he still hadn’t come out the other side, but when he did, she needed to be ready.

- - - -

Everything was white, and yet, it wasn’t truly ‘white’ at all.

Erick floated in the middle of an iridescent white space, the same color as his magic; the same colors as Benevolence. Superficially, and if one did not know what to look for, this space almost resembled that white space where Erick had floated before, where all possibilities lay, where he could have done anything. In that other white space, Erick could have gone back to Earth. Maybe he could have traveled back in time to when he first landed on Veird, and ensured that everything turned out better than it already had. And yet, he had picked none of those options. He had chosen to secure the future, and to prevent all possible Sunderings, and lesser apocalypses.

And the space had changed to this; an iridescent white.

An opportunity cost taken, and enshrined.

Before, Erick had needed to construct his body out of possibility, or maybe he had just realized himself into being, and he had been naked and alone. Now, though, he already existed, and he wore the same clothes that he had started with. Ophiel was still on his right shoulder, too, though the little guy was currently very small and quite scared. Erick gave him a pat, and he calmed; he wasn’t alone, neither of them were. Yggdrasil’s iridescent white [Scry] eye held on Erick’s other shoulder. The big guy’s eye color was almost the same as the color of the sky. Yggdrasil was not panicking at all.

There were smaller differences in this space, as well.

This time, his feet still had a bit of dirt on them which had followed him through the Benevolence archway. That dirt lay atop a flat plane that existed because—

Ah.

The floor existed because Erick had decided it should exist. The brown dirt on his shoes lay scattered on that flooring like he had tracked mud into a house. A house with an invisible floor, and yet, this place was not a house at all.

