Erick lost a little bit of his smile.

No more Fate shenanigans meant that everything that came next was up to him. He would have to deal with Melemizargo and the soul slime’s Truth, and Kirginatharp and the angels and demons, and whatever Ar’Cosmos was going to do, and…

All the rest.

Suddenly, Erick felt unmoored. Fate had been with him there since the beginning of his fall to Veird. With his own Wizardry, he had reached back in time and made it so that all of his big spells had Elemental Benevolence in them. It was very possible that he only survived meeting his Other Self in the Deep Paradox because of Fate shenanigans. And now…

He was on his own.

… But! Maybe...

Erick had put a bit of Fate into this Benevolence, didn’t he? Yes. He did.

So maybe he would always have Fate backing him up?

Ah. Well. That could be a problem, too. After all, Fate had lined up the Chelation War, and that had killed nearly 4 million people—

Erick’s heart beat hard as sudden clarity ripped across his mind.

Fate was here, and it always would be, to a certain extent. Elemental Benevolence was not Elemental Fate, but they were cousins.

Ah.

So what would happen now?

With understanding eyes, Erick stared out across the iridescent white sky, and watched. He waited. He didn’t have to wait long.

Lightning gathered.

Small sparks fizzled at the edges of the stone platform, transforming into something larger. Off in the distance even more lightning gathered, like a storm brewing on the horizon. Lightning flashed. A soft thunder rolled throughout all existence, and in its passing lay a tangled weave of danger. This, then, was Elemental Benevolence’s primary purpose. This, then, was why Erick had made this Element in the first place.

Three large bolts of lightning hung in the sky, tangled with each other at three primary spots, thrashing around and yet not moving much at all, reminding Erick of hissing snakes. They were simply the largest and closest of the tangles, though. Countless other tangles held in the far, far distance, but those were too far out to matter.

Erick had a vague sense of those distant tangles though, and so, as he looked for a specific one, he found it.

That one over there, hiding behind a cloud and rather loosely dangerous. That one was Bright Smile, and it almost looked as beneficial as it looked dangerous. Erick had no idea how he could tell that much, but as he stared at that distant tangle, he caught glimpses of Bright Smile upon a throne. All of the other ones were unintelligible, probably because Erick had no idea what they were. Many of them looked to happen in a hundred years, and were probably all about the opening of new worlds.

Most of those hundred years tangles actually looked more like opportunities.

He would deal with those later.

Erick focused on the closest tangles; the three that stood out as problems that needed to be solved sooner rather than later. They were not opportunities at all, and the Benevolent lightning flickered black upon those specific situations, and where appropriate, upon those specific lives.

Past a curve in eternity, Erick saw Patriarch Xangu Terror Peaks. The man responsible for the aggression of Terror Peaks and the inciter of the Chelation Wars. The man had never been found by anyone, and yet, Erick had found him. He was right there, on the other side of that tangle, and he had found out that Erick was a Wizard. Erick got the distinct feeling that as soon as he stepped out of this land and showed himself, Patriarch Xangu would devote his entire life to killing him, and every single thing that he would ever create. That man would bring Extreme Light bombs to all the cities that Erick inhabited. The threat Xangu posed would only grow larger with time.

Erick could not give him that time. Erick needed to do what he needed to do.

The second black tangle was the Red Dot Mage; the mass murderer who worked with the Lower Trademaster of Portal, Caradogh Pogi, in order to attack Spur and wipe out the Farms. Prior to that, the Red Dot Mage had killed the Village of the Life Binder, Messalina, murdering hundreds of people in a bid for personal power, or something along those lines. Erick didn’t know much about them, but the Red Dot Mage was both a Hunter and a Face Stealer of the worst sort. Erick would have no trouble doing what needed to be done to the Red Dot Mage, either.

He still had no idea who the Red Dot Mage was, exactly, but they were currently living in Archipelago Nergal.

The third tangle was more nuanced and larger than all the rest, for it was the manifestation of all of Erick’s greatest fears coming true.

It was a fractal confluence of the entirety of Veird allying against him, trying to kill him, to End Elemental Benevolence, and destroy everything he had ever touched or created. It was the death of possibility. It was a million individual minds all believing that Erick was a danger to all reality. It was shortsightedness, and smallness. It was the destruction of Spur. The descent of the Converter Angel upon Veird. The killing of Poi, Kiri, and Teressa. The lynching of Nirzir. The purging of the Songli Highlands by outside forces, and interior conspirators.

The burning of Yggdrasil.

The murder of Jane.

It was almost too much.

Erick breathed deep, squared his shoulders, centered his mind, and stared out into infinity.

He went over the whole of the problem again. The three large tangles were connected, each feeding into the other, and the threat they posed was coming sooner, rather than later. Collectively, they were the death of Benevolence, and the return of the threat of the Sundering.

Erick could not solve the fractal tangle right now. Even if he could navigate that tangle with perfect precision, pulling apart the bad and fortifying the good, there would still be smaller wars. Those smaller wars would spill into larger wars. There was no way around that.

The other two tangles, with Patriarch Xangu and the Red Dot Mage, were easier to solve.

Two portals, and then two [Vivid Gloom]s, or anything else that he felt like casting…

That would permanently solve those problems.

And yet… Erick didn’t want to be just one man going up against the world. Complete tyranny was no way to begin this new world order. That would just lead to more problems down the road. No. While he could solve these problems himself, he knew he should not.

… Erick knew what he needed to do.

Some of his mana had regenerated while he gazed out into eternity, so the first thing Erick did was summon some more Ophiel. While he did that, he spoke to Yggdrasil, “Are you feeling okay?”

“It’s weird, but I’m good,” Yggdrasil said, in his child-like voice. “I am floating, but I am not.”

“Do you need help understanding how the space works? How the node works? How to work this space?” He had already handed off [Gate] to Yggdrasil, but communication was important.

“I got it! I’m smart. I know magics and responsibilities.”

Erick felt a wonderful warmth spread out in his chest. “Yes, you are. Smart and responsible and so much more. I love you, Yggdrasil.”

“I love you too, Father.” Yggdrasil asked, “Are you headed out?”

“I am.”

“The lightning?”

“Yup. The Benevolent lightning shows problems that I need to solve. I don’t expect it to always show problems, but sometimes reality is reality.”

“See you soon, Father!”

With ten Ophiel floating around him, Erick smiled at Yggdrasil, and said, “I’ll see you soon, Yggdrasil.”

Then he turned to the side, toward the dark lightning in the air. He cast [Gate].

Iridescent lightning crashed down onto the edge of the stone platform and transformed into a hole in the air. Beyond lay blue sky and orange sands, and the occasional scattered crystal mimic in the far distance. The Crystal Forest. Somewhere far north of Ar’Kendrithyst, if Erick had managed to target the right spot. It wasn’t any place special; just a random part of the desert that was mostly sand and little else.

Erick stepped through the portal and landed on that sand.

- - - -

The lightning portal silently shut behind him.

A dry wind rushed across the orange dunes, kicking sand off of the top. Heat seeped deep into Erick’s clothes, causing him to sweat. It was high summer and near the end of Wyrm Season so the air was unusually hot. He almost cast an air conditioning spell, but not yet. With eyes wide and mana sense fully open, Erick studied his surroundings.

In the far distance, crystal mimics held to the tops of dunes, glittering in the midday light, but not a single one was anywhere close to Erick, or his Ophiel. Erick was worried, and on edge, but nine of his ten Ophiel happily zipped up and out, each one in a small not-sun form, surrounded by a thorny silver all-reflective shield. Erick had already made them cast their protections, so they were well guarded against normal magics.

Erick doubted that he would be facing normal magics if the worst should happen.

In a flicker of thought, Erick cast his own silver [Animadversion] upon his left wrist and summoned some nicer [Conjure Armor]. Armored white robes flowed down his body. It wasn’t complete protection, but it would help. He also cast a little AC [Ward] on his clothes to keep him cool, and calm.

He was ready—

Ah. He wasn’t quite ready.

He opened his Status and— That looked different. He would deal with that later. For right now, all he wanted was to find— Ah! There it was. The note from Rozeta had been right. Koyabez had granted him some spellwork, or rather, Koyabez had returned a spell that Erick had created. It was a little bit different from how Erick had made it, but that was fine.

Zone of Peace, instant, 24 hours, super long range, 500 MP

All magic cast inside Zone of Peace with the intent to harm, or entering a Zone of Peace with the intent to harm, is transformed into a Cleanse of commensurate size. Zone of Peace has no effect on ongoing magic.

May the peace of Koyabez enable benevolence to flourish.

Erick cast the spell. The air filled with a saturation that passed like a gentle breeze, and then settled down into the sand, and into the sky. Peace took hold of this small part of the world.

And then he waited.

- - - -

Rozeta whipped around. “He’s back— Ah…” She frowned. “Shit.”

Kromolok frowned. King Alfonin waited for Rozeta to continue.

Sitnakov simply asked, “What’s wrong?”

Rozeta sighed. “My father has decided to show.” She looked to the people she had gathered, and decided, “We’re going to wait.”

- - - -

The blue skies of the bright desert began to darken as shadows lengthened from the sides of the dunes, like water seeping out from a broken dam. The sun dimmed, and then went out. Stars appeared.

Darkness grasped the desert.

With feet firmly on the ground, and his body wrapped in a thin layer of lightning, Erick waited for the God of Magic to fully appear—

The dark air shifted, revealing the monumental form of Melemizargo. He towered in the near distance like a smiling menace. Glowing white fangs the size of people. Bright white eyes that rivaled Erick’s own light. He wasn’t nearly as large as he could have been. Maybe only 40 meters tall, and therefore only slightly larger than the dragons Erick had recently seen at the Rotunda in Ar’Cosmos, but he had wings. Those wings were spread to the sides like he was a cat relaxing in the sun, making him seem four times as large.

And he smiled.

Erick wasn’t sure how he felt about that smile, but there was no reason to be antagonistic, so he said, “Hello, Melemizargo. Welcome to the talks. You’re the first to arrive.”

“I had to show, for you deserve a gift. How about a gift of temporary safety?” Melemizargo smiled wider, showing off his glowing fangs. “I was thinking of stripping [Teleport] from every single person, or expanding my power out from the Underworld and onto the Surface, to prevent [Teleport] that way. That would make your new [Gate] rather useful and necessary for all involved. Would prevent a war, too! Or at least delay such a war for a long while, giving you time to set up proper defenses against all who would do you harm. Wouldn’t do anything against competent assassins, of course, but I have the solution to that problem, too. Someone here wishes to make amends for her part in that Chelation War.” He lifted his arm.

Darkness coalesced halfway between Erick and Melemizargo. That darkness rapidly transformed into the form of Goldie, the goldscale dragonkin Shade of Assassination. She wore serious black leathers while her gigantic adamantium sword floated behind her like a plank of dark void.

She bowed, then rose. In that moment she was not her normal, bubbly self. Instead, she enunciated her words in a strange manner as she spoke, “Wizard Flatt. I wish to enter into thy service, to do as thou wouldst command from now until eternity shall pass.”

Erick’s eyes had widened at first, but he had mostly managed to contain that involuntary reaction. At Goldie’s declaration, though, his countenance was less controlled. “Uh. We can discuss… Events and responses. Maybe no one needs to do anything that drastic. Uh. Hello… Goldie. We will… Discuss that, too.”

Goldie bowed again then stood resolute; waiting for orders.

Melemizargo shrugged. “I feel I will need to do things much more drastic than this, but if you want to try talking with the petty tyrants to come, then that is your prerogative. I don’t know how much good it will do— Eh! My offers remain open.” He turned his head to the left. “So who shows next, eh?” With a half-giddy smile, he said, “It’s always so difficult to see what will happen next when Wizards start changing everything. Quite fun, though!”
