Yet she didn’t want to believe that the shimagu needed to be wiped out. Was it truly the soldiers’ responsibility to bear the sin for the mandates that they received? If they could be convinced to leave their hosts… well, there had to be a better way. They could inhabit mindless animals too, or maybe they could live predominantly in some sort of liquid, like the slimes she knew from Remus?

Questions of morality haunted Ranthia while they returned to the Coalition.

Everyone was exhausted and Night looked especially haggard as the Sentinels gathered once again—in the early afternoon. Thankfully, they had all survived. Ranthia and Beast’s armor was in terrible shape, sharply contrasted by Pierce and Solace’s seemingly untarnished equipment. But they weren’t there to compare damage; Night had summoned them to handle pressing matters.

“Our first issue is a known problem that has been somewhat exacerbated by our latest engagement. Sentinel Solace and her team were able to reclaim a large number of lives from the shimagu parasites, which is to be commended. However, this has increased the number of individuals that are either catatonic or willfully trapped within their class upgrade to levels that Spearpoint is ill-equipped to provide for. The current belief is that neither group is likely to return to whomever they once were, before the shimagu chose to inhabit them. I have also been informed that the elves have confirmed that there are no known means to contact those that have withdrawn from our world.

“The Legion’s leadership has invited us to provide guidance for the quandary about what is to be done with them. Preserving so many individuals in hopes that they will emerge to discover—and accept—their freedom is a daunting prospect that may prove to be impossible, and some amongst the Coalition have already suggested that returning them to Samsara is the greater kindness.”

Night’s explanation was provided without any obvious emotion—he even managed to set aside his exhaustion—presumably in an effort to avoid guiding their response.

Pierce and Gravity immediately called for the rescued people to be given every opportunity to recover, stating that the empire had a moral imperative to aid them. They were so quick to jump to the ‘right’ decision that Ranthia felt guilty for her own reticence—she joined her voice to theirs several moments later.

Sage and Grey recommended a swift, gentle end for those that had retreated into their world within—and Silence signed his agreement. They championed that those that were merely withdrawn into their own minds should be given the time and assistance they needed to try and recover.

Solace, surprisingly, recommended culling both groups. It seemed awfully callous for a [Healer], but the woman legitimately had a point when she claimed that those that chose life needed every resource they had and that Spearpoint was ill-equipped to manage and care for those that were little more than husks. The Legions’ [Healers] especially were already stretched thin and overwhelmed with wounded.

“Is it truly just to ask those that fought to end this war to endure their wounds—and risk death—just to give a stranger that has already given up on life an opportunity to change their mind? We have tried this time and time again. The simple fact is that, even if we condemn every last legionary that is in need of a [Healer]’s time, few—if any—of these people will ever be able to truly recover. We must support those that wish to live.” Solace’s words seemed to echo through Ranthia’s mind.

Beast declined to take a side, instead he seemed dedicated to blatant attempts at convincing everyone else to start arguing. Not that any of them had the energy to fight amongst themselves.

“Very well, I will inform the generals that the Sentinels will not make a recommendation as a whole. This means that we shall accept whatever they decide, even if their decision is to cull one or both groups. This war is not yet finished, but I will have little patience for any actions from the Sentinels that may damage the empire’s cohesion at this time. As the war concludes, we must continue to offer the appearance of cooperation above all else.” Night punctuated his warning with meaningful looks directed at each of them in turn—held until they nodded their acknowledgement.

“It is a difficult problem, but I am sure they’ll do whatever is best for everyone.” Pierce clearly had far more faith in the Legion’s leadership than Ranthia ever could—she was certain that both groups would be promptly expunged.

“As a final topic, I wish to ask Pierce and Grace to perform a long-range patrol. Many shimagu may still be at large in groups too small for the Coalition to track. As our highest-level Sentinels, I hope that you possess the stamina to deal with such hostiles before they can become a lingering problem or reach some currently unknown staging ground that might allow them to regroup. Once night falls, Beast, Gravity, Silence, and I can take over and permit the two of you to rest.” Night’s words were diplomatic.

Ranthia was still ready to snarl at the man, but Pierce enthusiastically consented as though he spoke for them both!

“…Fine, I’ve got a spare suit of armor in my—er, Grey’s room.” Ranthia narrowly managed to keep her wearied sigh on the inside.

Her head was still throbbing and, beyond that, she felt somewhat numb, but what the heck. She even agreed to Pierce’s suggestion that he would take ‘the north’ while she handled ‘the south’ (as if that was a sane way to divide such a monumental task) and watched her former apprentice set out with a smile on his face—with no discernable trace of the fatigue he had to be feeling.

She probably should have suggested that they stick together—she still owed the man a conversation or eight—but… Well, some time alone in the wasteland sounded almost as enticing as collapsing into a bunk did.

…Okay, it was better than trying to hold a conversation in her condition, at least.
