So far, the longest Stew had managed to go without eating a meal was about ten hours, and four of those were because he had been asleep, and another four where he had been sparring with Matt.

The moment the kid got any amount of free time, he just wanted to eat.

They were still debating if it was a side effect of the Talent or just a personality quirk, but it was becoming a recurring theme that even Stewart couldn’t explain.

The kid at least had a good attitude about it. “I really think we should just put a mask on me. It might be the only way to get me to stop eating. Honestly, the moment I stop thinking about stuff, my body goes into autopilot and I start shoving food down my face.”

That wasn’t the first time he had mentioned it being a seemingly automatic response, and Matt shared a look with the other researchers and finally Liz.

At her small shrug, Matt nodded back, letting her take the floor.

“Stew, do you have any cravings that maybe you aren’t meeting? Are you hungry right now? What would you eat right now if you had the choice? Specifically.”

Stewart hummed for a moment before shrugging. “I could eat, but I wouldn’t call myself hungry so to speak. If I had to eat, steak, potatoes, and asparagus sounds really good, but so does breakfast food. Really, I’d eat anything.”

Speeding his perception up to Tier 25 levels to match the lowest Tier scientist, Matt said, “It’s gotta be his magical reserves are relatively empty, prompting his body into overdrive mode. There is no way this is normal, given it only really started happening when he was able to eat as much as he wanted.”

Liz spun the clipboard she had been taking notes on, catching it right before it fell past her arms reach. “I still don’t think that giving him higher-Tier food is wise. If you are correct, that might make things worse as his body adapts to the energy in higher-Tier food. It might fill up his reserves but make lesser energy sources less effective.”

One of the other scientists, Bradley, tapped a nondescript Tier 15 box. “We can always try having him digest energy itself. We have five mana stones and two essence stones for the testing. There is a better than even chance he can safely do so from all of our other tests.”

That started a quick round of bickering, which Matt and Liz both stayed out of given their transient nature.

Finally, it was Vincent Marcone, a Tier 30 and the deputy headmaster of the school, who settled things with his right as the legal counsel for all of the students.

It was one of the positions they had created so as to rein in some of the more eager pursuits of power from either the students or the trainers and scientists. It was also one of the positions Matt was most proud of, because they had to fight tooth and nail to get it allowed by the Empire censors, who justifiably didn’t like high Tiers having final veto rights for lower Tiers.

That, and the Talent mind wipe, but that was pretty much stolen from Ciceron and the Legacy requirements, so it wasn’t like they could really claim credit for that.

“Eating energy raw is still too dangerous. Stewart has proven himself far too eager to advance, and as seen here, lacks the self-restraint needed to try eating such dangerous and potentially addictive substances. Someone mentioned a concentrated food pill. Giving him some in addition to his normal allotment of food is the most I will allow at the given moment. More calories haven't seemed to stop him yet. Worse comes to worst, this lets him concentrate better.”

Having been given the final answer, they all dropped back down to Tier 3 speeds and one of the scientists brought several boxes of pills that looked more like jerky than any type of medicine.

Which it pretty much was.

Long out of style, the so-called ‘fasting pills’ reportedly used to be staples of alchemy, particularly for extended delves in the Tier 5 and up range, when rifts started to get large. In a time without easy access to spatial expansion for backpacks or good food preservation methods, delvers would take the pills into the rifts as low-weight meal substitutes.

They were basically calorie balls with just enough vitamins to prevent scurvy, and they tasted like it. But they were pretty much a day's worth of meals packed into a pinky-thick pill.

Hearing what they were, Stew immediately lost all of his hesitation and popped one of the pills into his mouth and swallowed after a few chews.

They all watched as the pill slowly made its way down to his stomach. It felt like the longest five seconds of Matt’s week, but finally they watched as the pill was dissolved in seconds until nothing remained.

The weirdest thing was that all of Stewart’s internal organs acted like they were working normally. Which they were, but shouldn’t have been given that no actual food made it out of his stomach. His intestines and such should have been empty wastelands. But instead, the kid had perfectly normal bowel movements that no one could explain.

They had even run tests on said stool, but the results were lackluster, as they had nearly zero digestible protein or even fiber in them, leaving only inorganics and anything truly nondigestible to be vacated.

Except, there shouldn't have been any matter for him to excrete. With his Talent absorbing everything that entered his stomach, the origin of Stew's stool was subject to fierce speculation among the researchers.

Their best guess was that Stewart’s Talent was using his stool as a method to remove waste it couldn’t process along with his kidneys. Or it was the leftovers from the energy conversions made manifest in the most easily disposable manner.

Stew immediately picked up a second pill and popped it in his mouth, chewing slightly. “Doesn't taste like much, but I like them. Can I get a few more?”

Before he had even finished speaking, the remaining week's supply was gone.

All eyes went to Vincent, who finally waved for them to continue. “I want blood work done on him every day for the next week, as well as to push ahead with the poison testing. Mild allergens at first, remember. If he's eating this much, I want to ensure that it's simply a case of Talent-driven hunger and not him lacking something vital. After that, load him up with as much same-Tier food as he wants, so long as it's still a relatively balanced diet.”

One of the scientists shrugged. “Are we even sure he needs vitamins and such? His Tier 3 says it converts resources into missing ones. If he was lacking something, should it just get fixed as he eats more? In fact, maybe that's the issue?”

Stewart’s blood work came back perfectly normal, surprising no one, given that they could all see his individual cells. But it still left everyone stumped as to what the issue could be.

Thankfully, after eating over a month's worth of fasting pills, Stew finally didn’t reach for another box.

“So, are you full?”

Stew looked at the second box, head cocked to the side. “I could eat more, but I feel less hungry. Or I think I do.”

Following up, he popped another six pills down the hatch in short order. “Yeah, I could eat more.”

That got a reaction from everyone else, who immediately started logging the results as well as looking for any physiological signs. But he was as healthy as when he walked into the lab.

Matt tapped his chin before speaking up. “Hey Stew, how has your practice been going? Any new breakthroughs or the like?”

“Nothing so advantageous, Ascender Titan. At least not that I’ve realized. Want to spar again?”

The kid bounced on his toes shuffling between stances, but Matt shook his head. “Sorry Stew, I gotta do paperwork now that I’m back, but in a few days I might just take you up on the offer.”

Stewart grinned even as his gaze went to Liz who shook her head as well. “I’m taking a well-deserved break now that Matt is back.”

Matt laughed at the downcast expression, making Stewart flush slightly.

Not mentioning the healed leg directly, Matt asked, “How’s the delving? Your latest reports said you slowed down a tad. That's good.”

He knew how even the kids like Stewart, who didn’t want to join the Path, still tried to emulate Liz or himself, pushing many of them to delving beyond their means.

Stewart had been reprimanded twice in his short few months of stay with their growing academy because of his speedy delves.

In a vacuum, delving fast was a good thing, but not at the expense of safety, which was something all of the instructors, Matt and Liz especially, tried to drill home. Speed could come later, once their fundamentals were down pat.

There was a reason they didn’t restrict how much their students could delve, but did put a pause on how fast they could Tier up.

Their academy wasn’t the Path, and they were in no rush. The teachers were more than happy to let a student sit at a Tier and polish themselves a bit to improve the kid’s foundations, which was what they were trying to drive home with the first batch.

For the first time, Stewart looked sheepish. “I took a fairly bad blow. Cracked my femur and fucked me up something good.”

Matt felt hypocritical as hell as he tsked, but he did it all the same. “What have we been saying? Gotta take it slow. Once you are good, then you can speed up. How bad did it hurt? Want to do it again?”

Stewart’s bravado came back immediately. “I can definitely take that stupid snake a second time.” Catching himself, he calmed down, adding, “But there is no reason I need to kill the boss immediately. I could have taken out the weaker monsters first with a luring method, and it would have only cost me five minutes or so.”

Matt nodded, even as phoenix Liz quietly pecked his ear, sending Matt a message. “What would he think if you told him you teleported yourself into the mouth of a quetzalcoatl when you were younger than he is now?”

Biting his lip, Matt shook his head slightly. “He’d take all the wrong lessons, but it would be funny. I remember nearly vomiting when you waved my hand at the healer.”

“Yeah, that was a shit healer as well. We were so bad as low Tiers, it's not even funny.”

Somehow, despite the movies that hid less than expected of their younger days on the Path, people still somehow thought they, as Ascenders, were flawless when that was far from the truth. How someone could come out of the theater seeing Matt get his ass beat in a training montage and think they had never made costly mistakes was something he just couldn’t understand.

Finally, Stewart was given a new potion and his final test of the day.

The new potion was meant to increase his mental clarity, which was useful for learning new and complicated things. It wasn’t meant for long-term consumption, as most potions of its type had nasty side effects if not properly used, or if used too often. But they were interested in how it would affect Stewart, and he was more than eager to use the test to try and learn his own alchemy to eventually produce his own potions.

For all that Stewart was driven, he wasn't very good on the alchemy side. It was that lack that Matt thought was the reason he so decisively opted out of the Path. He was a decent fighter who was more than willing to put in the time and work on his combat skills. He was also willing to push his Talent. But without outside support, he’d struggle with the expenses of utilizing his Talent.

Which would have been a shame.

Stewart was driven in a way few truly were.

Sadly, while the potions effect lasted longer than normal, there were no lingering effects like they hoped. At least not yet, but Stewart was determined, and might just push his Talent that far given more time.

As Matt and Liz were walking to Aster’s commandeered laboratory where she was diving headlong into mana type research, they caught up on what had happened in the last few months. When they reached the laboratory it was a familiar sight, given that a lot of the stuff was stolen from their time in the army when Liz was working on Ichor mana.

The door had a written ‘Matt not allowed’ that he promptly ignored as he sauntered in.

“Hey ther—”

Ducking, Matt dodged the snow ball that had nearly taken off his head.

“Hey, now that's not nice.”

Aster, in a lab coat and pirate bandana, glowered at him. “This here be commandeered land. I—”

Matt pulled out a bowl of chili and acted like he was going to pour it over her head, which earned him a glare before a smile as they hugged.

“Tier 29. Kind of embarrassing the rest of us.”

“I’m just that good.”

“How's the mana type research?”

Aster sighed. “Well, my pirate outfit is in a better state than our progress. I knew it was going to be slow, but I might need to grab Zack for some of these tests. Sadly, he’s as busy as the rest of us. Why are we given duchies to run again?”

Liz snorted. “Because it keeps us busy enough we don’t start problems.”

Aster flicked her tail. “I can't really tell if it's working, given how much shit we are knee-deep in, but whatever.”

Matt laughed as he sat down next to Liz and they tried to help Aster. They didn’t make any real progress, but it was a good way to spend some time together and connect to their older days on the Path.

Sadly, Matt’s meeting with Kees interrupted them and he knew that was going to be much less pleasant than his earlier meetings.
