However, even those rare humans that the skill would simply spew nonsense and try to kill me anyway. Hence, I stopped trying to reason with them.

Even Jade Serpents did a better job at communicating than these fools!

Alright, calm down, calm down.

Focus on the task at hand. These despicable humans wanted to trap me again, and I had to make sure the formation would fall.

I expanded my sea of fire, buffing the Bashe clones and also any subsequent fire attacks. Then, focusing back on the alchemist, I made the concentrated fire surround her.

Despite being an alchemist whoes fire profficiency should be at an extremely high level, she looked deathly scared of my flames. And with good reason. The woman did her best to ward off the heat, however there was only so much she could do against my relentless attacks.

The first to go were her clothes, then her hair and her skin. She turned into a ghastly sight, and resorted to hiding herself within ther furnace. To give her credit, that would have worked against your average Phoenix, as an alchemist’s furnace was good at keeping heat both in and out.

However, by shoving herself into a cauldron, she turned herself into an ingredient. I dabbled in alchemy in the past, but I never managed to refine even a low grade pill. The best I could manage were unusable and even poisonous dregs.

That was extremely shameful, as even the dumbest alchemists could produce a somewhat usable product.

It had something to do with spirituality and some heaven and earth bullshit I didn’t care to understand. Why should I bother? If I can’t do it, I can’t do it, and that was that.

Either way, I didn’t need to know much about alchemy to turn that woman into a useless pill. Part of me wondered if that was too much, but my doubts quickyl got dispelled upon seeing my daughter watch me from below with awe.

That’s right. These people didn’t only want to kill me, but they also endangeredl my daughter. I couldn’t forgive them, I’d never forgive them.

How could they attempt such an awful thing to my only daughter?

I’ll kill them, I’ll kill them all!

I waved my wing and sent a special kind of fire toward the cauldron, then without hesitating, employed the technique I’d studied to refine pills.

I’ll feed your remains to the rest of them.
