Slowly, his mind cleared, and he looked down from the strange all-around perspective of a tree, finding his mind suddenly quiet. He explored his aura with his perception and senses, identifying each adventurer and even the minions. He hated the necessity of Seth’s undead, but they would most certainly pull their weight in the fight.

“Healed. Teagan, you’re next,” Malika yelled, kicking off the healing rotation.

And with his awareness, his Sanctuary began dissolving the Creeping Rot that afflicted almost everyone in the raid already. He checked, making certain everything was in place, guiding his Lirasian Sage to hover high among his branches, granting her boon to the entire raid group through his Sanctuary. It was a blessing in disguise that he had been forced to invest in wisdom for his parasitic items. He had mostly focused on his attributes for his Bear Form, but in Tree Form, wisdom and vitality were paramount, and with his wisdom easily surpassing two thousand now, because of his shapeshift, he was now sharing more than eight hundred and seventy-five percent health regeneration with the entire raid group. And it was cumulative with the Forest Guardian Ali had chosen to bring.

He settled in, calmly following the shouts as the healers settled into their rotation for the long haul, while studying Sabri’s tanking. She’s a natural, he mused, seeing how she anticipated the strikes, making optimal use of her shield both for defense and attack. There wasn’t a whole lot for him to do other than share his aura. He couldn’t use Holy Consecration unless he wanted to blow his one minute, but it seemed the gear, potions, and his regeneration were holding steady.

“Healed, Belmar, you’re next,” Teagan shouted.

“Spores!” Calen shouted. “Archers take them down!”

Mato found them easily, spawned from the creep near the wall, and he reached out with his Grasping Roots, grappling with the strange spores, pinning them down and hindering their progress as they struggled toward the Fungal Ravager. One of the major parts of their strategy was preventing the boss from healing when the spores exploded. And he couldn’t really do much else, so he held them in place while the archers took them down.

“Fuck, I’m on recharge,” Belmar exclaimed, “I used a healing buff by accident.”

At that instant, Mato sensed the enormous incoming bite as a premonition of danger, not for himself, but for Sabri. In the calm of his tree-mind state, he understood. The healers were scrambling to try and cover for Belmar’s mistake. Sabri had just taken several huge bashes and had just used Critical Block, and she was already down to about fifteen percent health, expecting to be healed about every ten seconds, but now there was a gap in the rotation and likely the next healer had a few seconds left on their recharge because of the gap.

The Fungaloth Ravager lashed downward, snapping its jaws shut on Sabri with crushing force, and Mato’s trunk splintered from the damage as he redirected it to himself.

You have been afflicted with Suppression.

He didn’t have nearly the armor he had in Bear Form, but he had more than forty thousand health as a tree. He wouldn’t want to take many strikes like that, but redirecting an attack to save Sabri was not about to put him in dire straits.

Sabri downed a health potion, and Mato noticed one of Ali’s strange tree druids using its heal to cover the rest instead of healing the raid members. Sabri was still critically low, but she used a defensive skill, enhancing her blocking power, and she made it the ten seconds she needed till the next healer dropped a full heal on her.

Mato sighed his relief as a ripple through his leaves that carried outward through his Sanctuary aura.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
