“...Frankly, it won’t actually cost me that much, but I still can’t do it. You say you won’t help me if I don’t, but you can’t help me if you’re dead either.”

“You really think I’d lose?”

“Yes.”

“Me, a princess, the Chosen One, and a Named monster with a Sin Trait?”

“Against another, more powerful Named monster with a Virtue Trait? Absolutely.”

“Well, you’re wrong. I’ve already killed one Named monster with a Virtue Trait that was a Tier above me. I can do it again.”

“Joshua shouldn’t count. He didn’t even fight back.”

Shut up.

“I can’t let you do this,” says the squirrel. “I have a conscience. I’m not going to assist in your suicide.”

“How is it suicide if the Named monster is already there? You’re just making it real. The Floor isn’t getting any more dangerous.”

“But you’re not supposed to fight it! At no point in this Dungeon are you ever expected to kill it, and starting on the fourth Floor, it’s impossible for anyone at your level. If you were a Tier higher, I might allow it, but as you are? Absolutely not.”

“C’monnnn. Please?”

“No.”

“Pleeeeeeeease.”

“No.”

“Please please please please please please please please please please plea–”

“Stop.”

“–se please please please please–”

“Stop!”

“–please please–”

“Okay, fine!” the squirrel shouts. “But on one condition.”

“What is it?”

“You can only fight it after you complete the Floor Quest. That way, you can simply ascend to the next Floor when you lose instead of dying.”

“I was already gonna do that.”

“Well, then you should have mentioned it,” says the squirrel indignantly. “Happy now?”

“Yup!” I say. “Now, watch and learn, foot freak, and witness how I will kill this ‘unkillable’ named monster.”

As I speak, the Gluttonous Greatsword reaches saturation, and I switch to cat girl form as I pull it out of the wood. From there, I summon a mana hand and slowly float down the trunk, dragging the sword along the wood so it can continue absorbing mana and not bleed it all off. Then, once I’ve reached a section that seems suitable, I charge up a Spatial Slice to its maximum, and cut across the wood. The ordinary Charged Spatial Slice gets about halfway through, so I charge up a second one, this time cutting at a slight angle to separate a wedge from the tree. I move the wedge to my Stomach, then float into the gap, charging up a third Spatial Slice.

At this point, the gardeners below are freaking out, and the guards are starting to appear, but it doesn’t matter. The third Spatial Slice cuts all the way through, and with an enormous creaking and crash, the great tree falls.

But of course, it’s not dead yet. Its root system is still quite intact, which is why the next thing I do is Snatch a big boulder from deep beneath the ground, leaving a nice, empty pocket of safety for me to retreat to. Then, I absorb the mana from the sword, form it into a Fireball, and make my escape.

Even from my retreat deep below the earth, I can feel the power of the explosion. Just from in here, I can sense that the castle above me is basically gone, and so is the base of the great tree. As the debris settles, I Blink back upward to admire my handiwork. The Sanctuary is gone, and so is most of the castle, and a couple blocks of the surrounding area. The System notifications confirm that the tree is dead, along with everyone in a half kilometer radius. Apparently, though, there’s a bit of a nasty surprise with all those kills.

[ You have slain Maligar, the Patient Giver, Tier 2, lvl 30. No experience awarded, as the enemy was an essence-free Dungeon construct ]

There are similar messages about the experience on all the other things I killed.

“What?!” I shout out loud.

“The Dungeon Core likely didn’t want Adventurers massacring the homunculi for experience points.”

“But what about the tree?!”

“Well, he just said you’re not supposed to fight it either.”

“This is dumb.”

“But on the bright side, that won’t be the case for the next Floor, since the tree will be real.”

“It’d better be,” I say grumpily. “I can’t believe he cheated me out of so many levels. Foot Freak, you’d better not cheat me out of the next ones too!”

With that, I fly back to where the rest of my Party is, and we ascend to the next Floor.
