After checking the walls again and finding all the systems working as they should, Erick did a check on the 47 slimes that currently bumbled and ambled throughout the compound. The slimes were exuding mana, too. Only about 1 every few hours… Maybe. Hard to tell. They were definitely making mana, though! And so were the plants. When Erick’s mana senses were closed, everything looked kinda spooky, with the slimes glowing like radioactive, toxic things, the mushrooms looking more intimidating than the slimes, and everything looking way too cave-like for comfort. But when Erick’s mana senses were open, everything was kinda ethereal, like someone had rubbed bacon grease over the camera lens, like they used to do on old movies to give the same sort of effect…

“I could really go for some bacon-grease-fried shrooms.”

… Erick looked at the little bit of fat on his body…

“Nope. Not cutting off parts of myself to eat. That is… way too far. Now that would be the actions of a crazy person.” Erick looked to the slime passing by, plopping at Erick’s leg before moving on, like some sort of cat. “It’s crazy to eat oneself, right, Benny #7?”

Benny #7 continued to amble away, searching for something to eat.

Erick put his hands on his hips, and considered…

“I am not eating any part of myself, even if I can grow it back. There! Decision made. Now for the other Big Question.”

He was pretty much ready to start really going for this whole True Wizard thing, wasn’t he?

“Yeah. I think I am.”

- - - -

Erick ascended up a staircase to a special-made room in his compound that was unlike all the rest.

It was open to the outside.

The roof of the tallest structure in the compound was a hexagon of black stone, ten meters across. Thin streamers of shadow lifted from the edges of the roof, to form a dome-like lattice of power that held air and mana here, upon this location. Those thin shadows were the only visible part of the compound, here at the top, at the peak of a black sand mountain. All of the runic web that held the magical structure in place was in the room below.

Erick could step right through the ‘walls’ here, if he wanted. He’d be in the vacuum of space, just like that. He’d do that, eventually. Not right now. Not until he could truly survive such a thing.

Erick took an uneasy breath of comfortable air as he gazed up at a fraction of infinity.

There was no sun. There was no moon. The only real source of light was that storm in the far distance, and the ocean of stars overhead.

It was quite beautiful, really.

The darkness necessary to see stars like this did exist on Veird in many different places, but there was no real atmosphere between Erick and eternity in this place. Like glowing dust, and points of bright light, the heavens were revealed. It was awesome, in the old, biblical sense of the word; almost too grand to put into a coherent thought.

“Really helps to chase away the existential dread of it all, doesn’t it,” Erick said, as he turned his attention back to the land around him… To the ‘walls’ and the death that awaited beyond...

Erick walked to the side of the wall-less room. He put a finger through the invisible barrier that held in the atmosphere and manasphere. His fingertip was okay for a moment, and then it started to hurt. He pulled back, and shook out his hand. Blood vessels had burst but they were healing already, under Erick’s gaze.

“… I guess that’s the Call of the Void for you.” Erick mumbled, “Of course it was going to hurt; why did you think it wouldn’t.”

… Anyway!

Erick walked to the center of the space and sat down on a semi-comfortable stone chair. It was just a normal chair, unconnected to anything. In fact, this space at the top of the compound, at the peak of the black sand hill, was about the most disconnected part of this entire structure. Runic webs supported invisible walls all around, but the center was empty of all magical influence.

It needed to be that way.

Becoming a True Wizard was mostly about deciding which parts of yourself you wanted to keep, and which parts you wanted to discard, and it was pretty much impossible to do that in areas of great influence, like on Veird with the manaminer of the Script having influence everywhere. ‘Achieve emptiness to divine the truth of oneself’ was such a simple concept, but like many simple concepts, it was in the doing that the true difficulty showed itself.

In that difficulty, becoming a True Wizard was kinda like the concept of relationships.

Chemical reactions in brains and physical love and circumstances were all great starter foundations to a relationship, but going the distance to everlasting love required a lot more than that. Relationships required active choice to be with a person, and an adjustment of self and circumstances and a whole bunch of other factors that many people never figured out, and most could only ever muddle through.

Which was fine. Love filled in the final magics of a working relationship some of the time.

Erick supposed that becoming a True Wizard was much the same as declaring a relationship with the self, and then deciding that nothing would tear that relationship apart. Mana could fill in the rest.

‘Erick’ was only part of such a relationship, though. There was also his soul, and his mana, and the need for constant communication to change everything on a whim, to make the trajectory of ‘Wizard Erick’ go where he needed to go. Most of that communication would be directed outward, at the world around Erick, but some would be directed inward, to check on his Self, to make sure everything was going as desired.

Erick had already done almost all of the coursework to become a True Wizard, now he just needed to put it all into thought, and then action. He needed to actually write the thesis of himself.

First, Erick needed to decide what he wanted.

The concept of ‘need’ was not a part of True Wizardry. True Wizardry was a culmination of desire, and the coordination of the decision that ‘needs’ like sustenance, shelter, and even a continuance of self, were all a part of one’s wants. He could be a True Wizard that was a simple block of crystal that never tired, never hungered, never wanted, and always worked hard. But Erick did not want that.

He wanted everything he already had and more.

A lot more.

“Ten thousand moving parts,” Erick said, “That’s what this is.”

This was not unlike Quilatalap making himself into a lich, where he decided who he was and who he wanted to be. That was why Erick had tried the phylactery approach to Wizardry that one time with Quilatalap, during the [Onward]. That methodology hadn’t worked back then for the obvious reasons of Erick not really knowing what he was doing, not being there in the moment, or maybe Nothanganathor had fucked it up for him...

Or maybe even Benevolence had stopped him from ascending, because then he would have triggered the Red Storm way too early. And yet, maybe a version of Erick had succeeded in True Wizardry back then. That one had died, for sure. Grand Wizardry could certainly negate the Script’s controls, after all, and if Erick really needed to become a True Wizard then he probably could have, but he was glad that his Lightning Path had taken him here, to this place of peace and contemplation.

Erick wondered what happened to those other Ericks. Solomon and the ‘failed’ Ericks was just one possible endpoint. Surely some of him would have succeeded a lot more than the version of him that was here, now, and doing this contemplation.

But even if such a Wizard version of Erick had lived… What would such a half person look like? What would they do? Erick hadn’t known about Nothanganathor back then, and so, could such a Wizard have changed tracks and adjusted to this new threat? How would such a True Wizard have handled the Wizard of Anarchy, or the Blue Wizard? Erick hadn’t even known about the infinite multiverse of this New Cosmology back then, so surely a Wizard Erick from back then would have been at a loss when it came to these sorts of major threats.

Outside threats were always a big problem, because those threats were hard to guard against.

This was infinitely more true for threats that could hide themselves, and strike from absolute seats of power, just like Nothanganathor had done to the Old Cosmology in the Sundering.

If a threat knew, fully and completely, a Wizard or a Lich or even god, then those victims were easier to plan around and take down, simply because that’s how people got when they were smart and capable. Even if everyone knew everyone else, and everyone was a perfect actor, sometimes enemies simply won because they had started planning earlier, or they had a better plan, or whatever.

Life became games of chess when everyone was a perfect actor, and games of chess didn’t always end in draws—

Erick would revisit that thought in a moment. For now….

Erick breathed, cleared his mind, and focused on the proper order of events.

1. Find the foundational Truth.

2. Build upon that Truth, but don’t build for a specific goal, or you will find yourself unable to adapt to all problems you face, or worse, you will complete your goal, and then want to die. Build for later additions, and changes, and yet, to do that was to invite disaster if someone could attack you from ways you didn’t plan.

3. ???

4. Paradox the Wizard-self into being Just You, but with an endless power source supporting you for all eternity. This would help with the ‘too rigid’ problem of Wizardry and other high-powered beings who lived their Truth to the max, outshining your truth, but it would not solve that evergreen problem of outside threats.

5. Learn to live with what you have done to yourself.

That was a pretty normal chain of thoughts for becoming a True Wizard.

Erick was going to follow that normal order… But he had some problems that were not problems. They were nuances that needed to be incorporated into his final form.

All normal Wizards ascended to True Wizardry with the tools they made for themselves along their Wizardry career. Erick was not very tool-rich right now. The only magi-physical tools that Erick had with him right now were a pair of All-Stat rings that functioned within almost every environment, and also his All-Seeing Eye, hanging on a chain around his neck. The rings operated at maybe 25% because there was no Script to piggyback, and they really needed a Script to piggyback, while the All-Seeing Eye was operating at around 95-ish%.

The Eye was working a lot better, for reasons of Wizardry.

He had other ‘tools’ that Erick had made for himself over the years, but they were not physical. They were his spells, which the Script had taken and turned into magical buttons that it then planted into his soul. Every single basic spell he bought for a point, every single Class Ability he made himself or Wizarded up or otherwise acquired, every single nuance to [Polymorph] and his [Greater Dragon Body] and even his Stats in his Status, all were tools implanted and twisted and colored into his soul.

And his soul was kind of a mess right now.

Erick had looked at himself before now, of course. When he had landed on FENRIR his soul had been broken and cracked and everything was a mess. There was still some damage. A lot, actually. He had expected this.

From the birth of Ophiel months ago, to Yggdrasil last month, both of which had mostly healed, to then Erick’s bequeathing of Rozeta’s Kill Switch and his Second Status to Solomon there at the end, his soul had taken a pretty deep beating.

So there had been some damage.

That damage was healing. Which was great! It wasn’t healing as fast as it would if Erick had been inside Benevolence Itself, but being sequestered inside this Benevolence-infused compound was helping to heal his soul, too.

And so, his soul was healing. Which was great!

But, as Erick sat there, meditating and looking inward, as his body softly exuded Benevolence like a cloud around him, he saw that the damage was extensive. At least the stone chair under his butt was getting a nice, soft layer of green moss to it.

Erick needed to meditate on everything going forward, anyway. He could let his soul heal as he tried to make sense of his ethereal self.

“… Maybe I should make a Gate Network here, too. Plant a node? Hmm.”

Erick lifted his hand and tried to form a [Gate], as per normal operations.

Benevolence swirled into a disk and then opened up into the vacuum of Elsewhere.

It was like opening a window on a spaceship.

Bad.

Erick tried to shut the [Gate] with a flick of concentrated intent but he ended up needing to destroy the [Gate] with anti-Benevolence countermagic.

It was a minor loss of atmosphere and manasphere. No slimes were hurt in the process of that experiment. The Benevolence fountains, noticing a drop in everything, kicked into high gear and started rapidly pumping out atmosphere, half of which was turned into thick air because the copying magics weren’t perfect, and soon, the manasphere was stable, too.

Erick had to go rushing downstairs when one of the fountains started fountaining way too much water into the air, though. He had no idea what had caused that malfunction, but it ended up taking an hour to fix. Erick spent the next 12 hours fixing other minor problems in the compound, before they became major problems, because spreading moss was fucking up the runic web, bending it out of position.
