There was difficulty. He was outside of the Script and all the magic he carved was 100% on him to both create and imbue with meaning. The vacuum of space was ripping away at everything he wrote at all times, which was difficult. And everything was death out here. But Erick kept his power focused.

He drew perfect lines all across the inside of the stone space. He kept his intent honed. He knew what he was doing, and though he had to rewrite areas a few times to make the power stick, he did exactly that.

It was like drawing a sketch in a very large space that was constantly erased. And yet, if one drew enough lines fast enough, the sketch remained. It could be improved upon. It could be made real.

Every bit of Domainwork that managed to stick around made all that came afterward easier.

Gradually, a manasphere began to settle. Erick’s Benevolence form began to calm. Slowly, a two-armed, two-legged, one-headed body emerged out of his bloated mist, while even more Benevolence mist clung to words and symbols on the stone walls.

And still, Erick carved.

Some amount of time later, Erick was still carving stone with his claw going over a line he had already gone over 127 times already. And he realized something. He was in his human shape, in his human body, breathing freezing cold air that was starting to seem stuffy, and all the walls were lined with power. The power was still fading. It needed to be reinforced.

But Erick could do that.

Erick shuddered, his muttered voice echoing under the stone dome, “Holy fucking shit that was rough.”

But now he had a place that wasn’t absolute death.

Erick took a platinum button from his shirt and then he [Duplicate]d it inside of his Benevolence form. One bit of non-magical metal gained a twin that was infused with mana; it shimmered white and glinted with lightning depths when looked upon from certain angles. His domainwork was holding. This bit of benevolencesteel would stay benevolencesteel.

Erick made more.

Stone was great for a start, for a foundation, but Erick wanted multiple redundant systems, automatic air creation, and a whole bunch of other stuff that would make this area truly secure. He would likely be here for a while, rebuilding himself.

As Erick worked, he occasionally stuck his visual senses through the stone, to look for threats.

There were no threats anywhere, and that planet-sized storm was still moving away.

Everything else was black adamantium, or the star-filled silent void of space.

Erick rushed through the first runic web, and then went on to another very necessary creation: A little water fountain that tumbled water down some stone pillars, into a tiny pond.

A jolt of Benevolence created some water plants, too, so that was great.

There would be no concentrating on rebuilding himself into a True Wizard until he could at least relax enough to get a proper look at his soul, to reorganize himself into something unassailable, and it was much easier to work on the incremental advancements needed to secure that concentration when the world wasn’t complete silence, with death just on the other side of a thin stone shell.

As a nice side effect, the air gained some moisture. It was still cold in here, but it wasn't as dry as desert air anymore.

Erick would work on a better air-water-warmth system once the walls weren’t so damned weak. Such a system would probably be a mini-[Terraforming] spell locked into a metal frame and working off of Benevolence mana. That storm outside which was slowly, slowly headed away, was almost for sure a [Terraforming], but on a much larger scale. Solomon and Erick had specifically not discussed all of this FENRIR system in perfect detail, but they had spoken around the plan many times, and Erick wasn’t wholly certain what Solomon’s Elemental Genesis was truly capable of, but he knew that Solomon had all the same spells as him, and that included [Terraforming].

Seemed like Genesis was manifestation-based, too.

An Element specifically designed to make things without all the intermediary steps like Erick was doing now, with this rune carving? Yeah. Probably. Safe bet.

Erick tried to mana sense through the floor and into the adamantium worldplate again, and all he could truly feel was the worldplate sucking him down, draining all the loose mana around into itself.

Something was wrong with the FENRIR system, and Erick would solve it after he ascended to True Wizard.

Erick continued to work without rest, creating Benevolence-infused platinum and stretching it out into networks that encircled the room. He had to replace the air a few times when it got musty and he needed to [Cleanse] it. He needed to fix the water fountain twice.

But eventually, the room was more secure than it had been.

Theoretically, Erick could have slept right now. He was exhausted. But he couldn’t rest. Not with only one layer of protection.

And so, Erick extended the mana containment domain field using specifically shaped runic webs, extending a three-meter-wide tunnel of controlled mana off of the side of the grey marble building. A quick jaunt out into the Empty had Erick almost panicking again, but he maintained and added on a tunnel of granite to the main structure, located a few meters off of the ground of the black worldplate.

Erick would build the rest of the structure off of the ground, supported by pillars that locked onto tiny imperfections in the hexagonal grid of the ground, wrapping around edges and locking into place as much as possible. The first building was practically unsecured, compared to what Erick would build next. A strong wind could just blow the whole thing off of the ground.

Of course, there was no real wind out here.

That world-sized [Terraforming] in the distance was certainly doing something, and there was an atmosphere out there, Erick had been at this for 2 or 3 days now, and something was wrong—

“Stop thinking about that, Erick,” Erick told himself. “Do what you can, and leave the rest for later.”

When Erick finished his second big building, beyond the tunnel that led to the first, he went back and revisited the little fountain in the first building, and changed everything about it.

He turned that thing into a powerhouse of Benevolence, making it resemble the start of his Benevolence space, where he had placed his very first node for the Gate Network. Water pushed up and out of the center of a collection of pillars that formed a fountain and cascaded down onto mosses and multiple levels, before the water settled into a wide pool, five meters across and filled with Benevolence-generated water plants. A runic web in the center kept it going strong, automatically attuning to drops in water level to create new water, or drops in air pressure to create new air, or drops in ambient temperature to stoke the warm fires that hovered above the fountain, warming everything. A tiny bit of [Cleanse] magic in the waters and in the air above those waters would end up draining air and water both, turning it to thick air in order to keep the water clean and the air breathable. That mana-as-a-side-effect would keep the manasphere stable, too, because Erick had put some Mana Siphon [Renew]-work into the domainwork in his runic webs. The manasphere in this place was mostly Benevolence, but [Cleanse] was a spell that balanced the manasphere, and it was adding all sorts of other types of mana to this space.

Not in any measurable quantity, but there was still some Stone in the stone, and Metal in the metal, and all the other Elements inside all the other things that resembled them.

No Elements in the bottom-most floor, though. FENRIR still sucked up that loose mana all the time.

This was not a perfectly safe hideout at all.

There were way too many holes in Erick’s systems, either in leaks in the domainwork or leaks in the stone itself, for Erick had needed to repair a few cracks already, but with the life in that pond growing… Perhaps the system would be a net positive soon enough, and if not right now or even in the next few days, as soon as slimes started spawning, then the system would actually start growing, and fast. Or at least becoming less of an existential worry.

What Erick needed —and what he was building for— was a little bit of home. He wasn’t sure how long he would be here, and if Nothanganathor could find him at all, or any of those larger questions. But he was sure that if he didn’t have some space to walk around in, unworried, that he was not going to make it. Or at least he wasn’t going to make it well.

“Let’s not go insane, Erick,” Erick said to himself, as he began working on the runic web expansion for the next tunnel, and the next building.

- - - -

Erick had made seven large buildings, all of them turned homey and nice, all of them redundant several times over. Three different fountain systems kept the space all livable. Multiple atmospheric failsafes. Multiple domainwork manasphere failsafes. The entire thing was even buried under black dirt to obscure it from casual observation.

The storm in the distance was getting smaller and smaller, but it was still planet-sized, so Erick had no idea how big it was, or not. Observation through a telescope showed that it wasn’t shrinking, though. It truly was just getting further and further away.

Nothing else was on the horizon at all.

Erick had checked everything four times over. He had eaten several meals of various water plants and he had even randomly lucked into a bean-like plant which provided for the bulk of his food. He needed to try for mushrooms, for sure, but that would require more biomass to start, and Erick simply hadn’t gotten there yet. He had made himself a very comfortable bed using a whole lot of [Duplicate]d cloth that he wore, though.

And the panic was calmer, now.

Calm enough for Erick to collapse in that bed and attempt to allow himself to sleep. He had tried twice already, but both times he had barely shut his eyes when he realized he needed to secure the place better against this or that threat. But now… There wasn’t anything else for Erick to do. Not right now, anyway.

And so he shut his eyes.

The Wizard of Benevolence drifted...

Elemental Benevolence had never stopped pouring out of him, but as consciousness failed him, that continual mist of expanding mana began to do more than that. It twisted with dream. It flickered with lightning. Moss grew upon the stone where it touched.

As the Wizard slept, little white orbs began to grow and glow upon that moss, like mushrooms sprouting after a rain.

- - - -

Erick woke groggy and miserable—

And then he noticed the glowing white slimes rolling across the mounded, mossy floor, playing with each other in water puddles. Erick just lay there for a moment, watching. He rapidly decided he was good with this. Very good with this. It seemed slimes happened a lot faster than Erick had expected.

And a fountain was miscalibrated, or something. Flooding? In outer space in the middle of nowhere? More likely than you might think.

Erick simply sat up in bed, and looked at his room.

The walls of the room had been a simple cream-colored stone, which Erick had painstakingly gathered and made more of, just so he could have a room that didn’t seem so stone-like; it was more drywall-looking than stone. That stone was now half covered in moss. The ceiling had been shaped like exposed rafters in a log cabin, which was, again, to make the room seem less cave-like, but now there were mosses and vines and air plants with flowers growing up there, dripping down into the room. Some of the air plants glowed.

Which was nice.

Glowing plants? Awesome ambiance.

Erick’s bed was growing mushrooms in the wooden frame, which was… okay? Sure. Erick wanted mushrooms for food, anyway, but these mushrooms were a bit too glowy and tiny for eating purposes. Slimy, too. At least the wood he had managed to [Grow] from a water plant was real enough wood for mushrooms to treat it as such. Erick could work with that.

Make some more calorie-dense wood; make some better mushrooms.

There were slimes all over the floor, though.

And the water puddles. Don’t forget about the water puddles.

Erick got out of bed and didn’t bother with his shoes or even his shirt and pants. Boxers were fine attire for fixing a space station. It let him really feel the temperature in the air, too…

“Why am I rationalizing anything to myself?”

“Oh. I’m going a little crazy.”

“Well at least now I have slimes to talk to. This is fine.”

“I will name you Betty. You can be Bernie. You can be Bertha. You can be Bertrand… And that’s enough of that.”

“It’s only been a few days— a week! At most! I’m not going insane.”

“You’re going insane, little Bertha, if you think I’ll let you eat my beans. No! My beans! There. Now you can’t get to my beans… And that makes you sad, huh? Well yes. I’m sure they smell good… Well. I suppose you can have some. As a treat. Here.”

Erick fed the slimes quite a lot of copied beans.

The slimes were kinda cute. Like grapefruit-sized night lights, rolling across the mossy, half-puddled ground. Erick copied beans over and over and fed the slimes until they didn’t want to eat anymore, and then he got to investigating the problems with the fountains.

They all had problems.

The walls had problems. The runic networks had problems. A tunnel had collapsed due to faulty [Gravity Ward]s, but the other systems saved the place. Mana jettisoned out of a leak in the floor of the original building, because it was too close to the adamantium worldplate and its Siphon power, so that needed adjustment.

By the time Erick got through the first round of repairs another maybe-two days had passed.

And Erick realized he needed a time-keeping device.

A waterclock? Sure.

Erick killed an hour making a clock, which gained him a measure of hours, days, and weeks, or at least an approximation of that sort of temporal change. He didn’t have a watch or anything like that with him when Solomon booted him off of Veird, so Erick just mentally counted ‘one Mississippi, two Mississippi, three Mississippi’ and hoped for the best with his timing. The water clock, with all of its gears and wheels and flowing water, was decently accurate… Probably.

Erick went back to bed.

He woke up to much bigger slimes and a mossy floor that felt good underfoot, and great big orange mushrooms growing out of big wooden logs that smelled like feet and tasted really good once they got tossed in the flame. Sort of like an airy chicken-taste.

Erick felt much better after that particular meal.

