“Very well then.” Nodding once, Baatar shared this news with Mother and a number of his subordinates before telling the boy, “It is now vital we stay and fight this. For a Wraith, even a Peak Expert one, to kill an Imperial Scion whilst under his Dao Protector’s watch is suspicious at best, and points to nefarious dealings at hand. There is more to this than we know, which means it is all tied to an Imperial plot, one we have no knowledge of.”

“Right. If we flee, then we implicate Shen ZhenWu and he will have no choice but to throw us to the wolves, which may or may not have been his plan from the start. If we stay, then he may have to defend us, since I am technically an employee of the Liang Family.” The boy had a deft grasp of politics, as Baatar had not even thought so far ahead, only that technically, the People had yet to commit a crime besides defending themselves against unwarranted aggression, and fleeing would incriminate them in the eyes of the public. Still, there were questions abound, and no answers to be found, like why the Death Corps gave up the command centre without a fight or why the Justicars were so quick to release Baatar to the boy’s custody.

“Know this,” the Colonel General said, offering Baatar and the boy a salute. “Should the People be found guilty of treason for today’s events, then I, Nian Zu, will stand with you.” A difficult concession to make for the Hero of the Wall, a man who dedicated his life to the safety and defence of the Empire, but it could be seen as him placing the North above the other outer provinces, the same way the Imperial Scions obviously placed the East above all others. Here they were in dire straits, with the threat of wholesale slaughter on their doorsteps, and still the Imperials were playing politics.

That was not Baatar’s business though. His task was to defend Central, and in doing so, keep the outer provinces united as one, for if Central were to fall, then the East would be the first to abandon them all, and they still needed the Imperial Clan. Without them, they were without a leader, and Shen ZhenWu’s absence was already sorely felt, for with no hand to guide them, the outer provinces could not come to an agreement on how to best deploy their troops. Shuai Jiao felt it best to reinforce the centre, while Nian Zu believed their best course of action was to strengthen the flanks and let the Defiled overextend through the centre, so that Imperial forces could collapse on them from three sides. As for the South, they cared nothing for the state of the overall war-effort, only that the Wall held and kept their province defended, so they rigidly rejected all requests from North or Central to help support the ailing second line.

And make no mistake, the second line was already buckling when Baatar last checked in this morning, and Mother knows how they were faring now. Too much time had been lost already, and every second they fell behind was another second lost forever, so Baatar was eager to get back to work.

The boy had no attachment to the Empire at large, but while Baatar spent his entire life among the People, he still counted himself as a citizen of the Empire. Here and now, in this time of turmoil, the Empire needed its heroes, heroes like Baatar and Sarnai, Akanai and Husolt, and yes, Falling Rain. This was the holy duty given to all Warriors by the Mother above, to stand fast against the Father’s foul minions and defend Her children from their malevolent machinations, and Baatar would not shirk his duties and consign millions to death all because of the corrupt scheming of one, devious man.

Perhaps it was the wrong move. Perhaps the Emperor would see the People as traitors and rebels and demand the boy’s head, but if so, it would not be too late to resist. For now, Baatar would do what he’d trained for and defend the Empire from the Enemy.

Those were his thoughts as he marched out the room with his mountain rose and son in tow, but he stopped short as he came face to face with the kneeling Death Corps waiting for them on stage. Kneeling at the very front were five Royal Guardians, all dressed in their ceremonial Officer’s armour with their swords sheathed and spears laying on the ground beside them. Even then, Baatar almost drew his Bloody Fang and readied to fight, but he stopped short when an Imperial Scion he recognized stepped forward to greet them, the boy’s slovenly clerk Jian Xianhe.

“You’ll never believe this,” the grubby man began, addressing the boy with a wide and mischievous smile as he gestured at the Royal Guardians behind him. “They asked me to speak with you, because they weren’t sure if you’d accept an audience. The Colonel General ordered them to disperse, but they won’t move until you confirm the order.”

Taken aback, it took the boy some time to respond, so sharp yet so unwilling to believe in his own skills. “Me?” he asked, as if unable to believe anyone would need his approval for anything. “Why me?”

“That’s the part you won’t believe.” Clapping his thigh in merriment, Xianhe giggled and said, “With Shen ZhenWu and Yang Jixing absent, you’re the highest ranking Imperial Scion in the outer provinces and Shen ZhenWu’s immediate successor, as confirmed by his personal seal. Yang Jixing cut in line with help from an Imperial Mandate, but now that he’s gone, the title naturally falls back to you.” Offering a courtly bow that almost seemed mocking, Xianhe added, “By your will, Legate Falling Rain. How might these lowly ones serve?”

Excellent. Now with Rain’s hand to guide their actions, the Imperial Army might actually stand a chance of holding the Defiled at bay. Proud was not enough to describe how Baatar felt, but pride would have to wait, because right now, they had a war to win. It was vital the boy do well in his new role, for then the Emperor could hardly afford to accuse Falling Rain or the People of treachery, lest He risk having all the outer provinces turn against Him.

In a way, Baatar was glad Rain’s past had been revealed, because now, the rest of the Empire could truly understand the boy’s trials and tribulations and marvel at his perseverance and resilience. From slave to Legate, Baatar’s little foundling had come so far, and he could not be any prouder of his wonderful and talented son.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

- End of Volume 33 -
