It was disturbing how casually the boy voiced his desire to mutilate and even torment a living person, but at least he still understood it would be morally reprehensible and didn’t actually try it. It would most certainly be an issue if he still tried it regardless, but thus far, the boy had yet to show signs of going any further than theoretical musings, and that would have to suffice. Perhaps it was due to seeing so much death as a child, or from waking up in a pile of corpses, but the boy had no reverence for the remains of the dead, and no compunctions about profaning or desecrating them in the manner of the Defiled. Now, his thoughts were straying dangerously towards the living, but once again, this was all nothing more than theory, and if Baatar had his way, would never go any further than that. The boy would have enough issues with people suspecting him of Defilement now that he’d plainly admitted to being a slave, one in service to a Defiled enterprise no less, so it would be best if he remained on his best behaviour from here on out, lest he give credence to the Imperial Scion’s accusations that Falling Rain was allied with the Enemy.

Difficult to prove with not one, but two Divine Turtles at his side, though only sweet Ping Ping had revealed herself to save the boy. There was no keeping her ascension a secret anymore, as too many people had seen her appearance and witnessed firsthand how she pummelled an Ancestral Beast about with almost careless ease. It was common knowledge that Nian Zu’s famed Shooting Star hadn’t even fazed the Bristleboar Divinity, so how else could they explain this dog-sized turtle who looked suspiciously like the Divine Turtle of Ping Yao and was capable of scaring the Immortal Zhu Chanzui into retreating? Worse, how were the People supposed to keep Ping Ping safe now that everyone knew of her existence? Everyone and their Mentors would want to study this unprecedented Divinity, even the Emperor Himself, for before today, it was ‘known’ that birds, fish, and reptiles had no Path to Divinity, and that the only way forward for most animals was to become human. Ping Ping’s very existence disproved this, and humans acted in irrational ways when confronted with their own mortality. Who knew how many other animal Divinities were out there, creatures capable of extreme destruction with little more than a flip of their... paw, claw, or talons?

...

In retrospect, perhaps the boy was right. It would be easier just to give up on the Empire and retreat to the North, but the Mother rarely presented Her children with an easy path to success. Rebelling and withdrawing from the Empire now might keep the People safe in the short term, but once the Defiled threat played out in one way or another, the People would be faced with another dire threat to contend with. Either the Empire would eventually come calling to put down the Saint’s Tribulations rebellion, or the Defiled would come to spread death and destruction, either scenario could only end in the People’s inevitable defeat, unless Ping Ping and Pong Pong could be convinced or compelled to take part in standard warfare. Even then, it wouldn’t be ideal, because no matter how powerful an animal might be, it was still an animal, no match for the canny wits of man.

Since he himself was too politically inept to remedy this situation, Baatar pushed himself to his feet and quietly thanked his family before saying, “Come with me. We will speak with the Colonel General while your grandmother –”

“Mother-in-Law.”

Smiling at Mother’s obstinate determination to have Rain call her by the lesser title because it made her sound younger, Baatar nodded in deference lest she teach him a lesson he wouldn’t soon forget. “While your Mother-in-Law sees to the Sentinels. If we are to guide the People through this calamity, we will need the former’s counsel and assistance, though it may come to the latter’s bows and blades.”

“Oh, god, I’m so sorry. I thought I told you.” The boy’s tone was sombre and mournful, but Baatar didn’t understand why, until he added, “Nian Zu is dead. The Confessor ambushed him shortly after Jixing died, and I must’ve forgotten to mention it.”

Inwardly laughing at his son, Baatar reflected on how it was so like the boy to expect the worst no matter the circumstances. A foe decapitated? He might well still be alive. A valued ally attacked? There was no hope, and he must be dead. “You said he was killed, but Nian Zu lives,” Baatar said, intending to share this story with the Colonel General later when matters were less hectic. “Little Lin’s guard saved him from the brink of death, and the Colonel General just Sent me a request to meet.” That guard also happened to be Sarnai’s Mentor, but she was an obstinate, ill-tempered woman who never liked Baatar and said as much during their wedding, so the feeling was mutual. It was highly amusing watching Rain mouth off to her without knowing her true identity, but the boy would not be cowed even if he did. Today’s events proved as much, did it not? Despite knowing who Zhu Chanzui was and what he could do to the Citadel, the boy told the hostile Divinity to fuck off no less than three times, which should go a long way to soothing Sarnai’s disgruntled Mentor’s temper.

The boy had a dragon’s temperament, arrogant beyond belief, yet was still kind and compassionate to the extreme. Such a strange pairing, but it worked in his favour today, and perhaps would continue to do so in days to come.

Even though the world was still spinning and he needed Sarnai’s help to walk, it didn’t take long to reach Nian Zu, who was currently resting in a room on the first floor of the command centre. Gerel stood guard at the door but let them pass with little more than a nod, though Baatar saw the disguised pride in his eyes when they settled on Rain. As well he should be, and all the Iron Banner was, for this was the scared little slave they saved and brought back to the village, only to collectively watch over him for years after. The boy was Baatar’s son, but Falling Rain was the Iron Banner’s greatest success story, one they would all remember fondly until the end of their days.

Inside, the Colonel General lay supine across a couch with Yuzhen at his side, while Sarnai’s Mentor loomed in a corner nearby. Pale and wan from loss of blood, Nian Zu forced himself up and gently waved Yuzhen off with a smile, who was hard at work with water and cloth trying to get the blood out of the Colonel General’s poorly cropped beard. Despite her best efforts, Nian Zu was still a complete mess, the front of his gold and black armour covered in a spray of coagulated blood, which no doubt had been left to sit after Sarnai’s Mentor did the bare minimum to keep the Colonel General alive. To be fair, it came as a surprise that she would save an outsider at all, but even if she hadn’t acted, Baatar was positive there were hidden Divinities nearby who would have saved Nian Zu, even if they were reluctant to reveal themselves.

Reaching up to gingerly touch his neck, Nian Zu grimaced as his fingers lightly traced the still visible line which marked the passing of the Confessor’s hooked sword, and he offered a quiet nod to Sarnai’s Mentor. “Thank you, Great One, for saving this one’s small life. I owe you a debt of gratitude.”

“I care nothing for your gratitude.” Standoffish as always, Sarnai’s Mentor peered out from behind her veil, utterly indifferent to what others might say or think. “And you saved your own life by avoiding the blow. Take note, little rose. This one is only a little older than you and has mastered the Forms well, the movements so ingrained into his body that he acts without the need to think. A boon in many cases, as action is always faster than reaction, and in high level exchanges, every moment counts, as it did in this case.”

“Yes Mentor.” Baatar could hear Sarnai’s displeasure, no doubt grumbling about how her Mentor said Nian Zu was only ‘a little’ older. They were almost two decades apart in age, but Baatar supposed that two decades would be a short time to someone as old as her Mentor, even if it felt like a grave affront to his age-conscious wife.

Amused by how easily his presence was dismissed, Nian Zu ran his fingers through the ruined remains of his beard and sighed. Baatar himself never cared to grow a beard, mostly because Sarnai preferred him clean-shaven, but it was clear the Colonel General was more distressed than he should be over the loss of his facial hair. “Oh how your father would laugh if he saw me now,” Nian Zu said, speaking to Yuzhen about the former Marshal of the North, and Baatar sympathized with the Colonel General over the loss of old friends. “He’d likely call me a shorn show-sheep or something more clever than I can come up with, perhaps even take up ink and paper to paint a mocking caricature.”

Taking the Colonel General’s hand with a comforting smile, Yuzhen said, “I’m afraid the Empire still has need of your service, so you will have to wait a little longer to see him again.”

“Trials and tribulations,” Nian Zu replied, and after a short pause, gestured at his beard. “I need to make myself look presentable, then go be seen to assure the people and soldiers of the Citadel that I am still alive. Could you find someone you trust and is capable with a razor? It’s been some time since I shaved myself, and blood loss hasn’t made my hands any steadier.”

Wholly cognizant she was being dismissed, Yuzhen scowled but grudgingly obeyed. So long as she was not present for this discussion, she could later plead ignorance to whatever Baatar and the People might do, which was really for the best. Even if the entire Northern province joined the People in rebellion, which was unlikely at best, they would still need Yuzhen to appear as a neutral party with vested interests on both sides, if only to keep a line of dialogue open. Baatar knew what rebellion entailed, but he did not look forward to standing across the battlefield from old comrades, though he’d be lying if he said he didn’t dream of challenging Living Legend Nian Zu in both tactics and single combat. Spars and theoretical debates were one thing, but the only way to know the true measure of a commander and Warrior was to face them on the battlefield in mortal combat, with life and death on the line and no room to retreat.

Once Yuzhen was out of the room, the Colonel General threw up a Sound Barrier even though Sarnai’s Mentor had them well covered. “So what now?” Nian Zu asked, glancing at the still sleeping Divine Turtle nestled in the boy’s arms. “Is it rebellion then?”

Baatar kept silent and let the boy answer for himself, for he was vital to what would come next. Poor Rain, he would have been so much happier as a commoner or Healer, living in the mountains while tending to the sick and needy. Unfortunately, his tortured past drove him towards strength and conflict, while his brilliant and unconventional thinking helped him excel in a field he was so utterly unsuited for. The boy cared too much to be an able commander, feeling the death of each soldier under his command and taking the loss too personally. Such was life, where the best commanders had to learn to separate themselves from the task and continue onward despite the mountain of corpses left behind.

And now, regardless of what he did, the boy knew people would die.

“Are we left with any other choice?” Though his delivery was tinged with impolitic sarcasm, the boy’s eyes held a spark of hope. “I mean, if we stay, we’ll be forced to fight once the Prime Minister or whoever comes by to demand justice for Jixing’s death. It’s stupid, I didn’t kill him, the Wraiths did, even with a Divinity there to protect him. What are the chances right? I thought it was pure coincidence Shen ZhenWu’s Divinity left to suppress an Enemy Divinity just before the Wraiths attacked, but I suppose nothing would’ve changed if he was still around, except maybe all the Wraiths would have died instead of just one.”

Baatar’s mind was reeling at the implications as he met Nian Zu’s gaze, and he could see the canny commander was thinking the same thing. “Say that again, boy,” Baatar said, urging his son to speak. “What was that about a Divinity?”

“The... err... head Big Piggy threw on stage? That’s Shen ZhenWu’s... I dunno, Divinity bodyguard.”

“His Dao protector, but that is not what I meant.” Looking the boy in the eyes, Baatar asked, “Who is Jixing’s Divinity?”

“The old beardy in the window.” Blinking in confusion, the boy raised an eyebrow and asked, “You didn’t know? I’m not entirely certain, since I only saw him once before in Nan Ping, but he was sitting at the table with the Legate and his Dao Protector, along with one other bearded Imperial and a bunch of Ancestral Beasts across from them.” Chuckling in muted disbelief, the boy added, “I can’t believe I didn’t connect the dots back then. Guan Suo didn’t even hesitate before sitting down with them, and I just thought he was being cheeky.”

Baatar and Nian Zu traded another glance, and this time, the Colonel General asked, “You’re certain it was the same person? That was a Divinity standing in the window who accused you of colluding with the Enemy?”

“Yep.”

