As a young boy, Baatar once stole a jug of lychee rice wine from the man he now called father, and more than six decades later, his friends and family would still not let him forget it.

It seemed so innocent at the time, taking a single jug from Husolt’s wagon and running off to his secret hidden hideaway to taste his spoils in secret. There were still dozens of jugs in the wagon, so surely no one would miss one, and Baatar had never tried wine before, though he’d eaten lychees once during a festival, and they were the most delicious fruit he’d ever tasted. To this day, he still remembered how sweet that first taste of wine was, a delicious nectar which stung his eyes and burned his nose yet filled him with warmth and contentment for no reason besides merely existing. That first sip left him coughing and gasping from the potent bite, but the delectably fruity flavour and comfortable warmth pooling in his belly left him wanting more. Well provisioned with dried meat from a stag he’d hunted and smoked two days past, Baatar settled in to enjoy the wine while pretending he was older than his sixteen years and capable of wooing his beautiful Mentor away from her foolish bear of a husband.

The first hour or so went well as he gorged himself on meat and sipped gingerly from his ‘hard-earned’ spoils, but just as he was about to put his wine away to enjoy another day, he discovered the bottom of the jug was filled with lychees, delicious white-fleshed fruits with the skins and seeds already removed. Since he had yet to taste one, his young, drunk self decided he had to try it, and in the absence of chopsticks or other clean utensils to use, he figured his only course of action was to tip the jug back and drink deep until the fruits flowed into his mouth. The wine was sweet and delicious, but the fruits were like concentrated honey to his lips, and far more alluring than the alcohol itself. All too soon, the jug was emptied of both wine and fruits, and Baatar, with his belly full and mind awash with dreams of women and heroics, settled down for a happy little nap to digest his meal.

Only to wake up some time later to regurgitate everything he’d eaten in the past week.

It was the first and only time he’d suffered the effects of too much wine, and the shame was almost as bad as the pounding headache, foggy mind, and unending nausea which followed. Still drunk and now panicked, he crawled out of his cozy little cave and buried himself in the snow to seek relief from the burning heat of his own skin. A grievous mistake, since his body wasn’t actually warm to begin with, and the Northern winters were cruel and merciless even to the most prepared of travellers, which Baatar clearly was not. Between the miserable groans and unending vomit, he made enough noise that a passing Sentinel came to see what all the fuss was about, and ended up saving Baatar from hypothermia or worse.

Akanai was furious when she learned her new Disciple had been found drunk and covered in vomit out in the wilds. When he came to, Baatar learned she’d even threatened to cast him out from under her tutelage until Husolt calmed her down, laughing Baatar’s antics away as ‘boys will be boys’. Even then, he didn’t get off lightly, as she ordered everyone to leave him be to recover on his own instead of teaching him how to purge the alcohol or treating the effects, so he spent the rest of the day and most of the next wallowing in sorrow and self-pity until Sarnai snuck in to laugh at his plight and teach him how to remedy it.

It wasn’t just Sarnai either. Naaran showed up later that night, poking fun at his stupidity and complaining how he was too miserly to share, while Yaruq and Khagati voiced their insincere sympathies from the door and window. Horrible as the experience had been, he would gladly suffer that pain and humiliation each and every day if it meant his old friends would show up to laugh at his plight once again, but so many of them were gone, including quiet Khagati. Such is life, trials and tribulations without end, but at least the hawk-eyed hunter of the People could rest and relax in the arms of the Mother for a spell, before setting out into the world once more.

It was decades later when Baatar learned Husolt had actually seen him steal the wine jug and merely looked the other way, a kind man who treated his wife’s ‘cute’ Disciple with nothing but kindness. In the years following his unfortunate introduction to alcohol, the boisterous blacksmith would often sneak a small jar of alcohol to Baatar and cautioned him the same way every time. “Don’t ye make a mess of yourself again, lad,” he’d rumble, his eyes twinkling in barely concealed merriment. “And if ye do, don’t you let anyone know where ye got this from, ye hear?”

Small chance of that, as Baatar had learned his lesson well. Never again did he drink to excess, save for at his children’s weddings, but even then, he was careful to keep a firm rein on his inhibitions and purge the alcohol before going to bed. In this way, he carefully avoided the pitfalls of excess and never again suffered through that miserable experience, until today, when he awoke with clouded thoughts and a raucous ringing in his ears which threatened to shatter his skull into pieces. At least he wasn’t vomiting, but it was only a minor relief, for once his vision cleared and the world stopped spinning, Baatar discovered his mother, father, wife, and son all watching him with grave concern, while the Guardian Turtle snored peacefully in the boy’s arms.

“What did I do?” he asked, his cheeks heating in shame and dread as he took in his unfamiliar surroundings, an opulent room which screamed excess and indulgence. “How bad was it?” How did this even happen? What reason did he have to drink to excess again?

“...You went with the Disciplinary Corps,” the boy helpfully supplied, while everyone else traded amused glances. “And they arrested you for what happened to Shen ZhenWu at the manor. They must have given you something to knock you out and keep you from communicating with the rest of us, but Tokta burned it out of your system.” Beaming with obvious relief, the boy helped Baatar up into a seated position, much to his dismay, but the hug which came afterwards made his suffering worth it. “I’m so glad you’re okay,” the boy said, and the words hammered Baatar with an overwhelming sense of joy and relief, but only for a brief moment. Confused, but uplifted, Baatar hugged his son, who was so quick to show affection to his animals, but until recently was reluctant to do the same with people. “When I saw you lying there, I thought the worst and...”

Arrested? “You must be mistaken.” Touched by the boy’s overwhelming concern, the memories returned as Baatar looked to Sarnai for clarification and said, “I was called in for questioning regarding our manor defences, but the Justicar made no mention of an arrest. We sat down for tea and...” Seeing the anger in his beloved Mountain Rose’s eyes, he realized things were not as they seemed. “What happened?”

“Once you were in their hands, they announced you had been arrested for playing a part in the attempted assassination of Shen ZhenWu.” The boy gave Baatar a brief but rambling explanation of the day’s events, which resulted in too many unanswered questions. Then Mother explained in more clear and concise terms, and Baatar almost wished they’d left him to nurse his throbbing headache in blissful ignorance.

Marching on the command centre with an army at his back. Debating the new Legate in public with no care or concern for his new rank. Utterly throwing away face, both his own and that of the Imperial Clan by bringing their private feud out into the public. Knowing what the boy did filled him with both pride and concern, more so than having the past exposed or the Guardian Turtle’s presence revealed. Pride because of how little Rain showed the temperament of a true Warrior, ready to fight if need be yet also willing to explore other alternatives, but it was the manner in which he did so which Baatar found concerning. While he himself was ready to rebel if the Empire should harm his family, he was not without reservations or regrets, but the boy demonstrated a decided lack of concern with the fate of the Empire, to the point where he was almost daring his foes to act in an unrestrained manner. “You knew,” Baatar said, not so much asking as confirming. “You knew Jixing’s arrest was a ruse. That is why you approached the Death Corps alone.”

“More like I guessed.” Shrugging as if it didn’t matter, the boy explained, “Either he was stupid enough to actually arrest you and be proven for a fool, or he was bluffing which meant he was too desperate to predict. It wasn’t as dangerous as it sounds, because Imperial Scions are forbidden from ordering the Death Corps to attack over internal disputes. If they struck me down in plain sight, then we’d know Jixing was acting on behalf of Imperial interests, at which point we’d have no choice but to take things into our own hands.”

Meaning rebellion. It was one thing for Baatar to rebel in defence of his people, but quite another for his people to rebel to defend him, and despite knowing they would have done it for any one of the People, Baatar appreciated the lengths his friends, family, and comrades had gone to for him. “A good thing matters did not devolve so far,” he said, patting the boy’s styled hair to show his appreciation, before pinching his cheek lightly. “But if you suspected a ruse, why did you not tread more carefully?”

Wrinkling his nose in wounded annoyance, the boy asked, “And do what? Smile politely and twiddle my thumbs while not knowing if you were dead or alive? Hand Luo-Luo over and ask if he’d like a reach-around to boot?”

Crude as the boy was, he had a point, and while Baatar knew there were better ways they could have gone about things, he himself was clueless as to what they were. “You could have sought out Yuzhen and asked for her assistance,” Baatar said, never one to balk at asking for help. “Or Colonel General Nian Zu. If that failed, you still have Colonel General Ryo and Shuai Jiao to rely on, as well as Marshal Yo and Quyen. Instead, you took the obvious bait and ran headlong into a trap designed to ensnare you, and it pains me to know you would risk not just the Empire in such a foolish gambit, but yourself as well.”

Never one to take criticism well, the boy pouted and asked, “How is it any different from you all threatening to rebel if I’m injured?”

Hugging the boy tight, Baatar whispered, “Because it is every father’s ambition to die before his son, and similarly, their nightmare to die after. Even if I am fated to suffer this tribulation, at least do me the courtesy of first living for as long as you can.” Meeting the eyes of his beautiful wife, he took her hand and kissed her fingers to share the same sentiment, praying to the Mother Above that they might have many decades more to share together, for he could not even imagine a life without her. She was his passion, his flame, his reason for waking up in the morning and the person he laid his head down next to at night, and life without her was akin to life without colour, sound, and sensation.

Though repentant of his actions, Rain still refused to admit his wrongs and said, “Well, all is not lost yet. The situation can still be salvaged if we stand united with the rest of the Citadel, which is a big if, but not beyond the realm of possibilities.” Biting his lip in thought, the boy grimaced and added, “Though it would probably be a lot safer if we just left now to link up with Alsantset and the others before heading North. There’s a very good chance the Prime Minister is going to accuse us of treason over the death of his son, assuming the idiot is actually dead.”

Again, everyone traded glances with one another, this time in confusion, and it was Mother who finally broke the silence. “Foolish boy. We all saw a Wraith separate Jixing’s head from his shoulders, as did thousands of other Martial Warriors. How can he not be dead?”

“The world is full of strange and mysterious things.” Expecting him to rant about powerful Imperial secrets, Baatar and everyone else was taken aback when the boy solemnly said, “The human brain can survive for up to seven seconds after decapitation, meaning if there was a Healer nearby who was fast and skilled enough, they could have reattached Jixing’s head and left him none the worse for wear. Theoretically of course,” he concluded, offering the shrug he so often used when sharing information he couldn’t source or prove. “Not sure if it would actually work in practice. Guess I should’ve asked the Legate for our enemy’s completed notes when I had the chance. I bet that creepy old torturer tried this at some point, or at least I hope he did. That’s the problem with having morals and a conscience, because this is really something you want to be sure of before trying for yourself.”

