Ren let her arms go and knelt, put her legs on his shoulders, and took her advice. He went as fast as he could, and she gasped as she went again because she felt his ferocity.

“Oh, GOD!” Elerlyth yelled, as Ren went and she went again herself. He lay down beside her afterwards, and she stared at him. “You've never... like that... with me before.” She said as she tried to calm down.

“You've always fed on my emotions before.” Ren said, and her eyes widened. He smiled and cupped the side of her face. “I wanted you to have an experience without having that particular ability interfering.”

Elerlyth opened her mouth to speak, and he kissed her.

“I know you could still feel the emotions, but your ability couldn't... take the edge off of them. I wanted you to feel them in their raw form.”

“Thank you.”

“Oh, no.” Ren said and grinned. “Thank you.” He smiled. “You let me get my frustrations out.”

“I'm always glad to help.” Elerlyth said. “My body, however...”

Ren touched her there gently, and she winced. He took out a Minor Healing wand and used it on the area, then touched her again. Ren smiled as she didn't wince.

“There, all better.” He said and kissed her.

“Where can I get one of those?” Elerlyth asked, and Ren handed it to her.

“It's only a Minor Healing wand, but it still works wonders.”

“I saw you use it a lot during the fire rescue.” She said, and examined it. “Wait a minute.”

“What?”

“This wand has 49 charges left.”

“Yeah.” Ren said. “Because I just used one.”

“I wasn't counting last night, but I know you used it a bunch of times.”

Ren chuckled. “What makes you think it's the same wand?”

“You have more of them?!?”

“Of course I do.” Ren said. “I made them.”

“You WHAT?!?”

He laughed. “A lot has happened since the last time we saw each other.”

“Oh, Ren!” Elerlyth hugged the wand to her bare chest. “This thing is worth a fortune.”

“You don't know the half of it.” He grinned, and she felt his mischievousness.

“Well, don't just lay there.” She said. “Tell me.”

“I don't know if I should tell you.” He said. “It's kind of a big deal.”

Elerlyth smacked him on the chest. “Ren!”

“Okay, okay!” He laughed. “It's rechargeable.”

Her mouth dropped open and she looked at the wand, then at Ren, then back at the wand. She picked it up and held it at arms length above her face.

“You made a rechargeable wand.” Elerlyth said. “Do... do you know what this means?”

Ren nodded. “Of course I do.” He said. “You saw it last night, and just now.”

“Anyone can be a magic user.” She said in reverence, then looked at him. “Please tell me you have different ones.”

“I only know three spells so far.” Ren said. “Minor Healing, Major Healing, and Fireball.”

“You have a FIREBALL wand?!?”

He took one out and gave it to her. Elerlyth pulled the two wands to her chest, and hugged them.

“Oh, my god. Oh my GOD!” She rolled from side to side for a moment, stored the wands, then hugged him. “I LOVE YOU!” She yelled, then froze solid. She let him out of the hug and she had a shocked look on her face. “I... I didn't mean...”

“I know what you meant.” Ren smiled. “People say things they normally wouldn't say when they get excited like that, while trying to thank someone.”

“Yes! That's right.” Elerlyth said. “I... I love that you can do these amazing things.”

“I'm glad I could make you so happy.” Ren chuckled. “Don't forget to keep them and I'll recharge them when you need me to.” He stood up and equipped his Travelling Clothes. “I better get going.”

Elerlyth nodded, then stood up to equip her bodysuit and armor. Ren stored the cloak to clean it, and equipped it.

“Thank you for the wands.” Elerlyth said as she climbed down out of the back of the cart.

“It was my pleasure.” Ren climbed down out of the cart and saw that she seemed a little awkward and uncomfortable. He took her hand and lifted it to his lips, then kissed it softly. “I'll see you next week.”

She nodded, but didn't say anything.

“Bye, Elerlyth.” Ren said, then started to run.

*

Elerlyth watched him for a minute, before dropping to her knees. “Why did I say that?” She asked herself and covered her face with her hands. “Stupid! Stupid! Stupid!” She berated herself. “Now he's going to think I'm in love with him.” She sighed, dropped her hands, and stood up. She climbed into the driver's seat of the cart and drove it slowly down the road, then turned off into the woods at what seemed like a random spot. There was no trail or anything, but that was the way she and Hailey wanted it.

“What am I going to do?” Elerlyth asked herself. “I know he said that he understood what I meant; but, I said the words, despite what I meant when I said them.” She sighed. “I can't take them back.”

*

Ren ran for all he was worth. She told me she loved me. He thought. I know she was just thanking me, but I can't believe she told me she loved me! He kept running and then came to a stop. Oh, crap.

“What?” Teepo asked.

Nathalia's going to kill me.

“Why?” Teepo asked. “She said you better not come home and tell her that you love Elerlyth. She didn't say anything about Elerlyth loving you.”

That's kind of splitting hairs. Ren thought then started running again.

“I'd tell you not to tell her, but you're going to anyways.”

Of course I'm going to tell her. Ren thought. I told her I'd never lie to her about any of this.

“Your recipe for Trouble doesn't need a lot of ingredients, Ren.” Teepo said. “You saw that today.”

She's definitely going to hate that part of this story. Ren kept running down the road. If I'm lucky, she'll only yell at me for an hour or so.

“And if you're unlucky?” Teepo asked.

Healers can regrow limbs, right?

“That depends. Does Little Ren count as a limb?” Teepo chittered in laughter.
