Uva frowned slightly, but then her frown died, and she considered the possibilities that might follow. If Shiv sent himself across using the temporal anchor, he might expose himself to the Pale and cause immediate retaliation. More likely, though, that wouldn't be the case. After all, trying to intervene and sending forces into the Tarrasque enclosure would likely see them cast in the pot as well. This was a unique opportunity. Shiv could deploy himself and speak directly to the Tarrasque, get a proper measure of its nature, unmolested by outside influences.

Veronica also realized that possibility, and instead of raising her voice in rebuttal, she studied Shiv for a moment, then regarded the Tarrasque again thereafter.

“I'm being serious. Think about it. They can't easily move the Tarrasque because it really wants to cook right now. It keeps demanding more ingredients, and if someone were to distract it from what it's doing, my guess is it's going to react violently. But if I go in, I try to let it cook me for a little bit, or give it some pointers. Maybe I can talk to it and see how intelligent it really is.”

“That might cause them to teleport the temple elsewhere,” Veronica noted.

“I'll leave an anchor inside the Tarrasque enclosure. Maybe they put up temporal wards there, but since we already know its general position, it's not going to be able to stop us. We can find where it is again using Adam's Awareness, and then I can close in again and again with my Unique skill or something.”

“The Tarrasque's Magical Resistance is too thick for my immolation to take hold, but I did ignite his frying pan and quite a few of his ingredients,” Adam said.

The final words were spoken distastefully, but the point was made—they knew where the Tarrasque was now, and there was no hiding its position anymore, no easy way to transport it either.

In accepting Adam's Evangelizing Temple, the Pale had swallowed a most poisoned pill indeed, one even more poisoned than they or even Shiv's group themselves could have realized.

“Alright, that about settles it,” Shiv grunted. “I’m going to take a trip across and say hi to my soul-son—”

“Never call it that again,” Uva hissed.

“—and see if I can charm this vile, nasty creature or something through our shared love for cooking or… Well, if nothing worse, we can just attack it or something. We know where it is now. That's a big problem solved in any case. Any objections?”

Shiv looked across the room and realized almost everyone was still stuck in the processing phase. He shrugged. “Well, this might take a few deaths. Let's give this a go, eh?”

A loud wheeze left Roland. “I feel the urge to say no. I don't know why. I don't have a good reason.” He drew in a long breath through his nose and let it out as a tired breath. "Mind yourself, Deathless. And if you find yourself in any actual danger, just abandon that body and—”

Before he finished, Shiv's Harbinger skipped across time, bringing his physical vessel over to where his anchor remained festooned. In an instant, he transpositioned himself from Farnest at the bottom of Gate Piety to the depths of the Pale and the dimensional enclosure housing an apocalyptic beast.

The moment he arrived, the Tarrasque froze and turned, and the plane itself responded. Shiv could feel a seeping coldness pass through the dimensional walls. He could feel a presence try to infest him, but it rattled and recoiled, his Shapeless Tides too dense to be pierced.

The Tarrasque, meanwhile, reached out in a staggering blur, though with his myriad skills allowing for his Inertial Overdrive to be stacked countless times over, its speed was not quite as incomprehensible to Shiv as in their prior meeting. He jolted back, his tides spiking up at an angle as he shot just beyond the Tarrasque's reach. It smacked the temple aside, sending it spinning. That blow would have been enough to leave a chasm in a mountain range, but for Adam's temple, force and violence became impossibilities.

“Hey, hey, calm down!” Shiv called out, holding his own frying pan high. The orichalcum edges glinted red-gold in the dimness of the dimensional cage, and the Tarrasque, tearing back to take another swing, froze as it realized what he was holding. The Tarrasque raised its pan and roared. Where its face was like a slightly more frog-like and bestial version of Shiv's own, with one red eye and one white, its voice sounded like a series of landslides smashing into each other, tectonic plates grinding and shifting.

“Cooking! Cooking!”

Shiv felt his heart pound ever faster, but a feeling of peace and resolve took hold inside of him. Something intuitive hinted that he was on the right path, that this might be the most optimal way to resolve this problem. "Yeah," he replied, "cooking! You've been doing a lot of cooking recently, huh?"

Shiv looked toward the frying pan and suppressed a grimace. The contents inside had gone silent.

The Tarrasque slammed all of its limbs down upon the floor, and with every impact, the dimensional mana that constituted its enclosure shuddered and rippled, straining to keep it contained. It seemed to have evolved further as well. Shiv could feel a grinding presence press against his mana fields. His Harbinger resisted, though it felt like a ceaseless rain of needles was constantly chiseling at its surface. The only reason why he didn't suffer more damage himself was because of his Shapeless Tides, standing as blade against blade, grinding back against the Tarrasque's ambient null magic aura.

“And you like cooking too, don't you?” Shiv shouted, feeling like he was talking to a child.

A disturbance pulsed through the dimensional cage, and a small gap formed to his far right, promptly unleashing a salvo of projectiles, both magical and not, that crashed into him in rapid succession. Shiv remained unmoved.

Within the enclosure now were two beasts of the end, two juggernauts. When it came to Toughness, his skill was likely superior to the Tarrasque's altogether. Shiv's shell turned scarred and then immune as the artillery and arrows broke against him, barely adding any weight to him compared to the Tarrasque. The ones who fired at him now were wanting.

He stole force from the blows as well, fueling his Shapeless Tides with additional vectors and using that to brush aside the magical attacks without suffering any net losses. Through it all, he never turned his gaze away from the Tarrasque, for he cared nothing about the Frost Giants themselves. The Endhound was the real target, something he'd sworn to resolve a long time ago, and right now, it seemed that he might stay true to the promise he'd made to his friends back in the irradiated ruins of the fallen city of old.

A solution without violence would be the happiest of endings, if only because it spited the System more than anything else.

“Well, listen, if you want to talk about cooking, I—”

The Tarrasque surprised Shiv by suddenly leaping up into the air and snatching him out of the air. It precisely closed the tips of two colossal, building-sized claws around him and tried to squeeze, but though it struggled and grunted, straining itself, Shiv managed to hold its claws apart by pushing back with all his might. To his surprise, he was stronger than the Tarrasque. At least for now. Contending with its colossal strength was costing him tide after tide, though. He decided to stop battling against it and simply let himself be gripped for a while. He wouldn't suffer any real harm, anyhow. As he shifted his arms aside, surrendering his flesh to the Tarrasque's ministrations, its index and thumb claws pinned him in place.

It felt like being trapped between two colliding planets, and in an instant, Shiv found himself utterly immobilized. His scar-forged shell hardened to such an extent that he rapidly approached the precipice of being too heavy to move under his own strength.

And that had an effect on the Tarrasque as well. In an instant, it went from being able to pinch him to letting out a surprised bark of frustration as the tiny gnat it held suddenly gained the weight of a rival mountain. Shiv slipped out between its fingers and impacted the base of the dimensional enclosure, tearing a small gap in the mana he rested upon. His Shapeless Tides were like blades sliding across his body, and with every circulation, he ripped into the static mana.

Undeterred, the Tarrasque reached down to scoop him up. It held him in the palm of one hand and then had to use another to support him. It chucked its spatula aside and grunted with every step, carrying Shiv over to its pan while its face exhibited naked confusion. Granted this moment of peace and spared the constant barrage of projectiles, Shiv took a moment to observe the Tarrasque, and just then, a light fell over both of them. Adam's dawn lit both the Deathless with divine awareness—and Shiv struggled not to cringe as he was reminded how closely the Tarrasque resembled him.

“Cooking!” the Tarrasque cheered again, suddenly forgetting how heavy Shiv was. It tried to chuck Shiv into its frying pan, but it didn't use enough force, and he plopped out of its hand once more. This time, however, instead of allowing him to fall all the way down, it caught him inside its gravitational field, and Shiv went from being a mountain to utterly weightless in a moment.

That's when Shiv realized something. The Tarrasque likely wasn't that weak. Instead, its strength worked by unbalancing and shifting the gravity fields of those things around it. It was effectively a walking singularity, capable of rooting itself in place or moving all things around it. Shiv then was a self-propelling object—and in that, he was perfectly suited to contend and struggle against the Tarrasque, though he wasn't an absolute counter either.

You've been building this fight up for a while, haven't you, System? Giving each of us specific skills so that we could struggle against each other and make this thing another big and ugly brawl.

Shiv scoffed at his true enemy as he glided weightlessly in the air, bouncing up and down before he was dropped into the pan. He plunged like a dagger, and the moment he struck the black metal, it deformed, dipping and dolloping under his weight. Rocks, shredded plantstuff and pulped bodies crashed over him as he was submerged in the scalding hot oil.

The Tarrasque tried to shake the pan as it once did. Its underside promptly ruptured and Shiv fell right out, causing the contents of the pan to spill out and over Shiv.

“No! Pan broke!” the Tarrasque crooned with dismay, and it radiated with genuine sadness. Using his Harbinger, Shiv looked upon the Tarrasque's core, and there, he saw it: a tiny pinprick of empathy and emotion. It was small, the emotions it manifested crude and simple, but it was experiencing emotions nonetheless. It suffered grief, felt loss, and struggled with thoughts beyond destruction and war all the same. Its mind spiraled as it forgot Shiv for a moment, holding up its prized pan and staring through the hole in the middle.

“Yeah, that happens sometimes!” Shiv shouted, trying to keep his tone casual despite the need to raise his voice. “Gotta be careful what you throw inside your pan and also what you're cooking. Some things don't go together."

His words were interrupted as the Tarrasque roared again, its voice deafening, vibrating the very particles in the air as a chain of devastating explosions followed. The Tarrasque struck, bringing its frying pan down upon Shiv, but that wasn't the only attack that came. Instead, it ejected a wave of magical nullification toward him, ever bright in a spiral of shifting colors and attunements. Shiv's eyes narrowed. He mustered his Shapeless Tides, but instead of striking back against the nullification, he side-stepped it entirely by diving Backstage.

Both the frying pan and the magical nullification wave missed him. Everything became vague expressions of mana and vitality, and behind Shiv, both the Red Rider's Hand and the girl that didn't exist stared on, enjoying the havoc as one might a theater play.

“So, how's it going between you and your bastard?” The Arrow that never was smirked at Shiv; he sneered right back.

“Working on it—it's like dealing with someone who keeps breaking stuff, and the solution to it is breaking more stuff. There's something of a person budding there. It has a bit more thought than just smashing everything, but I need to get through to it. Need to keep talking to it.”

“Well, good luck,” the girl replied nonchalantly, leaning backward in the air like she was reclining on a couch. “I think you can pull it off. Maybe. Possibly. Who knows? You've already won half the battle by filling it with your weirdness. By the way, before you go on thinking that you're beating the System right now, that dog frog turtle with your face glued onto it developing the cooking skill is a natural outcome of mana accumulation as well. The System recognizes that, just like the System recognizes most of you. The only thing the System hasn't fully understood is whatever that weird mist that my brother keeps spilling out is.”

Shiv considered what she was saying and felt the enthusiasm inside him dim a little bit. “I guess, but even still, not needing to fight another giant monster at the end of everything is not bad.”

“Well, you know, the other thing is, who's the actual giant monster in that enclosure?”

“It. Definitely it.”

