The girl rested her chin on a palm and frowned. “Really? Between the two of you, it's more fragile, and it doesn't have nearly as many tricks up its sleeve. Frankly, you're probably the bigger bomb there. It's not really a criticism; it's just an observation and all that. Anyhow, keep having fun with the poor kid you abandoned—see if you can finally teach it how to properly cook a meal or something. That'll be a big hoot.”

Shiv considered firing a biting remark back, but then he hesitated as he realized she was right. I was considering teaching it how to cook before. That was more of a spiteful dig against the System back then—wishful thinking. But maybe, just maybe, I might be able to make this work. Finally get a second chef for my kitchen, or move it to the Fairwoods to distract Evanescia. Not a bad idea…

The girl rolled her eyes. “It would be for anyone but you.”

Shiv surfaced once again, leaping back into the fray with a new wind behind his back. The Tarrasque let out a huff of pure surprise as he reemerged with a burst of vitality, manifesting on the other side of the pan, undamaged in mana or flesh.

“Anyway, as I was saying, you can't just throw everything you want into a frying pan. You gotta consider your materials first and then cook things properly, in order.”

His sudden return and the effects of Continuity Error left the Tarrasque befuddled for a while longer, and Shiv decided to make use of that confusion so that he could explain things to the Tarrasque. He shed his Scar-forged shell, ejecting the damage inflicted upon him, which utterly crumpled and obliterated the frying pan—but it also set Shiv free. He then flicked himself a few seconds into the future, where his Toughness was restored, and he rematerialized, sitting atop the Tarrasque's head as he cleared his throat.

“The first thing is, they gave you a really, really shitty pan. You need cast iron for normal meals, but if you're going to cook something harder and rougher, then they need to bring you something like orichalcum. You know what orichalcum is, right?” He dangled his Last Morsel in front of its face with a rope of tissue. “This isn't exactly orichalcum. It's made out of narrativium. I think that's what I'm made out of too. Narrativium, though, isn't actually a natural material, or at least that's what the Farwalkers have been telling me. Anyway, you want to use this if you're going to cook something like me. You don't want to break any more pans, right?”

The Tarrasque tried to reach him. Its massive hand shot toward the center of its head, but then he leapt across time once more, blinking a few hundred meters away, directly parallel with its face. He arrived just in time to see the Tarrasque's palm collide against the center of its skull, and the shock waves that followed would have flattened a house kilometers away. He took the buffeted wave of force as a boon instead, absorbing the impact and fueling himself with more Shapeless Tides.

He held up his Last Morsel once again, and the Tarrasque's eyes scythed from the Deathless to the Legendary weapon he held. Distracted from impending violence and charmed by the cooking utensil, the Undying Tarrasque barked a single word: "Pan!"

“That's right. Good pan matters. Good facility matters here. Let me show you something.” And then he summoned his scintillating flame as the Nihilist combusted it into existence beside him. Instead of blasting the Tarrasque, he began frying the remains of the Tarrasque's pan, and the colossal monster struggled between two impulses.

There was continued confusion, its mind thin with thought but still imbued with thought, indeed spiraling as it tried to figure out what he was doing. The rest of its instincts were predatory and destructive. It still wanted to kill, of course. In its base nature, it was its first inclination, but Shiv was an enigma, for he wouldn't break, not materially nor magically. The Tarrasque was too simple to realize it needed to focus on shattering his mana fields one after another and bursting his temporal shell to kill him.

“Now, I might be able to give you a frying pan made out of orichalcum.” As Shiv continued talking, he sculpted and fried everything the Tarrasque had been using earlier, turning the ruined remnants of the frying pan and the slurry that had leaked out from it into well-cooked chunks of edible food. “But I think you already have something that's better than that.”

He pointed at its discarded spatula, clearly shape-shifted and made from the substance of its adaptive shell. The Tarrasque frowned, trying to process what he was saying. "Not a pan," it said. “Not a pan.”

“No. The spatula isn't a pan. You're right, it's not. But you can make a pan from the same stuff you made the spatula from, right? You make a pan from a spatula."

The Tarrasque's eyes darted about, and Shiv realized this thing had even worse attention problems than he did. Holy shit, I didn't think that was even possible.

“Spatula pan? Spatula-shaped pan?”

It's also a lot dumber than I am. Wait… Maybe this was how Georges felt when he first tried teaching me how to cook too.

“No, no, not spatula pan! I'll explain that later. Here, eat, eat, eat.” Shiv decided that he was just going to use simple words now. “Eat, eat,” he continued, pointing at the fried chunks of cast meal and biomechanical slurry.

The Tarrasque clearly understood what “eat” meant and, slowly and tentatively, with heavy, ponderous steps, it staggered over to the food splattered at Shiv's feet and began loudly and joyfully scooping the Nihilist-fried strips of material into its mouth. There wasn't even any hesitation in the action, no consideration that he might be trying to poison it. Instead, it just ate and ate and ate until there was nothing left. Its jaws were wide enough to swallow a small town, and it didn't swallow once before shoving everything in. Along with how rapidly it was chewing, and the happy, near-pig-like noises it made as it chewed, Shiv felt like he was gaining a measure of control over the Tarrasque.

When the Tarrasque swallowed after a few seconds, its lips began to twitch and slowly curve upward. “Tastes good.”

The first time the Tarrasque grinned at Shiv, it wasn't a malicious grin born of a monster that wanted to break his world. It wasn't a hateful grin from a titan that had been struck by insects it loathed. Instead, it was an interested, fascinated, and yearning grin, like a child who expected a parent to deliver more food into its mouth. "Eat, eat!" it said, and slammed its hands and legs up and down. "Flavor, flavor, flavor! Not shit, not shit!"

“I guess the easiest way to reach a monster’s heart is through its stomach.” Shiv chuckled. Hm. A bit like how I charmed Uva.

A mental nudge metaphorically smacked him upside the head as a certain someone found great offense in his comparison. “I am going to hurt you, Deathless.”

“Ah, fuck,” Shiv hissed in alarm. “Uva—sweetheart, you know I didn’t mean it like—”

A psionic shroud went up on her end and blocked his reply. He sighed. Well, I’m going to have to cook her something nice as an apology later. Something better than this slab-stuff I made for this guy.

“MORE! MORE!” the Tarrasque shrieked at Shiv, clearly enchanted by its latest meal. Its voice slammed into him like an explosion, and Shiv flinched as a faint platinum bruise was painted on his form.

“Okay… okay. Let’s see what else I can fry for you…” And then he glanced at his own mana, and he hummed with interest. “Well, I was willing to let you eat me anyway. Let’s see how you like the taste of deep-fried Biomancy.”

Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin 385 > 387

***

Back in the Farnest meeting room, Morgan Munny took in the gawking faces of Legends around him and snapped his fingers in the direction of that overly tall Abyss-dweller the boy had called Still Water. “Hey, Spider-thing.”

“Weaveress,” the pale elf with the strange Psychomancy skill chided with narrowed eyes.

“Yeah. That. You guys got some kinda alcohol? Cause it feels wrong somehow, watching this sober.”
