There is something deviant about the creature’s nature.

The Child has gazed across worlds to see them, and Prophetesses have whispered tales to us of the Endhounds, world-slaying beasts of the apocalypse, monsters that drive entire civilizations to extinction and hollow dimensions.

Yet this one… It is not non-murderous, but it is odd. We must continue watching and nourishing it, for it remains placated by our offerings. If nothing else, that is to our benefit. Still, how strange a habit for a beast of the end to develop.

Perhaps it is because whose soul was imprinted upon it…

—The Pale to Lord Scorn

436

Unexpected [I]

“Meat and veggies, yum-yum-yum! Meat and veggies, yum-yum-yum! Who's the chef? I'm the chef! Who's the chef? I'm the chef! Me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me!”

Projecting the scenes from Adam's mind, Uva's Dreaming Storm wove a most unbelievable sight into existence. The Tarrasque was indeed right there, being presented with Adam's evangelizing temple. But it wasn't trying to destroy it—or anything, for that matter.

Instead, it seemed hyper-focused on a colossal, pitch-black thing it was holding in one hand. It was shaped like a flat bowl, and inside tumbled countless objects and people.

The Tarrasque then shook the bowl violently, and massive boulders tumbled alongside trees, countless dismembered humanoids of various races, horses, pigs, goats, cows, and more, all searing and burning in a lake’s worth of boiling oil. They flipped and jumped within the massive thing that Shiv now recognized as a frying pan, and all the while, the Tarrasque continued gleefully singing its nonsensical song.

A crushing silence swept over the meeting room. Slowly, one after another, all heads turned toward Shiv and then swiveled back toward the Tarrasque.

“Ah, fuck me,” Shiv groaned. “You gotta be kidding me. And this is really what you're seeing right now, Adam? You're not bullshitting?”

“I'm afraid not,” Adam replied. “The Dimensionalists of the Pale transitioned my temple into the Tarrasque's enclosure a few minutes ago. It grabbed the temple and pressed it into the oil, but when it refused to sear or deform in any way, it simply chucked it aside with something of a grunt of dismay.”

Uva played those memories back, the scene rewinding as the temple's perspective went from an aerial bird's-eye view to something submerged in cooking oil. The Tarrasque held the temple beneath two massive claws, loudly grumbling as it pulled the temple in and out, dipping it like it was some kind of divine pot sticker.

“Useless, not food at all!” With that final frustrated declaration, the Tarrasque cast the temple up into the air, and it tumbled through its dimensional prison until it came to a stop where the scene began. The Tarrasque continued cooking on, utterly indifferent to the presence of the temple, or perhaps it had already forgotten about it.

“As our skills veer closer to beasthood, so too does the beast veer closer to our likeness,” the Harbinger declared, not missing the chance to say something it thought to be profound. The skill's words inspired a memory inside Shiv's mind. Even when they were fighting the Tarrasque, it behaved strangely at times. It looked like him and spoke like him, and it did loudly declare that it was a chef at one point.

Kind of like he did during his fugue state while he struggled against the orc skill 811 had infected him with…

Just then, a tremor rippled a long strand of lightning, and it reached Uva. She stood and looked toward Shiv. “The Councilwoman has arrived ahead of schedule.”

“That's… fine,” Shiv managed, shaking off his stupor. “Actually, I think I want to get her opinion on this too. That thing doesn't really look violent to any of you guys, does it? Looks like it's just kind of obsessed with frying things.”

Roland turned his head away and dared not say anything. It was hard to reconcile the monster that brought ruin to Blackedge and nearly tore the town asunder with the singing titan portrayed in Adam's perspective.

***

“When I called for an Honor Guard, I expected a diplomatic escort. A proper reception with a formal introduction to your Gate, rather than just you dragging me across—” Veronica’s words and complaints were cut off as she entered the room. All heads turned towards her, but her eyes were locked on the storm-shaped scenes unfolding at the center of the chamber. It took quite a sight to silence Veronica Chandler, but a singing and cooking Tarrasque that utterly ignored a divine temple beside it was sufficient. “What is this?”

“They put Adam's temple inside its enclosed dimensional enclosure,” Shiv explained. “It kind of just attempted to fry the temple like it was food, and when that didn't work, it chucked it aside. As far as we can tell, it's throwing everything it gets its hands on into its frying pan and—”

And then the Tarrasque interrupted his explanation by lifting the entire pan and dumping the contents down its own throat, grease, boulders, trees, people, and animals all. Its body shuddered as it swallowed gulp after gulp. When that was done, it let out a roar of absolute displeasure and began smacking itself in the head with a crude, crystalline spatula that it produced out of seemingly nowhere, appearing to be made from the same substance as its adaptive shell.

"Stupid! Stupid! Bad! Incompetent! Fucking dumb! Dumbshit!" The words it howled sounded almost like what Georges might have said to Shiv once, who felt his insides plunge ever further down a long and precipitous chasm.

Then the Tarrasque turned its head toward the sky, or at least the direction where the sky was supposed to be, and it bellowed, "More food! More ingredients! More! More! More oil!" It began hammering its utensils against the edge of its pot with every blow, deforming the metal as it threw its calamitous tantrums.

After a moment, a gap formed in the ceiling of the dimensional enclosure that held the Tarrasque. In this, Shiv realized something else: The Endhound had no interest in escaping; it was just demanding additional supplies from the Jotun.

From the hole, there came a deluge of materials. Among random pieces of debris and vegetation, Shiv saw beings of all races, including automata, both dead and alive. The Jotun were clearly sacrificing thousands of their slaves and even some of their own to placate the Tarrasque. In return, it remained placid and docile, cheering instead of raging against its cage. If anything, this place was less a prison and more a sanctuary for it to focus on its true passions, that being the culinary arts.

Shiv produced a series of noises, neither fully human nor fully coherent, but still expressing the fullness of how he felt. As Udraal had made him from the mental structure of a Tarrasque, it seemed that, by Sullain's hand, part of his own nature had been imprinted upon the undying Tarrasque as well.

“This is...” Veronica's sharp eyebrows creased as she searched for the appropriate words, but she found none. Her silence was broken as she briefly made eye contact with Roland—and it was only then that the Starhawk and the Songbringer took note of each other as well. Rather than erupting into an argument, as Ascendants might, the surrealism of the sight before them reigned paramount as everyone continued digesting the Tarrasque's actions.

In the live feed, it continued mutilating the very art of cooking itself. Shiv cringed at its every action.

It had been made with himself as a template, but it lacked all of his skill, all of his understanding. In fact, it seemed to be trying to figure out how to cook from first principles alone. Everything was tossed in without order, without heating up the pan first. It casually scooped up all the people and plant stuff that were thrown in. Trees and bodies alike were smashed and smeared into the frying pan, and then the Tarrasque lifted its head once more, shouting a single word: "Oil." It lifted the pan over its head, and on cue, a massive flood of scalding hot grease spilled down like a waterfall, filling the massive pan in seconds.

A chorus of horrific screams followed, granted vivid detail as Adam turned his Immolating Omniscience upon the insides of the pan. There were still survivors among the slaves, but there wouldn't be for long. Those who weren't boiled to death drowned or were crushed as the mass of objects tumbled back and forth inside the pan.

The Tarrasque's actions were atrocious, indeed, but there was something inherently comical and unnatural about how it proceeded. It took the sting out of things. It made everything feel as if it was just a mockery.

And while Shiv and the others looked on within the meeting room, another instance of him conveyed what he saw to the only true expert on Endhounds he knew.

***

“Doing what now? What the hell do you mean it's cooking? It's not trying to break out?”

“Nope.” Shiv cast his memories over to Produveral, and the man examined the scenes over and over again in vivid detail. Shiv found himself pleased that he'd left a body in the Outsider Observation Post. Produveral was still trying to push him into gathering his companions and making a trip over to Chorus, but with everything that was happening, Shiv always had an excuse to push that back.

With this, he had something that might just be able to lure out more aid from Produveral, or at least give them another extension on top of all the ones already provided. “Has this ever happened before?” he asked.

“Which part? Someone imprinting an existing Pathbearer's soul on a Tarrasque? If so, yeah, a Tarrasque takes on traits usually from designated Farwalkers to give it an edge in instinctive intelligence and seed it with an inclination towards certain skills. But Tarrasques shouldn't be able to develop Social or Crafting Skills. It's just not possible. The shape of their souls shouldn't allow for that—they should be pure violence.”

The Farwalker now sounded more disturbed than ever before. And something about that pleased Shiv—being able to bother a Myth was definitely worth an achievement, right? A Feat? A few levels?

A beat passed.

Nothing.

Well, I had to try, System.

“Well, since my mind was originally designed after a Tarrasque's before my soul got imprinted on the one Sullain bought from the Realmrunner, I think you got a special circumstance on your hands. This thing is definitely trying to cook, and it's definitely behaving like how I might behave if I was a monster.”

Produveral let out a breath, but with his exhale he let out a measure of strength and drew in a debt of fatigue. “Oh, Goddamnit. God damn it. Every other day with you, every other day, something insane happens. Chorus is gonna… Actually, no, I have no clue how they'll react to this.”

“Hey, don't blame me, man. I'm not the one who made the Tarrasque. That guy's dead, so if you wanna complain to the next best guy, that would be Udraal. He is the one who might have a guess on why all this is happening.”

Shiv suddenly snapped his fingers, pretending as if he'd just remembered something important. “By the way, now that you mention Chorus, I trust that this is a good enough excuse to make you guys take the Tarrasque back, yes? Because if you won't, I've got the perfect place for it, one you might not like. Since it's pretty much a person now, it's gonna need a job to become a proper productive member of society, and I know just the woman who would be delighted by a jumbo-sized and extra enthusiastic chef. I need to give her a gift as an apology for the mess I caused last time anyway.”

Shiv's words were less like language and more akin to incantations of torture on Produveral’s ears. He grasped his head and began to groan. “Fuuuck… Why did I take this assignment? Why the fuck did I take this assignment? Fuck!”

“So, what's it gonna be, John?”

“Just give me a second, you little shit. Let me enjoy this migraine before the decision-making starts.”

***

“Yeah, so the Farwalkers have no idea why it's doing this either,” Shiv declared to the rest of the room back in Farnest. “I guess that makes this Tarrasque real special. Like me.”

“And more ways than one,” Munny commented. He squinted at the creature as hard as he could, but rather than fear or confusion, his eyes held a hint of curiosity and consideration. “Say, if that thing can be taught to cook or behave—”

“I strongly recommend against trying to domesticate an Endhound,” the Culturist cut in. “The result is usually quite apocalyptic for the civilization that makes the attempt.”

“You don't talk to me,” Munny spat, hands tightening until his knuckles turned white. “You don't look at me. You don't say anything to me. The only thing between us is the thing that's going to come at the end. I'm putting up with you now for the sake of what the kid is offering, but you are nothing, and you will stay nothing around me.” The Ranger's words were cold and true, and Shiv positioned himself a few steps closer to Munny so that he could intervene and stop the man's draw in case he went for his iron.

Thankfully, Munny kept himself under control, albeit barely. His hate for the Culturist was true and real—that fire would not be doused any time soon, but there was a measure of inspiration that could be gained from Munny's words as well. A thought, near-mad, but nethertheless enticing, caught flame inside Shiv as he raised his voice to let everyone else know what he was thinking.

“You know, Culturist, maybe he's got a point. A Tarrasque shouldn't be able to gain Crafting or Social skills. This one's singing, it's cooking, it's thinking. It's not trying to break out and destroy everything.” Shiv sucked in a breath. “I think I want to talk to it.”

“Of course you do,” Adam said flatly, not even remotely surprised.

