y smiled at him again, but she really hoped his idea didn’t spread. People walking around with weird jokes written on their clothes would make her want to stop and stare.“Enjoy your T...shirts,” Delem said with manners and ushered Aneya out of the store quickly. Kemy turned to leave but the owner called out to her and she turned back.The slightly excitable energy about him had calmed down and he looked serious.“Your group should move on soon,” he advised and Kemy blinked at the words, at the tone shift.“I...sorry?” she said and he looked at her with a sort of sadness.“You’re young things. Lots to live for and a world to see. Don’t stick around Durence too long. It has ways of sinking into you and... well... things are going to get troublesome around here,” he warned and Kemy hesitated before she spoke up.“From the Kingdom? How they regulate Dungeons or Fairplay?” she asked softly and Mr Smalls rubbed a small white scar on one his otherwise pristine fingertips.“I don’t recall,” he said finally and that was a strange thing to say, but Kemy didn’t sense any lies about his words.And that scared Kemy more than his warning could.---Hazhur looked up at the massive form sitting before what could have been a crack in the dungeon wall, a tunnel of sorts.“It’s a monkey,” Karn pointed out and the giant creature bared its teeth in annoyance, shifting slightly to show there was no tail coming off its rear.“It’s in the way... do we scoot around or...” Estal brought up testily and the giant ape thing eyed her before sniffing.“No need, Wilhelm here is just keeping you outside while those inside do one final preparation,” Rale beamed, coming to stand near them and Estal’s crabby nature instantly turned soft and she giggled at him.“Oh that makes sense, Mr Rale,” she said and Hazhur coughed at her.“Shut it, goat,” she said, her smile never faltering. Hazhur winced and felt like he took some form of mental damage as he curled inwards... a little like his horns.“If I’m a goat, you’re a damn succubus harpy,” he retorted, feeling like he was ten years old and pulling his cousin’s hair for ruining his stick fortress. Silver wandered over and the giant creature let Silver stroke his furry hand, more curious of Silver than annoyed.“What exactly is the circus of the damned,” Hazhur asked, to put them back on track.“Circus of the Damned,” Rale said as if correcting him.“That’s what I said? Circus of the damned?” Hazhur blinked at the muscular frogman.“It has... weight to it. Imagine the words are your last lifeline to the top of a ravine, the last light before night, or the last flickering of a candle before the darkness comes,” Rale insisted, lowering his voice to a whisper.“Circus of the...Damned,” Karn said, voice grave and Rale nodded in approval.“I’ll just abbreviate it,” Hazhur muttered, not giving into the urge to be dramatic.“What is...COD? COtD?” he tried it aloud.“No, come on! Say it right,” Estal poked him with a devilish smile. Hazhur met her eyes and narrowed his own eyes to a glare.“You say it first,” he gritted out. Estal’s smile turned bright and she put a hand to her head, leaning into Rale with a flutter of her eyes.“I want to hear about the... Circus of the Damned,” she whispered and the frog caught her before she could fall flat on her face. The trees around them ached and groaned as if her tone was adding to some effect.They all turned to Hazhur, even the damn monkey. He inhaled, wondering if he could just leave at this point..“Circus... of the d..Damned,” Hazhur stuttered, feeling foolish. Estal and Karns eyes went wide and he glared at them.“I said it? What more do you want?” he asked, annoyed and Estal raised a finger, skin going ashen.“Behind...you...” she croaked and Hazhur stiffened. He just noticed the bird song had gone quiet, the river nearby seemed to lower in volume, the very life of the jungle had paused for a moment, and Hazhur felt a chill crawling up his spine.He looked over one shoulder into a face that was a little like a dummy’s with beady eyes and a drawn on little smile, his outfit red with a tophat on his head. The red was vivid... a little too dark to be cheerful and his ruffles looked more like spider web. He held a cane and when he tilted his head, dirty hair flowed down to one side.“All greet... Circus Master Renny,” Rale said, bowing at the creature.“He...llo?” Hazhur said, wondering why he was shaking.The creature tilted his head again and smiled, the entire lower half of his mouth splitting open like an eldritch nightmare that informed the group the painted smile was a trap. Teeth as long as Hazhur’s fingers glinted at him and the black gums seemed to suck in any light.That was the exact moment that Hazhur’s horns fell off in fright.---“Woo, Renny! First visitors! I am in your corner!” Delta cried, shaking her hips in a circular motion as Renny made her guests pee themselves at first greeting.“My little ghoul is a man!” she fist pumped the air excitedly, unable to help but enjoy the moment as this would be the first time the Circus of the Damned would put on a show!Delta even had a ticket!Sure, she made it, but she still had one!‘I am going to enjoy this...immensely,’ was Nu’s comment. Renny shot them a cheeky wink as he turned, clapping his hands, which made no sound at all, as the tunnel ahead ignited with ghostly blue fire that seemed to shimmer off different mushrooms.It was time for the show to begin...
