Time passed too quickly for Mila’s tastes and they returned to the Bridge without any incidents, the guards barely giving Rain’s retinue a second glance. Once inside, they brought the wagons back to warehouses where Mama's people would unload them under the cloak of night. After sending Song and Lin away with the animals, Rain and Mila collected Diyako before making their way to Papa’s forge, where he sat in the dark, eagerly awaiting for their return. “Well?” he asked before greeting them, his good eye shining with greed. “You bring any of it lad?”

“Er... yea, but only a small piece. You’ll have to wait until after dark for the rest like we planned.” Reaching into his pouch, Rain pulled out a palm-sized Spiritual Heart and handed it over.

“Good, good, there’s a smart lad, giving me a taste of what I’ll be working with.” Chuckling, Papa pounded Rain on the back with too much force before snatching away the Spiritual Heart. A terrible habit, never properly gauging his prodigious strength, Mila made a note to bring it up in private. Poor Rain, the bruising wasn't too bad but what if he thought Papa didn’t like him?

Unperturbed, Rain reached back into his pouch and pulled out a crumpled piece of parchment, which he unfolded for everyone to see. “I also wanted to ask a few questions about my next weapon, and brought Diyako here to offer his opinion. See, I was thinking of doing something a little different.”

“Ah, I should’ve known,” Papa chuckled, shaking his head. “You never do anything proper, do you lad? All right, show me what wild notion you’ve dreamt up now.”

Peering at Rain’s drawings, Mila couldn’t make heads or tails of it. It appeared to be a hollow, cylindrical polearm with a smooth, rhomboid head. She could tell from his scribbles that being hollow was important, but she couldn’t fathom why, or why he wanted a blunted head. What’s more, Rain drew an enlarged cross section showing markings down the innards as well as an odd, spring and lever contraption based in the head, though its purpose was a mystery. Glancing at Papa for his reaction, she saw the same confusion reflected in his eyes.

Diyako was the first to speak up. “This that ranged weapon you were talkin’ ‘bout?”

“Yep. A rifle, named for the grooves on the internal surface of the tube here, to guide the projectile into a spiral like the flights on an arrow make it spin.” Animated and excited, Rain’s voice sped up as he explained his diagram. “We can’t use anything flammable as a propellant and I couldn't figure out how to gather or store air pressure, so I was ready to give up. Then it hit me: why not use Chi? See, for this weapon, the coiled spring is the Spiritual Weapon, the rest can be made out of regular steel or iron. The spring doesn’t have to be super strong, but obviously the stronger the better. Doesn’t matter how we set the spring, a winch, a lever, we can even push it down with a stick if need be, but the trigger has to lock the spring in place and there needs to be a groove for the projectile to rest in. Then, you load the projectile, take aim, pull the trigger, Amplify the spring, and bam. Out flies the projectile at ludicrous speeds.” Stopping to rein in his excitement, Rain shrugged and said, “Or you know, that’s the theory. It means my next Spiritual Weapon is gonna be a spring, and I don’t have any way to test it before crafting, but if it can fire projectiles at speeds of five or six hundred meters per second, then that’s a decent trade off, right? I mean, you only fire arrows at what? Half those speeds? Less? Anyways, do you think it’s worth trying? Also, is it possible to unbind a Spiritual Weapon? You know... in case this doesn’t work out, long term.”

After all his explanations, the only thing Mila learned was that she was looking at his weapon upside down. The rhomboid ‘head’ was actually the butt, with the actual head being the open end of the cylinder. Unsure of the answer herself, she looked to Papa for confirmation of her gut feeling.

She wasn’t left waiting long.

Shaking his head, Papa sighed and said, “Lad, you’re nuttier than a squirrel’s turds. You really want a spring as your next Spiritual Weapon? Be reasonable and ask for something proper, like a giant sword or something.”

Seeing Rain’s crestfallen expression, Mila took his hand and squeezed reassuringly. “It’s a... unique idea,” she said, unwilling to lie, “but if it doesn’t work, you’re stuck with it. Giving up a Spiritual Weapon is like chopping off a limb, only this limb won’t grow back even with Taduk’s help.” Not to mention the difficulty in destroying a Spiritual Weapon. Short of throwing it into an active volcano or some other such foolishness, they were near indestructible so long as the bonded user still lived. Something to do with the flow of Heavenly Energy moving between weapon and wielder, no one was really sure why. “Since you’re back now, why don’t we spend more time practising with the bow?”

Still reluctant to give up, Rain stared longingly at Mila. “Are you sure it won’t work? If you say so, then I’ll listen, but neither of you have given it any thought. Diyako and his people can make one out of regular materials to test the theory, but I wanted you two to take a look before committing time and effort.”

Sighing, Mila pursed her lips and glanced at his drawings once more. “Well...” she drawled, trying to buy time. “Your Amplified spring might work, but the timing would be... difficult at best. I think... it wouldn’t be so bad, if you made the... rifle? Part of a real weapon, like an axe or two-pronged trident. Instead of only a spring, you could make most of this out a Spiritual Heart. The trigger, bullet, and the butt don’t need to be included, but nothing else should be made of mundane materials.” Struck by inspiration, Mila grabbed a fresh sheet of parchment and prepared the ink, giving time for her thoughts to form into a coherent idea. With broad strokes, she drew her thoughts on how she would forge this Spiritual Weapon. It’d be tricky, more complicated than anything she’d done before, but it was possible.

Instead of crafting a hollow tube, it'd be better to use a mould to make half a cylinder. Then, she could set teeth on each side and use a spinning rod to leave a spiralled groove down the centre like Rain described. From there, it would be simplicity itself to place a coiled spring at the midpoint. The outer thickness of the tube would have to be adjusted to support an axe-blade at one end, making it difficult to leave an opening for the lever. How would she attach it? A latched hinge perhaps, to make it easier to replace the lever if it breaks. The butt would be easier, simple grooves to slide it in place was good enough. Then, she could fold the half-cylinder together and form the complete rifle, maybe holding it together with interlocking teeth. It was like Jorani’s rope weapon, technically made of a dozen long strands all attached at a single base, looking like a 12-spoke wheel when unfurled. Then, the maker coiled all 12 strands together to form a thick, flexible weapon. An Inspired piece of work, she found herself in awe of the craftsman who made it.

Frowning at her drawings, Mila shook her head. She could improve upon her design, she knew she could. Maybe shorten the tube and create a hand-axe instead of a pole-axe? A piece to practice her technique before making a bigger weapon. The spring would need to be tightly clamped to keep it from distorting out of place, but not too tight to slow it down. And no interlocking teeth, too complicated. And a latch would be too flimsy, this weapon needed to be sturdy to absorb the impact of an Amplified spring. Tossing the failed drawing aside, she reached for another piece of parchment and started anew.

And again.

And again.

And again.

Forgetting everything else around her, she immersed herself into creating Rain’s vision. She knew it was possible, or at least, her gut instinct was telling her so.

She just had to figure out how.

Chapter Meme
