Erick had fucked up. And now he had no mana. It would take him 13-point-5 minutes to recoup the 17,000 he had just spent. His false-lightform flinched. His real body almost fell to the floor, partially because that was nearly all of his mana and that always winded him, but also because the enormity of his fuck-up was like a kick in the nuts.

Poriti had stopped talking when Erick flung a mass of darkness at him.

But now, the man smiled. Wide and bright, and mean. He asked, “Was that your best shot?”

Erick instantly moved all his Ophiel back. He removed his lightcage around the man—

Poriti called out, “Don’t you fucking run away from me!” Ophiel paused. Poriti laughed, then yelled, “Get your feathered ass back here, Erick!” He laughed again. “No! You know what? I want your actual ass here. Now. Or I kill another kid. You got five seconds. One! Two! Whoops!”

Erick watched, horrified, as a pop occurred on the playground, and renewed screams filled the air.

With a flex of his own sunform and a flashing step, Erick stood on the cliff sticking out of the Rollini mansion. The sky was bright as daytime, though it wasn’t, and a peaceful breeze blew through the space, though it was anything but. A small part of Erick thought it was a nice day. A small part thought of Poriti as a very handsome man.

The larger part of him thought it would be nice to rip Poriti to pieces, one bone pried off at a time.

Poriti smiled. Erick remained in his sunform, his mana slowly coming back to him. It wouldn’t be fast enough. He needed a plan. He needed something unexpected.

He sent an Ophiel back to Violet and asked a question. She flummoxed a small answer, but she would need to speak to someone else to find out anything more. That was fine. Her small answer had been fine enough. Erick had her stand by, while he continued to deal with Poriti, standing before him.

Poriti laughed. “Dark Gods, you’re standing right in front of me, and I’m not having any effect on you, am I?” He pulled the collar of his black robes loose. “Still nothing? Oh well. Guess you have to die.” Poriti demanded. “Your rings. Your belt. Now. Right now. I’ll kill another kid if you don’t move fast.”

Erick moved in tune to Poriti’s demands, saying, “I’m doing it! I’m doing it!” Erick pulled at his belt, slipping a few times with the clasp, trying to give himself enough time to finish talking to Violet, dozens of kilometers away. When he finished with her, he popped off the belt, letting it clatter to the ground. It was pretty hard to pretend to be this clumsy with his Dexterity, but he managed. Maybe.

Oh. Fuck. Poriti was the best person in the world. Why would Erick ever want to harm—

“Rings, too, weakling.” Poriti sneered. “Kick the belt over here.”

Erick yanked his mind into a direction it didn’t really want to go. And then he didn’t bother with the rings. With a quick shift of tendrils of light, that definitely endangered some kids somewhere, he lifted the belt and wrapped it around Poriti’s waist.

He stared at the man; hoping.

Poriti’s eyes went wide and hopeful as he put his hands on his new belt. “And my Charisma rings are fine?! HA!” He smiled, radiant and wonderful. “I want your rings too, arsehol—“

His eyes rolled up into his head and he collapsed into a heap.

At least five of the guards yelled, asking for help to save Poriti, or to kill Erick, or any number of things. Some rushed forward. Ophiels moved to intercept the rushing people, but they all stopped coming, once the feathered [Familiar]s fluffed up large, and blocked the way.

For a moment, Erick almost went and got his rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] to help the downed man, but he snapped himself out of that thought. And then he moved fast. First, he put his belt back on his own waist; it hadn’t been damaged by interacting with Poriti, and that was good. Then he stripped Poriti of all his jewelry, of any drop of metal or green gem on his body; all of it went in a pile to the side. Erick even had to do some minor surgery to remove one particular piece.

Instantly, Erick felt better. He shook his head. He glared at nothing. Then he glared at Poriti.

His rage returned.

The guards around the area also lost their Charisma-afflictions. One man violently hurled into a potted plant. One woman collapsed to the ground, the sorrow in her eyes turning to the deepest hate Erick had ever seen.

Erick regarded the man in black, laid out on the ground. And then Erick just stood there. For a long moment, he watched Poriti’s sleeping form; he watched the man’s soul toss and turn, flex and shiver. He watched for signs that Violet had mentioned. He watched, as Poritis soul began to twist, and left hand crunched in on itself, the muscles of his forearm and upper arm curling in, without biological limiters.

The twisting continued.

Erick breathed. He had time to think about everything that had happened, now. Time to reflect on what he had done wrong.

The harpy stepped down onto the ground near to Poriti, but not too close. He stared at Poriti’s broken hand.

Erick said to the harpy, “That’s… Probably that.”

The harpy blanked. “Sir?”

“What Stats did Poriti have? That you know of?” Erick said, “I’m guessing Charisma and Intelligence.”

“Yeah. He had dose.” He asked, “Is… Is Poriti… What’s happening to him? What did you do?”

“They remade the Charisma Fruit into a Perception Fruit, you know?”

“Uh…” He shook his head. “I don’t know bout dat, sir. Is he going ta be out for long? Can we kill him now?” The harpy pleaded with his eyes, but kept his desire mostly out of his voice, “Please, sir. We must end him, fore he wakes.”

“That’ll activate the bombs.” Erick pointed to the pile of green jewelry. “I took that off of him. He’s clean.”

“He’s NOT.” The harpy calmed. “He has gems inside. I know! I tried ta do dis once. I failed. Your mind, it be clouded. Please, sir. We have to kill him. Now.”

Erick touched a light tendril to the pile of jewelry, overturning a bloody, silver-clad emerald. “It was inside his chest. Already removed.” He said, “We have long enough to rescue those kids.”

“… If you say so, sir.”

With a thought, Erick sent an Ophiel back to the Dark Temple. Once there, he asked Violet for a mana potion. She nodded, then stepped away. In moments, she was back, holding a blue vial. In a few more moments, that vial was in Erick’s hand. He cast a [Cleanse] on it, then when nothing happened, he downed the drink. His body relaxed. His soul seemed revived. Mana poured in, like the opening of a dam.

The harpy kept his attentions to Poriti, lying on the ground.

Erick also watched the man for signs of movement, planning to bring this tragedy to an abrupt end if needed.

He also thought of his own needs for future situations like this one. He could use [Sleep], or something similar. Something stronger, for sure. That was Mind Magic, though, so maybe that was a non-starter. He might be able to find some other nonviolent means to take out a target, but he would ask around for [Sleep], first. Poi would have an answer for him, right away.

He glanced through Ophiel, back to the bloody playground, and wondered what it would take to get [Resurrection]. Probably a lot.

A minute passed in relative silence; Erick’s mana was almost back to full. Poriti showed no signs of waking, at all. Something was definitely buggy with the Charisma/Perception interaction, for sure.

A few guards on the cliff platform made themselves scarce. Erick recognized when they left, but he gave no pursuit. A few stuck around; those ones watched Poriti with obvious hatred in their eyes.

Erick was back up to full mana.

He fired off another [Grand Dispel], with all of his bonuses. This time, 17,000 mana transferred into roughly 425,000 points of dispelling power, if Erick’s 4% Spell Costs estimate from earlier remained true. He had no real way of knowing that particular number, for now.

Looking through an Ophiel on the other side of the valley, Erick saw that the kids in the schoolyard had run away from the space where two bodies lay, and were now hiding wherever they could. Erick managed to catch sight of several of them. He began to check them, one by one.

Missing bomb. Missing bomb. All clea—

Nope. There was one bomb— Two bombs. A few more bombs.

Erick asked the harpy, asking, “Was Poriti’s 150-kid number accurate?”

The harpy said, “Probably. Maybe higher. He spends an hour a day, five days week, each day at a different school.” He scowled at the sleeping man, adding, “He casts same spell at us when we break rules, and then he leaves it on us forever.”

“What rule did you break?”

“… I tried to kill him when he started using all that Charisma.”

Erick nodded.

There were only 25 people at the school across the valley. Erick’s [Grand Dispel] should have gotten all of them, and a few more besides. But that discrepancy was easy to account for if [Grand Dispel] worked on the closest targets first. And sure enough, a check inside the house revealed all the [Neck Bombs] gone from all the women and men in there. Some of those people were packing up their clothes and other such stuff, as they rushed to get away from the area. Some were just crying. Erick left them be.

Erick asked the harpy, “How much mana does it cost him to cast those [Neck Bombs]? How much to [Dispel]? They do detonate if he dies, right?”

“1200 mana cost. But da bomb resists [Dispel]. Equivalent 15,000 mana to remove, but he knows when it’s gone.” The harpy said, “That’s da problem. Poriti knows when people be messin wit his magics.” He looked to Poriti, saying, “Dis man deserves everyting you be given him. And, yah. Dose bombs explode ifn he bites da ground.” He leaned closer to the sleeping, tortured man, saying, “He don’t look ta be waking.”

Erick said, “He won’t. I’ll kill him before that happens. But I can rescue more kids, first.”

“Big tings are gonna change when he’s finally dead.”

Erick didn’t doubt that.

Killing Poriti would be the start of a massive change in the criminal cultures of Truedark Arcanaeum. Killing Poriti was the correct choice. But would someone worse come along, later? Whatever. That wasn’t Erick’s problem. His problem was this man laying on the ground in front of him.

The harpy whispered, “Maybe tings get back ta normal-like.”

Maybe; for a given example of ‘normal’. Nothing about the Clergy or the Brightwater District was ‘normal’. Nothing about Veird was ‘normal’, either, but this place was extra fucked.

As for the [Neck Bombs], Grouser’s 15,000 [Dispel] number was correct, it seems. Or at least the professor and this assassin had been fed the same information. But, whatever. That line of thinking wasn’t productive for the current math problems.

With a bit of mental math, which was quite a bit easier since he got all this Intelligence, at 15,000 mana to [Dispel] a single [Neck Bomb], that meant he had cleaned 28 people, with his 425,000 effective mana [Grand Dispel]. That meant that Erick needed to cast his [Grand Dispel] 5 more times at least, at that same cost, to clear out a full 150 [Neck Bombs].

His mana was back up to full, so he cast again. Somewhere out there, 28 more [Neck Bombs] disappeared. Erick decided to find out where those other schools were. With a thought, he directed an Ophiel into the sky, and soon, a cascading orb of light appeared even higher above, while a map took hold in the air near that Ophiel.

Erick cast his [Grand Dispel] again.

He found the other schools. He found more [Neck Bombs].

Meanwhile, he cast another [Grand Dispel].

Now that the problem was getting solved, Erick asked Violet for a better answer than the one she gave him before. She nodded, then stepped away in a flash of shadows.

His mana filled, and he cast for the fifth time.

Poriti had yet to stir awake, at all.

Erick’s mana came back for the sixth time, leading to the cast of his sixth [Grand Dispel]. The mana potion was beginning to lose effectiveness. Instead of ten times his mana regen, it was only four times. With one more cast of 17,000 mana, the seventh one, the potion was on its last legs. As the dark magic soaked into Poriti, his [Personal Ward] blinked bright green as if under attack, and then broke. The weight of a hundred and fifty families slipped off of Erick’s shoulders. He smiled. If his [Grand Dispel] was turning off that, that meant there were no more [Neck Bombs] out there.

Erick had expected 5 more [Grand Dispel]s; he ended up with 7. Who else had this guy bombed?

“Good,” Erick whispered, to himself. Then he asked the harpy, “What’s your name?”

“What is good— I mean!” The man looked nervous, then just blurted out, “Terodoor. Uh. Sir.”

“Well, Terodoor.” Erick gestured to the man. “The last spell cleared off Poriti’s [Personal Ward], which means all his other currently cast [Neck Bombs] are gone. Why would he claim to have 150 out there, then have a lot more?” Erick didn’t truly care, but it was a discrepancy; one that Erick might need to pursue.

“Uh.” Terodoor looked to the other guards, ten meters away, looking for answers. One guard shrugged. The others mostly shook their heads; unknowing. The harpy turned to Erick. “Uh. He put dem on other contacts, too?” He admitted, “I don’t know.”

“Fair enough.” Erick asked, “What do you want to do to the man?”

The man’s eyes lit up, and then he stopped. “… You’re giving me dis honor, sir?”

Erick grabbed Poriti’s prone form with light, lifting him into the air, tilting the man’s head back, exposing his neck. “Yes. He wronged you, right?”

“Yes he did!” Terodoor’s eyes turned hateful, and happy, “But. Uh. You sure?”

“Yes. Cut off his fucking head.”

Terodoor turned his maniacal eyes on the man who had once planted a bomb in his neck, and said, “Den! Then! I take out the trash, sir.” He lifted his wing. Great talons of shadow coalesced in the air, combining into one, to look like a curved guillotine, before the man’s wing went down, dragging the shadowy weapon with it. The talon sliced clean through. Blood spurted. The head rolled away.

Erick threw a [Cleansing Flame] on the body parts. He watched as white fire leapt high, and the soul that had inhabited the body fled, like so much fog under a sunny sky. Erick, and everyone else, watched, as the body burned away to nothing.

