Erick flexed his sunform onto the green jewelry, and with a supercharged [Lightshape], he twisted that part of the world into a glittering, bright green and sheared metal mess. A continued twisting turned that mess into a single green orb of broken emeralds and precious metals. He gave it to Ophiel, and though it was no longer magical, and was very unable to be [Mend]d back together, he had Ophiel plop it into his room, back at Quilatalap’s cottage.

Erick said to Terodoor, “Do I need to threaten you to keep your organization out of my affairs and away from my family?”

“Sir no sir!” came Terodoor’s quick reply. “We know not ta mess with da powers round ‘ere!”

Erick turned his gaze toward the other guards, still standing at the edge of the platform, closer to the mansion. “Do I need to threaten anyone else? Do I need to kill anyone else to prevent other plots against me or mine?”

“Sir no sir!” came the reply of every guard still visible, and a few that were invisible.

“Good.” Erick said, “Then I’m done here. Don’t make me come back.”

Terodoor dropped to his knees before pressing his head against the ground.

One by one, and rather fast, everyone else on the cliff followed suit, kowtowing toward Erick.

Erick left without looking back.

- - - -

Erick stepped onto the dark tiles of the Dark Temple, south of the Palace. Lerreg was still there, near the doors. Violet was missing—

Violet stepped onto the ground near Lerreg, briefly scaring the poor lad.

“Sir.” She said, “I have found out a larger answer to what you asked.”

Erick put on a happy face. “Don’t keep me in suspense.”

Violet nodded. “Shade Lapis informs you that in the case of overlapping Stats, such as Charisma and Perception, the result is almost always a true monster, but this is easy to prevent, if the imbiber of the conflicting fruits seals their soul against outside forces. In the case of a successful sealing, the original Stat remains; the other is discarded. The only way to switch from Charisma to Perception is to first rid the Charisma person of their Charisma, and only after that occurs, can they then safely take up Perception.

“In the case where a soul takes in both Charisma and then Perception, they would become an abomination, without fail. Shade Lapis discovered this problem with the new Stats when she briefly had a Virility Fruit tree, which overlapped with Dexterity.” She said, “There was an innuendo in there that she instructed me to share with you if I felt I could do it justice. I cannot. Do you wish to hear it anyway?”

“Thank you, no thank you.”

Violet nodded, then added, “In exchange for this information, Shade Lapis desires your company this evening. She has instructed me to tell you that this is non-negotiable. Dinner is at 10 PM. She will pick you up. Expect an interview about how your own Stats are affecting you, and about what you did to Poriti Rollini. She saw the whole thing, and she did not expect Poriti to be affected by this Stat overlap phenomenon.”

Erick breathed deep. “… Fine.” He added, “Has Quilatalap’s presentation begun?”

“Almost. We have very little time, though.”

With all that done, Erick turned toward Lerreg. The boy stiffened. Erick rattled off, “Toff and Hutt are dead. They were murdered by some people who Shade Farix has since taken care of. Professor Grouser was the one who cast that exploding bone spell upon you, but it was done under the auspices of Poriti Rollini, who had planted similar bone bombs in others. Poriti’s bombs were simple neck bombs, though.” Erick said, “The list of problems not solved is thus: Poriti’s obvious connection to Grouser. The identities of the people who fired missiles at me, Violet, and you. The necessity of planting [Neck Bombs] in children— though I rather suspect that was to keep Farix at bay. That’s over, now, by the way.” Erick continued, “The validity of harming a White Market weighs upon me, because, since they operate under the Shades, I probably should have helped them, but they threatened me instead of seeking out a pleasant solution to all of our problems. And they were criminals who killed and mind controlled to get what they wanted. The only one who actually got what was coming to him was Poriti, but that’s as far as I was willing to go. So. Lerreg.” Erick stared the kid down. “Far as I can tell you just got caught up in something because Toff and Hutt hated you or saw you as an easy mark; I don’t know.

“But since you’re into making monsters and such, which is already rather confrontational, you might want to consider a plan that doesn’t bring you into conflict with others, and especially not conflict with me. Biodiversity is good. Biodiversity that kills, not so much. If I see you letting killer whales out into the oceans, I will come and kill you, too. So good luck going forward.”

With a serious face, Lerreg said, “Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.”

Erick walked off. Violet followed. Ophiels lifted from the pillars and the wall, to flutter after Erick.

Lerreg remained behind.

- - - -

When Erick got out of direct sight, Lerreg smiled, then hyperventilated a bit, before dropping to his knees. He bowed toward the empty Dark Temple and remained there for a long while, just breathing, and probably praying.

Far to the south, where the waterfalls from thirty kilometers above rained down the crystal cliff, touching off on green spaces and journeying along many carved paths to the Palace District below, there sat an Ophiel. He fluffed out his feathers, scattering drops of water into the air, as his hidden claws gripped the green moss under him. He watched Lerreg for a little while. Maybe he’d get to watch the boy for a few days, just to see if anything else came of Erick’s little foray into the local criminal scene.

But probably not. There was lots to do around here.

For now, though, he’d watch.

- - - -

Far afield, at another nice part of the Arcanaeum District, white marble towers and peaked-roof buildings sat atop the peak of a mountain. A dozen kilometers to the east, the green lands became towering crystals that rose dozens of more kilometers into the sky, but here, the wind blew nicely, and the false light of the Brightwater hung in the sky, providing light for all.

A human woman, wearing something resembling a bikini, reclined in a nice chair, atop one of those marble towers, while she read a large book. Though her hair was white and something about her made her seem like she was in her seventies, her heavily tanned skin was unwrinkled, while her face was mostly unlined.

She was the Big Boss, according to the DNA trail and the various clues Erick had discovered inside the Rollini mansion. Erick knew this chiefly because her portrait hung above the mantle of a fireplace, her picture was nowhere to be seen in the main office though others were, and a few other facts he had uncovered here and there. With all of his snooping, Erick had discovered her name, too: Karine Rollini. She was Poriti’s adoptive mother, while he was her third adopted son.

Ophiel settled down on the railing of the marble tower, a meter away from Karine.

Karine glanced over her book, saying, “Why hello there, pretty birdy. I was wondering when you were going to fly closer than just out of range of our alarms.”

Erick said, “Did you have anything to do with Poriti’s attempt on me and mine?”

“Not directly.”

“… Explain.”

“That man used the information network I built and the people I have recruited in order to enact his plan against you, but before he ever got that far, he was doing similar threatening tactics to lesser powers.” Karine said, “Bombs in necks, in order to keep the rougher elements under thumb. Eventually, that became bombs in the necks of kids, in order to keep the stronger powers at bay. Or at least those who would succumb to this method of threat.”

“Your society is terrible.”

“The terrible rise to the top, or they succumb. For all his overreaching, Poriti was a power who kept various other powers from our throats.” She added, “Until he got too full of himself. I should have seen it coming, but these things creep up on you, you know?”

“If this was your plot against me, you could have come at me differently. An alternate outcome might have occurred.”

Karine said, “That was not me, Archmage Flatt, though I am glad to know my son has not burned all avenues of communication between us.”

“Yeah… Well...”

“If I had been in charge, this never would have happened. But I was ousted by my son months and months ago, and though I grieve as a mother, it is a small emotion compared to the relief of knowing a true monster is dead. He killed his sister and brother before throwing me out here, and cutting off almost all my methods of communicating with the outside world, you know?”

“I figured something like that had happened. He kept family portraits on the walls, but with the faces removed or slashed through. Your own portraits were fine.”

“… He did that, huh?” She looked sad for a moment, and it seemed genuine, even when she faintly smiled. She said, “It’s a rather sad sort of glad, to know he’s dead, if you can understand that.” She leaned back in her chair, banishing all emotions as she regained her poise, and said, “Now, if you don’t want to kill me, and if you don’t wish to go against the Clergy and rescue me, too, then I must ask you to leave. I have no doubt that my own Divine Judgment will be arriving when they feel like arriving, but I can’t imagine it taking much longer than it already has.”

Ophiel departed.

- - - -

Erick stepped up to a large pavilion, on the north side of the Palace, facing the Brightwater. It was a nice location, suitable for any number of medium-sized parties. Rainbow auroras decorated the dark sky, while the lake itself cast white light all across the horizon, and a cool wind blew into the space. Of the space itself, there was a small stage to the front, set with a podium made of crystal and a backsplash made of the same, but much taller than the podium, and big enough for at least two chalkboards.

To the sides of the space stood weapons, cups, shields, rings, and other such items, attached to pedestals with little placards on them that described the items, then gave brief descriptions of who they went to and what happened after that. They were replicas. Erick was barely able to recognize that they were replicas and to glance at a few placards before he had to get to his chair, near one of the tables set up for the event. There were at least twenty Shades in attendance already, with most of them sitting down and quietly talking to each other in whichever groups they felt like.

Erick sat down at an empty table, near the front, where someone had laid a card with ‘Fire of the Age’ written upon it in nice calligraphy. He had barely sat down, when a flicker of shadows to his right heralded the arrival of Queen, who also sat down at his table.

Erick put on a happy face as he said to the new arrival, “Hello.”

Queen said, “Hey, Erick. I heard you dismantled a White Market today.”

Erick lost some of his false-mirth. “They tried to dismantle me, first.”

Queen smiled. “If what I heard was true, that they were using kids as shields, then they deserved way worse than what you gave them. Some corruption is necessary in any society, but Farix let that one get waaaay out of hand.”

Two tables over, a human man who Erick recognized as the Shade of Enlightenment, spoke up, “Everyone gets weeds in their fields when the fields are big enough. Lay off of Farix, Queen. He does a good job.”

Queen angled her seat and herself toward the man. “Maybe if he wasn’t laying every piece of ass that came in his field of view then he’d do better, Leofield. And how much land do you have now that you lost your position as Chancellor of Truedark, hmm?”

“I’m going to have entire worlds, my dear.” Leofield said, “And don’t worry so much about Farix. Sex is one of the easier vices to satiate. Much easier than—”

A flash of shadows resolved into Fallopolis, as she stepped onto the pavilion, saying, “He’s not as bad as some of you, that’s for sure. Melemizargo knows how many of your messes I’ve had to clean.”

Leofield huffed at Fallopolis, saying, “While taking all of our research and setting us back multiple years. Decades, sometimes!”

“Punishments for failure and time for you to better understand what you did wrong, my dear former Truedark Chancellor.” Fallopolis walked to the front of the room and took a seat at Erick’s table, then angled back to say, “What do you even do anymore? Anything? You haven’t fucked up in a while, so either you’ve gotten a lot better than you used to be, or you’ve been nothing but a drain on My God.”

Leofield’s face broke into a wide smile. He chuckled a bit, then said, “I’ve got some nice things coming down the line, Fallopolis. Just you wait.”

Fallopolis fired her own smile at the man, saying, “Better be good, Leofield.”

There was no flicker, this time. Quilatalap simply stepped onto the crystal platform ahead. If Erick didn’t have Ophiels watching that part of the pavilion, he would have missed the archlich’s entrance. The crowd ceased their talking as Quilatalap stood behind the podium. The crystal backsplash animated into color and light, and a large image, five meters wide by four meters tall, showed an aerial view of the Armory. It was exactly as Erick remembered; bulbous and black, like a land of kilometer-wide soap bubbles frozen in time.

Quilatalap spoke, “Welcome, everyone, to this year’s Armory Presentation. You all know me; I’ve done this a thousand times already. Some of you have heard this hundreds of times. But for one person, this is their first. So let me explain a little bit about the purpose of this production...”
