“Much of Truedark Arcanaeum’s curriculum is based around kids learning how to make spells themselves, from aura work, or otherwise. To this end, we have three shadow dungeons operating at full capacity in the Temple District, giving every 16 year-old child a Crown of Shadows; a step upon the journey to [Shadowalk] and an acceptable way to learn how to control their aura. Most students absorb the essence armor and gain [Shadow Touch] but a rare few gain [Shadow Strike]; two of the more common first steps to [Shadowalk]. From those humble aura-work origins, they can learn in Truedark or in any of the other places in the Brightwater, and eventually gain all the rest of those spells that appear in the Script. There are no shortcuts in our lands, Erick.

“To keep our laws and our faith strong, yearly Status reveals are required from age 16 onward, and in the case of any possible arrests or such. It’s all very above-board. Those found to have an excess of spells without their Remake Quests are punished based on the severity of the offense.” She sighed. “But people are people and often do what is easy, as opposed to what is proper. The use of wands to circumvent the law is a minor but pervasive offense that is mostly overlooked, but which is ultimately harmful, and which I cannot allow in my lands.”

Something didn’t add up, and it was something that had actually been bothering Erick ever since he came to the Brightwater District, and saw people casting spells. Erick asked, “So does that mean you have Registrars? To enable the Script for people?”

Priestess looked at Erick with star-filled eye sockets, as she cocked her head back, and her jaw dropped open. She almost said something, but then she stopped. She closed her mouth, then after a moment, she said, “Oh.” She added, “I understand the confusion. The system we have is rather much more complicated than what you experienced with your ‘Matriculation’. Short version: No. We do not have Registrars. We do not allow agents of the Script into Kendrithyst. But when a child turns 16 and after they gain a piece of the [Shadowalk] Elemental Body, they are automatically Script-enabled. The same is true for anyone who gains any Elemental Body skill. In our own case, some children choose to walk a different path than the path of Shadow. We don’t get many of those sorts but we keep several of those optional essence armors in stock for those such children. Fire Crowns. Stone Crowns. Etcetera.”

Erick knew he would have some Big Thoughts about all of that, later, but for now, he flexed his lightform into a map, indicating the wand-filled buildings with small blue dots.

Priestess asked, “Could I get a bigger resolution, please?”

Erick obliged.

“Thank you.” Priestess said, “I must be off. Good luck with your own dealings with this Rollini Family. I need to instruct some others to deal with my own Rollini problems.” She bowed, ever so slightly, then stepped away in a flash of black.

Erick was alone in the Dark Temple. He glanced back to Lerreg and Violet, standing by the doorway. They couldn’t see him past the [Privacy Ward], so here was as good a place as any. He conjured a chair, and sat down.

It was time to talk to some mobsters who used children as living shields.

Joy.

He had been a fool to expect this to go quickly. Farix had been right: Erick wasn’t about to murder everyone in his way and damn the consequences. Not yet, anyway.

Hopefully not ever.

- - - -

Forests grew tall upon verdant mountains, where creeks trickled down into valleys, and houses, strung like ornaments, decorated the land. Higher up on those mountains, were the bigger, more ornate houses. Most had large balconies attached to them, like cliffs, sticking out into the open air. Some of those spaces were attached to roads that wound down the mountain, while some balconies were occupied by carriages of various magical make. Atop the largest fake cliff, attached to the largest house, were guardsmen and women standing out in the open, though some were trying to be sneaky, and remained hidden under invisibility-adjacent magics.

One incani man in black, with black horns, walked out from the house, onto the cliff, and stood there, in the center, looking up at Ophiels that had made themselves known, but not yet felt.

Ophiels gazed down at the man. Some of the feathered [Familiar]s were full-sized, others pint-sized, some in sunform, others under [Invisibility]. Erick would have to work on his own invisibility-adjacent magics at some other time, when life and death did not hang in the balance.

At Erick’s order, the lead Ophiel descended in a tangle of wings and eyes. Erick had Ophiel use his lightform self to generate a hologram of Erick, that was more or less exactly as Erick appeared. Ophiel fluttered to hover at the edge of the outcropping, while ‘Erick’ walked forward.

The man in black smiled a fake smile, as he laid his hands in front of his stomach and bowed, and said, “Greetings, honored archmage. How can this one help you?”

Erick saw glittering green gems on various anklets and a belt, under the guy’s clothes. They were enchanted, likely with Charisma, according to the little tug Erick felt acting on his mind. It wasn’t anything to be scared of, though; the force of that pull was like a piece of floss trying to pull a boat. It would take a significant exposure to this man’s Charisma to do anything to Erick.

Erick decided to start off with a reasonable, easy request. He said, “I want the people responsible for the threats made against my family. I also want assurances that the rest of their plot will not be allowed to come to fruition.” He added, “And it’s in rather poor taste to boost your Charisma before speaking to me. Is that how things are done around here? Mind magic?”

The man smoothly said, “Apologies. I have no idea what you’re talking about. I’m sorry that you came all this way for nothing. Would you care to stay for tea, perhaps?”

This man’s body did not indicate that he lied. Every part of him seemed to speak the truth. Which meant that this man was capable of lying rather perfectly. Honestly, some of the Shades Erick had met were not even this good.

But it wasn’t his reactions that gave him away. It was the reactions of everyone else within sight, and some of those well out of sight, too. Some flinched. Others sweated. The invisible people moved in more obvious ways, moving to get a better shot at Erick’s hologram. People inside the house whispered to each other, far away from the confrontation taking place out front. They spoke of what was happening to their ‘vaunted master Poriti’ while they joked about who would die this time, as they lovingly placed their hands on their own necks…

Where bombs laid, waiting to be triggered.

Erick felt his body go cold.

Damn, this guy’s Charisma was way too high. A part of him had wanted to dismiss all the words he heard inside the house. A part of him was already seeing Poriti in a bright, handsome light. But when he saw the neck bombs, Erick jerked his mind away from that part of himself that called for peace and understanding.

Back at the Dark Temple, Erick sighed.

This guy wanted to play that way? Fine. Erick could play that way.

But he would make sure he was right, first.

Erick began, “I have found connections between people who would do me harm which has led me here, to you. Let me explain, as succinctly as I can…” And then he did. He conjured faces as he spoke, drawing diagrams at the same time, linking people to places. Erick was a bit impressed at how easy it was to manipulate light and produce the holograms he produced, but the man in front of him was a steel wall of indifference. Some of the surrounding guards were not so indifferent. Some of them were sweating. Erick spoke of various wand distribution centers and how he could track down where everyone on that platform had been in the past week, and he already was, but he left out that he could likely track down their whereabouts over a much longer stretch of time. Finally, he said, “And you, yourself, mister Poriti Rollini, your name of which I have discovered by sending an Ophiel into your house and checking on your usual whereabouts, and plundering your office— Well. Not actually ‘plundering’, but you get the gist. You are not the head person in charge. That person is gone to a safehouse three mountains away, which I also already found. But let us deal with you, for now.” Erick repeated, “This threat made against my family. I want it ended, and I want it to never happen again.”

Poriti spoke with a joyful, comforting voice, “That is all rather impressive, Archmage Flatt. But before we continue, I must inform you that those bombs you found on the skulls of Grouser’s wife and child are distributed to many people. Most of them children. Please do not attempt anything without first thinking of the children.” The man continued, “That said: I still have no idea what you are talking about. It seems you have discovered something of a Branch Family plot, for though most who come through our halls here at the Rollini Mansion, the assassins guarding Professor Grouser are known to me as from the Rocini Branch. If it pleases you, I would cull this threat for you, and let you know of the outcome as soon as possible. How would you like to be informed of their demise?”

This man was lying directly to his face, and Erick couldn’t get a read on him.

But the bombs were his own! The people inside the mansion already confirmed them as his spells.

He was lying right to his face, and Erick couldn’t tell! Fuck.

There was another solution to this problem. With a quick look, he scanned every person there on that outdoor platform, again. He found three people with bombs in their necks. Three Ophiels lightstepped into position, and each spent 15,000 mana on a [Dispel]. Two were guards, in the back of the platform, behind Poriti. One was an invisible guard behind Erick’s fake-lightform. All three of them gasped. That action took a single second.

Poriti yelled out, “Aggressive actions are—

The invisible guard, a male harpy, squawked, as he paused, unsure what had just happened. The visible guards both shot hands to their own necks. Poriti turned. All three of the people Erick had freed, stepped away in flashes of shadow. Two vanished; haunting looks of relief on their faces. One remained.

The harpy stepped into the sky, next to the largest Ophiel, putting distance between him and Poriti, rapidly saying, “Hello, yes, thank you, if you kill him those bombs activate. He was driving force behind da plot against you. His Charisma is too strong. I want position when you kill him. I ensure Big Boss does right by you, sir Erick, sir. Big Boss good woman. This guy trash guy.”

Poriti stared up at the harpy, then turned his attention back to Erick. He said, “I will have you know that—”

Poriti briefly turned to shadows, attempting to step away. All he managed to do was crash against a solid wall of glowing light, sending a wave of green light across his body; the glow of a [Personal Ward] taking damage.

Erick said, “Cancel all your spells and I will let you go.”

Poriti stood tall, ran a hand through his hair, then looked to Erick. He pointed past Erick’s false-lightform, past Ophiel, to the mountain on the other side of the valley. “Please direct your attention to the schoolyards over there. I have just now killed one child because of your actions right now.”

Back in the [Privacy Ward], atop the dark tiles of the Dark Temple, Erick stood, transfixed. He moved an Ophiel closer to where Poriti indicated, of course. There was a schoolyard, with a playground out front. There was a young body, missing a head. Kids screamed. Teachers stood, wide-eyed, then calmed, and began talking about how an ignorant fool must have angered Poriti.

Erick viewed the carnage and felt his stomach drop while his mind went in ten directions at once. One of those directions went to Poriti, while the man spoke, and while Erick heard him, nothing he said was too important. He was just monologuing.

There were at least ten ways to go about solving this problem. Erick picked the fastest one, and wondered if it would work, as he glanced at a spell he had made once upon a time with the help of another archmage.

Spell Breaker, instant, long range, 301 MP

Trick a normal spell into canceling. Excess Spell Breaker might go on to cancel other nearby spells similar to the first targeted. Has no effect on ongoing spells larger than 1,500 mana.

He recalled lessons on ‘pillars holding up spells’ and ‘tricking magic into canceling itself’, and then he warped all of that into a 500 Mana Shaping for something more. Something deeper, and targeted on the man in front of him. He, himself, cast a grand [Dispel] upon Poriti, spending 17,000 mana to do so.

It was only after he had made and cast the spell, that he had realized his mistake. He hadn’t made the spell wrong; he was going for a generic [Dispel] that could target the unknown [Neck Bombs] spell. When the blue box appeared, he knew he had made the spell right. That wasn’t the problem. The outcome was the problem. He tried to reason with himself that most people would make the same mistake, but that didn’t help. It was a stupid mistake, like accidentally putting a shirt on backwards; you didn’t realize what had happened until it was pointed out after the fact.

Grand Dispel, instant, medium range, 50 mana + Variable

Trick the spells a target has cast into canceling, regardless of distance, by paying the Dispel cost. If you generally know the spells you are targeting, Grand Dispel first works on all instances of that spell. If excess power remains, Grand Dispel carries over into other magics cast by the target, starting with higher-cost magics first.

Alternatively, trick a spell into canceling by paying half of the Dispel cost. Excess Grand Dispel might go on to cancel other nearby spells similar to the first targeted.

None of the kids at the schoolyard lost their [Neck Bombs]. One person inside the house, did.

The mistake was thus: Clarity, Favored Spell, All Spell Cost Reductions, and even Intelligence, did not come into effect until after the initial spell creation. Spells cost their full costs in their initial casts. Tangentially, Erick realized this was likely to prevent people from casting spells well above their capabilities; or, less cynically, maybe the Script literally couldn’t reduce mana costs until after the magic had been made.

