Back in the Palace District, Erick held up lightform images of the places Ophiel discovered as belonging to Lerreg, to have them confirmed as such by Lerreg. There was the crime scene of his kidnapping in the floating marine biology castle. There was a room in an apartment building in the mountain town below the marine biology castle, along with a few other nearby places with heavy amounts of Lerreg’s DNA. A bakery, which Lerreg confirmed as his day job. A house in another village on the other side of the mountain; his parent’s home. A second, third, and fourth room at his apartment building; the rooms of friends and his girlfriend’s room. Classrooms on the floating mountain. Bathrooms on the floating mountain. Lerreg reported getting beaten up and pissing blood a few times in the past year, which likely meant ‘a great deal more than a few times’, because Lerreg lied slightly about that answer. So Erick almost didn’t pursue the DNA he found in the sewer system.

But then… Most DNA dies in the sewer, and there was a space in the sewers that held Lerreg’s DNA on the walls, instead of in the muck. And that was odd.

Quite a lot of DNA, in an area that was recently [Cleanse]d.

A quick check through time, and the same invisible people appeared, along with a surgery chair, or a massage chair or something, and another man. He was tall, with black hair and black eyes, and skinny, and wearing dark robes. The blobs strapped an unconscious, nude Lerreg onto the surgery chair, setting his face into a cushioned ring, while exposing his back and spreading his legs and arms to the side. The man yelled for the blobs to move away while he went to work. The blobs obliged. And then the man began cutting, and spending so much mana that the image of his work was erased from the manasphere.

Lerreg had spoken of other possible conspirators that he heard of in the most general, vaguest sorts of ways, while Erick had forayed into the past. This was obviously such a conspirator.

And wow! Had this guy done a number on Lerreg’s bones! Oh, wow.

That was a lot of deep surgery.

Concerning surgery.

Erick took another look at Lerreg, honing in on the boy with a great deal more than 75% of his newfound Perception and mana sense. It wasn’t long till he saw something troubling. Lerreg’s spine was a wreck. Erick had gotten rid of the interior spell with his earlier [Dispel], and everything seemed to be intact, but something was wrong. Lerreg sat straight, and yet, his bones had hairline cracks, and some were missing much of their interiors. A layman-guess had Erick thinking this kid was suffering from some advanced stage of osteoporosis, but even an amateur could see that the bones were hollow, and bleeding. And broken, in some spaces. As the kid shifted in his chair yet again, Lerreg’s entire lower spine seemed less like bone and more like sawdust held up by a memory of what it once was. And yet, the kid wasn’t showing any obvious signs of pain; not even when he started to bleed out of an opened wound on his back.

Erick sniffed the air, and smelled blood.

Lerreg flinched.

Erick looked to Lerreg, asking, “Are you feeling okay?”

“Yes, sir.” Lerreg sat straighter, cracking more unseen, and unfelt bones. “Much better, now that you’re going to get your revenge! It’s only proper that I help you if I can.”

An Ophiel was already retrieving Erick’s rod of [Greater Treat Wounds]. The rod dropped into Erick’s hand, as he sent Ophiel over to Violet to say a few more words, while he said to the kid, “What I am seeing inside of you tells me that you should be feeling a great deal of pain. Are you sure you’re okay?”

Lerreg rapidly looked left and right, and for the first time, appeared nervous.

“I’m not going to hurt you,” Erick said, “But your bones are breaking.”

Lerreg laughed nervously. “Uh? I’m fine, sir?”

Erick looked to the right. Violet had done her job. Quilatalap stepped through the edge of the [Privacy Ward], and looked at the kid. The kid, for his part, went wide-eyed upon seeing the black-armored Caretaker. He tried to leap off of his seat, probably in some attempt to kowtow to Quilatalap. But Larreg squawked as his legs broke out from under him and his arm broke as he moved. Erick caught him in a bed of hard light that he tried to make as soft as possible. A bone cracked.

With his head supported and his body failing, Larreg spoke through a broken jaw, asking, “Whas appenthing to ee?”

Quilatalap rapidly said to Erick, “That rod won’t work.” He spoke softly to the kid, “Don’t struggle. Let me help.”

The archlich touched the kid’s face. Bones snapped, then settled. A spine appeared out of rubble, then came together and healed. Arms reset. A jaw realigned. Blood spurted everywhere, but then flowed back into Larreg’s body. Nerves regrew, and the kid released a tiny scream, but he then locked down to a whisper.

The kid healed in a way that Erick would have considered a miracle at one point in time, but magic existed, and Quilatalap had 3000 years of experience. With a gesture, Quilatalap lifted Lerreg from Erick’s light, then set the kid back on his chair, where Lerreg huffed out blood, groaned a lot, then composed himself to the best of his ability. Ten seconds of gasping later, Larreg looked no worse for wear than he had in the beginning of the interview.

Erick had mixed feelings about Larreg’s ability to keep calm in the face of overwhelming danger and power. It had to be a cultural thing. But maybe it was a Blood Magic or Soul Magic thing, too. Erick did not doubt that the Shades would magically experiment on their populace like that.

Quilatalap asked, “How are you feeling?”

“Very well, sir.” Lerreg said, “Thank you, very much, Caretaker, sir.”

Quilatalap asked Erick, “You good?”

“Yes. Thanks. I wasn’t sure if healing him would have killed him, or not. That looked nasty.”

Quilatalap smiled. “That was a correct guess; whatever you tore out of him left his soul in tatters and his body weak as a newborn’s. The standard [Greater Treat Wounds] would have filled him with unchecked growth and killed him outright.” He asked, “You got your mana sense, then?”

“Yes.” Erick gazed upon Quilatalap’s soul, and saw a true abyss; a maw with teeth around the edges, poised to strike at any who dared to get too close. He looked away from that pit of darkness, then said, “A few different Sights already unlocked.”

“Good. Buy all of them, if you want, but we can talk more about all of that later.” He asked, “So what are you going to do with the kid?”

Erick said, “I’ve got the guy that messed up Lerreg in my view, and unless there is more to this, then I might be done in minutes. Then I’d like to see your Armory presentation.”

Quilatalap gave a small ‘hmmmm,’ then asked, “Whatever happened, failed to happen?”

“There were some threats made to my family that have yet to be resolved to my satisfaction.”

“Ah. Not over yet.” Quilatalap stood for a second, then said, “I’ve no doubt whatever happened will require poking around in the territory of the Clergy, but when you find a solid lead, you might want to warn someone before you take action.”

Erick glanced through Ophiel, to a nicely appointed private office room in a tower in a floating castle, where windows showed the green vistas outside, and let light into the room, to land upon a large wooden desk and its current occupant. A tall, thin man sat behind that desk, frowning down at a tiny Ophiel, as Ophiel hopped across the wooden surface, chirping as he poked at an inkwell, upturning the small glass, spilling dark ink across what appeared to be paperwork and student tests. Ophiel dipped a feather into the ink spill, and finding that interesting, he splashed his whole wing into the puddle. He chirped in happy violins as black blots went flying. Then he began truly playing.

Professor Illipine Grouser remained stoic; silently watching the whole time.

Erick said to Quilatalap, “So… I guess I will find Farix, then.”

Quilatalap startled. “Farix?” He glanced at Larreg, then said, “Ohhhh. He’s an arcanaeum student. Ah. Well. I’m not getting involved. Good luck with this.”

“Thanks, Quilatalap.”

Quilatalap stepped away, vanishing back to wherever he was to continue to do whatever it was he was doing.

Erick said to Larreg, “You can stay here for a minute or ten. I’ll be right back.”

“Of course, sir!” Larreg said, “My life is yours to do with what you will.”

Erick frowned, then he stepped away, too.

- - - -

At a ‘presentation’ zone that was more ‘desks and bureaucrats’ than any sort of magic, and rather large for a presentation zone, he found the formerly naked bartender, the Professor of Truedark Arcanaeum, wearing robes and working paperwork, while assistants did the same at other desks. A long line of students stood upon the white line leading into the presentation space, while those who had already gone in and got done with whatever it was they did in there, walked out the other side, some with paperwork, some with empty hands and disappointment in their eyes.

Erick walked past the line, directly up to the Professor.

The blue incani saw him coming, and with bright white eyes, and a smile, greeted, “Hello, Erick!” He waved away a female student who was with him, saying, “Yeah, yeah; you can attempt to join the manaminer division. Shoo, before I change my mind.”

The woman gripped papers tight against her chest as she bowed several times, backing away as she left as fast as she could. While that was happening, a white-skinned woman incani stepped out of the shadows, to Farix’s right. Farix glanced at the new woman, then immediately eyed Erick, and then the white incani. A telepathic line connected the woman to the Shade. The Shade sat a bit straighter.

Farix narrowed his eyes at Erick.

Erick stepped to the other side of the Shade’s desk, and said, “One of your professors was involved in trying to kill me.”

Farix frowned, deeply. He asked, “Why come to me about this? Kill the man and be done with it. Professor Grouser’s career is over, as of this moment.”

Paperwork stopped. Eyes wandered over to Erick and Farix. Some students started writing much faster. One male orcol sitting behind one of the desks, wearing professor robes, turned from forest green to seafoam green around the face.

Erick noticed the orcol’s reaction. He pointed out the man. “What’s his deal with Grouser?”

Farix sighed, glancing over to the orcol. “Grouser is a professor of the osteomantic arts. The pale fellow is named Curook. He has been Grouser’s rival for a good five years, in the same field of study.” Farix eyed the orcol, and the orcol paled a bit further. Farix turned back to Erick, and declared, “Whatever happened to you didn’t involve Curook. The guy can’t lie to save his life.”

Erick said, “I don’t want to jump to a hasty conclusion and operate in your territory without you knowing, but the people who Grouser worked with have talked about harming my family. I am going to solve this problem,” He kept the edge mostly out of his voice, as he said, “But is there anything you wish to tell me, first?”

Farix said, “The only one who can leave Kendrithyst while the Shadow’s Feast barrier is active is Tania, but if she’s involved in this thing happening to you then you’re fucked either way.” He spoke a bit softer, saying, “I don’t know what happened to you, but threats and such happen all the time to people like me and you. Grouser and others should have known not to deal in unapproved… Whatever it was he did. What did he do?”

“Cast some bone spells on a kid who was thrown at me in order to extort some Stat rings.”

Farix snorted. “Oh yeah. That shouldn’t have been done. Kill him. Make an example. You probably need to make more examples, large examples, so this doesn’t happen to you again. Doesn’t matter to me, just don’t go blowing up mountains if you can help it. I know you can be a lot sneakier than that.” He asked, “Is that all? Or…” He smiled, tugging at the collar of his robe, revealing blue skin underneath. “Would you like to talk about nicer things, in a nicer setting?”

“Maybe some other time.”

Farix shrugged. “Very well.” He lifted a hand, and gestured to the side, past Erick, calling out, “Next!” When the next in line, a tall woman, failed to come forward and mostly just stood there, staring at Erick, who failed to move, and then at Farix, and then back to Erick, Farix said, “Stop staring at the Fire of the Age and get your ass up here. He and I are done.” The woman quickly moved, as Farix added, “Your application better be fucking STUNNING, Meponoria.”

The woman whispered, “Yes sir, sorry sir, yes sir.”

Erick didn’t like being dismissed like that, but he understood the need to establish power.

Had this had all happened because Erick hadn’t yet established power? Eh. Erick had thought he was rather useful for hunting down all those Hunters that tried to attack him back when Carodogh was around. And killing literally millions of Ballooning Spiders and Crystal Mimics and such.

But people were people, and someone always had more stupidity, insanity, and power, than was good for them.

Erick rejoined Lerreg, while also setting down for a remote talk with Professor Grouser.

- - - -

While all that was happening, Ophiel plundered some academic records while others looked on, and then took a trip to some dorm rooms. Erick had found Toff and Hutt.

Or, at least, their final resting space. [Cascade Imaging] had led Erick to an area a dozen meters across, on the side of a grassy mountain, chock full of scattered bits of DNA. A check through the past didn’t reveal their final fate, for someone had used a great deal of magic in the area, erasing most of the recent past.

But Erick could still make out the exploding skulls and guts, cast through the air, all falling to a flaming end. It had to be a [Cleansing Flame], too, for Erick only found some dried blood, far from the scene, and a single, clean toenail, in the middle of it all.

- - - -

Erick watched as Ophiel played around in the black ink and Illipine Grouser wrote on a small, nearby table, outside of the splash zone. With a bit of control, Ophiel hovered into the air, and Erick saw what the man was working on. It was a will, or as they called them on Veird: Final Affairs. The man stopped writing his will when he recognized that Ophiel’s behavior had changed.

Erick opened with, “I would have figured a man who does what you did would have already sorted his Final Affairs.”

