Zac’s heart hammered at the audacious yet somewhat true words that spilled out of his mouth, and he half-expected a divine punishment to strike him down where he stood. It didn’t, and his words had the intended effect. Descartes looked like he’d taken more damage from Zac’s words than from any previous attack. He looked visibly sick and confused, and Alea understood this was the time to strike.

A five-meter apparition of Alea’s upper body silently appeared above Descartes, looking down at him with a gentle smile. Descartes trembled as ten chains appeared across his body without warning. They were connected to Alea’s fingers, creating the impression that she was controlling a puppet on strings.

Tremendous pulses of power erupted from the depths of Descartes’ body as he tried to break free, and the bestial roars from before returned with renewed fervor. However, the energies were pushed back down as Descartes took a jittering step toward Zac. Over and over, he tried to break free, but the result was the same. Soon enough, Descartes stopped before Zac, his arms outstretched in a welcoming gesture.

All mortals were puppets controlled by the strings of fate, marching toward their inevitable demise. A spirit of inexorability could briefly manipulate those strings if they were willing to pay an equivalent price.

This was the fundamental idea behind the upgraded version of [Fate’s Predestination]—[Inexorable Fate]. The ability didn’t control dao or energy; it manipulated fate itself, leading it down a certain path. The stronger the opponent’s fate, the greater the backlash Alea would suffer. If the fate she wanted to create was too far-fetched, her spirit would directly collapse.

“You were right before. It’s time to put the trajectories back on track. The Left Imperial Expanse has no need for you,” Zac said, his voice laden with genuine rancor. Cracks were already appearing across Alea’s body. Her soul was damaged every time she co-opted Descartes’ fate to maintain his current state. He needed to make this quick.

Zac extracted every ounce of power from the ten remnants spread across his bodies. Torrential forces poured into his shoulders as he closed the distance. His left hand held the power from which all evolved; his right hand grasped inexorable nothingness. He had become the beginning and the end, with a vast sea of existence between the two delimited forces. Lastly, the Void of Conflict broke the inherent law of separation to birth Primordial Chaos.

It was an unfathomable power that still technically couldn’t exist today, let alone in ancient times when the Peak of Chaos remained mostly in tatters. Deepening confusion and new levels of horror appeared on Descartes’ face as the shimmering silver power of Chaos danced in his eyes. Zac uttered a silent prayer as he delivered his coup de grâce.
