Erick watched Al for a second longer, then sighed out into the damp air, and said, “Whatever.” He turned to Poi, standing a meter away. “So Ballooning Spiders?”

“A problem every ten years, or so, though the last one was only eight years ago.” Poi said, “What they didn’t mention, because it doesn’t really affect us here, is that the spiders are all levels 10 through 40, meaning that in other parts of the worlds with lower level monsters, the spiders either get killed, and the other monsters level up, causing a monster rage, or the spiders win, and they dig back down to the Underworld to nest and wait for the next spawning.”

“So… Are Ballooning Spiders a large concern around here, or not? I'm getting mixed messages.”

“The mimics usually eat any that fall in the Forest, but they can be a problem for some people in the cities. They're worse than shadowolves, for sure, but not much worse, if you're prepared.”

Erick thought that over, then asked, “Care for a blip back to base?”

Poi took Erick’s hand.

They departed Spur’s wall in a blip of white.

By the time he appeared in the foyer of the house, Erick realized he forgot to ask Silverite about the war against Candlepoint.

And then he realized, and said, “Poi! Why hasn’t Killzone come and gotten his enchanted orb yet?” He added, “It might be plus 100 to all Stats!”

“I cannot say—”

Erick gave him a look.

Poi continued, “—Because I have told him, and he has not responded. I have also expressed your offer to Silverite, as well.”

“… To the Quartermaster, then!”

Poi, long-suffering, and to fend off a very possible upcoming problem, asked “Have you tried using it as a light slime, yet? That’s the idea, right? Give it to a gelatinous person?”

“… To the tower, then!”

- - - -

Erick flopped out of his clothes and to the floor of his mage tower. He was, once again, a bumbling ball of translucent goo with a glowing white core. If he was being honest with himself, it felt kinda freeing to be bumbling around, naked. Thankfully, he was alone, or he might have felt self conscious. … Well... Poi was there, but he didn’t count.

And just like that, and for about the hundredth time, he found himself wondering how Jane could possibly like being a—

...

Was his daughter an exhibiti—

NOPE. Not thinking about that. Nope. No.

Moving right along.

With an easy application of his Handy Aura, Erick pulled out a stone box from under the back of the stone bench, disturbing settled diamond dust into the air.

He paused, as he watched light cascade through glittering showers of broken carbon, flickering and brilliant in the afternoon light. And then he got a grip of himself, and the box. ‘Seeing’ through the eyes of a light slime was a trippy, fun experience. Distracting, too.

Ah. Wait. That was what Jane liked about [Polymorph]. Duh. She wanted to see the world through a whole bunch of different eyes, and in the case of [Polymorph], that was easily accomplished.

Erick pulled the lid off of the stone box, revealing a silver orb, a little larger than a softball, or possibly a grapefruit. It was almost large enough to use as a football, but not quite. It was actually about the size of Erick’s own glowing white orb in the center of his slimy body. He Handy Aura’d the ball out of the box, and held it up to the light. It was pretty perfectly spherical. He had done a good job carving away both the clear diamond core, to be perfectly spherical, as well as the outside, to be perfectly smooth.

He plopped the orb against his gooey body.

In a moment that he could have likened to a hundred uncomfortable situations, and because he did not want to eat it, Erick pressed the orb against himself, and gently —gently!— pushed it inward.

Gods above! Pressing the orb into his slime body was the most uncomfortable thing he had ever done, and that included some wild parties of his youth that he looked back on fondly, but would never want to repeat. He was simultaneously too full and—

The world swam left and right. Erick briefly looked at his Status, and saw that the orb was actually Plus 108 to All Stats, but that elated moment was swept away by a deep, blossoming feeling, that came from his core and radiated everywhere but only inside of him, as the stone cracked and purple light soaked into his body, drowning his sight with violet highs and amethyst depths.

He felt another painful pressure within, and it was too much. He involuntarily spat out the cracked and leaking orb.

The orb exploded. Diamond shards ripped through a meter of air before the shards were caught by the [Prismatic Ward]. Erick rolled away from the falling shrapnel, right into Poi and the rod of [Treat Wounds]. Suddenly, a pale white glow suffused his body, driving out the purple bouncing around inside his thin skin, restoring mass he didn’t know he had lost.

After a moment of blobbing there, seeing what had become of the purple orb, and wondering what had almost become of himself, Erick flopped over into his clothes, and carefully [Polymorph]ed into his original body. He adjusted his garments so that his legs went into the proper holes, and his shirt didn’t get turned around, and then he looked down at the mess in front of him.

“So. That was a failure.” Erick said, “Probably good thing I tested it out.”

Poi said, “Probably.”

Erick walked over to the clear shards of diamond that used to be worth 108 All-Stats, and poked them with his Handy Aura. They clinked over themselves, exactly as a broken pile of diamonds were expected to clink over themselves. Erick didn’t know what he was expecting, there. Still using his [Handy Aura], Erick touched the pile, and cast [Mend].

The orb came back together, but different. Erick picked it up. The orb was still broken, but it was mostly whole. Cracks had spider webbed across the whole silver surface, revealing the dull, still-shattered interior. This was a well known enchantment failure, that he had seen many times before. He didn’t even have to consult his enchanting books. This broken gem had been so disrupted by magical forces that [Mend] couldn’t even repair it back to the way it should be, because the original item was no longer a common item.

Mend X, instant, touch, 10 mana.

Touch a complicated large object, or a small common magical item, and restore it to its prime.

Erick tried [Mending Aura], instead, keeping the aura close to his body.

Mending Aura, long range, 572 MP per second

Restore a very large, complicated location to its prime. Time since the structure was destroyed may alter final results. Automatically repair all objects in the area of effect.

Minor ability to affect magical objects.

Slowly, over the course of almost half a minute and almost all of his remaining mana, the orb healed. Tiny cracks in the surface slipped shut from their edges inward, leaving Erick once again with the silver sphere he had started with. But was it enchanted? Probably not.

Erick [Stoneshape]d a thumbprint-sized brush of silver coating off of the orb, revealing the inner, clear diamond. No purple manalight at all. The magic therein had been destroyed.

Erick said, “Probably best that it never got to Killzone or Silverite.” He asked, “Did they know something like that would happen?”

Poi offered, “I can ask?”

“Let’s just… never speak of this again. That was… very uncomfortable.” He added, “I’ll solve this problem, then give them the completed items.”

Poi nodded; a slight grin on his lips.

Erick checked his Status and [Polymorph], just to make sure nothing had happened, like he gained a weird Familiar Form, or such, and sure enough, his Status and his spell were unchanged.

- - - -

Erick sent Ophiel out to rain over the Lake and Ranch every hour, while he took up a comfortable position in his library and continued to read about summons and tiers and what was okay, and what was not okay.

The multiple authors of the Compendium had long ago figured out almost every nuance there was to [Conjure Force Elemental]. Sirocco’s bit about ‘the [Familiar] in the Script is a lock on accidentally creating sentience’, seemed to have come directly from this book; in fact, it was the preface for one of the beginning chapters.

That sentence was proven to be a white lie in the very next paragraph, though. Apparently, even tier 2 [Familiar]s would achieve sentience if given enough time. The book gauged ‘enough time’ as 250 years, which was a bit out of Erick’s care. If Erick ever lived that long, which was a truly crazy thought, then Ophiel would become real.

… It was an interesting thought.

Ophiel was a good boy, but would, theoretically, living for 250 years alongside whatever awful things Erick got up to, be conducive toward remaining a good boy? Who would Erick be in 250 years?

… At that point in time, thinking of Ophiel as a ‘good boy’ would likely be too reductive of a thought to ever truly grasp the being that Ophiel could eventually become.

Eh. Thinking of the future was good and all, but not if it meant failing and possibly dying today.

As Erick read, he got the distinct impression that the authors had measured and timed and quantified [Conjure Force Elemental], and a great deal of the text was given over toward understanding what made a summon a ‘real being’ or not, but they didn’t speak too much about the underlying magics.

Which was probably just as well. No one really knew why gravity worked, or how atoms functioned the way they did, or what dark matter was. Reality was how reality was. Sure, you could overlay names and theories over natural functions, and they might perfectly describe the systems they were meant to describe, but ‘Why?’ was an inherently unanswerable question. Might as well ask Rozeta to tell you how the Script worked.

But there were guidelines to understanding the timeline by which a tier 2 summon became real:

Anything summoned at tier 2 to tier 7, made without [Telepathy] and [Scry], the two main parts of creating a [Familiar], would take anywhere from hundreds of years to become real, to several moments, and would almost always create a rampaging monster.

Anything made at tier 2, made with [Telepathy] and [Scry], and raised as a [Familiar], would take about 150 to 300 years to become a real being, depending on the mana cost of the spell, and if you could summon more than one, and if they were a group mind, and if—

There were a lot of variables.

Erick got out a piece of paper and checked some boxes to complete the formula. He plugged in some easy math, and came out with…

“You have 170 years to becoming a real entity, Ophiel,” Erick said, unsure of the math.

Ophiel, sitting on a perch beside Erick’s chair, staring over his shoulder to ‘read’, sat up straight upon hearing his name. He trilled in violins and unsure guitars.

“mm-hmm.” Erick said, “I hope you learn how to be a good person in this beginning life.”

Ophiel squawked a tiny note of violins that seemed to say, ‘Of course I’m good!’

Erick smiled, “I know you are.” He returned to his book with a sigh, saying, “Reading about summons is so much nicer than thinking about war.”

Any [Familiar] made at tier 3 would take the number from tier 2, and reduce that number by another varied set of variables. The end result was a number anywhere from one-tenth the original time frame, to one-half. Calculating Ophiel at a tier 3, put him at 17 years to becoming real.

At tier 4, the tier 2 number was further reduced anywhere from a hundredth to a tenth. Erick plugged in his theoretical tree [Familiar] as a tier 4, using the appropriate formula and an expected rough cost of 3000 mana, and got a three month pre-life time frame.

Erick knew he would not be going that route for his tree [Familiar], but it was good to know how it would have turned out. Plugging theoretical numbers into the tier 2 formula, put a tree [Familiar] at 25 years, because trees were apparently one of a dozen special cases. The other special cases included humanoid summons of all possible kinds, and information gathering summons, like Erick’s theoretical [Identify]-based bookish [Familiar].

At tier 5, you were basically just creating a being with a soul, and as a created being, it was automatically either Matriculated into the Script, to quash any possible ideas of Summoners summoning slaves, or given over to the side of the Script used for non-sapients, whereupon it would likely try to kill you anyway. The book didn’t go into much detail beyond that—

Kiri entered the room. “Dinner time.”

Erick looked up. “Already?” He looked outside. The sky was slightly red with the beginnings of sunset. “I guess it is.”

Poi made a very nice meal of roasted red fish, freshly caught and delivered to Spur’s markets that morning, along with vegetables fresh from Erick’s own garden, and rice grown in the Garden, by Kip, the bluemetal wrought dragonkin. It was pretty good. Erick had seconds, along with everyone else.

After dinner, Erick blipped back onto the wall overlooking the Lake and the Ranch. The lake was maybe a tenth full, or less. Erick had rained once every hour, or so, but only the smallest parts of the deepest reaches had any standing water in them at all. Long stretches of bare black sand had been carved around the green hills of the Ranch, though; the result of too much water and not enough of developed plants that could hold onto the soil properly. So Erick lifted silver clouds to the sky, and rained a bit of platinum. Green bloomed across the Ranch and the Lake, filling in holes carved by normal water, and spilling platinum swirls into the deeper parts of the Lake.

