He cut the growing rain after a few moments; just enough to stabilize the problems he saw. Then he brought on the normal rain with a quick double cast of [Call Lightning], bringing normal rain down into the development.

The air blipped bronze two meters away, on the wall beside Erick, revealing Apogee.

“It’s looking good, Apogee,” Erick said.

Apogee smiled wide toward the Ranch, revealing sharp teeth. “Aye. Yes it is.” He added, “Al was right about one thing: that land looks nice, but it’s just a shapely facade. You take a step in there and you’ll sink down to your ankle.”

“Get some long root grasses, yet?”

“I do. A trip to Eidolon and Greenville got me just what I needed. Fifty kilos of Soil Stabilizer and Cow Step grasses, along with a whole bunch of Bee Love wildflower seeds for Missoli’s bees.” Apogee said, “Soon as the land is stabilized, I’ve got an order of Aphid Reapers and so, so many different types of landworms to pick up. That should keep out the invasive glowbugs and brownworms from the Crystal Forest and keep the land healthy, but if I need to, I can get some hoppercatchers.”

Erick grinned, as he looked out at the green land. “Seems like you have a good plan.”

“I do!” Apogee said, “It wasn’t my idea to retire so early, but Fork is too ambitious for me to stand in his way any longer, and now was a good time.” He looked at Erick, saying, “I hope you do right by him.”

“I hope so, too.” Erick said, “I heard you know about [Gate].”

Apogee hummed, his attention fully focused on the green land.

Erick waited.

As the rain fizzled out, the sunset caught in Apogee’s bronze eyes, turning his sight all aglow. He said, “I have the Quest for [Gate], aye. I could even complete it if I wanted.” He turned to Erick, and his eyes still faintly glowed sunset red and gold. “But I ain’t gonna be a part of any ‘connecting nations’ nonsense. I tried, but this world is a shitshow that don’t deserve what I could give it.” He looked away, and the fire died in his eyes. “Shades and angels and demons and dragons! Fucking dragons. I could take or leave the gods, but they smack of oversight, and I don’t like it.” He added, “Monsters are nice to fight and kill, though. No moral quandary, there. Some of them even taste good!” He frowned. “No moral quandary, because they’re mindless killers made that way by Mele...” He sighed. “Nope. Not gonna do that.” He went silent.

After a moment, Erick asked, “Want to talk more about dragons? I don’t know much about them.”

“You met one, didn’t you? Eh! You probably met ten, and you didn’t know it.” He said, “But let me tell you this: Every single one of them was silently sizing you up, wondering the pros and cons of eating you.”

“Of that, I have no doubt.”

Apogee looked at Erick for a long moment, then faced the green land again. “At least they’re not able to coordinate with each other, here.” Apogee said, “They…” He paused. He said, “It’s a good thing they fight each other on sight. That’s a welcome change. Makes ‘em much easier to navigate. All you have to do is know where one problem is, and keep track of that one, then if another one starts bothering you, you guide them together, and bam! Back down to one problem.”

The sky cleared of clouds. Moisture blew on the northern wind toward Erick, Apogee, Poi, and the trios of guards atop the wall, twenty meters to the left and the right of Erick’s position.

Erick offered, “Want some cinnamon trees for your Ranch?”

Apogee breathed deep. He exhaled, then said, “Yes.” He rapidly added, “I’ll pick up clippings later.”

He blipped away in a bronze flash.

Erick and Poi departed the wall a moment later, vanishing in a white blip.

- - - -

The next morning, platinum rains came down on time, all across the Gardens around the Human District. Erick toiled in his own garden, plucking weeds and organizing unruly vines back into position, using his hundreds of Handy Aura hands, while Ophiel sang into the gentle storm.

He finished plucking and trimming well before the allotted times for the rains to stop, so he gathered up his haul and brought the good vegetables inside to the cold room, while he tossed the refuse into the compost pile behind the house. He went back to the library, and continued to read. When the Gardens were done for the day, at noon, Erick was ready to transition his platinum rain over to the Lake and the Ranch.

Apogee and twenty other mages, including Al, had worked hard all throughout the morning, all across the new development, turning over the land, ripping up clover and burying it under sand to promote the development of dirt. They had worked hard to finish just before noon; Erick had kept an eye on the place from the comfort of his library, using Ophiel.

The land looked considerably different than the day before. Where once was green land, and clear lake water, now there was dark soil. It was black, but Erick knew it was not a healthy black. It was burned glass and a healthy amount of clay; not good soil right now, but it’d get better, eventually.

So after a small mental poke at Apogee to see if he was ready for the next part, and Apogee said he was, Erick had Ophiel hover out into the middle, and bring the rain. Platinum drops fell across the dark land, soaking into the soil, and into the seeds scattered everywhere. Grasses and wildflowers and wide patches of thick leaved clover, denser than what Apogee had planted before, sprouted all at once, everywhere, like brushstrokes of green and colorful life slapped against a dark canvas.

Erick let the platinum rain linger for a little bit more, then he cut it, and replaced silver clouds with dark clouds. Clear rain fell, but not too much.

And that was enough, for now. Apogee signed off on his connection, as he went out onto the Ranch, to the building set up in the center. He stood for a long moment, standing there atop grasses and clover, not sinking into the ground, staring out at the green land, as the northern winds toyed with tall wildflowers and kicked up tiny sprays of lakewater. And then he turned, and went inside.

Erick returned to himself, in his library, and continued to read.

After a while, he could read no more. It was time for something else. A day had passed, so it was time to try again for [Intent Understanding].

- - - -

Erick’s own [Prismatic Ward] would have maybe interfered with what he was about to do, so he recast the dense air around the house, and left the third floor classroom empty. He almost decided to just leave it like that forever more, but he’d make that full decision later. Once that was done, Erick stood on one side, and had Kiri cast ten [Absorption Ward]s in the air on the other. They were simple green orbs; like sea glass, but made of air and intent. Her arrangement reminded Erick of balloons at a carnival.

Kiri stuck around to the side, while Erick worked.

He held out his hand and channeled mana through [Force Bolt], while activating [Detect Intent Aura]. The sound of the spell was one of clarity and purpose; a poke of harm against a target.

Erick watched the glow around his hand, and the pinpoint of white light in his palm, as he varied the spell how he had varied Mana Altering, searching out for the intent and none of the other stuff, his [Detect Intent Aura] helping to ensure he was on the right track. With the effort of a thousand mana spent just poking around with the spell, he found what he was searching for.

The stripped down dot in his hand was no longer white with the glow of damaging Force, but clear, almost like a spot of thick air, but only visible with [Detect Intent Aura].

The goal was not to poke damage at the target, after all, but to poke a spell with his own spell. That was all, right now. Just to poke the targeted spell.

Channeling [Force Wave] through his hand produced an expanding pulse of white light, and a much larger invisible intent wave to match. [Force Wave] certainly seemed like the spell with the most captured intent; that made sense, it was used in practically all expansive, altering or searching magics.

Erick played around with [Force Wave] until he found the ‘gong’-like setting that he used to make [Prime Area]. [Force Wave], when used in this way, was not meant to damage. It was meant to vibrate through the whole of the targeted spell, and return with an understanding unique to whatever spell it was used upon.

Channeling magic through [Detect Magic], while he used [Detect Intent Aura], was like looking down a hallway of mirrors. Intent layered upon intent, fractured and whole at the same time. An infinity of pathways taken and also not taken.

He had been wrong about the role of [Force Wave] in [Intent Understanding], or maybe only wrong in the context of scale. [Detect Magic] held a million times the power of understanding of intent that [Force Wave] was ever capable of achieving. [Force Wave] was just the vector by which [Detect Magic] was delivered across the targeted spell.

Erick smiled; his own understanding solidified. He cast.

A pinprick of nothing came out of his pointed finger, to strike one of Kiri’s [Ward]s.

Nothing visible happened, except for the appearance of a blue box.

Intent Understanding, instant, long range, 8 MP

Fire a packet of intent at a target spell that becomes as though cast from the other spell’s caster.

“Ha ha!” Erick said, “Success! Eight mana.”

Kiri said, “My gods. This is such a cheating spell. I never imagined that you could cheat in the Script, but this certainly looks that way.”

Erick smiled. “You can try it yourself, you know. But don’t ever show it to anyone else. This was a gift from Opal.”

Kiri just shook her head a little, seeming to disbelieve the world and everything in it, as she continued to watch Erick work.

Erick held up his hand and channeled mana through [Intent Understanding]. A dot of nothing appeared above his palm, like a twinge of thick air. Under the glare of Meditation, the dot became a swirl of gasoline color. With [Detect Intent Aura] active, the dot was a vibrant collection of light. It was, simply, the idea of understanding and becoming whatever it touched.

… So Erick tested out that theory, by bringing his hand over to one of Kiri’s [Ward]s. As soon as the channeled mana display touched the green [Ward], the channeled mana turned green; the exact same color as Kiri’s [Ward].

“Huh.” Erick said. “It can’t be that simple, can it? Taking the exact color of the opposing magic, and pretending to issue the ‘cancel’ order, just like that?” He turned to Kiri. “Where do mana colors come from, anyway?”

Kiri said, “From your soul, I think.” She added, “No one really knows. And besides, you don’t want to make a one-off spell against green, or something, do you?”

“… You’re right. I don’t.” But it was something to think of, in the future.

Channeling [Dispel] above his hand, Erick got a howling void; a spot of darkness, with an edge of shadows that clung to his skin. [Dispel] was the absence of intent— Nope. That wasn’t it. Now that Erick was looking closer, [Dispel] seemed like intent focused on destruction of other intent. It was countless tiny teeth, eating away at whatever it could touch. As an experiment, Erick held up his hand with [Dispel] hovering in the center, to one of Kiri’s [Ward]s. The shadow teeth of [Dispel] tore at the green [Ward], but it could only seem to ripple the green orb’s surface.

Erick put away [Dispel] for a moment, and thought.

He said, “I think I need to create and cancel some spells, like Opal suggested.”

Kiri said, “I’m going to start dinner.”

“Sure. I’ll call you back if I decide to continue before then.”

While Kiri walked away, Erick began creating [Absorption Ward]s in the air, like white soap bubbles. And then he popped them with a gentle, mental command. He made and popped bubbles until it was time for dinner. And then he made and popped more, trying to find the connection between himself and his magic that allowed him to cancel his own spells.

After a few hundred pops, or maybe a thousand, Erick had gone from [Detect Intent Aura]ing the pop, to [Hunter’s Instinct]ing the pop, to asking Kiri to watch, and see if she could figure it out, to asking Teressa, if her Mana Sense could see.

Nothing seemed to work.

There was no obvious connection between him and the orbs he made. Nothing exited his body. Nothing entered the orbs. The [Ward]s he made just popped when he wanted them to.

Maybe he was coming at this from the wrong direction.

Erick asked, “When can people not cancel their own spells?”

Teressa said, “When people get brained they have a hard time casting correctly. I don’t know about canceling, though.”

Kiri said, “When they’re mind controlled, and someone else’s mind overlays their own.”

Poi just said, “The version I was able to make from Opal’s instruction was 10,000 mana. So all I know is that I got it wrong.” He added, “I got practically the exact same lesson as you did, too.”

Erick returned to the third floor classroom, and continued to make and disperse tiny [Ward]s.

When a [Ward] was cast, it came into existence all at once. When it was destroyed, as though from damage or canceling, it popped all at once. And what was more, was that casting an [Absorption Ward] did not seem to throw intent into the air and have it settle down into a protected space, but that was exactly what happened when casting a lightward.

