So Erick experimented with lightwards for a change. He had made quite a few of those in his time, so it made sense that he found his first workable clue in working with light. Lightwards were created quickly, but they started in a spot and then resolved across their whole, coming into existence in one flowing motion. But breaking apart, they just went ‘pop’, all at once, like everything else.

Erick wondered if it was just a ‘spooky action at a distance’ kind of event. When these spells were created, did a ‘key’ get split into two, where one half was imbued into the spell and the other stayed with the caster? Was the intent with [Ward Destruction] to find and copy that ‘key’?

… Opal said that the purpose of [Ward Destruction] was to find the key to the spell, so Erick was obviously on the right track.

… Maybe the destruction of [Absorption Ward]s happened at the speed of light? Perhaps?

… But how would he test that theory? He’d have to get timers and other people to test the timers, because if casting magic happened at the speed of light, then certainly his connection with Ophiel would be subjected to the same issue.

Erick brought up his thoughts with Kiri.

Kiri said, “I don’t think there’s a speed-process involved at all. It has to be an internal key, right? But, like… I don’t really know how spells are ‘cancel’ed, but it has to be some intrinsic property to both the spell and the caster, that only the caster can access, and only when they’re of sound mind. You can’t mind control someone to cancel their own spell, which is kinda weird, when I think about it.”

Erick thought back to Poi’s 10,000 mana cost [Ward Destruction]. Poi probably approached the spell from a sense of control, but that didn’t work. Hence the high mana cost.

Maybe… All Erick had to do was trust in the magic? He had done that before, and it had never failed him. Yeah. He’d do that. That was a fine idea. Save the speed-of-magic experiments for later.

He smiled.

He pointed at a glowing, floating green orb, and cast.

[Intent Understanding]. [Dispel].

A dot of invisible shadow flickered from Erick’s hand to impact the orb.

The orb broke, like a popped bubble, as two blue boxes appeared.

Spell Crack, instant, long range, 9 MP

Trick a normal, minor spell into canceling. Has no effect on ongoing spells larger than 50 mana.

Class Ability Quest Complete!

Create a tier three spell with a mana cost more than 75% below base calculated cost.

Reward: 10% Spell Cost Reduction.

“Okay!” Kiri said, enthusiastically accepting of the impossible.

Erick smiled, and then he went back to the magic.

Channeling mana through [Spell Crack] produced a rainbow hum of a song long forgotten, but quickly remembered and cherished. But it also wasn’t that at all. It was a hum of multitudes. The song only came out when Erick let it take hold of his senses, when he didn’t look or listen too closely. But when he was watching, and listening, alert and active, the hum was just a hum. It was sleight of hand given magical resonance; a trick.

Using Mana Shaping to have that sleight of hand cover a much, much larger spell, was like pulling off a heist, or breaking into a password protected computer by trying every combination all at once—

Oh? Ohh.

Erick liked that analogy; it was much closer to his heart than Opal’s ‘pillars holding up a house’.

Erick lined up his magic, and—

Wait.

Why had Opal used that analogy, specifically?

… Was it because the ‘key’ to the spell was not a singular key, but spread out across the whole spell, a thousand different times? Maybe? Or maybe spread out and dependent on the size of the spell?

Ah. Yes. That had to be it.

[Dispel] only dispersed spells that were less costly than the mana used to cast [Dispel]. [Dispel] had zero effect on ongoing magic if the caster failed to spend enough mana on their [Dispel].

Erick had almost made a big blunder, one that would have cost him 100 days to try again.

Feeling much more secure in his understanding of [Spell Crack], Erick lined up his magic, and cast.

[Spell Crack]. Mana Shaping.

He imagined duplicating the spell into a hundred thousand smaller instances of itself, each fragment of his own magic transforming into that of the caster of the targeted spell, searching for and unlocking each and every ‘key’ of the green orb. As Erick’s packet of invisible intent touched the orb, the orb burst, like an invisible spider’s nest disturbed, sending countless buzzing motes of semi-invisible magic across the space, bursting five more of Kiri’s green [Ward]s as it washed outward, into the room. Erick’s spell crashed against his own body, and against the dense air of the [Prismatic Ward] covering the door to the house, and even washed over Kiri, standing in the back of the room.

She quickly patted herself down, revealing that her green [Personal Ward] was still there, and active. She giggled a little, in relief.

Erick turned back to Kiri’s orbs. Each and every one was gone. A blue box appeared.

Spell Breaker, instant, long range, 301 MP

Trick a normal spell into canceling. Excess Spell Breaker might go on to cancel other nearby spells similar to the first targeted. Has no effect on ongoing spells larger than 1,500 mana.

Kiri said, “Now I’ve seen everything.”

Erick breathed deep, then said, “I’ve made an anti-magic virus!” He paused. He said, “I’ve made an anti-magic virus. Oh… Biological magic? Treating magic as a living thing? It… makes sense? Oh. That’s… That’s an idea.” He almost rushed into the next spell, but he paused. He looked at [Spell Breaker], and thought back to how he had messed up his first attempt with an improper idea, how he had almost messed up this spell with a wrong-thought, and now another improper idea was rolling around in his head. He said, “Opal was right. No need to go for [Ward Destruction] right now. I should get used to using [Spell Breaker], first. I need to test this biological magic angle in a smaller way.” He asked Kiri, “You want to try? I can put up some small [Ward]s.”

Kiri huffed a laugh. “Nope! I have no idea what you did, and [Intent Understanding] keeps not working right. I won’t continue until I know more.”

Erick smiled, and said, “Sure.” He added, “I’m going to read for a bit, and then tomorrow morning, it’s more magic!”
