The second Santa was simpler. Though he too had mandibles poking through his fake white beard. But he had put padding in his red coat, and Garry was handing out pies and bread and food without charging anyone anything this time.
“Mister Santa? You look like Garry.”
“Hohoho. I’m not. I may look like Garry, but I assure you, I am Santa Claus. I hire little Goblins and Antinium to help me make presents at a reasonable price.”
“How much?”
“Four silver per hour.”
The little Gnoll girl was impressed. Erin Solstice, who was wheeling over to check on her beloved [Baker]’s stall, saw Garry bending over and talking to Comrei. The girl, one of his regulars at the shop, peered up at him.
“Could I get a job? That pays more than any job my mother has.”
“Are you a little Antinium or Goblin?”
“No…”
The girl sighed. But Garry had a huge—wrapped—beef pie and cake for her, along with a menu of food.
“And what would you like for Christmas, little girl? If you are good, Santa—who is me—may put it under the Christmas tree. Or suitable receptacle.”
He looked down at the little girl as Erin watched. And Erin was sure that the gifts would appear. Christmas…
She saw it in the little Gnoll girl’s eyes. Maybe she did recognize a familiar Antinium through the costume. Maybe she was too old and Christmas too new to believe in Santa. But even so—there was something there as Comrei looked around and then whispered to him.
“I’d…Mister Santa, don’t tell anyone, but I’d like us to stay in our home this year. The [Landlord] says we have to leave and go to the new parts of Liscor. It costs too much to stay.”
“…Oh.”
Erin halted as a Hobgoblin ringing a bell and showing his cat around turned his head. Garry looked at Comrei, and the Gnoll girl picked up the piece of paper and wrote on it clumsily.
“Do you think Santa can help with that?”
The Antinium Worker didn’t hesitate. He looked Comrei in the eyes and nodded slowly.
“I think Santa Claus can do anything. Don’t you? Why don’t you write down your wish, little Comrei?”
The Gnoll girl sniffled a bit in the cold—and looked up at him.
“Are you sure, Mister Garry?”
The hunched figure of the Antinium was deceiving. For—as Erin Solstice watched, she saw what might look like a Worker with a white beard glued to his chin. If her eyes deceived her, she might think the Worker was simply wearing a red coat stuffed to make him look round.
But her eyes were probably as strained as her body. For when his hunched shoulders rose and the old man straightened…his voice grew deeper and more confident.
“Little Comrei. Don’t be silly? I told you—I am Santa Claus. Do you not see my round tummy and my beard? If you wish something and you’ve been a good girl, magic will happen. I promise you.”
“But what if I haven’t been a good girl, Santa?”
Comrei looked uncertain. And so uncertain—she missed the hand hidden under the counter. For when Santa’s hand rose—
“Ah. I suppose then I should share something with you. Don’t tell anyone—but just so you know—here is my nice list. And what do you see at the very top?”
It was an amazingly straight list, with the hand of someone used to writing grocery lists. Nevertheless—doing it without looking at it? Only Santa could write the list of names that had Comrei at the top.
The girl’s eyes went round. She peered at the list and then at Santa. Without a word, he twitched an antennae. A wink.
“Shh. You’re not supposed to know. But I’ve been watching over you. And you are a very good girl. Don’t worry, Comrei. I’ve seen how hard you’ve been working.”
The little girl said nothing after that. Possibly because she was crying too hard. Gently, Santa left his counter and bent over. He hugged her with all four arms as people saw the Gnoll clinging to him. Then—she was carrying the food off with help from one of the Gnolls who lived where she did. As she was going, Mrsha wheeled Erin over.
“How does it feel to be Santa Claus, Garry?”
He was checking a bag of coins. The Worker looked up at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] looked down at the pusher of her chair. Mrsha stared after the girl with big eyes as Garry straightened his back and spoke.
“It would be a very hard job, I think, Erin. But a good job. I could do that for the rest of my life. I just wish I had more presents. But as you said—Santa Claus is magic.”
“He has to be.”
Erin looked at her little Worker, and he—in his way—more than anyone else had learned from her inn. She wiped at her eyes, slowly, having to slowly raise one hand.
“I’m proud of you, Garry. But if I can give you a little hint? I bet you Lism—even Lism—would help Santa if he needed it. I’ll ask Lyonette to find Krshia. But there are more girls than…”
“Comrei. Yes, there are. I am waiting for Hisnis to come by. Do you have more things I am doing wrong, Erin?”
The [Baker] saw Erin shake her head.
“No. But remember—Santa can come early. It is not easy, being Santa. If you need a little magic—I have a hat full of wonder. But here. Mrsha? This should help.”
A little Gnoll had helped lift something from Erin’s side. Now, she looked at the [Innkeeper] and poured it onto the counter. A shower of gold coins ran into Garry’s money pouch, and he looked at Mrsha. Then at Erin. Mrsha dabbed at Erin’s face as the [Innkeeper]’s frozen breath drifted up—but Garry’s shop was warm and inviting. A Goblin was ringing a bell outside, and the scrying orb was playing kitschy Christmas music. But what Erin said was this:
“Tomorrow, when Comrei wakes up, she might not believe in Santa or Christmas. But I hope she believes in you, Garry. You did this. I’m just going to help. Okay?”
Slowly, he came around the counter and gently hugged her. Then Mrsha the Good Girl burst into tears and hugged both of them.
That was a Santa that Klbkch the Slayer watched from a rooftop. And—the Santa-Slayer didn’t know if he could best him. For the real Santa had a twinkle in his eyes despite having no pupils, and he laughed like a giant in an insect’s body. When he reached under his counter, he had magic in his hands.
And he inspired other people who saw him. Like Lism, who stared at Garry—and then at Krshia. For here was someone who would have started Lism’s program by himself. And the Drake—could barely look at Garry for embarrassed shame. And barely look away.
At least in Liscor, two Santas began multiplying as a certain [Councilman] found a bunch of cotton and tried gluing it to his chin. As people watched the [Baker] sit, with a child climbing into his lap, and laugh like magic.
Magic…that the world itself could barely keep up with. But oh, how it tried.
 
[Conditions Met: Kind Baker → Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef class!]
[Class Consolidation: Chef Removed]
[Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef Level 34!]
[Skill – My Pantry Overflowed With My Deeds obtained!]
[Skill – A Magical Gift obtained!]
[Skill – Rested, Fed, Appreciated and Paid, My Workers Surpassed Mundanity obtained!]
[Recipe – Infused Dough (Scaethen Dough) obtained!]
 
——
 
Some days were like that. Some days—Ryoka got a bit snotty as the first thing she heard was about that happening in Liscor.
The Wandering Inn was not above copying Garry. So even Lyonette was slashing some of her prices. And the smell of warm food attracted the imposter Santa.
“No, I am not Santa Claus. I am simply rotund. And I have a beard. I am, in fact, a [Gourmet]. And I hope this inn accepts my credentials.”
The huffing man brushed at a balding pate as he presented a badge with a crossed spoon and fork over too-bright metal to a confuzzled Ishkr.
“The Gourmet’s Guild? Does that exist?”
“It does!”
The red-faced man had only had bread in the Haven. He could have paid for more, but—he jabbed a finger at the badge.
“I can see you haven’t been certified. In my day—we would give you a spoon if we enjoyed the food! Bronze, Silver, Gold—just like adventurers, you see? Any establishment would hang it up, and those of a discerning palate would come to eat! It was an entire tradition!”
“So you want free food?”
Lyonette looked slightly exasperated as she heard the commotion, but Ishkr stared at the Human man with his rather splendid dress—rich purple handkerchief tucked into a formal surcoat—and he nudged the [Princess].
“I have a table just for you. I believe we can give you a splendid menu, Mister…?”
“Demsleth. Thank you. Someone with sense after all. I can tell you you’re at least going to get a Bronze Spoon for common decency.”
The [Gourmet] turned out to have an appetite to match his talk. He put away six plates, though he ate at a sedate pace. And while a disappointed Ekirra had to be told he wasn’t Santa three times—the man was chatty, affable, and he seemed to rather enjoy this inn. In fact, he did put some coins down to pay for a glass of red wine, and while he pronounced the bouquet as inferior, the food was quite good.
He liked the poolish-made bread. And a number of people were in the inn, chatting, as Erin blew on her hands after visiting Garry. Mrsha was banging on a table furiously, writing with Gire translating to her.
“What white Gnoll? There was a white Gnoll during the Festival of Blades?”
Ryoka had just seen a Unicorn. But as it so happened, a rather equine-faced man dining with Magnolia Reinhart and Rags coughed loudly and glared daggers at Ryoka. Then his head moved past Demsleth, and he did a slow double-take. He lifted a cup to his lips and poured his entire drink onto his lap with an open mouth.
Neither Magnolia nor Ryoka noticed at first. Magnolia was nodding at Rags and eying a Drake who’d come nervously into the inn with Ferris.
Rafaema kept sniffing the air, but Lyonette assumed she was just hungry and was stiffly serving her a hot poutine as Ferris muttered about the danger. But all three young women…looked up as Gire exclaimed.
“You saw the white Gnoll too, Mrsha? I thought I was hallucinating! Why are there…so many random white Gnolls around here? There was one at the Meeting of Tribes, remember? But that one was different than this one. I remember. They can’t all be random Doombearers in hiding, can they?”
“Yes, Taletevirion. Why was there a white Gnoll at the Trial of Blades, do you think?”
Magnolia turned her head, amused as she and Ryoka eyed the silver-haired man. Then they saw he was pouring wine onto his lap. Then…they followed his line of sight as a crimson Drake halted, staring at someone.
Nothing would do but for a huge man dabbing at his lips to break in conversationally. Like an old teacher or a grandfather deciding to lecture everyone. Slightly defensively.
“Well, it’s an old trope, Miss Gnoll. White Gnolls, you know.”
“It…is?”
Gireulashia turned to Demsleth, and the [Gourmet] chuckled. He put his hands together over his belly and lit a huge cigar that had Palt trotting out of the kitchen in a second.
“My, oh my. Have you forgotten all the old stories? Doombearers, you know. White Gnolls cursed or blessed by fate. In the archetypal story, when the ‘white Gnoll’ appears, they were often the bearer of the artifact a [Hero] needed or a guide or warning sign. So—their guise has been adopted from time to time as figures of great portent.”
He smoked merrily as Gire and Mrsha looked at each other. Stories? Demsleth was in such a good mood from the food that he was fumbling between a silver and gold spoon already, and if he got half a dozen more dishes and a fine dessert, he might go to platinum, despite the inferior wine.
The old Human man was smiling—right up until someone walked over and hissed into his ear.
“Teri—Demsleth! What are you doing here? You gigantic, fat liar!”
“That’s hurtful, Taletevirion. I was just having a spot to eat. And people do recognize the old spoon trick—er, accreditation.”
The old man defended himself, whispering back. It was an old practice he had to admit—and he might have founded the Gourmet’s Guild so he could offer spoons to establishments. They tended to cook their best when they knew they might receive a grade.
But now, Gireulashia and Mrsha had gathered around, much like Workers and Soldiers around Klbkch. In fact—Rosencrantz had hurried over with a top-up for Demsleth’s glass and a pudding. The old man savored it.
“Christmas, eh? Not the same ring to it as Frosetine; that was a day when White Dragons or Frost Dragons would dance through the air and everyone bundled up to watch them. You drank this delightfully hot beverage made with a Yellat and some melted butter in tea, I think.”
“There was a day like that, old man?”
Demsleth frowned at Ekirra, but the Gnoll was sitting on his bum. And with a twinkle in his eyes and a wink across his rosy cheeks—the good-natured [Gourmet] twisted his fingers. And he handed Ekirra a cigar.
“Of course there was, young man. And I should warrant this is much the same thing. Kindness in the cold.”
The old fellow paused, gazed around, and wrinkled his face up.
“What a fine little inn. And if I don’t miss my guess…does this inn have a garden or something?”
He looked so nostalgic, and Erin gazed at the man from her wheelchair. It was not he who said it, or her—but the young woman who slowly came over. Ryoka Griffin, barefoot, looked the old man in the eyes. And he saw her—and flinched.
“You’ve been here before.”
“You—I have?”
A look of sudden fear crossed Demsleth’s face, and he made to rise. To flee. He looked so guilty at being here, lolling in indulgence, that it hurt.
“Don’t go. Please…aren’t you the one I’ve come to find?”
Rafaema was there, too. Reaching out. She looked at the old man, not as grand as he had been. Portly—tired—ashamed.
He did not look like Santa Claus, then. For that jolly old man might have the same body—but he had all the grandeur in the world. Demsleth…
Demsleth was a coward. A tired fool. An old man without the magic of Christmas in him.
“I’m—I’m sorry. I shouldn’t have come. I’ve been here?”
He was avoiding Magnolia’s gaze as the [Lady] hesitated, most hurt and most wanting of all. Ressa was pushing her forwards, but the [Lady] turned her head, as if pretending not to see Demsleth for his dignity.
The little Dragon, Rafaema, looked frightened and uncertain. As if the walls of her city were cracked and quaking. Ryoka—her hand reached out, and it wavered as Demsleth rose, dropping spoons onto the table and floor, bending to pick them up. Taletevirion stood with a bleak gaze upon the wretched fellow.
It was someone else who interrupted the old man before he could go. She didn’t know him. Not well—but she recognized him.
An [Innkeeper] rolled forwards, pushed by a young witch. Nanette stepped back as Erin thanked her.
