“Just this one. You don’t even have to say Numbtongue’s a good guy. Just—do you think, at this very moment, he’s a killer? A rapist?”
“I’ll punch you if you say it.”
Erin rolled her eyes at Numbtongue, but the Dullahan’s lips were compressed.
“I am not going to make a verdict on Goblins based on one person.”
“You don’t have to. Just Numbtongue. Just—one Goblin in the entire world. In the entire history of ever, Numbtongue might be the one good guy. Might.”
The Goblins grumbled that Numbtongue wasn’t that good. But Theice didn’t want to say it.
“Why are you so insistent on getting me to say that? It doesn’t prove anything.”
He was sweating now. He’d already called Numbtongue a ‘person’ by accident. Erin Solstice leaned back slightly, and her eyes lit up. Her hat was aflame, and the [Innkeeper]’s fingers moved. As if…
“Do you play chess, Theice? I do. I’ll tell you why you don’t want to acknowledge one single Goblin as a real person, who loves cats and plays music. Because…it might not prove all Goblins are innocent or not monsters. But it’s one step. Like a pawn controlling the center of the board. If you admit one Goblin can be a person…”
Then you opened a door. One step on that board was a piece in the right direction. And Erin would never give up that first piece and the control of the board. The Dullahan didn’t say it.
But his eyes were better windows straight into his uncertain soul. He looked around, and his factoids about Goblins, his talking points—Erin cared nothing for that. History was on Theice’s side as it had been written, even if it was incomplete and didn’t go back to the beginning.
The [Innkeeper] pointed at Numbtongue as he rose and collected Reagen, who was trying to stick his face in the cup of water.
“This is my friend. My guest, Numbtongue. I know what Goblins have done. I fought the Goblin Lord when he came here. If you don’t like it, don’t come to my inn. But the sign stays. If you want to talk to a Goblin before you call them all ‘monsters’, be my guest. I don’t think any of them will run.”
The Goblins were grinning. Erin’s head swiveled.
“Same for the Antinium. They’re not all one Hive. Some are mean, some are silly. Some swear a lot, and one wears a mustache and keeps cleaning up my inn. Without letting me pay him!”
Silverstache jumped as he swept into frame behind her. He dropped his broom and fled, arms raised. Erin turned back to Theice, and the Dullahan was pale.
“So that’s why I let Goblins and Antinium stay at my inn. Because they’re not all the same. I hope that as a Dullahan in Drake lands—you can understand that. I would hope—Pallass understands that after the Meeting of Tribes.”
Theice sat there, unable, in that moment, to come up with a counter response that would work. So he just smiled, tremulously, and nodded his head.
“You…you’ll stand by Goblins no matter what happens in the future, Miss Solstice? The [Innkeeper] who shelters Goblins and Antinium?”
The [Magical Innkeeper]’s eyes flashed, and he flinched, but they just burned like flame. Like memory. Erin Solstice looked at Theice and then into the camera.
“Call me…the Goblinfriend of Izril. It has a nice ring to it. Someone called me that already—and I think it might stick. That’s just my inn. Read the sign when you come in, wipe your feet, and don’t drink any of the green juice. It’s acid. Do you have any more questions, Theice? If not—I should start hanging up Christmas decorations.”
 
——
 
He did ask a few more questions, but the [Reporter] had no more fight left to give. When he stood up, drenched in sweat, Channel 2 swept forwards, and Drassi herself stood there as they went to a break. Which was, in fact, the Singer of Terandria wearing a very festively revealing costume.
Cara sneezed in the cold as Drassi watched the preview-orb, and then Cara raised a microphone to her lips as she began to bring the real power of Christmas—songs as catchy and as endless as the snow—to the world. Then Drassi turned and looked at Theice.
“You tried to take Erin down. Who told you what to say? Archmage Eldavin? Sir Relz? Someone else?”
He shut his lips tightly. Drassi narrowed her eyes at him and listened to the things he didn’t say. As if he realized what she was doing, Theice spoke.
“I just—! I asked fair questions. Questions any reasonable person would think to ask.”
“I know. But you were biased. So…you’re off Channel 2.”
“What?”
The Dullahan lurched to his feet. Drassi turned her head and nodded to the side.
“You’re moving to Channel 1. Sir Relz and Noass were impressed by your unbiased coverage. But you’re not staying on my team.”
“Miss Tewing! I was just—”
Drassi cut Theice off almost gently.
“I get it. But I am on Erin Solstice’s side. And you know what? I’m allowed to be. This is how you do it—”
She picked up the microphone, strode back over to Erin, and hugged her with one arm.
“—And we’re back! I’m on Erin’s side, everyone. [Journalist] Drassi Tewing here—I have always been on Erin’s side. I don’t always agree with her—for instance, she just calls all drinks ‘alcohol’. She can literally not tell a whisky apart from a rum. But I’ll always listen to what Erin says. We’re going to start interviewing people who survived Zeladona’s Trial of Blades next, but maybe we should begin with our [Bard], Numbtongue. I hear the Singer of Terandria has posted lyrics of no less than eighteen Christmas songs she wrote and is challenging people to send in themselves singing them from around the world!”
She was off, but not before she stood there with her friend. Theice stood there, pale with sweat, as Kohr and his former team hurried past him.
Had it been worth it? He watched as Erin Solstice rolled forwards and a bunch of Goblins surrounded her, hugging her—Redscar gave her a noogie until Numbtongue put Reagen on his face. They were laughing. Laughing for their friend.
 
——
 
Christmas was beginning. After that interview, people knew the [Innkeeper]. And they had also come around to Christmas.
The irony was—Erin had forgotten to mention the biggest part of Christmas, which was the date. So half a dozen nations declared it was Christmas right now and began the celebrations before the [Innkeeper] could correct the mistake.
It was a good thing. Despite the songs. Rags saw the Singer of Terandria reappear with a Lizardfolk choice next—and then the Yoldenites, all of whom wanted to a capella some of ‘her’ songs.
She had a feeling the music might get annoying the hundredth time she heard it. But there was no way a bunch of her tribe would be stringing up wreaths and singing that all winter long in Goblinhome, right?
Magnolia Reinhart sat in her parlor as Rags came back to the moment, and the [Lady] turned off the scrying orb. Then she looked at Rags.
“When I was a girl, Niers Astoragon did the exact same thing as we saw on the scrying orb today, Chieftain Rags. I saw him try—if not so gently as Miss Solstice—to sway minds and hearts. And he did. Velan the Kind began something that might have changed Baleros and the world. But always and always—”
“A Goblin King comes. I know.”
Rags whispered. Her skin was still filled with goosebumps from hearing Erin speak. Her friend.
Magnolia dipped her head. She had no teacup, not right now. Nothing to mask her face. She looked uncertain, and her fingers played together as she looked up.
“I have spoken with…the ancients of days, Rags. I have spoken to the Quarass and those older than her. I know more of the Goblins’ story than most. And I am aware there is more that may be lost to everyone. Goblin Kings have never been—have never ceased making war. Not in the entire span of time. Everything I do as the [Lady] of House Reinhart, as Magnolia Reinhart of Izril, is to safeguard my continent.”
She looked at Ressa, the lone other person in this room, an [Assassin], and Rags glanced at the maid. Magnolia Reinhart’s voice was as calm as a frozen lake.
“I have many foes. Many people who have hated me. But my enemies—the ones I have said I cannot allow to tread this continent? I have killed them and left not even bones. My great foes are dead. If I were that same younger woman, the sensible, practical thing would be to kill you. To let Goblins live, but not let Chieftains or Goblin Lords rise.”
Again, Rags felt a thrill of nerves—but if Magnolia were telling her this? The [Lady] folded her fingers together and exhaled.
“It would be impossible to trust Erin over the courts of history. It is not sensible. But here we are. In a year, she has changed the Antinium. She is a child from another world—you know that, and so do I.”
She glanced Rags in the eye, and the Goblin didn’t blink. So Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes flashed.
“I cannot be everywhere at once. I came back to the north, to this spot, to see what Erin would do. More than Larracel. More than other [Ladies], I cede Liscor to her. I have to trust someone I would like to be an ally. I would have rather stood with Zel Shivertail and the Titan and…”
Her eyes grew distant and her face bleak, and Rags wondered if she knew the Dragon. Bits began to click in the Goblin’s head, but Magnolia would not trust even a Goblin with that knowledge. So she spoke on.
“I will trust Erin. And if you—or another Goblin becomes the Goblin King and makes war as Velan did within my lifespan, I will take responsibility. Chieftain Rags. Do you think I am fair or foolish?”
The Goblin thought about this for a long time. She looked at Magnolia Reinhart and shrugged.
“Chieftains do foolish things all the time. Do you think it is the right thing to do?”
Magnolia Reinhart stood. Abruptly, she motioned, and Rags sighed before getting up. Magnolia left the parlor, moved out of her rooms, and down the hallways. Hallways with glass cases, trophies, a dagger that Ressa had once used…Rags eyed the artifacts as Magnolia spoke.
“Chieftain Rags. I would like to hire your tribe in the coming days. I am sure others may reach out to you or already have—I would like to buy your tribe against working for certain groups. To—do what I cannot. Monsters are coming to Izril’s shores, after the new lands. Real monsters. I will not let them stay and infest Izril. Help me safeguard Izril for a time. I know it will cost your tribe greatly and make you enemies of all.”
“Yes. Are you going to pay me? I need artifacts. I need—time. More Goblins. I need everything.”
Goblinhome was not ready for another war. Rags needed to—learn more. To meet other Chieftains, to build something greater. Magnolia Reinhart shook her head.
“My dear Chieftain, I do not think being tied to giving you a bounty of goods and coin will look well on me or you. Nor do I trust you like Erin Solstice does. I will pay you. Hound my enemies. Work with my agents. And I…”
She hesitated. Ressa was looking straight at Magnolia’s back as she came to a single glass case. The [Lady] was in front of it, but Rags felt a sudden—prickle at her chest. She reached under her armor, and something hanging from a simple piece of string grew suddenly warm against her flesh. Magnolia Reinhart turned and lifted something out of the case.
“…I will pay you with the only thing Goblins want. And so be the consequences.”
She held something in her palm and showed it to the Goblin. Rags almost reached for it—and Magnolia held the little, rusted key tightly in one hand as Ressa stood in front of Rags and the [Lady].
“How do you have it?”
Magnolia Reinhart’s response was simple as Rags clutched at the twin of the key. The key, which she had thought she might never find the twin of. Garen had known where it was, and Tremborag. But even the two of them had thought it was too hard to get.
Overwhelming death. Now, Rags got it. Magnolia Reinhart’s hand glimmered, and Rags saw a dozen criss-crossing beams of magic, so faint she had missed them, slowly levitating the key back into the case. Magnolia Reinhart spoke slowly.
“This key I took from the Goblin King’s corpse. I knew there was a twin, though I do not know what he hid. Because I knew there were two, I swore that I would guard the other one. Chieftain Rags. That is my price for your aid.”
The Goblin’s crimson eyes burned as she stared at the key in the case. Magnolia Reinhart held out a hand with the weight of her responsibilities.
“For the [Innkeeper]’s faith in you—I will ignore Goblins until I have reason to take arms against you. I can offer you nothing more.”
Slowly, grinning with all her teeth as her eyes ignited—Rags took Magnolia’s hand. Then she nodded to the parlor.
“Are we going to sit back down? If you want me to help—you need to tell me everything. I’m not Erin. I like having facts.”
The [Lady] chuckled, and she nodded.
“Do you take tea or coffee? Snacks? Ressa, fetch our dossiers.”
Rags’ eyes lit up. Magnolia wrote things down? She followed Magnolia and realized that she had long been Erin’s friend. Always and always. But perhaps—it was time to learn from the cunning [Lady] of the north.
She couldn’t think of a better Christmas present in the entire world.
 
——
 
Then it was Christmas.
Oh, yes. There was more fallout from Zeladona’s tournament to process. More deeds and meetings and secrets to witness.
But the rest of the day and throughout the week, this is what happened: moments of good cheer. Moments of kindness or what each and every person took from Christmas. It was not always the same form, and it varied from person to person.
The [Innkeeper] had called for it, and they obliged. So—what did Christmas look to each one of them?
 
——
 
For the city of Liscor, a Senior Guardsman was walking with his daughter when he saw and heard the first manifestation of Christmas. It sounded like a voice like thunder. A flash of red. A sack filled with goodies like acid flies, flavored rice, and little toys.
“Ho. Ho. Ho. Hohoho. Ho.”
An Antinium in a huge red costume was leaping into the Hive. He stopped as Silveran ran over with a huge silver-painted beard. Klbkch and Relc locked eyes, and the Drake and Embria stared at Klbkch.
“Klb?”
“I’m making an effort. Don’t judge me.”
The Slayer’s mandibles were poking through the beard as he disappeared into the Hive. And he heralded a storm. For it seemed like a plague of Santas were descending upon the world.
There were three in Liscor alone on the first day, for instance. Well, two real ones and one imposter.
The first Santa was as strong as a lion, could leap over rooftops in a single bound, and offered gifts bought at a reasonable price with a Senior Guardsman’s salary while crushing criminals with his boots. He performed five Santa-arrests as well.
 
——
 
