“I’m—sorry, Miss Innkeeper. I should be going.”
Demsleth was mumbling. But Erin Solstice just bent over in her chair and looked at him.
“I remember you. I think we’ve met before. Though you looked different. Hello, again. I’m Erin.”
That great and glorious face rose. Then—Mrsha thought she remembered him too. When the old man stood, he was tall, and a cloak of faded green swirled around him. Not like the red, jolly fat man, but some figure of old, a winter-swept face creased by lines, tall and august—and terribly humble and pathetic sometimes.
“I’m afraid I don’t remember, Miss. I apologize for the trouble I’ve caused.”
He bowed slowly, closing his eyes. But he did take Erin’s hand as she held it out weakly—and though there was no strength in her hands, she captured his hand with her other and didn’t let go.
Erin Solstice had learned from Larra the Haven. For all they were different. She looked Demsleth in the eyes.
“You don’t have to apologize. There was no trouble. You…you should stay. I think a few people have waited to see you.”
“I don’t have anything to give them. I should have prepared a greeting. I’m—ashamed.”
The Dragon mumbled. He stared down at his body, and Erin looked at him.
Her hazel eyes met his mismatched magical stare, and she looked straight at him, as she had seen so many ghosts and statues. And behind his face’s seeming, his Dragon’s body, all that fakeness—she saw him. Erin turned her head, and she saw a female Drake looking at Demsleth with a kind of strange recollection.
As if, perhaps, Onieva too recognized him. So what Erin said was this. She turned to the old man and smiled.
“What are you talking about? They came for you. All this long way. We don’t have to be perfect, y’know. Look at me.”
He gazed down at her immobilized form in the wheelchair. Felt her hands, barely able to clasp, light as a feather around his fingers. Gently, Demsleth raised his other hand.
“I think…my garden wants to see you again. I think you should stay, Mister Demsleth. My inn will be boring without people like you.”
“You think this is how I should do it? For the young women who have come so far to find me? I don’t have anything—to give them. Not here.”
Erin shook her head at the silly old man.
“It’s not about presents. It was never about that. It was always about—you.”
It seemed like he only heard her the third time. Then—the old man turned and looked around the inn.
Visma was sticking a claw in her mouth as she stared at Demsleth’s old clothing. It wasn’t as flashy or regal as many of the [Ladies]. But there was something in how he dressed, like a wanderer from nowhere that made her want to make her dolls look like that. Ekirra was staring, disappointed, at the old man on this Christmas day. And when Demsleth’s eyes rose—
He saw Magnolia Reinhart—and one timid glance told him she remembered all the things he forgot. In that second—he knew that if he walked out that door, he would be more ashamed and pathetic than he had been in the last three months.
So, slowly, the old man looked Erin in the eyes.
“Thank you. Miss…?”
“Erin.”
He nodded, and the old man slowly sat back down. He looked about and spoke clearly.
“I believe I’ll stay after all. Taletevirion. Won’t you join me?”
“I was already here. But very well—if you insist.”
A younger old man with silver hair slowly sat next to Demsleth, looking as surprised as the Wind Runner and Wall Lady by his decision. But Erin just smiled. And Ekirra piped up.
“You two old people smell funny. Why are you smoking? No one smokes here. Not even Palt.”
He pointed at the Centaur, staring accusingly at the cigar that had been resting in a bowl as an impromptu ashtray. Taletevirion raised his brows as he picked it up.
“Is that so?”
He lit it with a flash of green from his fingers. Demsleth eyed Ekirra as Mrsha stared at him, and Visma too—as if they sensed something. Not his nature, but perhaps that he was an old man who might give them things.
“Young Gnoll boy. Firstly, cigar-smoking in inns is an established, nay, honorable tradition. Second—I’m not old. That is entirely inappropriate to call your elders.”
Ekirra’s mouth opened as he tried to work that out. Klbkch turned his head from the bar where he was refilling his acid fly sack. And he saw Demsleth flick his hand with a look of sudden, merry mischief.
“I am Demsleth. And if you are going to complain about my actions—I might as well have a co-conspirator. Here.”
He flicked something at the Gnoll boy, who caught it in his paws and stared at a long, beautiful blue, semi-transparent—cigar? But the old man flicked another, and Gire caught it.
“Have a sugar cigar. Yes, yes, you too, you big child.”
“Hey! No giving the children cigars!”
Erin had seen that last bit. But Demsleth defended himself from the [Innkeeper]. He waggled a finger as Taletevirion rolled his eyes.
“Don’t worry, Miss Erin. I should have you know that those are just sugar. They smoke a bit, but there’s no inhaling or whatnot. See?”
Palt had lit the end of Ekirra’s ‘cigar’, but the boy was licking and chomping at one end. Erin was going to object to the practice of making cigars look cool—until Demsleth looked around. And he looked happier, in that moment, so she threw up her hands.
“Oh—fine. I guess if you blow the smoke outside—Palt, go ahead.”
“Wh—me? You sure?”
“It’s a special day. Yeah. No one bother my guests—but I guess we should bring out more snacks. Ishkr?”
The Gnoll was coming back with a next course, and Demsleth’s eyes lit up as Taletevirion murmured.
“You have to try the Rxlvn. There’s also a fiery drink that will take you back.”
“Maybe later.”
Ekirra was puffing on his cigar as Visma did the same. Then the children were gathered around Demsleth. Rafaema was trying to edge forwards, but now she was elbowing a bunch of little kids, and they were better at getting attention.
“Mister, mister. You knew about white Gnolls? Do you know stories about them? I want to know about white Gnolls, but none of the books in Liscor have them.”
It was Ekirra who asked a question that made Mrsha, Gire, and the others look around. Demsleth? He raised his brows.
“Of course I do. Perhaps I should tell a few—in thanks for the food. That, too, is a time-honored tradition. Should it be a story about a white Gnoll?”
“No—Dragons!”
Rafaema covered Ekirra’s mouth and burst out. Magnolia slapped her forehead—but lightly. And she herself was staring at Demsleth with such perplexed happiness…Ryoka Griffin knew she had done this before. In fact, she might have been the very same girl sitting in front of Demsleth as the old man chuckled.
“A story about Dragons? Well, why not? Have you heard of the tale of the Silver Knight against the Army of Snow? A single Dragon-Knight versus a thousand Snow Golems the size of castles.” 
He flicked his fingers, and again—a pair of wings unfolded. Silver shone on the walls of the inn behind him, on the empty [Grand Theatre]’s podium, and everyone looked past Demsleth. He held his fingers up to the flames of the fire—and his voice rose as he began to speak and conjure images into being. Shadows on the wall, bright as bits of flame. Like memory.
“His name was Yderigrisel, and the winter had been bad. So long, in fact, that it had gone on eight straight years without ending. You might think it was the Winter Sprites’ fault, but the truth was that, in that time, the world was just colder.”
The old man was telling a story with the fires in the fireplaces roaring. And he was beginning to smile when Taletevirion’s eyes caught his. The Dragon looked at the Unicorn—and his raised brows said quite clearly he was doing nothing wrong.
But then he saw where the Unicorn was looking and stopped a second. For lined up across the inn were three young women.
A Dragon, a Courier, and a [Lady] stared at Demsleth, and he faltered. They had such intensity in their eyes. For there he was, without any great journey. Without a fight to the finish line. Without…
The [Innkeeper] was still watching. And because she was there, he was reminded. Of her words. The man’s fingers were tight on the glass of wine—but before the fragile glass cracked, he put the cup down. Then—gently, slowly—he beckoned.
And three big girls sat next to Gireulashia as the jolly old man—who was sad and magical and hungry—and now—sitting with his back to a roaring flame, decided to tell a story. The food kept coming as his voice rose, and he told a story of a brave Silver Dragon, who fought winter all by himself before his kin came to bail the fool out.
Then he sat taller, an old traveller resting his bones against the fire. A silver-haired fox next to him, adding occasional anecdotes. And he felt grander than he had in a long time. Grander than when he had met the Wyrm. For…
There he was. More complete in this place than in his cave with gleaming scales. Demsleth, not Eldavin. His eyes shining heliotrope and cerulean as little boys and girls stared up at him. He did not run away. Nor…had he slept this entire time.
He had arisen, in hunger and pettiness, yes. But he came here.
To tell them stories.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was filled with laughter, songs sung by two old men with white hair and magic who remembered the words, and warmth.
In Liscor, a [Baker] laughed long and loud, and even underground, Santa tip-toed around with his sack of toys, occasionally using it to bludgeon Shield Spiders to death.
But there was more than just one Christmas or one person.
The village of Kemse had seen two unusual groups of visitors of late. The first had just asked for directions. They could have stayed—but there would have been little to offer them, even in exchange for the coins they probably had an abundance of.
It was going to be a dire winter. One of their farms had gone up in flames and another savaged by Garbichugs. The damn things weren’t even edible, and the village was quiet in the way starvation and desperation sounded.
That was—until someone called out.
“T-Troll! No—it’s the Unseen Empire!”
By now, the iconic eyes in the pyramid design on the flag were known in the region, such that the distant villagers all came out of their houses, wondering why so many were riding their way.
They were not part of the Unseen Empire—and monsters or war were the first thoughts on many minds. Yet it was neither.
“Ho there! We heard you’d lost two farms to disaster! May we approach? In the name of His Majesty, Laken Godart, and in honor of Christmas—we have been sent from Riverfarm.”
A [Cataphract], Beniar, raised a gloved hand as Durene stopped pulling one of the wagons by herself. She had been racing the horses, and the mystified villagers saw they were laden with—
“Food? What’s this? Is the Unseen Empire—selling goods?”
The [Paladin] heard this as she worked her shoulders out, and she laughed so mightily it scared some of the children. She was wearing golden armor, and the caravan explained.
“The opposite. We’ve come to give you a gift.”
The [Headswoman] of the village listened incredulously. Even for a made-up holiday and the largesse of an [Emperor], the sights of the packed sacks of grain and cornmeal strained disbelief. But Riverfarm had another reason to think of this.
More than goodwill, showing off, or Laken’s own knowledge and respect for the holiday. Far more than any of that…they remembered something else.
So the wagons that Durene and the horses were pulling were strewn with something odd. Lanterns. In fact—one of the lanterns was moving—and they all shone a different color thanks to a bit of alchemy in the flames. Pink, green, red, yellow—
Like faeries, glowing in the middle of winter. Riverfarm?
“Once upon a time—last year—a famous Runner came to Riverfarm when we were starving. We didn’t forget. Our fields are full enough, despite the flames. I’ve heard a score of places were hit by the Drakes. His Majesty has sent this first delivery, and we will be back next week.”
Mister Prost shook the villagers’ hands. Then—after the official words were done, he embraced the [Headswoman]. For the strength had gone from her arms.
“I can’t—we can’t repay this. Even for a gift.”
Prost’s own voice broke slightly.
“No need. No need…it was just like this. Twice, for us. As the snow came tumbling down, someone found my daughters under it all. Then—someone ran through the snow and cold. Just like this. Here. This is for a lucky girl.”
And he had a doll in his arms that his own youngest daughter had asked him to carry here. It had survived an avalanche, Goblins, freezing winter, and the fires. It looked simple and well-loved as Prost carried it onwards. But that…that was the spirit they were bringing.
Hope, onwards. Ever onwards. And if there were tears—they weren’t all on one side. As Erin Solstice had said, magic mattered more when you needed it.
 
——
 
For some, Christmas was just a reason to show off. For every heartfelt, needed gift, you could still accept and cherish the less-vital goodwill.
Khelt was an excellent example of this. The entire nation redecorated, sometimes literally painting their houses different colors, chopping down fir trees, and outdoing themselves in gifts.
For the King of Khelt believed in the [Innkeeper]’s idea. And his largesse came into being across Khelt—but more importantly, to all his lands.
The sight of two dozen very scared Centaurs running like spit ahead of Sand at Sea as the warship glided across Chandrar was enough to get news coverage. Not least because the Revenants had decked the boat with wreaths and mistletoe—and they had a bounty of gifts. Food, toys, and more.
Bound for Jecrass. The King of Khelt had decided to send a host of treasures to his new lands there, and the people would be the recipients of more than one shipload of Khelt’s wealth. He had included a number of gifts for Jecrass itself and a new sword for Queen Jecaina and King Raelt.
 
——
 
Such generosity. Such gifts. Christmas was already a thing.
Not because the powerful friends of Erin Solstice vouched for it. Not even the Sariant Lamb conspiracy—nor even because the [Innkeeper] herself was trying to realize it.
It was going to become a thing because every [Merchant] in the world had underlined the date in their calendars for next year and only bemoaned they had no time to prepare for now. The [Innkeeper] was getting requests for ideas, ornaments, and the sheer opportunity of this holiday…
