“Who sent him? Who prepared him? Not Drassi—bets, Ressa, Chieftain Rags?”
Ressa stared at the Dullahan, and Rags’ head rose.
“Who hates Goblins? The list is endless.”
Magnolia’s eyes flicked to her, and she put a finger against her lips before she spoke.
“That may be true, Chieftain Rags—but I rather wonder who hates Erin Solstice. It might have been—Eldavin. But why? He, of all beings, should remember enough…or perhaps he doesn’t. But why would he do this?”
Interesting. The Goblin had no answer, so she listened. And what she and everyone leaning over to hear Erin in the inn heard—what the Goblins, Antinium, and the world saw was Erin Solstice look up.
Her face had grown pinched and pained when Theice called Goblins monsters and listed the common crimes laid against them. When Zel Shivertail had been brought up, she had gone hot—then cold, and her stare became icy as she looked at Theice.
Now? She took a deep breath, looking past Theice, but just for a moment. As if counting the Goblins in her inn and all their history and yes—even the wrong she had seen. What Erin said was this:
“Theice. Everything you just said may be true.”
The Dullahan [Reporter] frowned.
“I assure you, it is all historically—”
“It may be true. You said two things just now. One—historical accounts of the Goblin King and Goblin Lord’s actions. Those happened, and they have been recorded. It might not be the whole story, but it is true in the large parts, I bet. Your friends and the people you know definitely were attacked by Goblins, I’d swear on a truth stone too.”
“Then I’m correct, factually, on both accounts.”
He was—nervous. Or was he trying to press the attack? Speaking too fast. Rags saw Erin frown faintly.
“No. Because the second part of your argument makes it sound like all Goblins are rapists, murderers, and bandits. That’s anecdotal evidence. You can’t do that. That’s like saying, ‘I know Lorent, a [Sharpener] in Pallass. All Dullahans are probably really good with sharpening stuff.’”
“I—can see your argument there. But the facts are that Goblins attack people.”
“So do [Bandits]. Your argument is incomplete.”
The Dullahan hesitated and then shook his head slightly.
“Nevertheless, the point I am making is that Goblins, in their tribes, are all marauding bandits. Criminals, at the very least, who steal and raid and kill. There are no Goblins in this entire world who are sanctioned, law-abiding citizens.”
This time, both Rags and Magnolia sat up. The [Lady]’s eyes flashed.
“Erin, kindly get him?”
She turned her head and addressed Rags.
“Velan—his tribe were a recognized people. Niers Astoragon tried. He tried to change the world around Goblins, and he failed—but he did try, Chieftain Rags.”
The little Goblin looked up, and she began to sense why she was here. But she was waiting for Erin, and the [Innkeeper]—
The [Innkeeper] was still cold, despite the slight heat in her tone. She was fighting Theice in what the Dullahan thought was his element, the methods of rationality, which often lacked for any empathy.
“Theice. By your definition, no Goblin could be a law-abiding citizen even if they were peaceful. Of course they’re criminals if they belong to no town or village and no one recognizes them. They have their tribes. You don’t know where they are—only that they’re not part of our societies. So they’re all bandits? Gnolls don’t belong to the Walled Cities. They move around in tribes. Are they bandits?”
“That is twisting my words. I never compared them to Goblins. Goblins are de facto monsters under the Adventurer’s Guild with bounties on their head—”
“So what? I could post a bounty on every Drake. Does that stop them from being people?”
She was doing better than Rags and Magnolia had hoped. But this was an attack—and it was clear that Theice was not on Erin’s side here. Yet here came Erin’s true argument, and she started slow, catching Theice off-guard.
“Let’s say you’re mostly right about the history of Goblins, Theice. Let’s ignore how you define criminals for now. I don’t think that’s the point.”
“Very well, Miss Solstice. I have statistics on the amount of Goblin attacks in numerous regions of the world. In Liscor, for instance, a single tribe committed over 115 attacks last year, not counting the Goblin Lord. In larger regions? Pallass has reported—”
“Theice. I’m not going to deny Goblins can be [Thieves] or [Brigands]. And I don’t have your statistics, and you’re not showing me that piece of paper. Can I speak for a moment?”
The Dullahan actually slid over the piece of paper, looking annoyed at being cut off.
“Of course. What were you going to say in defense of Goblins, Miss Solstice?”
He looked ready for anything she could throw, and Rags…Magnolia opened the carriage door, and the Goblin absently followed her into the mansion, past giant Steel Golems, bowing servants—always watching that orb.
Erin didn’t need to think. She had already turned her head and, with effort, raised a few fingers.
“Numbtongue? Can you come over here? Theice…I think there’s someone you and your audience need to meet.”
 
——
 
The Goblin was handsome. He was a [Bard]—and whether it was the power of Sariants or just because he had decided to get into the Christmas spirit, he had a huge, red coat with white fur on it that exposed a bare chest and several scars. He also had his guitar.
Theice leaned back when the Goblin walked over and pulled up a seat. He had something in the pocket of his coat that wiggled around, but for the moment, it was out of sight.
“This is Numbtongue. He’s a [Bard].”
“Hello.”
The Hobgoblin held out a claw to shake. Theice hesitated—then, very slowly and reluctantly, grasped Numbtongue’s fingers. He let go almost at once.
“What—what’s the point of this, Miss Solstice?”
Erin was sitting there, hands folded, looking amused—and saddened—by the Dullahan’s reaction. Yet here he was. Numbtongue, on a scrying orb. The Goblin peered at the orb, then sat upright, looking nervous.
“I just want to introduce you and your viewers to a Goblin. After all—you’ve said a lot of ‘true’ things about Goblins. But have you ever met one?”
She used her fingers to make the air-quotes, or tried, but her arms literally wouldn’t go up—so Numbtongue did it for her. Theice shook his head instantly.
“Why would I, outside of being attacked?”
Erin nodded.
“Well, here’s one. And you’re not attacked. Numbtongue, do you want to introduce yourself?”
The Goblin was ready. He took out his guitar, strummed a few chords, and then began to play. Unlike a [Poser], he actually knew a song. And what he played was…
Poison. Which real monster had taught him one of the most iconic songs from their world? Was it maliciousness?
All I Want for Christmas Is You.
The Goblin had come up with a guitar-version of the opening, and he sang the opening verse as Theice just froze up, staring at him. The Goblin had a voice good enough to make the Singer of Terandria want him in her band.
A kitschy Christmas song—and the worst part was that if you heard it for the first time, not the hundred thousandth? It wasn’t a bad song.
The Dullahan had to intervene. He did it by raising his voice—twice.
“What—excuse—”
Numbtongue stopped playing, to the disappointment of the inn, and gave Theice a hurt look. But the [Reporter] felt himself in a web—and he was fighting.
“What’s the point of this, Miss Solstice? Goblins can sing. They have classes. These are not unassailable facts. What is factual is that even recently, survivors of Dwarfhalls Rest escaped a Goblin tribe there. They reported—”
“Hold on, Theice. I’m not denying that. You get your turn, I get mine. People are definitely attacked by Goblins, right, Numbtongue?”
“Yep. Mountain City tribe. Bastards.”
Ulvama glowered at Numbtongue, but the Hob just took a drink of Erin’s glass of water. Theice hesitated.
“If we want to name how many villages, towns, and cities have fallen to Goblins in the last hundred years—”
“Theice. Can I speak? I agree. You’re right. But here—take a look at this. Numbtongue is one of the first Goblins who ever stayed at my inn. He had a lot of trouble, at the start, because people didn’t trust him. He couldn’t go to Liscor, guests would attack—so we came up with something, just in case. Numbtongue, do you have the thing?”
“Yup.”
The Goblin pulled something out of his bag of holding and spread a neatly-rolled piece of paper on the table. Kohr, who had been panning from face to face, stepped forwards, and Theice stared down at…
A contract. No, a voucher. He didn’t know what he was reading at first, but the audience saw the neat, flowing handwriting. And then the signatures.
“What…what is this?”
“This is a statement vouching for Numbtongue. It says that he has fought to defend Liscor, multiple times, that he is a Bronze-rank adventurer in the Adventurer’s Guild, and that he is trustworthy. It is signed by Watch Captain Zevara, Wall Lord Ilvriss—”
The Dullahan’s face changed to one of frank disbelief. But there, on the page, were names. Names…and perhaps Erin had put a spotlight on each one, but she was going on.
“It’s his voucher so a member of the Watch doesn’t try to kill him. If he ever did attack someone—he wouldn’t have it. I’m pretty sure Watch Captain Zevara would insist it was destroyed. But he’s had it for—how long?”
“About a year. Doesn’t stop people from attacking, though. But it looks nice. I should frame it.”
The Hobgoblin grinned, and Theice just sat there for a second. Then he lifted his head off his shoulders and rolled his arms and neck, as if tired. He looked—exasperated.
“Miss Solstice. You’re being anecdotal yourself. You critiqued me on not having the facts about all Goblins—why are we focusing on a single individual here?”
The [Innkeeper]’s gaze was steady.
“Because that’s all I want to prove. I don’t have your numbers. I don’t know all the history of Goblins.”
“No one does. Goblins suck at writing things down. People keep burning our stuff.”
Numbtongue grumbled, and Erin elbowed him. He elbowed her back gently, and that was caught on camera, too. The young woman glanced at his wriggling pocket, and Theice edged away from it. Erin went on.
“I just want to show everyone one Goblin. Let’s say you’re right about everything you’re going to tell me about Goblin raids, attacks on people, and more, Theice. For one moment—Numbtongue? What have you got in your pocket?”
The Goblin reached down—and then produced an orange ball of fur. It had stripes, a confuzzled face, and it was upside-down. He tried to right Reagen, and the cat promptly sagged in his claws.
“This is a cat. Catto. His name is Reagen, and he is the best thing in the entire world.”
Garia and Octavia stared at Numbtongue as he put the cat on his head. The Hobgoblin pointed at the cat.
“I found him. He is great. Reagen, say hello.”
Mrpt?
The cat stared at nothing in particular as Theice stared at it. Numbtongue glanced up.
“Meow? Meow~”
He tried to get Reagen to meow with him, and the cat obliged. Erin was smiling openly.
“What is—”
Drassi pointed a warning claw from off-screen, and Theice fell silent. Numbtongue kept going, blabbering as if he had begun to forget why he was even here in the throes of cat-love.
“He is a good cat. I am a cat person now. I am a cat Goblin. Cats are the greatest. Dogs are okay. They’re smelly and noisy, and cats are better. Especially this cat, who is the best cat in the history of all time.”
“Boo. Boo. Stupid Numbtongue.”
Someone called out. Numbtongue went on.
“I named him Reagen because I found him in an alchemy shop when—”
“Numbtongue is idiot. Numbtongue is bad. Numbtongue is not a true Goblin.”
The [Bard] twisted around in his seat and shouted.
“Shut up, Redscar!”
The wolf-loving leader of the Redfangs shouted something at Numbtongue in their language, and he replied. And there it was. Theice had but one card left to play, and he said it.
“And—what happens if a Goblin King arises from these Goblins, Miss Solstice?”
Numbtongue stopped, mid-laugh, and everyone turned to Erin. The [Innkeeper] exhaled, for it was the best question to ask her. But when she looked up, she met Theice’s gaze.
“If a Goblin King appears and does what all the others have, I will be the one fighting him with everyone else, Theice.”
“Then—”
The Dullahan began to sound triumphant. Until Erin Solstice pointed at him.
“And when there are more Goblin Kings each millenia than Kings of Destruction, I will change my mind. Who has done worse? I don’t blame Tyrion Veltras on all Humans. Nor are all Fraerlings defined by the Titan of Baleros. Monsters arise. Some are both good and evil. Niers Astoragon’s enemies might call him a nightmare of Baleros. One Fraerling—and one Squirrel—brought down the Great Company of the Lizardfolk. Some would call him worse than Velan. I think he’s better than not. Even if you weighed his deeds and history on a perfect scale. I like him. But I know who he is. You can do that with every leader, from the King of Destruction to Magnolia Reinhart. Someone likes them, someone doesn’t. Isn’t that true of the Seer of Steel and Tulm the Mithril? Chaldion?”
“Yes…but Goblin Kings still destroy. What is your point?”
Theice looked careful, trying to figure out what came next. Erin sat back, wearily, her arm falling limp.
“I’ve only ever heard the crimes of the Goblin Kings and Goblins. If you ever decide to report on them again—I’d like to hear the other story. I think we all would. And my friend here—he’d be a very silly king. Look at him.”
Everyone turned to Numbtongue, and the camera found the Goblin kissing Reagen’s head. The Hob looked at Erin, slightly betrayed. But the [Innkeeper] was smiling.
“He likes cats. And Numbtongue’s a big softie, you know. He always gets teary-eyed when Juliet and Romeo get to that scene in the plays.”
“Shh! Shut up! No spoilers! No I don’t!”
The Goblin poked her, and the [Innkeeper] laughed. Then she leaned forwards, and the [Reporter] was trapped there.
“Theice. Answer me one thing. Do you think Numbtongue is just a monster? Or—a murderous Goblin?”
“From what we know of—”
He tried, but Erin slashed her hand.
“No, don’t do that. I’m not talking about all Goblins.”
“Historically—”
Erin pointed at Numbtongue as the Goblin leaned forwards, and the Dullahan tried to edge out of his seat. The young woman was staring at him, now, and the scrying orb.
