A sleepy Gnoll was reading the next person in, like a radio—you didn’t even have to see the people, but it was nice.
A half-Elf was conducting a group that might have been Terandrians. They looked mostly Human. But it turned out they were not.
The funny thing about this song was that Cara had needed to edit the very obvious bad word out. So in its place…
 
“Rhir rest ye merry gentlemen let nothing you dismay;
Remember King Othius was born on Christmas day.
To save us from Demon’s power when we were gone astray;
Oh tidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy.”
 
Ysara rolled her eyes and yawned—but this group really was good. There were at least a hundred, and they were singing in chorus as the half-Elf copied the Maestro. It sounded like the singers had altered Cara’s song.
“Great. Rhirian propaganda.”
But they were singing well, and it was a nice little song. Ysara looked up. It was dark—they were nearly at House Byres, and she hoped she could just get to bed without the first comments about her hair or a ‘little chat’.
Then again, Ylawes, riding next to her, kept glancing her way. She wasn’t sure if she wanted him to ‘stand up for her’, but she was grateful for the Silver Swords and Rasktooth, Infinitypear, and Vuliel Drae. Maybe they’d distract her parents.
They were close to House Byres now, and Ylawes looked up.
“I think I can practically see the valley.”
“No. Oh—”
Ysara was going to say it was far too dark to make out more than lights from the houses, but she craned her neck and saw a faint light in the distance.
“Must be a bonfire. Dead gods, are we going to run around a big one in the town square and drink that ‘egg nog’? That sounds disgusting.”
“I think Father and Mother will get in the spirit, don’t you?”
Ylawes was smiling at Ysara, and she was trying to smile back. She was biting her lip, about to bring something up.
Like—what do you think of Onieva? Or tell Ylawes, straight out, that she kissed women and see if he actually was oblivious to that. No, dead gods, he’d probably think she meant the formal kiss on each cheek.
It was at the tip of her tongue, bursting out because now she wondered—she hoped if he might actually listen and look at her. That was when Dawil sniffed the air, and the half-slumbering Dwarf on a pony raised his voice.
“Lad. That’s a lot of smoke.”
Falene jerked awake in the wagon where she had traded off with Anith. The Jackal Beastkin, on one of the horses, murmured.
“[Light Beam]. What’s that?”
He shone his staff up ahead—and Ylawes and Ysara looked at each other. They were far from the mouth of the valley and silver mines that House Byres owned. If they were seeing lights from up ahead…
 
——
 
When the adventurers and Ysara Byres got closer to the House Byres lands, they were no longer half-asleep, but either out of the wagons or riding on their horses, calling out—then shouting.
As they drew closer, it became obvious this was no bonfire. Nor…was this a single fire.
“[Bandits]! Bandit attack!”
The first people came running, seeing Ylawes and pointing down the road. He didn’t hesitate—he began galloping as Falene and Dawil shouted for him to come back.
When the [Knight] reached his home, he saw the keep was burning. The entire town was ablaze.
Fire. It was everywhere. Terrified people were trying to douse the blaze—most were fleeing. Ylawes didn’t see many people trapped within. No one, in fact. But the people were pointing and running from—
Figures. They wore all-black clothing, and Ylawes’ first thought was that they were Symphony. But this group showed none of their features, and—they moved so fast—
“Stop! Face me!”
The [Knight] shouted, and a cluster of figures aiming wands and tossing flaming vials down on the houses looked at him. One lifted a bow and aimed an arrow at him—but the other grabbed his wrist. Shook his head—and pointed.
Ylawes turned as they leapt, impossibly fast and far, and stopped thinking of the attackers. His mind went empty.
The keep was ablaze. It was weathered stone, converted into a manor, yes, but it was—should have been fireproof.
Unless someone literally took bags of holding and so much wood and brush and oil that even the old stone seemed ablaze. Who would—who would hate House Byres so much?
Ylawes didn’t know, but he ran into the blaze, shouting.
“Father! Mother!”
He was still in there when Falene, Dawil, and Ysara raced into the town. The [Battlemage] saw the blaze and knew Ylawes was in there.
“[Flash Rainstorm]! Dawil! Get him!”
“I’m on it!”
The Dwarf went running into the flames. Ysara, covering her face, used a bucket to douse her clothes and ran in. She froze in the chill—then the house was full of flames and smoke.
She didn’t get in past the entrance; she saw Dawil and Ylawes carrying a pair of figures out. Only two people had been in the keep—the servants had either been yanked out or knocked unconscious.
No one had been meant to burn alive in there. Even the owners of the keep had been out of it when the fires began. But they had rushed back inside to try and save something—anything.
Their son emerged with them as the fires consumed the legacy of House Byres. Their armory, their mementos—and all that Byres had built over their generations. Ysara saw her parents—and the relief she felt was genuine. But the shadow-clad figures turned and stared with such hatred she whirled.
Then—she drew her sword faster than she had ever done in her life before. Though she was no [Knight]—she slashed an arrow in half. That was more luck than Skill.
“[Archers]!”
Dawil and Ylawes took cover against the burning keep as House Byres’ folk shouted and tried to come to the aid of the family. But only one arrow came. Falene’s barrier shimmered in the air as the cloaked figures gathered. They watched the burning keep—the [Knight] screaming at them. Then they walked away.
“Where are they going?”
“Don’t pursue, lad! Think of your family!”
Dawil grabbed Ylawes as Ysara stared. Then she saw more flashes in the distance. And she realized—
It wasn’t a dozen of them. She looked around and saw flames. Flames…and smoke.
“The entire valley is on fire! They’re collapsing the silver mines!”
How many of these enemies of House Byres had come? They were so fast—and coordinated. They came to set House Byres ablaze. All of it. They spared the people—
But the noble House of Byres burned. The goods, the manor—the branch family’s holdings—
“Someone declared war on us this night.”
Ylawes was feeling for his father’s pulse. He felt it—faintly—and Ysara looked around. She felt a chill. The masked figures had stared at her with such…hatred…
Only when something touched her face did she look up. Expecting snow. But the pale flakes were just ash. The ashes of Ysara and Ylawes’ home. It hurt her to see it gone, the husk of the keep. And yet…part of her was relieved.
And this, too, was Christmas. Not every Vampire was there. Some, like the very ones who had uncovered the treachery, had refused to take part and spoken against it. Like Himilt. But Rivel knew.
They knew—and regardless of the consequences—
House Byres was marked. This was just the beginning.
 
——
 
All this in a few days. All this that very night. Like the rebirth of the person this entire holiday was supposed to be about, in three days, everything seemed to happen.
Goblins on the first day, Riverfarm sending food, a kind [Baker].
Fetohep rode to Jecrass on the second day. The Vizir’s burning coals that night.
The news of House Byres broke on the third day. A terrible event for a good House everyone loved. Who would do something like that?
But it was…overshadowed. Overshadowed by one last thing this Christmas. Ironically, it happened before House Byres fully burned down.
Ysara just missed it. If she had been paying attention, she would have seen this:
 
“Rhir rest ye merry gentlemen let nothing you dismay;
Remember Queen Coretine was born on Christmas day.
To save us from Demon’s power when we were gone astray;
Oh tidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy.”
 
The song was praising each member of the royal family of the Blighted Kingdom. It was pure propaganda, but the Blighted King himself smiled to see it as he broke the late night to greet the dawn.
His kingdom didn’t go for excess, but even they had decided Christmas was worth pursuing in their way. The Earthers liked it.
“Commendable song.”
High praise, coming from him. The Burnished Court nodded along as he nodded to Nereshal. The chamberlain of the palace smiled wanly.
“You are praising the wrong man, Your Majesty. These are citizens. Not state-endorsed.”
“Oh? Well, find them and commend them. Perhaps they can perform at the capital.”
There was something about the cadence of the song that the Blighted Kingdom lacked. It had some beautiful strains of each singer in the huge a capella group—hundreds, in fact. Some town had put this on.
But there was also something in the high-pitched notes, the accompaniment and speed of the song that felt urgent. The Blighted Kingdom liked songs like that with implicit…tension.
The lyricists had made up the rest of the song too, praising Othius, Coretine, then Nereshal himself in order.
Bethleham and such were omitted and replaced. Othius tapped his foot as he watched the performance.
They were amazing singers, actually. The chorus was huge, but the best singers by far were at the front. The most photogenic, too.
A half-Giant woman was singing in such a huge, perfect voice that she gave a gravitas to the entire scene. Then there was a young woman with a hat like Richard’s clasped to her chest next to a young man who looked like he came from Chandrar. Even the conductor, the half-Elf, was singing lightly, her blond hair flashing as she smiled for the camera.
They were reaching the climax of the song when Nereshal, trying to backtrace where the spell was coming from, realized he couldn’t figure out where it was. Then…he felt Othius freeze. For the last verse of the song sounded—different.
The voices of the singers began to change ever-so-slightly. And so did their faces. The half-Elf had something wrong with her face.
It was…dripping off the left side of her face. Exposing translucent flesh. Bone and blood and organs covered by magic. A hole for one eye. And her arm turned to magical flesh.
“N—no—”
Othius stared as the half-Elf kept conducting with one hand. Then he looked past her—and the singers were changing too.
The Humans, Dwarves, and other species, including Drakes and Gnolls, were—altering. A pair of horns grew from the young ‘Chandrarian’ man. And his skin turned red.
General Bazeth of the Demons stood next to the one person whose appearance didn’t change as the illusion spells faded.
Flora was singing as the half-Giant’s voice grew even more—and her skin turned cloudy and shone with a rainbow of colors.
The Death of Chains, Czautha, sang as her eyes flashed with the heart of magic. Azam stood behind her, singing with the Djinni free of their chains.
Demons. Hundreds of Demons! They had—they were singing this song? This was a trick?
“Cut the spell! Cut the spell!”
Nereshal was shouting at Wistram, but the [Mages] couldn’t. The Death of Magic had disguised her spell and taken over the scrying spells.
 
——
 
It was, in fact, all Silvenia’s idea. She had begged on literal hands and knees for four hours to have her way.
Just because she thought this would be the ‘funniest’ way to do it. Now—the choir of Demons sang, and their voices rose. And there was no more pretend goodwill.
They stood facing the 5th Wall as it came alive. Far, far out of range—but now, the scrying orb was moving back. And it was showing them.
The Death of Magic, her body ruined by combat, her eyes shining with all the power of the last [Archmage] of this world. The Death of Chains, rising, growing like a maelstrom bound into a single being.
The nightmares of King Othius. But this was not about them. Nor Flora…she turned her head. And the camera panned up to a…figure, covered by wings.
Czautha was already there, gently reaching into what looked like a giant egg. Until you realized the glorious grey, like a skyburst of faded blue, was actually wings.
A being as large as a house was sitting there. Wings folded about her. 
Even among the last three—Flora hadn’t believed she was alive. Much less that she would recover. But Silvenia had been working this entire year. And though Czautha had said it was too soon—
The wings moved. Bazeth raised his voice as, across Rhir, the people who had been watching the Christmas song froze in horror.
A face peered from beneath the ancient wings, and the voices rose. Now—you could see more unseen singers.
They were perched on branches of trees without leaves, singing—they had no arms, like Garuda, but their talons clung to the branches, and their wings were flexible. Some were half the size of the average Human when crouched like this; others were larger as they grew.
Harpies.
They sang, their eyes on the unfolding wings. They rose, and a head, humanoid and ancient, rose.
Unlike the other two Deaths—their final member of old was no immortal, even like a half-Elf. She did not sing. But when she beat her wings, the Demons sang their final verse. They chanted it. They screamed it across Rhir.
 
“Hell rest ye merry gentlemen let nothing you dismay;
Remember Serinpotva returned this Christmas day.
To claim her home from foreign powers when it has gone astray;
Oh tidings of comfort and joy. Oh tidings of comfort and joy.”
 
Then—the Death of Wings raised her head, and when she beat her feathers through the air, Serinpotva’s wings rose.
Her scars were legion. She was the oldest of her kind yet living, and she had lost her home. The last Harpies of the world rose, screaming, as she rose higher.
“In the name of the Death of Wings!”
Czautha cried out, and the Djinni grew. Her body turned to wind and air, and it blew across Rhir. A maelstrom of a Djinni, heralding her lover’s return.
Silvenia followed the two into the sky, and lightning raced across Rhir’s skies. Like the pounding heartbeat of King Othius. But the two were just following in the wake of the Harpy Queen. She spoke, her voice cracked from long disuse.
“[The Winds of Izril Blew Ever Under My Wings]. [I Called A Storm In the Name of the Harpy Queen]. My home, Iltanus, will return to us.”
She flew higher, and the Harpies below her flew in a circle as the last of the Harpy Queens took off. Empress of the Skies. Heir to a long-dead empire. But she flew. Even the Djinni and half-Elf could scarcely keep up.
“Someone has harnessed the winds. She blows across Izril.”
That was all Serinpotva said. Then she was flying higher.
