—The Brass Dragon awoke with sweat on his scales. His head rose, and he looked around.
“…Is someone there?”
He gazed towards the entrance of his cave, and the young woman…
…Wasn’t there.
Sleepily, Teriarch’s head rose higher, and he wondered what that feeling had been. A great terror, for a few minutes, had come over him in his dreams.
Dragonslayer. His scales still itched. A scar running down his left hind leg twinged. As if he could taste the blade thousands of years later.
It had awoken him from his slumber. He looked around for the girl seeking his help, but she hadn’t come. Maybe she never would.
He should wake. But he was weary—and his wings still ached from flying. The Dragon buried his head in a pile of gold and then—since he couldn’t breathe—raised it and exhaled.
“…I’m hungry.”
He hadn’t been hungry in thousands of years. But so much Dragonfire and spellcasting—he was still locked in despair, in circles of his life where he flew, chasing his tail.
Young woman. Fire. Regret. 
Scars.
A rhythm that would carry him to his grave. Would it be his duties that made him rise, the girl—or the warrior with the blade?
The Brass Dragon lay there awhile. Then—because he despaired of it, truly, because he was hungry, the Dragonlord of Flame did what he always did.
He ran away. He called upon something else of old, a guise as ancient as Eldavin, the meddler who did what must be done. But humbler. He whispered—and his body changed as he spoke another name.
“Demsleth.”
Then he vanished. By the time a young woman finally did haul herself into the cave, bypassing the magical wards—
“Hello? I’m Ryoka Griffin. Hello?”
A young woman with bare feet, proper gait, and even the right face walked into the cave. She had on clothing…or what looked like clothing…and her voice even sounded right.
‘Ryoka Griffin’ stared about. She peered at the gold, the treasures, and saw—
No Dragon.
He was gone. The young woman scuffed a toe on the floor. She gazed at a relic of a bygone age and then wandered out.
“Damn.”
It was getting better at this.
 
——
 
The winter day was cold. So cold snow was falling from the sky. But flakes caused by natural precipitation.
Nothing great. Nothing glorious. It was winter, and everyone knew it…but there wasn’t any true snow.
“I guess the Winter Sprites went somewhere else this year. Normally, it wouldn’t even snow until you saw the little shits. Bastards throwing snowballs at my head.”
Only Relc could annoy natural elementals like that. The Drake, as had become his routine, stood in his room at The Wandering Inn.
His room at the inn. Not in the city. He had found an apartment in the new quarters, but Erin had told him he could stay at the inn forever for free. Lyonette had, of course, clarified they’d charge him a modest fee, but it included breakfast and cleaning.
Part of Relc had wanted to go and find an apartment—until he wondered why he wanted to go. Then he’d stayed. He’d stayed and been happier than he could imagine when he realized he’d be here.
With the little kid, Mrsha, with Erin and the inn. For better or worse, he would be here.
That was something. If only life could be like that. The painful, sad-happy feeling of realizing someone wanted him to be here—that he didn’t have to sit in his empty apartment fiddling with his puzzles. It wasn’t a gift; Erin wanted him to be here, and he could go downstairs and sit in the common room.
That feeling in Relc’s chest was like today. Today, where so much had happened.
The scar in the earth outside the Floodplains was mostly closed, because the Antinium did not want a breach in the very firmament that could let water rain down into their Hive. But the scars on people and even the walls of Liscor remained.
He’d stared at them for a while. Literal cut marks that had gone through enchanted stone, melted parts of it. A shattered section where the Archmage of Memory had been nailed to the wall like a fly.
That was one kind of scar. The other…the other was on the Drake’s arm. That damn [Blademistress] had got him.
She’d gotten everyone. But her scars, at least—were light. Light, for a given value of the word. It wasn’t a missing limb. She, ironically, had been most careful to wound in a way that wouldn’t permanently cripple someone.
This damn tournament. Relc wouldn’t have participated if he’d known—but he had been after Lulv and Symphony. After Manus. That was fine—he was used to scars. But the poor kids…they didn’t need scars. They didn’t need to lose actual limbs.
Yet—he got it. The chance to face a [Blademaster] or a [Spearmaster]…he would have done the same thing. The painful part was—
Relc looked down, cleared his throat, and went on.
“Looks like a bunch of idiots are already out there, exercising. You should rest, though. No sense in opening anything up.”
At this, someone did stir and open her eyes. A red-scaled girl lay in his bed, resting. Relc had actually slept in another room. She was bigger than a girl now, but she still looked like one to him.
“I’ll be on my feet—tomorrow.”
“Sure you will.”
Her voice was too quiet. Relc hesitated—then bent down and patted her on the forehead. He stared down and saw the very edge of a mostly-healed cut right below her left eye. One inch and—
He’d offered to use his healing potion, but Embria and everyone else had told him it wasn’t worth wasting. She’d told him she had to keep them.
The scar ran from her eye to down across her mouth, across her chest and her side. A [Spearmaster]’s wound from a challenge.
When Relc looked at it, he felt like going out and finding that Gnoll. But it had been a challenge. So he just patted his daughter on the forehead.
“Sure you will. But today is all about hot cocoa and stuff, right? Want me to get you breakfast?”
“I’ll get up in a bit. Fath—Dad?”
Embria Grasstongue looked up. She hadn’t said much since yesterday. Relc almost turned back to look at her, but kept staring out the window. Because it was hard.
“What’s up?”
“Was I close? Did I do a good job?”
Relc was glad his face was turned away. He closed his eyes and then turned to Embria. He bent over the bed, and his claw kept patting her hand.
“A great job, kid. I just wish…I just wish you didn’t do dangerous things. As a dad, you know. As a [Spearmaster]—you were close.”
He almost said, ‘I wish you hadn’t tried’. But then he thought what he might have said to Vok, despite the lad getting hurt.
Relc saw two pale yellow eyes looking up at him, and he was rewarded with a claw tightening around his fingers.
“I have to try. I had to. My father’s a [Spearmaster].”
“You don’t have to be me, Embria. You’re doing a great job on your own.”
He wished he’d said that before—and knew it wouldn’t have done a thing. But Relc saw Embria smile briefly, and his heart hurt and felt better for the pain today. Already—it was that exhaustively, painfully glorious feeling of being alive. And he thought he would never forget how she looked up.
“But I want to be like you.”
She hadn’t said that since she was a girl. Relc wiped at his eyes for a while. When he went downstairs, she was leaning on him. And he felt young and old and—
It was that kind of day. That kind of day that descended on The Wandering Inn. If you were a fool, you’d call it typical. Because such days were never the same. They changed you—forever.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was lying in her bed, even as Relc and Embria walked past her room. But they stopped by the open door, as many people had.
Just to stare and reassure themselves it was a young, Human woman who lay there, not a Stitch-woman.
Not—Zeladona, [Blademistress of Ancients]. Not the greatest swordswoman to ever set foot on the Floodplains, who had cut light and the sky and brought a legend out of history and into this waking world.
But then—some of that stare was for Erin herself, because she had been the one who unleashed Zeladona, been the vessel for her.
The [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn. She lay there, awake, but not rushing downstairs or already outside.
In fact, someone had elevated her bed slightly. It wasn’t as if they had invented beds that could automatically recline or incline themselves—rather, a certain Archmage had fussed around with light magic for a while before a [Princess] gave up and stuffed bedding up so Erin could lie in a semi-sitting position.
She was staring out the window. Her light brown hair was brushed and combed, and she was wearing pajamas with big, silver wolves chasing each other over a dark blue background.
The Silverfangs had given them to Erin in thanks for General Sserys’ actions at the Meeting of Tribes.
Another reminder. But Erin didn’t move—much. Even her head took a moment to turn and smile at Relc and Embria.
“Hey, guys. You okay, Embria?”
The Drake had a scar that ran across her entire upper body—and that was just one of the wounds Lulv had left in their duel. He hadn’t crippled her—but without potions, she had to lean on Relc to walk.
Nevertheless, it was Embria who gave Erin a look of concern.
“I’ll be fine, Miss Erin. A day or two of rest…won’t hurt. And you?”
Erin opened her mouth and licked at her lips. Someone held up a cup anxiously, and Erin murmured.
“I don’t need a drink, Mrsha. I’m, uh…gonna lie here a while. I’m good.”
Relc and Embria exchanged a glance. The day after Zeladona’s Trial of Blades…Erin Solstice saw the cup with the wood straw in it lower. And despite not needing a drink, it was good that Mrsha offered. Because Erin Solstice—could not move.
She could slowly rotate her head left to stare out the window as the two Drakes continued on. But even that clearly hurt. She lay in bed, and every single muscle, ones she hadn’t known existed, hurt.
“Want Ceria to cast [Numb] again, Erin?”
“No. I’m good. I just…can’t…move.”
Her tongue hurt. As if someone had been doing pushups with it. Had Zeladona been moving her mouth to slash people with swords? Holding a blade in her mouth?
Erin didn’t know. All she did know was that if she tried to use a potion, it would be a waste. No more shortcuts. And…this might be her consequence.
“Grimalkin says he’ll check on you tomorrow. We’ll have you in a massage once it, uh, doesn’t hurt. And the healing crystals Healer Demerra left should help. Without undoing your body’s healing.”
Lyonette tapped one of the crystals placed amidst the padding propping Erin up. It glowed a bright, merry orange, and Erin swallowed with effort.
“Can I get in a chair?”
“Yes…in theory. Are you feeling up for breakfast?”
“My eyebrows hurt. Do I have eyebrow muscles? Why do they hurt?”
The [Innkeeper] was banned from healing herself, but even Grimalkin had opined that Zeladona’s presence in Erin’s body would have consequences that would set back her healing journey.
On the other hand…he had told Lyonette that if Erin could tough it out without reverting to potions, he would be fascinated to see if the [Blademistress]’ possession had any positive effects.
Right now, the effect on Erin was that she felt every muscle from her legs to her pelvis to her abs to her arms, neck, head, facial muscles for smiling, fingers—everything hurt. Ceria had used the [Numb] spell to reduce the pain, but it was also just—hard to move.
Her muscles could barely transport her head so Erin could stare outside. Which she did as Lyonette and Mrsha set up a chair and called for Ishkr and Numbtongue to help. Erin stared outside—and saw something else that hurt.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres had a crutch for her legs. She leaned on it and her one good foot. The other was a stump.
In time, she could get a piece of wood, from a pegleg to something more customized, fitted to her. Learn to walk—or buy a magical prosthesis. House El apparently sold some custom-made, and they had sent her a [Message] offering her a 25% discount this morning.
She didn’t know if she would need one. But she was one of many people who’d lost something. An arm, a leg—or multiple limbs or just fingers.
Ysara Byres had lost a pinkie. Just the tip of one—but she’d stepped out of the tournament, and Zeladona had mostly passed her over. She had lost the half of one finger in a single duel against the [Lieutenant of Perfection], Comois. Despite her talent—or rather, because of it—she had gotten away with just that.
Ylawes hadn’t lost a digit, but he’d been mostly concerned with shielding Infinitypear and Rasktooth, who’d quit once they saw how un-fun this battle was. Right now, all three adventurers, plus Ysara and Yvlon’s own teammates, Pisces and Ksmvr, were lined up in front of her.
She wasn’t joining in—because she had only one foot to balance on. And Yvlon wasn’t sure she had, uh, muscles to build in her silver arms.
Was that how it worked? She didn’t know, and she felt empty after the raging fury of yesterday, so she just watched.
What she was watching was—her friends, adventurers, and dozens of people doing pushups. Yvlon saw Pisces doing press ups—sweat was furrowed on his brow. Ksmvr wasn’t sweating, but he did pant as they got up and began doing lunges down the hill.
“I am beginning to become fatigued. Comrade Pisces? How long are we going to do this?”
“Until—we—are in better shape. Muscle training. Magus Grimalkin’s regime might work.”
“But I am not a [Duelist]. Lunges are not my specialty.”
“That does not matter! Lower body strength is fundamental to all fighting! Rest!”
Pisces collapsed onto the grass, panting, and Ksmvr fell on top of him. Ysara nearly toppled over—even Ylawes looked winded by Grimalkin’s training.
They were joined by Drakes, Gnolls, Humans, all flopping on the grass. They…might not continue this. Or maybe they would? Pisces had been practicing lunges before Grimalkin decided to organize a mass-workout.
They had been motivated by Zeladona, reminded of their complacency or inspired to take up old exercises and routines again.
Well, those who hadn’t just been crushed by the trial of blades or who were too wounded to fight again. Yvlon had seen a number of Drakes—especially those from Pallass—who had lost limbs. She’d spoken to some, actually. Showed them her silver arms and seen in their eyes hope for the same.
What a painful feeling. The [Silversteel Armsmistress] was hobbling inside as Grimalkin passed around an experimental ‘healthy’ smoothie to drink. And despite herself—she stared up at the window, like everyone else. Yvlon met Erin’s eyes, and the young woman looked so guilty.
But for what? Some people might blame her for how that <Heroic Quest> had gone. But the [Innkeeper] had been forced into it. It was done, and Yvlon…she slowly entered the common room and sat down.
