Give us salvation and hope for a future. There is no one else we trust, and we have tried in vain all this time. Countless thousands of Sariant Lambs have given their lives in search of a dream and failed over these centuries. 
We cannot do it ourselves. We are desperate. Help us, please, and we shall help you.
 
The Grand Design of Isthekenous. Then—the wind blew in this room hidden in the inn, and Ryoka’s skin chilled. She looked down at that name no being in this entire world should know—and at Nerry.
The Trials of Levelling? What was…?
Then Ryoka Griffin knew she had stumbled, again, across one of the oldest mysteries in the world. The little lamb brushed angrily at her tears. She kicked Ryoka’s palm as it reached out for her. But then the Wind Runner crouched down. She looked Nerry in the eyes.
“Tell me more. Tell me more, Nerry. And if I can help you—I’ll try.”
 
——
 
“Miss Solstice? Is something wrong?”
Erin Solstice sat in the inn, focusing on Theice after a moment. She smiled.
“No. Nothing. So that’s the story of my inn.”
The [Reporter] was nodding. He was taking a few deep breaths, ready to go.
“Now—I think it’s time for the most contentious part of this interview. I think you know what I’m talking about. I think our audience can tell who you are, a bit, Miss Solstice. An [Innkeeper] who has literally withstood Creler attacks, who rebuilds in the face of adversity. Who has literally come back from the dead and is now offering <Quests>. But there’s something we’ve left out of this image of you and your inn, isn’t there?”
“Indeed there is.”
 
——
 
The Goblins and Antinium were looking at Erin. Waiting, expectant, to see what she did. Well, all but one. Rags was holding her stomach—but she couldn’t manage it.
She had to pee. Groaning, the Goblin got up before she exploded in the worst of senses. She rushed over to the door, and someone held it open for her. Rags ran down the hallway, and someone else was holding open the second door.
“This way, Miss.”
Rags came to a halt—and Reynold was holding open the door as the [Portal Door] aimed itself at Invrisil. The Goblin Chieftain stared at the [Butler] and realized three things:

Liska had forgotten the door in watching Erin.


A carriage was waiting for Rags, door open.


Reynold had spiked her drink.

