The goodness of Riverfarm, the kind deeds were one thing. Soon, perhaps, someone would make a play about a Christmas miracle. For every miracle that existed, there would be a thousand children expecting presents who didn’t really need them.
That was fine. That was fine…but there was one truth of Christmas that was already being forgotten, and it was this:
Some people would have no magic. No miracles. For some—by accident, because they were trapped in war, because there was no safety—this would be a dark day.
Call it a spoiler to the holiday spirits. Call it reality. It didn’t matter—and the [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice herself, would ironically be one of the first to admit this truth.
Christmas was the bright coin, the magical silver bell to a cold, dark night. Tears around the Christmas tree could happen. People died on Christmas—the magic was just magic. Never always there. Something that had to be chased, won, sometimes at great effort. Cherished.
And sometimes…
It just never came.
 
——
 
Fetohep of Khelt’s great deeds—him riding around on a sleigh, handing out gifts to Jecrass’ children, patting heads, dressed in the costume—were a sight.
Just like the Bedtime Queen, who had arranged for herself to be pulled on a bed…on wheels. It ran into a ditch—but those were funny, noblesse oblige versions of Christmas.
However—you just knew that if Fetohep of Khelt had his moment playing into the holiday, at least one person in this entire world not only thought he was doing it wrong, but he, the Vizir Hecrelunn, could do it better.
The east coast of Chandrar, the Colinfe Sandflats, was one of the places where the King of Destruction had built endless roads, and the region was relatively safe. The last incursions from other nations had been before the King of Destruction emerged—a Terandrian colony there still had links back to the continent.
But the kingdoms rose and fell—and this local province had just lost the Empire of Aiethen. A self-styled empire; small and unable to patrol the roads anymore. It had emerged out of the coup of the former Duchal Kingdom of Neveeth. Failed states with lifespans so short that the [Cartographers] didn’t even have time to put their names to paper before they were gone.
…Until now. For a new ruler had ascended to the throne, and so far, his reign had been dramatic. There had been twelve assassination attempts. Which was low…considering how much he was hated.
The fates of the would-be killers had dissuaded any more. Already, it was said, no [Pirates] would sail within twenty miles of shore. Wealth was pouring back into the larger cities, who had mysteriously reformed their laws and been rid of corruption and crime.
And a number of notable denizens in each city.
Everyone knew who he was—though his name was not permitted to be spoken. He was simply the Exalted King. Or the Reclaimer of Chandrar.
Vizir Hecrelunn was lying low. For him. He had every expectation of being ‘found out’, but he had cast a net-spell, and all the little [Messages] being sent were being caught and vetted by him. Often to their sender’s chagrin.
What a pitiful world. Yet the crimson lights in the dead Revenant’s eye-sockets…could be festive. They were red.
Red like blood. Red like viscera. Red like the gasses of hell escaping from brimstone pits in the bowels of the earth.
Red was a Christmas-y color. So, because Fetohep was doing it, the Vizir had put on a red coat. It hung low, across his emaciated frame, and when he was floating—he always flew—it drifted down like the clothes upon a corpse at the gallows.
He had refused to put on the red hat with the poofball. Or the beard. But Hecrelunn had decided some elements of the holidays suited him. Like the bells.
They sounded in tolls, like judgment. Deep and hollow—ringing as he visited every place under his domain and in the region. 
Deciding who had been…naughty. Or ‘nice’.
It was already dark into the night, and the stars were hidden behind clouds on the coast of Colinfe. The farmsteads along one of the old main roads the King of Destruction had paved were widely spread apart.
Good for farming…vulnerable to raids. Some had suffered of late—these were not technically part of the old kingdoms or empires. They were just—liminal. Sometimes, [Tax Collectors] or [Soldiers] came. Other times, [Bandits].
Right now, the cold wind across Chandrar blew the hints of sand and the smell of salt from the sea. It was so cold—a boy shivered beneath what clothes he had put on, and they had holes. No stitches to keep them closed—but he didn’t care.
He stood outside as the moon hid behind a cloud. And he heard…the bells.
The bells tolled. In the distance—a figure was hovering in the air. Even from here, the boy could tell it was him.
The Revenant hovered over a series of buildings miles away. But he had conjured a pale green spotlight to fall on him. It hovered overhead as the bells rang in the distance.
He descended…and in the distance, the boy saw the lights of the farmstead go out.
Those were the Xeits. He didn’t see much—but he saw the bright lights in their windows vanish. The boy shivered again as his own home—dark, for there was no one to need the light but him—rattled with the wind.
He saw the beam of light appear again, and the bells rang in the distance. Then—the Vizir Hecrelunn rose into the air—and vanished.
A thunderclap of sound. He appeared, without deigning to fly, above the next farm on the road. There he hovered, and two crimson lights fixed on the lights within with the intensity of his stare.
He descended—and the lights went out. In fact, many of the buildings nearby were turning off their lanterns, dousing the fires.
It did not matter. The Vizir knew you were there. And—the boy watched as he plagued the Henns family. He had only a few questions to ask—and then he would rise upwards again. The Vizir was coming. He had been going to every town and village, so it was said, in the entire region, day after day, night after night.
He wanted to know if you were naughty or nice.
It was close to midnight by the time he reached the last farmstead on the road. The Vizir did not tire—but he might get annoyed. When he descended towards the dark farm, he noticed the fields lay mostly fallow. One was half-tilled, but the barn’s doors lay ajar. As for the farmhouse…he eyed the door, which no longer sat ajar. But he spoke in a ringing voice amplified by magic.
“I know you are in there. Ho. Ho. Ho. Come out.”
A boy exited the building slowly as Hecrelunn descended until his feet hovered just above the ground. As thousands of boys and girls, children and parents had seen him—the Revenant’s chin rose. His eyes flashed death.
He lifted a finger, and the boy flinched. For Hecrelunn—unlike Fetohep—did not project gentleness or even the attitude that he liked what he saw. The Vizir’s voice was enunciated. Harsh.
“Do you know why I have come?”
“Ch-Christmas?”
The boy stumbled over the word, but even he had heard about it, even though he hadn’t a scrying orb. When the Henns sent over Eitte and Petoil, her father, to check on him with a basket—
Hecrelunn nodded.
“For formality’s sake, I will ask. Have you been…good or bad this year, little boy? Statistically, it is improbable you have been good this year.”
Funny. He had gotten so many answers on one side, not the other. The Vizir had gotten into the spirit, though. He had presents for good boys and girls.
Even a reindeer. The summoned monstrous reindeer may have caused incontinence in a lot of the people it screamed at, so he had canceled the magical spell. But now, Hecrelunn was waiting. This was the last farm in the area.
“Well? The Vizir is not made of time. Nor is ‘Santa Claus’. He has many children to judge.”
At this point, a terrified parental figure or the children would blurt their innocence and beg for their lives. The Vizir waited—but the boy looked up at him. His clothes didn’t fit him; they were big coats with holes in them.
“I must have been bad this year, sire.”
“Indeed? It is good of you to confess. I am told there is a custom for little boys like you.”
The Vizir floated forwards. He looked down at the boy, and the mortal child flinched. The Vizir stared at the boy—then he looked sideways. The boy closed his eyes—and a hand of withered flesh caught his chin. It jerked it up, and the Vizir was not kind.
“Where are your parents, boy?”
“Over there.”
The boy pointed, and the Vizir saw nothing living. But then…he would not. He stared at the four mounds and the one fresh addition to the farm. Then he looked at the boy.
“[Bandits]?”
A nod. The Vizir floated back.
“I had heard there were some in this region. Child. What is your name?”
“Foire.”
The Vizir might not have even heard. He was floating left and right, murmuring spells. When he looked back at the boy, Foire waited for what was coming. What he privately thought he might deserve. But the Vizir…
The Vizir looked down at the boy and the farm with eyes that held no surprise. Not for this—nor any love for this day. He spoke.
“You will remain there. As a naughty child—I must collect your ‘present’. I shall return within the hour.”
Then he rose into the sky. And the beam of light over his head turned darker. Darker…and his eyes bled red into the night.
Foire stood there, staring after the Vizir as the Revenant flew. Until the Vizir was flying into the distance. And the boy thought…
He stared off into the night. Dark lands stretching across the cliffs that led down from the Saltflats he lived in. Dark—without artificial light after the Vizir’s passing. Flat ground where salt gathered in deposits. And out there—
His parents’ killers. The Vizir had gone that way. In the deep night, the boy shivered with cold, but he didn’t go inside. It was…twenty minutes, perhaps, when he saw the first glow on the horizon.
A blaze. The boy saw something fall from the sky—and a flash. Then he heard, in the distance, crackling lightning, and the trembles of something reached even the house. But all he saw was the light, flaring in the distance.
He stood there as the light grew…then diminished. But like an ember, it did not go out. In the middle of the night, the boy stared until he saw a figure flying back his way.
 
——
 
The Vizir lied. It was closer to dawn when he came back. He was annoyed by the time it took, and the first pre-dawn light was filtering through the sky.
But there the boy still was. He looked up and caught the smell of soot on the Vizir’s clothes. Some of the red was tarnished by black, but the Vizir said nothing until he had descended once more.
“Boy. What is your name?”
“Foire, sire.”
“You have been a detriment this year, I take it. A ‘bad child’. Your family was murdered by [Bandits]. You, yourself, cannot even run this farm. You are…a Level 8 [Farmhand]. A Level 12 [Survivor].”
The Vizir appraised him. The boy said nothing. He was afraid…but not of the Vizir as much as the other children. Yet when the Revenant landed and stepped forwards, Foire flinched.
“This is your due gift.”
The undead [Vizir] had something in his hands. It was…a lump of coal. Still steaming in the frozen air. He placed it in the boy’s hands, and the child nearly dropped it.
“Wh-what is this?”
“Coal for the unworthy. A practice I find—humorous. Here. Take these. They too may warm your pathetic home.”
It had been warm when his family lived. But the boy just saw the Revenant toss more pieces of burnt…charcoal to the ground. Some were literal coals; burnt-out embers.
“It took me quite some time to gather them and produce these. I mean…Santa. Where is my ‘thank-you’?”
“Thank you?”
The boy didn’t understand. Not until—he stared at the compacted coal in his hands. He brushed at something amidst the black soot, wondering why the Vizir would bother to find wood—
Then he saw a bit of something pale yellow amidst the coal.
Charred bone. The boy almost dropped the coal—and saw those red lights fixed on him.
“I made the coal from your family’s killers. All of them.”
“What?”
The boy stared into the distance, where the glow on the horizon still lingered. He realized then—it was fire.
The [Vizir] stood there, staring down at the boy. No mercy in his gaze. No compassion. He pointed at the coals.
“Let that be a memory for you. In the coming days, you may abandon your farm and come to the nearest city or town. You will be fed. You will be given work, a place to sleep. In my kingdom, even the indolent will be clothed and housed. But remember something, boy.”
He stepped forwards and bent down. Then the [Vizir] picked up the coal and crushed it into powder in his grip.
“—This is what happens to the bad children. I swear to you. If you grow into such—some day, you and I will meet like this. All who trespass will meet this fate. That is also my vow, my promise.”
The boy stared at the ashes and then at the [Vizir]. With a sudden intensity in his gaze. As once—a boy had gazed upon glorious Khelta.
Hecrelunn stepped back and began to float into the air. His crimson pinpoints of light for eyes fixed upon Foire like lasers…then he was rising. Rising as smoke rose across the cold Saltflats. The [Vizir] turned to fly off—then remembered. He looked down at the boy.
“Merry Christmas.”
 
——
 
“I don’t want a lot for Christmas.
There is just one thing I need.”
 
A gift. For Christmas, I gave you a gift. On the scrying orbs, even late into the night, the damn songs were going. It was like—well, universal.
Anyone could sing. So the Hobgoblin was singing the song late at night in the common room of the inn. Until the little Gnoll girl, grumpy at being woken up, threw something at him.
The Goblin was an exception. One ‘good’ Goblin. And as soon as he was done, someone else replaced him.
A Minotaur was belting out ‘Blue Christmas’ in the style of an opera-singer crossed with a warrior’s dirge. It—it wasn’t to everyone’s tastes, but anyone was allowed to send in recordings or live-broadcasts of their songs.
Frankly, it was good to keep the sleepy group awake. They had missed another inn event, but a smaller one, and because they had been on the road, they had watched it all through the scrying orb anyways.
It had made a long, dull, uneventful journey fun enough to distract Ysara Byres from coming home. Now, they were nearly there.
Two days of travel and the second day of mostly Christmas songs. She was yawning as the Minotaur switched to a new group.
“Er—thank you to Edorth of the House of Minos for that. Next, I don’t think they sent in the name, but we have ‘So Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen’, by the Singer of Terandria, performed by an a capella group. Great!”
