Slowly, Rags hesitated, glanced over her shoulder—and then walked over to the open door. If she didn’t like what she heard or happened next, she was going to pee everywhere.
 
——
 
She vanished beyond as Erin Solstice turned back to Theice. The [Innkeeper] took a deep breath, and she hadn’t lost her audience yet. The camera focused on her face as Erin prepared herself.
“I think there is something we have to talk about. And I think it’s time. Let’s talk about…Christmas. Which is coming up very soon. It’s actually not on the Winter Solstice, and if you want presents, you should make a list, check it twice, and prepare your gifts early.”
“What?”
Theice fumbled, and Erin went on, steadily, as even the inn groaned.
“Now, good little children should just wrap something nice for other people—but parents should collaborate with Santa Claus. On the presents. Presents under the tree, if you have one, or stocking stuffers—”
Theice cut in with an exasperated voice.
“Miss Solstice, please. I’m being serious here. I know you have your pet project holiday, but this is an event where the entire world is watching you! You’ve educated us all on this Christmas theme, and it parallels gift-giving events in other cultures. I happen to have even researched the fact that you had a ‘Christmas’ last year!”
Erin was impressed despite herself.
“You found that out? Creepy.”
The Dullahan’s head wobbled on his shoulders, and he actually had to lock it back into place.
“Miss Solstice, can we be serious? Yes, you have this novel ‘Santa’, and you give gifts out. Why are you pushing this so hard? Can we get back to the crucial questions, please?”
Again, he did the double-question. But this time, Erin refused to be drawn on. She put her hands in her lap.
“Let me tell you something, Theice. I know I’ve been stubborn with putting Christmas out there. I know…it sounds like a stupid holiday where all you do is give out presents. But it is fun.”
“I have no doubt, but is it important? I imagine every [Merchant] would love to sponsor this event, and Khelt has announced it will adopt the practice. King Fetohep has challenged other rulers to demonstrate their largess. Very clever. But aside from the entertainment…”
Theice spread his hands expressively. The straightforward Dullahan looked unimpressed. And Erin…looked unimpressed by him.
“How old are you, Theice?”
“Twenty-three years old.”
“Huh. You’re older than me. I was gonna say you were twenty-nine. Or thirty-three. You really don’t seem to remember what it’s like to be young.”
The Dullahan hesitated.
“As in, I’m missing the ‘spirit of Christmas’?”
Erin fixed him with a friendly smile. Like Nerry’s wool—it had razors in it. It was perhaps the first time she’d turned up her personality the entire interview, and it froze the Dullahan for a moment.
“The spirit of Christmas? Yes. I don’t think you quite get it, Theice. This is why I’m pushing Christmas so hard: it’s fun. It happens once a year, and you know what? It’s not a bad thing to make a holiday out of giving people something, of thinking of each other.”
“I get that, but—”
“Shush. Let me continue. That’s what most people, including me, think about Christmas. It’s fun, it can be stressful, and sometimes it does the opposite of what you want. It makes people greedy, and you work too hard for no gain. And you know what? We think that because we’re us. Sitting here.”
Erin gestured around the inn, and the camera swiveled a second to take it in. Theice looked at Erin blankly.
“What?”
“Safe. Able to eat good food whenever we need to. Fortunate.”
Erin counted on her fingers. Then she looked up.
“Maybe the magic just isn’t there for us as much. You know, I’ve heard a lot of people say they don’t believe in Santa Claus. And that Christmas just doesn’t matter the older you get. And I get it. But you know what? When I was a kid, every Christmas, my parents, Shauna and Gregori Solstice, would talk about giving a gift to charity. It was something…they did every year, you see? A Christmas gift for people they never met. They’d also try to put hours working at a local…a local place that helped people.”
She was looking past Theice now, at the camera. And past even that. Erin Solstice spoke, and the Earthers…the Earthers heard her speak her parents’ names and remembered. Then she had them, from Kevin to Imani, in a different kind of grip.
Too weak, her hands, to lift that cup of water to her mouth without spilling it. But a grip on them harder than Mithril. Erin Solstice’s eyes shimmered as she went on.
“Christmas—the heart of it—has always been magic. Thinking of other people? Feeling charitable? Yes, that’s one version of Christmas I like. But I don’t think that’s the actual meaning of it. Santa Claus might not be real to you or me, Theice. Maybe not even to good kids in a lot of homes. But you know—I think he is real to boys and girls around the world.”
She looked at Theice a second, and he was listening now, microphone held in his grip over the table. Erin looked past him, and Grev was self-importantly standing next to Typhenous. She thought of him—and Mrsha—and went on.
“He’s the real, first and last [Hero] of this world, you see. Especially every winter. He’s the magic to the boys and girls who might be sad. Who might need something like a miracle. When they write their Christmas lists, it’s more like—a prayer.”
 
——
 
She whispered the words, and the hairs on Cara’s neck stirred as she watched. Aaron—looked up and saw what she was doing. And he grinned. Erin went on, looking at him.
 
——
 
“That’s because Santa Claus is magic. The heart of Christmas. He can’t be stopped. He can do what no [King] can. If you’re full of food and you want for nothing, you might not believe in him. But if you’re hungry and alone—you can wish that a jolly fat man in a reindeer sleigh will give you a gift for Christmas. That’s the Santa Claus I want to see. And that is why I talked about Christmas.”
“I…I see. And this is something you do believe in. My apologies.”
That was all the [Reporter] managed. Erin Solstice smiled at him, and he relaxed.
“I wish every day could be Christmas, Theice. Maybe without all the ice or snow, but Christmas is like a metaphor. It’s how I view my inn and my guests. If only they didn’t have to leave. If only they didn’t have to get old. I wish the entire world were like what it felt like on Christmas day. Good. People helping each other, and I wish…”
She looked ahead.
“I wish I could do that for every single person who’s come through my doors. Every single one who doesn’t deserve coal. And there were so few people like that. So when you talk about Christmas—a bit of that is Erin Solstice.”
The [Innkeeper] turned and flashed such an embarrassed smile and chuckle that her audience got it.
“Oh, wow, that’s embarrassing. Er—can we cut some of that out of the broadcast? No? Darn.”
 
——
 
There she was. Right on the scrying orb, turning red, embarrassed at having said so much. But meaning it. And what they thought…
The Squirrel Beastkin, Foliana, perched and watching over Niers’ shoulder as he stared at her, the Queen of Desonis, eying Altestiel—the people who had known her, like Rabbiteater, her friends and strangers—
What a funny [Innkeeper]. What an innocent, silly, softhearted goober. Some of them liked her just for that. They had seen her irate and petty. This was another side of Erin Solstice.
Perhaps it scared the Titan to his core as much as it attracted him. A strange, entrancing flame drawing the moths of war and chaos around her.
 
——
 
So that was Erin Solstice. And yes, despite Fetohep and the people who wanted to support her ideas, and even holidays like this, she had not had a groundswell of support up till this moment.
That was until, with a soft little clip-clop of hooves, a Sariant Lamb jumped out of Ryoka Griffin’s arms as she emerged, slightly red-eyed herself. But Nerry just scampered forwards, and a dozen Sariant Lambs looked up—then squirmed out of their owners’ arms. They raced forwards as Drassi yelped.
“Hey, what the—Sariants?”
The little lambs raced forwards, dragging something from behind the table. The [Camera Gnoll], Kohr, focused on them as Theice and Erin broke away from their conversation.
What they focused on was perhaps the cutest thing in televised history. It was of a very confused Mrsha, who had just been pushed out of her chair and onto a moving contraption. Something that the lambs had both stolen and altered in preparation for this very moment.
After all…they needed the [Innkeeper]’s help. And while Erin could be charming—she was not ruthlessly cute. She was an amateur in the world that they had mastered. So—Mrsha hesitantly flapped the reins of the cute little red sleigh as six Sariants pulled it over the floor.
The hat! The fucking hat!
A little bee saved the day by dropping the red hat with the poofball on top of Mrsha’s head. She adjusted it, and Apista landed. The damn bee had a cigar, but no one would notice that, probably.
“Oh! Oh!”
Lyonette might have been having a heart attack. Acceptable casualties. She was clutching at her heart, and the Sariants ran in a little lap around with Mrsha, mewling.
 
——
 
The cuteness! As if all the lambs had heard something in the baahing in the background, Queen Geilouna’s little personal lamb, Poofball, stood up on her little legs and waved her hooves at the scrying orb. Then she gave the Bedtime Queen such a look of longing that Geilouna scooped her up.
“Oh, look! Poofball loves it! So many cute Sariants! What a fine idea!”
“Yes, fine. I mean—yes, Erin did come up with it.”
Earl Altestiel gave the lamb a long look, but he was agreeing because of Erin. Geilouna laughed as the lamb directed her attention back to the scrying orb.
The Sariants were actually delivering something to Erin. Bemused, the [Innkeeper] looked down, and Mrsha presented her with a little wrapped box. The lambs almost looked like they were bowing.
To…the [Innkeeper] who had posted a <Mythical Quest> and been the host of Zeladona. As if reminded of that fact, the audience watching the scrying orb imagined how they might put on Christmas despite a lack of snow.
After all, it might not hurt to do something the [Innkeeper] suggested. And those Sariants were so darn cute. Every single owner of one was practically motivated of their own volition to favor the idea of Christmas.
Of course—so were the Earthers. Cara O’Sullivan was calling for a list of the songs she had marked as ‘Christmas shit’ and sighing. But she tipped Erin a nod of the head. She didn’t get why—well, sort of—
But she’d back the [Innkeeper].
 
——
 
In the inn, Erin Solstice looked bemused as the lambs trotted off, carrying Santa Mrsha, and looked at Theice.
“Okay, where were we?”
“Does—does that happen often?”
“Not always in the same way. But you were gonna talk to me about my first guests. My real guests. Goblins and Antinium.”
The Dullahan looked up and took a deep breath as everyone suddenly refocused on Erin.
“That’s right. I think we have a sign we can point to. Kohr? Thank you. Miss Solstice. Can you explain…why?”
 
——
 
Why Goblins? Why trust them? Why suffer a single damned one to live? Aside from the dangers of eradicating them, why not wipe every last one off the face of the earth?
Consider it logically, rationally. Like a sociopathic adventurer or a monster of Roshal. If every Goblin had the most infinitesimal chance of becoming a Goblin King, destroyer of nations, then they were a threat.
Because of this—you should make no peace with Goblins, not even the smallest. It did not matter that they had levels or talked. They should be wiped out.
It was the argument that Rags had heard every time since meeting Erin Solstice. She saw it in Relc’s eyes, in the gazes of everyone she met—things Goblins had done, their nature as monsters. It was…an argument she could not entirely refute, and she had tried to find a perfect argument.
So she watched. And that was the funny thing. As Magnolia’s carriage drove to her mansion just outside of Invrisil, the [Lady] and Rags and Ressa—even Reynold in the driver’s seat—all had a scrying orb, and they were watching Erin rather than talking.
Although Rags did see Magnolia glancing at her, they were waiting. Rags hoped Erin would have her answer, but she doubted it.
Erin wasn’t that smart. But she was kind. And perhaps—there lay a truth?
“Velan the Kind. Curulac of a Hundred Days. Ieriv the Bloodtide. These are names that echo across history to this day. Each one, Miss Solstice, viewers, are undeniable monsters, mass-murderers who wiped out nations and slaughtered innocents. When Goblins thrive, Goblin Kings arise, and they break every oath and violate every boundary.”
Theice laid out his opening argument like a [Debater] taking the stage with what everyone knew. Rags shifted in her carriage and looked at Magnolia. The [Lady]’s lips moved, and her eyes flicked to Rags.
Green eyes, like that impassable Vale Forest. Like the land—capable of sharpness like a billion thorns or a strange, obfuscated intelligence. The two had never been this close together—and what Rags saw was a frightening woman. One that could not fight. All she had was that mind.
“If I were him, I would have begun with anecdotes. The personal—ah, here we are.”
Magnolia murmured and cut herself off as Theice went on.
“I, personally, know eight people even in Pallass who have relatives who have suffered from Goblin attacks. Not just…death. They were assaulted, and if I may be so crude, viewers, I apologize—raped, tortured, left for dead. Goblins appear across the world as monstrous bandits. Even recently, Liscor and the north suffered the attacks of the Goblin Lord, whose armies nearly wiped out Esthelm. He slew Zel Shivertail, who I believe was a guest of this very inn. I could go on. But with all this said—why this sign? Let us put aside Antinium for now, Miss Solstice. Why Goblins?”
Rags did not feel—she would have felt a twisting pain in her stomach a year ago if someone said all this. Like when Relc argued with Erin. Now?
She had been that Goblin he mentioned. Not Tremborag’s Goblins, but she had made war on Riverfarm. Rags herself would admit that her tribe had done what it thought it had to, to survive, and sometimes not just to survive but thrive. Raid caravans, kill people—even if they tried not to all the time.
She had attacked Tenbault. Reiss had tried to slaughter thousands. Rags was clenching her fists tightly—and Magnolia was simply whispering.
