She had been staring around the garden and realizing Erin’s Skill was deeper than she thought. And Erin hadn’t even shown her the real door yet.
“I’ve gotta get back to the inn soon, or people will think I’m summoning Zeladona 2.0.”
“Is there a Zeladona 2.0? Please, Erin. Be honest. How many <Quests> do you have burning in your back pocket?”
They might only have a few moments, but they had chosen to step out to—talk. About many things, including Tyrion.
Tyrion—who, at this moment, Ryoka happened to know was in the Haven, trying to brainstorm ways to apologize to Erin Solstice. Even the man with a rock for a head had realized he might want to get on her good side.
Fat chance of that, perhaps. But Erin’s own ire had been—pulled by the bloody tournament. To Ryoka’s question, she chuckled weakly.
“Zeladona was…one of the big ones. Really. I didn’t speak to her as much, but I made friends with the ones I liked. I doubt I actually have someone of her level I could just do that with. I didn’t meet the dude who killed magic.”
“So you really—”
Ryoka Griffin was another sort that Erin was glad to have as a friend. Because, despite the Wind Runner gawking at the gardens, despite her understandable chagrin and questions—
When Erin told her she had spoken to ghosts, Ryoka, more than anyone else, believed her. Erin was just eying the door leading back to the inn.
“I’ll tell you everything. But right now…remember those people you met last Winter Solstice? The three of them?”
Ryoka’s grip tightened on Erin’s wheelchair.
“Funny. I was going to bring them up. You…a big fan of theirs?”
The [Innkeeper]’s hat burned a different color, and Ryoka leaned back as Erin, with great effort, twisted her head and torso around.
“Are…you?”
“Nope! Not at all! Totally enemies. I’ve sworn to the Faerie King to kill them. Who exists. Don’t do that!”
The Wind Runner almost pushed Erin into the koi pond to let her cool off. The [Innkeeper] relaxed slightly.
“I don’t like them. I…hate them. I am going to kill them. They killed all the ghosts. Ate them up. They’re…gods.”
Ryoka clarified with a whisper.
“Dead gods.”
The two young women looked at each other, and in that moment, they realized they had less to say to each other than they had thought. Ryoka let out a sigh—then, for some reason, laughed.
Erin raised her brows, for she found nothing about this funny. But she realized Ryoka looked so relieved—
“If there was anyone I wanted on my side, Erin—it would be you! If there was anyone I wanted to know…”
She sagged on the wheelchair, and Erin patted Ryoka’s hand.
“So—how did you figure it out? Is that why you know Tyrion so well? I heard you did something with Laken.”
Ryoka caught her breath and explained, then, what had happened. In brief—but it tied into their argument, which neither had forgotten.
“Tyrion Veltras really did help me, Erin.”
“I get that. If he steps foot in my inn again, I will burn him. Not him, Ryoka. I will talk to you, and you can let him do good things if you believe in him. But you and I will never see eye-to-eye on that.”
The [Innkeeper] would not relent, and Ryoka didn’t have the courage to argue. But Erin dropped it. She exhaled—and nodded.
“The quest is my fault. I didn’t know it would do that. If Halrac…Yvlon—”
“You were forced into it.”
Erin’s head was bowed. She looked up once, and Ryoka saw how bleak her face was.
“My Skills and my secrets are getting darker, Ryoka. Or just—deeper. I’m afraid to post some of the <Quests>. They’re going to get people killed. But I have to. Dead gods should stay dead. I’ll show you my statues and the door—don’t you dare run before I do. But do you have another Tyrion in your back pocket?”
Ryoka Griffin hesitated and hoped like heck Rhisveri had no listening spells or a secret bomb-spell in her mouth. Because just for Erin—Ryoka leaned over and whispered in her ear.
“I met a bunch of immortals in Ailendamus. A Wyrm—and I have done terrible things to them, but they might help. I owe the Faerie King a favor—or maybe he’s got me in some kind of a fated prophecy. There are Angels and Devils too—and a singing Titan—and I killed the last Dryad in the world. I’m going to see Teriarch, because his alter ego, Eldavin, is still out there. And aliens exist. They gave me this sword.”
She showed Erin the hilt of her sword, and the [Innkeeper] looked up.
“What.”
“It’s not a Kaalblade. It’s actually an alien-tech sword…”
“No, go back first. You lost me at Angels and Devils. What?”
It was Erin’s turn to do the listening, and she patently didn’t believe Ryoka at first. She had to see the blueprints of the sword, and Ryoka configured it to let Erin swing around.
“You got a lightsaber? I got a wheelchair. You got a—”
She poked at Ryoka’s feet since the Faeblade wouldn’t hurt either girl once configured, and Ryoka lifted her feet.
“I also have unbreakable footwraps. What did you get?”
Erin stared at Ryoka.
“<Legendary Quest: Kick Ryoka’s Ass>! I call upon the power of Zeladona to—”
 
——
 
They were laughing after that, and Ryoka remembered one last thing.
“Okay—I swore I wouldn’t tell anyone, but in the interest of being honest?”
Erin squeezed her eyes shut.
“Please, Ryoka. We’ll do more secrets in a second—but please tell me it’s not Jexishe.”
“…Who?”
“Oh, thank goodness. Bird’s still just a [Liar].”
Erin wiped at her brow. Ryoka smiled uncertainly and glanced at the door.
“Nah. Just a Unicorn. He’s the one who drank all your booze.”
The [Innkeeper]’s face went blank. Ryoka went on hurriedly.
“I think he’s just a nuisance. Honestly, just forget about it, and I think he won’t harass anyone. But, uh—if I start talking about horses in a positive light? Literally get a crossbow and shoot me.”
Erin Solstice’s head twisted around. She stared at Ryoka as the Wind Runner grinned to show it was a joke. The grin grew smaller as Erin spoke, slowly, still glaring at Ryoka’s lightsaber and gifts from the lands of the Fae.
“Palt and Imani are in a relationship, so it’s definitely possible. Somehow. You and Imani give me the same vibes.”
She looked straight forwards as Ryoka opened her mouth. The [Innkeeper] folded her arms. Pawn wasn’t the only one who could dish it out too.
 
——
 
Speaking of revelations, Liscor was not the only place shell-shocked or changing in real-time. The tournament had shown Zeladona, legend, yadda yadda, greatest techniques of the sword, new generation of students, boring.
The real change was this: in Liscor, in Qwera’s own shop, in Invrisil and across the world, [Merchants] with [Foresight: Commodities], intelligence, or just that sixth sense about business were marking up a price much like Yelroan and the menu in the inn.
That was—needles and thread.
Good quality ones, too. Curved needles, not just the straight kind. The ones that could penetrate leather—and you needed a certain kind of string as well. For that matter, cloth took on a new importance, as did poultices and Liscor’s blood bank.
[Healers] had seen the tournament. They looked grim as they practiced sewing or—some of them—simply panicked or quit their class. But the real ones, the ones who were asking questions of the [Doctor], taking notes, were realizing a truth:
The age of simple healing was over. And if you needed it in the future, you had better hope someone had a dwindling supply of healing potion—or a Skill. Or…whatever the Antinium had.
In fact, Chaldion was listening to a report from a [Battlefield Medic] on how he thought wars needed to be conducted now.
“We will need entire areas to house the wounded. We cannot send them back into battle, not anymore. Even assuming we stop the blood loss—that alone will make a [Soldier] unable to fight or stand.”
“Damnation. How—how are we supposed to fight a proper war? I’d rather take more archers and reduce wounds if every clash of swords takes out half my battalion!”
General Edellein still looked shaken—and he was staring at the stumps on his claw. He had been healed with a potion—but Chaldion would have preferred he was still hurt. The Grand Strategist was not happy.
If Zeladona had used her overwhelming power—fools!
That included himself and the idiots in the Walled Cities. He thanked the [Medic], who grimly bowed, and spoke to Edellein.
“War will adjust. We may prefer heavier armor or strategies that protect our soldiers from harm. Longer supply lines, more soldiers knowing that we will not have potions—let’s continue reviewing yesterday.”
“The disaster, you mean.”
General Shirka didn’t mince words. She was young—but she had pulled out of the fighting with her command and largely spared her soldiers the Slayer’s wrath. She wasn’t quite looking at Chaldion, but the Grand Strategist spoke.
He had to shoulder the blame, so he exhaled as his cigar glowed and spoke.
“We did what the Walled Cities wanted. Our fair cousins have been—upset—about the Meeting of Tribes. You could call this diplomacy by blood. It’s unfortunate we lost some good officers’ limbs, much less Comois. Then again, he was not fit to command.”
“He was a superior lieutenant. With respect, Grand Strategist.”
Edellein fumed, and Chaldion gave him a nod.
“Even so—it was disastrous. At least every soldier—and our [Generals]—have leveled at least once. I could call that a victory…if the Antinium haven’t done likewise. Our clash with them cost us more than it cost the Hives. But a lost limb is a lost limb.”
He stubbed the cigar out, shaking his head. The Antinium had more Soldiers and Workers, but…
General Shirka was looking at Duln, and the Dullahan’s head resting on the pillow eyed Chaldion. The Grand Strategist folded his arms.
“It’s unpleasant. I know. Or did you have something else to say?”
A hesitant—silence filled the room, unlike what Chaldion was used to. He was about to tell the [Generals] not to be cowards, but they didn’t hold their tongues. Edellein, Shirka, Duln, and the other two of Pallass’ [Generals] looked at each other before Duln spoke.
“—The Antinium’s losses are virtually non-existent, though, Grand Strategist.”
“Hm? How do you mean? Their Soldiers and Workers still have levels individually. Even with their Unitasis Network, they only share competencies.”
Chaldion knew all this, but Duln’s look of concern deepened.
“I was referring to their limbs, Grand Strategist.”
The Drake just gave Duln a blank stare. Slowly, the Dullahan spoke.
“They have the ability to regenerate limbs. Slowly—but—Grand Strategist?”
All of Pallass’ five [Generals] present saw the old Drake’s face slowly growing blanker and blanker. Chaldion’s eye flicked around the room, and ash fell from the cigar in his claws. He said nothing for a long minute and then raised his eye.
“Of course they do. Forgive me, General Duln. That must have slipped my mind. Did you have anything else to add?”
He looked around, and a shadow suddenly felt heavier as it hung over him. Chaldion stared blankly at the table. Time…
He felt it on his shoulder. A cold claw that not even Saliss could beat back forever. Chaldion didn’t raise the cigar to his lips throughout the meeting. He just watched it grow colder.
 
——
 
Good and ill, you see? It was a day that exposed more than just the sheer competency of blades. One of the other great changes upon the Antinium took place that morning.
Senior Guardsman Klbkch, Klbkch the Slayer, Klbkch the Revalantor, Centenium Klbkchhezeim, and Old Man Klb as he was now known by Mrsha the Impudent, stood in his Hive.
He stood in front of the Workers and Soldiers who looked up at him. Many had lost a limb. Some, like Crusader 57, had lost multiple limbs, but true to Duln’s statement, the regenerative gel, cilxas, had been shared liberally.
Pawn, Xrn, and a number of Antinium were watching Klbkch as he stood in front of the Antinium. And they gazed at him differently.
They had feared him and then seen his mortality, then moved past him, into a new age. Now…they looked back, and there he stood. A storyteller, a master of blades.
What was he? No longer Klbkch, killer of Aberrations. No longer the Prognugator who ordered many to their deaths. Klbkch felt it himself, and that was why he stood there.
“Klbkch. What are you doing?”
Xrn’s exasperated voice rang out at last, and Klbkch turned. His antennae had not stopped waving as he looked at the wounded Antinium who had participated in the tournament, whom he had gathered together.
“I am projecting my pride and satisfaction. My understanding of their wounds and suffering and my experience and willpower as a member of the Hives to lead us forwards. As a True Antinium will understand it.”
Pawn, Garry, Belgrade, Yellow Splatters, Silveran, and dozens of Individual Workers and Soldiers exchanged a long look. The [Priest] leaned over and tapped Xrn on the shoulder. Another finger pointed at Klbkch.
“Please blast him.”
The Small Queen raised her one mandible in a smile.
“No, no. He is trying. Klbkch. Try harder.”
The Slayer stared at the Small Queen. He pointed at the Antinium. Pawn shook his head with the judges, and Klbkch scratched at his antennae, then stomped off. The Workers and Soldiers milled about as Crusader 57 spoke loudly.
“I like our spiritual liege. Ryoka.”
“You what?”
Toni was missing an arm and really upset about it. Crusader 57 rubbed at his wounds.
“I heard her during the fighting. I learned a lot of new words. She’s great. You fucking worthless grape-nutted shitheap cunts on a popsicle stick.”
Pawn was beginning to develop a headache. Klbkch returned after about five minutes. He placed something in Toni’s hands. Everyone peered at it. Klbkch was walking over to the next Antinium when Pawn walked over.
“What are you doing?”
Klbkch was pouring a sack of little black objects into bowls of wood. He turned to Pawn.
“These are acid-flies. Eat these.”
He went to pour them into another bowl. Pawn slapped the bag out of Klbkch’s hands, and the Slayer stared at the [Priest]. Everyone went silent. Crusader 57 looked happy.
“Oooh.”
“Try again.”
Pawn and Klbkch stared at each other, and the taller Slayer with his new body glanced at the bag of acid flies.
“That was my personal snack-stash.”
He stomped off. It took him thirty minutes to come back, by which time Garry was passing out his latest bread with the aforementioned poolish that he and Imani had made. Everyone was enjoying it when Klbkch began trying to pin something to a Worker’s chest.
“What is that?”
Klbkch had a shiny bit of brass and green cloth. He waved it at Pawn.
