So high that even the walls of the Blighted Kingdom couldn’t hit her. The first true rulers of Izril had always been one species. Before the High Passes had looked as they were. She soared higher, and the winds sang around her.
Her wounds were still so deep she could barely fly long—but she had agreed to Silvenia’s request. For one reason.
 
——
 
Othius the Fourth was in his court where the windows reflected the dawning sky as alarms rang the length of the Blighted Kingdom.
The Deaths of the Demon King had delivered terror this Christmas to their foes. He was clutching at his heart. And though Silvenia’s magic could not touch him—though he was proof against the shape-changing Djinni and all their tricks—
He looked up as something so incredibly high overhead it couldn’t be seen passed over him. It passed over the capital city of Paranfer. And as if she knew he was there—the massive shadow blotted out parts of the palace.
[Shadows of Empire: Fear the Sound of My Wings].
Othius scrambled away from the shadow as it crept over the courtyard, and the broadcast flickered out at last. But it didn’t matter…he saw the shadow passing over him, and his heart stopped dead in his chest.
An [Empress] passed overhead. And the Blighted King’s heart stopped. He spasmed—as Nereshal turned—and screamed for [Healers]. The Blighted King had a heart-attack on the floor as the Death of Wings returned.
But if only it were that simple to kill him.
 
——
 
And there it was. Christmas. It continued…but those were the greatest events of the holidays. The beginning of winter came in like a storm.
In glory—in horror. In dark deeds and sadness and magic. Kindness to drive away the cold.
Christmas, again. The Wandering Inn was always changing, and the second Christmas they’d celebrated was earlier than the last—but that was alright.
Soon, things would happen again. It looked to be a cold winter, and the new lands still waited. But for now?
Just once?
As if something were listening or couldn’t make up its mind—or perhaps because it was listening—or again—just chance—
One last little thing happened that didn’t make the news. And it was that on the third day, as a little Gnoll girl was hauling a bucket of water out of the well and grumbling about her <Basic Quest>, she stopped—and turned her head.
Then she began howling and running down the hill as an Antinium Worker leapt out of his tower, slid down the roof, and landed on the grass. But Bird was running after Mrsha. He was staring at something as glorious as any bird.
It looked like something out of Pawn’s stories as the [Priest] stared out the window. As Cade tossed his cube aside and pointed for his mother—
She saw it too. It came down out of the skies. A ray of light, shining down upon the grass outside of Liscor. From beyond the clouds—from beyond the limits of sight. So high even the [Bird Hunter] could not see where it came from.
Without magic as the [Necromancer] and [Cryomancer] stumbled outside, half-carrying the [Rogue Mage] who stared up, whispering what sounded like a prayer. And out more people came, a disbelieving [Painter] and a [Thief]—
Running to the spot where the light encircled the grass. Just a few feet across. Just enough space to capture a sliver of the world. And Erin felt it. As if—the great fundamental constant of the entire firmament heaved a sigh and said, not in actual words—
Oh, very well. 
And then everyone was rushing to the place where light met grass. And just like before, it grew brighter without physical intensity. Realer without color—just a pure patch of something made manifest.
Until—with a ringing sound that woke everyone from their dreams of levels. With a sigh across Izril—
Someone appeared in a blaze of energy. His body glowed—then became solid flesh and blood, and he stumbled, looking around.
Halrac Everam, unharmed and whole, turned as he lowered something in his hands. Just in time for Mrsha to leap on him and his friends and teammates to come flooding out of the inn.
“Halrac! Halrac! What happened?”
Erin came rolling last of all, shouting, as the [Bowman of Loss] looked about. He felt at himself—and then at the crying Revi and Typhenous, holding onto one arm.
“I don’t—remember. I was…no. I don’t remember. I struck that Drake and then—?”
He put a hand to his head, and Revi punched his arm.
“You idiot! You idiot! We thought we’d lost you! Even Erin didn’t know—”
They all looked at the [Innkeeper], but she raised her hands in denial, looking as amazed as the rest of them.
“I didn’t do anything. Honest. But…Halrac. What’s that?”
Then they all noticed what was in the man’s left hand. And he blinked at it without seeming to know why he was holding it.
It was…one of his arrows. It was just plain steel. Except for a tiny bit at the very tip. It was coated with something that had no color Erin could name. As if Halrac had scraped something onto the tip of it. The Gold-rank Captain—the adventurer gazed at the arrow blankly and then came to the only conclusion he could.
“I don’t remember—but I think I stole something.”
And that would change everything and…well. There was no other part to that sentence. Ryoka Griffin exchanged a wide-eyed glance with a little lamb in her arms. Numbtongue looked over at Ryoka carrying the Sariant Lamb as he held Reagen in his arms and snorted, looking superior. Nerry spat on the Goblin.
Then. And then—
And then they should have been done with it. But Ryoka Griffin felt the winds of Izril trembling with the Death of Wings’ return. She looked up at those blue skies—and her eyes went round. With disbelief. With horror.
She began shouting. Screaming, as everyone gathered around Halrac.
“It can’t be. It can’t be—”
They turned—and Erin Solstice looked up. Her own eyes went wide—and Mrsha, holding onto Halrac’s hand, wanted to tell everyone this wasn’t her fault. Bird stared up in wonder and aimed a bow up—but even he hesitated.
And Nerry? Nerry stared up and ducked into Ryoka’s arms. For coming their way—across Izril—was a wall of white.
So much snow that the guests of the inn—all but Ryoka—began running for cover. It came down, a dozen feet of it in places, all at once—and so fast they could see the vapor trails of the sonic boom before it passed across the High Passes.
Snow. But what Ryoka saw—what she heard on the winds—were the voices.
 
“Faster! Faster, ye cunts! Go faster!”
 
Five figures shot through the air along with one green one as they flew. Not Ivolethe. But—Ryoka stared up as the Winter Sprites passed overhead—then the sonic boom hit her. Then all the snow in creation. And the Winter Sprites—
 
——
 
Had returned. Taletevirion looked up, and his jaw dropped as he saw the snow coming. He saw one blue dot break off and dive at the Wind Runner. He turned his head to Teriarch, who was sitting with a little Dragon at his side and an annoyed [Lady] on the other this day—at the Winter Sprites—
“Nope. Nope. That’s not new—that doesn’t count, and I don’t care.”
He ran for it. And once more, this winter—
The fae came back.
 
[Magical Innkeeper Level 49!]
[Skill Change – Inn: Grand Theatre → Inn: The World’s Eye Theatre!]
