“Hey, Yvlon. You—you okay?”
Only one person could ask her something like that and wince while doing the delivery. Ryoka Griffin looked at Yvlon Byres, and the woman exhaled.
“No. Next question, Ryoka?”
The Wind Runner opened her mouth, thought for a long second, and gestured at the menu.
“Y-you want to have breakfast together?”
“What were you thinking of having?”
Yvlon decided she was hungry and stared at the menu printed on paper and glued to lacquered wood. Ryoka Griffin stared down at the menu. The indecisive, worried Courier—looked at Yvlon, around the inn, and decided this year she had to make a change.
“Spiced pottage with cheese and fresh bread sound good for two?”
Dead gods. She could decide on breakfast for herself without an existential crisis. They were changing. Yvlon thought about it, and her stomach rumbled.
“Sounds good.”
“Alright. Can I get…?”
Ryoka looked around, raised a hand, and Peggy hopped over. Yvlon stared at her peg leg as the Hobgoblin gave Yvlon a nod.
“Ooh. Yum. You want two? Will get.”
She strode over to the kitchen, and Ryoka heard her talking to someone helping out in the morning. Imani cut a loaf of fresh bread as Calescent prepared the pottage, scooping the filling breakfast out of a pot he had simmering.
“Perfect! They can try my new bread. I made it with poolish. Tell me if you can taste the difference.”
“What is poolish?”
Yvlon was apprehensive, but Ryoka knew this one.
“Fancy baker’s dough or something. That’s how you know Imani is a real bread-person.”
She shook her head. Actual baking techniques coming over from Earth? What next? Ryoka eyed the menu and saw more cuisine here than just ‘burgers’. And her stomach began to rumble the instant she sat the steaming bowls of pottage and the fresh bread, which did indeed taste remarkable with butter.
 
——
 
Eating breakfast might be weird to you after seeing a Level 84 legend carving her name through the world’s zeitgeist. But it was also proof that Ryoka and Yvlon were regulars of The Wandering Inn.
They understood that you should eat, sleep, and do all the things normal people did, even after great events like this. It wouldn’t take away from anything, but it would stop you from spiraling.
The Wandering Inn had guests, of course. Loads of ‘em, and arguably, it was more pressed than most days.
The staff did not have Ishkr to take over for them, so the Antinium and Goblins were working hard. Peggy led her species; Rosencrantz led his. They had, in fact, both received new classes thanks to their efforts.
[Floor Boss] and [Adjunct Manager]. Interesting classes. They were not the only people to level up, of course.
Almost every single person Zeladona had cut had leveled up. The exceptions were Grimalkin, who’d gotten stabbed for trying to interfere with magic, and Zeter.
Two people had not leveled.
Every single other person had leveled at least once. Even, no—
Especially Pisces Jealnet. The [Necromancer] woke up with a new class. One he had heard many, many times before and denied it. He still remembered why, and he would never forget.
But he had also seen Zeladona of legends. He had been reminded by the Maestro why he couldn’t forget the lessons, why he still carried around the blade.
Forget Padurn. He was proud of it. So—he let it happen. And today?
He was no [Fencer]. Nor [Duelist]. Nor even [Fighter]. Something was listening. And if it listed his nature, it would have read like this yesterday:
 
Pisces Jealnet, Level 38 [Deathbane Necromancer]. Level 3 [Slave]. Level 22 [Mage].
 
Now?
 
Pisces Jealnet, Level 38 [Deathbane Necromancer]. Level 14 [Duelist of Wistram]. Level 3 [Slave].
 
When he raised his arm and stared at his rapier, he still felt the memory of chains. Perhaps they were lighter today. Perhaps he was closer to breaking them for good. Pisces slowly sat back up and got back to exercising. With a will that his friends had seldom seen before.
So yes, the inn was full of conversation and happenings, and because Ishkr was busy helping Erin, everyone else had to pick up the slack. Indeed, that morning, a Gnoll with some obnoxiously flashy sunglasses was sitting at one of the tables with a bunch of paper.
It seemed incredible that Yelroan could generate that much paper already, but the Gnoll hadn’t just pulled it out of his butt. Rather, he had a menu, a list of Lyonette’s notes on expenses, his personal world-directory for Mage’s Guilds, a written account of a certain chess tournament—a half-eaten plate of bread, three [Message] scrolls, and a single quill.
“Er…am I supposed to be helping clean up this place?”
He called out to Peggy as she passed by with another order for Relc and Embria. She gave him a blank look.
“Is you good at cleaning?”
“Not particularly.”
Peggy eyed the desk.
“Then no. What you doing? Are you working for me?”
“Am I?”
The Gnoll wasn’t sure about that, but the [Mathematician] was writing with one paw as he picked up the bread and chewed on it. He spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
“I, uh, could recommend you drop two coppers off the yellat-dishes. It’s really overpriced. But maybe bump up your prices on bread and the pottage combo by one copper coin. Another farm’s had troubles—wheat’s going to be dearer soon.”
Peggy hesitated as he showed her the menu—and a list of items he’d marked up or down. She scratched at her head.
“That is not my job. I can’t do. Miss Lyonette can.”
“Oh, do I talk to her or…?”
The Gnoll hesitated, aware Lyonette was upstairs. He actually hadn’t spoken to her all morning as she was rushing around trying to help Erin. The Gnoll was also wary of Peggy, not really knowing how to talk to a Goblin.
It was, in fact, a girl with braided brown hair who peered over the table and addressed both.
“Miss Peggy, why don’t you keep serving people the same prices today? I’ll show Miss Lyonette the menu later. She’d have to have a [Scribe] re-print all the menus anyways. And I think Erin wanted to give you a room, Mister Yelroan. Along with your bedroom.”
“Oh, thank you—”
“Nanette.”
Peggy walked off, and the girl produced something and carefully placed it on the counter. Yelroan, who had been desperately dipping his quill into the dregs of an inkpot, brightened up.
“Ink! I was wondering if you had any…”
“We keep some in pots. If you need more, I can write it on the shopping list for you. Can I help you with anything else, Mister Yelroan?”
Of all the people in the entire inn, only Nanette had really remembered Yelroan’s existence the next morning. The young witch looked at him, and the [Mathematician] smiled gratefully.
“I don’t think so right now—thank you. I didn’t want to be a bother this morning what with—”
What with the most extraordinary event in a hundred years—if you forgot the Meeting of Tribes and everything else. But Nanette nodded understandingly.
“Someone has to help you get used to the inn. I thought that would be a good task for me. You don’t have to work right away.”
She was concerned for him, but the blonde Gnoll smiled and adjusted his sunglasses. Relc shouted as he stabbed himself in the mouth.
“My eyes! Who the—”
Yelroan hurriedly decided to replace the annoying sunglasses with a less intrusive pair. He whispered to Nanette as both ducked over their table.
“I’m used to hitting the ground running, actually. My former boss and tribe—Plain’s Eye—would come to me with a huge problem and minutes to solve it. Reminds me of having to organize a Wyvern hunting party.”
“That might not be a good comparison here.”
Nanette observed as she looked around for Mrsha. Yelroan nodded.
“Truthful, though. And if it’s anything like my job there—I assume some independent action might be important. They can tell me to stop, but do you think this is a bad idea? I asked one of the Thronebearers, and they assured me they’d tell Lyonette and to keep doing it.”
He showed her what he was doing. Nanette peered at the [Message] scrolls. And what she saw was this.
 
To His Majesty of Avel: 
Your Majesty, the Wandering Inn thanks Avel for its gracious correspondence. Regretfully, Innkeeper Solstice is indisposed and thus cannot respond at this time. This missive will be forwarded to her upon her recovery. Please rest assured your letter will be delivered to her with full confidentiality. Luck and pans be with you,
—The Wandering Inn
 
“I added that last bit in because you need some kind of saying. Too silly?”
“It sounds like Erin. Maybe, ‘luck and Amentus wine pour ever onwards’?”
“Ooh, I like that.”
Yelroan amended the [Message] he was writing. Nanette looked concerned as she saw how many [Messages] were coming in.
“Can Miss Erin afford to send so many [Messages], Mister Yelroan?”
His eyes twinkled.
“Don’t worry. This might not be math—but I have had to deal with Mage’s Guilds. Most [Message] senders will pay or have paid for return messages, and the Mage’s Guild will eat the costs most of the time. I’ll have a Street Runner run variants of the reply—one second. [Copy Message].”
He began copying the same reply without the names or specifics across multiple slips of parchment. Nanette was delighted—and doubly so when she saw what he was writing elsewhere.
 
To Strategist Inter of Nerrhavia’s Fallen:
I am writing to you in regards to the tournament proceeds accorded to you during Innkeeper Erin Solstice’s famous chess tournament. The inn has been slightly delayed in collecting its share of the profits. According to our calculations, 14,442 individuals in Nerrhavia’s Fallen registered or took part, and we have calculated the below fee.
Please forward it via the Merchant’s Guild in Invrisil or Pallass to the care of The Wandering Inn, Liscor. If you believe this number is in error, please ratify the errors via truth spell at a Wistram-certified Mage’s Guild. They will be happy to administer the test for a small fee, and they have provided the numbers of each participant.
Below is the breakdown of total profits and the inn’s portion…
 
The cut that Yelroan had proposed was a simple 50-50 split, and it was…considerable. Especially if this were just one nation. But Nanette had a question.
“What will you do if they don’t pay?”
“Well, I would write them another letter. Then suggest Miss Solstice will take it up with Wistram—or remind them who writes the <Quests>. I imagine most will pay, and the ones who don’t? If you want to be nasty, Miss Lyonette could hire a [Debt Collector] to get the money for a third of the sum. But realistically, you can probably just write off the ones who don’t write back. I imagine most will, especially after yesterday. Again, if Miss Lyonette has a problem—”
“I think she’ll be delighted.”
Finally, someone who kept lists and remembered things! Yelroan actually knew who to talk to, and he could figure things out without being told what to do first.
The inn needed someone like him. And—Yelroan had more than just a pretty pair of sunglasses. He was taking notes on who he had sent the requests to, obviously, but he leaned over to Nanette.
“I think I was told Miss Lyonette has [Flawless Attempt]? Do you know her cooldowns on that? Because I don’t have many negotiating Skills, but if she’s not using it, we can run that on all the objectors within the week.”
 
——
 
What a monster. A real Salii, and that was meant in the most complimentary and derogatory of ways.
Qwera actually heard Yelroan say that and wished she had been able to make an offer that would convince him to work for her.
But then, perhaps the [Mathematician] had somehow understood this was the place to level his class. After yesterday, not even the Golden Gnoll could beat Erin’s inn for levelling opportunities or the world stage.
She, herself, wondered if Tesy would be allowed to stay. But she was bidding farewell to one friend and looked Ysara straight in the eyes.
“Are you sure you want to go home? You could…beg being cut by a legendary ghost.”
Ysara Byres just shook her head. She turned, and Ylawes pretended to be looking the other way as Vuliel Drae got in the wagon and Infinitypear and Rasktooth petted the horse they’d be sharing.
“It’s time to at least see them. Will you be here when I get back?”
“With Tesy in trouble? Count on it. I’ll hold my business until you go. Frankly—I need to see what Valeterisa is doing. And the inn has so much power with this teleportation door…run back here if you don’t like what you find. Are the Horns going with you?”
“Later. Yvlon is wounded. They’ll catch up via Pisces’ undead chariot. But I might as well travel in company. Much as I love my dear sister and her unique team…their undead horses are the bumpiest experience in the world.”
Off they went. Ysara Byres, like the others, only stopped to say farewell to Erin. She was in her chair, slowly and determinedly feeding herself spoonfuls of food.
“You gonna come back?”
“Two days, Miss Solstice. Two days—and we’ll be back well before the Winter Solstice.”
Dawil chuckled—and looked perplexed when Erin didn’t laugh at the pun. But it was just the beginning of winter, and Ylawes bowed to Erin.
“Erin…it has been something.”
The [Knight] seemed at a loss for words. Falene was still staring at the [Garden of Sanctuary], but Erin smiled.
“You come back soon. I promise I won’t do anything crazy between now and then, huh?”
“You are a good liar. We go and have fun.”
Rasktooth patted her hand with a big grin, and everyone laughed at that. Then they were off, riding towards House Byres as they used the Riverfarm door. Erin Solstice waved weakly—and an [Emperor] called out.
“Erin. A word?”
“Shut the door. Shut the—”
Lyonette shut the door in the [Emperor]’s face with a significant amount of delight. Erin really felt bad—but she had barely enough energy to eat. And she had apparently put down half of Calescent’s pottage by herself, despite having to pause every few seconds to rest her hand.
Today really was rest, processing, and an end to drama. Ryoka Griffin looked at Laken as the door shut, and even she didn’t suggest they add to the situation. But she did look at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] stopped eating long enough to show Ryoka something.
 
——
 
“What the f—”
Ryoka Griffin decided it was gauche to keep swearing. So she ameliorated her language, looked around the Drathian garden, and pushed Erin over a bridge.
“Whee…wait, I can’t stop—Ryokaaaaaa—-”
Erin Solstice rolled a good fifty feet in her wheelchair, which might have been greased a bit too well, before Ryoka stopped her. The Wind Runner saved Erin from running into one of the little fox statues.
“Sorry.”
