“This is a badge similar to the one the Watch awards [Guards] injured in comb—”
The [Priest of Wrath and Sky] pointed at Klbkch.
“[Holy Hammer].”
Klbkch ducked.
 
——
 
The truth was that on this day, everyone was mostly deciding to not rock the Erin boat. Threaten her for a new <Quest>? Did you want to lose a hand?
Even the Maestro had apparently decided he was done testing the inn. But while Symphony had largely vanished, he seemed wary himself of Erin’s wrath.
Or…perhaps he was tweaking her nose. Because the first thing Erin received when she exited the garden with Ryoka was a letter.
It was black vellum, and when she saw the musical note embedded in the white wax, she almost tore it up. But since she was too weak, she made Mrsha crack the letter open for her. The Gnoll pulled out the object inside and held it up in awe.
“Give me that—absolutely no way Mrsha holds on to this.”
Ryoka nabbed it from the girl, who gave Ryoka a sinister look. She wrote on a notecard.
You’re not my mom. Give it back or I’ll curse you.
She really wanted the card. Ryoka handed it to Erin as she hesitated—then put Mrsha under one arm.
“Oh yeah? I might not be—but I’m your crazy aunt! Erin, where’s your well? I’m gonna throw Mrsha down there.”
She ran about as the Gnoll screamed silently—and Erin saw Ryoka disappear outside and try to well-dangle Mrsha. Unfortunately, she had forgotten the little Gnoll had friends. Lehra and Gireulashia ended up dangling Ryoka over the well.
As for what Mrsha really, really wanted—Erin Solstice stared at the card. It was not an apology…or if it were, it was the apology only an [Assassin] would write.
 
Erin Solstice, [Innkeeper].
This card shalt be redeemed for one performance of Symphony upon request. 
50% off.
 
She was trying to tear it up when Ryoka got back. Then she put it in her mouth and tried to rip it up, but it was too tough for her hands. Probably enchanted.
 
——
 
Nevertheless, the Maestro was somewhat emblematic of the day. Even Archmage Eldavin had decided to take the two [Knights] and Viltach back. He had…not gotten what he wanted, and while he might enjoy having it out with Magnolia and Ryoka—
Even he was realizing that Erin Solstice might bring more consequences than he could handle.
Who, in their right minds, today, would tweak the [Innkeeper]’s tail? That person was nervously pacing back and forth as she waited for the door to The Wandering Inn to open.
“Miss Tewing? Can I have a quick word?”
Drassi turned as Channel 2 of Wistram News Network—the best, most popular channel, ignore Channel 1—assembled behind her.
She was the boss. She was, in fact, the [Honest Reporter] who’d become the face of Wistram News Network, more than Sir Relz and Noass, even.
While there were already new stations competing for coverage, while the channels would expand and perhaps her role diminish—Drassi had been the first.
Not the first person to take over the news—that was Sir Relz and Noass. But she was the first person to become synonymous with the news. She wasn’t a commentator; she broke new stories.
She had been the one to report on the tournament on the ground. She had uncovered Joseph and put her tail in the fire to deliver the actual happenings.
And she was not Sir Relz or Noass. For proof, look no further than Channel 2’s team.
A lot had happened with Drassi that she hadn’t told Erin. She had moved to Pallass, suffered an assassination attempt by Nerrhavia’s Fallen, become a bigwig and perhaps even a poo-bah, and fought with Sir Relz and Noass until she’d gotten her own channel and team.
Now she was running things, she was determined to prove she was different. So she had more female Drakes and Gnolls on her team—and she had more non-Drakes than Channel 1 by far.
Her best [Camera Gnoll], for instance, was Kohr, and she even had a Dullahan [Reporter] as well as a Garuda who flew overwatch during football games and could fly to other events. She didn’t have an international team—yet—but it was the one Dullahan, a younger man named Theice who spoke to her.
“Theice?”
He had polished up his bright yellow armor for today, and his hair was combed sideways in a slick look. The [Reporter] spoke up. He was highest-level but for her, already Level 22.
“Miss Tewing, I think I should do this interview.”
“Theice, why in the name of the Ancestors would I let that happen? This is my story. I nearly threw Noass off the 6th Floor for it.”
Drassi was nervous and almost glad for the delay getting to Liscor, because this was it. She’d blocked off her time slot, and she had one of her assistants, Mbena, another Gnoll who’d reported on the Meeting of Tribes, leading her up to this.
They had fifteen minutes, and this was not the moment. But Theice had been arguing for this all morning and last night. Drassi glowered at him.
He was good—but ambitious, and as the lone Dullahan in any broadcasting class, he had pushed for more ‘slots’ of time to report on Dullahan and Balerosian issues. Him wanting to take over this though?
The Dullahan was straightforward in his arguments, which his people liked.
“I should report instead of you, Miss Tewing. Or rather, you should recuse yourself. You are Erin Solstice’s friend.”
“And?”
Drassi felt a twinge in her heart as she fiddled with the microphone that delivered clear sound. So odd how many ideas had come from Wistram, as if they knew how this should look. She had suspicions why, and Selys knew…
Drassi didn’t like the feeling in the back of her mind. She had talked to Rémi Canada and realized that this thing she had done for fun was deeper than she thought. When she had first run into the studio to argue with Relz and Noass on camera—she hadn’t thought she might one day be in the same spot.
“If you are interviewing Erin Solstice, you are biased.”
“I know her. That’s not the same.”
“How can you be sure you’ll ask her the right questions and not protect her?”
The Drake and Dullahan began arguing as the Channel 2 crew watched them debate fiercely. Drassi’s tail lashed, and Theice went on.
“I should do this. I wrote up the questions with you—I have the levels.”
“Why would I let you do one of the most defining pieces of—of journalism in the history of television?”
Drassi snapped, flushed because she didn’t quite have an answer to the bias she knew she had for Erin. She narrowed her eyes at Theice, and he had a reply.
“Because I’m a Dullahan. And if Channel 2—if Wistram News Network is more than a Drake-run organization, I should do it.”
She opened her mouth, and he hurried on.
“You include us and let us do our parts—but that’s not the same as having someone besides a Drake in charge. Liscor is a Drake city. I’m from Pallass and not a Drake or a Gnoll or a Human. I’m impartial, compared to you. Let me ask the questions. If you make one mistake—you’ll ruin Erin Solstice’s interview because people will say you were biased. If I make a mistake—it’s on me, but it doesn’t harm the [Innkeeper].”
How long had he been waiting for this? Saving the argument about a Dullahan or a non-Drake taking the lead? Kohr looked ready to kick Theice, and half the crew were lining up for their shot. But the other half…were watching Drassi.
The Drake took a deep breath and then another. And every instinct in her chest wanted to be the one. Her [Gossip] class…
She was a [Reporter] now. More than that? The Drake closed her eyes, and the [Honest Journalist] she had become slowly handed the microphone over.
“I’m going to lead you in—and if Erin objects, I’ll take over. Read off the questions, and if you make her mad, so help you Chaldion.”
Theice swallowed hard—then began further polishing his armor as the makeup team swirled around him and Drassi began going over the questions. And she was watching Theice. Because Drassi was a Level 34 [Honest Journalist].
No more the [Gossip] who could [Provoke Scandalous Admission]. No more the [Honest Reporter] who had [Projection of Honesty] and [Safety Zone].
She was the [Honest Journalist]…and her eyes narrowed as her latest Skill, gained from yesterday’s coverage, spoke to her.
[Ears: The Words Unspoken]. Drassi heard Theice not saying the final part.
“They’ll replace you if you don’t let me take over.”
She slowly raised a brow and looked at one of her people, then stepped back as Theice prepared for his big moment. A young Gnoll edged over, and Drassi bent over to have a very quiet [Private Conversation].
But of course—this was just Drassi’s life. And she only reported on the news. What interesting things would ever happen to a [Journalist]?
 
——
 
“An interview?”
Erin Solstice’s face wasn’t the most welcoming—and that was before Drassi told her it wouldn’t be her doing the interviewing.
Nor did the Drake look happy about it, but she said the same thing as yesterday.
“It’s time for it, Erin. It’s beyond time, really. Everyone wants to know—just who you are. I asked you yesterday about it, and you told me you were ready. Is this too soon?”
The [Innkeeper] looked at Drassi, and she exhaled.
“N—I mean—I can’t walk. And I hate interviews and stuff like that. I always get nervous and sweaty, and I stumble over my words and make a huge fool of myself. Do I hafta?”
If you were someone who paid attention to language, the prepositions and tenses of what Erin Solstice said—were fascinating.
“You were on television back home? When?”
Ironically, Inkar was the one who had studied enough of language to understand what a preposition was—but she was just observant to begin with.
Erin waved a hand at her.
“Chess stuff. Whatddya think? I was also featured in a news article because I was lined up to buy Harry Potter at midnight when the sixth book came out.”
“Wh—you did that too?”
Kevin raised a hand to high-five Erin. Joseph muttered under his breath.
“Nerds.”
Kevin tossed a napkin at him. Ryoka smacked it down and offered Joseph a high five. Theirs was more awkward.
They were—different than how they’d been. More relaxed, more confident—but Erin was still Erin. She knew she should do this, but her tone and her reluctance?
For once, it was Drassi, the kindly Drake, who pushed back. She looked Erin in the eyes, put her claws on her hips, and spoke.
“Erin. If you’re not ready, I totally get that. And—I have to warn you, Theice is going to be a reporter and ask you hard questions. But if it’s just reluctance—I get that. It’s scary. But many people would die for a chance like yours. To be someone people want to know? It’s an honor. You don’t have to do it—but it is an honor.”
She looked Erin in the face, and the [Innkeeper] didn’t flush or stammer. Possibly, she was too tired, but Erin Solstice’s chin rose, just like a [Lady] had once shown her how to do.
The echoes were there, and Magnolia Reinhart’s servant, paused in the doorway, saw it. Reynold saw Erin nod to Drassi slowly.
A little lamb saw it. Lyonette, Mrsha, the other Earthers and guests saw Erin push herself away from the table. She managed about an inch, but pointed towards the [Grand Theatre].
“I know, Drassi. I’m ready. Over there, I think. We’ll draw the curtain up so we can have some privacy. What am I doing? Just talking…?”
She looked ready. She had always been something—for few people had ever asked Reynold’s name. As the [Butler] walked across the inn’s floor, his magical legs glittering in the light, he was sure he would watch that interview’s recording. For now—he took a seat and waited.
He had a job, and he wanted to be here. Hopefully, he’d see most of it.
 
——
 
This is what they saw. As a fuming Orchestra continued on their travels, far and wide, wherever a scrying orb’s magic could be reached, Erin Solstice’s face filled the orb.
Barnethei was eying a very fake-looking badge in the shape of a crossed spoon and fork over too-bright metal.
“I’ve heard of Runner’s Guilds, Birdwatcher’s Association, Ratter’s Guilds, but seriously? A Gourmet’s Guild? You do know the bread is free, right?”
He ushered someone to a table, rolling his eyes and refusing the request for a full meal. This was as bad as the hungry, hungry Goblin with the big mouth.
Everyone was watching Drassi introduce the Dullahan and [Innkeeper], and it was hard to say which one was more nervous. Barnethei fetched a basket of bread and carried it over as Drassi’s voice echoed across the Haven.
Sammial was sitting with his father, Jericha, Ullim, and Lord Alman Sanito and his family were watching a familiar face.
A [Lady] was trying to remove her things as she argued with Larracel.
“I have found—other accommodations. I don’t need the room, thank you. Nor do I need to stay in the Haven during my extended stay.”
Lady Pryde began to stride away when she heard Drassi speaking.
“—Erin Solstice.”
The [Lady of Pride] slowed, and there Erin Solstice was.
 
——
 
Cara O’Sullivan was listening with all her heart. So were Aaron Vanwell, Tom, and at least one Geneva. The Titan, Fraerlings, countless nations who knew her or whose rulers had somehow interacted with Erin were all watching.
“You’ve seen her playing chess. You’ve all heard, I’m sure, about her <Quests>. Savvy viewers might remember that Erin’s inn was attacked in one of the first broadcasts ever shown around the world. Well—it’s beyond time we asked the [Innkeeper] about herself. Erin is the owner of The Wandering Inn, a building just outside of Liscor. Before I turn you over to Theice, I will just say that Erin was the person who helped me land this job as a [Reporter] on Wistram News Network.”
Drassi took a breath as Rémi Canada listened to her. Wondering if she would say the right thing. Because…even in their vaunted industry, it was hard and rare to tell the truth well. The Drake looked him in the eyes, straight out of the scrying orb.
“I would dearly love to be the one interviewing Erin, but that would be a conflict of interest. More importantly? I’m a Liscorian. I’m a Drake, and Theice is our Dullahan correspondent. A Pallassian, a member of Izril—but if this is Wistram News Network, it should be more than Drakes covering the most important stories. That’s all. Theice?”
A Dullahan shuffled some papers together and cleared his throat in a time-honored way. He spoke with a slight bit of nervousness warbling in his voice, but his head was steady as it faced the camera and swiveled to Erin.
