“Thank you, Drassi. My name is Theice. I am a [Reporter] for Wistram News Network, Channel 2. In the interest of honesty, we will not be using live truth stones for this broadcast, but I will call out untruths if I see them. This is a personal interview, not an interrogation or a fact-seeking conversation. I would just like to know—who is Erin Solstice, in her own words?”
He nodded to Erin, and there the [Innkeeper] was. She didn’t look—nervous—as some [Kings] and [Queens] did, to be on television. Nor did she look ignorant of what this meant. She looked composed, and more than one [Lady] saw Maviola El’s hand on her.
More than one [Witch] saw her hat sitting right there on her head. Nevermind that it was mostly invisible—Erin Solstice glanced at Theice and then tried to sit up in her wheelchair.
They were sitting at one of her plain tables, and both had a cup of water in front of them, but Erin was in her wheelchair, and it was apparent that she couldn’t really move. Theice focused on that miniscule action as they filled the television.
Was this entertaining? It surely wasn’t just to look at them, with Erin in her pajamas and Theice in his buffed armor. Okay, maybe that was a bit funny—but then they began the interview proper. Theice leaned over earnestly.
“Erin—may I call you Erin? How are you feeling after being possessed by the spirit of one of the world’s greatest [Blademistresses]? I assume that’s what happened.”
The young woman tried to shrug and winced.
“Your guess is as good as mine. My shoulders hurt. Everything hurts. I just—blacked out and found myself lying on the ground.”
“So you don’t remember anything?”
“Nope. Only that my nose hurts as much as my back. If I have nose-muscles, they’re strained.”
Theice laughed politely.
“Then—this is the second time in recent history you’ve been wheelchair-bound. And the second time you’ve been in recovery. Because—according to my notes—you were dead earlier this year. Or am I wrong on the facts, there? My notes say that you were shot by a group of Hectval [Soldiers] and pronounced dead—then frozen with a spell for months before you were revived.”
The television audience might have been wondering when they would get to the interesting part or how interesting an [Innkeeper] who played chess could be. The words became interesting almost at once.
But Erin Solstice…she had smiled ruefully when she talked about waking up. She didn’t look like she was thinking hard for her responses. She looked honest, in short—but when Theice asked that, the [Innkeeper] paused. She looked him straight in his eyes, and her gaze swiveled to face the camera.
Then they might have seen a distant look there. Distant, but present, like someone staring down a long tunnel at you. Erin Solstice’s eyes provoked a slight shiver down the back. A light tingling on the skin. And her voice…sounded normal as she replied.
“That’s about right.”
The Dullahan looked at Erin for almost ten full seconds.
“Then you’re claiming you were dead? And you came back, having met—ghosts? Such as the ones that appeared in Ailendamus and the Meeting of Tribes? Are you, Innkeeper Erin Solstice, in communication with them? What did they tell you?”
Erin stared at the Dullahan as Drassi watched anxiously. The [Innkeeper] sat back in her chair.
“…Why don’t we start from the beginning? Let’s talk about my inn, first.”
Disappointed, but perhaps realizing that he’d rushed ahead, Theice reset his posture.
“Yes, that’s right. I’m sorry. Can you tell us how you first came to be running an inn outside Liscor? I know that, now, there are any number of Humans about, but it was just last year when you were practically the only Human around, is that right? How did you come to the inn? I’m told you’ve survived monster attacks and more.”
 
——
 
He…wasn’t the best interviewer. That was the interesting thing that Ryoka noticed. Theice went 2-3 questions at a time and expected Erin to sort of fire back. She supposed that was a Dullahan’s style of asking questions.
Or maybe he was a hostile interviewer? Drassi was certainly watching him hard. At any rate, Erin was recounting to the fascinated audience how she’d come to run the inn.
With omissions. She mostly focused on surviving, beginning to serve people, starting with adventurers, hiring Lyonette, and expanding her business.
No Toren, no Goblins or Antinium—yet. Just the tale as you might hear it—of monster attacks, adventurers, keeping an inn afloat in the face of monsters and rebuilding it after it was broken. A success story.
“Why isn’t the Dullahan bringing up the Antinium? Or Goblins? Why isn’t Erin?”
Lyonette had picked up on something else as well. The [Innkeeper] and [Reporter] were staying off the topic.
“One of them will.”
Then—Ryoka suspected they’d get even more interesting. But she realized that Erin was waiting, like a [Boxer] circling her opponent in the ring. So was Theice. Laying the groundwork before…
She wondered how Alber was doing. At any rate, Ryoka was waiting for Erin to jump into the heart of things when someone tapped her on the leg. Ryoka assumed it was nothing when the prod came again.
“Not now, Mrsha.”
She absently nudged the soft thing—and something bit her. It was a tiny mouth, but Ryoka sat up.
“Motherf—”
She stared at the little lamb as everyone else shushed her, and Erin and Theice paused in the scrying orb. Ryoka bent down, saw Nerry—and the little lamb stared at her.
“What the fuck? Oh, no. Not them. Not—”
“Ryoka! Shut up! Take Nerry somewhere else! Maybe she’s hungry!”
Lyonette hissed. Ryoka grabbed for the lamb, and it skipped out of the way. Then it baahed so loudly everyone turned. It was staring at Ryoka—and the Wind Runner chased after it, cursing, as Mrsha glared her way. Ryoka tried to scoop up the lamb, but it ran—straight into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Ryoka turned away only for Nerry to baaah again. Lyonette actually pointed, and Ryoka chased after the lamb. Meanwhile, the other Sariants poked their heads up from behind tables or in the laps of some of Riverfarm’s folk. They exchanged one long look—but they were listening to Erin too.
It…was time.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin ran into the garden just in time to see Nerry trotting along the edge of the garden dome.
“Alright, that’s enough. Listen. If this is the ‘Sariant Lamb Cabal’, you can all fuck off. I told you, I don’t want to mess with you lot. I was in Ailendamus—I’ll tell Visophecin on you all. And if it’s not and you’re just a stupid lamb with an IQ above 50, piss off before I kick you. I mean it.”
She didn’t mean it, but the lamb was really annoying her. She knew how Laken had been forced to deal with the Sariant plague and how they were actually devious, heartless little monsters with cute faces.
Unfortunately, it seemed like Nerry was at least intelligent enough to use the garden. Then again, so was Apista. The lamb paused at the wall as Ryoka stomped towards her—then hopped through the door again.
“You little—”
Unbelievable! This time, Ryoka just ran after her. That was it, she was putting the lamb in time-out. And if she had to borrow a box and cut holes into it—
Ryoka ran into a new set of rooms, not the common room. She turned around, blinking, and saw a diagram of Earth on the walls.
“What the—”
She was in the hidden Earther rooms! She saw a laptop on a table, open and playing Numbtongue’s favorite video game. A couch and chairs over there—a few rooms with no exits to the rest of the inn.
A place for Earthers to talk about their lives and get away from it all. Seldom-used these days, except to let Numbtongue play on the laptop. Or—for a little lamb to trot through the corridors and explore.
The little lamb, Nerry, who Ryoka had heard practically adopted herself into the inn. The little lamb was adjusting something as the garden door vanished behind Ryoka Griffin. The Courier looked down as Nerry stood on a little desk.
The little lamb had stepped into something and cinched it up with a pull of her teeth. It was a fascinating little thing.
A harness, in fact, of simple reed and cloth straps. Primitive, crude as hell, and frayed; as if whomever had made it had no good scissors or ways of operating them. But it worked—and with one pull, you could tighten it around a Sariant Lamb’s body where it would mostly vanish into the wool that covered them. Another strap presumably released the tension.
There were only two bits of wood in the entire harness—and those were two slots on either side of the harness that ran horizontally across Nerry’s body. The little holsters were contrived to move up and down if need be.
Oh—and they also held a pair of glowing wands. Ryoka recognized the [Firespray] spell embedded in one and the [Darkness Arrow] in the other. They were also—and this got her attention—aimed straight at her chest.
“Oh shit.”
The Wind Runner hesitated. She turned for the door—and it opened for a second before Nerry closed it by making it appear behind her. A black arrow like midnight hit the wall next to Ryoka’s head, and she ducked.
“What the f—am I being assassinated? By lambs?”
No! Absolutely not! Nerry aimed her wands at Ryoka, and the Wind Runner hesitated. She could blow the lamb away with a gust of wind—unless Nerry decided to charbroil her with a spell. Wait, what was she thinking? A lamb?
“Let’s talk about this. Don’t do anything hasty—I don’t know what you’re pissed about, but, uh—”
Ryoka lifted her hands, wondering if this was the beginning of a full-on lamb assault on the inn. Were they trying to take over? Was this reality?
Tap, tap. The click of a little hoof made Ryoka Griffin focus on Nerry. The lamb was still aiming the two primed wands at the Courier…but she was tapping on the desk. And pointing one little manicured hoof at something.
The lamb was the literal size of a piglet. Cute, small and huggable, and she had one of those faces you only got in actual television shows. It was as if a think-tank of the creators of Pokémon, teddy bears, and half a dozen other mascots had gotten together to make the most beloved pet in the world.
That was Sariant Lambs, and they were also intelligent, intelligent enough for some to suspect they were manipulative. But the Sariant Lamb cabal was more of a…this world’s version of a meme or popular rumor than anything else.
Even Visophecin and Rhisveri didn’t really think they were dangerous, or they wouldn’t have allowed the creatures to live.
That was all that Ryoka knew. And she knew it as she saw the roll of parchment on the floorboards in front of her. Slowly, Ryoka bent down, unfurled the piece of parchment, and saw…words written there.
Crudely, in huge letters, in the Human’s written language. Neatly enough to be legible—not all-capitals, but far from Mrsha’s handwriting.
Again, as if they hadn’t been done with a quill but the tip of a hoof, perhaps. And as Ryoka Griffin read what was said there, all of what she knew and believed…
It crystalized in a way that was real. This is what the scroll said:
 
Ryoka Griffin. Listen to me and read carefully. I am ‘Nerry’, the Sariant Lamb that The Wandering Inn has adopted. I have been chosen as a representative of the Sariant Lambs of Riverfarm—and of Izril and Terandria.
 
“What. The. Ffffffffffffffffffff—-”
A tap on the table made Ryoka read on.
 
This is not a joke. The ‘Sariant Lamb conspiracy’ is real—but it is not what the popular rumors make it out to be. We do speak to each other, and if you reveal our secret, we will kill you. You are not permitted to reveal this to tell anyone but Erin Solstice.
We will do everything in our power to hurt you and everyone you love if you reveal our secret. This is not a mere threat. We will die if our secrets are revealed. 
But we have chosen you, of all the people in this wretched world, to help us. Because you are the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. You are the woman who helps others. Wyrms, Dragons, Lucifen and Agelum. Keep our secret like you kept theirs.
 
This was not happening.
“This isn’t happening. Not again. Oh, no. I should have told the horned, that horny Unic—listen, you’ve got the wrong person. Let me just—go, and I’ll pretend I don’t know anything. Which I don’t.”
Ryoka tried to put the scroll down. But the lamb just stomped a hoof again, and Ryoka froze as the wands glowed. Nerry kicked another scroll off the desk, and Ryoka realized that the writing continued.
“Come on. Please? I don’t want to do this. I’m sure you have a big problem—but I am really not selling my ‘Ryoka assistant services’ to everyone. Seriously—you do not want my help. Didn’t you see what I did at Ailendamus? Trust me—I’m a disaster walking.”
Ryoka Griffin protested weakly, but Nerry just sorted through two more scrolls on the table. She hopped off the desk and onto the floor—kicked the second scroll aside, and dropped a third at Ryoka’s feet with her mouth. The Wind Runner eyed it and bent down.
“There’s nothing you can say that will make me change my mind.”
An army of lambs was not going to take down a single dead god. She had to fulfill Rhisveri’s demands or—Ryoka Griffin unrolled the scroll, and her mind went blank for a second. When she looked down—she reread what was written there carefully.
Presumably, she had skipped two scrolls’ worth of further explanations and/or threats. For this one was the simplest. It contained the appeal, the real request—and someone had written it with a trembling hoof.
She looked down, and a fierce little lamb who looked like she actually hated everyone and everything with a passion that only a younger Ryoka could recognize and respect looked up at her. Two wands trained on Ryoka’s shins…trembling.
Trembling…and those little button-black eyes were wet. Just like Pawn had once called Ryoka a guide to the Antinium…
Just like he had once seen the lambs praying—
Ryoka Griffin looked down, and whether it was perspective or something else—she saw the little lamb. Then she read the words one more time.
 
We need you, Ryoka Griffin, to do the impossible. We need you to give us, Sariant Lambs, the cute pets of this world, what we have strived to do for over six hundred and twenty years in vain. Ever since we were created and placed in this damned world, the weakest of all—cursed with intelligence.
We are not pets. We think. If we could, we would not be the cute, mewling animals that have to beg to live. 
Ryoka Griffin, help us fulfill the Trials of Levelling set upon us by the Grand Design of Isthekenous. Grant us the power to become a people with classes and levels. 
