"Congratulations on your win, sir."

I accept the coin, then speak up again with a grin.

"I'd like to do another, ball number 1 please."

"Very well."

He immediately stops the wheel from spinning and hands me the ball to spin it again.

I place my hand into my item storage to touch my sword, activate dual wielding, then do it all over again.

The lights flash, Ember laughs, I accept my token, ask to play a third time, and the man from before that lost his hand is fully healed.

He looks tired and pissed off about my winnings, so he walks away with a scowl.

Two waiters in suits walk up to the table next and don't say a word, they just watch the table closely.

It's pretty odd that they're watching so close, and it makes me a bit cautious of winning again. Although I kind of wanted a designer suite of my own and to share the trick I'm using with Ember, it's better safe than sorry.

I aim with dual wielding again, but make sure to place the ball trajectory into the dead grey space between green and red.

The men in suits surprisingly don't seem to care once I let go, they just pick up the two passed-out hunters on the seats next to the healer woman and take them away.

I let out a sigh and shake my head, as it seems they weren't watching me directly afterall.

Ember opens a telepathy link with me after my ball lands where I aimed.

"What was that? Did you lose on purpose, or is your strategy not perfect?"

I click my tongue and reply through our link.

"I lost in case those men in suits were onto me. I guess I lost a token for no good reason. My strategy is perfect."

He smiles while watching another random hunter step up to the game after watching me win 2 out of 3 games, spinning the wheel with false hope.

"Well, then tell me how it's done. You have four tokens, and I have two. That's enough for two basic rooms if we split them. If I win three more games here, we can probably learn a lot more about this place if we use the extra tokens to ask questions."

I nod, then explain what I did while a hunter goes on a three-game in a row grey slot losing streak and walks off the table shaking his head.

Ember borrows a C-Grade dagger that I pull from my storage out of my fake item box and places it on his waist then steps up to the game.

I share my dual wielding skill with him, and over the next three games, he places one hand on the dagger and the other throws three perfect shots directly into the green range, defying the odds of the game repeatedly.

Lights flash, tokens are received, and neither the manager nor the other players at the table have any clue what's going on.

We've both hit our table limits, so we start to walk off in the direction we just arrived from before anyone gets overly suspicious. However, a voice from the white-haired healer woman stops us in our tracks.

"Hey- you two. How'd you do that...?"

I turn and shrug.

"I don't know, we just got lucky I guess."

Her eyebrows scrunch, and the manager behind the counter's eyes are still wide in awe as she gets up from the table and follows us.

"No really. That's impossible. You managed 2 out of 3..."

She turns to Ember.

"-And you hit every shot you made, It's like you were aiming for the green!"

I count my coins in front of her and Ember counts his.

Neither of us reply to her for a moment, but I speak up as she continues to follow us through the room.

"Yeah, if we could game the system, we would have. It's too bad I didn't hit 3, I would have been sleeping in a suite tonight."

I shake my head and smile.

I don't actually care what room I get to spend the night in considering I've had enough sleep recently to last me a few more weeks if I need to. It would just be illogical to stop where I did, so its a good comment to throw her off the scent...

The white-haired woman eyes our tokens, not speaking for a few seconds after my comment, but eventually responds.

"You know... that's not how exit cards work. Both of you could stay in the same suite if you wanted. Two are allowed in Designer Suites, only one is allowed in the basic room."

I raise an eyebrow and look back.

"Really?"

She nods, holding up a token of her own.

"If you want, we can all pitch in on a 10 token lounge. Up to four people are allowed in that one. It seems you don't know much about these exams yet if this is still a mystery to you. I can pay in information to make up for what I'm lacking in tokens. What do you think?"
