She stared into the storm, saying, “When he took Storm’s Edge, Nothanganathor left Tiza there specifically to accomplish many things, from a taunt, to a corruption of purpose, to a weakening and a strengthening in turn. The annihilation of the liches of Quintlan solidified that strengthening. I have a new domain over the metal of this Genesis-made world... And yet, it is not who I am.” She was silent for a while. Erick let her have her silence; the roar of the ocean and the storm was enough to fill the space. And then Sininindi said, “I used to be a lot bigger, Erick. Stronger. I feel I am finally gaining back something of my true self, and yet the pill contains poison right alongside power.” She moved on, “But I suppose you don’t need to hear about that right now. You’re working.”

“Right now I’m working with you. How are you feeling, Sininindi?”

Sininindi huffed a laugh that echoed across the entire storm. Lightning filled the world. An ocean roared and tornadoes formed, and then Sininindi’s laugh turned pained. The world cried with her, and rain fell in a deluge to rival the pouring ocean.

“I had a son! Everbless is gone!” she cried, “I had a people! I saw the world ahead and saw it was good. But it was all a trick! I don’t know where the trick begins or ends, so now all I want is him gone.” She pulled back. She evaluated herself. “This is a poison, Erick. What he has done to me. This hate he has infected me with is an evil in every sense of the word. It twists my very being upon an unfamiliar axis. A thousand years ago we would have called this a Darkening, but it was never a Darkening, was it? It was a Malevolencing.

“I need to be not-this, Erick, and yet I see that there is power here.” She waved a hand and the prominence of black adamantium at her right side twisted even more, lengthening into a straight spear. Lightning never stopped lashing against the tip of that spear… And then the spear folded and bent, twisted into a length of hatred that was less than usable. Sininindi scowled. “It is a power that is unfamiliar, which I see strength within, and yet I wonder if it is a power that I want to grasp at all.” She looked at Erick. “Adamantium should not be this easy to move. This should be Rozeta’s power, and yet it is somehow mine. The breaking of the world with a grand storm did that. All Nothanganathor has to do is corrupt a different version of myself into his minion and Nothanganathor will use those twisted mirrors to take down Fenrir and all of Veird. Like a repro of a god, turned to Malevolent purpose.”

Amid the storm and lightning and crashing ocean, Erick calmly said, “Let’s talk about that.”

Sininindi breathed. She looked to Erick, to judge if he was seeking to destroy her, or if the tone she heard was a true tone of help. And then she decided it didn’t matter, and she needed to speak anyway.

She started talking.

It wasn’t a long talk. The storm raged all around them, drowning out every word, even here at the center of it all, but Erick still heard just fine. Sininindi spoke of a life in another time and place, and of the trials that raised her toward a Spark of the Storm, and of how a God of Magic raised her to full divinity long, long ago. She had been a mother of oceans, a creator of hurricanes that wiped away worlds, a settler of seas and civilization beyond those seas. She had been tricked by countless people long before Nothanganathor ever came along. She had been beaten before. And then, among her most cherished memories, she had risen again in the eyes of little girls and boys who stood at their parents’ sides and watched the clouds roll in. Those times had been times of change, and being ‘lesser’ for a while. But she had grown out of those trials stronger than ever.

And yet, she had never been so thoroughly captured before. Made to dance to another’s tune.

“The rage is coming out again, Erick,” Sininindi finally said, “It is transformative. All the world has seen a storm and all the world wishes safety from that storm, but safety is a lie and I cannot guide anyone through this storm. It is beyond me. It is beyond any of us, for we are all so small and useless.”

Moments passed in relative silence.

Erick judged the moment paused enough, so he broke the silence, “I will make this world believe that better days are coming, because I know that better days are coming. I can’t offer much more than platitudes to you right now, but belief and hope is enough to begin to angle a world toward a better future, where actions create and forge better possibilities out of infinity. You’re being reforged, Sininindi, same as all of us. So how would you like me to appear to people, to speak on your behalf? Who do you want to be in the universe to come?” Erick gestured at the storm and the falling ocean and the black adamantium and the lightning, and then he moved that open gesture to Sininindi, and conjured forth a Benevolent crystal of [Terraforming]. The white crystal raged with contained power. “How about a Benevolent storm of creation?”

Sininindi looked at the crystal with barely-disguised want. And then she looked at Erick. “You’re not worried I would be used against you?”

“Would you like me to lie, or would you like the more comfortable truth that I’m willing to believe that you are an ally, because you are an ally?”

Sininindi’s eyes flickered with sparks and squalls.

And then she laughed once, and it was the release of a bitter, great tension.

Sininindi took the crystal, and said, “I choose to believe in you, too.”

Erick smiled a little. And then he asked, “How would you like the PR campaign to look?”

Sininindi said, “I believe in you Erick. Make of it what you will.”

“Then that is what I will do.”

- - - -

Days passed in rapid work to repair the world.

Erick met with Zolan and his Overseers of the House, and they were all thrilled that he was back. Zolan was having memory problems before Erick showed up, but that was due to some insidious sort of Malevolence that had infected him and kept him fucked up. The Day of Clouds removed that infection from him, and from many others, like Grand Elder Matriarch Lingxing, of Clan Void Song; Nirzir’s grandmother. All the world was healing now that the magical tumors were gone and normal Script-based healing could keep those tumors gone.

After the meeting with the Overseers, Erick had a private meeting with Kiri.

Gatemaster Kiri hugged Erick for a while, and Erick hugged her back. She whispered against his chest, “Welcome back, Erick.”

Erick smiled, saying, “Glad to be back. You ready to work on repairing the network?”

Kiri chuckled and then pulled back, her green eyes shimmering brightly. “Absolutely. I still can’t believe that Nothanganathor infiltrated Benevolence Itself down in Nergal and in the upper spheres. Do you know how he did that?”

“A corruption of Authority at the edges that simply went unnoticed due to a multiversal fact that among infinity, anything is possible.” Erick said, “But some things are so highly improbable that they might as well be impossible. Infiltration of Benevolence is one of them.” And then Erick painted a few diagrams into the air of new gate switching mechanisms, and said, “Yggdrasil has some good inputs on some new switch mechanisms that will work better than our current designs— as of 2 years ago, of course. If you haven’t made any other new gate-switch mechanisms, I want to implement these.” He handed Kiri a book that he plucked out of Elsewhere. “It’s all detailed here.”

Kiri eagerly took the book, flipping through it, her eyes going wide. “… Oh.” She closed the book and handed it back, asking, “Let’s do that. I also want to know more about that Awakening Machine that has Quilatalap so interested. Can they be repaired?”

Erick winced. “The Day of Clouds kinda fucked up that stuff, but my engineers tell me it’s repairable. I barely know anything about all that. Even the idea of it is kinda weird. It somehow ‘clarifies resons’ in a person, ‘awakening’ them to possibilities. Intellectually, emotionally, and in an ambition-related sort of way, the people that go into the machine are the exact same that come out. But the soul is refined somehow.” Erick shrugged. “Everyone reports having a clearer vision of their purposes in life, too.”

Kiri said, “I’m sure Quilatalap will figure it out. Let’s get to metal carving? And you can help me ferry people across the world for the Blue Corps and the civilization efforts to repair what the Day of Clouds broke. The Crossing is almost back up, so we’re already getting lots of [Telepathy] calls of people stranded and in distress.”

The news of people in distress was expected and painful, but Erick liked what he was seeing with Kiri being this much in charge. She had grown well into her chosen station of power. Erick went along with her desires, saying, “At your service, Gatemaster.”

Kiri chuckled.

And then they got to work inside [Hasted Shelter]s, making gate switches, taking breaks to respond to emergencies here and there.

One of those emergencies was a Claw attack on the outermost sphere of Veird.

It was a testing attack, of course. The Claws appeared all around the entire outer surface of Veird, above the silver, reflective metal that used to belong to the Silver Star, to Koyabez’s afterlife. That silver surface was destroyed and repaired on the daily by a constant hail of Nothor Beasts that mostly reflected away, but Claws could actually punch through the new Edge of the Script when they tried.

Erick responded to the attack with the same solution as last time; the dungeon city full of time-dilated monsters and life, the Script increasing the mana production of the site, and a [Benevolent Cleanse] [Spellsurge Weave] leading the way against the Red. It was a great solution, and this time they didn’t kill everything with vastly-increased mana generation; normal generation was more than enough.

The solution worked the same as it did last time, even as 10,000 Claws descended against the Silver Surface of Veird. It went exactly as Erick expected it to go, with his solution working and the Red evaporating into 10,000 different shatterings of re-balanced mana. That ‘10,000’ number was not an approximation, though. It was an exact number.

Nothanganathor’s attack was simply a testing probe. Real attacks did not come in such round numbers.

Anyway. Nothanganathor’s attack failed. The attack did not reach through to the Weaver site. It did not leave behind corruptive magics or Elements. It was simply a thing that happened, took 10 minutes to stop, and then Erick went back to repairing the Gate Network.

Rozeta stood with Erick on the lake in the center of Cloud City, as people were calling it. The Weaver map evaporated as Erick crushed it away to cancel its power, and white fragments passed away into the manasphere. Rozeta frowned at the situation, when it was over. She asked, “What was his goal?”

Erick shrugged. “To be an asshole?”

Rozeta frowned at Erick. “I know you make jokes in tense situations, but please, Erick.”

Erick laughed once. And then he looked around at his Cloud City, saying, “The place remains intact this time, since you didn’t need to do a whole lot to make the power flow properly, and I didn’t need to do a lot to make the Red problem go away. But this does bring me to an important thing: I need to know how to absorb un-intentioned mana from the environment, because, while I might have billions of mana and resons right now, that attack required around 5,500,000 mana and over 110,000 resons. The Day of Clouds cost billions of both. I’m not sure how much mana it cost Veird at all. I’m guessing trillions?”

Roseta hummed, then said, “A lot more than that.” She went silent in thought. She said, “The problem with environmental mana is that it often costs a lot more to take it in and make it a part of your own mana than it does to take in the intentioned-mana that resides inside of a person. It’s like… Eating a cooked potato is like Draining intentioned mana, but to eat ambient mana you have to grow the potato from a seed, first. You can do it, but doing that strains the soul…” She paused. She said, “You could probably figure out how to do it with your Mana Siphon, but it would require concentrated work the entire time… And… Uh. About that. Sorry about ‘nerfing’ your Siphon, as Jane likes to say.”

Erick chuckled. “Don’t worry about it.” Erick moved on, “So I know of a few people who do ambient-mana reclamation. Syllea, a few Witchhunters. All of them orcols because of the accumulation of ambient mana leads to rad formation. Don’t know of any dragons that do ambient mana reclamation— not unless they want to get monsterized. Because therein lies the problem with ambient mana reclamation: It leads directly to monsterization.” Erick asked, “Can True Wizards monsterize?”

“Yes, but you would recognize it if that were happening. I doubt you’d be affected by that issue. In fact, the only ones who I believe should use ambient mana at all are probably True Wizards.” Rozeta said, “Good news on the monsterization front, though: The erasure of Malevolence from Veird has dropped monsterization rates by at least 20%. Most monsterization does occur from various things trying to directly take in mana that doesn’t suit them, but the rate of bad-mana toxicity is down a great deal.” Rozeta said, “But… Anyway, Erick. You just gotta take in mana and make it yours. There’s no real secret to it. It’s hard work. Like carrying around dead weight that you’re trying to make live again. Most people succumb to the weight and falter. Most people don’t have billions of mana already inside them, though.”

Erick thought for a second. “Does the Authority of the Script make it harder to use ambient mana?”

“Nope. The bad side effects of mana accumulation are always mana crystallization, though. One of the reasons I don’t allow mana crystals to exist outside of ensouled rads or cores is because people will try to eat and accrete those pure mana sources and more than likely turn into monsters. That’s why most people in the Painted Cosmology were not mages or anything even close to that. By that same token, mana crystals were how most people accreted quickly and for power back in the Painted Cosmology.” Rozeta added, “You should know I’m not really happy with the idea of it being called the ‘Painted Cosmology’. It still seems wrong somehow.”

Erick smiled at that. “I’m sure it’ll grow on you.”

