“I assume so, too, but Solomon was the one who wanted all that, so I expect him to cleave through that Path as soon as he can. It is highly likely he needs to Ascend to True Wizard first.” Erick asked, “Do you know if he still has the killswitch in him, that I passed off to him?”

“He does,” Melemizargo said, “Rozeta has been rather strict with him, when she could be. It has probably hampered his progress overmuch.”

“Then I’ll need to untangle that web. Thanks for the direction.”

Melemizargo nodded, looking satisfied.

Erick continued, “Step Two is a [Hasted Shelter] for all of Veird. Can I count on your support with that?”

Melemizargo turned serious. “I do not know how Nothanganathor managed to corrupt the worldwide Shelter we imposed last time.” He glanced upward at the rent in the sky, then said, “The hole made by the enemies that struck here is nothing compared to the carving that the white bastard did to Quintlan.”

“I noticed some of that area. I did not linger long. Do you believe that the Day of Clouds and the subsequent magics we put up were enough to end his direct influence on this land? Could our [Shelter] idea work this time, to give us more time to prepare against him?”

Melemizargo said, “We could put our world into a Shelter and this time that Shelter would work, but Nothanganathor corrupted our previous attempt through an infiltration of Malevolence and small divinities, and that was only one of the ways in which he subverted us. He also simply has a larger domain. We could protect the world, but he could Erase an area of the space outside of our world that would be much larger than we can protect; a hundred thousand kilometers across, enveloping all of Veird and much of the space beyond. It would be a day of Sundering in a different sort of way; in an absolute sort of way. I believe that is his true weapon. That is why we must revive the Goddess of Knowledge; to protect ourselves through an Absolute Establishment that we do exist, and that our futures are bigger than Nothanganathor’s.”

Another deep proclamation.

Erick added his own proclamation, “When we win, whatever comes next will be better.”

Melemizargo smirked. “Everything can always be made better, eh?”

Erick smiled. “Exactly.”

There were some more small words about what came next, but Erick was on a schedule and he needed to leave, and Melemizargo recognized that without needing to be told.

Erick departed.

Hopefully the raising of Ascendant Mountain —and perhaps more the talk afterward— would bring the dragon God of Magic out of whatever self-imposed exile he had made for himself, for he clearly felt like this was all his fault. He did not say that, and Erick did not say it either; there were a lot of things left unsaid. From the Mind Mage Mark of the Fractal, to smaller things like Al being a Shade...

None of that needed to be spoken about right now.

Right now, the walls needed to be reinforced.

A lot of people were doing a lot to make that happen.

Primarily, Rozeta was working on implementing [Benevolent Cleanse] further into the Script, while the other gods were now finally able to solidify various weaknesses all around.

The Blue Corps already all had that spell in their Status, and they were all on the front lines right now, out on the outer two shells of Veird; the shells made of Koyabez’s Silver Star. They were doing work. Thanks to the Establishment that Veird existed and the [Benevolent Cleanse], Erick didn’t need to make another Weaver-cleaner, and he did not want to. While he was rather sure that Nothanganathor couldn’t corrupt that magic through normal means, there were always abnormal means available, and there was no need to put out a spell that he wouldn’t be personally attending to all the time; not a spell with so much Elemental Destruction in it, anyway. The Blue Corps did have some of Erick’s [Infinite Imaging] magics, though, to target all the various prominences of Malevolence out there in the world, seeping in from the Edge. Those viewing spells were being watched over by various paladins of various gods to keep them working as intended.

Absolutely everyone was busy.

Some were more busy than others.

Some gods and people had lost hard in the last two years, and were rather more adrift than anything else. Melemizargo had almost been one of those gods. Things had looked really good after FENRIR went up, but then the hopeful future never fully materialized, and Nothor Beasts appeared having already eaten millions of people without most people noticing. Even the gods didn’t notice, because the gods had been corrupted, too.

They didn’t want to admit it, but Malevolence had touched all of them.

Erick had cleaned up a lot of that Red, like [Cleanse]ing cancers from a body, but now there were open wounds, and [Cleanse] was just the first step toward healing the body.

Love what you're reading? Discover and support the author on the platform they originally published on.

- - - -

Erick landed on a tiny island located on the string of islands known as Archipelago Nergal.

This particular island only had a few natural features; white sand beaches, a hill in the center that had a few hardy trees, some big rocks that served as a weather break, and some dune grass. It also had a temple in the shape of a lighthouse, high on the hill. It was a dedication to Sininindi, the Goddess of Sea and Storms. The temple had a garden to the side and a storage space underneath, and a tower with a crystal ball that shone light out into the world, and nothing else.

The lighthouse had one guardian.

Erick settled down on the island, keenly aware that the inhabitant of the island was panicking like a crazy person, her voice raising up and filling the air with expletives, for her goddess had told her that Erick was here to see her. Rapidly, the woman was at a window, looking outside. She had white feathers for hair and an owl mask on her face. She saw Erick standing there on the rocks leading up to the Church of Sininindi.

Tiza Nindi panicked.

Then she collected herself as best she could.

Soon, the Head Priestess of Sininindi was out of her hermit home on the second floor of the church, rushing down the stairs into the main worship area, and then crashing out of the door. She stopped in her tracks, there upon the rocks. She looked at Erick some more.

There was no true recognition on her face. All she saw was the Benevolent Wizard; a person she had never seen before, and never expected to ever see.

There was no memory of all the times she had spoken with Erick about this or that; of her visit to Spur after Erick gave his lesson on Particle Magic, of her calling him an adulterer or making trouble later for Quilatalap in Storm’s Edge.

Storm’s Edge didn’t really exist anymore. Not as it was, anyway.

Almost at the very beginning, after the Day of Genesis, when Solomon sent Erick to FENRIR, Claws and probably a Leviathan had descended onto Storm’s Edge, long before anyone knew what either of those monsters were. The effect had been simple.

Storm’s Edge was gone.

Tiza Nindi smiled wide, exclaiming, “Welcome, Wizard Benevolence— Er— Wizard of… Uh.” Tiza realized she had fucked up somewhere along the line. She tried again. “Welcome, uh, Erick Flatt, or Apparent King? Uh… I don’t got nothing for ya here. Not sure why you’re here— Er…” She went silent. She suddenly exclaimed, “Welcome to Storm’s Edge!”

Storm’s Edge remained.

Reduced to a single island with one church and one priestess. Millions of people gone. The Regency Erased. The center of the Local Area Gate Network of Archipelago Nergal was not here, anymore; It was broken into pieces, with half of the network in Messalina and Destiny’s Freelands, and the other half in Eidolon, the other major city of Continental Nergal.

“Oh! I know why you’re here!” Tiza excitedly asked, “Have you come to pray to Sininindi? She’s a great goddess! Keeps the storms away… Er… Well she’s pretty good, but I guess you summoned a storm the other day, so, uh... Uh… She’s a minor goddess— Oh! You should invite her to the Pantheon! You could do that, right?!”

Erick wasn’t sure where to begin.

So Erick cut to the end, “I’m going to tell people that Sininindi helped with the Day of Clouds, because she did, though you might not have heard. As for the Pantheon, Sininindi is already a part of it.”

Tiza Nindi’s owl eyes went wide behind her mask— And then she scoffed. “I can’t be lying about what happened to the sailors and such that come through here, sir! That’s not how good faith works. I’m the Head Priestess, and I should know!”

“It’s not a lie, Tiza. Maybe people told you you’ve been missing some memories? This is like that. Sininindi is temporarily missing memories, but they’ll come back, I’m sure.” Erick said, “Sininindi helped make the world free of the bad lightning, and that’s the Truth.”

Tiza almost had objections as Erick spoke, showing that she still had some of that absolute spine she used to have while facing overwhelming forces beyond her ability to influence. Her disbelief in Erick was a hint of the person she used to be. Her bullshit-meter went down, though. By the time Erick finished, Tiza had put away her objections and was quietly excited.

Tiza bowed, saying, “Thank you, sir. I don’t know what Sininindi did to deserve this, but I know she did her best.” Tiza rose and tears were in her eyes. “Thank you.”

Erick said, “Take care, Tiza.”

“I will, sir!”

Erick left through a ring of lightning.

Back on the island, Tiza started giggling like a schoolgirl.

And then Tiza shouted out in praise of storms and Sininindi, doing a little dance on the sands of the beach and talking about having some of that expensive beef she had been saving for a special occasion. Nothing was more special than the rise of her goddess! It was time to live like small-island royalty! And maybe she’d have some of that nice wine, too.

Erick didn’t watch her for much longer than that, though he did put some better food into her cold boxes and spruced up the temple when she wasn’t looking.

Erick continued onward to a different beach, in a different part of the world.

- -

A jut of black metal spiraled into an abyss of open air. It was not the only such spiral of dark material; there was a lot of that all over this land. What made this spiral special was that an ocean fell past it on both sides. The roar was incredible. The sights apocalyptic. Warm air met cold air and a storm raged ahead. The roil of clouds and lightning was one of the greatest storms Erick had ever seen this close, and it reminded him a lot of the world-sized [Terraforming] storms that spun across the surface of Fenrir. It had layers upon layers of black and grey clouds, fully enveloping the abyss ahead.

The abyss was the hole formed when the combined forces of the world shattered Quintlan and its Red Liches. The abyss traveled up five spheres of adamantium and down a good thousand kilometers into the stone Underworld of Veird. This particular space was one of the middle layers, just above the former Surface of Veird, made of adamantium. Far ahead and further into the storm, rivers of oceans fell down into clouds, deep into a hole in the world.

The hole was contained to the Fractured Citadels, and not much beyond those lands, but it was still 5,000 kilometers across. Death Throne, that land of liches that Quilatalap knew and had taught, and which had long ago gotten out of control, was no more. Erick had tried to make political gains with them many times, but they were mostly monsters living among monsters. The ones that weren’t monsters were outside of Death Throne, like Zenipeq Frostflower, of Frostflower. That former wraith had been transformed into a Benevolent Dragon long ago; one of the first, actually. Frostflower and its Dragon Queen survived, though the entire center of Quintlan did not.

Rain lashed what remained, and clouds covered most of the destruction.

A woman wrapped in torn cloth and broken, black adamantium, sat on a divot carved out of the black adamantium prominence. That was why Erick had come here, to this space; to meet a woman who was not really anywhere else these days. She had one arm resting on the prominence and the other simply there, on the carving that was her seat. Her bare feet dangled into the storm. Lightning sparked from the tip of the prominence, joining the storm, as an ocean fell past the sides of the lightning rod.

Sininindi shed tears into the rain, though Erick doubted that most people would have been able to see those tears through all the rest of the water. Maybe they would have seen her tiny frown, though.

Erick had never seen the Goddess of Storm and Sea like this before; so obviously mortal in shape and ability. She looked like a normal person. There was no weight to her. She had been diminished, a lot, and that emotional baggage was perhaps the only real weight she had.

Sininindi waved a hand, and the adamantium prominence twisted like the worst nails on a chalkboard that Erick had ever heard, forming another seat at Sininindi’s side. She said, “I didn’t used to be able to move adamantium like that, Erick.”

Erick sat down beside Sininindi, in the newly crafted seat. The rain was cold. The seat sparked with lightning. Erick didn’t mind. He said, “Things change, especially when the vast majority of your real followers are gone, and all that remains are unkind stories told in distant lands about you.”

Sininindi shook her head. “Aye.” She looked to Erick. “I didn’t ask you to do that for Tiza, but… Thank you. But why?”

She was deeply hurt. A lot of things had happened to her while Erick had been away. Erick hadn’t been sure how to approach her, for she was one of the few gods who did not simply show up right away when he was giving out gifts, so he knew something was up.

So Erick chose to approach Sininindi through Tiza.

Erick said, “Because I’m here to help the world and the people therein, and you are one of the people of this world, Sininindi.”

Sininindi breathed out, and it was not in relief; it was a struggle against a dark emotion.

