“That’s just it; I don’t think it will. Have you ever heard Yggdrasil refer to this universe as the ‘Fractal Universe’ outside of when you were talking to him about the subject? No; you did not. ‘Uber-universe’, maybe. ‘Over-universe’, sure. But to reduce the whole thing to a simple name like the ‘Fractal Universe’?” Rozeta shook her head.

Erick smiled at that. “A valid complaint. Come up with a better name, then?” Erick looked around, his senses still on high alert for something untoward from Nothanganathor. “I should probably spend another hour or so here, waiting for the other shoe to drop.” He conjured a bench for him and a bench for her and sat down, as he opened a few tens of portals all around, saying, “We can talk and work.”

Rozeta sat down and crossed one leg over the other as she made her bench more comfortable, saying, “I’m already doing a million other things. Mostly watching the walls. Ever since the Day of Clouds and those new manaminers got installed, the whole Script has been working a lot smoother than I ever thought possible. I thought I was working with a perpetually-failing system that I forced to keep running with literal prayers and hard work, but the system was simply clogged with problems I was unable to see because the Script was unable to see them, too.”

Erick was glad for that. “My friend Poi asked about making the Script stronger like my own crystal self; infinitely dense. I didn’t think it was possible. It’s not possible, right?”

Rozeta shook her head a little. “Not possible. I’ve looked into that specifically. But speaking of Ascensions to True Wizard… You shouldn’t give any more hints to Solomon and Destiny. That truly is something that everyone has to walk on their own, or they’ll get to the top and then find that their foundations are fractured.”

“I likely won’t be helping them any more on that avenue, at least.” Erick said, “I would like Solomon’s kill switch removed, though.”

Rozeta frowned a little. “… I probably should, Erick. He’s still one of father’s repros, though— And I know that’s a touchy subject and you already have objections, but he’s literally not you and no amount of mortal-level choices are going to change that.”

“… I suddenly feel as though you mean something deeper than surface level.”

“ ‘Origin-level’ would be more apt. To simplify it a great deal… Consider the worldline. Yours is your time from when you were born to where you are now. That thread of your life is composed of many different parts, from where you were fully present and the thread is thick, to the parts that passed you by and the thread is thin. Stuff in the past is more solid than stuff in the future. Nothing was fully solid until you became a True Wizard, because before then your body was continually churning through parts that were you and then not-you, as you lived and grew and changed. When you became a True Wizard you turned your worldline ‘thread’ into a solid cable of adamantium. It would be much easier to kill you physically than through any sort of Wizardry and such, so you should keep an eye on that. Trapping is also a danger.”

Erick nodded. “Good advice.”

Rozeta nodded. “As for Solomon and the other repros...

“Every repro started off as a slime born in the Dark. That’s where their worldline begins, and every single repro is very clearly a repro to everyone who knows how to look.” Rozeta said, “It’s like a slime decided to take a spin around your worldline and become a copy of what they saw, while their own personal start is still very clearly in the Dark.”

Erick looked on through tens of different lands, fixing up Gate Networks here and there alongside Kiri, who was doing most of her work with the Blue Corps right now, returning the warriors back to their bases with the engagement called off, her [Familiar] Sunny doing a fantastic job of letting her be in 11 places at once. Erick also considered Rozeta’s words.

Erick said, “I thought that things would have gotten better in the past 2 years with Solomon working the Black Gate and all of that.” Erick looked to her, asking, “What about Ezekiel? That whole plot to have a replacement for me if I would have faltered back then? These people should be treated like people, even if you won’t treat them as you treat me.”

“Don’t get me wrong, Erick.” Rozeta said, “I will absolutely take whatever I can get, but it’s still difficult to trust my father.”

Erick solidly said, “Trust is hard.”

There were a lot of meanings there.

Rozeta caught them all, and rolled her eyes. “Yeah yeah yeah.”
