Ali teleported directly above the pristine front gable that crowned the outside face of the brand-new guild hall, almost complete now, with the crafters simply needing to put the finishing touches on it. Her main contribution had been creating several tons of various types of stone for the crafters and installing the guild’s teleportation runic circles, reconnecting it once again to the Grand Library Arcana.

Having her domain encompass the entire space of the town and the surrounding countryside proved to be remarkably convenient for more than just summoning raw materials for rebuilding. It also had the benefit of allowing her to teleport anywhere with relative impunity, and she had immediately summoned flights of her Glitter Dragonets, and several other affinities she had gained from experimenting at the shrine, spreading them more or less everywhere.

They cost almost nothing, now. She had been surprised to find she could now make more than one hundred and twenty of the swarm creatures per point of mana reservation – and that was without the large discount Domain Mastery applied whenever she bound something to her domain. Of course, the swarm of dragonets was only level one or two, but they were beautiful creatures and really did liven up the very much under-construction town.

It had taken several days, and she was beginning to realize just how much work went into building something like Myrin’s Keep from scratch. There was much more detail to it than, say, reconstructing her Forest Cavern, which was now almost completed. She couldn’t just grow houses like she could grow trees. People complained when there was no door to the bathroom, for example, or that the windows were the wrong shape.

Still, the town was sprouting rapidly under the gruff but skilled care of Murgrid and Belra, and many of the most critical buildings were almost ready. The battlements were complete, now improved with her barriers reinforcing the outside. The garrison headquarters, the town center, the Temple of Lunaré – which gleamed in glorious white marble – and the guild building were all done. The marketplace had been cleared, and the townsfolk had mostly moved their refugee camp into the cleared spaces between the new buildings that were sprouting like weeds in spring, instead of out in the forest.

A bigger, better, and shinier Myrin’s Keep? She sighed. The cost had been too awful to contemplate. When will the trauma for these people end? Can we even defeat the Lich? Ever?

Ali circled downward, flew in through the open doorway that still lacked an actual door, and glided into the guild hall.

“Aah, Aliandra, there you are,” Mieriel said, looking up from her desk, reminding Ali of the first time she had walked in here, full of expectations and wonder, and some trepidation, to join the guild. “Vivian is in the conference room already, and they’re waiting for us.”

As she had done so long ago, she identified the Elf.

Spy – Sun Elf – level 91 (Mind)

Very nice! She might be the guild’s administrator by day, but she must be working hard as the intelligence branch for her to advance so quickly.

“Thank you, Mieriel,” Ali said, flying along behind the elegantly dressed elf as she led the way. The guild had taken the opportunity to expand once again, and even though there were far more people than she was used to – and many new faces – the huge hall did not feel at all crowded. She did take a moment to admire Basil’s work, though, easily recognizable by the traces of his mana on her domain. When constructing the main hall, she had left a circular hole in the center of the floor and planted a Radiant Larch in the middle, tall enough to reach the higher ceiling with its topmost branches. The beautiful light-affinity tree would keep the hall well-lit for the adventurers at all hours of the day or night, but Basil had filled the space among the roots with softly glowing Mystic Bluebells. Along the walls, where she had fashioned planters under his guidance, he had grown domain-attached flowers of all kinds. She recognized the Arc Lilies softly sparking, Lunaré’s Tears glowing with holy light, Peacebloom, and many of the prettier orchids she had at her disposal. But there were so many she did not recognize, and it took only a moment to verify that her Grimoire had added all the variants while she had been sleeping. It created an atmosphere of vitality and life that the guild hall had lacked before.

I should catch him up, Ali decided. She had learned several new flowers from her sojourn in the Abyssal Realm: Sacred Lilies and the infernal hellfire creepers and flowers she had stolen from Xammath’s cave after killing him. Although high-level hellfire plants are probably not a great choice for the hall, she mused. After all, there were quite a few low-level or unclassed recruits walking around, wide-eyed and seeming rather lost. But her adrenaline-fueled charge through the Blooming Rot had gained her a wealth of herbs and flowers that she was certain he would put to good use.

She opened the door to the conference room and flew in, pleasantly surprised to find Basil hadn’t restricted himself to just the guild hall. Even the conference room had hanging plants. He had an excellent eye for color combinations, too. The choices of blossoms, the different styles of foliage, and even the scents were exquisite.

“Hi, Aliandra, Mieriel, come on in,” Vivian said. She was sitting at the conference table with several of the higher-level guild members: Ali’s friends, Lyeneru, several pathfinders who had reached platinum, who Ali recognized from their evolutions and the hours of fighting together in Naia’s caves, Ryn, and Aiden. “We have quite a lot of business that requires your unique skills.”

“Ok,” Ali said, taking a seat at the taller chair that had been left open for her and settling in.

“The Town Council has approved a priority order for reconstruction,” Aiden said, handing out a page to each person. “I managed to convince them to prioritize reconnecting us with the rest of the world first. That means the Novaspark Academy and the Auction House are our next two priorities. Getting the Academy up and running will require a new teleportation locus and the telepathy and transport arrays to be recreated. Donella specifically requested Aliandra’s help with this effort.”

“Ok, I can do that,” Ali said. This must have been a bitter fight, she thought, studying the items on the list. After the Auction House, various health and safety operations had been prioritized: Eliyen, and Morwynne were at the top of the list to get the flow of critical potions going, and then the list continued through many of the most important crafters and artisans, and the marketplace long before it reached, say, the Hawkhurst Trading Company. Jax Hawkhurst had to have been pissed. She did notice, however, that the bank was listed as a high priority, but it was blocked until they could recruit a new banker to replace Hadrik Goldbeard.

“I have a request for you, too,” Lyeneru said.

Ali looked up from the list in surprise.

“The wood mages asked me to approach you on the matter of the Ciradyl trees you made outside of town during the defense operation,” Lyeneru said. “Many of the Wood Elves would prefer dwelling among the trees rather than surrounded by stone, as the humans prefer, and they wanted me to ask you what your intentions were for those trees.”

“I had thought of removing them once the farmers reclaimed the land,” Ali said, glancing over at Aiden who nodded to answer her unspoken question. The land issue must already have been settled. “But I can leave them there if people want to use them for housing?”

“Can you release them from respawn?” Lyeneru asked.

“Oh, yes, I can do that, and I can reattach them after they’re done fashioning their dwelling spaces,” Ali said. She hadn’t even considered that problem, but it was the same one the stone smiths had faced – her dungeon would revert any modifications to the trees after an hour because she had granted them respawn.

“I’m sure they will appreciate it,” Lyeneru said, inclining her head. Several Wood Elf Pathfinders sitting around the table smiled, lines of tension in their shoulders and faces visibly fading at her words. I didn’t realize they found stone houses so oppressive. Ali had restored her and her friends’ apartments down in the dungeon, but she had been dreading the work of redoing housing for several thousand occupants.

“Good from my side,” Aiden put in, leaning back with a satisfied air. Temporarily. Ali could almost see the cogs whirring in his mind as he jumped to the next items in his undoubtedly endless list.

“Ok, on to more guild business,” Vivian said, on cue. “I am required to register all the newly platinum adventurers with the guild registry, along with the services and capabilities in the guild profile. I should point out that registering the numbers we have will draw a lot of attention to Myrin’s Keep – we now boast more platinum-rank adventurers and better services than most large cities.”

Several murmurs sprang up around the table at her announcement.

“Most of the council thinks this will be a good thing for Myrin’s Keep. Especially Donella and Bastian, who believe we need an infusion of interest from outside to restart our economy,” Aiden said.

“Lyeneru, I want to be respectful of your Pathfinder guild status. Our merger was one of necessity, and we agreed it would be temporary. How would you like me to handle your members?” Vivian asked.

“You can list them as a Pathfinder chapter resident in Myrin’s Keep, and perhaps explicitly call out that we’re allied guilds,” Lyeneru said, her expression thoughtful. “I believe our alliance to still be mutually beneficial, and it will necessarily continue for quite a while until we are ready to retake Ciradyl. Is that acceptable?”

“More than acceptable, it’s an honor,” Vivian said gruffly, and Mieriel made several notes. “Then we come to you, Aliandra.”

“What do you need?” Ali asked, guessing some of what was coming might be related to shrine services.

“The shock of displacement, and the sight of the garrison soldiers and the adventurers defending the town in person has inspired many new recruits to sign up for the chance at combat classes,” Vivian said, and then she paused, keeping her expression controlled and neutral, which Ali had learned to interpret that she wanted something badly, but didn’t want to be obvious about it. “Were you planning on rebuilding the training zones?”

“I am,” Ali said, much to Vivian’s obvious relief. “The sewer system is already restored, and I plan to expand it substantially. I was going to recreate the training arena next. We can do a shrine run whenever you’re ready.”

“How many recruits can you handle at once?”

“The shrine has nearly twenty million mana now, and I believe Mieriel has the list of costs for each feature,” Ali said.

“I do, thank you,” Mieriel said, making a note. “I can take it from there.”

“I’m still obfuscating your class on the guild registry,” Vivian said. “But you should know that Nathaniel Sunstrider’s authority is already being questioned.”

“I see,” Ali said. Nathaniel had given permission for them to hide her class information, but it seemed his betrayal was becoming much more widely known, and his name on her class information was going to become a magnet for searching questions before much longer.

Is it even still worth hiding?

Everyone in Myrin’s Keep knew, and with the Town Watch openly hiring the Heroes of the Crimson Blade from Southport, she was certain it was just a matter of time before everyone in the kingdom knew. Probably the only reason it wasn’t already common knowledge throughout New Daria was due to Southport currently being under siege by Nevyn Eld’s Death Knights. Worse, she wasn’t planning on removing her domain from Myrin’s Keep itself, so any visitors with advanced perception skills like Calen’s, or mana sight like hers would instantly know about the dungeon, to say nothing of the tithe notification with the name of her dungeon the moment they stepped foot in the town.

“What sort of services can you list in the guild profile?” Ali asked, her mind tentatively exploring an entirely different approach.

“I list anything that might attract business and interest to grow the guild,” Vivian said. “Enticing people from outside the town is important for the growth of a platinum-level guild. It’s important enough that I’m willing to risk advertising for guild poachers and headhunters to abuse.”

“We list Weldin’s guild store, along with the general level of the items typically available for purchase,” Mieriel said. “For instance, we explicitly list some of Thuli and Lydia’s pieces as examples of what is available, along with the more common essences – fire and living – that the guild members commonly pull from your dungeon. I haven’t listed the magicite yet, but I was planning on doing that soon if you put it back in the usual places. We list access to the town locus and the auction house, all of which make our guild more interesting and attractive to visitors.”

“I see,” Ali said. It was probably not the right time to mention that those ‘usual places’ were likely to be very different once she was done revamping her defenses – she had a lot of new options, and a lot more mana now.

Mieriel looked up from her notes, adjusting her glasses. “If you’re asking because you’re considering changing your privacy, we would certainly advertise anything you’re comfortable sharing.”

The conversation paused while Ali considered her options. Hiding wasn’t going to provide her with any value going forward, and she had a strong complement of friends and guildmates if things went wrong. Perhaps it’s time to show myself, she thought. Lira had once told her people needed to see who she was if she didn’t want them to judge her based on the prejudice of her dungeon class type. It was a risk, but she could have a hand in crafting what was shared, and that was certainly better than letting the rumor mill define her future.

Besides, there’s the shrine. Her experiments with the shrine, along with Azryet’s insight, meant that the more people who used it, the more options and classes it would offer, making it progressively more and more attractive. Not only to those who came for classes, but it was clear she could then reuse the offerings they had earned to manufacture ideal minions to defend her domain, and she was eager to get her hands on any advantages she could. Even just her initial experiments had proved the potency of the shrine.

