“Ok, I would like to be listed on the registry,” Ali said, feeling a rush of anxiety at the decision to expose herself, but she pushed it down, knowing it was the best choice now.

“Your full class, including dungeon status?” Vivian said, obviously wanting to confirm the radical departure from the previous norm.

“No, more than that,” Ali said, committing to the choice. “Can you advertise the kinds of items and materials people might earn by delving in my dungeon? And the features it has?”

“Probably the best way to advertise the items is to simply open the crafters and artisans’ gather quests to public view,” Mieriel said, gently biting on the back of her pen while she considered the implications. “We can do that for any gold-rank or higher job. Any competent group will research the available jobs to figure out what they might be able to earn and connect the pieces after we list you as a dungeon.”

“I assume you still want to keep the shrine and such quiet?” Vivian asked.

“I’d like to advertise the shrine…” Ali said, pausing a moment to consider her options. “Mieriel? Is there a way to suggest a donation? I’d like to keep it free for those who need it, but it would be nice to get the occasional book for the library or a magical affinity plant. I am a dungeon of knowledge, after all.”

“I could link it to your open collection quests, if you like?” Mieriel said, smiling softly. “That way, you can adjust them whenever you need. All you’d have to do is add a book collection quest for the library.”

“Ok, let’s do that, then,” Ali said, her mind racing with the possibilities. It was a perfect way to keep the library, and her imprints, growing. “List the full capabilities of the shrine – offered free of charge through the guild with a suggested donation for those who can afford it. Add the dungeon’s tithe enchantment, allowing accelerated mastery and knowledge skill-ups, the library with its enchantment for learning, the training arenas, and the Anvil of the Emberforge.”

“The anvil, too?” Vivian asked, raising her eyebrows.

“Particularly the anvil,” Ali said. Not only would she dramatically expand her own armor and weapons repertoire, but everyone would benefit. “I can feed all those enchantments it learns to Thuli, making them available for commission.”

The room fell entirely silent at her announcement, everyone staring at her in shock. Well, except for her friends, who were smiling supportively.

“You want to list everything? I think I’m greatly understating it, but this will create enormous interest,” Vivian said.

“More than you’re thinking, Vivian,” Lyeneru interjected. “With the loss of the shrine at Aman Rak, many more people are delaying their advancement through their first evolution, not wanting to risk their future on a coin flip. It can’t be a coincidence that the Blind Lich targeted it before laying siege to Southport. If you offer a free opportunity to roll back broken classes and evolve to the second tier, you will get an enormous influx of high-level seekers. I don’t think I need to explain the level of gratitude there will be for making it available and free. Better yet, powered by a domain instead of individual trolls, there would be no need for months-long waiting periods to recharge the shrine.”

“That’s what I’m hoping for,” Ali said. “If I’m the only dungeon providing those services, then how many people will fight to protect it?” The Heroes of the Crimson Blade had left a big impression on her, and if anyone paid for an assassination squad in the future, she wanted the majority of people to be on her side. The best way to ensure that was to provide critical services nobody else could.

“Ok,” Vivian said. “I respect your choice. And I can’t say I’ll hate the sheer interest it will generate, and the growth it will provide for the guild going forward. Thank you, Aliandra.”

“I assume you will provide teleportation services to the anvil, training arenas, library, and the shrine like you do for the guild?” Mieriel said, writing rapidly in her notebook.

“No,” Ali said, allowing a mischievous grin to touch her lips.

“What? I thought you said the services would be free?” Vivian said, staring at her in surprise.

“Free, yes, but safe transport I will reserve for my friends, and as a guild perk. Visitors will need to fight their own way down, join the guild, or hire an adventurer team to escort them. I gain skills and knowledge by having people fight against my monsters, and I don’t wish to give that up. I will make reaching the training arena require at least a silver-rank group, and the anvil will require a gold raid or platinum group. For unlocking classes with the shrine, the guild can organize regular trips that the unclassed can join, and I will disable the bosses just for those because I don’t want any poorer candidates to be locked out.”

“That will create enormous demand for the guild’s services,” Vivian said, her eyes gleaming at the thought.

“That’s what I’m hoping for,” Ali said. “An economy where the guild adventurers have productive escort quests to do while also working on their own levels.”

She would need to remove Maalgaroth from the Landing and put something more reasonable there, but she had ideas for where she could move him. Restoring the fire runes for access to the various wings of the Emberforge Mines would create an economy for fighting the bosses in each one in order to collect the required essences for resistance gear and drive business to Morwynne for the distillate needed to unlock the runes, all to gain access to the Anvil. But these would be collection quests that could be run by the guild at any time, and visitors could simply buy the essences from Weldin or the Distillate from Morwynne directly, shortcutting the process to the Anvil. She was certain she could make many more optimizations to maximize the use of her resources.

Ali chose not to harp on the benefits to herself, but Vivian and Lyeneru were both smart enough to figure it out, so she didn’t feel like she was hiding her motives. Both the shrine and the anvil would accrue enormous value to her if they were used by many diverse people, and the combat skills and magic used within the dungeon while fighting her monsters would certainly grow her repertoire of new techniques: via Martial Insight for combat specific advancements, and Arcane Insight for a broader set of spells she could learn to disrupt. Even the benefits from her domain tithe would pale in comparison to those. Most importantly, she hoped that making herself indispensable would result in a much more durable security than trying to hide her identity and nature behind layers of obfuscation – if that was even possible, anymore.

“Ok,” Vivian said. “For the last order of business, Southport has listed several platinum-ranked quests to entice people to help fight against Nevyn Eld’s undead army. If you haven’t seen them yet, know that the rewards are extraordinary. This has the potential of leaving the guild understaffed, so I want to know which of you all would be interested in taking the quests.”

“What about the rift?” Lyeneru asked.

“I intend to approve requests after the rift is secured,” Vivian said. “I just want to get ahead of the game, so we’re not caught flatfooted later.”

Nevyn Eld. Ali had faced the Lich already – platinum-rank or not, she had just about as much chance of stopping him as a dry leaf stopping a hurricane. While she desperately wanted to do something – anything – she also knew how little power she really had, compared to his pure malevolence and necromancy.

Besides, I’m a dungeon, she thought, her heart twisting as she rationalized her fear, trying to excuse her reasons for staying far away.

“I think I will be more useful scouting the location of his Phylactery,” Calen said, breaking the silence. “I’m not sure what might come of it, but any knowledge might give us options.”

“Agreed,” Lyeneru said.

“What about you guys?” Ali asked, turning to Mato and Malika.

“I will fight the undead,” Mato said. “But I don’t mind where, if you have something more useful than Southport, just point the way.”

“I want to do something that matters,” Malika said, thoughtfully.

“I want to ask Azryet about the acorn,” Ali said. After all, Lira was her family, and if there was a chance to help her, then that would be her highest priority. “And I made a bargain with him that I intend to keep.”

At her mention of Azryet and Lira’s acorn, Mato suddenly sat up straighter. “Rift first, Azryet second, and then we find some undead to crush?”

“Sounds good,” Malika said, reaching over to smack him on the arm as people chuckled at his enthusiasm.

Trust Mato to make everything so simple.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
