That strike was weaker than when I was struck by the chameleon spider but its claws did more damage compared to the blunt force damage of the spider’s legs. If I took another strike from a chameleon spider I could probably recover immediately now.

I rise to my feet and repair my Mana Skin skill. “People in my village are hungry and your hide will help keep someone warm.” I make up my mind to finish this.

I run straight at the beast.

All four claws come at me in what can only be called the scariest bear-hug ever.

Before the beast can trap me in its grasp, I use Flash Step one last time to reach its side. I switch to Double Step launching myself up onto the back of the creature.

“You can rest now.” I raise my sword and activate Precise Strike. My blade cleanly delivers a deep cut to the Karhu’s spine. Blood erupts from the injury and the karhu falls to the forest floor. I jump off before the unmoving body falls to the ground.

I offer a silent prayer for my vanquished foe. This wasn’t a murderous goblin or dangerous magical beast; this was just a hungry bear.

I look down at the lifeless body, “How do I dismantle a karhu?”

I’ve never participated in a real hunt before. Ronald is the one who processes the spiders we kill; master and I just carry everything when he’s done. I’ve watched Ronald dismantle the spiders but he’s not very forthcoming when it comes to teaching.

I guess I’ll start skinning it? I flick my sword and wipe the remaining blood onto the beast’s fur. I sheath my sword and draw my knife.

……

How do I skin a beast?

I’m going to have to get someone, aren’t I?

I turn around to make my way back to the village and panic when I realize something is standing in front of me.

My mind is racing. I don’t have enough time to draw my sword again. My dagger is already in my hand, so I take a step forward and thrust with all my strength. I feel my hand being knocked away and a strong pressure on my shoulder.

Something sweeps my leg out from under me and I’m lying flat on the ground.

I’m about to spring to my feet when I hear, “You ok?” Ronald’s short and even question irks me.

“No! I thought you were another beast!” I shout at the stone-faced man. He offers me a hand that I reluctantly take.

I hear laughter behind Ronald. Once I’m back on my feet I see today's hunting party in formation behind their silent leader.

I might be surprised at how easily they snuck up on me if I wasn’t so angry about being tossed on the ground.

“Why did you throw me?” I narrow my eyes at Ronald.

“You attacked.” I almost try to stab the man again after his nonchalant answer.

I can’t argue with this man, so I turn my attention to the giggling hunters behind him. “Are you going to let the beast rot away or are you going to process it? I already did the hard part!”

Arash and Hayk are the first two people who take the hint and move towards the slain beast to start processing it. I would be happier if they weren’t trying to hold back their laughter as they pass me.

The other hunters move to help them all snickering in their own way. The last person to pass me and Ronald is Lucas. He’s the only one who isn’t laughing at me and surprisingly gives me a respectful head nod before he quickly moves over to help his senior hunters. When did he start treating me like that?

“Blood.” I look back at Ronald wondering what he means. He points at my shirt causing me to scrutinize my appearance.

“There’s no blood on me.” I retort to the man.

Crap! There’s no blood on me. It must have looked like I slew the karhu effortlessly but easily got flung on my back by Ronald. No wonder they’re all laughing at me.

I turn away from Ronald so he can’t see the embarrassed look on my face. “You can handle the rest, right?” I question Ronald without looking at him.

He doesn’t respond and I’m forced to turn around. He nods once to me before he starts walking over to his fellow hunters. He doesn’t make a sound as he walks away from me like a ghost amongst the trees. I glance at his feet hoping to see how he moves so silently. His shoes look like their dancing around anything that would make a noise.

Could I do that? I look down at my own feet. My eyes enlarge when I remember I’m not wearing any footwear. Did anyone notice? None of the hunters are looking at me strangely.

I take the opening to start jogging home. My embarrassment and worry about the hunters fade away as I think about my fight with the karhu. I’ve reached another milestone. I can single-handily face beasts that give the average person pause.

Someday I’ll do the same to those damn spiders.
