I freeze my hand when the knife makes it through the outer barrier. I watch as mana escapes the punctured outer shell like a tire with a hole in it. I retract my knife and seal the gap before I lose any more mana. The inner barrier wasn’t a barrier at all, it was insulation.

Focusing back on my arm, I watch how the inner mana helps seal the barrier and slowly fills back up replacing the mana I lost when my skill was breached.

No wonder the outer barrier isn’t conforming to my body. The mana in between my skin and the barrier is acting as a buffer. My body is putting pressure on the mana which isn’t moving the force to the barrier. I never made two barriers in the first place.

I got close but that’s why the skill didn’t level up.

I sheath my knife and move it off to the side. Thinking back, when I earned my Mana Skin skill the barrier formed almost on its own when I gained the skill. It started off being permeable like the inner part is now.

The inner barrier needs to be stronger. I start pumping more of my mana into the softer area and compress it before adding more.

I have 300 mana compressed in the inner barrier compared to the 75 I have in the outer one. Using Mana Manipulation, I slowly change the structure of the clump of mana to resemble the outer barrier.

Once the barriers structures match and rest up against one another I feel it click. The sensation of a skill advancing reverberates throughout my body. Just like with Inject Mana, when a higher tired skill passes a test you immediately feel the difference.

I use Extract Mana and absorb the barriers covering my body. I shiver when I feel the cold air brush up against my skin.

I jump off of my bed to close my window and almost trip. I overcompensated as if I was still surrounded by my skill. I chuckle to myself thinking back on how I was flopping everywhere. I’ll need to practice moving with my leveled skill.

I close the window and move to the center of my room. I activate Mana Skin and watch it form a Barrier around my body. I’m worried nothing changed but once the mana covers my body in a one-inch shell the barrier splits and forms two separate halves. I check my mana and see that Mana Skin now uses 200 mana to activate.

The stronger barrier lifts me off of the ground an inch. I flail my arms, finding a new sense of balance. I move my limbs and see the barrier mimicking my movements.

A huge smile crosses my face. It works!

I move over and sit on the edge of my bed. I pull up my status page that I’ve neglected over the last few weeks.

LV: 61 Experience: 391,445/ 449,563

Health: 2,050/2,050

Stamina: 1,298.18/1,363

Mana: 789.82/1,000

Vitality: 205.00

Endurance: 80.08

Strength: 124.01

Dexterity: 117.00

Senses: 60.41

Mind: 62.47

Magic: 100.59

Clarity: 75.36

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV77), Running (LV71), Axe Skills (LV55), Blacksmithing (LV58), Cleaning (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV50), Chanting (LV46), Mining (LV46), Drawing (LV37), Cooking (LV36), Trading (LV32), Dagger Skills (LV31), Acting (LV30), Sewing (LV24), Wood Carving (LV21), Sword Skills(LV19), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV78), Double Step (LV55), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV40), Axe Arts (LV36), Hammer Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Mathematics (LV30), Intimidating Shout (LV30), Increase price (LV13), Lower Price (LV12), Dagger Arts (LV12), Sword Arts (LV6), Marching (LV5), Gourmet (LV2), Shout of Valor (LV1)

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV56), Mana Manipulation (LV49), Precise Strike (LV30), Double Strike (LV30), Weighted Strike (LV17), Flash Step (LV12)

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV43), Mana Skin (LV42), Mental Resistance (LV40), Extract Mana (LV19), Magic Blacksmithing (LV15)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV29)

Increased Skill Levels

Running (LV71) 3,550exp

Blacksmithing (LV56-58) 8,550exp

Hammer Skills (LV49-50) 4,950exp

Chanting (LV46) 2,300exp

Mining (LV43-46) 8,900exp

Sword Skills (LV15-19) 4,250

Sense Mana (LV78) 7,800exp

Double Step (LV54-55) 10,900exp

Measurement (LV40) 4,000exp

Sword Arts (LV4-6) 1,500exp

Expel Mana (LV56) 8,400exp

Mana Manipulation (LV48-49) 14,550exp

Precise Strike (LV28-30) 13,050exp

Double Strike (LV27-30) 17,100exp

Weighted Strike (LV13-17) 11,250exp

Flash Step (LV11-12) 3,450exp

Inject mana (LV42-43) 21,250exp

Mana Skin (LV41-42) 20,750exp

Mental Resistance (LV39-40) 19,750exp

Extract Mana (LV12-19) 31,000exp

Magic Blacksmithing (LV6-15) 26,250exp

Sense Soul (LV29) 14,500exp

Skill Experience: 258,000exp

Crafting Experience: 70,803exp

Fighting Experience: 5,394exp

Total experience Gained: 334,197exp

It’s becoming abundantly clear that though my lower tired skills play the most part in my everyday life but it’s my tier 4 and 5 skills that give the most experience these days.

I also used to consider my gains from fighting the chameleon spiders as a huge bonus but when compared to my crafting it’s almost a moot point now. I earn around a 1,000exp for each spear I make and 36 of them gave me over half my crafting experience. I earned approximately 3,300exp for my part in each of the bows. Master did the finer details, so I’m assuming he earned much more experience than me.

I’m close to level 62 and two more of my skills reached their first test. I have a feeling Mental Resistance will be the hardest skill I’ve ever had to raise and most likely I won’t be able to pass the test until Sense Soul finally reaches level 30. The time I can spend in my previous memories is expanding but I still can’t choose which memories I relive. I hate to say it but 70% of my previous life would be considered boring to anyone watching.

Hammer Skills has been leveling slower ever since I started focusing on swordsmanship. I’ll have to ask Del if he has any idea on how I can pass its first test.

“I need more free time.” I rise and stretch my limbs, getting a better feel for my stronger Mana Skin.

Ha, I go from complaining about a boring past life to not having enough time in a single day for everything I need to do.

Glancing at my closed window, I can tell by the rays of light seeping between the shutters I still have four hours before the sun goes down. That should be enough time for me to train moving around with my skill activated.

I don’t bother putting my jacket on, focusing more on securing my sword and dagger in place. It’s a lot harder securing them through my stronger barrier.

I push my door open and walk out into our living space. Mother is sewing in her chair while father is carving what I assume is a figure of a farkas. Both of them glance up at me and notice the weapon at my side.

“Where are you going, sweety?” Mom questions me while her hands gracefully move through the fabric in front of her.

“I need to test out how to move properly with a new skill.” I motion down at my feet. Mother and father’s eyes enlarge when they realize I’m hovering in place.

“You can fly!?” Mother puts down her work and springs towards me. Father follows her equally curious.

“I wish.” I flatly state. “I improved the skill that helps me defend against taking damage. It’s a lot thicker now, making it more difficult to move with. I need to go with master and Ronald tomorrow to hunt that chameleon spider that’s closing in on the village. I’m safer with the skill but using it in battle without knowing its effects can be dangerous.” I explain to them.

“You going into the woods?” Dad asks.

“Just far enough away that no one will see me practice.” I smile at the two of them. I walk over to the front door and start putting my shoes on.

“I’m sure you will.” Mother sends me a look that says she knows better.

I smartly choose not to rebut her. I start trying to pull hard on my shoes but they refuse to slip over my feet. I’m stupid, my feet are two inches wider and longer when they’re covered in my barrier. When I activate my skill it usually envelops my clothes, guarding them from the elements, but I don’t usually change clothes with it still activated.

“Having trouble?” Father looks down at my feet.

“Sort of. I don’t want to waste my mana deactivating my skill just to put my shoes on.” I frown at my footwear. Maybe I can use dads?

“Do you need to wear shoes?” Father’s question makes mother and I look at him funny.

“She needs shoes.” Mother points out to father.

“But does she?” Father turns to me and gives me a questioning look.

I don’t plan on running into anyone in the forest and my barriers are definitely stronger than my boots. The cold won’t affect me either, so do I really need to wear footwear?

I stand up and hop around with my bare feet. “Guess I don’t.”

Mother has a sour look like she wants to say something but decides to hold it back. She’s been really cool about supporting my decisions lately.

‘I’ll be back soon.” I move to open our front door.

“Make sure you stay safe and be back before the sun goes down.” Mother throws out some ground rules before I can leave.

“You know I’m a big girl now, right?” I playfully jab at her.

“And?” She crosses her arms.

I raise my hands in surrender. “You got it, boss!” I shout as I make my way out of the doorway. As I close the door behind me, I shout a quick, “Love you,” before the door is fully closed. I’m sure I saw a smile on mother’s face.

The winter clouds are rolling overhead fighting with the sun trying to heat up the ground. It’s just warm enough for the small piles of snow around the village to melt. My feet sink into the mud but not as deep as my shoes would normally go. The barrier keeps my feet spotless in the muck.

I round our house and jog the thirty feet into the forest. It feels weird to move like this. I might not be wearing shoes but the barriers surrounding my feet keep me from feeling anything I step on. A few Double Steps and a Flash Step gets me deep enough into the woods no one will see or hear me.

I stop under a large tree on top of a pile of snow. The snow is hidden from the sun by the canopy giving me a glimpse of what’s to come soon. In only a few more weeks the snow will stop melting and will cover the forest in a sea of white. I stop thinking about the coming weather and focus on my practice.

Let’s see how well I can move with Mana Skin activated. I take up a starting position facing deeper into the forest. I raise my hand into the air, making a gun with my fingers. I imagine a bang and take off. This time I don’t stop using Double Step. As I sprint through the trees Mana Skin slowly feels more natural again. I have to use Flash Step to dodge some trees but I can’t stop now. The speed is intoxicating.

I’ve had to cut back on my morning runs, using the time to practice swordsmanship with Camden, and even then, I couldn’t go all out like this. The trees are keeping me from reaching my top speed but being able to run 40mph in the forest feels amazing.

My arms pump back and forth while I keep my breathing even. I run across some snow here and there but with my speed and Mana Skin activated my feet barely sink into the slush.

A hear a large branch snap off to my left. I don’t take any chances and use Flash Step to give myself some distance.

I let out a sigh of relief when I see a Karhu stumble out of a den, I didn’t notice I was passing by. The beast that once terrified me doesn’t even make me feel an ounce of danger. After facing a bigger and more dangerous beast he might as well be a cartoon bear.

“Go back to sleep!” I use Intimidating Shout.

A surprising amount of confusion crosses the beast's face before its expression turns to one of rage. I check behind the creature and see there’s nothing in its den. There’re no cubs or even a mate. This big guy isn’t defending a family and he should be hibernating already.

As the top half of the karhu rears up on its back legs I see why it’s attacking me. The beast’s ribs are showing through its fur.

It must not have found enough food to hibernate. If the rumors around the village are true then even the karhu must be having trouble with finding enough prey with the chameleon spiders roaming about.

“RRRRRRRRAAAAAAAAA!” The beast lets out a huge roar.

When I was a kid that was enough to freeze me in place, now it just makes me mad. Did the village hear that?

I need to finish this beast before anyone arrives.

I take my stance and grab my katanas handle. The big beast charges me while I wait at the ready. I adjust my grip trying to accommodate the thicker barrier around my hands. This will be a good test run for tomorrow.

Once the karhu is close enough it swings it’s two right paws at me. I easily side-step the strike and draw my blade. The sword cuts the air and slashes the two arms that are now within my reach. The cuts are deep but I almost lost the grip of my sword. I adjust my hands to better hold the sword.

I decide not to inject mana into my sword, if I burn its hide mother would be pissed at me. The beast's fur turns red as it tries to backhand me. I jump back to dodge the wild swing and circle the beast making use of its blind spot.

I activate Double Strike with my sword and deliver two deep cuts on its two left hind legs. Using my smithing skills with a sword still gives me a weird feeling but they make my sword even deadlier.

“Aaaaaaarrrrrrrr!” The beast wails again but this time it’s a cry of pain.

“You were probably just hungry, huh? I’m sorry, but you chose to see me as prey. If you backed off earlier, I would have let you go. I’ll give you one free shot as an apology.” I need to see how strong my new skill is.

The beast sends one of its remaining good claws at me. I feel its dagger-like nails slice through the first barrier but catch on the second. The force of the beast’s strike knocks me back a few feet out of its range. I take a knee and assess the damage.

