"This one." White flames spilled out from the young Pathbearer's eyes as Connor’s voice echoed with Harlem the Truthful’s. The valley prison was a nightmarish parody of itself, but Harlem’s Avatar remained untouched. For where shadows and ignorance reigned, truth would not abide—and Harlem was truth incarnate.

At least when it came to investigating the truth.

Beneath Connor’s feet, an overgrowth of darkened tendrils receded, and a defeated Legendary prisoner was released back into the brightness. They shuddered then, their mind more sundered than their body. This one resembled a towering humanoid partially fused with bits from various serpents. The Pathbearer's arms were long snakes, and their lower body was a mess of lashing vines, each tendril twitching as they suffered in the throes of an unending nightmare. Darkness leaked out from the eyes, darkness Harlock burrowed into their flesh and mind as well as his very soul. He wasn't just consumed physically; he was consumed mentally as well. There was no release, no release from ignorance.

Not until truth willed it.

Connor placed a hand upon the Pathbearer's forehead and focused the beaming glare of Harlem’s lighthouse upon the serpent-fused Pathbearer. Soon, everything around him faded, leaving only the serpentine Pathbearer in existence. The lighthouse swung its beacon and painted a trail leading back in time, back before Harlock had consumed everything, back when the battle was still ongoing. Though the Legendary prisoner himself was shown in great detail, everyone he faced was merely a shadow, a faintness constructed by Divination itself. They went over every detail, every person he'd faced in the prison after the breakout began, until Harlem finally halted his beacon.

Now, the serpent-fused Pathbearer was passing through the valley, and there were several shades around him. Shades of other prisoners, and of wardens. And among those shadows was a brief glimpse of someone wearing tattered rags that resembled a warden's uniform, someone that shouldn't be here at all: Adam Arrow.

"Stop!" Harlem’s Avatar cried aloud. The lighthouse flashed and turned its gaze upon Adam himself. A pulse of Divination mana crawled through the world. Normally, such a leap would have taken an obscene level of power. Even Legendary-Tier Diviners—the few that were sane and capable—would be hard-pressed to jump from one narrative to another. But Harlem was a god, a god of mysteries, a god of the inquisition, and a god of truth. And so, using the first clue, they jumped to the second, watching as the Young Lord struggled, as he fought and evolved and gained allies during the battle as well.

“Prisoner Gone and Prisoner Candles,” Harlem recited, speaking through his Avatar. Harlem never forgot, and what he didn’t know, he would uncover through whispers and details stolen from the System itself. “He has aid. And he was extracted by Aviary. The flock has finally shown itself.”

Harlock had to admit the Young Lord was resourceful and clever. He might have made a good Avatar. If only he were more submissive. Perhaps that could be engineered…

You think this all the time, another voice echoed within Harlock. The old man's tone was cynical but indifferent. We've been together for too long, Harlock. You keep thinking that you might be able to branch out, but the truth is, no one likes to deal with your darkness. No one likes to hide in the black, in the traumas and ignorance that dwell at the heart of man. None but you, and none but I.

Harlock tried to find his wayward Avatar, but he couldn't, and once more was he reassured in his choice. Anthony De Diego had been Harlock's Avatar from the very start, his one true vessel. Harlock had tried to find others, as Anthony said, but they wouldn't do. They didn't last. The dark ate them. But Anthony? The dark couldn't find him at all, and that made him perfect. And in the dark recesses of Harlock's mind, some part of him knew that Anthony likely deserved the position of Ascendant more than he himself did.

"I have him." Harlem's voice resonated with the clarion call of ringing bells. The white-plated Avatar, bound to the Ascendant of Truth, stood over a patch of blackness. That patch receded at Harlock's command, and soon they were looking down into a prison cell. At first glance, there didn't seem to be anything amiss inside, but then Harlem let out a gasp. "It's worse than I thought."

Harlock moved a few shadows, wielding them as eyes and limbs. They seeped into the Orichalcum cell once more and caressed the sides. "I don't understand," Harlock said. He didn't notice anything awry.

"That's because you hide too well and see too little. Centuries of blindness have left you lost. Look again." Harlem pointed a few times, and finally Harlock noticed that some of the spells were wrong. Those spells were out of place. He hadn't shaped them himself, but Harlock had been alive long enough to have experienced and developed every single Magical Skill there was. Some of the shapes that comprised the spell patterns were out of place. A switch had been conducted. Soon, Harlem poured his Divination into them as well, and he began restructuring the whole thing. Magical shapes slipped from one pattern to another, and soon a pulse of Dimensionality began spilling outward.

"He jumped here," Harlem said. True to his word, the reconstruction of Adam descended into the Dimensionality, following someone: a Raven-helmed agent of Aviary. “I have their trail.”

“And I will carry us across,” Harlock declared. “Ascendants. We hunt.” And with a casual exertion of his power, he drew the other Ascendants and their Avatars into his blackened embrace. The darkness within the cube grew even deeper, and from its depths emerged ten other presences, ten other Avatars. “We do this as the family we are. I will claim the space first. Find them in the dark. Daughter. Cripple. Kathereine. Prepare. Everyone else, support.”

And a melodic laugh echoed through the world. “Finally. It’s been fun, but I think we should bring the travesty to an end. Say, perhaps when we finally bend our dear Starhawk back to the light, we can see about tying him to the boy, Adam. He seems to have potential, and he doesn’t look half—”

“Grandmother,” Veronica hissed out from the darkness. “Not another word.”
