Erin woke up with a huge smile on her face. Today was the first day of the rest of her life, and for once, it was all amazing.
Slightly less amazing was the huge mess in her common room. Erin’s huge smile reduced in diameter, but she maintained a cheery outlook. True, her inn was trashed, but the money.
“The money!”
Gold coins, silver coins, copper coins. She had far more of the copper coins than anything else, but Krshia had given her several gold coins as she’d brought goods up from the city throughout the night. Erin had a huge jar of money, and next to it was an even bigger jar, again filled with money.
And next to that…
Erin had to hug herself, she was so elated. It had worked! Her crazy idea had worked, and she’d earned so much!
She had to give some of it away, of course. She hadn’t paid Selys or Ceria or Olesm for their help, and Ryoka had cooked up all the food! She wondered if the prickly girl would accept being paid. She would, right?
If only Toren was here, life would have been perfect. That made Erin’s smile slip, but just for a second. He would have cleared up this mess overnight and be staring creepily at her in the morning. But without him she’d have to do it.
Well, it was a fair price for a wonderful night. Erin sighed, rolled up her sleeves, and got to work. She could get a head start before she made breakfast. Something involving eggs and bacon, she guessed. It would be too much work to mix pancakes.
As Erin began to hunt for dustrags, buckets of melted snow, and of course a mop and broom, she thought about last night. She’d leveled. So many times! Erin knew Level 20 wasn’t actually that high—Selys had told her almost everyone got to that before they died. But still. Level 21!
And the [Singer] class. Erin was surprised by that, but she had wanted to sing her best on the roof. And what were those skills?
[Perfect Recall] and [Control Pitch]. Did they work? Erin focused.
Yes. They did. Amazingly so, in fact! Erin could remember every lyric, every verse in every song she’d ever sung. And what was more—
“Testing, testing, do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, ti, do!”
Her pitch was perfect. Even someone with an autotuner couldn’t have improved her voice. It made Erin feel weird; like her voice wasn’t her own anymore. But that feeling soon gave way into a greater desire to sing!
Ryoka had taken away the iPhone right before she fell asleep. But Erin could still sing without the device. Besides, it was still enchanted and would probably blow Erin’s eardrums out if she used it.
Now, what song could she sing? Erin remembered her warmup, and smiled as the lyrics popped into her head.
She bent to pick up a discarded dress, gingerly holding it between two fingers, and looked out to the brightening sky. Erin opened her mouth, and sang.
“Do, a deer; a female deer, re, a drop of golden sun…!”
 
—-
 
Ryoka woke up to the sound of music. Because she had a hangover, this was a terrible, horrible experience. Each new verse was a nail being jack-hammered into her skull, and the pillow Ryoka pressed over her head was taking too long to suffocate her.
The heinous singing floated down from below, accompanied by the loud clink of porcelain being stacked together or silverware being organized.
What Erin had forgotten was that last night, everyone had imbibed quite a lot of alcohol. She’d drunk it too of course; but Erin was immune to alcohol’s effects and so she was the only person waking up this morning without a hangover.
After Erin got to la, Ryoka could bear it no longer. She seized the nearest object she could reach, staggered out her door and hurled it down the stairs. It turned out that she’d hurled her bedside dresser, and it crashed into pieces as it hit the ground floor.
Ryoka heard the shocked exclamation from Erin. She grunted something and stomped back to her bed.
“Rude!”
But the singing stopped. Ryoka rolled back into bed and caught far more than forty winks.
When she woke up at last, it was an hour or two later and Ryoka was hungry. She stumbled out her door, and found everyone else was getting up as well. Their synchronization was probably due to the fact that the sun had hit all of their windows at the same time, and Erin still hadn’t bought any curtains for her new inn.
Sleepy faces, and wincing expressions. Ryoka nodded to the others.
“Ryoka.”
“Ceria.”
“Val.”
“Olesm?”
The Drake staggered out of Ceria’s room and paused. He looked around at the other people in the inn. Slowly, he backed into the room and shut the door.
Ryoka stared at Ceria. The half-Elf shrugged. She didn’t quite meet anyone else’s eyes as they walked downstairs.
They found Erin bright and cheerful, and a steaming bowl of scrambled eggs, a plate of greasy bacon, and bread. Ryoka could have hugged Erin, but she was more interested in eating.
“So. How did you all sleep? Um, sorry about the singing.”
“I quite enjoyed it. It was an unusual song.”
Val smiled at Erin around his breakfast. Ryoka grunted.  Ceria nodded as she massaged her temples.
“What a night. I can’t believe half of what I remember. And what I do remember—”
She broke off, not looking at Olesm. And he was pointedly not looking at Ceria. Ryoka eyed his twitching tail. Erin didn’t seem to notice either reaction. Instead, she pointed excitedly at the chessboard on the table.
“Guess what, guys? Look at this! The chessboard I got was magical!”
Everyone looked around. Olesm dropped his fork and Val whistled as he saw the ghostly pieces.
“I thought something was off. Well now, that’s not something you see every day.”
Ryoka frowned.
“What is it?”
“Some kind of duplication spell and magically connected board, I would guess. Obviously.”
Ryoka turned her head, and saw Pisces lurch into the inn. He looked – and smelled – like he’d been sleeping outside. The trash that fell from his robes attested to that fact.
“Pisces.”
“Ceria. I see you are having breakfast. Allow me to join you.”
Pisces inserted himself at Ceria’s table, much to her displeasure. Erin glared at Pisces, but she didn’t oust him from the inn. Instead, she looked back at the chessboard.
“So it’s like a magic chessboard that allows you to play against someone far away? Cool! I had…one just like it back at home!”
Ryoka glared at Erin while Pisces and Val raised their eyebrows. Olesm was busy inspecting the board, murmuring excitedly over the ghostly pieces. They did look quite impressive, especially as it turned out that the ghostly wisps followed the pieces as the Drake tried moving them across the board.
“They’re cold!”
The pieces were indeed cool to the touch, and Ryoka imagined holding solidified air as she touched them. Erin stared at the board, and the pawn moved on the other side.
“Well, this is an invitation to play if ever I saw one. Sounds like fun!”
Ryoka tried to quickly run through the consequences of playing a game, but she couldn’t think of too many. Besides, whoever had sent the board clearly knew it had arrived.
Erin reached for a piece, but Olesm’s tail twitched and she paused, seeing it. The [Tactician] hesitated, and then looked at Erin pleadingly.
“Can—can I play a game? I wouldn’t want to impose, but I’m curious…after you’ve played a few games, do you think I could try?”
“Well, why not now?”
Erin moved aside and gestured Olesm into the seat. The Drake gaped at Erin and Ryoka smiled in her seat.
“What? But no—I couldn’t do that!”
Olesm protested as Erin pulled back the chair for him. She shook her head at him.
“Oh come on. It’s not like it’s that important who plays first. And besides, the other person has no idea who I am. Go on! I need to clean up anyways.”
“If you’re sure…”
Olesm’s hands were twitching as much as his tail as he sat at the chess board. Hesitantly he peered at the pieces, and then moved a pawn forwards.
While he was waiting—and Ryoka wondered if he’d be waiting for a long time given the time zones that could be involved for the other player, she looked at Ceria. The mage was looking at Olesm, but she turned to Ryoka and also turned red when the human girl nudged her.
“What? Ryoka?”
“I’d like to talk with you about learning magic later. If you’re not too busy?”
Ceria smiled wryly.
“Not at all. I’ve got a few things to do this morning, but would a few hours from now be fine?”
“Sounds good. I’m going to run and then rest some more. I’ll meet you back here.”
“It moved! It moved!”
Olesm’s excited voice caught everyone’s attention. Ryoka glanced over, and saw a piece had indeed moved. Olesm was transfixed, but then he cautiously moved a piece. After a few seconds, the invisible opponent replied.
That was impressive. It hadn’t been what, more than a few seconds? Had the mysterious sender been waiting for someone to make a move? Ryoka liked chess, but she wasn’t nearly as fanatical as Erin and Olesm were.
“I’m going to stay here and clean up while Olesm plays, and then I’ll play. It’ll be a fun day!”
Erin collected plates and cutlery as she announced that fact to the room. Ceria nodded and gestured at the mage at her side.
“Pisces and I will visit the city. I want to see Yvlon and he’s going to get new robes.”
“I am?”
Pisces looked dubiously at Ceria. He plucked at his much-stained robes.
“My current garments are quite suitable.”
“They are not.”
Everyone agreed with Ceria’s statement. The half-Elf pointed at Pisces.
“You’re disgusting. You’ve still got that gold we paid you for Ryoka’s leg—use some of it!”
He hesitated, and rose to follow her as she walked towards the door.
“Ah. About that. You wouldn’t be able to give me a small loan, would you?”
The door shut behind them. Ryoka and Val left soon afterwards. That left only Erin and Olesm in the inn. Erin kept tidying up, getting rid of stains, forgetting everything in the rhythm of work.
It wasn’t easy. But it wasn’t hard either. In truth, only the stains and bits of food particles that got into cracks in the floorboards and under chairs and so on irked Erin. Now, why couldn’t she have gotten [Advanced Cleaning] or something instead? Although her two skills did sound useful. Erin wondered what kind of food she’d be able to make tonight. Hm. What should she make tonight?
After a while, she heard an odd thumping sound coming from Olesm. She looked, and saw his tail as smacking the ground as Olesm stared at the table. There was a helpless look in the Drake’s eyes.
“Olesm? What’s wrong?”
He turned to her. Olesm looked like he was about to cry as he pointed to the chess board. The white chess pieces were covering the board, while only a King and two pawns remained on his side.
“I—I’m sorry. I can’t do anything.”
 
—-
 
Ryoka inhaled the fresh, cold air as she stepped outside. Winter. Ah, winter. She wasn’t a fan.
The cold and snow made it impossible for her to run barefoot, and so she hated the winter. That was all there was to it.
Technically, Ryoka could run barefoot in the snow. Some runners could even run through freezing water in the winter; she’d seen Youtube videos. But it was a bad idea to do on a long run, and dangerous. Besides, her parents had freaked out when they learned Ryoka was doing it, so that was that.
Val appeared next to Ryoka and began doing the same sort of stretches she was doing. She glanced at him, and wondered if they were thinking of the same thing.
A morning run. It was the best time for it. Her body was stiff, and her head was still fuzzy and hurting from last night. No help for it but to run it all off. Daily morning runs were a part of Ryoka’s life—if she wasn’t going on a delivery today, she wanted to run for a while.
“Are you going for a run? Want company?”
Val’s offer surprised Ryoka. She stared at him for a few seconds before replying.
“I’d just slow you down. You’re way faster than me.”
It didn’t even hurt to admit. There was such a huge difference between them it would hurt more to deny such an obvious fact. But Val didn’t seem to think so. He scratched at his neck and looked at Ryoka.
“That may be true, but why would that stop us running together? I don’t have to use Skills. In fact, I prefer not to. [Double Step] and [Quick Movement] might be great for long distances, but they make me far too tired to do whenever I feel like it. So, that run?”
“…Sure.”
It was odd. Ryoka wasn’t a social runner. On the track team in high school, she’d been just as antisocial as anywhere else. In fact, she was even more ostracized there because she was the track team’s best runner and she didn’t get along with anybody. A pariah who showed up for events and track meets and nothing else.
That had been her parents’ fault as much as hers. They’d forced the coach to let Ryoka train by herself, since she would anyways after the track team finished. A bad decision. One of many Ryoka hadn’t protested or had made over the years.
She hoped running with Val was a good idea. She let him set the pace, and he led her here at a reasonably fast jog through the snow. Not too fast; she soon realized he wanted to talk as they ran, which was another unknown concept to her.
“That was one wild night, wasn’t it? I’ve seen celebrations in cities that didn’t reach that level. And the music! Dragons above, I’ve never heard anything like it!”
“It was good, wasn’t it?”
Words didn’t capture that night for Ryoka. It wasn’t magical or anything life-changing, but it was special all the same. It was…slightly magical, okay. It was a good night. A rarity for her.
“And that device Erin was using—was that yours? It makes music?”
“It—plays back music.”
Ryoka fished out the iPhone from her pocket and showed Val. It was off, and he peered at it curiously before picking up the pace.
“I don’t understand it, but I’ve seen objects that record sight and sound. And smell. I assume it’s like that?”
“It’s from where Erin and I come from. You can think of it as magic. It’s close enough.”
Perhaps it had been a mistake to give away that she had the iPhone, but that conversation with the others had illustrated just how borked the idea of keeping their world secret was. Besides, there was a benefit to giving some things away.
“Let me know if you meet someone who has something like this, though, will you? I’d be interested in meeting them.”
“I would too, especially if they’re anything like you and Erin!”
“Well, they might be. But I haven’t met anyone else.”
Ryoka felt her legs warming up as they ran through the wet snow. The sun was warm on their skin, and she was feeling better by the second. Nothing beat a good run, and surprisingly, the conversation didn’t hurt either.
