“Again, I’ve got to thank you. That charm you had—I want to repay you somehow. It was extremely expensive.”
“Like I said, forget about it. It’s one favor from a Runner to another.”
Ryoka shifted uncomfortably. What Val had said sounded a lot like what she’d heard Fals saying all the time.
“Still. It’s not a small thing. A thousand gold coins—”
This time Valceif made a face and slowed down so he and Ryoka were next to each other. He looked at her seriously.
“Ryoka, we’re Runners. When one of us needs help, other Runners give what they can. If we need someone to help carry a delivery, we ask. Because we are alike, you and I. Today you needed help; tomorrow I might be the one in trouble, or someone else. I’m just paying back favors I received in the past.”
She considered that. Val looked around and sighed.
“Look, I’m not too happy about losing that charm either. But that’s how life works. We lose and we win. The last Runner who helped me out took two arrows pulling me to safety after a [Bandit Lord] jumped me. It’s the least I can do.”
Ryoka nodded. Then she lowered her head.
“Damn it. I’m a fool.”
“What? Why?”
Ryoka tried to explain as best she could. It sounded terrible and confused to her ears—she wasn’t used to talking about…anything with anyone. But Val seemed to get it. He slowed slightly as he thought.
“Hm. I understand what that Fals guy was saying, but that’s not exactly how I view it. It’s a problem with small-time Guilds. Here—”
He changed directions as he jogged through the snow. Ryoka followed him, and noticed they had just avoided a suspiciously flat spot.
“Shield Spider nest?”
“Other Runners warned me they like to hide in the ground during the winter. Good thing they’re the only dangerous monster that lays traps—at least, during this time of year. I’d never come here in the Spring or Summer without preparing a wand or two.”
Val shook his head.
“Still better than Crelers. Dead gods, I can’t stand those things. But where was I? Oh, right. Small Guilds like that are different than what I’m saying. There it’s ‘follow the rules or get out’. But Couriers don’t answer to our Guilds in the same way. We back each other up if we’re in danger, but no one bosses anyone else around. What that Fals guy and the guild wanted you to do—I’d be on your side as well.”
“You would?”
That surprised Ryoka, although perhaps it shouldn’t have. Val clearly wasn’t one of the Runners in a guild, and he’d treated the other Runners like a different kind of people.
“We’re a community, not a cult. And it’s not like I go around tossing charms at everyone I meet. If that pinch-faced girl wanted help for instance, I would have let her get hexed all day long.”
He gestured at Ryoka as they powered up a steep hill.
“You’re different. That Fals guy, the girl I saved—”
“Garia.”
“—Right. Well, they’re only going to become Couriers if they get really lucky and learn a good skill. That doesn’t seem likely to me. But you’re faster than them without levels. And you’ve got the grit to run all night to get here.”
“You think so? But I don’t—I don’t have any levels. I could never run like you do.”
Ryoka admitted that with a lot of regret. She’d always assumed that levels were just a cheap trick, a way to cheat or play someone else’s game. But of all the things in the world, seeing Val run like that had tempted her the most.
“If—if I decided to level up, maybe that would be better. Smarter. More sensible.”
She’d expected Val to agree with her, but instead he seemed wary of the idea.
“I personally don’t think it’s worth it.”
“Why not?”
“Well, for one thing, and please take no offense, but—you’ll never reach my level if you start now. I know [Warriors] and other classes level up faster if they kill stronger enemies and so on, but [Runners] gain levels differently.”
“How so?”
“We level up based on how far we’ve run, and how challenging it is. True, you could do some horribly hard runs, but even then, I doubt you’d hit Level 10 by the end of the year, and it would just get slower from there.  No, I’d say you’ve got your own unique style without levels. You should continue as you are.”
That was the first time Ryoka had heard that opinion. She glanced at Val’s profile and his bent nose.
“You think so? No one else I’ve met shares your opinion.”
“Well, it’s a preference thing. And besides, you probably don’t know this, but Skills aren’t the same even for people with the same class.”
Ryoka had inferred something like that from comments from other Runners, but she hadn’t ever heard it from the horse’s mouth so to speak. She let Val go on as they ran a slow circuit of the Floodplains of Liscor.
“Skills are—how should I describe them? They’re like a gamble, but a safe one. As you level up, you’ll definitely gain some good skills and some not so useful ones. But you can generally predict which ones you’ll get based on your class.”
“Ah. A pool of options?”
Val lifted a thumb up and inclined his head at her.
“Precisely. There are rare skills you can get like [Double Step], and not-so-rare ones. For instance, almost every [Warrior] is going to get [Thick Skin] if they go for close-range combat sooner or later. But they might get it at Level 5, or Level 50. Well—not Level 50.”
“Why not—wait, there are rare skills every 10 levels?”
“Good guess! Yeah, I got my [Double Step] skill at Level 30. And of course sometimes you can learn a rare skill, but that takes training and some luck. I suppose if you had a class you could learn something that allowed you to move faster but…”
“Not worth it. Right. But how can I run faster without classes?”
“With magic, of course. I’ve met people like you before. People without levels, I mean. That’s how they overcome the problem.”
Ryoka slowed and her foot skidded over a patch of ice. She caught herself and ran after Val as he paused for her to catch up.
“You have?”
“Yeah. I meet them now and then. People of all kinds choose not to level. Well, they’re not too common as you can imagine, but I do run across them now and then.”
“Are there any differences between them and others?”
“Attitude? The way they get treated? Nothing else.”
That was disappointing, but maybe…Ryoka tried to keep the conversation going while she thought.
“And you think I can become a Courier even without Skills? With magic?”
“It’s possible. You just need the right equipment—the right magic if you’ve got the talent. Not all Couriers are fast. Some run a bit slower than you, but can’t be stopped. There’s a [Marksman] among us who rides a horse. She snipes anyone getting in her way from two hundred feet away.”
“Hm. So build up my résumé until I’m famous enough, huh?”
“Your what? Oh, you mean take a lot of prestigious requests? Yeah. Get a name for yourself as a trusted Runner and it’ll happen. You just need to take requests no other Runner will do.”
“Well, I’m on a good start.”
“Oh? How so?”
Ryoka hesitated. But she’d talked honestly with Val so far, and she wanted to be on a level. Besides…she told him briefly about Teriarch’s request, leaving out all of the really interesting details.
Val whistled.
“Eight hundred gold pieces? You’re kidding. That’s…no wonder your guy was expecting a Courier.”
“Well, it was forty gold pieces and a potion until I started bargaining with him.”
“Hah!”
Val had to think as they ran on. Ryoka had asked him whether he knew of the lands past the Blood Fields, omitting any mention of undead or the person she had to find, Az’kerash.
“The Blood Fields? And the southern lands, huh? You’ve got a problem there, but I’m not sure I can help you. I’ve only been down that way once or twice.”
“Pity. I’ll manage.”
“You shouldn’t have to go in there uninformed, though. And while I might know—hold on, let me see if I can find the other Courier nearby.”
“What?”
Val reached into a pouch at his belt. He pulled out…a stone, of all things. It was vaguely like the one Teriarch had given Ryoka—a normal smooth stone, although this one was inscribed with glowing symbols rather than an arrow.
They lit up as Val touched a finger to the rock. Ryoka heard nothing, but Val must have heard a voice, because he began talking to the air as they ran.
“Ah, hello? Am I speaking to Hawk? This is Valceif of First Landing. I’m in the area, and I was wondering if you had time to consult with me and another Runner. We’re just outside the city, running. Would you like to—? Thanks.”
He tucked the stone back into his pocket and looked at Ryoka.
“I’ve called Hawk, a Courier who does runs around here. He’ll be with us in a few seconds.”
That was no exaggeration. Barely ten seconds after Val had spoken, Ryoka spotted something hurtling towards them out of the city gate. She barely caught sight of the Runner himself; the snow geysering up behind him was what caught Ryoka’s eye. He intercepted the two Runners within seconds, and the snow cascaded down around them as Hawk, Beastkin, giant talking rabbit, and Courier of Liscor appeared.
“Valceif! I’m surprised they sent you down here!”
“Hello, Hawk. Well, you know how it is. You were busy, and I was nearby and they needed a rush job so here I am.”
The two Runners clasped…hands. Ryoka stared at Hawk’s large paw, and at his furry face and at…him.
She couldn’t deal. No. No—she was lost. He was a giant rabbit. This wasn’t just seeing a Drake or a Gnoll, this was a talking rabbit with pants and a six-pack. Ryoka’s mind was dissolving at the edges.
“And this is Ryoka Griffin, a City Runner. I was hoping you could help her. Ryoka, meet one of the fastest Couriers on the continent.”
“Hawk. I’m the Courier around here. Please to meet you, Miss Ryoka.”
Ryoka took the paw gingerly, and shook it. He had…five fingers, but four toes on his feet. The fur felt smooth and warm in her hands and she met his brown eyes and tried to smile.
Val took over the conversation. He briefly explained Ryoka’s delivery, adding a few details she thought were unnecessary.
“She’s a City Runner, but a step above the other ones. I was hoping you could give her some advice.”
Hawk smiled at Ryoka and shrugged.
“Well, I can keep you from running into too much trouble, but there’s always some war or skirmish going on down there. It’s risky for a City Runner or even an inexperienced Courier. You might want to reconsider going down there, Miss. How much are you getting paid? Is this request really worth it?”
He wasn’t precisely arrogant, but he seemed too relaxed to be taking the conversation seriously. After seeing how fast he ran, Ryoka couldn’t blame him for thinking she was small-fry.
She steeled herself. Rabbit or not, he was still a person. Remember that. Erin made talking to other species look so easy. She grinned at Hawk, and decided to take him down a peg. Just a peg.
“You could say that. My delivery’s worth eight hundred gold pieces. Think it’s worth doing?”
Hawk tripped, but caught himself before he face-planted in the snow.
“Eight h—”
He eyed Val. The other human was grinning at him. Hawk smiled ruefully, and nodded at Ryoka in apology.
“Well, I’ve underestimated you, I can see. But my point stands about the danger, especially if you’ve got something that might attract attention. Want to give the request to me? I’ll do the delivery and cut you in on a hundred gold pieces.”
Ryoka shook her head. She wasn’t about to trade the request, even if it would mean no risk to her. After what she’d learned about Teriarch, she just had to fulfill his request, for more reasons than one. Val looked at the other Courier reprovingly.
“Hawk.”
The rabbit man raised his hands defensively.
“I’m just asking. Okay. I thought you weren’t being serious, but I’m sorry Miss Ryoka. Right then. This is a serious delivery.”
“And she’s doing it.”
“I just offered.”
“Thanks, but I’m fine.”
Ryoka gestured to her belt pouch, where the letter and ring were hidden.
“Besides, what I’m delivering is spelled to only be carried by me. You’d probably die if you tried to take it.”
“That’s…an important detail. Right. Well, advice I’m happy to give. What do you need to know? Travel routes? Current battlefields?”
“All of the above and local monsters and so on. Ryoka’s never been down that way.”
Hawk nodded. His ears twitched and he looked out at the pristine snow around them.
“Mind if we run and talk?”
“It’s fine with me. I know a good route around here with some nice flat spots. Want me to lead?”
“Sounds good.”
“Go ahead.”
They set off. Like Val, Hawk adjusted his pace so Ryoka could comfortably keep up. It felt odd, being the slowest person in the group. Hawk began to talk as they ran together.
“Now, do you know where you’re going or do you have a moving target? If it’s something like one of the Walled Cities, you’ll be able to get there pretty easily. If not…”
“I’ve got a spell that points me in the right direction. I have no idea where I’m going.”
Val groaned.
“I hate those.”
Hawk nodded. The rabbit took long, easy strides that made Ryoka envy him. He didn’t even seem bothered by the snow as he ran through it. Well, he had pads on his feet…paws.
“Tricky. If you’re going by spell, you could run right into a monster nest or one of the war zones down there. There are a few conflicts going on, and any Human running past is going to get shot at, Runner or not.”
“What? Soldiers don’t attack Runners! If they know you’re a Runner, they should leave you alone!”
Val looked indignant, but Hawk only smiled at him.
“If you can prove you’re a Runner before they fill you with arrows, be my guest. Besides, they use spells that blast an entire area, so there’s no guarantee you won’t be caught up in one. My advice is just stay away, but if you’ve got to head into one of those zones…”
He began listing locations off, and Ryoka tried to memorize them. Val pulled out a map of the area and began marking spots for her. Another gift. She tried to refuse, but he told her it was only worth a gold coin or two. In response, she tossed two at him as they ran.
“Just be careful. You can talk to soldiers if they aren’t trying to kill you and usually get past, so that’s not the real problem.”
“What is?”
Hawk leapt straight over a five foot high drift of snow and landed lightly. He turned and ran backwards while Val and Ryoka went around it.
