The week following their day off melted into one indefinite loop of diving into the archive and having strategy meetings where they reviewed their findings and refined their presentation.

By the eve of their meeting with the chancellor, they had compiled two files: one thick and detailed version, and a trimmed-down, fifteen-minute overview. They spent the rest of that day working on the files, refining them over and over, until they started going in circles.

Angeline called the workshop and meeting completed, gave the clerks leave for the rest of the day, and ordered everyone to the hotel's small banquet hall. There, she had the staff move in couches and low tables, ordered plates of bite-sized food and drinks, and ordered everyone to sit down, forbidding them from talking about their proposition to the crown.

There were a few false starts, as errant thoughts barged their way back into their heads, but, eventually, they were able to talk about anything but.

They had to call off the get-together once Angeline breached the topic of David and Niala's plans for children. Cornelius went into a manic-depressive loop, alternating between asking for definite commitment on the number of grandchildren and making plans for their upbringing, and going into laments about how his baby girl was growing too fast and he was nothing but an old fossil.

Alcohol might have worsened his spiral into madness, and Niala offered to get out her travel alchemical set and brew him something. Angeline had smiled and shaken her head, telling her that the problem was also the solution, and proceeded to shove drinks after drinks into her father's hands.

Twenty minutes later, the catkin was curled up on his couch and snoring.

They retired to their rooms shortly after that.

Before they knew it, morning came, and with it, finally, their meeting at the royal castle.

Cornelius hadn't known that autocars could be this wobbly. He felt as if he were on a ship going through an energetic sea, which did nothing to help his stomach stay where it was supposed to.

His splitting headache was right there on the boat with him. He pulled his eyes up at his younger daughter. “Are you sure we are out of hangover cures? And the shops didn't have any left?”

Angeline sighed. “None whatsoever, dear father. I tried, I really tried to find some.”

“A-and couldn't... Niala take the time to brew some? They're, urgh, very easy t-to make.”

She shook her head. “No time for it, dear father. I'm afraid you're just going to have to endure the meeting in your current state.”

He let himself slump against the cabin's interior, closing his eyes and letting the cold surface seep into him. “I can't even... think, like this. I don't think I'll be of- of much help.” He said, his ears flopping without any structure.

Angeline put a hand next to her mouth. “Ah, I'm so sorry, dear father. Worry not, the others and I will do our best to carry the torch. You can remain silent and just listen.” She turned toward the other in the cabin, winking at them. “Isn't that right?”

Niala nodded. “That's right, Dad! Don't worry about it!” She confirmed reassuringly.

David kept his eyes on Angeline, frowning. Surely, she hadn't planned to get her father black-out drunk the day before, just so he would be disinclined to open his yap during the presentation?

Surely...

No, she totally did. Scary woman. Niala was much better: she openly told you that she'd poison you. He much preferred that.

Actually, he preferred not to get threatened with poisoning, but you had to pick your battles.

The Amberfall castle was old. Older than the current dynasty, having been the home of the previous line of rulers in ages past. Old enough to have tales and myths about it. It was, in many ways, a historical figure in its own right.

It was also a hodgepodge of construction, renovation and addition laid over more than a millennium. The original plans were long lost, and the up-to-date ones were only accurate for the newer parts of the castle. The rest were approximations, becoming less accurate the deeper in you went. Nobody really knew where the original castle began.

A popular tale within the capital was that, deep in the castle, in its lowest levels, behind walled-off doors, disused stairs and secret passages, there lived the descendants of the previous dynasty. The story held that their ancestors had fled the rebellious mob, deep enough to lose them, and to lose themselves. There, inside the maze-like corridors of the undercroft, they persisted, welcoming lost souls who ventured too deep and adding them to their domain.

Of course, it was just a tale, but it was also true that renovations within the castle often unveiled old rooms or passageways which had been bricked or walled over.

From the outside, it reigned from its impressive height, overlooking the capital city, crowned with spires and deep orange master-crafted tiles, but who knew just how deep the castle's roots went?

They reached the castle, showing their invitation to the gate guards. An escorting guard took up position ahead of them, riding on an augmented heavy warhorse. Both rider and mount were in full war gear, their armour polished to a shine, but devoid of most embellishment save for a few plumes and a cloak.

Nothing less than the best and brightest for the crown.

They were led to a parking space within the outer walls of the castle's grounds, where a castle attendant came to fetch them, leading the group directly to a meeting room. The halls exuded the imposing simplicity that the Amberfall dynasty favoured: quality over quantity.

That, of course, only applied to the parts of the castle that had been built or renovated under their care. The previous ruling family had a rather more enthusiastic definition of interior decor.

David had seen one of those rooms before. Each stone in one of the walls had a small gem encrusted in its centre, and from far away, when the sun shone just right, the gems reflected the light onto another wall, a painting of light.

A whole room that had cost the yearly budget of a major town for a decoration that only showed up for a few weeks a year, and for only a few minutes each day.

Jacob was already there and waiting for them; they exchanged greetings and offered him the small file, taking the one bell they had before the meeting proper to update the Patriarch on their presentation.

He was there mainly to offer insights about the intricacies of royal politics and as additional weight to their proposition, but having a general idea of their final plan of attack wouldn't hurt.

At the tenth bell, on the clock, the door was opened by a servant, and in stepped an older gentleman. Sporting a full head of salt-and-pepper hair, he had creases at the corner of his eyes, and his mouth was crooked slightly upward, giving him the look of a kind, good-humoured grandpa.

Jacob got up as the man reached the table, offering his hand as the rest of the group stood up from their chair. “Willard, good to see you. How was your trip south to Abassara?”

The man, Willard, accepted the handshake as an equal. “Very good, Jacob. The hot, dry weather was pleasant on my old bones. Alas, the negotiations, for once, went rather well. I was only gone for three weeks. And how about you? I'd heard you had fallen quite ill, but made a surprising recovery?”

Jacob offered a polite smile. “I was, yes, and quite literally on my deathbed, but we were fortunate to find a healer who identified my disease. Would you believe it was an exotic strain from Sonnel, across the inner sea?”

Willard frowned. “From Sonnel, you say? However did you catch that from all the way over here? Unless you went on a non-official voyage?”

The Wardenfel patriarch shook his head. “Nothing of the sort. We don't rightly know where from; maybe someone who got into contact with a sailor hailing from Sonnel. Whatever the case, it is fully treated now.”

Willard frowned and dipped his head. “Then I guess it bears no more attention.” He looked out at the rest of the people around the table, his eyes hitching on Jordo for a second, the only overt sign of surprise from the man. “Greetings to you all. I am Chancellor Willard Haggleman. I don't believe I have met any of you. Please, introduce yourselves.”

They did, everyone in turn. David and Niala presented themselves with their full names, as agreed during their preparation. Jordo and Rinka's introductions were kept succinct for now, though Jordo made no effort to conceal his full personality. Chancellor Haggleman barely displayed any reaction, simply moving from one guest to the next.

Once acquainted with everyone, he sat down, motioning for the others to do the same. As they did, he held his hand out to the side, and the servant approached, depositing a small wooden box on it.

The chancellor put the box on the table, opened it, and from within took a recording orb; the same kind that had recorded Jacob swearing to respect Niala's freedom.

He positioned the orb in front of him, touched its base and pulsed his mana, triggering the manalock and turning the device on.

His features subtly shifted, going from stern-but-secretly-kind grandpa to stern-but-secretly-strict grandpa. Everyone present would have been hard-pressed to explain why, but they suddenly felt the urge to sit a little bit straighter.

The chancellor spoke his name, listing the reason for the meeting, and asked everyone to repeat their introduction.

With that done, he looked at the people assembled in the room in front of him. “Now, please explain what this proposition with benefits to the crown is, exactly. No embellishments, no theatrics. Facts and numbers only. There will be time for questions later.”

He put his hands on the table, clasping them together. “If you can convince me in the next ten minutes that it is worth the crown's time.” He cautioned, a warning and a promise both.

On David's side of the table, after a few shared glances, they went along with their prepared opening.

David cleared his throat. “Chancellor, the proposition is thus: I, in my office as a Scion of the Luminous Reign, a dissolved nation which existed north of Riverwall, from which the Amberfall dynasty is a direct descendant, and with the endorsement of the Amberfall crown, wish to lay claim to the lands it once held, including a facility known as the Living Vault. I then wish to offer my claim as a protectorate of the Amberfall kingdom, surrendering rule of law after negotiations.”

The chancellor's brow minutely twitched. “...And why, Sir David, would any of this be to the benefit or interest of the crown? Said crown who could, this instant, lay claim to those northern lands?”

David's tone didn't deviate. “Because, Chancellor, there is a rare and extremely valuable resource in the Living Vault. One which every noble house and merchant empire will fight the crown for. Through our proposition, the Crown will have direct access to this resource, with none of the political manoeuvring normally required.”

David let his statement settle for a second before continuing. “Furthermore, as a Scion, I have access to much of the knowledge of the Luminous Reign. An example being my majordomo golem here present, Jordo. The secrets to his fabrication are part of this knowledge, and much more.”

Niala's ears twitched at the grey lie that David had just said; technically, she had access to that knowledge, thanks to Sebi gifting herself over to her care. That said, they had both agreed that she didn't need any sort of scrutiny.

His bit done, David let the chancellor digest his words.

The man eventually shifted his eyes to Jacob, who dipped his head. He then looked at David with a piercing gaze. “The knowledge itself could be traded for in other ways. However, that resource you mentioned, I have read reports about a potential mine of mana crystals in the north, of a purity unheard of in recorded history. Is that the resource you are offering direct control over, with that... proposition of yours?”

David nodded. “It is, chancellor.”

Willard hummed, leaning back in his chair. “Then, it appears that you indeed have a proposition worthy of the time and interest of the crown, young man.”

The chancellor turned his head to the side. “Winsted, bring pitchers of refreshment and plates of snacks.” He ordered, looking back at the petitioners. “I believe we will make full use of the time allotted to this meeting.”