A wall of projectiles descended upon her, but the fractured spiderlings she spawned leapt out to take the hit on her behalf. And most of them didn't even break. Instead, they captured the incoming spells inside of themselves, sustaining the damage while trapping the ruinous magics within the alien geometries that comprised their bodies. The fractured spiderlings pushed out, forming a protective line around Uva’s person. She kept spawning more, and they spilled out from her like an unceasing tide. For every one that was struck down, ten more took its place, and soon she found herself living up to the title of Hivelord.

Yet she couldn't do this forever. Already she'd expended all the trauma she siphoned earlier; attrition wasn't a choice. But she wasn't the kind to throw herself recklessly at the enemy anyway. That was more of Shiv's specialty.

On the other hand, a little bit of recklessness might do me good now. Uva extended her body, and her fissures spread far and wide. In a moment, she went from being a constellation the size of her own body to stretching past a hundred meters and then more. Extending herself came without strain. She wondered just how far she could reach before the skill met its limit, but now wasn't the time to experiment. Instead, with the spiderlings protecting her, she became her own counter-encirclement, wrapping both arms around her enemy and spawning even more summons amongst their midst.

The Fae magi turned their spells upon her, Legends decimating entire portions of her swarm. She had but seconds before they breached her spiderlings, but as the fractured little creatures were part of her, so too did her new Feat extend to them. Her infectious mana compromised the mages, and new cracks began forming in their spells. To her surprise, the aberrant infection she brought forth afflicted those most puissant in magical attunement with the greatest severity. Though the fractured spiderlings were eliminated by the dozens, when the first smashed into the Fae, her power spread, and the Outside crept into reality evermore.

“Outsiders! Outsiders! Rally and push! Ignore the Outsiders! They can't cause us—” A psionic scream escaped the Fae commander issuing commands. Through the eyes of her fractured spiderlings, Uva saw one of the cartoonish snakes burrow into the humanoid Fae's body and start unraveling him from the inside. Her astonishment grew as the cartoon snake ruptured, causing even more to spill out from the shattered Fae, who let out an excessively theatrical scream and flailed around in horror.

“Oh, by Princess Plum Blossom's appetite! Ser Amerius has burst! They're not Outsiders! They're not!”

But they were, or at least Uva thought they were. They should be. Something about the Dreamtaker was changing. She was moving away from being a purely eldritch entity, and so her powers were starting to affect the Fae as well.

Just in time to change my fate, Uva realized.

She started casting her own spells through her fractured spiderlings. They served not only as disposable minions but also as channels for her magic. She bombarded the Fae with her time-halting frost spells and unleashed a torrent of psychomancy that flowed through the faeries like a sea of willow leaves. Her power wasn't enough to breach their magical resistance, and she found her psychomancy overpowered, her strings split and severed by the other mind mages among the Summer Court, but the Fae she did touch were infected, and their mana soon fissured, becoming gateways to a place beyond. A place that might not even be the Outside anymore.

Carnage unfolded. Uva realized she was every mage's nightmare now. Anyone who could unleash a spell was now a prime candidate to receive her mystical virus.

She targeted their backline as much as she could, even as their Legends and greater battered her, tried to pry through her swarms. She had seconds left, but in those seconds she could do something that bought her seconds more.

Mustering her last sliver of volition, she triggered her gaze, now linked to a place called the Unclaimed Paracosm. She wasn't sure what that was or what it entailed, but there was a depth to her. There was an endless ocean untapped inside her, and she let it out.
