“Perception and Dexterity is a simple one. The former enhances your five senses, letting you perceive both yourself and anyone in the vicinity in progressively greater depth as you invest more free points into the stat. Having the strength to react to a threat is valuable, but if you take too long to perceive it, you will find yourself either trading injuries or worse. Dexterity, on the other hand, gives you the reflexes to react to the threat once it’s revealed itself. Whether that takes the form of enhancing your muscle tissue to be more flexible or making the synaptic connections that govern reaction time more sensitive, it is a valuable stat either way,” Jack earnestly explained.

“Those are tough options to choose from,” Jin muttered, more to herself than Jack, but loud enough his senses to pick up on.

“I’d focus on the encounters you’d want to be most insulated from,” Jack said, having decided to offer a little more advice on the topic. “Investing more in perception might give you the opportunity to evade an enemy attack even with lower dexterity, while quick reflexes would aid you to strike back against the enemy and possibly neutralize it before it can be of any more danger to you. Remember though, it’s not supposed to be a choice— these statistics are synergistic, not adversarial,” Jack reminded.

“Right. Though it’s tough to think that way when the future won’t matter if I don’t make the correct choices today,” Jin replied, her tone more thoughtful than resigned.

“That’s why I’ve been winging it,” Jack replied honestly before moving on. “The difference between Intelligence and Wisdom is subtle, but neither will make you smarter, or at least, hasn’t done so yet for me.”

“How do you define ‘smarter’?” Jin asked.

“It’s a pretty rudimentary way to do it, but I’m limiting the definition to raw I.Q for now.”

“Oh,” Jin mused. “That’s a bit disappointing,” She admitted.

“Is it?” Jack asked. “If the intelligence stat was linked to my I.Q., I’d be investing heavily into it. But would it still be me after thirty points? Fifty points? A hundred? At what point would I be doomed to follow the most rational path in any scenario or encounter?” He let the question hang in the air for a moment, having contemplated the matter more than once. “What if I come to see other cultivators as nothing more than pure sources of experience in my objective of surviving this? Would there even be a point to such a survival?” He concluded, realizing as he explained that the mere possibility of such an existence revolted him to his very core. He was willing to kill other cultivators to defend himself and he would carry the weight of every life he took to his grave, but Jack would never view human life as numbers on a balance sheet, never let himself kill those who had done him or the world no wrong for experience, even if the system relished in such misery. He would stay human or die trying.

“I hadn’t thought of it that way,” Jin admitted, the curiosity in her tone tempered by the heaviness of Jack’s consideration. “Your words do make me wonder though. There are people out there that would… kill for less out there, like violent inmates in high-security prisons and mercenaries that will wage wars in foreign countries as long as they’re paid enough. What are they doing out there? What happens if we run into them?” She asked.

“Same thing that happened to the Werewolf, if they try anything,” Jack firmly replied, his composure returning to him as he made the declaration. Had it been the old world, Jack’s pragmatic nature would have judged him to have little chance against trained mercenaries and the like unless both parties were armed and he had foreknowledge that they were moving against him. But Jack had experience in real world combat now and the source of his combat ability was rooted in the opportunities he had leapt headfirst into. No mercenary or violent killer would leap at a chance of rescuing three people from the heart of enemy territory the same way no one with military training would run into a foggy land with seemingly little to no visibility, no intel on the enemies they would find within and no known escape route besides a camp teeming with rift goblins.

Jack had snowballed an advantage for himself by rushing into scenarios few would and now he just had to hold onto it by continuing to push himself.

Silence fell over the group as the boldness of Jack’s declaration held in the air, lasting almost a minute before Jin followed up with another question, “So what do the two stats do, exactly?”

“As far as I can tell, the Intelligence stat bolsters my memory, letting me retain and recall events, knowledge and memories far more efficiently than usual. There’s not a lot of books to read in the apocalypse, but if I get my hands on one, I’d bet that I’d be able to compartmentalize and retain its knowledge in a matter that lets me call upon the relevant parts when I actually need it. The stat also helps you recall the past in greater detail, but I think you’d require a sizable investment in it to recite your old science textbooks word for word, if that’s even possible.”

“That’s different from what I imagined, but still interesting.”

“As for Wisdom,” Jack paused, taking a moment to formulate his reply before answering, “It works very well with intelligence, because it lets you draw conclusions based on existing information you have access to by flagging related information, in a manner of speaking. It won’t let you derive the scientific formula behind the energy source that Qi is merely by knowing more about it, but it will allow you to draw conclusions you’d eventually reach yourself if you thought about it long enough far quicker than usual. It doesn’t sound like much, but when you’re in battle and you realize that using a certain skill in a novel manner might be the only thing that wins you the battle, well, it seems pretty worth it then.”

“Is that how you beat the Juvenile Werewolf?” She asked.

“Looks like you’re no stranger to the Wisdom department yourself,” Jack replied with an amused smile. “Though the full answer is rooted in my recklessness paying off, the credit in no small part going to my luck,” He added, with a small chuckle, before his expression turned more somber. “Out-thinking your opponent is a great strategy, but it can also matter little when their physical parameters exceed yours. I could just as easily have died trying to get to the beast.”

“I understand,” Jin firmly replied, an undercurrent of resolve audible in her tone.

It appeared that she had reached a decision, an informed one at that. It was more than Jack had been offered in face of the apocalypse, but he didn’t mind trading this particular advantage away when investing a point or two at most in any stat would reveal the truth to her.

Jack felt like he had done enough for Jin to earn her trust and he doubted that any amount of intelligence or wisdom would let him know what exactly what it was that was going through her mind—- he just hoped that she would stay true to her words and he had gained an ally instead of an opportunist.

Marcus opted against contributing to the conversation, though that could have been because Jack had shared everything that was required when it came to stat distribution. Strength and Constitution were self-explanatory stats and likely to have been the initial picks of most cultivators along with maybe dexterity, so the Fire Dao-Mark cultivator had all the information he needed as well.

Silence was not an unwelcome companion for Jack as they covered the last of the distance towards the end of the Howling Mist-Vault’s territory, as he dedicated his entire focus to peeking behind him every few seconds to make sure there was no Werewolf creeping up on them from within the misty territory.

“Stop,” Jack called out before they could walk outside the Mist-Vault’s territory and step onto the sandy dunes, the first of which sloped upwards before them.

Sarah came to a halt next to him, while Jin and Marcus, who had been following close behind them, halted as well.

“Why?” Marcus quietly asked, his usual annoyance with Jack’s commands absent in his tone.

“We don’t know what’s hiding on the other side, so it’s best to face it together,” Jack replied calmly. “Marcus, stand beside me. Jin, next to Sarah. Weapons drawn and facing forward.”

“Okay,” Marcus replied, in an uncharacteristically subdued response.

“Sure,” Jin said with a nod.

Once everyone had complied with his instructions, Jack continued, “I might have a way to force anything hiding in the sand out and into a retreat once, so I don’t want anyone to panic if it actually ends up working. Instead, use your inspect on anything that moves as fast as you can, so we can get an idea of what we’re up against. Retreating back into the mists is best left as a last resort.”

“That’s new,” Sarah remarked, her tone not concealing her interest.

“It is, that’s why I have no idea how it’ll work. This Mist Qi has tormented us quite a bit, but this backfires at least we can fall back and re-enter the desert from a different point down the line,” Jack explained. “Now, if everyone is ready, we take two steps forward at the count of three. That cool?”

“Ready,” Sarah replied.

Jin nodded and Marcus grunted in affirmation.

Jack began the count down and at the call of three, all four of them left the Howling Mist-Vault behind and stepped into the desert.

And as they did, Jack activated the [Slaughter Aura] he could only use once in twenty four hours.
