From a numbers perspective, I only gained two levels in Mana Manipulation and four in Magic Threads, but those six levels made all the difference. Mana Manipulation was tier 3, and Magic Threads was tier 4; sometimes, I forget because I have so many strong skills, but both were extremely powerful, and it was almost unheard of to gain that many skill levels at once.

After passing two tests in Mana Manipulation, my skill had become much more challenging to level, yet I earned not one but two levels for what I did. I could feel the difference in how I could control my mana, and it was much easier to get it to do what I wanted.

Leveling Magic Threads also helped, and at the rate it was improving, it wouldn't be long before it reached level 40 and its first test. And as I think that, I sense a slight shift in my soul, and the threads become even easier to manipulate. I don’t even need to pull up my status page to know Magic Threads leveled again, and hopefully, it wasn't the last time.

It’s painstaking work, but I slowly conjure more threads of mana and continue to weave them together. I start small with a washcloth-sized piece of mana fabric, but it slowly grows as I add more mana to it. What I was doing was overly mana-intensive, but if I could get it to the correct size and merge it with Mana Skin, it would be worth it.

After what feels like hours of molding and weaving my mana, eventually, I have a blanket of mana wrapped around me. I was tired beyond belief and sweating up a storm, but I couldn’t stop now. Controlling the blanket, I start squeezing it around me. I needed the weave to be as tight as possible if I wanted it to protect me.

The blanket feels like it’s crushing me more than the ambient mana in the crater did, but I power through it. The threads threaten to give and meld into one another, but I don’t let them. Instead, I keep compressing everything until my mind and body are screaming for me to stop, and that's when I do it. I forcefully bind the tight fabric-like magic to my existing Mana Skin barrier.

The skills don’t mesh immediately and try to repel one another, but I refused to let that happen. I use all my magic skills to hold everything together through sheer force of will.

And then it happens.

Finally, my skills stopped fighting each other and locked together, and I felt a small explosion of experience merge with my soul. My eyes snap open, and I suck in a large breath of air.

Sweat threatened to drip into my eyes, but I could see Tabitha watching me with a smile through the precipitation. "I take it you succeeded," she beams at me.

“Was there any doubt?” I cockily reply.

“Not even for a second,” Tabitha replies without missing a beat.

Bringing my hands up, I slowly flex them, testing how everything feels. The weave barrier took more concentration to keep up, so I couldn't form a third barrier on top of the two I had conjured, but that was okay for now.

It would require some testing, but I was confident my new two-barrier system would outperform the old three-barrier system many times over. Even now, I can note a significant difference between the two. Mana Skin's old barriers were excellent at regulating how much ambient mana came into contact with me, but there was always a steady trickle, whether I liked it or not. But now, that trickle was cut off.

The only mana my weave barrier let through was what I purposely let in. The ambient mana couldn't penetrate my new defenses even in this high mana environment.

What a game-changer.

I was practically vibrating with excitement. I wanted nothing more than to suggest we rush down to the weird mana anomaly I sensed, but my better judgment kept me from doing so. I finally leveled Mana Skin, but it wasn’t without cost.

My mana levels were down to about 40%; nothing that would affect my regain rate, but it will take some time to recharge.

“You look happy,” Tabitha nods approvingly at me.

“I’ll need to test it, but I’m hoping I’ll finally be able to help you against the winged serpent,” I try to project my resolve.

“We’ll see about that.” Tabitha doesn’t immediately reject my offer, which makes me happy, but I know I'll need to prove myself before she lets me put myself at risk. “I take it you need some time to regain your mana?”

“I could probably be back to full in ten hours," I stretched my arms as they felt a little sore. "How long did I take?”

“You’ve been sitting still for the past four hours,” Tabitha quirks an eyebrow.

"Sounds about right." I wasn't surprised. Weaving countless threads of mana took time, after all.

“Are you done?” Tabitha asks, shifting on her bench.

“Mostly, but there’s one more thing I want to check,” I tell her. “But I can do it while I’m recovering. The only problem is, it will require even more focus, so I’ll need you to continue watching over me if that’s okay with you.”

“More focus?” Tabitha tilts her head to the side in confusion.

“Yeah, technically, I’ll be asleep. Do you remember what I told you about using your new skill on your soul? I'm doing that," I tell her without holding anything back, as I already told Tabitha what her skill is capable of.

"You want to go into your soul!" Tabitha's calm persona shatters, and her eyes widen in shock. "Why would you want to do that?”

“Well, it’s a great place to rest,” I rub the back of my head awkwardly. “But mostly, I want to check the state of my soul. So many things happened these last few days, and I want to ensure everything is okay. In here," I tap my chest.

“Oh,” Tabitha looks like she isn’t sure how to react. “And you’ll be safe?”

“Yes,” I nod. “You just won’t be able to wake me up easily. I still don’t sense anything around us, even around the creepy room below us, but you never know. Will you be okay by yourself?"

"Who is the master here, and who is the student?" Tabitha gives me an incredulous look. “I can guard you; do your thing.”

“You’re sure? I pretend to have reservations, knowing it will annoy Tabitha.

“Go,” Tabitha’s eyes narrow menacingly, but I just smile at her.

“You're awesome,” I give Tabitha one last thanks before I sprawl out on the bench and close my eyes.

After this, we could head out. We had preparations to make and snake butt to kick.

But first, I needed to check on my soul, and I knew it wouldn't be pretty.

Let's see how much damage was done.
