It was always fun to work around other people, even if I was the only one doing the work. There was just something about having somebody watching me that always made me want to do my best.

I wish I could say everything was fine, but it wasn't.

I could deal with Tabitha giving me advice on any number of subjects, but smithing was not one of them.

“Are you sure you’re not going to ruin it?” Tabitha anxiously asks over my shoulder.

"I'm trying not to," I growl. I had already asked Tabitha to back up multiple times, and while she listened to me for a second, it didn't take long before she was hovering over me again— which was impressive, seeing how she was shorter than me.

"It's just.... my armor is essential to my fighting style and cost me quite a lot of money,” Tabitha reminds me for the dozenth time.

"I don't think I can do anything to make it worse," I reply snarkily, but we both know that isn't exactly true. Sure, Tabitha's armor had a massive dent in it, but the enchantments were still holding firm, and as long as they were still functioning correctly, the armor wasn’t technically destroyed.

All it would take is a single bad swing of my hammer, and I could accidentally compromise the many crisscrossing runes on the inside of the breastplate, turning it into an expensive piece of scrap metal.

Tabitha wouldn't stop pleading with me with her eyes until I sighed in defeat. "Fine, come over here," I waved her next to me. "If you're going to hover so closely, you might as well help me. Hold your breastplate as still as you can," I instructed her. In truth, I was going to have to ask her to help me anyway, but it was better to make her think she wore me down.

Tabitha nods happily and follows my instructions to the letter. I was stronger now and could swing my hammer with one hand, but I wouldn't have much control if I did.

If I was going to fix Tabitha's armor, it was better for me to have both hands available. Considering I had no tools to secure her breastplate to the stone bench I had chosen as my workstation, Tabitha would need to step in.

“No, like this." I adjust Tabitha's grip, so her hand is as far away from the spot I'm working on as possible to be safe. After all, Tabitha only had one working arm at the moment, and I didn't want to make things worse.

“Like this?” Tabitha asks inquisitively.

“Yeah, like that; just keep it as still as you can," I say, anchoring myself to the ground using Magic Threads and raising my hammer.

Tabitha visibly flinches as I swing my hammer down. I’ve seen her caught off guard multiple times, most recently with the winged serpent, but she rarely flinches and never because she’s scared.

Well, now, she looked terrified. I wanted to chastise her for having so little faith in me, but I was too busy focusing on my swing. That, and I felt kind of bad for her.

I wish I could've had the chance to heat her breastplate before trying to hammer the dent out, but I didn’t have the supplies or the knowledge to heat something already enchanted. Plus, there was very little to burn down here, and even if I could find and gather enough scrap wood to make a fire, it wouldn’t be hot enough to affect the metal in the first place.

Heating it with magic was out, too, as Tabitha's breastplate had an enchantment to resist such things. So, the only thing I could do was hammer the dent as is.

Using a combination of my various hammer skills, I slam my hammer down with everything I have. The sound of ringing metal fills the room as I do my best to fix the dent. But Tabitha’s tier 4 armor refuses to make life easy.

After four full-powered swings, the metal barely moves an inch, but I don’t give up. Even if it's only slightly, I was making a difference. And seeing how my Stamina was full and I had nothing else to use it on, I might as well go until my arms gave out.

Slowly and agonizingly, I sweat over the piece of armor, only pausing momentarily to ask Tabitha if she was holding out okay. "Can you go on?" I wheeze halfway through, pounding out the dent.

Tabitha was sweating, too, but not for the same reason. "I can go on," she groans. I was sweating because I was using multiple skills simultaneously back-to-back, but she was sweating because she was holding onto her armor. Each of my swings sent powerful shockwaves through the metal and subsequently into her.

“Are you sure? We can pause for a bit?" I tell her. Tabitha's armor and the bench absorbed most of the kinetic energy but not all of it. I was worried all the vibrations might be aggravating her wounds too much.

“Hurry up and fix my armor because once you stop, I’m putting it back on, and I’m not taking it off again,” Tabitha threatens. Of course, I knew she was only partially serious, but if that was how she felt, who was I to stop her?

“Alright,” I’ll try to hurry. I lift my hammer over my shoulder again.

“Just do it right,” Tabitha says nervously, her tough exterior cracking momentarily, betraying how she truly felt.

I pretended not to notice her discomfort, choosing to nod and continue working as if nothing was wrong.

The winged serpent did a number on her armor. It took all my strength to get it back into shape, and the lesser dragon obliterated Tabitha's shield and dented her chestpiece almost on a whim. I’ll be able to knock the dent out, but how will we deal with a monster that can hit that hard?

Tabitha's shield was gone, and just because I was pounding out the dent didn't mean her breastplate would magically be back to the way it was. Without properly reforging it, Tabitha’s armor will always be weaker where it was dented. I haven't told her yet, as that conversation was sure to be painful, but Tabitha would have to be extra careful in the future. The best I could do was make it no longer painful for her to wear.

Honestly, I'm surprised her chestplate wasn't worse, specifically the runes. I tried studying their 3D structures whenever Tabitha let me, so I was familiar with how complicated they were. And yet, even though multiple runes were stretched with the metal, the enchantment still functioned properly.

The beginner runes I knew were extremely fragile, so seeing the much more intricate versions withstand the snake's strike and my hammer blows left me curious if there was something different about these or if they were higher-tier runes.

They might have been simply more robust than the basic ones, but I had a feeling there was something special about them. I wanted to meet the artisan who enchanted it, but first, we had to make it out of here alive.

“Almost. And there,” I swing my hammer for the last time. Wiping the dripping sweat from my face, I examine my handiwork. It was a rushed patch job, and I could only make it as flat as I did because the metal only deformed under the snake’s strength and was never torn, but considering my lack of tools, I was proud of my work.

“Can you help me put it on?” Tabitha asks in a monotone voice, but her eyes practically plead for me to help her.

“Of course,” I smile reassuringly. But while I'm helping Tabitha secure her armor, I decide to suck it up and rip the band-aid off before I chicken out any further. “I patched your armor, but" I struggle to deliver the bad news.

“But my armor will need to be replaced,” Tabitha finishes for me, catching me off-guard.

“You knew?” My eyes widen.

“This isn’t the first time I’ve been forced to replace a piece of armor,” Tabitha lets out a long sigh and, with her right hand, rubs the spot where the dent used to be. The spot stood out as the metal was now a lighter shade than the rest of it, another sign that its structure was compromised.

“I’m sorry I couldn’t do more,” I hang my head apologetically.

“Why must you blame everything on yourself?” Tabitha rolls her eyes exasperated. "You did what you could... It was my inadequacies that led us to where we are now. We can blame ourselves all we want, or we can move on. Just like the potions, my armor did its job. Of course, I'll need to replace it, but that's a task for later." Tabitha said everything without emotion but was still affectionately rubbing her armor with a slight frown.

“I’ll do my best to help you get new armor, even if I have to make it myself,” I tell her, not as her student but as a friend.

“I look forward to it,” Tabitha's lips curl up a fraction, and I'm treated to a rare smile that has nothing to do with battle. But, sadly, it doesn't last long. “Well, we ate most of our food, and you fixed up my armor, ready to check out the chamber you told me about?”

While eating, I told Tabitha about the death-filled chamber I sensed below us. She wanted to check it out, but why did it feel like she was deflecting? It was almost like she was trying to distract herself, which was okay, but I had two more things I wanted to do before we went down.

“Can we actually rest here for one more day?” I hesitantly ask.

"Really, I thought you would want to explore the most?" Tabitha is visibly surprised by my request.

"Trust me, I do," I tell her. “But I gained a lot of skill levels I didn't have when practicing around the crater. So, if it's okay with you, I want to try to break through Mana Skin's test while everything is still relatively fresh in my mind. I wanted to try earlier, but I only now have the mana to spare, and if we go down, I have no idea if that will still be the case.”

It was left unsaid that we might encounter danger down there, and while we were more prepared for it, I wanted to improve my defenses before we ran into the next hurdle.

“I understand," Tabitha sighs and untenses. "If you need time, we can stay here for a day.” She slowly lowers herself and sits on the stone bench we used to fix her armor. "It's probably best I finish healing anyways,” she lazily comments before closing her eyes.

Tabitha was never easy to read, but even I could tell she was anxious to get moving. She had to be tired of sitting around doing nothing; I know I was, but leaving now wouldn't be a good idea. It sucked seeing my battle-hungry teacher down in the dumps, and I could only imagine how bored she must be after the last three days, but there was simply no better time for me to improve one of my most valuable skills.

So, before I give in to my emotions against my better judgment, I turn away from a seemingly resting Tabitha. Her light spell was still hovering over her shoulder, illuminating the room, so I knew she wasn’t really asleep. Instead, she probably just closed her eyes to give me a sense of privacy.

Moving a few feet away, I sat on one of the other intact stone benches in the room, and surprisingly, it was pretty comfortable. Like everything else, it was made from force-absorbing stone, so even though I was sitting on a stone, it felt softer, almost like wood. The bench was the perfect place to meditate, but before I did that, I shook out my legs and rolled my shoulders.

I would likely not be moving for an extended period, and I didn't want my still-healing body to lock up from the lack of movement.

While stretching, I steal one last glance at Tabitha, who still hasn’t opened her eyes again. In my mind, I wished that she would heal enough to gain use of her other arm.

Besides a few strips of jerky and a quarter of a waterskin left, we were out of supplies, so the countdown had officially begun. We had a maximum of three days to prepare ourselves before our hunger pains returned and our fighting potential started deteriorating. But if I were to be any help in the coming battle, I would need to strengthen my defenses.

Closing my eyes, I sunk into a meditative state. I didn't immediately rush into trying to improve Mana Skin; instead, I centered myself by clearing my mind.

First, I regulated my breathing and examined Mana's Skin's existing barriers. After resting for three days, my skill was back to 100%, and all three layers were going strong.

There were small gaps between each layer, which I had filled with varying degrees of the death mana. It was a little funny because after absorbing the soul horrors, the toxic mana down here had started to clear up, and now the mana held between the layers of Mana Skin was more toxic than the stuff around us.

Creating a channel between my barriers, I let out all the compressed ambient mana as it would complicate things. I then reabsorb barriers two and three, leaving only one barrier protecting me from the high levels of ambient mana.

Now that I think about it, I should see how bad it is without my skill now that I’ve gained seven levels. Reabsorbing the last barrier protecting me, I suddenly feel the total weight of the ambient mana around me. It felt like it was trying to rush into me, but my natural resistance kept the high mana levels at bay.

Still, I was absorbing more ambient mana than I would have liked, so I quickly reactivated my skill, but it was nice knowing I could survive without it if I absolutely needed to.

Now, onto step two; while leaving a single barrier active, I mold my mana into threads. One by one, I knit them together to strengthen them. This was where I previously started having problems, but it felt different this time. When I was practicing outside the crater, I could form the threads just fine, but now it felt like I had much greater control over them, so I confidently continued.

Very carefully, I start overlapping the threads. Usually, they would break down and meld together into a single mass, but after using them to stitch Tabitha's arm back together, keeping them separate felt doable.

