“You’re confident I can’t make an original sword, but you don’t know what a grill is?”

“Explain the design and I’ll tell you what it’s called.” Del probably thinks I’m saying the name wrong.

“It’s basically an open box with a wall removed. You put charcoal in the bottom of the box and cook on top of a grate that you can adjust depending on how close you need to be to the fire. You usually cook meat on a grill but blood maize would probably gill nicely.”

Master Del looks contemplative. “That just sounds like a complicated campfire. Why are you so excited about making something so simple?”

“Because I’m tired of stew. Every day it’s stewed meat and veggies. This ‘grill’, lets a person cook a meal over a controlled fire. Cleanup is easy and it shouldn’t be that hard to make.” I’m trying not to sound like an infomercial.

“If that’s what you want to make, we’ll give it a try. Now that you mention it, I eat mostly stew as well. You’re making me miss the food in Truset or even the food in human cities.”

“What’s so different about the food in cities?”

“Magic tools and semi-magic tools in cities are much more common. Using magicite, humans can power magic stoves, letting people cook much more complicated dishes. Maybe your grill will be useful after all. If it turns out good, I’ll have to make a second one for myself.”

Del and I spent the next couple of hours discussing different foods and how they’re made, leaving us both hungry. The sun is setting fast and I probably won’t be able to see the metal until tomorrow.

“Are you going to open the bloomery later?” I organize my workspace before I leave the day.

“I’ll open it in a few hours. We should have enough time tomorrow to forge your grill if we start early in the morning.”

“Great, so the two of us need to get up early? What could go wrong with that?”

Sharing a laugh, I’m about to turn to leave the clearing when Del stopes me with a hand on my shoulder.

Del whispers in my ear, “Someone’s coming.”

Scanning the tree line, I hope dad didn’t come to pick me up again.

I flinch as a different silhouette appears amongst the trees. Striding into the clearing, bow in hand, Ronald calmly walks up to us.

Ronald is the best hunter in our village. He’s 5’ 10’’ and has a slender build. His dirty blond hair has a few tangled leaf’s sticking in it. His light blue eyes look grey in the fading sunlight. His gaze is sharp and powerful. He might not be as powerful as one of Cristopher’s guards but he spends his time hunting every day in the woods. Everyone knows his level is probably in the higher forties, maybe even over fifty. For someone who looks like they’re in their early thirties like my parents, his level is considered impressive for our small village.

He seems much more impressive than the time I saw him helping dad carry the farkus out of the woods, for Richards awakening celebration.

“Del, Aaliyah, village meeting. Attendance is mandatory.” His straight expression gives nothing away.

I look to Del, expecting him to scowl and chase Ronald away using his fake voice. Instead, he simply nods at Ronald and starts walking towards the village with him. I’m stunned and can only run after their disappearing backs, as they enter the tree line.

Instead of taking the normal path to the village from Del’s clearing, which would have us walk in a weird v path, we silently cut through the forest. Master doesn’t say a word as we walk through the woods and Ronald doesn’t appear to care about the silence either.

I can only recall Sandra’s father calling two village meetings in my lifetime and neither were mandatory. It doesn’t take a genius to realize something bad has happened.

Emerging from the woods, we walk past a few houses before we arrive at the headman’s house. His house is the only one in the village with a second story and every villager is crowded around the front of the building looking up at the window where the man is standing.

Sandra’s father looks like an average middle-aged man you could find anywhere. Being neither thin nor fat, I focus on his combover He appears to be in his late thirties, maybe early forties. I’ve noticed him around the village but I’ve never had a reason to talk to the man. He keeps scanning the crowd from above, probably waiting for everyone to gather.

I can see my parents standing together on the opposite side of the crowded villagers. We make eye contact briefly, exchanging smiles. Whatever has the headman spooked, at least it doesn’t involve my family.

I notice a few people join the edges of the crowd. They must have been the last to arrive because headman Camden looks ready to start.

“Please be quiet.” His words reverberate through the crowd. He must have used a few skills because his voice traveled to everyone’s ears without him needing to shout. Once I heard his voice, it felt like I had the idea to close my mouth. Everyone around me stopped talking at once and now everyone has their eyes on Camden.

“I’m sorry I had to use some skills. Now that everyone is here, I have an important matter everyone needs to hear.” If his skills didn’t silence everyone his vague threats would have done the trick.

“It has come to my attention that the hunters have noticed an increase in the goblins roaming the surrounding forest.” A few people like myself have shaken off the skill trying to keep our silence. Slowly more people are murmuring back and forth between each other.

“Last week I asked Ronald to look into the goblins rising numbers… unfortunately he found a hoard.” As soon as he said the word “hoard”, his skill was broken by the crowd’s fears.

“Has Drey been notified?” Granny Geller’s voice rises out a part of the crowd and soon everyone is shouting the same question.

Raising his hand, Camden waits for the crowd to silence naturally. “The reason I’ve gathered you all hear is because I contacted Drey almost five days ago. Sadly, they can’t afford to send a platoon of soldiers to wipe out the hoard.”

This is getting bad. Most of the villagers seem ready to riot. Each time the headman opens his mouth he seems to deliver worse news. It’s hard to pay attention to any one person’s shouting, but again the mob is almost in a consensus. Everyone wants to know why we aren’t receiving aid.

“Quiet!” His skills must have finished their cooldown. He can only use them every seven and a half minutes and I can tell that the affect they have on the crowd this time is much weaker. Even weaker, he uses the pause in the crowds shouting to continue his explanation.

“I received a messenger bird from the city’s lord. Last week Scholl attacked the Scarred Divide. All of the surrounding cities are preparing what warriors they can spare, to be sent to repel Scholl’s forces. They told me if we can wait for winter to pass, they can send us a small group of soldiers in the spring.”

“So, we only have to wait for reinforcements, that’s not too bad.” I can’t tell who shouted that out but while everyone is agreeing with the idea, I notice key people shaking their heads, including my master.

It’s Ronald who finally dashes the crowds hopes. “We can’t wait that long! Goblins breed too fast. In two months, the group I saw could father dozens of baby goblins and they will be old enough to attack us by spring. And that’s assuming the hoard can scavenge enough supplies through winter! We could be attacked anytime between now and whenever Drey can spare us the troops.” Many have gone pale at Ronald’s warning.

“Thank you, Ronald.” Camden draws the crowds focus back towards himself before people start shouting at Ronald. “This is why I called an emergency meeting. Once it became apparent, we wouldn’t receive any aid from Drey, I realized we would have to take care of the hoard ourselves.”

Everyone is losing their shit. I understand why people are scared. When we are attacked by goblins, excluding the large attack almost five years ago, the village hunters kill most of the goblins before stronger villagers like father would help with the stragglers. Even with us surrounded by woods, the average villager has never been in a combat situation let alone a life or death struggle.

The situation is deteriorating fast, people might start hurting each other in their panic. “Cover your ears.” Masters voice quietly warns me. As soon as my hands are on my ears, a thundering sound knocks the villagers surrounding us to the ground. Many are rubbing their ears, but everyone is staring at me. Not at me, through me, at my master. His hand clap was deafening.

Pretending to be ignorant of the stares, master ignores the hostile looks and focuses on Camden. A few people take the hint and focus back up on the window. “I know you are all afraid. I wouldn’t ask this of you if the situation wasn’t so dire. Tomorrow, those capable, need to prepare. Anyone strong enough or brave enough needs to help us fight against the hoard. Midday tomorrow, we will gather again and plan out our attack. We will leave for the hoard the day after tomorrow. I know everyone who is strong enough to participate, and you know who you are. If you don’t contribute, we will drag you against the hoard whether you are prepared or not.”

His gaze passes through me as he eyes everyone in the village. Ever so lightly I feel something inside my chest. Focusing inward, I watch the tiniest flakes of translucent fire slowly merge with my soul! As the flames meld into my own, I try and notice any difference in my body. I can’t look directly at my soul, so I check every inch of my body. Mana, emotions, anything I can think of, I check for any abnormalities. Once half the flames are fully merged, I notice a peculiar thought. In contrast to focusing on my body, the thought of helping the village appears in my head. It’s not an overwhelming urge to take up arms, more like a sense of patriotism. The scary thing is, though I love my village, the idea of defending my home shouldn’t be in my head while I’m focusing so hard on my body. As the last of the flames meld into my soul, the idea of defending the village hasn’t become more pronounced, but the idea won’t leave my head!

Looking up, I notice the headman paling slightly as the villagers disperse.

He’s using a skill! A skill that manipulates the mind! He’s making the villagers more likely to willingly volunteer tomorrow!

While I’m panicking at the loss of control over my mind, I see master slap the side of his head. I can barely hear him mumble, “I hate noble skills.”

I’m about to ask him what’s going on, before a younger Camden approaches us. Nicolas is Sandra’s oldest brother and the villages future headman.

“Del-Razen and miss Aaliyah, my father wishes to speak with the two of you privately. Please follow me.”

He doesn’t even wait for us to voice our opinions before leading us into his house. We’re taken to a side room, obviously meant to accommodate important people. The furniture is made from some of the best wood I’ve seen and covered in Karhu fur.

Nicolas stands by the door, without saying a word. Master takes a seat, seemingly without a care in the world. The rooms silence only lasts a few minutes before Camden Downs strolls through the door.

I’m about to get up and properly great him, only to be stopped with a wave of his hand.

“I hope the two of you are comfortable. I have a lot to discuss with the two highest leveled people in the village.”

What did he say!
