“You sure you don’t want me to push the cart back to my hut?” Shaking my head not only shows my reluctance to relinquish the cart to Del but has the bonus effect of removing the sweat dripping across my face. Master Del pushed the cart out of the mine and up the quarry’s ramp, the least I can do is push it back to the forge.

We usually only go mining twice a month. Leaving the rest of the time to the forest, allowing it time to reclaim the path between Del’s hut and the quarry. The forest grasses and tree roots provide just enough friction to slow the cart to a crawl.

Even with a 100 Strength, pushing a cart that has a literal ton of ore in it, is difficult.

“I… can do it… your hut…... isn’t that far away.” Breathing heavily, I give a forceful push, helping the cart’s wheel vault a tricky root.

Seeing the clearing, some ten odd feet in front of me, renews my stamina just enough to rush the rest of the way. With the windfall of Stamina, I activate Double Step. Pushing such a weight causes the skill to burn much more stamina than usual but gives me enough speed that the cart pretty much drags me into the clearing.

Guiding the cart close to our crushing station, I flop to the ground, waiting for my overtaxed Stamina to slowly recharge.

Taking deep even breaths, I recover in time to watch Del approach my prone form. “Want me to start crushing the rock?” Master knows I insist on starting every part of smelting process myself, yet he offers each time I’m too tired to move.

“Give me a minute and I’ll start crushing the rock.”

“You know you don’t lose that much experience with me helping.”

Breath stabilizing, I sit up facing Del. “I lose 2% if I don’t start every step. I lose another 7% if you step in and help during the ore refining process. Then I lose another 4% when you guide my forging. Even if you barely help me, my experience drops around 19% to 27% depending on your contribution.”

“So, you’re saying you don’t want my help at all, is that it?” Del motions like he’s about to leave me for his bench.

“Stop joking around. you know I meant I get more experience for starting everything. After I crush a few containers of Lovers Ore you can take over and I’ll only lose 7% instead of 9% of my crafting experience.”

“It’s weird how you care so much for a few extra experience points. Usually when someone reaches your level, they focus more on the end product rather than the tedious steps like gathering materials.”

“So, you’re saying I should take an apprentice to do the dirty work for me. An apprentice to do the work you don’t want to do; I wonder where I’ve heard that before?”

“Funny. Did you know you get snippier when you’re tired?”

“I just don’t want to waste experience. The overall experience varies depending on what I make. But even including your help crushing the ore, I gain roughly 24% more experience if I prep the metal myself. Without a proper supplier, we have to do this work anyways. Why would I give up extra experience, just to save a small amount of time by letting you crush some rocks?”

“You should’ve been a scholar or a mage. Maybe you could have been a great merchant with your love of math.”

“Do they not teach you things like this in Truset? I can understand my parent’s ignorance due to their commoner backgrounds, but I thought Stone Kin shared knowledge and I would consider experience knowledge something important to share.”

Del just shakes his head. “It’s not that I don’t already know what you’re talking about. It’s just not important in Truset or any Stone Kin cities. Knowing every step and being good at every step are two different challenges. I’m teaching you mining, ore refining, blacksmithing, sharpening, and you stated you want to know the basics of enchanting. In a Stone Kin city each one of those jobs are separated. You may think knowing everything is a good thing right now, but to create something half as good as Truset, you need to work 5 times harder. Stone Kin separate each job, and though we have a choice in which field to enter, we only focus on one. This method produces Miners that can dig a tunnel the size of my quarry in weeks instead of years. You have people that can melt and mold metal with their bare hands, producing metal many times purer than anything we can make. With metal in hand, blacksmiths shape metals worth more than this whole village. Once an item is forged it is either sharpened or enchanted, sometimes both. Each person creates a masterpiece in their field, generating plenty of experience. I do everything myself because I have to, not by choice.”

So Stone Kin have mastered assembly lines with levels instead of machines. No wonder they can create consistently good gear. From what I’ve heard about human culture, it’s everybody for themselves.

“It’s good that you’re excited about improving all aspects of forging, but you can let me handle the tedious steps with my superior strength. Just start the fire for me, and let me finish the rock crushing so we have enough time to make the steel tomorrow. By the same logic you used, if you help me, you will still earn more experience when you forge tomorrow.”

“You’re right Master Del. I’m wasting time, probably reducing my overall experience in the long run.” Standing up I start moving towards the bloomery. Stopping after a few steps, smiling I look over my shoulder at Del. “Thanks for helping.”

Continuing my short walk to the bloomery, I hear Del mumble behind me. “Hope she doesn’t think I’ll be crushing rocks for her forever. My old teacher would be rolling on the ground laughing if she saw me now.”

I really lucked out with my teacher.

Grabbing a shovel, I start moving charcoal into the bloomery. I helped Del build a small wooden gazebo next to the bloomery. Instead of making charcoal each time we need to fire up the bloomery or forge, we spend a few days creating a huge pile of charcoal and keep it in the gazebo where the weather won’t affect it.

Once I have a good pile of charcoal ready in the bloomery, I turn and watch Del easily pulverize rocks like someone would crush ice.

I have to wait for him to pause his strikes before I can get his attention. It’s amazing watching him work. The magnetic rock crusher we use is wielded in one of his hands while he constantly adds more ore with his free hand. Once the magnetite is covered in iron flakes, the banging stops, as master removes the valuable iron with his bare hands. He can process the entire supply of ore we brought back in only two hours. If I tried to help it would take us at least three hours. With the small window of silence, I shout to Del. “Master. Your flask.”

Master looks over to me with a frown. “Fine, but if you use all of it like last time, you’re making my next batch.”

Despite the threat, he tosses the flask hanging at his side over to me. Catching it as it arcs perfectly through the air, I uncork the stopper, recoiling at the smell that wafts out of the container. I know I joked about master drinking lighter fluid but after trying to use it once to start a fire, I think I’m not far from the truth.

Pouring a few splashes on the coals closest to the open side of the bloomery, I chant the third spell master taught me.

“Llaif gamfr ol e nnamse!”

The spell is longer than the other two and not as versatile, but watching the small ball of red fire shoot out of my index finger is extremely satisfying. I’ve practiced using the spell to light the bloomery and forge many times, so the flame lands exactly where I wanted it, igniting master’s alcohol. I have to watch the fire carefully. The spell is only tier 1 and even if I cast the spell at another person it would at most singe their hair.

Before I started using master’s drink to start the coals, I would have to cast the spell three or sometimes even four times before the fire would catch the coals properly.

Maybe when Sandra gets back, she can teach me a tier 2 fire spell if she knows any.

Looking up at the sky, we have maybe nine hours of daylight left. We will probably have to start the ingots tomorrow morning but I should have enough time to forge what I want by the end of the day tomorrow.

A few hours later, fire roaring, we’re ready to process the first step of the ore. I’m used to this process by now and don’t need Del to help me at all. Alternating levels of ore and coal I fill the bloomery and pump the bellows.

“Now that we have some time, can you explain enchanting with runes to me?” I’m curious about what Del will teach me. If I ever ask something too personal relating to certain Stone Kin knowledge, master just says, “Can’t tell ya that.”

He already said he could teach me the basics but that just means he’s going to give me an overview of the subject with very little detailed information. I’ll have to use my imagination to fill in the gaps and experiment myself.

“Well… it’s carving runes on top of and into items. Tier 1 and most of tier 2 runes only need to be carved on the surface of whatever you’re enchanting. I’ve heard Tier 3 and 4 have three dimensional runes, but without being able to sense magic, I could never study them.”

“Wait, does that mean you can teach me basic runes!?”

“Do I look like an enchanter? I can’t even tell you how to carve the two runes on my pickaxe, let alone any others. As I told you, I only know the basic process. Stone Kin who show exceptional magical abilities are the only ones who take the time to learn runes. And carving the symbols is a lot harder than you think. You need special tools to carve the surfaces precisely Even knowing the rune and having the equipment to carve it, you still need to change the overall size of the rune to match the item you’re enchanting. Assuming you can manage all that, you need to fill the lines with a magical alchemical solution that complements the enchantment.”

Holly crap! How am I supposed to do any of that?

“Starting to realize the difficulty yet? Don’t forget to work the bellows properly.”

I forgot to work the bellows! Checking the fire, I’m lucky Master Del reminded me. I got so absorbed in masters enchanting lesson I almost ruined the metal. The mixture inside the bloomery has settled so I can add more layers of charcoal and ore.

“So, you’re telling me to give up?” I can’t help but look a little defeated, every blacksmith dreams of creating an enchanted blade at some point.

“Normally I would tell someone in your position to give up. If you were a normal child there would be no hope for you in learning enchanting. You however, are a monster in human form, if I’ve ever seen one. The rate you pick up skills is heaven defying, and your magic skills are ridiculous for someone self-taught. Even if I found another person who had magic talent, they wouldn’t be able to learn how to cast a celestial spell, even if I taught them the words.”

Del’s proud look is infectious and I can’t help but cheer up at his praise.

“If you want to learn enchanting, I can help by forging you some tools if you can buy the materials from your merchant friend. How much money do you have saved up?”

“I usually buy ore from Cristopher, but I’ve managed to save up almost 71 silver.” Puffing out my chest, I gloat at the small fortune I’ve saved up these past few years.

“That’s it?” With two words, master crushes my pride. “That boy must be robing you blind if you could only save that much coin. The materials I need for crafting basic enchanting tools cost 50 silver and that’s if you manage to haggle the price down. If you want to try and copy some runes, you’ll need to buy semi magical items or the cheapest magical items you can get, each will cost anywhere between a single silver and 4 large silver coins.”

“That much!” It’ll cost everything I have saved just to try learning basic engraving.

“There’s a saying in Truset, ‘You only need two things to master engraving, magic and a fortune you’re willing to throw away.’ Enchanters in Truset brag not about what they could enchant but how much money they wasted doing so. It’s rumored the best enchanter in Truset managed to learn the basics of engraving in only two months. People thought that was amazing, until he drunkenly admitted he wasted 58 gold coins doing so.”

“I don’t suppose you have a bag of gold stashed under you’re your house, right?” Pumping the bellows a few times, I make sure the fire stays strong.

“Sorry, no gold under my house. You shouldn’t worry about the money just yet. If you work hard and sell everything you make, you should be able to slowly practice enchanting. Speaking of your forging, I’m curious, what were you so excited to make tomorrow?”

“I was going to try making a style of sword I thought of, if you haven’t seen anything like it before I was going to call it a katana.” In my past life I bought a cheap knockoff katana on the internet, and since then I always wanted a real one. I know the basic method to forge a Japanese sword but I can always ask for Del’s help with the first one. Hopefully challenging myself with something new will let me break through the Blacksmithing test.

“I hate to criticize something you seem so passionate about, but unless it’s something ridiculous and complicated, it’s most likely been forged before. Anything else you wanted to try?”

“Well… there is one thing I really want to make. It should be relatively easy.”

“Well don’t keep me in suspense, what do you want to make tomorrow?”

“I want to make a grill.” I look seriously at Del. The decades of eating only stew need to end.

“What’s a grill?” My mouth opens a little at Del’s comment.

