And despite everything, despite the agitation nested deep in his heart, despite his anxiety, his worry for Adam, for Uva, for everyone he was supposed to save, despite being trapped in a cage built specifically to hold something like him, and despite the problem of the Ascendants looming on the horizon, Shiv felt joy, true joy, true pleasure, at reaching Legendary. But it wasn't enough. He wasn't satisfied, and it wasn't enough. He'd come a long way. He'd learned a great many things, and he still had so much left to learn. He still had so much left to experience.

I need to evolve further, Shiv thought, but it wasn't a desperate want anymore. It wasn't a blind, gluttonous desire. There was a sublime beauty to be gained in overcoming struggles that once left you broken, and even more so to crushing them with casual ease. Shiv looked toward the sky and clenched his jaw.

He felt ready this time. Maybe he wouldn't win immediately. Maybe he would need a few more tries until he figured out how to overcome his own clone. But he had a plan, a fairly direct one at that.

Previously, his clone had too many options. He would attack or distract him using a golem. He would assault Blackedge from numerous different directions. Directions that Shiv simply couldn't prepare for. The space was too wide, too large for him to cover, and his clone was just as fast, just as strong, just as destructive as him. Shiv knew his clone would probably also have his Legendary Skill this time, but that just made this fight entirely even.

He needed to get his hands on his clone and just grapple with him; force this into a close-quarters duel and kill him by breaking his neck or something. As his own deaths counted as true deaths in the eyes of the System, he heavily doubted that the Delve wouldn't count his clone perishing once as a win on his part. If not, he would see about it when he got there.

Before his clone arrived, he began making his own Vitae Golem. This time, Shiv added something special to the Golem. He infused it with the Animancy skills he took from his most recent real-life victims. After that, he sent a simple command: "Disable the other Golem with whatever means you can." He didn't know how to use Animancy, and he didn't know what his Golem was going to do, but that was fine.

The skill infusion used the feats and stories stored within the skill itself, and so the golem would do as the Animancers might while they were alive. Shiv granted his golem Leviathan, Inertial Overdrive, Strider, and Pillar as well. Putting this all together took a considerable amount of vitality out of Shiv. He found himself weakened, but if his golem could prevail against his clone, then it wouldn't be just a one-on-one brawl; it would be a two-on-one. And Shiv really liked his odds in that case.

Initiating Encounter (5/5)

A final notification appeared in Shiv's eyes, and his clone descended. He sank down from the clouds, and Shiv studied his mirror self once more. Just as he thought, the clone had his Legendary Skill as well. Pointed ripples of unattuned mana spread out from the clone's core and circulated down the length of his limbs. The clone's Biomancy was also alive with anticipation. His twelve mana hydras were reared back, prepared to strike. Shiv cracked his neck and stretched his own Aegis out, accepting his other self's challenge.

"So, back here again," his clone called out. He didn't attack immediately this time, which made Shiv narrow his eyes. His clone had all his skills, and that meant that he had Psycho-Cartography as well.

"Yeah, I'm back again," Shiv said. "And I'll keep coming back unti—”

“You finally break me or some other bullshit," the clone said, rolling his eyes. "Holy hell, hearing myself talk makes me want to puke. You know what you sound like? You sound like one of those drunkards who used to start fights at the Swan-Eating Toad."

Shiv wanted to say he didn't, but a lot of his threats and his declarations of bravado were a bit like belligerent drunkards. "I don't really slur my words that much," Shiv shot back.

"You don't," his clone conceded with a slight nod, "but you're about as stupid. At least the way you act is."

Shiv just frowned at the clone. "You know that applies to you as well, right? If you're calling me an idiot…"

"I'm an idiot too," the clone said without any hesitation. "But whose fault is that? I'm not the one that's real here. I'm just a figment of this Delve. You're the fuck-up I'm based on."

"Fuck-up?" Shiv growled. Something inside his stomach tightened as his Psycho-Cartography skill warned him to focus to stay calm. The clone was obviously trying to provoke him. Unfortunately, calm wasn't something Shiv spent a lot of time being, especially not in recent days.

"Yeah, fuck-up," the clone said, gesturing broadly at the false Blackedge. "This place is based on your fuck-ups. Look at all the dead people down there. All those Pathbearers, those Umbrals, those slaves. How many of them do you think you killed? How many of them do you think died when you let off a discharge or when you smashed through a building, without thinking about what you were doing?"

"Most," Shiv said, swallowing his discomfort. "Maybe all. I know that. That's why I'm here. That's probably why this Delve Quest exists."

"Oh, yeah, that's why this Delve Quest exists," his clone agreed, but there was a hint of sarcasm in his voice. "It exists because you're sloppy. What was it you said again? Collateral damage is inevitable?"

The clone actually sounded disgusted by the sentence. “It's bullshit,” he continued. “Or at least, collateral could have been massively reduced if we had just thought things through, if we had done more planning. And before you go on about not being trained, what would it have cost to do a little bit more thinking? You had time. You were in Weave for days upon days, but you spent it prancing around with Uva and Adam, ‘trying to take your mind off things.’ And then, when it came time to act, you ran right into the fire, instead of spending even a moment building out a better plan or relying on the expertise of people a thousand times more experienced than you. You just had to act. You just had to rely on yourself."

He gestured down at Blackedge once again, at the hundreds of people who'd died due to his negligence. The clone's voice was dripping with sarcasm by now. “But, I suppose none of that's your fault either. You just didn't know any better, right? The awful, awful people of Blackedge are the ones to blame for your behavior, for being oh so mean to you all your life.”

Psycho-Cartography: It's best not to flinch at these accusations. The clone is not wrong, for the most part. That's why he is provoking your ire. Accept it. Deal with the frustration to move on.

"Yeah, you're right," Shiv said, even though saying those words made him want to slam his head into a wall. "But again, that's why we're here, isn't it? So I can finally get that lesson through my head. So I can finally learn."

"You're here because you want more power," the clone said with a sigh. "I'm sure you'll try to learn these lessons. You try to do everything. Trying is not your problem. Your problem is that you forget. Your problem is that the System wants to kill you. And because it does, because you're going to have the whole world hunting you, you can't even afford to be yourself. Because you’re not enough. You were never enough.”

Shiv almost began arguing, but the clone's final words brought him to silence. He waited for the clone to keep talking, to hear more of what this replica of him had to say.

"Look at us. Look at us, really. We came this far because of our Path. Yeah, what other qualities do we have? We're real focused when we do things. Our attention borders on obsession when we practice our trade. That's why we're such a reliable cook. That's why Georges wanted to give us the Path in the first place. I guess we're brave too, but maybe it's just recklessness. After all, what did we have to lose before?"

"Our lives," Shiv said.

"Our lives." The clone laughed. "What life? We were despised. We were barely more than a cockroach to the people in Blackedge. Yeah, I guess we wanted to live, but how badly did we really want to live?"

And that made Shiv a bit uncomfortable. But there was something wrong with the clone's logic. "I was trying to gain a Path because I didn't just want to be alive, I wanted to live," Shiv said. "I wanted to be a full person. I wanted to decide my own fate. I just thought that risking my life was a worthwhile trade. I never wanted to die."

And now the clone went silent. He acknowledged Shiv’s point with an inclination of his head and didn't fight it further.

Psycho-Cartography: Yeah, he has a version of me too. He's not going to bother fighting this. This angle of attack is dead. Nice work.

And that might have been the first time his Psychology Skill complimented him.

"But it is not as if those are our only issues," the clone said. "We were devoted in the kitchen. We are fearless when it comes to battle. But look at the rest of us. We're untrained. We have no knowledge. I see your hands are shaking, probably because you want to ram your thumbs through my eyes and rip my head in half rather than talking."

Shiv directed his Farsight at his clone's hands and noticed that they were shaking just the same. "Well, how else is this Quest supposed to end?" Shiv asked, a little bit of annoyance leaking into his voice. "I need to kill you so that I can finally get this damn skill. So I can break out of prison and…"

"And what?" the clone interrupted again. He sounded pissed now. He pointed his finger at Shiv. "And what? You think that after getting a Legendary Skill, you're going to just casually break out? Hey, dumb shit. There are signs out there. Cripple is still watching us. You know? The Ascendant? We might have killed a few of his Animancers, but that just means that he's going to be on our ass every second of every day until the rest of them come back. And then, they'll probably decide whether they want to kill us or do something else to us."

"Yeah, well, I won't make it easy on them," Shiv said.

"Oh, you're not going to make it easy on them. How cute. Well, what's the plan? How are you going to escape? Let me guess, you're going to try to use your new skill to build up enough strength to finally break whatever bonds they have you in. You're going to surprise them by overpowering their magic using your new skill as well, and then you'll go outside context for a few moments to evade them. And after that, what? Do you know the layout of the prison? Do you have any idea how big it even is, or what kind of nightmarish protections they have in place?"

Shiv didn't answer.

"Okay, you don't know that. So, then we're going to do the usual thing, in which we kidnap someone and try to make them tell us. Or try to force them into being a guide. Except, you remember how Theborn went, right?"

"Yeah," Shiv said, trying to keep the bitterness out of his voice.

"You only succeeded at Theborn," the clone continued, "because Leu’s goals miraculously aligned with yours and she intervened on your behalf. I'm not going to mock you for being a bad spy, and that was a clusterfuck to begin with. Frankly, your inability to spy is probably the least of your problems. But this isn't Theborn. You're not dealing with an emotional idiot like Confriga. You're not even dealing with a mentally compromised Legend like Sullain. The Ascendants are going to break you. They are going to keep you in your cage, like you're a good little pet."

A simmer of anger crept up from Shiv’s stomach. He kept it repressed.

"But you know what? Maybe we won't die. Maybe they'll decide to make us an Avatar." The clone laughed. "Or at least a weapon they can wield. They'll finally manage to push through our Legendary skill. And after that, they'll keep their fingers buried deep within our minds." The clone licked his lips and looked into the distance, scowling at something that wasn't there. "You know, that Kathereine woman, you remember the way she looked at us?"

Shiv did, and he didn't want to go down that train of thought. But the clone did. "You know that's more than just professional interest. What do you think she wants from us? What do you think she's going to make us do?"

"She's not going to make me do anything," Shiv said quietly. “I won’t let her.”

"Oh, you think it's going to be up to you," the clone drawled. "Oh, she sings a fun song, messes up your mind. Remember, she's basically running a divine Social Skill torture session on you. And right now, all you have is Psychology and Intimidation. She's not afraid of you, and her Psychology is better than yours. You want to know what I think?" the clone asked. Shiv didn’t respond. The clone didn't care. "I think she's going to sing a real pretty song. And maybe during that song you'll end up seeing her as, I don't know, Uva. And after that, wow, who knows what might happen."

At the mention of Uva, the tendons in Shiv's neck tightened. He tried not to snarl at his clone. And the clone noticed. The clone smirked. "Speaking of Uva," he continued. "You think she's still alive? Because I don't. I don't think Adam's alive either. Or Valor, or Dad, or anyone in Blackedge. After all, we haven't gotten the rewards for that Tarrasque Quest yet."

"They're alive," Shiv forced out. The words escaped him like a desperate plea more than a confident statement.

His clone lifted an eyebrow and snorted. "Oh, they're alive. How would you know? You're not there." The clone's words struck Shiv like a dagger across the abdomen.

"I'll get back to them!" Shiv snapped. "I need to get back."

