"That's why you're going to try to rush through me. You're going to try to kill me as fast as possible. And then you're going to try to make a quick escape. And then you're going to try to quickly fly back to where Blackedge is." The clone's sneering mockery grew more sickening with every syllable. "Let's be honest with ourselves. Your friends were fried the moment you got teleported. And if the Tarrasque didn't get them, they're probably scattered across a few different Republic black sites. Now, Adam, Roland, and Rose might be kept alive for a while. The Ascendants are likely not in agreement about what to do with them, and neither are their Avatars, judging by how that Veronica woman just teleported you while Stormhalt kept trying to kill you."

Then this clone's face twisted in a cruel smile. "But what do you think they're going to do to dear Sister Uva?"

Shiv didn't think about that. He did everything he could to not think about that. An Umbral Psychomancer, a loyal daughter of Weave, a Seeker of the Eldritch, and now a temporary Avatar of their greatest enemy. "I don't think they'll kill her immediately, actually. I think they'll vivisect her, push their minds into hers, have their Animancers reach deeeep into her soul to discover just how her Outsider-infested skills really function."

Veins of red crept in from the corner of Shiv's vision. He forced them back. He controlled his breathing, but he could hear his heart thundering in the backdrop. Thundering along with each ripple of force his Legendary Skill generated.

"You remember how she screamed when the Recollector took her apart?" the Clone asked, and Shiv did. He would never forget her screams. He would never forget how Adam's head was forced in the wrong direction. How he gasped and struggled. "Yeah, you do," the clone said, leaning back against nothing and grinning happily. "Well, I'll tell you what, I think she's going to scream a lot worse than that when they slowly and methodically rip her apart. Adam too, probably, considering he has some Unique Skills. But, when thinking of how they'll scream, I have another thought tickling my mind."

Psycho-Cartography: Do not let him goad you! Burst your ears if you have to. Do not—

"I'm thinking," the Clone whispered, "that they might be calling out for you. And you won't be there for them, just like you weren't there for any of these strangers, and just like you're not there for your friends right now. I'm wondering how it might feel for them to die, being tortured to death by Republic Animancers, Biomancers, and Psychomancers, with their last words being your name on their lips, and your absence clawing at their hearts."

A haze of red consumed Shiv's vision. Every fiber of his being screamed for violence, screamed for him to throw himself at his clone. He barely managed to restrain himself. The clone tilted his head, and he nodded approvingly.

"Well, I guess you are maturing a bit, but let me give you the real clincher." The clone leaned in and sneered one more time, his lips trembling with glee, or perhaps something else. "I'm not going away. I'm not going down without a long and ugly fight, and I don't think you can beat me. I don't think you can ever stop me, because I'm not real, and I hate that fact. I hate the fact that I'm nothing more than a skill slave for you to overcome. So, I'm going to do to you what you intended to do to the Ascendants: be a pain in your ass. I'm going to delay you time and time and time again until you are certain that your friends are dead. Until you are certain that you weren't there in time, that they've perished alone, without you by their side. Because that's the only power I have over you. And I'm going to fucking enjoy it."

Something inside Shiv snapped.
