When he launched himself back up the tunnel, he let out a hiss of pain. A few muscle tears radiated with searing heat from his lower back and hamstrings. Shiv fed those injuries to his Aegis of Assimilation and tried to figure out how he'd hurt himself. It didn’t take long.

It’s the sudden stopping. All that force is being converted into me, but I still have Inertial Overdrive active. Any bit of momentum that I don’t manage to cycle through my body will end up hurting me. Shiv shook his head in disbelief. This damned skill is going to be straining my Awareness and Multi-Tasking too. That, or I need to start moving with the pillar active all the time. That should blunt some damage.

Shiv erupted out of the tunnel just in time for the next encounter. He grimaced as he realized his mistake: He didn’t rip the golem’s mana core out. Now what was he going to shove up 811’s ass?

“His own mace will do,” Shiv grunted in resignation.

But that didn’t go well either. The following “battle” between Shiv and 811 happened in three parts. The orc took a swing at him. Shiv converted 811’s attack into an overflow-tide before ripping the orc’s mace out of his hand. Then, Shiv tried to position himself mace-to-ass and missed. The resulting hit turned the orc into a faint cloud of red. One that painted Shiv’s body.

He glared blankly at the sky as he resolved to work more on his dexterity.

Then, it came time to face the Jealousy again, and Shiv did so with renewed vigor. Of all his foes, the Jealousy was the one Shiv looked forward to the most. It wasn’t because it was fun or easy to fight the Greater Demon, but more that he wished to find out just how his current Legendary Skill would handle magic. So far, this skill seemed more Physicality than Magical Resistance, but considering how the force-tides expressed themselves as unattuned mana, Shiv knew his Magical Resistance was still there in some form.

The Jealousy materialized atop the spire, and Shiv rose through the air to greet it.

“Daring morsel!” The Jealousy cackled with glee. “Come. Offer mind. Easy feed. Good day!”

It pointed its large, purple eye at him. He could feel its mana field twisted around him, and to his astonishment, feel it dragging against his body. Shiv’s vectors flared brighter. The unattuned mana turned translucent. Oh, fuck yeah! He tried to reach out and grab the field itself, but found it kind of like pinching firm skin. There wasn’t much he could find purchase on.

But I can touch it! Shiv thought. I can physically feel the Psychomancy field.

A hundred-meter-long psionic spear burst free from the Jealousy’s eye. It tore through the air and struck Shiv dead on. He didn’t pause time. He didn’t try to dodge. The innate tides of force washing over his body remained unattuned until he caught the spell with his bare hands. Then his tides all went translucent once more.

The shapes and spell patterns that constituted the spell felt concrete; something Shiv could hold on to and manipulate. Yet, he also felt no overflowing tide of force spill into him from the spell. Instead, it crashed against his innate tides in a cataclysmic clash. Shiv growled with exertion as he was physically pushed back through the air. He directed all the innate tides rippling out from his body toward the spell. With the first ripple, he stalemated the spell; after the second, he overpowered it entirely.

“What is this?” the Jealousy hissed in surprise. Just as the spell's lack of convertible force caught Shiv off guard, his ability to wrestle with its mana like it was a physical object left the Jealousy reeling.

But Shiv didn’t let go of the spell or swat it aside. Instead, he growled as another series of waves swept through his body. He infused his tides into his arms and pulled them in opposite directions. Shiv’s body was consumed by Psychomancy mana as he ripped the Jealousy’s spell in half.

The Greater Demon wailed a note of deafening agony as its mana field was lacerated. “HURTS! PAIN! NO! NO! RUN! LET ME GO! PAIN—” Its thoughts turned to screams as Shiv flung himself into its eye.

Blood splattered around him. He didn’t care. Whips of lashing Hydromanacy mana crashed against him. Shiv caught and snapped them with his hands as well. It took a bit less effort to break the Jealousy’s Hydromancy compared to its Psychomancy, but it was still much more of a struggle than dealing with physical force.

But Shiv realized something—both his Magical Resistance and Physicality were intertwined. He could use the overflow-tides he cycled to overcome any kind of mana. Right now, he was operating at a baseline state, and that left him limited. He wasn’t actually weaker in terms of Magical Resistance; he just didn’t understand his skill well enough yet.

In fact, this was much better than having an adaptive mana field that absorbed mana damage but could do nothing else.

“PLEASE! NO! NOT PREY! VOID LEVIATHAN! KNOW YOUR SKILL! KNOW THIS POWER! MERCY!”

“Void Leviathan?” Shiv asked. But then his attention was stolen by another detail. As he sank his fingers into the Jealousy’s mangled eye, his tides of force spilled out from him into the Jealousy as well, reminding him that this wasn’t just a mix between his Physicality and Magical Resistance—it was a Legendary Grappling Skill too.

And that made him realize that he was still a bit too messy in terms of combat. He needed to stop hitting things all the time. With this skill, he could hold them, control them, and break them without smashing through anything or risking any collateral damage at all.

Shiv tested his new grappling by pressing his hands together and compressing the Jealousy. The Greater Demon cried out. Shiv gritted his teeth as he found a cracking barrier he needed to break through before he finally started squeezing the Jealousy into pulp. He blinked as he guessed the barrier to be the Jealousy’s Magical Resistance.

Right. That’s something else I have to deal with now. My strength affects both matter and magic now.

The Jealousy tried to swing its massive, barbed tentacles at Shiv in a last-ditch effort at staying alive. He slammed his palms together inside its collapsing eye. The Jealousy gave a keening wail as wave after wave of force swirled through its body before they all rushed to its epicenter. The four-hundred-meter-wide Greater Demon turned to red paste as it was compressed down to a fifty-meter sphere of solid viscera and powdered bone.

Shiv let out a euphoric laugh at this overwhelming display of power and decided to celebrate by punting the Jealousy into the distance. That didn’t go quite as expected, though, as Shiv found his foot buried inside the Jealousy flesh-ball instead.

The Deathless winced as the mangled remains slipped from his right foot and impaled itself atop the tip of Starhawk’s Perch like a giant meatball. “Yeah, alright. I’m kind of just bending force unnaturally now, instead of directing gravity or something. I probably should’ve channeled a wave of force through the Jealousy instead of my foot if I wanted to kick it like that.”

Physics 1 > 2

Encounter Complete (3/5)

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

Initiating Encounter (4/5)

And then it was time to face the Recollector again. Unlike the last few times, Shiv was looking forward to this showdown quite a bit. He knew he could reliably beat the Recollector now, thanks to his improved skills and Vitality Drain.

But the eldritch being was a dangerous foe, one that he couldn't let his guard down against, even now. If he gave it a single opening, one of its past selves could slam into Blackedge and cause enough damage for the Delve to be reset. So Shiv's strategy remained the same: he was going to intercept it, hold it in place, and drain it. But on top of that, he was going to find out just how much external force he could convert. He didn't suffer any strain cycling forces that had acted upon him previously, so he wondered if there was truly a limit. And if not, well, that would really make things interesting.

As the Recollector spawned in at the edge of town, Shiv met it head-on before the eldritch being could spew any nonsense statements or unleash that annoying scream. Shiv smashed his palm against one of its eyes and directed a wave of force through its body. A tide of kinetic energy slashed across the Recollector and suddenly twisted downward at an angle as Shiv unleashed its full might. One of the ten fingers extending from the Recollector's hand-shaped head snapped backward at the base. The eldritch being let out a cry of alarm more than pain. That cry made Shiv's vision spin.

"Hate your goddamn noises," he snarled under his breath. He recovered just in time to see every last one of the Recollector's eyes glaring at him.

Beams of magic smashed against his person. Concurrently, the Recollector launched itself forward, slashing channels of Chronomancy impacting Shiv. But he wrestled them aside with brute force. His muscles strained as he struggled to hold the golden mana back. But then the strain vanished altogether as the Recollector drove itself against him. Overflowing tides of striped force flooded Shiv. They turned gold as Shiv converted them for his own use. Instead of being a danger, the Recollector’s own physical attacks became an additional resource Shiv could use to counter its magic, to deliver brutal blows against its body.

But Shiv did have a limit. The limit was his focus. Shiv was a generator and conduit for forces now. But that meant he needed to circulate every bit of kinetic energy and momentum that greeted him. And for the first time, his mind failed his body. A blast of force swept out across Shiv's torso, three ribs snapped as a chorus, and throbbing spots of pain tightened into knots within his abdomen.

Shiv ignored his injuries and retaliated against the Recollector before it could continue pressing its advantage. It was unleashing too much force against him, too much for his mind to accommodate all at once, so he decided to deliver everything it gifted him right back. All his overflowing force, along with a pulse of innate energy, was unleashed in the form of a closing hand.

Shiv's tides washed down from him, splashing over the Recollector. Its past selves tried to break apart, tried to flee, but Shiv's grip clutched its magic in a vice. The past selves of the Recollector screamed as the golden mana lining their form cracked underneath the pressure. Its present self writhed and struggled. More magic was unleashed through its eyes. Magic then hammered against Shiv, briefly driving him back.

He almost felt himself get launched forward into the future, but then another flood of innate force was generated, and he parried the Chronomancy spell, swatting it aside with the palm of his hand. Frictionless Vector triggered. It diffracted off at an angle, cleaving up into the sky, and then Shiv was on the Recollector again. It tried to escape. He wouldn't allow it.

He tore its flesh wide open, tore its magical fields open too. One after another, its past selves screamed as a wailing symphony, and though Shiv felt his mind suffer damage, he fought on using instinct alone.

He nested himself inside the Recollector, and he materialized his Pillar of Orichalcum. Afterward, he discharged his inertial sheath that had been building all this time. When the blast left him, Shiv felt an overwhelming series of force ripples crash against his body. Theoretically, he might be able to absorb his own inertial discharge as well, using that as more fuel for his strength, but for now, he let them go.

The insides of the Recollector splattered apart, but the inertial discharge was not enough to deal fatal damage. It was a brutal wound, but one that the eldritch creature could survive. What it couldn't survive was the Vitality Drain that followed thereafter, coupled with Shiv's unseen tides. He held it in a vice-like grip, but it struggled against him, and as it did, he turned its strength back on itself.

Shiv was beginning to notice something about Legendary Skills now. It was more than just the baseline application of the skill. At the start, his Physicality gave him more mass because that's what he needed to survive the golem, and then allowed him tactile control over gravity, because he needed that to wrestle and dominate beasts far larger than him.

The Heroic-Tier Physicality and Grappling Fusion Skill he would have gotten thereafter was about cultivating more strength and making it punishing for anyone to advance near him. It would have given him greater control against nearby enemies, and eventually, it would have allowed him to contend with threats he wouldn't be able to overpower with Gravitic Wrestler alone.

Now, at Legendary, it seemed that he wasn't manipulating force, but rather the very idea of force itself. Force became a resource for him, a resource that he could generate, a resource that he could reuse. With every skill evolution, he wasn't just getting more powerful; he was getting closer to the root of the skill, gaining more control over the fundamental idea of the skill itself. And now, he spent and wielded his strength in ways he couldn't imagine even a few minutes prior.

"This was something else," Shiv muttered to himself as the Recollector dissolved into faint streams of life force that gave a final cry, but died during its feeble lamentations as it settled inside Shiv like mist sinking into a swamp. This time, Blackedge remained totally undamaged. The ground wasn't cracked. Not even the clouds were disturbed. The Recollector was an overwhelmingly strong force. It had destroyed Gate Theborn in a short period during its battle against Shiv.

