There is a kind of peace one attains through self-murder. At the end of your Delve, the final enemy so often is a replica of yourself. A mirror image that stands before you, capable of all your skills, and unfettered by your ethical or mental burdens.

It takes more than martial mastery to slay oneself in combat. All you know will be given unto your replica as well. Every blow you strike will be known to them. There will be no technique you can create that is beyond them. There is no knowledge you hold that can be masked from their understanding.

And so when you first face yourself, you will fail. Because the Delve seeks to sharpen you. It seeks to place you at a severe disadvantage. Think of how skilled you are. Now think of facing your absolute equal while still having to protect someone else. What are your odds of victory?

Here is the finest lesson of becoming Legendary. It is the despair in facing an unburdened version of yourself. You must be flawless. You must remain unshaken, failure after failure. And you must adjust your skill until you reach a point where it is perfected for the Quest, and use it to overcome your replica.

This is where most fail. The battle against the mirror. The duel against a mockery of your being. Everything before is simulated from previous triumphs or defeats. But what retrospect can one truly wield against themselves? That is something you must answer.

And in seeking that answer, your true Legendary Skill will take form.

Or, your mind and spirit will break, and you will forever be trapped in the Delve, facing yourself for all eternity, suffering a purgatory worse than hell, knowing that the best of you was never enough. That you couldn’t overcome your limitations. That you cannot defeat yourself.

Thus, I remind you again that death is not so severe. The deepest sleep inflicts no pain. But there is no medicine for one broken by the self.

For how will you flee from your own heart?

-Legend: Reforged from Ruin, Written by Semper Paragon Caine Hauser of the Descenders Union

168 (I)

Legend

Applying Partial Skill Evolution: Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 500 (Legendary)

Shiv listened to his insides roar with a surge of building force as he fell through cloud after cloud. The next thing he noticed was how the wind and air friction traced waves of dense, vector-shaped mana across his body. Cascading tides of kinetic energy flowed across Shiv in the opposite direction of the forces acting on him. The pointed ripples were nested below his inertial sheath, but his Physicality and Reflexes affected each other in ways grander than the sum of their parts.

The sheath shuddered to life in seconds. It leeched off the sheer amount of power spilling out from Shiv’s core. He felt heavier than ever, and the amount of kinetic energy flowing through his marrow only grew by the second. The force waves that crashed in from the outside were nowhere to be seen. Instead of being the eye of a collapsing maelstrom, Shiv felt like he was the heart of a bomb. A bomb that just kept detonating inside him without end.

“I guess I did ask for more control,” Shiv said, observing his hands. The way his skill expressed itself was just strange. Pointed currents of force danced across him, crashing against each other. With every impact, Shiv felt another thunderclap go off inside him. Yet, the power was entirely contained. There were no waves of uncontrollable destruction overflowing from him. Nothing at all. “Alright. So you’re subtle now. But how do I use you?”

He ignored how the cobblestone path leading up to the main entrance of Starhawk’s Perch was fast approaching him. Falling wasn’t going to kill him, and he didn’t see anyone in the vicinity. Shiv was going to spend his time figuring out his new ability instead of wasting it on pointless worries. He pushed lightly on the dense bands of mana washing over his body. As soon as he did, a trickle of force manifested in the real world. Kinetic energy rushed along the pointed vector, and Shiv found himself dragged through the air at low speeds.

Okay. That’s a lot more control over my movement already, Shiv thought. His previous Skill Evolution allowed him to constantly build his force, but the bone-grinding pressures that emanated out of him in a wide radius and the destructive shockwaves he left in his wake were still issues. Right now, it seemed like all the force circulating through him remained dormant until he deliberately drew upon the waves.

Just as Shiv was going to do something else, he promptly impacted the ground. To his surprise, he felt a rush of kinetic energy spike into him at the moment of landing. He circulated that flow of force across his body—and the ground didn’t break. It didn’t even crack. Not even the dust in the air was unsettled. Shiv’s jaw dropped wide open as he just kept guiding the seized tide of kinetic energy around himself.

But it washed through him differently from the other ripples of force—the ripples that originated from his body. This foreign-origin ripple glided across him with striped lines, while the others remained solid. What’s more, the moment he took his focus away from it, a thunderclap escaped him. The nearby grass rustled, and the ground shook beneath his feet. He regained control of the striped ripple once more and prevented the rest from leaving his body like a bomb.

By now, his Inertial Overdrive was humming. It made the solid tides wash through him faster and with higher frequency. Shiv ignored that for a beat and looked at his hands. He concentrated the force he stole from his rendezvous with the ground in his fists, at the tips of his fingers. Then, slowly, he released it. It left his hands as popping bursts that sounded like cannon fire.

Shiv blinked at his hands as his lips twitched. A smile soon spread across his face, and he nodded. “Alright. I constantly generate my own kinetic ripples and circulate outside forces within my body and reuse them. Not bad. Not felling bad at all.”

Initiating Encounter (1/5)

His eyes squinted at the notification. A thick stream of Pyromancy sliced up into the clouds once more. The elemental golem was back, and it was about to become Shiv’s first test subject for his new Skill Evolution. “Let’s see how launching myself around feels like now.” Shiv focused on the solid waves of dormant force circulating along his body. He noticed how the currents of force spread out from his chest and abdomen before they rolled along his limbs. A frown usurped his smile as he also realized the bursts of dormant force weren’t being retained indefinitely. Every time the waves got to his fingers and toes, they would cease to be.

Shiv tried holding onto them. He flexed his muscles and focused on circulating the tides of force washing over him. To his delight, the dormant forces continued flowing, and Shiv felt his kinetic tides merge and build to new levels of power. However, the moment he started circulating his internal forces, they went from solid to striped in definition.

Screams sounded from the distance, but Shiv spent a while longer examining himself. “Okay. So, it’s probably not an internal-external thing. There’s probably a standard amount of force I generate with each series of dormant tides, and everything else is listed as excess. Which makes them striped.”

That was his best guess as to his current system, and he soon found himself more mentally taxed by how many striped tides he was cycling through his body. The moment he lost track of a tide, it accelerated out of him in a spike of force along the direction it was pointed. That caused Shiv to be torn from his feet and speared through the walls of Starhawk’s Perch. He then promptly slammed head-first into a slave child who was just staring at the wall.

Instead of the small boy turning to a bloody smear, Shiv pulled a new overflow-tide of force into himself. He went still in an instant. The slave child remained unharmed. The Deathless let out a tense breath as he pushed himself off the ground. “Shit. Could’ve ended up restarting the whole Quest right here.”

The slave boy turned and smiled at Shiv. “Thanks for saving me, Pathbearer. I love your food.”

Shiv just stared at the slave child, trying to figure out why he'd said those words.

Psycho-Cartography: Because they’re the ones you want to hear. You want to matter. You want to feel strong after a lifetime of being little more than vermin in the eyes of most people. And you want to feel like more than a monster, so the cooking matters to you. Everything about his praise is pretty predictable. And so are you.

“Why do I get the feeling that you’re judging me?” Shiv asked his Psychology Skill. When it didn’t reply, he just let out a scoff. A loud boom sounded outside, and Shiv ruffled the slave boy’s hair. “Alright. Find someplace safe to hide, fake kid who’s actually dead because of me. I’m gonna go and shove this elemental golem’s core up 811’s ass.”

“Thanks for saving me, Pathbearer. I love your food.” The slave boy smiled. Burped as if he was full. And then smiled again.

Shiv tried not to shudder at how creepy the reaction was.

He left through the hole he'd made in the castle and used up some of his overflow-tides. He pointed their direction toward the sky just as he stepped outside, and he blasted off into the air. The world zoomed. He let out a grunt of surprise and realized he could convert some of the air currents dragging against him for more overflow-tides. As he did just that, he caught sight of the elemental golem as it rampaged down a narrow alley. Behind it were dozens of unmoving bodies. Some were burned, little more than blackened lumps of meat. Others were twitching and wet—deaths by electrocution. The real unfortunates were the ones that the golem pulverized with its body. They were pasted against the walls in ugly displays of gore.

The Deathless knew they weren’t real, but something about their deaths bothered him. Probably the fact that he'd already failed them once.

Psycho-Cartography: Maybe it is because their ends were often even uglier. The people the golem pulped still looked better than the poor kid 811 killed. Or all the unlucky slaves that the Jealousy fell on.

Shiv was beginning to wonder if the Psychology Skill was faulty. It was pretty useful earlier when he needed to figure out how someone was thinking and what to say if he wanted to provoke them. Now, it seemed the skill was doing its best to turn all the discomfort on Shiv. “I need to find another target for you to focus on.”

Psycho-Cartography: Evading discomfort doesn’t solve it. It just makes you a pussy. This world hates pussies. You know that.

As Shiv descended on the elemental golem, he tried not to be annoyed by his Psychology Skill. “Are you deliberately trying to provoke me?”

Psycho-Cartography: You are, dumbshit. I am you. I am a part of you. Stop getting offended by yourself and realize that I am the closest thing to a semi-rational mind you have. If I didn’t bother you would probably just ignore what I said and keep making the same mistakes.

“I—” Shiv wanted to reject that claim, but he couldn’t. He knew the skill was right, but it was hard not to be bothered by it in some ways.

Psycho-Cartography: Yes. Being imperfect in an extremely hostile world that wants to felling kill you all the time should make you feel that way. You more than anyone else. The System hates us, and with every weakness I uncover in you, we realize that our odds of survival are worse than we assumed. Ignorance is a tasty nipple, but we’ve always been a motherless godsdamned outcast. Deal with it. Or don’t. And suffer. Remember you’re still going to need to fight yourself later. We can’t afford weaknesses with evil you. Not even one.

A bitter taste crawled up the back of Shiv’s throat as he spiked himself down. He used up all his overflow-tides and discovered another wonderful thing about his current skill: the force leaving his body would only flow in the direction he moved it. That meant no uncontrolled shockwaves exploding out from his person unless he allowed it. It also meant he had perfect force economy. Not a single bit of energy wasted.

Unfortunately, Shiv underestimated just how much kinetic energy he was cycling through himself. He struck the golem just as it prepared to unleash its Pyromancy at a group of Pathbearers cornered at the end of the alley. The golem wasn’t just crushed by Shiv’s stomp—it was outright disintegrated. But then Shiv kept going. He tunneled through the ground and ripped through a few kilometers of stone and mana-conducting crystal that constituted Blackedge’s foundations.

“Shitshitshitshit!” Shiv snarled. Crashing waves of overflowing force rushed up toward his head as he continued burrowing through Blackedge. He seized these overflow-tides and went still in an instant. By this point, the lower half of his body was sticking out from the bottom of Blackedge. Looking up, Shiv’s eyes widened as he realized he left a clean tunnel in his wake. “Broken Felling Moon… That was a bit more kick than I was expecting.”

And so he discovered the first downside of his Legendary Skill. He needed to get good at judging how much force he was unleashing. The overflow-tides still thundered like the innate pulses of force Shiv generated, but he needed to focus on them for a moment to guess just how much dormant kinetic energy each ripple possessed.

But still, no shockwaves. No unstable explosions or fireballs destroying everything around him. Blackedge remained relatively unharmed.

“Legendary Skills are pretty godsdamned awesome,” Shiv noted.

Encounter Complete (1/5)

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

