TO OBSERVE, it wrote. YOUR CORE IS UNIQUE! I FIGURED IT MIGHT NOT BE INTERESTED.

Both Cale and Tarbloom stared at the flickerant on his desk. Tarbloom was right—it wasn't moving toward the red line, but it wasn't moving toward him, either. It wandered a little, its antennae occasionally twitching, but did nothing else.

"Yeah, I kind of thought that would happen, too," Cale admitted. "Not sure anything would happen if it bit me either. My mana's mostly immune to that kind of forced change."

FASCINATING, Tarbloom wrote. WELL, YOU ARE WELCOME TO SIMPLY OBSERVE! OR SHARE YOUR OWN CRITTER FACTS OR OBSERVATIONS?

Cale paused for a moment. Tarbloom was looking at him with barely-disguised hope. They probably really wanted to learn what he knew about magical creatures from other realms, huh? And Cale was a lot more comfortable with Tarbloom than with Imrys, so...

"Flickerants do remind me of some other creatures... ah, critters I've encountered," Cale said, watching as Tarbloom instantly brightened. "Actually, you mentioned that flickerants appeared only after a powerful magical phenomenon manifested, right?"

THE ASPECT CASCADE, Tarbloom wrote, nodding furiously enough that their little hat threatened to fall off. Cale tried not to laugh at the sight.

"There's a class of critters that can adapt to magical phenomena like that," he said. "It requires a little bit of malleability in their mana cores, and it's a kind of malleability that means they all share certain traits. If flickerants belong to that class, then they most likely have some sort of queen in their nests, and a tiny portion of their converted mana is donated to the queen."

I KNEW PREPARING THE TELEPORT ARRAY WAS A GOOD IDEA, Tarbloom wrote, beaming at him. I THINK I CAN SUMMON THE QUEEN.

Cale paused. "Are you sure that's a good idea?" he asked. They had been exceptionally careful about emphasizing caution in their introductory message... but it appeared that caution was less important to them than discovering a new critter.

I WILL BE SAFE! they quickly assured him. They gestured a tiny line of inscriptions right around their array. OBSERVE: WARDS BY JAXOVAR HIMSELF. I ONLY WANT A QUICK GLANCE.

A hopeful look. They held their slate up a little higher. HELP ME? I DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH MANA FOR THIS SUMMONING.

Well... on one hand, Akkau had wanted this class to be uneventful.

On the other, Professor Tarbloom looked incredibly eager, and it was unlikely that summoning the queen of such a minor pest could cause that much harm. It would probably be fine?

"Sure," Cale said, giving in. Tarbloom looked thrilled and shuffled rapidly off back to their desk to prepare.

Next to him, Flia shot him a suspicious look. "I only heard half of that conversation, but I somehow get the impression you've already corrupted our professor."

"I've done no such thing!" Cale protested. "I will have you know this is entirely Tarbloom's idea."

"What is?"

"Nothing! You'll see," Cale said quickly. He scooped his flickerant back into its vial, then followed after Tarbloom before Flia could say anything else. Behind him, he heard her sighing with exasperation.

Kazza of the Golden Sands was not part of this delegation by choice. In fact, he would have preferred to avoid visiting Orstrahl altogether, let alone join their little group of nobles in their visit to the so-called Brightscale Academy. As far as he was concerned, his tribe had more important matters to deal with than diplomatic relations with some upstart kingdom on a different continent.

Yet Orstrahl had offered them the power to permanently end the Aspect Cascade that ravaged their lands. They spoke of a ring-like artifact, old and sacred, that would be able to contain it. His father was insistent that they at least hear out the offer, despite Kazza's own protests, and so here he was now, playing at diplomacy with a bunch of scaleless aristocrats that could barely identify a [Fireball] if it struck them in the face.

He knew because he'd threatened to strike one of them with a [Fireball] and they had mistaken it for a [Lesser Fireball], despite the full raging spell burning in his hands. Kazza had been so offended he refused to speak with them for the rest of the day.

His father really shouldn't have trusted him with diplomacy here.

Still, Orstrahl's nobility seemed to find his antics and rash behavior amusing, for some reason. They hadn't kicked him out, and had in fact been polite and gracious hosts, despite Kazza's best attempts to be acerbic and unfriendly. None of it deterred them. They just kept offering him all kinds of bribes and bargains, at some point even telling him to make a selection of pretty women to take with him.

He'd clawed the noble who made that particular offer directly in the face, though the noble had seemed happy about it, for some reason. Or at least he wasn't upset. It was disconcerting how they treated him, like he was some sort of valued pet more than a diplomat from the Golden Sands.

Kazza didn't trust Orstrahl in the slightest. He didn't trust their offer, or their fancy, ornate halls, and he certainly didn't trust any of the gifts they kept throwing at him. They were far too eager to gain the cooperation of his tribe, and what was more, they seemed convinced that they would get it.

When they offered to bring him along on this trip, he'd refused outright. Sitting in a carriage with any of these pretentious hacks seemed like a nightmare made manifest. But then they had mentioned the academy's name, told him it was run by a dragon, and... well, he hadn't been able to deny his interest.

Especially since he was pretty sure this was the academy Izzik attended.

He'd been hoping for a tour, maybe. A chance to get Izzik alone. What he hadn't expected was being stuck in a room watching the Headmaster's apprentice attend a class, for some reason. Kazza had no idea why the Orstrahl delegation seemed so interested in this, and the way they glanced and smirked at each other as if eager for a chance to humiliate Akkau disgusted him.

But his tail flicked in interest when he recognized the flickerants brought into the class. Kazza narrowed his eyes slightly and straightened, then leaned forward to get a closer look. Was this intentional, or...?

No—a quick glance to the side told him the Orstrahl nobles weren't even looking at him. Most of them were here to try to gain some sort of leverage over Akkau, as far as he could tell. Kazza himself was only being brought along as part of what he was sure was some devious plan he hadn't quite figured out yet.

Whatever was happening in this class wasn't planned. Not by the nobles, at least.

Kazza looked at the Headmaster, who seemed incredibly uncomfortable sandwiched between the nobles, then back at the scrying spell.

That apprentice—that human—was approaching some sort of teleport array, and if he was reading those runes right... they were planning to summon something from Illwyld?

It was well-known that flickerants were a product of the Aspect Cascade, but that array was meant to bring across something bigger. Kazza was no expert in reading arrays like this, but he found himself watching with a sudden intensity.

He had always been a mage that relied on his instincts. Those instincts were what told him that whatever Orstrahl wanted for him and his tribe, it was bad.

And those same instincts told him to watch what happened here closely, because if he understood what was happening correctly, then fate itself might have been presenting him with a way out.
