Other than the fact that she hadn’t been explicitly watching for it to happen, the skill tier-up wasn’t exactly a surprise. Ryn had found several texts in Azryet’s library, and the spirit realm echo of the Grand Library Arcana, that discussed the phenomenon. Tier two, at least according to those books, represented a fundamental upgrade in the base skill itself. Something that almost always happened at level one hundred, but she had relegated the information to the dusty corners of her mind, the place that still contained her old research projects from before the fall of Dal’mohra. One hundred had just felt so far away at the time.

Ali quickly checked, verifying that the actual skill descriptions were no different than before, but the difference in how the skill responded and functioned was something else entirely, reminding her of the difference in density and power of her domain mana before and after her evolution. No doubt, combat skills would take battle to an entirely new level. I need to check how close my minions are!

In the meantime, she decided to invest twenty-two of her available attributes in intelligence, and then seventeen each in wisdom and perception. She pursed her lips in thought for a moment, and then spent eight on vitality, and two each on the rest.

“We should probably get going,” Calen said. “If you’re done here?”

“Yes,” Ali said. They had been excavating for a while now, and it wouldn’t be good to have the whole area respawn on top of them. Besides, the well was waiting for them, and she needed the vial. Where’d Malika go… She glanced around, finding her friend still sitting on the ice where she had appraised all the gear earlier.

“Malika?” she said, prodding her friend, who seemed to be staring at a ring that seemed to suck in the very light around it. “Uh, what is that?”

When the last Frozen Storm piece evaporated into mana motes, Malika’s smile faded as she turned to the last ring, glowing ominously in her hand.

Surely this one must be cursed. If anything could look cursed, this was it. It seemed to eat the light around it, and it oozed a palpable malevolence.

She carefully appraised it, but as the information poured into her mind, she froze in shock, registering only the ring’s name and the quality her skill revealed. Malika just stared at the thing; for how long, she did not know. She barely even registered the sound of her notification chimes.

Appraise has reached level 35 (+3).

Eventually, it was Ali’s prodding that broke the spell. “What is that?” the Fae asked, poking her insistently on the shoulder with her finger.

“Uh,” was all she managed, still unable to believe she was holding a Legendary artifact in her hands. An item that shouldn’t exist. Couldn’t exist. This kind of item existed only in the stories of heroes and dark villains, and nobody believed those tales to be any more than fiction.

A subtle whisper prickled in her mind, reminding her that she stood in the Crypt of Kings, a second-tier undead dungeon made by the Blind Lich himself.

She pinched herself, but she never disabled Soul Armor, so she barely felt it. She didn’t even know where to begin; every single enchantment was ridiculous.

“Ali… can you… use this?” she whispered, not even caring that her hand was trembling as she offered the dark, shrouded ring to her friend.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
