The head representative of the Arahant sect offered a few apologies, claiming the Elder Ming had lost his 'nephew' to one of the youths. It was disgraceful, allowing these half-beasts to roam unshackled and play at having families, rambling about the weather, but that was the way of it in this unsophisticated province. When Yang became the Patriarch, he would make moves to purge the Society of these lesser groups but until then, he could only suffer in silence.

The Marshals attendant stepped forward to whisper in his ear, and Yang's overheard a familiar name. What was Du Min Gyu doing so far north? Coughing again, the Marshal stood to leave. “Sorry to say, but some business has come up and I must take my leave.” Hobbling out, the Marshal made his exit with little dignity, leaving the rest of them to discuss the particulars, an errant hope igniting in Yang's mind.

After silently discussing the matter with his sister, he left the detail work to her and rushed out to fetch his nephew. Ying had also wanted to meet Du Min Gyu, but Yang managed to convince her that this was a matter better handled between soldiers and her son would be in good hands. It was a perfect solution, Du Min Gyu renowned for his teaching abilities and Zian would be far away from the Defiled, to study in the peaceful and prosperous Central Province.

Storming into his nephew's room, he quickly dismissed the serving girls in various states of undress, scolding his nephew for his excesses. “You will never be a proper warrior with all these indulgences, discipline and moderation are the keys to success on the Martial Path. Dress yourself now, we are going to meet a living legend and with luck, he will take you as his Disciple.” A handsome boy, he had inherited his mother's beauty, rarely without willing company, his mother overlooking his debauchery.

“Uncle, why can't you take me as your disciple, I don't want some stinking old man to teach me. You're far more heroic and you'll be on the front lines where the action takes place. That's where I want to be, please Uncle.” The request had been repeated many times in the last week, his little nephew star-struck by his accomplishments and war stories, causing him to falter for a moment. Why not take the boy, he was family. Without sons of his own thus far, Yang had few others to pass his skills down to, and while his sister was a headache better left to others, she was manageable.

“You want to be my disciple, yet you dare talk back to me? Hurry and dress, not a stitch out of place.” If Du Min Gyu refused to take the boy, then Yang would teach him, the decision was made. “Not that fancy embroidered shit your mother dresses you in, we are meeting a Mentor not a matchmaker. Your fighting clothes and armor, and bring your sabres along, you will need to prove your skills.” He prayed silently that the boy would be accepted, as even though Yang was willing, his sister's ire was no laughing matter.

Stopping before the door to the magistrates meeting room, Yang quickly arranged his own clothing at the last-minute and glanced over his nephew to make sure all was in place. “Smile and look enthused, this is a man whose every student has earned fame, every Disciple a vaunted officer. If he accepts you, then you will have an illustrious career ahead of you, with fame and fortune delivered to your feet.” His words failed to impress the boy, so he pulled out his greatest weapon. “He has a home in the Central Plains and notoriously hates traveling. You will be studying there, away from your mother and farther than I could ever possibly take you, making connections with many of the old blood nobility. You've heard stories about those women, yes?”

Visibly enthused by those words, his nephew straightened up, looking suitably noble and gallant, his chest puffed up and weapon in hand, eyes eager at the thought of meeting the women of the Central Plains. Nodding happily, he knocked courteously, waiting to be admitted, praying to the Mother that Hero Du would accept the boy. After hearing the summons, he entered with as much dignity as he could muster, saluting the aged hero as he loudly introduced himself, noting the well-dressed youth at his side. A Warrant Officer? The boy didn't even look to be twenty, yet to grow a beard. “This humble officer, Situ Jia Yang, respectfully greets Hero Du. Perhaps you do not remember, but we met before -”

“Yes, yes at a gala of the Yantai Magistrate's, I'm old, not senile. Also not deaf, although that may change if you don't stop yelling.” Taken aback by Du Min Gyu's curt and dismissive tone, he paused to study the old man, noting the travel-stained clothes and wild, unkempt beard. Signs of advanced age or difficult travel?

Deciding on the latter, he let the insult go by with a smile, unwilling to risk ruining his nephew's chances. “Hero Du does this one honour in remembering him.” Perhaps you should invite me to sit, you ornery bastard.

“Bah, honour my ass, I requested to be in command of the reinforcements to the northern province, but they gave you the job instead. Had to send someone to dig up your information before I remembered meeting you. Took your sweet time marching up here didn't you? I would have had soldiers rushed here months ago. ”

Taken aback once more, he pushed forward despite his reservations. “Ah, Hero Du, things are not so dire in the north, there is no need for one as esteemed as yourself to come. Might I ask the reason for your visit?” If Du Min Gyu meant to snatch away his glory, Yang could not be blamed for acting without mercy.

His eyes narrowing, Du Min Gyu's aura shot out, a suffocating presence more powerful than the fifty soldiers under Nian Zu combined, and Yang had to steady his nephew to keep him from collapsing. “Why I am here is my business, but why you are here is plain to see. News travels fast of my new student, and you hope I will teach this whelp here.” The old man's gaze focused on Zian and Yang urged him to stand tall. Such luck, Du Ming Gyu was accepting students once again, and a student was but a step away from disciple. “You a man or a woman? Girlish features and manly clothes, which is it?”

Swallowing audible, his nephew stood tall, weathering the old man's pressure and filling Yang with pride. “My name is Situ Jia Zian.”

“Didn't ask for your name, now did I?”

“I am 24 years of age, a former champion of the Contests, son of Situ Jia Ying, the Magistrate of Shen Yun.”

“Are you stupid, whelp? Did I ask for any of that? It was a simple question, all you needed to say was 'boy'.” Zian's temper visibly flared and Yang smiled at the sight, seeing the tactic for what it was. The old man was needling the boy to test his mettle, and he was responding admirably. “Well, let's see how you fight, 'boy'. Fung, you in the mood for a little spar?”

Recognizing the name, Yang studied the well-dressed, youthful Warrant officer as he stepped forward with his spear, taking an aggressive stance. Nineteen years of age, Son of the Magistrate of Shen Huo, the newest champion of the Contests, and now student of Du Min Gyu. Urging Zian forward, Yang moved aside and readied himself to watch the match. Zian would not lose so easily, in talent or skill, and with luck, he would soon be on his way to the Central Province.

Smiling at his own fortune, he basked in the feeling of a job well done. The matter with the Bekhai was all but settled, and his sister would no longer pressure him to take Zian as a disciple. His own career was on the rise as was his sisters and soon, they would wrest the title of Patriarch away from Rang Min and clean the Society of it's unneeded filth.

Life was good to him as it should be, a favoured son of the Situ Clan.

Chapter Meme
