“That pleases me to hear. The hunter often finds himself in situations where someone disagreeing with his idiocy would prove a boon,” the Unique Lifeform said pretty harshly. Worst part? Jake couldn’t even disagree, considering how many times in Nevermore his party had shot down Jake’s strategies. Sure, they respected his ability to navigate the floors and make battle-related decisions, but when it came to anything where soft power was required, Jake was competing with Sylphie for last place.

Luckily for Jake, he had Jasper as backup. The little guy pointed a paw toward the Forest King as he looked up at Jake with an angry face. “Mean!”

“Yeah, he’s super mean,” Jake agreed.

“Unfortunately, truth is often construed as meanness,” the Forest King continued to be mean. “This has been an interesting intermission, but I shall return to my meditation. I congratulate you on your evolution, Shimmershroud Planeswarper. Let us hope you live up to your potential and that the hunter didn’t waste effort and resources on you undeservedly.”

With those words, the Unique Lifeform took his leave, acting as curt as always. Jasper looked after the King as he quickly flew up and disappeared before turning to look at Jake.

“Don’t worry, he’s just being an asshole. As I said before, I helped you with the evolution partly for myself and partly to pay you back for the help you provided me in the Hunting Ground,” Jake said with a smile. “We’re even now, and only you have the right to define your own Path.”

Jasper slowly nodded, and the three of them were silent for a little while until Artemis spoke up.

“There’s also one more important thing to consider,” Artemis said, looking at the two of them. “Jasper doesn’t have a Blessing right now.”

“Oh, true,” Jake nodded. “Are you considering giving him one?”

“No,” Artemis shook her head without even considering it. “I’m a hunter who specializes in killing and maintaining the natural balance. Jasper’s Path is incredibly far away from mine, and the only thing we have in common is that we both have good stealth skills. In other words, there are gods out there far more compatible with Jasper than I am, and it’s better for everyone involved if he pairs up with one of those. Of course, it all depends on what Jasper wants to do.”

Jasper looked at them both for a little while before tilting his head. “Blessing?”

“Yeah, a Blessing from a powerful god. If you get a good one, you get a title giving you some stats and even a cool skill,” Jake explained as he considered the matter. “If you’re interested, I have a friend who may be able to hook you up with someone.”

“Are you treating me like a pimp or a recruitment agent right now?” a certain snake god chimed in, only making Jake smile more.

“I’m sure he would more than happily help you out.”
