135******

“No,” said Zeridee-und’h as they headed back into the ambassadorial residence.

“No,” she said again while Alden looked at the cellphone worriedly. Still no reply from Mehdi.

“NO,” the Artonan insisted, as they stood in the room with the video monitors. Alden was checking first them and then the phone screen. He started to peel one of his oranges just to put a little of his nervous energy somewhere.

His eyes landed on a stack of something that looked like laminated beige paper. A chunky marker with a brush tip was lying on top.  “You were making signs before I got here?”

The first line of text on the top sign was in Spanish, the second in Chinese. He only knew what they were because she’d begun writing the third line in English before stopping halfway:

PLEASE CONTINUE TOWARD SAFETY. THIS HOUSE IS NOT—

“That’s a good idea. We can tape them up on the doors before we leave.”

“I will tape them on the doors before I leave,” Zeridee said. “As soon as you are no longer in fear for your friends, you will get in your flyer and head to the planetary evacuation site!”

Alden assumed she was only all right with him waiting around on the phone because the infogear couldn’t come with him or wouldn’t work if he took it in the escape vehicle. And she was trying hard—probably too hard—to be comforting.

Oranges. Dry human clothes. All the tea.

He’d only drunk one black tea with sugar right after getting dressed, guzzling it for politeness’s sake. He hoped she wasn’t upset about that.

“Do two people fit in the flyer?” he asked.

“Not comfortably.”

So that’s a yes.

“Why don’t you come see it?” She was speaking in a coaxing tone even as her hand took up the brush marker and started rapidly finishing the sign in small block letters. “It’s very nice.”

“I will,” said Alden, digging his thumb into the orange peel. “Believe me. As soon as you’re ready to leave, too, I will be in that flyer. And we’ll fly away from this ocean-adjacent neighborhood. I’m seriously looking forward to it. By the way, why is the ocean acting insane? People on the bridge were saying it was chaos, but it’s obviously not that. It’s not corrupting anything.”

Zeridee-und’h rolled one eye at him while the other was fixed on the sign.

“Some ————— has given a human a —————. It’s spilled,” she said in Artonan.

“I didn’t understand all of those words,” Alden said. “Something about sinking? What’s a—?”

“Someone who has such limited common sense that they should have died of their own errors by now has given an Avowed a Sinker Sender.” She paused. “Unless one of my people brought it themselves and chose to crash it into the cube. But I doubt that. It would be such an expensive and foolish means of attack for a wizard to use that the institution which confirmed the wholeness of their education would revoke their diplomas and apologize to all of the Triplanets upon hearing of it.”

Apparently, wizards could be expelled from school long after they’d graduated if they were embarrassingly stupid. Alden filed that away for consideration in some more relaxed moment.

“Sinker Sender?”

“I would call it that in your language. A device designed to safely submerge objects in liquid environments and transport them. Useful for shipping, stealth, protection, research…many things.”

“So someone crashed a Sinker Sender into Matadero. And it’s powerful enough to eat bridges and flood islands?”

Did that mean the Matadero facility had been destroyed? Or sunk?

“The devices are allowed on this planet, but only because most of them are not this strong. They become more powerful with age and proper care. The idea that someone would give one this old to an Avowed is ridiculous. It must have been created a thousand years before we even found your species! It should’ve been placed under trained guardianship on a planet where its services are actually needed.”

She punctuated her words with a particularly aggressive brushstroke, then started making another sign.

“The device still does magic even if it’s broken?”

“It would be improper to call this doing magic,” she said. “The Sinker Sender was obviously old enough that every part of it had begun to resound with the function of the whole. The particles ejected into the water upon its destruction are therefore creating effects similar to the purposes to which they have been turned for the entirety of their existence.”

She stared grimly at him. Still with just one eye. “The spill will be cleaned. Or it will degrade enough that it poses no threat to other lands. It may cause a great deal of damage before then.”

“Tsunamis?”

“Large quantities of water will be pulled onto the islands in some locations as the contamination impacts things near shore and attempts to envelope them. The power of whatever motes of the Sinker are causing a particular effect will be rapidly expended, but additional motes of contamination will be spread by the flood waters.”

Pulling even more water on shore.

“Plopstar is blowing up the ocean around The Span.”

“Her use of large quantities of magic in a contaminated area should help to disrupt—you are distracting me from the matter at hand on purpose!”

“I’m not!”

She dropped her marker. “The situation here will not affect you once you leave in your flyer. It is being handled as well as it might by many competent people. You will be very far from here, waiting in the gathering area for a mass teleport. Just in case this incident is followed by others that lead to dire consequences.”

So in case the System is panicking for the right reasons and this is the first in a string of masterminded attacks that will overwhelm Earth.

“Where does the flyer take me?”

“It’s a secret location.”

“Is it the Sahara or the Amazon? Antarctica maybe? That one would be a little closer.”

Zeridee said nothing.

“If it’s for evacuation during planet meltdown situations, does it still use the System? Or is there some giant version of one of those teleport rooms like the Quaternary had on her ship? Fire, blood, dirt, driftwood. Very uncanny. I’m extremely grateful the option exists, but I have it on good authority that getting blasted to Artona I that way almost killed me. And I’m usually an excellent teleportation traveler.”

“Maybe I’ve been overly soothing to you.” Zeridee leaned toward him. “Alden Ryeh-b’t, even though this neighborhood has protectors at the moment, it is not completely safe. You should go.”

He knew. There were alerts flashing on his interface telling him the Punta de la Luna neighborhood should be evacuated immediately. And he didn’t want to stay here when the safety of an aerial vehicle was available.

But he also didn’t feel right about leaving Zeridee alone to deal with a bunch of stressed-out superhumans. Her connection to the ambassador might make people listen to her, but she wasn’t a wizard herself. Avowed were well aware that they occupied a higher social rung than the ordinary class of Artonans on the Triplanets, and Alden doubted everyone cared to engage with the complexities and balances of that relationship in good faith on a night like tonight.

He had already met one asshole who wanted to use rank as a battering ram. Admittedly, it was in the reverse of the usual direction, which he hadn’t been expecting. But Marks was one side of the coin, and on the other side of it, Alden was sure there was a different idiot who would try to commandeer the house from Zeridee because they were “the Avowed boss.”

She seemed to care a lot about the people who lived around here. She might stay, trying to talk someone stubborn out of endangering themselves, until it was too late and then…

Wait. Am I behaving like I think I’m her boss, too? That’s not how I mean it.

“You don’t have to come with me on the flyer if you don’t want to,” he said quickly.

She looked very pleased. “Good! I’ll show you to—”

“No. Let me explain. I know it’s not completely safe. But…if it’s safe enough for you to stay here for just a little while longer, then can’t I do that, too? I can help you do whatever it is you want to. Some of it will go faster with two people. I can totally make signs or run up and down the street checking your neighbors’ houses like that speedster is doing down by the water. I can help you convince people this place isn’t a good hiding spot.”

Her eyes narrowed.

“I’m betting an escape flyer moves fast,” he continued. “You said I was scheduled to be one of the very first to arrive for the possible planetary evac, so even if we stop thinking about the disaster that’s actually happening around us and start thinking about the slim possibility that Earth falls to chaos…I’ll be fine. Right? I can afford to stay here until you’re ready to leave. I can help you and still have plenty of time to get to wherever the flyer is taking me. And if you wanted to come with me, you could.”

He thought he was doing an awesome job of not puking while he talked about Earth turning into a corrupted wasteland unable to sustain life.

Wait. Can she come with me?

“Your boss didn’t tell you that you weren’t…allowed to use the flyer with me or something, did he?”

Alden didn’t really know her well enough to read her face, but if she were Kibby instead of a grown woman, he would suspect that she was thinking of fibbing about something.

“This is serious to me,” he said in Artonan. “Lying about things that are serious is mean-mean.”

Zeridee’s jaw went slack, and her brows drew together until her forehead wrinkled. “Did you just call me mean-mean?!”

“No. I said it would be mean-mean of you to lie right now when I am trying to make important decisions.”

He wasn’t sure why Zeridee-und’h stared at him for such a long time after he said that. Finally, she shoved the infogear cellphone back into its containment safes and chose her reply.

“The Ambassador would not object to me leaving Anesidora. And even at the planetary evacuation site, if all goes badly, nobody would object to me joining the first wave of evacuees. But you should leave sooner than me. Sooner than almost everyone. Not to be safe, but to be as safe as possible.”

“Why?” Alden asked. “I promise I’m not that wonderful.”

“You have an obligation! You must consider your true —————!”

“My what?”

Zeridee took a deep breath. “I don’t know if you can fully understand the ———— of this, but…your death might weigh on the minds of Hn’tyon Alis-art’h and Hn’tyon Evul-art’h!”

Alden blinked at her, too confused to respond.

Zeridee was staring at him with both eyes now. Her hands were clenched at her sides. “Their lives are filled with difficulties you cannot imagine. No doubt they take great comfort from the idea of you here, living a life of peace and happiness on your motherworld. Images of you may ————— through them at this very moment, giving them strength of purpose and the will to move forward through their trials.”

“Excuse me, but that doesn’t sound likely at all!” Alden protested. “I think you might have misunderstood some things—”

“For you to die so young and so soon after they have have ———- their affection in you—”

“Why are we talking so seriously about me dying now?”

“I am sure the commendation you have earned for your actions is not a ————— political move by the Quaternary!”

“Who said it was?!”

Zeridee shook a finger at him. “They obviously feel true respect and liking for you. Evul-art’h sent you a gift! Such an unexpected ———-. I would never have imagined a ————— for a —————. You must not cause either of them to grieve.”

Alden was about to tell her that Evul-art’h was just mailing stuff for her little brother, since Stuart wasn’t allowed to communicate with Avowed without supervision.

If Alden died, Evul would probably shrug and think, Meh…Baby Stu has a cuter Alden anyway. I always thought the sweaty one was a weird choice.

But Zeridee was suddenly reaching for his apocalypse suitcase, muttering to herself, “Where is the human boy’s medical kit?”

“Why do you need to know that?” he asked.

“You need to relax more so that you can calmly engage your brain and understand what I’m telling you!”

Oh my god, she’s gonna tranq me so that she can stuff me in the flyer and ensure that there is a 0.0% chance of an art’h family member feeling even a single twinge of sadness.

I can’t believe I was worried I was being too bossy. She is fully willing to boss me right off the planet.

Alden looked around for a way to convince her that he didn’t need to be protected this zealously and spotted motion on one of the monitors. A young woman was heading up the front walk.

Perfect!

“Zeridee, someone’s coming to the house again.”

She stopped rummaging in the drugs and looked up. Her expression turned alarmed. “That’s Becky! But she should already be gone! I saw her heading toward the train right after the sirens…just a moment, I…”

Alden watched her hurry away. He took his medical kit and stuffed it into his messenger bag instead of the suitcase. Preserving the bag and contents around the kit should do the trick.

Next, he grasped the brush marker, finished the last sign the assistant had been making, and picked up a tape roll that was waiting beside the stack. He grabbed the mini safe even though he couldn’t open it; for all he knew, you could still hear the phone ring from inside the thing. Then he headed toward the entryway.

