The assistant poured a little vial of something down the sink, then she pressed a button beside it, and blue flames shot up from the drain.

“That’s an interesting garbage disposal,” said Alden.

“If someone does break in, there are some substances in here that should not be consumed without the supervision of a knowledgeable person. I’m almost done pouring them out or packing them away.”

I bet there are. And is that some kind of a mechanical bull in the back? How strong would you have to make one of those things for Avowed to find it challenging?

“Would you like a drink before we go?” Zeridee asked. “We have mixers, tea, and wevvi. You could take a jar of cherries for the trip?”

“No, I’m good.” He leaned over the bar toward her. “Zeridee…you seem to still have access to a lot of information about what’s going on even with the Ambassador gone?”

She didn’t seem to be using the System for communication much, but she’d said some things that implied she wasn’t on the same “Leave Me Alone While I’m Busy Hunting Down Your Planet’s Enemies” list that almost everyone else was on. For example, she hadn’t said she couldn’t use System resources to find his friends, only that she couldn’t justify it.

And since she could link up to some Artonan-made tech through non-System means, she was probably getting info that way too.

“I do,” she answered.

“Matadero…”

“Communications with Matadero are being handled through telepathic relay right now. Information about the precise situation there is not instantly available to me. But I still have news. What do you want to know?”

“I don’t want you to get in trouble for telling me anything. I know that the demon fight is always this completely secret thing with the people there on lockdown, and now that there’s been an attack it’s probably even more—”

She started to unscrew the cap from another vial. “Just ask. I will tell you if I can. I may request that you put the spying device away first.”

“Fair enough. One of my roommate’s parents is there. His dad. Are the Avowed there…is there any way to know if a particular person is all right?”

She paused and looked up at him. “You are worried about the present safety of the Avowed on Matadero?” she asked in a mildly surprised voice.

“Of course. Ever since the System warned that there was an attack—”

“I see.” She reached around a bottle of tonic water and produced the cellphone’s prison. Alden stuffed it inside. “I don’t know every detail. I can’t tell you who attacked or why. But I will tell you what I do know.”

******

******

earlier

******

******

The waves of Earth’s largest ocean clawed at the towering mirrored walls of Matadero. The water crashed against the facility and retreated in a rhythm that had existed since the day work on the structure had been completed.

Partially submerged, with no physical anchors to the seafloor below, the cube had not moved from its position in more than seventy years.

Within it, Avowed fought a being that didn’t belong in their world.

A fist collided with the shiny, red two-meter long protrusion that served as one of the thing’s many legs. A crack sounded, like stone rupturing. The demon didn’t appear to notice as the appendage fell away from its body.

Sometimes it would react to an attack. Sometimes not. The men and women fighting it were under the impression that it had favorite parts.

The ones who waited on the sidelines for their turn on the attack didn’t let down their guard. It was impossible to in this place, at this moment. Even before the demon had appeared, there was something wrong with reality here. Even when it disappeared, the wrongness would remain for a time.

They understood it in different ways, to different degrees, but they all knew it was there. A tension, a sickness, an unwanted gaze.

A touch you couldn’t flinch away from.

“I don’t really feel anything when I’m around chaos,” Melanie Carisson had said at one point during their weeks spent in preparation. “I just keep having this dream that I’m trying to write my name on something important, but no matter how fast I write, the ink fades from the paper before I can finish the last letter.”

Now, a blade of her wind cut through the width of the arena like a knife. The other fighters all ducked or leaped to avoid it with practiced timing. The sharpened wind hadn’t been aimed at the demon’s body but at the area above it.

There was some part of it there, unseen. Less an invisible limb for it to control and more a violent disturbance in the air that occasionally lashed out madly.

A cloud of something that looked like black sand burst into existence when the wind cleaved through that spot. A stench filled the air.

They had been warned not to think overmuch about what the demon’s body parts were or whether the things that happened when it was struck made sense. The effects of the chaos clashing with reality couldn’t be predicted by the likes of them.

Still. It was hard not to think of that strike as a small victory.

And then a gasp came from the Sway standing on one of the protective barriers above them.

The fighters didn’t hear her.

They didn’t hear Esh-erdi—who observed their battle from above—ask her a question. They didn’t hear her reply.

They did notice when the demon died.

It happened so fast that most of them weren’t able to see the cracks forming—in a gash on the entity’s back, in every battered or torn leg, in the mad roiling somethingness above it. They formed, widened, broke open. And from every break, more cracks spread.

Many of the Avowed had the impression that the demon simply fell apart instantly into a hundred pieces at a hundred seams they hadn’t known existed. And then it continued to crumble as Esh-erdi and Lind-otta dropped down among them. The two Artonans landed on the pile of fragmenting parts that had once moved like a semi-organized beast, and where their feet hit, the remains of the demon shattered like shards of glass. There was another puff of the black sand in the air.

The chaos still filled the area, but to those who had the attention to spare for it, its creeping presence seemed to have been suddenly muffled.

Esh-erdi said something.

Most of the Avowed looked startled. A few stared at him blankly.

He looked up toward the magical barrier where the non-combatants stood. Two more wizards, the Sway messenger, a group of Avowed who had not been chosen to participate in this particular fight when the demon had made its appearance, and a blonde woman wearing raspberry colored jeans and a turtleneck sweater.

“He says the Contract just informed us via Sway relay that a ship carrying a bomb and a powerful magic device is about to impact the first layer of shielding around Matadero,” Aulia Velra said. “Some of your translation earpieces seem to have given out in the chaos. <<I’ll be happy to repeat your words, Esh-erdi.>>”

“When?” someone demanded. “What should we—?”

<<Now.>> Lind-otta’s face was turned to the east.

<<Now?>> her partner asked.

<<Right now,>> she said.

******

At 12:27 AM, a boat carrying three teenagers, an unconscious man, and two corpses struck the shield around Matadero at a speed unmatchable by any other submarine currently in existence on Earth. The shield around the facility, detecting a powerful assault, repelled them violently.

A protective envelope around the vessel vanished in an instant. A Wrightmade bomb exploded. A magical artifact created at least a thousand years before the human species was discovered by wizards was blasted apart, and the contents of it, impacting the shield, triggered a second, more targeted repulsive response.

Propelled half by their own un-contained and undirected power and half by the pulse of magic from the shields, countless motes of the fluid substances that had powered the artifact raced through the water toward Anesidora.

The sirens were already wailing.

Another wave burst against a mirrored wall.

It stood firm.

******

******

“If the cube had fallen, you would not be standing here,” Zeridee-und’h said to Alden.

“Would I be unconscious in my flyer on the way to Antarctica?”

“Something like that,” she said shamelessly.

Alden smiled. “So Haoyu’s dad—”

She held up a hand. “I won’t promise that everyone at Matadero is unharmed. They have been in battle. And they will stay on site for a while rather than returning to help here right away. If other attacks come, or there is…more to deal with in the way of demons…it’s essential to have a strong force in place. But nobody was harmed by the attack of the Sinker Sender.

“And I’m confident that I would have heard if an Avowed had died fighting the demon. It would have been upsetting to the ones in charge at Matadero right now, and I believe they would have mentioned it when they reported on the situation to the ambassador.”

“Esh-erdi and Lind-odo?” Alden asked. He’d tried to remember the names from his conversation with Stuart.

Zeridee peered at him. “She…is from the otta family. Yes. Them.”

“Sorry. I only caught her name once.”

“How…?”

She looked super confused.

The assistant had been so on top of things since the moment Alden had stumbled out of the teleportation alcove and started dripping on the ambassador’s floors that it was fun to startle her. And since she was already convinced that very important knights would be stricken with grief if Alden died, there was no reason for him to act like he was completely out of the loop.

“Earlier when you said Evul-art’h had sent me a gift…that wasn’t from her. I honestly don’t even know her. We’ve only said a few words to each other, and half of them were her musing on whether or not all humans perspire as much as I do. I’m friends with her brother—”

“Which brother?” Zeridee demanded. She had both eyes on him, and she’d left the button for the magic garbage disposal pressed. The blue flames were flickering higher.

“Stu-art’h,” said Alden. “You might not even know of him. He’s not a—”

“You’re friends?”

The emphasis she put on ‘friends’ made Alden pause.

“I’d say friends, but I guess other people might think it was more like penpals? We talk on his weekends. We both look forward to it. He sent me the gift you forwarded.”

My learning cushion.

Zeridee finally realized she was incinerating nothing and switched off the flames. She stared down into the sink after they’d faded, then said, “It’s time for us to go to the flyer now.”

“You’re not going to do those other vials and jars?”

She had a few lined up that he’d thought were for disposal.

“It’s fine if we leave these here. And your friend—your human roommate I mean, not…the Primary’s youngest child—I’m sorry I can’t completely confirm his father’s safety, but you can tell him what I said. I assume that is why you wanted to know?”

“Yes! Thank you. His mom and dad are both pretty important, so it’s possible he’s already gotten some info, but just in case, can I say you’re almost positive everyone on Matadero is fine? At the moment at least?”

She finally looked up and nodded. She slapped her hand on top of the safe to release the infogear from its confinement. “Meet me in the greenhouse after you send him your message. I will take your suitcase.”

As he took the cell phone, she added, “And put that back in the safe when you’re done with it. It won’t work in the flyer or at our destination.”

She left at a walk slightly faster than her usual businesslike pace, and Alden drafted his message.

[Haoyu, glad you’re safe. I’ve been with an Artonan ambassadorial assistant since I left you guys. She says that the facility at Matadero is unharmed by the attack, and that everyone there…]

******

Being able to send that felt good, he thought. I hope it gives Haoyu some relief.

He took the steps down into the house’s backyard, and headed for the giant greenhouse. The rain was slacking off. There weren’t so many drops pinging against his authority as he and his poncho made their way across the grass.

He found Zeridee in the greenhouse under something that looked like a zebra-striped banana plant, about to load his suitcase into a compartment on the bottom of a shiny silver egg. The flyer balanced on the pavement at a forty-five degree angle. It had a clear top that was open just wide enough for a person to squeeze under it, and there was puffy white foam in a chair-ish shape inside.

Nothing that looks like an engine to me. I’m guessing we’re all-in on the magic spacecraft here.

The escape flyer was definitely a one-seater, but it was spacious enough that it would just be uncomfortable for the two of them to manage, rather than impossible.

“I cleansed and dried your clothes before I packed them,” Zeridee said.

“You found time to do that with everything else going on?” Alden asked. “Thanks. That’s…”

“What is it?” she asked.

“Just a second…can I…?” He hurried over to take the suitcase. “When I was changing, I wasn’t even thinking about it. So much else was going on. I had an Opposite Stone in my pocket. From the Palace of Unbreaking.”

The jeans were on top, soft and dry. The pockets were empty.

“You should run back and check the laundry room,” she said. “I was in a hurry, so I may not have noticed the stone falling out. It’s by the kitchen.”

“I’m sorry. I’ll be quick!”

Finding the stone took him just a couple of minutes. It wasn’t in the laundry room, after all, but in the parlor where he’d undressed, lying on the floor. He grabbed it and dashed back through the house.

He was back outside and his foot had just hit the grass, when it happened.

