Zeridee had let the visitor inside this time, since the rain had picked up. Becky looked like she was in her twenties. She had on platform boots, and she was carrying a Meister tool that was shaped like a giant fishhook.

“People were talking so much about chaos, Zeridee! And that’s never happened before! So I tried to call you and ask about it, but I couldn’t get through,” she said. “A man who’d been summoned once was saying maybe going to Kitama Tower wouldn’t be safe if there was going to be chaos instead of just sea anomalies. And he was talking about how maybe the TC and the embassy building would be better, but how is anybody going to get down to F now? And I thought of this place because of all the times I’ve been here for the Ambassador’s parties. Can I stay with you guys?”

“No!” said Zeridee, shaking her head. “I am very sorry for all of this. At this time, our residence isn’t protected. But do not worry! As the Contract says, the risk of any chaos exposure is low. The chance of an amount dangerous to Avowed is far lower than that. Keep following all evacuation orders. Kitama Tower will be very safe, and I believe many Shapers of Water are being summoned…”

To Alden’s relief, Becky took it completely in stride and seemed to believe the assistant. No arguing or shouting this time. She asked Zeridee if the party was still on for next week, then bounded off.

Zeridee-und’h leaned out the door, trying to watch her all the way to the end of the lane. The sirens had been shut off finally, but the sound of an emergency vehicle’s speaker came from down below on the boardwalk, telling everyone that personal possessions needed to be left behind if they weren’t necessities.

“You know that woman from the ambassador’s parties?” The tape made a ripping sound as Alden pulled some of it off the roll. He positioned the sign at eye level on the interior of the glass door. “Does he throw a lot of them?”

Zeridee was still squinting after Becky. “All the ambassadors organize a lot of parties. Even the ones who do not plan to at the beginning of their terms end up hosting many after they have attended a few here and seen the state of things.”

Despite the circumstances, Alden couldn’t help cracking a smile. “Are you saying we suck so much at partying they feel like we need help?”

Instead of answering, she said, “I try to know every Avowed who lives in this area. If they do not mind knowing me. Some do.”

“It must be important for an ambassadorial assistant to do that kind of thing.”

“It is a privilege,” she said.

He smoothed the wrinkles from his tape and looked out at the rain.

She pulled her head back in and examined his work with a critical eye.

“I know how to tape signs,” said Alden. “I’ll go put up all of these others. I’m sure you’ve got like twenty jobs to finish before you can leave this place. I can handle this one. I can tell people the house isn’t safe just like you do if I run into anybody while I’m taping.”

And if they get nasty about me being here, I’ll say it’s because I’m an S-rank who can walk on air or something. That’ll move them along without the whole throwing dishes and “Why do you get a private jet?!” thing that we had to go through with Marks.

“That group of four earlier looked like they were hard to deal with,” he said. “Some people will be convinced faster by a human. Some will be convinced faster by the ambassador’s assistant. With both of us working on it, we’ve got better odds.”

She sighed. “The people who are familiar with this place are not unreasonable to assume it is open to them. Or that it is secure. Ambassador Bash-nor has, on festive occasions, allowed Avowed to test their powers against the house.”

Alden pictured a party reaching the extra-sloppy stage and an Artonan, who looked like Joe for some reason, shouting, “Hit it with all you’ve got! My enchantments can take your puny human magics! I designed that skill!”

“Of course such things leave an impression in the memory,” said Zeridee. “And shortly after the disaster alerts came, the flyers left with the other residents of this house and a couple of Avowed who lived nearby aboard. That was visually noteworthy. I don’t know exactly what humans thought they were, but the obvious assumption is that they are some kind of escape vehicle. The four that were here a few minutes ago saw them and wanted to know about them.”

Probably asking why the Artonans needed spaceplanes if everything was really all right on Anesidora. Kind of hard to explain that they’re just getting a jump on a completely different scale of evacuation on the off chance that everything goes to hell everywhere.

“Now you—” said Zeridee.

“Please let me stay as long as you do,” said Alden. “I’m already out of the worst of the danger, and I would be ashamed of myself if I left you.”

He also had the feeling that Zeridee-und’h would leave in a more reasonable amount of time if he was around, instead of searching the entire area for stragglers long after she should’ve departed.

She shut the door, dulling the sound of the speaker and the patter of the rain. “Would you really feel shame?”

He felt his eyebrows lift. “I’m sure I would.”

According to a guy who would know, I have a problem with that particular emotion.

“I understand then,” said Zeridee. “I wouldn’t want you to carry a feeling like that with you over such a small matter. Go put up the signs. Don’t forget the back gates.”

******

Alden ran down the sidewalk, in too much of a hurry to appreciate the fact that his skill was active and the concrete beneath his sandals qualified as ground.

His poncho was back in action so that he didn’t get wet. He’d spread it out and frozen it in its extra-dorky mushroom shape, so that he could move his arms beneath it. His messenger bag was connected to it by a piece of tape so that they counted as a single object.

In his back pocket, the infogear phone had a message on it that made him want to have a lengthy conversation with whichever one of his classmates had sent it: [OK].

Would it have killed Mehdi to write a full sentence? What do two letters mean? We’re all okay. Glad you’re okay. I’m okay but everyone else fell off the bridge. We have been teleported to Oklahoma!?

He blamed Mehdi for the pitiful message fifty percent of the time and Lexi the other fifty percent. He was confident the rest of them would have had the decency to type at least half a dozen words.

Unless they’ve joined up with Marsha’s group. I think that’s pretty likely, and I have no idea what she would’ve typed.

He visually checked the windows and doors of all the houses he passed automatically. The tablet in his left hand chimed, and Zeridee’s voice came from it: “Did you get Gudrun back to her owner?”

“Yes!”

The train station had been closed and barricaded about ten minutes ago. Alden had been doing his final lap of the zone Zeridee had assigned him when he’d run into a guy in a tuxedo who was coming back to the neighborhood on foot. He’d been out at an event when the sirens went off, and he’d walked for over an hour to get here. Of course there wasn’t a single public transport option headed this way, and he wanted to save his Great Dane.

The guy wasn’t athletic, and he was trusting enough to give an oddly-dressed teenager the code to his boardwalk cottage.

Alden and the Great Dane were fast. Job complete.

And she was such a friendly dog. She was so excited to go for a late night run with a stranger.

She had almost pulled Alden off of his feet when she saw her person, and the man in the tux had gotten so choked up that Alden had started to get a lump in his own throat. And now he was realizing other pets could be left behind in the houses around him, and…

He was trying not to think about it.

“I’ve secured everything in the house that could cause harm if it were damaged or stolen,” said Zeridee. “Only two more people have stopped by since you left. They both read the sign on the front door and departed.”

She had linked her eye rings to his Artonan-made tablet somehow. She’d been assigning him jobs ever since. As soon as she’d decided he was allowed to assist, she’d been determined not to waste that assistance. She’d even sent him out to deliver messages and request updates from police and other Avowed who were officially doing System-assigned tasks in Punta de la Luna.

Unexpectedly, his movement trait seemed to legitimize him. Possibly it made him look like a more capable person than he actually was because only a couple of people asked what he thought he was doing hanging around.

Honestly, though, my legs are getting tired. They’d already run the obstacle course and the bridge in the past several hours. The last thing he’d had on his mind in either case was saving up strength for even more sprinting.

Having a disaster happen after gym…

He’d thought of it a few times. A lot of his classmates were probably running on fumes as far as powers went. Muscles, skills, and spells that had been used to the limit would have recovered some over dinner, but none of them would be back at their peak. It was really, really lucky that Maricel had missed the second race.

At the top of the hill, he turned and looked out over the neighborhood. It was so quiet now. The houses were dark. A small figure down near the water with the red System halo that meant they weren’t to be interfered with was holding some kind of gleaming staff aloft.

An Adjuster with a spell impression that requires a tool maybe?

Instructor Klein was probably wearing a similar halo right now. It was only a guess, but Alden thought he might have been called somewhere to hasten the evacuation of children and teens who hadn’t been selected yet. That seemed to have been a big priority for the System right from the beginning, and according to a snippet of conversation he’d overheard between one of the police officers and a red halo, a lot of people had been put on child escort duty.

As Alden had already seen, some Avowed weren’t happy with the thought of approving a teleport that would take their kids out of their sight, even if it was to what he suspected was an actual chaos-resistant shelter rather than a place that was merely safe from the water.

The cellphone in his back pocket suddenly bee-beeped perkily, and he grabbed it so fast he almost tossed it. He looked down through the wet poncho at the screen.

[Alden, this is Haoyu. Borrowed a phone from someone. I got teleported to a safe spot a little while ago, so don’t worry about me. Kon teleported out, too. Somewhere different. The others were all fine and heading toward midtown when I left. Maricel flew us over a break in the bridge just a couple of minutes after you disappeared. Don’t know if you’ve seen the news. She got fourteen other people over before she said she didn’t know for sure when she was going to fatigue and decided to stop and let the professionals handle it so that she didn’t accidentally drop anybody.

Marsha traumatized a couple of girls from Franklin High. She told them she could fly, then yanked them across by throwing her spear, grabbing them, and then summoning herself toward it. They were all fine, but there was a lot of screaming.

Everyone agreed there would have been even more screaming if they’d known how bad she is at guessing when she’s about to run her talents dry.

There were a lot of people helping out on the Apex side of the bridge, so I think everyone’s getting off.

Nobody has heard from the people we left behind at the mall or the ones who went home early.

Keep the teeth safe or Lexi will kill you.

I haven’t heard from Lute. Not too worried about him for the obvious reasons.

Message me when you get the chance. I’ll borrow another piece of infogear when I can to check.

Take care of yourself. I might have been rude to you on the bus. Sorry. I’ll only cook food you can eat next week to make up for it.]

Alden’s spirits lifted in an instant.

Now that, he thought, is a properly written text message.

He read through it again, relieved that escaping from the bridge seemed to have gone as well for the people on the bus as he had hoped it would…even if you couldn’t exactly call a run that involved a bridge almost sinking, a car getting sliced to bits, Konstantin smashing himself in the face with a vehicle, and everybody flying the last few meters to safety on a cracked granite countertop that Maricel had stolen a perfect outcome.

His eyes caught on the last line.

You don’t have to feel bad about that, Haoyu. Of all of us, you’re probably having the hardest night.

He resisted the urge to check the phone’s emergency updates. The highlight had been the same thing since he arrived here. The Nilama family neighborhood down in F, where Lexi and Kon had grown up, was still flooding.

He put the phone back in his pocket and took one last look at the tiled roofs and the picturesque lane. He could feel Zeridee-und’h behind him.

North side of the house.

It was comforting to have that sense of his entruster. Useful, too. No way to get turned around on unfamiliar streets when he always knew which direction the ambassador’s residence was in.

He headed up the terraced garden path to the verandah. After he closed and locked the door, he pressed the tape on the back of the sign down one more time.

Hope you’re still here in the morning, he thought.

He found Zeridee in a room he hadn’t seen yet. “No wonder so many people want to get inside this place.”

The ambassador had a large bar in the residence. And those bottles lining the gleaming shelves behind Zeridee were definitely not full of mocktail ingredients.

