Sneaks-In-Darkness. Aila distinctly remembered thinking about how cool the mage was the first time they'd met; she wore one of those high-tier shadowcloaks, and although she'd affected a humble posture and tone, Aila was absolutely sure the woman was an archmage. Maybe a recent one, judging by the strength of her magic, but an archmage nonetheless.

Even just walking around, Sneaks-In-Darkness gave off an air of danger. Oh, she spoke like she was nothing more than a civil servant, all humble words and polite bows, but the way she moved was like concentrated death. Aila felt the power radiating from her with every move she made. It was like she was a single step away from shredding everything around her.

And then there was the look in her eyes.

Aila had loved the look in her eyes. She wasn't sure what it was, exactly, but something about it set her heart thumping. She'd started following Sneaks-In-Darkness around as she did her rounds at their academy last semester, asking her questions, trying to learn. She wanted to be just like her, she said, and the Red Hunter had welcomed it. She'd asked her warm questions about her friends, about her magic, about what she was working on.

At the end of that semester, when the Red Hunters were due to leave, Sneaks-In-Darkness had found her and pressed the Red Hunter emblem into her paws. She told Aila that she had potential. That she was thinking about taking on an apprentice one day.

Aila thought she'd finally done something right. Earning the approval of an archmage—that was incredible, wasn't it?

Her parents hadn't seemed to think so. Her brothers looked horrified. The only ones that understood were her closest friends, Izzik and Geraal; they'd found mentors of their own among the Red Hunters, and the three of them talked long into the night about what they would do once they joined.

Izzik wanted to fix things. He admired them, but thought their methods were too harsh. Geraal had been reticent about it, but had said something about his father being one of the Red Hunters, and how he wanted to prove himself.

It was clear how much Sneaks-In-Darkness and the other Red Hunters believed in them, too. Those emblems were like a cheat code. They would regularly shine in the middle of the night and dispense crucial advice about some spell or the other, or even magical secrets that would be important in the upcoming tests. Aila, Izzik, and Geraal all quickly rose to be the top of their respective classes.

They'd been so happy about it. This semester, Aila had thought, would be their best one yet.

And then one night, about a week ago, everything changed.

It had happened when she and Izzik were alone in the library. Geraal had been asleep at the time, but both she and Izzik's emblems had suddenly begun to shine. When they held the emblems out, the shimmerdust vial had appeared, along with a message recorded by Sneaks herself. Aila had been so excited.

That excitement had turned very quickly into horror. The archmage's voice had been so... warm. She told them how excited the Red Hunters were to have such promising students as initiates, and told them in no uncertain terms that this was their most important test yet.

And then, in the same warm tone, Sneaks-In-Darkness told them what would happen if they failed.

"I hope you understand how important this is," she said, her voice full of false sympathy. "We don't want to do this, really, but us Red Hunters can't afford traitors or failures. Think of it as a protective measure to keep our mission safe."

Aila had never felt so stupid. And Izzik... he'd stopped speaking to her after that. Geraal knew something had changed, clearly, but said nothing about it.

Earlier, he'd said he hadn't been threatened. Why? What made him so special? Why was he...

Aila looked up. "Geraal," she said. "The reason you weren't threatened. Is it because your dad's already...?"

Geraal stared at her for a long moment, then nodded slightly. He said nothing further, but Aila knew him well enough. She'd wondered why he'd started to withdraw when they first began to meet with the Red Hunters. She hadn't thought to ask about it.

Sneaks-In-Darkness was getting closer. The soul-link was two-way, and Aila knew the smart thing to do was run. If she wanted to, she could force Izzik and Geraal to get on their feet and start moving away. If the archmage turned her gaze on any of them, they would die; she knew that for a fact.

But what was the point? Those bloodrot bombs were pinned on them anyway. They would just be prolonging things until the Red Hunters activated those bombs themselves.

And what that human had said about that poison... about the shimmerdust...

Aila had genuinely thought that they were helping. That the Red Hunters were doing a service, even if that service was ugly at times. The fact that they needed shimmerdust at all told her otherwise.

She huddled further into a ball.

Maybe it would be for the best if they were caught.
