As the beast coiled in the air, Soltic realized a few fast facts. It was neither ‘white’ nor a ‘dragon’. It was dragon-shaped, but it was made out of coral and bone and blood and viscera, with yet another glowing spot in the center of it where the grand rad usually was in a wyrm. It certainly looked like a wyrm, but it was not a wyrm at all. Soltic had no idea why the delvers called it a wyrm when it clearly wasn’t, but Wyrm Season had been a rather well-controlled phenomenon for a decade now, so maybe the newer generations were simply not used to seeing a real wyrm.

The ‘wyrm’ roared, and flew into the sky, then rapidly came back down onto the other nearest coral, left behind from the previous treasure taking. The beast flickered with power as it crashed into the left-over growth, diving back into the water, and then curling up and around the stone barge, as it headed for another coral growth that Soltic and Vanya had broken in their passage.

Vanya rushed forward, giving chase, saying, “It’s getting healthier with each coral it eats! Come on! We gotta kill it fast!”

Soltic could see that, he supposed. He kept right up with Vanya, saying, “It’s not a wyrm at all.”

Vanya laughed as she shot a person-thick [Force Beam] at the ‘wyrm’, just behind its head. She clipped the beast and trailed a line of destruction down the white-thing’s flank, carving away coral and flesh as she went. The beast began to dodge, but Vanya’s aim was impeccable, and for a full 7 seconds, she carved away bits of the monster. Finally, though, her spell cut, and the beast, sensing weakness, howled and turned toward Vanya, rushing, mouth wide open, fangs of bone and coral ready to crush down—

Soltic and Vanya both shoved [Force Beam]s through its body, disrupting its form but not killing it. It kept rushing forward, right at the delvers, but Vanya erected a quick series of [Force Wall]s, and monowire cutters between them, along with a bunch of smaller magics.

And then they waited, there in the middle of the walkway, right in front of the monster’s open maw as it rushed at them, right into the trap.

The beast turned to coral bits and broken, cubed flesh as momentum kept it coming. It was already dead long before those bits impacted the Walls around Soltic and Vanya, but whatever spell Vanya had put upon the monowires out there forced the wyrm’s barge-sized body to keep coming, to keep turning to broken bits.

Coral and blood and bone went into the waters all around, and then finally, some inner radiance impacted the cubing-Force in front of Soltic and Vanya. Just like how the inner treasure spots inside the coral growths turned to floating light when disturbed, the light inside of the wyrm turned into floating radiance. That radiance spread outward, and the entire coral wyrm began to break; to disintegrate.

The waters filled with falling coral and fish bits.

Behind them, some of that coral came back together, forming an iridescent white extension to the grey-white stone barges, connecting the first half of the dungeon floor to the second half. Undisturbed coral lay on that other side, full of gold, waiting to be plucked.

Soltic said, “So that radiant spot in the coral wyrm was probably the radiant eel, and the coral treasures are its ‘eggs’.”

“I’m going to keep all of this first floor when I remake this dungeon. I love it.” Vanya walked toward the coral bridge, and then went right over it without a single care, saying, “Simple, yet elegant; just like this bridge. Just how I want to make the Grand Dungeon.”

She was not pulled under by a tentacle monster. She went across without incident.

… Soltic followed along, his heavy feet crunching a little bit into the coral as he walked atop it, but a bit of Force under his shoes stopped any further destruction to the bridge. When he reached the other side, he asked, “When you told the Maryols your plan for this place… Was that the full plan?”

“Ideas will have to be adjusted, of course, but yes. Pretty sure; yeah. It’ll be a recreation of Storm’s Edge, covered in coral. I think I’ll keep the coral wyrms, if they are actually just radiant eels. Those things seemed pretty smart; able to follow instructions well.” She raised her voice, speaking to the dungeon, “And I want to keep the octopus, too. They seem very smart!” When nothing burbled up from the waters, Vanya said to Soltic, “This whole thing is going to be magnificent.”

Yesterday, Vanya had outlined her general idea, as given to her by Sininindi. The goddess of Storm and Sea wanted to make extensive use of the False Society option inherent to every dungeon core; to create a city of fake people who could eventually become real through interaction with the rest of the world, when the rest of the world visited them through the dungeon. The False Society option was basically pre-fugue shadelings on steroids. Or maybe it was more like the routine parts of a wrought Geode, where everyone had a routine they did each day, like getting bread from the bakery at exactly 9:18 am, or get up at 4:27 am in order to bake the bread, or to gift the same book to the same person every week on ninthday, at dinnertime.

There had been a lot of talk about the False Society option in every major political circle of the entire world, long before the actual horrors of that option showed themselves on the Surface, years ago, in the middle of the Freelands ordeal. Not a lot of people knew much about that full horror, but Erick did. Quilatalap did. All of the major players of House Benevolence did, because Erick had needed to step in to solve that population crisis. The Maryols sort of knew...

But the common person did not.

They reached the next coral growth. Vanya cut it up, and extracted the goods. They killed the fish. They walked to the next growth.

And Soltic decided to say, “There’s going to be a lot of pushback on the False Society.”

Vanya nodded, solemnly. “I expect it. But the system produces people that are real, eventually, and when they wake they’re real people. You saw those interviews with the people from the Free Dungeon.”

For the sake of [Witness], Vanya had said ‘you saw those interviews’, when in fact Erick had directly participated in those interviews. A lot of thoughts suddenly crossed Erick’s mind at that moment. Maybe, while ‘Vanya’ was here, ‘Soltic’ needed to go back to the Free Dungeon, and check on how that place operated when he wasn’t The Wizard, coming in and making sure the place was running right. He was pretty sure that Destiny, the Chaos Wizard, was making sure the place ran well…

But he still needed to do Atunir’s quest, and then Melemizargo’s, in order to remove Yggdrasil’s seal. That took priority. So, no, he’d do the Freeland stuff some other time, though that whole problem would likely come up here, when the False Society option actually took root in this land. Erick might have moved on before that controversy actually got into full swing, though.

What would he look like in his next incognito persona? Maybe not Soltic, but Soltic was definitely moving on once Vanya was ensconced in her Grand Dungeon; they’d already planned their ‘public breakup’.

Or maybe he’d keep ‘Soltic’ around as he went to do whatever Atunir wanted? But probably not. He liked the way that people treated ‘Soltic’ as just another person, for Erick did not like being The Apparent King and Wizard of Benevolence, but the job had been a calling; he had stepped up and made the world better for his presence.

Erick still felt ‘Called’ to do that ‘job’, even now… But it had only been several days since his retirement. It took a while to break a habit, didn’t it. Even now, Erick wanted to send out Ophiel and make this Grand Dungeon happen within a week, instead of however long it would take Vanya to do this job, the slower way.

… Gods above, what was he going to do with his life?

Was everything going to be slow now?

Like this dungeon delve?

Slow, and personable, and done over the course of hours, instead of using Ophiels in overwhelming force to enact his will upon the land? But that’s what he wanted, right? To go slower? To have less power over the world? But...

Oh.

Oh gods.

Oh no—

“Soltic?” Vanya’s voice came to him as though from a great distance, but she was standing only a meter away. “You okay?”

The two of them were a scant few meters from the next coral growth and Soltic had just been standing there, his heart beating wild, sweat crawling down his body, under his stuffy clothes. The Force armor around his chest was too tight. It was hard to breathe.

He looked to Vanya, and said, “Everything is changing again and I fear I am having an existential crisis, but I’ll get over it soon.”

Vanya looked to the dungeon, then ignored it all as she put a hand on Soltic’s arm, gently saying, “Let’s stop here for today. I can do the rest some other time.”

“No.” Softer, “… No. We came here. Let’s do this. Sorry. Let’s do this.”

Vanya paused, then strongly asked, “Are you sure?”

“Yes.”

They finished the dungeon as fast as they could, and then Soltic led the way out.

- - - -

After they stepped out of the dungeon, and before Vanya could ask what was wrong—

First, the Gold Taker stripped them of 80% of their stuff.

And then Soltic said, “Please ignore me and go back into the dungeon to do what you wanted to do. Your death and all the rest of it disturbed me in a way I was not prepared to handle. That’s all there was to it. I freaked. Sorry.” And because he didn’t want Vanya to worry, he added, “I would like to go back in, actually. To test out those sensory spells you have.”

Vanya took his hand, cast some flight spells, and said, “We’re not going back in there. Let’s go get dinner at Storm’s Edge.”

“… Okay. That sounds—” Soltic relaxed as Vanya pulled him into the air. “That sounds a lot better. We have— what? Looks like 300 gold?”

Vanya put on a smile, flying forward, saying, “More than enough for a nice night on the town.”

- - - -

Dinner was at an upscale place high above the harbor, where they served the best fish caught in the Letri Ocean. Afterward came a walk on the beach, and a nice, frisky time behind a dune. Erick spoke of when he had had a vision from Phagar, about doing this with the woman of his dreams, years and years ago, and here they were, finally doing it. Quilatalap, as Vanya, laughed for a long time at that. It was a wonderful laugh.

Eventually, they wandered over to the playhouses, where Soltic and Vanya took their seats among the crowd to watch a comedy-of-errors about a family and a murder and an estate. It was a nice evening, but then, at the climax of the second act...

The Son stood above the grave of the Father, calling out, “I have the deck of cards! I have the will of the magistrate and the binky of the babe! I will find who killed you, father! I just need to put the pieces into the puzzle box! If only my damned mother wasn’t guarding the box like a crime boss, then—”

Soltic had had his mana sense off for the evening, since they were watching a play and to see more than what was shown was to ruin everything. So he, and most of the audience, was surprised when a man jumped out of the side of the stage wearing white wings and a robe of eyes. It was a stand in for Ophiel.

Erick took a sudden hold on Ophiel, who was watching the play from the rafters, and who was suddenly excited to see himself on stage.

The Son called out, “Who the fuck are you?”

“I’m the Wizard’s [Familiar] and I’m here to solve the murder for you! It was the—”

The Son pointed a finger at ‘Ophiel’ and ‘Ophiel’ exploded into feathers and eyes, but really he just ducked below a fake hedge as an illusion expanded from the space where he had been.

The Son looked to the audience, cheerfully saying, “No spoilers!”

The audience laughed, and the curtain closed on the end of the second act. Some people booed at ‘Ophiel’, saying that including Ophiel in the play was a controversial thing. The people who booed were drowned out by the laughter at killing Ophiel. Or maybe it was funny to have such a persona here on stage? And to be disrespected like that?

… Well if Erick couldn’t laugh at himself, then he was probably too uptight about everything.

And maybe he was.

It was pretty unrealistic to have a simple spell ‘explode’ ‘Ophiel’ like that, though. As Ophiel telepathically told his father that fact over and over again, Erick quietly smiled and agreed. Ophiel hadn’t been exploded in a long time.

The third act of the play had ‘Erick’ coming in at the actual climax of the play and wiping away the entire problem altogether, solving the ‘murder’ as a simple act of chance, and creating four estates where there were just one before, separating the families out to their own properties. As a final touch, he installed a Gate Network between them. Very rapidly, the family decided that they preferred arguing with each other every damned day, instead of living apart.

Erick laughed loud at that.

Most of the audience did too, but afterward, there was controversy.

As the playhouse emptied, people spoke about the play in excited tones, and angry tones, and all the tones between. The regulars liked it, saying it was a fantastic performance tonight, while some of the people who had decided to see the play on a whim were less than charitable about the inclusion of the Wizard into the narrative. They had gone to a play to get away from world events, and you never knew when the Wizard was actually watching.

One conversation progressed far beyond some small talking between friends.

“Including The Wizard in the play was like including a Shade,” said one particularly uneducated person.

An older woman, with her friend, chose to shout, “He’s better than the shades! You young idiots don’t know how good you have it. Be silent!”

The young idiot and his young friend shouted back, “He took away [Teleport] and now we have to bow to the silver cost of using a magic that we should all have without him!”

It was an old argument, taken up by new people, but neither of them were prepared to actually argue. Their words devolved into name-calling, and then some guards got involved and split them up. There was no danger of spellwork coming out and harming anyone, though, for like they did at the Songli Highlands with the Songstresses, but in a much easier way, the Node Network and accompanying spellwork of Storm’s Edge locked down most magics of the violent variety.

“I liked the play,” Vanya said, as she held onto Soltic’s arm.

