After a thorough explanation of Vanya’s ideas for a Grand Dungeon of Storm’s Edge, Soltic was impressed. Lord Jarod and Lady Glariol had been more than that. They had begun to speak of plans, and hidden resources, and what would need to happen, going forward, for Vanya’s plan to actually happen. Primarily, they needed to link with others in the city, to get the Church and the Regency and the Dungeon Guild ready to accept an adjustment of at least one of the seven dungeons. If the adjustments went well, and if others approved, then they could go forward with all the rest of the Grand Dungeon creation.

“The first major issue to solve is getting Vanya approved by the lords. We’ll set that up, but you have to follow through.” Lord Jarod finished with, “So hide. Delve for a while. Find out everything you can. We’ll contact you in four days with more information. Be prepared to defend your ideas, and your self.”

Soon enough, Soltic and Vanya were back at their rooms in the Dungeon Guild.

It was time for Erick to learn a special technique.

They were under an Obfuscation and Privacy spell, because Erick, as Erick, stood on one side of the room and Quilatalap, as Quilatalap, stood on the other. A simple grand rad hovered in the air between them. It was not special in any specific way, having been one of any number of suitable grand rads taken out of Quilatalap’s storage rooms for this task, but it was necessary to learn this specific trick; smaller rads didn’t pull in mana like a grand rad did. Even now, the grand rad was subtly shaping the manasphere around it, drawing in mana like a siphon, like a weaker version of a dungeon’s entrance, and core.

Erick shook out his hands to loosen up, then he reached his aura out to cover the rad, manually shaping a spell, humming as he did so, locking his resonance to the crystalline growth’s own resonance. Quilatalap looked on, not saying anything; just watching. Rapidly, Erick felt a connection to the rad take hold. The malformed sphere of crystal began to resonate with the very air, pulling in even more atmospheric mana; pulling in Erick’s mana—

The grand rad shimmered and cracked, filling the air with a spark of blue fire—

“Dammit,” Erick said, knowing what was coming already.

The grand rad suddenly flashed over, igniting like black powder, sending plumes of blue fire into the air. That fire washed over the room, alighting the space with tiny blue flames that began to turn orange as the bedding, the drapes, and the floor caught flame.

Grand rads were not normally so volatile, but this particular one was, for whatever reason. Quilatalap thought that the problem was on Erick’s end, and so, like he had said a few times already—

“You’re gonna want to [Return],” Quilatalap said, nonjudgmental.

Erick sighed. And then he [Return]ed to 10 seconds in the past, sending his cognizance into his perspective of before he had fucked up the experiment. The grand rad hovered before him, and Erick did not continue as he was supposed to. Instead, he looked to Quilatalap and said, “I have never needed to use [Return] so many times in a single day. Explain it to me again, in a different way than you did before.”

Quilatalap looked at him. “… How many failures has that been?”

“Three [Return]s. Catastrophic failure each time.”

“Maybe you’re trying too hard… Or have I suggested that already?”

Erick explained his process succinctly, “Elemental Book in my aura. Surround the rad. Resonate with the rad. Feel the words spill out of it. Don’t push too hard. It’s not [Editing Aura]; it’s simply checking on the makeup of the grand rad, of the organized structure of the mana therein.”

“Let’s try it from the second part of the process; might have more luck there.” Quilatalap moved on, explaining once again, “This experiment here is simply a test run, to get you familiar with the process of interfacing with a rad, but you won’t be able to interface with the dungeon core, and the developed version of this magic isn’t meant to allow you to interface directly with a dungeon core, anyway. This magic is to allow you to look as though from a grand distance; anywhere inside a dungeon core space. Close, far, doesn’t matter.

“So, this time, I want you to hold your mana open and let Elemental Book flow through the air to the grand rad. Don’t envelop the rad entirely. Check on it from afar.

“When your mana touches the rad, I want you to take that ephemeral connection and see what the Book tells you. You might make a spell out of it here on Veird, but the only way it’s going to work inside a dungeon is if you know how to work it correctly, without Script assistance.” Quilatalap added, “And you’re not trying to [Identify] the grand rad, though this spell is loosely based on [Identify]. You’re trying to mana sense the parameters of the dominant mana controller in the area. Different applications of this magic can let you identify Domain work without [Identify]ing anything at all.”

“[Identify] without [Identify],” Erick said, “Sure. I’ll try it again that way.”

Quilatalap nodded.

Erick stood a bit straighter. And then he held out his aura, flowed some Elemental Book through all of himself and also the air, and felt the subtle pull of the grand rad’s flow, tugging his Book into the malformed crystal. He watched the world with his mana sense...

And it was working this time. Erick did not get a blue box, but he did get to read the mana in the air. It was sort of like reading, anyway. It was also sort of like listening, and feeling, and knowing—

He got a blue box.

Mana Reading, concentration, special range, 5 mana per second

Attempt to understand and label the predominant forces in the mana. Specific targets with specific connections give better readings.

He also got a stream of words crossing through his senses, though they were more like idea-forms, and not like words at all.

Fire. Death. A malformation of snake and bird. A trickster that has been tricked. Level 59. Forms of Couatl. Variant. Killed by Death. Illusion and whimsy and hate. Kill the living. Transform bones into babies. Spread. Plague. Grow and tear. Strength 57. Vitality 89. Willpower 38. Focus 99. Age 3. Natural Flight. Decay Venom. Toxic Immunity. Fires of the Damned. Crawler of Pestilence. Drinker of the Damned. Floater in the trees. Strikes-from-behind...

As the deluge of information flooded Erick’s Sight, he rapidly began to understand that he was seeing the grand rad through the lens of Elemental Book, joined to the viewpoint of the Script. When he had that realization the information shifted; instead of being a floating impression of Elemental Book, of words, Erick saw fragments of events inside those words. The words were not simply telling a story, they were illustrating that story.

It was a story of the largest events in the Death Couatl’s life. The moment when the couatl turned into a thing of bones and venom and illusion magics; when it killed a group of pixies at the edge of pixie lands; when it was killed in return, and yet reformed later, for it was a natural undead and it could not be killed so easily as normal creatures could be killed.

Erick watched the death couatl die to the pixies, and its grand rad harvested from the body, ensuring that it remained dead. The grand rad had changed hands many times, Erick saw, but he could not see those hands, exactly. Whatever the case, it had ended up here, in this room, under this experiment…

Erick pulled back, then looked to Quilatalap.

Quilatalap was grinning. “It worked that time. What did you see?”

“A variant couatl. Death, Decay-Fire, along with the usual couatl bend toward Illusion. Pixies killed it eventually.” Erick said, “I got a spell, too. [Mana Reading]. Not a base spell, though. What’s the base spell?”

“[Identify]. Could also be [Witness]. Not sure.”

Erick scrunched his face. “ ‘Not sure’?”

Quilatalap chuckled. “[Mana Reading] isn’t a base spell like [Witness], because if it were then you’d have 10 ranks of it. You can’t buy it for a point, which means that it’s one of the hidden spells that you have to make yourself. In addition, [Mana Reading] is only ever attained by people who put a lot of effort into Book Magic and mana sensing and aura control, so the exact way that [Mana Reading] happens is up for debate.” Quilatalap shrugged. “An academic debate, too. It’s not even a useful spell in almost all ways, because, again, it’s Book Magic. You could probably ask Rozeta if you wanted to know the real truth of the progenitor of [Mana Reading]. I certainly don’t know how all the magic of the Script got there in the first place.”

Erick smiled a little at that. Sometimes, in their teaching sessions, he reached the end of Quilatalap’s knowledge, and every time it surprised him.

Quilatalap continued, “Anyway. With the level of personal control you have shown, you should be able to read a dungeon core rather well from anywhere inside a dungeon. From there, you can use what you find to plan a course of attack, or of change. The spell doesn’t give you any real power, though. Just information.” Quilatalap said, “Like. Let us pretend this couatl rad was a dungeon core. Using this magic, I would see that the couatl is death-aligned and dislikes pixies, so, in order to infiltrate the dungeon all the way down to its core without setting it off, I could transform myself into a full skeleton, and then walk into the place and talk about killing annoying pixies. I could do that for a day or two, and eventually the core would make contact with me because it would see in me a kindred spirit. From there, if I got closer to the core, or if I could at least have a direct line of sight to it, then I might be able to cast this same sort of magic again and get even better information with which to tailor the rest of my approach. At the very least, if the dungeon does not approach you, then you can use this sort of magic to track down the flow of mana in a dungeon, in more precise ways, and figure out where the core actually is. There’s a lot of caveats to the usefulness of this spellwork, and it is very soft in its usefulness, but when it works, it works well.”

Erick smiled a little bit. “Sometimes it takes Jane a week to find an uncooperative dungeon core.”

Quilatalap shrugged. “If you want to teach her this magic, you can, but it only really works on dungeon cores that aren’t trying to fuck you over. This sort of spell can be used to get a generalized, Book Magic interpretation of any active spell effect, actually. You can even use it against other people a little bit, but biology gets in the way of that. And, like I’ve said more than a few times, it’s Book Magic; it’s not precise, it’s not foolproof, it’s not to be relied upon. But it can give you clues to follow up on, if you know how to read it right.” He added, “Those caveats are why Book Magic isn’t more widely used; it relies too much on your own vision and point of view to make sense of what it’s sensing.”

“I get it, I get it. Jane probably wouldn't be interested anyway.” Erick said, “I still don’t understand how she goes into dungeons all the damned time. And not just the nice dungeons, but the dungeons that have gone bad or been abused and who want to kill everyone for those hatreds.”

“Aye; she likely couldn’t use [Mana Reading], or simple mana reading.” Quilatalap said, “And don’t forget that some dungeons are simply born hostile to life. It might help to think of dungeons less like gate spaces, and more like alternate realities anchored to this one via a specialized mana core. Sometimes alternate realities are simply hostile to everything.”

“Ahh… Yeah. Kinda sad, isn’t it?”

Quilatalap shrugged. “Life is kinda sad sometimes, causing all sorts of possibilities to spring to being in the Dark, as we live and work and dream of other places and possibilities.”

“… Huh. You know… I don’t think I have a single Elemental Dream spell. Are there many of those?”

“There used to be a lot of Elemental Dream. Now, though, it’d call Dream one of the Very Esoteric Elements; mostly the realm of the gods these days. Maybe some Mind Mages, too. The Red Dream of the Orcols is both Dream and the domain of Aloethag, for instance.” Quilatalap said, “Elemental Dream is close to Elemental Illusion, but heavily angled toward Chaos. Some call Elemental Dream as Pure Chaos, but that’s untrue. Elemental Dream is very good for meeting others on a level field, exposing neither side to danger. Of course, Elemental Dream is very bad about doing what you want it to do, and working how you want it to work. When Paradox Wizards talk to other versions of themselves, that’s sort of like Dreaming.”

“Well that’s all rather interesting.” Erick moved the conversation back to the current work. “What’s the spell to change the dungeon without others knowing?”

“That was a little lie of mine. It’s actually just [Editing Aura], and many small pieces of the cores of dungeons I have worked on before. The only part you’re missing are the pieces of other dungeons, but you can accrete a small duplicate fraction of your own core and use that instead.”

Erick was chuckling. “You acted like you knew some special magics back there with Jarod and Glariol! It’s just [Editing Aura]!”

Quilatalap smiled warmly. “Us ‘cultists’ don’t give up information about ourselves nearly as well as you ‘xoatists’.”

Erick felt his face heat as his expression dropped. He whispered, “Gods above, I have to act like a Xoatist now, don’t I.”

Quilatalap chuckled, transforming back into Vanya before he was finished laughing, a deep belly mirth turning into a happy woman’s giggle. “We should visit the local Xoatist church!”

“No,” Erick said, as he turned into Soltic.

“It’ll be fun! We can see what they’re saying about you, you can half-die from embarrassment, and you can also see what a Xoatist service is like! Who knows! You might have to really pretend to be one of them in front of Lord and Lady Maryol.”

“I will get by with being thought of as a yet-another lying immortal, thank you very much.”

Vanya giggled again.

Before they continued with their day, Soltic opened a [Gate] back to Vanya’s grand rad hoard and she put the couatl rad back in its stasis lock on its appropriate shelf. And then it was time for dungeon delve #2, this time in dungeon 1, the central dungeon of the 7 dungeons of the Pit.

- - - -

The last delve of the day, the 4 pm slot, was one of the worst delves of the day for a few reasons, though you couldn’t tell any of those reasons without going inside. Even from the inside, things looked mostly normal.

