But the air had a sinister quality to it that it didn’t have in the earlier delving time slots.

Stone barges covered the land in every direction, looking like the tops of thick walls in an open-air maze filled with water. Iridescent white coral growths stuck up here and there, like solid, 3-meter tall messes of porous bone, frozen in an unseen current. The sky above was the underside of a water’s surface, while the water down here, between the roads, was a dark abyss. Dungeon 1 looked almost identical to dungeon 5, from yesterday, but the absolute shape of it all was very different. Only someone who looked out for details could really tell the difference, though, and only in the shape of the roads and the positions of the coral.

Soltic spotted even more extra details than the normal ones. The water looked a little red in spots, but then, when he looked directly, the red was gone. The corals looked sharper; more brittle. The sky was dimmer, as though clouds held far above the watery surface.

And the amount of loot was less. That was the major change in the late-day delving time slot. The dungeon had to grow its loot; and that growing took time. The best time to delve was in the morning, at the crack of dawn, but those slots were reserved for the Regency forces; the public was not allowed in those first-loot dives.

Vanya strode across the shimmer of darkness that separated the safe entrance from the rest of the dungeon, headed toward the first coral growth, saying, “Even if the take is a lot less than at the beginning of the day, we gotta do a full clear, because I want some new clothes.”

A minor lie. They needed to do a full clear so that all the traps were sprung and all the danger was done, and then the core would become exposed. Theoretically. At least that’s what the Maryols had guessed and Vanya had also guessed; they didn’t really know. For all of the Maryol’s nobility and connections in Storm’s Edge, they were just adventuring nobles who existed outside of the system here at the Pit. They knew a lot, but not as much as insiders, and that was by the design of the Regency.

Vanya was of the opinion that the dungeon had maybe three zones. The first zone, where they were now, a ‘free for all zone’ at the second floor, where the fish and such lived and ate and did whatever, and then there was the third floor, where the core was. Though to call them ‘floors’ was a misnomer. This top ‘floor’ was surely a floor; it was flat and expansive enough. But the space below the barges, below the abyss, was likely a series of holding tanks filled with monsters, and completely not set up for people to move through.

Whatever the case, they needed a full dungeon run in order to force the dungeon to spend enough resources on driving Vanya and Soltic away so that there was less between her and the core. A delve through the second layer, beyond the abyss below, would be better, but that was not going to happen.

But in order to do a full clear up here...

Soltic frowned as he followed Vanya, saying, “So one of us has to attack the tentacles, enraging the octopus, and then we die, and the danger ramps up considerably.”

“You don’t have to attack the tentacles with me. You can keep a lookout for the radiant eel and try to kill it when it shows.”

Soltic breathed a bit, then said, “How about we try… I don’t know. Anything else in order to talk to the dungeon.”

“Well…” Vanya glanced back at him, and then paused her walk, and turned around. “Dungeons are places of controlled chaos, with a few different ways to do them correctly for the best benefit, but that benefit is measured out by the dungeon itself, and the values of two different people are often not the same at all. And yes, dungeons are people. It’s very possible to break the systems they impose in order to impose your own solutions. The purpose of the Trials of the Dark, after all, is to help people become stronger on their own merit. So, if you can break the dungeon, then you deserve to break the dungeon and impose your will upon it.” Vanya said, “Just know that if you break the dungeon by doing something truly outside of the scope of the dungeon, then you might actually break the dungeon, Soltic. This means that all the monsters are released, the bosses go wild, and a bunch of other shit happens, but you do gain access to the core, and are able to truly impose your will.” She asked, “So? Do you want to break the dungeon, and deal with that plague? Or do you want to do it normally, allowing me to get close to the core without causing any longer-term problems for us?”

“… Let’s do it normally. I’ll stand back and you can do whatever you want.”

Vanya smiled a little. “Thank you. I’ll attack the tentacles. Let it take me, or whatever it wants to do. You stand back.”

Soltic nodded a little, but said nothing else.

And Vanya turned to the coral they had reached while talking. It was a normal 3-meter tall tower of twisting ‘bone’, with a hollow cavity in the center that was filled with liquid light, and a little collection of gold wires inside that light. The wires were much smaller than they were the other day. This small bit was only worth about 3 or 4 gold, though it would have to be mixed with other metals and transformed into coins in order to be worth that much.

With a quick ripple of Force, Vanya severed the coral growth from top to bottom right, perfectly missing the cavity in the center. As a third of the coral slid off the tower and crashed into the water, the gold stood exposed among a splash of light, and Vanya grabbed the gold.

Instantly, bubbles burbled from the waters; 4 of them. Each bubble burst, releasing a toother; a rather standard variation of what happened to normal, small fish when they monsterized. As Vanya killed those toothers and pulled out the rads from the two real ones, Soltic stood back, preparing to watch Vanya die.

… And then nothing happened. The two copied toothers broke apart into motes of mana, while the red pools from the two real ones began to drip down the sides of the stone barge, into the waters. As blood spread, nothing happened—

Vanya had been waiting for it, but she stood up suddenly.

“Oh. Right,” Soltic said, realizing what Vanya had just realized. “We got to the second growth before the tentacles came out.”

Vanya smiled, and then they moved on to the second coral growth, saying, “This place has solid-set rules! I’m impressed.” With the passing of a monowire line of Force, Vanya carved her way into the second growth and then, with other magics, she pulled out the goods and stuffed it into a bag, along with the other rads. Bubbles burbled from the waters again, and a quick whip-crack of Force ended the decay-eel threat before it could get close enough to harm.

Putrid green eel slapped against the stone road—

A thick, red-purple tentacle, lined with fangs and suckers, whipped out of the water to slam onto the fish bits. Vanya met the intruder with a line of molecular Force, while laying several other lines of molecular Force all around her battlefield.

The tentacle crashed into the cutting wire and then, like it had touched a burning stove, or like it had strummed a cutting string on a banjo, the tentacle pulled back. Or at least it tried to. The wire had dug into the flesh, halfway, and when the creature pulled back, bleeding profusely, it didn’t pull directly backward. It retreated at an angle, cutting off a good section of its body, leaving behind a meter-long section of flesh, festooned with suckers and fangs and bright blue blood.

The ocean under the barges screamed—

A hundred tentacles reached up from the waters nearby, each of them already scrambling over themselves in their haste to get to Vanya, who had turtled-up behind layers and layers of monowire Force. It was not a one-sided battle, as Soltic had initially suspected it would be. Vanya was surprised her wires held out for more than half a second, too.

The wires didn’t even break in the assault, either. What got Vanya was much more simple than tentacles reaching for her, and capturing her, to rip her apart.

She lasted three seconds. Maybe three and a half seconds. Tentacles broke. Blue blood went everywhere. The ocean screamed. And water boiled over the edges of the stone walkway. A half a tentacle got through the wire cage, and that was it. The slickness of the floor is what actually did Vanya in. Perhaps an [Alter Friction] was used, too. Vanya put [Alter Friction] on her monowires, too, and that was a Force spell, in a Force dungeon, so it made sense that the octopus could do something similar.

Vanya had secured her footing with a flight spell, but that didn’t seem to matter.

She slipped. She carved herself upon her own defenses, and from there it was a quick end. The octopus got hold of her, and through a surge of water from the side…

Soltic watched as Vanya passed through her own slicer, and disappeared into the water, into a boiling of tentacles and an exultation of triumph from the octopus, still deep under the abyss, down below the stone barges. Soltic had remained 20 meters away this whole time.

All he could do was watch.

When the disaster was over, he sat himself down on the stone ground, and waited, mumbling to himself, “I thought I was done with therapy, but I suppose I have something new to talk about.” He sat there on the cold stone and watched, almost lazily, as a slow radiant eel came out of the waters to the right, glowing as bright as the sun. It plucked a distant coral from the roads, turning the bone-like material into countless iridescent white fish, and, perhaps lazily, took the gold wires down into the depths. The eel did this once more, and then a third time, but by then, Erick’s melancholy had turned to anger. He said to the dungeon, “Fuck you.”

He took aim. A well-formed and powered [Force Beam] lanced out of Soltic’s aura, traveling a much longer distance than a normal [Force Beam], to clip the radiant eel on the tail, scattering motes of radiance off into the air. The eel yipped, then dove down into the depths, before it could take the coral and its prize.

Soltic stood up and prepared for the tentacles to come for him. They weren’t supposed to, according to the dungeon’s design and history, but dungeons got weird sometimes.

Nothing happened for five minutes, and then the safe space by the dungeon entrance flashed over, completely dark. When the dark retreated Vanya stood there, naked and cognizant and then rapidly applying magics to herself to conjure her armor. Soltic knew that she did not really die; that she was always going to come back. But still, watching her be shoved through her own magic like that was…

“That was uncomfortable,” Vanya said, walking close enough that they were together again. She wrapped Soltic in a quick hug, then pulled away. “The octopus has a [Force Domain]. I probably could have taken it if it hadn’t taken over control of my Force spellwork.”

Soltic blinked a few times. “It took over your spellwork?” And then he realized. “Oh. It has Force Weaver— Oh. The dungeon only allows Force Magic but the dungeon master has Force Weaver, so… No wonder no one has ever been able to kill the octopus.”

“It has something like Force Weaver; not sure if it has that Ability specifically. Whatever it was, it corrupted my natural connection to my mana, usurping control, but if I had a [Force Domain] I could have prevented that. It didn’t actually turn my Force Magic against me, though. Nor did it conjure Force of its own.”

Quilatalap had Domains of every possible kind. Erick even had a [Force Domain]. It wasn’t nearly as good as his Benevolence spellwork, but it was serviceable.

Vanya and Soltic did not have a [Force Domain], though.

Soltic asked, “Shall we do the rest of the dungeon? Worry about [Force Domain] later?”

“Sure.” Vanya added, “I have realized why the Regency and others like this dungeon like it is; it’s near perfect in its simplicity and safety. Do you know how difficult it is to find a Domain-holding monster? Impossi— Oh… Hmm.”

“… What?”

“Maybe it’s a person— The octopus, I mean. It might be a [Polymorph]ed person, inside that octopus— But. Hmm. Then why are there dungeon breaks at all?” Vanya looked out across the waters. “… A problem to tackle another day. Did the radiant eel come out?”

“Yeah. I clipped it when it tried to take a coral.”

“Good. From what I’ve heard, the eel shouldn’t return. Maybe we’ll get all the rest of the gold today!” Excitedly, she added, “And we’ll get that wyrm, too!”

Soltic almost said something else, about danger and death and other overly-worried things, but he decided to hold that comment back until the end of the delve.

They went to the next coral, Vanya popped it, and then the two of them together defended themselves from the sudden appearance of three great black sharks. There was no shark meat to be had, though, because all three were copies.

The next coral came with a swarm of toothers; 63 of them to start, and then an additional 30 when the first group didn’t inflict any damage. Several of them were real this time, so they collected those rads and added them to the new bag, held on Soltic’s back.

By coral #13, which was 2 corals away from the halfway point, Soltic and Vanya were facing an ocean-churning horde of toothers and smaller darters and a few larger, more problematic cephalopods. The funky-looking squids, each of them two meters tall and hanging back, floated in the air and acted like turrets. They were the real problem. Those 8-legged floaters fired [Force Bolt]s at Soltic and Vanya in bursts of 8, and also in series, releasing one Bolt right after the other.

Both Soltic and Vanya each had to employ floating Shield spells in order to fend off those Bolts. They had to recast those Shield spells a few times, too, but the Shields worked well.

Soon, they had reached the end of the line; a stone barge that ended at open water. On the other side of open water lay another stone barge. Between them lay a coral, growing tall and white in the watery light from above.

A quick snap of Force released the gold wires from the center. A pull-and-stuff placed the wires into Soltic’s bag, just in time for the water to boil all around the broken coral. The boiling spread, like ten thousand fish swam under the waves all around, and something had disturbed those fish to breach the surface.

And then, the coral before them plunged into the waves, as though it was yanked down by a god. A whirlpool formed where the coral had vanished. Darkness spread upward—

White water shot into the sky, and then transformed into a sleek, white dragon, endlessly coiling up from the depths, roaring with hate—

