Soltic grumbled, unsure. Yes, he had liked the play too, aside from the involvement of ‘The Wizard’, but that sort of stuff was a part of his life now. His mind was mostly on the argument in the street. For a little while Soltic and Vanya walked in silence, down the street toward the flying courtyard, where they would be allowed to leave the city on a Platform spell.

The night was nice, and full of stars. It was near the end of the year, so the weather was cooler than it would be otherwise, but with Everbless controlling the weather, there was little doubt as to the true nature of the nice, calm night… Even beyond Veird’s normal, abnormal weather patterns. Like… The Underworld existed, and everything moved so oddly around here, so yes, the weather was always technically abnormal.

The weather tonight was wonderful, and the company was even better.

Soltic asked, “Want to go ask the Regency about what avenues exist to legally work on the dungeons?”

“That’s certainly a change of direction. Don’t want to wait on the Maryols to contact us with a go-time?”

Soltic said, “I’m not used to waiting on other people to act. But also I’m… I need to be doing something important with my life that’s more than… This. I mean… I love this, being with you. But…” Soltic looked out across the land. “I was doing a lot more before we came here.”

They had reached the flight square; the great open space where lanes of wardlight traffic illuminated the setting night, and all the spaces in between were filled with anti-flight spellwork, and other anti-danger [Ward]s of all kinds. All of the anti-magic spellwork of the Node Network was completely invisible, and linked together by a mostly-invisible Network that reached up from some of the taller towers around the city. Some of those tall towers were normal buildings that had been retrofitted to support the expansion and control of the ‘electrical grid’ of Storm’s Edge. Others were purpose-built to support the Node Network, and those ones were easy to pick out among the skyline. One of those hub-towers rose from the side of the flight square; it was almost like an Eiffel Tower structure; wide at the bottom and tapered to a point at the top, where a splash of invisible lines of power connected it to other tapered towers, all across the rest of the city. Storm’s Edge didn’t have the lines of light flowing through the sky that Candlepoint had, and that was by their choice.

Soltic stepped to the side of the flight square, to stand with Vanya for a moment, before he controlled his throat and mouth with aura control to ensure his next words were for Vanya only, and not for anyone who might be able to mana sense him well enough to be able to suss out his words. ‘What those kids said back there doesn’t bother me. Their complaints are valid, which is why I chose to step down from the House right now, but at the same time, none of them have to die in some random monster attack anymore. We did that. House Benevolence and everyone and you, too. We were proactive with the world, and now, here I am on a quest that isn’t involving me directly as of this moment, and I find myself unable to relax due to having everyone working except me. So yes. Let’s go around the Maryols and go directly to the Regency, or maybe we can invade the dungeon at night and dig deep into its guts, or do something else, whatever else, faster than how it is currently being done.’ He added, ‘Maybe I’ll be able to relax once I have a task in front of me.’

‘Let’s go bother the Maryols,’ Vanya sent, near instantly. ‘And then when they tell us they need more time, we can ask them about the Regency, to see how they think the Regency will react to being asked to change the dungeons. If we don’t like what the Maryols say, we can go on without them.’

Soltic grinned. ‘Sounds great.’

Vanya squeezed Soltic’s hand. “We might not be welcome in the noble district, but we can certainly try.”

“We can try.” Soltic nodded.

- - - -

The guard’s eyes narrowed, and he said, “This is not a place for sightseeing. Please return to the public parts of town, and do not return here without written authorization or escort.”

Soltic and Vanya had expected this, so they did not object.

Seeing that they weren’t trying to force the issue, the guard un-narrowed his eyes, and continued, “If you have a noble house which can speak for you, then feel free to send them a missive. There’s a cafe just over there. A lot of people spend time there as they wait for escorts to come get them.” He added, “Also, it’s really late for you guys to be trying this. I don’t know who you are, but it’s suspicious.”

“Ah. Sorry.” Soltic said, “We’re Underworlders, so—”

“I don’t need to know,” said the guard, without rancor.

As a tendril of thought poked away from her head, Vanya said, “I’m sending the message now to House Maryol’s castellan. We’ll go to that cafe.” She bowed to the guard. “Thank you.”

The guard’s response was to make a shooing motion with his hands.

Soltic and Vanya turned around and went to the cafe.

They sat down for coffee and cake, and watched the night sky poke out from behind disappearing clouds. Beyond the lights of Storm’s Edge, the sky was a deep field of black, festooned with stars. The moons were not out tonight, so it was very dark while some guy played soft music on a piano-ish sort of table instrument in the corner of the very nice, upscale bar. Erick knew the name of the instrument, but he called it a ‘piano’ in his mind. It wasn’t a piano, though.

It was different.

Everything was different again. Erick had grown used to Veird, and his place in it. He knew his future. He had had plans.

Erick controlled his vocal cords and his mouth with his aura again, then sent to Quilatalap, ‘So the whole plan for the grand dungeon… is Sininindi trying for a prototype Second Script?’

Quilatalap grinned. ‘You think so too, eh?’

‘But she hasn’t given you actual instructions for that Second Script?’

‘I’m sure I’ll get specific instructions eventually. For now, the plan is as she wants it. Mostly, she just wants the delvers to learn true magic, however I can make that happen.’

‘When you explained it all to the Maryols, you laid out your plan for the dungeon so that it could produce the most resources as well as people.’

‘That too,’ Quilatalap said, with a smile.

‘You know… It still weirds me out for gods to be making people, but I suppose that’s normal for gods to do and so I’ve mostly gotten over it, but still… It’s weird, right?’

‘They’re fully formed people who will be given an instant path to citizenship of Storm’s Edge if they pass a test, which they will pass in order to escape the dungeon in the first place. Sininindi wasn’t clear about much, but she was clear about that.’ Quilatalap sipped his cream coffee, sending, ‘Gods making people is about the least weird thing about these dungeons.’

‘… I suppose. So she just wants… To teach magic to people?’

‘Sininindi was rather unclear on what she wanted with regard to the way she wanted magic to work inside there. She only told me that she wanted me to ensure that the people who came out of the dungeon would be able to survive in any environment. That’s the only real parameter she gave me, and it’s a fine one. Everything else about the Grand Dungeon will be based around that idea.’ Quilatalap sent, ‘Probably going to have a central city and 6 side-dungeons, each of which teach a basic aura control and mana alter, as well as requiring spellwork that one learns from the other dungeons. We’ve even got 6 dungeons and a seventh one in the center, already, so the current resources on the ground work. The central dungeon will become a city like Storm’s Edge, but mountainous, and the other dungeons will be scattered to the edges of the Dark Reflection of this island.’ Quilatalap finished with, ‘If it all goes well, it should work out very well, and be a self-reinforcing system. Delvers will fall into the city to start with, and then work through the dungeons, while citizens of the city will grow in the city, and… achieve sapience and go through the dungeons— So that part isn’t so clear to me. Maybe I’ll have the delvers go through one of the 6 dungeons in order to reach the central one, or something. I’ll have to do something good with the octopuses and coral wyrms, too.’

‘Perhaps make it so that the dungeon people have six factions of magical learning inside, overseen by six octopuses or coral wyrms of various types, or something like that.’

Quilatalap smiled. ‘It’s going to be a lot of work. As long as Storm’s Edge approves of the idea and works with me to make it happen, we could have the preliminary dungeon up and active in as little as 6 months. It’ll only take one month before I’m safe here on my own, though.’

‘Even with you restricting yourself to ‘Vanya’?’

Quilatalap nodded. ‘That part shouldn’t be a problem, though if I do make a copy of myself in this dungeon then—’ Another tendril of thought joined the group, and Quilatalap looked away briefly. Vanya came back, saying, “Nero is at the entrance waiting for us.”

Soltic downed the rest of his coffee.

- - - -

Lord Jarod greeted them in the smoking library, dressed in finery despite the late hour. “Welcome back, Miss Silver, Mister Cross. I’m afraid your request for a meeting will have to be just with me, for Glariol is off entertaining friends at a neighbor’s house. I should be there, too, but your message came and I decided I could take a break for half an hour.” He gestured to the chairs, taking a seat as he said in a cheerful voice, “Sit! Please.”

Nero waved off, saying, “I’ve got to get back to the party, too,” and then he left.

Both of the nobles had been wearing truly nice clothes. By comparison, and though they had put on some of their nicer stuff after the dungeon, Vanya and Soltic looked like hobos.

Vanya and Soltic sat, as Vanya said, “Apologies for taking you away from your party, but we’d like to move faster on adjusting the dungeons into a Grand Dungeon. We’d like to do something on our end. Going to the Regency, talking around at the Dungeon Guild; whatever you feel is best.”

“Ahh…” Jarod nodded a little. “Did you manage to interface with Dungeon #1 today?”

“Minorly. We’ll have to get access to the actual dungeon core room for me to interface better.”

Jarod’s eyes went a little wide, both in surprise and joy.

Soltic controlled his own expression. He hadn’t noticed Vanya interfacing with the dungeon… But then again, he was kinda out of it by that point. It had taken him a few hours to come to terms with Vanya’s death and resurrection, and then the rest of the delve didn’t really help, either.

“What did you discover?” Jarod asked, excitedly.

Yes. What did she discover?

Vanya held up a hand and conjured a lightward image of the dungeon, and then all the rest of the space down below those surface stone barges. She explained, “The dungeon is shaped like this, with the working part at the top, and then another 5 kilometers of space down below. Maybe more. All the fish and organization is done down there, in the depths, and that’s where the dungeon master lives, too, cultivating gold from a massive central expansion somewhere at the very bottom. The coral is all made of bone taken from the kills of the monsters, or from the fish that live in the space which the octopus eats. The dungeon master is a variant prismatic octopus that is both very happy with his job of maintaining the dungeon, and very capable. I believe this means that the octopus has been soul edited by some Soul Mage.” Vanya finished with, “I found out a lot more than that, but those are the big things. Whoever is maintaining the dungeon is doing an exceedingly good job, and they have an extensive amount of magical knowledge in order to facilitate this creation. I did not, however, find a repro of anyone person-shaped, so this means that whoever is editing this dungeon this well doesn’t need, or wants, to make a repro in order to facilitate their act of dungeon creation. Or maybe there’s some [Polymorph]ed person-repro in there, but I do not know of that.”

“That’s…” Jarod looked around, his mind whirring, as he thought. He came to a conclusion fast. “You said you wanted to speed up this process? I think we can do that. I told you about a few people you would need to get to know, and one of those people is at the party we were at. Aroido Tidewalker, of the Tidewalkers. You know of them?”

Vanya nodded. “The ruling family of Storm’s Edge. The Regency. The one in charge of overall operations of the dungeons.”

“Aroido is a smaller part of the Regency, but he is the one in charge of the dungeons, and he’s always suspiciously tight-lipped about all that. If you use what you’ve told me on him, but subtler, you will either be able to get him to open up, or he’ll shut you down and ruin your chances of doing this the easy way.” Jarod asked, “Do you want to do that? Take that chance?”

Vanya smiled. “Yes. I do.”

“Good! We could find you some clothes in the closets and dress you up for the party. It’s an informal thing but you’ve still got to look presentable. It’s already late, so you won’t get more than a minute of his time, so make it count.” Jarod said to Soltic, “And if you promise not to expose anyone’s deepest secrets then you’re invited, too.”

Soltic smirked a little— And then he lost his smirk. “Ah. I can promise that. How is Barda, anyway? I haven’t seen her around.”

“She’s taken it rather poorly, but she’ll acclimate.” Jarod stood, saying, “I think we have some outfits in your size, too, though Shavon might need to [Adjust] them— Ah. She’s the maid you saw on your way in...”
