Erick looked down into the center of the house, down to the kitchen at the side, below. Kiri was chopping up onions for breakfast omelets. She must have already had the cinnamon rolls baking in the oven.

He went to the bathroom and did his morning routine as Ophiel plodded around the floor outside the room, occasionally scratching at the door. When Erick came out, Ophiel flitted up to his shoulder, taking his proper place for the next hour or the whole day, or however long he decided to remain clutched to Erick’s clothes.

Erick walked down to breakfast.

“Do you want to come to the Headmaster’s lesson today, Kiri?” Erick asked.

“Absolutely not.”

Erick paused. He looked around the room. Rats read the newspaper on the couch in front of the large windows, while Teressa practiced Mana Sense in the corner of the living room. Poi must have woken up, upstairs; Erick heard the door to his room open upstairs. He looked up. Poi stepped onto the balcony, then went on his way to the bathroom up there.

Erick turned to Kiri, asking, “Are you sure you don’t want to come? This is that ‘magic for the archmage’ class you wanted.”

Moments passed without an answer. Rats read his paper and Teressa blinked in the morning light.

Kiri shoved around cooking eggs in a skillet, saying, “While I am thankful for his generosity, he is a dragon. I almost forgot that.” She shivered a bit, then said, “I still can’t believe that he came into our hospital room and you talked him down from killing us all.”

Erick exclaimed, “Ohh! I don’t think it was that bad.”

Teressa spoke up, “It was that bad, sir.”

Kiri added, “Particle Magic is too broad. It’s too big. It’s finally starting to become a problem for the people in charge.”

“Yup,” Rats added, flipping through his paper. He asked, “Is Jane still coming to Oceanside?”

“No.” Erick said, “I talked to her last night—”

“Sir!” Poi called out from the second floor balcony. “The Headmaster is coming right now.”

Erick barely had time to react to Poi before the air outside of Windy Manor blazed gold. The Headmaster stepped out of the light, casual as could be. Erick tried to be casual, too, rushing toward the front door, but he caught his toes on the couch leg. His [Personal Ward] flashed white as he yelped in surprise, more than in pain. Ophiel flitted off of his shoulder to hang in the air.

Erick controlled his steps and ignored the expanding bundle of embarrassment in his stomach as he stepped to the front door. He opened the door in time for the Headmaster to arrive at the entrance. The elderly looking man stood just outside of the [Crystalline Air] layered around the manor.

“Hello.” Erick said, “I wasn’t expecting—”

“I know.” The Headmaster said, “Though I have promised to teach you personally, I don’t have much time to do such a thing. Right now is all the time I have today, so. If you are ready we will be having a quick lesson and then you can get back to whatever else you desire.” He stepped away from the door, saying, “I will wait out here for you to get ready.”

“I’m ready right now.” Erick said, as he followed the old man into the front lawn. He conjured shoes as he stepped onto the grass, following the Headmaster westward, across the lawn, between the garden.

The Headmaster walked along the stone path. He glanced at the churned dirt and the rows of potatoes growing on the vines as he continued toward the cliffs. He studied the cinnamon trees for a brief moment, scenting the air. He paused over the rows of ginger, saying, “I admit, I am in a rush, but these things here… They smell wonderful.”

“Take whatever you’d like, at any time.”

He nodded, then turned to Erick. He asked, “How did your last attempt at [Prismatic Ward] fare?”

“Decent.” Erick said, “Five-fold defense and full permissions.”

“Nearly there. Do you have an Elemental Body skill, yet?”

“No.”

“You should get one. Perhaps two. Since you plan on killing Shades you might need to get both [Shadowalk] and [Lightwalk]. Just one or the other would be fine enough, but both together would leave them little chance to harm you and also allow you to utilize the same forces they employ.” The Headmaster turned and continued to walk to the edge of the property.

Erick followed. The sounds of crashing waves far below carried up on a steady breeze.

The Headmaster stopped meters from the edge, saying, “[Air Body] and [Water Body] might be easier to obtain. I have two dungeons that hold slimes of these types on this island. I could lend them to you, though there would need to be another bargain of trade for such a thing.” He looked to Erick. “Aside from all that: Is there a specific goal you have in mind with my teaching you in the ways of the archmage?”

Erick smiled, looking out into the dark ocean, as the sun rose over the forest behind. He said, “Would you care to see the dungeon I’ve been working on for Professor Calloway’s class? It is pertinent to this discussion.”

The Headmaster said, “Sure.” He held his hand out to Erick. “I’m ready right now.”

Erick took the Headmaster’s hand without reservation.

Blip.

They appeared in twilight woods. Gold laid across the green canopy above, but cold laid on the ground in a light mist.

Erick said, “So I made a dungeon that produces light slimes.”

The Headmaster paused, then laughed loud into the sky. He said, “What!” He smiled, adding, “No you did not? No. Wait. You’re not lying.” He rumbled a low, “Hmm.”

Erick continued, “I think that the [Renew] spell I want to make is already a part of the Script, and it’s inside [Ward].” He added, “And I’m not sure how light oozes come about, so I’ve been doing this Domain every time I come here, before—”

Ophiel popped into the air beside Erick, trilling in cellos and flutes.

Erick smiled as Ophiel sat down on his shoulder, saying, “Ah, you caught up. Good boy.”

The Headmaster looked from Ophiel to Erick, as he said, “No need for the Domain. Just lead the way to this miracle dungeon. If there is a light ooze I want it alive.” He looked around at the mist, then walked toward a dip in the ground ahead, saying, “It’s here, yes?”

Erick stepped to his side, saying, “Yes.”

The Headmaster gestured to the ground, saying, “Pardon my impatience, but I really need to see this.”

Erick rushed forward and opened the entrance to the dungeon. Glows poured out into the mists all around them as Erick stepped down into the ground, leading the way down stone staircases, into the light. He was mostly silent on the way down, as the Headmaster stepped lightly behind him.

Down, down.

When they came to the bucket of sunglasses, Erick put one on himself and handed another to the Headmaster, but the white-haired not-man gently shook his head. He would not need such a thing to protect his eyes from the glares.

Erick began talking about what was up ahead. His speech this time was much more organized compared to what he had said to Poi. As they stepped on to the main dungeon floor, Erick pointed out the kaleidoscopic Permanent lightwards hanging on the ceiling, gently spinning under mana and air flows. Ophiel stayed on Erick’s shoulder the whole time, his eyes wide and mostly focused backward, at the Headmaster, as the Headmaster’s eyes crawled across every inch of the room, to linger on the residents of the dungeon.

Light slimes, like beach balls made of clear gelatin, rimmed in white and with a core of brightness, bounced around the prismatic room. They played in waterfalls and floated along, carried around the dungeon floor in shallow streams, plopping in and out of the water as they saw fit. The Headmaster saw everything, but he said nothing.

Erick continued to talk. His speech turned to the Scientific Method.

Privately, and admitted to no one but himself, Erick entertained the idea that maybe he shouldn’t knock the system that has thus far kept the civilizations of Veird out of the maws of monsters.

But then he went ahead and said what he was thinking, “But your system works well for keeping the monsters outside of the city walls.”

Erick went quiet after that, as they walked through ever shifting colored light, and more than a little bit of other, more esoteric electromagnetic waves. Ultraviolet, for sure, but also infrared; special [Ward]s didn’t go much beyond that. Erick had already tried for higher energy lightwards, like gamma, and gotten nothing, while longer wavelength rays, like radio, similarly didn’t happen.

Soon, the Headmaster and Erick both stood in the center of the room, near the main pool, while light slimes bumbled here and there in the water. There was more of them today than yesterday. Erick silently counted ten slimes, as he watched the Headmaster look around the room. The Headmaster also said nothing. Erick waited.

The Headmaster eventually said. “There might be some truth to this [Renew] being inside [Ward], though that would be an odd way to look at our common understanding of the spell. The common thinking is that [Ward] is similar to [Mend], and where [Mend] repairs something to what it was before, [Ward] similarly stamps itself on Reality, and repairs back to what it was at the time of casting.” He said, “This bears investigating.” He continued, “But for now, what I mainly see, is that you have managed to discover the secret of the Gemslicer’s darklights. By incorporating them into this dungeon, along with some similarly odd [Heat Ward]s, you have managed to create a light slime spawning zone.”

Erick said, “Well. Uh...”

“Oh?” The Headmaster glanced at Erick, saying, “You did not discover a secret, did you. You knew how to do this without them.”

Erick said nothing.

The Headmaster smirked. He continued, “Also, this ‘Scientific Method’…” The Headmaster smiled slightly. Then he frowned. He sighed, then said all at once, “We teach out of books because, as you say, it works. For the occasional few who wish to reach beyond the power taught in school, there is usually only failure and years of waiting for another chance to combine their magic again. Or relegation to the smaller tiers, where tests and experiments can be carried out once a day, or every ten, for decades.” He added, “I have known so many mages who if they only had a few more tries, they might have made something great. But the Script is set like it is to stop the abuses of magic.” He went silent.

Erick listened to the burbling water as he watched bobbling slimes play in the pond at his feet.

The Headmaster said, “There are a few gods that think you are a wizard.”

“I heard as much from several of them already.”

The Headmaster chuckled. He said, “The more I see, the more I realize that you are not a wizard. You’re barely an archmage.”

Erick joked, “That second title opens a lot of doors for me. I could do without the first one, though.”

The Headmaster smiled. He said, “To be a wizard, you would have to have the ability to bring into existence things which have no basis in reality.” He glanced to Ophiel, saying, “Even your [Familiar] follows a known method of creation.” He added, “Indeed, the only thing that sets you apart from others is that you are using the true physical properties of this universe in order to create new magic, and because of this, the Mana loves you.”

The Headmaster said, “Empathy used to be supremely important for any prospective mage. It was how you felt out Mana, it was how Mana came to understand you in return. Now? Now… Things are different, but not really that different at all.”

He folded his hands behind himself as he looked up into the light, then across the room. “I was three hundred when the Sundering took everything away and landed us in this place. We didn’t have Classes or the Script before then. We had to do it all by hand. Shaping the mana, imbuing it with idea and meaning, taking bits of ourselves and leaving them in all of our workings. But this did not mean that we were throwing around thoughtforms and emotionfeelings without regard to the world around us. Magic only worked when you knew what you were doing, because most people were not Wizards. Those that came before studied Reality extensively in order to become better mages. They practiced thoughtforms under specific schools of thought. They carved emotions out of the sky and measured the angle of reflection and refraction. They knew what they were doing, because imagination was only a small part of the mage process. It was a very large part, but it was still only a small part, if you can understand that. If you didn’t know what you were doing, you’d kill yourself sooner than you’d ever light a torch.

“My previous universe had been plumbed and divined. The pieces of it had been parted out into known quantities. Stone, Fire, Water, Air, Light and Dark; the constituent fragments of Reality. Those that could work these facts were called mages. Those that worked these facts well were called archmages. Those who sang their own mutated truths out of the mana were called Wizards. And then it all ended, and we ended up here.

