"Because you make them dangerous!" Flia pointed out, scowling. Imrys slapped another silencing barrier over her.

"Now, now," she said. "You musn't speak out. It's quite rude, really. As for you, Cale, I believe we agreed we would speak after cla—"

A tiny screaming noise began to emerge from Cale's pocket. Cale kept his expression as impassive as possible. "Sorry, ma'am," he said politely. "I think I need to go find my next class."

Imrys stared at him, her eyes narrowing slightly, and Cale responded by floating the artifact he was carrying with him over to her and dispelling the barrier. Imrys's expression lit up immediately as the clay sculpture clattered onto her desk.

"Bribing a professor may be considered bad form, you know," Imrys said, already stroking the artifact like it was some sort of cat. Cale very quickly made sure her apron was keeping her safe from it—it was—then decided to ignore it. "But I suppose I can make an exception. Shall I keep this safe for you to test your new spell on, dearie?"

Now that he thought about it, he had mentioned getting a new spell right after they'd been tossed into the labyrinth. "Yes, please," he said. "I got [Identify Artifact], and I get the impression you'd try to kill me if I tried to cast it without you being there to see the result."

"Goodness, dearie," Imrys said. "You musn't listen to all this slander, you know. I am a very upstanding professor."

"I know exactly zero upstanding individuals who describe themselves that way," Cale said.

Imrys chuckled, but said nothing further on the subject. "Very well, dearie. I will call for you after your classes are over. Run along now! I must find a safe place to store this..."

With that, she began to totter off, the clay sculpture carefully balanced in her arms. It looked ridiculous. Mostly because it was almost as large as she was. Flia, Leo, and Damien all seemed incredulous at the sight; Cale was the only one trying to hold back his snickering.

Once she was gone, Leo turned to him. "You timed this on purpose, didn't you?"

"I was very thirsty," Cale said cheerfully. "Don't worry, I'll let you question me on the Age of Distortion whenever you want. You have question privileges."

"Thank you... I think." Leo seemed unsure of how to take that.

Cale was busy pulling out his schedule scroll for his next class. "Oh, hey," he said. "Introduction to the Standard Array. I'm guessing none of you have that one?"

Flia grimaced. "We all failed out of it," she said. "The professor for Intro to Standard sucks. Imrys is insane, but that guy's an ass. I have a feeling he has it out for us Astrals."

"I guess I'll have to win him over with my charms," Cale said, sighing dramatically.

Flia stared at him. "I have no idea what to make of you, you know that?"

"Thank you."

"That wasn't a compliment." Flia rubbed a hand over her face. "Look, do you need help getting to class? Otherwise I'm going to look for an animal mage to get this shadeling bonded to me."

"Nah, I'll be fine," Cale said, lifting a hand in a half-wave and turning to leave. "I'll catch you guys later."

Awkwardly enough, since they all had to walk in the same direction anyway, he didn't actually leave until a minute or so later. And despite his claims, Leo had to catch him to stop him from tripping and falling off the bridge that led back out of their Artifacts class.

Twice.

Damien watched Cale leave, his mind still half-lingering on the speech the human had given to them back in the labyrinth. What was that? The way he'd sounded, the look in his eyes... For a moment, he looked like he carried with him the weight of worlds.

But the moment vanished as quickly as it arrived.

For most of his life, Damien was scared of only one thing: himself. That moment back there?

It was the first time in a long time he'd ever been scared of someone else.

Then a thought struck him, and he turned to the others. "Um," he said. Flia and Leo looked at him, and he tried to gather his thoughts. "Doesn't Professor Graystalk force his students to cast the Standard Array spells, even when it's supposed to be dangerous? Like with us Astrals?"

Flia blinked, then snorted. "Now I really wish I could be a fly on the wall," she said. "Wasn't there something about tests? What kind of test is Graystalk going to come up with for Cale?"

"I think we should make sure to be very far away from Intro to Standard." Leo glanced in the direction Cale had gone in. "Very, very far. Very far, if I wasn't being clear."

"Want to come to my room?" Damien suggested, then almost immediately kicked himself. It was the farthest possible place from the Forest Wing, where Intro to Standard was usually held, but he wasn't used to visitors. He hadn't even cleaned! Maybe he could take it back? Or maybe they had classes!

"Are you actually inviting us to your room?" Flia raised an eyebrow at him. "You're opening up. That means I can't say no."

"I won't have class for another two hours," Leo said.

Damien deflated. "Um," he said. "Alright. Let's... let's at least get lunch first, though."

"Fine," Flia said, grinning at him. "We'll get a big lunch to celebrate you opening up. I'll even pay for it."
