The only semblance of normalcy was when the ocean broke the bank of the beach and crashed into the crater that Erick had dug out of the sand. Erick, though, crashed into his body, all semblance of harmony with the universe gone, completely. And then he fell down into the churn of seawater below him, into the crater he had made. He was already unconscious.

- - - -

Poi watched as Erick did some stupid shit that no one would have considered as stupid until after the fact. Erick got hurt, again.

Don’t anyone worry, though! Poi was there to save the day, as always.

Anyway.

Poi pulled himself out of the sand, [Dispel]ed the effect in the sky, then found his rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] with a quick application of [Telekinesis]. And then he briefly despaired. The rod was almost dead. The light at the bottom of the silver object was barely visible; low charge.

Half a second had passed since the magic ended and Erick fell into a crater filled with water.

Poi almost wasted time cursing at how the rod had been at full charge not five minutes ago. He was already diving into the new crater in the beach and reaching for Erick with mental force.

He found Erick fast enough. The crater was five meters deep and a swirl of water and sand and a few rocks, but Erick was there, bleeding out, like always.

Poi did not let himself get angry. He just tugged Erick onto the beach and did a quick check. Ah. Yeah. Lungs full of water and blood. Not breathing. Not good. He tapped Erick with the rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] and the rod broke; the last charge used.

The magic took hold, though. Erick’s body began to repair, but the magic could only do so much while there was water in his lungs. Time to fix that.

Poi telekinetically hoisted Erick into the air, by his feet, then [Airshape]d a breeze into his open mouth. Bloody water came out, as well as the contents of a recent snack. Cheese and crackers, Poi remembered.

Erick gasped, coughed most heartily, and pure disorientation flooded out from him. Poi had to gird his own mind in order to stop from falling over himself, but he managed to set Erick back down before the man could get even more disoriented. Erick retched for a while, then calmed, then went unconscious again. This time, he breathed just fine.

Poi avoided the sick on the sand and sat down beside Erick.

Barely ten seconds had passed since Erick had finished his magics and gone under the waves. It was good that Poi was already sitting down, because he would have passed out otherwise. That was too much excitement. When he took this assignment, he was hoping to guard an old man who only wanted to grow some vegetables. Ahhh. Oh well. Plans change.

He looked to Erick.

Erick breathed well enough. Poi threw a [Cleanse] over the two of them, turning saltwater into normal water, and vomit and blood into thick air. Erick began to breathe better; calmer.

Ophiels fluttered overhead, watching the whole thing happen.

Poi waved at Ophiel, “Think you can make us some housing for the day? They planned on leaving us here, so we might as well get comfortable.”

Ophiel responded by turning small as they pranced up to Erick. Some landed on his chest. One of them threw another [Cleanse] over everyone, which did nothing for anyone.

Poi asked them, “Are you sapient yet? Sentient?”

Ophiel twittered in concerned and unsure violins and guitars.

Poi sighed. “Not sapient yet.”

An Ophiel landed on Poi’s shoulder and threw a [Cleanse] on him.

Poi laughed. He grinned as he looked to Ophiel. Then he turned his attention back toward Erick, and then the ocean. The waves lapped against the shore. The sun shone down. The wind blew.

And Poi waited.

If he hung his head and vented about Erick almost killing himself, again, at least no one was around to hear him. Ophiel didn’t count. Not yet, anyway.

- - - -

A [Scry] orb that did not belong to Yggdrasil appeared in the air above Poi. He hadn’t moved much except to make himself and Erick’s sleeping form a bit more comfortable on the beach. The [Scry] orb went to Erick, watched him for a few seconds, then turned toward Poi.

Poi purposefully sighed in the direction of everything that the orb was and who it belonged to.

The orb vanished.

Ten seconds later, a purple [Gate] opened twenty meters away.

Teressa and Jane stood on the other side, looking through the purple hole in reality, trying to comprehend what they were seeing. Poi got an impression from them fast enough. They had both just come back from killing monsters in the Forest, and were still armed for such occasions.

They both raced through the [Gate].

Both of them had been lied to about some monster attack and that Erick was unconscious and a whole slew of smaller, perfectly crafted lies, except for one. Rock and Obsidia had ‘needed to get Tenebrae out of there as soon as possible’. The old archmage had been exposed to Erick’s new magics, and while he wasn’t truly injured, they had not wanted to take any chances.

Their whole ploy, taken as a whole, was easily seen through, but some of the Senior Rockys carried some of the Mind Magic within them that Tenebrae had collected over his long life. They had used that magic against Jane and Teressa, and thus, here was Jane, and right behind her, Teressa. It was a violation, but whatever. Tenebrae was practically untouchable, and this ‘violation’ wasn’t something to get mad over.

The [Gate] closed behind Jane and Teressa.

Jane raced for her father and slapped him with a handful of [Greater Treat Wounds]. Erick gasped, as even more healing flowed into him, but he did not wake. Only Teressa had noticed that the [Gate] had shut behind them.

Before Jane could get even more worried—

Poi spoke, “Erick is fine! But keep healing him, Jane. As you can see, Ophiel is still here. Erick is still alive. There is no lasting damage. There is no monster. You were lied to about a lot.”

Teressa was the first to understand Poi’s words; it only took a bit of mana sense to confirm the world around her, and to see what had just happened with a manual use of [Witness]. She discarded the helmet to her armor and wore her displeasure openly. She was now about 70% mad that Tenebrae had tried shit, and an assorted other percentage of various other feelings, most of which centered around concern for Erick’s wellbeing, and disappointment at the looming reality that they would not be further exploring the Green Labyrinth. Poi would have to shift most of her anger with a few choice words, because he highly doubted that this was the last they had seen of Tenebrae, or the ‘Green Labyrinth’, which was not its real name. Further anger would be disruptive to that eventual future.

And speaking of anger...

Jane stared at her father, and then at Poi. She went from raging warrior, to scared little girl in the blink of an eye, and then she swung back toward some halfway point that would probably swing again soon enough. And… Yup. There’s the swing. All of Jane’s emotions pointed in one direction: Anger at Tenebrae. Poi would have to shift her rage, too.

“Lied—” Jane’s eyebrows danced as her words stuck in her throat. She calmed, for a certain definition of ‘calm’. Rage became cold, and calculating. She said, “There was no monster that ‘came out of the ocean because he was making magic’. Did Tenebrae knock him out and toss him here? Why? To—”

Poi stood up, and tried to discourage any misunderstanding. “They did not injure your father. He injured himself making magic. What has happened to us is that the Senior Rockys obtained Arbor Redarrow’s full prognostication from Erick himself, and with that, they managed to convince their father to abandon his current quest for [Gate], and to shove Erick onto the next step of his Worldly Path—”

Far down the beach, a purple [Gate] spawned and spat out a collection of luggage, and then closed.

Ah. Good. Poi had hoped that they wouldn’t have everything stolen from them. How much had Tenebrae returned? Probably none of the magic books.

Poi continued, “… They conspired to shove Erick out of Tenebrae’s life and onto the next part of Erick’s Worldly Path. Their hope is that when Erick finally figures out [Gate] that he will come back and teach Tenebrae.” Poi stressed, “Erick was here, and he was making magic, and Tenebrae had high hopes that he would be able to witness Erick creating his four new sound spells, but even witnessing him create two of his four new spells was too much for the old archmage.” Poi said, “Rock and the others finally convinced Tenebrae to accept being humbled, instead of accepting the other option, which was death.” He spread his arms down and around, as he said, “And so, we are here.”

Jane went through a dozen emotions. She settled on resigned anger.

Teressa discarded her anger. She changed the subject, asking, “Where is here?”

“Erick currently thinks we’re in the Northern Arc of Archipelago Nergal, and the sun is setting on the horizon, but that was a lie.” Poi said, “We’re actually in the Southern Islands of Nelboor, a few thousand kilometers from the mainland, and that sun is rising.”

Jane frowned, looking down at her father. “And he didn’t see through that lie? You didn’t tell him?” She narrowed her eyes, and sent, ‘Testing. Message for Poi.’

‘Yes. Hello, Jane. Good use of proper protocol to check the validity of the people around you. And of course I didn’t tell him. I am honor bound to not use the knowledge that I have gained through mental means either against or for anyone.’

Teressa didn’t need confirmation. She had [Witness] to see it all, almost first hand. Jane didn’t check on Poi’s claim until she was sure her father was safe, though, and that was a breach of protocol. Upon seeing him next to her father, she should have probed him right away, but… Whatever. Poi let that slide, for now.

Teressa said, “Nelboor is a shit continent.”

Poi nodded, saying, “As for why Erick did not see through Tenebrae’s lies: Your father had his doubts, but he prefers to see the good in people, and I’m sure that if he were awake, he would not care that they shoved him further along his Path.” Poi shook his head. “But enough of that. We are in the lands of eternal war and I am not as constrained when we are in danger. Erick is unconscious, and healthy, but we can’t [Teleport] the unconscious, and he will likely be unconscious for a while longer. He did a lot of magic. I don’t think that there will be much actual trouble in the near future, for that [Cascade Imaging] back there shows all nearby people in 500 kilometers, and it’s only showing us four. So now that we all understand the situation, let us work to minimize our chances of death.” He said, “Jane, look after your father. Heal him like you are already doing. Teressa. How does Erick look to you?”

Teressa had already checked him out with her various Sight spells, but Jane didn’t know what Teressa knew yet, and Poi wanted everyone on the same track.

Teressa said, “Soul damage. Minor compared to the damage from Shadow’s Feast. Already healing, too. Blood damage is healing. With that Immunity to Health Exhaustion and a younger body, he shouldn’t have any healing complications. He’s just exhausted. Or something. He’ll wake soon enough. If not, we have a difficult journey ahead of us, to get back to civilization.”

Jane tapped her father with another cast of [Greater Treat Wounds] as she looked down at him, worried.

Poi declared. “Teressa. You and I are on shelter-building. Everyone keep an eye on the Imaging. If anyone shows, we will erase the Imaging with a [Dispel] and we will make new plans based on whatever shows.”

Jane said, “Okay,” as she picked up her father on a bed of shadows.

Teressa pointed at the supplies down the beach, saying, “I’ll get those.”

Poi said, “I’ll start on the shelter.”

They got to work.

- - - -

Erick woke to the smell of barbecue and the twittering of Ophiel, and then he blinked. He had half a thought and then his world became vibrating pain. Light spiked his eyes. He jolted out of bed, reflexively, out of control, and disgorged watery bile as roiling, head-splitting pain shocked through all of him.

Jane was suddenly there, at his side, touching him with a glowing blue hand and speaking in muted sounds. Erick puked again, but nothing came up. Ophiels sang, as though underwater. Everything sounded as though it was unde—

His hearing came back with an inner-ear pop.

The world stopped shifting under his hands and knees. He breathed. He puked some blood.

And then he felt better.

But darkness came on, anyway.

- - - -

Erick woke to quiet words spoken on the other side of the room.

Jane slapped down a card on a conjured table, followed fast by Teressa, and then Poi. Poi took the pile and that floor of the Wizard’s Tower.

Jane frowned. “I’m starting to think mind reading is a better way to cheat than shadow spying.”

“Wizard’s towers is a game of skill more than luck.” Poi smiled as he said, “So take your loss and slap down another warrior so I can steal that floor, too.”

Teressa set down her cards. “He’s awake.”

Jane was suddenly beside Erick, having slipped through the shadows to be there. Deep worry filled her eyes, and then she softened. She breathed. She touched his arm. “Hey there, dad. Feeling better this time?”

“A lot—” He sat up and the world swam, but then the world calmed. He had some messages, but he ignored those for right now. He breathed. He said, “I feel a lot better.”

They were inside a stone building that was not the guesthouse at Tenebrae’s Castle, for it was only one story tall, and the windows showed a beach just outside. They were still at the beach? Either a lot of time had passed, or not much at all, for the sun shone outside. Erick guessed that a lot of time had passed, because Tenebrae had vanished with Rock and Obsidia when he was halfway through making his new magic, but they didn’t come back. How long had he been out? A day? It had to be some length of time because the others had conjured furniture and were playing card games.

Erick asked, “Is Tenebrae okay?”

“He’s fine.” Jane’s voice sounded more hurt than angry, as she said, “He abandoned us, but that’s Tenebrae for you.”

“… Ah.” Erick understood. “I see.”

“Yup,” Poi said.

Erick sighed. “I was hoping he could see all the spells I made. They weren’t supposed to be that… powerful.”

“And then they were,” Poi said.

Teressa said, “I saw the whole thing through [Witness]. That was some strong magic. You were floating without a flight spell. Super Large Area, too.”

Jane asked, “The first one negates the other three, right? That’s what you planned on.”

