“Bah!” Tenebrae felt a tension inside of his chest, so he relaxed. He breathed. He said, “I know. I’m not going into the Green Labyrinth ever again. But…” He smiled wide and looked to his children, and to his oldest friend and the best cook in the world. “I don’t have to go in there ever again. Erick will figure it out. And if he doesn’t?” Tenebrae laughed. “I’ll throw him at the Dragons, and he and I can both get [Gate] that way. Erick is a Wizard.”

Rock, Slate, and Obsidia each startled in their own way.

Palodia stared down at Tenebrae with focused eyes. “Have you any proof?”

“I don’t.” Tenebrae said, “I saw no mana come from him. I can prove nothing. But I know. Palodia. I know he is a Wizard.”

Palodia leaned back, a slight frown on her lips. “If there’s no proof, then he’s not a Wizard.”

“Rock.” Tenebrae asked, “What did you see out there? Obsidia?”

Rock frowned.

Obsidia said, “What I saw was that you failed to be healthy enough to witness the entire spectacle, and that my barrier did nothing.”

Tenebrae sighed, with a smile. “All true. It was a status-effect. Not direct damage. An oddity that somehow got through your barrier, perhaps. It matters not. What matters is that Erick is a Wizard.” With great effort, Tenebrae lifted his hand and held it out, palm up. “Give me his notes.”

Rock stared down at the upturned palm. “No. You can barely lift that arm.”

Tenebrae didn’t fight. Instead, he dropped his arm, saying, “Fine. I have time. We took everything of his, did we not? Is the Estate moving yet?”

“We took his notes but gave back everything else. We’re already headed back to Wyrmridge.” With obvious distress, Rock said, “We’ll be there in a few days, and then Slate, Obsidia, and I will depart. You should be better by then and I am sure you don’t want us here.”

“No.” Tenebrae said, “Don’t leave. Stay. You already moved back in, so make it more permanent.”

Tenebrae felt lighter after saying those words. He was never able to say those words before, but he suddenly found himself able to speak the desire he had buried for so long. It was a stupid system they had created all on their own; every new not-Rocky rushing away as soon as they could. They had thought he wanted them gone. He used to want them gone, this much is true. But no longer.

As the words he had spoken settled into the room, everything felt right for the first time in a long time.

Rock, Obsidia, and Slate, each startled in their own way, again.

Slate smiled first, and said, “We will stay.”

“Yes!” More softly, Obsidia repeated, “Yes. We will stay.”

“Of course, father,” Rock said.

“Good.” Tenebrae felt lethargy claim his excess energy. He had glimpsed new magic, and he wanted to do everything, but he couldn’t; not right yet. And so, he closed his eyes again, saying, “I feel like sleeping again, so go away, but not too far.” He remembered something. He opened his eyes, and put a little heat in his words, as he said, “Ophelia needs to write me an apology! Two pages. I won’t ever see her again until she does.”

That was a lie. He’d see her if she showed, even without the apology.

Obsidia chuckled, while Rock and Slate smiled.

Almost timidly, Palodia whispered to the other three, “Is Erick a Wizard?”

Already drifting off to sleep, but still able to hear and respond, Tenebrae said, “Probably, Palodia. Probably.”
