Erick mentally flipped through his latest blue boxes, reading them as he went. “… Yeah. It negates... Er. No. It also weakens, uh, other magics? Huh. That one turned out weird.”

Normalize 1, instant, super large area, 250 mana

<Empower normal physical functionality throughout the physical world, creating a myriad of individual effects. Directly weaken some forms of magic.> Lasts 10 minutes.

Exp: 0/100

Harmonize 1, instant, super large area, 250 mana

<Shift the physical into individualized order.> Lasts 10 minutes.

Exp: 0/100

Amplify 1, instant, super large area, 250 mana

<Fill the physical with rising power, enabling a myriad of possible physical effects.> Lasts 10 minutes.

Exp: 0/100

Discord 1, instant, super large area, 250 mana

<Shift the physical into discordant chaos.> Lasts 10 minutes.

Exp: 0/100

To Erick,

That was a lot of magic, and all at once, too. Good job!

+12 points to you, as is appropriate.

All of your new spells are alpha spells with those little alligator teeth, as you have called them, because what they do is not what is written, and they are supposed to be basic tier spells. I’ll figure out the proper wording after I see you use them for a while.

As for the spells themselves:

My first instinct was to deny them from the Open Script and make them Particle Mage only, for I can see what they can do, as I am sure you can, too. But denying this new branch of magic would be wrong. Unless anything truly breaking happens, your new spells will be absorbed into the Open Script in a year and a day, like normal, but only Normalize, and likely a lesser version of it; Medium size, perhaps. People will have to study and understand that one in order to get the others, like people have to do for the Worldly Path Quest, from [Blink], to [Teleport], and then all the rest.

Thanks for your hard work!

-Rozeta

As always, this message will delete after it is read and understood. Thanks again!

Erick watched as Rozeta’s words vanished, then he read over his new spells again. He said, “These are going to be confusing for a lot of people.” He handed them out to his daughter and his people, saying, “What do you think?”

Poi dashed the boxes away, saying, “Now that you’re awake, I think we need to talk about where we are, and what we’re doing next.”

Erick blinked. “… Right. That is a good point. Is Tenebrae actually okay? I considered that we would be abandoned, but I didn’t think… Well. I don’t know what I was thinking.”

Jane was reading the spell boxes, but she looked to Erick, and sighed. Teressa grunted disapproval at further mention of Tenebrae.

Poi said, “Tenebrae will eventually be fine. He’s not getting near us again, though.”

Erick sighed. “Yeah. Probably for the best. Good for him for deciding to be with his kids instead of denying their requests. I was hoping that he’d pick that option. Where is ‘here’, though?” He looked to the window. “How long was I out? It’s already the afternoon?”

“You’ve only been asleep for a few hours,” Jane said.

Poi explained everything.

Erick listened.

And then he went, “Huh. I noticed the lies, but I did not notice that the sun was rising, instead of setting. I feel like I should have noticed that.”

Jane snorted.

Erick clapped once, then rolled himself out of bed and stood up, saying, “So! We’re in Nelboor! And close to the Highlands? I think I know our next step!”

Teressa laughed, then said, “Let’s slow that [Teleport], Boss. Nelboor ain’t like any other continent. Did you read about this place?”

Erick sat back down on his conjured bed. “Yeah, I read about it. Lotta war, all the time.”

Jane said, “A lot less monsters.”

“A point in its favor.” Teressa said, “But there’s a reason for that.”

Poi said, “There are roving bands of mercenaries that call themselves soldiers or clans, depending on how they operate. They’re great at keeping the monsters mostly dead, but they tend to threaten the same against everyone else they meet who doesn’t fly their colors. You might as well call them privateers.”

“Or bandits,” Teressa added.

“Yes, but we won’t antagonize them by calling them that, will we?” Poi asked.

Teressa happily raised her hands and mocked, “I surrender, sir! Please take only all of my money and possessions.”

Jane frowned. “Please tell me it’s not going to be that bad.”

“It might be!” Teressa said. “I’ve heard stories about this continent.”

“So.” Poi asked, “Are the four of us going to pretend to be a clan? Or soldiers? Either choice will be difficult. With a fake clan-name, other clans we find will challenge us for duels, and if we call ourselves a known clan name, we might have to fight for our lives, or we might find unexpected friends that will hate us even more if they find out we lied. If we pretend at being soldiers, then… That’s complicated. We probably shouldn’t do that. If we pretend to be adventurers, we will likely be press ganged by armies, or be toyed with by clans, or maybe even killed if we’re found outside of towns, and we will be found outside of town, because there are no inns for adventurers. Adventurers are violently discouraged from being here, but mostly it's just beating and robbing. But, we could pretend to be adventurers, anyway. It would be the closest to the truth, and thus easiest to fake.” Poi said, “But, more importantly, didn’t you want to go incognito, now, Erick? That’s gonna dictate how we do everything from here on out.”

Erick smiled wide. “Yes! I want to go incognito.” He briefly thought of the clothes he had left behind in Spur, along with everything else he had put together in order to be incognito, and decided that he could always get more, or make more himself. “How do we buy stuff if they don’t like adventurers? Can we just be people on a world tour? Or sightseeing? A fourth option?”

Teressa said, “This place isn’t like Spur, or Treehome, or Oceanside. Every city is owned by a clan or an army. Or… Maybe it’s the other way around. Anyway: You have to be approved to enter cities, and adventurers are automatically un-approved, far as I heard. Even the Mage Guild isn’t appreciated, but they are tolerated, if only to empower the massive anti-Spatial magic spells that blanket every city. If we go as unaligned tourists then we will get targeted and then attacked. No matter how we do this, we’re going to have trouble.” She smiled as she said, “We were not prepared for this leg of the trip.”

Erick chuckled. “Do you want to beat people up?”

“I would not be against such outcomes,” Teressa said. “But the problems I see happening is that these people are going to take it too far, and I don’t think you would like that. I can keep my anger in check.” She looked to Jane. “Can you? This won’t be like those Celebration Hunt duels.”

Jane frowned a little at Teressa, and asked, “All we’re doing is going to the Songli Highlands, though?” She said, “I admit, I did not read up on them too much, but I did read that the Highlands were neutral ground. We’re just going to lightstep in there, right? Shouldn’t require too many lies or fights.”

Teressa went, “Ehhh.”

Poi raised an uncertain eyebrow.

Erick had read up on the Highlands, though. He said, “The Songli Highlands are a bunch of villages and a few major cities located to the west of the Wanzhi river. They try to teach anyone who shows aptitude for Song Magic, but they only allow those who become part of the clan to actually learn their major secrets. I’ve heard that they’re peaceful in their interior, and that they’ll trade with anyone, but they’re ruthless to those who try to take what’s theirs.” He looked to Teressa and Poi, and said, “And I heard that they liked tourists. We’re just going to have to stay in the designated parts of the towns and such.”

Teressa shrugged. “You might be right. It is a large continent.”

Poi said, “I did [Blink] past a lot of detail, this is true. Nelboor is almost twice the size of Glaquin, and home to as many different cultures as there are Clans and Armies, and there are a lot. But, broadly, we are going to have problems in Nelboor that we could solve now with a bit of preparation.”

Erick nodded, “Of course. I’m going to prepare by leveling these new spells I just made, and… Did I smell barbecue before? Is there any left?”

Teressa said, “Yup! Poi cooks a good fish.”

“Yeah.” Jane walked over to a stone box set against the wall and opened it, saying, “I did not expect Poi to be able to cook out here just as good as he could cook at home.” She took out a stone tray of fillets, smothered in sauce. “This guy just walked through the dunes and found some spicy weed growing in the sand and turned it into a sauce.”

Erick’s mouth began to water as he caught the scent of the cooked fish.

Poi practically beamed. “Thank you, Jane.” He added, “Sweetgrass grows wild almost everywhere that people have fished the ocean. Not so much in inhabited places, but everywhere else. It spreads like dune grass and almost looks the same, but it has a slight orange tint. Anyone can do what I did.”

Jane conjured a table in front of her father and handed over dinner, which was actually more like lunch according to the sun’s position outside. Erick cast a [Heat Ward] on the plate. It started to sizzle, slowly, but it would take a minute to heat up. He breathed in the smell. It was full of umami with a hint of sugar.

“How did you make the sauce?” Erick asked.

Poi said, “Dry and pound sweet grass to a powder in a stone bowl, then mix it with [Cleanse]d ocean water and bring to a boil in that same bowl. Easy as can be.”

“Convenient!” Erick said, “Someone made that a long time ago, I guess?”

“Yeah, but no one knows who.” Poi said, “So about our plans and the dangers ahead…”

Erick dismissed the [Heat Ward] and conjured a fork, as he said, “Love to hear about it.”

Poi nodded, then spoke in detail about clans and armies and expectations of the pervasive tribe-like culture of Nelboor, but most of it was generalizations. Most of it likely wouldn’t happen, but it was better to be prepared than not. Teressa added her own knowledge to the talk, while Jane asked questions. Erick mostly listened and ate dinner. The fish was delicious.

While they were talking, he experimented with his new spells through an Ophiel hovering a good ten kilometers out to sea. Erick got a good idea of what they all did, and then he started power leveling them, dumping mana into [Normalize], [Harmonize], [Amplify], and [Discord] until they all became level 10.

Erick fully came back to the conversation when Poi dropped a minor bomb.

Poi said, “And the Quiet War is in full effect in this land, so you two, Erick and Jane, will likely get some challenges, but they should all be open and honest challenges as I have already discussed. We’ll have to watch for assassinations at night, especially if we don’t use [Prismatic Ward], but I think we should use [Prismatic Ward], and if someone finds out who Erick is, we’ll deal with it.”

Jane frowned. Erick grumbled.

Teressa’s eyes brightened as she happily said, “I could take those challenges for you! That would be fun.”

Poi said, “That would be bad. Don’t forget that code of honor I talked about.”

Erick said, “Eh. We’ll be fine.”

Jane said, “I’d be happy to slap down an uppity young master.”

“A ‘young master’?” Erick said, side-eyeing his daughter.

Poi sighed.

“Oh, Poi!” Erick said, “We’ll be fine! The Songli Highlands are supposed to be friendly!”

Poi said, “None of this is going to go how you think it will go. The Songli Highlands are only friendly because they have the power to be friendly; we will have to submit to certain measures if we want in any of the towns. If we break those measures, then they will go after us like they would any other lawbreakers. Maybe even more so.”

“Eh! The more you tell me, the less worried I am.” Teressa said, “All anyone says about Glaquin is that we’re all a bunch of adventurers who knife each other in the back and sell our souls to Shades, but I know that isn’t true.”

Jane laughed. “Some people do sell their souls to the Shades, though! Don’t forget about Bulgan.”

Erick said, “It’ll be fiiiiine!”

Jane asked, “But what are we going to call ourselves?”

And so began a debate, with much arguing, and laughter, and jokes. Even Poi started to smile and get into it when Jane started throwing out names like ‘Dragon Killers’ and ‘Demon Hunters’, which would surely draw the exact wrong kind of attention. Poi suggested ‘World Conquerors’ and Erick groaned.

Jane suggested, “Oh oh! Treehuggers. Because of Yggdrasil.”

Teressa laughed loud while Poi gave a sensible chuckle.

Erick helpfully supplied, “I heard that ‘treehugger’ refers to someone who fucks trees. Or rather, treants. Or possibly trees that they have [Treeshape]d. I am unsure.”

Teressa laughed louder.

Jane said, “So no to the ‘Treehugger’, then.” More laughter. Jane added, “I’m not hearing ‘no’!”

- - - -

Tenebrae opened his eyes. He reclined in his bed, his arms and legs feeling like antirhine weights, but a fire of pure magic blossomed in his chest. A raging hope. An audacious series of thoughts tangled in his mind, clashing with each other like a thousand conflicting [Lightning]s. Those strange thoughts had woken him.

Something fell to the stone floor. He turned his head. Palodia had gotten up from her chair and dropped her book; she was already walking toward him. Rushing toward him, really. Asking if he was okay.

He said he was fine. She nagged at him again and again, and he said that he was fine, again and again, but his heart and his mind wasn’t really focused on her, anyway. He had woken up under his own power, this time, and then he remembered.

The world; harmonized. Reality made subjective. His own heart beating in time to Poi’s and Erick’s, while the waves crashed in perfect sync with each other.

He laughed.

Erick had called out to the world with his stupid little song, and the world responded. That idiot-savant managed to do it again.

Tenebrae laughed.

“Oh gods, he’s hysterical. A potion reaction?” Palodia called out, “Obsidia! Rock! Slate!”

The others rushed up the stairs, their stone feet smacking stone like the tumbling of several boulders. Bah! His children were too damn loud.

Tenebrae decided to say as much, “Too damn loud. I’m fine. I’m awake. I’m better.”

Rock instantly declared, “No you are not! We agreed—”

