There were multiple uses for resonances, Erick thought, as he walked across the courtyard of the Castle, hurrying to get back into his guest room and distract himself from watching Tenebrae almost die.

Anyway. Resonances.

There were positive feedback loops, which would be a small physicality that built damage over time. There was the idea of making two spaces harmonically identical, which was Erick’s current guess at one of the major pieces of the [Gate] puzzle. And then there was the idea of denying the harmful sound magics of others, or, what was more likely, was denying the harmful side effects of his own harmonic magics.

Magic itself also had harmonies. Many of Erick’s experiences with creating spells was based upon the idea of discarding disruptive aspects and heightening positive aspects; to refine mana until it was as close to perfectly aligned with other parts of itself and with Erick’s own intent, thus resulting in a better spell.

But working with actual, physical sound was different than working with magical ‘sound’. Magical ‘sound’ certainly had a soul-aspect to it that you could only hear through non-physical means. Particle Sound Magic would have to be solely based on wavelength, amplitude, and medium; on mana affecting the material world. All of these ideas were largely unexplored by Erick, though, and from Tenebrae’s disregard for ‘Sound Magic’, he suspected that they were largely unexplored by everyone else on Veird, too. Except for maybe one people, in one particular place.

The Songstresses of the Songli Highlands in Nelboor probably knew much of what Erick was already thinking about… Or maybe they didn’t? Maybe they hoarded their knowledge, too. Whatever the case, that leg of this Worldly Path was yet to come, and right now, he was pretty sure that there were three categories to resonance.

Positive, neutral, and negative.

To make any of these spells, he would need to be able to target the physical resonances of a target.

Erick ran into his first problem.

Targeting the ‘resonance of an X’ was a non-starter. People, plants, rocks— Okay, maybe not all rocks. Anyway. All of those were systems with millions of smaller parts that all resonated differently. It was only when most of an object was in harmony that—

Ah. There’s the solution, and the hurdle to overcome; putting a target into a single resonance state. That was one of the spells; the starter one, perhaps.

Or maybe not?

That idea knocked loose a few others that Erick had forgotten about, and that’s when his ideas finally began to crystallize.

Back on Earth, an object was said to have a number of ‘normal vibrational modes’ intrinsic to itself, as a matter of its molecular makeup and a whole lot of other factors, and in a bastardization of the term ‘superposition’, objects as wholes could be said to vibrate in a superposition of all of these modes at the same time. Harmonizing those molecular ‘normal modes’ down to one, which could then be excited or diminished or whatever, would be the responsibility of the magic that Erick was going to make, and would thus allow two spaces, or any number of spaces, to actually be harmonically the same.

This was just a better explained version of what Erick was trying to do with [Gate].

It was probably a good thing that Erick wasn’t out there, right now, singing a song to make new magic for Tenebrae to witness; his ideas were there, but the depth of his ideas could use some work. So Erick took out an empty notebook and started writing, trying to see the problem from multiple angles and to understand exactly what he wanted. Magic could fill in a lot of gaps, but Erick needed to get as close to the goal as he could, and the closer he got, the better the end result.

Attuning a collection of objects to one harmony didn’t seem like it would be a problem, but attuning a person to themselves might be a problem, and [Gate] needed to attune the people that went through it, right? And that meant getting through Health to affect the person shielded by that Health—

Or. No.

This was an ‘outside-in’ problem. Magic worked from the outside toward the inside, so attuning a person might not actually be all that difficult. It wouldn’t be a damaging spell, anyway. Actual damage would be blocked by Health, but status effects? Not so much. Erick’s new spells would likely create a brand new status effect, called ‘Harmonized’. Yeah. That would work, wouldn’t it?

Erick probably didn’t need to consider souls or Health when making this new magic. This was physical magic, after all.

Anywho! Work work.

Erick wrote, thought, made dinner for himself and his family when Jane and Teressa got back, and then worked some more. He went to bed for a few hours, which was enough, honestly, and then he got up and continued to write in his notebook. He wrote by wardlight, in the courtyard, while the stars glittered overhead, Rockys and the occasional Senior walked through, and everyone else slept.

He had never used a notebook before, because he never wrote down any ideas, because he never wanted any of his ideas to be stolen and used by the wrong people. But his current series of ideas were likely not a big deal, because there were only four spells here, and one of them would automatically negate the other three; three to turn a targeted system into an actual system, and one more.

Positive, harmonized, negative, and ‘restore natural superpositions’.

[Restore All Normal Modes] would be the first spell to make. Whereas the first three would empower, solidify, or weaken vibrational effects, the last one would be able to negate these adjustments. Since Erick wanted these spells to go into the Open Script, Erick felt good about himself for first making the counterspell to this entire new branch of magic. Well. Mostly new. He had already made one ‘sound magic’ spell already.

His spell, [Stillness].

That spell took all the minor physical effects in a Super Large Area, read: loud noises, and turned them to light. [Stillness] was outside of this current 4 part theory, though. That would be the fifth part; the shifting of sound into some other element.

Maybe he could try reversing that spell, in order to turn light into vibrations. He already had a light Domain, and there was probably something interesting lurking in a combination of all five of these spells...

The sun rose. Erick made breakfast, ate with his people, then went back to work on his ‘Sound Magic’.

Tenebrae did not wake under his own power. Palodia said that he was getting better, but he was not good enough to see any new magics.

Erick went back to his ideas and continued to refine them. When they were good enough, he sat back in a reclining [Scry] chair, flickered on his mana sense to become one with the mana, and then took a small step outside of the current timestream as he sent off a hundred mana to the God of Death and Time. He had some questions of new Particle Magic, and Phagar had the answers.

The world crystallized into stained-glass fractures. Divine fire filled the mana.

A god in the shape of Erick stepped out of that glass and pulled up a chair out of the ether, saying, “Hey, Erick. I’m not actually the God of Death, you know. That’s just what people think.”

Erick happily said, “And I am one of those people, it seems.”

Not-Erick grinned, saying, “What kinda magic are you making today?”

“Maybe not today, but soon enough.”

Erick laid out his ideas, while Phagar listened.

Erick ended with, “Broad strokes: Positive, Neutral, Negative, and Normalize. Four new spells based on a Particle understanding of the world, but I want them to be open to everyone, so I won’t make them at full power. They should be at the same level of power as [Stillness].”

Phagar said, “Sounds like you have a good plan. It’ll work, too. But just so you know, the magic that you are trying to make has already been made.”

Erick’s mind blanked, briefly. “… What!”

Phagar laughed, then said, “Song magic was made long ago at the dawn of the Script and then, with a century of stagnation and with the clarity that it would never be strong enough to be its own field of magic, ‘Song Magic’ was subsumed into Elemental Thunder; pruned into what it is today. Never improved upon beyond that, either, for no one had the skill or the understanding to do so, and everyone confused Sound and the natural actions of Force.” He got up from his chair and the stained-glass of the world turned back into fragmented Reality, as he cheerfully said, “So go ahead. Rewrite the book on Sound Magic. Good luck!”

Phagar’s divine fire vanished as Erick came back to himself.

Erick went back to working on his theories and his applications, though there wasn’t much more to do. He was mostly waiting for Tenebrae to get better. He didn’t know how long that delay would be, so...

Erick decided to take Phagar’s words to heart, and literally write a book on Sound Magic. Just a small one. It might not even be correct, if his spells didn’t come out exactly as he plotted. But he wrote down what he knew in the most concise manner possible, giving broad strokes first, and then refining those ideas down into something more manageable.

For the first time in his time on Veird, he missed having a computer. Writing by hand sucked!

Another day came and went.

Palodia was scheduled to cook again. Tenebrae was finally healthy enough to not need eyes on him 24 hours a day. They still kept eyes on him all the time, though, but he was getting better. Erick looked forward to Palodia’s cooking, but he had magic to make, so he sat in the courtyard, writing in his notebook. Hours passed.

Dinner was an hour away, and so was sunset. Erick wrote in the shadows, and he hoped that the shadows weren’t being too nosy, but they probably were.

The door to Tenebrae’s tower opened.

Erick looked up.

Tenebrae walked out of his tower under his own power. He did not walk fast, but he did not walk like the old man he was, either. Rock and Obsidia walked on either side of the old archmage. Erick stood up, and smiled.

“Hello there!” Erick called out.

“Yes yes. Hello hello. Pleasantries everywhere and all that shit.” Tenebrae’s voice was weak as he walked up to Erick, saying, “Time to prove that the squiggles in your notebook are real and not the delusions of an idiot-savant.”

“I’m glad you think enough of my squiggles to spy on me,” Erick said, with good cheer. “I was worried it was just Melemizargo out here.”

“Bah! Call not his name. Are you a dumbass? Oh wait. It’s you. Of course you are,” Tenebrae said, without any heat to his voice. He pointed at the notebook. “I want to see that in action.”

“I was just waiting on you! But before we do that.” Erick pulled a small box out of his pocket. He held it toward Tenebrae, saying, “Want some Stat gems?”

Tenebrae eyed the box, but he did not reach up to take them.

Erick could already see why, for an Ophiel turned on [Blood Sight] as soon as Tenebrae’s door opened. The man could barely hold himself together. His muscles looked atrophied. His heart pumped slow. He was drugged up right now, for sure, and with a bit of [Mana Sight], Erick saw that he was supporting himself with several magics. [Force Platform] derivatives, no doubt. Tenebrae was not walking under his own power.

Erick had overheard most of the inadequacies of healing magic over the last few days. [Greater Treat Wounds] was great to repair physical damage that could be repaired, and that did not have time to set in. [Regeneration] was great for bringing back lost limbs or body parts, or healing chronic damage. [Soul Healing] was a rare magic that adjusted the soul to better heal the body. [Restoration] was decent for healing age-related problems, but even that failed past a certain point.

For while healing did not accelerate aging, it could not decelerate aging, either.

The one solution he could have taken, he did not. Tenebrae could have gotten a new [Polymorph] form, and lived a whole new life. ‘Tenebrae’ would die, though, eventually. That ‘Familiar Form’ wouldn’t age if it wasn’t lived in, but eventually, death came for all living things.

And besides that, the ‘[Polymorph] Solution’ was abhorrent to every civilized nation in the world, and was not a viable option for those who still had their morals. For all of his bluster and power, Tenebrae was not the sort of person to take another’s form, even if it would save his life, even if he could take the form of someone who was already doomed to die, like any of the people headed for any executioner block in any city the world over.

Now that was a very loud conversation between Obsidia and everyone else. The black rock woman had argued that ‘all these bodies just lying around after executions the world over! Just take one! They’re not using them anymore!’. No one confronted her words, directly. Most people just went quiet when she started arguing her points. The only people inside the Castle that Obsidia did not talk to, to try to get them to convince the rest, was Erick and his people. Erick had no idea what he would say if Obsidia did try to talk to him about ‘the [Polymorph] Solution’.

Erick could not do anything for Tenebrae’s actual problem, but he could help in his own way, and thus, the gems.

Erick continued to hold the box toward Tenebrae, saying, “I know that Stats can’t really help, but they might be able to make you feel better. I know they made me feel a whole lot better. I should have offered them days ago, but… I know they won’t actually help you.”

Tenebrae took the small stone box. He could move his arms! Erick smiled.

Tenebrae thumbed open the box, revealing silver spheres nestled in fabric. He asked, “What kind are they?”

“All Stat.” Erick added, “Well. All of the four original Stats. If you want one of the New Stats—”

Rock stepped in, saying, “No. We have no idea what the new Stats do.”

Tenebrae softly said, “I can decide for myself, Rock. But you’re right. No experimenting with Stats, today.”

Rock scowled at Erick, then said to Tenebrae, “You shouldn’t even use those. Stat sickness would be just as bad as an unknown New Stat.”

“There’s no Stat sickness with true All Stat gems.” Erick said, “At the most, it feels like waking up in the morning, or something like that. Perfectly natural. But, you’re right. I don’t know how they’ll react to someone with health issu— You don’t have to use them if you don’t want. They’re each plus 10 to All Stats, and I made them all at the same time, so there shouldn’t be any resonance issues with attaching them to a single item, or splitting them up.”

