Lisa apologized several times; but when her mother got into this panic mode, there wasn't much anyone could do to take her out of it. She let her mother rant and rave for several minutes, then slowly started to drift over to the staircase. Her mother hadn't even noticed when Lisa got to the stairs and started walking up them as she continued to berate her daughter for being so stupid. Lisa made her escape from her mother's tirade and went to her room; but, she could still hear her mother talking. She shut the bedroom door and put the small bag she'd hidden behind her back, on the bed and sighed.

I can't believe I let Lily talk me into taking them. Lisa thought and pulled out a nice dark blue one piece bathing suit. She really liked this one because it was form-fitting and highlighted her legs with the high cuts on the sides, and the dark color completely hid her small chest from view. That one was for actual swimming, so she put it aside and took out the next one. It was a two piece, a nice light red color, and had the tapered padding in the top to give that push-up look to her chest. That one was for relaxing by the pool and for getting a nice tan.

Lisa took the last suit out of the bag, and her face flushed red as she looked at it. It wasn't quite a g-string bikini; but it was pretty close, and it was made of a thin fabric. It was also a solid yellow color and it managed to cover everything. The biggest selling point for it was that even though the fabric looked like it was a solid yellow, when it was wet it turned semi-opaque and almost see-through. That one was for private time between her and Ren in the Jacuzzi.

Her face burned as she blushed hard at the thought of Ren seeing her in such a thing. She still couldn't believe she had let Lily convince her that she needed all three bathing suits, when one could have been used for all three things.

“The one piece is great for swimming.” Lily had said at the time. “But you'd never get a good tan, and it sucks for lounging by the pool. Plus, you'd boil in it if you're in a Jacuzzi.”

Lisa had agreed that those were good reasons to get at least one more suit, and Lily had convinced her that the push-up one was the best for an all around swimsuit, as long as you didn't try to swim in it. It was meant for walking, lounging, tanning, and pretty much anything you could do in a swimsuit outside of the water. The see-through one was for Ren's eyes only, and Lily had nearly jumped for joy when Lisa had asked for one.

“He is gonna love it!” Lily had said and laughed a little crazily as she picked out the best suit for Lisa's body type. “You have to tell me about his reaction when you slam his eyeballs with this outfit!”

Lisa had just nodded and tried on several suits, then settled on the ones she took. The sales lady had flatly refused to give her a receipt when she took them to the counter.

“We know our products.” The sales lady had said demurely. “If there's any problem, bring them back and we'll either fix them or replace them.”

“I can only imagine how much they were.” Lisa said softly as she touched the silky fabric, then slipped the suits back into the bag and opened her closet and tucked the bag into the sleeve of one of her winter coats. It was already bulky and you couldn't tell there was anything inside; so, it was the perfect hiding place.

Lisa didn't even consider debating with herself about if she would go back to see him; only about when she could. She smiled as she changed out of her nice outfit and into jogging pants and a t-shirt, then picked up her VR headset.

********

Ren found himself in the white loading area, and looked around. “It's kind of strange that I'm...”

“Hi, handsome.” A woman's voice said from behind him.

“Elise!” Ren said and turned around, then gave her a hug. “Is it a set parameter that you always appear behind me?”

Elise chuckled. “It always works out that way, doesn't it?”

Ren smiled. “Seeing you again so soon is great; but, aren't you at work?”

“I am.” Elise said. “I just wanted to check up on you.”

Ren let her out of the hug. “I'm doing okay.” He said, then smiled. “Barbara's sister was by with the house papers for me to sign.”

“That's great!” Elise said. “How does it feel to own your own home?”

“Strangely satisfying.” Ren said and laughed. “I never imagined I'd own my own home.” He looked around at all the whiteness. “Can you make a step stool appear?”

“Of course.” Elise said. She typed up something on an invisible keyboard and a step stool appeared beside Ren.

“Thanks.” Ren said and put it in front of Elise, walked up the two steps, and was now at a more manageable height. He put his arms around her neck and kissed her. Elise wrapped her arms around him and kissed him back. A minute later, she broke the kiss.

“I could have knelt for you.” Elise smiled.

“And I could have asked for a bed.” Ren said, and she laughed.

“Good god, can you imagine?” Elise said. “What would my coworkers say?”

“I wish it was me?” Ren said and grinned, and she laughed again.

“Thank you for making me laugh.” Elise said. “I needed that.”

“I'm glad I could help.” Ren said and kept his arms wrapped around her neck. “Lisa stopped by today, too.”

“Already?” Elise said. “I thought she'd wait until the afternoon at least.”

“She showed up this morning and we hung out for a while.” Ren said.

“And?”

“I really like her.” Ren said.

“So, it wasn't just in the game, then.” Elise said. “That's kind of surprising.”

“It sure was.” Ren said and leaned in to put his lips by Elise's ear. “When we shared our first 'real' kiss, she reacted almost the same as you did.”

“She really does like you, then.” Elise said, because she understood what Ren meant. “Are you going to see her again?”

“Probably tomorrow or the next day, after I move.” Ren said.

“So soon?” Elise asked.

“I'm not planning on anything happening.” Ren said. “I don't think she is, either.”

“But it could.”

Ren nodded. “She hasn't had 'the talk' with Stella yet; but, I did give her a rundown of what's possible and what's not.”

“You're prepping her in case something does happen.” Elise said.

“I'd rather be safe than sorry.” Ren said.

Elise nodded. “I'm glad.” She said. “I want you to have me first, though.”

Ren leaned back and looked at her. “Are you sure? We've both been kind of putting this off for a while.”

Elise nodded. “I'll come by tonight.” She said. “We can head over to your place and break in your new bed.”

Ren smiled. “Nothing would please me more.”

“That better not be true.” Elise said and smiled wickedly. “I'm very good in bed.”

“I can't wait.” Ren said, and they kissed for several minutes. Something caught Elise's attention and she stopped kissing him.

“Damn, I have to go.” Elise said.

“Me, too.” Ren said and let her go. “I have some sleep to catch up on.” He stepped down off the stool and looked up at her. “Thanks for the quick visit.”

“Oh, right!” Elise said. “I forgot to tell you why I brought you here.”

“Then let me have it.” Ren said and smiled.

“Mr. Torren, and Max the head programmer, said they won't be giving you all the XP you were supposed to get.”

Ren nodded. “I finally got a chance to read the apology Mr. Torren sent. He didn't apologize for the attack, but for having my character build wrecked.”

Elise sighed and nodded. “He told me that was why he wasn't going to give you more levels and bonuses.”

“I understand.” Ren said.

“He said he was going to come up with something to make it up to you, but I don't know what it will be, or when you'll get it.” Elise said. “I have all the evidence of everything, so if what they come up with isn't to your liking, I'll leak about the error on the message boards and we'll see what happens.”

“Don't do that.” Ren said, and her eyes widened. “Even if they end up not giving me anything, please don't cause a scandal that could hurt the company.”

“But Ren...”

“Elise.” Ren walked back up the step stool and put his hands on the sides of her face. “If this leaks, they'll know it was either you or me that did it.” He said. “I know you're protective of me and want what's best for me...” He smiled. “...but please, don't get yourself fired or me banned from the game over this.”

“Ren...”

“I love you.” Ren said, and kissed her passionately. Elise got another notification to leave; but, she ignored it as her body reacted to his words and his forcefulness. She wrapped her arms around him and hugged him tightly as they kissed. A few moments later, Ren broke the kiss, much to her disappointment.

“You have to go.” Ren said, and Elise sighed.

“I do.” Elise said and let him go.

“I'll see you tonight.” Ren said. “Bye, Elise.”

Elise hit the button to send him into the game. “Bye, Ren.” She said and kissed him again, then he faded from the white loading area.
