Master Jevin held up his hand, palm toward the floor, and waggled it a bit. “Once again, that’s a bit of an oversimplification, but yes. I am comfortable saying that such is a large factor. It is a correctable factor, and that is precisely what we strive to do, but a person’s balance is very core to who they are, to who they see themselves to be. If I were to forcibly correct anyone, I might unlock their potential to advance while utterly, fundamentally altering who they are. That might only be monstrous, equivalent to mental manipulation of the deepest sort, and it might simply kill them, as their soul, spirit, and body no longer connect properly, even when balanced.” He held up one finger to forestall her. “Don’t forget that the soul is not fully within our realm. Even if it were, necromancy—the alteration or manipulation of the soul—is not something I either can or will do. Advancement in this life is not worth one’s soul.”

Tala grunted at that. “I can understand, I suppose. It’s similar to spoiling a child for life simply to make now easier.”

Rane huffed a laugh at that. “Except with eternal consequences, rather than just life-long.”

Master Jevin gave a tight-lipped smile. “Indeed.”

Tala paused for a long moment, regarding her husband. She then turned to look at Master Jevin. “How can we ensure greater compatibility between us? Better balance for our children?”

The man clicked his tongue. “If we knew that, there would be far, far greater numbers of advanced humans. We know that those who marry by fully free choice and are committed to one another have more ‘balance’ than others. Again, this is a gross oversimplification that I’m only even slightly comfortable with because you seem to have an understanding of some of the truth behind it.”

Tala waved him onward, and Rane nodded.

“Very well. Beyond that? Generally speaking, the healthier a child is, the better balanced they are. The more thoughtful, the more precocious, the kinder. Each of these things seems to influence results in one way or another. You know some of this already. Whatever traits you look for in those whom you think can achieve Bound advancement? Those are what I’m talking about. That is the base level ‘balance’ required before anything else.”

Rane sighed. “I see. But nothing actionable for our Reforgings?”

“I’m afraid not. We don’t get to pick what parts of ourselves our children take after, not without destroying who they could and should have been. Be true to who you are, be true to each other, and find your own balance, and I suspect that children will be possible for you both.”

That, if nothing else, helped keep the spark of hope that Tala had been sheltering alive.
