Ranthia couldn’t hear Avyna’s voice from their tent, but she wasn’t planning to look for her—she wanted to do something nice for her. And Remera was a military base, which meant one thing: it had a thriving black market of illicit activities. Gambling dens, underground brewing, and more could be found if someone knew where to look. Usually finding things like that required a network of contacts and the trust of her peers.

Ranthia planned to cheat mercilessly. She was already aware of several facilities that those in power were either blissfully ignorant of or were willing to ignore, so long as they didn’t become problems—soldiers needed ways to blow off steam, after all. They weren’t what she was looking for, but they could be bribed into helping her acquire what she was after.

Avyna still wasn’t back by the time Ranthia returned. She was tempted to seek her out, but Remera was a big base—it was all too easy to imagine Avyna coming home to find Ranthia gone and creating a ridiculous cycle. Instead, she settled on setting up her purchases. Between the palms she had to grease and the exaggerated cost of the goods, Ranthia had expended every last coin that she had brought with her.

But it was worth it, she was entirely willing to trade her wealth for Avyna’s happiness!

Once that was done, Ranthia settled down and grabbed a scroll so she could write that full report that she had promised.

The timing was uncanny. Ranthia finished the report just in time to hear the tent open. Avyna entered, swaddled in Ranthia’s traveller’s cloak—which she would have sworn Avyna hadn’t been wearing when she left. Not that Ranthia minded—Avyna was welcome to use it.

“Hey love. I didn’t mean to upset you, so I picked up some apology sweets—” Ranthia quietly offered while she stood.

Avyna promptly threw herself against Ranthia and Ranthia found herself pulled into a surprisingly fierce kiss. But before she could raise her arms to embrace her, Avyna’s own fingers closed tight around her wrists.

Then once the kiss broke, Avyna buried her face into Ranthia’s chest and finally released Ranthia’s wrists. Ranthia took the invitation and wrapped her arms around Avyna, even as Avyna’s arms encircled her.

“Take off the blindfold.” Avyna hissed quietly after several moments.

Ranthia hurriedly complied. Avyna lifted her face from Ranthia’s tunic and they spent a long moment just gazing into one another’s eyes. Avyna’s eyes were glistening with mixed emotions, but the guilt and pain were obvious.

“I tried, but I cannot find anyone willing to part with arcanite here. For now, all I can do is to beg: please be more careful, my love. I refuse to lose you, not like that. I… there is still so much I wish to learn and experience together!” Avyna’s voice was a whisper, yet there was a certain harshness—one born of raw emotion—to her tone.

“You’re amazing and you didn’t have to go out looking for a way to help me. I love you, and I intend to do everything in my power to keep coming back to you.” Ranthia replied as she tried to blink the stray sentimentality out of her eyes before it became tears.

Finally, they kissed again—with healthier emotions. It wasn’t particularly passionate, but it was a long, tender show of affection that neither woman was in any hurry to break. It lingered for as long as they could manage, but once it was done, Avyna pulled away just enough to look at the table where Ranthia had arranged several tiny cakes and a few small fruit pies.

“Where did you find these? You do not bake!” Avyna’s curiosity bested her.

“I’m a Sentinel, that means something.” Ranthia replied, smugly.

She almost swore that she heard the quietest, shortest laugh she had ever heard from the direction of the bathtub. Almost immediately, she put it out of her mind and decided that it was just her imagination—it was less creepy that way.

“…You did not go all the way to Coalition City and back.” Avyna’s voice fell dangerously flat.

“No! I found a black-market bakery; a few legionaries that bake for fun and profit but don’t technically have permission to do so. …I also bought a hot tip for you from them: there’s two groups that are competing to get alcohol brewing. The first group expects to be selling in a bit more than a week from now.” Ranthia hurriedly explained.

“Are you trying to bribe your way back into my good graces with sweets and information that will allow me to maximize my market profits?” Avyna demanded.

“Of course.” Ranthia shamelessly agreed.

“Well played, I knew there was a reason I was foolish enough to choose to love a fighter again.” Avyna grinned as she offered her praise.

They kissed again, just to prove to one another that they were okay and they both knew it.

Almost the very moment that the sun finished setting, Night rematerialized. His Sentinel armor was immaculate and perfectly adjusted and he was as well-groomed as ever, even if Ranthia had never actually heard the man stir or prepare himself.

“My gratitude for your hospitality.” He offered Avyna the—carefully and neatly folded—blankets, with the pillows stacked on top.

They looked like they’d been fluffed, which was unsettling—that was a noisy process!

“It was my honor to host the person that saved my love and brought her back to me. Any time you require shelter while you are in this area, please consider coming here again.” Avyna primly accepted the bundle, even as she made an offer that Ranthia was sure they would someday regret.

Night nodded, then bowed graciously. With that, he turned to leave—which forced Ranthia to awkwardly rush to intercept him and offer the man her written report. Night accepted the scroll and thanked her, then once again turned to leave.

“…If you’re hungry, you could stay to grab a bite.” Ranthia impulsively called after him.

They still had plenty of stew!

…Wait…

Avyna had stiffened and was giving Ranthia a completely unsubtle look of alarm. Oh, gods and goddesses, Ranthia hadn’t thought that through at all—she had even impulsively used the worst possible phrasing and—

Night paused, turning just enough to offer her a toothsome smile.

“I appreciate the sentiment, Grace. However, I suspect your hospitality and the good will you have both generously shown would be taxed beyond repair if I accepted the letter of your offer.” The man joked.

Ranthia resisted the urge to shudder at the mental image of those fangs sinking into her—or worse, Avyna.

“…Until next time, then?” Ranthia concluded lamely, after she failed to come up with a better response.

The oldest Sentinel nodded in agreement and made his exit.

Ranthia spent the bulk of their time awake that night apologizing to Avyna for inadvertently offering them up as food to a vampire. Avyna wasn’t truly mad, but Ranthia’s guilt refused to let her off the hook!

The scouts’ reports and the [Analysts] predictions largely agreed—the shimagu army was three days out. They were still remobilizing, but it was clear that they would be underway soon. Ranthia had bought them precious time, which meant that Remera wouldn’t be caught vulnerable—they had just enough time to harden their defenses and reach full combat readiness.

It also meant that the invading force would be ready to face a Sentinel—and Ranthia could scarcely imagine just what that would mean.
