The sky was bright with sunlight and [True Sunlight Rifts].

The land was dark with shadows and monsters.

Brilliant as the sky but a monster herself, Jane descended, her prismatic sword following in her wake like the dorsal fin of a sailfish. Black moon reacher amalgams scrambled up the smoky crystal towers at the edge of the Brightwater, but they were only one type of the many monsters out there. A horde of ten thousand beasts, each one a horrible amalgam of several other monsters, crawled or flew or floated out of the black ocean below. They were the heralds of a soul ooze that would overflow the world…

Or something like that.

Teressa’s prophecy wasn’t real clear. But whatever!

They were monsters, and Jane was the bigger monster… And there was some sort of joke in there that caused Jane to laugh out loud as she fell to meet her enemy. She wasn’t sure of the exact wording she was trying to find, but there was humor in this situation—

Ah!

Being the bigger person meant moving on and not engaging!

But being the bigger monster meant eating the smaller monster!

… Not very humorous, but Jane took what she could get.

Her body sang with prismatic light as Jane angled her descent to meet the first many-armed black moon reacher. It had five arms and three legs and a mattress-like body that opened up as Jane neared, revealing a blender-mouth full of bright white teeth. Tiny hands on deceptively strong arms reached for her.

But she was too fast for the pitiful thing. This mockery of an enemy. The original versions had made Jane feel so awful when she realized she had almost died to them in her first real adventure out on her own. She had thought she had worked through this particular trauma and fear when she had helped her father eradicate the moon reachers of the Forest of Glaquin. Ten thousand reachers she had killed!…

… Maybe not that many, but whatever. Apparently Jane wasn’t over it as much as she had thought.

This particular moon reacher was an amalgam of a new type of reacher; one that could reach through magic. It was much more deadly than the first type, by far. Theoretically, it could even grab her through her [Prismatic Body]. That is what the reachers had done to Scallion, back in the unicorn hunts. Ripped his leg clean off! And he didn’t even know he was missing a leg until later!

Jane twisted her ten-meter wide spider body into threads of prismatic light and slipped through every single grasping hand. Her sword followed in her wake, spinning around as she went through the blender-mouth of the creature, bursting out of its back like dynamite exploding a whale carcass.

Arms and tiny hands and big teeth and hairy legs, all briefly ignited with prismatic fire. Prismatic fire turned to simple blue fire rather fast. Hunks of burning, half-[Cleanse]d meat rained like gore—

‘I’m helping you with targeting, but since I have to do many things at once, I’m just going to hand over some of my senses,’ Poi sent, ‘Mission: Kill moon reachers and disrupt their offensive before they can reach the base.’

Jane had no idea what the first half of Poi’s statement meant, but the second was very understandable—

She suddenly gained another sense. It wasn’t sight or sound or smell. It wasn’t anything she had ever experienced before. Somehow, she could just tell where living things were.

Some monsters were more apparent than others.

Jane focused on the weaker ones first, to see if she was understanding this new sense correctly.

Most of the monsters were the same; like someone had taken a saturation slider on a monitor and turned it up. It was a halo around their body, sort of, but mostly concentrated around the head. Some monsters ‘felt’ more saturated than others, with the weakest minds out there —Yes, that’s what they were. Minds.— looking almost like nothing at all. And all of them were pointed upward, toward Forward Base. It was like the small edges of their halos were dragging them forward, toward Anhelia’s protected space.

Jane turned toward the larger threats.

The larger monsters were more than a simple saturation. They were like someone had taken a hammer to the very fabric of reality, shattering the world into color. This mind sense didn’t interfere with Jane’s normal sight, because what Jane actually saw with her real eyes was a whole lot of smoky crystal towers all around her. This sense allowed her to see through the crystal in every direction, all around, to see the locations of the most dangerous mental monsters.

It wasn’t [Greater Lightwalk], and it certainly wasn’t mana sense, but it was something similar and yet so much different.

Jane checked out her targets.

The crystal over there had two reachers crawling up the backside, out of sight of most people, but Jane saw them just fine. They were like sickly stained glass, crawling up the crystal, spilling noxious fumes out into the world as they went. Looking around, Jane saw ten more about a kilometer down. They were swinging between the smoky crystal towers like monkeys on vines, headed toward a soul ooze waterfall. Jane wasn’t sure how she knew what she knew in that moment, but she absolutely knew those reachers were going to go inside that waterfall, swim up through the ooze on the other side, and angle for a pincer angle on Anhelia’s base—

And then she realized she couldn’t actually see the ones down there at all. They were way too far out of sight, but she could ‘see’ them, and more importantly, she could hear their thoughts. How was Poi doing this? Was this how he saw the world all the time?

Poi answered her, ‘This is what Mind Mages do, Jane. We can hear mental monster thoughts more clearly than all other thoughts. I apologize for doing this to you without your permission, but desperate needs demand commensurate responses, and I can tell you’re not mad about this violation. Thank you for that, by the way. Once you’re done with those targets, I will step back from your mind and hand you off to Olirio, and then we need you to kill the soul casters. If you get rid of enough of them then Kiri and the archmages can come in with reinforcements. The mages will not deploy their large scale spells until they are clear to do so.’

Jane was already headed toward the hidden pair of moon reachers the second Poi started explaining. By the time she got to his apology she had already twisted through both of those first targets. Scattered, blue burning gore fell down through the bright, gloomy air. She moved on. She aimed at the group of reachers headed toward the waterfall of soul ooze.

By the time Poi told her of her secondary targets, Jane had raced through that second collection of moon reachers. The many-armed monsters didn’t know what hit them as Jane blendered them with her sword, spinning through the lot of them, turning them temporarily into prismatic flaming debris that rapidly calmed down to simple blue fire.

Flaming blue gore fell through the air, and Jane pivoted to the right.

Another minute passed in rapid flight through another twenty moon reachers, sending even more flaming blue gore to the soul ooze far below. Almost none of them were close to each other, but that didn’t matter right now. Jane moved without impediment and killed without mercy.

In two more minutes, she had zipped through the crystal towers, full bore through the next group of thirty amalgamized black moon reachers half a kilometer away.

She burned Mana to keep her Health high, and she burned Health because Blood Mana ensured she got a lot more mileage out of her resources that way. She would have used her Blood Weaver Ability to pull out more resources from the reachers, to gather more resources for more killing, but there was very little blood inside any of these skinny, horrible monsters. Only the largest amalgams had anything resembling blood inside them, but that blood was more ooze than blood these days—

‘Resources.’ Poi sent, ‘Check resources. And Rest, dammit! You’re going too fast!’

Jane slammed into the side of a wall, out of range of many monsters, and cut her spellwork.

Ah.

Oh. Shit.

She was down more than 4000 Health, sitting at 1550 Health out of nearly 5.8k. Her maximum Mana was almost 9.4k, but she was currently at 3500. The numbers suggested she had only spent maybe 60% of her resources. But she had spent more than that. A lot more. Maybe 40,000 Health? Most of her mana had gone into Health…

Jane had no idea. Actually.

Okay. Time to go slower.

… She was very much not over these moon reachers at all!

Jane just sat there, clinging to the side of a crystal tower, not exactly breathing because she couldn’t breathe with this body, but if she wasn’t moving or expending mana she could go for an hour without needing to actually ‘breathe’ by using [Greater Shadowalk].

She was too far down on resources for much of that, though, so she cast another [Rejuvenation] on herself in order to get more resources. Health was easy to regain, but Mana was not. Mana regenerated at 5-6 mana per second. But with [Rejuvenation], every second the spell ran she gained another 195 Health.

Ten seconds passed and Jane regained almost 2000 Health. She cast another [Rejuvenation] and used her Blood Mana Ability to run [Greater Shadowalk] so she could breathe. She had Favored that spell long ago, which brought the mana costs down to 2-3 mana per second. But since she was running it off of Health, it cost 5 Health per second. This was fine. Health came back quickly. Mana was her truly limiting resource… She had already thought that.

Okay. Her thoughts were spinning in circles. She was thinking about math.

This was fine.

She breathed now, and everything was good.

Net gains all around, really.

‘Don’t let it get that low ever again, Jane.’ Poi sent, ‘Wait there. You killed the main offense. We’re clearing minds. Look up, and see.’

Jane was already looking up.

A kilometer above, spellwork lit up the sky, turning the space at the tower tops into fire and explosions, killing monsters by the hundreds. It was not enough. Jane looked down, at her own level, and saw a hundred thousand more monsters. More kept climbing out of the ooze all the time.

All around her, in the smoky crystal towers, were monsters.

Most climbed, with too many long legs or arms or long, grasping claws, finding or creating purchase on the crystal, as they ascended. Some flew. All were headed in the same direction. None of the amalgams fought with each other, and they didn’t actually pay Jane much mind. They were still all focused on the target. Jane watched as a few of them glanced her way, both with their eyes and partially with their minds. But Jane wasn’t worried. She could tell that they didn’t care about her. She was a giant monster, after all. She was one of them?

Or something?

Why were they ignoring her like this? Amalgams usually did not ignore her? What the fu—

A freight-train centipede rose up from the muck far below Jane, headed up the same crystal tower she clung to. Its segmented body was made of giant screaming heads, and it tore up and around the crystal tower like a moving spiral staircase. All those heads for a body marked it as a dispelling amalgam. Ah. The amalgams in the other towers were under the direct control of the soul ooze, or something, weren’t they? Maybe. Maybe not. The slime had seen Jane, and was sending something to deal with her. The dispeller centipede had eyes and mind only for Jane.

Resource check.

She was good.

Shadows lightened and turned prismatic. Thick air poured off of every surface near Jane, even clearing some of the smoky crystal under where she stood. A flicker of [Rejuvenation] flowed across her, and she turned that Health into action—

She suddenly realized that the vague sense inside her head was very much telling her that there were more mental-ish monsters out there, and they were how the horde was being controlled. The dispeller centipede had some sort of large tendril coming off of its backside that led off to somewhere else. That was where the control was coming from.

This was a very useful ability, Poi!

She would get to the controlling monster problem later. The centipede needed to die, first.

The centipede screamed directly at Jane as it raced at her.

Jane descended onto the centipede, her sword flashing brightly as waves of dispelling power washed out of the freight train monster like the screams of the dead. At the last moment Jane pulled her sword behind her, protecting it from the waves of power pulsing from the black centipede. Those dispelling waves washed across her body, but she had pulled her [Prismatic Body] and [Cleansing Aura] inward; all the [Dispel] managed to catch was her [Rejuvenation].

Not too bad of a trade.

The dispelling song passed Jane by, either bouncing off of her or doing nothing, and then she reached the head of the centipede. An amalgamation of crushing jaws and chittering mouths lunged at her, but she released a small bit of her [Prismatic Body] out into the world and controlled the light and air around her to twist to the side, dragging her brightly glowing and now spinning sword behind her as she raced across the back of the centipede, chopping the monster into flaming bits. It screamed again, more dispelling power. Jane pulled her sword to her own back, protecting it with her body, and then she went back to chopping up the target.

She raced down the staircase made by the monster, slicing it apart as she went, turning most of the greater amalgam into fire and thick air that sailed down all around Jane, further evaporating in the presence of her [Cleansing Aura]. It was well and truly dead by the time she got to the end of it.

Jane took a small breather and then she focused forward. Poi hadn’t retracted his ability or handed her off, yet, so Jane was going to use it while she could, and she had noticed something else out there in the gloom. Something that needed to die. Which was probably why Poi let her keep this ability.

Like a fiery blue comet, Jane trailed thick air all around her as she followed the trail of smaller tendrils at the backside of every nearby monster. She hadn’t noticed them at first, but she certainly noticed them now—

She found it.

