She reentered the airspace over the Brightwater, directly over the center and wondered what to kill next. Her targets were the soul casters, but...

Kiri had not been able to reestablish any Sun Rifts, to drive back the gloom below, but the actual sun was still a thing, and that kept right on working all this time. Now where was Killzone—

Ah. There he was. He was… Headed back to Forward Base? Yes. He was. Jane watched as Killzone streaked through the sky, racing away from the Brightwater, headed toward Forward Base. He veered off target to punch through the chest of a shadow-spewing giant made of giant heads, but he was very much headed away from the main fight. He had been down there for a little bit, though, Jane was sure—

Ah! There was Mog, too. And all the other elite forces, actually. Everywhere Jane looked, someone was either flying toward Forward Base, racing to get there, or flying up and directly away from Forward Base away like rats escaping a sinking … Ship? Huh?

Wonder why—

Olirio's voice came suddenly, ‘Don’t approach Forward Base or the sky! Get away! Further instructions to come later!’

Jane was already far away from both—

Kra-KOOOOW!

Temporary blindness lingered in Jane’s eyes and she had taken some sort of Thunder-based damage, making her entire body feel temporarily numb, but a quick flush of [Greater Lightwalk] pushed away both of those ailments. As her eyesight returned, she hovered in awe.

An Yggdrasil-sized bolt of lightning lingered in the sky, and all around the intact [Grand Shield] surrounding Forward Base. The Army and everyone in it seemed fine, but the bolt had come from the blue, and passed all around, touching everything alive and washing down every single tower in a kilometer radius. As seconds passed, writhing cables of lightning skittered across a several kilometer wide section of Ar’Kendrithyst, before vanishing into the gloom down below. That lightning had to have touched upon every single monster, frying them utterly, before passing down through the kendrithyst crystal to reach even more targets.

‘That’s exactly what happened,’ Olirio sent, sounding relieved. ‘Took Archmage Obsidian a while to get that up and running, but he did it. The soul ooze’s first assault has been broken. Your archmages are impressive, Miss Flatt!’

Jane giggled a bit to herself, almost involuntarily. She had no idea why she had that reaction, but there it was. She asked, ‘Can he do that again?’

‘… I’m being told ‘no’ but not being given a reason for that denial. We believe it might have cost too much mana, and so we have offered Font assistance but we have been denied. Security issues. Ah. Yes. Recluse archmages. I should have—’ Olirio cut himself off, then continued, ‘Apologies. Uh. I am being told that Miss Flamecrash and the others will be able to assist with the soul ooze now that Forward Base is once again secure. We will resume the original plan, after all the soul casters are dead.’

And that was Jane’s job, right there. Kill the soul casters.

Jane turned her attention back to the land directly below.

Far, far below.

As far as her eyes could see, the bowl of this once bright land was filled with gloom from edge to edge. It was less thick than it had been before the assault started, but it was still gloomy. The sun was doing a lot to clear away that mist, for the parts that were in shadow were deep in the gloom, but the sun itself was not enough.

For now there were monsters bobbing in the black ocean, casting spellwork to ensure the safety of the soul ooze far below. Jane didn’t see the monsters at first, but now, as she looked, she saw flying monsters floating through the gloom, like half-invisible disturbances in the black mist. It was almost as though they were on patrol. Which was different than normal. They were being controlled, obviously.

There were more oddities besides those flying monsters, though. To the north, and to the south, a great many amalgamated monsters continued to pull out of the fog and race toward Forward Base, and whatever structures Shade Farix had put in place for his own people. The ooze’s counter assault was still ongoing, though on a much less frantic timetable than before. The smaller monsters were not Jane’s problems, though. She had larger targets to kill.

‘I will be leaving you now.’ Olirio sent, ‘Please do not use your Health overmuch. It is the only true defense you have against the soul ooze.’

Jane sent, ‘See you soon!’

She felt as Olirio left her.

Suddenly, it was her against the world, and her hearts beat hard as she fell in love with this life all over again. Her sword held next to her left pedipalp, and she released it into the wind as she dove downward; a comet of blue light and a tracer of radiance with a dark, adamantium core. Thick air burst away from her as she began running [Cleansing Aura] off of health and [Prismatic Body] off of mana, transforming into a rainbow splash.

Jane struck the edge of the gloom and the gloom exploded away from her in a tidal wave of thick air.

She ignored the dispeller giants, who were made mostly from the bodies of the giants who used to live in Ar’Kendrithyst, under the auspices of the Shades. Now they floated in the air, hovering on wings from a thousand birds and the magic necessary to keep their mutated bodies alive. They were easy to go around; slow and ponderous, though full of power that she didn’t need to tangle with.

She raced around a patrol of flying humanoids that looked like old victims of amalgamization; orcol legs and dragonkin scales and human arms and incani horns, or some other combination on the very next one, all flying in sequence. They were controlled by another shadowcat amalgam, but this time the shadowcat was ready for her, and managed to dodge as Jane came in to murder it. Jane decided to ignore this battle, too, as the shadowcat’s entire squadron seemed ready for her. They regrouped and kept the shadowcat safe while they harried her with [Gloom Ball]s and [Shadow Lightning].

Jane raced away, and they could not follow.

Gloomy clouds parted for her power.

And Jane saw a target.

The first soul caster tried throwing three Soul Bolts at her, but Jane did not test her power against them. She dodged the slow-moving things, rushing around the bloated corpse of an enemy. With an almost casual flick of her sword she sliced into its flesh, parting it like warm butter that then evaporated under her [Cleansing Aura]. Jane entered the beast and started spinning like a blender, ripping it apart. It tried casting magic inside itself, to tag her with three quick Bolts, but Jane twisted her sword erratically, clipping two of the three Bolts with her sword, splitting and dispersing them, while Jane’s body reflected the third. There wasn’t a fourth Bolt. Jane had killed the amalgam.

Jane spun her sword around the whole of the soul caster’s insides, spreading blue fire everywhere, and turning the rapidly dying thing into thick air. With this much damage maybe the soul ooze couldn’t recycle the body. Jane could only hope. Then she exited the burning creature out the top, exploding the amalgam like an overripe white pumpkin.

Jane had been quick about the kill. It only took her 450 Health and 300 mana; the cost of 30 seconds of carnage with a [Strike] to start it all off. Travel time to get down here was 15 seconds, though, which was roughly 250 resources spent in the journey, split more toward Mana than Health. She was sitting at about 95% resources for both so she felt good about further kills, but there were lots of targets out there in the gloom.

Jane headed to the next soul caster, trailing her radiant sword behind her as she glittered with a blue cast of [Rejuvenation].

She dodged five shadowy Bolts and broke three more Bolts with her sword in her approach. A [Strike] from her sword left flaming blue fire on the amalgam, causing the 20 meter wide corpse-balloon to wail with pain, or anger; Jane wasn’t sure. She broke more Bolts as she spun inward, into the corpse, burning and cutting and evaporating the creature into thick air—

Blood!

There was blood in this one! Jane grabbed the blood with her Blood Weaver, pulling a noxious black fluid out of her clogged surroundings, and though most of it evaporated, she had secured some sort of resource from this large soul caster. Theoretically, anyway. She was currently inside the creature, and turning it into flaming, evaporating gore. Hard to tell what was going on, really.

Jane exited out of the roof of this one, too, carrying a new prize with her as she splattered the soul caster open and left behind a field of burning blue desiccated flesh and bone atop the black ocean. Her prize was pretty good, too. A sphere of pure red power. It wasn’t much by Jane’s estimates, at only about a meter across, but it represented about 550 Health.

Free Health! To spend on whatever she wanted.

She already knew what to spend it on. That floating ball of blood turned into radiance in her sword, and power in her [Cleansing Aura], evaporating bit by bit as Jane raced through the gloom, evading the monsters chasing her, zeroing in on the next soul caster. With a swipe and a terrible, ripping, breaking entrance, Jane dove into this soul caster too.

She came out moments later, hovering a new ball of glowing red blood atop her body.

This was a phenomenally disgusting and somewhat claustrophobic way to kill something, but with the larger monsters Jane felt this was the best way to do the most damage in the quickest amount of time. And who cared about getting messy, anyway? She was already running [Cleansing Aura], so she was already mostly clean.

This second blood orb was only worth about 450 Health, though. Jane checked her own resources. She was at 80% A bit low for these sorts of fights where the smallest mistake would lead to death, but Jane wasn’t making any mistakes.

She killed three more soul casters in half as many minutes, keeping her Health high the whole time, though her mana took a bit of a hit. With the discovery of blood inside the creatures, which mostly got spent on [Rejuvenation] for an even better resource conversion rate, Jane was able to keep going. She killed eight more soul casters before she had to surface for a break.

As she exited the gloom like a shining comet, her own private horde of monsters trailed behind her. That damned shadow cat and a few others had never stopped trying to get to her. Which was a boon, actually. Jane could have evaded them. She could have out raced them. But then they’d just disappear back into the gloom and that would be a waste of an opportunity.

She hoped that the people watching from Forward Base would see what she wanted them to do—

Olirio reconnected to Jane, ‘If you have the mana our casters are asking you to clump them up more, and then fly to the west of Forward Base.’

Jane laughed loud, the sound echoing and joining with the sound of the horde flying behind her. It was a terrible cacophony, and Jane loved it. ‘Heard and understood!’

She began flying slower, doubling back as necessary to let the larger monsters catch up, but to stay out of range of the thousand smaller amalgams. Her flight eventually neared Forward Base. She didn’t need to get all the way there before the shadowcats controlling the horde realized they were being taken for a ride. Luckily, Forward Base compensated.

The sky opened up with fire and lightning and ice and everything else in a grand concert of death and destruction, washing over the shadowcats and the amalgams and the giants and everything else that had tried to get to Jane.

By the time Jane set back down next to Forward Base, on a tower that was about a kilometer away because all the nearby ones were broken and scattered to the dark land far below, she was feeling a lot better about the rest of the day.

They only had about 6 hours in the ‘rest of the day’, though, and the sun was already starting to move away from directly overhead…

Which meant that the soul ooze was going to be fully out of the sun in… 45 minutes. Something like that. It was a long way down to the bottom of Brightwater, after all. Half of the thing was already in shadow, even without the original gloomy blanket protecting it from the light.

Err.

Someone needed to break out the big magics again.

Jane sent to Olirio, ‘There are more big magics coming, right? I haven’t cleaned up all the soul casters for there’s probably 200 still down there, but uh. I’m just a drop in the bucket, here— Where are Killzone and Mog?’

‘They’re killing soul casters down there. As for big magics…’ Olirio sent, ‘I am being told that— Okay… Uh.’ With professionalism hiding his concerns, Olirio sent, ‘Shade Farix and New Brightwater have finished their defense of their land, and the Shade plans to counter attack the soul ooze with— In fifteen minutes Farix will release a mutative cloud of Blood Magic that will blanket the Brightwater and turn all flesh into blood, and then he will use that blood to erase the surface of the ooze down to the core… Theoretically. He will wait for all of our forces to exit the land, first.’

Jane felt a chill at hearing the plan. ‘And we’re going to let him do that?’

‘… It has been determined that we’re far enough away and we can escape if needed, and also Miss Teressa and several other Prognosticators are saying that it needs to be done, by whatever means necessary.’ Olirio asked, ‘Do you need mana?’

‘No.’ Jane sent, ‘I’ll sit here. Let me know when the next offensive starts. How many other people are killing the soul casters? I can’t tell shit from all the way up here.’

Olirio sent. ‘Currently, General Killzone is engaged with the soul casters. Guildmaster Mog has killed two and pulled back. A few other people have killed a few from afar, but mostly anyone who engages them is a risk. New Brightwater has informed us that they have killed 47 since the start of the battle. This brings both sides up to a total of 113 soul casters killed.’

‘We should kill all of the soul casters before Farix’s magic.’ Jane asked, ‘What if they can corrupt his cloud-mutation spell?’

Olirio seemed to pull away for a moment, before coming back, sending, ‘I am being told it is akin to the ‘Red Dot’. It won’t be able to be corrupted because even if it is broken it will still activate. It can only be mitigated. Farix expects 25% effectiveness. Your concerns are already noted, though, and we are trying to kill as many amalgams as possible before the attack. The people down there don’t know this yet, though. They will be informed when they return to safe [Telepathy] range.’

Jane let that answer wash over her.

