Visually, the target looked like a small bundle of eyes and tails and paws and calico fur that was latched to the back of a lizard. This lizard was in turn latched to the side of a crystal tower. They were actually separate creatures, too; not one single amalgam, for whatever reason. To Jane’s normal eyes, the target and the target’s ‘vehicle’ were nothing important; just another tiny pair of monsters in the middle of a thousand larger, more dangerous looking threats, all climbing or flying up together. But to her Eyes of Magic, and to Poi’s mind sense, the cat-like amalgam was the center of a knot of behavioral controls.

The smaller monster’s tails turned ethereal a meter away from the creature, becoming strands of invisible intent that burrowed into the bodies of every single monster within a kilometer. Every single one of those monsters was under the control of this small one. It was a minor general in a very large battlefield.

One of those tendrils tried to poke into Jane, too.

Jane introduced the amalgamated shadowcat —for that’s what it had to be— to her shining sword. Snicker snack! Click clack. Jane turned the cat and its mount into flaming, evaporating gore. Suddenly, the nearby horde fell into chaos. Every monster had been moving up, toward the target. Now, though, some amalgams fell out of the air as they lost the ability to control their magic. Some fell from the sides of the smoky crystal as they lost the ability to climb. Some jumped from the crystal, as they were not willing to be out in the daylight. Jane imagined those ones fell to their death, but if people could survive a sky high fall, amalgams certainly could.

Many monsters remained dedicated to attacking Forward Base, but Jane had done a lot by killing that shadowcat.

Jane moved on, finding the tiny targets among all the rest, and ending them.

The monsters that continued the assault were a bit slower. They were a bit dumber. Less organized and more prone to stupid tactics. Like they normally were, every single night.

It was enough, for now.

Poi sent something about how Jane’s actions were directly weakening the soul ooze’s assault on Forward Base, which was good, but Jane concentrated on killing. She dodged when something sought to harm her, and killed when she got a clear shot, and then she made sure she had actually killed whatever she had struck.

Jane was pretty sure that all the small bits of gore that she had scattered to the sky would fall down into the ooze where it would recombine into something else, later. But hopefully her flames and her [Cleansing Aura] would make the next battle that much easier.

After Jane killed shadowcat number 21 and random-monster-that-thought-to-attack-her number 45, she had to rest. Blood Mana was more painful the longer she used it; she would never complain, though. So far, it was a good kind of pain. But she had burned through another 40,000 Health of her 116k daily limit—

‘Moon reachers dead. Lesser mind magic targets dead. Target change after your rest,’ Poi sent, ‘Do not move until I finish telling you your new goal. Repeat to me that you understand this.’

Jane had been ready to move out even while Poi spoke, but she held herself back. ‘I understand.’

‘Good. Okay.’ Poi sent, ‘Your new goal is to kill the soul casters, but do it safely. There are at least 500 down there. Killzone and others will join you when they can, but the archmages and Kiri can’t move in to stop the flood of monsters coming out of the ooze until the soul casters are gone. We can hold off that flood up top for a while, but we will have to retreat again if air support can’t support us. Singer Nirzir is here at Forward Base ready to deploy some Undertows as soon as we know they won’t be corrupted away from her, like all of Kiri’s Sun Rifts were.’

Jane glanced toward the open area above the Brightwater.

All of Kiri’s rifts were turned to shadowy things, radiating protective gloom, or else simply gone. When did that happen?

‘Don’t worry about when that happened.’ Poi sent, ‘You were busy, and you’re still panicking slightly. You got all the moon reachers, Jane. If more get sent out I will tell you to take care of them. You and the Mind Mages and a few top rankers were the only ones not affected. New Frontier was hit worse than us, by far, but they’re recovering fast, too. Shade Farix is still a Shade so he was fine, and he has one real Mind Mage over there with him. They actually recovered faster than us, because they only have about 20 people over there, total. We have around 500.’

20 people! That was it!? Jane briefly felt the need to go help them, but then she realized that she did not want to be in that position, and those 20 people were probably each at the level of Mog, or something.

Poi sent, ‘If they need assistance, I will tell you.’

‘… Okay.’

Poi continued, ‘When you’re done with the soul casters, we want you to seek out whatever actually cast that large [Mind Fog] spell, and end it. Whatever did that was not the black moon reachers. They carried their own power, though, in full, and it is good that they are dead, but the soul ooze is displaying the power to mix and match monster abilities, so whatever actually cast that large spell is still out there. Maybe it's the soul ooze itself, but it's more likely something that the soul ooze made.’

Jane really needed to work on her lesser rivergrieve. Maybe up it to a true rivergrieve, though she wasn’t sure how. That Familiar Form had the innate ability Slick Scales, which deflected lesser spellwork and gave the creature a modicum of protection against lesser physical attacks, but that was it. Theoretically, she could combine those scales with the innate reflection from the nacreous weaver’s Radiant Presence, but in actuality, she had failed that bit of magical understanding and implementation; going from theory to fact.

If she had managed to do all of that before today, she would likely be perfectly safe swimming around in the soul ooze, hunting for the fog pulsers, or the singular fog pulser, wherever it might be. But right now? Here in the middle of battle?

Probably a bad idea.

Poi sighed. ‘Please, Jane. No experimenting right now. On task. I’m pulling back my senses now. I fear I would take the rebound attack from those Soul Bolts if I were to stick around.’

Jane’s world dimmed.

She saw the gloom in the air, and death all around, and she felt lesser, as though she had lost track of every single monster all around her. Which she had. Now she had to use her eyes and Surround Sight to see and to fight, and Surround Sight had never felt more inadequate than at this moment.

‘Work on your mana sense and most of that might come back. You’ll have time when this is over.’ Poi sent, ‘I need to coordinate Nirzir and Kiri. Switching you to Olirio now.’

The switch was instant.

Olirio sent, ‘Greetings, Miss Flatt. I will also be leaving you when you engage the soul casters, but I will return at a moment’s notice, as soon as you are clear of them. Do you need mana?’

‘Heard and understood.’ Jane pivoted around the crystal under her feet, aiming herself toward the Brightwater. She activated [Greater Shadowalk] to get clear of the smoky crystal towers, which she did through a bunch of small hops that barely cost more than her natural mana regeneration. ‘I’m good for a few…’ And then she reached the edge of the smoky crystal. She saw the Brightwater in all its horrible glory. Her hearts beat hard. Hundreds— No. Thousands upon thousands of targets, only some of which were bloated corpse soul casters. Still too many for her, for now. ‘I do not have the mana for this. I’m coming in. Where should I go?’

Olirio sent, ‘Secondary fallback. Also, Lady Alandria wishes to apologize for screaming like that.’

Jane dove into the shadows all around and ascended back into the sky over the Brightwater. As she transitioned to [Greater Lightwalk] she saw the battle of Temporary Forward Base, unobstructed. The fight was going... Chaotically.

Forward Base was the top hundred meters of the tallest red-purple kendrithyst tower directly past the wall of the Brightwater. There were no shadows inside that spire because Anhelia’s [Domain of Light] had forced the shadows away, revealing balconies and houses and other assorted physical structures inside the crystal. That was the last line of defense; the edge of Anhelia’s Domain. From that edge, three hundred and forty mages, the number of mages brought to the battle, were lined up and spending [Fireball]s and [Decay Rain] and [Chain Lightning] and a hundred other long range spells out of their relatively safe space.

Those spells then passed through a second layer of defense that was like a whole bubble cast around the entire temporary defensive area. That bubble shimmered with an opalescent mana signature, for it was the work of Archmage Opal. And because it was the work of an expert Warder, all of the Army’s spellwork was able to exit the sphere without worry, to strike the horde of amalgams coming their way, but the amalgams were not able to enter the space.

The enemy had gotten close, though. They must have.

Jane had heard the plan before now, and the defensive plan was for a triple sphere of Solid Ward. Since there was only one sphere, and every single nearby tower was either gone or still falling down all around, Jane suspected that they had seen some rough shit in the last ten minutes. And still, spellwork flew out of the base, concentrating on every monster that raced at them under the sunlight.

Fire washed over twisted people-sized amalgams, as those amalgams flew at the base. A sudden dispelling centipede rushed up from down below, only to be met with a [Luminous Beam] from a Sunny, positioned just outside of the Solid Ward. She probably had to attack from outside the space, for [Luminous Beam], while able to exit the sphere, would likely just end up tearing a hole through the sphere, and that was no good. Kiri’s [Familiar]s were far enough away from the front line that they weren’t in danger of being corrupted, but it was still dangerous for her to be out here right now.

It was dangerous for Jane to be out here, too. Some of the monsters had seen her, and like proper amalgams, they switched targets to her… Those that could fly, anyway.

Jane turned left and zipped through the bright sky, to land twenty kilometers away at a temporary hospital where a mess of broken kendrithyst crystal had clogged up the skyline, forming an angled, yet open area. The space had been reinforced with some [Stoneshape]ing to prevent further collapse and set with defensive [Force Wall]s and otherwise before the battle, in case it was needed, but it was not meant to hold the hundred people it now held. It was too crowded. Most people looked to be healing others, or simply resting from what was likely a very harsh mental magic purge. Some people rested with ice towels over their faces, while some people got healed by a Mind Mage and then promptly vomited up their last meals onto the ground. The Mind Mage moved on.

The Army must have switched to a protracted campaign model.

Jane spotted Orilio up at the top of the angled base, exactly where he said he would be, alongside Nirzir and several other Fonts. They were all transferring mana to other people, or, in Nirzir’s case, simply projecting an air of power to keep everyone else calm. There was plenty of space for Jane on their makeshift dais, but she didn’t want to accidentally get any potential ooze on them, or frighten anyone who hadn’t been cleared yet. So Jane brightened herself to make sure people saw her coming, so they wouldn’t freak, and then she descended to the side, to hold onto the edge of a tower that was not actually connected to the secondary base. She was about five meters from them.

Nirzir stood strong in armored white robes, but she gave a heartfelt sigh as she saw Jane come in for a landing on the nearby crystal tower. She projected her voice, “Thank the gods you’re okay. How much mana are you down?”

“8000 mana down.” Jane’s horrible voice made people cringe, but not Nirzir. “You should be able to do it from there, right? I don’t want to get any ooze on you.”

Nirzir gestured to Olirio and two others. “You’re up.”

Olirio and two more people dressed in white robes came forward and shot a link of power to Jane, which promptly bounced off of her carapace. They instantly stopped channeling and the scent of fear trickled into the air. Jane thought this might happen. From Nirzir’s and Olirio’s expression, they thought this might happen, too.

Jane angled upward and showed them her open mouth, morphing it at the same time so that she had an open passageway to her interior. It should be enough to let them overcome her reflection. “Try aiming there. If you hit deep enough, it might actually stick.”

One of the Fonts on the platform smelled like he would have to [Cleanse] himself after Jane left, but he mustered the courage to do as Jane asked. A beam of soft light shot from the man’s hand, into Jane’s mouth, where it bounced around a bit before finally soaking in. Once he made the connection the rest was easy; the tether of light moved to Jane’s side. Olirio and the other two fonts had much the same experience, and in under thirty seconds Jane was back up to full mana. With a bit of [Rejuvenation] she was back up to full Health, too.

Their channels naturally cut off once Jane was full.

Jane joked, “Hopefully you get some levels out of this!”

And then she sealed up the vulnerability she had created in herself, running her [Cleansing Aura] just in case. The cleaning shouldn’t be necessary, but it was better to be safe than sorry.

The smelly Font gave a bright, hearty laugh that was way too forced to be anything but nerves talking. Jane and everyone else ignored it, and then Jane turned to light and went right back to the Brightwater. The Fonts had needed to aim deep, and their tether had needed to bounce around a few times in order to stick, so not only was Jane’s reflection stronger than even she thought it was, but they had probably wasted mana… Which was probably not good.

She sent, ‘You guys have mana potions, right?’

‘Yes. If you need one we have extra. But that shouldn’t be necessary.’ Olirio sent, ‘We can take the potions ourselves and give you full mana whenever you need it, which we’ve already been doing for whoever needs it.’

Jane felt a twinge of worry for them. ‘What about core generation?’

‘We’ve all had nascent cores removed before and we’re all trained on self-surgery, too. Don’t worry about us.’

Jane decided not to worry about them.

