She was a soldier. She could fight on the ground and kill things, but grand strategy was not her expertise, nor did she want to be involved in that, at all. So she also focused on the idea that Farix was turning the land down there into blood.

‘Can I use that blood like it is normal blood?’

‘… Uh. I would caution against using blood that has been produced by a Shade, Miss Flatt.’ Olirio sent, ‘I would suspect that Farix will be using that blood himself, anyway.’

‘Ah. Yeah.’ Jane recognized she was highly anxious at the moment, and she was probably speaking too much, but whatever. ‘Probably right— Say? Did you guys get some levels? I noticed most of my kills were only for 92 percent.’

‘We have. Thank you for allowing us to profit off of your prosperity.’

‘No trouble no trouble.’ Jane gazed across the sky, using her smaller set of Deep Sight eyes from her primal frost owl Familiar Form. Flashes of spellwork on the south side of the Brightwater caught her vision, but she couldn’t tell what was happening, exactly. The problem was that she was using her smaller eyes for this. She’d have to spend mana to switch her Eyes of Magic and Deep Sight around in order to see better, from this distance, and she did not want to do that. So she just asked, ‘When will the larger fireworks start?’

‘Whenever we’re clear, we suspect. He gave us a 15 minute timer, and made it seem as though it would actually take him 15 minutes to cast his spell, but we suspect he is just telling us that in order to make himself seem weaker than he is.’

‘… Or maybe it’s so we can coordinate better? Without lying to each other?’ Jane sent, ‘Shades are some of the worst people you will ever meet, but they tend not to lie about the big stuff, and this is one of those big things. You can mostly trust a Shade to do exactly what they say they’re going to do.’

‘We defer to your expertise.’

Jane would have rolled her eyes if she could. ‘Killzone still down there?’

Why was she still talking? It was like diarrhea of the mouth. Or. Of the Mind. She was nervous, she supposed.

‘Yes. He has 5 more minutes to leave.’

‘Let me know if I have to rescue him. I’m shutting up now.’

A silent assent flowed through to Jane.

And she sat there, watching the Brightwater, and the other shore, about 25 kilometers away. It was like standing on one side of the Grand Canyon and trying to watch the other, or maybe gazing at the Rockies while standing in the middle of Denver Colorado.

All she could do was prepare for the next danger, so she meditated to put herself into Rest, to regenerate Mana and her Health. A Restful state caused both a person’s daily Health and Mana regeneration to go from daily, to hourly, after all, and she needed more… of everything.

She felt like a very small spider in a very large world.

Her father had talked about this a bit back after the ‘Battle of Chelation’ with Terror Peaks. Jane usually didn’t feel this way, but here and now, she did. And she didn’t have Erick’s ability to be ten places at once, with sky spanning spellwork and endless resources. She felt even smaller for that fact, too.

… Maybe she should pick Intelligence. Bump it up to 25. Then she would never be this low on resources ever again.

Or maybe she needed to get a Blessing of Rozeta for Immunity to Mana Exhaustion and Health Fatigue. How would she do that? Scion of Balance for double resistance was great, but it was nothing compared to immunity—

‘Killzone and everyone else is in retreat. All people accounted for. We’re preparing for Farix’s spell.’ Olirio sent, ‘Thirty seconds.’

The next thirty seconds passed with Jane and her thoughts as still as a frozen pond.

At the twenty second mark she had to switch her eyes around so that she could see what was happening on the other rim of the Brightwater. She spent the mana. Her large set of frontal eyes effectively gained the best zoom-feature she had ever experienced in her life—

Farix stood at the top of his tower. A few cows stood placidly to the side. The top was completely open, but the rest of the place looked well defended, with spellwork and solid metal and stone. It looked like they hadn’t taken any damage at all.

It could have been an illusion, but Jane did not feel it was—

The spell began.

Farix lifted his hands to the sky. His forearms sliced open on their own and blood flowed to form an orb, hanging above. Shadows lifted off of the shadowed areas all around and joined Farix’s spell. And then there was a pause. And then more blood flowed up and into the spell. Second by second, pulse by pulse. Blood flowed. Jane wasn’t sure if she was seeing it right, but it seemed as though Farix was packing the thing overfull, like he was stuffing a suitcase with everything he owned.

With his right arm still lifted to the orb, Farix moved his left arm to the side, to a cow.

Blood and shadows flowed from the cow, into the sphere, packing in tight. The cows didn’t seem to care. They were likely drugged. Or somethi—

The first cow dropped dead and a massive pulse of shadow and blood and something brighter left the cow and entered Farix’s spellwork. Jane wasn’t sure, but it had to be a soul. Farix moved his hand and grabbed at the life of the next cow. In three seconds that cow died, too, its life joining the orb overhead. Each cow’s death settled into the orb and sent a pulse of power along a briefly-visible artery of shadows and ethereal blood that filled the air around the spell, like it was a heart and Farix was jump starting the beating of it all.

At the sacrifice of the seventh cow, that was enough.

Farix sighed and the shadows of the blood orb pulsed stronger.

In a flashing instant, the shadowy, ethereal veins and arteries in the air grabbed hold of the light, and the whole working became a miniature red sun lined in white clouds. And then the orb expanded, lighting up from the inside, expanding and expanding, until Farix twisted his hands in the air above, crushing the orb back down to size; concentrating the spell. He held on to the utter death he had created in order to prevent the premature release.

The blood orb had to be at least ten meters across before Farix stopped the expansion, but the light that poured out of it was much larger—

No. That was wrong.

The blood orb still pulled in the shadows all around, transforming them, filling the world with light.

Some woman beside Farix boomed her voice out across the Brightwater, “Incoming!”

And then Farix pushed the red orb forward. It moved slowly at first, looking like it barely moved at all from this distance, but Jane could tell it had already moved a hundred meters in less than a second, glowing ever brighter as ten seconds, then twenty seconds, then a full half minute passed. It was almost to the very center of the Brightwater’s airspace, directly above the target, but it had angled down a lot. Jane felt a minor moment of panic as she realized that if that thing came any closer to them they would have to evacuate. It didn’t look like it was coming their way anymore, but Jane held no doubts that Farix could adjust the trajectory—

The orb reached the subtle gloom in the air over the once bright land, and like a dog sensing weakness, it launched directly downward, parting the gloom—

It was beyond her sight, now. Jane couldn’t help it. She had to see. She cast a [Scry] high into the sky, into the center of the Brightwater.

—The blood orb plunged down into the gloom, sucking in the shadows and spitting out light, growing even more powerful as it descended. The journey of the ‘red dot’ parted the black clouds above the black ocean like only an explosion could, and then it touched down into the very center of the soul ooze slime.

It detonated downward.

For a brief moment, Jane watched the Soul Bolts of five soul casters each try to reach Farix’s blood ball, but the transformative light of the blood orb sucked up those nearby Bolts and turned them into more power.

A wave of light and seeking veins of blood washed away the soul casters and turned them into red light, that became red blood.

The wave of bloody light passed across the entire Brightwater; a suddenly-released ocean of transformative power. The black ocean burned away, revealing amalgams below the surface and leaving everything to float in midair, briefly, before flesh and bone and everything else all transformed into even more glowing red blood. A great deal of material was lost in the conversion, but as the light passed—

Jane had many emotions at what she saw. She wasn’t sure where to even begin. Mostly, she felt awe, but there was a distinct undercurrent of wild anticipation of some emotion beyond her understanding, tainted with the thought of how much of a challenge it would be to kill Farix.

The destruction of his spell was absolute.

25% effectiveness! Bullshit!

Farix’s [Blood Conversion Orb], which was Jane’s tentative name for the spell, washed out from the center of the Brightwater, pushing away the black ocean while simultaneously converting every single amalgam into raw blood. The soul ooze was not fully gone, but the Shade’s magic had been directed downward, instead of going up at all, and thus it had burrowed through at least 25 kilometers of ooze, plummeting the new surface of the soul ooze to well below the old coastlines.

His spell had only actually stopped because it hit the bottom of the lake, along with other impediments.

For a very brief moment, the entire Brightwater, covered in blood, stood revealed. The coastlines to the north were wreckages of broken crystal towers and cathedrals and mansions and palaces. The coastlines to the south were more modest homes. To the far west were mountains and a bunch of ruins; the remains of what used to be floating castles, where people used to go to school to learn ‘proper magic’ before they were allowed to enter into the Script. To the far east were the soul towers, where the Spire reigned as the largest, only inhabited structure around. It was abandoned now, of course. It had also been submerged under the previous height of the soul ooze’s surface. Now, though, the Spire was revealed, but that didn’t matter as it was still very broken.

The other crystal towers near the broken Spire used to be home to a land of near-sentient dead souls; refugees from the old cosmology that lived a life that resembled their lives from well over 1500 years ago, and a universe away. The Shades sometimes picked prized shadelings out of those dead people, for the souls out in the rest of the city were too far gone to be turned into anything useful. That whole place, which used to shine with brightness, was now full of smoky crystal towers, full of the insane dead.

Farix’s spell had killed every amalgam. It had transformed them all into blood. That blood pooled here and there, and especially at the bottom of the lake, but there was one place that remained fully black.

The soul ooze.

Off-center of the lake bed, to the east, was a glob of black ocean sitting in a land of blood, like a bloody black booger. Farix had uncovered the soul ooze, but he had not damaged it. Domain had warred with Domain, and Farix’s spell had needed to go through a lot of fodder to get close to the soul ooze. Farix’s spell had been broken by the soul ooze itself.

Farix’s spell had cleared the way! And if that was all that it had done, Jane suspected that the kill could have proceeded from there with minimal issues. But the sudden release of pressure from the removal of a small sea’s worth of ooze had a catastrophic effect on the rest of the Brightwater. All the rest of Ar’Kendrithyst was still filled with black ooze, after all.

Gravity in the Underworld— for that’s what this was, once one got this deep— was wonky. Even so, water still flowed to the lowest possible point unless measures were taken to stop that. Thick walls surrounded all of the Brightwater, for the people of the Brightwater needed to keep monsters out of their homes, too, and walls were still the best solution to that problem, no matter how much magic there was in the world. There were holes in that wall now, though. Some holes had been caused by monsters, no doubt, but at least one was caused by the soul ooze itself, when it moved into this land.

To the west of the Brightwater, where the land was mountainous and full of ruins, Jane saw a conspicuously large, flat area, stretching from the walls to the former coastline of the Brightwater. A large hole was in that wall.

And now, there was a large difference in water level between all of the rest of Ar’Kendrithyst, and the Brightwater.

Black ooze poured in from that massive hole, and then the massive hole tore open wider. Crystal retaining structures broke. The black ocean flooded—

Several things happened almost too quickly for Jane to understand.

Killzone descended into the bloody lake, directly at the soul ooze.

Farix instantly killed his remaining cows and all of the blood inside the entire Brightwater began to glow in resonance.

The soul ooze released ten soul caster amalgams from itself, along with the large giant made of hands. It was the Hand Caster! The only amalgam that had shown the capability to think and to heal itself. It had been gone for a while, but it was here, it had shown itself! Jane wanted to rush in there and kill it right now. It had evaded her so many fucking times! It had killed so many people. It had—

A pit of dread and hate opened up inside Jane’s chest as she looked upon the Hand Caster, and saw some of its hands were tiny, and attached to very, very long arms. Those hairy black arms twisted at unnatural angles and began to join together, aiming upward, gathering shadows into a spell similar to what Farix had done, but—

Jane had no idea how bad it would be.

If she were an orcol, Jane was sure she would have been Raging.

The mother fucking Hand Caster had amalgamized moon reacher shit into itself! It was probably the thing that pulsed that large [Mind Fog] all across the whole Brightwater and beyond! Fuck that guy!

Olirio sent, ‘Help Killzone. Now.’

Right.

She was here for a reason, and to accomplish a specific goal.

Jane instantly did as she was told, transforming her eyes back to their proper arrangement as she dove into the red glowing Brightwater. She aimed directly for the Hand Caster all the way at the bottom, which floated directly above the soul ooze.

