—she watched as the glowing blood of the whole area flowed into the gap in the western wall where the soul ooze’s main body was attempting to flood the area. That blood moved faster than Jane would have thought possible at these size scales, acting at first like a net, and then like a condom, to hold back the inundating ooze coming in from the rest of Ar’Kendrithyst like a balloon would hold back the water from a faucet. The blood bulged out, instantly, and Jane hoped Farix had a better idea than that—

Blood actually flowed up from everywhere, not only filling the main gap, but also every single smaller gap as well, but the smaller ones were not really concerning—

The balloon of glowing red blood suddenly transformed like the sudden appearance of a glacier, becoming massive crystals of blood that slammed into and out of every single break in the wall. The sound was astounding, and almost made Jane move off target. Some ooze had gotten through, and would continue to get past the blood crystals, either trickling or pouring—

Olirio sent, ‘Farix can give you five minutes. Maybe ten.’

She was moving too slow, too unsure. Things were taking longer to understand than they were to kill.

Jane got her head in the game.

Olirio sent, ‘This whole thing needs to happen before the soul ooze can regain all the resources of all the other monster parts in the rest of the ooze. Kill the guardians first.’

Killzone had reached the first of twenty surviving soul casters (Where did the extra come from?) long before Jane could join him. He had already turned two into exploded goo, while fending off and outracing a constant barrage of a hundred black bolts.

The Hand Caster was Jane’s target, though. It was wildly different from how Jane remembered, but it was still based on the general shape of a giant, with two large legs like massive tree trunks and two large arms coming off of a torso, but now it had a massive head at the top and a bunch of longer arms in the place of every tenth normal arm. It was a dispelling mental monster amalgam now, and it was casting some sort of large scale spell.

It floated, cross-legged, midair above the soul ooze, with all of its arms raised out and to the sky, each hand with an eye upon the palm, each eye staring at a mass of shadows gathering above its head. It was probably another [Mind Fog] attack. Jane hoped it was a [Mind Fog] attack.

It probably wasn’t. She proceeded anyway.

At Jane’s approach some of the hand eyes turned Jane’s way.

She would likely only get one shot at this. This damned amalgam was too smart, and it was too capable of self-healing—

A bright darkness took hold of the sky overhead as ten stars appeared as though from the deepest depths of Abyss, to shine their Void Starlight out into the world. Nirzir was here, somewhere! Or maybe she had finally figured out a [Familiar]. Jane didn’t have time for that, though. Tendrils of violet shadows instantly poured down from above, punching straight through the gathered spellwork of the hands caster, burrowing straight into the creature’s body. Violet glitters streamed up into the constellation above, the spellwork pulling out Health and Mana to empower itself.

It wasn’t the same as Erick’s [Undertow Star], for [Luminosity] wasn’t part of the Open Script yet, but it was functionally identical. Nirzir’s Void Song burned away at half of the gathered shadow orb overhead, and would continue to burn for as long as needed. She would have to cancel that spell before a soul caster threw a Soul Bolt at it, but it looked like Killzone had every one of those amalgams’ attention.

Killzone had killed five of them, so far.

Nirzir’s Star gave Jane an opening and so Jane descended on the Hand Caster with her sword swinging brilliance and her entire body lit up like a comet. Amalgamated arms flew away from the body of the monster as Jane slashed and sliced. The entirety of Nirzir’s [Undertow Stars] pulled at the entirety of the hand caster like drilling violet tendrils.

Jane latched onto the amalgam’s upper torso and face, cutting with all of her claws while her sword further clipped all of its severed limbs. She had already cut away every moon reacher arm; she made sure of that before she went in.

She tried not to think about how all of the arms could potentially have the moon reacher ability, even if they didn’t look like moon reacher arms.

The dispeller-head roared a blast of anti-magic directly at Jane’s own head, but it simply bounced away, unable to affect her inner spellwork, or touch her quickly-dodging adamantium sword.

All of Jane’s blue fire evaporated off of the amalgam, though. But she kept applying more and more spreading blue flames. In a flashing set of instants, blue fire engulfed the entire amalgam. The main head tried to cast another area [Dispel], but this time Void poured down through the amalgam’s throat, breaking its [Dispel] into something less harmful. Some of Jane’s fire went away, too, but that was fine.

The hand caster blipped.

Half of it, anyway.

Like shearing paper, twenty-odd half-severed arms and hands and eyes appeared to the left. Most of the creature didn’t blip at all. Most remained firmly trapped under Jane’s claws. Jane tore into the rapidly dying amalgam, ripping and tearing and cleaving and [Cleanse]ing as fast as she could, heedless of Mana or Health costs. In ten seconds she was left holding onto the chest of a corpse with stumps for legs and no arms that was rapidly disintegrating under her power. The hands that had blipped left had long since fallen out of reach, though Nirzir’s [Undertow Star] tracked them the whole way, for they still had life in them, until they fell into the Domain of the ooze below.

Nothing could get through that Domain, it seemed, unless the ooze wanted it to get through.

Jane felt the Hand Caster go limp under her many gripping legs, unable to fight her any longer, and so Jane ascended, holding on tight to the corpse to make sure that it was actually dead, ascending the whole time, ensuring that she stayed away from the ooze’s Domain, too.

She could feel the ooze’s Domain this whole time. Right below her. It was like an edge to the world, or like a black hole, threatening to pull her in if she got anywhere closer to the thing. If she got near, she knew she would die. She had fought off her fear this whole time while she attacked the Hand Caster, but now that the amalgam was dead and her job was done, Jane’s fear won out over her furor.

So she raced to escape.

Mog was down there helping Killzone kill the soul casters. She had killed her fifth, or something. Then she, too, was escaping to the north. Two other people who Jane didn’t know were escaping south. They were from Farix’s camp, Jane was sure.

Killzone finished off the tenth and last soul caster, and then he rocketed directly at the side of the soul ooze—

He struck the edge of the soul ooze’s Domain like a child would hit a glass wall. He bounced away.

“Jane!” Killzone backed up, yelling, “RUN! NOW! Not too far, though!”

Jane was already racing away but she wasn’t going fast enough, apparently. She clutched her prize and dragged it along with her as she moved. Her [Cleansing Aura] and her fire had begun to turn the thing to ash, and somewhere between kilometer five and ten of her rapid flight the Hand Caster’s remains broke apart into pieces too small to hold.

Behind her, the ooze quivered at the bottom of Brightwater Lake. It was a black gelatin the size of a football stadium, and was the only solid-colored thing in the area. Everything else was smoky crystal layered over with a combination of bright red blood and dead soul black sludge—

A shattering crack resounded through the bowl of the Brightwater as one of Farix’s blood crystal towers, holding back the flood to the north, broke. It wasn’t the large break in the bowl located to the west, but it was large enough for a waterfall of black gore and sludge to flow into the Brightwater like so much spewing mucus.

They had maybe minutes before every single one of the crystal dams broke.

Which was likely why Spur was pulling out the big guns.

Olirio yelled at her to get to cover.

Jane chose a large ruin behind a veritable plateau of crystal, and while the ruin had been reduced to puddles of blood and black sludge, the plateau itself was more like a minor mountain range than a ruin. Jane touched down in the ruins, and in that moment, she wasn’t sure if she had fucked up, or gotten very, very lucky.

On the other side of the plateau the world exploded in fire and lightning.

Jane, a very, very small spider, huddled behind her cover, in the black muck, and in the red blood. She had not turned off her [Prismatic Body] or her [Cleansing Aura].

Which is probably why the next event happened.

Her feet touched blood. Dirty, glowing black and red blood, and yet it was still filled with power, ready for the taking. For the first time since fighting these amalgams, or really, ever, she touched upon a treasure unlike any other. Both her Blood Weaver Ability from the Familiar Form of the same name, and her Blood Sense from her lesser rivergrieve, activated at the same time, unbidden. It was like touching upon a spider web that she had strung across the world.

And then [Cleansing Aura] truly started to work.

Black sludge evaporated away like thick air, and the blood concentrated.

Jane disassociated from the battle.
