I'm going to give you two semi-contradictory statements: It's very important that you help people when you can. It's very important that you only help people when you have them at sword-point.

These two statements sound like they're at odds, but not really. You have to consider the way of our world. Everyone is out for their own interests. The System has made it that way. But just because people are a little bit selfish doesn't mean they should die for it.

No, I'm not a big believer in karma or any of that stuff. I don't think there's a promised reward for good deeds or anything like that. When you help someone, you're doing it either because you can't let go morally or because you're trying to satisfy your pride in some way. There's nothing wrong with that, but you should be honest with yourself. If you're doing something for the reward, and the reward never comes, you're gonna turn more than a little bitter. I’ve seen it happen way too many times.

But it can be worse than that. I've seen saviors turn into victims as the people they rescue prey on them. And sometimes it's just an ambush, someone pretending to be sick or vulnerable along a lone road flanked by tall trees. You have to be honest with yourself about these situations. You have to be careful and considerate when dealing with them. That's why you need to save someone at sword-point, just in case they are not actually who they say they are.

But by this point, you might be asking me, 'Why should I save anyone? Why should I risk myself?'

The answer is, because people you help will owe you favors, and demonstrating that you're someone worth trusting, that you're a decent person, has its own power. I told you I don't believe in karma. I also don't believe that being a wretched person pays. Every bitter Pathbearer that says that misses the part of the equation where the so-called evil person is already born to privilege, they're already nobility, or they're already a High Tier. They're not being paid because they're evil; they're getting paid because they're insulated from consequence.

And let me tell you, there are consequences to being vile too. You make enemies. And your enemies usually end up being people like you—the ones who won't help. The ones who prey on others whenever they can. And Integration is filled with more than enough of those kinds of people. We don't need to make more. That's my biggest reason for trying to help whenever I can, because if we're living in a world that's filled with bastards, ruled by bastards, and making more bastards, then eventually we're on the way out. We're not going to last.

We level and die alone, but we struggle together. We live together. And so long as the latter rings true, then we must try, at least, to do something right by each other. We must try to abide by some kind of decency. Otherwise, what's the point of being an individual? What's the point of holding on to our traditions, our cultures, our lineages from the ancients? Why not just be a monster? Why not?

Look North or South, and you'll get your answer as to why not.

—Memoirs of a Master-Tier War Mage

303 (I)

The Sky-Swallowing Carp (VI)

Usually, standing around and waiting for Shiv to return from a solo excursion would be among the most nerve-wracking things Adam could imagine. Now, though, with one of his friend’s bodies here to warn them of any problems or threats should they arise, he was calmer than he'd expected. This unfortunately allowed his mind to drift toward the sky-high mountain of unresolved problems that remained in the back of his mind at all times. They would need to return to his Gate to see at least some of them addressed soon.

But there was one thing Adam could deal with right this moment. The only issue was that he had absolutely no idea how to initiate the conversation required to address said thing.

After saving what remained of Blackedge and returning from the Outside, Shiv had given the stone dagger that contained the soul of Andra Culdottier, the Jotun Prophetess they'd defeated in the hidden teleportation anchor on the campus grounds, back to Adam. The other two surviving members of her fugitive group were another thing they would need to deal with in due time, seeing how they still remained locked up in cages in the coliseum below Gate Infernius. But Andra herself was the more pressing issue.

The Animated Skill Infusion of her Legendary Cryomancy had been invaluable in saving Uva from her Metamorphosis, but Shiv and Adam also agreed that the idea of keeping her trapped inside the dagger indefinitely to use as a Legendary Skill battery was not something they would entertain. On the other hand, they also couldn't simply free her, however that even worked. She didn't seem open to true cooperation the last time Shiv had talked to her, and her intentions toward the Republic were hazardous at best and genocidal at worst.

This left only one real option, the one they'd been intending to choose from the start: relinquishing her to her mentor.

Standing in the kitchen a few meters away from the others, Adam kept tapping his fingers on a satchel slung around his waist with a conflicted expression. Within it was Andra’s dagger, further contained by a heavily warded box he'd received upon request to Merrielmel a while ago. The box kept the Phylactery’s Necromantic aura from spilling out and causing any potential problems, such as accidentally coming into contact with Shiv's Vitae and turning the Republic Capitol into a smoking crater.

Adam knew that simply giving the dagger to Valor was probably the right thing to do, but something that kept repeating in the back of his mind made him hesitate despite himself.

"And if that is not enough, know that if you slay her, you may very well find yourself at the end of Valor Thann's blade when he finally pieces himself back together.” Such had been Cullywier’s words in the anchor when Shiv had been about to destroy Andra for good. He and Shiv had both worried somewhat about the truth behind the fairy's words, but after seeing how Valor remained himself—becoming simply more of himself—after regaining his torso and much of his memories, the idea of Valor actually harming them in revenge for what they'd done to his student seemed absurd to Adam.

He'd actually been intending to finally speak to Valor about this when he ran in on Shiv, Jessica Hawgrave, and Valor committing horrible experiments he didn't want to think about for one second in the kitchen he hadn't left since then. That was why he had the dagger on him in the first place, but now here he was, drenched in indecision.

Maybe now isn't a good time, he thought to himself. Maybe I should wait until we're—

Adam snapped out of it by biting his tongue. No. We've put this off long enough. Besides, better to take the initiative now, before Valor noticed his student’s pensive expression and asked what was wrong, which would make the whole thing even more awkward than it already was.

Resolute, he stepped toward Valor and cleared his throat. “Valor. There is a matter—I mean, there is something personal I think I should speak to you about.”

The ancient Pathbearer studied Adam, and the Gate Lord couldn’t help but feel a surge of animalistic fear. A special kind of dull dread coursed through his veins—the same, dull, painful coldness that he imagined passed through a doe’s heart when it noticed a wolf staring right at it through the thicket.

Adam had grown more powerful than he had any right to be at his age, faster than his wildest imagination. He'd bested foes that should have taken him centuries to even match, and burned with Unique Skills. But there was something about Valor that was like peering into a dark, fathomless forest that stretched from horizon to horizon.

Valor Thann had been gentle with Adam—invested time and advice into the young Pathbearer. But that was a broken Valor, and though there wasn’t too much altered about the Legendary Undying’s personality, Adam was still keenly aware that if Valor wanted him dead, there would be little anyone could do to stop him.

For to fight Valor Thann, one had to perceive Valor Thann. And keeping track of an unparalleled Legend of Stealth was quite the thing indeed.

Seeing Adam fidget and stutter, Valor sighed. “I’m not going to hurt you, Adam.” Suddenly, Adam felt a presence warp around him, and the world went gray and dull—like there was a layer of obfuscation shrouding him. “The privacy you desired. Now. I will not harm you. It is the furthest thing from my heart. Whatever you have discovered, whatever you have done, know that you have nothing to fear from me.”

The Gate Lord blinked with disbelief. “I—”

“I know that expression all too well. Tell me. What is it?”

Adam mustered his courage gained from encouragement and drew in a breath. “While you were in the Outside, we encountered one of your old apprentices. She was in the Rubix Well with us and escaped on her own, but she dragged us into a fight with her on campus, and we were forced to defeat her. Her name—”

“Andra,” Valor said, cutting him off. “Hm. Of course.” Once more, Adam was speechless. “That wasn’t so hard to predict either. It has been some time since I trained a disciple. Though she left me on less… amicable terms on her part. A part of me is flattered that she still thinks of herself as my pupil, but I cannot regard her so highly. She did technically fail her ritual, after all. And it cost me my superior pupil to see her saved.” Valor’s expression turned somewhat bitter. “It is an ill thing, wishing to trade one life for another, but Andra was not her sister, and her sister’s love was the only reason why I took her in at all. And in the end, one sister was dead, the other proved a False Undying, and I was bereft of any true disciples.”

Silence consumed Adam as he processed all Valor had said.

Silence did not consume Valor. The Ancient held out his hand. “You have her Phylactery, I take it?”

“I… Yes.” Adam reached into his satchel, unlatched the hinges of the warded box, and offered forth the stone blade that held Andra’s soul. Valor took it into his hand like someone taking on a hefty burden; the flames behind his eyes grew darker—more intense.

Seeing Adam's still pensive expression, Valor grasped his shoulder gently. “It is a good thing you brought her back to me, Adam. It is a good thing you have told me. This matter has gone on too long, and it surprises me not that she ended up in the grasp of the Ascendants. Whatever happened between you is my fault, not yours. I should have seen her deficiencies… addressed instead of disowned. Life cannot be perfect, after all. And masters are responsible for even unworthy pupils.”

A weight left Adam, but not entirely. He saw Valor now, and wondered if he would ever be in the same state—an embarrassment. The inferior pupil. A disgraced disciple. “What are you going to do with her?”

“I will speak to her. In time. When I can muster the foulness inside me. And after I learn what she has used my teachings to do, I will see her education continued, or the skills I have given her severed.”

Adam tried not to shudder.

“I am not a master of blackhands and butchers with no principles,” Valor said. “And I do not think you will taint my name with such deeds. But we are more than ourselves—we are the representatives of those we protect and guide, and those who have shaped and protected us. Remember that. You especially will feel this, since you have taken the burdens of an entire Gate upon your shoulders.”

“I… I will,” Adam said.

Valor gave his shoulder an encouraging squeeze. “And do not let doubt shroud you. Your heart is unbalanced, but your mind knows what is true. You are a true Pathbearer, and a person of virtue. Your doubts are without evidence; until you prove yourself wrong and do something vile, do not question yourself in such ways, and do not imagine yourself to be punished by my hand.”

And though the fear didn’t depart, it was heartening to hear such words from Valor all the same. “Thank you, Legend Valor.”

“You are most welcome, Hero Adam. Now. I think it’s time to dispel this shroud, for your fellow apprentice has returned with—hm. Company. And… new clothes.”

“What?” Adam asked, and as he cast his Awareness toward the gateway, he found himself startled. “Those—those aren’t clothes, Valor. Those are… Just what the hells is he wearing?”

***

“No, absolutely not.” Uva's voice was hot with disgust, her stare piercing with judgment, and her body language naked with utter revulsion. With how her fingers were curling, she was barely restraining herself from ripping the new clothes off Shiv—and not in a good way.

"But what's wrong with them?" Shiv complained. He held his arms out to the sides, showing off the clothes he'd made. "Seems pretty good to me. In fact, I think this looks great as long as I'm going to be going around a restaurant trying to speak with customers. It's like I'm wearing a bodysuit made out of gemstones."

He looked to the others in the kitchen to gain some support, but found himself faced with a series of cringing and mocking expressions. Adam seemed on the verge of calling Shiv an idiot. Valor looked away, as if regarding Shiv an impolite subject to bring up. Gone’s eyes were narrowed while Candles and Five had their heads tilted in opposite directions. Jessica shivered, her face red with restrained laughter.

"You know what you look like right now, kid?" Jessica's breath quavered. She was barely able to keep her mirth contained. "You look like one of the pimp freaks who hang out in the Dragon’s Biscuit. A lot."

