Her words were like cold water dashed upon Shiv's enthusiasm. He looked down at his ensemble again and no longer felt so prideful. "Really? But this is Basilisk scale. I literally peeled this off from the Basilisk, and then I wove it around myself. It's personally made. Every bit of this is Basilisk." He regarded the outfit he wrapped around his physical body like a glove. He'd used a portion of the scales he harvested from the Basilisk to bundle himself up. It wasn't the most comfortable thing he'd ever worn, but it did fit him tight and snug. He could easily slip in and out of the attire using his Biomancy, and he thought it brought out his pale irises.

Shiv studied his physical form using his Severed Shadow. He looked glittery. All those scales were like rows of gems stacked over his body. He was practically resplendent. He thought it made him look rich, not like one of those degenerate skin dealers.

Actually, what does a pimp look like? Shiv thought back to his past, to everything he knew about pimps. He didn't know much, actually. Most of the information he had came secondhand from Georges and other people. Blackedge wasn't an especially degenerate and crime-ridden town, at least based on what he'd heard from some mercenaries in the Swan-Eating Toad.

“People are going to practice the oldest, finest trade no matter what you do, but it's best that they actually choose to practice that trade because they want to, not because someone has a knife at their or their family's throat.” Shiv couldn’t remember who exactly he'd heard that from, but the words had stuck with him—and made his outfit less appealing by the second.

As the Deathless continued looking himself up and down from a second perspective, a frown spread across his physical body's face. His Basilisk-scale bodysuit glittered like a collection of gems, including the jacket ending in the vague contours of a formal cocktail tailcoat, gloves, pants, and socks, everything fused together and only openable from the back. He'd thought it would impress Uva, if nothing else. Instead, she cringed. As did everyone else.

And so, Shiv couldn't help but cringe too. “Shit. It’s that bad, huh?" But he still didn't want to give up on his suit. "Hey, Uva, what if I bring this to your sister? You think she could make something useful out of this?"

Uva considered his words in detail. Her lips pressed together, and her eyes swiveled up into the corner of the room. She thought intently for a moment. "Well, it is worth quite a bit of money; not every Pathbearer can come by with a few tons of Basilisk scale. But you cannot be wearing this when you enter her shop. You absolutely cannot!"

"Why?" Shiv asked.

“Because if you do, she will violently vomit all over her front desk, leap over the puddle, and then attempt to stab you with her scissors for the atrocity you committed upon fashion, even if the cost is her life. I am only somewhat joking here. You will earn her eternal hatred if you enter her store wearing that.”

Shiv's spine curled in defeat. “I, uh, actually thought you guys would be impressed. Or something.”

His dismay made Uva’s aggrieved stare soften. She walked over and rubbed his back.

“At least you tried. My mother… She claimed my father often repeated a statement while they were courting. Apparently, her tastes were rather bland when it came to attire, and he kept trying to get her to diversify. She wondered what the point was when she spent most of her time in Order Uniform or armor. She said he nearly choked to death on wine in his haste to reply, and during his passionate rant, he proclaimed fashion to be a thing of individual purpose and taste. That it is what makes us people rather than beasts, that it was something not even the First Blood could deprive us during the Age of Enchainment, and that no matter how bad someone’s tastes were, the fact they had tastes at all was a statement of their inherent value and humanity. Because expression makes us who we are beyond the narrow confines already inflicted upon us by nature and circumstance.”

Shiv’s frown faded, and he couldn't help but match that statement to his cooking. Art was beyond war. Art was more than want. Artists everywhere were the triumph of life. “That’s… I wish I knew him.”

“A sentiment I share,” Uva replied. Her hand slid down his back and clasped his hand. They shared a glance, and she pulled at him. “Now. I believe you have some feat of culinary mastery you must finish inflicting upon the orcs, do you not?”

“Yeah, I suppose I do.” Shiv grinned. “Suppose I should do it dressed properly, though. Maybe I’ll just make this into a chef’s apron or something. Rip the rest away—”

Adam loudly cleared his throat and began flicking his eyes toward a certain someone in the room. “Shiv. You’re forgetting that we have outside company here with us. Again. You’re scaring the poor girl.”

“Huh? Oh, felling—sorry. I keep doing this. I saved you at a really strange time. Trying to finish these meatballs here. Actually, you should have some when I’m done. You can be one of my first customers. How’s that sound for an apology? Won’t even charge you anything, and you can tell me what you think about the meatball. Be straight. Be brutal. Don’t worry. I won’t get offended at all. I just wanna make this the best meal I can make.”

On the other side of the room, seated on a stool made from Courtney's bones and nursing a cup of hot water, was one shell-shocked Adept Kune Kade. The young elf was supposedly a Squire under the Descenders Union, but there was something off about her that Shiv couldn’t quite figure out. He observed immense emotional turmoil within her emotional core with his Enkindled Heart, and her body language was akin to a small rabbit trapped in a cave with ravenous wolves. Part of it might be her barely surviving her near-death encounter with the Basilisks, but Shiv suspected there was something more to it.

When Kune replied, it was always quick and to the point; she wasted no time with her words and answered with a quiver in her voice like she was trying to stave off her own execution. Her eyes jumped all around the room, flicking between Valor, Jessica, and all the others, but mostly found themselves locked on Shiv. Every time the Deathless moved too fast or got too loud, she flinched. But it wasn’t all fear—the chain that slithered out from her to fuel him with dread was only a faint presence—barely more visible than Shiv’s currently dormant Severed Shadow.

Ultimately, it seemed like she was still somewhere else, trapped in a dream-like state after her ordeal.

The fact that she woke to both Valor and Candles looming over her while Shiv was actively wrapping bits of Basilisk scale around him likely added to a bit of her trauma.

“Kune?” Shiv asked. “Did you hear me?”

“Yes.” The word came tumbling out of her mouth all too fast. “Yes, Legend Shiv.”

“You don’t need to call me that. Just Shiv is fine.” He paused. “Or… Chef. Yeah. Call me Chef while I’m in the kitchen.”

Adam snickered off by the side. “And thus he goes mad with power.”

Kune seemed reluctant. Shiv wanted to press, but the Sage told him it wasn’t a good idea. Trying to force her to speak would further the awkward dynamic between them. If she wasn’t the one engaging, then that meant she was still in a closed-off state. He needed to snap her out and have her willingly begin a conversation to truly get a handle on her personality—and how she ended up in a Basilisk’s nest.

And there was no better conversation starter than a meal that sent a shock through your senses. Shiv flicked his wrist—but the Last Morsel didn’t appear. “Godsdammit. Just can’t get used to this shit.” All his items remained bound to his Revenant, and until he solidified that form or unequipped those items, that’s where most of his kit remained.

Valor theorized that the reason why his Severed Shadow was soul-bound to all his equipment was the same reason Shiv resurrected naked now: attuned mana blockage. Previously, even before he had an actual magical skill, he didn’t have a portion of himself that was quarantined off by his attuned mana. Things were different now—a portion of him was purely physical, with most of his skills there internal and incapable of reshaping the world around him—and that meant what he was wearing went unremembered by his soul when it came to his physical—resurrected—bodies.

“Soul magic just sounds like bullshit to me,” Shiv muttered to himself again as he had his Severed Shadow hand him the Last Morsel instead. He wasn’t even going to cook with the frying pan. He just liked having it in hand so he had something to wave around at his orc echoes while they worked.

Nonetheless, with those distractions handled, it was cooking time again, and Shiv was going to make these meatballs the best godsdamned meatballs in existence.

Placed atop the cooking station before him were three sets of ingredients. In the middle were a dozen half-assembled second-third layer meatballs. Glistening spheres of cartilage and gristle held simmering marrow within. A faint glow of vitality betrayed the presence of long-dead orcs piloting these half-formed orbs. Narrow slits separated each fiber of hardened tissue, and if one just bit in harder, it would pop open, allowing those soft teeth to reach the creamy prize within, rather than ripping the entire thing asunder as a bestial Pathbearer could.

To the right was a pile of minced meat. They were clumped together in faint mounds but still supple and soft enough that they could continue to be shaped. These were the lean meats, the soft muscles that anyone could sink their teeth into. Within them, Shiv was going to embed the third set of ingredients. To the left of the spheres of gristle and marrow were the mushrooms Shiv gathered from across the Umbral Wilderness.

Shiv's Shapeless Tides paired with Inertial Overdrive allowed him to travel at obscene speeds without devastating the environment, and his Revenant form granted him the ability to stay subtle and pass through things when he didn't want to inflict any damage. But during his most recent excursion, he moved uninhibited and unleashed. He was like a blade cleaving through the world, and all that was pure matter stood as a soft stretch of mutilatable tissue—no bone, no armor to stop him.

The only thing he cared to avoid was his orcs, who were actively setting up defenses outside. Entrenchments were being dug, with towers and fortifications rising free from the soil, like teeth sprouting free of toddlers' gums. Thankfully, the grayskins hadn't gotten to laying their wards down. The only magics they'd formed were a massive glowing orb that hovered above the archway. It stared out across the land, directing its baleful glare filled with Pyromancy and Dimensionality. Shiv suspected that might be one of the few constructs which would demand a bit of effort on his part to cut through. For whatever reason, the cutting aura that had radiated from him treated matter like it was nothing at all. But magic, and soulstuff especially... Well, the denser the mana was, the harder he had to force himself forward before he dealt proper harm.

His new capabilities ultimately streamlined his mushroom harvesting experience. He gathered some Mendules growing along the riversides running at the bottom of the ravine. Once he did, he scanned their structure with his Atlas. What followed was a moment of wonder as everything with the corresponding organic structure lit up around Shiv. It was like he was standing beneath a pitch-black sky during the darkest hours of pre-dawn, when all of a sudden, every last constellation across existence came burning through the midnight canvas.

His Awareness skill evolution might be overly specialized for hunting biological entities, but for Shiv's purposes, it was a wonderful ability to possess. From there, he plunged through the walls of the ravine like a stiletto traveling through the walls of someone’s stomach—and kept going. He ripped through not only stone, soil, and plant matter, but also the fabric of the world. Shiv didn't fully unleash his cutting aura, for he didn't want to destabilize the fabric of Integration and send mana storms bleeding out from the ruptures he left in his wake—but he could do that now, easier than ever before.

He collected both mushrooms in an instant, not bothering to sort or examine them while in transit; his mana hydra dragged behind his body as he used it like a fishing net, sweeping up all the plant matter he could grasp with his Biomancy. It was then that he heard the fateful scream of Kune, and what followed there was a surprising rescue and the acquisition of a bit of Basilisk meat.

A bit of Basilisk meat he considered fusing with his orc meatballs, but ultimately decided to place in cold storage. The baby Basilisks were placed in a special underground pen the orcs had made under the Gateway with the Basilisks he'd kidnapped before, and that brought him back to the present.

Shiv stared down at his collection of well-diced mushrooms. Sifting the edible fungi from the poisonous ones was easy. Safe shrooms didn’t trigger Plaguefueled; fun shrooms did. From there came the challenge of narrowing candidates to counter the aftertaste of the marrow. Thankfully, his Atlas offered a convenient solution to that as well. Shiv chewed a few of the different mushrooms and sorted them based on how much hydration they contained. When he singled out a few, he focused on them to highlight their organic architecture and light up other mushrooms that share similar traits.

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 124 > 125

