He froze. He paled. He would have pissed himself if he hadn’t gone minutes before the alarms tripped, and a target of opportunity had appeared.

… Ah.

He was royally fucked.

These were the threats made against him, then.

Ah.

The man went cold. A resolve formed, quick enough.

The voice asked, “Your choice?”

“Death!” He said, “I choose death, and when I get to Hell, I will raise up armies to visit horrors upon you for all eternity! I will contact my sisters and brothers and my whole clan! They will summon me, and I will descend to this Melemizargo-fucked abyss and destroy everything you love!”

The world tilted.

He felt nothing. Not the pricks of the collar around his neck. Not the feeling of his hands, or his legs. He caught sight of his body, as he fell to the right. The body fell to the left.

He died.

- - - -

The incani chose death. The humans, who were not, chose death. The ‘harpy’ chose death.

The harpy was not actually a harpy. Erick noticed her truth imprinted upon her soul, as if her words weren’t convincing enough. She was incani. She had just Hunted the harpy and had taken her form. Recently, too. Erick had a hard time hearing her rant. Upon hearing the harpy’s words, and what he had heard from the rest, he knew that none of them were who they appeared to be.

Erick had encountered people like this before.

Poi apologized, for giving wrong information based on surface thoughts that were not entirely correct. These people were not going to try to ransom Erick and everyone to the fake Clan Phoenix. If these people had won the fight, Erick, Poi, Jane, and Teressa, would have been dead, and then their bodies would have been used for other, terrible purposes.

Erick’s first introduction to Nelboor had not been Clans, or Soldiers, or being found out as the Archmage Erick Flatt, or being ostracized or worse for appearing to be adventurers. His first introduction to this continent had been the same plague that had afflicted all of civilization, one that he had purged out of the Crystal Forest, and helped to kill within Treehome. A plague of body snatchers.

A plague of Hunters.

- - - -

They burned the bodies and slagged the collars, and then Erick erased the site of their questioning from the manasphere with a few casts of [Sealed Privacy Ward]. He did not erase the site of the battle. If someone came looking around here, they would see what had happened, but they would not see the full outcome.

In a moment of paranoia that even Teressa considered unfounded, Erick went and had Ophiel erase most of their walk from where they had landed on Nelboor, to here, back when they had talked too openly about too many things. He had already done this, but he wanted to be sure.

Erick walked on, toward Eralis, surrounded by Teressa, Poi, and Jane, feeling numb.

- - - -

Ten minutes of walking later, Erick broke the silence. “What a fucking mood swing.”

Teressa said, “Didn’t think Hunters would be our first introduction to Nelboor. And so close to civilization, too. I said it before, and I’ll say it again: Nelboor is a shit continent.”

Jane said, “I forgot these types of people even existed. Dad killed all the ones around Spur.”

Erick suddenly felt like all the energy had drained out of him; but he kept walking forward, barely breaking stride. He was being weak again. He thought he was past this.

He would never be past this.

“And those answers…” Jane scowled. “It’s like they weren’t even prepared for their own deaths. Like Hunting people would never have rebounded on them.”

“That’s the disconnect of the mortal condition, for ya. That’s just how people can get through the day.” Teressa said, “Living next to monsters… Living next to war and death. You can only think that ‘it could never happen to me’, or else you’d go crazy. Because it does happen to you. It happens to your neighbors, and your family, and yourself, eventually.”

“I guess that’s true,” Jane said, mollified.

Teressa said, “And yet… That harpy…” She shivered.

Poi spoke up, his voice strong, and sure, “We just met some killers, is all. People who have abused the good works that were given to us by the gods. We will surely meet more, in the future. That’s all that was. Cherish that we had the power and the luck to drive off the darkness, and that we did not lose ourselves in doing what had to be done.”

They walked on. A warm wind blew across the prairie.

Time passed.

Poi said, “… That’s what my sister used to say. It’s served me well for many years.”

Jane focused forward, on the path ahead. Teressa glanced backward, toward Poi, and then away, toward the horizon. Erick just thought, and considered, and weighed, as he walked; [Mana Sight] active on one Ophiel, [True Sight] active on the other, and with Yggdrasil’s eye trailing behind, watching.

After a minute, Erick said, “Your sister sounds like a smart woman.”

Poi looked away for a moment, then turned back, and nodded.

Ah. His sister was dead.

Poi did not break stride, though his breath halted, briefly.

They walked forward, across the prairie, no one looking at anyone else. If Poi wished to talk about his sister and all of this morality stuff later, then Erick would listen, but he would not bring up such a subject here, or now.

Jane broke the silence, “We should have just killed those Hunters after we subjugated them. Soon as we found out what they were.”

“I agree,” Poi said.

Teressa said, “Right about that.” She frowned. “I still can’t get that harpy out of my mind.”

“They were all Hunters.” Jane said, “She just reveled in it more than most.”

Erick said, “I thought they were humans and incani working together. I would have liked to have believed that. You know, even if they were on the other side of the battlefield.”

Poi said, “Yeah… That would have been...” his voice trailed off.

Jane said, “They were all incani, and those ‘humans’ were just part of their recent… conquests.”

The wind blew.

Erick wondered if—

Poi spoke up, “All of you are messing up your names, and it’s driving me crazy.”

Ezekiel said, “Shit.”

The same time that Tiffany said, “Dammit! I can do this!”

Julia chuckled, then laughed.

Tiffany was not far behind with her own laughter. Ezekiel chuckled.

A gloom seemed to pass, like the breaking of a dawn.

Julia, “Thank you, Paul.”

“No problem, Julia.”

Tiffany asked, “How much further till the first villages, Ezekiel?”

“Just over the horizon, Tiffany.” Ezekiel said, “Half an hour. Then a few hours till the city itself. We have to cross the delta, but we should arrive at Eralis in the afternoon, unless something else happens.”

“We have lots of money now.” Paul said, “I would like to find a nice place to drink a lot of liquor.”

Tiffany happily shouted, “Damn fucking right!”

“The good stuff too. No beer or ale.” Paul continued, “I can [Cleanse] myself afterward, but I would like to get piss drunk in the shortest amount of time possible, unless it appears we will not be able to.”

Tiffany laughed.

Ezekiel put on airs, declaring, “I will arrange such a treat for my loyal people! Drinks for the unrepentant spy for the elders of Clan Phoenix. Drinks for the party girl. And drinks for the daughter I didn’t know I had till last year!” He put on a stern face, saying, “But do not forget why we are here.”

Julia happily asked, “And why are we here, honored father?”

Ezekiel said, “To reclaim our place and power in Clan Phoenix, filial daughter!”

“And to drink!” Tiffany said.

“And to drink,” Paul repeated.

“And to get drunk!” shouted Julia.

- - - -

Fields of grain stretched across the world, with dots of houses here and there amid the waving gold, except they were not just ‘dots’. They only seemed like that because of the distance. They were actually sized like minor mountains.

The people out here did not build small. They built for defense. The only thing small about this furthest farm around Eralis was the small wall that encircled the entire compound; fields, buildings, guard towers and all, to delineate where occupied territory ended and the prairie began. Those guard towers placed all down the wall and in the centers of the fields were more appropriately sized to the mansion beyond; they were each at least twenty meters tall, and thick as extra-fortified lighthouses.

Guards were everywhere. Farmers were everywhere.

Like a dark mirror to a similar arrival, a year ago and half a world away, Ezekiel and Julia were watched as soon as they crested the previous hill and exposed themselves to the civilization growing before them. As they got closer, just minding their own business, Ezekiel waved at the staring guards. The people in the tower —a few humans, wearing steel armor— did not wave back.

Ezekiel led the way south, around the field, giving the short wall a great lot of distance. He had seen a road down this way, and they were close to it.

Soon enough, they found that road. It just ended, right there, before it got too far past the northern farm. Despite being in the middle of near-nowhere, the edge was meticulously maintained. Grasses grew from the prairie, but did not touch the road, while the road itself was ten meters wide and lined with white stone. The road was perfectly flat, like someone had scraped the world with a planer, and it was the best way to walk forward to Eralis, so that’s what they did.

Their new path brought them closer to the guard towers of the northern farm than Ezekiel would have liked. The farmland wall was only ten meters north of the road. Ezekiel heard, as much as saw, the guards atop those towers talking about them, as they walked past.

It was either stay on the road, or cross through the other farmland on the south side of the road, which also had towers and guards, though fewer than the farm on the north side. They were threading their first needle, it seemed, and there was no way out but through.

Ezekiel sighed.

Julia observed, “They’re all looking at us.”

Tiffany said, “This is the road to Eralis. We’ve every right to be here as anyone else.”

They walked for five more minutes before they could not. They stopped.

Several guards lined the road in front of them, along with one woman who stood out front. She seemed in charge, and wore black, spiky armor that would fit the style of any villain in any of Julia’s stories that Ezekiel had ever seen. Ezekiel blinked his mana sense active, and looked past her completely smooth helmet. No horns. Pale skin. Human coloration, mostly. Probably human. None of the guards with her seemed anything other than human, either.

But the guards in the tower to the south were all incani; their horns were prominent, their armor utilitarian, but slightly ornamental. They looked down from their tower, not bothering to make themselves look like they weren’t there to specifically observe the confrontation on the road.

The woman on the road stepped one step forward, toward Ezekiel, and spoke in Ecks, “You will now be questioned under a truthstone. Fail to give the right answers or attempt to flee, and you will be dealt with accordingly, as is our lawful right as a Border Clan of Eralis.”

Ezekiel stepped forward, but maintained a five meter distance between them. “We will be happy to answer anything that is not a problem for us to answer, and we will do so right here, and now.”

The woman nodded, curtly, then raised her head to the right, barely. A man stepped forward with a box. He opened the box, exposing a clear jewel. A truthstone, no doubt.

The woman commanded, “State your names.”

“No.”

The woman paused again.

Ezekiel said, “We will not be interrogated unduly. That I am deigning to answer anything at all is a gesture of goodwill, and a desire to make this as quick and as informative as needs be. Ask your important questions.”

The stone glowed blue.

The woman said, “Strange accent you have there. Where are you from?”

“Far away.”

Blue stone.

The woman seemed to relax. “Do you have any designs on this land?”

“Allies, information, the secrets of the Songstresses, but not if those desires would make me enemies.” Ezekiel asked, “Do you have any of that which I seek?”

Blue stone.

The woman had paused when Ezekiel mentioned ‘Songstresses’. Several people, on both sides of the roads, went still.

The woman sighed. Ezekiel could tell that she had been looking for something in particular in his answer, and that she did not get it. The guards on both sides had been Scanning them since this whole confrontation started, too. Maybe the woman had gotten her answers from those scanning people, for the scanning man right next to the woman had lingered their magic in a few conspicuous places, like the small bag of loot that they had taken from the Hunters, and held open a telepathic connection between himself and the front woman. The Hunters didn’t have much gold, but they did have rings and gems, most of which had already lost their enchantments, but all of which looked personal.

Ezekiel asked, “Is there something you are looking for in particular, with all your mostly-invisible Scanning magics? Maybe I could help.”

The scanning people on both sides startled.

They scanned harder.

The woman weighed something in her mind. Then she asked, “Do you meet any people out the way you came? Anyone at all?”

“You already know the answer. I see you talking to someone through [Telepathy], and the Scanning man to your left gazed upon the rings and jewels that we collected as spoils of that encounter, and his gaze locked for several moments. I wasn’t able to tell exactly which interested him so much, though. His Scan was too broad.”

The woman in black gave no hint that Ezekiel had struck at the heart of the matter, but others had. The incani guards to the south all seemed to sour at once. The human guards to the north turned hateful, all at once. Most of the humans’ ire was thrown directly across the road, toward the tower full of incani guards. Only a few humans still looked down at Ezekiel, Tiffany, Paul, or Julia.

This was momentary.

In the next second, the crowd focused on Ezekiel. Hands tightened on sword hilts. Mana swirled.

Ezekiel needed to defuse this. He angled backward, saying, “The small bag of loot.”

Tiffany handed him the bag and the crowd drew back from open hostilities. It seemed that neither side knew where Ezekiel’s loyalties laid, and they were mostly content to watch, until watching became untenable.

