Ezekiel began putting people into Stops, but he was not willing to test the reflection of the invisible person again. If he [Stop]ped himself… That would be bad.

He needed to test what how reflections worked more than he had—

No. Wait. He had read about how multiple reflections interacted before. He had talked to Sizzi Zago at length about reflective magics! Ah.

He was just panicking, a little.

Okay. Crisis solved.

Paul moved to take down the invisible person, pulling his own sword from the air and smashing down on the attacker. A half a second and four hammer strikes later, which was two hits more than necessary, it seemed, the harpy went down. Their concealment spell faded, revealing an unconscious harpy woman with red feathers, blood seeping out of her conjured armor.

Ezekiel continued to put people into Stops. The fight wasn’t over, but it was close. Now they just had to secure their victory.

Which they did.

And then they secured their victory even more as Paul listed procedures for containing downed enemy combatants, and everyone moved to enact his words. Ezekiel was glad for that. As the adrenaline finally ebbed, he felt a cold seep into his body, racing up and down his spine.

Julia banished the flames all around them with a few [Flameshape]s. Tiffany grabbed the stragglers who were further out of position and brought them closer. When they were all down, and closer, Ezekiel cast a strong [Mana Drain Ward] atop them, and then a [Health Drain Ward]. All of them were Stopped, so maybe they didn’t feel the itchiness, or maybe they did; Ezekiel found himself not actually caring if they were comfortable.

It was an odd feeling.

Ah. They could have died. Yeah. That could have happened.

These people were out for blood.

… He canceled his [Hunter’s Instincts]. The world sped up. He breathed.

Pink-gold air and pink mist layered atop their seven attackers.

Ezekiel took a moment to recall the interactions of reflection. Generally, the more power there is in a reflection, the more resilient it is. Lesser reflections will simply break under constant reflecting. His own [Animadversion] was very high powered. Whatever the harpy had been using was low powered.

The harpy had lost that reflection contest.

[Animadversion] would likely break if numerous spells targeted the parts of him that the shield could not directly reflect, but the shield itself was the strongest part of the spell. Having a reflection contest against the shield, itself, would likely result in the opposite party losing that contest.

Ezekiel calmed down, thinking about magic. He stepped away from the line of sleeping killers. So did everyone else.

Julia asked, “They’re still in their armor?”

Paul suggested, “Ezekiel?”

“Right.” Ezekiel already knew what they meant by that. He began casting several spells, designed to strip targets of protections. He should have done this already, but he was a bit flustered.

[Ward Destruction] was first. Seven of those. Then came [Force Breaker]; [Conjure Armor]s popped like so much broken spellwork. [Prismatic Breaker] was just to get rid of the other small spells Ezekiel saw, though he could not tell what those were, exactly. When he was done, the seven people were naked save for underclothes, Stopped, and stripped of all normal defenses, as well as surrounded by a lot of [Merciful Suffocation]. Ezekiel had Odin switch off of that spell as he finished stripping them.

He asked, “What do we want to do with them?”

Tiffany said, “We’re taking all their stuff, obviously. I see gold, jewels, rings. A lot of it is marked, but it’s still worth something. No papers or badges or anything like that, though.”

“Expected worse.” Julia added, “A lot worse.”

“Those fireballs would have cooked us alive if we were normal people. [Animadversion] is a very strong spell. All of them had reflections. None of you noticed except for Ezekiel, and only with regard to the harpy.” Paul sent, ‘And we should start talking like this.’

Ezekiel felt another chill.

‘Who are they?’ Julia asked.

‘That was a fast fight and I hear nothing from them now, but I think they were just uncommon bandits. We would label them Hunters, but they call themselves a minor Clan. They’re based in a small city north of here, but they lay traps like this all around in odd places.’ Paul frowned. ‘That’s a common tactic; laying traps in the prairie. Walking into the city will not be as easy as I expected.’

‘We can do this to more people if they need this done to them.’ Ezekiel found his backbone again. He sent, ‘How would this have gone if they were a clan, or soldiers?’

‘Um… No functional difference. Hard to say. There were a lot of thoughts in that fight.’ Paul sent, ‘But that’s not really important. What’s important is that these people have done this before. They had prisoner drain-collars waiting for us for when they took us down. With our resources locked down, they would have tried to torture us for information about where we came from, and then they would have tried to ransom us to those people. When that failed, they would have killed us, and they would have saved your death, Ezekiel, for their leader, since they would have suspected you of being the most leveled person here. Near the end, they began to suspect that they have fucked up royally; maybe literally ‘royally’. And that brings us to this: Do you want to try to listen to them explain away their guilt and possibly get away? Or should we execute them now?’

It felt like it was the middle of winter, for some damned reason. Ezekiel shivered.

And then he decided.

“… Odin sees the collars in a pile, just up ahead. That is proof enough...” Ezekiel said, “I’m grabbing them now. I will… Allow these people their last words. They have acted like Hunters, and so they get the same treatment.”

Tiffany nodded. Paul approved.

Julia said, “Good.”

Ezekiel moved to—

Wait.

There was another way. He touched his magenta breastplate, holding his hand over the spot where the Silver Star laid hidden, upon his chest. There was a way to not need to kill them.

Ezekiel offered, “The alternative is that I could bless them.”

A warm wind blew across the prairie. Grass rustled under the sun. No one spoke.

In the distance, Odin fluttered down from the sky and grabbed a bag dropped on the ground. He blipped over to the team, and dropped the bag of assorted drain collars in a great jumble of clangs and scratches. The thin bag ripped open, spilling out rusted iron circles, each with thorns on their interiors. They looked as though they could never be cleaned, no matter the effort anyone could put to the task.

And still, no one spoke.

And then someone did.

“No.” Poi said. “In death, they will have their sins judged by the gods and their fates sealed by their own hands. Giving them their final words is enough. There is no need to change who they are.”

Teressa scoffed at Poi, then said, “Killers should not get as much deference as Paul thinks they should… Bless them, then kill them. Maybe they’ll be able to understand what they did wrong when they meet their makers.” She said, “But if this is about being squeamish about killing them, then let me take this responsibility, and don’t give it too much thought.”

Jane said, “Justice demands a swift and uncruel answer. My instinct is to say that your artifact should only be used against the worst people. The ones that harm everyone. But…” She paused.

While Erick thought, he had Ophiel slip collars around every person, locking them into place with the provided screws and clips; they weren’t the most secure locks. These people obviously didn’t plan to need to use them for very long. Necks bled, but not too profusely.

Poi said, “If you use that Crystal Star here, you will be using it against literally everyone you meet.”

Jane turned to the man. “Would that be such a bad thing?”

Poi went stock still. Jane eyed him, then turned away, to look at the sleeping killers.

Teressa... just watched.

Erick saw two possible futures stretch out before him. Two ways in which the Crystal Star of Empathy changed the world forever.

One, where the world was happy and prosperous and everyone sang hand in hand, which was completely fictional and so delusional of him that he almost slapped himself. And the second, where he was hunted down by people he respected, like Silverite, and now Tenebrae, and others, for sure, because he had gone too far, because he had… He didn’t know? Likely gone into every prison the world over and forcibly changed the souls of every single person therein? The only problem with that, was that there weren’t many prisons in the world. Mostly, lawbreakers either got exiled, or murdered, depending on the local laws and the whims of the magistrates.

So the idea of going into prisons and ‘fixing everyone’ was a fiction, because that was literally not how the world worked. But...

He would find the leaders of the Incani and the Humans, and Bless them with Empathy, ending the Quiet War.

He would find every bandit leader in the world, and change who they were, at their core.

He would turn the ‘common bandit’ into a thing of the past.

Maybe the ‘new common’ would become someone who talked to the people they were about to rob, to speak about taking only a bit of gold for ‘safe passage through a land’, instead of taking lives and everything else attached to those lives.

War would end, because Erick would make it end.

It was such a wonderful, terrible, awesome, horrible idea. A dark bloom of laughter called to him in his mind, to change the world to his liking, for his liking was better than what had come before, for he was a better judge than anyone else who had ever existed on Veird.

And he knew, instantly upon having those thoughts, that he was wrong to think those thoughts. He tore himself away from that dark part of himself.

He breathed deep. He watched as killers trickled blood onto prairie grasses. He felt, as his Crystal Star weighed upon his chest, a burden, an opportunity, an option.

For didn’t even the lowliest criminal deserve the chance at redemption? Didn’t everyone deserve a second chance, especially if that second chance would actually change who they were, at their very core? The Blessing of the Crystal Star was not some mind-game, temporary thing. It was a true change. It was soul magic.

It was the chance at true redemption.

Erick chuckled, nervously. “Ah. I don’t like this part of the path.”

He didn’t expect to want to press that button so much, either. To rid the world of problems with a single spell, spread so wide, as Jane had said when the topic of [Cascade Imaging] and [Luminous Beam] came up. It would be so easy.

Just step over the line and do it.

Do it right now—

Poi’s voice broke through, “They’ll know they were soul-mutilated. Maybe not today. Maybe not for a long time. But they’ll recognize the shift in their own soul soon enough. They’ll see how they aren’t able to get back up after a loss, and go out and kill some other people who aren’t able to defend themselves as well as us. They will discover what was done. They will know divinity changed them. Do you want to blow your cover so soon? Do you want to walk down that path?”

Teressa frowned at Poi, saying, “You have no place to tell him that, no matter your rank in this unit. Adjust yourself.”

Poi’s eyes went wide. He looked away and gasped as he stood straight, a sudden pale descending upon him. “I have overstepped. You are correct.” He looked to Erick. “Sorry. I shouldn’t have—”

“You’re right, though.” Erick said, “Silverite said that soul magic is a slippery slope. Best not to fall down that path this early. Let the gods judge them.”

“No,” Jane said.

Erick startled, and looked to his daughter.

Jane stared at her father, then at everyone else. “You’re all overthinking this. The options are to kill them, or to make them better people. There’s no reason to think that changing who they are is a bad thing.” Jane stared at her father, saying, “Do it, and don’t look back. Or, if you need to have a line you won’t cross, then only do this to those people who personally try to murder you, which every one of these people tried and failed to do.” She stressed to her father, to Poi, to Teressa, and, it seemed, to the very mana itself, “This is not a dark moment; don’t make it one. This is righting a small part of the world into something better.”

Poi cut in, “The problem is not here. The problem is in escalation. When does the solution not become soul-control, once soul-control is on the menu? It’s the same problem of [Mind Control]. When does the evil action that’s used for good become just another evil action?”

Teressa sighed, but said nothing.

Jane said, “I already said when: when they come after us directly and they could obviously use some empathy. Besides! We’ll never see these people again, either way, but if they’re Blessed, then they might do some good after doing all the bad they’ve done. Do you see those collars? You don’t even need to tell me that they’ve done wrong! I can see it already.”

“You have this concept of Free Will.” Poi said, “You understand the need for this. Why is this a hard concept for you?”

Jane said, “Because we had jails to lock up the bad guys. Not everyone should be free, but since there’s no jails here, except for jails of the mind, then we should use these ‘jails of the mind’ against those who deserve such treatment.”

Poi went dead silent, not giving a flicker of emotion away as his face became a hard mask.

Teressa looked on.

A minute passed.

Erick said, “I’ve decided.”

Poi looked to Erick. He nodded. Teressa crossed her arms.

Jane asked, “What are we doing?”

“In what is likely stupid, but the only way to be sure: I’m giving them a choice.”

- - - -

He woke up, stripped of everything. A bubble of opaque pink Force surrounded him—

“That damned pink demi basta—”

The man touched his neck, and the collar that he had used on so many other young brats dug into his skin. His status read zeros all across the board. He was fucked. Royally fucked, maybe. He pressed against the capsule in his groin— There was a dimple in his inner thigh; already healed over. God damned scions. They even took his emergency potion! What the fuck was a scion doing out here!

The man called out, “If you’re alive and you can hear me, shit-for-brains! I’m gonna kill you! You hear—”

A voice asked, “Accept soul mutilation so that you will never work this line of terror against anyone else ever again, or die right now.”

