Ezekiel said, “Let me just erase all of the [Witness]able land we just walked through…” With a few quick casts, he layered the previous lands they had walked through with [Sealed Privacy Ward]s, and then he popped those spaces. Those spaces were now retroactively non-visible to all mana senses, and [Witness]. “Okay then.” He started, “The big thing they have are the Void Walls. Each of the three cities that count themselves part of the Songli Highlands have these same magical constructs. They’re this massive anti-magic effect that restricts [Teleport] and a dozen other spells, and they’re the reason that the Songli are powerhouses. Very hard to attack them. It’s a highly populated land, too, with…”

They had gone over a lot of this stuff already, but more preparation rarely hurt anyone. Julia interjected her own research, which was monster-based, which would give them some good leads to find some monsters to kill for parts and rads and thus money. Tiffany knew rumors and a few stories, though she didn’t put much stock in any of them now that they were on the ground and Ezekiel had seen what he had seen through Odin. Paul spoke of tactics that they were likely to face off against, whenever they ran into the inevitable privateers roaming the prairie. At that, the whole conversation turned to tactics and powers and all of that.

Ezekiel listened, but he also repeated his name to himself a few times.

Ezekiel. Ezekiel. Ezekiel—

Most of Odin flew high in the sky, as invisible and as intangible as light could be. Ezekiel did not have any ‘invisible’ Odins directly around him, for magical Sights were a concern, but they still made good high-flying scouts. He wasn’t sure when, exactly, he’d need to rein them in and cut Odin down to two or three, but they were not at that necessity right yet.

And because there were so many Odin still in the sky, looking out for problems, Odin pinged him.

Ezekiel checked on the ping.

Ezekiel interrupted the information rehash, saying, “Contact. Ten kilometers ahead to the left.”

Julia, Tiffany, and Paul, all smoothly transitioned to focus.

“Scratch that.” Ezekiel said, “At our 10 and our 5. The party ahead had seven people, according to Odin’s memory. Now Odin sees three ahead of us, and four— Three behind us. One went invisible, or something. One kilometer out, both parties.”

Tiffany conjured massive grey gauntlets over her armored hands, doubling their size, as she happily said, “The welcoming committee for Clan Phoenix!”

Ezekiel quickly flickered his desire for certain information through Odin and Odin responded. Ezekiel said, “Reviewing some memories, our greeters were not at their ten-kilometer position ten minutes ago. They showed up in the last four minutes.”

Julia asked, “Probability of attack?”

Paul said, “Extremely high. They likely prepared for anyone who came through here, but we were the ones to fall into the trap.”

Ezekiel reviewed his spells, rapidly deciding which ones were good to use, and which ones would give away his true—

Tiffany perked up. “Oh! Do you see the trick, Ezekiel? Blades of prairie grass that are not all grass. We walked through a field of them.”

Ezekiel, suddenly mad at himself, spat out, “But I was look—!”

An Odin turned on [Mana Sight], since Ezekiel’s mana sense was not good enough to see what—

Oh yeah. Ezekiel paused, ever so briefly. Those grasses were not entirely real. They were barely magical, too. Ezekiel guessed that they were actually normal grasses, but with thin lines of magic on them; [Alarm Ward], or something similar. A neat trick. He had been watching for [Alarm Ward]s, but not such fine ones. Mostly, though, he had been looking out for large magics, larger than a person’s head. [Force Trap] and the like. The small shit had escaped him.

He scowled at the grass. “How did I not see—”

“I didn’t notice them either,” Tiffany beamed, as she smashed her gauntlets together, and roared, “Come on out, little shits! Take your beating!”

Paul said, “At least they didn’t have a chance to set up the field against us. I was worried more about that, then any— Guy to the left, invisible.”

Ezekiel was just about to call that out, but instead, he handed out magenta-silver [Animadversion]s to everyone, using four Script Seconds for 2800 mana, total. Paul took his shield, first; it slipped through the air like passing off an intangible cloud, to slip around Paul’s left arm. Julia got the second one. Tiffany, the third. At that same time, each Odin cast their own twisted pink-silver shields that then hung over Ezekiel’s shoulders like pink pauldrons, before each Odin took to the air, giving up their disguises.

A red, flaming spell came from the invisible guy, a hundred meters away. It was not a simple [Fireball]. It was like four [Fireball]s at once. Not quite a [Grand Fireball], but it was clearly meant to injure, and kill.

Ah. Yes. This was a fight. No parlay. No attempts at anything non-lethal. Ezekiel guessed the [Large Fireball] would do at least a thousand points of damage; and that much again over the course of a few seconds. Most people only had 600 Health or 600 Mana.

Odin moved to intercept the [Large Fireball], to bash it away with his thorny silver shield. The [Fireball] detonated on everyone, anyway, since it had likely reached its maximum distance just as Odin touched it; or maybe it was triggered to explode as soon as it touched anything at all.

Fire and heat billowed across the land. Whatever parts of the spell touched Ezekiel and his people, just kept on billowing a bit, until that fire flopped onto the ground. [Animadversion]’s reflection extended to the whole person, after all.

The land burned. Ezekiel’s magenta [Personal Ward] took damage, flickering bright in the burning air. Everyone’s [Personal Ward]s took damage; even Tiffany’s, and her grey spell was barely anything at all.

And though the ground burned…

This was completely livable. Oh, sure! It was not comfortable. The fire hurt. But it didn’t hurt bad. This was like being in really hot sunlight. Ezekiel wondered for a brief moment if he could just walk through flames, now. He probably could!

And then came [Large Fireball]s 2 through 7, from every one of the attackers, and then came the attackers themselves. Pink reflections barely bounced the flaming spells before they exploded. The attackers barely cared that their spells bounced. Some of them didn’t even dodge the bounce; they didn’t seem to care that they were now on fire. One guy who was now flaming with blue fire, laughed. He was almost upon Julia.

Time slowed, and yet, it did not, for Ezekiel had turned on [Hunter’s Instincts]. Suddenly, the battle seemed less like he was frantically responding to a horror, and more like he was casually planning how to extricate all of his people from this current problem.

The forward three attackers were incani. The backward three were human. The invisible person was a harpy. None of that mattered, it seemed. Erick was briefly glad that incani and humans seemed to be fighting alongside each other. Too bad this small collection of enlightened souls were trying to kill them.

Fire burned and boomed all around, and then the greeting party offered up a welcoming of steel.

Two humans from behind suddenly accelerated, and slashed at Paul. One with a sword, glowing oozy green, held by a woman; the other with a saber, glowing brighter green, held by a man. Paul somehow worked [Animadversion] to catch both attacks, the spell flickering with bright pink thorns as it smack smacked from one attack to the next, rapidly blocking both [Strike]s with perfect [Interception]. [Strike]s reflected.

Bright green ooze reflected onto the sword woman’s arm, rushing up the limb, over the green [Conjured Armor] to soak into the joints in her plate armor. The stench of melting flesh filled the air as green gasses briefly jettisoned from every crack in her armor, all the way up into her helmet and chestplate.

When the man’s green saber impacted pink thorns, green flashed backward, becoming disco-rays of decaying magic that splashed against the man, burning holes right into his green conjured armor.

Both of the cloying green spells suddenly stopped as both of those people aborted the rest of their attacks, backing up just as fast as they had come forward. The man healed himself and then the woman, as both of them rushed away, but not out of sight.

Ezekiel realized that maybe they did not strike to kill, but to severely injure?

No. That was giving them too much credit.

Their Decay Magic seemed to be frontload-type Decay, and they had struck with the entirety of their own killing power. [Animadversion] had thrown all of that power right back at them. They might have already burned through all of their Health. They certainly would have died if they hadn’t canceled their own damage over time effects.

Other than that, Paul was doing just fine.

Three seconds had passed since the battle was joined.

Ezekiel barely paid attention to Julia or Tiffany, except to see that, yes, they were clearly in control of their own fight against three incani. Julia flickered out with a short sword, deflected a non-elemental [Strike] with her own [Animadversion], and easily drove back her attacker, while Tiffany played with her single attacker, goading him into attacking her own shield of pink spikes.

The goad worked. The man barreled forward, not allowing Tiffany to dictate the flow of battle. They fought.

Julia fought two-on-one.

Both of the women were doing fine.

Ezekiel had his own problems.

Was Paul okay?

He briefly wondered if it was right to worry about the man, for Paul was more about soft-power than direct firepower, but he was also a highly competent fighter who had taken care of his own dual attackers in a single moment, while everyone else was still combating everyone else. After this was over, Ezekiel would not have been surprised to find out that Paul had subtly manipulated the two attackers into harming themselves with maximum power. That’s what the Mind Mage did in combat, after all.

Ezekiel’s own designated dance partners had not engaged him yet, for one simple reason.

In rapid progression, the battle shifted, as the attackers realized those shields were damn fucking powerful. Ezekiel enjoyed that feeling, briefly, then he started dismantling the attackers with just as much precision as the rest of his obviously more competent team.

Paul already knocked two people out of the fight, after all!

Those two people were currently staring at them from fifty meters away, but they weren’t currently fighting—

The invisible harpy blipped, getting right next to Ezekiel. The third human, coming from behind, was already next to Ezekiel with a spear pointed at his heart. The two decaying humans suddenly blipped right next to Ezekiel, their swords not glowing this time, but aimed at vital parts nonetheless.

Ah. Four on one. They wanted to kill him fast. Everything else had been a probing strike.

Bird Odin blasted the two on the left with [Merciful Suffocation], spitting ten curls of magenta-gold air that wrapped around the attackers and flowed into their mouths, dealing damage with every breath.

Shoulder Odin blasted the other two on the other side with the same spell. It struck both, but bounced off of the invisible person; a shockwave reflected. [Merciful Suffocation] then bounced off of Ezekiel and Odin’s own reflective spells, too, then struck the invisible person, soaking into their body. Ezekiel did not know what was happening there. The spell had bounced, but what were the criteria for a bounce? Did a stronger reflection denote how a spell was bounced? Or did the invisible person only have a single bounce to their own reflection? Or what?

This had literally never come up before. He had not studied this interaction before.

Ah. Well. They say that you never know how good your preparations are until you have to use them.

Ezekiel dumped a hundred mana into [Slowing Bolt]’s Variable cost, which was more like 2000 mana with all of his modifiers taken into account, causing a zippy pink cloud to pulse from his chest, as Ezekiel had not bothered to point at the guy with the spear. Pink mist washed over the spear-holder. The attacker stopped, completely, but his momentum carried him forward to plant into the ground. Ezekiel stepped to the side to avoid the crash.

As Ezekiel moved, causing the decay mages to retarget him, Paul, Ezekiel guessed, caused the Decay mages to trip on their own feet and fall to the ground, too, as Ezekiel slammed his gauntleted fist into the face of the invisible attacker. He could have done a lot more, but he wasn’t willing to blow his cover for something like this and only a single second had passed. Each Odin was already casting even more [Merciful Suffocation]s at every target they deigned to hit, so they were already doing everything Ezekiel wanted from them.

That punch was not the first punch Ezekiel had ever thrown in his life, but it was the first thrown with the intent to injure.

The invisible person tilted their head, ever so slightly, taking the blow to the side of their invisible helmet, instead of to their nose. But Ezekiel still had 81 Strength. This attacker was obviously expecting a caster. They were not expecting warrior-levels of power.

The attacker’s head moved several inches more to the side than they expected, but the attacker was still, barely, able to follow through with their own plan. An invisible sword came up toward Ezekiel’s groin, aiming for the space under his armor. [Animadversion] easily caught the imperfect blow, moving faster than anyone had time to blink. Mirrored-pink spikes grew larger, catching the attacker’s attempt at a disemboweling. Blood erupted from the air around the attacker’s invisible arms.

In his next Script Second, Ezekiel threw another 100 mana [Slowing Bolt] at the stronger of the two incani attacking his daughter. The incani dodged. They even put up their own shield to block the spell. The ethereal, inexorable mass of pink light passed through the shield and conjured armor around the attacker, hitting the incani, freezing them, causing them to unbalance and fall to the burning prairie grasses.

Odin was still laying down the [Merciful Suffocation] on every single attacker. Pink-gold smoke-like crescents layered upon everyone that was not Ezekiel’s team.

Julia took down her attackers. Tiffany wiped the ground with her single foe, which might have been what they were expecting. The attackers had thrown a sacrificial fighter at the 3 meter tall orcol, hoping to keep her busy while they took out the rest of the team.

That plan had not worked.

