“I know exactly who you are, but the location of our headquarters is classified,” Mlemlek replied, spreading his hands. “I can contact Rain and arrange a meeting in a less sensitive location, but—“

The abrupt halt of the Entrusted’s words called for no explanation as an enormous weight settled over Nim. She stumbled forward, Pitterpatter recoiling against the wall and knocking over a display of fabric with a crash. The cattipede’s fur puffed up in alarm as her feet scrabbled against the bare stone.

The lights seemed to flare, their brightness growing to painful intensity as an armored colossus ducked through the door. Unlike Rain and Ameliah, with their tight-fitting, battle-worn armor, this man’s armor was gargantuan and resplendent. The massive suit was enameled a flawless white, blinding with shimmering energy swirling below the surface, and set with blue gems that shone like stars. One of those, set into the chest, was so monstrously large and dense with power that it couldn’t be anything other than the full heart of a lair. It had been faceted like a gemstone and inscribed with the symbol of the Bank and the thin, four-pointed star emblem of Lightcore. The man wore no helmet, his head more than sheltered by the armor’s mountainous pauldrons. He had ash-gray hair and a nose sharp enough to be described as a beak, but it wasn’t by his features by which Nim recognized him.

Lord Jien Initi.

Her forehead hit the stone floor so hard as she threw herself into a groveling bow that she saw stars.

“This is it?” a dry male voice asked, shattering the stunned silence. “Two bronzes? One of them a child?”

“I—“ Mlemlek began.

Nim had no idea how he’d managed even that much through the suffocating weight bearing down on them, but it didn’t matter. Lord Jien spoke right over him. “You will leave this city now. This holding and all materials therein are now the property of the Lightcore Foundry.”

“I think not.”

Nim couldn’t help but inhale sharply at Mlemlek’s flippant reply.

This was it. She was going to die. The thing she did not expect was a laugh.

“Impertinence,” Jien said with clear amusement. “You have no idea how refreshing that is. It brings me back to my youth.”

“We are here with express permission from the Entente,” Mlemlek said. “Respectfully, the Foundry has no authority to demand anything from us.”

There was a rustle of paper before Jien spoke again. “It is by the will of the Entente that you are expelled.”

Mlemlek spoke, paper rustling again. “What is this?”

“The way business is conducted,” Lord Jien replied. “Leave.”

“We have a team in the Delving,” Mlemlek said sharply. “We can’t just go. Furthermore, you have no legal basis to force us, let alone claim our property. How in Dystees’ name do you claim to justify—“

“I owe you no justification,” Lord Jien interrupted. “I came here personally only to take the measure of the organization which has appeared to annoy me.” There was a long pause. “I am...disappointed.”

“You can’t do this,” Mlemlek said.

How is he still speaking? I can barely breathe.

“Another phrase I have not heard in a long time,” Lord Jien said with amusement.

Without warning, the pressure bearing down on her doubled, crushing the air from her lungs and paralyzing them in place.

“Out. Now.”

Not a shred of levity remained in Jien’s tone. There were a number of thumps as others in the room collapsed under the unfathomable weight.

“Lord Jien, please,” Legruz said, his own voice strained. “How do you expect them to go if they cannot even move? Look at them!”

“Silence,” Jien said. “You should not speak when you are the one who brought this upon them.”

“Me?” Legruz said, incredulous.

Nim tried to whimper, stars returning to her vision as she desperately strained for air.

“The Illuminators operate in this city at the pleasure of the Great Houses, as does Lightcore,” Jien said over the rising ringing in her ears. “Your unauthorized dealings threaten the tenuous balance we have achieved, and you will be called to account for that soon enough.“

“ENOUGH!” cried a new voice, and hope exploded in Nim’s heart.

First Mora!

In an instant, the pressure was gone, and Nim inhaled, sprawling bonelessly on the floor as blessed air rushed into her lungs. She heard the others similarly gasping, but it was the wave of heat that washed over her that made her open her eyes.

“Asshole!”

Nim stared agog, seeing the young girl standing atop the counter with her finger pointed accusingly at Lord Jien. Then, to leave no doubt as to what had just happened, another Firebolt began forming at her fingertip before Mlemlek caught her arm.

“Ava, stop!” he shouted urgently, the magic shooting off to scorch the floor as he wrestled her down from the counter.

Lord Jien blinked—utterly unharmed, of course—then a predatory smile spread across his face. “Ha! Perhaps I am not so disappointed after all.”

“Lord Jien, you are WAY out of line!” Mora yelled from behind Jien’s bulky form, unable to enter the crowded room past him. “You got what you wanted, but this is an Entente matter now! Why are you even here?”

“He tried to take their stuff,” Estez interjected, standing by the counter. He waved a scrap of paper in the air. “This doesn’t say anything about property. It bars them from operating a facility in the city, but that’s it.”

“Come on, get up,” Legruz said, hooking a hand under Nim’s armpit. “You’re stronger than this. You’re embarrassing me in front of the people.”

Pitterpatter meowed behind her as she accepted her mentor’s help.

“Fine,” Jien snapped after working his jaw in annoyance. He turned, practically walking over Mora as he negotiated his way through the too-small door. “I leave this business with you, First. It now bores me.”

“Kid’s right,” said the uniformless Ascension employee. His voice trembled, and he spat, his crimson blood spattering the stones. “Fucking asshole. Made me bite my tongue.”

“I’m sorry about this,” Mora said, entering the room.

Now that Jien had gone, the space felt dim. The Light Plates looked burned out, though they hadn’t even been active. The two strange lamps might have been dimmer than they’d been before, or it could have just been her eyes. That they’d survived when the plates had failed was impressive, regardless.

“It is not your fault, First Mora,” Mlemlek said tiredly. “Steeve, there is a healing potion under the counter. It’s yours to use.” He turned to Mora again. “How long do we have?”

“Until nightfall,” Mora said. “I’d say less if you don’t want him to show up again with explicit permission to steal all your stuff. Don’t worry about your team. We know they’re down there, and we’re already looking for them. Again, I’m sorry.”

“I must consult with our captain,” Mlemlek said. “Please excuse me.”

“Consult how?” Legruz asked with sudden excitement. “You have a way to speak with him from here? Marvelous!”

Having regained a measure of her strength, Nim reversed her grip on the arm supporting her. “Stop. Let’s get out of their way.”

“But they clearly need my—“

“You’re making it worse,” Nim interrupted. “The asshole was right about that much.”

Legruz looked at her like he’d been slapped. “Excuse me?”

“You heard what I said,” Nim replied. “If you want them to take us with them when they go, shut up. Just shut up. For once.”

Pitterpatter meowed in agreement, then, surprising even Nim, headbutted Legruz back before grasping him in her mouth.

“Hey!” Legruz protested as the cattipede wormed for the door, taking the squirming Illuminator with her. “Ow! Ow! Ow! You’re tearing my jacket! Gah! The drool!”

Hundreds of kilometers away, Rain leaned forward to bridge his hands.

“Oh, it is on.”
