For the rest of the night, the demon continued cycling through her skills and practicing with [Vibration Sense]. It wasn’t until the first rays of sunlight started to peek through the barracks windows that she finally turned her [Sound Perception] back on and retracted her extra-eye appendage. She decided to leave [Vibration Sense] on during the day, too, now that she was better at blocking out the unnecessary white noise parts.

Based on the singular clock in the room and her memory of the schedule for the day, there were still a few hours left before they had to show up at the training grounds. The neat thing about waking up early was that while the garrison had a “lights out” time, there was nothing indicating that you’d get in trouble for waking up early. In other words, it was an ideal time to explore.

Pyre threw on the uniform she’d been given the previous day. The fabric was thick and slightly stiff, and at first she was 90% sure it was going to be too short, but then the pants literally lengthened in front of her eyes. Her eyebrows rose, and she poked the cloth. That had to be magic. Convenient.

The demon did a quick check to make sure her bandages were all tight and that her horns hadn’t popped out in the middle of the night, then slid open the curtain and stepped out into the main room. From what she could see, most of the other cadets were still sleeping, and she didn’t run into anyone in any of the common areas on her way out.

Outside, the air was crisp and cool. The sky was still mostly dark, only a few streaks of pink lining the clouds, but she could see a few soldiers on their morning patrols or doing chores. She turned.

From where Pyre currently stood, she could just barely make out the Bellhein manor’s silhouette looming in the distance. She still hadn’t felt anything from the curse mark, but she was willing to bet that the side effects would start to show up soon if she didn’t get that horn.

A soldier on patrol glanced in her direction, but she ignored him. It wasn’t like she was doing anything wrong. Turning away from the Bellhein property, Pyre faced the dirt road running throughout the garrison again.

Well, time to see how much of the grounds she could cover before the first day of training officially began.
