Adujan glanced at Song and noted the lack of emotion on her face, although her ears did droop at the mention of her origins. Reaching out, Adujan patted her on the shoulder in sympathy, before studying Kyung. “He's very handsome, your half-brother.” A strong jaw line, prominent nose, and piercing brown eyes, with broad shoulders that tapered down to a narrow waist, he caught her staring and glared fiercely in return, to which she responded with a bite of her lip and a suggestive smile. Disappointingly, it had no effect, but she was limited in what else she could do at the moment, seated and still.

As usual, Song remained silent but Mila spoke up for her, still snipping away in small, careful cuts. “He's old though, at least 60 according to Song. They've never held a conversation either, it's disgraceful how poorly those slaves are treated. That old man is always deriding them when he speaks to them,calling them 'idiot half-beasts', 'worthless slaves' and 'mongrels', it's enough to make me want to put an arrow through his eye.”

“It would be better for you to aim for my chest, child.” Despite their hushed whispering, Du Min Gyu seemed to have heard them and Adujan felt her face heat up in embarrassment, while Mila froze mid cut. “A bigger target, and you can fire while my back is turned. You wouldn't hit me otherwise, and if you miss the heart, an arrow through the lung is almost as good.”

Pointing her scissors at him, it seemed Mila was ready to explode into a rant, but after a short pause, her mouth shut with an audible click, likely due to an unheard warning from the Chief Provost. Adujan sat stock still as Mila angrily snipped away at her hair, the metal blades loudly clanging against one another only centimeters away from her ears, using every bit of resolve she had to keep from flinching, but Mila's temper quickly cooled and soon, she was once again whispering about silly, girlish things.

“So, why the sudden interest in making your hair look nicer? Does it have something to do with all the private time that you're spending with Rain?” An impish grin from Mila set her cheeks on fire. “Staying in his tent, running off to the riverside to 'practice' with just the two of you...”

“Nothing of the sort!” She blurted out the words, louder than intended, and immediately lowered her voice. “Nothing has happened, he is asleep when I retire for bed, and all we do is spar and meditate at the river. I know that at the very least, the little Lady Lin intends to marry him, and you have some intention as well. I would not step in front of either of you, I swear.”

“Oh Yan.” Mila's hands took her own as she crouched in front to look in her eyes. “Have you been worried about your standing? Lin doesn't care about things like that, and I'm not even sure if I want to marry him. He's so lecherous, who knows how many wives he intends to take. Do as you please, you won't upset anyone.” She returned to cutting hair, before adding, “Besides, I think that of the three of us, you are the closest to his heart. He truly sees Lin as a sister, and he only looks at me because of a dream.”

Adujan smiled, a weight lifting off her shoulders. “I think I'm just his good friend, he treats me no differently than Huu or Fung. I honestly don't know what I want either. He's handsome enough, but there are so many other options, how am I to know?” She eyed the slave named Kyung once again. How much would he cost? She liked the strong, silent, servile type and he was definitely all of those.

After a bit more cutting, Mila finally exclaimed that she had finished and held up a small, copper mirror for Adujan to admire herself in. Her hair was still short, but a little longer in the front, dainty and light with a hint of girlish charm. Running her fingers through it, she smiled in appreciation, standing to lift Mila into a hug. “Thank you, Mila, I love it.” See how she likes being twirled around.

Unfortunately, she seemed to love being hugged like that, breaking out into a fit of giggles as she leaned into the embrace. “Anytime Yan. I still think you should let it grow out a little, and I have an unction from Rain you can rub into your hair for a brighter shine and softer feel.” Adujan's eyes began to glaze over as Mila continued to outline several hair care steps that she should follow, lost in the complexity of feminine care. It was too bothersome, with these unctions and lotions, perfumes and makeup, how did Mila ever have time to do all of these things? She continued to absently nod as she tried to follow along, but Mila spoke too quickly and most of it was lost.

As soon as an audible pause was reached, Adujan quickly interjected, claiming the need to cultivate, afraid that if she allowed Mila to continue she would talk all day. Even then, Mila insisted that Adujan meditate next to her, and Adujan caved in to her demand, seating herself on the grass a short distance away from the incense burner.

Closing her eyes, she cleared her mind as she always did, by picturing a blank canvas with a tiny black dot, and very slowly focusing in on that dot, her field of vision encompassed by the darkness. Then, within the darkness, was a tiny dot of white, and she focused upon that, slowly drawing in once again until all was white. She repeated the process until her mind was calm and tranquil, and she reached for Balance.

The Energy of the Heavens began to slowly surround her, a vortex with her in the center. It reminded her of looking at Du Min Gyu, standing tall and proud, a single man surrounded by an army, yet still arrogant enough to threaten them all with death, a powerful, imposing figure as the wind swirled around him, moving so quickly it seemed as if there were five static trails of dirt, frozen in place around him.

Focusing upon that thought, she tried to mimic that scene with her cultivation, to draw in the Heavenly Energy to herself with her core as the center. The violent whirlwind circled around her, raging around her without truly touching her. It broke apart as it circulated around her again and again, until finally, a gentle breeze slipped past her invisible defenses and it surged into the void that was her core, more pure and powerful than anything she had ever felt, filling her with elation. Everything she did was as if on instinct, the knowledge buried deep within in her, and she dedicated herself to remembering this feeling, to learning to replicate it. Is this what she kept forgetting? No wonder that she felt so unfulfilled when she woke, this was incredible!

She luxuriated as she sat in place, feeling the warm gentle breeze try to take her away, but she stayed rooted in place, despite the temptation to allow it to bring her out into the tempest. The wind seemed to whisper to her, and she strained her ears to listen, but there were no words, only emotions, and she sat in place, feeling safe and content, a willow tree, bending in the wind, neither accepting nor surrendering, rooted to herself as she was kept safe in the arms of the Mother.

Chapter Meme
