“Fire! Put out the fire!”
Of all the ways to wake up, hearing that shouted from below still beat being stabbed in the chest. But the Horns of Hammerad were still out of bed and racing downstairs within seconds of hearing it.
A cloud of black smoke billowed out of the kitchen as Erin stumbled out, hacking and coughing. Toren followed her, holding a smoking, flaming pan. He charged outside, and the Horns of Hammerad saw him hurl the pan to the ground and begin stomping on whatever had been inside.
The smoke began to clear a bit, but it still stung the eyes. The smell of burnt grease and charcoal lingered unpleasantly in the air.
Erin stared up at the adventurers staring down at her from the staircase. She grinned weakly and waved.
“Oh. Hi. Um. Anyone want pancakes?”
 
——
 
Much to Erin’s surprise, the Horns of Hammerad actually knew what pancakes were. Apparently, pancakes weren’t a product of the modern age, and so she served several heaping plates to her guests until they were all full.
Pancakes were fun. Pancakes were easy to make. Erin could let Toren stir the batter together while she cooked them on a pan over the fire. She used a spatula and oiled her pan well to get the pancakes to stop sticking. She’d tried flipping it like chefs did on TV, but she stopped after the pancakes kept landing on Toren and the fire.
She joined them for the last bit of the meal once she’d reached a critical mass of pancake. Erin munched on her food as the adventurers ate their way back into the waking world.
“What was all that about?”
Erin looked at the bald mage and tried to remember his name. Soulstorm? It was something like that.
“Oh, uh, I was trying to teach him how to cook.”
Erin pointed to Toren as the skeleton walked into the room with a pitcher of milk. She accepted a refill of the glass as the other adventurers stared at her.
“What? I thought it would be easy. Fun fact: it’s not.”
“A skeleton…cooking?”
“Well, he already does all the other chores. If he could do stuff like make eggs, stir soup, and flip pancakes, it’d make my life even easier. But, uh, skeletons don’t really understand the difference between ‘cooked’ and ‘burned’.”
Gerial exchanged a glance with the half-Elf and shook his head. But Ceria looked intrigued.
“It’s not a bad idea. I’m still not sure what Pisces was thinking, giving you only one skeleton as a guard, but I suppose that’s all your mana supply could take.”
Erin froze, fork stuck in her food.
“My what? I don’t have any magic. I mean, I can’t use magic.”
Ceria frowned at Erin.
“Really? Who told you that?”
“Pisces.”
“Ah. But I wasn’t talking about spellcasting. I just meant your internal mana supply.”
Ceria looked around and saw blank faces around her, except for the other mage.
“Oh come on. You all know you have magic inside of you, right?”
Gerial looked down at his stomach, bemused.
“We do?”
“Of course. Magic is part of us. It’s in the air we breathe, the food we eat—we all have our own supply of mana, however small. My kind has a great deal of internal magic we generate simply by existing, so we make good mages. Humans on the other hand—”
She shrugged and bit into a piece of pancake. She chewed and spoke around her food.
“Not as much. But exceptions exist, and they make good mages. But even if you don’t cast spells, you have some mana in you. Enough to sustain basic spells or supply a summoned creature with enough magic to survive if it can’t by itself.”
“So I have magic? In me? Does that mean if Toren wasn’t here I’d—be able to cast spells?”
Ceria paused and shook her head sympathetically.
“I’m sorry. But if Pisces tested you, it’s unlikely. Maybe there’s a better chance, but…”
“Oh.”
Erin said it quietly. She kept eating in silence as the other adventurers spoke.
“I’d like to go into the city and collect our share of the supplies. We also need to visit the Adventurer’s Guild to make sure we’re still cleared to enter the ruins. But, ah, we can’t go if that adventurer is still around.”
Calruz scowled as he ate two pancakes in a single bite.
“Gazi the Omniscient. It would be inconvenient if she were to trouble us now. I will go with you.”
Erin blinked and looked up from her plate.
“Gazi? Oh, she’s gone.”
The other Horns of Hammerad stared at her.
“Are you sure?”
“Yeah. She told me she was going and looking for something. Somewhere else.”
Erin was aware of the other adventurers sharing a look at the table, but she didn’t understand what it meant. It was just a look that told you it was significant but didn’t share any of the details. It could be that it was a look to signify the world was changing and those present were at the precipice of a new era. Or it could be a look to subtly acknowledge some unlucky person had stepped in dog poo and hadn’t noticed. You couldn’t tell.
“Well then, that makes things simpler. At least for now.”
Gerial shook his head and stood up from the table.
“We’ll see if anything else needs doing in the city. Calruz, do you still want to join us?”
The Minotaur snorted.
“There is no need to waste any more time with useless chattering and polishing weapons. Tomorrow, we fight. Tell the others I will be ready when the time comes.”
The adventurers nodded and began trooping out the door. Erin stared at their dirty dishes and pointed silently to Toren and then at the table. The skeleton obediently walked over and began to gather them.
Calruz was still eating, but Erin could hear the other adventurers debating how to spend their last day. Some were in favor of buying trinkets to send to family, others to see what kind of entertainment was available in the city. Erin clearly heard Gerial talking casually to the others as he closed the door behind him.
“That’s odd. Was that large rock there yesterday?”
Erin shot up in her seat.
“Wait!”
She threw the door open and caught the adventurers as they were descending the hill. Erin desperately waved her arms at them and shouted incoherently.
“Stop! Hold it! Don’t go any further!”
They turned and stared. Erin pointed with a trembling finger at the large, conspicuously inconspicuous boulder casually blocking their path towards the city.
“Stay right there! If the rock moves, hit it or cast a spell or something!”
“Hit the rock?”
Perplexed, Gerial and the other adventurers stared at the hidden Rock Crab. Ceria, on the other hand, narrowed her eyes and took a few steps back.
Erin rushed inside her inn and came out a few seconds later with a basket full of seed cores. Calruz followed her and stared at the giant boulder.
“What are you worried about?”
Erin grabbed one of the seed cores carefully and held it in one hand. She pointed at the boulder as she glared at Calruz.
“There’s a monster down there.”
He squinted.
“I don’t see it. Is it hiding in the ground?”
“No!”
Erin pointed again.
“See that? That thing?”
Calruz looked. He frowned.
“That is a boulder. What of it?”
Ceria coughed.
“It’s actually not, Calruz. It’s a monster, hiding under the rock. What you’re actually looking at is a shell.”
The other adventurers reacted to that news. Several swore, and those holding weapons backed up as they gripped their weapon hilts.
“Are you sure?”
The half-Elf nodded. Her wise, half-Elven eyes…looked pointedly at the edge of the rock, devoid of moss or other signs the rock had been rooted in the ground for a long time, and Erin’s face.
“I didn’t see it at first, but there’s definitely something odd about that boulder. It looks too—out of place. See how the grass is flattened around it? And it hasn’t sunk into the earth as it should have over time.”
Gerial frowned as he half-unsheathed his sword.
“I believe you, but my [Dangersense] hasn’t gone off.”
“Not everything trips [Dangersense]. And if it’s a sneak attack, you’d have to be right next to the creature, and by that point, you’d be dead.”
He blew out his mustache.
“Fair point. Well, how do you want to tackle it? Freezing spells and then we charge in?”
Calruz nodded. He reached for his axe.
“I’ll break its shell.”
“No need.”
To the adventurers’ surprise, Erin walked forwards.
“I can totally scare it off.”
Calruz’s face was a statement of incredulity.
“Impossible.”
“Watch me.”
Erin took aim and threw. Her first seed core splattered harmlessly against the Rock Crab’s shell. The second and third did the same as blue-gray seeds and liquid began trickling down the side of the boulder.
The adventurers were just starting to fidget in place when the Rock Crab suddenly lurched to its feet. They immediately readied their weapons, but the giant crab began scuttling away as Erin threw several more Seed Cores after it. Courtesy of her Skill, each one struck the shell until the Rock Crab scuttled over a hilltop and disappeared.
Erin turned, smiling, and saw the Horns of Hammerad staring at her, slack-jawed.
“How did you do that?”
She showed them the seed cores and explained about the strange trees in the orchard she’d found. Ceria frowned at the small cores.
“I think I know what you’re talking about. Can I see one of those, ah, seed cores?”
“Here.”
Erin casually tossed a seed core at Ceria. The half-Elf yelped, desperately grabbed the pod, and held it gingerly in her hands as if it were a live grenade.
“Tree kissing rot! Don’t do that!”
“Why?”
Ceria’s hand shook as she very carefully held the seed core in her hand. Her’s eyes bulged.
“We’ve been drinking this? Are you insane?”
“Just the outer part! I know how to pick ones where the core isn’t broken! Honest! You’re not dead, so I’m right.”
Erin hurried to reassure Ceria. The half-Elf looked pale, but after a while, she accepted that Erin probably hadn’t poisoned them.
Gerial frowned at the seed cores in Erin’s basket, confused.
“That explains why the crab ran off. But why is it afraid of a tiny bit of poison? It’s a lot bigger than we are.”
“It must not have strong resistance to poison. Either that or it has no way to reduce the buildup of toxins like we do. Those crab-creatures might carry the sickness within them for the rest of their lives if they’re not careful.”
Gerial and the other adventurers muttered as Erin handed Toren the seed cores to put back in the inn. This time, far away from the kitchen.
“Well, you saved our hides from a nasty encounter. That thing was big, and I don’t relish wasting any more healing potions before we go into the ruins.”
“Mm.”
Calruz folded his arms and stared at the place where the Rock Crab had been. He didn’t appear particularly impressed.
“Go, then. I will remain here.”
Ceria and the others eyed him curiously.
“Doing what? Sleeping?”
“No. Teaching.”
 
——
 
“Only Calruz would think about teaching an [Innkeeper] to fight.”
Gerial shook his head as he and Ceria pushed their way into the local Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor. The building was far smaller than they were used to and bustling with activity. Countless Bronze-rank adventurers were trying to turn in bounties on monsters or take the few requests posted on the jobs board.
“Here.”
Ceria pointed, and the two got into the shortest line. They kept talking as a harried-looking Drake receptionist dealt with the adventurers in front of them.
“I mean, why does she need training? You saw how she handled that crab thing.”
“That’s not the same as knowing how to fight. And besides, those seed cores won’t do much good against a group of bandits or even a few Goblins.”
Ceria had to raise her voice to talk over the hubbub in the room. The receptionist in front of them had a loud voice, and she was using it liberally as she dealt with the line in front of them.
“Look, I don’t care how the Human cities do it. We don’t give out bounties for beating up [Thugs]. How do you know they were guilty anyways? Did you just beat up some kids? In the future, let the Watch take care of it. Next!”
“Still. Do you think he’s going to teach her how to use a weapon? In a day?”
“It’s Calruz. He probably expects Erin to be like Minotaur children. They grow up knowing how to use a blade.”
“Evil Goblins? Robbing you? And what are we supposed to do about it? Go and post a bounty if you’re that upset. But they’re Goblins. Go grab a sword and deal with it yourself!”
“I hope he goes easy on her. I’d hate for him to hurt her accidentally.”
“You Humans. Always so worried. She’s survived this far. Calruz won’t kill her by the time we get back. Probably.”
“No, there are no more requests available. Sorry. Next! You two, the Human and, er, pointy-eared Human! I’m assuming you’re a half-Elf, but let me know if I’m wrong.”
Gerial and Ceria looked up. Selys waved at them, and they approached.
“What can I do for you? And if it’s about lodging or supplies, don’t bother. The Guild is all out of everything.”
“No, ah, it’s not that, Miss.”
Gerial cleared his throat and smiled at Selys. The Drake did not return the smile.
“We’re part of the Horns of Hammerad. We—and four other teams—put in a request a few days ago to enter the ruins as part of an expedition. We were wondering if we had permission—”
“Oh, you’re that lot.”
Selys’s eyes widened, and she stared at Gerial and Ceria.
“You’re one of the first non-Drake Silver-rank teams we’ve had in the city in a while. I expected you’d be bigger. And don’t you have a Minotaur in your group? Please don’t let him cause any damage.”
She rushed on before either adventurer could respond.
“Anyways, the Guild already approved your request, so there’s nothing to worry about. Go right ahead.”
Both Ceria and Gerial exchanged a quizzical glance. Gerial cleared his throat.
“Um. We don’t need any seals? Any letters or proof we can enter?”
This time, it was Selys’ turn to look confused.
“Why would you need anything like that? You’re adventurers, right? Just go out and kill monsters and try not to get killed.”
“Oh it’s just—”
“It’s just that in Human cities, adventuring is a lot more regulated.”
Ceria leaned over the counter and smiled at Selys.
“We don’t want to cause any trouble, being outsiders and all.”
Selys smiled at Ceria, her eyes flicking to the half-Elf’s pointed ears.
“Well, I appreciate that. Most of you Humans—er, the Humans we get don’t obey many of our laws. If you could clear out those ruins so they all go away, I think the city would throw you a celebration.”
“Something to look forwards to. We’re heading in tomorrow. So just to clarify—there’s nothing we need to do?”
Selys waved one hand.
