“Your king. In times of need, even he defends himself, does he not?”
He meant real kings, but it was true of chess as well.
“Only as a last resort.”
“This is the last resort I speak of. Someday, you will surely be alone and without anyone to protect you. Will you die then or fight?”
Erin didn’t have any good comeback to that. She bowed her head until the Minotaur murmured.
“Striking a downed opponent may be wrong.”
There was something in Calruz’s voice that made Erin look up. He didn’t bark his next few words but spoke more quietly, choosing them carefully.
“Perhaps—yes. There is more honor in you than I thought. Very well. I have little time, so I shall simply teach you to fight. If you practice against your creature, you may learn the basics quickly enough.”
He gestured, and Toren raised his guard again.
“The skeleton will block. Simply strike at him. He is dead, so it matters little what you do. Forget death and battle for the moment. Simply know the purity of combat.”
That sounded better. Erin nodded and stood straight. She made a fist, and Toren blocked.
“That doesn’t mean strike like a pathetic weakling! Hit harder!”
Erin did.
“Ow.”
It wasn’t as if there were any soft part on Toren to hit. Erin punched again, and her fist collided with his bony arm.
“Ow.”
After a few minutes, Calruz had Erin learn to block. This time, Toren attacked, striking her hands and arms hard. But it was easy. Surprisingly easy to see everything coming. Erin’s arms hurt, but the skeleton never landed a punch or kick on her. He was probably taking it easy like Calruz, but the Minotaur seemed approving.
“Now—a spar.”
“Can’t we rest instead?”
Erin complained as she rubbed at her arms. She needed a healing potion. She could already feel the bruises.
“No. Consider this a final test. Both of you—spar with each other. You are a good match. Equally weak. Well, the skeleton knows how to fight, but it should be good practice.”
She wanted to protest, but arguing with Calruz was worse than trying to shift a stubborn bull. Erin stumbled towards Toren as the skeleton raised his guard. He feinted at her. Mechanically, she blocked.
Blocking was easy. Punching was easy. It was too easy. Fighting was—wasn’t something Erin liked.
Toren kicked at her chest, and Erin’s arm was pushed away. He punched her in the breast.
“Ow! Hey—”
His fist caught her in the jaw. Erin stumbled and then got mad. She caught his fist and slugged Toren in the head. This time, he stepped back. The skeleton carefully eyed Erin and then charged.
That was too fast. And he’d never tried that on Erin. But she was angry now. She stepped sideways at the last moment and rammed him from the side. Toren went sprawling, and Erin kicked him in the ribs as he was getting up.
She didn’t see how Calruz’s eyes widened as she blocked Toren as he rapidly struck at her face and sides, kicking, punching without landing a hit on her. Erin was just acting on instinct. Toren was so slow. He was a fighting machine, but he fought like a machine. He wasn’t original.
She stomped on his foot and pushed him down. Toren rolled as she kicked at him and leapt to his feet. He feinted at her face. Erin didn’t move. She could tell it was fake. Toren pulled his fist back, confused. Erin hit him futilely in the shoulder. The problem was that she couldn’t really hurt him. He was all bones.
But she was winning. She could feel it.
Erin was still sick. And tired. And her hands hurt. But there was something else there, too.
Frustration. And a bit of anger.
No—not just a bit. A quiet ocean, sitting just below the depths of Erin’s thoughts. A part of her hated violence. But another part was relieved she could fight back. It wanted her to never be helpless. It was anger and something else.
And it felt—good to let it out.
Toren punched and received a cross-counter to the face. Erin didn’t know that was what she did. She just saw the opening and took it.
She kicked, and Toren blocked. She dodged a fist to her side and slapped his arm down before hitting his arms as he covered his face.
His guard was faltering. Erin felt a rush of energy. She punched faster, putting her hips into the blow like Calruz had shown her. More strength. She was stronger than Toren, thanks to her Skill.
She just wanted to knock that stupid skeleton down. He kept coming at her, again and again. It didn’t matter that she hit him. He was dead, and he had no flesh to bruise. But he didn’t hold back, and her arms were hurting.
Toren had just kicked Erin’s leg, and she was staggering. But she saw him run at her, and something in her mind clicked. She stood up, raised her hand, took one step, and kicked.
One of Toren’s legs broke. Not the bones themselves—but the leg disconnected, and the skeleton went down. He raised his arms and saw Erin’s fist flying at his head.
She felt it. A perfect strike. A moment of truth. Erin put her entire body into one hit, throwing her entire weight into a strike that smashed right through Toren’s guard and crashed into where his nose would have been if he was alive.
Thud.
His head detached. In slow motion, Erin saw the skeleton’s head fly off the body. She stared as Toren’s head flew off the top of the hill, bounced down the incline, and rolled to a stop fifty feet away.
Erin stared at the upright torso of Toren in shock. After a second, it buckled and fell down.
She stared at her hand. She’d opened up the skin on her knuckles, and she was bleeding. But she’d felt it. She’d hit Toren harder than she’d ever hit—or done—anything in her life. She’d felt it.
Erin stared around. She wanted to know if that was what Calruz was talking about. She looked at the Minotaur. He was gaping at her, mouth wide open, eyes bulging.
After a few moments, Calruz closed his mouth. He stared at Toren and then at Erin. He cleared his throat a few times and then looked at Erin.
“…Can you do that again?”
 
——
 
“Take a good look at this.”
Gerial whistled and beckoned to Ceria. She broke off her conversation with Yvlon, and both women walked over to see what was so interesting.
Cervial held up a massive crossbow, sleek black metal and pointed death. It wasn’t currently loaded, of course, but just by looking, the two adventurers could see how much power it had.
He grinned at Yvlon and held it out to her. She accepted it carefully and stared curiously at the device.
“Where did you get that from, Cervial? I’ve never seen a crossbow made like that.”
He beamed ear-to-ear as she inspected it.
“That’s because this one is made by Dwarves. Custom-ordered. Ever seen one this nice, Gerial? It’s like a bow, but one that you can load and wait until you need to shoot. This one’s a piece of art. Pure Dwarfsteel, straight from the forges of Deríthal-Vel.”
Gerial took the bow from Yvlon as Ceria rolled her eyes. The man exclaimed.
“Beautiful. Crossbow Stan’s got the best ones I’ve seen, and he’ll go green with jealousy when he sees yours. What’s the range compared to a bow…? We should have you and Marian compete for range and accuracy and power.”
Ceria wasn’t as impressed as the other two Humans, but listened readily enough as Cervial extolled the virtues of the device.
“It cost nearly every gold piece we had, but it was worth it. We cracked the armor of a Stone Golem with one shot, and we’ve brought down more shielded enemies than I can count with this.”
“And this is your trump card for the expedition?”
“We might be at a disadvantage if we run into tight corridors, but with this, we’ll be able to pull our weight.”
“Well, we’re all set here. We’ve got a battle plan worked out, and my team and The Horns of Hammerad are set. Menes says his folks have enough mana potions. The only group not accounted for is Gregor’s. Where is he?”
Cervial grinned.
“Gregor is busy going through the last adventurers clamoring to join the expedition. He says he’ll probably turn them all down, but you never know who’ll turn up.”
Gerial reluctantly handed the crossbow back to Cervial. He could easily imagine the Horns of Hammerad with every member holding one of the deadly weapons. Well—everyone except Calruz and Ceria.
“Did we find anyone useful?”
“Some.”
Yvlon shrugged and counted off on her gauntleted fingers.
“A few [Mages], a Silver-rank with sword and shield…not too many, but better than nothing. I asked the mage you told me about, Gerial, but he turned me down.”
Ceria glared at Gerial while he studiously looked the other way.
“It was, ah, just a thought. We could use all the help we can get.”
Cervial shrugged. He carefully began unstringing the black crossbow.
“No use fretting about one or two swords now. We’re five adventuring teams. Counting the extras, we’re over forty people strong, and all of us are Silver-rank. If there’s a Gold-rank team better than this, I’d love to see it.”
Gerial nodded. He glanced covetously at the crossbow as Cervial went to store it in a case and then looked up. Both Yvlon and Ceria glanced up as well.
They were in the Adventurer’s Guild, sitting by themselves at a table. But someone had walked over. A Drake. He seemed…young, at least as far as they could tell. His scales were a lighter shade of blue than most, and he was smiling. At least, it looked like a smile. Just one with a lot of teeth.
“Um. Excuse me? I heard you were the team going into the ruins. Would you mind if I joined your group?”
The adventurers shared a glance. Yvlon cleared her throat and smiled at the Drake.
“I’m sorry, but we have enough fighters, and this is a dangerous expedition we’re embarking on. We can’t take rookies or people who aren’t adventurers.”
The Drake looked surprised.
“How do you know I’m not an adventurer?”
“You don’t have any weapons or armor, and you act like a civilian.”
“Oh.”
The Drake nodded.
“But I still think you might be willing to take me. I have valuable skills I could contribute, and I—I’d like to improve myself.”
“Oh? And what class are you, then? And I don’t believe I caught your name.”
Flustered, the Drake bowed his head slightly.
“Forgive me, I forgot to introduce myself. My name is Olesm. I’m a [Tactician]. Level 24.”
 
——
 
Ceria and Gerial returned to the inn and paused. Instead of dinner, they saw an unusual sight. All of the Horns of Hammerad were sitting in the grass, watching as Calruz chased Erin around. He was punching and kicking at her—not as hard or quickly as they knew he could, but with enough force that Erin was screaming and running around, dodging frantically.
“Aaaah! Help!”
Erin ducked and scuttled away as Calruz swung one massive fist towards her head. He scowled at her.
“Stop running! Don’t—don’t crouch like that. If you must retreat, do it quickly and without wasting motion. Never turn your back to the enemy!”
“Calruz! What are you doing?”
Ceria ran forwards. Erin dove and hid behind her. The half-Elf barred Calruz’s way as the Minotaur tried to follow Erin.
“Move aside, Ceria. I am teaching her to fight.”
“By bullying her?”
“She must learn to fight an enemy stronger and larger than she is.”
“Yeah, but there are limits. I wouldn’t ever get in a fight with a Minotaur. If I’m ever without mana or any potions, I’ll just run for it.”
“Exactly!”
Erin tried to keep Ceria between her and Calruz as she glared at the Minotaur.
“I’m hungry! And tired! I’ve been doing stupid spars all day! I haven’t even had lunch!”
“Is this true?”
Calruz didn’t appear fazed by either female’s disapproval. He snorted and didn’t respond. Ceria crossed her arms.
“I’m sure Erin was grateful to learn from you, but if she doesn’t want to learn any more, you have to respect that.”
Calruz waved one hand dismissively.
“Running away will not solve anything. She must hone her instincts. I will let her rest after she lands a proper hit on me. Now move—”
He pushed Ceria aside. The half-Elf growled, but Erin dashed forwards.
“Take this!”
Erin kicked upwards. Instantly, Calruz’s legs tried to lock together, but it was too late. Gerial, Sostrom, and every other male in the Horns of Hammerad winced as Calruz bellowed in agony.
Fleeing backwards again, Erin stopped ten feet away and stared at Calruz.
“How’s that, you jerk? Happy?”
Ceria started laughing as Calruz swore in his own language, uttering several guttural sounds as he straightened. He covered his private…part with one hand as he glared at Erin.
“That—was a dishonorable blow.”
“But it was what you wanted. Keep chasing me and I’ll—I’ll do it again!”
He glared, but Erin could glare with the best, and she was tired and upset. At last, he blew out air through his nostrils, veins throbbing on his forehead.
“Go. Rest.”
Before he could change his mind, Erin fled. Ceria was still laughing.
Calruz turned to Toren and pointed.
“I will teach you. If you are to protect her, you must fight better. Come. Strike at me.”
The skeleton rushed at Calruz without needing further prompting. The Horns of Hammerad began taking bets on whether he’d hit Calruz.
Toren feinted at Calruz and then tried to copy the move Erin had used. His foot came up. Calruz caught his leg and narrowed his eyes at the skeleton.
Erin had just poured herself a cup of water and come back outside in time to see Calruz hurl Toren’s head off the hill. She cleared her throat, and the Horns of Hammerad looked around.
“If you’re done beating up my skeleton, does anyone want something to eat?”
 
——
 
“That was hilarious.”
“It was underhanded.”
“I’ve never seen anything funnier.”
Ceria was still chuckling as she sat with Calruz in the inn, eating pasta. It was Erin’s go-to option when she was pressed for time or tired. Boil water, insert pasta, chop up onions, add some butter and other ancillary parts and you’re done. Nothing simpler.
Calruz was still glaring at his plate, but he’d mostly recovered from Erin’s literal low blow. He shook his head as the half-Elf kept poking fun at him.
“At least she was able to strike at me, even by surprise. That is good.”
Ceria stopped laughing and grew serious for a moment.
“But really, Calruz, why were you so intent on teaching her? I thought you were going to just show her how to punch properly, not try and turn her into an adventurer overnight.”
The Minotaur grunted and forked a huge mess of noodles and sauce into his mouth.
“I was. But she showed me that she had more potential than that.”
“Oh?”
He grunted.
“She is—talented. Very talented. Ceria. In the course of a few hours, she was able to overwhelm that skeleton in a fist fight. And then she unlocked a Skill. She learned one in the heat of training.”
