“No, that’s all right, you think I’m not worth being compared to a goblin. That’s fine! That’s just fucking FINE!” He progressively grew louder as he walked, taking a sharp left, pulling Markus down another hallway. “No, that’s alright! It’s fine that you can’t tell us smaller creatures apart, and it’s FINE that imp barons keep us just smart enough that we can understand how much we we're being tortured spending our whole lives wiping their FUCKING ASSES! It’s fine! It’s fine. It’s fiiiine!”

Markus could see the armory ahead. He recognised it from before. He could see the same tentacled guard from before, sat at his desk through the open door.

Some familiarity was a welcome change. A witness in case this fucking lunatic tried to kill him was an even better change.

“Hey. Hey, you. You know what? You know what? You know fucking what?!”

The jailer planted his feet. Markus ground to a halt. He almost felt afraid to ask what ‘what’ was. Somehow, this little creature was more terrifying than any god or devil he’d encountered thus far.

Thankfully, he didn’t have to ask. Thankfully, this jailer spoke his mind without being even remotely invited to.

“You know what? You’re right! I’m not very fond of Drathok. I can’t directly disobey him, either. No no no, CAN’T DO THAT! But you know what my orders were this morning, passed down from my esteemed master? Fetch the human! Check him for injuries. Make sure he’s ready, then bring him to his fight! Well aren’t you a prize fucking princess!”

“Well, you’re doing a great job at it, and I think it’s real shitty that you get treated that way, and—”

“You know whattt?” The imp made a sharp heel turn right before the armory, causing Markus to be yanked in the other direction before he could even skid to a halt, vertigo wracking his brain. “I think you’re ready! I think we can take you straight to your fight, right now! Doesn’t that sound fun?!”

“But I don’t have a weapon yet, I—”

“You don’t need a weapon! You told me that yourself! That’s what I’ll tell Drathok after you get sliced to fucking pieces, and good luck arguing that from beyond the grave!”

Fuck. This was turning south fast. “Hey, slow down. If I die out there, your boss is gonna get really, really pissed, and—”

“And what? Put me out of my misery? No. Flay me and string me up? Throw me in a boiling pot? Put me on twenty years of toilet duty? HE’S DONE IT ALL BEFORE!” The imp giggled ferociously, like something from a mental patient’s nightmares. “I’m willing to roll the dice. I’m bored! Wanna see what happens when his new cash cow winds up DEAD. Can’t WAIT to see the look on his face…

Markus tried as he might to struggle and strain as the imp began to march him away, but it was to no avail. Whatever this spell was, it was clearly potent, and nothing in his current repertoire was going to have any chance of breaking it. “H-hey. You don’t have to do this. You can easily not do this. Just let me grab a weapon and—”

“You’d really be sticking it to Drathok if you died, right? HAHAHAHAHA!”

Fuck. Guess that had come back to bite him. It was an idle comment, not a fucking suggestion! How was he meant to know the guy was fucking mutinous!

“Hey! Hey!” Markus shouted back to the armory guard as best he could as he was being dragged away, desperate to gain his attention.

“What?” the tentacled creature asked, rising from his seat.

“Help me! Stop him! Grab me a weapon! Anything!”

“...you got money?”

“Yes!” Markus lied.

“...I still don’t want to.”

“Holy fuckkk—ARGHH!”

Markus couldn’t help but scream. This place was making him lose his fucking mind. Yay! An easy fight! Let’s go to it with our fucking fists! That’s surely not gonna get me killed!

Markus hurriedly pulled up his system as he was dragged to the arena gates, ignoring the insane ramblings of the jailer along the way.

The system didn’t seem to want to respond straight away, almost as if it was being interfered with by the spell. That might’ve explained why he was struggling so much to focus his mana right now. Either way, he needed to brush up on what his new Mana Manipulation skills did now. If he was gonna get through this next fight, he needed every ability he had at his disposal.

Thankfully, he’d generated a fair bit of mana as he’d slept. Frozen Tomb should be available for him. As for these two new skills…

[Empower I: Enhance your next strike or ability with up to two extra mana types. Different mana types yield different results when used in conjunction with abilities, and strikes using differing mana types may cause either additional strike damage, or compound effects when used in combination.]

That… sounded useful. Thank god, that sounded useful.

With a laugh of sheer demented glee, the jailer shoved him through the arena gates, immediately severing the tie between them.

As soon as he did so, Markus felt the mana swirl inside of him. It hadn’t been so obvious he’d been suppressed until he’d been unshackled. Now, he wasn’t sure how he’d ever not noticed it.

Markus began to shuffle forwards, approaching the arena as slowly as he could, trying as he might to read his second ability in the tiny amount of time he had left.

God, this was fucked up… how had he ended up in yet another fight with no real preparation again?

[Manifest I. Using mental command of the Spirit Mana within your body, draw upon your desires to create them unto this world, using the mana of your body to construct physical extensions of your will that may remain tangible until your focus wanes. Larger objects require concentration to maintain, and any and all objects are dissipated upon taking damage. Cost is dynamic depending on object’s size, weight, and complexity.]

Right. Okay. So he had a weapon. Maybe. Potentially. If he could figure out how the fuck to use this thing right, he maybe had a weapon. One that’d disappear from him if he got hurt.

“LADIES AND GENTLEMEN OF SUN CITY, THE ESTEEMED KILLER FROM EARTH RETURNSSS!”

Markus looked out. There were seven goblins waiting for him.

Seven. All of them brandishing swords, shields, polearms, axes, and one of them a large club.

He stared. He sighed. He counted again.

Yup. Still seven of the bastards.

Time to start subtracting.
