Faster than her eyes could follow, Gen drew his sword and slashed out at the closest villager. With a gurgling cry, the man fell to the ground in a spray of blood chaos broke out in the clearing. Scattering like rabbits, everyone scrambled to escape as Gen hacked away at any within reach, laughing drunkenly amidst the screams. Stumbling away, Qing-Qing turned to run with Deng dragging her along, but in the blink of an eye, Gen was upon her grabbing her by the arm as her hand slipped from Deng's. Without turning to look back, Deng ran off without a word, abandoning her behind him as Gen laughed and pulled her screaming and struggling into his embrace. “I always knew we were destined to be together but you never saw it. It's all right, I forgive you, you'll see how right we are for each other in time.”

The clearing was empty but for corpses and Uncle Wei, weeping inconsolably on his knees. She wasn't sure he even realized what was going on, so consumed by grief. Praying to the Mother, she clutched at Gen's arm, her fingernails digging deep into his skin, but he continued to ramble on. “Even better, I found Father-in-Law! Come out and greet your father Bei, we must pay our respects. Ah what a sight, my beautiful bride dressed in red.”

Her heart lurched as Bei stepped out of the shadows, her clothes stained in blood with her head lowered and turned away, arms wrapped around herself and shoulders shaking in silent sobs. “Oh Mother, Bei, are you all right? He didn't hurt you did he? Don't worry, he won't get away with this. He'll pay for it, he-”

Voice freezing in her throat, Qing-Qing fought the urge to retch as Bei lifted her head, Uncle Wei crying in sorrow and joy as he embraced his daughter. Bright red splotches covered the side of her face, from the top of her forehead to her chin. The opened wounds oozing pus and blood, a pattern of blackened edges working its way down her face, jarring next to Bei's perfect nose and half deformed lips, tears falling freely as she sobbed in her father's arms, silently pleading for help.

“What a touching reunion, really tugs at the heartstrings.” His chin resting on her shoulder, Gen snuggled against her, sending a cold wave of revulsion through her body while an urge to scrub her skin clean rose. Her fingers dug into his arm “Do you like what I've done with Bei's face? I'll have you match her Qing-Qing, I won't play favourites, but first, we must have a wedding feast to celebrate my union with Bei. Wife, prepare me a meal.”

With a strangled cry, Uncle Wei stumbled backwards, hands pressed against his belly. A trickle of blood seeped out from between his fingers as he fell to his knees. Staring at his daughter, he uttered a single word. “Why?”

Sobbing and shaking her head, Bei raised her knife, stained with her father's blood, plunging it deep into his shoulder. A wordless scream erupted from her throat as she slashed and stabbed in a frenzy, her face twisted in sorrow and hatred. The world brightened into nothingness as Qing-Qing collapsed to the ground, pressing her face to the dirt as terror gripped her chest, her breath short and head light. Gen knelt to stroke her face, his fingers covered in cold, drying blood. “Isn't Bei incredible? She is truly blessed by the natural energies of the world, capable of standing at my side. I hope you will be too, Qing-Qinq, it would be unsuitable for you to stay so weak.” Humming a familiar song, Gen lifted her head and forced her to watch, but the world mercifully went dark, the image of Bei's mutilated visage crying over her father's body burned into her mind.

Chapter Meme
