“I still do not understand why Jack’s death was necessary,” Sidjin grumbled. “Surely there was enough room on that plank for both of them?”

The improvised arcane projector played the Titanic credits, Emeric’s gift lying on a nearby table. Voicing over the entire movie had been a pain but worth it for the moment shared together, Viv decided.

“It’s for narrative reasons. The point is not that the two try their best to save each other, The point is moving the spectator with sacrifice. If his death upsets you then it worked.”

Abanezigel nodded. He had stood for the entire movie which weirded Viv a little but since he didn’t move and kept his mana under control, she could force herself to count him as furniture with some effort.

“The famous catharsis you mentioned, yes, Viviane the traveler. What surprises me is that despite the awesome technology that leads to such vast ships, the death of hundreds could not be prevented.”

“If I remember correctly it was a set of unfortunate  circumstances. The ship was going too fast, it tried to dodge the iceberg instead of ramming it and losing only a few sections, and there were enough boats to save everyone but many left before they were full. Just mistakes upon mistakes.”

“Hmmmm. I see. No amount of magical or technological prowess can make up for human stupidity.”

Viv used her wing to drag the nearby box of grilled meat while resisting the intense urge to sing AND IIIIIIII WILL ALWAYS LOVE YOUUUUUUU at the top of her lungs. It took a remarkable amount of self-control.

The meat was not quite chicken because the fowl in question was much larger, but it was nice nonetheless. Rakan complained when the bucket slid to the side, preventing him from getting another serving.

“Can’t you use your hands like a normal person?”

“It’s practice. Practice!” Viv lied.

The truth was that the wings had more reach, that is to say, she didn’t have to move to, that is to say, her arms were too damn short. There. In the month she had spent resting and binging three years worth of top tier TV series, her human body had barely changed. Her wings were now the width of a handspan and long enough to go over her head while the tip touched the ground. It even affected her balance.

So getting used to them was important. Really.

“You’re just grumpy because there was not enough action.”

“I want to watch ‘Rescuing infantryman Rayan’ again.”

Viv rolled her eyes. Voicing over a war movie had proven worse than a romance because she had to explain what a gun was, what a tank was, and how a plane could fly. She also wished Emeric had been more generous with newer works. That filthy god really loved the classics.

//I have concerns that the message of this movie might be insidious.

“Here we go,” Viv moaned in her metaphorical beard.

//The female lead’s fate glorifies infidelity and lowering one’s station by forfeiting an advantageous marriage.

//Thus sacrificing resources and making a powerful enemy.

“It’s a romance!”

//While it would have been more productive to assassinate her husband and keep the street urchin as a paramour.

Viv prepared to complain then stopped.

“Wait, are you advocating for the murder of rich scions?”

//The movie is, as you mentioned, a romance, not a societal study.

//Assuming that my purpose is to maximize the happiness of Rose, the death of a controlling spouse after their financial union represents the best outcome.

//Before you complain, yes I am aware that she is a weak fleshbag without the courage to order a hit.

“Huh.”

Silence returned to the room while most pondered the experience they had been through. Only the grunts of efforts of Rakan wrestling with Viv’s wings for access to the fried not-chicken bucket broke this moment of contemplation. He lost.

Viv considered that there was enough arcane might in that room to devastate a mid-sized city. And they were bantering and eating grilled meat.

Viv found herself missing Arthur.

Their bond had been more active recently. She thought the dragonette missed her as well. At least, she was fine.

“Well, that’s it. I believed you wanted to get started on planning, Abe?”

“Yes, however, the mood precludes it. The cultural content you offered us granted us a unique insight into a civilization whose achievements you take for granted, while we can only marvel at the resourcefulness of those who live without mana. I believe that a change of scenery is required to achieve a full break. I propose that we retire to the boudoir for a cup of klod, whereupon I shall share what I know with you, following which we can come up with more ideas.”

The group agreed, then left the viewing room together. It had been quite busy since Viv’s friends had realized they could now access decent entertainment. Nyil actors may reach someone’s soul with their performance but Earth’s actors had risen to the top of a competitive profession through sheer talent. No amount of effort and magic could outshadow genius. Viv was glad she got to share it with them. It had made the ‘League of Lesser Evils’ a more coherent force.

Abe guided the group through the multiple corridors that criss crossed his troglodyte base, bypassing libraries filled with ancient tomes and complex ritual rooms. The boudoir benefitted from the best skylight in the base, the glass revealing the crisp sky over the floating Chalice. It was raining today. A pitter patter chime provided a pleasant background while everyone sat in their designated chairs.

No one spoke when Abe warmed the pot of fresh water, nor when he picked his favorite dry klod. Although the lich could no longer taste food or drinks, it had built an artificial sense of smell for security purposes. Klod remained pleasant and familiar. Viv guessed it helped anchor him in his remaining humanity. His gestures were calm and deliberate, sometimes even a little awkward as he tried to veer away from the automatisms that made using his arms less taxing. Abe was a soul piloting a construct, not a person living in their body. It would be easy to slip into idleness. Use telekinesis for everything.

“Before we begin, I would like to say a word,” the lich finally began.

“Do we really have to do the whole evil cabal thing?” Viv asked, impatient to get into the meat of the subject.

“Viv. I have been waiting for this moment for three hundred years. Elunath stole everyone I knew, everything I had, and everything I was. Please, please let me have this moment and shut up until I am done.”

The witch lifted her hand in surrender, chastised.

“Good. I am aware that your transformation has shortened your patience, and I appreciate your efforts. I need you to understand why I started because this is what drives me now to linger in this world and also because it will give you an insight into what kind of person Elunath really is, the way he thinks, the way he acts.

“The story starts three hundred years ago. At that time, Helock was technically a free city with an imperial envoy by the name of Jeol. The city was… different then. The immigration from the Shadow Lands was still going strong while Hallurian warbands conducted constant raids. The fiercely defended independence and arrogance of the old family had not reached the level you would see nowadays. Jeol was a de facto provincial governor and we, Elunath and I, served in his cadre. Do you know what a cadre was?”

//A special detachment of battlemages typically accompanying a legion during their expeditions.

//Their role covers battles but also engineering, project management, research, and occasionally diplomacy.

//Although nominally under the orders of the legion commanders, cadres would answer first to the imperial ministry of the arcane.

//It was a prestigious position.

“And one loyal to the throne. All battlemages were trained at the imperial college which gave us a… a shared sense of purpose.”

The lights flickered in the lich’s empty eye sockets. Viv was not sure how much Abe could feel or if those were emotions at all but the memory clearly upset him.

“One night, we received news that the capital had been lost in a disaster. Everyone was dead for leagues. Fallen where they stood. Elunath and I, we were both Helockians by birth. We volunteered for the assignment which was only tolerated because the cadre was low on earth specialist at that time. It was our friend Jesar who got the message. She told us. She should not have. The shock was too much. We lost many of our friends that night.”

The lich glanced up and he was no longer in the room with them, lost in his memories.

“It was the end of our world, a true cataclysm without forewarning that shook me to my core. Envoy Jeol only took ten minutes to come to a decision. The empire was a centralized power and now it had been decapitated in a single blow. We knew it would collapse. There could be no other possibility, not with so many nations kept loyal through coercion. So Jeol took us and told us the cadre would move into Helock the very same night to take over the government and slay the most powerful families in order to safeguard our control. We were to set out immediately and planned on being joined by the nearby legion the next day. Of course, Elunath and I met to talk on the way because those were our compatriots Jeol planned on slaughtering. We came to the conclusion that our best option was to kill Jeol then abscond into the night to warn our people. Without his political acumen, the cadre and legion would be directionless. They would perhaps consider leaving peacefully. Of course, Jeol was not stupid. He had expected our move and we engaged his loyal bodyguard.”

There was a moment of silence then.

“Elunath struck me as I attacked. He shattered my spine. He killed Jesar whom I had convinced to join us. We never stood a chance. After that, Jeol was very impressed by his performance and his loyalty to Harrak and himself. They left while I feigned death which was not a very difficult thing to do. Anger needled me so much… I traced the circle by crawling inch by inch with the only hand I could still move. Every movement sent searing knives into every fragment of my broken body. It was… excruciating. But he had to die.

“Only later did I learn that Elunath betrayed Jeol at the gates, had him murdered and climbed to the top of the Helockian hierarchy immediately after the ensuing battle. He was hailed as a hero. My family were driven out as relatives to a traitor. I never found them again.

“Elunath has never been a hero. He has always been an opportunist. The most important thing to Elunath is Elunath. He will go to any length to gain and conserve power. He is a blight. A self-sustaining parasite. And he killed Jesar. Why did he kill Jesar? It just does not make any sense…”

Viv blinked. Something had just gone wrong. Abe seemed broken in a machine-like way, his skeletal frame as if stuck in time. Only the flicker of blue flame still danced in the empty sockets. No one dared speak in the few seconds it took for his soul to reassert control.

“Where was I? Oh yes. Elunath may delude himself in thinking he cares about the city, or honor, or reputation. He is a purely rational self-serving creature who will inevitably do what serves him the most. If he believes it serves him more to break his word because he can get away with it, he will.”

“Don’t I know that…” Viv grumbled.

“That will make him predictable but no less dangerous for it. Now for the assassination part. First, I would like to inform you that I hired an assassin to help us in this endeavor. He should arrive quickly. In the meanwhile, I propose that I share what I know and then you may discuss and propose solutions as you may think of solutions I did not think of. Now, onto the explanation.”

Abe gestured and a detailed plan of Elunath’s domain appeared as a light construct of exquisite complexity. Viv easily recognized the entrance lobby, the corridor, and Elutnath’s study but there were also a research laboratory, and personal quarters. She recognized storage rooms, a kitchen, and the various other locations thanks to careful labels. The magical defenses were shown just as thoroughly, and they were quite formidable. Viv counted three entrances in total but they might as well be fortress walls for all that entailed.

Abe gestured a second time. A list of profiles bearing the likeness of wanted portraits appeared next to the map, this one detailing Elunath’s entourage and an estimation of their capabilities, complete with anecdotes and public display of power. A last gesture brought Elunath’s chiseled, perfect face and a much more comprehensive list of his abilities.

Viv had never seen such in depth preparations.

“As you can see, in addition to his own formidable abilities, Elunath enjoys the support of a group of trained mages, a fortress-like setup, and he must be slain within ten minutes at most.”

“Why is that?” Viv asked.

“As a vital defender of Helock, Elunath is backed by the council of elders. Gryphon riders and battlemages will flood the place as soon as the alarm is given. That is why I need your help, if I have to be honest. We are trying to fight a superior, entrenched enemy. The odds are not in our favor.”

Abe went on a long description of the multiple layers of defenses around the elemental archmage. Brown mages were superior defenders and Elunath exemplified their entire caste. Redundant systems would make infiltration almost impossible. Even the windows were not made of glass but of specifically enchanted panes of hard stone designed to let the light through. The odds did seem overwhelming.

