For all of his foe’s superiority, Abe had still found, not exactly flaws, but opportunities. Elunath could sense anything moving through stone in a radius that covered almost the entire city. He could also pay more attention to specific places and possibly even eavesdrop on conversation, though he could not be everywhere at once. Abe surmised Elunath could also find someone from their footsteps.

Abe’s immediate solution was to use Elunath’s confidence against himself. He would set up a diversion before sneaking into the manor from underneath, digging through the earth where protections were only nominal while Elunath was distracted. Abe was absolutely confident that Elunath would rush back to punish whoever dared enter his domain. This still left the attackers inside of a stone structure belonging to an archmage who specialized in stone manipulation. Black mana saturation would remedy some of the dangers but… the outlook was rather bleak. Viv gave them maybe one in five chances of success which was still impressive for such a daunting task. Abe was right to brainstorm the problem. Piling powerful people could only get them so far. Abe’s planning was not up to par with his intelligence gathering, that was for sure.

“What if he doesn’t have reinforcements?” Viv asked.

Abe glanced up, his blue glare disturbingly intense.

“A diversion?”

“No. Well, not really. What if we cut off his support first? Helock accommodates him but there is no arguing he’s an asshole and he must have made enemies throughout the years. I think we can convince the city to… ah… punish him a little.”

“There is a great way to do that, actually,” Sidjin said.

“Please tell me more,” Abe asked with singular intensity.

“Helock law allows for a ‘vendetta’ against interest groups if a sufficient cause is offered to the Council of Elders.”

So far, the discussion had been conducted in old Harrakan since most of the group was more familiar with the language. ‘Vendetta’ was the best translation Viv could think of to fit the northern term Sidjin had used.

“When a vendetta is declared, the council may not offer support to either side. It will not intervene so long as the conflict is limited to the contestants. It’s a seldom used mechanism because the conditions to set it up are stringent. Most conflicts would be better solved using negotiations or a tribunal.”

“I remember. The law was voted after the Narkis family debacle,” Abe replied.

“It’s a last resort for failed clans who believe they no longer have a chance for fair treatment. The Narkis family went out in a blaze of glory against a superior alliance but the collateral damage was so dire and their attacks so indiscriminate that the city still bears the scars of that conflagration. A vendetta limits the violence and gives options to revenge-driven individuals by guaranteeing that the authorities will leave them alone. In return, civilian lives are spared. Mostly.”

“And we can declare one?” Viv asked with some doubt.

“Not we. You,” Sidjin replied. “You see, only citizens in good standing can make the request. None of us are but… there is a loophole.”

“I’m a student of the Academy,” Viv remembered. “For at least another few months. Academy students enjoy the same benefits as citizens except for voting rights!”

“You will have to pay your dues first but then you can start the process. You are also lighter and have a different balance compared to before, which means that Elunath will struggle to find you, especially if you limit the number of steps you take.”

“I could float.”

“You should. And the council will never refuse your request because you have cause and are extremely dangerous yourself and, mostly, well…”

“They won’t be too worried?”

“No one in their right mind could think that Elunath would lose to anybody right now.”

“Right. That seems like a good idea. It will warn the man that I’m still alive but I’ll sacrifice the element of surprise for the withdrawal of Helockian help. That should be one hurdle removed.”

“Most likely lessened. They will still covertly provide some assistance,” Abe corrected.

“And concerning this, I have another idea,” Viv continued. “Look, let’s take a step back. We’re thinking about this too, err, tactically. This isn’t a battle. It’s a campaign. Right now our isolation and small numbers seem like a disadvantage but actually, it’s a strength. We’re conducting covert operations. A small group of experts is the ideal set up.”

“Your earthling mindset bleeds through your words,” Abe remarked, “however wisdom being universal, I would hear your proposal.”

“We need to sap his resources. Make the city lose confidence and respect. Force him out of his comfort zone to make him sloppy, tired, prone to mistakes.”

“He will just hunker down,” Rakan said.

//Not if we make it too costly.

//Basic analysis of Elunath’s profile hints at extreme arrogance.

“I concur,” Abe added.

//Attacks against him will be answered.

//Most likely, they will be answered with excessive force.

//He will seek to make examples.

//It would play to our advantage.

“I can ruin his reputation with a smear campaign,” Viv said. “I have ideas. That’s his political capital. Next, what about the money?”

Everyone looked at Viv.

“The… money?” Rakan asked.

“Money means nothing to the likes of him,” Sidjin concurred.

“No, hold on,” Abe said.

They all waited for him to gather his thoughts.

“I understand what she means. We can strike at his resources. His possessions. His supporters as well. We must attack everything. He is but one mind who trusts nobody with his personal affairs while we are many. If we can overwhelm him with issues, his mental state will eventually deteriorate. I have gathered detailed information on his financial holdings. Please wait while I go collect them.”

The lich literally flew away. Viv used the opportunity to serve herself another cup. Resisting cold did not mean one enjoyed it, after all. Abe returned a few minutes later with several files which Viv immediately set to arrange before her. She went over notes, statements, intercepted transmissions, schedules. Her mind absorbed everything in her quest to inflict maximum damage. There were no skills of hers that promoted duplicity but she was her father’s daughter and one didn’t grow the child of a devious politician without learning a few tricks.

“Can we help?” Sidjin asked with some hesitation.

“Do you have a polymath skill or something similar?”

“Well, no.”

“Then wait a bit please. I’m almost done.”

The crew — Viv had decided they were a crew since they intended to break quite a few laws — gathered around her with steaming cups to watch her work. It took her less than ten minutes to gather piles and eventually brandish a schedule like one waves a flag.

“This. Elunath frequently visits the Bank of Helock to access a private safe.”

“Wouldn’t his possessions be better hidden in his manor?” Rakan asked.

“You’re right. Whatever’s in there is meaningful enough that he keeps it in one of the most secure locations in the city yet still makes sure it’s not in his house. Whatever it is, it must be precious. And the good news is that he didn’t pick the Manipeleso Bank and Exchange.”

“How is that relevant?” Abe asked.

“Because we’re going to burglarize it and I would hate to step on the feet of people who keep my money.”

Abe considered her proposal for a few seconds.

“Marvelous. I have more information on the bank’s structure. Let us reconvene tomorrow after the assassin has arrived. I must admit, as attractive as killing Elunath is, I will enjoy humiliating him first even more.”

***

“Here it is,” Viv said a little nervously.

Rakan watched Abe move with trepidation. The lich used careful movements to remove an oak staff from the pedestal where it had been engraved. Four small cores shone over its length at equal distance to each other, one for each of the primary colors.

The young mage took the staff in trembling hands. Immediately, his leaking aura settled. Power dripped into the cores at a steady pace white the two others watched in wonder.

“It appears to be working,” Abe stated. “Although not my best creation by far, I believe you will find this tool suitable to your needs, young Rakan.”

“Yeah. Thanks, I… I can’t really repay you?”

“Fret not. I have vast amounts of resources at my disposal. It pleases me to see Hallurians rising above the cutthroat customs of their home nations to seek greatness elsewhere. You are a credit to your people, young Rakan.”

“Yeah. Thank you.”

“I believe that taking care of my allies will eventually pay off. Altruism is… is important. Is it not? I believe it is. Yes. Now you can leave with your mind at peace?”

“If you’re sure you don’t need me…”

Rakan’s sister was in Harrak with the hunters by now for the sake of safety. Viv didn’t know Tarana very well. Their relationship had always been frosty since the young woman pictured her brother’s life as peaceful and stable, two things Viv was known to deny by her mere presence. The recent events had not proven her wrong either. Nevertheless, she had accepted to relocate without struggle. The recent race riots had removed any illusion she had on how Hallurians were perceived around the city. Now, Rakan could join her to recover and learn how to make the best of the situation.

“I just feel like I’m running away…”

“You’re hurt,” Viv said. “You need time to recover and adapt. I assure you that there is enough to do around the land we’ve reclaimed. You might also want to try your hand against the undead. No shortage of those.”

“I know that. I mean that you’re all here. I know I’m being a burden.”

“A unit is composed of many members,” Abe interrupted. “If those members are hurt, the unit worries. Taking care of yourself and returning once you have recovered is the best service you can render right now. Your companions care about you.”

“What if you get hurt and I could have been here to help? To prevent it?”

“With enough ifs you can sit atop the divine throne in Larrean with Maranor upon your lap.”

Rakan crossed his arms, half surprised and half amused.

“Forgive me for the outburst,” Abe continued. “Do not mull over dark thoughts until they poison your mind with hypothetical scenarios that will never see the day. You do not have to wait or be idle. Your task is to learn how to function with the staff then help around the city. I am certain Viviane’s senechal has a list of chores she cannot wait to hoist upon your shoulders, young Rakan.”

“You’re right. I guess. Yeah, I have my own path to follow. Thanks again. I really can’t repay you but I will certainly try.”

Rakan left, eager to try the staff in the ritual room. Viv watched him go with just a little bit of guilt. It was not that they were getting rid of him. She really believed in her own words. It was that, even though Rakan had decided to take part in the tournament himself, the tragedy that led to him being maimed could arguably be born from her spark of luck. History happened while she was around and that history made victims. She knew it. She just couldn’t help it.

Perhaps a broken core could be repaired. At the very least, she knew whom to ask. Her return to the Academy was going to be interesting.

***

Viv’s wings were weird.

The smooth surface of solid black mana hid things inside she didn’t quite understand. There were no obvious muscles designed to move them and yet they moved, and they did so with a strength only limited by Viv’s stature and weight. Viv could direct them with as much precision as her own arms. They gave tactile feedback. For all intents and purposes, those were extra stabby limbs and yet they were clearly not designed for that purpose. They were meant as an anchor, a signal that magic was going to happen. The need to use them as such always lingered at the back of Viv’s psyche, even during exercises.

Which was bothering her right now.

The Chalice’s surface was small but cluttered with stones, ruins, and the craggy trees that grew up at this altitude with the constant wind twisting their trunks like snakes. One could grow familiar with this place which was why Viv was never given enough time to study it. Her maddened race sent her climbing over a beheaded statue, wings planting into nearby growths to carry her the last few inches. Sure steps on roots and she was off at a dead run towards the entrance to the underground.

Her instincts screamed at her.

A stone bounced on her instant shield, deflected into a nearby column. Viv ducked under another. She launched herself at a dead sprint, wings balanced behind her. She stopped. She jumped to the side. Her wings tensed. Her balance was wrong. She lost her footing.

Solfis crashed where she had been a moment before. His clawed feet punched through the old stone with a ghastly crack. Viv’s instincts still told her he was a danger. She was on the ground. Too slow.

Anger took over.

With a scream of rage, she pushed herself back towards him. The wings extended like twin blades towards the golem’s ribcage, stopped at the last moment by two pinching hands. Viv had recovered before they could land but that didn’t matter. She would never stand a chance against Solfis in a physical contest anyway.

“Sorry,” she said, “I, ah, sorry. Lost it for a minute there.”

Fury still pumped through her veins though it was directionless now.

//Think nothing of it.

//It is all part of your recovery and training.

