It was almost enough to make Min Gyu jealous, but he had to admit, the formidable woman deserved it, especially in light of the news which arrived soon after. While Hongji’s forces were marching east, Akanai’s cavalry patrols managed to track and ambush five Enemy cavalry contingents, accounting for somewhere between forty and sixty thousand Defiled deaths while incurring minimal losses. Again, the Bekhai longbows proved their worth, and Min Gyu tacked on another tactic that would be somewhat effective against the checker-board formation: have more crossbows, catapults, and longbows than the enemy formation. Even then, it seemed like having all the units spread out was custom tailored to counter massed ranged fire, meaning if Falling Rain truly came up with this on his own and didn’t just ‘read’ it in an unnamed book, then the boy was far wiser and more talented than anyone gave him credit.

Which was terrifying, because Min Gyu himself rated the boy as a Living Legend. Not one in the making, but one in the flesh, for the Empire would be affected by his accomplishments for centuries to come.

Despite his overwhelming curiosity and desire to ruminate on everything he’d witnessed today, Min Gyu never once let his guard down as they continued to march, and for good reason. Spotting a diverse group of figures massing in the distance, he grimaced and flicked his sleeves before shedding his outer jacket, which Kyung caught before it dropped past his shoulders. “It seems the Enemy commander means to press his luck once again.” Smiling as he patted Kyung’s cheek, he added, “You stay here, filial grandson of mine. Guard your sister and watch closely. I taught you to use the sabre, but now, I will show you how I earned my fame, all those years before I Awakened to the Blessing of Air.”

Clearly saddened he couldn’t join Min Gyu, Kyung’s handsome green eyes nonetheless lit up in anticipation, his cat ears fluttering like leaves in a gale. The truth was, while it would be better for Kyung to come see Min Gyu’s prowess from up close, he worried he wouldn’t be able to concentrate on the fighting for fear of his beloved grandson. Kyung was a talented Warrior, but one who had yet to reach the Peak, and to participate in this coming conflict, being a Peak Expert was merely the minimum requirement.

There was a time and place for tactics, but in the same vein, a time and place where only strength reigned supreme.

After hugging both his grandchildren farewell, Min Gyu Cloud-Stepped away to the rear of the column, where he was joined by heroes of the Empire such as Brigadier Hongji, Eccentric Gam, Exarch Bralton, Exarch Erien, Immovable Binesi, Singing Spear Shi Yukun, and Howling Dragon Situ Jia Yang. Also with them were less familiar faces with less resounding names, but heroes nonetheless, heroes like valiant Won Gwang, the Lawgiver, distinguished Dong Ping of the Twin Spears, savage Mu Hong the Unrestrained, and quiet, unassuming Yi Cheok, the Nine Tattooed Dragon. Song Qing of the Fiery Star was there, as was her younger brother, Song Jiang, the Dark Giant, and the Jade Armed Craftsman was here as well, having emerged from secluded training just to lend aid. Most surprising of all was the appearance of not one, not two, but three Disciples of the famed Healer Taiyi ZhuShen, who had personally joined the relief force to help tend to everyone’s wounds.

Iron Crutch Li TieGuai stood in front of his junior brothers, his hands clutched tightly around his namesake as he hobbled into position, while the veiled and grotesque Devilish Duo, Tao Zi and Ping Guo, stood at his flanks. Until departing for Castle JiangHu, Min Gyu thought Li TieGuai was still bound to his wheelchair and the Devilish Duo too ashamed to show their malformed faces, but here they were bold as could be, ready to lend aid to the cause. While they had all once been considered leading talents, none of them had been Peak Experts before going into hiding, but their presence here indicated they had not been idle in the time since. All three held themselves like dragons among men, and despite his wizened features and crutches holding him up, Min Gyu even felt threatened by Li TieGuai himself, his gaze and focus sharp enough to cut straight to the bone.

Offering the sickly, but powerful Warrior a clasped fist salute, Min Gyu offered the same to the other Warriors around him and said, “It is this one’s honour to fight alongside such illustrious Heroes of the Empire.”

“Likewise.”

“The honour is ours.”

“Too kind, too kind.”

With that, there was no more time for pleasantries as the Enemy launched their attack. Dozens of Demons and Peak Experts came sprinting towards the Imperial lines, fangs bared and weapons brandished. Interestingly enough, Mister Rustram ordered his archers to fire, and while it had little effect on these Peak existences, every little bit counted in a match between equals. Alas, Min Gyu’s first foe was far too lacking to be considered such, as his sabre cleaved clean through the Demon’s neck. Strike first, strike hard, and move on, leaving naught but destruction in his wake, that had once been Min Gyu’s battlefield mantra, right up until he Awakened to the Blessing of Wind and put his sabre aside, but now, he was back to reclaim his former glory.

The sabre had been a reward for almost single-handedly putting down the Black Scarf Rebellion, gifted to him by the Magistrate of Hwando. Back then, Min Gyu had accepted the weapon with a heavy heart, for he was too poor to afford a custom weapon of his own design. Worse, in his eyes, this sabre seemed crafted for a woman’s use, a long, slender, elegant weapon rather than the broad, heavy sabres favoured by masculine Warriors the Empire round. However, as the secrets of the sabre revealed themselves to him, he discovered his fighting style was most suitable for this sort of weapon, though it was difficult to say if he acclimated to the sabre, or the sabre moulded him to its use. Either way, with a Spiritual Sabre in hand, he was like a tiger given wings upon the battlefield, and his legend grew quickly from there.

Though it’d been some time since he used his sabre in battle, he’d forgotten none of his hard earned skills, wielding his weapon in the same manner as one would use a heavier weapon, only with much greater speed and flexibility since he could fight with one hand or two. A two-handed upwards slash combined offence and defence in one motion, smashing clean through a second Demon’s guard and bisecting the bipedal monster in half. Flourishing his weapon with a flick of his wrist, he cleared the Ichor from his blade while simultaneously blocking attacks from three Defiled Peak Experts. There was barely a need to think as his Domain Guided his actions, so he took a moment to study his foes and noted how the markings on their armour denoted that their helmets, pauldrons, greaves, and chest-pieces were all of the Runic variety. Rather than trade blows with these well armoured enemies and wait for an opening or assistance, Min Gyu snorted in contempt and wove three workings of Wind Chi instead. Driving a Wind Blade through their necks would kill them immediately, but it would also take more Chi, especially without his Battle-Fan to shape the wind. Instead, he simply drove unshaped air deep into their ears, and the sudden burst of pressure ruptured their ear drums with laughable ease. Thrown off balance by the unexpected injury, the three Peak Experts were like fish upon the chopping board as Min Gyu decapitated each one in turn, only to move onto his next foe with keen impatience.

Silly to mark their Runic armour so and make it clear to anyone with eyes what they were dealing with, but the markings were used to denote ranking as well, so there was really no helping it. If the Enemy commander was clever, he’d paint regular armour to look like the Runic variety and force the Imperials to pay more attention, but for now, Min Gyu would treat the markings as genuine and do what he could to avoid striking them. Alas, the Enemy commander was keeping a close watch on the battle and dispensing sound advice, for Min Gyu’s next attempt to pop his foe’s eardrum was met with a condensed layer of Domain set there to guard them. Such a shame his foe forgot all about the Sanguine Tempest’s seemingly unremarkable Talent. Where others would find an opponent’s Domain impervious to Chi, Min Gyu’s Chi was as intangible as the wind itself, slipping past those carefully laid defences and incapacitating his foe regardless.

Min Gyu was stronger than he’d ever been, and he believed he had the boy to thank for this. Initially, he feared discussing the Dao with Rain would shake his faith, but if anything, their many debates had strengthened Min Gyu’s conviction. Most of what Rain discussed or theorized was already known to Min Gyu, but only on an intuitive level, so by answering the boy’s questions, he found it helped stabilize his own Dao as new concepts explained or reinforced his old perspectives. Nothing had changed except Min Gyu’s understanding of his own skills, so now, he put them to good use teaching the Enemy the true meaning of regret.

A half-dozen more Peak Experts fell to his sabre before the Enemy saw fit to rearrange their battle-lines, and Min Gyu barked with laughter as he found himself surrounded by Demons instead. Five Demons, in fact, and while he relished the prospect of a worthy challenge, there was little room for ego on the battlefield, so he complied with his ally’s Sent suggestion and fell back from his foes. Such was the way of the Wind, going wherever it pleased, and caught off guard by the sudden reversal, the inhuman creatures pounced after him without thinking things through, where they were met with the Iron Crutches of Li TieGuai, and the Iron bodies of the Devilish Duo.

It was a curious sight, seeing a veritable cripple hop about the battlefield on wasted legs that had yet to recover, but Li TieGuai moved with the speed and agility of a monkey hopping about the trees using a curious blend of Lightening and Reverberation to vault about. This meant the Iron Crutches were in fact Spiritual Weapons, which he used to great effect, bouncing to and fro to distract the Demons and avoid their attacks while using his speed and weight to lend power to his attacks. Combined with the Devilish Duo outright blocking attacks which would have delivered Min Gyu into the care of a Healer or the afterlife, and Taiyi ZhuShen’s ‘ruined’ Disciples finally proved that their Mentor’s Dao of bodily refinement was a viable Path.

That said, the three were lacking in offensive capabilities, but that was where Min Gyu came in.

Tiger’s Fanged Clutch, Mantis Spear Hand, Snake’s Darting Fang, he moved through the Demons killing with every blow. With the occult trio to defend him, Min Gyu only needed to concentrate on the kill, and he would dare say there were few Warriors who could match him in this regard. When Li TieGuai grew tired and the Devilish Duo could take no more, Min Gyu continued on without their aid and found new helpers in the Song siblings. When the Fiery Star dimmed and the Dark Giant faltered, Min Gyu joined hands with the spearmen of the Famed Fifty and continued his slaughter unabated. One with the Sabre and One with the World, he rediscovered the burning ambition of the Warrior he once was, that hungry, nameless Warrant Officer who’d been shipped off to war against his will and desperately wanted to survive. Kill before being killed, that was the law of the battlefield, and here on the plains of Central, Min Gyu unleashed his inner fury against the Enemy most foul.

If one attack was not enough to kill, then he attacked a second time. Then a third, a fourth, and fifth. When this was no longer efficient enough, he used the edge of his sabre to Hone Wind Blades and deliver death from afar. When there were no allies left to support him, he waded into battle alone, one against three, four, and even five at one point, not for ego or pride, but desperate need, for they were sorely outnumbered by the Father’s foul minions. Such was life, and thankfully, the Mother gave her Children strength enough to stand against them, so he fought and killed until he could fight no more. And when he finally stopped to take a breath, he discovered he had no foes left to face, the Enemy survivors withdrawing to fight another day. A hearty roar burst from his chest, one of anger, relief, defiance, and more, but one which was answered by thousands of Imperial throats.

Victory was theirs, for now. Alas, Min Gyu had nothing left to give as the tension drained from his weary frame. Leaning back, he found Kyung there ready to catch him, eyes brimming with pride and concern. “Well fought grandfather,” he said, and for the first time, the designation came naturally to the half-cat. “Well fought.”

“You will surpass me in time,” Min Gyu said. “This I know, for you are my precious grandson and most promising Disciple, Du Min Kyung.” And with that, he collapsed into his grandson’s embrace with a delighted smile, because just before his eyelids grew too heavy to hold up, he saw Kyung beaming with pride, not at the first part of Min Gyu’s statement, but rather the second half, which was the far more important of the two.

Perhaps there was time yet to meet the man Du Min Kyung, rather than just the slave, and if so, then Min Gyu could go into the Mother’s Embrace with no regrets.

Not anytime soon of course, for the Empire, and more importantly, his loved ones, had need of the Sanguine Tempest yet.

Chapter Meme
