As well they should, for how could they not stand tall with the beloved Brigadier Hongji there to personally lead them? A rare beast of an Officer, he was a commander who led not by discipline, charisma, instinct, or intellect, but rather by example. This wasn’t to say he was lacking in any of those previous metrics, for Hongji adhered to the rules like any other soldier, was beloved now that his reputation preceded him, and was a cunning and calculating strategist who knew how to listen to his gut. What’s more, his soldiers jumped to obey his commands because they knew he would never order them to do anything he wouldn’t personally do as well, marking him as a Great General in the making, if not already one himself.

Quite a character, this Chen Hongji, and having taken stock of his superb control with Domain, Min Gyu suspected the man was also a future Living Legend in the making...

On the Brigadier’s mark, Min Gyu reminded the world why he was the Sanguine Tempest and unleashed two Wind Chakrams to wreak havoc along the Enemy lines. Even Runic Armour proved no defence as those raging storms of Wind Chi scythed through them like butter, and elsewhere along the outer wall, other Peak Experts joined in to similar effect, though no contribution was as wide-ranging or impressive as Min Gyu’s. All told, it was a risky gambit which only bought the Imperials a handful of seconds, but a handful was all Hongji’s soldiers needed to douse the Enemy ladders in oil and set them aflame. The stone walls had long since been stripped of anything the fire might spread to aside from what the defending soldiers were wearing, but seeing as how said soldiers were rapidly evacuating the outer walls, the fire spreading was the least of their worries.

The existence of underground escape tunnels wasn’t entirely unexpected, since Min Gyu had suspected as much since he first heard Nian Zu’s plan, but the manner in which they were revealed had caught him completely off-guard. There, in the open courtyard between the inner and outer walls, the very ground opened up to reveal Eccentric Gam standing at the entrance to the tunnels and bellowing for soldiers to stop gawking and get in. Once the soldiers were all through, Gam closed off most of the entrances to force the Defiled to funnel into a select few tunnels, which had the added benefit of delaying the Enemy from chasing the withdrawing soldiers. Yan’s retinue had the honour of being one of the last units to exit the tunnel, only a few dozen meters ahead of Gam himself who was responsible for collapsing the tunnel behind them in a shower of dust and dirt.

And thereby killing far more Defiled in one swoop than Min Gyu ever could with two measly Wind Chakrams, as Gam would phrase it. Then again, it was hardly a fair comparison. The credit for his kills should be shared with the countless sappers who spent days, weeks, or even months preparing all those escape tunnels in advance. In fact, his contribution was akin to kicking a single stone out of place, one which set off an avalanche that had been painstakingly prepared by others. If he had any sense of propriety at all, the half-fox wouldn’t claim any credit at all, but knowing Gam, the braggart would likely puff his chest and strut about claiming he killed more Defiled than any single Warrior in the Empire.

Thanks to their significant contributions on the outer wall, Yan’s exhausted retinue was spared further combat during the march East towards the Citadel, leaving Min Gyu free to replenish his Chi reserves and watch the battle unfold. Little Yan was a spectacularly talented young Warrior, but from what he saw, her competition was not lacking in the slightest. The most obvious threat was Ishin Ken-Shibu, a brilliant commander despite his youth and well-deserving of his fabled arrogance, but he had a cadre of meticulously trained Experts to rely on while Yan could almost match his efforts using random Imperial Warriors, so the winner was clear. Lu Jia Zian, Tam Taewoong, Tong Da Fung, and Ryo Seoyoon were no match for Yan when it came to command or charisma, and while it would be a stretch to say she stood at the forefront of the pack in regards to personal strength, it wouldn’t be too much of a stretch either.

That being said, there was one surprising contender who caught Min Gyu’s eye, one he and so many others overlooked because of the shadows cast by those surrounding this officer. However, today’s withdrawal definitively proved that the talented Major ‘Mister’ Rustram was more than deserving of his newly bestowed rank as he revealed himself as yet another hidden dragon of the Bekhai. Such was to be expected of Sarnai’s one and only Disciple, as not only did he engage and eventually slay his Demonic foe in single combat, the Demon Slayers who answered his call for assistance claimed they felt him Develop his Domain in the heat of battle. While not entirely unheard of, such a feat was rare even in the most tumultuous times, as a Domain required careful focus, resolve, and effort to Develop. Though similar to Aura, a Domain was based more on Intent than Emotion, a concentrated effort of will as Rain would say, so to Develop one on the fly was impressive, especially considering the young man had no Natal Palace. More than that, his newfangled Domain was massive in size, capable of reaching at least two metres away as far as Min Gyu could tell, judging by how Rustram utilized his Domain to Heal the wounded soldier laid out behind him. If not for this proof happening before his eyes, then those claims would have been laughed out of existence, but now, another monstrous young talent had appeared, one who might well overtake his peers within a matter of years.

As it turned out, the injured soldier was Rustram’s lover and Protectorate comrade, one Sai Chou. This meant his success was likely a fluke, or perhaps better termed as a miracle bestowed upon him by the Mother, but even then, it was an impressive feat. At the very least it would make for a tale worthy of the operas, a young hero igniting his potential to save his lady love, slaying a Demon and Healing her injuries in one fell swoop. The girl was lucky to still be alive, and would likely lay idle in bed for months yet unless the Healers saw fit to return her to duty, but that was a matter for another time.

The most baffling issue was, while Min Gyu’s Domain was capable of reaching that far, it took decades of effort and patience for him to reach his current level, and he wasn’t sure if he could have treated Sai Chou’s grievous injuries and kept her alive while wholly concentrated on the task, to say nothing of doing so while locked in deadly combat with a Demon. Young Rustram was an impressive Warrior, for most newly Developed Domains were hardly worthy of the name, barely able to extend past the Martial Warrior’s skin. Rustram was either talented beyond compare in both Domain and Healing, or he’d been thoroughly blessed by the Mother above. Oh how Min Gyu wished he had time to sit down and pick the man’s brain, but the Bekhai Major was busy covering the Northern flank of the retreat. Despite taking grievous wounds in his battle against the Demon, the man was up and about within minutes without needing to visit a Healer, though he did go with Sai Chou to ensure she received proper treatment.

Once he returned, he threw himself into the withdrawal with renewed vigour, as if still thirsting for vengeance despite having already slain the Demonic perpetrator. Between Rustram, Ken-Shibu, and Kuang Biao, the rearguard held valiantly against the Defiled, but it was clear Rustram’s retinue was doing the lion’s share of the work. The Enemy was intent on eradicating the Imperial Forces before they escaped to safety, but every time they surged forward to engage, the Bekhai forces responded with a storm of arrows and stones. The longbows and catapults alone accounted for more kills than the other two sections combined, and there were still a whole host of shorter ranged crossbows which were only rarely utilized, as even Martial Warriors found it difficult to march and reload at the same time.

However, the ranged weapons were not the only reason Min Gyu rated Rustram so highly. Seeing the threat they presented, the Enemy concentrated most of their efforts on engaging the northern flank, and it was here the moustached Major showed his true mettle. At first glance, the net-like formation along the northern flank appeared weak and full of holes, but both Min Gyu and the Enemy were quick to realize this was not so. It was almost like playing chess using thousand-man units as pieces instead of carved figurines, with each formation spaced so they could easily support, retreat, or reinforce one another with laughable ease. The wedge line was still best for breaking through the foe, while a concave line was the best defensive position, but in a scattered, chaotic withdrawal like this one, this net formation was indisputably the most effective.

Time and time again, the Enemy stumbled forward into Mister Rustram’s readied traps, with soldiers falling back to lure the Defiled in only to be ground to pieces as the supporting units closed in on either side. Then, when the Enemy commander finally got through to his field commanders and cautioned them against this tactic, Mister Rustram revealed another trick he had hidden up his sleeves, as the centre four units came together to form a flying wedge that charged left and right as one, crushing any and all Defiled in their path through sheer weight of numbers. The Enemy Commander formed his own wedge formation and sent them hurtling into Mister Rustram’s soldiers, only for the Imperial soldiers to break and scatter like the wind as the entire front rank fell back as one, dragging the Enemy wedge into the waiting spears of the second line.

And all the while, stones, arrows, and even the odd volley of crossbow bolts peppered the Defiled from above, steadily whittling away at the Enemy numbers until they dwindled so far they no longer dared continue the chase. For the last two hours, Min Gyu and every single Officer present had been treated to a master class in battlefield tactics, one delivered by a Warrior barely through his first quarter century of life.

Since he didn’t want any of his students wasting Chi on Scrying, Min Gyu narrated this course of events out loud, and it was only now that Yan saw fit to interject. “Rain calls it a checker-board formation,” she said, offering a small shrug in answer to the unasked question. “He says checkers is a game similar to chess, but simplified, and no, I don’t know why he doesn’t call it a chess-board formation either.”

Seeing as Hongji ordered the army to slow pace and allowed them the luxury of discussion whilst they marched, Min Gyu stroked his beard and asked, “How would you all defeat this formation, if faced with it on the field of battle?”

“A rear charge with cavalry,” KageTaka supplied, always too quick to speak without thinking.

“A tactic which would defeat most infantry formations, and is thus carefully guarded against.” KageTaka’s answer was akin to saying, ‘Defeat them with overwhelming numbers’, which wasn’t wrong, but far from an acceptable answer when discussing tactics.

Xiao Qi was next to try his luck. “This... checker-board formation is strong from the front, but how will it fare from the sides? I would send skirmishers to encircle both flanks, and then reinforce with a second wave of infantry.”

Min Gyu was shaking his head before Xiao Qi even finished speaking. “The flexibility offered by this formation works in all directions, albeit on a narrower front. To remedy this Mister Rustram has stationed his strongest units on the edges, with Tam Taewoong holding the left and Lu Jia Zian on the right. Though possible to win in the manner you described, it would only be marginally better than fighting from the front, and don’t forget that he has skirmishers of his own. What will you do when your flanking forces are flanked themselves, and by crossbow-wielding Warriors no less?”

Min Gyu’s students offered a few more guesses, but that’s all they were, guesses. After poking holes in their suggestions and leaving them at a loss, he finally turned to Yan and said, “I suspect you know the answer. Come girl, speak up. It’s not like you to be shy.”

“Engaging with light cavalry is the best option,” she replied, offering a small shrug as was her habit. “Pick off one unit, scatter them beneath the charge, and retreat before the reinforcing units arrive. Another option is to damn the losses and push forward, but in a mobile battle like this one, that is no longer an option. The Chosen –”

“The Defiled.” Interrupting to correct her, Min Gyu cast his stern gaze across everyone present and raised his voice so even more could hear. “They are no Chosen, and it offends me to hear them called such. Though they dress themselves like civilized Warriors, they are still Defiled, nothing more.”

A lesson young Rain hammered home during his short time in Castle JiangHu, one the Imperial Army would do well not to forget.

Accepting the criticism with a cursory bow and a smile, Yan continued, “The Defiled can’t push forward harder else they risk overextending. This means the Enemy commander is probably pulling back to gather his forces once more, and biding his time before his cavalry arrive to do exactly what I just said.” Shrugging a third time, she smiled and left it at that, since she knew Akanai was loose in the field and idolized the woman above all else.

