Looking over the troops, he saw the trepidation in their eyes, apprehension bordering on terror. “You also know the city’s defences well and the cost to retake them. I will not lie, it will be high, but that shit-eating filth led by that traitorous cocksucker Jianghong thinks they can hold our families, our friends, our city hostage. They act now in the absence of so many of our comrades, believing there are no heroes of Sanshu left to defend it. Tell me, is this true?”

A resounding ‘No’ answered him, the soldiers jeering and taunting the enemy, blowing off steam before the battle began. Letting them finish, he waited for quiet before resuming. “You know what’s happened and you know what we must do. You also know me, my reputation, my name.” He listened for the whispers as the older soldiers clued in the younger ones, his back straightening as their eyes widened. “Mark my words. I will march in and retake the gatehouses alone if need be. I welcome you to join me in honour and glory.”

Hefting his trusty maul Stoneshaper, Tongzu basked in the cheers of his soldiers, raising his tower shield before leading the charge. “Come, my soldiers, my warriors, my heroes of Sanshu! Charge forward into victory and let none stand in our way!” A wordless yell was his reply as his soldiers followed, sprinting across the plaza in full armour, their spirits burning with righteous fury, yearning to avenge this affront to their honour and exterminate the traitors.

The traitors unleashed hell as soon as his soldiers were in range, a mass of bodies running into a hail of projectiles. The cacophony of battle rose around him, the shrieking of arrows, the cracking of bones, the screams of the dying, and still he ran, leading his soldiers into the avenue. Ignoring the arrow embedded in his shoulder, Tongzu emboldened the men to action, leading by example. “Onwards my heroes, retake our city from these bastards who dare threaten our families. There will be no rest, no respite, no retreat, until they all lay dead at our feet!” The smell of blood and shit filled his nostrils as his soldiers died in droves rushing through this choke-point of death, desperate to reach the enemy.

The bodies littered the avenue behind him as he rounded the corner to confront the first portcullis, his chi gathered and ready. Picking up speed, his iron breastplate slapped against his thighs as he lowered his head and charged into the heavy, steel-reinforced door, using Stoneshaper as a battering ram. With the torturous screech of warped metal, the door exploded from its hinges, giving way before his mass and flying back into the waiting ranks of traitors with a thunderous crash. Screaming in fury and grief for the fallen, Tonzgu continued forward, stepping across the broken door and smashing aside the opposition as his soldiers cheered and set upon the enemy, giving no quarter as they hacked apart the outnumbered defenders in frenzied retribution.

After three decades of hibernation, The Unstoppable Golden Vanguard Chu Tongzu led the way once more, blood boiling as he charged headfirst into the fray, his battle cry echoing across the walls for all to hear.

‘Victory or Death!’

Chapter Meme
