The base commander had decided to hold a base-wide meeting (yet, for some strange reason, only the legionaries and Ranthia were actually invited—not that it stopped the dwarves from showing up). Deflection had already left; Remera had yet to face a single non-self-inflicted challenge since it was established.

The meeting was about as useful as most were—it could have readily been reduced to an order passed through normal channels. The base commander complimented everyone on their hard work in getting the base up and running, extolled the bravery of those that… picked through the old latrines the shimagu had left behind (the lack of anything useful being uncovered was wildly unsurprising), and promised that he would hold these open meetings every eight days (groan).

The conclusion was fun, at least.

“Let us all continue to make Remera the—” The man’s words cut off as an uncertain noise escaped his throat.

In that moment of carelessness, the unofficial name became the base’s pseudo-legitimized name. There was no undoing that; the man had just shaved at least a full year off the timeline required for ‘Remera’ to officially supplant the intended (still boring) designation.

“Erm, so I just need to stand here and play the different alert signals we have until you tell me to stop, ma’am?” The woman asked for the third time as her eyes flicked distractedly across the decidedly non-regulation tent.

“That’s what she said.” Ranthia tried to keep the barb out of her tone.

Avyna was already standing on a short ladder, waiting behind the partially open divider curtain.

“Should I… do it quietly?” The woman tried to clarify.

“No, don’t worry—no one else in the base will be able to hear it. Play just as you would if there was an actual alert while you were at your station.” Ranthia’s patience was running thin—it wasn’t a difficult request!

“Yes, but it—” The woman began to speak.

“That was an order, soldier! First alert, now! Cycle through them until I tell you to stop!” Ranthia gave up and dipped into a vocal range she hadn’t used since the Academy.

The legionary’s posture snapped rigid, and she had the horn to her lips with as much alacrity as her modest level allowed. She inhaled sharply and began to blow the alarm tones with practiced precision.

And within the confines of the tent, the sound of the horn felt like it had physical form as it punched Ranthia. Thankfully, her vitality made the impact laughable—the instrument was never going to punch up to her level. It was little more than an unpleasant sound (though, admittedly, more than a little unpleasant, too) that followed Ranthia through the curtains to where Avyna was already hard at work. The elf was humming to herself, trying to break down the individual sounds of each blast of the horn, while she passed her elaborate arcanite tool through the enchantments woven into the main support column of their home.

Ranthia had nothing better to do, so she decided to help out as best she knew how.

Avyna blamed Ranthia for making her miss the connection for the revised enchantment (which was fair, Ranthia had certainly aimed to be distracting—she was helping Avyna level her [Crystalline Clarity] Skill, honest). But with that mistake corrected, Avyna was confident that their privacy ward was perfected for their needs—there would be no further noise complaints.

Things continued to remain quiet—the most interesting work-related thing that Ranthia had dealt with by Remera’s second week of existence was breaking up a fight between some of the newer—extremely green—legionaries. One of the kids had either wholly misunderstood just what a prostitute does, or decided unilaterally that he could ‘save’ her from a profession of her own choosing—then flew into a rage when he found her with a few of his friends.

The [Healers] patched the kid up after Ranthia finished her lecture and, by all accounts, he had been a model soldier since. The prostitutes in the base had all blacklisted him anyway, just to be safe.

Supply drop-offs from Sentinel Aurora’s [Starship] had come every week with precision—a welcome change from her prior experiences with Remus’ supply lines. The current plan called for the resupplies to reduce to every sixteen days once Remera’s gardens—whose tents were strictly barred from being painted green, lest they became obvious targets (and Ranthia still had no idea why this had been such a contentious issue for anyone, much less required multiple meetings)—scaled up to meet most of the base’s needs.

The official word was that no one knew when trader caravans would start to visit the base. Ranthia knew—via Avyna—that the first was due in four days, but she kept her mouth shut. The last thing she wanted was for bored legionaries to start harassing Avyna for intel about the next trader.

Ranthia still had somewhat mixed feelings about the civilian caravans. The elves operated with impunity with only moderate protection—and the promise of retribution from powerful classers that were capable of so much more than any mortal could even imagine. Most of the others operated under their own hired might, but there were also a few gnoll tribes—and likely other [Merchants] who were less blatant about it—that still traded with the shimagu just as readily as the various Coalition bases.

How was such a thing not a betrayal?

The merchant caravan arrived exactly on the day Avyna had predicted. The elf gleefully restocked her wares and Ranthia lost much of the day to the parade of crates and shifted furniture to accommodate the amount of storage that was necessary for the endless sea of crates. The caravan left with its wagons significantly lighter, and its ledgers swollen with profits. The prices were higher than any had been in Coalition City, but Remera had already become starved for fresh supplies that weren’t Legion-issued.

Legionaries might have the expectations of a nation on their shoulders, but they still craved the creature comforts that all civilized people enjoyed.

A few days later, Avyna set up her makeshift stall outside of their home, though she only stocked fresh fruits and some popular spices that weren’t being grown at the base. Which was a bit strange, in Ranthia’s eyes; Avyna had bought quite a bit of alcohol too, enough that it had to be intended as merchandise. Yet the casks stayed stacked along the ‘wall’ just outside their cooking area and weren’t on offer.

Still, she wasn’t going to ask. Avyna was no doubt planning some impressive market strategy that would earn more contribution points than Ranthia did. She was curious, but she could wait and see—it wasn’t like she had a [Merchant]’s frame of reference to understand.

“The shimagu must be nearly done; I bet the war’ll be over soon.”

“Nah, they just heard Primus was stationed here; nobody wants to risk fighting Primus. He’ll kick them in their balls too, same as us.”

The other legionaries gathered under the canopy nodded with the solemnity of shared pain—even the woman.

Ranthia had been hearing similar things—about the war, not about genitalia getting kicked—for days. Remera stood unchallenged for over a month, and they had yet to even see any clear signs of shimagu scouts acting within the range of their own patrols.

It was strange, yes, but in Ranthia’s mind it was a dangerous type of strangeness—it inspired complacency.

But keeping the legionaries on task mercifully wasn’t her job anymore. She was just Remera’s muscle… or something. Okay, yes, her role on the base was still a bit poorly defined, but she had better things to worry about—she was en route to the quartermaster’s tent. She had woken up to a message that two scrolls had arrived for her with Sentinel Aurora’s [Starship] resupply during the night. And yes, she was mildly annoyed that they delivered a scroll telling her they had two scrolls instead of just… delivering the scrolls, but it probably made sense to someone. Somehow.

At least she didn’t believe for a moment that she was the only one it applied to, even before she saw the (somewhat briskly moving) queue outside the quartermaster’s tent. Legionaries (mostly officers) departed with a scroll or three in their grasp until, at last, the quartermaster’s assistant handed her two scrolls.

Ranthia cracked the seal on the first scroll while she walked back home. It was from Sentinel Swarm. The first part of the scroll reported that every last bounty that had been laid on her was finally dealt with—as if she’d been remotely worried about those, even before she left Remus’ borders. The remainder of the (long) scroll was a list of questions that he hoped she could work into conversations with any elf that might trust her enough to let slip some of the secrets of their ‘inscriptions’. There were so many different questions crammed in that Swarm’s hand became increasingly tiny and condensed as he ran out of space.

Ranthia just rolled her eyes as she reentered their home.

“Hey babe, one of the messages was from a coworker, and I think it’s for you.” Ranthia paused to kiss the top of the elf’s head and set the scroll on the table in an out of the way place.

Avyna had the table covered with ledgers—something about 80 contribution credits going missing and her being determined to find them. The elf blew a distracted kiss Ranthia’s way, but she never looked up from the paper trail she was following.

Which was fair enough—a paltry 80 credits was almost nothing, but Avyna took pride in her recordkeeping and how clean her ledgers were. If something had gone missing, something had gone wrong—and Ranthia could definitely understand wanting to figure out what the problem was before a larger loss occurred. That was fine.

What wasn’t fine was that Swarm’s message plainly assumed it would reach her in Coalition City. It had been dated well over a month earlier—it seemed that even for Sentinels, the couriering process for messages to travel between Remus and the conflict region was beyond glacial. Worse, she didn’t even have a way to complain about it! It wasn’t Aurora’s fault—probably (they seemed to be on decent terms, finally). And the base’s quartermaster was only guilty of running a wasteful operation (which was less than ideal, but pretty much everyone involved in Remus’ government was guilty of the same ‘crime’).

Ranthia slipped through the curtain into the bedroom area of their home—where she was less likely to bother Avyna—before she opened the other scroll. It was emblazoned with the familiar Hyrria family business symbol: an oversized arm cradling various goods, including a basket of mangoes that was probably smaller than the palm.

It didn’t take many lines for it to be obvious that Tertia and her wife were alternating on who wrote what throughout the letter—the hand very notably changing between each—including a small mess near the end where the two seemed to fight over the writing implement. Ranthia just smirked and started to read.

Somehow, it was easy to tell which line was written by which woman. Sure, the rational explanation was that Ranthia was already rather familiar with Tertia’s handwriting after they spent two years on the same Ranger team, but Ranthia felt like she could feel each woman’s personality in their handwriting.

Both were eager to know how things had gone with Avyna and most of the letter related to questions about that. Which included one outright scandalous question from Tertia’s wife, which had enquired about certain… flavors and how they differed between humans and elves. Unsurprisingly that sentence was the cause of the stain—an unfinished and ineffectual attempt to blot the sentence out. Tertia also noted that she had offered to pay for Green to write as well, but the woman had replied with “I have said what I could and should to that damned fool of a flower, now I have to trust that she can keep herself alive. But I will not waste your coin or my own just to learn when the letters stop coming—I have fretted enough!”

Ranthia just smiled. That sounded just like Green. It was still a bit painful that she hadn’t managed to get the woman to understand her perspective, but they had parted on amicable terms. Green just wanted to avoid damaging that.

Or, perhaps, she was wise enough to know that was Ranthia’s concern with continued contact.

“It wasn’t like I meant to.” Ranthia protested yet again while Avyna scowled at her from across the table.

The fact that her lover wasn’t at her side while she ate was the largest sign of Avyna’s displeasure.

The missing 80 contribution credits turned out to be Ranthia’s fault—at some point she had failed to sign the ledger without either of them noticing.

“I know this, my love. I share just as much blame.” Avyna admitted.

She speared irritably at the fruit and mushed grains with a crystal spoon while Ranthia waited—she could tell that the elf was trying to assemble more words.

“I suppose I am just annoyed that I did not think to check the transactions with you against my memories first.” She finally confessed.

Yet she still sat across the table.

“Horn massage after breakfast to make up for my role in it, then maybe, if you’re feeling up for it, we can start planning our responses to the messages I received?” Ranthia offered with her best dazzling smile.

Avyna’s laughter wasn’t quite the response that Ranthia wanted, but watching the elf shake with mirth—obscured by the side of her wrist—was always a delight. Besides, sometimes a bit of laughter was the best way to get past some stubborn, yet pointless, anger.

