Wang Sifu gave her a tired look. “This is San-je, okay? She is Senator daughter,” the man complained with a thick, Cantonese accent. “YES?”

“Sorry…” Valorie winced.

“You not sorry,” Wang Sifu shook his head. “You need disinfectant. And you. Eppie. Need common sense.”

When Eppie grew more confused, Wang Sifu rubbed both hands against his chest. “Old man not disinfect young lady chest, okay? Not that kind of doctor. I want to keep operating clinic, not have Californian Senator conduct tax audit…”

Skritch-snick. Skritch—snick—

The scissors went through the ruined, blood-stiffened nylon fabric easier than either of them expected—two clean strokes up the side seam—and then there was nothing between Eppie and the raw furrows across Valorie's frontage, eliciting a clinical embarrassment neither girl had a script for.

Val kept her eyes fixed hard on the ceiling tiles, counting them, or so Eppie hoped.

Eppie kept her eyes on Val’s imposing… wounds, channelling the studied professionalism Vaughan possessed for the classical nudes of the Pre-Raphaelites.

“I am so sorry…” Eppie said, her fingers hovering an inch above skin she hadn't touched yet. “I was selfish to let you go.”

“Don’t be,” Valorie's breath came in waves.

Eppie’s gauze hovered over the trembling flesh. “This is going to hurt.”

Neither of them moved for a second longer than the sentence needed—then Val screamed.

The gauze ran pink into the basin, then clear, then pink again as each fresh rag replaced the last, the smell of copper and antiseptic doing something unpleasant to the back of Eppie's throat. The disinfectant, when it finally touched open skin, made Val scream again—an obscene sound, entirely capable of fomenting in Eppie a core memory.

Val's knuckles went white around the gurney's edge. “This is a… a new experience.”

“I wish I could be in your place…” She really did. With the [System], she would be healed in a day.

“Well…” Valorie’s voice grew mirthful. “I wouldn’t have gone if I knew it was going to sting this much…”

Eppie almost snorted over Val’s open wounds. “Don’t do that…”

With the blood gone, Eppie could see that Val was going to be okay.

Four deep gouges, ugly but shallow. A dozen lighter scratches, already scabbing pink at the edges. Nothing needed stitches. Nothing needed a hospital; whatever Eppie's imagination had staged, it was from watching too many movies.

She tapped the baoyao from its little paper sachet in soft white clouds and watched it cling to the wounds like powdered sugar, sealing the cuts like magic. Lim’s father promised that nothing but pale scars would remain, so long as they didn’t become infected.

Then… after the bandages went up, they were done, and Eppie realised that now was the awkward part.

Valorie… had no spare clothes, and neither did Eppie. They sat under the harsh light of the clinic, one in a Sunday dress, and the other half-exposed, wondering what could be done.

Valorie extended a hand. Eppie took it.

She looked at Valorie’s face, that enviable face that could probably launch a good number of yachts and wondered how she should thank the girl. Valorie was smiling, not happily, but sadly, which made sense, since she was probably cold, and in agony, and waiting for clothes and painkillers to arrive.

“Could you sing the song?” “Of course…”

With quiet sincerity, Eppie sang Valorie’s song, sparing no [Causality], allowing every skill to bring forth the welling emotions in her heart as living proof that things had gotten better.

“I feel better already,” Valorie giggled, her pain dissolving into tears.

“I am… very proud of you,” Eppie kissed the girl’s saintly palm like a pilgrim at prayer, for saving Garfield, and for saving herself. For Val to come from… whatever she had been, to this—was living proof that the [System] had once more triumphed. “So very proud.”

Arms, long and serpentine, wrapped around Eppie’s back and pressed her face against the bandages until Eppie could feel Valorie’s heart thumping against her chest. Val’s lips landed an inch from Eppie’s earlobe, drawing the heat from Eppie’s neck to her cheeks.

“Do you think it's possible?” Val asked quietly, almost too quiet to hear over the sound of a heavy body approaching the door, hopefully with clothes from the tailor shop next door. “For me to speak to Mio?”

Eppie’s vision blurred, and it wasn’t just tears.

Quest Advanced

[The Usurper of Hope]

Your actions have immensely reaped the Usurper’s Causality.

You have completely restored one of the [Usurper]’s victims through [Noblesse Oblige].You have gained immense Causality.
