Next stage. She had a second powerful tool to bring to bear on this problem. And it was wrapped up in her Grimoire’s advancement – she was able to modify the selection of variations with her skill. It was not something she felt in any way proficient at, but she could certainly change things in the middle of the construction. If she could repeatedly create more and more, while studying what exactly the ramifications of her changes were, she would be able to explore her skill in far more detail.

Excruciating detail. Chuckling to herself at a mental picture of being buried under an avalanche of useless books, she set to work.

Her first several attempts were disasters – books without pages, books without covers, loose collections of decayed paper. Even one loose collection of unbound mana that simply disintegrated with a weak pop. But with each failure, she homed in on the regions of the imprint that affected the text that would go into the book, and she got better remarkably quickly. Her Sage of Learning began drawing more and more mana with each attempt but providing more and more insights, connections, and possibilities to try next.

Again. She made another book, warping the text variations, but still getting a garbled output. She studied the output of the book, tying the random text back to her memory of what had changed in the spell’s construction before discarding it onto her ever-growing pile of failed attempts.

I think I see where the text is coming from. Something in the last attempt had seemed to ‘click’ in her mind, although it seemed like a double-edged sword. If she was right, it meant her Grimoire had not stored the individual books separately – the original meaning forever lost to the entropy in the encoding – and her desire to unravel the mess was a fool’s errand. But it also showed her how she could perhaps influence the text herself to reach her modest goal.

If I’m right, I should tweak it here, and close off this connection. The threads of understanding blended with the flickers of mana as she wielded her magic to create a new custom book. Holding all the moving pieces in her mind simultaneously strained her mental capacity immensely. Still, she simply leaned into her focus, enjoying the challenge of creating something new, understanding the pathways, and stitching it all back together into a new pattern.

The sensory experience of creating with magic.

The small book dropped into her lap, and she cautiously opened it, examining the results. Her heart leapt to find the first two pages blank, but it was not perfect. Everything else in the small book was still filled with gibberish. She examined her memory of the attempt, studying it, searching for the place where it might have gone wrong. And finally, she found it – a small detail she had overlooked that had resulted in her customization being ignored for the remainder of the book.

Interesting. As she examined the mistake, several important structures in the magic of her imprint suddenly became clear to her. The way the text was created, the way it was transmitted to the construction becoming a part of the page – even the way the cover was produced. She could see how she was simply at the precipice of an enormous valley of potential with her customization, most of it well beyond her current skill, but still visible as a perhaps lofty far-off goal to be achieved.

But I can do this much, she thought, pouring her mana into another book. This time she wielded her magic with clear purpose and precision, weaving the spells and runic constructions to create her will. When the proper moment arose, she seized it, pouring more mana into her Runic Script, and feeding it into the creation that was materializing before her. When the spell completed, she knew it was perfect, even without looking. The lines of magic were all understood, the connections were all in place, and it had snapped together correctly.

But of course, she still seized the book instantly, excited to check her work. In her hands, she found a small brown bound book, full of blank pages, just like she had envisioned. As she closed it, she saw the softly glowing golden runes on the cover – the magical script she had injected using her Runic Script – spelling out ‘Malika’. She smiled at the result, excited that it had worked, and even more so, that it looked remarkably elegant. The runes picking out Malika’s name were not organized in any formal magical construction but were imbued with her arcane mana. They glowed softly golden in the same way that many authors of magical texts chose to demonstrate the value of the content within.

But does it really work? Ali had been well-trained for research and study. A single success was easily attributed to fluke or chance. So, without much thought, she channeled her mana into replicating her new understanding by creating a second blank book with Malika’s name inscribed on the cover. The second book was completed perfectly. She was making extensive use of customization to suppress the natural text in the book, but she had made no effort to influence any of the other variant properties, so this second book turned out to be much larger, with many more pages, bound with a blue scaled leather that looked like it might have come from some kind of lizard or wyvern. Again, the runes on the front cover representing Malika’s name glowed with the soft light of her mana, and she quickly verified that the entire book had been created blank.

This one will be a lot better for her calligraphy practice, Ali thought, carefully setting both of her successes on the ground in front of Malika for her to find when she was done with her meditation and then she deconstructed the entire large pile of her failed attempts and sat back closing her eyes while waiting for Inspiration to restore her mana.

Arcane Insight has reached level 23.Runic Script has reached level 17.Sage of Learning has reached level 16.Grimoire of summoning has reached level 23.Your Basic Customization has improved.Grimoire of Summoning gains Customization.

Relaxing quietly, she smiled. She was no longer using her Sage of Learning, but she still reflected on the memory of the complex spell construction she had wrought. Four skill increases were a substantial gain for a single study session, but, more importantly, Ali could sense a powerful new grasp of what her Grimoire customization was potentially capable of. She had inserted her Runic Script on a hunch, based on how she had understood the magical construction in a moment of inspiration. She knew she was barely scratching the surface of understanding, but the potential of what she had achieved seemed unlimited. With enough study, how much could she change?

Will it be like sculpture? Can I create whatever I can imagine? The tantalizing thought sent a thrill of excitement through her, like opening the door to a fresh spring morning, and the excitement of discovering what might be out there.

“What is this?” Malika’s surprised exclamation pulled Ali out of her reverie, and she looked over to find Malika turning one of the books over in her hands.

“I was studying my magic and that came out. I thought you could use it for your calligraphy.”

“Ali, it has my name on it,” Malika said, holding it up and pointing to the glowing runes. “You made this on purpose, didn’t you?”

“Yes,” Ali admitted, feeling a little embarrassed. “I saw you struggling to find space on your paper, so I thought I would try. I didn’t know if I could do it, so I didn’t tell you. But it worked!” Ali couldn’t keep the excitement out of her voice at the end. The fact that she had been able to turn her book imprint into something useful had meant more than she had expected – even something as trivial as a blank workbook for Malika to practice calligraphy.

Maybe I can interest Calen in a new notebook?

“That’s really thoughtful, thank you,” Malika said. And before Ali could wonder if she really meant it, Malika’s pen appeared in her hand and she opened the larger book, immediately returning to her calligraphy practice.

***

Name: Aliandra AmarielRace: FaeTitles: AncientActive Buffs: Empowered SummonerClass: Grove Warden – level 39- Arcane Insight – level 23- Arcane Bolt – level 22- Barrier – level 29- Grimoire of Summoning – level 23- Runic Script – level 17- Sage of Learning – level 16- Martial Insight – level 22- Empowered Summoner – level 19- Domain Mastery – level 6- [Locked] General Skills- Reading – level 8- Identify – level 12- Sculpting – level 3- Inspiration – level 7Aptitudes- Languages: Ancient Dal'mohran, Elvish, Dwarven, Common, Draconic, Goblin- Mana (Affinities): Nature, Arcane- Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%- Magical (Racial): The effects of Wisdom and Intelligence are increased by 50%- Domain (Class): Your mana increases with the size of your domain, up to +100%- Domain: -10% maximum health per day domain withdrawal. You have Domain SenseAttributes- Vitality: 54- Strength: 4- Endurance: 15- Dexterity: 26- Perception: 76- Intelligence: 178 (+45) - Wisdom: 152Equipment- Body: Tailored Cotton Clothing – level 25- Hands: Wooden Bracelet – level 11- Ring: Silver Guild Ring – level 30Resistance: 360Magical Damage Reduction: 24.79%+21% to mana regeneration.Health: 270/270Stamina: 150/150Mana: 3083/4560 (1477 Reserved)Grimoire Imprints1- Stone2- Armor (Body)3- Arrow4- Bone Bracelet (Hands)5- Book6- Bow7- Dagger8- Shield9- Sword10- Creeper11- Grass12- Moss13- Mushroom14- Tree15- Dragon16- Elemental17- Goblinoid18,19- Kobold20- Ooze21- Wolf22- 23-

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
