“Tree rot. Imagine how obnoxious they’d be. I bet some of them are mad they don’t get the exact same cereal for breakfast in the exact same bowl in the exact same room at the exact same time every day. Tell me none of them are trying to be architects?”
The [Supporter] was grinning hugely.
“I have a story that one of them was in charge of building a wall. So far, he’s managed about four feet of smooth, polished stone with hand-chiseled reliefs he intends to put all the names of the colonists on, and where they came from—”
Everyone was laughing at silly half-Elves when Colth sombered.
“The Drowned Folk are a bit more practical and numerous. But they’re having issues on land because, well, they’re not experts. But speaking of actual challenges, not ones you brought with you—there’s word that their entire colony is having trouble finding farmland and expanding. They’ve run into some tough monsters.”
“…Tough enough to stop an entire Drowned City?”
Yvlon stopped with a spoonful of soup raised, and Ksmvr sat up with great interest. Colth nodded seriously.
“My contact said they ran into Sword Crabs.”
“Ooh. Dead gods!”
That came from Chieftain Feshi, who came in looking hungry and dirty from excavating the ground. It was hard to do in the winter, but apparently she was having Gnolls dig already. The others, even the Horns, just gave Colth a long stare.
“Sword Crabs? What? Like we have Shield Spiders?”
“Yep. They’re tough. Ever met any?”
Ceria looked at Pisces, who shook his head, and Yvlon had never heard of them. Ksmvr had only read of them in a monster manual.
“Nope.”
“Landlubbers.”
Colth heaved a dramatic sigh and left it at that. Everyone else in the eating tent promptly threw bread rolls at him.
 
——
 
That night, Ceria was borrowing hammers to hit the ice spike that Silvenia had left. She was almost certain the way to find out what was ‘inside’ was actually via magic, but the hammers felt fun.
Yvlon had gone off to train with Berr, and Ksmvr was practicing his new sword-school. The Horns were improving, even if their destination was uncertain.
They were like that. Amiable travellers, in their way as happy-go-lucky as the Silver Swords. But perhaps that was just an illusion.
At least one of them had a calling. At least one was marked by multiple fates. And only he knew how many.
The Necromancer was one. The other? The other continent was an ocean away, and he could not ask the Horns to follow him.
Not now.
All Pisces knew was that Ivery was alive. So he was trying to ‘upgrade’ the Skeleton Lord as his mentor had taught him. Az’kerash had said every full moon was an opportunity, and the two gave Pisces at least one chance per month, often as many as three.
“Enchantments. [High Jump]? [Burst of Speed]…that’s very handy. [Iron Bones]. Is this what I’m capable of?”
They were so…weak. Pisces had wanted to give Ivery the ability to emit a cloud of acid or shoot [Fireballs], but apparently he was far too weak to think of it without a dedicated Skill.
[Burst of Speed] felt like the best option, but Pisces just wished he could send more than Ivery and Bearbones to his friends.
Were they alright? Merr had sworn to protect the others, but even a [Bandit Lady] was up against…
Roshal.
Pisces’ hand clenched, and his fingers twinged as he sat in his guest hut. He tried not to think of it as much. But the meeting with Czautha had brought it back.
He had wanted to thank her properly. But it hadn’t been possible for him to just go up and openly greet a Death.
There she’d been. Like a fever dream. For all Ceria joked, he knew that even she was shaken by the meeting. The Gnolls certainly were, and Theikha had sworn them all to silence. Collaboration with Demons would be a dangerous label. Worse than even being a [Necromancer].
No one could figure out what the Deaths’ goals had been. Stealing knowledge of Earth? That was likely, but surely they had a more devious game in mind. Pisces had heard that Silvenia had approached the King of Destruction the same day he’d seen her.
Madness.
He was sitting in his tent, preparing a spell circle for a few days from now and thinking of the Winter Solstice, when someone tapped at his tent. Pisces stiffened, but relaxed when he saw the familiar pair of boots.
“Pisces. Am I bothering you?”
“Enter.”
And there he came. Smile on his face as ever. Colth the [Supporter] stepped lightly, and his enchanted chainmail made a soft sound as he adjusted his snowy garments.
“It just keeps coming down. You’d think all these Weatherfur Gnolls would send the snow elsewhere, but they don’t believe in doing that unless they have to.”
“Sensible to avoid a magical hurricane.”
“Yes…but you can still displace snow. Ah, well, it’s just wet, and I’m a Named-rank. How are you doing? Fingers alright?”
Colth stepped into the tent, and the cold air made Pisces shiver; you could light a fire, but it was generally seen as a waste of time. He blew up some hot air with a little flame spell, and the air re-warmed.
“I am quite alright, Colth. Thank you. Is Ceria still banging on that ice spike with a hammer?”
Colth chuckled.
“Not anymore. The [Smiths] chased her off after she nicked their steel hammers with it. I could have told her the Death of Magic’s spells won’t be undone that easy, but she’s having fun.”
“Hah. True. I think she copies Erin, to be honest. She often does something silly, then reveals she’s had the real solution in her back pocket. Before this, Ceria was quite serious.”
“So I heard. Maybe she’s being silly to cheer your team up. You lot are a bunch of downers. Yvlon’s a berserker, you’re a depressed [Necromancer], and Ksmvr has the self-esteem of my right boot.”
Pisces frowned up at Colth as he tidied up some magical gemstone he’d have to melt later. He had the urge to toss another roll of bread at Colth, and he was hunting around for an object. But that was Colth for you.
He was friendlier and more sociable around people he didn’t know. The Ultimate Supporter was able to be charming and silly himself.
The thorns appeared with people he knew. But, perhaps, that was because of the sense that the Gnolls and the Horns had around him. It came from Theikha and Pisces’ own understanding of Colth—if he had been less perceptive, Colth would have been an easier friend.
But there was just something about Colth that stood out as—uncertain. It came from his smile, the things he didn’t say. That broken brand from Roshal.
And…Pisces’ fingers slowly halted on a jar of magical gemstone. He sat there for a second and thought.
Wait. Did we ever tell Colth—or anyone else in the entire Meeting of Tribes—where that [Ice Spike] came from?
They had not. Definitely not. Pisces glanced up, keeping his face straight as his heart rate picked up—and Colth was looking at him.
Right at him.
His pale violet eyes were framed by his brown-green hair, like the roots of some forest, and he was smiling. He looked young, almost as young as Pisces, and he gestured to the door.
“Do you have time, Pisces? I thought we could go for a ride.”
“Now? It’s midnight.”
That was an exaggeration; it was probably only nine or ten at most. But it was late. Colth just nodded to the door.
“Just a little ride. It’ll barely be an hour.”
“An hour? I don’t have time for—”
“Come on, you’ll enjoy it. Well, we’ll see if you do.”
Colth caught Pisces’ elbow and linked arms. Then he dragged Pisces towards the door, and Pisces felt that impossible strength in his grip. He stiffened and saw Colth grin and wink. It only occurred to Pisces later that Colth hadn’t mentioned his team, and if there had been a moment for Pisces to insist on calling for them or refusing—
The camp would have been a smart place to do so.
 
——
 
They left the Meeting of Tribes on horseback, and Pisces realized after five minutes that he might be in danger.
What were his hints? Well, aside from the fact that his team didn’t know where he was going, Colth was using movement Skills.
The ground skipped under the horses’ hooves, and Pisces shouted.
“Colth! How far are we going?”
“I’m just using [Longstrider’s Gallop]! And [Destination: Fast Travel]. And maybe [Quick Hooves] and [Expedited Errand].”
“How many Skills? How can you—?”
Colth laughed as he sat up in his saddle. He counted on his fingers.
“[Rider]. [Traveller]. [Beast Tamer]—though a lot of classes get [Quick Hooves]—and [Servant]. Most Skills can be layered. Oh, and I’m also a [Teammate] like Ksmvr, so you get [Team Benefits].”
What a frightening man. Even if they were all ‘low-level’ Skills, the way he synergized them made Pisces feel like they were travelling far, far further than he had intended.
Nor was Colth exaggerating about an hour’s ride. They cut through the snow fast and hard, and Pisces had to focus on riding just to keep up. He tried several times.
“Why not the rest of the Horns?”
Colth called back over his shoulder, reading a map.
“I thought about Ceria, but I don’t trust her.”
“You don’t trust her?”
“She’s intelligent, but unpredictable. The worst kind. Pisces, relax. I know Azam.”
Pisces looked around, but there was nobody about in the freezing cold. Colth glanced over his shoulder as well.
“Relax. If we’re being tracked, it’s only by Gnolls. And Shaman Theikha is in charge, more or less, and she trusts me. I’m not leading you to your death.”
“Shaman Theikha does not trust you.”
Pisces shivered, wishing he’d learned [Frostskin] after all. Colth bared his teeth and laughed.
“Yes she does! Or she’d have not let me in the camp at all. She’s just aware that I’m not her people, which is fair. And you know who I’m working with.”
This time, the [Necromancer] was silent because he did know. He thought he knew, but even saying it felt…incredible.
“Demons.”
There was only one logical answer. When Colth had assured Pisces that he was not a [Slaver] of Roshal, it only led to one answer that made sense. If he knew Azam—then Azam had found safety, and how could he not in Czautha’s care?
But that was impossible. Demons had no allies! But then…was Colth…?
Colthei was his full name. Pisces recalled that. Despite this, with all the facts on his side, he could not bring himself to just trust Colth, which he felt was fair. He had not seen the man’s character.
Tonight might be his chance, because Colth just pointed ahead.
“We’re in luck. It’s not outside the Great Plains after all. The trade-roads do technically go through it at points. Follow my lead, Pisces. Oh—and try to keep levelheaded. Don’t go Yvlon on me now, but do whatever and I’ll back your move.”
“Do what?”
For an answer, Colth winked. This time, Pisces growled.
“Now, see here. I have enough of your prevarication, Colth. I demand substantive answers, and I will have them bef—”
He grabbed for Colth, but the [Supporter] leapt from his saddle, plunging into the snow, and shouted.
“Hey! Anyone working the stables? Two for the inn!”
The inn? Pisces looked up, and it materialized out of the snow like a mirage. An inn, or perhaps more accurately, a waystation along the trade roads. He blinked as he saw the light shining through the windows and then looked around.
He could barely see the damn road. Colth must have used a Skill to even locate this inn. But as Pisces leapt down, the [Supporter] was already shouting again.
“Hey! Who’s running this place?”
“I hear you. I hear you!”
Someone eventually came out, swearing and growling. Pisces saw a Drake pause in the doorway and shine a lantern suspiciously at the two of them.
“Who’s there at this hour? I have [Guards], you know!”
“Adventurers. I’m Colth the Supporter. Named-rank. Got a spot for us by the fire, [Innkeeper]?”
The Drake stared.
“A Named-rank—er—yes! Let me just get—hey, someone get the horses! We’ve got guests!”
He turned, flustered, and Pisces glanced at Colth, who was beaming and ostensibly shivering in the cold. The Drake’s attitude changed the moment he confirmed Colth was wearing mithril—he glanced at Pisces with a look of faint recognition, but he was focused on Colth.
“I’m sorry, sir. Are you headed to Zeres or up north?”
“Down to Zeres, if anywhere. We got caught out in the weather—do you have a place at your tables?”
Hmm. He wasn’t lying. The way Colth clarified ‘if anywhere’ would pass a truth stone even without a Skill, and they had certainly gotten caught out in the weather. Pisces’ own instincts for subterfuge were kicking in, but the Drake seemed genuinely flustered. He glanced out the window as another Drake stomped out, cursing.
It was clearly a Drake waystation—Pisces imagined Gnolls would be safer in the center of the Great Plains. This was probably as close as you got if you weren’t a friend to Gnoll-kind.
“I do have room at the tables, but we’re full to the rafters with guests, sir. You’re not the only people on the road. I could evict a few and put them in the stables or attic—”
“We could sleep by the fire if we have to. Let’s settle that once we’re inside, shall we? I’ve got a tent, and I’m willing to sleep in the cold, but I would love a hot meal and something to drink.”
“Of course, Adventurer Colth. And is your friend—?”
“He’s with me.”
That hadn’t been the question, but Colth produced a gold coin, and the Drake hurried them inside, realizing it was freezing. The instant Pisces entered the common room, the conversation stopped a second, then resumed.
But the instant he entered, Pisces felt a crawl down his back, and he couldn’t have said why. Not at first. The why became more clear as soon as they sat—not at the fire since everyone was crowded around it, but back in the warm room.
“What can I get you?”
“Er…uh…I’ll have whatever’s special, but a Firebreath Whiskey mixed with whatever ale you have.”
That was a stiff drink, and Pisces’ brows rose. He just wanted water, and the Drake hurried off. Pisces sniffed the air.
It was warm, lively, and it seemed like the Drake was running the entire waystation with only a handful of people. Well, Pisces counted five Drakes total, a small staff. But there were a lot of other people helping serve tables.
It was just that none of them were Drakes, which told Pisces they weren’t locals. It was Drakes and Gnolls almost predominantly around here, but the guests? It took Pisces only a second to realize why he’d been so unnerved the moment he entered.
