When the Horns first met Shedrkh, it became clear why Shaman Theikha and Chieftain Feshi were so happy to introduce them to him. They had feared his skills might be in such high demand—and that they were asking so much—that they’d have to haggle hard to even get an audience.
The reverse was actually true. The Gnoll had been sitting in his hut, the smelly camp of Soliest Yerr, which stank to high heaven, wrapped in blankets and looking sick. He hadn’t responded to much of anything, even one of his sons trying to get him to eat.
He’d only roused at the name ‘Colth the Supporter’, and when he’d been told he had a job, he’d gotten up with alacrity.
He tore at a piece of jerky as his helpers, his extended family, gathered around in relief. They’d been tanning Wyvern hide and an impressive amount of Corusdeer leather and other local animals, but none of it interested The Keeper of Hides.
Stalker’s hide did. He handled the huge, thick hide with great care as Gnolls sniffed and recoiled and Colth recounted finding it.
“A monster’s hide that hasn’t rotted in…decades? Hundreds of years? This is clearly a mythical monster. Better than anything I’ve worked on in the last decade. Only that Wyvern Lord would be as nice. And this…someone bring me our [Shaman]. Have we worked this before? You want armor, of course.”
“Of course. Can we talk payment? And, er—are you available for the job?”
The person negotiating was Yvlon. Ceria had tried, but the half-Elf had exposed a significant weakness despite being Captain of the Horns of Hammerad: she didn’t know armor.
Or rather, Ceria knew ‘armor’, but she’d never messed with it that much, and Shedrkh only liked people who knew how valuable he was. Pisces sniffed too much, and because Soliest Yerr stank, he was holding his nose.
Tanners. Hidemakers. Leatherworkers. The chemical stink actually reminded Yvlon of Xif and how the [Alchemist] had taken a job working with pungent chemicals despite his sense of smell. Certainly, this tribe stayed far away from the others.
“Of course I can work on it. But it will take time. Time—and negotiations are a delicate matter. I must inspect this first. [Detect Impurities]…no mites, no parasites. Poison?”
One of the Gnolls sniffing the hide glanced up.
“I am sure Honored Colth would have noticed, but I detect none, Honored Shedrkh.”
The old Gnoll had grey, grey fur, watery brown eyes, and looked frail compared to other Gnolls his age. But his paws were delicate and stained at the tips with dark dyes, and his eyes lit up like a second sun, even in winter.
“Pity. It feels like this beast was made to hide. Strange. It’s stronger than steel by far. Mithril-grade? Better? But so strange. Did…”
He glanced up suspiciously.
“Has someone worked this before me?”
“Not at all, Honored Shedrkh, and may the ground open me if I lie.”
Colth was squatting there, watching him work, and he clearly knew the old Gnoll. Shedrkh frowned.
“Then…what a strange hide. I wonder who attached it to this beast?”
The Horns paused, and Colth’s eyes sharpened. Yvlon hesitated.
“Hmm? What do you mean by that, Honored Shedrkh?”
Shedrkh slowly ran his paws down the soft, dark hide.
“It’s just a feeling. But this hide feels like it’s been worked already. I’ve heard of madness like this. It almost feels like this was attached to the beast and it grew from there. As if I can sense an older hand on it.”
That was the intuition of the greatest [Tanner] and [Leatherworker] living. Yvlon felt a chill roll down her arms, and Shedrkh pointed to the hide.
“Did someone make this beast?”
Facestealer had been hiding within its own flesh. Skinner had been a Flesh Worm encased in skin. It only made sense that the third guardian of the dungeon would be similar.
 
——
 
Regardless of his intuition, Shedrkh required three days before making a judgment. He summoned Yvlon and showed her his calculations, which were precisely in how much material he thought he’d get.
There were little notes and a huge sketch—even if they were mostly an oral-traditions people, Soliest Yerr had precise measurements and had sketched the hide out to point out how they’d cut it for the most materials, and they had accounted even for scraps.
Yvlon respectfully sat cross-legged as he and she consumed silkap, and the negotiations were brisk. When either side didn’t like what was offered, a subtle way of showing it would be to ask for another kind of snack.
There were fifteen dishes, from sweet date fruits from Chandrar to pickled eggs to hot, spicy bread-bites filled with meat by the time they were done.
“I must have one set’s worth. Gold? We need it not, no. But one set of armor will sell for far more than any fee I could charge you.”
The [Shaman] acting as the temporary [Chieftain] seemed to think gold would be fine, but Shedrkh wanted a cut of the hide. Since Stalker had been huge, Yvlon anticipated it was no problem, but it seemed the Horns wouldn’t all get geared out.
“The hide…will shrink in the process of tanning it properly. I cannot help it. It is magical hide; to keep the power, it will require treatments that dry and shrink it. So there will be less. Enough! But not enough for six sets of armor. Half that.”
Yvlon groaned.
“Really? But the hide’s stayed together so far. What if we just cut it up—”
Colth elbowed her hard, and Shedrkh glared.
“If you did that, why come to me? Just hack it up and stitch it together! I take hide and make it better. I can improve the power within—but only if I do my work!”
“I apologize, Honored Shedrkh. I meant no offense.”
He furiously ate and drank his way through an entire bowl of the meat-filled dough, and Shaman Theikha, who was observing so she could witness the deal, raised her voice.
“I mean all the offense. Keep eating, Shedrkh. You are skin and bones.”
He glared, but his appetite was raised. He pointed to his notes.
“I will have one set of half top-grain, half split leather for my tribe. Which leaves…enough to manufacture leggings and armguards for Honored Colth out of top-grain. If that is what he wants?”
Yvlon eyed Colth, and the [Supporter] grinned.
“Leggings and armguards will do. And a helmet?”
“Are you sure, Colth?”
He indicated his armor, shrugging.
“I’ve got enchanted chainmail; the other parts are where my armor’s just artifact-quality. I can do interesting things with even a bit of armor thanks to my Skills. That’s handsome enough.”
His unique class and skillset meant this was true, and Yvlon nodded. Shedrkh made notes.
“In that case…we have enough for about one set of split and top-grain for the rest of the Horns. How shall we divide it? If your Antinium wants armor, it will require more of both. He is too bulky.”
He looked at Ksmvr, who had never been called ‘fat’ before and seemed rather offended. In truth, it was just that there was more of him to cover, especially his back-shell.
“Psst. Yvlon. What the hell is ‘top-grain’?”
Ceria had to interject as more food was brought in. Yvlon whispered back as even Pisces leaned in, trying to pretend he knew.
“It’s how leather gets worked. You slice it up horizontally. Top-grain is the tough outer stuff. Split leather is the inside.”
“Both of which will be tough—but only one will have the magical camouflage. The inside is ‘merely’ superior leather. Do you have a preference for who will wear it?”
Everyone looked at each other, and Yvlon raised a hand.
“I wear metal armor, Honored Shedrkh. And I have a plate set. Honestly…I think we know who should get it.”
Ksmvr stared around politely until he realized they meant him. Then he raised his hands.
“But I am the lowest—”
Pisces flicked one of his antennae, Ceria elbowed him, and Ksmvr sighed.
“I am being bullied by affection.”
 
——
 
Ksmvr was the most logical choice for leather armor. As a [Skirmisher], it behooved him to have a lightweight armor, and the camouflage would be invaluable.
He did have the Ring of Barkskin, but he’d taken too many wounds in battle before. However, there was a problem.
Soliest Yerr actually made a bunch of leather armor for Colth and Ksmvr to wear. The magical hide was so valuable they were willing to work up prototypes to ensure everything would fit and function perfectly.
This was important because as it turned out—Ksmvr could not wear armor.
“I don’t like it. I don’t like it. Is this what skin is like? Get it off. Get it off.”
He freaked out when he was put in the armor adapted for his shell. At first, Yvlon thought Ksmvr was just unused to the feeling, but she realized his panic was more than just instinctual.
“I feel sick. I don’t want it.”
Something was wrong. Colth inspected Ksmvr as the form-fitting leather was put on, and then he walked off as Ceria told Ksmvr not to be a baby. He actually snapped his mandibles at her, and after that, they realized he really wasn’t having a reaction like his fear of water.
“I think he can’t breathe. He might have air-holes in his chitin, or he’s heating up. The coat’s all very well since it’s more breathable—leather isn’t.”
Colth came back with five beetles he’d dug up from the ground, having inspected them closely. Yvlon stared as he pointed at one that had expired when he’d coated it in a gel.
“I met someone who studied insects, once. Some of them don’t breathe through the mouth. I’m afraid to say that unless we know where Ksmvr breathes from—and it could be all over—the armor’s not a good idea.”
Ceria rubbed at her hair as Ksmvr shed the armor in relief.
“Good to know before we commissioned it. Damn. Then who gets the armor?”
Yvlon thought about it for a while. Then her eyes slid left towards Pisces. Ceria glanced left, too. Pisces looked horribly offended.
“Me? What do you take me for? Some armor-wearing luddite?”
Yvlon stared pointedly at the rapier on Pisces’ hip, and he protectively covered it.
“I am a sword-capable [Mage]. And low-level [Fencer], I admit, but I am not a [Warrior]!”
Colth threw an arm around Pisces’ shoulders.
“Ah, yes. And no [Duelist] would ever wear armor. Ever. And you stay out of combat and don’t ever use that rapier except in self-defense. Completely understandable.”
Pisces turned red.
 
——
 
It made sense to give Pisces armor. Ceria was debated—but the half-Elf claimed that she could use her [Ice Armor] spells.
“Can you use magic with armor on?”
“It…blocks you a bit, but Pisces should be able to do it. He can cast magic without a wand. Armor’s not that much worse. Can we give him a full set?”
Shedrkh was performing calculations.
“Hrr. Split-grain. The weaker material. I will use as much of it and the remaining top-grain for Yvlon Byres as well. A flexible underarmor.”
He had an idea for both. Pisces would get a full set of armor he could wear under his robes if he so chose, thin and light. But Yvlon was also going to get armor.
Shedrkh had a design that protected your armpits, knees—all the places where traditional plate armor tended to have gaps. The two bodysuit-type armors would be lightweight and powerful, but not have the camouflage effect that Soliest Yerr and Colth would get.
This wasn’t ideal, which was why all the split-grain leather was going to the Horns. And they had insisted on some of the magical top-grain for themselves. Which was why part of the sketch allocated a very handsome cloak for Ksmvr.
“I would like to have the Horns’ sigil on it, please. And my name on it because people keep stealing my personal possessions, like the Empress of Beasts.”
Ksmvr was talking to one of Shedrkh’s assistants, who was showing him stitching he could get. A cloak was the perfect answer to his armor problem. It’d cover his back, let him breathe—and the magical cloaking effect would be a huge upgrade to his previous cloak, which had been destroyed in Illivere anyways.
“I think we have our armor distributed. What happens to the scraps?”
There would be a lot of shavings, and Shedrkh assured the Horns they would go to good use.
“We will use them for tying the armor together—or straps and other fittings if need be. Not a single part will be wasted. But this will take a month at least. If it were not winter…we will need wood. Wood to dry, and more magicore! And—!”
 
——
 
The process of tanning was long. Once Stalker’s hide had been portioned, well, even in negotiations, Soliest Yerr had gotten to work with a will.
Mostly because the Gnolls knew how long it would take. Here was the process that Yvlon observed day after day:
First, the hide of Stalker was put in quick-acting lime to help remove excess parts. Normally, the lime swelled leather up a bit, but in Stalker’s case, it was mostly to disinfect it. Next, the leather had to be fleshed—which was literally scraping any fat or other material off. A difficult task that had Gnolls with mithril blades whetting them again and again and taking minute parts off the leather.
After that, you trimmed the leather before splitting it into the top-grain and split leather. Yvlon had heard that tanneries would use huge bladed contraptions in big cities—or Golems in the north—but in this case, Shedrkh did it all by hand.
The Gnoll alone had to cut the huge hide with a single knife, and it took him days of work almost without rest. But he was obsessively checking to make sure his cut was straight—and he had decades of practice.
“How can he cut it so easily?”
Soliest Yerr had broken out old mithril blades passed down in their tribe to even flesh Stalker’s hide, but as far as Yvlon could tell, Shedrkh used a steel blade. Colth just grinned.
“[My Knife Cuts All]. Probably only works on leather and hides, but imagine someone coming at you with that in a battle and slicing your fancy artifact-armor to bits?”
“Can he…do that?”
Colth winked.
“That’s how you apply your Skills creatively. Mind you, you’d have to be good with a blade to want to risk it, but he can definitely do the cutting.”
Indeed, Shedrkh’s unique abilities were actually most evident in the next process—the tanning.
Tanning was a long and complicated process where dyes, alchemical stuff, and more liquids would turn the raw fibers in hide into what leather was. After soaking, the hide had to be spun, heated, and dried, hence the famous stench of tanneries and their exhaust.
It was also, frankly, a pain to do, and Yvlon saw Gnolls wringing the leather out, re-tanning it again, drying it—and drying was so damn hard in the snow. They had special tents set up, and it smelled so bad that apparently most Gnolls in their tribe lost a large portion of their ability to smell at a young age.
