The men and women in this inn had looked normal, even familiar to Pisces, a native Terandrian and used to Izril’s north. But he’d realized their skin was different. They’d changed to a lighter tint to match Izril’s folk in most cases, but the telltale marks around their visible necks, an ungloved hand, an ear, finally clued him in.
They were Stitch-folk.
Dozens of Stitch-folk. And then Pisces noticed one of the serving girls had a pair of metal wristbands as she brought them food. His skin began to crawl, and Colth nudged him as Pisces almost got up.
“Sure you don’t want a drink?”
“What are you—where is—”
Colth took a deep drink of his ale and laughed.
“Pisces! My friend! Relax. We’re just here for the night. Don’t worry about lodging. Enchanted tent, remember? And at worst we can sleep under a table. These Drake waystations are generally safe.”
His voice was loud, carried far, and when he said that name—the conversation went out like a snuffed candle. Heads turned, and Pisces saw more than one drinker at a table suddenly look up.
Pisces turned to Colth—and the [Supporter] gave him a blank look.
“Alright, we can try for a room. But we’ll toss a coin for the bed. I’m not pulling rank to toss two people out of their rooms, and this lot probably won’t be happy even if we evict one person. Sorry, everyone.”
He waved a hand around, and eyes focused on Colth, who grinned, and now they were identified.
Colth the Supporter and Pisces Jealnet, the [Necromancer]. There was a moment of silence—then someone lifted a cup.
“Not at all, Named Adventurer. These things are expected. To your health.”
Pisces turned, and the scar on his chest began to itch. He locked eyes with a [Slaver] of Roshal, and this entire inn began to develop a new air. The guards and caravan—they were filling this inn—went back to their food, but they were watching Pisces now. Staring at him out of the corner of their eyes, and so were the [Slaves].
They had just walked into an entire caravan of Roshal on the move. Heading north from Zeres.
 
——
 
The meeting between the [Necromancer] and Roshal’s own was unpredicted and—dangerous. As soon as the lead [Slaver] saw Pisces, he sent a swift [Message] to Lailight Scintillation for the Naga and his superiors to see.
Colth the Supporter he only knew as a local Izrilian Named-rank, but Pisces…every [Slave] and [Slaver] had heard of the [Necromancer] who had been sold for a million gold coins—and the Death of Chains who had slain three [Slavers]. And Emir Riqre’s destruction.
However, his orders were not to cause trouble. In fact, he was given a [Message] back almost instantly to avoid conflict with the [Necromancer] if possible. Which annoyed the [Slaver], because he had an inn full of [Guards] and this was a prime opportunity.
But then he read the bottom of the [Message] and noted how tense his [Veteran Chainguard] looked and felt a chill of his own on his flesh.
 
Beware Colth the Supporter. Give him absolutely no cause for offense.
 
“Spread the word to all present.”
The [Slaver] gave swift orders and didn’t mention the part about Colth. Frankly, this entire journey was unprofitable—he had done zero trading from Zeres. True, the City of Waves didn’t allow it outside of the docks, but Roshal had free passage.
They had other goals. The [Slaver] sat back further at his table until two more things happened. The first was that he received word someone else was approaching the inn.
His people were nearly sixty strong, not including the slaves, and filled up this inn. All had disembarked the Requisitory Domain, and they had feared little on this trip aside from boredom. But even they stirred when the second Named-rank entered the inn.
“I come in peace. For a drink.”
Gamur the Axe, the Named-rank Gnoll [Warrior] who carried a gigantic axe that had cleaved through hundreds of monsters, slowly stepped into the inn as the Drake stared at him and Colth. But the Gnoll didn’t approach Colth’s table. He just sat near the fire as room was made for him, and he pointedly sat facing Colth.
“Ah, it seems as though those two are being watched by the Gnolls after all.”
How else would you explain the coincidental arrival of Gamur? It seemed that the [Necromancer], Pisces, was certainly caught off-guard by the meeting. Gamur just glowered, clearly cold and wet, and began eating links of hot, grilled sausage the moment it was set in front of him.
But the one person at ease was Colth himself. He was, in fact, already drunk, and it was no act.
 
——
 
Firebreath Whiskey was potent stuff. Colth had asked for half in his mug, half ale, and the first one had already sent him nodding a bit. He was on his second, and Pisces was hissing at him after half an hour of eating.
Pisces was not hungry, and he’d barely touched the roasted potatoes and meat, having eaten a satisfactory dinner.
“Colth! Why are we here? Colth?”
“Relax, Pisces. I’m tired, you’re cold. And grumpy. And just relax. Sit there if you don’t want to be…be…”
Pisces had hoped it was a trick, but Colth actually seemed to forget the next words and snapped his fingers together.
“Dead gods, I’m drunk. Fuck. I must be getting old as Deniusth—who dyes his hair—if two can take me down. Then again, Mihaela can drink this down like water thanks to her constitution. You want to know how Named-ranks do things? Information-gathering, Pisces. Friendliness. Observe!”
He stood up unsteadily, went to tap his nose, and missed. Then Colth took his drink and plate over and sat down at a table with some of the guards.
“Hoi there! Are you lot from Chandrar? I’m Colth, Named-rank adventurer. How was the sea voyage? Mind if I buy you all a drink?”
The [Guards] were a mercenary lot, but the instant Colth sat down, a few stiffened. The rest, though, younger ones, cheered up at ‘free drink’, and Colth instantly raised a hand.
The [Slaves] were running around like the [Barmaids], and they brought everyone drinks as Pisces watched darkly. He had eyes on him, but Colth was speaking loudly, energetically, and he was definitely drunk.
“What’s the word from Khelt? No—the King of Destruction?”
“We…have not passed through Khelt or Reim, Adventurer Colth. We set sail from Roshal.”
One of the younger [Guards] willing to talk spoke politely, inclining his head. He had a faint accent that made Pisces tense, but Colth just laughed.
“Ah, Roshal. I’ve been to Lailight Scintillation. How is the Harbor of Sighs?”
“You’ve been there?”
Instantly, the denizens of Roshal grew more interested, and Gamur’s head rose a second from his table. Colth waved a hand.
“I have been to every continent, friends. Is that bastard who makes the bread that gives people explosive diarrhea still selling from the harbor mouth? I meant to buy some—it feels like it’d work on monsters too.”
“He’s dead. Some fool killed him, and the Naga killed them over it.”
Apparently, Colth had just proven he knew the city, because the entire group got to gossiping at once. Pisces’ mistrust grew and grew…especially when he noticed Gamur glaring at Colth. When the Gnoll met Pisces’ eyes, he gave Pisces a glower that clearly meant something threatening.
Pisces didn’t know what to make of the sudden appearance of Gamur the Axe. He was searching his mind for any knowledge of the Named-rank other than his name.
Gamur, Gamur…a southern Named-rank famous for fighting monsters. That was literally it. But the Gnoll looked like an adventurer out of stories. He had scarred grey-brown fur, and he was like a gigantic, hunched boulder.
It would not be a favorable comparison, but the only brawnier Gnolls that Pisces had ever seen were Raskghar. Gamur’s huge battleaxe had runework on the edge, and it was a massive, two-handed weapon that you could use to cut open a Wyvern.
His warning stare, though. What did it mean? Pisces widened his eyes as the two locked gazes, searching for a subtle sign.
Gamur’s glare widened, and then he flicked his eyes to Colth. Pisces jerked his head right at Colth and then towards the door.
Are we to leave? He shifted, touching his fingers to his mug. He tapped two fingers, then one, glancing at Gamur. There are two of us, one of you—reinforcements? Are we in trouble?
The Gnoll [Warrior] stared at the door, then Pisces’ fingers, and looked patently confused. He hesitated, then shook his head. He glared and folded his arms. Pisces raised his brows. Gamur thought about it—then turned around slowly in his seat.
Wonderful. Pisces had no idea if he’d misread the signs or if Gamur just had Yvlon-levels of subterfuge. He feared the latter, but then, why was the Gnoll here?
Perhaps they shouldn’t be here? Pisces would have liked to leave, but Colth was on his third drink and telling everyone to mix Firebreath Whiskey with the ale.
It had to be at least four shots of whiskey per mug plus half of it ale! The [Guards] instantly grew more intoxicated, and more came over to have drinks, but the ones Pisces marked as probably being veterans moved back towards that [Slaver].
“So you’re all top-guards, eh? What about the [Slavers]? If one of the big [Slave Lords] got killed by the Naga—”
“No fear on that, Adventurer. There are multiple new [Slave Lords]. They appeared overnight. And their hands stretch far. I saw two of them in the marketplace, and they were a match for the Naga’s presence, or you can have my eyes.”
One of the Stitch-folk made a plucking gesture, and Colth leaned forwards.
“New [Slave Lords] like the Naga? You jest, sir.”
“I do not. One had a set of scales, with which he measured every little thing. The other had what seemed like a thousand staring eyes, and a daring [Thief] tried to steal from him—he knew in the moment it occurred and even which way they ran.”
“What’re their names? Perhaps I know them…”
Colth leaned forwards, but someone cleared their throat loudly, and the over-eager young [Guard] fell silent. Instantly, the others clammed up, and Colth looked up.
“Supporter Colth. As much as I enjoy your company, and it gives my men levity, I must ask you do not pry into Roshal’s affairs. We are upon the business of our city, and my men talk overloud.”
The [Slaver] lifted a ringed hand, and Colth lifted an unsteady one in reply. Gamur snorted as Colth tried to stand and got up unsteadily.
“Not to fear, Master…?”
“Toriernd. We travel humbly upon the Drakes’ trade-roads, north. Without incident or quarrel. We would not wish any here.”
“Nor I. Nor I. Drakes love their damn investigations, and no one messes with the law unless they want every city from here to Liscor coming down on them. The law is safety, after all.”
“Exactly.”
The deep rumble came from Gamur, and the glare he shot Colth made the [Supporter] raise his hands and roll his eyes.
“Oh, and here comes a minder from who, Theikha? I’m not doing anything. Witness it to the tribes!”
“I am.”
The Named-rank shot back, and the [Slaver] relaxed as Pisces cursed under his breath. So they had been followed, and this was a huge waste of time!
Well, the news about new, high-level [Slave Lords] was deeply unpleasant. But perhaps Colth was showing him what he was doing? The unsteady [Supporter] was genuinely drunk, and Gamur’s presence clearly made the [Slaver] feel at home. So he smiled and approached with two of his [Guards].
“I must confess, I had not realized you were so knowledgeable about Roshal. We have ‘Named-ranks’ of our own, Colth the Supporter, but almost none are native-born. When did you come to our city?”
Colth turned and stood there, mug in hand. Then he found it was empty and pulled the Firebreath Whiskey bottle up, filling the mug with it raw. Pisces wondered if he’d have to roll the man back to the camp.
“Oh, a lifetime ago and under a different name. I learned a lot.”
“Indeed?”
The [Supporter] nodded as he raised his mug.
“It wasn’t always a pleasant lesson, but you learn it well. Roshal is a fountain of knowledge most parts of the world have lost.”
“This is very true. I am glad you say it; few nations respect our knowledge.”
Toriernd seemed very pleased by this, and he glanced at Pisces and smiled. The [Necromancer] bristled, and the [Slaver] lifted a hand.
“Peace. I say it now, to be open. I know you have had—issues with our great nation, Necromancer Pisces, but at this time, we are all friends.”
Everyone turned back to Pisces, and the [Innkeeper] looked over, clearly not knowing their history. Pisces stared at Colth, but the [Supporter] gave him an encouraging smile.
Whatever he was playing—Pisces felt a flash of rage.
“I am not your friend, [Slaver]. Nor will I be. Do not bandy words with me here or I will remind you of what happened to every [Slaver] I have ever met. I wish the same on you.”
The cheerful smile on the [Guards]’ faces went out, and they slowly reached for their blades. But Colth threw up a hand.
“Pisces—forgive him, Toriernd.”
“That would be hard. That is quite an insult—but I expected nothing less. I hope you know, Necromancer Pisces, that we are protected under Drake law. You insult us, threaten us, and would attack us and make the Walled Cities your enemy.”
“And?”
Pisces slowly got up, feeling drunk on hatred despite not having touched a drop. The words came out the instant he had to trade words with the [Slaver], and he had not realized how enraged he was.
“Human. Sit.”
A paw clapped Pisces on the shoulder, and he went down so hard he nearly broke the chair in two. Gamur the Axe warningly leaned his huge battleaxe on the table. He leaned on Pisces, and the [Necromancer] turned, but he was so heavy—
The [Slaver] was all smiles. He turned back to Colth, clearly relishing Pisces’ glare of impotent hatred.
“Once again, Adventurer Colth, you have odd companions. You were saying about learning? Roshal’s knowledge?”
“Oh, yes. Roshal’s knowledge. Where was I? I learned a lot. Your people know every written language and even have your own. Did you know that?”
“I do indeed. Though True Roshalian is spoken only as a kind of mark of prestige. It has little use as a spoken language if it ever did.”
Toriernd was greatly impressed now, and Colth tapped his nose as he took a sip, then a longer draft of his drink. The two [Guards] were watching him, and Pisces saw neither were as calm as the [Slaver]. But they kept their hands well away from the blades they had—two long daggers and a scimitar, respectively.
Enchanted armor. Most of the [Guards] had some, even the young ones. The youngest might still be Level 20+.
What were they here for? Colth had asked that very question, but none had answered. Now, the [Supporter] exhaled, fumes on his breath.
