“I hear that The Wandering Inn has a beach. We should go there.”
A half-Elf sitting on a rock, watching the snow fall, said that. It kept falling, even now, turning the world into a second sea. It seemed like nothing and no one could live here, yet improbably, a bunch of furry folk had created light in that oblivion.
Tents, rounded, with little stacks of smoke rising ever higher. From afar, it looked like a small gathering, despite being home to nearly a hundred thousand souls.
The Meeting of Tribes was no Walled City with their millions, but that was because the tribes of Izril were no longer gathered. Someday, they would return, but many had left for the New Lands, for other parts of Izril to defend their homes, or to other continents altogether.
As for the half-Elf, she had a skeletal hand, and she was dressed just in robes despite the weather that had even the Antinium sitting next to her wearing a huge, poofy fur coat. It was oversized, adjusted so it could cover his shell, and a giant hood had two holes for his antennae to poke through. Since even chitin could freeze, someone had knitted two woolen coverings, and they hugged the antennae like socks.
The knitter was not Yvlon Byres. Yvlon was wearing a less-warm travel ensemble from her adventuring days before Skinner, and shivering. She just had wool and three layers, and the wind chilled her to the core especially with her metal arms, which, despite having reduced sensation, were freezing since metal was a bad insulator.
Pisces was just dead. He sat, trying to cast a [Frostskin] spell, shivering uncontrollably with a blanket wrapped around him. This was despite the sweater and jacket over his white robes—which made him look ridiculous—and the shirt underneath.
So Ceria Springwalker was already not the most popular member of her team because she looked like she was enjoying the cold weather. At her comment, the Horns of Hammerad looked up. They regarded their captain, and Yvlon made a snowball and threw it.
It clocked Ceria in the head, and she went tumbling down the hill, swearing.
“Oops. Sorry, Ceria.”
“Sorry? You hit me!”
“I thought I’d miss. Are you insane? Is that circlet eating your mind yet? We just left.”
Ceria crawled back up the hill, rubbing at her head. The invisible circlet appeared for a second as she re-seated it.
“I’m just saying. It’s a beach. It sounds hilarious. Plus, Jelaqua’s getting married. I already miss Erin’s unpredictability. And the Winter Solstice is coming. You know something’s going down.”
“We do? Comrade Pisces, what is going down on the Winter Solstice? Have I missed critical information?”
Pisces stopped shivering to death and looked up at Ceria with a huge frown.
“W-w-we don’t k-know anything. B-but Erin did say—”
“Oh, for the love of trees. [Frostskin]. There.”
Ceria groaned and performed the spell. Pisces stopped shivering at once, and Yvlon, also shudderingly cold, felt her skin ‘warm’ slightly, or at least, stop feeling the cold.
“I nearly had it, Ceria!”
He glared. Ceria rolled her eyes.
“Sure you did. You just can’t admit that, for once, I learned a spell faster than you. It’s stronger than the [Lesser Resistance] spells by far, isn’t it?”
Neither she nor Pisces had known [Frostskin] before heading south. Ceria had never really needed it as a [Cryomancer] since cold-resistance was a staple of her class. But it seemed her intelligence-boosting circlet had more power than Yvlon had thought. Well, it was also a spell from her specialty.
Pisces scowled and folded his arms.
“I’ve been studying other magic, I’ll have you know, Springwalker. As to Ksmvr’s question—we know something is happening on the Solstice. But we could hardly wait around for months. We’d turn into Lehra.”
“Plus, we had an engagement at the Meeting of Tribes. If we head back, we’d just have done a bit here, and…aren’t we headed to the New Lands, oh intelligent Captain of mine?”
Yvlon was spicy, even in the chill, but she and Ceria had mostly made up their quarrel over the past month. Indeed, Yvlon’s pointed remarks weren’t followed by a dangerously annoyed glare. She just looked regularly piqued.
Venting your feelings honestly was a key to managing your temper. Better to let off some steam than hold it in according to Honored Berr. After a month of his tutelage, Yvlon felt like she had mastered some of his lessons. The levels hadn’t reflected that for her [Armsmistress] class, but she was Level 40. Expecting to level from a month’s training was ridiculous.
Then again…she had leveled a bit in her other new class. But Yvlon was keeping that to herself since it was just a side-class like Ksmvr’s tree-collecting habit, and it was silly.
Ceria, for her part, seemed equanimous and even thoughtful as she rested her chin in her bony hand. She nodded.
“Yeah. It’s true we’d waste time—aside from getting our armor and meeting the Gnolls here. But we could bring back a bunch of stuff for Krshia’s Silverfangs, even escort Rose north if she’s going. She’s said she wants to leave.”
Yvlon frowned.
“What about the Steelfur Chieftain? Aren’t they together?”
The half-Elf’s brows rose.
“Adetr? I don’t think so. And even if they are, Rose still has business at the inn. It’s not like she’s Inkar, who likes this life. She’s a city-person.”
“Huh. But still, why would we go back?”
Ceria glanced north, towards the High Passes, so far away that they weren’t even visible on the horizon. It would be a long journey. But—
“Well, if we’re needed. Erin has her [Knights], now, and the other Gold-rank teams and even Saliss. But something’s coming on the Winter Solstice. Erin died once. Do you think she’ll get a third chance? If we miss it—do you want to live with that?”
Her eyes were calm and cold. That was from her class. But the circlet’s intelligence shone through that gaze. A cold understanding of what might come. Yvlon looked up, and her shiver this time had nothing to do with the cold. In silence, Pisces glanced up, and his eyes spoke volumes as his hand reached for his rapier.
“I, for one, will vote to return if it means helping Miss Solstice. But if it is so dire, will we be enough?”
“A Gold-rank in the right spot’s worth more than a company, especially against something like Facestealer. But I was sort of thinking we’d get backup if we’re certain. After all—we could bring back more help on a level even the Drakes respect. Not just our cheerful friend. What about Berr, Gadiekh, Colth, and Theikha? And, uh, Adetr? He’s probably as good as a Gold-rank, at least.”
Ceria Springwalker really was scheming hard. Even Pisces’ brows rose, but Yvlon had to admit—if you were going to bring in the cavalry, you might as well bring the [Elephant Riders]. And that would be a force.
“Think we can?”
“We could ask. I’m mulling it over, mulling it over. Want to visit the Earth Tent and get something to eat? Then pitch it to Theikha?”
The other Horns agreed. They got up from the snowy hill, and Yvlon Byres, Ksmvr, and Pisces stretched. They’d been out here in the snowy wasteland to do more than just talk in private. Ceria raised a hand and shouted.
“Hey! Colth! We’re heading back! You done yet?”
“Almost! Give me thirteen more minutes! Is Gire done yet?”
Ceria shaded her eyes and sighed.
“Thirty minutes?”
“Perfect!”
He blew her a kiss. Ceria went to sit back down, and Pisces, groaning, opened his spellbook. For a Gold-rank team, they did a lot of sitting around. He glanced up, but he couldn’t tell what Colth was doing in the distance. Yvlon squinted at the figure sitting in the snow below the hill, unmoving as the snow poured down.
“Is he really divining or something?”
Ceria nodded.
“Looks like it. He’s been staring at that contraption and the sky. I think it lets him see the stars at night.”
Ksmvr chirped in happily.
“Suspicious.”
Ceria snorted.
“Are you listening to someone else, Ksmvr? It’s perfectly normal. I’ve never heard of any [Diviner] consulting the stars. That’s [Seer] territory. But he’s fine. He just gets secret [Messages] from all over Izril. I think he gets sixteen a week.”
Yvlon twisted around, impressed.
“You can tell?”
Once more, Ceria tapped the circlet on her head.
“I can’t intercept, but this thing detects them. Colth also knows eleven Gnolls who give him tips, each in a different tribe. I think he’s looking into something southwards—I heard him asking about roads.”
“Huh. Think he’s got business around Zeres?”
“Could be, could be. But that’s not suspicious at all, Ksmvr.”
“Ah, I see. I will be more naive and guileless in the future, Captain Ceria. That was a joke. Ha. Ha. Ha? Was that a funny joke?”
“Hilarious.”
Pisces muttered, glancing at Ceria. She returned the stare, and after a second, Pisces murmured.
“—We might not need to go back to the inn in a month. I cannot imagine we can do better than the current protections. Isn’t Lord Tyrion Veltras staying at the inn? With Lady Reinhart and whatnot…it would be a waste of time, I think.”
He waved a hand, and Ceria eyed Pisces. She said nothing, and neither did Yvlon, but if both considered Colth ‘sort of suspicious’, Pisces’ statement had just put him way above Colth.
He would be the first person to go back to Erin’s defense, whether he’d admit it or not. What did he know?
Well, the [Necromancer] was thinking of a promise that had been made to him by a certain other Necromancer. And he sincerely doubted he could do more than the Archmage of Death could.
Then again? Did he trust that? Then again again? Could even four Named-ranks stop Az’kerash? Pisces sat, reading the spellbook, and that was where the Horns were.
At another waypoint on their long journey. But soon—Ceria sighed as she turned, watching a huge, red-furred Gnoll running around in the distance.
“Dead gods, she doesn’t get tired. Hey, Yvlon, you’re a muscly warrior-type. You want to…?”
Yvlon turned, and the person they were supposed to mind along with Colth, Chieftain Gireulashia, was still running in the distance. She was exercising. Training, rather.
A very unhappy giant Gnoll was racing through the snow so fast that she was leaving a shower of snow behind her. Yvlon thought she might be able to outrun some people on dry ground she was going so fast. And yet she had no less than fifteen Ekhtouch tribe members and two snow-specialists egging her on and chasing her around.
Two literal bears, too, and a bunch of hounds. They were playing the most serious game of tag possible.
“…I’d rather let Berr toss me half a mile for fun. That looks exhausting.”
“That’s how you learn a Skill. I think she’ll punch the bears if they keep making her do it, though.”
Gireulashia’s howling complaints were audible even from here. The Horns were just here as minders for her in case monsters attacked. After all, she’d been running around for the last hour, and she was exhausted, even for a [Paragon Chieftain].
“You could learn a Skill, Yvlon.”
“I would throw up everything in my stomach and my stomach trying to run that hard. I can’t even figure out how she’s moving that fast in the snow. I don’t need terrain Skills, anyways.”
“Slacker.”
Yvlon made another snowball with her hands and took careful aim.
“I don’t want to hear that from you—”
Ceria pointed a finger, and a snowball half as large as Yvlon sent her tumbling down the hill. The [Armsmistress] came back up, shouting, and the Horns of Hammerad merrily ran around pelting each other with snow.
What a carefree lot. Below them, sitting cross-legged as he consulted his ‘divination’, Colth the Supporter sighed.
“Dead gods. They have no focus.”
And yet—they did get places. Slowly, unpredictably, but forward momentum was happening. Colth packed up his things as he brushed snow off his winter gear.
Yep. Almost time.
 
——
 
When they got back to the Meeting of Tribes, the first thing that the Horns checked on was the Soliest Yerr Tribe. It might have been odd, given their affiliations were with Gaarh Marsh, Weatherfur, and Silverfang,
The three tribes who had taken the Doombearers’ side and come to define that side of the schism within Gnolls were effectively the major forces in the Meeting of Tribes. They had both political and physical presence and were at the center of a new network of tribal alliances.
Strong allies like Longstalker’s Fang and Ekhtouch meant that tribes who disagreed with them—or who had taken the opposite side—were moving away or in disgrace.
Az’muzarre was ruined. Plain’s Eye had become a splinter heading to the New Lands under Merish. Some tribes like Steelfur were trying to rebuild, but they had lost their Chieftain and thus their powerful armored fur.
And some tribes, like Soliest Yerr, were just considering a future where they no longer endured. Soliest Yerr was a famous—the famous tribe for armors and hides. But their Chieftain was dead. They had taken Plain’s Eye’s side, and a third of their warriors had perished fighting Zeres’ army.
A third of their warriors. The damage to the tribe meant that they had little prospects of returning to their normal hunting grounds. They normally operated on the coast, but the tensions with Zeres would have had them wary even if they could defend themselves.
It might be that this was their end—so the tribe was in active negotiations to stay at the Meeting of Tribes or be subsumed into another tribe.
It was no easy thing. Even if they were allowed to keep their customs, imagine becoming a Weatherfur Gnoll? Would both tribes be able to merge and forget old wounds?
…The one thing Soliest Yerr had was their Honored Gnoll, Shedrkh the Hidemaster. He was old, seventy-eight years old, and now it seemed like the weight of his tribe rested on his shoulders.
He did not bear it well. He looked—hunted. As if sleep had left him, leaving dark traces under his eyes, and his grey fur was tangled. Despite the impressive clothing he wore, hand-tanned, and his many apprentices, sons, daughters, grandchildren, and more—it seemed like the realization that the Doombearers had not been evil had broken something in him.
However, he knew his craft and threw himself into that.
“Honored Shedrkh. How goes it?”
The Horns had initially come all this way to meet him. Nearly a month back they’d been introduced, and the old Gnoll just raised a paw as Yvlon called out. He’d been working for a month in the winter to tan Stalker’s hide. A month…and he was almost done, which was a lightning fast pace for the job.
 
——
 
One month ago.
 
“What a magnificent hide. You were right to take it to me.”
