Well, they made up for it with the ability to keep the magic in the hide when it was turned to leather. It was a trade secret, but Shedrkh was only too willing to brag about it.
“Most Wyvern leather is just ‘tough leather’. Not a shred of magic left in it. That Frost Wyvern hide? Wasted. The Drakes of Pallass were smart enough to send much of the hides to us. Our armor will have [Lesser Frost Resistance]; the stuff made by their low-level [Tanners] will lack it. But Stalker’s armor will be more powerful still.”
At least one component of his unique tanning was magicore, which either kept the magic in or did something to it. But at any rate, that was the rest of the month.
They stretched Stalker’s hide out on a huge rack, heated it to dry it with fires that were constantly stoked, then flexed the leather, adding a paste to repair any cracking or imperfections as well as bringing out more luster and making it soft before buffing and sanding the leather. Then they had to spray and treat it again with more chemicals before it began to look like actual leather to Yvlon.
And then—and then they could finally cut the stuff up and begin turning it into armor.
 
——
 
Now.
 
“We have just begun fashioning Honored Colth’s helmet. Would he care to have it fitted?”
“He’d care immensely. Thank you!”
Colth brightened up, despite still looking cold from the hours he’d spent outside. Yvlon herself found Shedrkh proudly embossing the leather with a stamp, and it looked—
Interesting.
Stalker’s hide was grey when it came out, which you could think of as disappointing—until you noticed the shadowy grey color seemed to adjust depending on how much light there was. Inside the huts with less light, it turned almost black, like shadows. Outside in sunlight when it shone through the wintery skies? It was a pale cloud-grey.
“What can it do? Turn invisible?”
“Not just invisible. Camouflage. Invisible implies you would see through it. As it so happens—this can do both.”
Shedrkh indicated the helmet, and it vanished as Colth tried it on, much to Yvlon’s shock. It looked like he was bare-headed!
Colth’s smile grew wide and only slightly sinister as he took the helmet off and it reappeared.
“Now that’s a good way of keeping your foes off-guard. It feels slippery, too. I doubt it’d show up if someone cast [Detect Magic].”
“It will not. Any [Rogue] will pay a fortune for it. Which, perhaps, will be the client for the set of armor my tribe makes. I am considering an auction…I must place my tribe in a good position now. But I will finish your armor first. Come, Yvlon Byres. Let me make sure yours will fit too.”
Shedrkh looked tired as Colth requested his helmet be adjusted ever so slightly, and Yvlon found her new underarmor was exceptionally comfy and flexible.
“Good luck to anyone thinking they’ll stab you through your plate armor. Frankly, the enchanted steel is now the weaker part of your armor. You should upgrade that once you get the chance. Not that I think you can buy the right gear on the open market.”
Colth commented as Yvlon checked her armor. She glared because she thought he was making a crack about their finances.
“We are rich, now, as you keep pointing out, Colth.”
“Oh, I know that. But no one sells Relics, and when they do, they go for millions like the Helm of Fire. You’ve got to kill the beast for armor yourself. Which is why this is going to be nice.”
Colth really had done all this just to upgrade his armor. Any edge at their level meant life or death, and Yvlon nodded.
It really was about upgrades. She just worried that because she, Ksmvr, and Pisces were getting substantial upgrades in their armor, a certain half-Elf would feel left out.
As it so happened, Ceria’s ‘upgrade’ had already been in progress. And so was Pisces’.
 
——
 
“You have to stop. I know they said we’re honored guests, but they’re starting to look at us every time we come in.”
“Shut up, Pisces. You could study your damn spellbook outside.”
“I’m just here for the ambiance.”
Ceria lowered her sunglasses as she sat at the restaurant in the Earth simulation. She eyed Pisces, who avoided her gaze as he raised a hand.
“I’ll have a second plate with more truffles. Oh, and…this wine. A sauvignon. The entire bottle.”
He actually said it properly, as if he had ever drunk the damn stuff before. The waiter was only too happy to fetch the bottle—because this was a very expensive, top-floor restaurant with a huge view through the windows.
Ceria just bet that it’d cost—well, she knew the cost, and it was thousands of dollars, which wasn’t gold coins, but it still would have made her wince.
If she and Pisces were going to pay for any of this, of course. The beauty of Earth was that anything you did in the simulation was temporary. Food didn’t stick to your bones. Injuries didn’t kill you.
And you could eat anywhere you pleased, even if you didn’t have any money. When the bill came? Just leave the Skill.
Ceria did have to admit the Gnolls were giving her resigned looks because she came by every day to eat and shop and experience this world’s delights. But then, so did Pisces, and he rubbed his hands as the truffled whatever came over.
“You know, they’re just big mushrooms? I think this world makes a lot out of some dishes. Like caviar. That’s fish eggs. Actual fish fresh-caught? That’s the real stuff.”
“Springwalker, part of savoring a dish is knowing the cost and effort that goes into making it.”
“Oh, you mean posing.”
Pisces’ scowl said that Ceria had landed a point, but both went back to studying shortly after that, which was slightly annoying the maître d’. But they were ‘well paying guests’, so he pretended not to notice Pisces was reading from his spellbook.
“Learning anything good, are we?”
“An endless amount. Ah—this isn’t the necromancy book. This is the other one.”
Ceria eyed the Djinni’s spellbook that Pisces had kept from the Village of the Dead raid. He’d been alternating between the two, and it was interesting because he clearly had come by a very powerful necromancy spellbook—but the one that they’d stolen from the Putrid One seemed to fascinate Pisces more.
“What’s so fascinating, if I might ask?”
Pisces kept eating his fancy spaghetti, which he was definitely going to tell Erin about and harass her about her lack of truffles upon his return to The Wandering Inn.
“I have a conclusion I have been coming to and a fascinating one about the nature of magic as we practice it. But, ah—tell me. What have you learned?”
Pisces had two spellbooks. He was also getting a suit of armor. Ceria had gotten squat. The circlet was on her head, of course, but you could argue she had every right to be annoyed about her lack of recent progress.
…Except for one thing. She did have a new piece of instruction material, and it had come from the most unlikely of sources. It had taken her two days to find it, and she’d given up until someone had reported spotting it.
“What I’ve learned is that the Death of Magic could have literally murdered us in this simulation. She’s scary as shit. This thing didn’t vanish—it’s not melting now—and one of the Gnolls found it lodged in a telephone pole despite [The World of You and Me] literally resetting.”
Pisces blinked and glanced up as he poured himself a glass of wine.
“You mean…?”
Ceria Springwalker held up the shard of ice that Silvenia had fired at her when the Deaths had appeared out of nowhere.
“It didn’t vanish. Most magical ice vanishes after an hour at most, but this? Scary. As. Shit.”
It was a soft blue color, harder than steel, and when she tapped it on the table, even the other guests turned and stared at the beautiful, thin sliver of ice. Pisces could feel the cold from where he sat, and it was shaped like a dangerous, jagged needle.
“It’s quite thin compared to your [Ice Spike] spell.”
Ceria normally fired projectiles as thick around as a hand, in a vague teardrop shape. This was a thin razor, and Ceria nodded.
“I’m copying the design. It might be more aerodynamic, and it’s certainly probably better at piercing things. But I doubt I can even figure out what makes the ice—better. Do you think it’s poisoned?”
She waved it at Pisces, and he leaned back slowly.
“…Did that occur to you just now or are you still holding it with your bare hands despite thinking it?”
Ceria tapped her head.
“No. I’m logicing it out, Pisces. Think about it. Silvenia, Czautha, and the third one with wings, that giant Harpy, were here. They could have murdered us in a second. Dead gods, they could have wiped the entire Meeting of Tribes out.”
“…They wouldn’t have done that.”
He murmured softly, thinking of Czautha’s look. Ceria nodded.
“No, they didn’t. And Silvenia clearly missed me on purpose. So she’s probably not poisoned this. Actually—I think it’s like a lesson. ‘Learn from this ice’. And I almost feel like there’s something else about it. I’ve been trying to crack it open, actually. But it’s even made differently on a tiny level. Lots of triangles.”
“Triangles?”
“In the ice. It’s so small…well, it’s like the grain of metal. Do triangles make things stronger?”
Pisces had no idea. But since it was his turn to share, he steepled his fingers together.
“Perhaps they do, but I doubt you will copy that [Ice Spike] with your spell, Ceria. Rather—everything about Silvenia’s magic appears to be her own type of spellcasting. Which…I am beginning to believe is superior to modern magic.”
“Oho. That’s treasonous talk. Where’s your Wistram pride?”
Ceria’s eyes glinted as she smiled. Pisces lifted his spellbook and flashed it at her.
“Dead and reanimated, thank you. This is a book that every Archmage would die for, and it belongs above Zelkyr’s final test. Would you like to hear my theories?”
“Go on.”
Pisces had been wrapping his mind around the magic within this book, and Ceria’s own magic seemed to be a perfect vector to theorize on. He began to write on a napkin with a pen. The staff looked askance—so the two [Mages] just ordered dessert.
“Let me ask you a question, Ceria. Why do you think Silvenia’s [Ice Spike] is superior to yours? Or rather, if you were going to copy her magic, how would you do it?”
Ceria hmmed.
“Without Skills or advancing in levels or sheer mana? Or learning a higher-level spell like ‘[Silvenia’s Scary Ice Spike]’?”
“Yes.”
Ceria twirled the ice spike in her fingers, frowning hard.
“Hmm. I’d equate this with…well, I could copy the design, but I’d change the ice to be acid-ice or something. Put in a piercing effect if I could. Turn the ice invisible?”
“Ah, but you can’t match the destructive force?”
The half-Elf glowered mildly at Pisces.
“If you’re asking whether I can shoot it hard enough to put it through fifteen walls of steel and metal, no. I could definitely shoot someone through this window, though.”
She jerked a thumb at the restaurant window, and at this point, some of the people listening in got a bit nervous. Pisces suspected they might be flagging themselves on some kind of watchlist—every time someone did too much magic or demonstrated a Skill, out the phones would come to record and law enforcement would show up. Ah well, they had at least a few minutes before someone came over.
“Aha. And why can’t you do better? You’re a [Cryomancer], Ceria. The Death of Magic is a fallen Archmage, but she is not an ice-magic specialist. Conceivably, you should at least be able to come close to a tenth of her power with [Ice Spike]. Why can’t you do that?”
Ceria eyed Pisces.
“You’re smirking, and I’m feeling the urge to kick you. Out with it.”
Pisces held up his hands, enjoying this.
“Come now, Ceria. What fun would it be if I told you the answer? Why can’t your [Ice Spikes] measure up? If you make that spell more powerful, what do you do, and why does that reveal the fundamental flaw in the magic we practice?”
She drew back a foot, but then decided to humor him. Ceria closed her eyes and thought, then her ice-blue eyes opened a fraction, and she smiled.
“Ah. If I were going to upgrade [Ice Spike] in pure power, the logical next step is [Ice Lance]. Because you fire a huge chunk of ice instead of a hand-sized one. If I were just going to scale up, the next would be hurling a block of ice the size of a house. Not that you tend to go that way.”
“Mm. And, pray tell, does anything about that strike you as odd?”
Ceria nodded. She waved at the [Waiter] as they put down the desserts, and she handed them a card—and all the cash she had in her wallet.
“This is the tip and this is the card. Thanks!”
She got a smile, and Pisces eyed the desserts as they tucked in. Ceria spoke around a mouthful of ice cream.
“You’re right. Something is odd. If I wanted to make [Ice Spike] better…I could just ‘throw’ the ice faster. But I can’t.”
“Exactly. [Ice Spike] always fires off the ice at the same…velocity. Yes. I almost wonder if Rose and Adetr would care to measure it along with all their other calculations. You can, with effort, lift more. But never throw it faster. Why?”
Ceria tilted her head left and right, thinking it over.
“Why…why…it’s a great question. Why can’t we use [Light Arrow] and hit someone so fast they can’t see it? Why is [Lightning Bolt] not as fast as an actual bolt of lightning? [Grand Lightning] is almost as good…[Fast Fireball] is literally faster than the average [Fireball]’s speed, but unless we have a Skill or spell, we can’t manually make it faster.”
“Isn’t that odd?”
The [Necromancer] had never stopped to think of it, since he wasn’t a projectile-expert, but it seemed very odd. Especially because his book was teaching him magic from the ground up. He showed Ceria the entry he was working on.
“Springwalker—I am learning Lighted Arrow in this spellbook, and it is insanely complex. I’ve spent months on it now, and I think I might be able to cast it in another month.”
Her brows shot up.
“You’re joking.”
“No, no. I can apply the magic, but everything from how you form the light magic to casting it…is all devilishly complex. You have to maintain everything.”
“But [Light Arrow]…is so simple. Wait a second. Binding light into an arrow is simple? Oh.”
Ceria was catching on. When you said it like that, it sounded stupid. Pisces nodded seriously.
