Gamur the Axe folded his arms and growled.
“The Shaman told me you might get into trouble. I followed you. Did you think about the trouble you’d bring on Gnolls?”
He growled—but the [Supporter]’s smile was filled with teeth as he lowered his voice.
“And do you want Roshal’s [Slavers] wandering your Great Plains? This was my fight. You just involved yourself. That’s not on me. Think harder next time you stick your nose in.”
“Peh. You’d have gotten your friend hurt without me.”
Gamur retorted, and Colth rolled his eyes, showing the whites.
“You think I haven’t seen someone dance better with blades? Don’t lecture me on how to hunt, Gamur. You hunt monsters. I hunt vermin. Those rats will swarm you before they get to me. I saw how much blood you lost. How many scratches do you see on me?”
He raised his arm, and Pisces realized that but for the first cut—Colth was virtually unharmed. Gamur did not appreciate the challenge and snarled, but Colth just glared him down.
Colth was not the pleasant, friendly figure that Gamur and Pisces were used to. He seemed to glitter like a dangerous dagger, eyes and bared teeth. Gamur’s fur rose, and he eyed Colth—but the [Supporter] was walking into the snow after the [Slaves].
They stared at him, and he halted, blades wet with blood. He pointed, and they flinched. But Pisces just saw him point right.
“That way. Stay here if you want to go back. But if you go that way—perhaps something will happen. You have nothing left to lose. Make your choice.”
All Pisces saw in the distance was whirling snow. Even his spells didn’t tell him what was there. The [Slaves] looked at Colth, and he whirled.
“Come on. They won’t decide with us here. If we’re unlucky, the Drakes will have a damn patrol on the road. I doubt it, though. Anyone see the horses?”
“You’re just leaving them there?”
“Absolutely. They’ve got slave collars on. It would be suicide to grab them. They’ll just die or be tracked.”
“Then what were you pointing…”
Pisces trailed off. Colth gave him a long look and grinned.
“Who knows? Maybe someone’s waiting that way. But on the off chance some decide to be ‘loyal’ and stay…Roshal has to prove things. You can’t prove I said anything. It’s all truth-stone logic, Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] stared at him, then back at the ruined inn. He didn’t quite understand how fast it had gone to blood himself. But he was starting to…
“You start a lot of these fights?”
Gamur was washing his burnt and bloody fur in the snow. Colth grabbed the reins of his horse.
“Me? Never. Roshal starts fights all the time, though. They used to be all over the north, back in the day. How many do you see up there these days? Mind you, I’m the nice one. The Reinharts have their own way of greeting guests.”
Magnolia Reinhart? Pisces was panting as he got into his saddle. Gamur just stood there, staring at the inn, and Colth kicked his horse.
“I’ll see you back at the camp, Gamur. I’ll buy you a drink to make up for it.”
The Named-rank turned, and Gamur the Axe growled as he met Colth’s eyes.
“Forget it. I’m not drinking with you. Ever.”
The Ultimate Supporter laughed and took off. Pisces followed as the Gnoll began to search for his own horse. They were riding back through the snow when Pisces shouted.
“So who told you?”
“A flying magic bird. And if you want more than that, I’d have to trust you. But I don’t.”
Colth turned his head and gave Pisces a sardonic look. The [Necromancer] was so astounded his mouth opened and closed.
“Me? Trust me?”
“Yep. You Horns are fairly untrustworthy and, frankly, suspicious. You’re lucky I’m so trusting in general, but why would I trust you? Let’s leave it at that. Sometimes I get a little bird in my ear. At other times, it’s a pink [Lady] who gives me a little tip. But I wish I’d gotten more, frankly. I thought they’d be riled up by you…well, we did all we could. The rest will avoid us, and it’s not always that easy.”
“Easy.”
Pisces couldn’t imagine walking into a room and taking out sixty foes. He realized Colth must have been using [Drunkard] Skills, but even so. Colth shook his head.
“We just hit one group. There are at least a dozen more. I don’t know what they want, but…I don’t like it. The word is that some high-level members of Roshal are also in Izril. The Naga’s own hound. Gamur, you, and I would all have to think twice before we went at him without a plan. But come on. Let’s get back before your team notices. Did you enjoy it?”
Pisces didn’t know how to answer that, so he did the only thing a good [Mage] would do.
“Did you?”
Colth’s smile stretched ear-to-ear.
“Guess.”
 
——
 
“I take it back. He’s not suspicious. He’s just scary.”
Ceria Springwalker heard a version of Pisces’ report that night after he got back. The [Necromancer] still smelled of blood, and Yvlon was angry. Ksmvr was furious.
“Comrade Pisces, Comrade Pisces. Are we teammates?”
“Yes, Ksmvr.”
“Then why did you not take me? Especially if you were in danger!”
“Leave it, Ksmvr. At least we know what Colth does for fun. I doubt that was an act. Something tells me even Roshal wouldn’t throw away their people like that. Hmm. Darn, darn, darn.”
Ceria tapped the shard of ice on the ground and scrubbed a hand through her hair. Yvlon was just shaking her own head.
“He’s a liability. Even if he claims self-defense—the Walled Cities aren’t stupid!”
“No, but they’re also not all friends with Roshal. And what do you want to bet that Magnolia Reinhart never cared what Colth did? Rhir’s Hells, he seemed to imply she hired him if she didn’t do it herself! He’s never done us wrong, but now we know what we get into if Colth’s on our side.”
“Given that they are trying to enslave Pisces, I think Colth is a fine ally. He has done nothing wrong.”
Everyone turned to Ksmvr as the Antinium folded his arms. Yvlon’s mouth opened as she tried to parse how incorrect that was, but Pisces just sat there. Then he raised his eyes.
“Well, Colth seems to think there’s a danger in Roshal’s actions. I won’t go off without telling you, but it was good…to see what he did. Ceria, what do you think?”
The half-Elf sighed loudly.
“I think…we just got entangled in more politics. And this time, we had better step carefully, Horns, because we’ll have big allies—and even bigger enemies.”
“We can always deny we knew Colth was on the side of—I mean, are we just overlooking he might be in cahoots with Demons?”
Yvlon’s voice squeaked a bit as she struggled to get over that part. Ceria just shrugged. She was thinking hard about what she had presumed to be reality. Ksmvr didn’t really have any view of Rhir other than ‘it used to be home’, and Pisces clearly had more good feelings towards Czautha than anyone else on Rhir, so Yvlon was the one digging her heels in.
Even so. Ceria tapped the shard of ice again and again—and then raised it to the light.
“Nothing ventured, nothing gained, Yvlon. Colth got us Stalker’s armor. And do you want to live forever?”
“No, but I’d like to live another year!”
The half-Elf laughed as Ksmvr finished bandaging a cut on Pisces’ arm.
“Well then, should I pretend I can’t see this?”
Then the other Horns looked at Ceria, and she held up the crystal of ice to the light. She hadn’t managed to break it open after all, even with a hammer and her own ice magic. Ceria had a feeling it’d vanish after another day or two, and she had feared she’d fail to uncover whatever the Death of Magic had challenged her with.
Then it had occurred to Ceria she might still be stupid. And she’d thought of the entire matter like a [Trickster], rather than a [Mage]. Slowly, she lifted up the [Ice Spike] and spoke dreamily.
“Anyone got a piece of paper? Even with vision spells, it’s tiny. But I think I found the start.”
She eyed the tip of the translucent, blue piece of ice, and Yvlon squinted at the ice. Pisces leaned forwards, and when he magnified his own vision, and the light caught the ice just right, he finally saw it.
Tiny, tiny little words inscribed on the inside of the ice, caught like bubbles in water. If you stared at it just right…it looked like a message.
 
I am Silvenia, the Death of Magic, and I remember the Crossroads of Izril…
 
The Death of Magic’s words and letter to the Horns of Hammerad would kick off a gathering storm as snow fell and fell. The half-Elf was laughing, somewhere, and Ceria grinned as Colth the Supporter strolled on over to their tent. He was laughing, good-natured—
—Right until Shaman Theikha grabbed his ear.
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note: I have a bunch of notes from my break after this. But I’ll just say that this chapter is short, and I’m still down to write day-chapters, but I’ll also write traditional chapters of a longer length.
It’s just whatever fits. I’m a bit less rested coming off this break, as the notes below will explain. Also, I really am a night-person. I keep trying to wake up with y’know, daylight, and I feel tired and groggy. Well, if I need to write like Batman in the night, I will. For now, I hope you enjoy this small offering—I think it’s one more Horns chapter and then the poll and chem-chapter if it’s ready to go.
But don’t hold me to it. Life is a mystery. Anyways, glad to be back to work. Now for my other copious notes.
 
Week Off Recap: So. Do you recall me writing about catastrophic computer failure which forced me, once again, to get a new PC? That was five months ago, I think.
…The new, expensive one I bought is also dead. And the one I sent into repair came back and it wouldn’t boot up. So I had TWO new desktops, both of which had incredible technical issues.
Anyways, the first four days of my break were without a working PC and it took me four days of trying to debug, then literally switching computer parts around to luckily diagnose the problem. I have…something wrong with one PC that I’ll have to send in for full repair, and the one that was repaired has a dead GPU which I could replace.
I am not a computer person. I know enough to do basic diagnosis and I have built one PC ever, so that was not a fun time. I don’t feel as rested mentally as I’d like, but life decided to be difficult for me for a bit and that’s that. My life is so hard. Harder than someone in a war…or in a sub about to implode…
I’m always mindful of my job and life being the product of good fortune. I guess the irony is that it is hard to write to the level I want and these things get in the way. However! I have stepped back and stopped trying to write a novel in a month. With that said, the deadline is coming up again, but I will try not to collapse a second time. I am definitely going to need to take off time, and will probably work half this month, then write the rest of Gravesong 2 into August and finish it, no matter how hard it is. I’ll post whatever I’m happy with, but if I burn too hard on multiple ends, I burn out.
 
Writing Thoughts: I’ve been reflecting on the matter of upcoming arcs and I have to say, the biggest thing on my mind is the Winter Solstice, which as you might guess, is probably the end of Volume 9. What it will be is something only I know, and yet, we’ve been in beach-mode, short-chapter mode, and that…is a very good thing.
Some people may be impatient for the Solstice. Or have other critiques. I don’t often discuss writing in the sense of looking for help. I often tell beta-readers I just want feelings and whether they liked it, more than trying to articulate things or trying to tell me what to write. ‘If there’s a problem, point in the general direction and I should see it.’ It’s interesting, because the only people I’ve met who have given me advice that is consistently reliable in a technical writing sense have been the editors I like. It really is a dedicated skillset.
However, writing is an endless world of analogies. I’ve done ships. I’ve done sludge-searching. How about candy?
Have you ever seen someone making a taffy or candy that you can twist or pull at high temperatures? Firstly? Skin burns. Secondly? It’s an art. The experience it takes to move that candy, or know instinctively when it’s about to break when it’s thin as string—that’s like writing. That’s like the beach chapters.
Sometimes the story needs time to breathe. Sometimes I need time to plan ahead and I have been thinking of the upcoming arcs and storylines and I’ve come up with some good stuff. If I had rushed into the Winter Solstice, it would have been both premature, too much of Volume 8 still leaking through, and frankly, I would have been exhausted and might have burnt out again in the midst of it. This story…is a process and I have to figure out when things are dragging or going too fast. So the beach chapter I like and we will see how long this should last.
That is the eternal advantage of web serial writing. Other published books like the never-coming-out third book of Name of the Winds by Rothfuss have to be contained stories. GRR Martin has to know how many miles his characters travel and touch countless plotlines in each novel and I suspect that the medium is one of the reasons those two can’t put out another book. Then again, it seems like Martin will get to a book before Rothfuss.
Motivation’s hard. But writing is more than motivation—I think I mentioned that hydration, exercise, good rest, and many more things all annoyingly make up good writing. Imagine my personal health being necessary to write. Bleh. Anyways, I’ve felt good about the beach writing. Finishing that novel is still going to be a bloodbath.
