“How do you ‘move’ a [Light Arrow], Ceria? Telekinesis? What momentum is being generated? You can barely throw something across the room hard with our basic levitation magic. How are you lifting an [Ice Lance] spell? It seems to me that something in the spell itself is doing all this for us. Whereas learning how to cast the spell from the ground up…”
“…Is far more complex. Are you suggesting we’re using crutches?”
“I’m suggesting we don’t know what we’re casting.”
Pisces’ heart was beating fast with excitement. He lifted the [Ice Spike], talking faster.
“And Ceria—that means we’re playing by other rules. Consider it. You can’t make [Ice Spike] faster with ‘normal’ magic because you’re not allowed to. But I? I can. Why bother learning [Bone…Lance] or whatever the higher-tier spell is? I could make [Bone Dart] infinitely faster and faster. In theory. I suspect it’s harder than that, but…”
“Pisces, you genius. You’ve figured it all out. I have to see that myself. Give me the spellbook.”
Ceria put out her hand with a huge, beaming smile. Pisces beamed back.
“No.”
“Give me the spellbook. I want to read it now.”
“No, I’m studying it.”
“Give me the—”
The staff of the restaurant had been eying the odd shard of ice and Ceria and Pisces’ antics. The talk of ‘shooting’ had everyone on edge, but they hadn’t asked the two to leave because they had paid and were about to leave.
But when one tried to grab the other’s book and they began swearing and kicking over the table, the staff hurried over and tried to get them to stop. That was—until one vanished and the other pointed and a table and all the dishes flew through the air and hit them.
Was this a movie? Was this reality? Everyone took cover as Pisces pulled out a wand and began shooting spells at Ceria. She put an [Ice Lance] through a window, breaching it, then tackled Pisces. They went tumbling from the top of the skyscraper, screaming and grabbing for the book as the horrified staff backed away. They sounded far, far too casual, like siblings bickering as they plunged towards their deaths far below.
“Give me the book.”
“Get off!”
“Give me the—”
 
——
 
Ceria and Pisces emerged from [The World of You and Me], clothes bedraggled, and kept arguing. The Skill had kicked them out.
“I had, in fact, already mastered the velocity portion of the spellcasting when I noticed the potential.”
“And you didn’t give me the book because?”
Ceria was holding onto it, and Pisces was glowering as he stomped outside into the snow. Colth waved and trotted over as Yvlon and Ksmvr appeared. The [Armsmistress] was muttering to Ksmvr.
“I’ve been having these really weird dreams, Ksmvr. I think it’s my class…Ceria, Pisces. I thought we were going on a roller coaster?”
“We got kicked out. Sorry. Someone wouldn’t share his new magic.”
“New magic? Pisces, my friend! What’s going on? I was just about to catch you two up on some gossip, anyways.”
Colth appeared, and Pisces hesitated, but then explained his theories on magic. After all, Colth was a nominal ally.
Even if no one was sure how far to trust him. Ceria was still fiddling with the [Ice Spike] Silvenia had made. She began chewing on it like a toothpick and promptly cut her tongue as Colth’s eyes lit up.
“Oh, that’s a great theory. And it’s entirely accurate, too.”
“…It is?”
Pisces looked frankly disappointed, and Colth caught himself.
“—I mean, it only makes sense. Not that you could get a regular [Mage] to admit it, but I’ve been to Wistram, and they cast magic like that. I talk to other Gold-rank [Mages], but none of them get it. A few Named-ranks know what you’re talking about. So, can you alter the velocity of a spell?”
Pisces looked around.
“Are there training targets set up anywhere? I rather fancy using [Bone Dart] to make a point.”
He led them all over to an archery training range and lifted his fingers, aiming them at a target. Ceria promptly bulls-eyed a target from fifty paces, and Pisces, sniffing, fired a regular [Bone Dart] spell.
He hit the outermost edge of the target ring, and Ceria cackled as Pisces turned red.
“Well—I don’t utilize long-range magic like you all the time, Springwalker. But if I did practice—allow me to show you a stronger spell, though!”
It took him two minutes to ‘configure’ his [Bone Dart] spell properly as he muttered. Yvlon and Ksmvr saw nothing but Pisces squinting at his finger, but Colth and Ceria noticed how intricate the spell was getting.
Pisces was sweating over altering a simple Tier 1 [Bone Dart] spell even this much, and Ceria realized he’d probably have to ‘reteach’ himself a superior spell if he wanted to cast it all the time.
This new magic of his had limits. But Colth was smiling, and Ceria saw him glance at her out of the corner of his eyes.
“Think he’ll manage it? This is so exciting! And new!”
“Yep. You look so impressed by the novelty.”
He nudged her with a wink.
“Hey, I don’t question the circlet, you don’t question the smile.”
“Fair point. Pisces, you done yet?”
The [Necromancer] looked up, sweating a bit despite the cold as several Gnolls wielding bows stepped back. He took aim at the target in the distance.
“Yes…it’s a bit hard keeping it all in my head, but observe!”
He pointed his fingers, closed one eye, and then cast [Bone Dart]. This time—Yvlon did not see a flash and a [Bone Dart] slightly slower than an arrow flash across the ground.
She saw a flicker, heard a snap—and the cloth target made a brwrap sound like the air tearing. Everyone in earshot jumped, and Yvlon saw a huge tear appear in the cloth.
“Amazing! Pisces!”
Colth shouted in glee and pumped one fist up as he jumped in the air. Ksmvr raised both arms.
“He has done it! That is my comrade, Pisces, everyone!”
Yvlon blinked. That was fast! Could she block that, even with a shield? She felt a tinge of unease, but it was certainly faster! She turned—and Ceria had Pisces’ arm. The half-Elf wasn’t looking at the target. She was fishing something out of her belt and yanking the cork out of the vial of glowing red liquid, but she was speaking.
“I can’t use this until—”
“I’ll—I’ll—”
The Horns turned and then realized something was wrong. Pisces’ arm was lowered, and he was clasping at the hand he’d used to fire the [Bone Dart] spell with his other hand. He was holding two snapped fingers with one hand, sweat streaming down his face as blood ran down his hand. Colth’s jumping stopped, and Pisces’ bones cracked as he tried to move them back into place. They were hanging from his fingers by a stump…
The spell had nearly blown his fingers off his hand.
 
——
 
“So it turns out one of the reasons you don’t alter spells is because there’s a lot of variables you don’t consider. Like recoil. Apparently that’s built into [Ice Spike] and other dart-spells too.”
Ceria Springwalker summed up today’s lessons in a cheerful tone of voice, but she was considerate enough of Pisces’ bandaged hand.
“You’re lucky you’re a [Necromancer]. Anyone else might have lost those fingers. I wouldn’t want to try to fix them, and I’ve studied with [Bone Healers]. Do you think the flexibility’s come back?”
Colth was eying Pisces’ hand. The [Necromancer] moved his fingers and winced.
“They are—tender. But I feel they’re still dextrous. Even though I have been humbled. Thank you, Ceria.”
“I’m not rubbing it in. I should have thought of it.”
They were talking around an indoor fire where everyone was eating. Rather than a banquet hall, they ate in a dinner tent with some Gnolls, including Honored Gire, Akrisa Silverfang, Adetr, and Rose.
“So you blew your fingers off?”
Rose was horrified. Pisces and Ceria corrected her.
“Almost.”
“So magic obeys the laws of physics if you cast it right. Every motion has a reaction. It does match Earth laws!”
Gireulashia seemed happy that someone was obeying physics. Adetr nodded as he wrote this down.
“That’s important information. All this issue of backlash…that must be why [Mages] use wands. If something goes wrong, your wand takes it rather than your fingers. Tolerances are such a pain. And there’s all kinds of annoying forces at play. Did you know those skyscrapers have these weird devices in them to keep them from swaying around?”
“Wh—really?”
Adetr nodded. He was preoccupied with science, or rather, the understanding of his world, and the huge, metal Gnoll had a notepad and reading glasses.
“They call it a…where’s my notes? I accidentally wrote it all down on Earth-paper, and it vanished. A mass damper. A counterweight. Apparently, you need to account for that kind of thing. Bridges, too. The right wind can create a resonance and shake a huge bridge apart.”
“Weird. Could one have saved Pisces’ fingers?”
Rose laughed, but Adetr took the question seriously.
“It’d be impractical, and it’d have to move so fast it could neutralize the effects of the movement in the other direction, but perhaps? Functionally, it just means we have to be very, very careful when we dig for Chieftain Feshi’s projects—oh, and when making other devices. There’s even weird rules about engine cylinders. They can’t all fire in synchronization or the thing explodes.”
Yvlon leaned over as Gireulashia began to ask more questions.
“What’s he talking about?”
“I have no clue. Earth stuff. I think it’s the cars? I doubt you can make that thing. I opened the lid on one, and it was beyond me.”
Ceria whispered back. Pisces just eyed Adetr with a strange look.
How fast things were moving these days. Then again, the Gnolls were racing towards Earth’s knowledge much like Soliest Yerr. It was so complex, and there were so many challenges that they had to move fast because things would take so long.
Even so.
“You all like going to Earth a lot, huh? I enjoy it, but honestly, seeing Gnolls practicing magic here is still more fun.”
Rose commented as the Gnolls talked, and they looked at her incredulously. One of the Earth-researchers leaned over with a huge smile, eyes lighting up.
“The Meeting of Tribes? With respect, Miss Rose—not at all. Earth, especially as a Skill, is the most fun I ever have had in my life. I can do anything there. There’s no Drakes, and even if the Watch comes after me—I don’t die. There’s good food, delights—I want to visit Earth some day. In reality. It is the greatest gift of the Meeting of Tribes, and truly, Silverfang exceeded everyone.”
“You mean, Gaarh Marsh, Silverfang, and everyone else did.”
One of the [Shamans] from Gaarh Marsh commented. Honored Deskie bounced a bun off the [Shaman]’s head.
“And Longstalker’s Fang.”
The Gnolls all began arguing, but they agreed that Earth was a wonder. It made Rose happy, but she looked at them almost…bemusedly.
The way their eyes shone, the excitement they had from crossing the street or going for a walk in the park of another world—that was the stuff she had never felt on Earth, even as a child. That was what she felt of this world.
Then she realized it.
“Oh. It’s another world to you guys, isn’t it? A new world.”
Everyone turned to the lone Earther in the room, and several people laughed at her. But Ceria just grinned, and her pointed ears waggled.
“Yes. Of course! You guys get our world—we get to taste yours! It’s the most fun…I could do it all my life.”
Everyone laughed as Rose looked around and protested.
“But it’s not that safe, guys. In real life, the Watch isn’t that fun—”
But that was why the Skill mattered so much. More than one Gnoll went in every single day without fail, like Ceria and the Horns did. In fact, the only person not allowed in regularly, who sat there, sighing louder and louder—
—Was Colth.
He had found out about the Earther Tent. It was hard to keep it from a Named-rank adventurer, but only after begging for weeks had Theikha given him one look in. He sighed again, and this time, Deskie threw a roll at him. He caught it, cut it open, and buttered it before dipping it into the soup.
“I wouldn’t mind another look, you know.”
“You’re not trustworthy. With respect, Honored Colth, that is Shaman Theikha’s will, and only for an Honored Named-rank adventurer did we even give you one look. The Horns fought for us at the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Plus, we know a lot.”
Ceria teased Colth, and he gave her a morose look. But that did prompt the question.
“How’d you even get named as ‘Honored’, Colth?”
Yvlon broke in, and all the Gnolls’ ears rose—then they pretended to be interested in their food. The [Armsmistress] wondered if she’d said something wrong, but Colth just grinned.
“I saved some Gnolls. They were in trouble, and I bailed them out.”
“Really? From monsters?”
“Oh, no. Well, yes. Monsters.”
Colth’s face was very bland, and Pisces elbowed Yvlon in the side. The woman elbowed him back, hard, and he winced, but Ceria got Yvlon from the other side. Why? What was…?
“Slavers, probably.”
Ceria muttered softly, and Yvlon went ‘oh’. Then fell silent. She had a feeling that whatever Colth had done might not be legal in all parts of the world.
It was clear that some people knew more about Colth than others. Pisces glanced at Colth, and the [Supporter] gave him a huge, friendly smile before changing the subject.
“On the subject of discoveries, I have tidings from the New Lands. It seems like the half-Elves and Drowned Folk are having a tad bit of trouble setting up their colonies, so the western coast won’t be that far ahead of the settlers just arriving on the eastern side.”
Everyone glanced up. Now that was interesting. Ceria hadn’t heard much word, but Colth was connected, so they all began to pester him for details.
“What’s the issue? That [Alchemist] raiding the half-Elves’ ships? Trading trouble?”
“Irurx hasn’t been seen, but the lack of trading is an issue.”
Colth acknowledged as Ceria calmly sipped from a cup. The [Supporter] shook his head as he fished out a map.
“No, the problem is that the half-Elves are trying to irrigate and plant like mad, and not all the soil’s good enough for it. They are working with former seabed, and even if the plants have grown, it’s salty from being underwater. I’d wager it’s not as much a problem if you have Yellats, but they have trees. So they’re mostly just having growing problems—plus you have a bunch of old-fashioned half-Elves and new ones.”
Ceria groaned and slapped a hand over her face.
