“Kill him,” Serena said. “Replace him with someone worth leading the demons here.”

“And you think that’s Drathok?”

“I can’t tell you more,” Serena said. She looked at him. Her eyes looked heavy. “We’re not working together. It’s not even a matter of trust. I don’t know what Elasar might torture out of you, or Randall for that matter. I don’t wanna wipe this conversation from you, either. I’m not even sure I have the energy to.”

Markus took in her words as he looked over the city below.

It was pretty, honestly. The architecture was brilliant, and the way the twisting spires were scattered out through the city made each of them look like a distinct, unlit beacon.

He watched Serena’s legs dangle and kick.

He sighed.

“I’m not useful anymore,” Markus said. He rubbed his shoulder. “I’ve got this Toxicosis shit now. Sounds like it sticks. I dunno how the hell I’m meant to Mana Manipulate if I can barely use mana in the first place.”

“You could overcome it,” Serena said. “I can’t help you with it right now, but if you could complete enough quests for me, or reclaim a zone for me… I could grant you a wish.”

“A wish?” Markus repeated, eyes bugged. “That’s really vague…”

“Unless your wish is something completely outrageous, yes. I could grant a miracle of at least reasonable magnitude if you could return some of my power to me. I’m powered by change as much as I am by zone control, or by Divine Arms, or by the strength of other gods and disciples…”

She held up a single palm. In it floated something that almost resembled a screen.

“You remember Daven?”

He did. The nihilistic mage that had been the first to stand with him against the trimander.

Markus began to recognise him even as the image flickered before him, a picture of a man with tattooed blue skin tinkering over a small table.

“Where is he?”

“A meagre accommodation on the city’s outskirts. It’s what I could afford after I bought out his service.”

“Yeah… I’ve just realised that was you. Does he work for you now?”

“No. You made it clear you wanted those prisoners to be free.”

“...I wanna trust you.”

Serena flicked the image away, turning to Markus.

“Then trust me.”

“I don’t want mandatory quests.”

“...”

Markus stared at her. “What? I don’t. You could ask me to do fucking anything. I don’t want a permanent contract either. Let’s put it up for renewal in a month or something. See how we’re both getting along.”

“...fine.”

Markus blinked twice. “Really?”

“Yeah.”

“You’re not even going to haggle?”

“I wouldn’t have even budged before. Take this as a sign that I trust you.”

Markus sucked in a breath. After everything he’d been through, he was sure he’d never sign a contract with a god as long as he was alive.

Was he betraying himself here, being as open to this as he was now?

It felt right. Felt easy.

“Well, let’s discuss terms,” Serena said. “What do you want to know?”

“What can you do for me, and what do you expect from me?”

“I can give you quests, as I previously stated. Quests have rewards, and those can help us both out in time. Also, I can help you out in person from time to time, come out for an hour once every couple or few days. I’m not very strong right now, but that’ll change eventually.”

“Anything else?”

“You’ll unlock a new feature to your system. A lot of features, actually, if you progress far enough down this path. Your current abilities will pale in the face of what Divine and Creation magic can do for you.”

“Creation magic?”

“The mana type behind Divine Arms, and many other elements of the construct that predate the first permutations of magic. It’s the most raw and powerful form of mana. One I doubt your body could even handle at this moment, but that in time you might become proficient in.”

“Sounds pretty baller,” Markus said.

“Yeah… something like that.” Serena snickered. “As for what I want from you? Listen to me, but do as you please. That’s it. No mandatory quests, so I’m gonna throw everything that presents itself at you and trust you to make the right decisions. I’ll be there to consult from time to time, but for the most part, you’re on your own.”

Markus felt a dryness in his throat. “Can you really trust me with all of that responsibility?”

“It’s not like you’re giving me a choice. If I wanna make use of you before one of these other gods claims you or kills you, I need to make a deal you’ll actually honour. Besides, I think you deserve your autonomy. No one’s seen it fit to give you a shred of it.”

She smiled. “By that token. This is your choice. What do you want, Markus?”

“I wanna fight,” Markus said, a promise, an echo. He’d said those words before.

“Yeah?”

“I wanna save myself,” Markus continued.

“Let me help you.”

It was against everything he was. Accepting help was admitting weakness. That’s what he’d ingrained in himself his whole life. What his upbringing had taught him. That to struggle and fail was better than to take.

“...okay.”

But maybe by taking, he could give back.

“Okay!” Serena cheered, jumping up to her feet, causing Ember to leap from side to side in a sudden case of zoomies.

Markus raised to his own feet. Seemed to be what everyone else was doing.

“Alright… can you just give me your hand one more time?”

Markus flinched at the offer before him. This officialised it. He’d finally given up if he took this.

Given up on what? On being self-sufficient?

Or on running away from himself and denying the reality in front of him?

Markus took Serena’s hand.

He felt a surge of magic pulsing inside him.

His Toxicosis hated that.

Serena quelled the pain as soon as it flared. He wasn’t sure how.

He felt her conscious desire and his begin to entwine as the terms they’d set out were ethereally bound in what looked to be a simple handshake, but transcended something so mundane entirely.

The feelings pulsing through his body were indiscernable, muted pain mixing with the presence of an entity so incredibly alien and magnificent in its unintelligability that Markus only marvel at its presence.

When he looked at Serena, for but a second, behind her simple, graceful demeanour, there laid a gossamer string of hands and eyes. Searching, reaching, endlessly interlinking and stretching and pulsing and moving as between them passed the true embodiment of her astral spirit, a version of her so beautiful it put the perfect being before him to shame, a creature so paradoxically astounding that he worried he might blind himself or go mad if he glimpsed it for more than an instant…

But it was gone within an instant. All of it. The truth of Serena, or perhaps only his muddled, confused, and mortal interpretation of it, was lost to him, and the goddess stood before him again.

She smiled.

Upon the back of Markus’ hand was a glowing, golden tattoo, quickly setting into a dark blue ink.

The tattoo signified a crescent moon. Behind it was a softly-lidded eye, partially hidden by the moon itself.

“There. We’re now bound by a contract. How do you feel?”

“I feel…”

[Faith System Unlocked. 15 Faith Points added to your status screen as a signing bonus. Would you like to sign-in and consume your faith points?]
