“Yes. Sorry. The first one. We’re just supposed to find her and report her position.” Eduard said, “I’ve not gotten a good night’s sleep in a while.” He added, “She is supposed to be in a roughly 500 kilometer space to the north of Ar’Kendrithyst. This actually includes Spur, but you would know if she was inside your city, right?” He asked, half desperate, “You’re not actually harboring her, are you?”

Silverite answered, “Spur is not hiding Messalina. After the recent trouble with the Daydropper, Merit has done her utmost to see that all the hiding spaces of the city are known.” Silverite said, “But just finding Messalina shouldn’t be this difficult, if she is actually where his [Eyes of the Goddess] says she is.” Silverite said, “At this point, I agree with you that there is only one more place to search, but Cloud Giant cities are no small thing.”

Eduard said, “I can’t go to the Headmaster with an idea of where she is. I need actual proof.”

Silverite said, “Whatever the case, Messalina will respond to the Flare Couatl’s death and this discussion. It shouldn’t take her long, but it also shouldn’t be a deadly response.”

All the bluster and emotion seemed to drain out of Eduard, as he said, “I still don’t understand why you all don’t consider her a major threat, on the level of Shades. She extracts souls and turns people into abominations.” He stood up, saying, “I have to go. I’ll give you copies of all our information as soon as I can.” He turned to Erick, asking, “How long will your [Ward] last?”

“Uh.” Erick paused in thought. Soon, he said, “I don’t know how to keep track of which [Ward]s my Ophiel create. I need to practice that. It could last a few days, or less, depending on if I need to reuse that Ophiel.” He added, “Which is a strange thing to think since they’re never actually ‘used up’ and none of them are numbered. I have testing to do.”

“Days?” A wide smile crossed Eduard’s face. He said, “That’s more than enough. The three of us just need one night, for a good, safe sleep. After I’m done here, I’m going to crash in bed. Thank you, Erick.”

Silverite smirked, glancing at Erick. But she said nothing.

Erick said, “I’m sorry to hear that she was parasitizing you all this time. I didn’t know. I thought my own experience with her was bad enough. I couldn’t imagine months of that sort of torture.” He added, “I heard after the fact that I was a very unkind person.”

Silverite said, “If you are ready to crash, then you can go ahead, Eduard. I have enough, for now. Thank you.”

Eduard nodded. “Then. If you’ll excuse me, I don’t want to be ambushed by that creature before I can make it home. So.” The air blipped cyan. Eduard was gone.

That was an enlightening conversation, but there were other problems to discuss, too.

Erick turned to Silverite, “The people who you assigned to my house? Turock and Veel.” He demanded, “What the hell, Silverite! They got blasted away by half a second of that Flare Snake! What—”

“I know!” Silverite interrupted, saying, “I know. I did not assign rookies to defend your house while you were gone. Please don’t think me that much of a fool.” She said, “Turock and Veel were more than capable of protecting this place from most intruders. Both of them were trusted Scions of Strength, both of them were Juggernauts and in the Army for years, and we were only exposed to the Flare Couatl’s flare for but a brief moment.” She said, “My only guess is that those two were compromised long before today, in the same way that you were.”

Poi frowned. “I talked to them occasionally. Checking in. They were Turock and Veel.” Poi straight-up asked, “Is this soul magic, now? Did we cross into that realm, yet?” He added, “Or were those two just victims of the Dream Worms?”

Erick, suddenly very worried, asked, “Can a Dream Worm kill you?”

“Not directly.” Silverite said, “But it can make you make bad decisions that seem like good decisions at the time.” She added, “And unless Messalina has changed a lot in the last 300 years, she does not operate like a normal necromancer. She has very strict rules, and one of those rules is that she doesn’t use her soul magic to alter souls. She doesn’t even mind control people. Not really. She has more than enough power over people with her Dream Worms, but she doesn’t… The Messalina I knew would not kill someone with a Dream Worm. But...” Silverite said, “This is my fault. I expected the Messalina I knew.”

Poi tsk’d. Mog grumbled.

Silverite said, “I’ll have to get Felair out here to [Witness] the scene… But maybe those two simply [Defend]ed themselves to zero Health.” She added, “I’ll have to ask Jane about them. Maybe she noticed something.” She looked to Erick, saying, “Have Jane talk to me when she can.”

Erick said, “Sure.”

But all he could think about was Messalina messing around with Jane’s soul. Jane was here, after all, living with Turock and Veel for several days already. If Messalina had gotten to them, she had to have gotten to Jane. And then Erick had a slightly different thought. Jane was here, living with those guys for several days. How was she feeling right now, now that those two were gone? Was she okay?

Poi asked, “What else do I need to be on the lookout for?”

“A lot, Poi. You should be safe inside this [Prismatic Ward], though.” Silverite added, “But… that all depends on how your [Prismatic Ward] works when cast on an enemy or on hostile magic or parasites. When you go over your house, you might find some pockets of non-dense space inside this space filled with hostile entities. Parasites or [Force Trap]s.”

“… Okay.” Erick said, thinking.

The wind blew across the windows, making a whistling sound as it caught on a corner. Normally, there were trees out there to block the wind. Normally, there was a wall to the north, also blocking the wind. Erick listened to the sound for a moment, deciding on what to do next.

Erick said, “I’m not taking the risk of leaving this house to surprise me. I will destroy the place and [Mend] it back to full.”

Mog said, “Probably for the best.”

Erick said, “I need to go back and get Teressa and Rats, but I’ll be back to help with tracking down Messalina soon enough. I’m not sure how, but I’ll find a way. I’ll be in Spur until this problem is resolved.”

Mog smiled faintly. Poi nodded.

Silverite said, “Good to have you back. But be careful of giving permissions to Eduard, Maia, and Ramizi. They are compromised, for sure. The last case of parasitizing that I knew about was your Dream Worming. We’ve had nothing else since then. But… I could be wrong about that, too. We’ll find out.”

“… Noted.”

Silverite stood, saying, “There is much to be done. Remove our permissions when we leave, Erick.”

Erick looked to Mog, then Silverite, saying, “Really?”

Mog frowned.

Silverite said, “Yes. Really.” She sent Erick, ‘Messalina isn’t Spur’s first evil necromancer, but now that I know to look for the signs… The only people incapable of having been compromised are you, Poi, Kiri, and the other wrought of Spur.’ With a cheerful, fake smile, she reached her hand out to Mog, saying, “Let’s go.”

Mog sighed out a little, as she put her larger, green hand in Silverite’s smaller silver talons.

Silverite added, ‘Mog is definitely compromised.’

Before Erick could process that, Silverite and Mog blipped away in a spatter of silver light.

Erick immediately removed Mog and Silverite from his permissions. He turned to Poi, saying, “She said—”

“She told me, too.” Poi added, “We might consider going back to Oceanside for the evening if you wish to leave the Mage Trio in your permissions. The emotion of pure relief coming off of Eduard when you put a [Prismatic Ward] over his house was real, but I don’t know if the rest of it was. Distance might be our best precaution right now. Besides, we have to go get Rats and Teressa.”

Erick asked, “Did Eduard’s excuse about the Headmaster not providing aid seem real?”

Poi thought for a moment. He said, “Eduard thought his reasoning was sound.” He added, “He wasn’t currently under the influence of a Dream Worm, either. I only noticed the one on you because it was active.” Poi said, “A lot of people could have latent worms in them, just waiting to activate."

“… I need to talk to the Headmaster myself. We need more help.” Erick looked around him, at the sunroom. It was almost decorated nicely, with nice, thick wooden chairs, and a nice stone table. The walls were a bit bare, and the floor was rather plain, but it was a nice room, altogether. “Fucking— I liked this room.” He touched his chair. “I liked these chairs!” A sudden rage took hold. Erick spat, “Fucking shitty parasites!”

Poi said, “I’m glad you’re able to consider it simply ‘shitty’. Silverite claims to know Messalina, but 300 years is a long time. This might get a lot more messy than parasites. Messalina is a necromancer, Erick.” Poi paled. “Soul magic is terrifying.”

Erick looked to Poi. The man was holding himself together, but he was obviously a wreck. A sudden thought exploded in Erick’s mind, demanding his full attention. “Shit! What about Jane! We have to take her out of here.” He felt cold again, as he said, “We can’t take her to Oceanside.”

The thought of Jane meeting the Headmaster with parasites in her to drive her into a rage, into possibly attacking the Headmaster… Erick’s heart sunk. Messalina could force Jane to attack the Headmaster, and Erick would have to side with Jane.

Erick took a long moment to consider that possible string of events.

“That’s a terrifying thought, Erick.” Poi winced. “Sorry. I shouldn’t have listened in on you. My walls are kinda broken right now. Everything is bleeding—” He sat up straighter, saying, “You don’t need to worry about Jane fighting the Headmaster. We can take her to Oceanside. Her dragon essence is gone. After the battle she went to the bathroom and hasn’t come out since.” He added, “She’s fine. But...” He looked up. “You can hear her from all the way down here.” He added, “Actually hear, too. Not… mentally hear...”

Erick felt several emotions at once. The thought that Poi was listening in to his own thoughts was a vague, distant concern, because other emotions took precedence. Relief that Jane was okay came on strong, yes, but there was also a weird, generalized feeling about the minutiae of life on Veird.

That anyone could just listen to people do their bathroom business would never sit well with Erick, but it was a fact that unless you walked around in [Audio Dampening Ward]s, that other people had [Perfect Hearing], and all their other senses, too.

Those emotions and feelings bounced around in Erick’s head for a hot minute. As they calmed down, Erick’s final emotion was a combination of ‘everything and everyone needs help that I can’t give them’, and a whole lotta ‘I need a nap’.

Erick listened to whatever was going on upstairs, though. He totally listened.

And… Yup. Jane was puking and moaning and cursing at her own life in the upstairs bathroom.

Erick sent, ‘Jan—’

A massive pang of mental shock slammed into Erick’s psyche. Luckily, the [Prismatic Ward] around his house and his own [Personal Ward] were both rather strong. Instead of a splitting headache, his skin just flickered white for a brief, tiny moment.

Jane filled the house with her voice, “DO NOT DISTURB.”

Erick winced, as he whispered, “I guess the dragon essence is gone?” He turned to Poi, saying, “I’ve got to prepare to make this new spell to fight off other possible Flare Couatls. What are you going to do?” He immediately followed that up with, “Are you okay? You collapsed out there. And your ‘walls are bleeding’? What the heck, Poi.”

Poi smiled small, as he said, “I’m okay. Thanks for asking. But don’t ever tell anyone I ever said that bit about the broken walls, please.” He looked around the room, said, “It actually feels really good to be inside this [Prismatic Ward]. I’m at Rest without Meditation. I can do strenuous magic and not break that Rest.” He added, “I would like to be gone from here and then come back with proper help. If the Headmaster won’t give it, then there’s another place I need to go, and you can’t come with me there.”

“Okay. Well. Sure..” Erick stood up, saying, “Where’s Kiri?” He added, “Jane’s not going to like moving.” He said, “I really feel like we’re relaxing too much. Even Silverite seemed calmer than her normal calm.” He looked around. “Oh my gods is this [Prismatic Ward] a drug?!”

Poi laughed, saying, “Maybe.”

Erick’s eyes went wide—

“Relax!” Poi said, “I saw the box. This [Ward] is not a drug. Silverite was just finally able to relax for the first time in… ever? Oh.” Poi paused. He said, “Now there’s a thought.” He continued, “Eduard was finally able to relax as well, but he’s just a human and he’s been under a lot of magic-induced stress. Mog… I think Mog was compromised. I’m not sure how. I don’t know soul magic. Probably a latent Dream Worm.” He slowly stood up, saying, “But you’re right. We’re relaxing too much. We were just under attack. We’re still under attack. We should evacuate to a safe distance and come back with more help from the Headmaster.”

Erick looked around again. Then he asked, “Where’s Kiri?”
