Eduard paused in thought. He began, “The Flare Couatl was a perfect hunter-hunter. If most of the hunters in the Crystal Forest are truly gone, as you and the Headmaster fully suspect, that just means Messalina will start using more nefarious searching patterns. Parasites to infiltrate the cities of the Crystal Forest. Spying monsters. People corrupted through promises of wealth and power to act on Messalina’s behalf.” He added, “Most of that has already happened.”

Erick listened in rapt attention.

Silverite said, “Are you speaking with the Headmaster right now?”

“Not right now.” Eduard said, “I just finished talking to him, though.”

Silverite asked, “Will he send more people here to help locate Messalina?”

“No.” Eduard said, “To put it bluntly, he doesn’t like that you let the Flare Couatl do what Messalina wanted. He will give you no more help than us.”

Erick watched, and listened, as they talked. Eduard was obviously holding back a vast amount of anger and pain, based on a tiny twitch in his left eye and his tense shoulders, but his voice was perfectly even.

Eduard said, “But we are not nothing. I would like access to the Cinnabar Hand sites that Messalina attacked.”

“And you shall have them. But if the Headmaster is unwilling to further support this endeavor, then I will be taking a smaller stance than I had initially planned.” Silverite said, “You may tell your Headmaster that until he decides to reconsider his stance, that I will not be placing a quest against Messalina. What Spur will be doing, however, is making smaller inquiries here and there, and taking smaller steps to narrow down on Messalina’s position. We will find her, and then we will inform you of her location. We will give you no assistance beyond this.”

Eduard calmly said, “The Flare Couatl attacked Spur, and this is all you will do.”

Silverite said. “She likely has a whole horde of monsters ready to loose upon her enemies, and my first responsibility is to defense and the people of Spur.”

Eduard said, “I will tell the Headmaster this, but I doubt he will be willing to change his stance.”

“I know how he is.” Silverite said, “I don’t expect anything to change, so I’m just telling you how it is.”

Erick joined the conversation with, “Why is she still here, in the Crystal Forest, anyway? I mean… I know why she’s here. But.” Erick continued, “This goes beyond ‘the Cinnabar Hand are here, so her quarry is here’. How is she so absolutely sure that they’re still here?”

Eduard frowned, silently.

Mog sat back in her chair, watching Eduard, saying, “I’ve been wondering that, too. If it was me who killed her people, I would have moved on. It’s been, what? Four months since her village was destroyed? But still, she is damn sure they’re still out there, isn’t she? She’s a soul stealing witch, but she’s not insane. So how does she know they’re here?”

Silverite said, “Eduard doesn’t know the answer to that. I doubt the Headmaster would have ever told him.”

Eduard winced. He recovered. He shook his head, then came words, pouring out of him like water from a broken levee. “She parasitized us! Taunting us in our dreams all these past months, telling us how—” Eduard controlled himself. He breathed deep. He said, “She needs to die. I need to kill her. Please, Mayor. Silverite. Please help me more than you are. For the good of Spur if nothing else.”

About a dozen thoughts raced through Erick’s mind. First came the notion that ‘Messalina parasitized them! Fucking hell!’ but that was quickly replaced by other ideas. They had been parasitized, which meant that Messalina was fully capable of infiltrating Spur already, and had likely already done so. Which meant his own experience with her parasites were likely not a singular occurrence. But that was Mind Magic, right? What were the mind mages doing to combat Messalina?

Erick asked, “Is Messalina an accredited Mind Mage, working as a part of their society?”

Silverite shook her head, saying, “No. She doesn’t actually alter free will. Therefore, she is not a target for mental pacification.”

Eduard half-shouted, “She throws around dream worms like they’re letters! She invades minds, but no! That’s not good enough for the Mind Mages. I tried to get them involved, multiple times. They said no.”

Silverite took his outburst in stride, calmly saying, “Of course they said no.”

Eduard demanded, “Why is no one helping us to kill her? Even you won’t take a real stance against her, and she sent that Flare Couatl after Spur!”

“I will speak honestly and simply, Mage Rokva.” Silverite said, “No one wants to go out of their way to kill Messalina because she is an evil that does a lot of good.” Silverite said, “Killing the hunters of the Crystal Forest will save untold thousands of lives. Ten thousand. Twenty thousand. Maybe more. This is what Messalina usually does. This is who she usually is. Usually she restricts her methods to Nergal, but that changes every so often. This is one of those times, and unfortunately, her actions have aligned her against Spur.” She continued, “There is a cruel math to letting her run around, and most of us make this calculation, knowing the risks. The only power who truly wants Messalina dead and gone is the Headmaster.”

Eduard sat straight. He looked to Erick. He looked back to Silverite. He said, “I’m surrounded by insanity.”

“But she has attacked Spur, and she knows we must respond.” Silverite continued, “Spur will respond, Mage Rokva. And since the Headmaster is not willing to put actual force into the game, the method of that response is dictated entirely by her actions in the next few days.” Silverite turned toward the window of the sunroom, saying, “Do you need me to repeat any of that, Messalina?”

Mog, Eduard, and Erick all rapidly turned to face the window.

A small bit of ash held in the air. No. Not ash. It was a creature. Erick flared [Hunter’s Instincts]. What floated on the other side of his sunroom window was a tiny, tiny person, with small, translucent wings, huge eyes, and a big head. The being was only an inch tall, but it stared into the sunroom like it was supposed to be there.

The creature blipped away.

Eduard flipped out, launching to his feet, shouting, “That fucking bug! Fuck!” Something suddenly dawned in the man, as he looked at the dense air around him. He said, “It’s a [Prismatic Ward].” He laughed. “That little fucker can’t get in, can he— Ramizi. Maia.” He turned to Erick, glancing at the Ophiel on Erick’s shoulder. “Please. I know your Ophiel can do extra [Solid Ward]s. Please. Put one over our house, right now. Before that bug can—”

Erick was already doing it. He summoned another Ophiel to go along with the quiet one already sitting on his shoulder and sent it blipping over to the Mage Trio’s house. With a quick addition of two people to his list of permissions and a remotely controlled Shaping, a dense air layered around the Mage Trio’s house. The Ophiel who cast the [Ward] disintegrated into the ambient mana; spent.

“Done,” Erick said, before Eduard could even finish asking.

“Thank you.” Eduard went silent as tendrils of thought twisted from his head, into the manasphere. “They’ve been alerted. The bug hasn’t had a chance to get into the house.” Eduard sighed. “Sorry. I haven’t gotten much sleep lately.” He looked around. “It feels good in here, though. Oddly.”

Moments passed in silence.

Erick said, “You’re not okay, are you, Eduard.”

Eduard collapsed backward into his seat. He said, “No. I’m really not.”

Silverite asked, “We’re safe here, for now.” She rolled her shoulders a little, stretching her arms, as she said, “And it feels pretty good in this [Ward], too. What is that, Erick?”

Erick tossed Silverite a copy of his [Prismatic Ward], like tossing a ball through the air. She caught the blue box. She smiled as she read.

She said, “All beings inside are at Rest while inside. No matter what they’re doing, too, I suppose.”

Mog smiled. “I was wondering what that feeling was.”

Silverite turned to Eduard. “Now. Mage Rokva— Eduard. I’d like a complete report on your own efforts to find and combat Messalina, starting from when you first got to Spur, or when you were first informed that this was your mission; whichever is more relevant. I’d also like whatever information you have compiled regarding the event that precipitated her coming here.” She added, “Actually. Start with that. You physically went down to Nergal and [Witness]ed the battlefield, I hope?”

Eduard took a silent moment to respond. He said, “We were already out here in Spur, becoming citizens, when those Cinnabar Hand people killed Messalina’s village. We got tagged for her destruction when the Headmaster’s [Eyes of the Goddess] revealed she was up here. That was when we took over the investigation.” Eduard said, “No one found out the truth of the attack on Eidolon until it was too late to [Witness] the destruction of Messalina’s village. From our and the Headmaster’s subsequent investigation, and through several stories told by the survivors of the attack, we pieced together a series of likely events.

“The Cinnabar Hand show up in Eidolon, aiming for the Life Binder’s village. They immediately take the bodies and assume the forms of the less important members of a merchant caravan that is rumored to bring supplies to the Village.” Eduard said, “Four days later, Messalina rips out of the deeper forest like a tornado, flying in the sky, covered in ripped, dirty cloth and thousands of ghosts, looking like a dark blot on Reality. She then tears through every trading post that the caravan usually traveled through before they arrived at her village, killing absolutely everyone and harvesting their souls, strengthening her own soul storm. She does this all the way to the front gates of Eidolon. The city has had two hours of warning, at this point in time. They’re not ready for the Life Binder.

“An older woman steps out of those gates and confronts Messalina, crossing her hands over a gnarled cane. The old woman is barely able to stand. Messalina stops. Her storm surrounds the old woman, blocking the view from the outside. And then the storm and Messalina suddenly disperse, leaving the old woman’s body on the ground; dead.” Eduard said, “Her name was Wynding. She was the innkeeper for ‘The Dutiful Maid’; one of the better respites just inside Eidolon. Everyone knew her as a tough yet fair kinda lady, though there were more than a few people who were happy to see her dead, but these were all normal dislikes and a few open hatreds. There were no detractors or otherwise deemed to be overly invested in Wynding’s death.

“[Witness]es, conducted by Eidolon’s people, cast on the location of Wynding’s death, reveal that Wynding and Messalina had a telepathic, face-to-face conversation. Neither of them gave any indication of any words spoken. Usually there are sub-vocalizations that a good [Witness] is able to pick up, but there was nothing.

“Everyone who knew Wynding was completely unsurprised that she was willing to stand up to Messalina, but they were all surprised it worked. Wynding was thoroughly investigated. Whatever she said to Messalina must have been a private thing. They obviously had some sort of connection, but further investigation revealed nothing.”

Eduard said, “After that, we came back to Spur and went to work. Our [Familiar]s scoured the area of the Crystal Forest that the Headmaster’s [Eyes of the Goddess] declared to hold Messalina every single day. Every day, they found nothing. But Messalina found us, for sure.

Eduard breathed deep. He sighed. He said, “That’s when the Dream Worms started. At first, they were innocuous things. Normal dreams we never would have taken for anything other than normal dreams. She was feeling us out. She does that, you know. She’s probably already doing that to several people in town.” He thumbed toward the window, saying, “That bug plants the parasites. The parasites go away on their own, too. She’s really, really good at infiltration without you ever knowing, unless she wants you to know.”

Erick listened. Somewhere in the middle of Eduard’s story, Poi stepped to the doorway of the room. He was standing, so that was a good thing; it was much better than him bleeding from the eyes and ears or laying in bed for half a day. He didn’t look too bad. Poi noticed Erick noticing him, and just mouthed, ‘I’m fine.’ Erick nodded. Poi stepped into the room, listening to Eduard.

Eduard noticed Poi. He said, “I expected all the dream worms to get the Mind Mage Society up in arms, but they all said it was not their problem.”

Poi said, “I was not aware of the issue until it happened to Erick. I cannot speak for my society.”

Silverite said, “I will have to file a complaint with them, too.” She stared at Eduard, saying, “You really should have told me that Messalina was in the area, when you first found out, but I suspect that the Headmaster had a lot to do with that refusal to share information.”

Eduard said nothing.

Silverite said, “This failure to champion the needs of your chosen city is a continuation of the mark already made against you months ago when we were having a similar conversation. This splitting of loyalties is a problem, Eduard.” She sat back in her chair, saying, “But I know you are in a difficult position, and I am not up for fighting Oceanside. Therefore, I will simply say that I wish for you to be more open in the future.”

Eduard said, “Thank you.”

Mog asked, “What methods have you used to search the Crystal Forest?”

“Standard grid searching, mostly, but we’ve done it all. Expanding spiral. [Stonesense] searching. Fractured light searching. Scent and sound searching. Linear and windways. [Scan]ing from a [Familiar]. We’ve done what we can to keep our minds separate from potential influence, but then we discovered that we had been infiltrated and then we had to go all the way back to the beginning.” Eduard said, “We were supposed to be enough to bring Messalina to the Headmaster, but the Headmaster is losing faith in us.”

Silverite frowned. She asked, “You mean: you were supposed to be enough to inform the Headmaster of her location? I know I was flippant in our other discussion on this subject, but I hope you don’t mean to actually assault and capture her alive, and then take her into Oceanside.” Silverite said, “If the Headmaster sent you out to do that then he has sent you to your deaths.”

