“I have heard Emir Yazdil’s reputation. The way he has described himself to me—he has an eye for buried talent. He nurtures it, lets it grow, shapes it. As one might raise a small mouse into a beast as large as a Grand Elephant. He is…a trainer. As well as a hoarder, one who covets. I do not need to hold what I find. I look for an edge in broken stone. A blade to wield in desperate times. If it breaks after a single blow or becomes a weapon of unsurpassing strength, I cannot say. Only that the potential is there.”
He was searching for it now. He had seen it in Faea, in small parts, and perhaps in Lintl as well; for a [Guard] raised in Roshal, he had shed his preconceptions faster than most might. However…
They were passing through the streets that Thatalocian had damaged when they heard the screaming—and cheering. Thatalocian pointed; they went.
It was not a difficult thing to imagine what they found. What would happen after the Demons broke their cells and the celebrating of good Captain Thin and Faea was done?
Vengeance. Of course.
The last Demon to survive their battle would not live long. That she had been re-collared by Roshal’s Skill only meant that they could now make her death slower.
They’d offered Captain Thin the honor, but for all he transported [Slaves] and disciplined them, he didn’t have the stomach for this. He watched with a kind of queasy fascination as hooded figures presented daggers to an [Executioner].
Those hoods held people who would be regarded as Demons in their own right. Thatalocian knew the flesh of A’ctelios Salash went here. He stared at the figures as they melted backwards, observing, then heard the scream again. Lintl went pale—the scream went on and on, and the agony in it had even him sweating, and he was used to the cargo ships. But not the true face of Lailight Scintillation.
“What are they doing, Lord? Isn’t she a [Slave]?”
“Yes. She is. In this time, it means anything can be done with her. Including this.”
It was a ritual execution, designed for no other reason than to let Rhir’s citizens watch the Demoness die in as much pain as possible. The [Executioner] had a dagger, and he was blinding her, eye by eye. Two were gouged out, and before he took the final one in the center of her head, he had gone to work on her arms.
She had eight; it would be a slow death, and the crowd cheered her every scream and hurled abuse at her.
Thatalocian had seen the horrors of Those-That-Rise many times, but this torture was just a waste. She was no traitor, just an enemy combatant. A Seamwalker…if they even felt pain, he would not mind the torture of those if it held some purpose.
This? Lintl wanted to look away, so the Slave Lord took his head and fixed it on the suffering Demoness.
“Look. There is far worse in Lailight Scintillation, Lintl. I have walked into the Wishing Well.”
“B-but there’s no point, Lord! There’s no point! Don’t make me look!”
Ah, he was young. They must not have jaded all his heart with his work yet. And perhaps there was the edge that Thatalocian saw that would break him or create what the [Numerologist] observed.
“Then change it. But do not dare gaze away from the truth.”
They watched as the knife sawed through flesh and bone. The Demoness might have been a warrior, but no one could endure that pain, that loss, without a true wail of agony. Thatalocian saw the arm drop, and the [Executioner] raised the bloody blade overhead. And the [Numerologist] thought…
This calls to me. This waste. This Demoness. But I do not see—
Seventeen.
SEVENTEEN.
The number plagued his mind, but he was the master of his class. He could ignore it, but he also respected the numbers, the pattern in the world. 17.
17! Where—
Then he saw it. As he ever had in the perfect moments when he screamed his number at the skies and brought a small oasis of order to The Long Night. It was so obvious. It always was.
One of the Demoness’ eyes was still open, the crimson pupil rolled up to the sky in agony. And as the [Executioner] reached down for the next of her restrained arms, bound with rope…
Seven.
17. 1-7. One and seven.
“There.”
The number split in Thatalocian’s mind, then came together in a perfect piece. He was moving before his observers, before Lintl, knew what was happening. The [Numerologist] ran towards the crowd, towards the [Executioner], who halted, as if sensing the sudden danger.
The cloaked figures stirred, recognizing Thatalocian in some way, but it did not matter. He was already speaking the words.
“8-1-1-4-5. 8-1-1-4-5. Haade. HAADE THE OGRE.”
The Demoness was staring at the sky. Trying to see the shadow of her wings or even the hint of a rainbow. One sign it all mattered—she saw no comet of light. No hope from above.
But when she gazed down, she saw the bloated flesh bulging, the robes tearing along a back which expanded. And a hand puffed with skin and lifting one of her captors aside. The eyes that flashed at her with a sanity so deep it had become a madness of its own.
The Holder of Numbers.
 
——
 
They were a day of sailing to Roshal when the chase finally ended. Not that the Blighted Kingdom had rained down all the death it could on the ship carrying Thatalocian, Lintl, and the newest [Slave] of Roshal.
They hadn’t quite dared. But they had tried to board three times and shoot the sails out. Yet the Slave Lord had called upon his allies.
He had received Shaullile’s aid in negotiating the ceasefire; Andra had provided defensive spells and Yazdil a ship that had emerged to replace the one he had been forced to flee with Captain Thin and his crew.
Thatalocian had tired of the chase and sent Lord Pazeral at the last ship to board him. Which had complicated the negotiations…or expedited them.
He lowered the speaking stone as Shaullile drew breath and stopped screaming at him. What the Slave Lord said was this:
“I have my answers from a mouth that will not lie. She is no bosom companion of mine, but a [Slave]. I know other Demons have been sold to Roshal.”
“Quietly. They have to deal with all the citizens who saw you, and you’ve offended them time and again—”
“In your time, Roshal was the polite negotiator, Shaullile. Not so in Pazeral’s or mine. Even Andra doubts the value we receive from Rhir is worth our investment. I shall have my truth.”
“A truth. A Demon’s truth.”
“I have had the Blighted Kingdom’s truth. Should we not have both?”
An exasperated sound.
“Do you even know how to train [Slaves] in your era of eating moss and fighting off Seamwalkers for breakfast?”
“Yes.”
She said something else, but he flicked the stone into the waters, heedless of the cost of it. Then he turned.
The Demoness’ two eyes on the sides of her head were glued shut with blood. The stump of one of her arms was bandaged, but clumsily; she had red skin and horns, but aside from that, he found her close to Humans.
She was staring at him now that she was convinced the Blighted Kingdom wasn’t going to snipe her from afar. When she spoke, it was to spit on him. Lintl raised a hand to strike her and desisted at Thatalocian’s gaze.
“You might as well drown me. I will never submit to Roshal’s chains. I’ll kill you, I swear it, Slave Lord. Let all those who hold chains beware! The Death of Chains will come for you all!”
Her defiant cry provoked shudders from the crew. They were ready to lash her, especially as she was of a handful of [Slaves] coming back from the Blighted Kingdom. Only the dregs of criminals or, yes, Demons captured went back to Roshal.
Another reason it was unequal. Thatalocian wiped spit from his cheek. She spat again. He wiped more spit away.
She had run out of spit after about fifteen times and coughed as he handed the handkerchief back to Lintl. Only then did the [Numerologist] speak.
“Since you will not tell me your name yet, I will tell you what I expect. We serve Roshal, this world, and sanity. Not always in that order, and the means of which change. I by willingness and choice. You because you have none until I wish to remove your collar. It is possible that day will come. It is possible it will not. But you will serve.”
The Demon drew herself up warily, proudly, and yes, with fear.
“I…have survived the Blighted Kingdom’s [Interrogators]. You can do little worse. Go on. My mind will break well before my will.”
She bared her teeth. It was no bravado, just a fact. Thatalocian liked her.
“For the first [Slave] I have taken since being reborn, you are the right one. I offered the Truestone Golem first, but she does not know me. Chains befit some.”
She stared at him along with everyone else with that uncomprehending expression of people who did not understand how he thought. Thatalocian continued.
“You will serve. At first, you will speak and tell me your name. That is always the first step. Others of my peers make a game of this; how fast one can break another to their will or twist until fear and terror become loyalty. Pazeral, Yazdil…or they simply command it other ways like Andra with spell and alchemy. I am no Shaullile to win your trust either. We shall see how our relationship develops.”
“And why…would I deign to do that unless you threaten me with pain or worse?”
Even she was curious. Thatalocian replied calmly.
“Because what you desire is what I desire. I am a Slave Lord of Roshal. Speak to me of Demons. Tell me of the truth the Blighted Kingdom hides in its every action. Convince me…it would be preferable to support Demons over the Blighted Kingdom or neither at all. And I will listen.”
Her one remaining eye went round with shock. There was a cry from Captain Thin at this baldfaced treachery, but Thatalocian merely sat on the railings.
“This is a trick.”
That was what the female Demon managed after a moment. He raised his brows.
“Why would I lie when the truth will reveal itself so easily in time?”
“We—I—are you insane? Stupid?”
“I am not the most clever of men.”
She laughed at him.
“You must be insane! You—you’re Roshal. You chain everyone! You—the Death of Chains has sworn to destroy you! She freed herself from your damn harbor! How could there be peace with her?”
A sensible question. Thatalocian nodded to himself.
“I had considered this very question. Does she speak for all Demons? All Djinni? Before you answer—you are enraged. Let me ask another question. Given that I see a greater foe lurking than even you Demons…what is the price of peace for Czautha, the Death of Magic? For a year? Ten? A hundred Djinni’s chains broken? A thousand?”
He was insane. Captain Thin was searching for the ship’s [Mage] to send a [Message] to Roshal to tell someone, anyone, to stop this madman. But Thatalocian was smiling.
“You’re serious, aren’t you?”
“I have Those-Who-Rise to kill. More of them than I ever dreamed. I fled them, in shame, to prepare this world for their coming. And the one that led them here…I have never desired anything dead more. Do you think a Demon’s hand is the worst I have taken? I am Roshal.”
Now he was spitting madness. Dribbling from him, though his face was clean. He was smiling, and the Demoness backed up.
“You can get the truth from me, and the Blighted Kingdom will kill you for knowing it, but you’ll never have my loyalty, much less my aid.”
“How fast the line is redrawn. I will have your aid.”
She laughed in his face then, a despairing laugh as if her eyes were not still burning with the agony of being lost. She gestured at her arm.
“You may have freed me once, but so what? My friends are dead. My comrades. Everyone…and the man who stopped me from taking a life of one of those damned [Heroes] is right there. Show me, oh great Slave Lord. Win me over.”
So, the [Numerologist] smiled, and she shuddered and regretted her demand. For he nodded once.
“Your desires coincide with mine, Demon whose name I do not know. I have walked Roshal and seen every inch of my home. Seen its excess, waste, and the disregard it has for its people, both masters and [Slaves]. One did not whip a [Slave] for no reason in my time. In my time, food was no luxury to be used as a tool to humble. You ask for something from me. I oblige you, for that is our relationship. 20-8-9-14.”
No one understood. She did not, but then Lintl, who knew Thatalocian’s ways, paled. And another man started. Someone who had heard that series of numbers before.
His number.
He backed up as Thatalocian slowly turned.
“Lord. What are you—I am a free man. I meant no disresp…you cannot. Crew, to me. To me! Get back! Get—”
 
——
 
Thatalocian finished tying the knot of the ship’s ropes as the crew watched. And now they feared him. Feared him in a way even Lord Pazeral did not scare them. Because Pazeral was simply first among them. Old, but of their ilk.
Thatalocian was something else. A different kind of Roshal. No less terrible. But he stood with the Demoness, who stared at the man screaming, or trying to scream for help.
It was hard to scream upside down. Captain Thin was writhing, but he couldn’t sit up to grab the ropes tied around his ankles, and not for lack of fitness or desperation; the wake of the ship they were on was so strong he was blowing almost forty degrees behind the ship. Fighting against the gravity meant he couldn’t do more than a half-situp.
His eyes were huge and wide, and Thatalocian held the bundle of rope in his hands. Thin’s head was striking the spray from the waves below. If he let go…
“And now, Captain Thin, I count. A truer number than the days we spent in each other’s company or the minutes you take to answer. A [Numerologist] must have his number. How many times will your head break the surf? Upon that number, I shall base my next action. Would you like to begin, my [Slave] who has no name I can count?”
He proffered the ropes to the Demoness, and she stared at him.
“You truly are mad. What—what are you?”
“A ghost.”
He spoke only the truth. After a moment, she took the ropes. Gazed down into the eyes of Captain Thin and heard that wail, thin and desperate. The chained woman let go.
Thatalocian saw the flailing body vanish into the waves and line go taught and snap against the railings. Lintl watched, eyes wide. Both abhorrent and drawn to this man who intended to change Roshal in his image, like all the others.
They told stories of him, of course. Like the Emir Yazdil, like all the others. The crew that had sailed with Captain Thin departed into Lailight Scintillation’s harbor and told the story, to the horror of masters, to the awe or delight of [Slaves]. They said the [Numerologist] stood straight, then. That his eyes never left the bobbing figure, and that they would never forget his voice.
He counted.
“One…two….three…..four……five…….six……..”
