“I am not dictated by my class. I am more than mere levels and Skills. The day I am beholden to such things, kill me. Make sure to use my body well.”
It sounded like a quote of some kind. But the words were not addressed to any one person in particular.
A man stood at the prow of a ship, observing and musing. The closest person in earshot, a [Captain] who was rightly nervous of his passenger, hesitated.
“…Lord? To whom do you speak?”
The man turned, and his age was apparent in how he moved with a slightly hunched back and ponderous, careful movements. But his body was youthful enough. Or it should have been; instead of a forty year-old man’s body, it seemed to have aged decades in months. His hair had fallen out. His eyes sunken inwards slightly, and, most uncanny of all, the pupils had shifted. It seemed to some as though there were numbers floating in the depths of his gaze. His voice sounded ponderous, like a [Scribe]’s—but he was strong. And the swaying ship did not impede his steps at all.
Slave Lord Thatalocian looked at the [Captain of Cargo] once as one of Roshal’s tribute ships sailed across the vast sea, bound for the Blighted Kingdom. His eyes cast over four more, each one broad, practically a warship’s size, but potbellied, meant to hold neither weapons nor traditional objects. Their cargo could not be stuffed into Chests of Holding.
People. They sat in chains, linked together at the oars, though Roshal’s ships did not require rowing when the wind was filling their sails. [Slavemasters] with whips moved with patrols of bored [Guards], and the ship stank of sweat and fear that the sea breeze could not eradicate.
The [Captain of Cargo] was a man named ‘Thin’. Captain Thin, then, a nickname. He didn’t give out his real name, even to his employers. A real name meant you could be scried and was therefore a weakness. Even if he was on the side of Lailight Scintillation and sailed under Roshal’s aegis, Captain Thin knew that there were many dangers a man could get into.
Such as offending one of Roshal’s most important members. Why he had chosen a cargo ship to travel to Rhir, and not a Courier’s vessel or a warship, was beyond Thin. However, many things were unsettling about Roshal at this moment.
Every day, the winds blew, and dust streaked from the harbor city. Less and less now, but still, the city was filled with it. Dust where there had been people and buildings. Reconstruction had begun; it had been ongoing since the Winter Solstice. But one did not simply rebuild a city so fast. Not even with all the [Slaves] in the world.
The sight had shocked Thin to silence, and he and his crew had crept around the harbor like mice that first week they had visited after doing the Rhir run. Even now, fear and horror were etched into all there. Slave and master. They glanced up at the sky, sometimes, as if expecting a second time to see a spell coming from above. From Khelt.
If there were a name or idea it was forbidden to speak in Lailight Scintillation, well, it would be a rainbow or the Death of Chains’ name. Merely invoking the Deaths of Demons earned even freemen a whipping. But if there were two names now held in fear and horror, they would be Czautha, the Death of Chains, and Fetohep of Eternal Khelt. The Goblin Lord did not count, for all she had done; she was a Goblin in the end. Her horror was that of the Goblin King, and more than one had razed Roshal’s holdings in ages past. And she was dead.
No, it was the undead they now feared, who might well strike them again in his wrath. That slumbering Revenant had dealt Roshal a blow the likes of which it could not remember in this age. Not since the Creler Wars had the city been laid so low. Not even the Death of Chains herself had achieved so much abject destruction.
Children and adults. Slaves and masters. They had died in a single moment as a Tier 7 spell hit the city. That was why Thin was almost grateful to be on this mind-numbingly boring run to Rhir with the usual delivery of cargo. Boring because he knew the route by heart, even with the sealanes amuck. Dangerous because there was always the possibility of pirate attacks, monsters, usual seafaring disasters—and Demons.
If you saw a rainbow or a comet streaking across the sky as you sailed one of Roshal’s blacksail ships, you would touch any lucky symbol you had and pray—pray it was just a celestial phenomenon. Or that someone else died.
It was not an easy job Captain Thin had. And it was true Roshal had suffered greatly of late. But for every ill turn, there was a gain. Roshal had now five [Slave Lords] and [Slave Ladies], each of whom was said to be as cunning and dangerous as Emir Yazdil.
Where had they come from? A mystery. Why they seemed to be in accord, if not always agreement? Confounding, for the many rulers of Roshal were known to infight. Yet these were united.
What was clear was that these were no pretenders. No imitators of their levels and Skills. Lesser masters of Roshal had tested the waters. Arranged for a few [Assassins] to make attempts. Placed themselves against these usurpers.
The lucky ones were dead. Captain Thin had personally seen a particularly odious Slave Master Ulthub, too greedy and excessive by far, and not the cleverest sort, being collared on his last visit to port. The man had screamed and screamed until the magical bindings around his neck had locked shut.
No pity from Thin, though he’d wondered how a pampered Slave Master like Ulthub would be of any use, even as a menial servant. The one who’d overseen the collaring, the Slave Lady Andra, had been of the same opinion.
She had raised a trembling hand as she sat in a floating chair, and Thin had been afraid to gaze at her face. Half her head was gone, but where she should be dead, a strange vaporous substance seemed to be oozing from her head. It didn’t seem like it…hurt. Her voice was shaky as she had spoken.
“The collar is a w-waste. Take this one to the [Alchemists]. M-marked for experimental testing.”
Then she collapsed into her chair and was like a corpse until her servants turned the floating dais back to her holdings. A minute later, she’d jerked up and began to write in a scroll by her side.
Terrifying. Thin had heard tell that she’d been wounded in another attack on Roshal. That she’d survived…what level or what kind of Skill must one have to keep existing like that?
And here he was ferrying another of the five to the Blighted Kingdom. Of the five, Thin was wariest of this man. Because he did not know Slave Lord Thatalocian.
The other four had established themselves by reputation.
Emir Yazdil, the foremost master of Roshal…until now. Cunning, intelligent, impossible to trick, in command of powerful servants and possessed of mercurial tastes. A danger if crossed, but content to let Roshal operate as it willed unless their interests should go against his own.
Clothbinder Lady Shaullile. A Drake woman with a strange title, youngest of the six by far. The most charming as well. The one who managed Roshal’s relationships with other nations and whose [Slaves] were almost entirely Stitch-folk. It was said she refused to acknowledge other Stitch-folk even if they were freefolk or other masters of Roshal.
Slave Lord Pazeral. A man of violent and sudden passions, the most classic of the lot. He went through [Slaves] as they caught his fancy, and he was deadly with a blade. It was said he could appear anywhere he pleased, and he had a command of magic and swordsmanship on par with a Named-rank adventurer.
Administrator of Chains Andra. Now wounded, but still occupying her role as some kind of…[Secretary]? She had requested to run Roshal’s harbor and markets, not directly replacing the [Harbormaster], but as a kind of overseer. She dealt in paperwork more than flesh and demanded only [Slaves] who were superior in mathematics and literature.
And last of all…the mysterious Thatalocian, who had not given his title. He was merely ‘Numerologist Thatalocian’ or ‘Slave Lord Thatalocian’; generic titles.
Of the others, he was an unknown to Captain Thin because he hadn’t immediately absorbed other masters’ holdings and created a financial base of power—at least, visibly. He had refrained from wielding his considerable wealth and relationships to do more than tour Roshal. It was said that he had been found in the poorest Slave Markets in Roshal to the very sewers, inspecting and speaking numbers—but what sort of a master of Roshal had no attendants, no servants? Not even a bodyguard.
Then again, perhaps that had won him his own support among the [Slave Masters] grateful he wasn’t taking their property. Thatalocian certainly had needed nothing but his name to book this transport. He was, then, rich in favors, which was a currency of its own in Roshal.
Thatalocian wore white robes with golden embroidery—not numbers as you might expect, but hourglasses, leaves, even flowers. It looked almost childish, but again, he gave off that weight of age.
He hadn’t responded to Captain Thin’s question. His head had turned, but he had stared at the sweating [Captain of Cargo] for nearly six minutes straight before Captain Thin dared ask again.
“Milord? Was…was that question asked of me?”
“Six. Two. Twenty, eight, nine, fourteen.”
And now he was doing the numbers things again. Captain Thin hesitated, and Thatalocian’s eyes flicked past him.
“Your name, Captain ‘Thin’. A nickname will do if it is the name you are known by. Is it?”
“Y-yes, Slave Lord. It is. If I am interrupting you, I beg your pardons. I merely wondered if you required a response.”
He might have knelt on the decks were he not in view of his crew and uncertain if that was what the man desired. Captain Thin was a freeman; he had a house in Roshal and several house-[Slaves], but he wasn’t considered a master of Roshal. He did not need to kneel, but…
Thatalocian stared past Captain Thin as he spoke, his eyes crossing the waves.
“I shall explain. Six. It was six minutes I waited until you dared to ask me a second question. Two. It has been two days since we left Lailight Scintillation.”
“Yes, Lord. It should not be another night at sea; we will reach the Blighted Kingdom, all things willing, by sundown. The Jars of Wind have not stopped blowing, and this route was not touched by the New Lands.”
Roshal’s ships moved fast for fear of being intercepted. They had, after all, very valuable cargo. Tens of thousands of gold pieces’ worth of [Slaves] and more material to tithe to the Blighted Kingdom. Captain Thin could be rightly proud of how much gold he’d brought to the Blighted Kingdom. It was a service to fight the Demons, and if another man dared spit at him for working for Roshal, Captain Thin’s first rejoinder would be the tithe Roshal gave, which could match any ten nations you chose to name. His second rejoinder would be his cutlass, of course.
Thatalocian didn’t respond to the news about the voyage. He merely continued in that level tone. Patiently explaining.
“20-8-9-14. Your name, Captain Thin. These are the factors I have chosen to consider. Should I require more insights, I would need other numbers. Unique numbers are best. Had you, for instance, only eight fingers, or if I were to witness the number of times you chewed your breakfast. These are small numbers to a [Numerologist], but at my level, they serve.”
“I…I see. What does one do with the numbers, Lord?”
The strange eyes of Thatalocian flashed, and his pupils seemed warped. As if the number ‘2’ were written in his irises, just for a moment. Or was it just Thin’s imagination…? His lips curled upwards, bloodlessly, in a smile.
“Whatever I wish. The numbers are meant to serve my means. Truth or weapons. Insight. So, then. Fifty-one. The sum of your name. Twenty-five and a half. Inauspicious; divided by the days of our company, I come to no number I can use.”
He didn’t acknowledge numbers with decimal points? Captain Thin didn’t truck with that sort of mathematics himself, but it was an odd rule. Thatalocian raised a finger.
“Ah, but there is meaning the other way. Fifty-one and two. 102. And six. Seventeen, then.”
It…what did seventeen mean? But to Thatalocian, there was entire meaning in this strange arithmetic. He nodded to himself.
“My numerology informs me of certainty. Seventeen is the number I shall watch for. My trip, then, will not be in vain. I will discover at least one whom I wish to meet.”
“A [Slave], Lord? The Blighted Kingdom uses our [Slaves] and sells them seldom, but there are rules—and my name isn’t—I beg pardons, but I am not such an important man to matter, let alone to make much of.”
Captain Thin was doubly nervous; getting in trouble with the Blighted Kingdom was risky. But Thatalocian just flicked his fingers.
“Seventeen. I have calculated the number. Do not fear, Captain Thin. Should I fail in any regard, I would be foolish to blame you. My numbers are not infallible; I have seen them break and shatter before. It is merely…think of it as a [Sailor]’s charm for good luck. Just as a man kisses a shell from his homeland’s shore, or a lover’s pendant, so too do I create my own fortune. Seventeen. Perhaps it is how many I will find. Or a signal to what I seek. But it is clear: I do not seek you. With your pardons.”
He started walking down the deck. Captain Thin jumped; he hadn’t been aware he’d been in consideration for…to be the man’s [Slave]? No, no, that was ridiculous. He was a freeman! Then…
“To be your aide, sir? Your personal [Captain]?”
That would be no small elevation. Captain Thin hurried after Thatalocian, hoping to earn more points, but the [Numerologist] merely shook his head.
“It took you six minutes to dare to ask me a question, Captain Thin. It is not numerology but the product of my ears and mind that states you are not the man I seek.”
That annoyed the [Captain of Cargo]. He might not be some warship’s captain, but he’d fought off plenty of threats! He replied, a bit of heat in his tone.
“I was merely being respectful, Lord. That is not the sort of thing one uses to judge a man’s worth, surely?”
Thatalocian was walking by the chained [Slaves] in their berth. He was counting.
“…eight…nine…”
Any fool could see what he was counting towards. He swung his head towards Thin once.
“By what do you measure a man’s worth, Captain Thin?”
The question had a surprising amount of force behind it. Captain Thin wavered, and put on the spot, he blurted out the truth.
“The strength of a man’s arm. How loyal he is. How likely he is to run in a fight. Their knowledge of the sea and deck.”
“All fine attributes. I value these things as you do. But they are not first. Not to me. Not loyalty. Not strength. Nor intelligence or cunning or so many factors.”
