Numbers. The Slave Lord stood in the silence as the last of the Demons fell, screaming, as her comrades were cut down. Thatalocian gazed down at Faea as she lay there, panting, covered in poisonous blood.
“So your number has come to pass, Faea. Now, we count the value of it. And it seems I was wrong twice. His number has come again. 20-8-9-14.”
He nodded left, and she didn’t understand until she turned and saw someone holding the only Demon who had been re-chained. A grinning hero of the hour—aside from the real [Heroes] that was.
Captain Thin.
 
——
 
In the aftermath, there was cleanup, explanations to be made, interrogations, at least of Roshal’s people and Thatalocian, and recriminations to be had.
Not for him, of course. He refused to be lectured by the officers and [Soldiers], and they had orders not to try and arrest him…twice.
Most seemed willing to try given the chaos he had unleashed, and Thatalocian himself owned that he had erred with the Manticore. There was a time when he could have shouted any number while drowning in the sea.
Death has softened me. His ten lost levels were quite a dear price. Still, he was enough of himself to focus on what mattered.
Which was Faea. Of all the things being done, there were no swords being returned. Even enchanted ones.
Young Lintl was still shaken from the fighting, but he joined Thatalocian as the Blighted Kingdom celebrated the true heroine out of the unexpected deaths and ‘mysterious’ freeing of the Demons. Already, their propagandists were claiming it was the work of the Death of Chains.
However—two of Roshal were heroes. Captain Thin, who had used his Skills to re-bind the Demoness who’d been captured alive, and even more than him, Faea, a daring [Slave] who’d killed a Manticore by herself!
They were removing her collar as Thatalocian pushed one of Rhir’s officers aside to watch. He exhaled.
“Thirteen.”
The numbers didn’t lie. The dazed girl being treated for the venomous blood kept trying to offer the sword to the [Hero] she’d taken it from, but the young man didn’t want it.
“Keep it! I hate swords anyways. I’m getting wands instead. Like hell I’m fighting that.”
He kicked the Manticore’s paws, and one of the young [Heroes] clapped her hands over her mouth.
“Wait, she’s a [Slave]? That’s—! That feels incredibly not-right, am I wrong?”
“Fantasy world, Leni.”
“But—she’s not going to be now, is she? She saved everyone! Can we, like, hire her as a bodyguard? She was super badass!”
“H-hire me?”
Faea was dazed and searching for Thatalocian, but that comment made her head snap around. The female Earther who’d spoken came forwards.
“Oh my god, she’s starving! She looks like she’s an abuse victim. This is so fucked up. We have to keep her and treat her well! Can we keep her?”
She was pleading with the other Earthers, who were also appealing to their handlers. And why not? A talented servant who was brave enough to fight would be a good asset for them.
Ah, that is your number. If, of course, you will it. Thatalocian watched Faea’s face and doubted she would refuse. He had less to offer her. Nor had he missed how she had seen the Blighted Kingdom.
Even so, he found it funny how it was done.
“‘Keep her’. How they learn the language quickly. Do you trade your chains for invisible ones like that which they wear, Faea? This kingdom is kin-sister to Roshal after all.”
He waited for the girl to make her choice, and it did not surprise him when she gazed at him, then bowed. He merely inclined his head and wished her number had meaning. Then he turned.
Ah, a fastidious man who reeked of numbers himself, though orderly ones. Bastion-General Quiteil, Thatalocian presumed, teleported in to deal with him. The Slave Lord nodded.
“Lintl. I shall find you after I am done meeting with this man. Make your choice before the ships set sail to home.”
A pleasant conversation awaited.
 
——
 
Bastion-General Quiteil had stared down foreign [Generals], outraged [Knights], and Named-rank adventurers over his desk. The leader of 4th Wall, which was so often under attack by Demons and one of the first lines of defense for the Blighted Kingdom should the new 5th Wall fall, was one of the most respected officers in the entire Blighted Kingdom.
He had seldom felt more uncomfortable than this. It was not just the knowledge that this man was too important to censure, to simply arrest or punish—it wasn’t just the stench of Roshal that clung to him, like his title—Slave Lord—it was their classes.
Quiteil was a [Peerless Logistics General], but his original class had been [Scribe]. He was a being of order. He could simultaneously coordinate an entire wall’s defenses while managing long-range spells in the capital. His mind was organized. And so was Thatalocian’s, in a way.
But the [Numerologist]’s trains of logic and reason were like…parallel tracks to Quiteil’s own. No, parallel tracks would be easier; that would merely be a different orientation. Thatalocian was like a three-dimensional ball of squiggling lines of reason and belief. A different era. A different modality of thought.
They were…equals. And Quiteil feared that the Slave Lord had an abundance of years on him—and a greater perspective. Who was he? Well, to establish that was one of Quiteil’s objectives from the crown. But the conversation…
“You realize your actions have jeopardized the relationship between the Blighted Kingdom and Roshal, Slave Lord?”
“They have not.”
“Fifty-nine people are dead, slain by the Demons you unleashed.”
Thatalocian spoke.
“59, 7, 8. Very well, I shall pay the blood price of three. This is a meaningless conversation between one such as you and I.”
The [General]’s fingers drummed on the armrest of the chair as they sat in an office in the palace reserved for him until he stopped the motion. He couldn’t help it.
“Kindly qualify that reasoning, Slave Lord. I do not follow.”
“59. The number of the dead. Seven children who were called [Heroes], paralyzed to act. Eight so-called Demons.”
The Bastion-General’s face didn’t betray his reaction to Thatalocian mentioning the [Heroes] or the ‘so-called’ line about Demons. Thatalocian went on.
“7 and 8. 56. That leaves three once removed from the count of the dead. 3. That is the true cost of the Blighted Kingdom’s outrage it would not stomach already. So it shall be paid. But even if it were a hundred times that, our relationship would not change.”
Quiteil considered his responses to this amazing leap of logic. He inhaled.
“You will be banned from the Blighted Kingdom and be under strict guard if we are not assured of your conduct. Roshal is—”
“I am Roshal. I know full well the worth of my home. Weigh your words carefully, for it is not Yazdil who speaks alone in Roshal’s name. All that Lailight Scintillation sends you hangs upon my displeasure.”
Escalation. Quiteil heard the buzz of voices in his ears, [Diplomats] and [Strategists] talking at him. Perhaps this had even reached the Burnished Courts; Roshal was not an ally the Blighted Kingdom could afford to lose, even if this was just one of their new rulership. They contributed vastly more than even any one Walled City, any three might.
Quiteil went on a cautious offensive, steepling his fingers.
“Slave Lord Thatalocian. Your bluff does you little credit. Roshal’s interests and that of the Blighted Kingdom align on many fronts. Alienation weakens both nations in a moment of extreme danger. The Deaths of Magic and Chains continue to strike your caravans. Will the other Slave Lords back your words if queried?”
He left gaps in his line of attack, a deliberate flaw by which he invited Thatalocian to expose his hand. And the [Numerologist] did, but again, he attacked in ways that Quiteil did not foresee at all. The [Numerologist] leaned forwards in his chair.
“You attempted to kill Erin Solstice. Know well that I regard her as a potential ally. The Blighted Kingdom also failed to act when Fetohep of Khelt issued his warnings.”
“We ratified the dangers—”
“You spoke when you claim to shield this world. Where the Empire of Drath, the House of Minos, and so many stood to arms and sent forth navies, you spoke and huddled behind your walls as cowards do. You treat the rest of the world as an armory for your war and give nothing back. Why should Roshal bleed its treasuries for you?”
Incomprehensible.
“Are you stating that you object to Roshal’s own bounties on Erin Solstice? That you are declaring her your possession?”
“You play games with words, Bastion-General. I dislike your word-game Skills which have little use aside from confounding other people, who should be your common ally by the fact they are people alone. I have said what I said. If she takes up arms against Roshal, she shall take up arms. A decision was made—a foolish one in hindsight. Just as you sent your [Heroes] against her.”
A mistake. Quiteil had told Nereshal to refuse His Majesty. He did not move his face, well aware this was all recorded and observed. He did not need his opponent to gain information anyways.
“She has publicly stated she will kill any members of Roshal she comes across. The Forgotten Wing Company has taken a hostile approach to your people, though open conflict has not yet begun.”
“Must an ally stand next to me, cheek-by-jowl, and hold the leaf of peace between us?”
“You would allow her to kill your people?”
Thatalocian cast his eyes dismissively past Quiteil’s face as if this conversation bored him.
“We are allies. See how little blood we shed? Or how many true tears are wept over it? I warn you once more. My foe are Seamwalkers. It is the body of A’ctelios Salash which must not wake. It is a common threat, and if one lies buried in Rhir, it will die. Focus on that and you will have my support. Roshal’s aid shall vanish until it is earned. Of my peers, only two support this petty war. And if you cannot see the true war that is coming…even less reason to fight side-by-side with a blind ally.”
Quiteil twitched as the nattering in his earpiece grew louder. That was a very clear statement about what was going to happen to Roshal’s aid in the short-term. He was going to advocate against immediate attempts to unseat or remove Thatalocian, however.
This man is dangerous. Quiteil played chess; he’d rather been disappointed he never got a chance to play more than one game against Erin Solstice before she was declared an enemy of the Blighted Kingdom. He still thought there was a possibility…well, if he was akin to a rook, bishop, or more flatteringly a queen piece, it was because he moved in logical patterns.
Most pieces did, though pawns had surprising rules. Thatalocian reminded Quiteil of a knight. Unpredictable, especially if you lost focus. There, of course, the analogy ended because you could always tell what a knight did…this was far, far more complex than a chess board.
“It seems we are at an impasse, Slave Lord. Will you lay out your reasoning in a civil manner?”
Thatalocian was already rising.
“I have seen what I needed to. This is not the place nor time I look for. Unless…wait. Quiteil. 17.”
He turned, suddenly, and he peered at Quiteil. Then did something that disconcerted the [Bastion General] more than this entire conversation.
“Bastion-General. Is your first name…short? I would presume three to four letters. I wonder…if it starts with ‘a’. Or a letter such as that.”
The voices piped louder, then went silent because no one, not even the wild-magic experts, had any idea what this Slave Lord was talking about. Quiteil brushed at the white patch of skin on his hand, a symbol of the blight he had fought against his entire life.
“…Araz. That is my first name. A remarkable guess.”
Thatalocian’s eyes gleamed. And then he smiled, and his entire demeanor changed.
“No. It is not. 46. Mark your number well, Bastion-General. It is not I who has business with you. So my number guides me on. But 17…it is but the first letter of your name. I pursue it once more. Seventeen…”
He turned and strode from the room. Quiteil half-rose from his seat, then let the [Diplomats] and other experts try their luck on Thatalocian. He just sat, answering in the negatory.
“No. No…I have no idea what that number portends. I do not feel affected by a Skill, though I, of course, request a full evaluation. I will continue to monitor the situation by your leave, Your Majesty?”
He didn’t understand what that number meant for a long, long time thereafter. It would, in fact, haunt Quiteil’s sleep for five nights running after Thatalocian had left—he would keep working on it when the [Cipher Specialists] and [Counterintelligence Agents] had long since given up on figuring out the [Numerologist]’s logic.
Only when, on a hunch, Quiteil had added up a few numbers and seen the number again did he feel a chill on his skin.
But he told no one of that. He just…remembered.
 
——
 
What did the number mean? Not even Thatalocian knew, but he still saw patterns.
Lintl found him as he strode from the palace, and the [Guard] was resolved to follow where Faea had not. He was not the material of old, the brave sons and daughters of Roshal who had stood the Long Night.
But he might be. So Thatalocian accepted the first of his followers into his company. There would be more, and many might not be what he needed, but he still needed those who could perform tasks suited to them.
Such as…
“I am looking for 17, Lintl. I shall not leave until I have found it. This is our final mission.”
“Was Faea not what you wanted, Lord…?”
“Her number told me we were likely to part, with death no less, the moment she told me her name, Lintl. Reading into names is risky, even for me. But that was as clear as could be. Help me find my number.”
“Where do we start then, Lord?”
“Anywhere that has meaning to you.”
The young [Guard] was at a loss, so he took Thatalocian down the main streets towards the biggest plaza and squares as if they were on holiday. The Slave Lord spoke a few more things to Lintl, though he was aware now he was watched.
“In time, you will see the limits of my power. Numbers cannot win wars. They can provide small miracles, but my true ability is as a crafter and a leader. I have an eye for comrades.”
“The Naga, beg pardon, Emir Yazdil is said to have an eye for talent as well, Lord. Of the two of you, who is better?”
Thatalocian smiled coldly.
