Faea was having a dream, but enjoying it. Lintl glowered at her as they followed the [Slaves] who hadn’t volunteered to join the army. Thatalocian handed her his bowl of soup, and she wolfed it as he shook his head.
“Armies…did not endure the Long Night well. In a thousand men, how many break when they see Those-That-Rise? A single swing could obliterate them all. And when one will breaks, more are likely to follow.”
“How did you make war then, Lord?”
Lintl was fascinated, even if he was buying into this a lot less than Faea. Thatalocian appeared confused.
“War? We never warred with Those-That-Rise, merely slew or repelled them as they came. To war is to assume we could win. Hunters fought alone or in groups. I would hear of Those-That-Rise that were a great threat and send what I had to kill it. If they failed, I would send more. Or close our gates, lock every shutter, and endure their assault until they wearied or left. If they breached the walls, we fought until they were dead or we.”
It sounded like a horror to make the Blighted Kingdom’s lives seem easy! Indeed, even some of the Blighted Kingdom’s [Soldiers] glanced back at Thatalocian, and Faea breathed.
“How could anyone survive, Thatalocian?”
That was her mistake. Instantly, Lintl cuffed her with one of his hands, hard enough that her head rang.
“You go too far, slave—!”
He snarled as she sagged against one wall, flinching and holding her hands up. He would have struck her again for daring to address Thatalocian without a title, but Thatalocian’s hand struck him.
The Stitch-man bounced off one wall, and the Blighted Soldiers whirled, blades drawn. But Thatalocian merely lifted a hand.
“I was disciplining one of my followers. Be at ease.”
“Do not do that outside, sir. You will alarm civilians. Violence against others is prohibited.”
One of the [Soldiers] sheathed his sword after a moment, and Thatalocian inclined his head. He stood over Lintl as the young man tried to steady himself.
“I told Faea she had permission to address me. Is it the way of Roshal to beat [Slaves] for the slip of a tongue?”
“She’s a [Slave], Lord—!”
“Is it the way of Roshal to punish for mistakes?”
Thatalocian placed a hand on Lintl’s neck and drew him closer. His sunken eyes bored into Lintl’s, and the young man shouted, afraid.
“Yes! They’re [Slaves]!”
“You say that as if it excuses everything. Is decency not a quality prized amongst masters?”
“Only if they want to be decent, Binderlord.”
Faea watched from behind Thatalocian, both delighted and afraid of Lintl’s revenge. The [Numerologist] sighed.
“Each of my peers comes from a different era of law. When I lived, a [Slave] was no more wasted than a loaf of bread. This I shall keep. Remember this, Lintl. Faea is a [Slave]. Do not diminish her number, for it diminishes your own. There are uses for such corrupted numbers, but I would beware that choice.”
Lintl staggered upright, eyes blazing.
“If I work for you, Lord—! I am a freeman! I can choose!”
“Yes. If you like, turn around and go back to your ship and crew. If you wish to follow a ghost and seek what I have—power, wealth, influence—then follow. Faea has no choice. Pazeral accused me of not understanding [Slaves]. I do; I simply see a different use for them than he.”
Ah, so he was still Roshal. Faea followed, and after a moment, Lintl did too. He pulled something out of his jaw.
“You knocked my teeth out, Lord. How are you so strong…?”
Cloth teeth were in his palm, needing resewing. Thatalocian snorted.
“This is purely my level. That is not strength of any kind I would value. Ah—so you know, my powers as a numerologist are varied. If you hear me speaking these numbers, run. 8-1-1-4-5. Or if you hear me speaking 19-8-9-24-18-5-3—cover your ears and do not look no matter what. Else you will die. I have other numbers, but those two I use most often.”
“Haade, Lord Thatal—”
He had a hand at her mouth so fast that she ran into it. Then his eyes opened wide.
“Some names have power, Faea. Numbers can contain names I would not utter casually. Not that one.”
Had he…grown bigger just now? He was at his regular size, just over six feet, even hunched, or was that…?
Faea’s eyes went round, and Lintl licked his lips. She didn’t say the other word. Just…thought it.
“Wh-why would those names be powerful, Lord Thatalocian?”
Lintl asked, and the [Numerologist] answered again candidly.
“Power has always been difficult to acquire in any era, Lintl. This is a truth. In the Long Night? I fashioned wards against madness. This is one such.”
He held the lantern at his side up.
“This is what you would deem an artifact, though it has no magic…I do not understand magic, for in the time I lived there was none until the night ended. This is just meaning. Few in this world remember this power outside of Drath. There, the numbers are large. Outside of it? A new number has appeared in Izril. One knows the strength of it in Rhir. Yet neither has my mastery, I think. This is far, far more meaning. A lifetime of it. As my robes.”
He gestured at the flower embroidered into the hem of his robes.
“A flower?”
“Bravery. A reminder of beauty in darkness. Everything has meaning, Faea. I found mine in numbers. Hence my title. Holder of Numbers. One who remembers reason in numbers. Roshal was a bastion of sanity against dark tides. The name you spoke was an ally of mine. A terrible, dangerous ally. When he died, I wrote his numbers into my own. I can take on his power.”
They were almost out of the tunnels, but they lingered a moment; the city beyond was bustling with life. People buying and selling items, a city as beautiful and fair as Faea could imagine. The [Slaves] were barely noticeable as they followed their new masters into the city.
Yet they remained in the tunnels, because the darkness seemed to fit Thatalocian for a moment. His shadow was long, and suddenly, Faea wished that lantern he held were lit. For she felt as if sanity were fraying. Lintl’s eyes were flicking from Thatalocian to the light. He was still in denial, but…
“And the other name, Binderlord?”
Thatalocian’s head turned, and his sunken eyes deepened.
“That was no ally. When I was thirty years old, one crawled from the tides and screamed. No hunter could kill it. Not Noelictus’ brave warriors. Not any force from Roshal. So we barricaded ourselves inside the fortress. Closed every window. It screamed. And screamed. And burst into the tunnels. The hallways ran red with gore, and I was not first to find it. I was merely the one who lived. So I named it as I knelt in its dying brain and let it know what it was. Then I ripped its number out and stole its power.”
“Impossible.”
Thatalocian didn’t turn his head to Lintl, but the lantern emitted a pale, eerie light as he lifted it. It flickered out, and he returned it to his side.
“Did I not name myself? I am Binderlord Thatalocian. Impossible? Be very careful with that word, boy. Impossible is a thin barrier of the mind. When it shatters, the waters rush in quickly. Come; I would see the Blighted Kingdom’s sins.”
 
——
 
To Faea, used to Lailight Scintillation’s mixed wonders by day and debauched horrors by night—at least for [Slaves]—the Blighted Kingdom was a far ‘cleaner’ city, at least, the portside capital was.
It had so few [Slaves]! Now and then she could see someone attending a stall or sweeping the street or cleaning sewers, but this was the most multicultural city she had ever seen outside of Roshal. Every species came here, though notably, Dullahans were still a minority.
Which was odd, because every species had strong representation. If Humans still predominated, it was strange to see equal numbers of Drakes, Gnolls, and Lizardfolk, all without that usual animosity they shared.
Because they were of the Blighted Kingdom. Outsiders were evident not just because of their dress, accents, or unfamiliarity, but by the way they carried their nations with them. They were from an outside world with politics and wants and desires.
Here, there was just the cause and the Demons. Good and evil.
It was alluring to Faea in a way she couldn’t describe. More than once, she saw a poster that wasn’t telling anyone any important information, just a kind of commendation for a citizen of note. A [Baker] who had fed an entire company in need of provisions when they were short, a [Farmer] who had labored for fifty years, commended by a Lord Hayvon…
She began to think that the promise made to the [Slaves] wasn’t false; if they worked here, they could be free and level! Even Lintl seemed to enjoy the atmosphere, acting as a tour guide, though he wasn’t that experienced with the city.
Thatalocian peered at the fine stone and glass, the modern houses abundant with both style and technology, with great interest; he did not discount the luxury or convenience of Paranfer’s citizens. But he was also curious for another reason.
“The devastation dealt to Lailight Scintillation as well as this city by the King of Khelt and the Goblin Lord is not visible here. Even now, the scars of both’s devastation linger on Roshal’s shores. How have they rebuilt so swiftly?”
Both Faea and Lintl blanched as he invoked the twin calamities. Of the two blows, Fetohep’s may have been the most immediately devastating. But as for the Goblin Lord Ragathsi…Lintl glanced around the seemingly-pristine streets.
“I am told that the Blighted Kingdom, eh, expects such attacks. They can rebuild what was damaged quickly, and their streets do not crack easily, Lord.”
“Better-made than Roshal. A lesson to be learned. They still find those…‘landmines’ in the harbors, do they not?”
Faea nodded.
“Th-they sent [Slaves] to find and dispose of them, Lord. Thousands upon thousands.”
Few who were chosen came back. The thought of being selected had terrified everyone in the markets. Thatalocian was disapproving.
“Flesh over gold. A waste of both. So this Blighted Kingdom is readier for war, but too rich.”
Too rich? Could one be that? He explained as the confused duo stared at him.
“When I lived, Roshal was no less ready for war, but it had no surplus. Nothing to spare. It was crude, serviceable. Were this city made truly for battle, there would be no windows, merely stone bunkers, deep caverns and walls. They say the Blighted Kingdom fights an eternal battle. I say it has been winning if this is its capital.”
That was…true. Faea blinked and gazed around; if the Demons were so deadly, then surely no one could have a beautiful stallfront store like the one they were passing by. But then, this was behind 1st Wall. Was it so wrong to have a beautiful capital as proof they were reclaiming Rhir?
It was beyond her, and Lintl too evidently, because he changed subjects as he pointed ahead.
“If we’re lucky, they’ll have a few entertainments; there are always some, Lord. There’s almost no crime to be had in the city, either. I’m told outside of the First Wall, where we are, you can find some, but the entire kingdom is focused on one thing. Only other foreigners spit on our shoes here. The Blighted Kingdom appreciates Roshal rightly.”
“All to fight these Demons.”
It was Thatalocian who didn’t seem to feel the spirit of Rhir. He glanced left and right, then turned.
“Have you ever seen a Demon or known anyone who’s had a conversation with these folk? When I lived, they did not exist. Rhir lay empty.”
By now, the two had gotten used to how he talked, extraordinary as it was, so they told him of how the Demon King had arisen after the Creler Wars and made war on the world; the Blighted Kingdom had repulsed them time and again, but his Deaths and armies assailed the walls, which were now five-strong.
Thatalocian was not impressed.
“A convenient story that says little and tells much. All the more suspicious. I have witnessed the Death of Magic and Death of Chains firsthand. I understand Yazdil’s reasons. But he is a self-serving individual. I seek the truth.”
“Binderlord? How can you say that? The world knows of the Demons, and the Death of Chains assaulted Roshal itself!”
She’d seen that, though she’d been screaming and begging to be released like the howling Djinni until they were punished. But for the sake of argument, and especially here—!
The [Numerologist] exhaled.
“I question this place just as I question the evidence of my eyes when it is dark, Faea. If the Blighted Kingdom cannot withstand a question, then it is flawed. Ah, but perhaps it is also my level. Here.”
So saying, he unhooked the lantern from his belt and began to wave it. Again, that pale glow filled it, and the [Numerologist] made a curious gesture with his other hand. He held it so his palm almost touched his nose and shook the lantern to the rhythm of his words, which he intoned in a bass voice.
“0. 1. 1. 2. 3. 5. 8. 13. 21. 34. 55. 89…”
What was he…? At first, the words felt…small. And then they began to get bigger. Larger and larger, piling on top of themselves with his voice until they drowned out—Faea clapped her hands to her ears, but they were not larger in the sense of mere volume.
They were drowning out something else. She could see it; a bubble surrounding the swaying lantern. As the [Numerologist] chanted, it felt like the city grew less…vivid. Less beautiful. The nobility of the people around her, the cause that had livened Faea’s heart, reduced. Became mundane and small.
“Wh—what are you—stop it. Stop it, Binderlord. Please—!”
Lintl didn’t seem to mind the chanting as much as Faea. He just jumped and gazed around, but the [Slave] recoiled and tried to hold her hands over her ears. He was making the streets dingier, the people less happy. They even seemed less content as the bubble expanded—
“Stop it!”
She didn’t realize she’d kicked him until he stopped chanting. Then Faea flinched, squatted down, and curled up. This time, he was going to—
“Hm. You are braver than you appeared aboard the ship. But if this displeases you, know that I stripped this pleasant reality away because I must see. You are welcome to bathe in this delusion; this can serve sanity. But it is another kind of bubble that pops.”
Thatalocian’s lantern went back to his side. The bubble of whatever he’d been doing ceased, and Faea felt better again. She looked up, flinching, but he merely extended a hand.
“Lord—Lord, what was that?”
Lintl was so stunned he didn’t even advocate to beat her within an inch of her life, which Faea appreciated.
“[Chant of Logic]. A means to strip away illusions or build a grasp on mundanity. You understand, then. Have you ever seen a Demon with your own eyes?”
