So was he a man who left such things to chance? Thin frowned.
“What, then, Lord Thatalocian?”
“The will to do what must be done. The strength of spirit is all. Sixteen. Seventeen. Ah. Perhaps here.”
He came to a row of [Slaves], all of whom appeared underfed and worthless to Thin’s eye. They were chained here probably as punishment. Dregs from the [Slave] markets, the expendable sort. The Blighted Kingdom had need of both skillful talent and menials. Thin waved a hand, truly vexed now. He lied to the [Numerologist].
“Had you the need, I’m sure any member of my crew would serve your employ well. And I would be happy to give them to such an important man as yourself, Lord! What could this lot do?”
The berth had two men well past their prime, a child, what might be their mother, and two scrawny children or teens; it was hard to tell, malnourished and dirty as they were, shaved to avoid lice.
Thatalocian stroked his chin.
“It may not be this seventeen. Do not mistake me, Captain Thin. Numerology is no…science. It is close to divination. More shamanism than magecraft. More occultism than sorcery.”
That made no sense at all. What was occultism? Thin resolved to find a dictionary as he folded his arms.
“And if this was the seventeen?”
“Then it might be this child. Or this man. You who are chained. Do you have the will to serve?”
He asked them a question, and their heads swung from him to Thin; they didn’t even know if Thatalocian was a master. Moreover, would the question land them in trouble or…?
“What use could the child be, Lord Thatalocian? Except as entertainment of some kind or the lowest menial?”
Captain Thin had overstepped himself in his frustration. Thatalocian’s eyes flashed in annoyance. He turned slowly.
“If the will endures, nothing else is needed. I would put a child, bladeless and shackled, against you, Captain Thin, if I saw the look in their eyes was right. I have seen children fight monsters and triumph where grown men, strong men died. [Soldiers] are very well and good; I let Pazeral marshal them and march about. [Soldiers] break before horrors. Brave men claw their eyes out rather than face something they cannot comprehend. I seek those who can endure. Why should I not search for [Slaves] who are so ill-treated? They have survived this. Would you survive until this place?”
Captain Thin was getting more and more disconcerted—and angrier at the idea of a freeman such as himself being chained, or even implied to it.
“I’ve committed no crimes, and I am no debtor, Lord. To imply I should be shackled is an offense! And if I was chained for some offence? I would win my freedom within the year!”
It did happen. A [Slave] saved a master or did some valorous deed and they were freed. Or if they found treasure, it was a common reward. Masters even married their [Slaves] and freed them out of love.
But Thatalocian’s lip just curled.
“The numbers were wise indeed not to point me towards you, Captain Thin. You boast of your deeds with a full belly on the deck of your ship. A fool’s tongue. Such an unpleasant novelty of this time. When I lived, few spoke thus who did not know themselves. It seems this is the way of all now.”
Thin turned crimson at the insult. But he held his tongue out of confusion as much as anything else. When I lived…?
“If I may withdraw, Lord? If you wish to free these [Slaves], their price must be paid.”
“I shall weigh their numbers. Your company I did not ask for, Captain Thin.”
The [Captain] spun on his heel. He marched away rather than embarrass or endanger himself further. Only when he’d gone to the prow of the ship to stew in his anger did he wonder—if Thatalocian had not been speaking to him, then who were the words for?
 
——
 
 
“I am not dictated by my class. I am more than mere levels and Skills. The day I am beholden to such things, kill me. Make sure to use my body well.”
—Holder of Numbers, Binderlord Thatalocian, Twilight of Magic. Date Lost.
 
Dozing under the burning sun. The lashes burned in the salt air, but it was better than the cells that stank of piss and blood. Drifting off as the ship rocked…
Until the voice spoke. Then the girl jolted awake, terrified and thinking she was about to earn another lash—but no one was around her. She did not understand; the rest of the others on her bench were dozing. Holding the painful oars but not called upon to work, skin reddening under the sun.
She turned her head left and right as far as the chains connected to her iron collar would allow. The rusted metal chafed her skin, but it was already coarse, and she barely felt that. Hunger…hunger was always there, and it made the sunburns, the lashes, and everything else recede. It also made it easier to sleep, but for the voice.
When she saw the strange man walking down the decks with the [Captain] in tow, she recognized the voice at once. Even so…she didn’t expect him to stop. Let alone sweep his eyes over her.
The girl listened to the strange conversation he had with the [Captain] until the man stormed away. Then the [Slave Lord] stood there. And his eyes swept over them.
I will weigh their numbers.
The [Numerologist] inspected each [Slave] in turn, then asked the question again.
“You who are chained. Do you have the will to serve?”
This time, he got a response. Not from her, but from one of the older men, who bowed deep.
“To serve you is the highest honor, Lord.”
It was the wrong answer. The moment he spoke, the [Numerologist]’s eyes flickered. He lifted a hand.
“Not you. So once again, I forget. Not me.”
He spoke as enigmatically to them as Captain Thin. The old man flinched, but no blow came, and he seemed confused as he shrank back, spindly arms covering his chest which showed all his ribs. Next to him was a Stitch-man, almost as old, and mother and child.
Had he avoided a terrible fate or…? The girl didn’t know. She was Human, bound for the Blighted Kingdom, they said. She wasn’t sure if this man was better than Rhir’s Hell or not.
He might be far, far worse than being killed by Demons or whatever was in store. It was said that if you were lucky, you might be merely made servants in the Blighted Kingdom. If you were unlucky, they’d put you on a farm fighting the menaces in the soil in the outer regions. If you were very, very lucky, they might make you citizens. It was better than Lailight Scintillation’s Slave Markets.
“Again. You who are chained. Do you have the will to serve? I will punish none of you for answering wrongly. Remain silent and you will continue to wherever this voyage takes you.”
None of them believed that, of course. But the question had to be asked, so the Stitch-man in line asked as the two teenagers and Stitch-mother held their tongues.
“Serve…who, Lord? Whom are we to serve if not you?”
Perhaps he was some buyer looking on behalf of a master? But he had been called ‘Lord’ by the Captain. Thatalocian’s reply was pleased.
“Roshal.”
Again, the [Slaves] were confused, and even some of the guards and crew listening in glanced at each other. Were they to be used as public servants of some kind? Cleaning the docks? That…might be worth it. Thatalocian saw the confusion in their eyes and clarified again, which unclarified things even more.
“Not the city of Lailight Scintillation. Nor any one master. The nation, if we are such, or the idea alone. Roshal, or perhaps, merely the world. If not even the world, then sanity.”
“S-sanity, Lord?”
The Stitch-man asked, as if convinced Thatalocian had lost his. And that answer disqualified him. The [Numerologist] turned away.
“What else could be worth serving and protecting? You, mother.”
He waited, and the mother took a gamble and held her child up, the chains clinking so Thatalocian could see the Stitch-boy.
“I will serve, Master. If you take my child with me, we will serve Roshal and sanity with all we have!”
A calculated risk, but again—failure. Thatalocian glanced down.
“You are this child’s mother?”
She nodded; whether or not that was strictly true, the girl didn’t know. Mothers sometimes took care of children who were abandoned. It was true in every sense that mattered, and the child certainly clung to her, so she wasn’t doing this as a ploy; she was skinnier than the others, and she might have given food up for the child.
Thatalocian peered down at the child and mother. And his eyes seemed to glow.
“Two. No. A pair of numbers intertwined make no sense unless…tell me your names.”
The woman did, and the [Numerologist] effortlessly translated them to numbers. Added them together. Subtracted them. He found nothing that squared with seventeen or whatever he was looking for.
“No.”
She sagged in her chains, though it was still unclear if she were spared or…but it seemed her courage had won some approval. The Slave Lord turned.
“This child, this deck, is underfed. Roshal does not want for food even now, even at sea. Feed them.”
He addressed a [Slavemaster], and the woman with the whip licked her lips.
“The Captain does not reward [Slaves] unless they’ve survived storm or attack, Lord—overfeeding them makes them rowdy. We’re almost to port, and then the Blighted Kingdom will—”
She had taken the wrong cue from Captain Thin. The [Numerologist] was annoyed. He spoke.
“Now.”
The single word jolted the [Slavemaster] and her [Guards] into motion. They were running down the deck towards the ship’s hold before they slowed. They turned, saw Thatalocian staring at them—ran faster.
Captain Thin seemed askance and ready to protest when food meant for the crew came up and was ladled into dishes and thrust into disbelieving [Slaves]’ hands. They ate feverishly, terrified they’d be beaten or it would be taken away. Thatalocian watched for a moment, then addressed the two teens, the girl included.
“We near the harbor. I have not looked upon Rhir’s shores my entire life. Only heard whispers of a land so foul that even the Those-That-Rise who clawed their way into the Long Night died there. They tell me it is a kingdom now. I will not remain there, but return to Roshal. Do you have the will to serve?”
The young man remained silent next to the girl. He was shaking, but he had decided whatever this [Numerologist] was, he was too powerful. She understood; if he could order a [Slavemaster] around, he was a powerful man, and mere [Slaves] would surely be expendable to him.
However…she had heard his voice. She made the mistake of glancing up, just once, wanting to see something of his face even if she said nothing.
That was all it took. She saw he was indeed balding, old, and humbler than most Slave Masters with their fine clothing. He seemed almost like a…a hermit of some kind. Or the old man who lived in the lighthouse that guided ships into port. An old keeper.
But not a weary one. She gazed into his eyes and saw that they were cloud-grey. But his pupils…
They were numbers. Two different ones in the flash of a moment.
0 and 6.
She gasped. Flinched and clapped a hand to her mouth in a rattle of chains, but it was too late. He saw the motion and his eyes lit, no longer numbers but intent.
“You.”
“N-no! I don’t have the will, Master! I don’t—you surely were not speaking to me.”
She protested, voice raw, coughing, and he stooped lower.
“You heard me. Unchain this one. What is your name, girl?”
Now Captain Thin was peering over, incredulous, and the girl was terrified. And—hopeful? Hope was something she had thought damned again and again, but it kept appearing.
Hope she might survive and reach the Blighted Kingdom. Hope when she saw the food she had yet to taste. Hope in small things. Even if it was dashed again and again—she had hoped the Bane of Roshal might liberate her when she had been taken to pay her parents’ debts. Hoped she would see a rainbow and hear the [Slavers] tormenting her die.
Even now…Thatalocian stooped and gazed into her eyes.
“If you heard my voice, that too matters. That is no trick of numbers, merely the work of my other classes. [The Seeking Words] find those I value, just like my numbers do. As I said, I am not one class. Even numerology is but a skill to serve.”
She did not understand. But she babbled that she had heard, and when she repeated what he had said, he nodded.
“What is your name, girl? You are now among my company. Whether you are chained or shed them, you and I will travel together until I return to Roshal.”
Her heart leapt at that. Hope, that treacherous [Rogue], slipped her chains of it, and she answered.
“Faea, Master!”
And then his face shifted. He recoiled—and his excitement became an expression of regret. Thatalocian lowered his hands and exhaled.
“Ah. But I still listen to the numbers. Alas.”
She did not get it, not until he spelled it out for her.
“6-1-5-1. Thirteen. A number that has always had meaning for meetings and gatherings. You and I…we shall see.”
What did that—? Then Faea was afraid again, but the [Slavers] were already unshackling her chains. Just because of her name, he had decided…? She stumbled after him, not sure what to do. The Slave Lord stood on the deck like a mourner for a moment. But after he turned and saw her longingly gazing at the soup pot, he approached. She flinched, but he simply took the ladle, filled the bowl, and handed her a spoon.
So then. She began to eat until she was close to being sick, and he told her to eat slower or she would hurt herself, and she tried. Was he a monster or a ‘good master’?
She did not know, but if Thatalocian could have heard the private thoughts in her head, he would have had a simple answer:
“Whatever I am and become, it is clawing to keep the door of sanity open. To hold onto meaning, however much it frays.”
He had been born before all of the Slave Lords except Pazeral and Loerhin. Thatalocian was third-oldest of them all, and he had lived in a time not even Pazeral had dreamed of. The Long Night, when magic died.
He supposed…what he understood of Roshal was different from what they did.
 
——
 
The slave-ships docked and unloaded their cargo. It was an orderly process; [Slavemasters] cracked whips over the heads of [Slaves] filing out onto the docks, where officials of the Blighted Kingdom made lists and processed each [Slave] into the places they would first go.
These were not the main docks where warships and trading vessels docked. Because of the sensibilities of other nations, like the [Knights] who came to crusade from Terandria, the slave-ships of Roshal used private docks. Here, the [Slaves] piled onto the less-beautiful pier, which was still watched by rings of guard-towers and barrier spells, and stood in lines.
