The last dregs from the cages sometimes had to be dragged out because they were too weak to move. Those that had expired on the voyage were usually tossed overboard when found, but if they had passed away here, they were not summarily thrown into the harbor. Instead…a hooded figure in black robes passed by the [Slavemasters].
A [Necromancer]. Even corpses had a use in the Blighted Kingdom, and the [Slaves] shuddered and realized they were in Hell. And Hell or Lailight Scintillation, which was worse? This was the kingdom of the unending war against Demons. Death could be anywhere.
—Yet Thatalocian seemed to view the Blighted Kingdom as a surprise. He was peering around like a fascinated owl, tilting his head left and right, blinking at the shining city beyond, which glowed with bright metals and a beauty that Faea longed to see. It was far less bright than Chandrar’s shores here; there was a weird pall to the skies that made her feel it was always more cloudy than light, but the Blighted Kingdom shone, as if the ground were bright enough to make up for the skies.
“I should explain, then. However much time we are in each other’s company. I have grown out of practice, explaining. I did not explain well to the Emir Yazdil, though he attempted understanding. If there are more in my company, I must explain.”
That was what he said to Faea as they stood on the ships being disembarked. She jumped; she didn’t realize she merited being addressed. But Thatalocian was not speaking just to her. His eyes swept the crew, the [Guards], and because she was with him, Faea saw the same thing happen.
One of the [Guards] twitched and glanced around. Then nudged the others around them. They peered around, then went back to standing. Thatalocian winked one eye at Faea.
“Both of you are now in my service.”
Again, the figure below jumped as he spoke. Then Thatalocian was striding down the gangplanks.
“You hear my words.”
“What—? Yes, sir!”
A startled man snapped to attention. He was a Stitch-man, tanned of skin and young, one of the many [Guards] who kept [Slaves] from being unruly. But he had heard Thatalocian. Just like Faea.
“You have heard a strange voice speaking. It was mine. My words sought you out. Follow me.”
“I—yes, Slave Lord, but my captain, my duty—”
The Stitch-man pointed to the Slave Master he was supposed to guard, but the nervous man waved him off. He turned to his [Captain]—not Thin, but another [Captain]—and the woman, a Naga, bowed instantly.
“Wherever he goes, you are to follow. You understand? Lord Thatalocian, do you wish for the entire patrol…?”
“No. Only those who heard my voice. Your name?”
“L-Lintl, Lord Thatalocian.”
“12-9-14-20-12. Hm. A fine enough name. ‘Twere all the letters more than ten, it would be a name to move the numbers about, in order to understand. That is another easy pattern, Faea.”
“Yes, Master.”
She stood there, and the [Guard], Lintl, hesitated as he looked at his fellow [Guards], who were giving him wide-eyed glances. But Thatalocian just beckoned, and they stood to the side of the gangplanks.
“Explanations. I am Thatalocian. You may address me how you please. Slave Lord is the address used today. It was not so when I lived. I was then called ‘Holder of Numbers’ or Binderlord by both those of Roshal and those who knew me.”
Faea exchanged glances with Lintl, for he was as confused as she until he yanked his eyes away and glowered. She kept her gaze low and on the ground; he at least knew how she should be behaving.
Yet Thatalocian was trying to explain, and clearly, he desired a response this time, so, because Lintl was still processing this, Faea dared ask. She was already having a surreal waking dream. Why not push it farther if she was in fact dying of heatstroke on the ship?
“What do you mean, M—Binderlord, when you say ‘when I lived’? When you lived in Roshal? Elsewhere?”
His lips curved upwards.
“No. When I lived my first life. I died and wandered as a ghost on Chandrar’s soils as all did. Until I was given the chance to live once more. I am a long-dead ghost returned to mortality. Andra…is almost a ghost once more. They tell me I am so old I predate written records. I am many times older than this Blighted Kingdom.”
This time, Lintl and Faea exchanged another glance and moved back from Thatalocian in the way people avoided the mad. He said it so matter-of-factly it raised every hair on Faea’s body. She shivered, for he was insane…
“Ah, you do not believe.”
“I—I do, Lord.”
She lied, and he smiled.
“You do not. This is well. I shall prove it to you. Belief is a fine thing to have. It is enough to know that I am old and higher level than any but the other Slave Lords and Yazdil. When I lived, my levels were not so rare. I was one of my peers. But those who pass Level 50, or Level 60, seem to be exceedingly rare. There were a hundred such in Roshal when we gathered to repel one of Those-That-Rise.”
What did she say to that? Prove it? She had a feeling he could. Thatalocian turned to Lintl.
“I have recruited Faea as one who might serve Roshal and this world, or sanity if nothing else. Though I fear her number weighs heavily. Do you understand?”
“No, sir. I know of you, of course. But how does one serve…sanity? I’m just a Level 13 [Guard], sir. This is my 6th voyage. I don’t know more than to crew a ship.”
Lintl was plainly in fear of his life. Thatalocian smiled warmly.
“I chose you because my class, the numbers, and my Skills found you and Faea. Think of me as a [Soothsayer] in part. I just use numbers rather than their methods. As to your other question, it is simple. To serve Roshal, we do what they need. We are soldiers when war comes. Agents of justice when needed—it is the work of any [Lord] in a fiefdom. You may fill this role. But to serve sanity is far, far simpler. All you must do is bring meaning out of irrationality.”
Someone please take me with you. Faea didn’t really mean that—but she cast an eye at the lines of [Slaves] anyways. Thatalocian sighed.
“It is not that difficult. Perhaps it is because you have never seen sanity fray. What is the word for Those-That-Rise now? Ah, yes. Seamwalkers.”
Now, every head turned at the name of that horror, and some of the Blighted Kingdom’s officials glanced at this stranger, but a few of Roshal’s own intercepted them, whispering and explaining him no doubt. Thatalocian touched under one eye.
“The horrors from beyond the edge of the world. I have seen thousands. Slain few with my bare hands, for I am no great warrior. But when I lived, they rose unending to devour a world where magic had died. To look upon them is to find your grasp of the world slipping. Men and women lose their minds to even behold what does not make sense. That is what it is to defend sanity.”
“Kill Seamwalkers?”
Lintl was shaking now, holding his plain steel spear, but Thatalocian’s huge hand was gentle upon his shoulder.
“No, boy. You are not ready for that. Defending sanity comes in far easier ways. Let me explain it now to you as I would a child in Roshal. If you wish to defend sanity, bring meaning to the world. So. Do you have clothing?”
“Yes. In my cabin…?”
“Fetch it before we depart. When you go to sleep this night, Lintl, lay your clothing out. Do you know how to fold it well? Fold each shirt and stack them together. Shirts in a single pile, pants in another. Or by color. If you wish, make a pattern of them. This small action is enough.”
Something about how he said that…made sense to the two. It was stupid, but Thatalocian lifted a hand, forestalling comments.
“This will not stave off the insanity of Those-That-Rise in the flesh. But it is some measure of sanity, of normalcy. It is the power of order, patterns, and what you bring to your room and clothing you shall wear about you. If all in a city do this, then it is some small measure of sanity. That is how one serves sanity. These ships are a greater example.”
He waved at the ships moored at the docks. Thatalocian tapped the hull of one with his knuckles. He had, Faea realized, a lantern at his side. An odd tool—it looked like he’d carved all kinds of things into the metal.
“The sea is vast and dark. If you were floating on your back in the midnight waters, you might well go insane from the vast terror of it. At least, the landfolk do. Even Drowned Folk fear being alone. Loneliness is another gnawing force at sanity for some. But the sea—how does one bring sanity to the sea?”
“A ship.”
Faea’s answer was correct, and though Lintl jerked at her speaking up without permission, Thatalocian’s smile was approving.
“A ship is meaning. Safety. A house is sanity against the dark night. A candle a ward against the darkness. Unless one can see in the dark, like a Goblin. They have different methods of sanity, and I welcome them all.”
“So…so I could fold clothing to serve you, Binderlord?”
That sounded good to Faea. Thatalocian scratched his chin.
“We shall see. I hope my numbers have brought me more than a [Launderer]. But then, any class of sufficient levels exceeds any other. I would trade an army a million strong for a single Level 80 [Beggar] in a heartbeat. Now come: I wish to see this Blighted Kingdom.”
The [Slaves] were leaving, and he began to stride after a group. Still talking. Lintl followed with Faea as the rest of the [Slavers] watched. Faea had to ask the obvious question.
“But why, Binderlord?”
Why come to the Blighted Kingdom? Thatalocian’s reply was simple.
“I wish to know if this great force is worth supporting. I am Roshal. The Emir Yazdil claims it so. I shall weigh their value, for what concerns the world concerns Roshal. If there is an ill to the world, we shall join against it.”
He spoke like he expected Roshal to fight. He spoke like Roshal did more than buy and sell [Slaves]. Then Faea saw his head turn and regard Captain Thin, and she recognized a vague contempt in his eyes.
Then—she began to hope again, that treacherous feeling.
 
——
 
New [Slaves] to the Blighted Kingdom were given a shock: after being processed off the ships, they were immediately brought to holding areas and fed.
A generous meal, almost always soup with flatbread and given in doses so their stomachs wouldn’t be damaged from the deprivation, but enough to fill them up over the course of hours.
This was not merely to keep them alive from the privations of sea, however short; it was a calculated act.
Much like how new officers in Rhir were given tests to make sure they could work together, it was policy of the Blighted Kingdoms to awe the [Slaves] with generosity. Washed bedding, first aid for their wounds, if not actual potions these days, and rest.
After all, what inspired [Slaves] to toil and work harder than hope? They surely knew they were in Hell, but the Blighted Kingdom was the bulwark against it. Even a [Slave] had purpose.
It was as the [Slaves] were fed, then, that the [Recruiters] and officials came back and gave the [Slaves] a choice. They would be sorted according to their classes or physiques into suitable occupations.
Mostly as menial-work or hands for farms and so on—not enviable jobs, though if they were loyal and demonstrated their ability to level or be a credit, citizenship was well within reach. The officials would cite how many [Slaves] had been elevated to citizen this year, a number always in the tens of thousands.
Then, to the round-eyed [Slaves], the [Recruiters] would make their pitch: earn your freedom right now. Join the army.
“Any man, woman, or even child who swears to fight the Demons will be freed on the spot and be accorded the rights of any citizen! You will be a [Soldier] for ten years, or if you are a child under the age of fourteen, trained until you can begin service. Afterwards, you may well retire with pay or continue to serve the Blighted Kingdom in any way you please, even journey from Rhir!”
Ten years. Being a [Soldier] for that long…? The [Recruiters] used their Skills. Appealed to the likeliest candidates, and if a few began to volunteer, many, or sometimes all, would choose that.
If they refused, well, the Blighted Kingdom had [Slaves] anyways. This batch, it looked to be a hundred out of nearly eight times that ready to enlist.
The [Head Recruiter] was dressed in polished armor, impressing upon the [Slaves] that even the meanest [Soldier] of the Blighted Kingdom was far, far better trained and equipped than a [Soldier] of Reim or a Walled City. Fed too.
However…there was something off about today. He couldn’t understand why, and one of the officials kept checking her lists.
“Something wrong, Chrine?”
He murmured as one of the other [Recruiters] took over. She was checking the names and numbers of [Slaves]. They had to update the lists with dead [Slaves], but the Blighted Kingdom let no data go to waste. The woman, a Dullahan, shook her head.
“No. I—I keep counting, because I think we’re off…but the numbers add up. We had 17 deaths, 1 freed [Slave] enroute—and there should be 865 people here. My headcount is 850.”
The [Head Recruiter] did the math.
“865 – 17 – 1 is…84750.”
“Yes, exactly. It is…it is that, isn’t it?”
Embarrassed, the woman rubbed at her eyes.
“I must be low on sleep. I’m sorry, Kobl. Don’t mind me.”
He flashed her a smile and wondered if she’d have time to share a drink after work. Relationships between fellow workers was encouraged as long as the power dynamics weren’t imbalanced. More children between capable people was good for the Blighted Kingdom in the long run…but the child-killing curse that the Death of Magic had laid on the Blighted Kingdom still tore at the heartstrings.
Still, he had to admit something felt a bit…weird today. Kobl glanced around and saw a likely candidate for the army.
A huge man—no, damn, he looked sixty or older! He was hunched over and eating some soup next to a Stitch-man in—armor? Kobl frowned.
“Is that one of Roshal’s [Guards] or are they arming [Slaves]?”
He pointed, amazed no one had called this out. They had guards in case a [Slave] was a spy or simply dangerous. A [Soldier] strode over, and the big fellow glanced up. He lifted a hand, spoke, and the [Soldier] came back.
“He says they’re just here to observe, Recruiter Kobl.”
“Oh, very good then.”
Kobl relaxed and saluted the huge figure. A shame too. He seemed like he could have been a strong [Lineholder] or [Shieldman] if he were two decades younger. He went on with the recruitment, just wishing the old fellow would talk a bit quieter. He had a job to do.
 
——
 
“They organize well. I have not seen walls so mighty nor so many ships or soldiers arrayed together in such cohesion, again, in my life.”
“Never once, Binderlord?”
