Thatalocian was addressing Lintl; it was Faea’s turn to back away, waiting for the world to normalize. People were glancing their way, but whatever Thatalocian was doing, it deflected their attention—mostly. Lintl half-bowed.
“I have, Lord.”
“Really?”
“Prisoners. They don’t speak; they’re gagged and spellbound, but citizens jeer and stone them. To the death at times. Would you see…?”
“Yes.”
Faea got up and followed Thatalocian shakily. Peering at the streets and smiling people. He had shown her the truth, maybe. But it was such a painful one…! Couldn’t one thing be good?
Maybe he was wrong. He could make the streets seem less beautiful, but the Demons were out there. Faea didn’t believe this Thatalocian was perfect. Even so, she still followed, for she was a [Slave].
They were just in time, as it turned out. Not only did they get to see some Demons in cages, but they were also present for a state funeral. The group pushed to the front of the crowd, and Thatalocian tapped the shoulder of a [Knight] watching the solemn procession.
“This is fit for a [Prince]. Who has passed?”
The [Knight] removed his helm as several pallbearers marched forwards. Unlike the solemn, precise [Soldiers] and the Blighted Kingdom’s own [Knights], this was a motley group of weeping people no older than Faea herself. The [Knight] nodded to the young folk.
“Some [Heroes] of Rhir. Slain by the Goblin Lord Ragathsi, I am told. On top of those killed by the King of Khelt.”
Thatalocian focused on the [Heroes] of Rhir. Then at the cages of Demons, who provoked a roar of anger after the weeping and mourning cries. His eyes narrowed as a great beast, which had a Wyvern’s head and a second, grotesque Ogre’s face and the tail of a great, shaggy wolf, clawed at the bars.
A mutated monster of Rhir and a dozen silent Demon [Soldiers], who shielded their faces from stones being hurled at them. His eyes narrowed.
“Is that all? Those are no Seamwalkers.”
“Lord, their faces!”
Lintl stared at one Demon with three eyes and eight arms sprouting from her back. She had red skin, and another resembled Drakes and Lizardfolk in that…he…had scales, but he was a creature unlike either group with a wide salamander’s head and stout, circular torso. Some of the Demons appeared more…normal, but they still had purple skin or horns.
“That is merely the effects of mutation. The result of exposure to Seamwalkers. Any fool who has witnessed their corruption would understand that. This is…these are Demons?”
The [Numerologist]’s eyes began to flash. Alarmed, Faea and Lintl began to shush him because this was too much, even for whatever Skill he had. If someone heard—!
Well, the entire problem was sort of rendered moot because at that moment, a portal in the air opened, and Thatalocian turned to see an entire squad of [Soldiers] aiming crossbows at his chest. He grunted, and without missing a beat, hefted the foreigner [Knight] up by the waist and placed him down between himself and the crossbows.
It was a bastard’s move, but you had to admire that.
 
——
 
Head Recruiter Kobl was pulling his best moves on his coworker, Chrine, as they returned to their headquarters in the city, job done for the moment. Ships were always arriving, and it wasn’t their jobs to process the new [Slaves], just do this.
“So, have you bought a new armor polish? I couldn’t help but admire the luster.”
“Kobl, stop. I have to file this.”
She was trying not to smile as she carried her head under one arm, the files with the other. Kobl passed through the archways that detected dangerous items—he could carry his weapons, but just not hidden blades or anything else. Once, he’d brought a shaving razor in his bag of holding and been stopped for ten minutes—he didn’t want to lose Chrine.
“I could help you pick out a new piece tomorrow once we’re paid. Or help you buff it out—”
“Pervert.”
She nudged him hard, turning red, and Kobl faltered. She wasn’t that mad, but she was scandalized. Damn. He wished he had more Dullahan coworkers, but they were rare in the Blighted Kingdom—was that like offering to give her a massage or something?
“I—I only meant—I didn’t mean to be improper. I’d like to buy you a drink—”
They were passing through another section where several figures wearing masks watched them. One spoke as always.
“[Normalize Condition].”
“What if I, um, made you some armor?”
“Made me some armor? And I wear it? All the time? In front of everyone?”
“Okay, not that. How about—”
Then Kobl’s mouth stopped frantically working, and his mind snapped away from being flustered into true horror. The same thing happened to Chrine. Kobl’s mouth kept working for a moment.
“—you—I—he gave me orders! He was right there and gave me orders, and I just took them!”
“Three? Three! Three! I wasn’t doing the math right, and I knew it!”
They began grabbing at their heads, doubling over as, suddenly, the events in the [Slaves]’ holding pens came back to them completely differently. Their sudden screams and flailing made the masked figures jump in alarm; Kobl spun.
“He—he went with the [Slaves]! I have to—”
He began running and nearly slammed into a protective forcefield. Kobl almost drove his fist into it, then his mind began actually working.
“Intruder! Infiltrator at the docks! Three!”
He roared at the masked figures as people around him spun, and they reacted instantly.
“Down onto the ground! Hold still for scanning spells! Report!”
One leapt over the barricade as Kobl knelt, and he blabbered everything he could.
“We didn’t know! We were tricked! Blighted King forgive us, I knew the numbers were wrong, but it was a Skill or—!”
Chrine was crying, but Kobl couldn’t talk to her—one of the masked officials had seized his arm.
“Up. You will help us identify the saboteurs. Do not draw attention to them. Move!”
Kobl ran. They dragged him into a room with nearly a hundred scrying orbs, all flashing difference faces, and they flickered frantically through faces and places as he described where the man must have gone, and they combed the area until—
“There! There!”
He would have recognized that hunched man anywhere. That was him with the [Slave] and [Guard]! Thatalocian!
“Should I inform the Watch, sir?”
The [Mage] operating the [Scrying] spell was tense, but the officer lifted a finger.
“Wait for my signal. I am requesting a [Portal] spell to apprehend…Bastion-General? Yes, sir. Yes—we have him—forwarding now. Forward the scrying coordinates to 4th Wall!”
He snapped, and the [Mage] scrambled to obey. Kobl’s eyes were huge in his head. Bastion-General Quiteil had caught wind of this? So fast! But then, this was infiltration into the Blighted Kingdom—!
He watched as the portal opened after several agonizing minutes. Then he clearly heard the masked officer speaking.
“Intruder to the Blighted Kingdom, surrender or be executed. There will be no second warning.”
The man had picked up a [Knight] and was holding him like a shield! People were dashing back around him, and the parade had ground to a halt, but the man, Lord Thatalocian, didn’t even seem that phased.
“I am Slave Lord Thatalocian of Roshal. Ask Emir Yazdil about me.”
Roshal? Yazdil? The officer hesitated, but then fell back on what he knew.
“No one is above the Blighted Kingdom’s laws. Surrender. Now! Release—put the [Knight] down!”
The foreign [Knight] was squirming, trying not to be a literal Human shield in Thatalocian’s grip. The Slave Lord smiled, amused.
“I have seen no great secrets of your kingdom. Is this how you treat your finest allies? I shall remember that. I will not surrender nor be interrogated like a criminal. I am Thatalocian. Binderlord of Roshal. I warn you once.”
“You will comply or die.”
The officer shouted back. He gave an order to the squad of [Soldiers].
“Do not shoot to kill. Keep the Slave Lord alive. Alive. Bastion-General—”
He was managing several calls at once, and the officer hesitated. His mask gave nothing away, but his voice…
“Bastion-General, he used mind-altering—yes, sir. But—yes, sir. I will—”
Whatever he was going to do next sounded like he had actually been given orders to stand down, which was insane to Kobl. But the horrified [Head Recruiter] realized even the famously incisive Bastion-General Quiteil had made a mistake. Thatalocian was losing his temper.
“You try my patience. 21-14-12…”
The officer snapped back to the scrying orb.
“What is he doing?”
“Sir, permission to loose?”
“Denied, do not strike him! You, what are you—?”
“…15-3-11.”
Thatalocian calmly finished the string of numbers. Kobl stared at him and saw nothing happen. Right up until he heard, in the tense silence, a click. Then a clang as a lock fell off the cage holding the mutated monster of Rhir. And the Demons’ shackles. They stared down at their restraints as they fell to the floor. Thatalocian smiled coldly into the scrying orb.
Right up until the mutated Manticore leapt on him.
 
——
 
In hindsight, Thatalocian should have seen that one coming. The enraged beast in the too-small cage was cooped up with rocks hurled at it and prey all around, already wounded from being captured and desperate to kill.
In its moments of escape, it went for the biggest target it could see, which was him. He was the highest-level person around, and this was no animal that picked its fights wisely. This was a creature of Rhir, and it had survived by killing anything more dangerous than it.
He had also erred in thinking this was some ordinary monster, like a regular Manticore. It had an Ogre and Wyvern’s head and the tail of a giant wolf.
It was fast, and the two heads bit and howled and breathed magical flames all over him as he roared and tried to fight it off him.
“8-1-1—”
Shouting numbers was all very well, except if you were trying to inhale a lungful of green flames. Disbelieving, Faea watched as the Binderlord’s roaring voice became coughing.
That he didn’t die as the mutated Manticore tried to savage him was due to his levels and reflexes and whatever artifacts he had on him, but he was unable to shake the weight of the massive beast. And the [Soldiers] weren’t exactly leaping to help him; they were fighting the Demons.
Unarmed or not, the Demons knew this was their one chance, and they had seized weapons and were fighting, using Skills and yelling to the heavens.
“Chains! Death of Chains! Witness our stand! Let all who hold chains—”
A Demon woman was screaming as she held one arm to the skies, the other seven lashing out with blades. Faea couldn’t look at her. It—it made her too confused.
“Lord!”
Lintl was stabbing at the Manticore’s side with his spear, but it slid off the scales of the beast. Faea was shouting too. If he could just roll away or—
The Ogre’s head bit Thatalocian in a huge chomp as he forced the Wyvern’s head back. One of Thatalocian’s hands kept the molars from crushing his head. His eyes were wide, and he was coughing. Still mouthing those…
Was he going to die? Right here? The man who’d offered her food and a modicum of kindness? Faea cast around, and she saw, just across from her, a group of the young people who’d been bearing their comrade’s corpse. It had fallen over, though the casket mercifully hadn’t broken; they were using it as cover.
“Ohmigod. Ohmigod. Ohmig—”
“Holy shit, this is it. This is it. C’mon, battle formations. Leni, get up! Get up!”
They were panicking as well. They had on what looked like magical armor, but they were no warriors; one was fumbling for a sword, and he only managed to unsheathe it after three tries. Then he whipped it out of its sheath so hard it slipped out of his hands and clattered onto the street.
“Oh fuck.”
“Hahahaha! You dumbass!”
Another one of the strange Humans pointed and laughed at the sword; he had a glassy expression on his face. Shock. He seemed to be in denial of what was going on.
“Get up! C’mon, we’re dead! Remember what Richard said—”
They didn’t move. Couldn’t move, it seemed. One of them put their hands over their ears.
“I want to go home! I want to go—”
“Heroes, help us!”
A [Soldier] was howling at them. The group stared at the fighting and didn’t move, but one of the Demons had heard and was coming at them.
“Heroes of Rhir? Die! Die! D—”
Glowing chains materialized around the neck of the eight-armed Demoness, yanking her off her feet. At this, the [Heroes] did move, running back, lifting weapons, screaming. One gazed at the huge Manticore in horror. Then at the enchanted sword—
And the young [Slave] girl who’d grabbed it and was leaping up onto the Manticore’s back?
“My sword!”
Faea had the blade in her hand. It was light as a feather and practically hummed as she lifted it high. She had climbed the scales of the Manticore’s back as it threatened to throw her off, digging her fingers between the cracks, breaking fingernails, adrenaline giving her strength. She was at the heads and balanced on its back as it savaged Thatalocian, ignoring her.
She stabbed the blade of the sword down where the two heads met, guessing that it had most of its organs there. The shock of blade meeting flesh was all she felt; she drove the blade down to its hilt and gasped.
So easy—
The Manticore screamed and tried to roll. The heads turned towards her, and it attempted to throw her off as she yanked the blade up. A gout of brown blood struck her, but she stabbed again, nearly hitting her knees. Again! She dragged the blade through the flesh, and now the Manticore knew it was in mortal peril. It tried to roll, to crush her…and could not.
Thatalocian had hold of its paws, and he refused to let it turn. His eyes were glowing, and now the beast was screeching. A third time Faea drove the blade down deep, forcing it into the flesh. Again! Again!
She saw a bloody, burnt face staring up at her as the Manticore reared back. Thatalocian only had one eye open, but he gazed up at her not with shock, but a kind of delight and resignation on his face. That of a man whose expectations had been filled and who had not taken that for granted.
Faea lifted the blade, yelling, and as she brought it down, she remembered what she had seen in his eyes when they had first met.
Six.
Her sixth sword strike cut clean down the gap between both heads, slicing into the Manticore’s chest until it met a heart. The beast shrieked—then choked on its own blood—and fell backwards. It would have crushed her had the [Knight] not thrown himself forwards to catch her as she fell.
