“Wow, incredible,” Rain exclaimed, carefully running his fingers over the diagram. “How do you deal with the recoil?”

Tensing up, Mila froze in place, no longer relaxed in Rain’s embrace. “What?”

“The top half is essentially a projectile moving at the speed of sound right? When the spear reaches its maximum length, I assume the lower parts stops the upper parts from flying out. Since you’ll be holding the bottom half, all the force needs to be dealt with by you, so unless you want your spear to go flying out of your hands every time you extend it, you’ll need to do something about the recoil.”

Bolting upright, Mila alternated between staring at her diagrams and at Rain, her mouth gaping in disbelief. “But... If I... I could...” she stammered, trying to salvage her weeks of effort. A leather strap to loop around her wrist? The force would tear the leather apart along with her skin. Shorten the spring and lower the force? Then what’s the point? Might as well just make a normal spear. “You!” She shouted, shaking Rain’s arm. “Why didn’t you point this out sooner?”

“Sorry my love, but this is the first I’ve heard about it.” Patting her back, Rain said, “It’s fine, you were too close to see the problem and too excited to think it through. Happens to the best. At least you caught it before making and binding the weapon.”

Mourning weeks of planning gone to waste, Mila let out a tiny whimper before sinking into Rain’s embrace. It’s not so easy a problem to fix, each new modification requiring days of calculations to ensure everything lined up properly. Every single one of Rain’s rifles took weeks to create, with each improvement she or Rain dreamt up complicating things even further. Though they looked similar on the outside, the difference between Silva’s sword rifle and Ravil’s sword rifle were staggering to behold. Not only was Ravil’s easier to load and fire due to a complete overhaul of the inner workings, Silva’s sword hilt was awkward to grasp and lacked a customized grip to use when firing. She later solved the problem by introducing a detachable handle made from mundane materials, but she wasn’t clever like Rain was, able to see problems without creating and seeing them in action.

Sighing once more, she kissed Rain on the cheek. “Thank you. You saved me from making the blunder of a lifetime. If I’d crafted and bound this Spiritual Weapon, I would’ve regretted it for the rest of my life.”

Feigning shock, Rain exclaimed, “Wow, a kiss and an admittance of guilt, you must be exhausted. Off to bed with you.” Lifting her from the chair with a tiny grunt, he carried her to the bed in the back room, his breath steady and steps smooth. Tossing aside her failures, she luxuriated in the feeling of being carried by her betrothed, thrilled he could finally manage it without causing her grave concern. Giggling at his enthusiasm, she wrapped her arms around his neck and nuzzled into his shoulder, a comfortable cushion now that he had muscle and fat covering his bones. With his long, blue-silk shirt, stylishly-cut hair, and warm glowing eyes, he finally looked like a respectable young warrior. Though she loved him regardless of his appearance, she much preferred this handsome, tidy, well-fed version of Rain over the emaciated, malnourished one.

As he gently placed her on the bed, Mila giggled once more, closed her eyes, and refused to release him. She loved the way he looked at her with hunger in his eyes, but if she saw it now, there was no turning back. With a devilish growl, Rain kicked off his shoes and fell into bed with her, his hungry lips finding hers as she wrapped a leg around his hip. Enjoying the sensation of his body pressed against hers, her mind went blank and didn’t resist when his hands strayed once more, her heart pounding with excitement as his fingers found their way beneath her clothes. While Mila still intended to save herself for marriage as a proper lady should, Mama already believed the rice was cooked so what harm was there in indulging a little?

After all, it’s why she had a bed back here instead of a cot.

Chapter Meme
