“Hope is not a child’s excuse,” he roared at her. “It is the steel that stands against tyrants, the light by which the world is set right.” He forced another step forward, then another. His movement was coming easier now, his power obeying his commands.

Bandrin’s skirts fluttered slightly as she drifted backwards, though she didn’t have much space to maneuver. “Bold little godling, bright little braid,” she began, voice lilting. “You think your light can change this land?” She made an elegant gesture to the audience. “Look there. They’ll laugh, they’ll jeer, they’ll let you speak until your dream is-”

Khachi cut in, his cadence like a mailed fist striking the delicate glass of her speech and breaking the rhyme. “Applause does not matter. Nor favor, nor the tally of hands. Not here, not now. This is a duel to the death. To the Judgement.” The brilliance of his radiance shone forth, unfettered from her magic.

Bandrin glanced left and right, seeming to think about making a break past Khachi. Instead, she lifted her chin and responded. “Then falter, then -”

“No,” Khachi said, the syllable landing like a gavel as he closed in on her.

“Choke on hope, drown in -”

Khachi roared his defiance in her face, wordless denial accompanying a blast of power. He didn’t even swing a weapon. His light washed over her, golden and merciless, and she vanished in a blaze of clean power. The arena calmed, leaving Khachi as an avatar of light opposite a curl of smoke.

The Heirs cheered loudly, followed a moment later by the Questors of the Ashen Accord.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 7

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 3

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 6

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 7

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 6

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
