Sure, he had a spear, armor, and his shield. And he boasted a few months of training, but the way he felt now, in comparison to her, made the difference in their experience starkly clear.

”I normally stay quiet while on patrol. To be able to surprise the less perceptive creatures that prowl the forest. It is paramount for hunting but now that you're here, I think it's fine to talk, let's just do so in a low voice.

“I thought about how to teach you some of the basics, but in the end, I came to the conclusion that it's probably best to just take you with me and do what I do anyways, explaining what I can to you in the process. If you have any questions, feel free to ask.”

“Thank you. I guess you could tell me what we're looking for exactly. I know that you patrol the surrounding forests and hills to hunt and make sure there are no dangerous creatures around but that's the end of it.”

Ivera was quiet for a long moment, the two walking up a small hill, past branches and roots. When they reached the top, she checked the surroundings and listened for a while, then talked.

“I hunt. And I am hunted. I hunt so we can eat. And I am hunted, so that the hunters come for me instead of someone else. That's it.”

“You provide a target so that the farm doesn't become one?”

“Yes. But I also look for beasts that could be dangerous. We humans are far from the only prey that is around.”

Veron followed in silence for a while. It was getting easier to see now, the first sunlight brushing over the valley.

“What differentiates creatures that hunt you, and creatures that you hunt? Is it just power? Or circumstance?”

Ivera stopped to inspect something on the ground, motioning to Veron.

“This is a trail; you can make out that something ran through here. The branches here are disturbed, and you can see that the grass is trampled a little. It's difficult to see these signs at first, which is why I'm pointing them out to you. The more you get used to it, the more you will notice.

“As to your questions; sheer power is one thing, as are the questions of if an animal is hungry, injured, or agitated. If they come across me and see me as a threat, they might attack, or they might flee. There are particularities with every species as well of course. But what I'm mainly concerned about is their Path, more specifically, if a monster has the Chaos Path.”

She was still crouching near the supposed trail.

Veron had a hard time seeing it.

“I know that every being has one Path. How is the Chaos Path different from the others?”

Ivera stood up and continued.

“The paths determine what kind of magic you can wield but they also determine the nature of beings, to an extent. Or perhaps it is the nature of beings that determines their Path. You know of the Vabook, their Elemental Path. They live in nature, eat and drink, spread their ash, and reproduce. They defend themselves when they feel that their territory is under threat, and they run when they feel fear. You will find that most animals in this region are of the Elemental Path.

“Chaos creatures are different. They hunger, kill, destroy, without rhyme or reason. They come from the depths and prowl the lands for whatever they can devour, and nothing can stop them except for death. You will learn quickly when a dangerous chaos beast has come to a region.”

Ivera walked slower now, crouching from time to time to inspect the forest floor.

“You mentioned Chaos and Elemental beasts but what about the others?”

“They exist but they are far and few in between. At least in these regions. You may come across the occasional Blood beast, easily mistaken for chaos monsters but they are often more elusive and less inclined to engage a foe they cannot thoroughly overwhelm. More territorial too usually. Can be followed to a lair or cave whereas Chaos beasts often roam.

“The runic and Devotion Paths are far more common in beings of thought, as they require intellect and vision. Concepts that mere animals very rarely comprehend.”

“What about Fae animals?”

“I’ve never seen one, but I understand their essence fetches quite a price. Quiet now, I think this trail is fresh. We might find ourselves our first prey.”

Veron didn't miss the slight excitement in her tone. he followed as silently as he could.

At first, he expected them to come across some creature in the next few minutes but that wasn't the case. They followed the supposed trail for around an hour before Ivera called for a break. They ate and drank but remained silent, Ivera resuming their search as soon as they were done.

The initial excitement and adrenaline that Veron had felt had long passed but now he felt them replaced with growing anticipation.

It took another hour or so for them to find something.

Movement in the underbrush. A hissing sound and tearing flesh.

Slowly, they approached, the smell of blood in the air. Veron gulped, feeling himself tense up, gripping his shield and spear after the long walk.

He could see strange slithering movements, jet black and smooth skin, eating something covered in blood and gray fur.

Ivera spoke in a whisper right next to him. ”We're too late. Serpents got here first. Chaos beasts with small wings they use to jump short distances. Their bites are venomous but your armor should protect you if they don't get your face or any of the gaps. Fight defensively and hide behind your shield as much as you can. I'll take the two on the left, you try and face the one on the right. Ready?”

Veron heard a ringing sound coming to his left ear. He felt his heartbeat pick up and consciously slowed his breathing as best he could. He didn’t feel ready. Not in the slightest. No, he was scared shitless.

But he’d been scared shitless before and he knew that if he wanted to explore this world, he would be scared again. He wouldn’t falter here.

And so he nodded instead, and focused fully on the slithering mass of flesh before him. He couldn't even tell that there were three of them. All he could do was focus on the training he had gotten. He raised his shield and prepared his spear, waiting for Ivera’s signal.

She rushed out a moment later, fast on her feet and almost silent. He followed and aimed towards the right, coming out onto the trampled space, an acidic smell mixed with blood assaulting his nostrils as he saw a large blade flash out and cut clean through flesh, a large and thick snake cleaved in two, hissing as its body parts slithered and twitched on the forest floor.

The other creatures hissed and raised their heads, black beady eyes taking in the attackers as they opened large maws lined with needle-like teeth. One of them hissed and turned towards Veron.

He focused on the beast, hiding his left side behind his shield and holding his spear as straight as he could. A part of him told him this wasn't the best weapon to face this creature but he pushed the thought aside, fear and adrenaline making him focus fully on his foe.

The snake was large, raising its head higher than Veron stood tall, its skin jet black with tiny scales reflecting strands of sunlight that moved through the trees above. It looked ravenous and calculating at the same time, tiny leathery wings of black skin adorned it's back, moving in anticipation.

And then it shot forward, instantly. Veron felt a heavy impact, almost stumbling back as something grated against his chest and shoulder, a dull pain made him grit his teeth as he turned, the large snake slithering to the ground and turning its head to face him once more.

It had glanced off his armor but he didn't know if it had gotten through. This time, he crouched and raised his shield, his arm trembling from the impact of the heavy creature that jumped at him in the next moment. He saw the back end of it slither away when he stood tall again.

It's too quick for me. It will wear me out.

He watched where it landed just a few meters away and charged forward, his spear angled high and towards the large head that was as broad as his neck. He reached the monster when it raised its head and moved for another charge. Veron thrust forward his spear of stone, the attack leaving a gash across the creatures scales, black blood covering his weapon.

The monster reeled back and then attacked again, aiming to bite down on Veron's head from above but he managed to take a step back at the last moment, the monster now too close for him to hit with his spear so he took another step back and then thrust forward, eliciting a hiss from the monster as it slithered on the ground and went for his ankles. He could feel a stinging pain but it seemed his shin guards took most of the hit.

He nearly fell but just barely managed to stay upright, looking down at the large maw around his leg, the beady eyes looking forward. He struck down with his stone spear, feeling the resistance and hearing the tear of flesh as he pushed more, leaning forward to add weight to his weapon until he felt the grip of the jaws slacken, dark blood spilling on the earth below.

He made to rip out his spear but felt his balance waver, strange heat coming from his leg as he felt his vision blur ever so slightly. He saw Ivera approach and kneel down next to him.

“Stay still and don't move.”

That’s the same thing. Or is it?

He saw her blurry form open the jaws of the monster and leaving it on the floor. She gently helped him sit down and opened her pack, taking out a small knife, a small glass container, and a bundle of herbs. ”Open your mouth and chew. Don't spit it out.”

Veron did as she asked, biting down on the bitter plants and nearly gagging from the strong taste.

“I suggest you don’t look.”

Veron looked, and saw the small knife she held glow orange. He could feel the heat emanating from it.

He knew what would happen next and bit down on the piece of wood she offered. He watched her check and slightly clean the wounds before she seared them with the glowing hot blade.

Veron nearly passed out, screaming into the piece of wood with his teeth clenched but the searing pain was gone quickly, Ivera working fast. He cried quietly as she put a cooling salve on his wounds.

Veron removed the piece of wood and still chewed on the bitter herbs, glad now for the distraction it provided against the pain. ”That is rough. Holy shit,” he said and then started laughing, nearly choking on the herbs before he focused back on eating them. ”Should I swallow them or spit them out?”

Ivera looked at him, a mix of emotions on her face before she spoke. “Just chew, don't swallow. I should have taken care of most of the venom. It shouldn't be deadly on its own, but I'm not sure with a Feeble Path. How's your vision, do you think you can stand?”

Veron closed his eyes for a moment. ”Give me a moment.”

He waited, slowing his breathing as best he could and trying to feel it out. His leg, where Ivera had burned the wounds still hurt, but the pain was less now, the heat he had felt at first was gone, but he still felt slightly feverish.

When he felt a little calmer, he tried to stand and managed it with a slight stumble. His spear remained embedded in the creature’s head, it's beady eyes looking the same as they had when it was still alive. His shield lay to his side, the scrapes from the fight visible on its surface, a broad crack showing where the monster had impacted directly and with all its weight.

He had fought it. Had killed it. With his own two hands.

He laughed to himself, clutching his hands together as he felt them shake and tremble. He felt cold sweat go down his back as he realized how close he'd come to dying. But he hadn't died. He had survived.

Ivera touched his brow and frowned. “You should absorb its essence. It may help with the fever.” She looked around and then grabbed onto the corpse of the snake, removing the spear in the process. “Come with me.”
