Ranthia leapt backwards, rolled, then thrust off the ground to throw herself even further away from her opponent while she stole a moment to survey the battlefield. Astride what felt like a sea of bodies, the dwarven [Battlemaster] was still driving both of her hollow swords through the upper torso of an ogre, even as the Sound waves tore both him and his malicious parasite asunder. But the brave woman’s expression was both triumphant and vacant. She and the bloodied remains of her victim crashed to the ground, and neither rose.

Fuck! Rage and regret threatened to overwhelm her rationality, but Ranthia strove to wield them productively. Her opponent closed in again, but instead of venting her frustration on him, she watched his approach. The rocks that had locked around his feet carried him forward, as though he slid across the world unperturbed by the rough terrain.

Ranthia needed to disengage, which meant she needed to disable the twin. She feigned distraction until the instant the Dark [Ranger] arrived, then abruptly lashed out with her knives to meet both his outstretched swords. Sparks and shards of steel flew as her blades scraped along the edges of his. For the first time, she pitted her strength—assisted by [Higher Power]—directly against his.

She pried her opponent’s guard open, then lashed out with a snap kick, aimed at her opponent’s leading foot. Her sandal tore—she still hadn’t gotten the armor Skill she wasted chaotic potential on when she built [She who Dances with Chaos]—but the stone shattered and scattered an instant before she crushed the ogre’s toes.

Her opponent howled in pain, even as his other leg shot past the limb she halted. The alleged twin’s arms flailed as his balance failed. He had enough combat sense to keep hold of his weapons.

Not that they did him any good that far out of position.

With a final pirouette, Ranthia side-stepped her flailing opponent and swept her Void-kissed knife up through his armpit. Her blade cleaved the comparatively frail ligaments of his shoulder. And [Echoes of Devastation] concluded her bloody work.

The ogre’s arm tore free of the thin layer of remaining tissue shortly before her opponent crashed into a cluster of his own people.

But Ranthia couldn’t stay to try to finish him off—she had to reach the dwarven [Battlemaster] before the shimagu managed to finish off the heroic woman!
