Sitting at her desk as BoLao slept nearby, Yuzhen closed her eyes and calmed her nerves. Rain was right to be disgusted by her, she’d ordered the Purge in spite of her apprehensions, the deaths of thousands of innocents sitting squarely on her shoulders. The death toll continued to rise, the Aspirant’s work readily heard in the distance, each scream sending a wave of guilt through her. Still, the work never ended, her pile of missives grown larger in her absence, and she sifted through them, searching for word from Gerel.

Finally, he’d sent a message, and she tore open the seal to ease her worries, hoping he’d included a personal note to brighten her day. Instead, her heart stopped as she read his message, hastily scribbled and delivered with all haste. Reading it again, she trembled for a second before leaping to action, bellowing for all to hear. “Soldiers of the Empire, to arms! Break camp, we ride with all haste!”

“What’s happening? Is the Purge over? How many turned?” Shaken from her stupor, BoLao rubbed her eyes from the cot.

Tossing Gerel’s letter at her, Yuzhen strode out the tent as she replied. “The Defiled have gathered, the Purge ends now. I need every soldier available, we ride to war.”

A minimum of twenty thousand Defiled warriors charging north towards Sanshu, the horde growing by the day as it pillaged and plundered through the Golden Highlands. Where had so many Defiled been hiding? Though not enough to take the city walls, an army that size could run rampant through the area, destroying the farms, forges, and industries which produced more than half the supplies needed at the Bridge. Weapons, armour, food, horses, the list went on...

Swallowing her fear, she redoubled her efforts and pushed her soldiers to hurry, praying she would arrive in time.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Administrator Ping marked the taxes collected on his ledger and waved the caravan through the gate. Handing his things to an attendant, he savoured the brief respite and rubbed his temples as the next group of wagons rolled into place. Collecting duties at the gate wasn’t the most glorious of work, but needs must. A rash of sickness was making its way through the city, with staff members and guards rendered incapable of their duties, so here he was at the end of another double-shift, exhausted from overworking.

Still, the day was almost done, and he could soon retire to bed with his beloved Jansu, an expensive indulgence paid for by his commissions from Warrant Officer Falling Rain’s prodigious bounties. Too often, the women chasing him were only interested in his money and with Jansu, he needn’t worry about finding poison in his wine cup. Though originally purchased as a source of release, he soon became intoxicated by the lovely half-mouse’s smile, wanting nothing more than to see her happy.

Waving the hulking, hooded caravan master over, he collected his ledger from the attendant, dipping the quill in ink. “State your name and business in Sanshu.”

“Ha, how fun. Okay then, this one’s humble name is Yo Ling. You may know me better as The Spectre.”

Trembling in place, Administrator Ping glanced at the face of the most notorious bandit in the North. Standing in broad daylight with a crooked grin, the Spectre’s one good eye stared him down, the other unseeing and milky white, ruined by the same strike which left a scar across half his face. A wound made by his former partner, Liu Shi of the Crossbone Corsairs, if the stories were true. “Wh-what a-are...”

“Ah how silly of me, you also wanted to know my business.” Waving forward as dozens of bandits exited the wagons, Yo Ling drew his dagger with a sneer. “My business is death, and business is good.”

The blade flashed and Administrator Ping coughed and sputtered, staring at the hilt embedded in his ample belly. Falling to his knees, he touched the wound and gaped at the blood, unable to draw breath enough to cry out. His strength faded as he laid on his side, pain shooting through him with every movement. Helpless, he watched as the bandits strode into the city, idly wondering why the alarm bells weren’t ringing. The guards atop the wall should have seen him fall, should have realized the danger, why did they still delay?

“Take and hold your positions until our brethren arrive,” Yo Ling ordered, his raspy voice jubilant. “For too long have we suppressed our urges and denied our true selves, for too long have we suffered in silence. It all comes to an end today, no more hiding, no more inhibitions. Hold the gate, and once Sanshu lies open to us, we'll rape, pillage, plunder, and torture to our hearts content! Shed the trappings of humanity and embrace your true selves, for today, we are no longer mere bandits, but heroes of the cause, working to welcome our brethren in the north. Today we take down Sanshu, tomorrow the Bridge!”

Closing his eyes, Administrator Ping wept.

Mother have mercy on us all.

- End of Volume 9 -

Chapter Meme
