“The Guild is more than just a convenient place to meet up and accept quests. People come to the Guild with their problems because they know that the Guild is reliable. It has a reputation. It is my job, unfortunately, to protect that reputation. I can’t have adventurers running around the city causing problems. We don’t exactly get along with the Watch at the best of times. What you did…put me in a difficult situation.”

Rain nodded again. Yeah, guess I can see that.

Halgrave sighed. “The Watch allows the Guild to operate in Fel Sadanis only because we provide a valuable service. We deal with the tasks that they deem too trivial to bother with, or too difficult. In exchange, they grant us certain liberties that we might not otherwise enjoy. We’re allowed to use magic in the city, provided that we do not endanger the populace, and that such magic use is in the pursuit of an approved quest. They allow us autonomy within our own guildhall and turn a blind eye to our activities outside of the city. Only the great noble houses enjoy greater privilege within the city walls, and even they are not beyond reproach from their peers.”

Halgrave leaned forward. “When you break the rules for something so…frivolous, you endanger our relationship with the other powers in this city. The Guild is about freedom, yes, but freedom has limits. In Fel Sadanis, those limits are particularly strict. In order to enjoy the benefits of the Guild, you need to Play. By. The. Rules.” With each word, he tapped his finger on his desk, staring at Rain.

Rain nodded. “I understand.”

“Good,” Halgrave said. He stared at Rain in silence for what felt like an hour. Eventually, he spoke again in a much less forceful tone. “I also owe you an apology.”

Rain blinked. I wasn’t expecting that…

“I should not have thrown you from the Guild,” Halgrave continued. “I sometimes forget how…fragile you people can be. In truth, I hate having to enforce the rules. I’d rather be out there, not in here, behind this desk. Sadly, it is necessary.”

He reached for the pouch, weighing it in his hand. He opened it and counted out ten Tel. He placed them in a pile on the desk, then tied the pouch again and opened a drawer. He dropped the bag inside and removed a bronze guildplate fastened to a broken leather cord. He placed it on the desk and slid it across to Rain along with the pile of Tel. “Four hundred and ninety Tel was the remaining balance on your fine. You are hereby fully reinstated into the Guild, pending the next update of the master ledgers in the City of Lights. You may operate in and around Fel Sadanis, effective immediately.” He picked up his pencil and returned to the form that he had been working on when Rain had entered.

Rain picked up his plate, wonderingly. Wow. That went much better than I expected… He stood, collecting his helmet and heading for the door, clearly having been dismissed.

“Rain,” Halgrave said. Rain froze. Halgrave was still writing, not looking at him. “I do not wish to see you in my office again. Consider this your final warning.”

Rain swallowed. “Yes, sir.” He opened the door and stepped out into the hallway, closing it gently behind him. He let out a breath of relief and looked for Gus, spotting the man hovering nearby. Rain smiled and gave him a thumbs-up, which was amazingly a gesture that spanned realities.

Gus rolled his eyes. “I’ll go update the ledger,” he said, walking away. “Whatever you said to him, it must have been the right thing. I was expecting him to throw you through the wall.”

Rain snorted and shook his head. Tell me about it. He smiled to himself. I’m back.

“So, the fact that you’re still alive means that it went well. Congratulations.”

Rain looked up at the sound of Jamus’s voice. He and Carten had entered the tavern and were making their way over to him. They joined him at his table, where he was currently enjoying a long-overdue meal.

“Hey guys,” Rain said, gesturing with the piece of chicken at the end of his fork. “You have to try some of this. It’s amazing! So much flavor!”

Carten laughed. “Sounds good to me. I’m starvin’. Oi! Two more plates of chicken, and some of that beer he’s drinkin’.”

The server was on the other side of the room, but that didn’t stop Carten from just yelling out their order to her. She gave them a long-suffering look. Rain smiled at her apologetically. She must be used to it. Working in an adventurer’s tavern has got to be a wild ride. Hey, maybe I should just give up this whole adventurer gig and get a nice stable job bussing tables…

Nah.

Rain took another bite of the chicken and smiled in contentment. He swallowed and looked around before whispering to the others in a quiet voice. “I think the perception boost had something to do with it. It doesn’t really taste better, it just tastes…more.”

“I think you may be right,” Jamus said, breathing in deeply through his nose. “It certainly smells delicious.”

“Did you get everything they needed?” Rain asked.

“Yup,” Carten said. “Food, blankets, general sundries.”

“Good word, Carten,” Jamus said with a smile.

“Thanks, Jamus,” Carten said.

“They should be all set for a few days,” Jamus said. “Ameliah told me she’d stay with Tallheart until she was sure that we haven’t been followed. Stint is laying low with them for the moment. Val, I have no idea. He disappeared the moment we returned from the supply run.”

Rain nodded, then reached for his beer. It was the same dark brew that he remembered, but now he could appreciate it on so many more levels. He wished once more that Khurt was around so he could thank him for gifting this wonderful beverage to humanity. Unfortunately, the man didn’t seem to be working this early in the day. It was only around 2 in the afternoon, and the tavern wasn’t exactly packed.

The server arrived with chicken and beer for the others. While she set them up, Rain reluctantly removed his helmet. He’d been wearing it while he ate, with the faceplate up, of course. I think I’m starting to develop a little bit of a paranoia problem. The others are here now. I need to relax.

He didn’t drop Force Ward, though. He’d kept the skill running ever since he’d taken the helmet off in the quest hall. One of the adventurers in there had had a bow. I don’t think it’s particularly likely for someone to take a potshot at me in the Guild, but now that I’ve got the armor, I’d be an idiot not to wear it. I’m still a glass cannon under all this metal.

He rubbed his bare neck uncomfortably, stopping himself from reaching for the helmet. Nobody was going to attack him in broad daylight in the middle of the Guild. To distract himself, he turned to Jamus, who was cutting up his chicken with a knife.

“Hey, do you happen to have a spare pouch? Halgrave kinda took mine. Also, here’s half of what I owe you.” He pushed across the small pile of Tel that was lying on the table. “Thanks for that, by the way.”

“No problem,” Jamus said. He pushed the Tel back. “Hang on to those until you get back on your feet. I think I have a spare pouch somewhere. I’ll look for it once I’m done eating. You can pay me back later.”

“Thanks, Jamus,” Rain said, corralling a Tel that was rolling toward the edge of the table. “I can’t believe that after all that time in the…” he looked around, “…cave, I ended up 20 Tel short of the 500 I needed. I wasn’t sure Halgrave would remember that I’d already paid some of the fine. I’m glad he did. I certainly wouldn’t have made an issue about it.”

Carten laughed. “Stop gettin’ yerself kicked out of the Guild. Imagine what you couldah done with that much money! I know what I’m gonna do with mine!”

“Don’t talk with your mouth full, Carten,” Jamus said. Carten ignored him, chewing happily.

“So, what now?” Rain said, looking from Carten to Jamus. “What are you two going to do?”

“Well,” Jamus said. “Firstly, I’m going home. I’ve got a nice feather bed waiting for me. After a good night’s sleep, I’ll see if I can track down Staavo. Hopefully, he won’t be up to anything too unusual. I’ll let you know when he’s free to have a nice long chat.”

“Ha,” Carten laughed. “If he was smart, he’d leave the city when he heard Rain had some questions for ‘em.”

Jamus smiled. “You’d be surprised, Carten. It depends on whether he takes an interest. If Staavo decides that Rain’s build is worth studying, it might be Rain who wishes he’d left the city.”

Carten snorted around a mouthful of chicken. “Me, I think I’ll do the same. The bed part, not the bit about talkin’ to a stuffy scholar.”

“You both have houses in the city?” Rain asked.

Jamus nodded. “Yes. I’m not sure where Carten lives, but I’m just a few blocks over from the Guild. You’re welcome to stay the night if you want. I’ve got a spare bed. Of course, if you want to get a good quest in the morning, staying in the bunkroom is probably your best bet.”

“Thanks, Jamus, but I’m good,” Rain said. “I was planning on staying with Tallheart, actually.”

Jamus shrugged. “Your loss. I can promise you that my house is a lot warmer than Tallheart’s...cabin?”

Rain laughed. “Hey, I helped build that. Watch what you say.”

“It’s only the truth.” Jamus grinned at him, then took a swig of his beer. “Wow, that is good.” He set the mug down and looked back at Rain. “So, what will you do for the rest of the day?”

“Well, I think I need to do something about my storage situation. The backpack really isn’t doing it for me.” He nudged at the pack under the table. Jamus had brought it with him and dumped it there when he’d sat down. “I need to get some of those belt pouches that Tallheart uses. Maybe a bandoleer. Hey, have you ever heard of a bag of holding?”

“All bags are bags of holding,” Carten said. “That’s what bags do.”

Rain laughed. “Fair enough, Carten. No, it’s the name of a magic item from Dungeons and Dragons. It’s bigger on the inside than it is on the outside.”

“Hmm,” Jamus said. “I’ve never heard of anything like that. Sounds bloody useful. I won’t say they don’t exist—anything is possible—but I think I’d know if they did. You should get a cloak. There’s no better multi-function adventurer garment. Protects you from the rain, doubles as a blanket, and most importantly, has plenty of space to sew pockets on the inside. I feel like a squirrel, some days, with everything I’ve got tucked into this robe.”

Rain nodded. “Yeah. It’s already on the list. So basically, I’m going shopping. I might see if there is a quest or two available first.”

“Cheers,” Jamus said, raising his mug. Rain and Carten followed suit, saluting the end of one adventure and the start of the next.
