Orodan had to admit, Kalmiron was in fact the mage of superior skill.

But more skilled did not mean better. Other attributes mattered. A fight was after all, the convergence of various factors and skillsets coming together for a clash.

With each gigantic collision with Orodan’s fireballs, the Mage spent wantonly of his Mantle’s power. Which was no problem at all for the Mantle… but was beginning to present a problem for the wizard bearing the burden of channeling its power.

Kalmiron had already strained himself in attempting to empower the conjured black holes to grind Orodan down to nothing. Channeling even more power through the Mantle now? A difficult proposition for the body of a spellcaster.

Glyphward Fortress’s defenses had begun firing upon him again too, but it was of no use. Orodan had no problem maintaining his Shield Intent while casting fireballs. Nobody else possessed the sheer reserves of soul energy to do both simultaneously as he was.

The Mage was good. Very good. Enough so that despite the Draconic Fireballs coming his way, Kalmiron managed to weave a separate lane of attack which involved various elements, mind assaults, curses and more. Unfortunately for the ancient mage, that avenue of offense ran into the second problem.

[Lightning Resistance 81 → Lightning Resistance 82]

The lightning spell was powerful. Anything fueled by the full force of an Administrator’s Mantle was. It would’ve killed Orodan if he had no resistance skill for it. Unfortunately for his opponent, he did.

“Resistance skills too? How? This is absurd…!”

Orodan simply remained quiet and continued trading spells. In fact, he began sending a secondary layer of attacks of his own. Utterly pitiful compared to the Mage’s, mere Galewinds and Lightning Bolts which were dispelled with laughably casual ease the same way Kalmiron had simply cancelled Almyra’s magic.

But in a spell slinging contest against Orodan Wainwright the problematic factor was not his skill, but his endurance. And nobody outlasted him.

Orodan did not need to more skilled than Kalmiron in a straight trade of magic. He just needed to brutally employ his titanic reserves and brute force in such a way that exhaustion made his superior attributes more relevant,

Each Draconic Fireball was a genuine threat that the Mage needed to put his all into stopping. Whether it was through dazzling combination spellcraft, or conjuring more miniature black holes to collide with them. Each one required Kalmiron to draw a substantial amount of power from the Mantle he bore. And each channeling of such titanic amounts of power took a toll on the Mage’s body.

The Mage was no slouch. The greatest spellcaster of System space knew that channeling large amounts of power through the body took a toll on any spellcaster. Certainly, he could channel more power in such a manner than any other wielder of magic in System space.

Unfortunately for the Administrator, his opponent broke the normal framework of combat. Orodan not only had endless power to draw from via Incipience of Infinity, but also had a body capable of destroying stars through raw physical might alone. The two were not comparable in a sustained duel.

And now, on the eight-hundred and forty-seventh loop of this fight, the difference in magical skill was no longer great enough to render these physical attributes null.

The cracks began to show five minutes in.

The Mage failed to dispel one of the various low-level spells Orodan weaved in as a secondary offense in-between the Draconic Fireballs.

[Galewind 56 → Galewind 57]

A stinging Galewind left a slice upon the ancient wizard’s face. The Mage remained calm despite the blood rolling down his cheek.

Thirty seconds later a roaring Lightning Bolt found its mark.

[Lightning Bolt 69 → Lightning Bolt 70]

For the first time in all these loops, Kalmiron cried out in pain. It was Orodan’s first blow ever struck against this Administrator.

The Mage was no sheltered spellcaster unused to conflict. Orodan had to respect the discipline as his spellcasting foe remained upright in the void and maintained defensive posture, but the both of them knew this was the beginning of the end.

Several more spells collided in the next minute. Spells which were low in skill level, but when backed by Orodan’s colossal reserves of mana and Kalmiron’s failure to dispel them… hit very hard against the spellcaster’s fragile body.

A Waterstream drilled a hole through the Mage’s left shoulder and an Earthen Construct propelled by a Galewind finally broke the spellcaster’s stance.

Orodan stopped casting Draconic Fireballs and spells altogether. The Mage was spinning now. It was the void and there was no gravity here, which meant his opponent was experiencing pain, disorientation and a lack of grounding himself that a more kinesthetically oriented melee fighter like him could have swiftly recovered from.

This fight was over.

“You’re the more skilled wizard, this I freely admit,” Orodan spoke as he slowly and inevitably approached. “But you aren’t the better mage.”

It was a truth no spellcaster worth their salt ever wanted to hear. And if the roles were reversed and Orodan heard those words from a victorious spellblade while tasting defeat? That he was the more skilled warrior but not the better one? It would have hurt.

But that pain did not diminish the truth of it all the same.

Kalmiron was better than him in the thousands of disciplines of spellcasting.

Save for raw power and endurance.

The Mage recovered too late and attempted to cast a series of spells. The desperate final moves of a defeated party.

A flaming phoenix, a conjured miniature black hole and a wormhole beneath his feet to drag him out of System space that he might be permanently slain and divested of the loops, useless as it would have been.

Orodan’s blade came down with the full force of the Eidolon of Violence.

He targeted the spells, but not just to stop them.

[Eidolon of Violence 136 → Eidolon of Violence 137]

The conjured phoenix faded. As did the black hole and the wormhole, and the Mage’s eyes widened with horror as the power in his hands fizzled out entirely.

“W-what… what did you do?!”

“The ideas of your spells… they are dead.”

Fighting memetic anomalies brought certain insights that were quite useful indeed. The Mage would not be conjuring phoenixes or black holes or wormholes for a while.

Orodan advanced, and one more wormhole opened.

It was not the Mage’s, nor the Prophet’s. The zealot was near death’s door from the three-way beating he was receiving at the hands of Orodan’s companions.

And if he had just killed the idea of a wormhole from the Mage’s spell repertoire entirely…

…then this new wormhole could belong to only one particular interloper.

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 100 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 101]

It was the strongest Smite of Abrupt Deliverance he had ever delivered. Enough that he crossed the threshold and went from Grandmastery to Transcendence in the skill.

And even then…

…it was just barely enough to stalemate the dual swords which were on a straight line for the exhausted Mage’s unprotected back.

Cultivator met warrior.

Sword and shield clashed against two deadly swords…

…and the crazed and mutilated man wielding them brought his face so close to Orodan’s own that their noses were almost touching.

“Oh? What’s this? A cart-maker? And here I had assumed the little Wainwright would appreciate my aid in tearing down the Sys-grk!”

A headbutt crunched the Reject’s nose and sent him sailing backwards through the void and away from a personal distance reserved only for one person.

“I have no interest in destroying the System, but in replacing it with something better,” Orodan corrected.

“Y-you… you saved me?” the Mage choked out, confused.

“Ohhh…. I see it now… you’re the same sort of deranged mad man that I am. Just not yet broken like me!” Xia declared with glee. “Strong too… hmm… maybe we can work together. You want a new System, I want that ugly thing at the center of the current one dead… so why not work together? Be the best of friends? Let us seal our jolly union in blood little Wainwright! The blood of this unworthy little snake right… here!”

Another lunge of dual swords came for the Mage, only for it to yet again be intercepted with sword and shield.

Absurdly strong.

Orodan had grown much since their last real fight upon Alastaia when he’d taken over the time loops himself. But even then the Reject was a truly dangerous foe possessed of a crazed mad strength which forced him to fully use his own.

“He is a thoughtless cur who I wish to slay myself. But that would leave many more defenseless,” Orodan sternly spoke. “But if it is a fight you want…”

The flat of the blade struck the boss of the shield in a declaration of challenge, a feral smile on his face at the thought of testing his own freakish rage-fueled berserker strength against Xia’s own.

“…then it is a fight I am glad to give.”

For a moment, he genuinely thought they would come to blows.

Only for one more party to make itself known in the form of a colossal greatsword.

The weapon carved into the space between the two of them, sweeping aside the Mage, allowing Xia to use its momentum to flee, and sweeping away the Prophet and the three companions of Orodan’s who were beating upon it.

Talasgan, the Warrior had arrived. And he did not look pleased.

And in his eyes was challenge and recognizance of a threat…

…for Orodan was the only one who had not been blown away.

“Talasgan, I am Orodan Wainwright, the time looper. And we have come to aid you against the Invaders threatening System space,” he spoke.

“The time looper…? I see… that explains why the Boundless One has been acting the way it has and why the Invaders have come in such force,” the Warrior spoke and lowered his weapon. “Despite the… tumultuous greeting, I thank you for saving Kalmiron’s life, and I bid you welcome to Glyphward Fortress. Hmmph…”

“…I suppose you have earned you admission fair and square.”
