He withdrew the Prophet’s Mantle from his dimensional storage ring…

…and hurled it right at the zealot.

“You…!”

“What? Now you have an opponent of your own to fight. Weren’t you hells-bent on testing that Mantle of yours?”

Both Zaessythra and Talricto looked annoyed with him for diverging from the established pattern they had of them going first, dying and then Orodan following to end the loop via combat death. Of course, those complaints fell to the wayside as the resurgent Prophet flared with power, Mantle in hand.

The odd mixture of human and Fallen Void Archon was a true servant of the Boundless One. Even though its lip still bled from Kalmiron’s dishonorable blow, it stood ready to aid the Mage against the four of them.

“You are a mad man, Orodan Wainwright. Madder than even I was when blinded by the weight of the truth. Blind, but with a heart that leads to the right end. Despite your misguidance we can still work together! Why do you fight us like a crazed berserker?” Azrohal, the Prophet, urged passionately. “Lay down your arms and we shall lay down ours! The very same Invaders you wish to destroy are enemy to us both! This is-”

“Madness? Insanity?” Orodan interjected, a feral smile on his face. “You would be correct on both counts, zealot. You see, at no point did I say I would not cooperate.”

“Then…! You will-”

“But at no point did I say I would not be giving this wretched mage a beating either. Now draw your weapon and fight. My three compatriots will spare you no quarter should you hesitate.

Cataclysm began on the other side of the field as Almyra, Zaessythra and Talricto swarmed the Prophet from three directions.

And while this occurred, Orodan met the Mage’s gaze from across the void between them.

Spellcasting Administrator stared at time looping warrior.

And the destruction of the fight between the Prophet and its challengers was but a blip compared to the sudden horrifying apocalypse which erupted as Orodan’s sword was utterly drowned out against the hundred-thousand spell volley sent his way by the Mage.

At the same time, the defenses of Glyphward Fortress activated immediately, with all the firepower rushing right for Orodan.

The look in Kalmiron’s eyes was clear. The Mage was taking Orodan and his companions very seriously from the get-go and had no problem using every advantage it had. The two miniature conjured black holes floating above his foe’s head were also waiting, just in case he proved too resilient for the initial volley.

A truly overwhelming assault, right in the middle of a killzone which favored the Administrator in every possible way while forcing Orodan to traverse open ground with no cover to reach him.

It was a brutal set of odds to surmount.

It was…

…exactly what he needed.

He had been facing all of these stacked advantages for over eight-hundred loops now. Over two years where each day ended with an uphill battle. This was the sort of fight he was used to, the manner of battle he craved.

And so Orodan’s sword and shield got to work.

It should have been a foregone conclusion. One man, sword and shield, against a hundred-thousand Embodiment-level spells. A sailor would have had more success draining a lake with a bucket.

But he had faced this volley enough times. He had faced it in combination with Glyphward’s defenses hammering him too.

[Eidolon of Violence 135 → Eidolon of Violence 136]

The sheer number of hostile spells was so high that it was akin to a large ocean of magic surging at him.

Orodan’s sword caused the ocean to stall, and then suddenly converge into a single point. That of his blade.

Through raw violence alone, he drew each and every spell right towards his sword, where they met their end.

“Quantity will not beat quality,” he declared as his sword reaved the very essence of the spells and killed them. “A hundred-thousand multiplied by nothing is still nothing.”

No animation of the shattered fragments, no manipulation of the residual soul energy. His blade outright killed it through the Eidolon of Violence.

And then the second wave came. The defenses of Glyphward Fortress.

The roaring energy-cannons and kinetic projectile slugs of the System’s primary defensive fortress, powered by the very energy of the System itself.

These, Orodan brought to a complete halt with a single skill.

[Shield Intent 95 → Shield Intent 96]

The projection of his shield, powered entirely by his soul energy, erupted outward, expanding to the size of a mile, stopping the wave of destruction from the fortress dead in its tracks.

It was one of the few skills he’d learned during his time upon Xian, the world of the cultivators. Many of them had Sword Intent, which could produce a sword light. But he had developed the far rarer Shield Intent. The skill wouldn’t have been nearly as effective for anyone else. However, Orodan had two distinct advantages. First, he knew the ins-and-outs of a shield in a way no cultivator did. Shields were intrinsic to Alastaian warfare the way swords and qi were venerated on Xian. This carried over into making his Shield Intent far stronger than his skill level would suggest. And second…

…he had an endless well of soul energy to empower it.

Kalmiron’s demeanor became a lot more grim as both sources of offense he’d sent Orodan’s way were entirely neutralized.

“Do not think this is the height of my magical prowess, time looper. So you are stronger than expected. Good. I shall dissect your soul to understand why,” the Mage calmly uttered.

Orodan advanced slowly and methodically. He could have lunged for the Mage, but that would have been counterintuitive. This entire cycle of death looping was to sharpen himself.

So as the Mage’s next wave of magic came—a tide twice the size of the last one—Orodan cast one spell. A spell he threw as much power as possible into with Burst Casting assisting its explosive power and projectile speed.

[Draconic Fireball 105 → Draconic Fireball 106]

[Fire Mastery 69 → FIre Mastery 70]

[New Title → Fire Elite]

[Incipience of Infinity 187 → Incipience of Infinity 188]

[Burst Casting 88 → Burst Casting 89]

It was a gigantic fireball a third the size of a star system. Heat enough that the fight occurring around the periphery involving the other four fighters had to pause and relocate lest they get burnt.

Kalmiron’s eyes widened in shock as the titanic spell sailed towards him, and the Mage was forced to commit both conjured black holes he had floating around to ensure its destruction in a calamitious shockwave when the two forces collided.

“Where have you drawn such power from?” the Mage asked, suddenly very wary.

Over the past eight-hundred loops Orodan had come to the realization that he was not a naturally talented mage. He would not be matching wits with the High-Orast nor trading cantrip-for-cantrip with Destartes in subtle displays of brilliance. Certainly, he had trained with them in such a manner and tried developing a diverse skillset of magic. But in the here and now, his companions and the alliance would go insane and die mental deaths in the time it would take him to actually match up to the sheer breadth of knowledge Kalmiron possessed.

But Orodan did not need to match the Mage in all domains of knowledge.

He only needed to match him in one.

The man who practiced one spell a hundred-thousand times was far deadlier than anyone who practiced a hundred-thousand spells once.

“As you can see, I too am a mage,” he replied with a pleased grin on his face, conjuring yet another one above his head.

Though Orodan pointedly ignored the scoff he heard in the direction of the other concurrent battle.

“Tch! If power was all it took, then I could dress a star up in mage robes and call it a wizard. Come novice, let me show you the difference between a brute with too much power and a true pioneer of the arcane.”

And so a magical firefight ensued.

Orodan hurled gigantic fireballs at Kalmiron, and Kalmiron promptly countered with truly dazzling and masterful combinations of spells which countered the staggering attacks.

Beautiful animated dragons of ice and water which wrapped around each one. Majestic planet-sized soldiers standing in formations which absorbed the giant spells, and enormous sinkholes which drained the fireballs into them until nothing was left.

The giant Draconic Fireballs succeeded in occupying the Mage, but did not prevent the second order assault from various spells weaved around it. And most critically… the two conjured miniature black holes came for him all the same.

The two balls of death. The reason for the overwhelming majority of his deaths. No matter how he fought these two things would, without fail, kill him whenever they caught him from opposite sides and ground him down to nothing.

And it was looking to be the same this time as well as they circled around and began pressing down upon him.

The weight bearing down from above and below was tremendous. Multiple star systems’ worth at least.

Orodan’s vision darkened and death approached.

Except this time…

…he knew he would not fall.

The insight he had been building up to all this time, through his rigorous study and training in Vitality Refining, was finally coming to a head.

[Vitality Refining 49 → Vitality Refining 50]

As the white flames of his own vitality being used as fuel to refine and process an even stronger form of it erupted… he meditated. He was near death, the black holes were about to kill him.

What better time to meditate on the question than now?

What was vitality?

It came from the soul. But a soul could exist without vitality just fine. Ghosts, spirits, wraiths, the deceased… Orodan himself had been a disembodied soul with no vitality more than a few times.

Was life then… a part of the soul?

This, he had considered to be the default truth for a while. After all, his vitality was but a byproduct of soul energy was it not? Soul energy gave rise to vitality and mana. The cultivators simply combined vitality and mana into qi. Yet in all these cases the overarching energy source was still the light of the soul.

Or so he had thought.

But just as the soul could exist without life, so too could life exist without the soul.

The absolute smallest forms of life had nothing that would be recognized as a soul. The things invisible to the naked and untrained eye which dwelled in the soil, the grass, in ale, in cheese. The things which inhabited the bodies of living things within their organs.

People didn’t walk around with millions of souls residing in their physical body. No… this was life, but without the soul.

Life.

Not vitality… but raw life. His Harmony of Vitality was but a second order extension of the origin.

The very beginning then… what the white flames roiling around his form were attempting to create was the first order product. Something that could arise independent of the soul.

A…

…Genesis of Life.

[Skill Combination - Harmony of Vitality 100 + Vitality Refining 50 → Genesis of Life 75 (Mythical)]

Kalmiron’s black holes stalled. The sheer power of raw intrinsic life emanating from Orodan ground their progress to a complete halt.

Sure, they were still grinding away and killing as many of his cells as they could at a horrific rate. But now… the intrinsic life flowing from within his cells was outpacing them.

The raw life which existed independent of his soul and had always thrived in the little things. Such as when he fueled himself via food, drank, breathed air, savored something deliciously novel and increased the level of Gourmand… it was life. Not just vitality of the soul.

This life surpassed the former Harmony of Vitality’s speed of regeneration by a wife margin.

And it filled his body with strength.

[Physical Fitness 108 → Physical Fitness 109]

A life which now fueled skills such as Physical Fitness too. That level had come fast… incredibly so. Did this fuel his rate of growth for physical skills too?

A roar left his lips. Pure vigor and effort backed by the iron will of the warrior spirit within.

His arms flexed and he flared Incipience of Infinity to destroy and reform the cells of his body over and over as he began physically exerting might against the push of the black holes.

[Body Tempering 92 → Body Tempering 93]

He was certain now. This new skill, Genesis of Life, fueled him in some inexplicable way which caused the growth rate of his physical conditioning skills to skyrocket. Body Tempering was so slow to develop otherwise.

“It… it can’t be…” he heard the Mage mutter in disbelief. “Through raw might alone…?”

The black holes began moving. Not inwards and to the death of Orodan, but upwards and outwards as the might of his arms and tempered body began pushing them backwards.

He felt even more power poured into them via the Mantle the Mage was carrying, but it was of no use.

[Physical Fitness 109 → Physical Fitness 110]

[Body Tempering 93 → Body Tempering 94]

“Good… good! Throw more power into it!” Orodan demanded, his voice a guttural bellow of satisfaction. “This is… good training!”

At last, the Mage let up. Whether due to being unsettled at the prospect of strengthening an enemy, or because the amount of power being channeled through the Mantle was too much, Orodan did not know. But the conjured black holes were pulled back.

“Now then… shall we have ourselves a second round?”

Orodan felt his opponent’s soul tremble at those words.

“System damn you… you are no mage… I shall not lose! What even are you?” the Mage declared, refusing to believe that the tables had turned so.

And so, another cavalcade of magical fury and spellfire came his way. A barrage Orodan met with his Draconic Fireballs once more.

