He had brought so many skills together to forge it in a critical mid-battle moment of need, but its most important function was its ability to crush both Infinity and Cleanliness and bring them under heel. The Eidolon of Violence, was at core, truly him.

However, as both Domain of Perfect Cleaning and Incipience of Infinity grew, he had the feeling that he was approaching a threshold where that original problem would recur as the balance was lost.

And given what had happened when he tried powering the time loop mechanism himself and when Cleanliness went out of control… he was in a race to bring his latest Celestial skill up to par before the other two crossed the threshold.

Which was why he was so insistent on finding alternate methods of advancement; why he was determined to beat Kalmiron through the honest clash of sword and shield alone.

For if he did not…

…then who knew what havoc Infinity and Cleanliness together could wreak if they both crossed the peak of Embodiment without anything to keep them in check?

He had nearly lost himself against both concepts in separate situations. Orodan wasn’t keen on finding out what it would look like when both came together and took him over together.

So he trained, and he died.

And his skill levels increased slowly but surely.

Loop after loop, death after death.

“Mage! Come out! I have an offering!”

“I smell it off you. A time looper… what do you want?”

“To face you in honest combat as warriors do!”

He lasted twelve minutes.

“Mage! Come out! I have an offering!”

“I smell it off you. A time looper… what do you want?”

“To teach you how to hit harder with those pathetic parlor tricks you call magic.”

Nine minutes of survival this time even when the Mage was rightfully angered and unleashed Glyphward’s defenses upon him.

His survival was measured in minutes.

But with each loop…

…that timeframe grew.

And so did his skills.

Something which reached a tipping point after the eight-hundred and forty-seventh loop of this training.

#

[Laboring 82 → Laboring 83]

A hammering overhead blow struck the metal plate, courtesy of Orodan’s fist.

The plate locked into place with a snap. He wasn’t sure if the part was meant to do that, but neither Clyburn nor W78 were complaining so he ignored it.

For over eight-hundred loops now, he’d been training and laboring. Orodan was now the third best laborer in the entire Alastaian alliance.

An absurd thought despite having a Laboring skill of only 83, but it was true. Among all the assembled factions of the alliance, nobody cared enough to labor as he did. Which made sense, since he’d been Laboring from a very young age. Whether it was cleaning the orphanage’s floorboards in order to get extra portions at meal times, or doing labor around town alongside Old Man Hannegan, Orodan’s hands had not been idle.

In fact, the only two beings above him were both construction units from the Unity who had been fashioning buildings and doing labor for many millennia. And even then, one was a Master and the other a Grandmaster. He would be closing the gap on them in time.

“Well placed, though I suppose it would be somewhat shameful if you couldn’t manage it perfectly after two years of practice, Mister Wainwright,” Clyburn Anderthorn, chief engineer of the entire Collective praised, peering at his placement through thick protective eyewear.

The man was a Transcendent engineer.

Orodan had been completely blindsided by that ascension to Transcendence, not expecting it at all. If anything, he’d assumed it would be Fenton, Edrosic or perhaps Talricto who would have advanced first. But, the now chief engineer of the Blackworth Collective had proven him wrong.

The cultural and knowledge exchange between the Collective and the Unity had allowed the man to rapidly flourish and fill in multiple gaps in his model of understanding. It was to the point where the Blackworth Collective’s ships were so overwhelmingly strong that the alliance had opted to hold them back from obliterating Narictus with a synchronized volley.

The infantry and mages would learn nothing that way.

“Good training for my Laboring,” Orodan replied calmly, smashing another plate into place. “Two years of it in fact.”

Eight-hundred and forty-six loops had passed. Orodan was now on the eight-hundred and forty-seventh. With each loop lasting roughly twenty hours, it really had been more than two years of death looping and invasions. Not just for him, but the entire alliance.

[Vitality Refining 48 → Vitality Refining 49]

“Blindin’ me worse than a bat at noon ser…” Fenton grumbled as the young man swiftly began enchanting upon the piece snapped into place. “I stopped gainin’ Disorientation Resistance levels two-hundred loops ago.”

The side effect of training Vitality Refining while working

“And yet, you refuse to put on protective eyewear like Clyburn,” he replied and then grunted. “I approve of the training. Grow stronger, and your eyes can stare at even the sun.”

Which, Orodan’s were capable of. Unfortunately for him, his natural toughness, vitality skills and general resistance to pain meant that he would not be acquiring the Disorientation Resistance skill anytime soon. He was just too strong to be affected enough that it was meaningful training.

Fenton though, had grown by leaps and bounds over the last eight-hundred loops. The lad’s combat abilities had risen, yes, but most remarkable were his enchanting abilities.

The boy- no, the young man, had been the first person Orodan encountered when setting foot upon Lonvoron long ago. And even then he’d always known that Fenton Penny had something remarkable to him. A level of talent in the art of Enchanting that nobody else he’d ever seen possessed.

Now as a part of the time loops, with his mother healthy and alive, and his father alive and present at the start of each loop… Fenton’s true genius was given room to shine and that gap was practically insurmountable.

[Enchanting 95 → Enchanting 96]

As though perfectly on time, another level gained. He hadn’t even touched the actual Enchanting skill itself over the course of these eight-hundred plus loops. The level he gained now and the one he had gained a few-hundred loops ago came purely from watching Fenton work and feeling something click inside him as a result.

And the worst part was…

…Orodan still didn’t understand a twentieth of what Fenton was inscribing onto the metal.

“What in the hells Fenton… you’ve told me often enough what this does, and I see it plainly with my own eyes, yet even now I can no more glean its meaning than a dog can understand poetry. I see the four-dimensional aspect of it, and I see the pathways for world-energy conductivity… but this script…”

“…I still can’t believe you use chicken scratch as a script.”

Clyburn snort of amusement could be heard from across the room, as could W78’s beep of acknowledgement, as though commiserating with him about how ridiculous it was. Yet, there was nothing ridiculous about it.

On one hand Orodan was impressed and proud, on another he was stupefied and bewildered in equal measure. And for someone who had reached a point where things didn’t shock him overmuch any more, that was saying a lot.

His disciple Fenton Penny had taken Orodan’s own absurd training exercise which he’d devised long ago, and then perfected it. The metal was filled with chicken scratch at every point.

It was absurd, ridiculous and plain insane.

It was glorious.

“Why wouldn’t I ser? From what Mister W78 says, them anomalies don’t quite like the sight of it. Makes their heads spin in a way they do to us,” Fenton replied.

“Information - Anomaly cognitive processing capabilities hindered. Pattern - chicken scratch, cognitohazard for memetic entities.”

Which was his metallic friend’s way of saying that those wicked and predatory things had their wits confounded by the sight. Not the most ludicrous notion in truth. For if Orodan was confused by the sight of chicken scratch… then it only made sense that those predatory Invaders would be too.

After all, chicken scratch, as an enchanting language, had no actual script. The chicken scratch itself wasn’t even the important part. The real principle behind it was the fact that enough willpower, intent and ascribed meaning could force any enchanting script to take any meaning the enchanter wanted.

It was ludicrously difficult of course. Orodan vividly remembered having multiple objects explode in his hands when he tried.

But he was Orodan Wainwright. He was no Fenton Penny.

For the duration of these loops Fenton had experimented with inscribing runes for contradictory things and forcing the opposite meaning. A rune of fire which instead produced ice. A rune of wind which instead created earth. And he even went further and did absurd things such as making a three-dimensional enchantment behave like a four-dimensional one and even did what Orodan had intended on doing long ago but not gotten to… enchanting the very air itself. A feat which had caused Orodan to actually spend an entire minute away from training just admiring the feat and paying it the respect it deserved.

His student had entirely and completely surpassed him in the realm of Enchanting now. In fact, he had a sneaking suspicion as to why Fenton had not reached Transcendence in the skill yet but would respect the lad’s personal decision and not voice anything.

All this was to say, while Fenton had adopted the chicken scratch as a symbolic gesture, to show that he was treading the same path as Orodan, it was the principle behind the chicken scratch which really mattered.

Will, meaning, intent. Not universal… but personal.

It was also how the High-Orast had managed to avoid being infected by the anomaly when it first made itself known during their very first invasion of Narictus.

Even without this device they were making, perhaps the real key to withstanding this memetic wickedness brought to bear by the Invaders… was finding that individual strength of will, that meaning.

Perhaps that was how Balastion Novar had managed to finally master the Eldritch.

How Orodan managed to bring both Infinity and Cleanliness to heel for now.

“Mister Wainwright? Something on your mind?” Kalemar asked, monitoring his training at all times and directing his assistants of the Intelligence Service to take notes on all he did.

“Nothing, just… an insight, that is all.”

#

“Why are you violent?”

“Because I like it.”

“You enjoy it?” the old orc philosopher asked.

“I crave it… deeply. As I have told you over eight-hundred times now. I savor the conflict, the struggle… the brutality, the vicious and untamed nature of it all.”

The sack next to him spoke, interjecting.

“A violent beast you certainly are, time looper. This… disgraceful behavior and your thuggish treatment of me are evidence enough of that.”

“See?” Orodan gestured at the sack. “Even it agrees.”

No amount of paintings shown by Edrosic would erase the natural dislike Orodan and the contents of the sack harbored for one another after all.

He thought it was a corrupted zealot who pursued an aim only to please a master it followed like a dog, and it thought he was a violent and barbaric brute. In his opinion, they were both right.

“We are not questioning your… cargo,” the younger orc, Egrash-Thal replied, uncomfortable with directly addressing the fact that the man-sized sack next to Orodan was speaking. “This discussion focuses upon you, Orodan Wainwright.”

“Indeed, let us focus upon him,” the sack spoke up. “The time looper. Likely the final one of his kind after his irresponsible and selfishly ambitious acts. He has destroyed the time loops and brought ruin to our sanctuary. If either of you has sense, you shall deliver him and I to Glyphward Fortress that we Adminis-krk!”

Orodan cuffed the sack upside the head, nothing harmful, just a corrective reminder to not speak out of turn.

“Forgive me. My cargo is awfully talkative today.”

The younger orc, Egrash-Thal, pinched the bridge of his nose and exhaled, looking as though he had aged ten years. The older one simply had an amused look on his face.

“Let us set aside the comments of supposedly inanimate objects. You are violent, in training, in your demeanor, in your actions and in fighting. Even when walking around there is a certain brutality to your steps, as a World Guardian, I can feel the earth tremble in recognition of the ferocity of each step,” Egrash-Thal spoke. “And yet you protect. Your heart is not that of a boar running rampant through a forest. You preserve society and civilization. People and families. Does this not contradict who you are?”

And that was the truth of it, wasn’t it? The answer he had not been wanting to truly say out loud. For the past eight-hundred loops he had trained, fought and died over and over. A cycle which also included speaking to this old orc and his philosopher compatriots each time.

Yet, eight-hundred and forty-six attempts at beating Kalmiron, the Mage, head-to-head without any cheap tricks, had a way of making bringing certain truths to the forefront.

The loops had not just involved fighting, but also eighteen hours of training. With each loop lasting roughly a day, this meant eight-hundred loops of this was over two years of looping.

A lot had happened during that time. Not just in terms of his own skills development, but in the form of the loopers alongside him. Events which had only pushed Orodan closer to embracing the truth of who he was and how incompatible with society he as an individual was.

After all, while he was the stubborn skill-grinder in a time loop, not everyone else was.

