Something which was quickly apparent within the first year of looping.

Nothing dramatic had occurred. Nobody had rebelled or sold information to the alliance’s designated enemies. Nobody had suddenly gained sympathy for Narictus’s bloodsucking regime and defected.

No. The simple truth was that Orodan unnerved the average time looper who spent time with him and got to really see him.

There were ten-thousand of them now, all brought into the loops as a result of what he’d done. Initially, there were those with uncomfortably worshipful attitudes, there were supporters, there were those uncomfortable with him and the pace he was setting and those who were pragmatic about it and went where the winds blew.

Yet as time passed, more and more people began to realize that Orodan was not entirely normal.

It was one thing to hear about what Orodan did on a regular basis. Yet it was another thing to actually see him training at the start of each loop… for over eight-hundred loops straight.

Many people had a reverential attitude towards him. That changed when they saw him lighting his own vitality on fire each loop.

A lot of loopers supported him. That was tempered when they saw how brutal his training sessions with his disciples were.

Even the pragmatists shrunk inward a bit when they realized that attempts to get closer to him and foster connection were rebuffed simply because Orodan Wainwright had not a single minute in each loop where he was free or willing to attend social functions.

And the rare times where he did attend, such as when the Rising Spear tribe wanted him over? He was in the kitchen assisting Zukelmux’s mother as a form of training.

There was no end to the journey of strength. It was one thing to hear this. Most warriors said this, most believed it too. Yet nobody actually saw what genuine, ceaseless hard work at peak intensity looked like.

With them all being in the time loops now, for the first time people from differing disciplines and various walks of life were in fact seeing it. And it made the majority of them profoundly uncomfortable.

A rare few had taken to doubling down on faith in him. Some supporters had become even more fervent, seeing his efforts as proof of his devotion to protecting them. But the vast majority of the time loopers in fact preferred to avoid him. Not out of any ill will, but simple avoidance of something they did not understand and did not want to be like.

He was a warrior. A good portion of the time loopers he’d bound to the loops were also warriors.

Yet warriors took time to rest, spent time with their families, attended social functions and in general, lived life. A life which engaged in society and civilization.

Orodan Wainwright did none of these things. He trained and sought to make gains.

Everything he did was a form of training. Even the occasional time he spent with Zaessythra every few loops sparring or otherwise.

The other loopers trained, they studied and they contributed to the invasion of Narictus each time. Many of them were driven, ambitious, motivated and sought to use the time loops to achieve greater heights.

Yet none of them were as freakishly obsessed as he was.

Freakishly obsessed. Two words which Almyra had described him with, not out of rudeness, but respectful honesty.

He was Orodan Wainwright. He craved violence, he trained obsessively and he never bothered with rest. Her words described him well. He was less a mortal being and more an engine of advancement.

And frankly… the very mightiest beings all had that quirk.

Little wonder Infinity and Cleanliness orbited him. Perhaps it was all meant to be from the very beginning.

Born of civilization and raised in it, yet utterly unsuited to truly be part of it. His upbringing reflected it, did it not? An orphan almost too violent and unruly to mesh with even the other street rats of Ogdenborough.

Who from that time did he know among his own generation? None. That absence of any friends and connections among his peers was answer enough.

He idly considered if he’d have been better off raised in the wilds. In many ways he was more a monster of violence than a man of civilization.

Yes, he wore the trappings of it, his county militia uniform being the symbol of that. But one might be better served draping silks over a rabid wolf and hoping it civilized them than trying the same with him. The garb simply masked the monster of perpetual growth underneath, it did not tame or civilize it.

Where most other time loopers had settled into a comfortable life with a relatively measured pace of growth to match, Orodan had only intensified his efforts with every loop. Others had settled and enjoyed time with their families amidst the chaos of looping, and he just trained, died and repeated it over and over.

The old orc had asked if his nature of protecting and fostering civilization contradicted who he was? There was only one honest answer to that.

“It does not. Violence is struggle. Whether it is the brutal climb to the top of the ladder of might, or the slow grinding endeavor to leave the world better than you found it through the honest toil of your hands sheltering those who can best build it up.”

Violence directed towards protecting those he cared for was still violence.

Orodan Wainwright was a violent man. And even if society and a majority of the time loopers felt alienated from him as a result he saw nothing wrong with that.

[Eidolon of Violence 134 → Eidolon of Violence 135]

One final skill level gained. Likely the limit of what he could attain through philosophy alone.

The old orc nodded, pleased with the admission.

“I sense it. Your understanding has grown… good.”

“It still astounds me that I gained levels through philosophical analysis at all,” Orodan admitted and then crossed his arms together and bowed respectfully to the arrayed gathering of orc philosophers who had helped hone him throughout all these loops, the traditional orcish gesture of honor. “Thank you. I will not forget your aid.”

They returned the gesture.

Over eight-hundred loops, most of his levels in Eidolon of Violence had come from his fights against Kalmiron. Yet some had also come from just sitting down and engaging in philosophical analysis with these orcs.

They were good at their craft. Very good.

Frankly, it shouldn’t have surprised him at all that he gained levels from philosophical debate and analysis. The old orc had said once, that what truly helped those with more talent and skill than understanding, was taking a moment to sit down and consolidate their gains and insights.

Which in this case applied to him rather perfectly. He cerrtainly had more ability than sense. Raw potential but no proper aim or guidance of it. The past two years of philosophy had helped hone and refine the edge of his Eidolon of Violence. A concurrent and critical process as he gained levels in the skill while fighting and dying against the Mage.

Without understanding and direction, power was a fraction as effective as it could be. Doubly so for him who needed Violence to be strong and ready for the coming storm it would face against Infinity and Cleanliness.

This training with the orcs, his fights against the Mage where he refused the easy way forward… it all added up. The gap between Eidolon of Violence and his other Celestial skills was slowly but surely narrowing. Especially when he refused to use them extensively while fighting the Mage.

Over the past two years of looping the fights had begun to grow closer and closer too. For Orodan had not just contested Kalmiron through martial might, but alternative skills too.

He had been very serious when he’d resolved a while ago, to best each of the Administrators at their own game.

And he felt in his bones that this loop, the eight-hundred and forty-seventh cycle of this madness…

…would be the tipping point.

Orodan departed the hall of philosophy and met up with the remainder of his party.

Talricto, Almyra and Zaessythra.

Alagameth, the spatial spider, had understandably flagged under the sheer intensity of life-and-death combat against an Administrator’s full fury. Neither of them had judged the old Embodiment of Space for it. The ancient spider had simply grown too comfortable with meditation after reaching Embodiment. The lack of high-risk battle throughout its life meant that now, when suddenly thrust into the opportunity to battle an Administrator over and over… Alagameth quailed.

Within less than fifty loops the spider had asked to help in other ways besides combat. Its first real death at the hands of Kalmiron must have shaken it.

“There you are. Brought your prisoner along too?” Talricto asked, excitedly shaking her forelegs. “Come, I have a new trick I want to test this time.”

She had grown powerful. The peak of Transcendence as a matter of fact.

“Your trick shall have to wait. My proficiency with the Mantle has reached a new stage. Today, Orodan Wainwright shall not be needed, for I shall personally duel and best the Mage. On the matter of who the worthiest successor of the Reject’s Mantle is… no doubt shall remain.”

And that was another one. Almyra.

Two years of free experimentation with the Mantle alongside Orodan’s own brutal training ethos had developed her into a weapon. A particularly dangerous one when she used the Administrator’s Mantle. Frankly, her level of power when using the Mantle was beginning to surpass that of the Prophet, especially when factored in with the various other tricks she used.

And finally…

“If you’re quite done bullying that thing and dragging it along for your meditation sessions, we have an Administrator to kill,” Zaessythra spoke.

“Defeat, and then negotiate alliance with. Or rather, an alliance we have already negotiated and need simply remind them of with the orb,” Almyra corrected.

“Same thing,” she countered. “Your Time Reversal can bring an Administrator back too, can it not Orodan?”

He saw no reason why it couldn’t. He’d performed far grander and more impossible feats than bringing a recently slain Administrator back from the dead. Though, that necessitated actually slaying one in the first place.

He simply nodded in assent and waited as Talricto opened the rift leading to the space right outside Glyphward Fortress. And the party stepped through.

A single step through the stable rift took him from the orcish homeworld of Azkar’s Gate to the section of pitch black void between galaxies where the boundary between System space and the outside universe was.

Eight-hundred and forty-six times now had he stood before this boundary and failed to best the foe who appeared. This time, he did not plan on failing.

“Mage! Come out! I have an offering! Your pitiful comrade who received a beating worthy of a misbehaving cur at my hands! Hands which have come to deliver the same unto you!”

Silence followed the bellowing proclamation for a while, even as his voice echoed through the void through using soul energy as the medium.

“Mage! Show yourself that I might prove how pitiful your parlor magic truly is!”

[Stubborn Persuasion 41 → Stubborn Persuasion 42]

One more level of many gained across all these loops. His habit of ‘convincing’ Kalmiron to leave the safety of Glyphward Fortress counted as a form of persuasion after all.

And it bore fruit as the familiar visage of a titanic fortress emerged from the utterly dark void of the boundary wall.

“A time looper. One with a particularly loud mouth,” the Mage dryly spoke, his displeasure evident in the tone of voice. “Why have you come here? Current events are well beyond the scope of the Custodian and his little pet project.”

“Are they? Even when I’m the reason for them?” Orodan asked in turn. “I even came bearing a gift.”

The sack hoisted over his shoulder briefly struggled for a moment, yet it was fruitless. Without the Mantle, the Prophet was no longer a threat to him.

The Mage’s eyes widened as the sack was hurled at terrifying speed towards him. A magical barrier catching it only just in time.

“Kalmiron! The time looper has lost all sense! We must capture him and restore some semblance of order to-”

“Cease your words, tainted mongrel. You presume much in attempting to tell me how to act when your own Mantle has been captured and your task of recovering Xia’s lost Mantle has failed,” the Mage viciously shot back. “You will remain out of my way while I slay this interloper… permanently. Another can always be anointed after our current dilemma is resolved.”

“Wait! He is most brutish and untenable to reason, but not treacherous. During my captivity I have heard of his aims. We are of a same mind in our-”

A sharp magically amplified backhand cut the Prophet off, the Mantle-less Administrator spitting out blood and unable to muster meaningful resistance against its better without access to its primary tool.

Even reformed and forced to confront the fragmentation of its own mind—courtesy of Parthus Edrosic’s efforts—it was still a zealot. Yes, it did good and now aimed to do good by preserving System space, but that was still motivated by a blind faith in the Eldritch Boundless One. Any good it did would always be underscored by this prime motivation of its.

A zealot would always be a zealot.

Which was to say, Orodan did not like the Prophet at all.

But he liked the Mage even less.

His sword rapped against the boss of the shield three times, a challenge.

“Come, try that with a foe who shall hit back,” Orodan declared, defiance in his eyes. “Or is backhanding your supposed allies all your little cantrips are good for?”

[Stubborn Persuasion 42 → Stubborn Persuasion 43

“Now hold on, we’re to go first. You can’t just go out of turn,” Almyra rightfully protested.

In response, Orodan did a simple thing.

