Chapter 409

Liz and Allie came back just a month after Melinda’s testing got off its feet, but with less than stellar results from their own raids.

The few results they had gotten from Raffi’s data storage had proven to mostly be dead ends. Not because the leads Titan’s Torch’s spies found were bad, but because all of the people had vanished within days of his capture.

Not that they would let that stop them. Esmeralda immediately led an effort to try and cross reference the disappearances as they found the missing people, wanting to track the possible messages via portal openings. Hopefully that would help find a central coordinator. But, even from just five people identified, it seemed a futile effort with their hidden enemy having prepared for such a possibility.

Though their efforts weren’t fruitless. Looking deeper into the identified members and backtracking when and who they interacted with, their spies were able to find more information. In one instance, they were even able to recover an entire handwritten report one agent failed to adequately destroy, which was a treasure trove of information.

Still, there was only so much they got out of the leads before that source dried up.

Upon hitting the first road block they didn't give up, but they did put a pin in that method of investigation and started digging into alternatives.

Aster and Susanne had the most to show for their efforts, as they were able to locate one of the rabble rousers who had been spreading the idea that Aster's initiative to break the winter wolves’ hold over ice and winter-based bloodline materials was futile.

Donus, the person in question, didn’t seem to have any connection to the winter wolves, but they had only just started digging. Not all of the connections were so obvious. Raising disposable and untraceable pawns wasn’t a new tactic, and if a quick background check would reveal them, they wouldn’t be very useful.

Though, it was still possible he wasn’t working for the winter wolves, but instead for the society who had, for some reason, decided to strike out at Aster through one of the more obvious avenues, hoping that they would attack the wolves, making themselves a new enemy.

He would not be getting off scot-free just because he didn’t have obvious support. For the attempted obstruction of a duke’s direct initiatives, they were holding him for at least a century unless he started talking. They wanted to hold him longer, or use harsher methods, but that was the limit of what they could do with his level of crime. It wasn’t perfect, but Matt at least took pleasure in knowing they were wasting Donus’ time and keeping him from completing missions for his master.

They were still making progress via hunting down leads, but it was slow and they feared it would eventually peter out.

Their major breakthrough came through an unexpected source, just a year or so after Matt’s return to Empire space.

Esmeralda, after exhausting their obvious leads and being unable to find a coordinated messaging hub, turned her attention to the data they had recovered, namely the targets of the society's members instead of the society members themselves.

While the society was extremely thorough in destroying data relevant to their inner workings, the info about their targets wasn’t deleted with quite the same meticulousness. That allowed them to rebuild a good portion of it, giving them a fairly extensive look into the society's inner workings of how they operated and how they chose targets even if they didn’t know the society in question.

Said society, though rarely, gave their people targets, wanting to leverage a specific member's strengths. It was then up to the society member to complete the mission in question. Sometimes, missions were as simple as gathering information or using already gathered information to blackmail, pressure, or nudge people or events into the direction they wanted. Meanwhile, others were more brutal and direct, going as far as assassinations, though those were notably rare.

Some missions were to do things as obscure as helping one business over another, though the how differed. A society member who worked in the media, given that order, would ensure a story about the business was published in a slightly better location or in a better time slot. A business society member, on the other hand, might be expected to buy from the company in question over others.

On a surface level, it all seemed to make sense, until Esmeralda pointed out that there was no guarantee that the society moving to help a business was an indicator that said business was part of their network. Apparently, propping up a business, then removing those same supports to destroy it, was a common enough tactic for the societies. Or just supporting a third party to hurt a competitor indirectly.

Not that this unknown society was so controlling and demanding. The society also allowed their members to do their own thing and make their own plays, either alone or with each other, and, according to the logs they recovered, these self-directed tasks were far more common. Members would pass messages through a still unconfirmed method, looking for expertise in a field, and others would then reach out through the society and be put in contact with each other.

It was those threads they had tried to pull when chasing down people to no avail.

It all seemed needlessly convoluted, but Matt focused on the important bit: the targets of the recovered society members.

Matt’s initial thought was to start moving to counter the society's moves, but even he knew that was a fool's errand.

No, once they were done with the information, it would all be forwarded to Harper and the Empire’s spies to do with as they would as the organization was in a much better place to play shadow games with the society.

Instead, they started looking at the targets, and for anyone useful to them who might lead them to a new breakthrough.

It took weeks of data recovery and encryption breaking, but they stumbled upon gold.

One of the agents had identified, and was looking for help to start blackmailing, a Tier 45 member of the Keepers of The Golden Age.

According to the report the spies put together, the person in question was Nardo da Molin, a Tier 45 who had been one of the first generation free cultivators in the wake of the Sophron Dynasty’s rise. He had delved, but by all remaining reports had been unremarkable, having been over one thousand years old by the time he reached Tier 15, thus gaining immortality. According to his data, he had then lazed about for close to another thousand years before enrolling in an academy, where he stayed until he got his Hidden Masters, and then he took a job at a noble estate as a lawyer, where he still practiced. Through the profession, he earned enough capital to fund his way up to Tier 45, where he remained.

The only other notable thing about him was that he had tried and failed to create an Aspect several times in the last thirty thousand years, having failed just as recently as fifty years ago.

The society they had been tracking had been wanting to blackmail the man and had issued orders to that extent, but the information sent to the woman they wanted to do the black mailing hadn’t had the man's secrets as far as they could tell.

Matt had no good feelings for anyone who would willingly join the Society of Stagnation, and neither did anyone else, making Nardo a good, if not perfect, person to go ask questions of.

After gathering all of the information they could, Allie teleported them to Tur’stal’s capital, where they enlisted a squad of her Tier 45 guards to accompany them to Nardo’s home just a dozen planets away.

Tur’stal didn’t even question the need and just told them that Manny had already told all of the Royals to not interfere unless they had to, but to help as they were reasonably requested to.

When they arrived, the guard captain, Valor, floated forward. “Ascenders, I feel the fluctuations of someone having recently completed their Aspect in the direction of his estate. Their formation wasn’t perfect, and it's taking them some time to stabilize the Aspect. How would you like to handle this, Ascenders?”

“What's the suspected timeframe?” Aster asked with her eyes narrowing on the far off estate.

“Not long. The moment they sensed us they started to wrap it up. The issue either wasn’t that bad, or they are almost done. Half an hour, an hour, at most.”

Liz pursed her lips before nodding. “Let's move close, but not interfere.”

Matt watched the estate but didn’t know what to expect.

The timing seemed just a tad too convenient for his tastes.

Following the hunch, he accessed the planetary AI and reviewed its logs to find the fluctuations had actually started almost two years ago. That was just before the raid in which Liz and Allie had gotten the data from, which made Matt feel a little better.

His next thought was then to question just how incompetent this Nardo was in that it took him years to complete his Aspect.

It was an unkind thought, but one he couldn’t help but think.

Just twenty minutes later, the fluctuations finally subsided and a perfectly average voice rang out. “Welcome. What can I do for the Ascenders?”

Contrary to his voice, Nardo was strikingly good looking in an imperfect way, which spoke of it being his natural appearance instead the result of body modification. Or somebody putting in a lot of effort to make it look that way.

As Nardo rose into the air, he kept his eyes firmly fixed on them, but most of his attention was clearly on Matt who stayed silent as he listened to Liz reply.

“We have some questions to ask you, and we would appreciate your assistance.”

Nardo smiled but there was an edge to the expression. “I imagine there are a lot of things you might want to ask, but I’m not sure I want to answer.”

Liz’s gaze hardened even as the Tier 45s behind them readied their weapons. “Do you know the society attacking us was also targeting you, as a suspected member of the Keepers of The Golden Age?”

That seemed to catch Nardo completely off guard, and he paused for a moment before he nodded.

“Let's talk, but frankly I don’t want to remain in this Realm any longer than I need to. If you had arrived a few weeks from now, I might have already left. Your arrival only makes me want to leave immediately instead of soon.”

The threat of his Aspect and Tier safely allowing him to leave the Realm wasn’t missed by anyone, but there was functionally nothing they could do to stop him if he started the process. Killing somebody mid ascension wasn’t completely unheard of, one only phased out of reality slowly so there was time to get some attacks in. But the guards they brought with them were very unlikely to be able to do enough damage in the limited time frame of an ascension. They’d have needed to call in a Royal for that if they wanted to be sure of killing Nardo.

They’d also be just as unable to gather information that way and they desperately needed the information he might have, so it was better to play along.

Not willing to enter his estate, they settled on an area in the grasslands just outside. With a wave, Aster pulled a table and chair set out of her spirit space, allowing them all to sit down.

Nardo spoke the moment he sat down, seemingly unbothered by the guards. “It's quite amusing. A few years ago, I would have been trembling about this possible encounter. Having been outed as a member of the society can be life changing if one can’t escape properly. Now… It's almost refreshing. Honestly, I have to thank you, Ascender Titan. It was you who allowed me to create my Aspect.”

“Oh?”

Matt’s simple question just seemed to amuse Nardo.

“I have no family, and nothing keeping me here, but I haven't forgotten my roots or what I owe and who I owe it to, even though it took until a little while ago to really understand what those are instead of what I wished them to be.” Nardo smiled, but it didn’t reach his eyes. “Allow an old man to tell his story to one final group of people, before it truly doesn't matter anymore.”

Liz gestured and one of the guards pulled out a plate of Tier 45 foods and a bottle of Tier 45 wine allotted to them by Tur’stal for entertaining high-Tier guests.

After sampling both, Nardo let out a long sigh. “I’m sure you have seen my public history, but let me explain something which I believe will make everything else more clear. I wasn’t a common-born man. I was the bastard son of a disgraced baron's daughter who didn’t take care of her dalliances as carefully as she should have. I never learned who my father was, but, whenever I asked, I was told he was politically powerful enough that an abortion wasn’t an option they were willing to risk. When the old dynasty fell, I was angry. So much had almost been mine, and even that was taken from me. I was almost a noble and could have lived a life of luxury and indolence. I was almost important. I was almost someone. But instead, everything was ripped away as the old order fell. I hated the Sophrons, but I was no match for Agatha, yet I harbored hatred deep in my heart. When I reached Tier 15— this was before Bottled Concepts were a commonly available thing, I remind you— I spent a long time just lost in a fog, filled with hatred but too impotent to actually do anything.”

Nardo gazed outward beyond them and just sat there unblinking for a few minutes, leaving everyone sitting there silently. Even Allie, who was usually unable to sit still without something to occupy her, didn’t even twitch.

After what felt like far too long, Nardo continued. “One day I was approached by a stunning woman, who pulled me out of my depression and encouraged me to join an academy and better myself. In a not surprising turn of events, she was a recruiter for the Keepers of The Golden Age, who then quickly recruited me, using my hatred to their own ends. I worked as their eyes, ears, and hands until I was then promoted into the upper middle ranks. Fighting the good fight and all that bollocks.”

Waving, he produced a paper that had words drawing themselves even as he looked at it. “Over the last tens of thousands of years, my anger has diminished until it was only embers, and then eventually even they faded into nothing, but I was still part of the society and I did its bidding. It's what I knew. It was also the chain holding me back.”

Barking a laugh, Nardo surprised them by smiling at Matt. “It was your reveal of the aura rifts that shattered my Concept, and in that, I saw my path forward. I needed to accept that, under the old system, I would have never even been allowed to start cultivating. If things had truly remained as they were, I would be long dead, having nothing to my name or anyone to remember who I was. You might be amused to know the society was pissed at the revelation, and from my understanding, there were even discussions at the highest level if they could take control of the method and only allow it to be used for their own ends. ‘How dare he release that to the commoners’ was a common curse for a while. Seeing you release something that could have either made you fabulously wealthy or ensure a lasting dynasty of your bloodline made me question everything I thought was right. It also made me realize that even if I don’t agree with everything that has happened, things are going in a good direction. Things are better now than when I was young. Better than the so-called golden years I yearned for.”

Looking back to the mansion, he finished quieter, “It was in that realization, in my rebuilding of my Concept, that I was able to form my Aspect. Over the few years of mediation and forming my Aspect, I have had to come face to face with a lot of things I never questioned and, frankly, I don’t like the answers I’ve reached.”

Pulling out a data crystal, he placed it on the table along with the paper he earlier conjured. “Since you are here, and the Circle of Ever Flame thought I was an easy target, I'm willing to help you before I go. Not like I’ll need to deal with the consequences of sharing this. I know you’ll suspect everything I’ve said, but I’m content with my actions. I don’t know if you all are right, but I’m willing to admit that I was wrong, so here is what I can do before I leave. Maybe it will help. Maybe not.”

Sensing that he was about to ascend, Aster spoke. “Wait.”

Nardo’s eyes hardened, but he didn’t start the process of ascension.

Aster turned to Allie and said two words. “Aunt Helen.”

Nardo looked surprised, but said nothing, just fiddling with the paper he had left behind, even as Allie vanished, leaving them all to sit in an uncomfortable silence.

Finally, almost ten agonizing minutes later, Allie arrived with a bemused Aunt Helen in tow. “This is quite the surprise— Ah.”

Seeing that, Nardo da Molin stood from the table to his full height before he started to rise and grow transparent as energy rushed from the hole that opened up in the Realm to allow the Tier 45 to surpass the Realm itself.

Matt watched the entire process, waiting for any deception, but found none as Nardo truly vanished.

Turning to Aunt Helen, Matt hoped he would feel her Concept finish repairing itself. He absorbed some of the energy to feel where his Aspect was leading, but wasn’t too serious. The others all closed their eyes making their own tentative feelers with the ascensions energy that was bathing the planet but their introspection only lasted a few minutes as they spent all the energy they had absorbed.

No, he’d rather watch and see if Aunt Helen could succeed.

When they had seen her last she had said it was only two or three Ascensions away, and he didn’t know if she had been to any more in the meantime, but he was hoping with everything he had.

When the energy of the ascension passed and there was no change, he was about to give up hope, and then he nearly jumped out of his skin as Aunt Helen pulsed her Concept. It wasn't so much strong as it was profoundly deep in a way he hadn’t ever encountered with a person's Concept before.

Lifting her head to the sky, she started laughing until tears started to run down her face.

Wiping her face, Aunt Helen reached out and pulled them all into a hug.

After she let them go she whispered. “Oh, thank you all so much.”

Matt along with everyone else congratulated the phoenix. “I’m happy for you.”

Aunt Helen winked at him even as she hugged everyone one by one, even the Tier 45 guards.

Sadly, Aunt Helen then looked to Allie. “As much as I’d love to stay, I need to get back. My quiche is about to be done, and, if I’m not wrong,” her gaze went to the objects left on the table, “you six are about to be busy. I’ll see you all within a year, I’m sure.”

When Allie didn’t immediately teleport her, Aunt Helen gestured for her to hurry up. “My quiche really will be ruined if I don’t get back immediately. I wasn’t expecting this and had plans in motion but because the realm has a sense of humor, the timing is overlapping.”

Hearing there was a baked good on the line, the two of them vanished. A moment later, Allie returned, munching a delicious smelling slice of quiche.

Part of Matt wanted to interrogate her and see if she had the rest of the quiche with her, but they had bigger fish to fry.

After thanking the guards and allowing them to return to their normal duties, they teleported back to Palustris.

When they were back in a safe area, Matt asked his wife with his eyes locked onto the pad still sitting on the table, none of them willing to directly touch it or the paper. “Do you think he's bait?”

Liz snorted. “I’m skeptical at best. Just as we are constantly running into roadblocks, we have supposed answers handed to us on a silver platter? Even a blind man could see this has holes in it.”

Zack nodded his agreement to Liz’s statement but Susanne disagreed. “He felt genuine.”

Aster looked like she wanted to say something, but ended up keeping silent.

Taking a cue from her, Matt just nodded, and the six waited in silence watching the out-of-place table sitting in the middle of their island.

Tholly arrived just a moment later in a gardener's disguise.

“I assume none of you have touched them?” When they confirmed they hadn't, he nodded. “Good.”

Pulling out devices, Tholly started making scans one at a time. He was still doing so when Jericho arrived with a spatially expanded backpack a few minutes later.

Together, they went over the device until finally Jericho cloned the data crystal and paper before he started reviewing them both.

Almost an hour after Nardo’s ascension, Jericho presented them with a list of the device's content, as well as a summary of the paper message.

The paper gave seemingly irrefutable proof that he had truly been part of the Keepers of The Golden Age. More interesting than that was the data he provided, which seemed to indicate that the Circle of Ever Flame were the ones responsible for the attacks on Matt, Liz, and Aster.

The information seemed thorough and convincing, but that didn’t make them believe it any more than they had.

According to Nardo’s information, the Circle of Ever Flame hated Matt and Liz because of how they were stepping on their business interests, and how Liz was trying to reform their duchy as a test bed, which would mean an even greater hit to their power bases going forward. Almost more unbelievably, the information claimed that this society was working with the Winter Wolves, who were mad at Aster for trying to disrupt their dominance of the bloodline mana type.

If that wasn’t farfetched enough, his information claimed there was at least one other yet unknown party arrayed against them, but either the Keepers of the Golden Age didn’t know any more, or he didn’t have high enough clearance to access such information.

There was also a list of known Circle of Ever Flame assets, some large and some small, but all new to them and impactful for their own vengeance.

Aster said, “Let's go freeze them. We can then circle around to the supposed winter wolf stronghold. If this Nardo’s information is correct, they will have resources they stole from me.”

Liz was cautious. “This is a big if.”

Susanne nodded her agreement. “He could easily be using you guys to target his society's rivals in the name of ‘helping’ while also being the guilty party. Anything we find could even have been planted by him or his society.”

Jericho interjected with a raised finger even as he kept working on his devices with Tholly next to him. “While possible, the information he provided also contains details on the, and I quote, ‘worst of the Society of Stagnation’. If this data dump is fake, it's some of the best cover-up I’ve ever seen. It's incredibly detailed, like only a member of the society would know.”

Drumming his fingers on the table, Matt looked between Liz, Aster, Susanne, Allie, and Zack, trying to find the perfect answer.

Matt spoke slowly as he sorted his thoughts. “I don’t think we can afford not to act on this. Some of these people are wanted criminals, and the moment we hit one, a lot of them are going to scatter.”

Cato, who had arrived and caught up, shook his head along with Tholly, who spoke first. “Less than you might think. Sure, the truly wanted ones will vanish, but most don’t have enough proof of misdeeds for the Empire to move against them. I'd bet if they are willing to confront you three, they are probably willing to do so in the open. Also, none of this information for either society has information about their top level people. Honestly, we now have more information on the stagnation guys than the ever flamers.”

Cato, however, prompted, “The clock is already ticking, my lord. Nardo’s ascension would have set off triggers all throughout the Empire, and the societies, or at least the Society of Stagnation, will surely know one of their people went rogue the moment they see what he accessed before he left while with you. They will then immediately start to purge anything he had access to. They keep things compartmentalized for a reason, and even at his reported level, they can still afford to burn a lot without being truly crippled, so they will probably do so.”

Aster made the call. “Then let's go after the worst of the worst first. Allie, report this information to the Royals and the Emperor or whoever is there at the Capital. Manny keeps telling us to do this how we want, so let's follow through with that.”

Allie vanished to reappear a few seconds later. “Done!”

Liz nodded. “I think it's best if we split up. Allie, Zack, and Susanne hit these three distribution hubs quietly. Preferably we want to just scan and clone their information drives without them knowing you were ever there. We three are going to go arrest Marquess Galip. We can’t afford to allow him to slip away under any circumstances. After that, we can turn on the three nearby black sites, but I’m not going to allow Galip to continue fomenting sympathy for the old dynasty.”

After another small round of discussion, they split up.

With a thought, their island, which had been sitting in the archipelago like any other island for the last century, started to rise and show itself as the ducal flying fortress it was.

Water cascaded down in elongating waterfalls as they rose higher and higher.

Matt wasn’t one to get caught up in the moment, but even he couldn’t help but reflect that they were taking an important step here.

They were no longer being passive, and instead going on the offensive.

It felt good.

Their island wasn't there for long, so only the few on it were able to appreciate the moment.

[Teleportation] had its advantages, but it also had its limitations, as seen by Allie being unable to teleport higher-Tier people without significant strain. [Portal] had no such limitations on people or material, so even as two regiments of their ducal guards, all Tier 35 or higher, landed on the island, Matt had no issue opening a [Portal] to one of the teleporter cities.

Liz, already ready for it, engaged the island's jump drive, which connected the island with the tethers that held planets together in chaotic space, and pulled them to the next planet in line to Marquess Galip’s dominion.

Casting a [Portal] across a simple planet's distance wasn’t that hard, but what was hard was creating an aperture large enough for the island to fly through, and Matt could feel his spirit strain with each cast. Though it wasn’t so bad as to force him to stop. They wanted to make a show of it, after all.

First was that inciting rebellion was a charge of treason, punishable by execution, and as Ascenders it was their duty and obligation to take care of such people. Secondly, the more noise they made, the more attention would be on them and therefore the longer Allie, Zack, and Susanne would have to hit the Circle of Ever Flame sites, which would hopefully let them learn if they were truly their yet unknown antagonists. Thirdly, according to the information Nardo provided, Marquess Galip would flee at the first sign of being caught, having reportedly abandoned identities before at even the smallest hint of suspicion. So the moment news spread that Nardo turned traitor, he would vanish.

Thankfully, any information network the secret societies might have in place would be slower than them teleporting across planets in under two seconds. Abusing the tethers like this, they were even faster than flying directly through chaotic space would have been, though the price for anyone that wasn’t Matt would have been crippling.

With Matt [Portal]ing them between tether cities and them fueling the cost of the jumps to the next world, they never even slowed for longer than it took to activate their overrides on the teleportation network.

Just four minutes and seven seconds and two hundred and thirteen jumps later, they arrived at Malvro.

Matt [Portal]ed them right above Marquess Galip’s estate and their guards immediately sprang into action, locking down the vicinity with formations and Domains alike, even as they backed it up with the island's own offensive prowess.

It was a good thing too, as Marquess Galip tried to flee the instant they appeared, but was caught inside the net of locked down space.

Instead of being smart and accepting his fate, he fled back into his castle and activated the wards, bringing his shields to bear.

Matt floated next to Liz on the edge of their island, which was still dripping water.

Her voice echoed across the entire planet as she proclaimed, “Marquess Galip, you are under arrest for suspicion of fomenting discontent against the Sophron Empire, as well as the charge of trying to reinstate the old dynasty. Surrender, and don’t make this harder for yourself then it has to be.”

Marquess Galip’s voice rang out even louder than Liz’s, though there was more than a hint of panic in his voice as he shouted, “Attacking a fellow noble is a declaration of war and it’s a crime to attack without a proper casus belli, let alone onto a lower-ranking noble. Have you no shame?!”

As his words ended, one of his courtyards exploded as a battery of massive mana cannons fired upward directly at their flying castle.

Matt reached out with a hand and froze the projectiles of glowing blue mana in its tracks.

It roiled and sparked as millions of mana tried to break free of his control, but they didn’t leave his containment field by even an inch.

Liz was opening her mouth to speak once more when half a dozen black armored Tier 30s rushed upward at them, weapons drawn and spells engaged.

Liz split into thirteen copies and engaged the attackers, careful not to kill them or let them kill themselves.

Aster, having been glaring at the castle below the entire time, grinned as she growled, “Got them.”

Below them, the castle, with its shields fully active, started to grow more and more blue when ice, before unseen and unfelt, started to claim the castle.

Then, in a move Aster had created after seeing Winter Hornet’s departure, the entire castle, sans people, vanished in a puff of icy mist as she pulled it all into her Tier 25 spirit space.

Chuckling evilly, Aster said, “I think I prevented most of the evidence from being destroyed. Everything is frozen solid at least.”

Now caught without defenses, the Marquess’ men, at least the smart ones, started surrendering en masse. More interesting were the ones like the black armored men who instead continued attacking.

Their own guards, having been warned and prepared for the castle to disappear, descended on the defenders in pairs, not afraid to use their higher cultivation as well as numbers to ensure safe captures.

That, however, didn’t stop several of the loyalists from trying to detonate their cores. One, a middle aged looking woman, managed it, but the blast was contained enough that only she died, while the others found their cultivation cores slowly filling with ice as Aster took control of the area around them more fully.

The Lizzes, fighting in perfect unison, exploded in golden ichor that made the guards stronger and weakened their enemies, allowing them to early overwhelm their Tier 30 opponents who instead of surrendering, kept fighting mindlessly.

The prize of the operation, Marquess Galip, never stopped trying to flee.

When his attempt to turtle up failed, he went downward, trying to use the planet itself as cover to escape.

With a few million mana, Matt hardened the planet's crust to something even a Tier 30 like Marquess Galip found impossible to break through in any reasonable amount of time, trapping him in a cocoon.

Interestingly, while he kept trying to break free, he never once tried to detonate his core. Seeing how fanatical some of his followers were, that surprised Matt.

Dragging the man to them, Matt kept him subdued while Aster wrapped him in ice before vanishing him.

Matt took over arresting everyone remaining, allowing Liz to split into a dozen copies of herself, then those dozen copies each split a dozen more times until there were hundreds of Lizzes.

Each Liz took off and flew to above the major population centers proclaiming martial law and commanding the non-critical people to remain home or at work for the next few hours.

Thankfully, unlike the last time they had to enact martial law, this planet's population was raised in the Empire, and so complied without much fuss.

Tholly was already digging into the Marquess’ personal data and had found several indicators and eventually concrete proof of his allegiances, as well as several of his co-conspirators. Best of all, he found the identities of several more members of the Society of Stagnation Nardo hadn’t known, or at least hadn’t given to them.

Duke Falion Whisper arrived just thirty five minutes later.

Matt half expected the man to bluster and object to their presence, but instead, he arrived with his own flying island and immediately offered an [AI] backed oath that he knew nothing of Marquess Galip and his proclivities.

He could be lying to cover his own ass, but with Imperial investigators shortly behind him, they were able to hand the clean up to them while they moved to go and hit their personal targets.

It would probably take decades for Marquess Galip’s webs and schemes to be untangled, but he was at least unable to keep supporting and championing the old dynasty’s banner further, weakening their non-existent grip on the Empire.

***

The moment Allie left, quiche in hand, Helen swept the restaurant with her spiritual perception to see her two protectors relaxing now that she had returned.

She had been prepared for so long. She had every step planned out and coordinated, having called in favors with all of the highest-Tier people looking to ascend so she could ensure she was there to leech some of the mystical energy.

But then, out of nowhere, Allison appeared telling her she had an ascension waiting for her.

All of Helen's plans, all of her preparation, were thrown out the window and she found her composure wanting.

Seeing the other children wasn’t too surprising, but warmed her heart still, but that just made it even harder to keep herself together. She didn’t do good things to be repaid, but it was always gratifying seeing her kindness returned, and they had given her the greatest gift.

Helen almost didn’t expect the Ascension to work, but as the last of the energies dissipated, she felt her Concept finally click back into place and the world pulse as her connection to the realm was finally restored.

Despite her original intentions, it was subtly different then her original Concept of family, but that was okay. Her definition of family had changed. Expanded.

And that was not just okay, but good.

It was then that it all became too much.

She needed to be alone and so begged off, despite it being incredibly rude.

The moment her protectors vacated the building and shielded it from prying eyes, Helen allowed herself to drop to the floor of her kitchen and curl up in a ball as she cried.

Millions of years of emotions finally, truly, given vent.

It was overwhelming.

It was painful.

It was cathartic.

With her Concept fixed, her son and husband were forever preserved with her, but at the same time, they were also truly, irrevocably gone.

Wiping her eyes hours later, she got herself together, ready for whatever came next.

But first, she needed to cook the children’s favorite meals as a thank you.
