One was Shiv. Roland just hasn't been able to decide when it came to the Deathless. He hadn't been able to decide if he wanted to kill the boy who was the fruit of everything foul that befell him, or if he simply wanted to spare him. Yet, in doing so, in his indecision, Roland had selected something that bordered on torture. He'd condemned a child to a life of destitution and ostracization. It wasn't the thing a noble, pure hero might do, but it was, ultimately, human.

All too human.

"Might not be a bad thing, but with Uva serving as his current Avatar, you think that might affect the Starhawk too?"

Adam shook his head. "She couldn't serve as his Avatar alone," he began, "not without her Eldritch patron allowing her to sustain the Starhawk's power."

"Oh, shit," Shiv muttered. Another uncomfortable silence slid into the room. “We really need to get that slipgate open and functional.”

"Yeah." Adam breathed. "As fast as humanly possible." He turned around and glared at the crafters before marching over to them. "Merrielmel, Concelhaunt, you tell me exactly what you need, and I will find it delivered. We're doing this as fast as humanly possible. We'll begin testing soon. First, we're opening a pathway to the Tutorial. After that, if you need a larger testing apparatus or another active mana core to draw from, or one that can blend your skills with each other and offer temporary infusions, then you can use my gate."

"The orcs probably will be willing to offer their expertise as well," Shiv said with a slight hint of discomfort. He looked at Cripple. "Look, I don't really believe that the orcs are going to be nice and kind about this, either. I know what they are, and I know what I am." He paused. "Adam, I'm pretty sure they're going to take advantage of this too. It's not just the Neath. The orcs are going to want to seize the slipgate. Just think about it. It's an easy way to invade any world they want, to jump from place to place with no limits or borders to their slaughter."

The Gate Lord's shoulder sagged. "Well, it's just another problem we need to find a way to counter." A second later, however, his spine straightened once more. "Wait, wait. We're just thinking in negatives, but if we can activate this slipgate, and we can potentially use this mechanism anywhere, then..." He paused. "Can we use this mechanism anywhere?"

"It's theoretically possible," Merrielmel stammered.

Slowly, a smile spread across Adam’s features. "If we can do that, we can find a gate close to where the Tarrasque is, and if we can attune that to the Tutorial or some other primal gate..."
