He wrestled his hand free before Yvlon could crush his fingers. She laughed. She’d forgotten how good it felt to have an arm again! She swung her arm up, and Ceria looked over.
“Oh! Did Pisces fix your arm, Yvlon? Careful.”
“I’m fine, Ceria. Pisces did an excellent job. How’s it going in Liscor?”
“Good! The fighting’s over. The City Watch is combing the streets, but it looks like they fought off the Raskghar fairly quickly. But there are dead. And missing.”
“Missing?”
Both adventurers came over. Pisces massaged his hand as he stared at Ceria. The half-Elf nodded, her expression serious.
“Gnolls. All the Drakes that the Raskghar attacked were killed, but no one’s found the Gnoll bodies. They think they’ve been carried into the dungeon, but as for why…? That Venim guy from Pallass is talking with the others. Doubt we’ll hear any of it for a while.”
“In that case, I shall devote myself to clearing up my, ah, tools. Such as they are.”
Pisces gestured to the pile of bear bones. Ceria glanced over and Yvlon held her breath, but neither she nor Ksmvr saw that the bone pile had been somewhat reduced.
“You do that. Hell, there’s blood to clean up too. Dead bodies—we should probably help with that.”
She stared at the pile of Raskghar and Goblins. Yvlon grimaced.
“Toss them into the water and let the fishes eat them?”
“Works for me. Hey Pisces, can you make an undead to do the lifting?”
“I could, but I have about one bear’s worth of bones left intact.”
Pisces grumbled as he inspected the yellowed pile of bones. Ksmvr sat up, looking concerned.
“Only one? But then our three-fold offensive line of bears is no longer a workable strategy. Captain Ceria, this may affect all our tactics moving forwards! May I request an immediate hunt to slaughter as many bears as possible?”
“Uh—you can request that, Ksmvr. But finding bears is not high on our list of things to do. Pisces will just have to make do for now. If we find other animal bones, he can use those. But you know what the Adventurer’s Guild says. No using people.”
Yvlon nodded. She could agree with that restriction entirely. But as she looked at Pisces, she once again had a crazy thought. She coughed.
“Pisces.”
He looked up.
“Yes?”
“Do you remember what Selys told you? There was a list of bones you couldn’t use, remember? All kinds of species?”
Pisces grimaced.
“I well remember. It is a tiresome restriction, but I understand the necessity of the law and I will abide. A shame I cannot use convicted criminals or bandits but I understand the difficulty of identifying, ah, remains.”
Yvlon nodded absently as Ceria made a disgusted face.
“Right. But I think there’s a loophole you can exploit.”
“If you are referring to using Lizardfolk, I am afraid—”
“Pisces. Look down.”
The mage glanced down at the floor. He stared at the dried blood and then followed it to the fallen corpses. Raskghar. And Goblins. He stared at them and then at Yvlon. She raised her eyebrows. Pisces blinked.
“I believe I am growing fonder of you by the minute, Miss Byres.”
“Thanks. I think.”
Yvlon turned, smiling, as Pisces walked over to the bodies and began inspecting them, muttering about tossing them into the lake anyways to ‘clean’ the bones. She looked at Ksmvr and Ceria. Both Antinium and half-Elf were staring at Yvlon with gaping mouths—or open mandibles as the case may be. She shrugged.
“What?”
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was not quiet in the hours after the Raskghar attack. It was late night turning into day, but no one was asleep. And in fact, the inn received more than a few visitors. The first was Olesm, who rushed into the building with several [Guardsmen] and a group of Gnolls that included Krshia in tow.
“Erin! Are you okay? Are you—”
He stopped as he saw the Raskghar and Goblin bodies and looked around frantically for Erin. She turned and waved to him.
“Olesm! I’m so glad you’re al—”
All the wind left Erin’s lungs as Olesm ran across the room and practically tackled her with a hug. She hugged him back as Krshia exhaustedly staggered over to a table with the others.
“I’m okay! I’m okay, Olesm! Are you safe? Where’s everyone else? What happened?”
As she and Olesm talked, Lyonette hurried out of the kitchen. She had a plate full of rare, bloody hamburgers steaming hot, and she placed it in front of the Gnolls and [Guardsmen].
“Krshia! Are you okay? Here—we’ve got food! Let me get you some drinks!”
The Gnolls’ eyes widened, and six furry hands immediately shot for the food. The City Watch grabbed desperately too, and for a few moments, everyone was eating ravenously. Lyonette filled mugs rapidly and sent Mrsha running over to shove the drinks on the table. No one minded the mess. They ate, sat back, and became living people again, rather than wet, exhausted warriors.
“Thank you, Lyonette. We have been searching the city for hours. We are well. Those damn Raskghar, they attacked here, yes?”
“They did. The Horns fought them off. So did the Goblins.”
The Redfang Goblins turned. Shorthilt and Badarrow had come down from the rooftop, as had Bird, now that Liscor was secure. They were milling about, and Bird was squatting by Ksmvr and Pisces who were trying to figure out how to debone the corpses.
“They are fish bait? But they look like bird bait to me. We should leave them in the water and see if water birds come to eat them.”
“The trick will be retrieving the bones when eaten. I might suggest deboning the corpses or ripping the bones out with [Necromancy] or telekinetic magic, but that would be inefficient. Also, messy.”
Lyonette grimaced and tried not to listen. She served more food until the exhausted Gnolls and [Guardsmen] just sat around in a coma at the tables. By which time more people had come through from Liscor.
“Erin!”
Jelaqua strode into the inn, her armor blazing with fire. She looked around, realized there was no danger, and deactivated the Heartflame Breastplate. Moore and Seborn ran in after Jelaqua. All three Halfseekers looked tired, but unharmed.
“We fought two groups of Raskghar in the city. Both times they fled after we cut them down a bit. Not one of them got past the armor. I was worried you’d been attacked, but we kept seeing the Raskghar and chasing after them. Glad you lot were here.”
The Selphid leaned over the table Ceria and Yvlon were sitting at. Ceria coughed, blushing.
“Well, the Goblins did a lot of the work.”
The Halfseekers glanced at the Redfang Warriors and then away. Jelaqua shook her head.
“Good for them. Hey, Lyonette! Can we get something to eat? I’m starving. There’ll be more people coming too. Ylawes was worried when I spotted him. I saw Halrac on the walls, too. He’ll be along I bet.”
She was right. The Silver Swords and Griffon Hunt both appeared in due time, both groups to check up on Erin. And Yvlon, in Ylawes’ case. Of course, Revi claimed she’d been dragged along by Halrac, but she did check to make sure Mrsha was there before she demanded hot food and a towel.
It was strange, but Erin’s inn only kept getting more crowded as people came by to make sure she was safe, which in turn saved her from having to go out and see if they were safe. Klbkch and Relc stopped by on patrol—Relc grabbed eight hamburgers to ‘share’ and ate three on the way out—Pawn appeared with Yellow Splatters and several Painted Soldiers on the same mission, and even Selys and Drassi appeared with Ishkr in tow.
“Oh Erin! I was so worried about your inn! And Selys said the streets were safe, so we came here and found Ishkr along the way! Do you need help? Are we getting paid for this? No, wait—let me.”
Drassi chattered as she went to help the besieged Lyonette at the counter. They were actually running out of pre-made food and Erin was hurrying to the kitchen to feed the masses when Wall Lord Ilvriss walked in. She stared at him, bemused and touched.
“Ilvriss! Were you worried about us, too?”
The Wall Lord jumped. He was accompanied by a group of his followers. He glared at Erin and adjusted his sword belt unnecessarily.
“Hardly, Human. I just heard that Watch Captain Venim was here, and I wanted to speak with a representative of Pallass. And…I was looking for young Swifttail. There he is.”
He pointed at Olesm, who jumped guiltily. Erin smiled.
“Well, can I get you food? Drinks? A towel?”
Ilvriss nodded and then caught himself. He wrinkled his nose at the dead Raskghar and Goblins. They still hadn’t been removed—Pisces was arguing with Jelaqua, who wanted to ‘try’ one of the Raskghar out.
“You may start by clearing those corpses out of the inn. And removing the blood.”
“Ew. Right. Pisces! Get rid of those bodies!”
The [Necromancer] looked up. He sighed and stopped trying to fend Jelaqua off. Ceria pushed herself to her feet.
“Yeah, let’s get rid of them. Pisces, you can figure out what to do when we dump them outside. Ksmvr, Yvlon?”
She turned. The other Horns of Hammerad got up. Pisces grumbled but helped lift the first Raskghar with Yvlon’s help. He grunted and, red-faced with exertion, staggered to the door. Mrsha opened it, and the adventurers disappeared outside.
The Redfang Goblins also got up and began hauling the Raskghar in pairs. That only left the Goblins. Ceria wrinkled her nose as she stared at the motionless form in front of her. She tried not to think of the Goblin as being like Rags, although it was small. This one had tried to gut her with a shiv. She bent.
“Come on, Ksmvr.”
The Antinium dutifully bent and reached for the Goblin’s arms while Ceria grabbed the legs. The Antinium lifted—
And the Goblin’s eyes opened. It sat up with a gasp, clutching at its bleeding chest. Ksmvr leapt back, and Ceria shouted in surprise. The Cave Goblin stared around wildly, its little red eyes wide. It focused on the adventurers, the room full of enemies, and froze. Then, quick as a flash, it bolted.
There was no thought to it. The Goblin ran instantly. And because it was moving on instinct, it ran right into the kitchen rather than out the door. Yvlon heard a shout of alarm from within, and the Cave Goblin re-emerged from the kitchen. Erin dashed out, a cleaver in hand.
“A Goblin! One of them is alive!”
Everyone in the inn shot to their feet as the Goblin fled, screaming. Halrac raised his bow and half the warriors in the room aimed at the Goblin, but they stopped as Erin shouted.
“Don’t kill it! Capture it!”
“What?”
Ilvriss snarled at Erin. He drew his sword and froze as she pointed at him. The air grew heavy, and Ilvriss’ tail thrashed. He turned, pointed, and Erin staggered back as if he’d kicked her in the chest.
“Do not do that again!”
“Don’t kill it!”
Moore obligingly reached down, but the Goblin leapt over his hand and ran for the door. Revi snapped.
“Well someone stop it! It’s getting away!”
The door was open. The Goblin fled through it as Ksmvr leapt and missed. The Cave Goblin sprinted out into the rain and then reappeared through the doorway. Upside down. Headscratcher walked back into the inn, dripping with rain. He was holding the Cave Goblin by the ankle as it screamed and twisted. He stared around.
“Mm?”
The inn waited. Headscratcher paused. The other Redfang Goblins came in behind him and then Pisces and Yvlon. The [Necromancer] sneezed and then stared at the Goblin.
“Ah. Well, this is interesting.”
Numbtongue, Headscratcher, Badarrow, Shorthilt, and Rabbiteater stood around the terrified Cave Goblin as Headscratcher held it up by one leg. The other guests of the inn looked from the Goblin to Erin. Revi was the one to say it.
“Now what?”
“Uh—”
Erin stared at the Cave Goblin. It was fighting to get free, slashing at Headscratcher with a stone shiv. He didn’t seem to mind—he was dangling it out of reach, and every time it tried to sit up, he shook the Goblin until it hung in the air, gasping for breath. Ilvriss looked disgusted.
“Goblins are bad enough. That…creature was part of the attack on the city. There are citizens—Gnolls—missing as we speak! Kill the wretched creature or throw it outside if you must, Human. But do not sully our presence with it one moment longer.”
There were nods of agreement, not just from the Drakes sitting around Ilvriss. Erin looked at Headscratcher. The Goblin was watching her carefully. She opened her mouth, and Olesm cut in. The Drake had gone wide-eyed as he stared at the Cave Goblin, and now he raised one hand for everyone’s attention.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss, unless I am very much mistaken, I believe that Goblin is worth far, far more to us alive than dead. We are in need of information following the Raskghar attack. We captured no Raskghar alive to my knowledge. That Goblin could have all the intelligence we seek.”
“Intelligence.”
One of the [Guardsmen] chuckled as if Olesm had made a joke. The Redfang Goblins stared at him flatly. Ilvriss sighed. He smiled patiently at Olesm.
“Information? Young Swifttail, I appreciate your line of thought, but interrogating a Goblin is a fruitless task. Coercing Goblins is surprisingly difficult, and more to the point, it is impossible to communicate—”
He broke off because Olesm was staring at him. Just staring. Ilvriss hesitated and looked back. Towards the Cave Goblin. And the Goblins. The Redfang Goblins stood around the wriggling Cave Goblin. Numbtongue was picking his ears. The Hob paused as all eyes turned towards him. Ilvriss’ tail twitched.
“Ah.”
He cleared his throat.
“Ahem. Olesm?”
“Yes, Wall Lord?”
“Send a Street Runner to collect Watch Captain Zevara, Wing Commander Embria, ah… Guildmistress Tekshia, and Watch Captain Venim please. Tell them we have a possible source of information of the highest priority.”
“At once, Wall Lord.”
Olesm nodded to a [Guardsman], and the Drake hauled himself to his feet. Ilvriss didn’t quite meet anyone’s eyes as Olesm and the [Guardsman] ran out into the dark and rainy streets of Liscor. He sat at his table and cleared his throat a few times.
“Excellent talent, that young Swifttail. Excellent. A real credit to his species. A [Strategist] worthy of the name. Indeed. Ahem. Did someone mention a drink?”
 
——
 
It was as full as Erin’s inn had ever gotten in the old days. Of course, since these were the new days and she had the [Grand Theatre] Skill, her inn was still fairly spacious. However, everyone was packed onto the tables at the front of the room, leaving the back wide open. Every eye was on the Cave Goblin who’d been tied to a chair. The little Goblin was practically frothing at the mouth with fear, and the bucket sitting below her chair was a testament to the loincloth-wetting fear it was in.
