Ceria sat on the floor of The Wandering Inn. The wood beneath her bottom was slick with melted ice water and blood, but she didn’t care. Her arms and both hands, living and skeletal, shook. She was bleeding from a gash down one arm where a Goblin blade had cut her, but she was alright.
The other Horns of Hammerad sat around her. Ceria felt the adrenaline leaving her body slowly. She could still hear horns blaring in the distance from Liscor’s walls. Now that the roar of blood had faded in her ears, she could also make out the pouring of rain overhead, the sounds of Erin tending to the Goblins, Lyonette telling Mrsha to stay put with Apista while she went to help Erin out—
Normal sounds, for a normal life. It stood in contrast to the moments before, where Ceria had stabbed a Cave Goblin through the chest with a dagger and watched it bleed onto her hands. She stared at a motionless body in front of her. A Raskghar lay with its eyes still wide open. Its face was mutilated by a melting [Ice Spike]—Ksmvr’s shortsword had pierced its stomach in three places, and Yvlon’s sword had cut through its right arm. It had still taken far too long to die.
Two Raskghar of the six had escaped. The Cave Goblins were all dead. In contrast, no one in the inn was dead. Not Bird or the Redfang Warriors or the Horns of Hammerad, Erin, Lyonette, Mrsha, or Apista. Ceria wished she could have been proud of that fact, but she wasn’t. She stared at the lone Raskghar her team had felled during the fighting and then looked at the three that had fallen to Numbtongue, Rabbiteater, and Headscratcher. She shook her head and felt the world grey out a bit around her.
“Rot, I’m getting too old for this.”
One of her teammates looked up. Yvlon’s blonde hair was bloodied and damp with sweat.
“You? Too old? Aren’t you sixty years old, Ceria? That makes you twenty in Human years.”
“Something like that. I guess. Sixty’s still old, you know! I’ve been adventuring for nearly a decade. It’s not like I don’t experience each day. Hell, sixty years…if I was an adventurer for that long, I’d probably be retired. Sixty years of anything is way too long. Except if it’s in a half-Elven village.”
The armored Human woman eyed Ceria.
“What makes that different?”
“It’s easier to pass years away there. That’s why you get snotty half-Elf brats who’re forty years old and behave worse than Human teens. I spent forty years of my life in a village. Feels like I only started living once I left.”
“…Huh.”
“Yeah.”
Intelligent conversation was not one of Ceria’s strong suits in the best of times. She rubbed her face, realized she was wiping blood into her skin, and stopped.
“Everyone okay? Anyone hurt?”
“I’m good.”
Yvlon reflexively checked herself and nodded. By her side, Pisces raised his head. The [Necromancer] was unharmed but covered in sweat from casting a dozen spells in the course of minutes.
“I am unharmed. I would like a mana potion, though.”
“Suck it up. Ksmvr?”
“I am bleeding from eight wounds. However, my injuries are mostly superficial. I calculate that I will be able to fight with little impairment to my combat ability for twenty more minutes before blood loss—”
“Healing potion.”
“Yes, Captain Ceria.”
The Antinium rummaged around at his belt and lifted a healing potion. He began to apply it to his wounds, using only a drop of healing potion for each spot. Yvlon sighed.
“Ksmvr, pour it onto your wounds. We can afford more.”
“But rationing it—”
“You are worth more to us than a single healing potion. Pour it.”
“Yes, Yvlon.”
In the silence, the Horns of Hammerad watched Erin at work. She had no compunctions about literally dumping half a healing potion onto Rabbiteater’s wounds before making the Goblin drink the rest. Pisces sat up, pale-faced, and Ceria almost relented and told him to take a mana potion. But those were expensive, and if they weren’t fighting, it did make sense for him to hold back. Pisces seemed to think so, because he didn’t keep complaining. Instead, he looked at the dead bodies and sniffed.
“So. Those were Raskghar. I quite object to their characterization by Gemhammer and The Pride of Kelia. Those were not moderate threats.”
“No kidding.”
Ceria stared at the Raskghar. She glanced at the three the Redfangs had killed.
“How many did Gemhammer say they got?”
“Two dozen?”
“Tree shit they did. Six of them nearly took out our team and three Hobs. We outnumbered them and they nearly tore us to ribbons!”
“In point of fact, they outnumbered us if you count the little Goblins.”
“They don’t count, Ksmvr.”
“Ah.”
“Didn’t I hear that the Raskghar get stronger at weird times? Like during the full moon?”
All the Horns of Hammerad looked towards the windows. Ceria craned her head, peering through the rain splattering against the glass.
“It’s a cloudy night. Who the heck could tell if one of the moons is full or not?”
Pisces wiped his sweaty forehead on his pristine white robes.
“I would surmise that at least one moon is full. Possibly both, although that is a rare occasion. Perhaps the effect of these full moons would be amplified or doubled on such a day?”
“Don’t even joke about that, Pisces.”
“Who said I was?”
The Horns sat, contemplating that thought. It wasn’t nurturing by any means. They were too tired to move—they watched Erin tend to the Redfang Warriors with Lyonette, then rush upstairs. After a moment, one of the healed Redfang Warriors sat up. Headscratcher looked muzzy. He might have had a concussion, but he still wobbled upright and lurched past the Horns. They stared at him as he and the other two Goblins practically dragged themselves to the door.
“What’re they doing?”
“I think they’re…guarding?”
The Redfang Hobs stationed themselves at the door. Headscratcher pointed, and Rabbiteater and Numbtongue heaved a table in front of it. The Horns stared at them and then looked at each other.
“Damnit.”
“We should do that.”
No one wanted to move, but suddenly the aftermath of battle felt a lot less safe. Ceria cursed inwardly at her own stupidity as she forced herself to her feet. The Raskghar could come back! With reinforcements! Was she a Bronze-rank adventurer or a veteran? The Goblins had clearly remembered. The Horns lurched over.
“We can guard too. We’ll take that side.”
Ceria pointed, and the Hobs nodded. The adventurers and Goblins went to the glass windows. Ceria wanted to stand, but in the end, she found a chair and sat so she could stare out a window with the others. They heard Erin banging around upstairs before she shouted down.
“Bird’s okay! So are Badarrow and Shorthilt! Lyonette, can you get me more arrows from Bird’s room? Then open the door to Octavia’s shop! Grab more potions and some of those exploding bottles if she has any!”
“Got it!”
The Horns listened to Lyonette hurry up the stairs. Yvlon, sitting and rubbing her face with her right hand, looked around.
“Where’s Mrsha…?”
“Over there.”
Mrsha was sitting on a table, sniffing the Raskghar with wide eyes. Ceria whistled, and the Gnoll’s head turned.
“Come over here, Mrsha. Don’t get near the dead bodies.”
The Gnoll came over, and Ceria heard a buzzing sound in her right ear. Reflexively, she ducked, and Yvlon leaned back as Apista flew past them like a bee straight out of hell. The Ashfire Bee’s stinger was bloody. She circled once and then flew away from Ksmvr who was looking hungrily at her. Mrsha sat by the Horns, and Apista landed on her head. The Gnoll looked at the adventurers. She wasn’t petrified with fear, but she looked nervous. Ceria tried to smile reassuringly.
“Don’t worry, the bad monsters are gone, Mrsha. If they come back, we’ll chase them away.”
The Gnoll nodded dutifully in a way that said that she didn’t believe Ceria one bit. She had something in her paw. Pisces’ wand. She waved it in the air.
“You’re going to protect us? That’s very brave. But maybe leave the fighting to us, okay? That is a nice wand. Better you have it than Pisces.”
“A hurtful sentiment.”
Yvlon sighed.
“You should take it back. You’d be a better [Mage] with it.”
Pisces shrugged.
“I am used to unarmed spellcasting. Besides which, it is harder to aim a wand in combat. Especially when one attempts to fence with the other hand.”
“Really?”
“Oh, indeed. Why do you think Springwalker shoots [Ice Spikes] with her skeletal hand even though she has a wand?”
“Huh. I never knew that.”
“I never knew that. My master taught me to cast magic with my hands. I thought she was just being strict about it.”
“Fingers are flexible. Wands are not. One can reliably aim spells from the tips of one’s fingers in much more rapid fashion than you would by maneuvering a wand into position each time.”
“So says the self-proclaimed dueling expert of Wistram.”
“If you have any objections or addendums to my theory, Springwalker…”
Ceria did not. The Horns sat in silence for a while. Mrsha edged up to Ceria, and the half-Elf began to scratch her head behind the ears. Apista crawled onto Ceria’s arm and was flung off with a shout of panic. After a while, Pisces spoke.
“That was a magical cloak I saw one of the Hobs using, was it not? A cloak made entirely of water? Only, it now appears to be made of blood. Did anyone else notice that during the battle?”
The Horns looked over. Rabbiteater raised his head, and the blood cloak swirled around his shoulders. Ceria stared at it.
“Huh. It is a magic cloak. From the dungeon?”
“How the hell did the Goblins figure out how it worked?”
“They put it on, duh.”
“Would that not be dangerous? Comrade Pisces assured me that would be dangerous.”
“Oh, highly. They might have discovered the nature of the cloak…or unleashed a possibly dangerous curse spell or other effect. We are fortunate that the inn was not swallowed by a void spell and dragged into a dark netherworld hell, in which we would be tortured endlessly until our demise.”
“Is that so? I will consider myself fortunate, then.”
The Hobs nodded. They seemed to be listening in. Ceria eyed them and then looked at Pisces.
“But we’re not dead. And the cloak’s magical. It’s…some kind of liquid cloak? That changes depending on what it touches?”
“Apparently.”
She stared at him. Yvlon and Ksmvr looked at Pisces too. He raised his head, still looking pale from mana exhaustion.
“What?”
Ceria coughed.
“Don’t you have a big theory on what it does? Some kind of annoying lecture for us?”
“No. Would you like me to come up with one?”
Everyone nodded. Mrsha scooted closer to Pisces, staring at the cloak with fascination. The blood was rippling every time Rabbiteater moved, as if it were actual cloth. Pisces stared at it for a moment.
“Very well. It is obvious that the cloak is enchanted to take on the properties of a liquid. I would surmise that not all liquids work. Base liquids—that is to say, non-complex fluids like blood, water, and so on—seem to be the target reagents of change. It seems the cloak changes rapidly—it may be possible to affect a change with a small amount of liquid.”
The others considered that. Numbtongue, sitting by a window and fiddling with the broken guitar he was still carrying, turned and pursed his lips. He spat. A glistening glob landed on the blood cloak and turned it into a saliva cloak. Rabbiteater swore and threw it at Numbtongue, who laughed until the spit cloak splashed him. Then he just wiped away the spit in silence. Pisces nodded.
“Fascinating. The cloak is denser than it appears on first glance. It would provide a useful bulwark of sorts against physical blows, although I would hesitate to use it as cover against arrows. No, the cloak’s utility in defense is limited. What is more interesting is how much liquid the cloak holds. Therein lies its value.”
Ceria nodded slowly. She’d seen a few artifacts at Wistram, and she could follow Pisces on that.
“You mean, you could probably ‘set’ the cloak so it stopped changing all the time, right? And then use it as a portable water source? Or a portable spit source, I guess. But there has to be a limit. What happens when it runs out?”
The Hobs looked up as they scooped spit out of the cloak and slapped it over the wounds that they hadn’t healed. Yvlon gagged in the back of her throat and looked away. Pisces shook his head.
“The cloak would probably revert back to a dormant state while it recharged for a day or so. That makes it a useful tool. But the cloak would not have been designed to transport water, Ceria.”
“What then, oh great and all-knowing Pisces?”
The [Necromancer] paused.
“The true nature of that cloak—in my opinion at this juncture—is to serve as a well of blood. A portable supply that could be used in blood magic. If I were a [Bloodmage], I would pay tens of thousands—no, hundreds of thousands—of gold coins for a reusable supply of blood. That is my speculation. But I do not dabble in such dark magic.”
Pisces shook his head, looking vaguely troubled. The Horns stared at him. The Goblins stared at him. Mrsha stared at him. The [Necromancer] glanced around and flushed irritably.
“What?”
Ceria raised both her eyebrows.
“You wouldn’t use blood magic. You. Isn’t that a bit ironic?”
A haughty sniff was her reply. Pisces drew himself up as high as his low moral ground would allow.
“No. I understand your point, but there is a difference between necromancy and blood magic. Yes, necromancy makes use of the dead. It can be a tool of destruction and misery and that is how it is often employed. But it need not be. I can make use of a cadaver or animal’s corpse without harming the living for it. Blood magic, on the other hand, demands sacrifice by its very nature.”
He looked around, daring anyone to object. No one did. Ceria stared at the cloak, which had now changed back into a water cloak at Rabbiteater’s insistence.
“Okay. So it’s less useful without a [Bloodmage]. It’s still pretty useful. I saw…uh…”
Rabbiteater looked expectant. Ceria wavered.
“Headscratcher?”
Headscratcher looked insulted. Rabbiteater glared. Ceria tried again.
“Rabbiteater?”
The Hob nodded huffily. Ceria sighed.
“I saw Rabbiteater drown a Raskghar with it. On top of the other two they got.”
Whereas the Horns had killed only one Raskghar. The adventurers shifted uncomfortably, and the Hobs looked smug. No one spoke after that. Mrsha leaned against Ceria’s leg with a sigh, and the half-Elf resumed scratching. After a while, they heard Erin clattering down the stairs and Lyonette rushed out of Octavia’s shop. She had a crate in her arms.
