And there it was. Yvlon looked at Pisces. He gave her a hesitant smile. A nervous one. He was waiting to see if she’d thank him or snap his head off. Yvlon felt guilty because she knew that two weeks ago she would have done just that. That was the thing about Pisces. He was unlikeable, hard to work with. He could drive her insane and then turn around and surprise her with…this.
She thought of his bears. Undead bears. When she’d told him to use their corpses to drag the dead Crelers and the team back to Esthelm through the snow, she’d been exhausted, out of sorts, and willing to compromise her beliefs. After all, the undead bears might be undead, but they were dead animals. Pisces hadn’t killed the bears, and they would be worthless corpses any other way. So why not use them? It wouldn’t hurt anyone. And it had helped her team.
That was how [Necromancers] thought. The shock that ran through Yvlon was electric. She instantly felt guilty, but then wondered why. Why indeed? It wasn’t like using the undead hurt anyone. It was only when [Necromancers] used people—used the undead, which were tools—as weapons. But if it was just bone, just magic—
She was talking herself into something. Again, Yvlon felt a shiver run through her. She stared at Pisces. She had a thought. She’d had a thought, rather, lurking in the back of her head. Ever since she’d seen one of his Bone Horrors.
“Pisces, about your undead.”
“Yes?”
He looked surprised and alarmed at the sudden conversation change. Yvlon nodded over to a pile of bones. The undead bears had been well and truly smashed by the Raskghar, so badly that their skulls and bones were splintered and broken. Pisces hadn’t cleaned them up, so they sat on the floor, a yellowed mess of bones. Mrsha was sniffing at one.
“The Raskghar got your bears, didn’t they? Can you still use the bones? I saw the Bone Horror you made.”
“Which…one?”
Yvlon hadn’t known Pisces had more than one.
“The one with the long whip-arms.”
“Ah. My older prototype.”
“Older?”
He cleared his throat.
“Yes. It, ah, was brought to my attention by Miss Shivertail that my first prototype Bone Horror could be improved. It was not as efficient as I had hoped it to be, so I have been designing a new one.”
He shifted a bit. For some reason, Yvlon found his discomfort hilarious. She grinned at him.
“You mean, your undead wasn’t as powerful as you’d hoped? Aren’t you a master [Necromancer]?”
Pisces colored and opened his mouth before he realized she was teasing him. He blinked at her.
“Ah. Yes? Well, I only have so many bones to work with! The bones of three bears, to be precise. And I have already had to scavenge their forms to create several Bone Horrors to clear Liscor’s sewers.”
“They’re all smashed up now, though. Are the bone shards unusable?”
Pisces shrugged.
“Not if I mend the bones together. True, the problem with dead bone is that it grows weaker with every fracture, but I will incorporate the bone into a new structure. A reinforced cladding perhaps.”
“Reinforce. Like…put a layer of bone armor over an undead bear?”
The young [Necromancer]’s eyes lit up.
“Well, that is an idea. Of course, the undead bear skeletons are useful on their own—as a hasty creation, they are my preferred choice—but I wouldn’t normally attempt to reinforce them as they are. Bears are not the most powerful combatants, and they are somewhat unwieldy. Flesh and blood bears trade on their crushing weight, and a skeleton is far lighter. However, if I added armor, it might be an interesting project—”
“You really like the undead, don’t you?”
Pisces broke off. He paused.
“Is it that disagreeable?”
Yvlon shook her head. She looked up and sighed. Her heart was beating too fast for some reason.
“No, Pisces. It’s not. I guess—it’s not. Really. I don’t like undead, but I’ve gotten used to them. So you can reshape bone, huh?”
“Dead bone? Bone not controlled by another [Necromancer] or one that is part of an existing magical being? With ease.”
“And you know about anatomy.”
“One must, to create or alter undead. I am an expert in the skeletal form. I know something of flesh too, but zombies are, ah, not my forte. They rot, smell, and are generally too slow. Which is inconvenient.”
“Got it. So…tell me something. If you were going to harden a…bear’s leg. So Dawil couldn’t break it in half with his hammer, say. How would you do that?”
Pisces frowned, his brow furrowing as he considered her challenge.
“There are many ways. Armor, as you mentioned, might work. It is possible to fabricate bone armor—but Dawil is a strong combatant. Rather than trust to an exterior defence, I would harden the bone. Thicken it.”
“What if you couldn’t do that? Is there another way to reinforce the bone without…solidifying it?”
“Well of course. I could create a frame around the arm—add in supports. There is a point at which [Necromancy] becomes architecture, you see. It is entirely possible to create a—a network of bone, almost like a spider web. That kind of support becomes far stronger because it distributes weight. If I must protect a lynchpin in the structure, I can adjust the bones around it to reduce the force that is applied to the bone in question.”
“Good. Do that to my arm.”
Yvlon thrust her bare arm in Pisces face. He recoiled. Then he stared at her. Pisces’ mouth opened in complete and utter surprise.
“Are you serious?”
“Yes.”
The Human woman breathed in heavily and then out. She was shivering inside, but her voice was steady.
“It’s obvious. I didn’t think of it before because I would have rather died than have you—have anything undead in my body. But it’s just bone, right? I’m sure you can make a bracer—put something around my arm, in my arm—make it so it won’t break in a fight. You can do that, can’t you?”
Pisces sat back. His face was pale. Yvlon was reassured to see that her idea had shocked even him.
“Miss Byres, that is not something I ever considered doing. I understand you’re upset, but I cannot guarantee anything. No—doing something like that would be criminal on my part. If Ceria—”
Yvlon gritted her teeth.
“I’m not asking her. I’m asking you. Can you do it?”
Pisces’ gaze flickered to Yvlon. He hesitated.
“Perhaps. But I will not do it.”
“Why not? I need my arms to work, Pisces. Not later. Not when you’re Level 40 or Level 50. Dead gods, how long would that take? I need my arms to work now, and if you can reinforce them with [Necromancy]—why are you hesitating? I’m offering you a once-in-a-lifetime chance to experiment with my arms, to figure out how to improve a living body! You should be leaping on this chance!”
“But you are my teammate. And I do not—will not experiment with the living.”
Pisces’ voice was soft. Yvlon stared at him. Principles. A needle’s edge of morality.
“Then don’t experiment. Fix me. If you can do it, do it. You know how good you are, Pisces. Prove it. Can you change my arms?”
He wavered. Pisces’ eyes flicked past Yvlon to Ceria and Ksmvr. He half-rose, and then, slowly, sat back down. He looked Yvlon in the eyes.
“I can. Is that really what you wish?”
She wavered. For a second, every story and folktale she’d ever heard about necromancy, about the undead, the Necromancer, flashed through Yvlon’s mind. Then she met Pisces’ eyes. There was confidence there. Yvlon nodded.
“Use the bear bones. Do it. Before I change my mind.”
Pisces held Yvlon’s gaze for a long time. Then, slowly, he reached out. He took Yvlon’s bare arms, stared at the pale skin, white from hiding in Yvlon’s armor for so long. At last, he inclined his head the barest fraction of an inch.
“I will begin with a lattice…”
 
——
 
Yvlon held still, completely still, as Pisces bent over her arms. She could feel her skin moving, feel him cut into her arm, insert bone where it should not be. She felt her flesh and muscles moving as he forced bone into her arm, cut and using a healing potion to…well, she didn’t know.
Pisces had explained his idea, but it hadn’t made sense to Yvlon. A structure of bone like a spider web? Cushioning her bone? Adding in a splint? Well, the last part made sense, but she had no idea how it looked. She did not, by and large, stare into people’s bodies. Nor was she about to start.
The [Necromancer] was working over her arm, shielded from view at the table where they sat. No one paid attention to them. As far as the other occupants of the inn were concerned, Pisces was still fixing Yvlon’s arm. An occasional glance over was all that Yvlon received.
“You are not feeling any discomfort?”
“It feels weird and unpleasant. But I can’t feel pain. You don’t need to keep asking.”
“Very well. I am adding in the splint now. It should keep the stability of your arm even if your bone breaks. After all, what moves your arm is muscle. The bone is simply structure.”
“Right. Never thought of it like that.”
“And I will shield your bone as well. Naturally, I will check on your arm after each battle, but you should be able to use your arm without fear of crippling yourself. Both arms, in fact. And I stress once again that all of this can be removed quite easily.”
“Of course.”
“I can pull these bones out with eas—with no proble—with minimal—well, it is a matter of delicacy inserting and removing such bones without, ah, tearing through all your skin. But it can be done.”
“Got it.”
“If you have any concerns—”
“I trust you, Pisces.”
He fell silent. Yvlon stared at his face so she couldn’t see her blood and flesh and the bones moving about. This was her second arm. The right one. He’d already finished on the left one. It felt…she could feel it was different. Heavier. But sturdy, too. She made a fist with her left hand. He’d told her she could block any number of Raskghar strikes with that arm.
“So. You didn’t learn this at Wistram, did you?”
Pisces glanced up. He smiled briefly. He was trying to be chatty, reassure Yvlon.
“Oh no. You know my story of course. The…mistakes I made with Ceria.”
Yvlon’s mind flashed back to the long cart ride from Celum to Liscor when Ceria had told the story. Back then, Pisces hadn’t said much, only interjecting a few comments now and then. She remembered his expression.
“Yeah. You never really told us your side of things. Did anything Ceria say…did you disagree with any of it?”
Pisces looked back down at Yvlon’s arm.
“Nothing worth noting. She was largely correct. I kept my necromancy hidden as long as possible during my time at Wistram. And of course, I had no instruction while I was there. What I know now is mostly a product of trial and error. Of course, I did learn more after I left the academy. I had…encounters…with others who shared the same interests I did.”
“Really? You met other people like you? In Izril?”
“Oh yes. In my travels after leaving the academy, I made it a point to seek out other [Necromancers] and covens of like-minded individuals. Izril is not fond of those who raise the undead, but death magic can be found in every continent. Even Terandria, although it is outlawed there. But if one knows where to look…”
Pisces trailed off. Yvlon nodded. She had heard of incidents involving petty [Necromancers] over the years. It was one of the classic adventurer quests, in fact. Go track down the source of the undead and slay whomever was responsible.
“So? Was it good meeting them?”
The young man shook his head, his lips twisting into a sneer of contempt.
“Hardly. I erroneously believed that I would find kindred spirits among such people. Alas, such encounters were ultimately dissatisfactory. Most of those who practice death magic lack the…standards I hold myself to. Low and twisted though they may be.”
He glanced up with a half-smile. Yvlon couldn’t help but smile in reply.
“Self-deprecation isn’t your strong suit, Pisces. So these other [Necromancers] didn’t impress you?”
“Let us simply say that they lacked finesse in any sense of the word. I joined a local group a year before I came to Liscor—The Krythien Sect, I believe. They might still be operating. A pity. They were nothing more than amateurs. No knowledge of anatomy or spellcraft between all of them put together. They only understood how to animate a body, not how it worked. None of them would be able to do what I am doing now. Speaking of which—”
Yvlon raised her arm. Pisces grabbed it.
“Hold on! I haven’t closed the wound!”
She stared at her arm. It looked like someone had taken a sharp knife and sliced her flesh to ribbons. Pisces poured the healing potion over her arm, and she felt the flesh close. She flexed her arm. Swung it.
“How does it feel?”
Pisces watched her anxiously. Yvlon banged her forearm on the side of the table, pushed at it with her other hand. Then she smiled.
“It feels solid.”
She smiled at Pisces, and he leaned back in relief. The two sat there for a second, Pisces wiping away sweat from his eyes. Two healing potions lay on the table, both completely empty. Pisces had downed a mana potion, and he looked worn out. But it was done.
“Thank you, Pisces.”
“Thank me after you hit something. This is all a trial. If there are any complications, I will fix them. In fact, this is just the start.”
Yvlon paused as she put her armor back over her arms.
“Oh? What did you have in mind?”
Pisces leaned forwards conspiratorially.
“If you would like me to, I could research a way to strengthen the metal in your arms as well. Not with [Necromancy]—a basic [Hardening] spell or some kind of reinforcement magic would allow you to fight quite normally. I am sure one of my spellbooks has the necessary spell listed in it. I hadn’t even thought of it, but the metal in your arms is a foreign object! If we did that, there might be no need for my using bone at all.”
Yvlon thought about that.
“Why the hell didn’t you think of any of this earlier?”
Pisces looked insulted.
“Who thinks of enchanting the metal in one’s arms? Frankly, your idea was so unorthodox that even I, a [Necromancer] trained in Wistram—”
He grinned as Yvlon chuckled.
“—Wouldn’t have considered it! But if you are willing to take a calculated risk, then I will adjust my studying.”
The Human woman thought about this. She felt her arms. Strong. Then she nodded.
“Do it. We’ll keep it between us for now.”
“Indeed. I understand this is, well, it would be a problem if anyone were to learn of it.”
“For them. Yeah. But I think I know how I feel. Pisces.”
Yvlon held out a hand. Pisces looked at it. Slowly, he extended his arm and shook her hand. Yvlon smiled. Pisces smiled too then yelped.
“My hand! My hand!”
