The mood in the rest of the inn was…well, it wasn’t tense, but it wasn’t relaxed either. Gnolls were missing. Liscor had been attacked. Again! It seemed like they couldn’t get a break. Only this time, the threat hadn’t disappeared with the end of the fighting like the moths. The Raskghar had retreated, and so what was taking place in the inn was a war council.
Everyone of note was present. All three Gold-rank teams, Tekshia, Zevara, Venim, Ilvriss, Embria, Olesm, Drassi—alright, some of the people present were there for other reasons, but the Drake population spoke to the gravitas of the moment. They were all appointed officials, and the fact that they were all Drakes was not lost on Pisces.
“Speciesism at its finest. At least they have deigned to include Miss Krshia, Guardsman Klbkch, and the Gold-rank adventurers in the discussion.”
Pisces whispered to Ceria as they sat near the back of the war council. They were, in fact, sitting behind a few plumper, older Drakes who were actually on Liscor’s council. Pisces’ whisper reached their ears, and the Drakes turned to frown at Pisces. So did Ceria.
“Shush!”
He sniffed, which was all the commentary he really needed, and stood up to get a drink. Erin was catering the council, and she’d elected to serve people buffet style. Pisces wandered over to a table and stared at a devilled egg. He saw a little furry paw reach up and snatch it. Pisces peered under the tablecloth and found Mrsha sitting under the table. With Bird.
“Hello Pisces. I am hiding with Mrsha. I am not sure why, but it is fun.”
The [Necromancer] waited for his heart to stop pounding before he lowered the tablecloth and turned without another word. He looked into a pair of yellow, reptilian eyes. Selys paused with a fish flake in one claw.
“Oh, it’s you. You’re alive?”
Pisces paused and straightened his robes.
“Ah, Miss Selys. It is good to see you well. You are unharmed, I trust?”
She nodded and glanced at the tablecloth.
“I survived. Hid in my apartment until I heard the all-clear. Been working at the Adventurer’s Guild sorting things out until Olesm called for grandmother to come here. She pulled me over too.”
She gestured at the hiding Mrsha and Bird as they peeked out and grabbed more food before hiding once more.
“You saw them too? Nearly scared the scales off my tail when I saw Bird down there.”
“There is something about seeing a crouching Antinium hiding in the darkness that wakes one up. I take it you are participating in this meeting as well?”
Selys lifted up the roll of parchment and quill in her other hand and grimaced as she chewed on the fish flake.
“I get to write everything down. My grandmother has me doing it.”
“Ah. Guildmistress Tekshia Shivertail.”
Pisces glanced across the room at the elderly Drake who was giving him the evil eye. Tekshia looked away, and Selys sighed.
“She hates your guts.”
“I had noticed. Well, I am quite interested in what we shall learn from this…interrogation.”
Pisces nodded to the Cave Goblin tied up in the center of the room. Olesm was standing next to the Redfang Goblins, nervously calibrating a truth detection stone while the Hobs spoke to the little Goblin. The rest of the room was abuzz with idle conversation as Selys and Pisces made their way forwards. Everyone was waiting to find out what the Goblin knew, but that relied on the Redfang Goblins finding out first. And they seemed to be having trouble. Pisces inferred this detail from the way an impatient Badarrow and Shorthilt lifted the Goblin and chair up and began shaking it violently upside down as it screamed and thrashed and then threw up.
“Aw, come on guys! Don’t be mean! Just ask it what it knows!”
Erin made the Redfang Goblins stop and put the dizzy Cave Goblin right-side up. Numbtongue, the translator, growled and shook his head.
“It not saying. It is not talking. To us.”
“Well, can you make it talk? I mean, her?”
Pisces blinked at the little Goblin. Was it a she? He could barely tell, but yes, the Goblin did have a modest breast band to go with the filthy loincloth it was wearing. Numbtongue shrugged.
“We can make her talk. With more shaking.”
“Oh come on. What if we tried being nice?”
The Redfang Goblins looked at each other and then laughed. Erin sighed, and Pisces smirked. Selys elbowed him.
“Stop laughing. Erin’s too nice for this.”
Pisces rubbed his side.
“That is precisely why I am so amused. It is because of her kindness that we are in this position. No one else would have spared the Goblin. Possibly not even her own kind. And yet, that kindness goes at odds against the Goblin’s own culture.”
“Yeah? Looks like they’re just bullying the little Goblin.”
Selys eyed the Hobs as Headscratcher made a fist and waved it under the Cave Goblin’s nose. It shrieked, and Pisces sighed.
“You think so? Goblins normally do not have to threaten each other to get their way. They are a hierarchical species and rarely bully each other. This is an exception—the Cave Goblin is refusing to answer their questions. She is insulting the Hobs by denying that they are, in fact, Goblins.”
Selys looked at Pisces in surprise. Her eyes narrowed suspiciously.
“How do you know that?”
“I listen.”
The [Necromancer] tapped one ear as the Cave Goblin babbled a high-pitched string of gibberish at the Hobs and Headscratcher replied with clear annoyance in his tone. Selys stared at the Goblins and then looked at Pisces in disbelief.
“You taught yourself Goblin? Why?”
“Curiosity. It was more of a hobby than anything else. You will recall that Erin often invited Rags and her small retinue of Goblins to the inn? I occasionally listened to them converse and made a small dictionary of words. It was an amusing puzzle, although I admit, Goblin language is more complex than I had previously understood.”
“And again, why would that help you at all? I mean, really?”
Pisces shrugged.
“The Goblins have secrets, Miss Selys. I wished to know some of them. Secrets are important. Valuable. They are the dark lifeblood of this world. They run thicker than blood and are worth far more than gold.”
Selys rolled her eyes.
“Ancestors, that’s pretentious. And what big secrets do Goblins have?”
The young Human man smiled.
“Well, this one has enough to attract the attention of a Wall Lord, three high-ranking Drake officials, a room full of adventurers, and your good self. Is that enough?”
Selys opened her mouth, swished her tail a few times, and then raised a clawed finger.
“Alright. You get that one. Just what are the Goblins talking about?”
Pisces frowned. His command of the Goblin language was more rudimentary than he’d like to admit. However, he knew a few words, and he could infer a lot from body language, which was how Goblins communicated mainly anyways. He hesitated and stroked his chin.
“I think she’s asking whether they’re Goblins.”
The Drake [Receptionist] looked at Pisces in disbelief.
“Are you serious?”
Pisces nodded. He spoke slowly as the Goblins argued back and forth.
“She keeps repeating a word. The Goblin word for…well, their people. And whenever…Headscratcher, I believe that one is…says the word for Hobgoblin, she shakes her head. Indeed, she is saying ‘not Goblin’. They are not Goblins. That is a potent insult in Goblin culture, I believe.”
“Huh.”
Selys slowly unrolled the piece of parchment. She balanced the inkpot on her arm and began to write as she stood with Pisces. She saw several heads turning as well as the ambient noise died down. Halrac, all the Gnolls, Ceria, Falene, and those sitting or standing around Pisces turned their heads and listened as Pisces went on.
“Yes, the initial argument that Erin interrupted…seems to be all about that. I think the Goblin is willing to talk—very willing—but the Redfang Goblins are angry about being called not Goblin.”
“Are you serious? They’ve been arguing for the last ten minutes about this! Can’t they get past it?”
“I very much doubt it. The Hobs are insistent on being called Goblins. And on being treated with respect, since they are higher in Goblin society than the Cave Goblin.”
And indeed, the Redfang Warriors were explaining this to the Cave Goblin in a gabble of words and actions that involved chest thumping, Headscratcher striking a pose and rapid gestures. The little Goblin’s eyes went wide. Pisces’ own eyes narrowed.
“She’s never seen a Hobgoblin before. Fascinating.”
Selys frowned.
“Get out. Almost every Goblin tribe has at least one Hob. Even the smallest ones! She has to at least have heard of a Hob—”
“Apparently not. Look. I think they have resolved the issue.”
The Redfang Goblins were nodding in satisfaction to Erin. She nodded as the Cave Goblin babbled up at Numbtongue and he replied. Ilvriss, who had been talking quietly with Zevara, turned.
“Is the Goblin finally willing to talk? At last. Then I declare this war meeting begun. Keep the monster quiet until we have need of it.”
Pisces rolled his eyes as Ilvriss took the center of the room. The [Necromancer] stepped back, and he and Selys found a table. As the Drake scribbled notes, the meeting began, with the Drakes taking charge of the discussion. Selys had to painstakingly write everything in short-hand, her quill skimming across the parchment. Pisces for his part amused himself by condensing the long-winded discussion down into the appropriate key points as he saw them.
The council started by outlining what was obvious. The Raskghar had attacked both the inn and Liscor. Troublingly, they’d also attacked some of the outlying settlements such as the villages on hills. Reports were spotty given the darkness, but it looked like at least one hilltop was in ruins, the inhabitants dead…or missing.
What was known about the Raskghar was that they had attacked and kidnapped Gnolls while killing Drakes for reasons unknown. Krshia related the legend of the Raskghar in brief—they were ancient offshoots of the Gnollish race who had warred with the Gnolls and lost their ability to level in exchange for brute power. More importantly, they regained sapience each full moon. And it appeared that sentience was putting it mildly.
“Those bastards launched a coordinated attack and moved in small groups. They ambushed my [Guardsmen] on patrol—even disguised themselves as Gnolls when moving through the city. One of the Raskghar spoke and apparently learned our language in moments after hearing it. They’re stronger, faster, and tougher than they were reported being in the past.”
Zevara pounded a fist on her table. She had a cut over her right brow. Embria looked vexed as she sat next to her father. Relc was scarfing down food until she elbowed him in the stomach.
“A creature that grows stronger with each full moon. What kind of strange ability is that?”
“They’re werewolves.”
Everyone looked at Erin. She looked around disbelievingly.
“Oh, come on. You mean you’ve never heard of werewolves? Really? Dudes that change from Human into, uh, furry dudes each full moon? They look sort of like Gnolls. Except more wolfy. I think.”
The Gnolls present in the room looked troubled. The Drakes and adventurers conferred and then shook their heads. Embria looked sharply at Erin.
“We’ve never heard of these…werewolves. Elaborate, Miss Human. Please.”
“It’s only a legend where I come from. I’ve never seen one myself. But, well…werewolves change forms each full moon. They grow stronger, tougher, and they heal really fast. Sort of like Raskghar. Oh, and they transmit their, uh, werewolf powers by biting people. I think. It’s like a disease.”
Zevara shook her head.
“Similar to the Raskghar legend. But different. I haven’t heard any of the wounded complain, but I’ll keep them under watch. Is that all, Erin?”
“Yes. Well, no, actually. There’s one thing about werewolves. They have a weakness. Silver.”
“Silver?”
Everyone in the room leaned forwards at that. Erin nodded.
“Silver really hurts werewolves. Don’t know if it’d kill Raskghar better. They, uh, seem to die with or without silver weapons. But it might be worth looking into.”
“Silver weapons. Why would anyone make a blade out of silver?”
Embria looked blank. It was Ylawes who cleared his throat.
“To hunt vampires, Wing Commander. If it’s silver you want—I have a silver alloyed blade right here.”
He drew his longsword and placed it on the table.
“Oh, so you’ve got vampires but not werewolves? How does that make sense?”
Perhaps only Pisces paid attention to Erin’s muttering. No—not only him. He noticed Typhenous looking at Erin before he, like everyone else, turned back to Ylawes. The [Knight] was explaining to Embria what the blade meant.
“In centuries—perhaps millennia past, vampires were a common threat. My family, House Byres, made specially crafted arms to deal with them, and my family were known enemies of their kind. The last vampires were sighted four hundred years ago, I believe, which has reduced the need for silver arms, but Byres steel always incorporates a bit of silver into the metal in this tradition.”
Embria frowned.
“Huh. So does it work?”
“Sadly, I never had a chance to wound one of the Raskghar. My team elected to protect a large group of civilians during the night, and Falene killed or chased away any Raskghar before they could close with us.”
Ylawes looked apologetic. Embria grunted.
“That’s a shame. But—fine. We’ll see if silver hurts these things later. What else?”
The conversation swung back to damage on the city, reports of wounded and missing. Liscor had endured another attack, and one of the Drakes on the council, the head of the Merchant’s Guild, was particularly upset.
“Why is Liscor under attack? Why must we endure assault after assault? It’s all because of this dungeon! The dungeon that the Antinium never warned us about!”
He pointed to Klbkch accusatorially, his finger shaking with outrage. Klbkch didn’t react, and it was Zevara who came to his defense.
“The Antinium are our allies, Council Member Ulseil. I would ask that you refrain from making any allegations…at this point.”
Ulseil hesitated, but sat as Zevara glared at him. She was in charge in a definite way, Pisces noted. That was in keeping with Drake tradition—a Watch Captain was second to only a [General] when it came to the defense of their home city.
“Revalantor Klbkch. Do you have any information to add about the Raskghar threat?”
Ilvriss looked like he was chewing sour toads as he addressed the Antinium. Klbkch stood up and spoke in a calm, carrying voice.
