“Okay, potions! Octavia doesn’t have any exploding potions—she doesn’t know the recipe. But I’ve got Tripvine Bags, the Pepper Potion, a Stink Potion—lots of healing, mana, and stamina potions—”
“Put it there. Anyone grab one if they need it. I’m changing the door to Liscor. No—wait. Pallass first.”
Erin rushed past Lyonette as the [Barmaid] placed the crate on the table. Erin yanked the door open to Pallass, and Ceria saw a dark street in front of her. Erin took a breath and shouted.
“Hey! I know there are Drakes watching this door! Get out here! Liscor’s under attack! Again!”
There was a moment of silence, then someone swore. A Drake appeared. Erin waved her over and conferred. The Horns saw the Drake dash off, and then another one ran through the doorway. Erin pointed at the dead Raskghar and talked rapidly while the Horns watched.
“We should help.”
“How?”
“Go through to Liscor? Aid in the fighting if there’s any?”
“There’s the City Watch, those angry Drake [Soldiers], three Gold-rank teams, and a lot of Silver-rank ones in the city. And that Wall Lord.”
“Right.”
The Horns stayed put. After a few minutes, they heard pounding footsteps and shouting on the other side of Pallass. A [Mage] must have charged the door because Venim came through with an escort of eight Drakes all wearing Pallass’ yellow armor. Erin closed the door, conferred with Venim, and then opened it to Liscor. She pointed, and Venim charged through. Erin hopped about in place anxiously before rushing over to the three Hobs and the Horns.
“Hey guys, Venim’s checking things out. Can you guard the door? I want to keep it open—”
“We’ll do it.”
The Horns of Hammerad stood up. The Redfangs stayed at the actual door. The weary adventurers trudged over, and Mrsha padded over until Lyonette stopped her.
“Not you, Mrsha. Stay back from the door. Go play by the stage, alright?”
The Gnoll looked upset. She whined in the back of her throat. Lyonette pointed.
“Come on. You be a good girl, okay? I’ll come over as soon as I can, but Erin’s got me pulling out food—”
“Food?”
All the adventurers and Goblins looked up. Erin nodded as she hurried out of the kitchen with a platter of pre-made bowls of soup now heated steaming hot.
“Food! If anyone’s hurt in Liscor, we’ll bandage them up and feed them. Mrsha, listen to Lyonette.”
The Gnoll whined again.
“Mrsha, it won’t be long. Look, why don’t you sit over there and play with your ball? It’s…where did it go?”
Lyonette looked around. Mrsha’s little leather ball had disappeared after her throwing game with Bird. The Horns looked, and then Yvlon called out.
“I see it. Here.”
The little ball was lying on the ground next to the wall. Yvlon trudged over to it, her metal armor clanking dully with each step. She reached down with her left arm and paused. Her hand missed the ball. She frowned down at her arm. And then stared.
Everyone stared at Yvlon’s left arm. Her right one was whole—flexible, functional as any arm should be. It slowly picked up Mrsha’s leather ball as Yvlon turned. But her left one? Yvlon’s shield arm was bent at the forearm. The metal armor was still intact, but the flesh and bone beneath had twisted. Ceria’s stomach lurched as she saw Yvlon staring down at her mangled arm, the hand and wrist sticking out at an angle from where they should be.
The armored woman looked around. Ceria opened and closed her mouth a few times. At last, she managed to speak.
“I thought you weren’t hurt, Yvlon.”
Yvlon slowly nodded. She stared down at her arm, the same arm that had bent when blocking the Raskghar’s strike during the fight. She grimaced.
“I forgot. I guess. I…didn’t feel a thing.”
 
——
 
That was the thing. She really hadn’t. She hadn’t felt a bit of pain when her arm had broken during the fight. She hadn’t felt it afterwards either, not the entire time she’d been sitting with the others. Yvlon had even leaned on her broken arm. It was lucky she’d still been wearing her armor—she might have snapped the bone clean in half if the armor hadn’t prevented the bones from moving any further.
However, no one could quite believe that. They all knew that Yvlon had the [Ignore Pain] Skill, but it was one thing to know that and another to see Yvlon wave around her floppy arm without so much as flinching.
“Dead gods, Yvlon, stop that! Okay, we believe you! You can’t feel it! But you need to heal that arm now!”
Ceria’s face was pale as she practically forced Yvlon into a seat. The Human woman almost wanted to laugh at how panicked the half-Elf seemed. What was a broken arm compared to Crelers and the other horrors they’d seen and fought over their careers? She waved Ceria away as she fumbled with her gauntlet. It was hard getting it off at the odd angle, and she eventually let Ceria pull the metal off her arm. It came loose with a sucking sound, and Ceria’s hiss told Yvlon everything she needed to know before she looked down.
Wet, congealed blood bubbled out and splashed onto the floor. Yvlon stared at the red, puffy skin around her broken bone and then at the places where the skin had torn away. But instead of revealing yellowed bone, the broken bone shone dully in places. Bloody metal mixed with bone. The metal of her old armor that had fused to her bones. Yvlon stared at her arm without changing expression.
She could feel nothing. Ceria, on the other hand, was fumbling for a potion, cursing with panic.
“Ceria. It’s fine. I can’t feel it.”
“That is not fine! You should have told us your arm was—gods, the bone’s nearly snapped in two! Pisces! Get over here!”
The [Necromancer] appeared next to the two. He peered at the arm with more clinical detachment than Ceria, but there was still a wince in his gaze as he looked up at Yvlon.
“A poor break. I can mend the bone. Put away that potion, Ceria. Or do you want Yvlon to have a stump rather than a connected arm?”
He thrust away the healing potion. Ceria jumped, and Yvlon nodded. If Ceria had applied it to her broken arm without at least joining the bones together, the flesh might have grown over the broken bone instead, effectively amputating her arm. Or worse—she’d end up with some kind of freakishly malformed new bridge in her arm made entirely of flesh and no bone. Yvlon had heard all the horror stories about healing potions used wrong.
“Here. Take it. Fix Yvlon’s arm. I need to watch the door.”
Ceria thrust the potion into Pisces’ hands and hurried back to the doorway. Ksmvr was waiting there with his shortbow in hand, watching for Raskghar that might appear in Liscor’s rainy streets. He kept glancing back at Yvlon, though. Anxiously. She smiled and waved her good hand at him.
“Keep still, please. I will need to reinforce the bone. Hm…yes, and regrow as much as I can to fuse it together. Your arm will be weaker for a day or two, but, ah, the bones should return to normal after that. Such as normal may be.”
Pisces knelt by Yvlon’s arm. She stared at her discolored, swelling flesh. Funny, she recalled how her old team, the Silver Spears, used to tease her about her flawless complexion, as if she were ready to ride to a ball rather than a monster hunt. Yvlon tried to remember their faces and found it was harder than it should be.
Not so funny, actually. She closed her eyes a moment as Pisces bent over her arm, frowning and muttering.
“By ‘normal’, you mean my arm will still be weak as before, don’t you.”
The [Necromancer] paused.
“I cannot remove the metal in your arm. And it is badly fatigued. So…yes. It will break if you subject it to undue force.”
“Like blocking? I couldn’t take more than one hit. I had to fight the rest of the battle with one arm.”
Shame burned Yvlon. She’d had to fall back, let Ksmvr cover her while she held the Raskghar back with her sword arm. She looked at Pisces. He’d forgotten his rapier, but he’d still burnt the Raskghar, used his undead bears to distract them. Now he was fixing her, the wounded one. The useless one.
“The Raskghar were incredibly strong. And perhaps your sword and shield style is unsuited to your current condition. However, your enchanted sword should allow you to fight with great effectiveness. If you don’t block.”
“Great. So I can hit things lightly. Is that it?”
“You were aware of the complications beforehand.”
“I know. I just—”
Yvlon broke off and turned her head. She didn’t like Pisces. She didn’t like him, and yet, she didn’t hate him. Not anymore. He was her teammate when all things were said and done, and she—she was the one who had let him down. Her gaze went over to her shield. The little buckler, the enchanted Forceshield Buckler.
“I forgot to activate the magic on my shield. I just blocked the Raskghar like an idiot.”
Pisces glanced at the inert buckler. He shrugged.
“I did notice. However, I forgot my rapier and my wand. We were caught off-guard, with no time to prepare.”
“I know. I know! But why is it that everyone’s okay, whereas my arms—dead gods, Pisces. I’m so useless.”
“You are hardly useless. You cut off the Raskghar’s arm with a single blow. Highly demoralizing, I would imagine. And you slew two of the Cave Goblins. That is hardly the actions of dead weight.”
Yvlon wanted to laugh. Now Pisces was trying to comfort her of all people! She stared at her arm. Pisces was moving the bones, carefully guiding the broken bones into place. A bit of her blood covered his hands as her skin tore a bit more.
“My apologies.”
“I can’t feel it. I told you.”
The [Necromancer] paused.
“That is…convenient. This would not feel pleasant otherwise.”
Yvlon could certainly agree with that. And strangely, though she couldn’t feel the pain, she could feel Pisces shifting her bones around. It was a strange, uncomfortable feeling. Unnatural. She held still though, gritting her teeth. After a moment of Pisces working, she spoke.
“Pisces?”
“Yes, Yvlon?”
“My arms are shot. I can’t fight with them. Not like this. If I take a bad hit and lose one arm—or two—I’m a liability in combat.”
“Only until I am able to restore your arms. With a healing potion and my skills, your arms can be easily restored. Frankly, it is somewhat shocking how effective my talents are—”
“Shut up, Pisces. Don’t downplay what I’m saying.”
A pause.
“My apologies, Yvlon. But what option do you have? You yourself wished to continue adventuring.”
“I do. I do. But this—”
Yvlon’s head spun. She didn’t want to quit. She couldn’t quit. Abandon the Horns? They were all she had left. What would she do if she stopped adventuring? Sell her gear? Go live on her family’s estates—try and become a [Merchant] and help out with the business? As a failure? A cripple with weak arms? Never. And yet—she looked at Pisces, despairing.
He was a [Necromancer]. She’d hated and distrusted him for that when they’d first known each other. No—that had been when she first joined the Horns. Before that, she hadn’t even thought of Pisces. He’d been…just another contemptible person. Someone to avoid, oppose if necessary.
Now? She had to admit his spells were powerful. Useful. Yvlon had to admit that his skeletons had saved their team’s lives more than once. His ability to shape bone had restored her arms when she’d be crippled for months with each break. His undead bears? She’d told him to use their bones. And they had been helpful.
A…feeling stole over Yvlon. A shiver, only it ran through her insides rather than across her flesh. She stared at Pisces. A [Necromancer]. By his own admission, someone who would desecrate corpses. Raise the undead. Pisces was arrogant, greedy, and rude when he chose to be. But he was not an evil man. She had seen enough of him to know that. And his powers—
“I am nearly done fusing your bones together. Please do not move.”
Yvlon jumped. She hadn’t realized Pisces was nearly finished. He gave her a long-suffering look and adjusted his grip.
“As I said.”
The woman held still as Pisces clutched her bleeding, puffy arm. He frowned down at something only he could see, then nodded.
“Very good. Now, a healing potion for the flesh and your arm is restored.”
He gently poured the liquid over Yvlon’s arm. She felt a bit of cold and then felt her swollen flesh retract, return to normal. Yvlon stared at her whole, unblemished arm. Pisces smiled.
“And there we are. Another fine shaping of bone. A pity I could not do anything about the metal. For now. Miss Byres—”
He hesitated, looking at Yvlon carefully. She glanced up at him as she flexed her arm.
“What was that?”
Pisces gently bit one lip, thinking as he carefully eyed Yvlon. She knew that look. It meant he was about to suggest something he knew she’d object to. However, this time Yvlon didn’t feel any irritation. Any disgust. She waited, patiently.
“Go on. Tell me.”
“I, ah, know you have spoken to [Healers] and [Blacksmiths] about your arm. An odd combination, but the metal is grafted to the bone. As they have said, it cannot be removed without essentially destroying the bone itself. It is a miracle any bone marrow remains, frankly, but you were lucky. However, the weakness of your bones has preyed on my mind. It may be—and I only suggest this, I would never force you into any decision—it may be that in time I will gain the Skills or learn a spell to enhance your bones or remove the metal myself.”
Yvlon stared at Pisces as he sat back, visibly apprehensive.
“You? Fix my arms? But you said it couldn’t be done.”
He grimaced.
“Not at my level. A [Necromancer] has extreme, and I do mean extreme, difficulty working with living bodies. Manipulating bone? I can crack an unled skeleton in two at fifty paces, but it requires physical, skin-to-skin contact to manipulate a living person’s bone up close—and even then, only when they do not resist. Actually shaping bone or reinforcing it is far beyond my level. But for a Level 40 [Necromancer]? If I found a spellbook with the necessary spells? I am assured that any [Necromancer] above Level 50 would have no problem restoring your arms.”
“Really? Who told you that?”
Pisces shifted and scratched behind one ear.
“Ah, well, assured may be too overconfident a word. I’ve read a few books about more powerful [Necromancers]. I am certain it can be done. Give me time and I will come up with a more complete solution to your dilemma. Until then, do not despair.”
