“I regret the attack on Liscor as much as any other citizen. In my capacity as Senior Guardsman Klbkch and as Revalantor of the Free Antinium Hive, I am authorized to share all the information my Hive has on the Raskghar. Unfortunately, that is very little. The Antinium Hive has regularly fought off monster waves, but all the Raskghar encountered inevitably attack in small groups with other monster species. It is an unusual phenomenon that has sometimes seen Raskghar fighting side-by-side with Crypt Lords and other species that would not normally ally under any circumstances—only to tear each other apart at a later date.”
“A function of the dungeon, perhaps?”
The Drakes looked to the Gold-rank adventurers who shrugged noncommittally. Klbkch went on.
“As for a coordinated attack…the Hive was not assaulted in any capacity during the night. The Raskghar seem to avoid the Hive. I believe that this may be due to their understanding of the dangers of the Hive or the fact that no Gnolls live within the Hive.”
A brief silence fell as Klbkch found his seat. One of the other Council members, a Drake with light pinkish scales, complained softly.
“Why Gnolls? It isn’t as if we don’t have enough problems. Now we have to look for—”
Someone shushed her. In the silence, Ilvriss looked around wearily. He focused on an elderly Drake sitting near the back of the crowd.
“Guildmistress Tekshia? Do you have anything to add?”
The elderly Drake looked up. Her voice crackled as she sat up in her chair. She was eating from a plate of cookies Erin had taken out. Pisces had not seen anyone else eating one. Not even Mrsha.
“I hear a lot of whining. What do you want me to say? The Raskghar are dangerous? Bah. Stop complaining, you thin-scaled cowards. You’ve weathered two—three attacks and you’re upset? You lack perspective.”
Her gaze went around the room. She pushed her plate back, noticed the white furry head appear over the side of the table, and smacked Mrsha’s paw away and yanked her plate back. Tekshia covered it protectively with one claw as she spoke.
“Someone explain it to them. One of you Gold-ranks. I call on the most senior adventurer in this room besides myself.”
“Ah. Well then—”
Falene rose gracefully to her feet, smiling as everyone looked at her. She opened her mouth, and Tekshia threw a cookie at her.
“Not you, half-Elf. I said senior adventurer, not oldest. Which one of you is it?”
Every eye swung to Halrac. He grunted.
“Not me.”
He looked to his left. Typhenous stroked his beard and smiled, but shook his head.
“I haven’t adventured as long as the esteemed Miss Ivirith.”
He nodded, and every eye focused on the Selphid. Jelaqua stood up slowly. She grinned, the pale, dead Drake’s face she wore stretching into a toothy grin as her tail twitched a bit in embarrassment.
“Guess that’s true. Hi. Most senior adventurer here.”
“You? But how old is—”
Erin looked between Typhenous and Jelaqua. The Selphid grimaced.
“I’m fifty-one years old. I’ve been adventuring for about thirty-three years, which beats Typhenous.”
“By six years. I retired and came back to adventuring twice. And while I may claim to be older than Miss Ivirith, I am afraid that she has more experience than I.”
Typhenous stroked his white beard and smiled. Jelaqua sighed. She looked at Tekshia.
“You want me to say it?”
The old Drake nodded. Jelaqua scratched the spines on the back of her head.
“Alright. Fine. Most Gold-rank adventurers have to say stuff like this. What Guildmistress Tekshia wants me to say, I guess, is that…well, this is normal.”
Everyone looked at the Selphid. Jelaqua raised her hands awkwardly.
“You think this is unique to your city? You think other cities don’t have this problem? You have a Gold-rank dungeon sitting right next to your city. Under it. I’ve seen cities in Baleros fall to a Silver-rank dungeon located ten miles away! Dungeons are bad news. Getting hit over and over is—well, it’s what happens. This is like a siege. A siege from the dungeon. Cities often mobilize their armies to defend themselves. A bad dungeon isn’t just as bad as an enemy army. Sometimes it has multiple armies waiting to come out. So yeah. This is normal. Sorry.”
Jelaqua sat back down. The citizens of Liscor stared at her in horror. It was Ilvriss who broke the silence.
“It seems we have underestimated the nature of the threat once more. We assumed that the water would hold most of the monsters at bay and entrusted the effort of subjugating the dungeon to the Gold-rank adventurers. And while it is true that they have made progress, such as identifying and neutralizing the Shield Spider nest, this latest threat goes beyond any one team. To that end, I am requesting formal permission from Liscor’s Council to instate cooperation bounties on Liscor’s dungeon.”
Pisces paused, caught off-guard by the unfamiliar term. Selys looked up sharply, and all the Gold-rank adventurers looked up. Tekshia nodded, but the other Drakes looked blank. Zevara frowned.
“I’m not familiar with that term. Would someone explain what a cooperation bounty is?”
“I shall explain.”
Olesm cleared his throat nervously.
“A cooperation bounty is a practice put in place by cities in need of continual aid against some form of threat, usually monsters. With it, any team who satisfies the requirements will earn a weekly fee for fighting against monsters and safeguarding the city. They must remain active, but this allows a city to attract adventuring teams en-masse. It’s, uh, rather expensive.”
“We don’t have the coin for that!”
One of the Drakes on the Council protested. Wall Lord Ilvriss cleared his throat and spoke.
“Given the strategic nature of Liscor, I believe that the Walled Cities will offer monetary assistance. I speak for Salazsar at the very least, and so I am immediately allocating a discretionary budget of forty thousand gold pieces to hire any adventurers needed to take on Liscor’s dungeon. To begin with.”
Ilvriss stared around the room at the shocked faces. He adjusted one of the jeweled rings on his claws and went on.
“Salazsar is the richest of the Walled Cities. We will provide whatever funds are necessary to hire more adventurers, as will the other Walled Cities and lesser cites. If need be, I will pay the entire cost myself. It will not come to that, however. Drakes support Drakes. Now, to the matter of finding Liscor’s kidnapped citizens.”
He turned coolly to the Gold-rank adventurers as Pisces caught Ceria’s eye and saw her mouthing the word ‘forty thousand’ at him. He nodded, wondering how much the rumors of the Antinium’s designs on the dungeon had played into Ilvriss’ sudden generosity. He watched as the Wall Lord fixed Jelaqua, Halrac, and Ylawes with a cold stare.
“Your teams will enter the dungeon through the underwater rift and pursue the Raskghar. Find their nest. Recover the citizens of Liscor.”
“We don’t take orders.”
Halrac met Ilvriss’ eyes. The Wall Lord glared.
“There are lives at stake.”
The [Veteran Scout] didn’t blink.
“All the more reason to let us do our work. Our way.”
“And is speed a factor in your work?”
Ilvriss didn’t wait for a reply. He looked at Ylawes and Jelaqua.
“I will not sit by while the citizens of a Drake city perish. If duty will not obligate you, gold shall. In addition to the cooperation fees proposed, I am personally putting up a bounty. One thousand gold pieces for each citizen of Liscor you bring back alive.”
It might have been Ilvriss’ Skill to turn the room full of living people into statues. Pisces’ eyebrows were raised so high he felt as though they might disappear. Erin whistled softly, which in the quiet room was the only sound.
“That’s a big number.”
Ilvriss turned his head and stared impassively at Erin.
“To some.”
Then he looked back at the adventurers.
“You are Gold-rank adventurers. Humans or not. Other species or not. Your duty is to protect, and I will demand that you enter the dungeon and attempt to save the lives of those missing or I will petition the Adventurer’s Guild to remove your Gold-rank status.”
They met his gaze silently. The Wall Lord looked from face to face and then focused on Jelaqua.
“You bear the Heartflame Breastplate. Cowardice will not be tolerated.”
Cool as a winter breeze, Ilvriss turned. He looked over at the Goblins, forgotten in a corner of the room until now.
“Now, onto the last issue before us. Bring forward the Goblin.”
The Redfang Warriors dragged forwards the Cave Goblin’s chair, waking the little creature up. She’d actually fallen asleep. When she saw Ilvriss staring at her, she nearly wet herself again.
“Have it tell us all the information it has on the dungeon and the Raskghar.”
Ilvriss ordered Numbtongue. The Goblin looked irritable but relayed the questions to the Cave Goblin. The little Goblin didn’t need any persuasion. She began to gabble, and Numbtongue listened.
“Well, what’s it saying?”
Impatiently, Ilvriss looked at the Hob. Numbtongue grumbled. All the other Redfang Warriors looked at him. Headscratcher poked Numbtongue, and the Goblin growled irritably. At last, pressured by dozens of stares, he spoke.
“She says the Raskghar control her tribe. She is Cave Goblin. She says the Goblins serve the Raskghar. They were ordered to attack—big stone city in middle of water. Liscor. And the inn.”
Everyone stared. Numbtongue’s words were surprisingly normal. Shockingly normal. He was more fluent than any Goblin that Pisces had ever met. Numbtongue glared around and folded his arms. He continued.
“She says Raskghar are very…very…”
He searched for the word. Erin frowned.
“Hungry?”
Olesm scratched his neck.
“Angry?”
“Afraid?”
Numbtongue smirked at Embria. He shook his head and gave up.
“Very wanting. They want. They come up here for what they want. Other furry not-Raskghar.”
“Gnolls.”
Krshia growled. The other Gnolls rumbled, and the Cave Goblin shrank. Ilvriss held up a claw.
“They will not have them. Goblin.”
“Numbtongue.”
“Goblin. Where are the Raskghar located? How many of them live within the dungeon? What threats are there to be concerned of?”
Numbtongue looked away and refused to speak. Ilvriss stared at him. Erin coughed.
“Say his name.”
“What?”
“Say his name.”
Ilvriss looked like he was about ready to stab Numbtongue to death. He ground his teeth as the Drakes muttered, but eventually, he spoke two grating words.
“Numb. Tongue.”
Instantly, the Hob turned to the Cave Goblin and issued a series of questions. Ilvriss sat, smoldering, as the Cave Goblin gabbled back. This time, Numbtongue didn’t look so at ease. He looked around and shook his head.
“Well?”
“Raskghar have a lair deep within dungeon. She knows where, but there are many twists. Turns. And the lair is not always in the same place. The Raskghar are…ever moving. They change rooms.”
“Nomadic?”
Numbtongue nodded in relief.
“Nomadic. They have many spots. And they spread out. To avoid…bad things finding them.”
“Bad things? Like what?”
The adventurers all wanted to know. Numbtongue shook his head, troubled.
“Very bad things. Army of walking metal things. Big red worms that steal flesh. Headsnatcher. Invisible monsters.”
“Invisible monsters?”
Someone swore. Numbtongue nodded. He turned back to the Cave Goblin and asked one more question.
“There are…many Raskghar. Many.”
“How many is many?”
Numbtongue shrugged. He asked the Cave Goblin another question, but she clearly couldn’t answer. Numbtongue scratched his head and pointed around the giant common room. The Cave Goblin peered around, and Numbtongue lifted her chair up with Shorthilt. She craned her neck and then gabbled a reply. Numbtongue’s eyes widened, and he repeated the word. She nodded, and he put her down. He didn’t want to speak after that.
“Well? How many?”
Ilvriss stared at Numbtongue. The Hob looked around. He looked at the ceiling, the floor, at his fellow Goblins, and then at his audience.
“She says that if this big room is a sleeping hall, then the main Raskghar camp would be six times this large.”
He pointed around the common room, enhanced by Erin’s [Grand Theatre] Skill. Slowly, his audience looked around the huge room, towards the distant stage at the back. This time, Ilvriss was the one who swore. And as Lyonette quietly pointed out to Mrsha, it was a very bad word. But it was appropriate for very bad news.
 
——
 
“Okay, that’s a big room. But it still means that there’s only about a few thousand Raskghar.”
“In their main camp.”
“Well, how many camps do they have? And if there are so many, why don’t they all attack at once?”
“Because that would be suicide. No, they have the numbers to raid us rather than take a fight which they’d lose.”
“They’d only lose if they attacked us when they’re stupid. You show me a thousand of those things on a full moon and see who’s laughing.”
“If they’re in the dungeon, they’re fighting other monsters as well. They might not even be the dominant species within the dungeon.”
“Oh, wonderful. Now you’ve got me wondering if there’s something worse than Raskghar and Face-Eater moths!”
Ksmvr sat at a table with Ceria and Yvlon and listened to the people argue. He did not join the argument. He was unqualified. After all, if Captain Ceria didn’t speak and Revalantor Klbkch only spoke a few times, what qualifications did he, a disgraced Prognugator exiled from his Hive, have? No. He listened to every word spoken, watching the anxious people debate and talk in circles.
They were afraid. It was a novel concept to Ksmvr. Not fear. He had been afraid when he had failed his Hive. He had been afraid every day since, of being unworthy, of losing his place with the Horns of Hammerad. But it was strange for Ksmvr to see so many others being afraid. Drakes, Gnolls, Humans—why were they afraid?
Ksmvr wanted to speak. He wanted to stand up and ask them why they feared the Raskghar. Yes, the monster attacks were unrelenting. Yes, Liscor had suffered. People had died and there was crisis yet again. But if he could speak he would ask them: ‘so what?’
So what? In Ksmvr’s head, he stood and spoke, silencing the loud Drakes turning to Ilvriss and Zevara in fear. Why are you afraid of monsters? Yes, they are terrible. Yes they come again. And yes, this dungeon is a foe worthy of your city. But so what? You are equal to the challenge.
Did not Liscor defeat Skinner and the undead? Didn’t they vanquish a horde of Face-Eater Moths? Hadn’t they endured the worst the dungeon had to offer? And in those moments of despair, did they flee? No. Drakes and Gnolls fought. Antinium fought. That was Liscor’s strength.
