“Probably!” Erick said, with perhaps too much vitriol in his voice. And then he toned it down, and seriously asked, “Have you tried telling them to stop? To leave that commune, and to leave Treehome, and the Forest? There’s lots of places in this world for them to be besides in a place they are not wanted. I’ll help you find and kill the killers among them, for sure. But.” Erick said, “I see you, Peron. I see your desire to get rid of the Cult, entirely, and in the worst way possible. I foresee you stepping over the line in the dirt that I have already established, and then saying ‘oops, oh well’, afterward.”

Koropo sighed, almost imperceptibly.

Peron looked down his nose at Erick, and said, “I won’t step over any lines, Erick. But it is my belief that you will soon see that your lines are placed on shaky ground. Make no mistake: Yesterday was a choice to go after a lot of the disjointed Evil in this land. It was a choice that cost us the lives of good soldiers, good men and women. But the Evil we combat today will be as poking the dragon. The dragon will wake. The backlash will test our resolve, both of Treehome, and yourself. You would do well to come down on the right side of the line you have drawn, before you drop into a chasm of your own making, and before you get even more people killed.”

Erick had a near-difficult time restraining his anger, but he held himself back. He did not rise to the bait in Peron’s words. He did not fight against the implication that Erick had gotten those soldiers killed yesterday. But maybe he should have. Some of the people in the room were looking Erick’s way, and not all of those looks were ambivalent.

Erick said, “This isn’t my home, and this isn’t my fight, but I have been helping you in your home to fight your fight because it is the right thing to do. I can help more, if you wish. Closer Ophiels? More backup? How much do you want me involved in your affairs? Yesterday, after it was all over, you told me to only act within the parameters you set going forward, to only be your scanner, because ‘people were complaining to you about me’. Now you want me to look the other way while you use my power to harm people who are potentially innocent—”

“They’re Cultists of Melemizargo. The same Dark Dragon who has almost destroyed this world time and time again. They undermine and they poison others to their dogma.” Peron said, “People like that have no place in any good society. People like that are not ‘innocent’, by any stretch of the word. Besides! Look around you. The people in this room took down dozens of murderers yesterday, and they were well within acceptable levels of collateral damage. You’re telling me you think these fine people will purposefully harm innocents? Bah! I tell you that they will do exactly what is needed, and you need to do the same.” Peron said, “You need to back these fine soldiers with all of your power when that entire commune comes together to protect the evil that they harbor within, or else you need to leave, and we need to call this whole thing off.”

“… Less talk of politics.” Erick said, “More talk of actual responses that you expect to happen from this ‘deadly’ commune, and how we are going to negate those responses.” He turned to Koropo, saying, “I’m going to need some good mana potions up in here to chain-[Dispel] whatever large-scale counterattacks might happen. If they happen.”

Koropo nodded, then silently turned to the side and gestured at a clerk. The clerk ran off.

Peron barely glanced at the rushing clerk, before focusing on Erick. He said, “I would love to include you in those plans, but I cannot, for these ‘politics’ as you so dismissively call them, include not divulging operational protocol to unknown actors.” He added, “But if you see the sky filling with danger, then do your best to get rid of it.”

“Of course.” Erick said, “I can do that.”

Peron stared at Erick for a moment, then turned toward Koropo. “The first target is Omaz. Syllea does not know. I want that boy’s head on a pike before she catches wind. I want every person found with him in heavy custody. Do what needs to be done, Warchief. You have your orders.”

Four seconds passed while Erick debated with himself if he should warn Syllea.

He needn’t have bothered. Someone else already had.

“Peron!” Syllea had blipped into the air outside the hallway, yelling as she burst into the room, “That’s my brother!”

Bless whoever had told her and taken that guilt off of Erick’s shoulders!

Peron casually turned toward the angry archmage, saying, “Omaz is guilty of high crimes. I would do the sa—”

“Shut your god’s damned mouth.” Syllea turned toward Erick, saying, “Find him and tell me where he is. I’m taking care of him myself.”

“Okay. But. Hear me out:” Erick said, “Maybe we could all work together today? To take down the parts of the Cult that need removal, and to pardon those who have done nothing wrong?”

Syllea glared hard at Erick. “You shouldn’t be casting spells in your condition, let alone telling me how to deal with my traitor of a brother.” She rounded on Peron, saying, “And I have to find out you’re going after him from someone else besides you, grandpa?! What the fuck?!”

Peron said, “You are too close to this, Syllea. You need to back off and let us elders handle this, now. You are not in charge here, so listen to those who are, or you will find yourself in chains, too.”

“Ignore him.” Syllea turned to Erick. “Find me my brother.”

Peron started, “Syllea—”

“Fucking shut up!” Syllea yelled at his face.

Peron sighed, then said, “Do as she says.” He said to Syllea, “Whatever that traitor does now is on your head.”

Syllea said, “And if I hadn’t gotten here in time and you did to Omaz what you did to all those people yesterday, then I would have had your head, old man.” She said, “I wouldn’t give a shit about the consequences, either.”

Peron went still, as he narrowed his eyes at Syllea. “That was an ill-advised threat.” He turned to Koropo, and said, “You have your missions, Warchief. Leave Omaz to Archmage Syllea. She will have no backup.”

“… Sir?” Koropo asked.

“You heard me,” Peron said. “Do your job, or I will remove you and instate someone who will.”

Koropo put a fist on his chest, followed soon by the same gesture from everyone else in the room, except for Erick, Syllea, and Poi. Erick briefly registered that another person walked into the room. Bayth, Syllea’s bodyguard and oldest friend. The massively muscular woman nodded toward Poi, who simply nodded back, then she took a stand beside the door.

Syllea turned to Erick.

Erick spoke before she could, saying, “My Ophiels are already out there, Imaging the whole of the Forest and Treehome. I remember what your brother looks like, but I won’t have the best Imaging of possible locations unless I have some of Omaz’s blood or body parts.”

Syllea instantly turned to Koropo, demanding, “What parts do you have of my brother?”

Koropo gestured to a severed and cauterized lump of meat sitting on a table to the side of the room, saying, “That’s from one of the bodies we think he has [Polymorph]ed into.” He gestured to two other lumps of flesh, and one severed hand, saying, “The hand was his, though. Our blood mages weren’t able to get far with it…” His voice trailed off.

Because Syllea moved toward the hand, her hard eyes turning soft, as she almost touched the dead flesh with her own open hand. And then her eyes turned hard again, and her open hand became a fist. Anger filled her visage, as she muttered, “You fucking idiot. Why the fuck did you join the Cult.”

- - - -

In the deep Forest, to the far north, where every tree was larger than an Arbor and spirit deer the size of mansions walked across the land, bringing growth and death in equal measure, an Ophiel hovered high above it all. A ball of cascading white light hovered even higher than that. This map was one of several currently Imaging different parts of the Forest. Maybe this one would get lucky?

A map formed out of misty white light, revealing the land for a thousand kilometers in every direction.

And barely, ever so slightly, a blue mark appeared on that white map.

This map and its blue mark was not the only blue mark that Erick had uncovered in the last ten minutes. This map was just the seventh map to be manually checked.

Syllea went in.

Erick moved Ophiel to follow, as he had done for the last six positive results.

And then Ophiel popped.

Erick instantly moved another Ophiel toward that location. The second one reached the treeline and managed to survive what had killed the first, for Ophiel had turned on [Pure Reflection Ward]. A comet struck Ophiel, but bounced away, impacting a branch and crushing it with Void and Light. It wasn’t an attack directed at Ophiel, in particular, though. The entire Forest was filled with comets, and more were filling the darkness under the canopy as each second passed. Branches broke as balls of starlight swarmed. Fire spread as light burned bright enough to incinerate the drier parts of the Forest.

Gloom turned flickering, then yellow and red, as trees burned all around. Animals whooped and screamed as they fled. Something roared far away, or possibly really close.

Syllea, hovering below the canopy, flying in a sky made of straight pillars of burning tree trunks, slapped away a comet aimed at her, yelling, “How many!” She flew at her brother, still a hundred meters away, demanding, “How many!”

Omaz flew backward, keeping just ahead of Syllea’s advance, as comets swirled around his body. He laughed, and said, “I thought it was someone else! But it’s just you! Go home, sister!” The comets in the area seemed to calm, but they did not disappear. They were simply waiting to strike.

Erick noted several parts of this area of the Forest rather fast. The first was that several of the nearby trees were warped near the upper part of their straight trunks, forming something like houses out of holes in the wood. The second, was that there were a lot of other people in the area, boiling out of the houses shaped out of the tree trunks, but they were all running, flying, or blipping away. Several of the people here had their faces on the boards back in the room Erick was in, at that very moment. The final thing Erick noticed was that none of them seemed to care about getting involved in the fight between Syllea and Omaz.

… Which seemed like a feint. Erick had started running [Hunter’s Instincts], and everything about this scenario screamed that something bad was about to happen. He rapidly got more Ophiel into position to help Syllea if needed, while he simultaneously told everyone around him, back in the conference room by Wyrmrest, what was happening. The people around Erick didn’t need to be told, for they had already been moving, too, but Erick still felt better warning everyone that shit was going down.

“How many!” Syllea roared at her brother, “How many people have you killed over the years?! How much of what I told you ended up killing someone I knew?!”

Omaz laughed again, saying, “Hundreds! At least! They were coming after my people, so of course I killed them first!”

“Your people?!” Syllea swiped a hand through the air, and every spell around Omaz burst into fractured mana. Omaz briefly lost his smile as he began to fall, but he stabilized almost as fast, though he was a lot less bright according to Ophiel’s [Mana Sight]. Syllea advanced on him, pointing a finger back toward the treetop village they had quickly passed, roaring, “You dare to call Cultists your people! HOW? WHY?! What did I do wrong?!”

“Everything!” Omaz laughed, saying, “You did everything wrong! And if you don’t let me go, I’ll be forced to put you in the ground with all the rest, dear sister! The only reason I haven’t is because your help was what got me where I am today! If it wasn’t for you, the Cult in Treehome wouldn’t be nearly as powerful as it is today!”

Erick watched as Syllea turned silent, calculating, and a little bit red. It started with her eyes, once so clear, becoming pink, then crimson. Omaz saw it happen, too. His own eyes went wider, as a manic sort of glee overtook him. All at once, every single hovering comet began to shift, they swarmed, heading straight for Syllea. The archmage was falling to her Rage, and her brother was happy to see it happen.

Erick considered his options. And then he saw that Syllea was not doing anything to actively defend herself from those comets. She likely had some sort of [Reflection Ward] active, for she had backhanded that one comet away from herself. But Erick didn’t want to risk her spell not working against all the thousands of the comets currently aimed her way. That fact made his decision for him.

He had one of his few remaining high-mana Ophiels cast a 36,000 point [Grand Dispel] at the nearest comet; a little over the raw mana cost of Omaz’s [Starlight Fall], according to the blue box Erick had seen before. The dark magic struck true, setting off an instant chain reaction through the entirety of Omaz’s [Comet Swarm], propagating through the offensive light, popping comets like they were soap bubbles, until the [Grand Dispel] circled all the way through the trees to impact Omaz and rip away his defenses, again. Syllea didn’t seem to notice.

Her body was wreathed in Light and Void. She was half a moment from reaching Omaz, and from plunging starlight swords into his chest.

Omaz faltered through the sky, looking dejected, as he muttered, “Bah.”

And then he blipped away. Starlight swords flashed through empty space. Syllea’s eyes sparked red—

She whipped around to stare at Ophiel, red lightning trickling across her body. Erick almost panicked. Teressa had almost killed Poi back when she Raged. How bad would Syllea’s Rage be? At least she couldn’t use Spatial Magic, right?

Ah. This was why Omaz had taunted her.

Syllea’s head jerked to the side, as intent flowed from her body and into the air. The air around her turned dense, then dissipated, almost as fast as Syllea had exerted her control. She flinched. Her eyes turned redder. She wasn’t trying to attack Ophiel… What was she do—

She turned to wind, briefly, as she stepped through the sky, to reappear ten meters in front of where she had been.

Ah. Shit. She was windstepping.

- - - -

Someone touched his shoulder.

