“That plant was a failure, anyway.” Light said, “Erick Flatt has come, and our little part of the world collapses at his arrival. We must plan.”

“It’s true, then? Erick Flatt has come to Treehome?” Deep asked.

“Yes,” Light said.

“What are we to do?” asked a petite voice.

“Go to ground. Run and hide,” said Light.

“And when that isn’t enough?” Deep asked.

“… We could kill Erick?” Petite ventured.

“… No. We can’t… Can we?” Deep said, “The Clergy itself went against him, and died for it. We would do no better?”

“I can kill him. I’ll have it done in an hour.” Light asked, “If this is our decision?”

“It will be dangerous, but if we don’t kill him…” Deep said, “Then we will end up like the Clergy.”

“We could…” Petite offered, “We could play nice like Treant has done. We could go to Erick before he starts hunting us, and offer to take on his Curse.”

“It is a Blessing, not a Curse.” Light said, “And I will not do that to myself. We must decide if we are to kill him, and we must decide this soon. Otherwise I am going to the Underworld and you will not see me for ten years.”

“Maybe we should just do that now.” Deep said, “I don’t think we should kill him. Melemizargo has plans for Yggdrasil. We do not want Sininindi’s World Tree to be the only one left to our Dark God, for that would complicate everything.”

Petite offered, “What we could do, is not tell everyone else, and then let Erick find them, but not us. We can clear house and leave our underlings out to dry. Then we come back much stronger in ten years.”

“Or, in ten years, Erick’s Imaging might be able to penetrate into the Underworld, and we will never be safe.” Light said, “Which is why we have to kill him now, if we are ever to have a chance.”

Deep was resolute, as he said, “We should take the loss and Erick’s Blessing. It’s better than death.”

“Have you eyes to see? Ears to hear? Treant moans at the Arbors every day, and gets nowhere.” Light said, “I will not have that ‘Blessing’ on me.”

“I see and hear more than you think.” Deep said, “You don’t even know who I am. There is a reason we meet like this.”

Light said nothing to that.

Petite said, “I’m going to the Underworld, for at least until Erick leaves Treehome. I pray you all make similarly smart decisions.”

Light said, “Then I’m going, too. If we meet, I hope we don’t kill each other, Petite.”

Petite chuckled, saying, “You think too highly of yourself, Light. Goodbye~”

Petite’s voice faded from the silence all around.

Light asked, “If you decide to go to Erick and take this Blessing, are you going to mindwipe yourself, first?”

“No. I have to give him something to prove my sincerity. I’ll give up a few dozen people. A few major operations.” Deep said, “He’s an honorable man, so I think he’ll take the win.”

Light sighed. “In any other time, I would be forced to be an honorable man, too, and kill you for the good of the rest of us, but times have changed.”

“Ha!” Deep said, “Times certainly have changed, Omaz.”

“… When did you find out, Edolphis?” Omaz asked.

“… When did you find out about me?” Edolphis asked, his shock plain in his voice.

“Since everything is ending, I might as well tell you. It was eight years ago, when you fucked up that caravan attack and cost us three operatives.”

“That was a bullshit target and you know it!”

“You fucked up. I gave you all that information, and you fucked up.”

“And you fucked up when—” Edolphis said, “I’m not doing this. You are right: everything is ending. Goodbye.”

Edolphis’s deep voice faded from the silence.

“And then there were two.” Omaz asked, “Now that those two have abandoned the tribe, what’s the real plan?”

Silence.

“Hello? I know you’re there. You’re always there.”

Silence.

“… Melemizargo? My Lord?”

Silence.

- - - -

The conference room looked much the same as it had when Erick left the room yesterday. Papers filled with information and ‘photos’ that were more drawing than actual photos, lined the cork boards, while writings and postulations filled accompanying blackboards. But those papers were not the same as the ones that had been there yesterday.

Right now, those papers were all about cultists. Mug shots of Omaz Wyrmrest, Archmage Syllea’s brother, were pinned up alongside sketches of a walled settlement, outside of Treehome. Erick had heard of that ‘settlement’ before. He had even spotted it from afar while he was searching for people yesterday. It reminded him of a prison. Blocky, stone buildings, lined with anti-Shaping runes. A curtain wall several meters tall, and unique in the area, for there were no walls around Treehome. The people inside waited in line for food from dispensaries. They grew nothing for themselves and had no daily jobs. There were only a few hundred people in that small settlement, but there were at least a hundred guards stationed on the surrounding wall, and around the perimeter.

The commune was a place of little cheer where they had kept the people who became shadelings when they consumed a second Stat Fruit, and gained a second one of the New Stats. Erick hadn’t actually been inside the place yet, in any capacity. But that was going to change. Today was the day to investigate the commune for cultists.

… If any of the targets led that way. Erick hoped that nothing pointed toward the commune, but that seemed like a fool’s thought.

Erick walked up to the picture of Omaz and the sketches of the camp, and said, “That place looks rather worse in person.”

Naervion, who had been on many missions yesterday with Erick leading the way, stood beside him, and said, “That’s not my beat so I’ve never been inside. I’m on call for when the targets show outside of there, though.”

“Didn’t a lot of them come to Ar’Kendrithyst and drink at the Well? Get shifted back to being normal orcols?” Erick instantly added, “Or. No. That was only 12 people, wasn’t it.”

“I heard there were plans to do all the rest, later. But then you happened, sir, and killed all the Shades.” Naervion said, “I heard that the Well was gone.”

“Aye, it might be.” Erick asked, “How many people are still there? Over two hundred was the last I heard.”

Koropo spoke from behind Erick, saying, “We’ve still got about three hundred thirty shadelings in there.”

“More than there were, then.” Erick turned to the man, saying, “After I went home, I was thinking about a few of the kills yesterday. A few of them stood out to me more than most. The Flower Killer was the most obvious, for sure, but the people of Downfall were similarly tough. They all had at least Constitution.”

Koropo lost some of his good cheer. He turned stoic, again.

Erick continued, “Spotting Constitution got me talking with a guy down in Candlepoint a few hours ago by the name of Mephistopheles. He knew roughly how many Stat Fruits Candlepoint had given out while Bulgan was in charge. But something doesn’t add up.” He said, “I had access to a few different sources, and from what my guy at Candlepoint tells me, and from what I overhead at the Feast, there were maybe 4,400 Constitution Fruits given out, in total, with something like 21,000 various Stat Fruits of all different types, all combined, distributed to various people. But that number went to people all over the world. Now here’s the question: In your professional opinion, how likely is it that every single major killer from yesterday had access to those New Stats? How many people in Treehome have any of the New Stats. You obviously had enough extra Stat Fruits rolling around Treehome in order to have an entire commune of people who became shadelings.” He added, “Each one of those Shadelings has at least two of the New Stats, which means that’s over 650 of the Stat Fruits accounted for. But how many orcols are in Treehome that have just one of the New Stats? How many people slipped under the Scan, so to speak?”

Erick did not ask his big question, not yet. It was only a thought rolling around in his mind that there might be more Stat Trees out there, and he did not want to voice that concern when he had no numbers to back up his thought.

Koropo listened, then he said, “I can see how you might look at the numbers and think them a little stretchy. Not to be too proud, but we orcols are some of the best adventurers in the world, and we make a point to stay ahead of the curve. All of our high-level adventurers have been to Ar’Kendrithyst and gotten a lot of treasure out of that place, so it doesn’t surprise me that there seems to be a lot of our people with those New Stats. To me, you asking that question is strange, because we’ve always taken what we could from Ar’Kendrithyst.” Koropo added, “Add to that, many of us dislike our Divine overseer, Aloethag.”

Naervion harrumphed, adding, “That’s putting it lightly.”

Koropo glared at Naervion, who had the wherewithal to take a step back and looked chastised. Koropo continued, “Aloethag is one of the main reasons why a lot of orcols end up becoming Cultists of the Dark God.” He said, “It doesn’t surprise me that we seem to have a larger number of people with the New Stats than we should.” He seemed to struggle with something, then just came out and said, “When word got around that becoming a shadeling cut you off from the Red Dream, a lot of people worked hard for those New Stats, specifically for that reason.”

Naervion, and more than a few other orcols in the room, rapidly found important tasks elsewhere, away from the conversation between Erick and Koropo.

“Hmm.” Erick turned back toward the pictures of the commune and Omaz. “Does Syllea know you’re hunting her brother?”

“… In a general sense.” Koropo said, “And that’s a headache and a half.”

So he hadn’t told her that Omaz was on the docket for today. Why not? Was Peron involved with that decision? That seemed likely.

Erick asked, “So where are we starting this Cultist hunt? Are we starting in the commune?”

“We have the major targets, but…” Koropo said, “But they’re not killers, like the ones we took down yesterday. Look. I’m gonna level with you before Peron shows up and I need to shut up to keep my job and my city safe. Today’s gonna be hard for all of us, because we want the targets dead, because they are Cultists. But you won’t want them dead, because they haven’t actually killed anyone.”

Erick was surprised, and said as much, “I didn’t expect such forthrightness.”

“You’ve done this city a major service and I don’t want to alienate you over some religious differences between Peace and Vengeance, since that seems to be your hard line in the dirt.” Koropo said, “Our major problem with most of the Cultists is that they corrupt us from the inside out, and we don’t want them in our city. I spoke of people accepting shadeling status, just so those people could step out from Aloethag’s domain, but it was the Cultists who really churned up the people, getting them to accept the idea of becoming shadelings. A lot of those people in that commune are there because, for them, being a shadeling was better than being an orcol. Even if they have to live in the dirt to do it. No one cared when we went after the terrorists and the killers yesterday, but those people in that commune are a tight-knit community, even if they are just a couple of months old.”

Erick thought for a moment, then asked, “So if all they’re doing is talking and convincing people to switch gods, then why not just leave them alone out there?”

“That’s what most of them do. And a lot of the people who do the talking are just the shadelings, who we label as Cultists because... If it sounds like a wyrm, walks like a wyrm, then it might as well be a wyrm.” Koropo said, “We do still have a list of killers that need taking down. People with clear intentions of generalized harm. The problem is that they’re going to band together with people who are nominally Cultists, so I wanted to be upfront about that. The line is about to get blurry, and when we go after some of these guys, we’re going to stir up the whole commune.”

Erick asked, “This might sound like a stupid question. But have you tried posting Wanted posters into the commune? Talking to people? Telling them that the killers there will not be tolerated?”

“Yes. We’ve done—” Koropo turned toward the entrance to the room.

Peron had walked in, wearing his usual green robes. He spotted Erick, and began walking over. Smiling amiably, and speaking to the whole room, he said, “That was some good work you all did yesterday. You’ve all certainly earned your pay, and your holiday bonuses, which I’m looking to expand in a special chieftain action in the coming week.”

Several people around the room brightened at that. Some, who Erick noticed as those who had been on the front lines, were rather stoic and silent at Peron’s proclamation. They recognized the duty that they had to make their home safe, but they also felt the sting of missing faces that had been in that room yesterday.

Gods above, Erick did not understand how anyone could willingly get into this line of work. To face this sort of death every day? But then again, he did understand them, at least a little. They were people who saw what had to be done to keep their world safe, and then they went out and did it. Jane was the same way. Hell, it seemed that more and more, Erick was getting that way, too.

Peron said, “Good work, everyone.” He reached Erick, and said, “And thank you, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I’m glad we were able to work together. I hope that today goes…” He just couldn’t be that polite and political. He couldn’t not mention all the people who had died to make yesterday a success. Good men and women, working to make Treehome safer than it had been, were now dead and gone. Their funerals were even put on hold, because there was work to be done. So, Erick said, “I hope everyone goes into today as safe as they can. It’s dangerous out there.”

Peron said, “I’d say that it’s more dangerous out there than you know, if you were anyone else besides who you are.” He stood tall, and gazed upon the papers on the boards, stating, “I don’t like how we left the cultists for later. But it was either going after them first, or going after the other half of the problem. We made our decisions, and now we will live with the consequences.” He looked down to Erick. “Are there going to be problems doing what needs to be done to rid ourselves of the Cult?”

