"Well, we can set up the cipheric contract so that my time scale revolves around making this happen. If I ever stop working towards this Old One's demise, then our positions could swap right then and there. That could mean you'd be free in a year if I'm slacking off."

Shalahora peered off, "Hm, that would save me ten thousand years of servitude should it happen. How would this benefit you?"

I nodded, "So in exchange, we can extend the contract timeline to, like, 100,000 years."

Shalahora scoffed, "And that's an attractive proposition to me?"

I raised a finger, emulating Torix a bit, "But of course. You're making this deal with me for two reasons - firstly, I'm able to become an avatar. Secondly and most importantly, you also think I have a chance at stopping an Old One."

I turned my raised hand to him, "Therefore, this ensures my goodwill in the contract while dramatically enhancing my chances of success. What if the goal is accomplished in 12,000 years rather than 10,000? Wouldn't you prefer to wait that time to actually accomplish your goal of this Old One's demise?"

Shalahora blinked, "I...I suppose."

I interlocked my hands behind myself, "Just as well, compared to the infinity of being that Old One's servant, what's 90,000 years anyways? It will be a drop, but that drop would be an ocean to me."

Shalahora peered through me, "You sound like someone else."

I smiled, "It's a style of argumentation from an intelligent and wise person I know."

Shalahora dragged his hands down his face, "I'd never make a business deal with whoever they may be."

Missing Torix, my smile tightened, "Let's just say you're better off with a partnership when they're involved."

It would be nice to see everyone once this debacle was over. Shalahora raised a hand, "I'd be willing to double the allotted time limit considering what you've offered in exchange. However, adding ten times the additional time frame is greedy."

"So is asking me to become an Old One's avatar. It's like willingly injecting a virus, one where I'd steadily die over time. I'd cease being my own and become what they wanted of me. Considering every avatar has a long list of complaints, I'd rather not get involved. If it does happen, it will be forever too. That makes 100,000 years mean nothing by comparison."

Shalahora sighed, "I'll grant you 30,000 years. That's my final offer."

I considered as I spoke, "And that would include the species reliant on you right now, correct?"

Shalahora simmered, "If it must be so."

I smiled while reaching out a hand, "Then let's agree on that. I'll draft up the contract and have Obolis look at it."

Shalahora grabbed my hand, giving me a firm handshake in return. As we walked out, Shalahora murmured, "Negotiations aside, I'll wish you good luck with this endeavor you're undertaking."

Remembering my agreements with Plazia and Yawm, I scoffed, "I've already made some pretty big promises. At this point, I need to start taking risks so I can even have a chance to complete any of them, let alone all of them. Your stealth, reconnaissance, and psionic might will be a large part of my future goals. So is your species."

Shalahora murmured, "Do you even know who they might be?"

I leaned back, "Isn't it obvious? It's the shades."

Shalahora winced, his smooth, shadowy form wavering, "Ah...You've uncovered a bit of what occurred to us then."

I nodded, "And we'll see if we can't undo it eventually, though I'll need you all as you are right now for a while." I raised a finger, "Not infinity though, so it's an improvement, I'd say."

Shalahora oozed his words, "And I hope you succeed, else you shall take my place as a destroyer of minds and truths."

Dread swelled in my chest at that thought, but I shrugged it off,

"We'll see what happens."

Stepping back with the others, the rulers had already discussed everything while Shalahora and I formulated our agreement. I was glad I didn't have to talk them through everything, and Obolis saved me some more time by stepping up as their representative. I pointed a thumb at Shalahora, "He's in. Did you guys have anything you'd like to say before we root out any spies?"

Obolis raised his hands, "Yes, we discussed much. They're all well aware of our circumstances, from Elysium's plotting to our fates should this fail."

I glanced at the other rulers, their expressions grim. It was a refreshing change of pace, so I hoped they'd agree to what I was about to ask.

"Alright, cool. We need them to give us access to their memories along with letting Shalahora ensure their not spies."

Obolis blinked, "Would...Would that include even me?"

I spread my arms, "What? Of course. Hell, it could include me."

The rulers glanced at each other for a while, their moods changing instantly. I dragged my hands down my face before stepping over to the edge of my city. Someone needed to drive home the extent of our problems, and it looked like that responsibility fell on me.

I stomped a foot, lifting a pillar of marble from under me. Standing over everyone, I raised a hand for everyone's attention. They quieted, and I said, "You know what's out there now. At least some of it that is. Elysium's infiltrated this lottery and maybe the others that are occurring at this moment. That's why everything has fallen to pieces since this trainwreck started. They've ensured you all had no chance to die or survive here."

Murmuring broke out in the crowd Before I raised a fist. Quiet returned, and I boomed,

"Those primevals out there are strong enough to kill everyone here. Our enemies don't have tens of them or hundreds. They command thousands of them. They'll be turning this planet into a factory for their use, and that is merely the beginning. The war with Elysium will spread outwards far wider than ever before, and you all will suffer the consequences of your detached outlook on it."

I tilted my head, "But we have a chance. Shalahora, Obolis, and I will do everything possible to eliminate Elysium's presence. Once that's taken care of, we must keep all our collected resources. Doing so ensures Your empires will remain your own, and we may actually get out of this situation unscathed."

I raised one finger, "That's reliant on your deference while in my cities. We'll be relying on extreme measures given the situation, though none of you will need to give your lives. In fact, this is likely your only chance at survival on this hell-forsaken planet. This is it. One last roll of the dice."

An aura of dismay settled over the survivors, who considered their options. Obolis stepped forward, his arms interlocked behind himself,

"I'm more than willing to cooperate. Whatever it is that needs doing, I shall strive to see it done."

I turned to Shalahora, and the shade nodded,

"As long as the contract is signed, I am willing."

I raised a brow to the other rulers present, "And you all?"

Alctua stepped up, her icy scales misting cold, "We'll do what we can to not be a burden here." She turned to the other rulers, "Unlike some other people here."

Teraz followed her, the fiery imp's footsteps leaving singe marks in his wake, "We don't have a choice, do we? It's this or death. Or something like it, at least."

The other rulers whispered, many unconvinced by my words. I waved a converted primeval into the city, and it ushered in a temperature change. The icy beast carried its primal might, void ice forming at its footsteps. It peered with six hexagonally distributed eyes over its flattened face, the alien creature looming over the rulers.

I pulled the ascendant psyche out of it while opening my dimensional storage. I left a wisp of consciousness within the monster, enough for it to function at a base level. From my pocket dimension, a flood of rainbow bone splashed over the monster. It swelled with energy, void ice pillaring up like basalt formations nearby. Its roar alone rippled the blue shield before the primeval erupted into an iridescent death bloom. The temperature shift ceased, and its might and will decayed in an instant.

I walked up before flicking one of the spines. It shattered upward, spiraling in the air before I caught it in my hand. I tapped the needle on the monster, "Anyone curious? It's still alive if you want to check. This is what Elysium is doing to all of you. Everyone that's missing has had this done to them."

I crossed my arms, "But that's not quite right." I coalesced origin mana in my palm, generating several panels of glass over the monster. I pointed at it, "There'd be a cipheric seal here to really keep you 'safe.' Me, personally? I'd rather be in more danger, but hey, it's your choice."

I crossed my arms, "I know what I'd do, though."

Reaching out a hand, I smashed the display in a gravity well before pulling three blue cores out of the mess. After heating the pulp into a moldable mass, I pulled it out of my city. A construction golem stepped over and cleaned the singe marks by scraping the stone and making new rock over the torn surface. The rulers gawked before I gave them a tight smile,

"So, who's with me?"
