“I did. We don’t have a good way to get her there. If we send her to the Great Delving, she’ll cause an international incident if someone so much as looks at her funny. There’s the crack near Vestvall, but that’s on the wrong side of an ocean and deep in enemy territory. Tallheart knows a few spots we might try across Ekrustia, but those all have the same problem as Vestvall. You wouldn’t happen to know of a secret, unclaimed access point on this continent, would you? Or of any lairs just lying around in the wilderness for the taking?”

Reece snorted. “No, nothing unclaimed. Accessible, though?” She raised a hand, counting on her fingers. “First, there’s Etter’s Gap in Sadiir. Rank twenty-five at the bottom and owned by mercs who don’t care who you are so long as you can pay. Second, the...the...shit, what was the name? The something pass. Stupid memories. Anyway, it’s in the Azure Range. There are chasms at rank nineteen, and they’re open to anyone who flashes a Guild plate or is motivated enough to climb over a few mountains. There’s also the Thunder Chain off the eastern coast of Nov. Most of the caves are flooded and are thus a complete pain in the ass, but some of them go all the way to rank forty. The Novians don’t patrol them nearly as often as they claim. That’s three. Pick one. Oh, and there’s also Brightside, but you know about Brightside.”

“I have other plans for Brightside,” Rain said, working to contain his excitement. He drew essence from the tap, shaping it into a notebook. “If you’ve got more spots, even if they’re only rank one, write them down.”

“Sure, sure,” Reece said, folding her arms. “Missions for the masses. Full disclosure, it might take me a while. I’m still working to sort out my memory. It’s like an audiobook on shuffle in here.”

“Of the three places, which—“

“Can’t tell you,” Reece interrupted as he placed a ballpoint pen beside the notebook for her. “They have their pros and cons. Scout them, talk it over with your advisers, let her pick; I don’t care. Any of them will keep her busy.”

“Right, more important things,” Rain said, controlling himself. “Thank you.”

“Never say I’m unwilling to earn my keep,” Reece said, flicking the potential spigot with a finger. “Can I get one of these in my house?”

“Done,” Rain said, though of course he would keep an eye on how much she drew. He took a moment to consider what to cover next, holding hands over his eyes before dropping them and scooting his chair forward. “Okay, now that you’re caught up, I’ll ask again. What’s the most important issue I need to tackle first?”

Reece nodded. “You need to pick a side.”

“A Watch faction?” Rain asked, guessing her meaning.

“Yes,” Reece said. “Specifically, you need to pick Nem’s side, and not so he can help you, but so you can help him. A Custodian’s influence won’t mean much, but it’s better than nothing. The fact that he hasn’t already brought the other guardians in line concerns me. Of the three, he’s the only choice.”

“Why? Annerlain seems okay, from what I’ve heard.”

“Annerlain is a moron who’d see us wage open war against the entire world in the name of saving it. He’s like you, but worse. An idealist without a plan. As for Olicia, don’t let her conviction fool you. She is a greedy, power-mad, scheming piece of shit who’ll say anything to get what she wants. She’d keep the Watch together, but it wouldn’t be the Watch by the time she was done with it. Nem may be a traditionalist and a hardass, but he knows what the Watch is supposed to be.”

“What about Guardian Tanergal? Sana says he’s popular with the younger officers.“

“Tanergal?” Reece laughed. “Tanergal doesn’t know his ass from...his ass from... Damn it! Anyway, hells, you know more about the soul than Tanergal.”

“Is that a requirement?” Rain asked. “So Olicia, Nem, and Annerlain all—“

“Know more than you do, yes, as do Burrik and those other ‘monsters’ of Xiugaaraa. Anyone with any real power does, to varying degrees, and you’d do well to keep your damn mouth shut about just how far you’ve come. Until you can stand with them as equals, you will play dumb, do you hear me? Under no circumstances will you tell any of them that I’m riding along in your skull. Maybe, MAYBE, Nem, but not until you gain his trust.”

“I wasn’t planning on telling anyone anything,” Rain said. “So, Nem, then. How do I get to Vigilance to talk to him?”

“You get yourself invited,” Reece said, resting her hand on the notebook. “I’ll have a think about it and ghostwrite you a letter. Ghostwrite, get it? Because I’m a ghost?”

“I got it,” Rain said. “It’s really weird to hear you use expressions like that, by the way.”

“Know what’s weirder?” Reece asked, finishing off her despoiled coffee. “Having to remove ‘Mordor’ from the list of dangerous places I gave you earlier after struggling to sort out whether it was real or not.”

“I can see how that would be a problem,” Rain said. “Do you want to talk about it, or...?”

“No,” Reece said.

“Okay then,” Rain said. “In that case, did I hear you say you know how I can raise my cap?”

“Did I say that?” Reece asked, smirking at him.

“Yes. Did you mean, like, without a blue?”

“Ah, ah, ah,” Reece said, wiggling a finger at him. “Priorities, Custodian. I do know a way to do exactly that, but it’s slow and dangerous. Remember, if you die, I die. Lending Nem your aid comes first. Deal with that, and then we’ll see.”

Damn it.

“Looks like we’re done here,” Reece said, picking up the notebook and getting to her feet. “I’ve got a letter to write and a brain to unscramble, and you’ve got an ex-Citizen to distract. How do I call you when I’m done?”

“I’ll make you a phone,” Rain said, getting to his feet as well. “Hold on a second. I want to ask a few more—”

“Nope,” Reece said, turning for the door. “We’ll be here all day if I let you set the pace, and you know it.” The door hissed open at her approach, which was good, as she’d have crashed straight into it otherwise.

“Ha, knew you wouldn’t lock it,” she said, pausing in the doorway. She lingered there for a moment more, then gave him a single, sharp nod. “Thank you for saving me.”

“You’re welcome,” Rain said, but she’d already walked away.
