“Skeletons have it. Point one in a straight line and tell it to ‘go’, and we can at least go a linear direction each day. Keeping it oriented will be tough…we can’t trust our eyes. Undead can be fooled by illusions, though.”
“Damn. Does anyone know what Bograms is? Any ideas? I’m drawing a blank. He didn’t sound like a [Mage]—but what kind of foe is he? And how the heck do we confirm we’re on the same page? I know I might be speaking to Bograms right now, but seriously—any ideas, guys?”
Ceria was royally peeved and agitated—she was glancing sidelong at the others, and Yvlon knew Ceria had to be wondering if any of this was genuine conversation—or a trick. Colth was taking this on faith, however.
“I think we’ve got a reprieve, Ceria. My suspicion is…he might be going to draw a group of monsters right on top of us.”
Everyone fell silent. Yvlon felt an itch rolling up her spine. She forced herself to untense; her arms morphing into blades would not be pleasant for her friends.
“…Why do you say that, Colth?”
“Well, we just said we wanted to sleep. What would you do to piss us off? If he really has to be in one spot to use his illusions—”
…Then he wasn’t here and they were able to confer, with the downside being Bograms was setting up a trap or drawing attackers to them.
“A most engaging first adventure. Would it be perspicacious to mention that ‘Bograms’, our foe, tickles my knowledge of monsters? I cannot but think I’ve heard the name before…”
Pisces looked as worried as everyone else. Now that he said it…Yvlon herself thought the name was familiar. Not Bograms, but…
Colth spoke seriously.
“You’re thinking ‘Bogleraums’. No, Bograms isn’t one of them. It’s all a trick. He said his name on the off-chance we’d recognize it and get even more freaked out. I do know the legend amongst adventurers of the nightmare monsters.”
“Oh, you do? Phew. I wasn’t going to say, because each person who knows about them empowers the bastards, right?”
Ceria wiped at her brow. Yvlon relaxed…until Colth kept speaking.
“No, it was a valid concern, Ceria. The problem for Bograms is that I’ve met someone who’s tangled with a Bogleraum. I’ve never had to fight one myself—he’s not one of them. And now you all know they’re real, so there are four more potential victims. Bastard’s got us every way from sundown.”
Dead silence. After a few seconds, Ksmvr chirped up.
“I am really disliking our latest adventure, team. I wish to express this in a non-confrontational manner.”
Ceria’s voice was exceptionally dry.
“Duly noted, Ksmvr. I agree.”
“Thank you for respecting my opinion, Captain Ceria. Now what?”
Pisces spoke.
“I’ll spread the six Skeleton Champions I have in a net. Do we rest or prepare for an attack, Colth?”
“…I bet we’re going to be attacked. Ceria, want to plant a beacon or piece of ice magic in the ground? That way you can tell if we’re circling this spot. We need a way to alert everyone. Bells on string.”
Yvlon snorted.
“Who carries bells on string, Colth?”
“Me.”
Ksmvr waved his hand.
“Also me, Yvlon. I am always prepared. We did that once, remember? I have carried bells on a string for a hundred and twenty-two days since it was last needed, and I am glad I was ready for this moment.”
The Horns looked at each other, then prepared for an attack.
They were attacked thirty-six minutes later.
 
——
 
The enemies turned out to be more of those damned red things with fiery claws, whatever they were. Yvlon got a good look at them—after they’d been slaughtered and the Horns were making tracks from the campsite.
She wasn’t sure what they were. They might be fleshy? They weren’t insectile, but they had crawled along the ground, two dozen of them.
Invisible. They’d been invisible and swarmed two Skeleton Champions before the Horns had figured out they were there and attacked.
Another healing potion down. Not for Yvlon—she’d rushed in, used her barrier-ring, and killed most of them, but a few had escaped. One had evaded Pisces trying to fan the area with a flame spell and bit his leg hard enough to bruise him badly under his new Stalker armor.
Ksmvr had gotten rushed by one, but he had just jumped and nearly taken everyone off their feet via the connected ropes. Colth had evaded his, but Ceria had been chewed—badly.
“Argh. Argh…use the entire potion.”
Her skin was black and charred from the bites on her legs, flesh steaming and blistered where it wasn’t as badly damaged. Pisces grimly applied his last potion and used two drops on his bruises.
“Bograms! Face me! I demand combat!”
Ksmvr was angrily stomping around, swinging his sword through the air, and Colth snapped at him.
“Ksmvr, stop that or you’ll hit one of us! Don’t assume we’re where you think we are! He’s definitely messing with us, or he can’t manipulate multiple elements of the illusion at once.”
Ceria sighed as she looked at Colth.
“I dunno. That was a good trick. What now? You’re our veteran in combating intelligent enemies, Colth.”
“Move. Reset defenses. Wait.”
It took them three more hours to realize something else—Bograms was either tired, plotting something else somewhere else, or had used up its powers for the day.
No more attacks came, and the Horns fell asleep. They would have taken shifts, but as Ceria pointed out—when facing an illusionist, what was the point?
That was day one of being lost in the Crossroads of Izril.
It only got more unpleasant from there.
 
——
 
“I’ve been having weird dreams. Has anyone else?”
Yvlon brought the topic up on the second day after seven hours of having their senses messed with.
Bograms was definitely back. The giant didn’t reappear, nor did hordes of monsters. Either it was having trouble pulling the right ones or something else, because it tried—once with another horde of red things, then with a bunch of insects from the Bloodfields.
Both times, they were invisible, but Ceria iced both squads of monsters before they even reached the Horns.
The [Cryomancer] was angry. She had begun using her aura—seriously using it in lieu of her spells. She had detected warm spots and pulled the heat out of the monsters. Insects and the red things were both weak to cold; what had gotten close had been killed fast, albeit with some nasty bites until the Horns found what was biting them.
Instead of that, Bograms decided that they should be treated to the most horrific screams, smells of flatulence, sewer waste, rot, and foulness that the Horns had ever experienced. Everyone but Ksmvr and Colth gagged, and Pisces had to stop and throw up twice.
“I have no nose. Beaten yet again, Bograms!”
Ksmvr shook his fist up at the sky. Colth was just grimly walking forwards, two wax nose plugs keeping him from the worst of it.
At least they could talk. Sometimes, one of the Horns would say something offensive or completely unlike them, like Pisces suggesting they should eat some of the corpses of the insects or red things for sustenance.
Bograms really didn’t understand the Horns; Ceria and Ksmvr had looked up from trying to roast a Bloodfields insect. No one was stupid enough to eat the red things.
However, Yvlon guessed Bograms wanted to listen in on them talking; knowledge was power.
“What kind of dreams, possible Yvlon?”
That was the running joke in the Horns. Yvlon irritably scratched at a bite she’d taken on her side. Why did an insect as large as her hand also need to have that itching quality of mosquitos from its bites? Maybe she was allergic.
“Well, possible Ceria, I was dreaming of the inn. At least, I thought it was the inn. I thought I saw Halrac, Jelaqua, Chaldion—all the regulars walking towards a glowing door leading to Erin’s garden. Only it was more…spectacular. Shiny. Like…when you wax a piece of armor, you know?”
The Horns and Bograms listened dubiously to Yvlon’s recounting of her dream. She was not a good describer of things. However, the dream had been vivid enough for Yvlon to remember it. It had been…
Like the wings of a great bird, opening and forming the outline of a door. Yvlon, dreaming, had halted as she saw Griffon Hunt, the Halfseekers, and a great host of half-real people camping on a hollow field—hollow, for something stirred far below, and the ground turned to black water if she dared to fall through the earth.
Yet the door was safety. She knew that garden, where an [Innkeeper] lay sleeping within. Yvlon strode towards it, but the glimpse of The Wandering Inn suddenly was filled with shadows.
Dark clouds, black fog that enveloped her, and Yvlon stumbled around in circles, calling out, but all she saw was blackness—and smelled bread?
“I woke up hungry. Remember Erin’s Shadowloaf? It smelled like that.”
They stared at her blankly as Yvlon recounted her dream. Ceria slowly reached for her side.
“Let’s break out them sausages and the bread. It’s a bit stale, actually, so now’s a good time to finish it off.”
They were having lunch when Pisces raised a sandwich to his face and realized there were invisible spiders all over him. Bograms had walked them straight into a den of the little fuzzy spiders for lunch.
 
——
 
It seemed to grow tired of the illusions trick after that. Then it started making them misjudge where the hell they were.
It was clear the Horns were heading…north, unless Bograms was consistently messing with their heads. The looming mountains of the High Passes, or whatever this version of it was, had led to rockier terrain, lumps of stone half-covered by the gel and what wasn’t covered in gel mossy or with other fungi on it.
It meant the Horns had to climb up and down over pieces of stone sometimes, or just experienced a natural change in elevations. They quickly learned to use their swords or even poles of wood as a guide.
You took for granted the power of your eyes to adjust your feet’s momentum. But after taking a step and expecting solid ground only to drop three feet—Colth swore a blue streak as they had to actually use some healing potion on rolled ankles.
Day three was unpleasant not for monster attacks, but for that kind of thing. Miss a stone and step on it so hard you felt it even with your boots. Fail to see a rock and smack it with your shin. Misjudge a drop and hit the ground—hard.
Yvlon, in her armor, was lucky. Ceria, Pisces, and Colth got the worst of it. Ksmvr’s Ring of Jumping and his sturdier carapace meant he suffered little, which she was glad of.
“We must be…three days from the Solstice. I think. Since we’re laying it bare, we do need to get back to Erin in time. What’s the plan, guys?”
No one mentioned the idea of finding a gateway out loud, or The Wandering Inn or anything Bograms could use directly against them, but Pisces responded to Ceria with his eyes closed as they took a break on some rocks.
“I, personally, would relish a soak in the public baths. Followed by anything Calescent has newly made, a glass of blue fruit juice—”
Ceria threw a rock at him.
“I meant the Solstice.”
“Ah. Well, we get there in time, make a gallant appearance no doubt.”
“Oh yes, the five of us are going to swing a battle with multiple armies.”
Colth rolled his eyes. Pisces sniffed as his head rose.
“Need I recount to you the battle of Pomle, Colth? There were at least…four armies present, and our very presence shaped the battlefield.”
“I watched that one, Pisces. Was that you or the Scourgeriders of Emrist? You took out, what, three dozen chariots max? One carpet blew a hole straight through Nerrhavia Fallen’s ranks.”
Ksmvr patted Pisces on the head, then turned to Colth.
“We must still be there for Miss Erin, Colth.”
He sighed, but didn’t disagree.
“Larra’d kill me if I let Erin off and die. So the plan is to head to the inn once we get out of here?”
“Yes.”
Yvlon nodded with Pisces and Ceria. Ksmvr said—
“No.”
Everyone stopped, and Ceria threw a rock at the air.
“Bograms said it. That one isn’t even clever.”
Everyone turned to Ksmvr to hear what he’d really said. But the Antinium just smiled.
“I said no. We are going to escape. Then we will bring the Gnolls with us. Then get to the Solstice.”
Yvlon Byres smiled as she sat up, and Pisces sniffed and sat back, hiding his own pleased look as Ceria laughed. Colth indulgently began speculating who they should pick—Berr, Garsine, Gamur…Gire?
Bograms decided it was time for the Horns to go by deafening them all with a shriek that lasted for two hours.
 
——
 
Sleep was a precarious thing in the Crossroads. Bograms seemed to need sleep too, but he’d come by and disrupt their slumber with fake-out attacks or ear-splitting dins. It left the Horns discombobulated, tired, and grumpy the next day, and they were marching hard.
The pace—as well as other hitherto unknown factors of the Crossroads—was wearing on them. But Yvlon remembered each day via the dreams.
On the first day, she dreamed of The Wandering Inn as they left the Great Plains region and headed north.
On the second day, as they traversed through the area around the City of Crossroads, she had almost no sleep thanks to Bograms’ night shrieking.
On the third day, in the rocky landscape rising upwards, she had a dream about the Horns.
 
——
 
She knew she was dreaming.
The [Dreamer] had a…sense this time. She felt like she was at the boundary of something but pressed against it because she recognized someone she knew, and then she was in the dream and forgot as she watched.
It was a dream with Ksmvr in it. He was in a great gallery with a huge cape and pantaloons on, huge and puffy and striped, and had a silly maroon cap and a huge badge on it.
Baron of the Trees.
He waddled around importantly, giving servants orders, and Yvlon was tickled to realize he had a giant mansion with huge, indoor trees in it, and his ‘servants’ were all put-upon Mrshas. That part was the dream.
However, the dream changed by her presence. Yvlon was not…Yvlon. She drifted through the dream, an observer watching. She felt like if she pushed more, she could do—something?
She didn’t want to. That would be rude. She just watched, a guilty voyeur when she realized it was private. But Ksmvr didn’t dream of his future fame.
He dreamed of what he always dreamed of it seemed: the Horns of Hammerad.
Every room in his mansion was dedicated to one of them. There was a room filled with snow of different colors, a room of edible bugs, a [Necromancer]’s dream of different skeletons poised in various shapes for Pisces, and a huge library of books all about Yvlon Byres’ family.
The Extraordinarily Dry History of House Veltras
24,444 Uses for Silver in Cooking.
Knightly Ways to Sniff.
