“What about Ama? She’s a [Knight] now. You’re not—stop beating yourself up—Pisces! You’re better than they are!”
Pisces Jealnet had been sinking into a black pit, staring at his hands running with corpse-water and drenched in foul deeds. Yvlon tried to haul him up and snapped that last line in desperation. She saw him freeze—look up—and someone reached down into the pit.
“Because you’re a better person than they are.”
Yvlon realized she’d echoed something. Maybe she’d accelerated the dream or—she saw Erin Solstice reaching down, and then someone else, behind her, bent and offered a hand.
“The class itself means nothing. What we do is our own virtue or failings. Even death shall serve life. Or am I so poor as the rest?”
Fetohep of Khelt offered Pisces the other hand, and the [Necromancer] reached for the hands, desperately, as he drowned in those waters. Yvlon felt it coming this time and tried to shove him, but once more—
They woke up.
She was getting sick of that.
 
[Dreamer Level 5!]
 
——
 
The fifth day saw them reaching an inflection point in their progress. By now, the Horns were sure that Bograms had allowed their progress this far north on purpose.
He wanted them to enter one of the caves.
By contrast, the Horns, experienced adventurers, wanted nothing to do with suspicious caves in the ruins of the City of Shields and wished to head north along the mountain range towards where they suspected the Bloodfields’ origin was.
There had to be a gate there, surely. They were running out of time on multiple levels.
Pisces was tired and bleary in the morning, and Yvlon told them she’d had another dream—involving him. Pisces didn’t remember it. Yvlon did and seemed to be trying to be nice by offering the last of their syrup to him.
It mattered little. Pisces was, privately, simply angry with himself and slightly let down by Colth’s and his failure to outwit Bograms.
For such a famous Named-rank, Colth couldn’t handle this monster better than Facestealer—in fairness, both times he was arguably up against something beyond a Named-rank threat, but even so.
He was doing his best. Colth had developed a means to ‘move’ via a bunch of throwing daggers and ice magic and necromancy.
The way it worked was Pisces and Ceria would attach a piece of ice or bone to a dagger that Colth tossed—or simply rocks with twine around them.
That way, they could plot their course based on where the rocks were; if they strayed too far, it became clear that they thought they were going the right way, but Bograms was tricking them.
The problem was that Bograms could ‘fake’ some of the stones…so Colth had had Ceria and Pisces memorize a mathematical formula by which either one would know which throwing rock should have which one’s mana attached.
In other words, the first stone might be ‘Pisces and Ceria’s mana’, but the third stone was only Pisces’ death magic. So if Ceria counted the third stone as real…
They were complicated methods that forced the Horns to stop and qualify which stone was which and forced Colth to memorize where he’d tossed which stone—and even if they realized Bograms was messing with them, it didn’t point to the right way, only interference.
Colth had tried subtle clues in the landscape, charms, secretly etching a direction down before they slept, firing an arrow and tracking where it landed—
It all worked until Bograms noticed their deception and just curved the world so that slowly, over the course of minutes, the Horns would walk just slightly right of a straight line and turn the way he wanted anyways.
“If you can’t kill the source of the problem, it continues. We’re heading in a circle again. This bastard really wants us to enter the tunnels. Full stop.”
Colth snapped after three hours of walking in a circle on the fifth day. It seemed they’d come to some place Bograms knew, but the Ultimate Supporter wasn’t having it.
He was noticeably tetchy. Well, all the Horns weren’t exactly sunshine and rainbows after five days of this hellish experience, but Colth seemed madder than Yvlon.
“Should we try the speed escape? I think we lost Bograms when we were on the chariot.”
Ceria was angling for just outspeeding Bograms on the theory they could outrun him. Colth snapped back.
“It won’t even roll here. And second—you said your [Dangersense] was acting up. Well, mine is too. There’s something in this area that Bograms wants to kill us with. Notice how even he hasn’t pulled any monsters? Idea’s stupid. We don’t attract trouble. Let’s figure out a way to constantly push forwards, okay? Do me a favor and think before you speak, though.”
He folded his arms, scowling. Ceria glared, but she just adjusted her circlet. Yvlon raised a fist, but she opened her hands when Pisces glanced at her.
“Kidding. I’m calm. See?”
Ksmvr, Pisces, and Ceria exchanged a dubious look. Yvlon hadn’t exploded over the five days they’d been haunted by Bograms, but Pisces was ready to chew through rocks. He hoped Berr’s training was solid.
Colth tried a dozen tactics across that many classes to get them north. Compass attuned to a piece of ice magic—Bograms just made it vanish, and when Colth tried to follow it with his fingers, Ceria realized Bograms had faked a dozen signals all pointing the wrong way.
Constantly trying to descend? Bograms turned the entire landscape into a vision of the Great Plains until the Horns gave up; they were making no progress.
[Cartographer] using [Sense Elevation] worked. Colth began leading them down from the mouth of one of the caves.
So Bograms called a horde of Watchertrees down on them.
 
——
 
“Nine! There are fucking nine—get on top of a rock!”
Colth’s shout saved them from immediate impaling. The Watchertrees were stabbing into the stony earth, and Pisces scrambled onto a stone while one of his Skeleton Champions exploded as a pale red root stabbed upwards from the ground. A second tremor was followed by a crack as the Watchertree hit the stone hard enough to break pieces of it—but not destroy it.
“Dead gods, how did he even get them here?”
Pisces had sworn he’d seen dozens of animals, all too vibrant and real, bounding around, bleating, before the Watchertrees found them. Bograms had really outdone himself this time. He’d mimicked the blood, the animals’ bodies so much that the Watchertrees followed him—
“Up, into the cave or we all die!”
Ceria screamed at him. Pisces saw her face distort—and then the real Ceria was firing shards of ice at the first Watchertree.
“Hold. The. Ground! No one charge! One of you idiots runs and you’ll drag us all to our deaths with the rope! We run and he’ll pull us into the cave!”
Colth spat furiously. Pisces agreed. He aimed a wand at the first Watchertree and hesitated.
[Deathbolt] didn’t really work well on flora. Both he and Ceria were running on dregs, and while Ksmvr and Colth had ranged weapons, Yvlon was—
Her metal arm elongated into a spike that struck the root of a Watchertree bursting up near her. Yvlon held the root in place, then hacked into it, spurting red bloodsap everywhere with her other arm.
Yvlon was doing just fine. But Pisces took one look at the distant Watchertrees and decided his best spells, animating undead, and [Deathbolt] were not useful here.
Time for a lateral move. Ceria shouted.
“I’m hitting the one in the back!”
Pisces hollered.
“Leftmost!”
Colth and Ksmvr obligingly shifted their fire, and Pisces saw Ceria rise—and begin drawing a symbol in the air. He’d never seen her doing that before. Her eyes glowed, and he saw frost cover the rearmost Watchertree as Pisces took careful aim.
Concentrate. Concentrate…he flicked his wrist, and the [Shatterbolt] spell hit the Watchertree, and it convulsed and sagged.
Unfortunately, it was so tough that while dozens of cracks opened up and oozed red sap, the tree didn’t fall. Which was where Pisces lifted his rapier, let mana pool down one edge, and then flicked his sword.
“[A-Arc of Midnight]!”
Colth looked up as Pisces slashed, and a black arc of magic shot across the ground. The scything blade was slightly off, but it hit the Watchertree two to the right of Pisces’ target and gouged out a large sliver of the tree’s mass. Ksmvr raised his crossbow overhead, clacking his mandibles.
“Good shot, Pisces!”
Pisces sat down hard, hoping his stone perch wouldn’t give way. Out of mana—again! He reached for one of his remaining mana potions—then swore.
“Colth! I’m out of mana potions! Give me yours!”
Colth turned, threw—and the mana potion landed twenty feet wide of Pisces.
Bograms! Colth flicked his hand.
“[Retry Mistake]. You fucking—that’s the last one! Make it count!”
The bottle flew back into his hand, and he tossed it at Pisces. The [Necromancer] caught it and chugged. He began slashing again, and two more [Arcs of Midnight] cut the Watchertrees deep. The other two missed.
“Maybe aim a bit better, Pisces?”
“It’s not easy, and I don’t have practice!”
“Well, why don’t you practice your ancestors damned spells before a life-or-death engagement—”
Colth and Pisces were screaming at each other when Ceria’s eyes flashed and she sat down, gasping.
“Got one!”
They all looked up, and Pisces saw one of the Watchertrees was frozen dead solid. It was covered in a thin layer of ice, and the other trees seemed to sway back from it.
“[Curse of the Frozen Flesh]. Guess who’s got terrible magic resistance?”
“Got mana for another?”
“Yep. Just give me one second—”
 
——
 
The Watchertrees retreated after Ceria froze the second, and Pisces, Colth, and Ksmvr managed to actually chop down one with repeated attacks from afar.
Three dead trees seemed to convince the Watchertrees that this rocky terrain was no fit hunting ground. They shambled off as the Horns collapsed in place.
They were utterly drained from that battle, and Colth didn’t beat around the bush.
“Okay. Nap time. Bograms really wants us up and into the cave.”
He pointed up the mountainside, and Pisces saw the mouth of a huge tunnel gaping out at them. There actually seemed to be cut stone, but it was mostly buried by the same reddish rock and debris and ash from the City of Shields’ ruins.
Even the gel coating seemed like it had been erased here—not that Pisces saw more than the occasional shoot of some struggling plants. The [Necromancer] lay there a second.
“If…only…we were able to risk a dash after the Watchertrees. They must be going in the direction of the Bloodfields.”
“Can’t. Nine of them took all our energy. If we want to survive a trek through all of them, we need a strategy. Even Deniusth wouldn’t be that stupid. Get some rest.”
Colth rolled up in his sleeping bag, and Pisces sat back, stung by the short response. Ceria opened one eye grumpily.
“Who made you Captain? Well, he’s right. With our luck, Bograms will turn the entire Bloodfields invisible. I need…to rest. Not that I’ll get any mana back.”
“Post a guard?”
Yvlon yawned as she tugged out her favorite pillow. Ceria shook her head.
“What’s the point? You know that—that asshole…give me four hours.”
The Horns passed out as Ksmvr stopped chewing on some rations and began to sleep sitting upright. Pisces was panting, and he wished he could wash himself—even for him, he felt filthy.
“[Cleanse].”
He muttered, grateful for the cleaning spell, then lay on his back. Pisces stared up at the sky.
Colth is doing his best, but he parlays best off other people with high-level classes. Of them all—Ceria isn’t Level 40, but her circlet let her kill two Watchertrees. If she had the ability to replenish mana, she might be able to handle Bograms with her frost magic.
Yvlon is the highest-level, but she’s a melee class. Not much for Colth to synergize with when it comes to countering Bograms. Ksmvr is young and lower-level, though his Sword School has a lot of promise.
The person who has the best chance of countering Bograms is…me. I have a magic school famous for its utility. I have the potential. But…
He lay there, more and more certain he wouldn’t hear the words when he slept. He had the same problem as Erin in the end. Pisces closed his eyes, sure he would dream once again of being one of them. Another Az’kerash. Another man who became a dark nightmare.
The Level 39 [Deathbane Necromancer] closed his eyes. For his team, he would set forth and fight and do what he could.
But he feared what he would become.
 
——
 
By now, Yvlon Byres was getting a handle on her dreams, and she was trying to use it offensively. The pillow seemed to help. Maybe it was a good-luck charm?
She was calm and under no illusions about their circumstances. Whatever was in that cave—Yvlon hoped she’d wake up if something in it threatened the team. The stress of trying to navigate the Crossroads blind—literally with Bograms around—and the feeling they were about to run into something that would well and truly mulch everyone was leaving everyone tense.
But Yvlon was calm.
Definitely. She was an oasis of calm, and all that rage was being stored in the Byres vault for later.
When it mattered, she would rage.
The dreams felt, to Yvlon, like one of her greatest assets, and she wished she was Level 20. Maybe if she could reach that level, she could…hop into Bograms’ dream?
She did look, but wherever it was, it wasn’t anywhere she could ‘find’. Yvlon suspected, in the way of dreams, her team’s were more accessible to her by proximity or familiarity.
And the goblin pillow meant it was easier to find, well…The Wandering Inn.
Maybe it was because that was where Yvlon wanted to be. Maybe it was because it was a day before the Solstice…two? Maybe it was because of all the damn fog.
The Wandering Inn vanished, and the sea of souls became a cloud of darkness that no one could find their way through. Yvlon Byres walked around aimlessly, passing by an old woman who gave her a strange look, a grinning warrior who waved at her—flashes of quasi-encounters in the dream-state. Everything was fluid on the outskirts of the protective…barrier?
A cloud of obfuscation. Yvlon felt her way through the clouds, turning right, left…then to her astonishment, she stumbled into the inn.
“Huh?”
Yvlon Byres opened her eyes and saw the door again. Two glorious wings framing a door—only it was locked, and there was a window that showed Erin Solstice snoozing in her [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Erin? Hey, Erin! It’s me! We need help!”
Yvlon was here! In fact, she saw multiple people half-present. A snoozing Chaldion, Relc, Valeterisa—Yvlon was upstairs, trying to open doors and banging on the borders of their dreams.
