Colth didn’t look ready to be reasonable. He looked closer to snapping than anything Ceria had seen, and so the half-Elf signaled Yvlon with her raised brows. She was relieved Yvlon understood her—one trick from Bograms might have started a fight. Where was he? Hiding? Pulling a real monster on them?
He hadn’t pulled anything more dangerous than Watchertrees and that first wave of monsters. Given he had a body, maybe he was in danger from other predators. Could they use that against him?
“I’m sorry, Colth. But listen—I was dreaming, and I got to The Wandering Inn! It was this dream-thing, and there was fog—but I think I made contact with the Winter Sprites.”
Even Colth blinked at that. Ceria’s heart leapt.
“What? Really? Are reinforcements coming?”
Yvlon hesitated.
“—One person, I think. Vofea?”
Everyone stared at her. Ceria began scratching at her head, her newest tic.
“Okay, I’m going to ignore that because it sounds insane. If you got there once, let’s put you to sleep—I’ll cast [Sleep]. Unless you have more mana, Pisces? And how about this? You get them to send, I dunno, an army to burn through the Bloodfields and find the gate if there is one. Tell them to get Valeterisa, uh…Ilvriss, and Chaldion on the job. Halrac and Jelaqua to reinforce. Got it?”
Colth was still shaking, and Yvlon was hesitating. Ceria was in planning mode and clapping her hands together. They had to move fast. No telling if Bograms was listening in, but this was their way out.
“Yvlon? Come on—”
Ceria was pointing towards their bedrolls, and Pisces touched Colth’s arm—received a punch so fast to his ribs that he doubled over. Ksmvr lifted a hand to slap Colth’s arm, and Ceria began to snap.
Then she saw Yvlon’s head duck down and saw something strike her head. Or rather, the impact on her hair and helmet she’d slept in.
The enchanted metal deformed slightly, and Ceria’s eyes opened. Something picked up Yvlon, and the Horns whirled.
“BOGRAMS!”
Colth leapt, tearing for his blades, and something hit him out of the air. Ceria pointed her wand, and a single [Ice Spike] struck—
Something was dragging Yvlon through the air! She was unconscious, and Pisces and Ceria were out of mana.
“Stop!”
Ksmvr leapt after Yvlon, but Bograms shifted Yvlon to block Ksmvr’s swords, and he landed hard. Bograms was howling as he ran up the mountain.
“Curse you. Curseyoucurseyoucurseyoucurseyou—”
Ceria ran after Bograms, abandoning the camp, going for her daggers as Colth surged after him. Yvlon was high off the ground—he was big. Pisces stumbled, unable to even cast [Flash Step], and Ksmvr slashed from the side—his swords bit something, and a blow flipped him off his feet. He landed, dazed, and Bograms was climbing higher.
All the Horns slammed into a rock face rather than the terrain they were expecting. Even now, his illusions—
“Get him!”
The rope connecting Yvlon to them tripped Bograms up. It actually pulled the Horns up, and Bograms cursed—Ceria was halfway up, scrabbling up by touch, when he snapped the rope.
“Bograms!”
He was at the mouth of the cave when Ksmvr landed. The Antinium slashed, his swords a blur of silver, and Ceria saw blood flying through the air as he stabbed repeatedly.
“Curse you—you thing! Curse you, bug-thing!”
Bograms howled, a sob in his voice. He must have backed away and dropped Yvlon, because she fell. Ceria scrambled up as Pisces got to the top just after Colth.
“Outside, now!”
He roared at Ksmvr, but Ksmvr was feeling at Yvlon’s head.
“Her skull is not dented. Let’s—”
They were grabbing Yvlon when a gleeful voice spoke. Bograms—and Ceria saw into the cave at last. Only, she realized it wasn’t a cave.
That caved in archway meant this was more than a mere hole in the mountain. The ground was still broken, but now it was stone, and Ceria saw they were past the archway, and there, set into the wall of the cavern around crumbled stone, was an ancient plaque.
It read, in a language she could not read but distinctly knew…
 
Welcome to the Training Grounds of the City of Shields.
 
Drakeish. Their distinct written language. Ceria backed up one step, mouth moving too slow to keep up with her mind.
“Oh shit. Run—”
Bograms’ voice boomed gleefully behind them from the mouth of the cave.
“Please. Start the trial.”
And then the light of a magical spell illuminated Ceria, a complex teleportation spell. She shouted as it grabbed each member of the Horns.
Colth, shoving at Pisces, the [Necromancer] trying to destroy the spell, Ceria, shouting a warning, Ksmvr, holding onto Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress], head lolling.
Then they vanished, and Bograms chuckled and danced and then stalked into the place only he knew. Now they died. His massive feet trod slowly forward, almost reverentially, as he stared at the distant wonder of the lost City of Shields.
A maze, walls twenty feet high, crackling with flashing magic that raced around the border, a glowing jewel of power floating high above encased in arcane force. Broken walls, shattered statues and traps, and patrolling beings of light broken by time and force—
One of the traps guttered out, jetting sparks of light that burned through the air and landed in huge pits of stone that turned molten from the heat of the magic. Bograms tip-toed towards the labyrinth and went hunting.
 
——
 
Defeated. Scattered into a trap.
The Horns vanished in a haze of light, each one trapped in a bubble of space and time that flung them across the strange maze. When they appeared, each one found themselves on a circular dais on the ground, marked by runes that still glowed with light.
There was a plaque as well, but someone had smashed the one next to Colth.
Colth. Colthei. World’s greatest [Supporter]. The Ultimate Supporter. The Cheerful Lad—that was an older nickname from the days when he’d been a Silver-rank adventurer in the company of new legends.
Virtually nothing of that younger man remained. A decade and change had passed since then, and—as Colth turned and saw three walls around him, old sandstone in look, giving way to reveal a crystalline structure underneath thrumming with pale yellow light and inhaled the musty, dust-laden odors of the labyrinth, opening his mouth to call out—
He still felt like a novice adventurer sometimes.
“Horns—”
Colth cut himself off mid-bellow. Idiot. He backed up to one wall, setting himself in the corner with his two shortswords drawn. They were called ‘Felblades’, a weaker version of the famous Baneblades that cleaved through almost anything.
Bograms could be right on top of me in a second. If he teleports in—Colth knew Bograms had a form. Therefore, any subtle clues, even the faintest shift in the air, were a sign to attack.
Nothing happened. Colth listened. He knew the other Horns were in this labyrinth. Establish the facts. Larracel had been the greatest adventurer of her time—a [Wizard] extraordinaire who took a factual, logical approach to adventuring compared to Deniusth half-assing it.
Colth Facts:
 
1. Bograms is a real person. He has to be eight feet tall, and I swear he was half as wide. Ogre?*
2. Yvlon’s out. Her helmet’s dented, but Ksmvr didn’t feel a contusion on her skull. She might just be passed out.*
3. We are in some kind of labyrinthine maze. City of Shields? In the midst of a trial.*
4. The other Horns are scattered in position. Different start positions.*
5. Yvlon mentioned a ‘Vofea’. Assuming that wasn’t an illusion.*
 
*If any of this is real.
 
The facts all had an asterisk on them. And it was why Colth was sweating despite the faint chill in the air, why he would rather it were Facestealer again or an Adult Creler.
Those foes were easy. They killed you, and you died.
This one…Colth found himself panting for air. He steadied himself with a [Diver] Skill.
[Controlled Breaths]. A Skill most people thought you wouldn’t need. Why bother to regulate your breathing?
Well…it was very situationally useful. If, say, you had a limited oxygen supply with a Bottle of Air and were diving for treasures off the coast, it was invaluable.
Or you were hyperventilating.
Focus. Bograms was now hunting them. Why? He had clearly lured them here, done everything he could, up to exposing his true form and taking wounds, to get the Horns into this base.
Why not kill them earlier and have done with it?
Logic dictated a few answers. Colth was good at reading people. He suspected Bograms was, above all things, both sadistic and a coward.
The way he’d unveiled himself by using the myth of Bogleraums and his appearance as that twisted, giant Drake had meant to scare the Horns, and he’d gotten angry when they’d failed to play his game. The fact that he had the physical strength to knock out Yvlon meant he could have ambushed them from the start.
However, intelligence and cowardice had led him to observe the Horns and bait them into a trap. Ksmvr tagging Bograms and Colth doing the same meant he wasn’t much cough in a straight fight.
If we could nail down his position, we’d need a minute to dice the bastard unless he’s got a new trick. 
If this is real. 
I’m still in the Wishing Well. I’m going to wake up in the chair again.
Focus.
Colth had bitten through one lip. He wiped sweat from his brows. This wasn’t another illusion. Even Yazdil couldn’t simulate half a decade of lived experiences.
Unless all of that was just a fake memory.
He was not…doing…well. Colth should have told the Horns from the start. But he was the Named-rank here. They were plucky, tough, and yes, surprising rookies, but he was the one who should be looking out for them.
He should have told them that of all monsters and types of enemies—illusion magic was the thing he wanted to fight the least.
There was only one thing for an adventurer to do in this situation. Colth forced himself out of the corner. Assume the labyrinth has traps, yes. Assume that bastard is going to kill Yvlon first, if he can, and pick the Horns off one by one.
Even now, he was still in the Haven’s shadow.
“This one’s for you, Larra. [Replicate Advanced Skill: Foolhardy Taunt].”
Colth inhaled. Then he shouted, and the word cracked around the maze, bouncing off walls.
“BOGRAMS!”
He was sure the monster heard that. A taunt-Skill meant that Bograms would have to focus on him. That bought Yvlon time.
Good. I can fight him without worrying about hitting one of the Horns. Colth slipped a throwing dagger out of one sleeve and began priming his weapons. Poison time. He’d start tossing them the moment he thought he was being ensorcelled.
Colth began to inspect his surroundings and bent down to gather pebbles. He flicked a few at the wall to memorize how they sounded and how far away the wall was. He was under no illusions. This was Bograms’ home turf. If he thought this was his shot at the Horns…it was going to get bad.
Colth’s hand was shaking already. He began to prowl forwards, finally moving into the labyrinth proper. He was clearly at some start point, probably the deepest point in the maze. A three-walled corridor led to a left-angled corner in an ‘L’ shape.
Beware of traps. Beware of monsters. Beware of invisible—I hate illusions.
Colth got five steps before he sensed magic activating. Wonderful. He sprang back, checking the dais, but nothing appeared behind him. He sensed a presence ahead, and something appeared.
It was, to Colth’s lightning-quick reactions, a shimmering light-construct, bog-standard for many old types of magic. The outline of a Drake, albeit without detail, much like the one they’d seen at the City of Crossroads.
It was bright yellow with both hands clasped behind its back as Colth pointed a sword at it. The figure was smiling. It said:
“Welcome—”
Then the world exploded.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres was dreaming.
It was a bad dream. She was half-conscious, aware of something picking her up, hearing the shouts and her teammates—but she was falling.
She was out of it, so the spinning Yvlon was trying to wake up as she heard the confusion, but she couldn’t ‘see’ anything—her eyes were closed, and even the voices and her mind were distorted.
Then something glowed, and she felt silence. Silence—and the Horns were gone. They occupied the land of the waking. Yvlon, in dreams, was somewhere…else.
A vast land stretched out around her, like the Crossroads, but represented in some way her mind understood as a dream. She saw familiar purple and red warring…a stain of the Bloodfields, and looked around.
The Wandering Inn? She was flickering, probably waking up, so she doubted she could get far. But of all the confusing things in this dream-land, other dreams she could intrude upon, representations that crossed between waking and this dream-state—a single figure caught Yvlon’s eye.
“I’m coming! I’m almost there!”
A bright figure called out, and Yvlon saw that horned head again. Two bright eyes. A smile Yvlon recognized.
A Satyr waved at her as Yvlon reached out. Vofea had a very familiar expression on her face. Yvlon had seen it in a mirror sometimes, or on Ceria’s or Pisces’ or even Ksmvr’s and Colth’s faces.
Here came someone else ready to die. Yvlon reached out—
Then began to wake up.
 
——
 
Five Horns. One Bograms. A maze.
All but one encountered the first obstacle of the maze moments after surveilling their surroundings. Yvlon pushed herself up, looked around, and took two unsteady steps forwards.
Colth advanced after challenging Bograms.
Pisces took off running, shouting for Yvlon.
Ceria checked her circlet, swore for a full minute, and, after reviewing her mana reserves, took one step forwards—
And the glowing Drake appeared.
He smiled—at least, what they could see of his face. It was a generic, nondescript Drake devoid of features, a construct of light magic.
He said: “Welcome.”
Then the world exploded.
Pisces went deaf. The burst of sound and air literally knocked him off his feet. The projection fizzled, stretching wide and distorting in a flash, and Pisces completely missed the rest—he hit the ground hard, ears ringing, and lay there a second before rolling, aiming his rapier at—
He caught a glimpse of the strange light-Drake’s mouth moving, saw it bow and vanish. Pisces said something…
“—? —!”
He was deaf. It took several minutes for the ringing to die out. Only then did Pisces look around again.
Blind, deaf, and completely idiotic. They’d let Bograms trap them here! What was that Drake? An attack?
“No. Where’s Yvlon? [Detect Life]!”
Pisces cast a spell and instantly regretted it. His mana reserves were almost tapped, despite his rest, and the spell, slight as it was, instantly gave him a headache.
