“—Not much. I don’t know the tongue of wilds, though I can probably speak to some animals. But you won’t have me growing forests where none are about. I have a few tricks from the older court, but we all took the small bodies of the Winter Sprites as you call them.”
“Took small bodies…this way. They’re in the cave. Do you know where they are?”
“Nope! That is, I can faintly see the thread Shaestrel pointed out to me. I followed it.”
“You mean destiny.”
They climbed up the hill, and Vofea nodded.
“Aye, it’s not a given, but it’s a great talent among the court. No one can predict what’ll happen in about three days, but Shaestrel’s dancing against the three-in-one herself.”
“Can you predict the future?”
“Nope. I can see this one…faintly, but I wasn’t sure I’d even make it to you! Nothing’s certain. And I’m not a member of the court! Shaestrel is, and Theillige’s the Wild Hunt itself, but the others are all lesser fae. Volunteers, you see.”
“So you all looked like the Winter Sprites. But your true forms are…”
Ksmvr was rapidly piecing together what was going on. Vofea gestured at herself.
“I’m a Satyr. Theillige—they’re the loudmouth of the lot—they’re actually a warrior of the Wild Hunt. A great warrior of ice and snow! But we tricked them, you see? The dead—oops. I hope they’re not listening.”
Instantly, Vofea grew hunted and looked around warily. Ksmvr stared at her.
“How big a secret was—”
“Shh! Shh! Theillige’s not unveiled themself yet. I think. Though even the dead gods can’t see into this realm easily. This entire world’s multiple dimensions folded in ridiculously. The work of the divine. Pah.”
She spat. Ksmvr hopped up to the mouth of the cave, and Vofea made nearly as good progress. She slipped on the last jump though, and her face contorted.
“Argh! Pain!”
She hopped and clutched at her ankle, and Ksmvr’s heart, which had leapt out of his mandibles, was now somewhere in his boots. He spoke his supposition out loud.
“So if I understand things right—each Winter Sprite is disguised and has the powers of…Winter Sprites. At least two are unveiling their true forms. However, that means you only have the powers of a Satyr. Which means you are how strong?”
“Eh…”
That was about all the answer he needed. Vofea limped after Ksmvr, speaking urgently.
“Don’t worry! Don’t worry—I came, I’ve delivered my message, and it was all I set out to do. Vofea, member of the Horns of Hammerad, has done her job! I carried the ring!”
She puffed out her chest, and Ksmvr got even more annoyed.
“You are not a member of the Horns.”
“I am too. I had the contract.”
Ksmvr still had it. He glared at her as he pulled it out.
“You cannot join a team just by writing in your name.”
“Can too. Tear it up if you want. It’s filed.”
She looked so smug Ksmvr almost did, but Vofea glanced at him and patted him on the shoulder.
“Don’t worry. I won’t get in your way, Ksmvr of Chandrar. Just…let me be part of your team, eh? Let’s rescue them. When we face this Bograms, it’ll be a fine death.”
Ksmvr began to nod grudgingly and then hesitated.
“…Wait, for you?”
Then he saw Vofea give him a huge smile. She took a bow, and her bad hoof wobbled, but she raised her chin.
“Aye. I came here to die and do what we must. Theillige is resolved, and so are the others. Wherever it matters—”
She turned, and he saw her looking around, not with intention or as if Bograms were behind them, but with a kind of prideful wariness. Fear. Melancholy. Determination.
As if she expected it any moment. Her hooves were bloody, and she looked up at Ksmvr, smiling as she rubbed at her bad one.
“Just remember I was here. The Satyrs came back, eh?”
Ksmvr stared at Vofea in complete astonishment.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet realized after the first two harrowing traps that Bograms wasn’t attacking him specifically. Clearly, Bograms was in this maze, so Pisces’ guard was up, but after escaping the first two corridors unscathed, the [Necromancer] thought he had some advantages.
Because this maze…was not meant to be a killer maze in its inception.
The first two traps? Bograms had absolutely altered. The first one was just…evil.
It was a balance-test where you crossed over a pit. Pisces thought you were supposed to be teleported to safety or something, but damage or Bograms had interfered with the spell. So instead of gently landing on the ground, the skeleton he’d had jump into the pit had hit the ground so hard it had mostly turned to powder.
That…did not make walking the treacherous, narrow beam easier. So Pisces had done the logical thing and made a bone bridge and walked over that.
The second altered trap was a beam that shot out from a pillar and a staring Human face contorted in rage. It would swivel, shoot—and again, Pisces thought it was supposed to just teleport you back to the start.
Instead, it blew out the insides of anything it hit. And again, Pisces had the advantage. This time—he stood outside the radius of the trap, skin prickling because the dangerous spell unnerved him—but he inhaled, exhaled—
And pulled death magic out of all the dead bodies of Bograms’ victims.
A [Necromancer] gained magic in many ways. In this maze, as Ceria had learned, magic had a presence, so Pisces stopped as he regarded piles of bones and inhaled.
[Ashen Mana Well]. [Drain Death Mana].
“Very well. Let’s proceed.”
The [Invisibility] spell might have been overkill, but it worked. The statue didn’t seem to lock onto Pisces, but just in case, he sent two skeletons marching down the other side while he dashed down the left side of the trap. After that, it was smoother sailing.
“Incredible.”
Pisces breathed as he peeked down a series of rooms and corridors. After the first two traps, Bograms’ tricks had faded in number, and Pisces supposed the monster was used to picking off its victims before they escaped far enough.
He thought he’d heard Colth challenging the monster and hoped he’d run into his teammates. Pisces was hurrying—but he couldn’t help but stare around in awe.
This was a maze—clearly massive in scope, and all the traps were akin to a training gauntlet, like the ones they had in Wistram!
This latest corridor had a bunch of patrolling Drakes, who were all light-constructs. They would march down the corridors, heads on a swivel, stop, and then patrol left or right. It was clearly designed to test whether or not you were nimble enough to slip past them.
“I must be in a [Rogue]’s gauntlet. The traps seem to escalate in difficulty.”
Pisces had a choice at an intersection. Either bypass the Drake guards or…he looked down the other way.
Hop from platform to platform above what he hoped were illusory spikes—knowing Bograms, he’d put real ones in—while little holes in the wall probably spat darts at you.
Pisces took the illusory Drakes. He slowly advanced out of cover, rapier drawn, and one of the light-constructs saw him.
Instantly, it opened its mouth and began blaring an alarm. Pisces tensed—and all the Drakes rushed at him, lifting spears. He stepped back—and two Skeleton Champions moved out of hiding.
There were nine light-Drakes, two Skeletal Champions in armor, and Pisces. He was prepared to flee, but found the Drakes were nimble and adept at jabbing with the spear, but no geniuses of combat.
They struck the skeletons hard and fast, but the Skeletal Champions gave as good as they got, even outnumbered. One cleaved through a Drake’s head, and the light-construct vanished.
“En garde!”
Pisces stabbed through one Drake, parried another jabbing a spear at him, and saw one whirl its spear—then jab hard and fast at him. Pisces barely parried the strike, and the spear kept jabbing. It struck his armor as he risked the blow to counter through the Drake’s chest. Pisces did, after all, have Stalker’s armor on.
He froze as the blow hit him simultaneously with the killing strike. Pisces backed up, clutching his chest—and the two Skeleton Champions froze as he lifted a hand. The Drakes made of light kept attacking—but Pisces lifted a finger and absorbed the death mana, and the skeletal constructs vanished.
He stood there as the remaining five light constructs surrounded him. Pisces lifted his rapier—and one jabbed. He took the blow on his chest, then another on his shoulder. Pisces stared.
They didn’t hurt at all.
Okay, the spears were real enough, and he imagined if he was armorless it’d be enough to bruise, but in his armor, it barely even tickled. He wasn’t even sure the tips were sharp.
Jab. Jab. They were fast, adaptive—one swayed back as Pisces slashed at it with his rapier—and another did that spearwhirl trick, probably emulating a Skill. But they didn’t even go for the head.
After three more seconds of jabbing, the Drakes froze. Pisces stared at them—then a flash of light appeared. He groaned.
“Oh no.”
“Applicant—”
The Drake that appeared blasted Pisces with noise and sound again as he stuck his fingers in his ears just in time. But Pisces opened his eyes and saw mouth was still moving. The Drake stood there, not vanishing, and Pisces’ eyes narrowed.
Just as he’d thought. The maze wasn’t meant to kill him! At least, not until malfunctions and Bograms had ruined it. He removed one finger from his ear and gingerly spoke, ready to cover his ears again.
“Er…pardon?”
He read the Drake’s lips as, once again, the construct malfunctioned. It seemed like every time it tried to speak, it blasted you with light and sound. A glitch. A literal assault on you that left anyone open to Bograms or the traps. But what it said was:
“Applicant, you have failed your section of the trial. You may continue, but your performance will be noted. Would you like to withdraw?”
Pisces’ eyes grew round. Withdraw? As in teleport out? He hesitated.
“Where would I withdraw to?”
The construct flickered. Then smiled.
“Withdrawing applicants will appear at the gates of the Trial of Shields. Would you like to leave, applicant?”
At the gates? Pisces didn’t trust any teleportation spell this old.
“No.”
“Would you like to try again at a different location?”
And face a Bograms trap? Pisces responded hastily. His ears were ringing; conversation was well and truly impossible unless you could read lips—even when he closed his eyes to avoid the flash of light, his ringing ears couldn’t make out any words.
“No!”
“Very well then, applicant. The gauntlet will resume in five seconds.”
The Drake bowed—and vanished. Pisces stared at it. Then he stared at the Drakes who were frozen. Then he drew his rapier and stabbed five times.
There was a plaque on the wall. Pisces had spotted several, including the one in the room he’d first appeared, but this one was more legible than the rest. It read.
 
Trial of the [Rogue] — Room #4b. The Sentries.
 
It was in Drakeish. An old script that Pisces found flowery, equivalent to cursive. But unlike Ceria or Yvlon—Ksmvr might be able to—he could read Drakeish. So to him it said:
 
Trial of the [Rogue] — Room #4B. The Sentries.
 
“Dead gods.”
Pisces stared around the maze and realized he must be in some training grounds of the lost City of Shields.
Lesegoth.
It made his heart pound despite the dangers. This was a training ground? Then again, who wouldn’t benefit from a place like this? You could fight ‘enemies’, train your balance, learn to navigate inhospitable terrain—
It was an adventurer’s playground. But for Bograms and the dangers of the maze—and whatever monsters or other hazards might have cropped up—Pisces could imagine even little Mrsha would love running around the place.
In fact, the only thing preventing him from taking his time was the danger to his friends. Pisces strode onwards, heart beating fast in his chest. Yet, with each step, he couldn’t help it.
This was so…incredible.
Not every room was meant to be a trap. Why, after the balance beam, Pisces passed through a gigantic corridor where he presumed water would pour down, creating an artificial waterfall that led into a huge pit below.
He was busy looking for monsters—and he thought he heard something below, but even the black stream of filthy water couldn’t hide the Drakes saluting him as he passed on the other side. They stared at him, each bearing an iconic weapon of some kind, and Pisces wished he could read the murals caked in filth.
Leaders of the City of Shields or their [Heroes] of old, he had no doubt. All of it hurt and astounded Pisces’ heart.
He loved history and stories, and to be in the heart of a lost place like this was, in its way, even better than a legendary dungeon. Consider it! This wasn’t intended to be a harrowing place. The City of Shields must have run countless young Drakes through here, and the Trial of the [Rogue] indicated that they had even trained specific classes.
That Drake that appears and deafens us isn’t trying to harm us. Like everything else in this maze, it’s a damaged spell. 
If anything, Pisces was amazed the mana coming from that jewel above was still powering this place. It had to be immensely strong!
Knowing now that the traps weren’t actually meant to be lethal, Pisces adopted a new, very fast method to clearing corridors. He didn’t check for the trap’s solution. He checked for whether Bograms had messed with a trap by sending a skeleton forwards to see what happened.
If it seemed innocuous—Pisces just strode forwards. One time, a saw blade jumped out and ran into the [Necromancer]’s chest.
“Ow. Ow. Ow. Ow—”
“Applicant. You have failed the—”
It wasn’t even sharp. Swearing, Pisces ran onwards. He was moving through corridors at a lightning pace for one main reason: he could generally tell which was a Bograms trap and which was harmless.
The Bograms traps all had corpses around them. Pisces had no end of death mana or sacrificial skeletons to hurl at the really dangerous traps. They were almost all skeletons, he noted. Long dead.
Most of them Drakes. Had Bograms preyed on survivors? Or were some of these from malfunctioning traps, like a broken trap probably meant to mildly electrify some water? It was blasting a corridor with lightning every second, and Pisces took the other route.
I have to find Yvlon or someone. Pisces ran faster, letting the skeletons charge ahead of him. The bones of ancient Drakes, possibly the City of Shields’ own people, raced ahead, pointing out a clear path he took, following the skeletons not destroyed.
If he took the bones back with him, he’d have samples of ancient Drakes. Was that worth anything to the Walled Cities? Dead gods, Pisces had seen magicore flowing through the conduits in the walls. It was probably pure stuff. It’d be worth a fortune!
