Also, it did absolutely nothing. He stared around, squinting at the walls of the maze…then down at his hands. They shimmered green in his enhanced vision.
But he saw nothing in the maze.
Spell-blocking walls. Wonderful. Pisces’ sense of alarm ratcheted up higher. He surveyed the walls and looked about. Broken rubble, a mostly destroyed plaque except for the first few sentences…teleportation rune…
He was in a maze. A genuine magical maze, the likes of which you’d hear of in stories! Pisces knew there was a cleared maze of this kind in Medain and one of Kaaz’s lesser dungeons—they were museums now, tributes to the adventurers who had cleared them.
We are in a completely unknown maze, likely eroded by time, which Bograms is hunting us in. 
Incredible. If it weren’t for the horrific danger, Pisces would be delighted. As it was, he turned his head around, still half-dazzled by the light and soundburst. Then he stared at the plaque, and his eyes widened.
“Dead gods.”
 
——
 
The plaque read:
 
—ear Newcomer.
Welcome to the Trial of Shields. —st step to—induction of our ranks.
—all out—[Mazekeeper] if any event occurs.
—Command words: ‘help’, ‘assistance’, ‘emergency’—be provided.
Best of luck. Fortitude shall endure all trials.
 
Ceria had no idea what it said. The plaque was badly damaged, and she knew two things.
One: the script was Drakeish or something. It reminded her of the older script she’d seen in Skinner’s crypt.
Two: she really, really wished she had enough mana to cast [Translate]. Or that she knew how to read the Drake script in general. Ceria wavered for a second, but if it was self-defense or reading what looked like an introduction to this stupid maze…
“Damn species with their damn written languages. Everyone can just speak one.”
Ceria cursed as she rubbed at her ringing ears. That artificial Drake had spoken a word and blasted her hearing away. The sudden teleportation and Bograms’ attack hadn’t helped either.
The circlet gave her focus. It enhanced her intelligence, gave her magic a boost, was literally a mana well, and, she suspected, boosted her very spellcasting.
She was definitely relying on it now, but Ceria thought the core of her was still…Ceria. Which was arguably not for the better.
I don’t even know if I’d manage to cast [Translation] without fifteen minutes to re-figure it out from my spellbook. I’ve left too many spells lapsed. I didn’t refresh all the non-essential ones because it’s a pain to re-memorize each one.
It was like memorizing a mathematical formula or complex nursery rhymes. You generally had a limit to how many you could ‘store’ in your mind at any time. Some spells you got via levelling and could always cast, but without regular practice you could forget spells you learned.
I’ll make a list of a hundred and memorize them with the circlet from now on. Ceria gloomily poked the plaque, looked around, and walked forwards.
In hindsight, she realized she’d been slacking on a lot after running into Bograms. Ceria was good at using ice magic. She was sort of a specialist there, so it made sense. [Ice Spike] and [Ice Lance] solved a lot of problems, and her utility spells, [Ice Floor] and [Ice Wall], could literally build most constructions.
But a four-spell [Mage] had flaws. Like when you entered a mana-free zone and became dead weight for your team. Or when you were virtually out of mana, separated from your team, and Bograms was about to smash your head in.
Ceria improvised. She had been re-learning some spells, and she evaluated her mana pool. She was out of mana. But the circlet had deep pools and could shift its mana supply.
It was hard to explain. Most [Mages] were a well of magic, but it generally had their flavor. Ceria’s mana was frost magic. Obviously. The circlet was like an adaptive well. It could become death mana for necromancy and allow her to cast linked spells. Or a more universal well. It was about efficiency. Ceria had about three spells’ worth of mana left. She decided she needed to use two.
“[Gazelle’s Dexterity]. [Speed].”
If you were a [Mage] running out of mana…you had better get ready to fight or run like spit. If Bograms found her, Ceria wouldn’t get much chance to defend herself, so she sped up her reflexes.
Two minutes on [Speed]. Six on [Gazelle’s Dexterity]. Time to get exploring.
Greater intelligence didn’t mean Ceria could do a [Rogue]’s job. So she relied on her adventuring knowhow and her tools. Her bag of holding might be out of useful potions, but it had all a smart adventurer needed.
Like a long stick. Ceria had one she’d been using to hike with, and she pulled it out and advanced, swishing the stick in front of her like Laken’s cane. With her other hand, she pulled out her wand.
She survived the first corner, which led right. Excellent! Ceria came across a corridor that was blasted into pieces. A jet of burning flames sprayed into the air with such intensity it radiated heat down the entire hallway—some red mushrooms were growing on the far end, the only thing that could survive the intense heat. A broken wall exposed a glass conduit, and Ceria felt a haze of magic in the air.
“Ah. Shit.”
Presumably, this was a trap. Ceria saw holes in the wall and assumed it was some kind of…flaming magic trap. All fine and dandy, right? There were holes in the ground that spat lower-intensity flames out in a pretty pattern. If you were fast, you could probably do a complex dance and nimbly head through the trap.
…One of the flame spells was completely broken and shooting a blue-white-red flame straight into the air, barring her path. Ceria took three steps forwards, and her body instantly heated up.
If she had ice magic…Ceria glanced at the broken wall. That was very promising. It looked like this maze was old and decrepit. Therefore, she could leap through the wall and get deeper into the maze or closer to an exit. Right? Perfect!
[Dangersense].
It had already been going off, of course. But the faint ringing turned up a magnitude as Ceria walked forwards to the wall. She froze—backed up—and put her back to the wall. Then leapt away from that wall as it flashed.
“Dead gods! Tree rot and—”
The flash of magic came from above. Ceria saw something hanging high up in the air, obscured by some darkening effect, flash. A jewel of some kind above the maze pulsed—and magic ran through the wall Ceria had been leaning against.
So much power that it made Valeterisa look like a Level 5 [Novice Spellcaster]. It flickered through the wall, curving right, running around the corridor Ceria was in, and she sensed the magic running through the entire maze via each wall.
So that’s how this maze still has p—
Then Ceria saw the magic reach the broken section of the wall. The mana that had been transported via the glass conduits touched the air and became…
Well, it looked like a roaring wall of yellow light. A torrent of particles. It blasted the air around the gap, and most of the magic refocused like iron filings following a magnetic stone, funneling into the conduit, and kept racing around the maze.
The rest of it entered the atmosphere, and the flame-trap exploded with fire. Ceria recoiled and raced around the corridor, swearing.
“Dead gods!”
Her entire face was baked. The flame spell, already hot, had overloaded, and her skin was in agony. That was sheer, raw mana surging in such force it had a physical presence in the world.
She had no doubt that if she’d been in the path of it, it would have probably blown her to pieces. Ceria poked her head around the corridor, and the racing power was gone. But then she stared up into the gloom overhead.
“Great. So that thing pulses and charges the dungeon. But every time it does…the gap in the wall becomes instant-death. Also…”
She stepped forwards and poked the broken section of the wall with a stick. Ceria felt nothing but air. She shuffled forwards a few steps, eyes on the sky…poke…poke…
The inviting hole in the wall looked only about five feet across. Easy to just jump through in a second’s time, right? Especially since the gem wasn’t flashing. Ceria moved forwards, stepping into the gap. Poke, poke…
Tap.
Her stick hit something hard, and Ceria recoiled. The ‘empty’ air in front of her wasn’t so empty. She tapped at the ground and felt rough stone. Ceria traced the wall right—it wasn’t smooth at all. It was—
Flash.
Ceria leapt back from the gap in the walls and took cover just in time. Power once again blasted through the empty gap in the walls, and her hair stood on end. She peeked around the corner and then exhaled.
“Hey, Bograms. Your illusion is shit.”
She heard a loud, braying laugh. Down the corridor, a familiar giant Drake poked his head out past the flame trap. The one-eyed cyclops Drake leered at her.
“Give me the circlet and I’ll let you go free, you wretched half-Elf.”
“Free to walk into that inviting gap in the wall and get fried? I don’t think so.”
Ceria ignored the illusion of Bograms and tapped the wall. She thought so.
The wall’s got to be at least ten feet thick. Twenty feet high—and the gap isn’t where it looks like. If she had rushed forwards trying to jump through the gap in the wall, she might have gotten fried.
She couldn’t spot the opening as it was. Worse…Ceria’s heart sank.
“Is this an emplaced illusion? Oh, come on. Have you been setting illusion traps here for years?”
Her worst suspicions began to ring true. Bograms started laughing as he moved around the corridor, ignoring the broken flame trap and crawling towards her. Ceria’s skin crawled.
So this was why he wanted them here. Not only was he in the maze—he’d set up permanent illusions. This nice hole in the wall? Just waiting for her to leap through. That flame trap? Might be distorted.
And yet…she backed up slowly from the hole in the wall, one eye on Bograms’ outline crawling towards her. Ceria put her back to the wall again, breathing in hard. Her [Speed] spell was fading.
“BOGRAMS!”
A shout—the crawling Drake jerked. Ceria recognized Colth’s voice and saw Bograms’ illusion twist. She lifted her wand and shouted as she aimed it just right of the hole in the wall.
“[Ice Lance]!”
Her spell struck Bograms—at least part of him. She heard a shriek of surprise, felt the impact as her ice spell shattered on the wall and sprayed her with shrapnel, then the sounds of heavy footfalls.
“That’s right! Eat shit!”
Ceria ducked back as Bograms howled.
“I’ll kill you and eat your face, half-Elf!”
He was backing up, she was sure. But if Colth was taunting him or something—the monster was fighting it. He snarled—and she heard his voice from ahead of her now. Ceria grinned. She lifted her wand and, to Bograms’ surprise and horror—began spellcasting.
[Ice Spike]!
Ceria began blasting the air with [Ice Spikes] as they ‘vanished’ into the wall. She heard screams as they passed through the illusion and hit Bograms. He rapidly retreated, and Ceria panted, grinning.
“Come back! I was just getting warmed up!”
The [Prankster] shouted. She heard the faintest sound of cursing, running—and guessed that Bograms really was running from her. She waited, then ducked behind the wall and slid down.
Juicing flowers, that was close. Ceria was totally out of mana now. If Bograms had come for her…
“Good thing he’s dumb as Mrsha.”
She’d bluffed him out. The moment Ceria had seen Bograms crawling at her through the flame spell she’d suspected he was coming at her from the side. There was the faintest breeze blowing through the actual hole in the wall, and so she’d taken a lucky shot.
As to how she’d had the mana to even pretend she still had some power left…Ceria put one hand on the wall and grimaced.
“Nothing.”
There was no mana she could pull out of the wall like she’d hoped. With a sigh, Ceria glanced up, and the jewel floating overhead pulsed obligingly.
Looked like it did that every minute. The mana rushed through the maze—and once again blasted out of that hole in the wall. Ceria drew in as much as possible.
Bograms had made a mistake. The Crossroads of Izril was mana-empty…but this maze was not. Each time the jewel pulsed, Ceria could draw in some mana, especially via her circlet.
Not much…she guessed it was enough for one [Ice Spike] spell each minute. But she’d take it. Ceria felt her [Speed] spell wear off and canceled [Gazelle’s Dexterity].
“Okay. Here we go. Magic time.”
She waited seven minutes, tense as could be, waving the stick in the air in front of her as she returned to her starting position. She’d probably have died if Bograms had rushed her…but Colth seemed to have baited him away.
Seven minutes later, Ceria emerged from her position and cast a spell two times.
“[Ice Wall]. [Ice Wall] with super cold ice—aaaah!”
She ran for it. Her walls of ice did two things. Firstly, one blocked the hole in the wall she’d discovered so Bograms couldn’t sneak up on her. Secondly, Ceria blocked the flaming jet spell in front of her. She raced forwards as the flames bored a hole in her ice wall.
Ceria threw herself forwards, hit the ground and rolled and came up, feeling blisters of heat on her back. She swore, hopped forwards while still dancing in pain—and saw a new corridor filled with an odd, checkerboard design of tiles that was definitely a trap.
However…there was another hairline crack in the wall, and as Ceria used her slightly burnt stick, she found the entire corridor was free of illusions. Even the tiles seemed to be accurate—she poked them all, and all the white tiles did nothing, but they were the fewest and far between, and she noted they stopped halfway down the corridor.
“Uh…hm.”
Green, Red, Blue, Yellow, White…Ceria stared blankly at the tiles and noted a path through the corridor. There were little tiles on the walls, and she rolled her eyes.
“So the pattern changes, and if you don’t hop to the right ones, you get fried. Who made this?”
The important thing was that the corridor was real. And…Ceria poked one tile and jumped as a Tier 1 [Shock] spell blasted upwards.
“It’s not even that painful. I could probably roll down the corridor and survive.”
…She wasn’t going to do that. She might survive, but she’d be a mass of injuries. Even so, it told her something.
Whatever way out of the maze there was—this was the right passage. If she’d gone through the hole in the wall, she’d probably be running into Bograms’ illusions. Whereas going through this flame trap—the path of most resistance—meant she wouldn’t run into his tricks.
