The dream-Yvlon was amused to see what Ksmvr came up with. But the main room Ksmvr came to was a gigantic hallway that stretched into the distance—it was a dream—and a bunch of canvases.
Baron Ksmvr stopped and began painting on each one. He drew fast, creating scenes from their history—albeit exaggerated.
One was of them defeating the Fire Elemental in the Ruins of Albez. Yvlon was hitting it with a door as Pisces and Ceria descended into the pit, grabbing treasures, as Ksmvr occupied a tiny part of the background.
Another was of the Village of the Dead raid; Ceria swatting monsters left and right as Pisces held up a Skeleton Lord by the throat, and Yvlon sauntering towards Tolveilouka—Ksmvr was hitting a single zombie with a club in the foreground along with Elia Arcsinger.
Is this how he sees us? Ksmvr painted on and on. And the dream-Yvlon saw a commonality between all their paintings.
In each one, Ksmvr was small and diminutive, the slapstick comedy to a legendary battle. Like Yvlon single-handedly smashing her sword into the Adult Creler’s skull while he ran after her with her missing arm.
She grew upset realizing that, but Ksmvr’s paintings began to change suddenly after the Village of the Dead one.
Suddenly, he was dancing with Domehead, properly sized, with a stupid-looking Spitty, Nsiia, and Femithain all doing his funny little dance. Or he was watching Nsiia ride down on some [Bandits] as he lay like some [Martyr] with Spitty drooling into a cup he was reaching for as he baked in the sun.
Silly, still, but Ksmvr was real-sized. Yvlon began smiling again, and the paintings kept going in the way of dreams, faster and faster, as Ksmvr retold what he thought of Pisces’ own adventures, Yvlon throwing [Gladiators] around like toys, Ceria outwitting the Siren—
Glorious tales until they were all riding a chariot around Pomle, and it was the brightest and most beautiful painting of all.
This was good.
Yvlon smiled again until she saw Ksmvr pause. After that painting, he began to draw another one of them all in the inn, smiling and celebrating. Colth was there too, and Ksmvr drew him like a friend, seamlessly integrating him into the paintings.
Colth was not the problem. Ksmvr dipped his brush into a bucket of paint—he didn’t seem to know palettes existed, and in the way of dreams, Yvlon hadn’t paid attention to what he was painting with before—and stared at his new color.
His brush was red, suddenly. Then the Antinium looked up, and he was painting their first fight in the Crossroads of Izril. There was a desperation to everyone’s faces. Blood running down Yvlon’s forehead—and Ksmvr was trying to look for different colors.
Yvlon was the observer, so she didn’t feel the Antinium’s panic as he checked the jars of paint—but she saw it. Ksmvr looked around, but now all he had was crimson red and black.
He began drawing a new painting. The Solstice. And Tolveilouka.
He was working on multiple pieces, now, each of the future. The Revenant. The Solstice with the unknown enemy of Erin.
A new adventure. The Horns were all there, and he was the right size, but there was a grim, black tone to the paintings now. Ksmvr tried to draw them bright and glorious, but the red pooled around his team like ichor.
“…How many more?”
Yvlon saw him looking back to those brighter days when they were in the City of Ropes or hanging out in The Wandering Inn. Then ahead, and the canvases were shrouded in black, and they had no end. The Antinium lifted a bloody brush and slowly began to draw the outline of a grave. He slowly began to write a name, hand shaking as he tried to force his brush away.
Someday. Yes. Someday…the Antinium stared at the painting as dream-Yvlon reached for his shoulder. Both staring at that name.
Then, of course—they woke.
 
[Dreamer Level 4!]
[Skill – Dream Walk obtained!]
 
——
 
Ksmvr did not enjoy the Crossroads of Izril. He did not enjoy this adventure.
They should have stayed in the Great Plains. The Gnolls were good people. He liked them. Why had they gone into the Crossroads of Izril?
Oh yes. Because they’d been first. Because being first was a virtue for reasons he did not understand. Because, he supposed, they were adventurers.
Ksmvr would never admit it to anyone, but he was not sure he enjoyed adventuring any longer. He had. Of course he had.
It had been—everything. He had been nothing, and then they had done amazing things, and he had realized he had to do everything for his team. And they gave him so much and never asked for anything from him. Well, not much. He had been happy, and they had done the right thing each time.
The Crelers. The Village of the Dead. He would have gone back each time and only said to do it better.
But now…did they have to go to the Crossroads? Couldn’t they have waited? How many more times would they do this?
Risk their lives so his team would get gold and glory and artifacts? Ksmvr needed none of the first two. Couldn’t they…retire?
They never would. Ksmvr knew that. Captain Ceria was over twice as old as even Colth, and she never would. Colth was a good person and respected Ksmvr—not everyone who was non-Antinium did, not many. He might be a good junior member of the Horns.
However, they were all crazy. Yvlon, Pisces. Ksmvr was okay with crazy. Everyone went a little insane in the Free Hive. But he did not want them to die.
He was the weakest member of the team right now. On the fourth day, he didn’t feel determined. He just felt like he was itchy all over from bites, tired, hungry—even the food was bad.
Literally.
“Dead gods damn it, I think our [Supplier] sold us crap.”
Ceria held up their meat rations, and everyone groaned. Ksmvr instantly raised his fist to the air.
“BOGRAMS!”
It was the eternal refrain, and this time, they actually heard his booming laugh around them, mocking. However, he had no real presence in the world they’d seen aside from his illusions, so Colth bent over an entire ham they’d taken with them.
It had only been three days, but it was green and nasty. Ksmvr reckoned he could still eat it, but Ceria just tossed it with disgust. Colth swore.
“Damn. I’m gonna kick his ass. I thought he was genuine. Let’s check what else is bad.”
They rifled through their packs, and Yvlon sniffed one egg, cracked it, and then hurled the rest of the carefully-packaged eggs as far as she could.
“Guys, our perishables are going bad.”
That was no good news from a glum Ceria; all the longer-lasting goods were fine. Butter, stale bread, even some of the dried greens led to a breakfast of fat pancakes.
Ksmvr ate five, each one the size of his plate. He was very hungry from this adventure, and even Pisces, the least hungry of the lot, consumed three. But the lack of meats meant that Ceria rapidly adjusted what they’d eat.
“I reckon it’s an advanced rotting effect. Might be the Bloodfields. Might be the atmosphere. Let’s consume anything that isn’t good for ages.”
Yvlon sighed hugely.
“Agreed.”
The glum Horns kept heading north. They had to reach the Bloodfields, but they were now passing along the ruins of the City of Shields according to Wer. And the gel flatlands became rockier—then steep cliffs and valleys with tunnels, collapsed dirt, and debris.
Lots of tunnels. Ksmvr didn’t like them one bit. He only took solace in Yvlon hugging him now and then.
“Once we finish this, let’s have a rest at The Wandering Inn, okay, Ksmvr?”
She smiled at him, and it made him feel better. If Ksmvr had a favorite among the Horns—and he did not—it was her. Even more than Pisces and Ceria.
“Yes, Yvlon. I believe I would like a rest for a bit. If The Wandering Inn is still standing.”
“If not, we can move to The Adventurer’s Haven. The New Lands await!”
Ksmvr heard Colth call out merrily before asking how many times Erin’s inn had been destroyed. Everyone began reminiscing, and Ksmvr drooped as he wondered…
How long until the next moment they all nearly died? How long until…
He no longer wanted it. That made Ksmvr scared, no matter how many times Yvlon hugged him. If he wasn’t an adventurer, was he fit to be one of the Horns?
 
——
 
They made blistering progress. By the end of the fourth day, they were camping in the mountains, and Bograms’ pestering had become, if not tolerable, something to endure. Yvlon rolled up in her sleeping bag, pulled her pillow out from under her head, and passed out despite the sound of Pisces flatulating for six minutes straight.
She’d wake up if monsters came, but they seemed to be staying away. A trick, no doubt. But—
She had two dreams that night. The first was barely moments.
Yvlon pressed her hands against a new ‘bubble’ and hesitated before intruding. However, the night was dark, and she felt…uneasy…unless she returned to ‘her’ dream. She still couldn’t find The Wandering Inn and gave up wandering the dark clouds, and so she slipped into a new dream.
This dream was Ceria’s. Only, it wasn’t really a dream. Ceria Springwalker was sitting in a classroom staring at a far wall. A blackboard with complicated spell diagrams was flashing ideas in front of her, and she was muttering.
“Okay. [Lion’s Strength] and [Bear’s Strength] are different spells. Uh…give me [Lion’s Strength] because it’s more adaptive even if it’s slightly weaker. [Speed]. [Burst of Speed]. [Frostbolt Swarm]…”
Was she…studying? Ceria was dreaming, but she seemed like she was working hard. She was dutifully making notes on a spellbook and sighing.
“How do I get them out of here? Even with the mana well…Bograms was there. I swear I noticed his heat signature before he erased it. [Floor of Frost]? Yeah. Okay, memorize—”
Then Yvlon felt something shove her—hard, and realized something was actually pushing her out of Ceria’s dream. The half-Elf’s head snapped around, and she turned.
“Bograms? No, wait—”
Bone-white ivory looped around Yvlon and dragged her out of the dream. The [Dreamer] fought the bindings, but her metal arms had no power here. She saw something flash around the dream of her friend. A delicate barrier of power. Like a crystal ball. The damn circlet—
It flicked Yvlon out of Ceria’s dream and into another one. When she landed in the next dream, someone jumped.
“Yvlon?”
“Pisces! It’s a dream. I’m sorry…”
Yvlon got up as Pisces jumped. But he was dreaming, and she was not. So the dreaming Pisces just took her at her word.
“You, too? Et tu? I suppose I deserve it. You were right.”
“Huh?”
Yvlon blinked at him, but Pisces just turned to her. She lifted a hand—and realized she was holding a tomato. Yvlon stared at it and then saw a tomato hit Pisces in the head.
She didn’t throw it. Instead, she realized Mrsha was pelting Pisces with tomatoes, and Erin was throwing blue fruits. Lyonette, Numbtongue—all the people that Pisces and Yvlon knew, friends and enemies, were pelting Pisces with objects. Some of them distinctly unkind. Erin shouted as she tossed more objects—now, acid jars.
“You don’t know Latin! You’re pretentious!”
“You owe me five silver!”
That was Octavia.
“Your hair looks stupid!”
Revi. They sounded like things the people had actually said. Yvlon didn’t get it. She tried to shield Pisces, but the projectiles passed through her. Did he really think this was how people regarded him?
Even Yvlon would have said that was Pisces projecting. However…Pisces was just staring at something in front of him. Yvlon turned, and her understanding of the dream—shifted.
The voices grew louder. Yvlon stared up and up—and now Mrsha was hurling dead Gnoll heads at him, sobbing, and Lyonette was tossing cutlery and screaming.
“How long until it’s Calanfer’s turn? Apprentice of death! You’ll be just like him!”
Your class killed my tribe!
“I am the doom of Izril!”
Tolveilouka’s voice boomed down from above. Pisces stared up, face bleak, and Yvlon followed his gaze and saw…
[Necromancers].
She had never known what Perril Chandler looked like. The Archmage of Death was, in Pisces’ mind, a composite of the few portraits of him that remained, a distinguished duelist-mage resting one hand upon a rapier of bone as he held a black book open, smiling.
The Putrid One, that half-Elf sitting with a twisted smile as his rotted minion rose behind him, a pile of corpses at his feet.
The Goblin Lord, Reiss, his armies killing Gnolls and Zel Shivertail, walking towards him grim-faced.
Even Ama stealing bodies from graveyards with her coven. Pisces had met more [Necromancers] still, and Yvlon saw them robbing people with an army of corpses, squabbling in their hideouts, and the image of an angry man holding a rapier to a terrified couple’s throats—
“Who’s that, Pisces?”
“Feren. Another old friend. They’re all like that.”
The chanting grew louder. Now, Yvlon turned, and Erin looked distinctly unlike herself, features twisted, taller, and the crowd hurled more and more dangerous objects. Pisces stared at yet another figure as the [Necromancers] loomed tall.
There was Skinner.
Yvlon flinched, and her dream-self trembled. The world warped as she saw the crimson eyes. Pisces stared at it, Facestealer, and even Stalker and the shadowy image of the Mother of Graves.
Then at a glowing, purple-eyed skeleton with blood on its hands. Grinning and grinning, and a sneering [Necromancer] with a rapier standing over the corpse of a Centaur and [Mages] of Wistram.
Pisces stared at himself. So did Yvlon, and she thought that the Pisces of his dreams had never been. As arrogant and haughty as Pisces had been—he had never been so callous or uncaring as he pretended to be.
But his image of the would-be Pisces was of a monster. A sneering [Necromancer] to join all of them.
“Is there not one?”
Pisces walked down the line. Slowly. Searching, and Yvlon saw a single statue in the far back of someone she had never met but Pisces had talked of.
Gewilena. She stood painting an undead that gave Yvlon shivers; an unnatural piece of abstract art, but only she was not covered in blood or filth and not sneering. Her…statue? Yes, statue or representation was filled with soft light, and Pisces kept trying to spot her in the back.
But everywhere he turned was Az’kerash, black-eyed now, with white pupils staring out as he stood on a mountain of corpses. Tolveilouka laughing as he ripped Yvlon’s arm off—the image of her, rather.
Then Yvlon understood. Pisces kept searching, pushing them aside, now, turning his head back to his friends. He caught Yvlon’s eyes.
“How long until I become one of them? Until you see me for who I really am?”
“You won’t be one of them, Pisces. Come on—”
Yvlon tried to take his arm, but the [Necromancer] was mumbling.
“It’s only a matter of time. Not one. Not one—”
