A salute Pisces had never seen before. It reminded him of that damn [Sword Legend], the Drake who had appeared at the Village of the Dead. He probably knew the meaning of this particular signal. Wait…Pisces blinked as he had an idea.
Ceria was recoiling, skeletal hand raised and shimmering with frost magic. Pisces lifted his sword, and the projection spoke.
“Applicant. Would you like to challenge the Trial of [Duelists]?”
“Pisces—”
The sentry was aiming at him now, and all twelve were advancing. They were backed into a corner, and Pisces did the only thing he could think to do. He was a [Necromancer]. And a [Fencer].
Both defined him. But what people often forgot about [Necromancers] was that…in the end, they were suckers for history.
Not just the dead.
The Drake sentry froze as Pisces performed a salute with his rapier. He pointed it out, tip first, and let gravity tilt the tip downwards. He performed a three hundred and sixty degree spin and stopped it tip downwards, then slashed the ground.
It was a showy, flashy salute by Pheislant [Duelists] called ‘Drawing the Line’—a simple trick that made the blade rotate around in a whirl that fascinated the ladies—or lads—Pisces had heard the older [Duelists] say.
The Drake sentries stopped—stared at Pisces as Ceria saw their swords freeze in the air—and then they stepped back. The lead one bowed and then performed the same salute it had offered them time and time again.
Then they stepped forwards—and froze as Pisces, hands sweating and clammy, spoke.
“Wait!”
This time, he performed the most basic salute you did with a saber—a simple raise and point in the direction of your opponent. And then the referee—in this case, Pisces did it to the Drake overseer thing.
He waited as the light-sentries froze—and the one in front instantly copied the salute. It pointed at Pisces, then stabbed the light-overseer in the face—
Pisces wished the overseer Drake had noticed that the depth perception was off, but it was nowhere near as intelligent as a Sentient-class Golem. However, the moment the sentry was done and bowing, Pisces formed a third salute.
This one wasn’t official, but Ailendamus’ [Duelists] had been new and wanted to make a salute for the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. How it worked was a showy twist of the handle so the blade spun as you tossed it into the air, then you caught it, did a quick cut horizontally, and sheathed it at your side in one smooth motion. The blade made a soft sound as Pisces slid it into his scabbard.
The sentry-Drakes stared at him, and all of them raised their swords without saluting.
“They didn’t like that!”
“Argh! Damn!”
He should have known they wouldn’t respect a newer salute! Pisces had been blanking on all the formal styles, but panic sometimes helped. In his desperation, he reflexively went into another salute, and this time, he had an idea.
How had that [Sword Legend] done it? Pisces had watched the recording of the [Sword Legend] attacking the other adventurers, and even if he hadn’t been there…he held his sword up, and the sentries paused—then Pisces whirled the sword around until its tip was pointing at the ground, clasping both hands on the sword like some [Knight].
The Drake sentries stopped, and once again, the one in the front offered him their formal salute. Ceria started breathing again and whispered sidelong to Pisces.
“Good idea! I think I can pull off at least that one. Give me the rapier, and we’ll stall ‘em out! If we’re lucky, we can run while they’re saluting.”
“Not…yet. I have an idea, actually. Hold on—”
Pisces actually thought he might be able to salute-stall the constructs for hours, but his arm hurt, he was exhausted, and he had a better idea. Slowly, the [Necromancer] looked at the old creations of ancient Drakes.
Then he copied the salute of the City of Shields. Ceria groaned softly as the Drake sentry once again mimicked the gesture with alacrity, and they all stepped forwards. But Pisces’ next words made all the sentries pause.
“I…challenge Lesegoth, the City of Shields, for the proof of a [Duelist]’s merits. Face me in single combat.”
All the sentries stopped moving. The overseer Drake, who had been watching the display of salutes without reacting, turned. That smooth, controlled voice spoke to Pisces. It seemed like it inspected him a second.
“…Stranger. No Duelist of Shields is present at the Trial of Shields. However. You may undertake single combat to prove your merit as an apprentice [Duelist]. Is this your will?”
“Y—er—”
“Say yes! Say yes! Not me.”
Ceria was whispering. Pisces glanced at the sentries, then nodded.
“Yes.”
There was a pause as sweat rolled down his back—then he saw the overseer Drake smile. There was no crackle or fizzle in its voice as it spoke—perhaps these words hadn’t been uttered since the City of Shields fell.
“Please follow me to the dueling area.”
The other sentry-Drakes lowered their blades—and then bowed, turned, and marched off. One Drake with a sword remained and marched ahead of the overseer as Pisces and Ceria looked at each other. The two Drakes stopped at one end of the maze hallway, and the overseer turned.
“Applicant. Please follow—”
“Yeah, yeah. We’re coming. Dead gods, Pisces. You’re a genius! Maybe I should give the circlet to you.”
“An intelligent move wouldn’t have me fighting to the death against that thing. It might get better at fighting, and it has no depth perception, remember?”
Pisces swallowed hard. Apprentice-level? He bet that meant Silver-bell level. [Duelists] didn’t have journeymen ranks. There were masters…and everyone else was supposed to be on the path to mastery. That was their entire thing; no one ever learned enough to say they were true masters, even Gold-bell duelists.
How…how good could a light-projection made by one of the legendary Walled Cities be? At any rate, it meant they were safe until they reached the testing room. One duelist vs. Pisces beat twelve immortal sentries vs. the two of them.
Indeed, as Pisces and Ceria slowly began following the overseer and his opponent to the site of their match—with it telling them to follow every few seconds—Ceria began whispering out of the corner of her mouth.
“Okay. I can do [Gazelle’s Dexterity], [Lion’s Strength], and [Speed]. Want some [Ice Armor]?”
“No. And don’t interfere when we duel. I think it might just reactivate the trap.”
“So long as you’re winning—okay. Think we can make a skeleton take the win or fail?”
That wasn’t a bad idea. Pisces hopefully reanimated one of his Skeleton Champions when, twenty minutes later, they reached a large, open room that felt like it was the center of the maze. The overseer Drake turned and spoke politely.
“No assistance is allowed for a [Duelist]’s challenge, Human. Please signal when you are ready to begin. All observers must exit the ring before the duel may proceed.”
Uh oh. It recognized Pisces’ species. Ceria swallowed. In her experience, the more specific a spell got…the more energy the creator had poured into it. Pisces was warming up, looking tired, exhausted from surviving Bograms, and his rapier was old.
Not the one she had once seen him carrying with a Silver-bell. But she believed he’d earned it. 
“Take your time, Pisces. You can do this.”
Pisces nodded. He seemed encouraged, and his movements were sped up by Ceria’s spells. She was about to tell him to have at it—when she saw the overseer Drake inspect Pisces.
“Enchantments: [Lion’s Strength]. [Speed]…basic. [Gazelle’s Dexterity]. Copying.”
The sentry-Drake across from Pisces began to blur as it performed the salute from the City of Shields at an accelerated rate. Ceria ran forwards.
“Waitwaitwaitwait! I’m canceling the enchantments!”
“Duelist. Please have all observers vacate the—”
Pisces and Ceria locked eyes as he swallowed. Hard. Pisces stared at a notch on the worn rapier he carried, beaten up from use, and saw his opponent standing there. Waiting.
The overseer Drake stood there watching him. Two glowing eyes of pale yellow light, without detail or mercy, watched him. A legacy of old. The mouth moved and a voice spoke politely, Pisces thought.
“Duelist. Any use of non-spellblade magic will result in your immediate disqualification.”
“Wonderful.”
Pisces felt at his hands. He pulled the [Shatterbolt] ring off, then felt at his bag of holding. He took his robes off and checked his armor.
“Does armor matter?”
The overseer replied softly.
“No.”
Pisces began to remove the armor too. He looked at Ceria.
“Hold onto my gear?”
He was going to need to be as light as possible for this one. Pisces nervously checked the guard of his rapier. Her eyes were locked on him, but behind her, lined up against each wall, he saw the duelist-Drakes standing with swords raised like ceremonial statues. They must have returned to their start positions. Wonderful.
If he disqualified himself—well, he doubted you got a second chance. Pisces looked at Ceria and managed a smile.
“I guess we’ll find out if I deserved that Silver-bell after all.”
“Duelist. Are you ready to proceed?”
The overseer intoned. Ceria waved a hand at it as she leaned forwards.
“We could stall, Pisces. It probably won’t force you to—”
“Bograms is out there, and Colth lured it, and Yvlon’s hurt. I’m ready. Just give me…”
Pisces inhaled and exhaled. [Fencer]. He was glad he’d taken the class after all. Spellblade magic? Was he a [Necromancer]? Or should he have really just been his father’s son? He stared at the light-construct.
He felt like he was walking in Az’kerash’s footsteps. Surely it would have been…the [Necromancer] put his robe over his smallclothes, adjusting a belt to make sure he wouldn’t trip over his robes when he fought.
Pale white, torn in places, but still magical cloth rustled as he performed a salute. [Necromancer]. Duelist.
He’d always wanted to be a copy of Az’kerash when he was young. Now—Pisces closed his eyes and opened them as he rose out of his bow.
He knew how this destiny ended. If not this? Then what? 
Ceria Springwalker stood there as the overseer asked her to leave the ring. She looked from Pisces to the construct. Pisces stared at her.
“Whenever you’re ready.”
She didn’t move.
