They hit each other again. Yvlon’s [Aspect of Iron] wore off, but now they were running. Next came a series of lances that Bograms had altered to stab hard enough to ram through metal.
To them, it looked like a pond of water with a faintly off-color. They would stop and—
They charged into the hallway of stakes. Somehow, Colth sensed the new traps. The [Supporter] swept Yvlon’s leg, and they both fell down. He kicked away from a spike that shot up, and Yvlon’s arms exploded into probing metal spikes.
Yvlon and Colth got back to their feet and paused, panting, as Bograms tried to keep up. Now they’d slow down and he’d get ahead of—
The stupid [Armsmistress] nearly walked into a spike trap until Colth punched her in the side. She stopped, and he dragged her backwards. She dragged him forwards. He punched her, and she headbutted him in the face. Colth stopped a second as Bograms saw Yvlon draw a blade. Colth heard the rasp and faced Yvlon the right way—
Bograms leapt back just in time. He had been about to get in front of Yvlon—
“[Sword Art: Arc of the Moon]!”
“[Copy Skill].”
Two swords cleaved down the hallway, splintering the spike traps, cracking the old enchanted stone, activating the traps they didn’t destroy—Bograms shrank back and saw the two adventurers lower their swords and charge.
Yvlon charged forwards first. One of the surviving lance-stakes that shot out of the wall and struck her arm. It failed to do more than dent the metal flesh. She took a step forward and Colth dragged her back from walking head-first into another hole in the wall, this one positioned at head-height to kill both of them.
He punched her, and she yanked him out of the way of the trap that had hit her as both recoiled. Colth growled, grabbed her head, dragged, pushed down—
He dragged her under the trap in their way, and they rounded the corner of the next hallway.
They were still blinded by Bograms’ illusions, so they slammed into one of the other denizens of the Crossroads. The furious monster in scarlet was flaming hot, and Bograms made it look like the ant-man, Ksmvr—
The two punched Ksmvr in the stomach and groin almost gently, realized it wasn’t him, and shoulder-charged the monster into a wall hard enough to nearly cut it in two. After five seconds of furious stabbing, kicking, and punching, the two backed up, and Yvlon turned the wrong way—Colth punched her arm and she swiveled, grunting.
They ran forwards, and Bograms was running to keep up, now.
They weren’t stopping. They weren’t—
Colth sensed a gap in the wall and shoved Yvlon off her feet before they hit the deadly wave of energy. Her free metal arm was probing outwards, and the two slammed straight into a light-sentry as it struck them—Colth buried his sword in its chest, and they ran in a straight line until they slammed into a wall. Then they were past Bograms, and he was trying to make the dungeon disap—
Yvlon Byres saw a [Light Wall] spell appear, blocking her way around a delicate trap involving rusted lockpicks and a series of locks on the wall. She slammed into it—splintered the spell as her arm punched through—and Colth was right next to her. They turned and kept sprinting as Bograms ran after them. And his illusions were no longer keeping up with their pace.
And they were still—hitting each other. So why did it look like both were grinning?
Possibly, Bograms realized—because it was too stupid for either he or the ‘Naga’ to come up with.
 
——
 
Pisces didn’t understand Ceria anymore. They had come to an understanding. Then Chandrar—then she was the one wearing a magic—definitely cursed—circlet and playing pranks.
They hadn’t talked about it. To be fair, he hadn’t shared the full depth of how he’d suffered with Riqre and the other [Slavers]. He didn’t know if he could, even with Erin.
He just wished—
“[Lion’s Strength]! [Floor of Mud]!”
The spell empowered him as the light-projections skidded on the floor of mud. Pisces locked blades with one of the illusory Drakes and shoved. It went flying into the air; it was light as a feather, but the Drake did a backflip and landed on its feet.
Great. They were like Silver-bell duelists, and one had taken a slash from Pisces across the face. Its head wavered, and it froze—then slowly reformed. Ceria shouted.
“Run! I don’t have the mana for this! I’m going to do something unpredictable!”
“Unpredictab—what?”
Pisces backed up as another Skeleton Champion locked blades with the light-Drakes, who hacked it down. He was grateful for the armor Colth had bought them; the skeleton endured blow after blow as it hacked at the twelve Drakes with swords. Ceria pointed as they backed up.
“[Rampant Magic]! Run!”
Pisces twisted and saw the floor of mud rippling. That was her new [Prankster] Skill? He backed up, and the mud bubbled up—and burst. Each bubble exploded into a shower of glittering lights that the light-constructs avoided. The glittering magic was violet, and when it clung to one of the light-constructs…
It did absolutely nothing. Both [Mages] ran faster. Pisces was gasping for air.
“We have to stop them! They’re immortal if they have enough magic, and this maze is filled with magic.”
“Well, I can’t freeze them! You saw that last one! It walked out of the [Ice Wall] spell.”
How did you defeat a construct made of light? The answer was…you joined the countless corpses that had probably fallen victim to their blades. At least Bograms wasn’t here. Pisces’ mind raced.
“They’re part of the Trial of Shields! They’re not meant to kill us!”
“Tell that to them, idiot!”
Doubtless, Bograms had altered them. But Pisces twisted and saw one of the light-Drakes drive a sword through the skeleton’s head. His undead went limp—but the artificial Drake was pointing its sword through the skeleton’s head. Then it withdrew the sword with a flourish and bowed.
It clearly thought it hadn’t just killed the skeleton. Clever. Bograms had altered its depth-perception just enough to make the sentries murderous.
Think. Think. Pisces and Ceria couldn’t keep running forever. Ceria was leading them back the way she’d come, but they’d run into a dangerous trap, and then they’d be backed into a corner. They could…lure the Drakes into a trap?
“Is there any [Light Wall] spell or something that could contain—”
“Circlet says no!”
Pisces snarled at her as he pumped his arms and legs.
“Circlet says!? What about Ceria?”
“Ceria’s busy running! Also, I’m pretty sure my circlet is intelligent and scared shitless!”
Pisces actually slowed as Ceria pointed to it on her head. It was bone white, and he suspected it was a kind of bone mixed with magic. The Putrid One’s personal spellcasting aid…
“And you’re still wearing it? Take it off!”
“Nope! I need its power!”
“Are you insane? We don’t need a sixth Horn of Hammerad. Ceria, Pisces, Colth, Yvlon, Ksmvr, and Ceria’s headband?”
He shrieked at her. The two were panting for air, and Ceria skidded to a stop, clutching at her side. She was wheezing, and the light-Drakes were running down the long corridor after them. Ceria doubled over as an ice-wall rose to block them…and they phased through it. At least it slowed them. Pisces licked his lips.
Animate my remaining Skeleton Champions? [Deathbolt] does nothing…dark magic. [Arc of Midnight]? My aim is terrible, and I’ll have only one cast. If only I had some darkness magic—
Wait. What about—he narrowed his eyes.
“Light…arrow!”
Pisces concentrated. He pointed one finger, and it took six seconds for him to conjure what looked like a ball of light to his fingertips. Ceria blinked and looked up. The ball coalesced…morphed into an arrow slightly smaller than your average [Light Arrow]—and fired.
It shot ahead, and one of the Drake sentries regarded the spell that was not a spell—and swatted it aside. Its sword made a gentle pinging sound.
“Well. That was useless. At least you didn’t break your fingers this time. But the circlet says it won’t do much—”
“Shut up about your damn circlet!”
Pisces screamed at Ceria. He could cast the spell, but it was about as weak as…a regular [Light Arrow].
“I can move the light around, now, and even make it last a few seconds. I solved the recoil problem.”
“Can I read—let’s go. Here goes all my mana for a minute! [Frostbolt Swarm]!”
Ceria saw the projections coming and raised her wand. She fired a hail of smaller bolts of ice, and the Drake sentries obligingly slowed and began parrying or effortlessly dodging them.
They were amazing duelists. Pisces remembered his father, Padurn Jealnet, doing something like that once as a demonstration of [Duelist] abilities.
He wished he didn’t remember that man. But he was a [Fencer]…not Padurn’s son. Pisces lifted his rapier as Ceria doubled over.
“I’m gonna hurl…”
Pisces’ other hand was glowing as he concentrated. If he just had another second…
He was about to release the spell and drag Ceria away when he saw one of the sentries closest to him slow. Its head turned to Ceria, and it halted a second and put its rapier up. Pisces blinked.
“Ceria! Play dead!”
“What? Oh, tree rot—”
Ceria threw herself down and put her hands and feet up in the air. Pisces nearly kicked her. Was she pretending to be roadkill?
The Drake sentries regarded her, and then one stepped forwards and began to swing its sword down to point at Ceria’s face. The sword nearly sheared through her face—Pisces impaled the sentry and shoved it back as Ceria scrambled up.
“That doesn’t work unless we want it to behead us. Nice try.”
She backed away, and the two fled again. The sentries strode after them as Pisces’ mind rose. But they had hesitated. One leapt after Pisces and went sprawling.
Ceria glanced back, blinking. Then she saw a line of light in the air that the other Drake sentries ran into. They went sprawling and picked themselves up fast.
“What was that?”
“A tripwire…of light!”
Pisces couldn’t believe it had worked, but it was all light magic. He’d just changed the inertia of the spell to nothing and pumped mana into it—
“Can you do a net?”
“Absolutely not.”
Making mobile, flexible magic? Way too difficult. Ceria skidded to a halt, inhaling and exhaling.
“Okay. A light-diffusion spell mixed with ice magic. Maybe that would make a construct they can’t phase through. I think I can do that. Buy me, uh…nine minutes. And shut up about the circlet. This is why I’m wearing it. I can’t mix spells on the fly without it!”
“You’re insane. Skeletons—arise!”
Pisces used his last two Skeleton Champions and pointed them backwards. He was drained of mana, and the two staggered down the corridor as Ceria panted. He had to drag her with him.
“I need it.”
“You’ll become a monster.”
“Don’t care. For magic—”
Ceria leaned against a wall and began to retch. Then she swallowed, glanced up as Pisces heard the clash of swords, and he saw her pale-faced, sweaty expression. But her eyes were clear. She was wearing the circlet on purpose. He stared at her, wide-eyed, and she gave him a serious look. Like always.
“I’ll sacrifice what I have to for magic. So long as it’s worth it. How am I supposed to keep you idiots safe?”
Ceria turned her head and spat, and Pisces grabbed her arm. She sounded like—Az’kerash. Had he ever said that?
Those black eyes and white pupils, inhuman. But he sometimes sounded like a man full of regrets. Sometimes like Perril Chandler, the Archmage of Death.
Then Pisces stared into those pits and saw the butcher who had haunted Terandria and realized they were the same.
“I can’t. I can’t sacrifice anything for that.”
It felt like a confession. Pisces saw Eloque and Bearig in front of him. Heard Emir Riqre laughing and felt like he was balancing on the edge of something. He refused to fall.
The half-Elf [Cryomancer] gazed up at Pisces for what felt like an [Immortal Moment]. Her incredulous gaze peered into Pisces’ soul, and whatever she found there—Ceria looked behind her and straightened with a grimace of pain.
“Lucky you.”
The two gazed at each other, and then Pisces reached out. Ceria grasped his hand, and he dragged her onwards.
“Why…is it my turn…to sacrifice anything for magic?”
There was a wheezing quality to her lungs. They had run for thirty minutes straight. Pisces’ own legs were burning, and the light-constructs wouldn’t tire.
They reached a dead end, and Ceria’s lungs whistled as she gasped.
“Oh. Great. Where I started.”
There was a plaque on the walls more complete than the one Pisces had found. He stared at it.
 
—ear Newcomer.
Welcome to the Trial of Shields. —st step to—induction of our ranks.
—all out—[Mazekeeper] if any event occurs.
—Command words: ‘help’, ‘assistance’, ‘emergency’—be provided.
Best of luck. Fortitude shall endure all trials.
 
Drakeish. His eyes widened. Wait. Did that say…
 
—ear Newcomer.
Welcome to the Trial of Shields. —st step to—induction of our ranks. 
—all out—[Mazekeeper] if any event occurs.
—Command words: ‘help’, ‘assistance’, ‘emergency’—be provided.
Best of luck. Fortitude shall endure all trials.
 
“Ceria! Do you see what it says?”
“I didn’t have the mana or time to cast [Translate].”
“You forgot to cast—help! Assistance! Emergency!”
Pisces waved his arms frantically as they backed onto the dais, and Ceria clapped her hands over her pointed ears as the first sentry strode around the corner. It raised its sword—
And with a thunderclap, that ‘overseer’ Drake appeared, claws folded behind its back.
“Applicant—require assistance?”
“Yes! Stop the trial! We’re in danger!”
Pisces and Ceria screamed at the projection. The Drake smiled and lifted a clawed hand as the sentries advanced.
“The [Mazekeeper] has been alerted and will be here presently.”
The sentries kept coming. Ceria pointed at them.
“That trap! Stop that trap, dead gods damn it!”
The overseer Drake turned. To both [Mages]’ relief, it chose this moment now to stop glitching and blasting them with sound and light. So they got to hear the sentries marching towards them while the light-overseer spoke at a calm, measured pace.
“The Trial of [Duelists]. Room #49. Would you like to surrender and try again at your convenience and reduce the difficulty setting?”
“Yes! Oh hells, it’s going to behead us.”
The first sentry-Drake was advancing, now formally, to perform a gesture where it pointed its sword at Ceria and Pisces, then saluted again, sword whirling in a figure-eight before it held it up to its chest and then extended it. Only, it was going to stab Ceria straight through the face in the ornamental salute.
