In the days leading up to the Solstice.
During the Solstice itself.
And even afterwards.
They were not there.
The Horns of Hammerad were missing. Trapped in the Crossroads of Izril, haunted by a strange being calling itself—Bograms.
Erin Solstice sailed a ship north towards Wistram in the company of the Lucifen and Ulvama on board The Naga’s Den—
But where were the Horns of Hammerad?
 
——
 
Seven days ago.
 
The first thing they did was link arms. Then Colth suggested that was stupid and recommended rope.
The ‘day’ in the Crossroads of Izril had no true sunlight, just a pale awakening of the gel-covered and too-flat landscape. There was no sun nor sky, however grey and cloudy, to make Yvlon Byres feel like she’d woken up.
Not that she’d slept. If she looked back, she could still see Ceria’s ice-fortress mixed with the bones Pisces had sacrificed—burning. Ceria shaded her eyes as she stared backwards.
“Looks like the red guys won.”
“Either that or someone’s set fire to the entire spot.”
Yvlon grunted. Colth copied her as he tugged them forwards with the rope, scouting ahead with Ksmvr…for about fifteen feet. A rope was secured around Colth’s waist, the same as Ksmvr, Pisces, Ceria, and Yvlon. Colth snapped back.
“Or that’s all an illusion, and the base camp isn’t even in that direction.”
Pisces closed his mouth, clearly about to say the same thing. Yvlon gritted her teeth on a snappy retort. They were all tired.
An entire night of surviving waves of Bloodfields monsters, purple and red—things, and realizing they had to run or die had left the Horns exhausted on multiple levels. After a few more minutes of trudging, Ceria called out.
“Equipment check. Anyone got a healing potion left? I’ve got two.”
“Me.”
“I as well, Captain Ceria.”
“Shut up, both of you. Information helps Bograms.”
Colth snapped at Ksmvr and Pisces, who looked hurt. Yvlon checked her belt on reflex, and her fingers touched…nothing. Just a loop in her belt.
What a terrifying feeling it was to finally have it happen to them.
No more healing potions.
No more second chances, and they were as good as a second chance. Yvlon had seen men and women with cut throats or badly broken bones get up and keep fighting with a potion to stabilize them. What had Erin been talking about?
Blood…transferring. Yvlon wished the Horns had taken a lot of that donated blood now. Did it keep? How would they patch up a big wound? Sew it up?
Barbaric.
Pisces was clearly thinking along the same lines and vouched his opinions, Colth’s disapproval or not.
“I regret we didn’t look into that [Doctor]’s techniques more. Then again, with bone-related injuries, I am an unparalleled specialist. Flesh wounds…I believe Erin said that you tend to sew anything up. With needle and thread. And add blood to replenish the lost amounts via tubing? I paid attention when she was setting up her ‘blood bank’, but I gathered the blood isn’t transportable. It spoils.”
“Blood goes off? That’s crazy. No, wait. It makes sense. If flesh spoils, so can blood. At least we haven’t been that stupid.”
Ceria shook her head. Ksmvr raised a hand.
“The Antinium have no flesh to stitch, so I believe this is a largely ineffective move with me. Happily, I report that I do have some of our regenerative gel, and my wounds are self-clotting if they are not too large. Please lop off any damaged limbs and apply gel.”
“Excellent, Ksmvr. Yours is a very adaptive species.”
Pisces sidled over to give Ksmvr a disheveled high-five. They were all sort of swaying and clearly not doing well, but everyone knew they had to make tracks lest those monsters catch up.
Bograms was hunting them. It might be luring more monsters to their position as they spoke.
Indeed, one of their number was so focused on leading the way that he only barked responses now and then—but the huge scowl on Colth’s face also said he wasn’t keen on discussion at the moment. He had a stick and was leaving a furrow in the ground. He looked up as Ceria called out.
“Colth, you’re our generalist. How many needle-related classes do you have?”
The [Supporter] stopped, turned, and barked a reply.
“Everything we say and hear could be Bograms. The only thing we can trust is this.”
He yanked the rope hard, and all the Horns felt it. Colth punctuated his second remark with another yank.
“So you know, Pisces just gave away that he can heal bones. Guess who’s the highest-priority target now? Now Bograms knows who has a potion, and the longer you idiots speak, the more insights he gets onto how to mimic and manipulate us. Ceria, you know I only boost existing Skills. I can’t just copy every Skill I want. Come on. Let’s keep moving. We need to find a defensible spot to shelter in.”
He yanked twice on the rope. Hard. Yvlon stared at Colth’s back.
Wait, but didn’t Colth have the ability to use countless Skills? She’d always assumed his class let him copy most low-level ones. She opened her mouth to say so…then caught on.
“Colth, don’t go too fast. My wrist hurts. I think I’ve injured a leg too.”
Ceria yanked hard on the rope—twice. Pisces hesitated.
“And I need to use the restroom. A tricky endeavor given the connections.”
He pulled—once. Everyone waited for the second pull, and Colth scowled.
“Well, dig a hole, and we’ll look the other way. There’s no privacy while we’re connected.”
“Can’t I step aside and—”
“Are you stupid, Pisces? That’s how you get got.”
Ceria twirled her fingers, producing some frost.
“How about a privacy shelter? I could use ice…”
Colth gave her a narked look.
“Your mana’s low, isn’t it? And it’s not replenishing?”
“…Yes.”
Single pull. Which meant, according to the simple technique they’d worked out, that Ceria was speaking the truth. Ceria sighed, and Pisces trotted off as they turned their backs. Yvlon felt the rope moving a bit, then…silence.
She stood there, trying to think of something intelligent to do or say, as Ksmvr hummed. Focus on the facts. Breathe in, out.
Don’t get mad. No, wait. Harness your anger. That was the way of Berr.
He sadly hadn’t given Yvlon a crash course in intelligent fighting. The [Berserker]’s approach to fighting enemies was to hit them and, if that didn’t work, hit them somewhere else—harder. Yvlon wondered how he would have done with this enemy.
Master Berr, the Horns and I are trapped in the Crossroads of Izril. We are facing a superior monster or something that can cast illusion magic so powerful even Ceria’s circlet can’t defeat it. We have no idea where it is, what it wants—aside from us dead—and without Wer, we can only escape the Crossroads of Izril by a ‘gate’…which we have no information about.
That summed up how Yvlon saw the situation. She waited for the imaginary Berr’s words of wisdom. Her mind came up with…
If he has to watch us, if you run around in a circle punching everything, you might just hit him. Unless he’s intangible or something.
That was Berr-level thinking. Yvlon exhaled. After another minute of blearily wondering where they’d camp, she brought it up.
“I need to pass out. We have to sleep somewhere.”
She pulled the rope once, and Ceria lost her balance. The half-Elf caught herself.
“Is it worth spending mana on?”
“Probably not. Let’s just dig up some dirt and take a nap in a ditch. Lowers our visibility, no mana for anything to track—not that it’ll help if Bograms pulls a monster on top of us. Let’s get a few more miles out, then—Pisces, are you done yet?”
Colth snapped, pulling once on the rope. Yvlon heard nothing. After a moment, Ksmvr spoke.
“Colth, why did you click your tongue just then?”
A moment of silence. Colth, Yvlon, and Ceria felt a pull on the rope.
“…I’ve been clicking my tongue every sentence, Ksmvr.”
Pull on the rope.
“I did not hear that when you were talking up till now.”
Another pull…and dead silence from Colth. Then the [Supporter] cursed.
“I didn’t tell Pisces anything. He said he needed to relieve himself. What did he…hear…”
They all turned around fast.
Pisces was gone.
 
——
 
It took them twenty minutes to find Pisces again. They only found Pisces when Yvlon had the smart idea to take Honored Imaginary Berr’s suggestion.
She didn’t quite run around punching the air, but she used her arms like she had when she’d been dying of sickness. Her bare metal arms, silvery and polished, elongated and became thin rods of metal that moved outwards in geometric shapes.
They had to do that or they grew too ‘heavy’ to lift, or too ‘weak’. Yvlon couldn’t describe it, only that she’d figured out some shapes were inherently fragile, and losing half the metal of her arms if they snapped off not only hurt, but dangerously depleted her body’s metal reserves. She could always ‘re-absorb’ the living metal, but…
The rods of metal traced themselves around the four Horns, poking into them with struts of silversteel as they grunted.
“Ow. That is my head, Yvlon. Thank you.”
“If you spot anything else, kill it, Yvlon.”
“Is that a piece of metal in your pocket, Yv, or are you happy t—ow, ow, ow. Stop!”
Ksmvr, Colth, and Ceria were all right there. Yvlon ‘felt’ them using her arms like a primitive, metal net. She stopped jabbing Ceria in the head, and then the pieces of elongating metal—she could only cover fifteen feet at max with this web, and it took all her concentration—ran into someone else who jumped and screamed.
Pisces had been standing less than eight feet away from the Horns the entire time they’d been searching for him and trying to dispel Bograms’ magic. He hadn’t found the rope he’d disconnected—on Colth’s say-so—but he’d been wise enough to stay put.
His Skeleton Champions had been roaming around, but by bad luck or Bograms, hadn’t managed to find the Horns either.
Twenty minutes, and it had almost been a disaster. When they re-linked up and they were sure as they could be that it was really Pisces standing there, Colth spoke.
“Okay. I was being cute with the tongue clicking thing, and you all caught onto the rope trick. Turns out Bograms isn’t as stupid as his Reinhart-damned name. He still got us, and Pisces would be wandering around completely lost if he hadn’t stayed put.”
Pisces looked pale and shaken, or at least, Yvlon thought he did. Ceria came to a quick decision.
“Okay, everyone. Re-link arms. Colth, get us a campsite. We have to be far enough away from the base, right?”
They drew closer and linked arms. When they were touching each other, each one could signal the others they were speaking by tapping a finger or boot for every word they spoke.
Colth did every syllable, which let Yvlon know he was actually speaking…or Bograms was very good. However, Colth had a suspicion, and Yvlon believed he was right—and that he was Colth—when he spoke.
“Okay, here’s what we know. One. Bograms is following us, and he wants to break us up. Standard tactics. I can’t tell if he wants us dead or if he’s having fun. Probably both. Two. For all he’s able to fool all of us, including all my anti-illusion and trickery Skills—he’s got limits. I don’t think he’s around us right now.”
“How do you sustain that argument, possible Bograms-Colth?”
Ksmvr was curious as they sat down, trying to rest. Yvlon was yawning and saw Ceria copying her. Colth tapped his fingers rapidly on her metal shoulder.
“Well, I hope to hells I am being heard because if we can’t communicate even now, and he has no weaknesses, we are completely dead. But if he were perfect, he would have escaped with Wer. Why did Wer leave a message? Why did we notice the camp was fake when he was ‘attacking’ us? Why did we find Pisces instead of Pisces chasing after a fake ‘us’ and getting lost?”
A thoughtful silence ensued, and Ceria snapped her fingers.
“Circlet says—well, I think—he’s got limits on how many illusions there can be at once.”
“Exactly.”
This made sense, and Yvlon also hoped Colth was really Colth. The Horns had observed the mistakes the illusionary foe made, slip-ups that were inevitable when you were rewriting reality. The lack of the ground shaking when Bograms the giant moved. Inability to fake mana signatures or touch…
Even so, what an obnoxious enemy. Pisces was clearly of the same mind and scowled.
“We are in dire straits if we cannot return to Wer’s location, though, everyone. Oops. I forgot to tap. Er—the-Crossroads-are-dangerous-and-there-is-no-way-out.”
Colth impatiently took over.
“And even if we do want a way out via those gates in Erin’s quest description, we don’t know where they are. Bograms will follow us—he might want us to find one so he can slip out unless he’s trapped. Regardless, he’ll make our lives hell getting anywhere and could walk us straight into the Bloodfields. Anyone fancy fighting a Watchertree that’s invisible?”
All the Horns shuddered. Colth paused as Yvlon searched for a good answer. Did they go back for the Gnolls? Then he hit them with the second bad thing.
“Here’s number two: we’re not going in a straight line.”
“…fuuuuuck. How do you know?”
Ceria exhaled after a long moment. Colth grimly pointed with one finger back the way they’d come.
“While we were trusting the rope? I was using a stick and dragging it behind me.”
Everyone turned. Yvlon could just make out the furrow.
“Why’s it off, Colth?”
“Because I was dragging it at an angle, not straight. It should have looked wrong, like diagonal slashes every fifteen steps. Every time I turned around? Straight line. Bograms didn’t notice what I was doing. But it means I can’t trust we’re not going in circles or anything.”
So they had no ability to tell where they were going and, if Bograms was messing with them, an inability to trust anything they didn’t touch.
They did have a few advantages, though. One of them was the varied classes the Horns had. After a moment, Pisces grunted.
“Can Bograms fool the undead? If my Skeleton Champions were to lead the way or convey us via the ice sled…”
Ceria frowned, glancing at Colth.
“That’s mana intensive. We’ve got more mana potions than healing, but it’s a finite amount, and we’re far from a resupply.”
Pisces hazarded a guess.
“Worth spending, though?”
“It may be more optimal than walking with linked arms. Is the rope harness a satisfactory safeguard, Comrade Colth?”
The Named-rank was their second big advantage. He had more years adventuring than everyone except maybe Ceria and certainly more time fighting higher-level monsters. He chewed his lip, then nodded.
