She noticed something on her fingertips. Bograms made it vanish after a second when he noticed her staring, but Yvlon still felt it.
Blood. Red, staining her metal fingers. Not hers. Colth was wounded.
Yvlon didn’t move as she inhaled and exhaled. Blood was rushing through her ears, and she knew Colth was right in front of her. Bograms was nearby—which left them where?
We have to move. And stick together.
The rope was gone, and Yvlon didn’t have any more in her bag of holding…she wished she was as prepared as Ksmvr and decided to ask to carry his burdens later. At least the useful tools.
However, there was a simpler method which they’d used. Link arms and go. Colth had to be thinking the same thing. Yvlon gingerly reached forwards.
“Colth? We need to join up—”
The statue she’d been staring at flickered. It vanished, and Colth was crouched in front of her, panting, clutching at his chest, a wild look in his eyes. He looked terrified, but a snarl was on his face. Yvlon blinked. He was crouched in the corner of the hallway. She started for him.
“There you are. Colth—”
Wait a second. Yvlon paused, hand outstretched to Colth, then ducked with the reflexes only Berr’s training had given her.
The image of Colth in the corner vanished, and Yvlon felt something pass over her head, brushing at the top of her hair. An invisible, huge fist pounded the wall where her head had been.
Bograms screamed as Yvlon whirled and her arm exploded into spikes, impaling the air in front of her. Red blood spattered down as Bograms backed away. He had been standing right behind her—
He retreated backwards—Yvlon heard the footsteps, but the corridor was blank. Yvlon felt hot blood on her arms and slammed back against the wall. Then where was Colth?
The answer came from a ringing impact on her armor from the side a second later. She turned—lunged—and slammed into Colth. Invisible, still.
He’d moved sideways out of the corner of the hallway. Colth had hit Yvlon twice, once in the jaw, once in the side, then began to shove her off him as she grabbed at him frantically.
First, Bograms tries to get us to kill each other! Then he nearly got me—again! And she still couldn’t see her friend! Yvlon wrestled with Colth, refusing to let him get away again.
“Colth! Don’t—”
If she let go of him, they might not find each other, and without the ability to see or hear, Bograms could manipulate them into hitting each other or pick one of them off. Yvlon seized one arm as the punches landed, hard and sharp.
He had to know it was her. What was wrong with him?
An image of the fake Colth’s appearance flashed into her mind. Yvlon hesitated. The [Armsmistress] suspected Bograms wasn’t the most imaginative person if he didn’t have to be.
Was that how Colth looked right now? If Bograms had been after him…it had been about an hour since Yvlon woke up by her count.
He might be at the end of his rope. They both lacked healing potions and—the punching ceased a moment, and Yvlon exhaled.
“Okay. Let’s go together.”
She pulled, gently, deciding the way she had come was the best. She had Colth by what she thought was an elbow and gingerly dragged him back the way she’d come—till he halted and nearly yanked her off her feet.
Colth pulled the other way, and Yvlon growled.
“Colth—”
He reappeared, and the two looked at each other. Colth was dirty, covered in dust, and bleeding from two cracks in his lips. His armor looked battered, and he was indeed wild-eyed and desperate. Yvlon stared at him as he clearly recognized her.
Colth punched Yvlon in the chest in a heartbeat, and her fist connected with his shoulder. They paused as they raised their free hands.
Not Bograms? It felt like they’d hit each other. Was this a trick?
Where was Bograms?
 
——
 
Pain! Pain! Bograms fled, dropping the illusion. Colth was hurt, and the two were near Bograms’ deadlier traps. They’d die. But he paused.
Better to let them kill themselves than get close. He bled. Bograms whispered. He didn’t want to do it, but…
“Treachery. Terandrians. Mahadak. Asgrel! To me! To me!”
He whispered, and his voice boomed as he cast a spell. He heard a faint response and whimpered. They would not be happy, but he needed help. Bograms turned back to Colth and Yvlon.
Yes…they were hitting each other. The one called Colth was snarling and spitting, and the woman of half-metal was angry too, he could see. Bograms slunk backwards, deciding to arm the traps rather than get close to them again. They’d die very soon.
He watched as they drew closer to another mangled trap that spat real flames, not the child’s flames the City of Lesegoth—damn them—had put in place.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres was c—
“Stop pulling me.”
“Let go. We’ll use a rope.”
“That’s what Bograms wants.”
“Let. Go.”
Colth punctuated each word with a blow to Yvlon’s arms. He was tough. She’d heard rumors that he had once been part of a group of fistfighters on the cusp of Named-rank—until the team was wiped out—but his punches actually deformed her metal arms.
That…hurt by the way. Yvlon refused to let go.
“Colth, I don’t know what Bograms did, but it’s me. You know it’s me.”
“I can’t trust a word you’re saying, you idiot. You can’t trust my words. But I suppose you’re a Byres. Dumb as a rock with a sword through the brain.”
He hissed at her, and Yvlon took a deep breath. In. Out. Bottle the rage for when it mattered.
“I think he’s gone. When I was in the City of Ropes, I fell in the sewers and got sick.”
Colth fell silent. Yvlon prompted him with a nudge.
“What did—”
“Rock barbeque. Let’s go. Let go of me.”
He shoved at her. She stepped back, and her arm elongated slightly, letting him back away but keeping them linked. It probably looked mildly horrific to see a body part do that—but Yvlon just felt like her arm was thinning.
“How’s this?”
Colth nearly yanked her off her feet. He was still breathing hard. Yvlon stumbled after him; they were not in sync. Maybe the rope was a good idea? She bet Bograms would try to cut it, though.
“What did he do to…”
“What. Do. You. Think?”
Illusions. Sneak attacks. Probably disguising himself as the other Horns—though Colth had been on the defensive when Yvlon had found him. She was surprised he’d survived that long.
That was a Named-rank for you, but Colth was not doing well.
“Listen—”
“Shut up. The traps will kill you if Bograms doesn’t. If this is real.”
That last part was a mumble. Yvlon glanced at Colth, and she remembered her dream with him. That door that became a chair and room.
I’m still in the Wishing Well.
She didn’t know what that meant, not exactly, but something clicked in Yvlon’s head. She patted him on the arm with her unlinked hand.
“I’m real, Colth. This isn’t the Wishing W—”
He knocked her hand away, blank-faced.
“Don’t talk to me about what you don’t know.”
Yvlon was losing her patience—but she was still doing her best at staying calm. 
“Hey. We’re teammates. If I don’t know, doesn’t that prove I’m r—”
He spun and jabbed her in the chest so hard she felt it.
“If you are real, you sound exactly like a thousand other idiots in a fake reality so well done. Only Yvlon Byres could be this stupid, so I almost believe it. I. Don’t. Trust. You. Any of this.”
He looked around, then at her.
“He could be faking even touch. Ever heard of memory manipulation magic? Skills? It could all be a dream, so shut up and think for once.”
Berr the Berserker had adages about how to use anger. It was a weapon, so treat it like one. Save it for when it mattered. Anger mattered for a [Warrior]; let [Monks] get rid of it. We’re not rich enough to toss away anything. Be calm and deliberate, but if some scale-faced idiot is taunting you, you’re still supposed to punch them.
“—Tell me what’s wrong. I can’t help if I don’t know what’s wrong.”
“Just keep moving. I’m tired of this game.”
“It’s not a g—”
This time, he hit her in the side. It didn’t harm her armor, but she did feel it, and Yvlon’s temper rose. Colth dragged her forwards, and they halted when they sensed a change in the air.
“Oh great. It’s getting warmer, but I only see the corrid—”
“Fire trap. Made invisible. Shut up. If you get it, I’ve already figured it out.”
Yvlon turned her head to stare at Colth. She took a deep breath.
“You want to see if that’s all a dream or whatever you think it is?”
He began to elbow her—then seemed to realize she wasn’t going to feel it. So Colth stomped on her boots. They were tough leather, but not that tough. Yvlon gritted her teeth.
“Colth—we are a team. I know you survived and—and distracted Bograms. But you have to trust me.”
He stared up at her, empty-eyed, expression purely hostile. Then he laughed. A short bark of a laugh. Like…a wounded dog, maybe. A snarl on his features as he retorted.
“Trust you? I don’t trust Larracel. Why would I trust you?”
Yvlon Byres stared blankly at Colth. Colth, who the Horns had teamed up with to fight Facestealer even if they hadn’t done the job. Who’d come with them all this way, joking, being the older, annoying adventurer, yes, but slowly bonding with them—
Who’d gone off with Pisces and apparently wiped out an entire [Slaver] caravan. Who Pisces trusted. Who might be in league with Demons, and who Yvlon had agreed—was part of the team.
“That’s very hurtful, Colth. How can I earn your trust?”
Yvlon asked—calmly. Colth stared up at her.
“Guess you can’t. Naga. Bograms. Yvlon. It doesn’t matter. None of you win, because it doesn’t matter if I dream or wake. I don’t need to trust you. I am the only real thing in a world of sand. The only truth that exists is something no one can dream of.”
Yvlon Byres nodded slowly. If you never knew if the illusion would end…all you could trust was what you felt.
There was probably some advanced cognitive test based on philosophy or Colth’s own ability with chess or whatnot that would inevitably lead him to realize whether or not this was a simulation or reality. Since Yvlon lacked for the time or patience, she nodded.
“I get it.”
She raised her free fist and clocked Colth in the face.
Hard.
He felt that. Colth instantly checked her into the wall and struck her in the chin. She headbutted him—he rammed his head into her jaw, and she bit her tongue hard. He snarled.
“I thought you were trying to team u—”
She punched him in the side, dragged him forwards—and felt the roaring heat ahead of her. Colth seized her hair.
“You’ll kill us both, you stupid, Byres-brained—”
Yvlon reshaped her arm from a stick to a regular hand. Then she reached for her belt, grabbed an empty water flask, and threw it through the flames. Colth and Yvlon looked up and saw the leather flash through the air, searing with heat and charring black—but landing on the other side of the hallway. Then it vanished. Colth snarled.
“Bograms is—”
“Yeah. We’ll live. [Aspect of Iron].”
Yvlon Byres’ skin turned dark and grey. Even her hair became stiff and metallic. Her very eyes—swivelled to Colth, and he stared at her.
“[Heat Resist—]”
She charged through the wall of flames without a sound as Colth’s armor and her body was blasted by fire. Her body turned to metal with her new class—but yes, by the way.
It hurt.
Yvlon kept running until she plowed head-first into a wall. Also painful. She recoiled, looked left, and Colth snarled as he threw a dagger ahead of her and heard a faint, fleshy impact. He grabbed her cheek, yanked back—
Yvlon halted, and he shoulder-rammed into her, so hard her feet left the ground. Yvlon struck a wall hard—a second before a claw scratched across her chestplate.
Something was there! Instantly, Yvlon threw a punch and connected with a hard and fleshy…skin? The invisible monster hit her, and she recognized the heat as talons raked over her armor.
Great! A red thing! Colth was hammering at it too—the two swiveled, hammering on it—Yvlon ate a blow as Colth missed and hit her in the chestplate. She threw a haymaker, and he twisted out of the way before it collided with his head.
Where was it? Where was—
Yvlon knew she weighed more than before with her metal arms, and she was wearing plate armor. Neither she nor Colth could see a thing down the blank corridor. Bograms was laughing at them. They were blind to traps and monsters.
Nevertheless, Colth tensed, heaved as he spun Yvlon, and—[Aspect of Iron] and all—hit the invisible enemy with Yvlon like she was a giant ball of metal.
Now Yvlon was right on top of her foe. She punched until she connected with something underneath her—and her metal arm buried into a body she knew wasn’t Colth and exploded into spikes. Then another claw raked over her metal face, and she realized there were two monsters. But Colth didn’t know.
Yvlon got up and swung Colth at the next monster. He made a grunting sound as whatever it was recoiled with an alien rasping noise. It could have been another illusion. Yvlon trusted her fists as she stomped something under her feet, smashing her leather boots into what she hoped was its skull.
Then she began punching the second monster and felt Colth doing the same. He must have drawn a sword, because when she tore open the monster’s skin, hand met his blade, buried deep in hot flesh. They kept punching and stabbing until something fell over, and they kicked it aside. Were there more? Was Bogr—
Colth looked up and saw a grinning Bograms raising its hands over its head to smash him down. He began to thrust a sword forwards—and halted. Instead, he bull-rushed forward, and Yvlon followed him. They passed through the fake Bograms, and Yvlon twisted, elbowed him, swung him right—
Colth didn’t know what it was. He didn’t care. He started slashing and only yanked Yvlon right when he sensed a fourth monster. Yvlon ignored the horde of angry monsters that Bograms conjured behind them, screaming their heads off.
She only paid attention to his arm and Colth. Both adventurers turned, and Yvlon’s hand became a spiked mace. Colth stabbed in a blur—
 
——
 
Bograms couldn’t understand. What was going on? They were—surviving!
Six monsters and a trap of spinning razors were in the corridor. Yvlon and Colth charged into it as they killed a fourth monster. The trap came up, bone teeth whirring—and snapped on her armor. The Named-rank adventurer felt it and swung himself upwards—kicked off a wall, and took them out of danger.
Yvlon ran them forwards until they crashed into another monster—Bograms saw a tangle of limbs, a silvermetal arm punching, a stabbing sword—
