Stalker’s Helm didn’t last more than five minutes; Ksmvr’s cloak lasted a full fifteen. When Colth reappeared, Bograms instantly filled the air with crawling insects—then the next corridor with slaughtered corpses, children, screaming people hacked to bits in gorey detail.
Colth’s face never changed. He just walked forwards, waiting for Bograms to attack. When the idiotic monster hurled a rock at him, Colth dodged, threw a dagger in the direction he’d sensed the attack come from, and heard a curse.
“Is that really the best Bograms can do? Bogleraum are properly terrifying. No wonder you call yourself ‘Bograms’. You’re not a tenth as scary as the real thing.”
“Curseyoucurseyoucurseyoucurseyou—”
A roaring voice around him. Colth bared his teeth. Good, so long as Bograms was on him…the monster began flashing more horrific imagery at Colth, but the Ultimate Supporter didn’t so much as twitch.
“Really? Dead children? More spiders? You’re pathetic. No wonder you hide away rather than fight like a man.”
Colth was saving his Skills rather than using a taunt, but he sensed Bograms getting angrier. If the thing came for him—Colth was sure he could stab it somewhere vital.
He was clearing a corridor that was suspiciously clear of traps when Bograms figured out Colth’s weakness. He changed the corridor not to a horrific sight of terrible—and fake—illusions, but to a repeat of the first place Colth had appeared.
The dais and the broken plaque—and the hallway that turned left.
Colth—twitched. It was an involuntary reflex and he covered it fast, but Bograms saw it.
The monster did not laugh.
It did not make another sound. But instead, it fixed the first hallway in place. Colth advanced swiftly, boots crunching over glass—turned left—
And he was back where he started. The [Supporter]’s heart began to beat faster.
He knew he was advancing—but Bograms just made each corridor the same this time. Every time Colth turned, left, right, no matter which way he faced—it was the same corridor.
As if he was waking up and—
Colth began to sweat. He threw a dagger in a direction he thought was towards Bograms.
“Is that all? Come and fight me, you dickless coward! I’ve seen real monsters die. You can’t even kill a single person from behind!”
He shouted, but he heard no laugh, no answer to his provocations. Now, Colth felt sweat staining his clothing. He slashed around him and hit a wall.
“Come out and face me! Come out—”
Colth felt the click too late and threw himself backwards—something struck his breast, above the leather, and he staggered.
Arrow trap?
He dodged, swinging wildly, and when he rose—the blank corridor and dais was before him. He was back in the same spot. The same—
Colth began to run. He slammed into a wall, dragged himself down it—another arrow hit him in the side. The whites of his eyes were showing, now, and he slashed at the air, snarling.
I’m in the Wishing Well—
Then Bograms hit him into a wall so hard Colth felt one of his ribs crack. He stabbed back and heard a scream—
Bograms fled. Colth slashed at the air wildly. He backed up into a corner—and the hallway was the same. He gasped for air, inhaling, exhaling—
The hallway was the same. Always the same. No matter how far Colth went—and he couldn’t tell if he was going back the way he’d come now, where he was—
It never changed.
 
——
 
Ksmvr’s Cloak of Stalking—that was what he was going to call it—had prevented the maze and Bograms from noticing him.
When it ran out, he had the most unpleasant encounter with the Drake saying ‘Welcome’ then blasting him with light and sound.
After he’d slammed into a wall in the air preventing him from continuing to bypass the maze.
“Ow.”
Ksmvr lay on his back shell for a second. When he sat up, he decided his cloak was the biggest advantage he had. With it, he could ‘skip’ crucial sections of the dungeon.
“I believe it takes thirty minutes to recharge because it is a superior artifact. Practically a relic.”
It didn’t even need mana to recharge, so Ksmvr reasoned it might be better to advance on foot—carefully—and save the cloak for when he needed to bypass a dangerous trap.
Not knowing where he was, he glanced down the corridor. Three exits. One on the far side, one behind him, and one halfway down.
Behind him…led to a broken room that looked sort of like a chessboard with suspicious statues holding swords and weapons. Ksmvr bet he’d have to fight something there. No thank you.
Down the corridor were two other exits. Ksmvr advanced with his trusty stick, but found no traps. He reached the middle corridor, spun—
“…Huh?”
A rocky cavern opened up in front of him. Ksmvr advanced a few steps, spun—and saw a broken archway, words in the Drakeish script, and two huge statues of a Drake with a shield, one broken at the waist, the other intact, guarding the massive wall that stretched down to his left and right.
He’d reached the entrance. Ksmvr was so astounded he immediately poked everything around him to make sure this was not some kind of obvious trap. But—he’d done it.
“My wall leaping abilities worked! Given that I was not at the center of the maze…let’s see. Nineteen walls…so there are at least thirty-eight walls in the maze. Given where I began, I estimate the total count to be far higher.”
There might be as many as a hundred walls from one end of the dungeon to another. Which meant how many corridors?
What a massive labyrinth. Ksmvr scratched his head again. And he’d just…hopped out of it.
“Now it is time to find the Horns. But first!”
He hurried away from the maze on a hunch. The cavern sloped upwards, narrowing—though he thought some of this was due to the seismic shifts over time. He could see an entire portion of the cavern was broken inwards, and part of the maze was destroyed on the eastern side from where he stood. Even from a limited vantage point, Ksmvr saw numerous walls destroyed…and there was that floating crystal up there.
“Power source. No visible signs of magic…”
It was a big maze. Ksmvr would have to figure out how to signal his team if he didn’t find—
Sure enough, when he reached the mouth of the tunnel, Ksmvr saw a very familiar plaque that Ceria had found. He read it briefly and grunted.
“Hm.”
Then he studied the ground where his team had been. No traces of them.
“Then we are all inside unless one of them has escaped. But the most logical thing to do is…”
Ksmvr exited the tunnel, looked down the slope, and then leapfrogged down. He knew time was of the essence, but it had occurred to him that any Horns of Hammerad who’d escaped the maze in the time he’d been in there would have reached the camp.
The camp was empty. However, all their sleeping bags and limited provisions were scattered around. It looked like a scavenger had already torn up some of the food supplies…Ksmvr began stuffing everything into a bag of holding, cursing. He had to get back up there, but food would be essential if they spent more days in the Crossroads of Izril!
Someone had opened up the provisions bag! Ksmvr saw wax paper and some moldy breadsticks, then heard a faint grmching sound.
Something was eating just ahead of him. Ksmvr froze and drew his sword silently. He crept up around a rock and found—
A furry, not-a-Gnoll person was gulping down slightly moldy cheese and stuffing her cheeks with food. She had green eyes, goat’s horns…she looked like a goat-Beastkin, but oddly—humanoid.
If that made sense. Beastkin were largely humanoid, but this wasn’t the same. She was…
A Satyr.
Vofea of the fae froze as Ksmvr raised his swords and hesitated. The two stared at each other, and Ksmvr recoiled.
“A trick?”
He poised for combat. Vofea sprang to her feet, held out a hand—and began choking on her food.
“Hkgh. Kgh!”
Ksmvr stared at her. Was this a Bograms trick? How was someone here in the Crossroads of Izril? Then again, could she be an indigenous—
He realized she was actually choking and hesitated—then walked over and slapped her on the back. Vofea coughed, spat out a mouthful of half-chewed food, and gasped.
“‘Tisn’t how I wanted to die! Ah, there. It was strange to have lungs after so long—and food to eat, even shite as this! Yer Ksmvr!”
“What.”
The Antinium stared at the faerie, recognizing the familiar way of talking—but she lacked the same odd difference of Winter Faerie tones. Even so—the accent and the grin looked familiar.
“I have arrived! Vofea, to tell the Horns of Hammerad their fate! And you are…Ksmvr! Ksmvr of Chandrar! Well met!”
She coughed, beamed at him, and struck a pose, one hoof forwards, head held high, arms spread wide like a performer. Ksmvr said…
“What.”
Of all the things he’d expected, a random faerie Satyr was not one. However, Vofea glanced at Ksmvr, then around the camp.
“Aye, it’s a mess like Shaestrel said it would be. Alright, listen! I have come to join you, Horns of Hammerad! I bring proof. See?”
She held up a piece of paper that was badly crumpled and shook it at Ksmvr. He hadn’t lowered his sword, but one of his hands took…an Adventurer’s Guild registration certificate. Signed by Tekshia Shivertail no less.
For the Horns of Hammerad? Ksmvr stared at Vofea’s name. Her place of origin. Her age. At Vofea. She was still speaking.
“Your destiny is not at Liscor! If you escape this moment of fate, yours is to head west! West until you reach the edge of this place. Understand? There you shall find a way out—and it is the only place you can go to help Erin Solstice, for the danger is dark.”
“Huh? Erin? West?”
Vofea pointed to the side, rolling her eyes.
“Yes, west. Erin Solstice lies at sea. Or rather, if she survives the Solstice, she will. Shaestrel has foreseen it. You have…three days.”
Ksmvr stared at the Satyr. She looked at him earnestly.
“Head west, Antinium. No matter how many remain. If Erin Solstice lives, she will be at sea likeliest. Beyond that, even the sight of the fae falters. If you have the will t—argh!”
Ksmvr hit her on the head with the flat of his sword. She staggered, and he felt it in his sword.
“You are real. Am I real?”
He slapped himself in the face, and it hurt a bit. This was reality. The Satyr grabbed her head.
“You bastard! That hurt! Ha. Hahahaha. It hurts for once! I’m no longer in the guise of a mere frost sprite! And it all feels so much…more real now. I feel the ground, I taste this terrible muck—and those damn things of blood hurt! ‘Twas worth it. So tell them Vofea sent you if you save the day, eh?”
She puffed out her chest. Ksmvr finally got over his shock and noticed something at last. Vofea was…hurt.
Her hooves looked scratched up, and there was crimson around the fur on her ankles. She was sweat-soaked, panting, and—Ksmvr noticed—kept grinning and looking around.
“How did you get here? I am Ksmvr, yes. And you are Vofea, who Yvlon mentioned? Tell me something only a faerie would know…what is Erin Solstice’s greatest gift from you?”
Ksmvr decided to roll with what was going on. Vofea tilted her head.
“Ach, so it’s a riddle? Hmm. The greatest gift…if ye mean the flowers, they weren’t a gift. She was supposed to be tricked! The entire court was laughing at the idiots who got tricked by her! But they became a weapon for the Faerie King, so perhaps he intended it that way all along? Or he made it seem like he did. He’s cunning like that.”
She looked proud and amused and then just…melancholically happy by turns. Ksmvr digested her statement and lowered his blades.
“I believe you are real.”
“Did you think I wasn’t? Did that idiot woman not remember her dream?”
Vofea recoiled. Ksmvr’s head hurt, and he looked around, picked up the bag of provisions, then stepped back to the camp and began tossing everything into his bag of holding.
“No, we are under attack by a foe called Bograms who makes illusions out of everything. I thought you were one—but this is more like Erin Solstice madness.”
Which he was used to. It made him feel slightly reassured, but this was crazy, even by Erin standards. Vofea strode over to Ksmvr.
“Ah, a cunning foe be it?”
“Yes. Yvlon was knocked out.”
“Did she duck like Shaestrel told her to?”
“Y—”
Ksmvr’s head snapped up, and he almost drew his swords on Vofea, but she knew Shaestrel, and as far as he recalled, no one had ever mentioned Ryoka’s companion. Ksmvr stared at Vofea silently, and she smiled and explained.
“We are the fae. We see destiny and future—though my power’s largely gone, and Shaestrel knew how to play the game of fates. As I am, I was sent here to deliver a message and join you on your quest.”
“To rescue Erin Solstice.”
“West. Are ye sure you remember?”
“West. Gate. Erin is at sea. Three days time.”
Ksmvr had an excellent memory. Vofea was still not convinced.
“Aye, but maybe I’d better try and survive long enough to tell someone else. Ah, well. Bograms is it? Not the direst of names. Sounds like one of the old trolls of yore. Still—fine enough.”
Something about how she was talking was putting Ksmvr off. He bent down and spoke.
“Help me get the rest of this into my bag of holding. Then we must go up and rescue my team from the maze. Do you have any powers?”
“Eh…a few.”
Vofea clumsily broke down a tent and shoved it at Ksmvr. She scratched her head, and he noticed her wince as she brushed her cut feet.
“You are injured.”
“Ah, but I knew I wouldn’t die—probably—and so I ran through that wretched place of blood! I found the gate, leapt through—”
“There’s a gate in the Bloodfields?”
Ksmvr whirled, and Vofea waved her hands urgently. She had fingers like a Human’s, albeit covered in fur.
“No, no! Don’t go there! I told you—”
“Yes, Erin is west. But if we could resupply or get help—”
“There’s a lot of them monsters between here and there. On both sides. I only slipped through the gate with the last of my power. I doubt you’d do as well.”
Damn. Ksmvr began packing faster. He snapped.
“Then what powers do you have?”
“Eh…I, uh, probably have a bit of magic left, but in this body, I don’t have the guise of a sprite. I used to be able to call avalanches and snow—”
“Excellent.”
“—But I can’t do that any more. A Satyr you see, a Satyr you get!”
Vofea puffed out her chest again, and Ksmvr turned.
“What powers does a Satyr have?”
Vofea hesitated.
“We were known to be great partiers and singers! I sing a wild tune and dance a fair jig—and I run faster than most!”
“…Magic powers?”
“Ah, well, if you want magic—”
Ksmvr’s stare made Vofea fidget and hesitate. Now Ksmvr realized what he found so off about her. She looked—nervous.
