Ceria waited for another charge of the dungeon to fill her circlet a bit, then, sighing, began hopping from tile to tile. Once she was halfway down the hallway, she cast [Icy Floor] behind her and ahead and waited.
Her aura of cold could let her see if Bograms walked on the ice floor. Ceria waited three minutes, shuffling on a safe tile, then advanced. She dispelled the [Icy Floor] ahead of her…reached the end of the corridor, and turned.
Slow. Slow as molasses, but she covered her rear with [Ice Wall] as her mana recharged. Then advanced with another [Ice Wall] walling off the next corridor. Ceria took one look at a busted-up alcove and shook her head.
“Some kind of trap? Or testing ground?”
It looked actually like the alcove had been home to a bunch of mirrors—or one huge one. She stared blankly at the words overhead and the giant mirror. A way for the creators to spy on her? A…portal? It was set into an alcove flanked by reliefs of Oldblood Drakes—statues that were purely statues. There had been something set into the alcove’s walls—Ceria saw a tiny fragment of something glittering.
Gemstones. Someone had already looted this place. Probably Bograms. Bastard. Ceria kept moving.
She paused—tested each wall and the ground with her stick, froze the alcove after three more minutes of letting her mana recharge, and decided this corridor was safe too. Slowly, Ceria passed that corridor and the next.
An hour later, she had passed six corridors and three traps. Ceria was walling off a ‘T’ intersection and heading left when it occurred to her she was going at a snail’s pace. She had no idea how big this maze was. If she didn’t find her team—Bograms might have the time to just pick her off at the end.
Ceria hesitated…but her circlet was screaming at her. Or was her mind?
Don’t get yourself killed. Caution! Caution over being an idiot!
It was the most un-Ceria thing she had done. Ceria Springwalker knew the traps she’d run across—with the exception of the broken wall and the busted flame trap—were not lethal.
I could just trust the [Ice Wall] has my back and move faster. Colth has got Bograms—
She hesitated. Find Yvlon. Find Ksmvr. Find Colth! They weren’t [Mages]. Pisces would survive best in this maze if he figured out the absorbing mana trick. But if she rushed—
Ceria’s pace was a slow, glacial crawl. Each corridor took eight minutes to clear. Then ten. Then…she slowed further.
I’ll advance faster once my circlet recharges. Do things at full mana or not at all.
Her pale winter eyes glowed as she sat down, crossing her legs to meditate and draw more mana from the air. Slow. Calm. Deliberate.
She was…afraid of Bograms. The half-Elf realized it after another twenty minutes of sitting. Then her eyes widened.
“I’m not afraid.”
She pulled the circlet off and looked at it slowly.
“You are.”
 
——
 
Ksmvr realized there were fake walls and that Bograms had rigged up his illusions in the maze after clearing eighteen corridors in the first fifteen minutes.
He suspected the monster was hunting him and had his swords at the ready. Ksmvr was using the time-honored techniques of great adventurers before him to advance:
He had a long stick and poked at things before stepping on them.
Having four arms was very handy. Ksmvr knew it was very dangerous to move so fast, and the first trap had nearly gotten him. A spinning blade had popped out of the ground and nearly taken his legs out.
In theory, Ksmvr assumed it might not have been lethal; there was a very strange and frayed padded cover on one end of it that looked…soft. But someone had taken the spinning trap and, ah, sharpened it.
Attached a bunch of claws and made the non-lethal trap decidedly more dangerous. Ksmvr presumed Bograms.
He’d jumped it. Then he’d elected to cheat and jump over one of the walls. Ksmvr had noticed the flashing magic running through the dungeon, but he could jump a wall with his Ring of Jumping when it wasn’t active.
“Very strange. I wonder if this maze was meant for those with bad legs.”
Ksmvr hopped corridor after corridor, alert for any enemies or Bograms’ magic. He definitely saw it everywhere, but when he noticed it was a trapped corridor…he just hopped over the maze wall.
He didn’t call for his team, but he moved fast. This maze was gigantic, but Ksmvr thought he saw a far wall on one end and decided he could beeline for the edge of the maze and get his bearings. Maybe Yvlon hadn’t been teleported—at the very least, surveilling the maze from afar would allow him to search in a more coordinated pattern if he didn’t hear or see one of his teammates.
His aerial view just showed him countless corridors and that odd, floating jewel. As it looked to be at least two hundred feet overhead and encased in a magical barrier…Ksmvr decided not to head towards it. Though that might be the center of the maze.
“Hup.”
Ksmvr jumped another wall and landed, ready for anything. Magic flashed around the dungeon, and the [Brave Skirmisher] readied his swords. This corridor looked like it had been lost to time; the ground had a light layer of dust, and the walls looked cracked.
After some testing, Ksmvr realized it wasn’t a Bograms-illusion. He supposed this part of the dungeon was dead.
“Unless that is what Bograms wants me to think. Hiyah!”
Ksmvr slashed at the air on a hunch—
…no, wait, nothing was there.
The Antinium scratched at his head with his remaining hands and then looked around. No Bograms. No traps.
“…Is this an easy maze? Hello?”
The Antinium had no idea what was going on. Absently, he swished his fancy new cloak around him as he turned. Stalker’s hide cloak, the only full piece of armor that the famous [Tanner], Shedrkh, had made for Ksmvr.
Colth had some pieces, and Pisces and Yvlon had gotten the protective leather, but Ksmvr’s cloak was the most powerful piece of gear among the Horns.
Obviously, he had activated the effect the moment he had appeared in the maze. It only occurred to Ksmvr then…that perhaps Bograms couldn’t see him.
The same went for the maze. Ksmvr rapidly neared the exit of the maze as his cloak’s effect deactivated. He went for another hop—
“Uh oh.”
 
——
 
The first idea Yvlon Byres had upon waking was to go over a wall rather than advance down the corridors.
Happily, in her spot, the walls had caved in a bit revealing some weird glass tubing running with what she assumed was magicore or something…magical. It pulsed every minute, and Yvlon kept well away from it; it made the metal in her arms tingle.
But the rubble was enough for her to actually climb up it partially—it still left a good eleven feet up to the lip of the wall, but that’s what magical arms were for.
Yvlon’s arms stretched, grasped one edge of the wall, and she pulled herself up. The [Armsmistress] grunted as she pulled herself up the wall. She’d have to be fast before that pulse-thing touched her; she didn’t like it. But a high vantage point was the basic—
A wall of light appeared and knocked Yvlon’s hands off the wall the moment her head cleared the top. She fell backwards.
“Argh—”
Wham. Yvlon landed on her back. She groaned, sat up—and saw a barrier in the air.
“No cheating?”
It seemed so. Worse—that damn glowing Drake appeared.
“Applicant—”
That was all Yvlon heard before a thunderclap of sound blasted her in the ears again. Swearing, and deaf and blind again, she staggered to a wall and waited for the effect to stop. She heard another thunderclap in the distance.
“Ksmvr? Colth? Pisces? Ceria?”
It was way too far for her to pinpoint. When her vision cleared, Yvlon grimly looked up at the walls.
“No going over, then. Great.”
That left the maze itself. Yvlon stomped forwards, then realized this was definitely a trap dungeon. She had no companions, and she had no trap skills.
What would a smart adventurer do in this circumstance? Yvlon thought about it. She morphed one of her arms into a long stick and, sighing, poked the ground as she advanced. The first hallway was slanted upwards, and Yvlon was halfway up when she heard a soft click.
She looked down as the floor tiles depressed. Then up. An object rolled out of the far wall.
“Oh come on.”
It might have been something else—before Bograms turned it into a boulder covered with actual spikes. It rolled down slowly at first, then with alarming speed as Yvlon looked back the way she’d come, at the accelerating orb of death—she put her arms in front of her, concentrated—
A lattice of metal covered the corridor in front of her. Yvlon ducked down low. She braced—and the boulder smashed into the metal shield she’d made.
The impact knocked Yvlon off her feet, and the sound of metal meeting metal crashed through the hallway. The boulder bounced back up the incline, began to roll again—and Yvlon rammed into it. A spike ground into her armor, and she halted it, growling.
Slowly, she rotated with the sphere, grinding her back into the wall as she pivoted around it, using the barest amount of room to get behind it—then let it go. It kept rolling and vanished as it reached the far wall. Teleported back to its starting point.
Panting, Yvlon Byres caught herself. She leaned against the wall and realized, in hindsight, that if she’d used her arms to make a kind of ramp, she could have let the thing fly overhead.
…Or maybe it would have rolled on top of her. Her arms felt a bit damaged from the impact, but the metal reformed as Yvlon trudged up the corridor. She made it eighteen more steps before she heard another click.
This time, the [Armsmistress] punched the boulder as it rolled down on her. It ran over Yvlon as she shouted expletives.
She survived.
 
——
 
The traps were a mix of completely harmless and utterly deadly. There weren’t even traps down every corridor. Some were defunct, but the maze had a lot of stylistic flourishes.
Like, for instance, a grand panorama of Izril with Walled Cities dotting the map, carved to intricate detail, and walls upon walls of text that Colth thought were recounting their founding.
He ran through the room. If he had time, he’d come back. If not for Bograms, Colth would be recording everything or prying up ancient gold worked into the tiles, each one seemingly hand-crafted, the design baked into the ceramics he stomped over worth a fortune in art alone.
He couldn’t stop. The traps and Bograms took priority. The first one that Colth found that was obviously deadly was…a light wall.
Those normally weren’t dangerous. This one was a revolving set of light walls, a maze within a maze, that you dodged through, possibly to test your ability to navigate corridors like these.
The problem was that the spell was completely busted, and the [Light Wall] spell changed and altered. So at any moment, a [Light Wall] might appear diagonally—straight through you.
And that had the power to slice someone in half. How did Colth know this?
He found the severed half of a skeleton.
“Drake.”
Adventurer? The body was looted regardless, and Colth had a suspicion he knew who had done it.
Bograms. He knew the dead Drake had been severed in two; the bones were in two piles, and he found a severed spine. But he noted huge, flat marks on the bones.
“Bograms ate them. Or something big did.”
His ears were still ringing from the damn Drake apparition. Colth regarded the [Light Wall] maze with narrowed eyes. He did not use a stick to confirm what he was seeing was reality—he flicked pebbles, counting where he heard a ping of them meeting a [Light Wall] barrier or landing.
Bograms’ illusion was messing with where the [Light Walls] were. Wonderful. However, Colth made a rough map of where he’d heard the stones land, worked out the timing…and went for it.
[Long Step], [Fast Roll], [Rollspring]—he moved forwards, ducked into a tight roll where a light wall opened up horizontally, sprang out of the roll into a leap—kicked off a wall, landed—
[Redirect Momentum]—Colth spun, ran forwards, leapt, and heard a faint sizzling sound as his boots hit a [Light Wall]—and reached the end of the broken maze.
Of all the Horns, Colth was probably the most adapted for this kind of challenge. He could borrow the Skills of countless classes—that was Colth.
Jack of all trades, master of none. Even his friends hadn’t ever gotten why [Supporter] was such a good class. They were—all of them—centerpieces, heroes.
No one was more defensive than Eldertuin. Deniusth was the flawless musician-duelist. Larracel, for all she was retired, had been a magician supreme.
Power, Colth reasoned, could also be in whomever was a multiplier. Everyone talked about famous heroes who slew a Dragon—but who made the Greater Flame Resistance potion?
Few people had ever seen the value in taking a gamble with your entire class or understood the personality that you needed to have to be willing to play second-fiddle with your very existence.
One person—had seen the value in Colth.
He wished Yazdil hadn’t.
Despite the clear dangers Bograms posed, Colth advanced fast and quickly, clearing a corridor every minute or less. But he was waiting…waiting for the moment he knew was coming.
When Bograms found him, it got bad.
The traps were dangerous, but they were still just…traps. Gold-rankers would know how to avoid most basic traps. Colth had just spotted a glowing Drake patrolling the dungeon when it vanished…and he saw an empty wall. He walked backwards until he found a real wall and sighed.
“There you are.”
He was sweating. Colth debated closing his eyes to avoid disorientation, but he wasn’t confident enough to advance purely blind. But then…did it matter? Bograms made the corridor appear to be a blank wall. Colth advanced into it, one hand on the real wall to his left.
It changed to a crawling mass of spiders running up his arms. Colth didn’t react. Someone shrieked in his ear.
“Here! Here!”
He ignored it. Colth waited, swords drawn, and then activated his helmet.
Invisibility.
Stalker’s armor let him vanish, and he swore he heard a grunt of surprise. But his real target—the Drake sentinel—actually walked into him. Colth felt the hardlight touch him, and he burst into a flurry of slashes.
He killed the patrolling being and kept moving forwards, invisible now, hoping he bumped into Bograms. The invisible monster did not like Colth vanishing and cursed at him.
“Scum. Scum of Terandria. Rot your bones!”
Scum of Terandria? Odd. Colth was Izrilian. But Terandria had been the Human continent for ages. Did Bograms pre-date the Five Families?
