If they survived—Pisces’ pace slowed. He looked around at the maze and suddenly felt ashamed despite the urgency of his mission.
Here he was in a monument to the past and his first instinct was to loot it. That was an adventurer for you. He was using the bones of ancient people like sacrificial dummies.
A [Necromancer]. Pisces took a deep, shuddering breath.
I will not be Az’kerash. For my team—
He kept running. He’d do anything he needed. But how long until he became…until his eyes turned black and he developed that stare that lacked for humanity?
Nightmares.
He should animate every dead body he came across. Amass a horde and just—throw it at Bograms. Even that monster couldn’t face thousands of corpses. But that kind of undead horde wouldn’t be under Pisces’ control. They might kill his teammates.
The undead were not safe.
Pisces had always known that. For all he wanted validation and respect—Toren had nearly murdered Erin. Undead without control longed only to slay the living.
Why can’t I meet one good [Necromancer]?
Even Ama had been a thief. Gewilena and Feren had been rogues stealing from graveyards. They hadn’t deserved being burned alive. No one deserved that, but they hadn’t been saints.
Just—decent people.
Pisces knew he shouldn’t think of that, not now. He skidded around another corridor, ignoring faux-flames as the trap actually sprayed him with cooling mists to put out the fire.
I will be that [Necromancer]. I animated Ivery with that intent.
I left them in Chandrar. Bearig and Eloque and Rophir and Merr…
Dead gods, he wished he didn’t feel so guilty all the time.
Panting, Pisces clutched at his side. He must have been running for the last forty minutes, clearing corridors…he had lost count after fifty turns. How many damn rooms were there? He’d long passed the Trial of the [Rogue]. The rooms seemed to merge into different sections. Where was he now?
Panting, Pisces stumbled forwards into a larger room. He turned, warily, and saw a skeleton roaming around looking for something deadly. But he didn’t see anything other than…
“A bench?”
Yes, just a few benches and a patch of land in the center filled with mushrooms and a smell of decay. It clung to everything, but Pisces imagined there had been something else growing in the center of this room. His head rose…and he saw the statue.
A Drake with a shield. A funny thing. They weren’t proper crescent shields like the [Knights] of Terandria favored. These looked different. The one this Drake held was a fascinating shape of hexagons stitched together to form an oval. Pisces wondered if it was viable on its own or magical—the Drake held it over head with one arm, shielding his head. Pisces walked forwards slowly.
The plaque was, again, in Drakeish. It read:
 
—ieldbearer of 4th Starfall. —oudly honored to carry one of the Wards of Lesegoth.
In—Walled Cities by the grace of our Ancestors.
—Dragon and Drake. Bearing the pride of our names.
 
Pisces translated slowly.
 
—ieldbearer of 4th Starfall. —oudly honored to carry one of the Wards of Lesegoth. 
In—Walled Cities by the grace of our Ancestors. 
—Dragon and Drake. Bearing the pride of our names.
 
He stared up at the statue after he was done, trying to digest it. 4th Starfall. Was that a time period? An event? The Drake looked proud, even as worn as the statue was, and Pisces saw, worn by time, the faint outline of an emblem on his armor in a kind of sash.
Medals? No. Badges. Pisces’ eyes traced them, moving down the Drake’s side, and recognized one of them. Wait a second…that one! There!
It was a crest of a set of scales with a gear on one side, the other a cauldron of alchemy of some kind. Stylized, yes, but unmistakable.
The City of Pallass. This Drake bore their symbol on his chest. Pisces’ head craned back, and he wished he knew [Magic Picture]. Because he wanted to take an image of this—and show Grimalkin, Chaldion, and everyone else.
Lesegoth.
For a second, Pisces was a boy again, reading tales in one of Ailendamus’ libraries about legends of old, before he was bitter about everything. Or a young [Mage] setting foot in Wistram and looking up and seeing Cognita Truestone herself.
He felt like an adventurer. He had always loved history like this.
If only this were all adventuring was. Pisces tried to hold it back. He turned to go, sensing his skeletons had run into an obstacle—one had been destroyed just ahead of him. Yet he had to turn back and nod at the statue.
Pisces’ eyes stung. He wiped at them and resolved, if nothing else, if time permitted, to come back and take a sketch or rubbing of the badges, or at the very least to tell Satar Silverfang what he had seen.
Pisces sniffed, with actual need for it, and spun on his heel, taking a deep shuddering breath of emotion. Naturally and of course—that was when he spotted Ceria Springwalker leaning on a wall with one of his skeleton’s heads in her hands. She was covering her mouth and trying not to laugh, but when he spotted her, she let out a huge, long snigger.
“I knew it. Do you want to break off a toe of the statue as a souvenir?”
For a second, Pisces debated tossing a stone at Ceria, then he strode forwards and hugged her. The half-Elf blinked, patted him on the shoulder, and grinned.
“I’m glad you made it. Found the others?”
“Not yet.”
The two looked at each other, then Pisces pulled the circlet off Ceria’s head, and she slapped him on the arm.
“Okay, you’re real.”
“Indeed.”
Pisces was just explaining to Ceria what he’d learned about the Maze of Shields—or Trial of Shields—and she was telling him about her encounter with Bograms when they ran into the next trick of the deadly illusionist.
“Three of my skeletons just vanished.”
Pisces turned his head as he pointed back the way he’d come. The skeletons running around this maze had continued exploring…and three had rapidly vanished in quick succession.
“Bograms? No…”
Ceria raised her hands warily, and Pisces tensed. Then he heard faint, rhythmic footfalls and saw the glow of a light-construct before it appeared.
“Oh, one of the sentries. I’ve got—”
Ceria snap-fired an [Ice Spike] before she even finished talking. Pisces had never seen one outside its room. He relaxed—until he saw the Drake, holding a single sword, parry Ceria’s [Ice Spike] and send it ricocheting to the side.
“Ah.”
Both [Mages] looked at each other. Pisces pointed a finger, and a gout of flames burst out.
“It shouldn’t hurt u—”
The construct vaulted over the flames and slashed where Pisces’ head had been. He dodged, and the blade nearly took his throat out. The construct landed, and Pisces shouted.
“Stop! Stop! We—”
He expected the overseer Drake to appear and ask him if he wanted to quit, but then he saw, to his dismay, that this construct was visibly corrupted. It was flickering, as if damaged, and it spun the blade in one hand as it stabbed—
Pisces barely deflected it. He backed up, and Ceria fired an [Ice Lance] point blank. It took the construct off its feet, and Pisces exhaled.
“Ceria, thank—”
The construct skidded across the break room as the spear of ice slammed it into one wall, and the ice exploded. Then it stood up and offered them a salute. Pisces and Ceria stared at it. Part of the construct had been damaged, but it was rapidly regenerating.
“Oh hells, that’s pretty tough. Let’s blow it to pieces, and if it doesn’t die, I’ll freeze it. I can cast [Lion’s Strength] on you.”
“Really? I’ll distract it, then.”
Pisces lifted his rapier, and Ceria raised a hand. They prepared for a fight—and then Pisces heard drumming steps. He turned his head slowly as the first construct finished saluting him—and swallowed hard.
A squad of eleven Drakes, all armed with a single sword, entered the room and saluted. Ceria tapped Pisces gently on the shoulder with one hand.
“—[Speed].”
The two of them were running like spit as the Drakes charged after them.
 
——
 
The maze was vast and deep. And though the traps were not all deadly—some were enough to kill, and no one could easily escape. The rogue light-constructs could murder anything. They were immortal; the dungeon just remade them, and Bograms had broken the room they were in, so they roamed and attacked everything at once.
It had been hard. Very hard to make sure what they ‘saw’ was just close enough to reality to let them attack, but alter their sense of depth just a fraction. That way, the blades that were programmed to stop before they drew blood…became fatal.
There were monsters in the maze as well that were fairly deadly. But Bograms was the last killer. With his magic, any victim Bograms haunted died inevitably.
Though this one died hard.
A snarling Colth was backed into a corner and had struck Bograms—twice—with a throwing dagger each time Bograms tossed a stone at him. Bograms was angry.
Bograms was hurt.
Bograms wanted to call for help, but it was shameful. Damn Terandrians. Damn them. He would eat first the most dangerous one, Colth, then take the circlet off the half-Elf. She’d run into the Drakes, magic or not.
He didn’t know where the bug-man had gone. Bograms didn’t like that.
Bograms. Bograms.
He’d forgotten his own name. Bograms he’d called himself to scare them when he came here, long, long ago. Bograms he became.
The Horns of Hammerad would die here, then he’d take the circlet and his magic would be powerful. But they were dangerous. Best to let the traps work. He peeked at Colth; if the adventurer held still, those patrolling Drakes would find him, and he’d not fight well, blindly seeing the same thing.
Bograms was hungry. He licked his lips, tempted to toss something else, but the strange man dodged well, and the daggers hurt. Poison, Bograms thought. If he hadn’t lived so long and they hadn’t…changed him so much, the poison might have done something to him.
Pain. Oh, Bograms hated them.
Terandrians. The one called Colth wasn’t moving, and he was hurt, at least. Bograms was just about to signal one of the sword-Drakes or find a monster to lure Colth’s way when he heard footfalls and cursed.
It was her! The woman whose head he’d wanted to smash in because she was as dangerous as the smiling man or the half-Elf with the circlet.
Yvlon Byres.
 
——
 
Yvlon was panting and injured from escaping several Bograms-traps, but she had an easier time of it after the first half-hour. She couldn’t tell which traps were deadly and which were…not very deadly.
The traps seemed to be getting harder. That boulder for a warmup hadn’t been easy—but even the non-lethal traps were getting complex. She had run into some kind of room where you stood on a platform and stone pellets shot out from every angle, and you just had to outwait the barrage until the platform stopped moving around. Yvlon had just used her arms to form a protective barrier around herself, but several pieces of stone had still tagged her, armor or not.
But she was calm.
She was worried about her team. Bograms would pay—but Yvlon Byres was clearheaded. Definitely. She was striding along a corridor and swore as an arrow shot out and ricocheted off her armor.
A real damn arrow. Yvlon advanced, covering her face. Ping! Ping! The impacts sounded off her armor, and her under armor absorbed the blows. That didn’t hurt—
The throwing dagger that hit her shoulder hard enough to make her stagger and gouged a chunk out of her arm did hurt, metal arms or not. Yvlon spun, raising her arm to block—
A statue spitting darts? It was in one corner of the hallway. Yvlon covered her face and charged as it spat another dart at her.
She actually recoiled from the impact. Damn, it threw those hard! Her arm was dented as she aborted the charge, turned to retreat, and eyed the wound.
Can’t go back. Maybe I should use my arm and stab it from afar? Yvlon peeke—
The new dart hit her in the helmet so hard it jolted her entire head and left her dizzy. Yvlon stumbled back around the corner of the wall and sat down hard. She tasted blood and realized her helmet had cut into her mouth.
Okay, it has amazing aim. Yvlon inhaled. Exhaled. She was calm.
She was going to smash that statue to bits. She grimly debated using her capstone Skill—but then remembered her ring of barriers. Perfect. She twisted it—took a breath—then leapt into the corridor.
Three darts struck her in an instant, and Yvlon flinched as they bounced off the magical shield with a strange tanging noise. Three at once? But she was charging, not wanting to waste the magic ring. One fist raised for a punch—
She punched through the statue’s face and saw it vanish and reappear to her right after a second. Yvlon blinked.
Bograms illus—
Then something slashed across her barrier spell. It flickered. Yvlon’s eyes went round.
That was a sword. 
“Colth—”
Her hand went out and tried to block the blade stabbing into her. A sword slashed across her metal arm, deep enough to draw blood, as another stabbed through her enchanted armor towards her stomach. Yvlon gasped, and the sword halted on Stalker’s armor.
She swore the tip of it was tickling her stomach—but she’d halted Colth’s hand just in time. Stalker’s armor had halted the sword, but it was twisting—twisting—until Yvlon’s grip tightened.
“Colth! It’s me!”
She could hear nothing. See nothing but the grimacing gargoyle-face of a statue—but the arm she held was entirely familiar. And the sword had halted.
Surely he could feel her arm? Yvlon’s arm was dripping blood, but she closed the metal. Felt forwards. Bograms had to be close. She found a patch of hair with her restored sense of touch. Felt a f—
The handle of one of Colth’s swords hit Yvlon in the face so hard she saw stars. Her poor helmet, already mangled from Bograms’ blow, decided to pop off her head and take some flesh with it. It was too badly mangled to use. Yvlon tossed it, reeled—then grabbed for the arm again.
She got a punch instead.
“Colth! It’s me!”
She hammered one hand down, not in a pure punch, but trying to make sense to him. It. Is. Me!
Yvlon struck him across the back several times, and the blade withdrew. There! He knew it was—
A pair of hands shoved her into the wall hard. Yvlon recoiled, and her head slammed into the stone. That did hurt. She backed up a step.
“Colth. That is you, right?”
No response. Bograms. He must have found Colth or…could he remotely cast illusions on her? Hiding the traps was one thing, but this illusion was adapting to her, so it suggested Bograms was right on top of her. Yvlon didn’t know. She had to assume he was about. She reached forwards, felt a leather b—
Colth punched her hand down instantly. Yvlon recoiled.
“Okay. Okay. Colth—”
