But she couldn’t get in. Each time, this new door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] would block her, revealing those within snoozing, guarded by…
Well, damn it.
“I’m a friend of Erin Solstice! Let me in! Let me—”
Yvlon was rapidly pulling a Noass as she hammered on the door, but this one didn’t open to her. Instead, she saw the keyhole flashing and glumly realized that in dreams, she needed more than just friendship.
Even so, the fact that she’d gotten to The Wandering Inn with the Shadowloaf’s protection outside was astonishing to multiple people. Yvlon was downstairs, trying to find anything real in the dream-version of the inn to leave a message with.
She had the idea Erin might be able to send help via the Bloodfields, risky as that was. But Yvlon turned and stepped into the kitchen as nine figures walked into the inn and sat down.
One of them was wearing a full set of armor and was silent—the other eight looked completely different. One of them Yvlon recognized purely because of the voice.
 
“They lurk the edges of the Floodplains. However, even the three-in-one cannot appear within the borders so easily.”
“Aye, well, she could, Shaestrel.”
 
Shaestrel? Yvlon poked her head out of the kitchen as she saw a half-beast, half-woman sitting in a courtly dress, adorned in spring, talking to a smaller fae, who had dragonfly wings, black eyes, and pale blue skin.
The Spring Faerie was clearly more important than the winter one; she seemed to be realer, too, and the silent warrior turned their head to Yvlon and nodded as the other faeries clamored. Shaestrel was frowning.
 
“Aye, she could. But she’d be blind, better to us. She’s arrogant, but no fool, that one. If one stepped into this fog, the other two’s aspects would be blind as well. Nae, we won’t discount it, but better Theillige waits to see what she of Last Stands does. I don’t trust—gyaaaaah!”
 
She jumped, leaping out of her seat when she saw Yvlon. Theillige was pointing, and the [Armsmistress] waved weakly.
“Is this a dream?”
The faeries leapt up with cries of excitement—and alarm. One flew to the windows, and another—who looked like a furry…goat woman? She had horns and fur, but was nothing like a Gnoll—pointed at Yvlon.
 
“How are you here? The bread Erin baked should be—”
 
Shaestrel was incredulous. She glanced out the window, and Yvlon spoke.
“Someone tell Erin we need help! We’re lost in the Crossroads of Izril! There might be a door in the Bloodfields, but we’re being attacked by a master illusionist—a monster called Bograms! Not a Bogleraum!”
 
“Hah, knew it. ‘Tis always something. But their thread of fate really does always link back with Erin Solstice.”
 
One of the fae commented as Yvlon tried to get out as many details as possible. Yvlon hoped the faeries were listening. They were notoriously unpredictable.
 
“Nae, nae—how did you get here? You may be one who’s learned to walk dreams. But even the nosy [Witches] cannot get in! The one called Eloise’s tried all month. How did you get here?”
 
Shaestrel was shaken. Theillige seemed impressed. They were giving Yvlon a slow nod, and the [Armsmistress] blinked and pointed to the black shadows.
“Oh, that? I’ve been trying for four days.”
 
“Yeah, well Kasignot and Cauwhiner have tried for a month! How’d you do it?”
 
One of the faeries demanded, hopping over to Yvlon. She was another…pixie? Shorter, insectile, like a child with black, Antinium-like eyes and wings. Yvlon gave the fae a blank look and tapped her nose.
“Smell. I realized it smells like Erin’s Shadowloaf bread, so I just followed the scent—what?”
The faeries, all nine of them, started laughing. Shaestrel started guffawing and had to hold onto a table to keep steady.
 
“Smell! Smell, she says! Of course! And those idiots are all but rotten still! They wouldn’t know how to tell ambrosia apart from a Minotaur’s fart! Well, she’s probably a friend of Erin Solstice, which is why. But smell.”
 
Yvlon was glad her predicament was getting some amusement out of someone, but she spoke hurriedly.
“Can Erin send help? I know the Solstice is happening—tomorrow? Two days? We need help. We’ll be there, I promise.”
All the faeries stopped laughing and looked up abruptly. Shaestrel stared at Yvlon hard, and her mirth turned to sudden, intense concentration.
 
“Another piece. This one…what say ye, Theillige?”
 
The figure slowly looked Yvlon up and down and nodded. Shaestrel stared ahead at something, lips moving. Then she looked at Yvlon.
 
“Is your will to help, Yvlon Byres?”
 
“Erin? Yes, of course. We’re just lost…”
 
“So is everyone. So will we be. As blind as you in two days. But perhaps—”
 
Shaestrel stared ahead, then looked around.
 
“Have I sent Vofea off yet?”
 
What a strange question. The faeries looked at each other, almost as surprised as Yvlon, but then one raised her hand.
 
“Not I.”
 
The Satyr stood up, and Shaestrel glanced at her, then at Yvlon. Shaestrel exhaled slowly.
 
“Then it may be. Help shall not come as you expect, Yvlon Byres, but it will come. You will have to survive as best you can. No miracles but the ones you make. Listen. You’re in a far-off land. Everything is twisting, and fate itself becomes impossible for even gods to see soon…”
 
She was speaking rapidly. Yvlon stared at her and the one called ‘Vofea’.
“What’s going on, Shaestrel? Can I help? Are you sending…”
The Spring Faerie pointed her finger at Yvlon, speaking more and more urgently.
 
“Nothing is ever certain. Look out for Vofea, and trust her if she makes it. But remember first, the second time you wake! Duck—”
 
She shouted as Yvlon felt a ringing in her ears—
 
——
 
“You bastard! Get them!”
Ceria Springwalker was on her feet, and ice covered the ground. Yvlon tore her cheek up from her pillow and saw Colth slashing at the air. She leapt up, charged—and Ceria howled.
“He’s got my circlet!”
Pandemonium. Pisces, Ksmvr, Yvlon, and Colth were slashing at the air. Yvlon saw a circlet and heard a howl of triumph from Colth.
“I think I’ve got—”
The scream was filled with rage and followed by pure blackness. Yvlon stumbled around, pulling on the rope, and nearly slammed into one of Ksmvr’s swords. When it was done—reality returned, and the Horns looked around in the night.
Colth bent over a splatter of red on the ground, a look of satisfaction in his eyes.
“Got them. Ceria, he was after your circlet?”
“He took it!”
The half-Elf was panting. But she too had a look of immense satisfaction. Her hair was disheveled, and she stared around but clearly couldn’t find wherever Bograms was.
“Ah. Did I just hear Bograms isn’t an idea or disembodied voice, but a real presence?”
Pisces was exceptionally unnerved, but Ceria didn’t answer him. She was looking into the distance.
“I have a position…no, damn. He just snapped it.”
A thunderous oath shook the mountain range, and Ceria sighed. Yvlon whirled to her.
“Your circlet?”
For answer, Ceria reached up, and the real circlet glimmered on her brow. Colth began chuckling darkly, and Pisces, Yvlon, and Ksmvr realized what had happened.
Bograms had snuck up in the night, clearly intending to steal Ceria’s relic—and failed. You couldn’t steal Ceria’s circlet that easily. Colth spoke as he checked the blood.
“…Looks normal. It’s not a different color. Bograms might actually be humanoid. He certainly wasn’t fast enough. I was dead asleep, and I still tagged him twice. Shame I didn’t poison my blades but no wonder he’s not brave enough to sneak up on us, invisible or not. I hope I cut him deep—but I think it was shallow.”
He bared his teeth, and the Horns looked around. Bograms was gone again, and Yvlon’s rushing blood cooled as they debated if this changed anything. Colth tried a few tricks with Bograms’ blood, including scooping up some for later—but he was no [Hexer] or expert in blood magic, and he couldn’t use [Track Quarry]—so they lay back down with one eye open.
Of course, Yvlon fell asleep before she remembered to mention…Vofea…
 
——
 
This time, she didn’t locate The Wandering Inn. Instead, she was sucked into a roiling dream coming from nearby.
Colth’s dream was a nightmare, and sometimes nightmares grabbed you. 
Yvlon fell into a black room at the bottom of a pit filled with water. It sloshed up to her knees as she stood, and she looked around and saw Colth.
He was standing there staring at a door as he leaned over a simple chess board filled with pieces on the table. It was a magic door similar to Erin’s own [Door of Portals], but this one was more like an allegory.
When Colth stared through it, he saw the Haven. Larracel, Barnethei, what Yvlon took to be his friends, Mihaela, Deniusth, Eldertuin, and more waving at him. Colth took a step towards the door—then looked down at the board.
“…sacrifice a piece.”
There were five pieces on the board. Himself, Yvlon, Ksmvr, Ceria, and Pisces. They were facing a mysterious wisp in the form of a piece larger than all of them. Yvlon bent down and saw it wasn’t actually a chessboard, but something like it with tiles and figurines…even a map of the local area.
A game board, and they were facing Bograms. It was written right on his little pedestal.
“Keep them safe. But who’s trustworthy?”
Colth didn’t notice the real Yvlon. He lifted each piece, and Ceria was wearing her circlet, and Ksmvr had a thread linking him back to the looming figurine of the Antinium. Pisces was tainted by undeath, and Yvlon wore a calculating smile. On half their faces. The other half looked more noble, happier: a mischievous half-Elf, a cheerful Antinium, an oddly noble Pisces wearing rags and broken shackles, and Yvlon, one arm raised in victory.
Is this how you see us, Colth? Yvlon didn’t know if it was fair or disturbing. Colth picked his own piece up and moved it forwards on the board. Yvlon peered at that and got a shock.
Half of Colth was the grinning Ultimate Supporter. The Named-rank adventurer known across the north. Divorced three times…Yvlon tried to recall the other rumors about him. One of the most famous adventurers for his age—
The other half of Colth’s face had his devilish smile. A horn poked out of his head, and he wore the fragments of his smiling self, a mask. Yvlon shuddered and looked at Colth in sudden suspicion until she noticed one thing.
There were broken pieces of metal on his neck, wrist, and ankle. The same as Pisces. A broken collar…
Colth looked up, and the image of The Adventurer’s Haven called to him. Even Yvlon wanted to enter it rather than stay in this cold bucket. In fact, the water was rising now, to crotch height, and yet Colth didn’t move. He just stared into the door. Stared and stared—
For one second, it flickered. Yvlon Byres saw The Adventurer’s Haven vanish and another place appear. She saw a blank room, a chair, padded, but with manacles that would lock someone into it, and a tray of potions and vials next to the chair on a stand. Slithering into the room came a snake…
The Adventurer’s Haven returned, and everyone waved, but Colth bared his teeth at the door. Nightmare. Now Yvlon saw how it worked. The water was chest-high and rising, but Colth just stood there, playing against Bograms, as the waters rose up to his neck. Then his chin. Then he looked up and whispered at the ceiling.
“I’m still in the Wishing Well.”
“What’s that?”
Yvlon was treading water, immune to the rules of the dream that Colth was bound by. She saw the Ultimate Supporter’s head twist around suddenly, and then he stared at her—
“You’re in my dream!”
Colth shouted. His face contorted into an expression of rage, and Yvlon cried out as a light shone down. She stared up as a smiling face pointed down, and a beam of light blasted into the well, salvation—
But then the nightmare ended with a headbutt from the real Colth.
 
——
 
“Colth! Stop it! Get off. Get off of—”
Ceria Springwalker woke up groggy, thinking it was Bograms again. She aimed her wand around, ready to fire the last of her mana, and saw it wasn’t Bograms.
Colth and Yvlon were brawling. Well, he was punching her, and she was trying not to swing back but grab him. Ceria shouted as she leapt up.
“Stop it! Stop, you two! It’s a trick! Bograms—”
Or was he creating this illusion? It was that hesitation that messed with the other Horns as they tumbled out of their bedrolls. After they saw Yvlon’s head jerk backwards from an uppercut and the [Armsmistress] snarl, they decided it was no dream.
“Stay out of my dreams.”
Colth was struggling and gave Yvlon a kick as Pisces, Ksmvr, and Ceria dragged him off her. Yvlon snapped back.
“I didn’t mean to! Colth, it was an accident—”
“Stay out of my damn dreams or I will stab you in your sleep.”
The [Supporter] was normally cheerful, sometimes acerbic to people he knew, but Ceria had never seen him so angry, even when fighting Facestealer. He almost went for Yvlon again, but the [Armsmistress] took a step back. She was shaking in anger too.
“Yvlon. Be calm. Please?”
Ksmvr was tense, but Yvlon took a breath. She had a bloody mouth, and she inhaled, exhaled—
“I’m calm. I’m calm—”
Yvlon was definitely not calm, but the Horns were sleep-befuddled, at the end of their ropes, and—Ceria hated to say it—losing.
Bograms may have lost five days in a row and failed to take her circlet, but they were running out of food, and the heart of the Bloodfields lay between them and safety if they even dared to activate this ‘gate’—if they dared to unleash Bograms on the world.
This was a war of attrition, and she was letting her team down. No—she was the odd one out. Even Colth was gelling better than Ceria.
The circlet was making her too different. She was operating on a different level than the others. She should have just gone and studied a year and mastered all the spells she needed. The circlet let her link-cast solo, gave her the intelligence and foresight she needed—but it wasn’t working with how the Horns operated.
I’ll get them killed if we continue like this. I have to think smarter. I have to use better magic. I have to…
“Colth, chill. I’ll freeze you and Yvlon if either of you swing. Let’s resolve this—now.”
“Fine.”
Colth spat at her, but he didn’t move as Yvlon lowered her arms, which had been shielding her face. Ceria nodded at Yvlon.
“[Dreamer] class?”
The [Armsmistress] nodded, panting.
“Yes. I was sucked into Colth’s dream. It was an accident.”
“Don’t do it again. Next time—”
Yvlon’s voice rose in exasperation.
“It was an accident, Colth.”
“Don’t. Do. It. Again.”
