“...Agree to disagree... an imaginative way to put it.” Unamused, the monk sighs and goes back to meditating on a better argument to convince me not to kill Defiled or anything else for that matter. I’m starting to enjoy these little chats of ours, especially now that he’s shown a willingness to listen. It’s not that I have anything against his beliefs, I just think they’re stupid and want nothing to do with most of them. It’s all nice in theory, but hiding away in a monastery when you have as much strength as the monk does almost seems irresponsible. I’m not saying he has an obligation to help, but what’s the point of strength if you’re not going to use it?

Finally left to my own devices, I take a seat beside Ping Ping with my new Spiritual Weapon laid out across my lap. Reaching for Balance, I step into my Natal Palace and put my new knowledge to good use, binding the new weapon the same way I bind water. Channelling my Chi, I sense Peace and Tranquility at my side and their presence reminds me of my bitter loss. Even if he wasn’t real, Baledagh felt real and had a meaningful impact on my life. Doesn’t that make him real enough? I’m allowed to mourn his loss, I only wish others would mourn him too.

It (briefly) crossed my mind to tell Akanai, Taduk, Baatar, or someone about my little mental breakdown, and logically I should, but... I don’t want them to think less of me. Plus, there’s the rampant and ever-present irrational (maybe) fear of rejection. I know my family loves me and will probably support me through these hard times, but what if they don’t? What if mental illness is where they draw the line? Or living with transmigrated strangers from other worlds? Weakness isn’t scorned among the Bekhai, mostly hidden away and ignored, so I figured I’d keep true to Bekhai tradition and keep my insanity on the down low, for a little while at least.

Until I gather the courage to overcome my possibly irrational fears, I’ll play things close to the vest and use the monk as a sounding board/pseudo psychiatrist.

Focus. Be scared later, we’re here... I’m here to bind my Spiritual Weapon.

... and I’m still talking to myself. Old habits die hard, I guess.

The Energy of the Heavens rages around me, but I sit protected in my Natal Palace, insulated from its effects. A sign of progress I suppose, my core stable, solid, and warm in my belly, taking in Chi and moving it throughout my body and Spiritual Weapons under my directions. With each revolution, my Chi speeds up and my mind clears as I reflect on my previous Binding Ceremonies.

The sword is Peace, the placid peace of surrender and hushed peace of the grave. I bound the sword by piercing through my stomach and Core, an imagined, symbolic gesture of surrender. I was ready to die then, so afraid of suffering I threw myself into the fray, hoping to find a quick end to this terrifying existence. That is not true peace, for true peace comes from within. If I want mental, emotional, and worldly peace, then it will take hard work and exhaustive efforts. Even then I’m not guaranteed results, but taking the easy way out is pointless. Suicide is merely a form of non-existence, a worldly desire which I must rise above.

Just because I don’t agree with everything the monk says doesn’t mean he’s wrong about everything.

The shield is Tranquility, the stifling tranquility of a stagnating equilibrium in which nothing ever changes. I bound the shield by defeating myself, a battle for supremacy between two diametrically opposed personalities, the Warrior and the Brother. The Brother won out but instead of putting an end to the Warrior, an agreement was struck to keep both sides separate but present, an arrangement in which neither side lost but spelled disaster for both. In my desperate desire to avoid conflict and turmoil, I nearly strode down the path of no return, harbouring the Spectres in a reflection of myself while denying they truly existed, until I could deny it no longer.

Peace and Tranquility are ideals, but hopeless ones. Most of the time, violence is the correct answer and murder the best solution. The rest of the time, they’re merely the easiest answer and solution. The Wolf hunts the Rabbit, the Tiger hunts the Bull, such is the way of life in this world and all others. Life is built on conflict and we are all made stronger by these trials and tribulations. Survival of the fittest is a fundamental part of nature, but so too are fortune and happenstance. Things change in the blink of an eye, whether it be a cleansing forest fire or turbulent flood, and we must struggle or perish. The Defiled are no different from a force of nature, and to survive, we cannot rely solely on Peace and Tranquility. What about discord and distress, conflict and fear? These too are a fundamental part of nature, parts I have been loath to accept for far too long, but no more.

Peace and Conflict, Tranquility and Turmoil, they are each a necessary part of the puzzle, and to leave out one is to ruin all the others. I’ve been looking at things all wrong, and now I see the bigger picture. Fear and courage, love and hate, conflict and resolution, shy not from any of them and embrace them all. There’s nothing wrong with wanting Peace and Tranquility, you just have to make sure you aren’t sacrificing the wrong things to achieve it.

The new Spiritual Weapon blinks into existence inside my Natal Palace, a glaive, axe, and gun all at once. Flying into my grasp, the weapon guides me in a deadly dance of death, showing how to use it to the best of my abilities. There is no surrender, no conflict, only a mutual joining, the weapon and I working as one, moving from one attack to the next in an endless cycle of destruction. The dance goes on and I lose myself in the Forms, throwing everything I have into memorizing the skills my partner passes on. For a brief, inexpressible moment, it feels like my little brother is back again, showing me something new he learned and letting me share in his joy, but all too soon it comes to an end and I’m left standing alone in my Natal Palace.

Swallowing my disappointment, I glance at the weapon in my hand and something clicks in the back of my mind. This weapon changes from glaive, to axe, to gun, but in the end, it’s still the same weapon. It’s a little like me. Sure, I went back and forth between Warrior and Brother, and while circumstances have changed, it doesn’t mean my little brother is gone, not entirely. Baledagh wasn’t real, but he represented a part of me just like the Brother represented another part, two different sides of the same coin. I am Baledagh and I am Brother, and together, we are Falling Rain.

He’s not gone. We’ve just... changed. For the better.

... As long as I stop referring to myself as ‘we’. Super creepy.

Mind at peace and heart tranquil, I thank my new weapon for this newfound clarity and dub it ‘Unity’.

...Harmony?

Solidarity...?

Tch. I’m terrible at naming things, so why do I keep trying?

Chapter Meme
