As things stood, Akanai worried she’d already lost a second daughter to the womanizing scoundrel, though she could hardly understand his appeal. Even at his best, the boy had been too slim and pretty, lacking the rugged brawn or dangerous grace of her barrel-chested husband. Young BoShui was far more pleasing to her eyes, but oddly enough, the Young Tiger of the Han Clan lacked a suitable marriage partner. Perhaps she should speak to Sarnai to see if there were any eligible young women of the People who might be interested in a foreign husband, though all this talk of political marriage and alliance was still new to her.

Truth be told Rain was far from the worst candidate for Mila or Song. The former loved him so, and the latter found comfort in his presence, but no mother would be happy seeing their daughters wed to a lecher. Including Song, Rain had five marriage partners lined up, a troublesome boy who would be the death of Akanai. Oh how her heart had ached upon seeing him return from Sinuji, little more than a burned, emaciated husk of his former self with agony etched into his sleeping face. Too scared to even touch him, she’d cursed the pup for a fool for leaving the poor boy to suffer so and almost ended his life with her own hands, but she couldn’t bring herself to do it. Once, she worried this foundling would bring disaster down upon the people, and he almost did, but this stupid, stubborn child was her grandson, grand-disciple, and future son-in-law, and so long as there was hope, she would cling to it with all her might.

A good thing too. When he finally opened his eyes and saw her standing there, Rain flashed his roguish smile and quipped, “Be honest Grand-Mentor: are my eyebrows crooked? Teacher says he grew them back exactly as they were, but they don’t look right.”

With such firm fortitude and unwavering determination, perhaps Rain might bring about yet another miracle. While he never spoke of his intentions to mend his shattered Core, one look into his eyes and anyone could see he had yet to give up, so Akanai hoped for the best and planned for the worst. The Legate had already announced he would visit all three citadels during the new years celebrations, so Akanai would confront him then. If the poncy nobleman refused to give a proper reason why he’d ordered Rain to remain in the citadel instead of allowing him to recuperate somewhere safe and quiet, then she would bring the boy away even if it meant falling out with the People and the Empire to do so.

While Mila and Rain stared silently into each other’s eyes, Akanai noticed a crowd of young fops idling nearby, speaking in none-too-quiet whispers at the side. “Mother’s tits,” one cursed as his lecherous eyes took in Mila’s form. “How many half-beast women does the Crippled Consort have?”

“Fat lot of good he’ll do them with his broken sword,” another said between chuckles. “The tiny thing was probably burnt to a crisp and the ashes scattered on the fields of Sinuji.”

“Don’t worry,” a third added, while suggestively grabbing his crotch. “If they’re looking for a bedroom sparring partner, I’ve got a greatsword in my trousers they’ll -”

Snarling in fury, Mila charged the offending youngsters and slapped the closest one with an open palm, the meaty smack echoing over the bustle of the busy courtyard. Knocked senseless by her prodigious might, the boorish fop’s teeth went sailing through the air as his head bounced on the paved stone ground, and two of his friends followed soon after. Had the girl held her temper for another minute and let them talk some more, then perhaps she’d have justifiable cause to trounce the rest of those idiots or even kill them outright, but alas, Mila acted too soon and could only reasonably defend her honour against the three fools who had spoken, leaving the rest gawking in wide-eyed terror.

While Rain might not care about their disparaging comments, Akanai had long anticipated seeing this very scene unfold before her eyes, yet it was still so much more satisfying than expected.

Intervening before Mila took things too far, Akanai grabbed the girl’s wrist and flashed a toothy smile at the remaining fops, all frozen in fear with eyes wide and knees trembling. “Enough, dear daughter,” she said, speaking slowly as she drank in their shock and disbelief. “The offenders have been punished, but these other children are mere bystanders. They cannot be held responsible for insults given by another’s tongue.” Perhaps this would teach the girl some restraint, for it was mildly unsatisfying to let these others leave unscathed. Every one of these pompous dandies had insulted Rain at one point or another, and they deserved far more than a slap across the face.

“Last week, the one dressed in red and white alluded Lin and I were beasts.” Delivering the accusation in her customary monotone, Song’s testimony sealed the fate of yet another dandy as Mila broke free from Akanai’s grasp and backhanded him across the jaw. With only the whites of his eyes showing, he spun in place and sprayed blood over all his friends before collapsing into a puddle at his feet.

“Who else?”

Mila’s growled question shocked the fools back to their senses and they ran away screaming of murder and assault. The soldiers on duty came over to inquire what all the fuss was about, but once Akanai told them why four dandies were lying unconscious in the streets, they merely nodded and dragged the dandies away. None of the fops held rank, so it would be up to their families to report this to an Adjudicator, which would only see them fined for slandering a Captain of the Imperial Defence Forces.

“Oh beloved,” Rain said, wiping the blood off of Mila’s face with a handkerchief once the soldiers were gone. “I appreciate you standing up for my honour, but why let yourself get so worked up over these idiots? If you stop to teach every fool a lesson, then there’ll be no end to the beatings.”

Seeing Mila was still struggling to contain her anger, Akanai smoothed the girl’s hair and replied, “The beatings will end once fools learn to show proper respect.” Patting his cheek to show she wasn’t upset, she added, “You should have let your Death Corps teach them weeks ago.”

“I disagree.” Though crippled and wounded, Rain had lost none of his nerve as he faced her head on, a feat many of her veteran Sentinels couldn’t match. “They’re a bunch of idle layabouts with nothing to do during a time of war. What does their opinion matter? Let them wag their tongues all they want; I have better things to do than waste my time on dead weight. Save your anger for people who matter. Besides,” he added with a sniff, "I had plans in motion to deal with them myself.”

“Hmph.” Glowering adorably, Mila knuckled Rain’s gaunt cheeks ever so gently. “Two months I’ve been gone, and this is how you greet me? With a lecture?”

“Sorry beloved.” Kissing her hands in a shameless public display of affection, Rain teased, “Alright, I’ve taken up enough of your time, so why don’t you let me handle everyone’s lodgings while you head up and say hi to your father? If I keep you any longer, he’s going to throw something down and accidentally kill me.” Glancing up, Akanai spied her husband’s bearded head peeking out from their bedroom window, but only for a split-second as he darted back like a startled squirrel. Chuckling beneath his breath as he eyed the blood-stained stones, Rain added, “Luckily for them, he’s busy working upstairs; I still remember the last idiot who insulted you. In retrospect, a few broken bones and missing teeth is a small price to pay.”

Hmph, had they insulted Mila directly, Akanai would’ve strung them up by their ankles and left them to die of exposure, which was far better than they deserved.

Confident Rain could handle things here, Akanai brought Mila away and left him to sort out the Sentinel’s lodgings. Most already had families living inside the citadel, and those who didn’t were left with a choice: either share a room with three other Sentinels, or ride an hour east to Rain’s recently purchased farm where food and proper lodgings would be provided free of charge. The offer earned him much-needed goodwill as most chose a yurt on his farm, but even Akanai thought the boy was being far too generous.

Less than a year had passed since the People almost exiled him from the village, and while she still held a grudge, she was glad to see Rain didn’t share her resentment. Others saw his friendly, but polite and distant demeanour as pride or arrogance, believing he kept to himself because he thought himself better than others or because he refused to lower his guard, but they were letting their preconceived notions colour their judgment. The boy remembered nothing of his origins, nothing before the age of twelve even, so he kept himself apart because he was scared and slow to trust. It took him months to warm up to his family, and years to feel comfortable enough to share his innermost secrets, and though he never spoke of it, it hurt him to know he’d almost brought calamity to the People and tainted his fond memories of the village.

Once, Akanai thought Rain wanted nothing to do with the People, but in truth, he yearned for a place to belong. Though born of the People, he did not see himself as one, nor did he see himself as a citizen of the Empire, a sad, lonely existence which drove him to create a fake brother just so he’d have someone to confide in. Poor child, much like Song, he kept his suffering hidden from the world for fear of burdening others, but after confiding in his family once, perhaps he’d do so again before his problems grew out of hand again.

Though still worried about her troublesome grand-disciple, Akanai could barely contain her smile as she watched her big bear of a husband melt in Mila’s embrace, gently cradling his sweet daughter as if afraid to break her. Almost regretting her decision to ride out, she brought Song over to join the hug and they held each other tight until Mila begged leave to go bathe, claiming she was covered in sweat and dust from her travels even though everyone knew she wanted to look pretty for her beloved.

Once Mila was finally finished primping and preening, they left to have lunch at the pup’s manor, where the entire family ate, drank, laughed, and generally enjoyed each other’s company. The pup and his wife, Taduk and Lin, Alsantset, Charok, and the twins, Rain, Luo-Luo, and Song, Akanai was not used to having a family so large, one which would only grow once Yan joined them with Du Min Gyu, but she wouldn’t trade this for the world. Strange to think she had Rain to thank for all of this, because without him, everyone here would not be bound by familial ties.

At least some good came from his lecherous appetite...

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2
