"Two things," Cale said. "First, this is a vision full of symbolic meaning, yes, but it's also a human dream. If you haven't experienced one of those already, then suffice to say those tend to be symbolically incoherent. I've had a couple dream-predators try to eat my dreams, you know? It's never gone well."

The serpent stared at him.

"Second," Cale said, "I've been pretty careful about not giving you that name, actually. Did you know even in retellings of its original myths it was never really properly written down? It's always vandalized, or written with slashes in the name, to indicate the serpent being cut apart.

"Of all the names you could have taken, you took the name of a creature who had entire rituals dedicated to desecrating him and everything he represented." Cale smiled faintly, though there was something a little cold in that smile. "He told me about them, you know. Rites dedicated to cursing his name and spitting on his image. Something called the spell of trampling on Apep with the left foot? Fascinating stuff.

"He just so happens to be one of those myths where every record worked to strip all that symbolic power out of him and his name. You're not going to get much out of it even if you could work through the weirdness of the human mind... and especially not mine. Everything you see here, I've seen a thousand times over. It has a thousand different meanings, a thousand different symbols. You think you can take advantage of that? I dare you to try."

The serpent seemed momentarily speechless. It drew itself up, trying once more to draw on the symbolic meaning of everything around it; again, it failed, swaying dizzily before collapsing.

It tried a different tack. "I am the avatar of the Dragonstorm," it managed. The threat seemed hollow, with how it laid in the water. "Even if the name you have given me is powerless, you have told me what I am. Your friends fight now to do what is right. They will struggle. They will resent that struggle, and in turn, they will empower me. You have only delayed the inevitable."

"I dunno," Cale said. "Honestly, my friends are pretty special. Maybe they do feel that way, maybe they don't, but they do this funny thing where they talk out their feelings so it never really builds up in 'em."

"Impossible."

"Healthy communication does feel pretty hard these days, I agree."

"That is not—" The serpent snarled in agitation. "Their magics will fail them," it said instead. "The Dragonstorm changes the rules themselves. Soon, only dragons and those blessed by them will have any magic at all. Even if they can resist the storm, they will fail to protect those humans, and they will be broken by that failure."

"You're trying pretty hard to make me lose hope instead of fighting me," Cale noted. "That's interesting."

"Do you not worry for your friends?" it asked, sounding almost desperate.

"Nah," Cale said, though the smile he offered was one tinged by sadness. "I mean, you might be right. People are probably going to die. I would've liked to shield them from that a little longer, if I'm being honest.

"But if you think that's going to stop them? Hah. They might be new to all this, and I tease them about it a lot, but they have the hearts of true mages. If you did manage to kill someone they're trying to protect, well... I'd be much more worried about your people than mine."

The serpent snarled with frustration. "Even without their magic?" it demanded. "They cannot cast! The storm will render them helpless! You could not cast yourself without the essence of dragons, and your apprentices will fare no better!"

"About that," Cale said. "You said dragons and those blessed by them get to retain their magic. I've got friends in high places, you know?"

"I deeply regret everything about this!" Akkau shouted.

Not that Sternkessel could hear him. Sternkessel's mastery over space seemed great enough that he could manipulate the spatial bridge that had evolved in place of the Bitter Path; it was not, however, great enough for him to teleport them to the end of it in a single bound.

That meant that what was supposed to be a simple relocation had instead been translated into the two of them screaming through the Abyss at speeds greater than Akkau had ever endured in his long, long life. It was quite impossible for either of them to hear the other, on account of the sound of Abyssal water instantaneously vaporizing around them.

If he wasn't clutching on to Sternkessel for dear life, he might have considered some sort of sound-dampening spell.

Alas, he was and he didn't.

It was, all things considered, a rather poor introduction to humanity.
