“Speak, Emir Yazdil. How is there room for negotiation if we are [Slaves]?”
The Naga’s smile reminded Eloque too much of home. Was he a Naga? How could one of them…?
“I am no fool, Adventurer Pisces. What if I were to let the others in your company go free? Remove their [Slave] class? But for you. I would purchase their contracts and set them free. If you agreed.”
Pisces reeled as if struck. Eloque wanted to throw up.
“No.”
She raised her voice, but the Emir had already dug his claws into Pisces. It was like Riqre again. Not the same, but the same poison. In just one sentence he had set the other freed [Slaves] to hesitating. No! Don’t let him speak!
The Lizardwoman slashed at the illusion, but it was intangible. The Naga looked at her, smiling gently.
“If not that, Pisces, I am even prepared to make you a deal. One month. One month and then I would let you go free. Do not mistake me. I am not negotiating from weakness. But I do wish you to be willing t—”
Pisces, tasting bile, was ready to shout, or stop Eloque, who was slashing the air. But the Naga suddenly winked out. Pisces, Eloque, and the others stared in puzzlement at the blank space where he had been.
Had the illusion spell gone wrong? They looked at the distant carpet just in time to see the [Mage], puzzled, adjust the mirror and tap on the [Carpet Rider]’s shoulder.
Then the scrying mirror exploded and the carpet went down, burning, to hit the ground below. Pisces’ eyes opened wide.
“Apprentice.”
A voice whispered to him. A familiar voice, distant, far, but not weak. And not…inhuman. Pisces closed his eyes as the others babbled, confused. They did not understand. He did.
For if one could see him now—so could another.
 
——
 
Az’kerash, the Necromancer of Izril, was not a…kind person. Pisces knew that. He knew the legends, and he recalled vividly the threat the Necromancer had made if he should reveal anything.
Even so, why did he sound kind? Just Pisces’ imagination.
“…Roshal shall not see you. Their pursuers follow, but blindly.”
What did he say? Pisces gulped.
“You are—generous beyond belief, Great Az’kerash.”
“Am I not Archmage Chandler?”
The voice almost sounded amused. Pisces recalled he had made a point to say it like that. It had been so long. He closed his eyes.
“Of—of course, Archmage Chandler. Then, we will be cloaked from all detection spells?”
“Naturally. Roshal is not a match for my abilities. You are far from any of my…agents, however. I shall send aid if you require it.”
Pisces’ own gray-green eyes opened wide. Now here was the danger. The Necromancer had stopped Roshal, even the Naga, and killed the two most high-level pursuers in the doing. But he still had his desires.
“…As I am your humble student and admirer, Archmage Chandler, I would throw myself upon your aid. However, I would not incur a deeper debt than I could repay.”
He didn’t want to hint at what both knew the debt would entail. Perhaps he had offended Az’kerash, because there was a moment of silence.
“Such aid as I can render is simple, young Pisces. A trifle.”
Pisces tried to smile.
“Nevertheless, Az’kerash, or Archmage Chandler, a debt is a debt.”
He had no doubt anything given would need repayment.
“…As you wish, then. Escape Chandrar, Pisces Jealnet. Your team is as yet occluded to me, and I have lesser interest in their fates. I would tell you, however, to search Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Illivere, and Savere. The spell that went awry scattered your team across a smaller radius.”
Pisces was amazed. The Necromancer could tell their rough trajectories just by analyzing the [Greater Teleport] spell? He bowed in the privacy of the tent, wondering if Az’kerash could see it.
“Of course, Great Necromancer. I…I would not ask your help further, as you have already spent enough of your precious time in this limited exchange.”
“…My precious time. Yes. I consider it—amusing—to participate in such diversions. If you require aid…”
Pisces would place himself in that kind of debt the same day he took up Bearig’s offer to make him fish stew. He was sure the Necromancer was…better than Riqre, or the Naga. But still. It was too close. Pisces spoke, and here he began to sweat, a bit.
“Rest assured, Archmage Chandler, I shall. However, I shall recompense you all your time! We did not recover the Helm of Fire, as promised, but my team and I secured several Relics, as you well know, from the Putrid One’s very abode! I have in my possession a powerful spellbook—perhaps his personal copy! I hesitate to remind you of your promise to aid my friend, but I vow I can repay all your effort!”
There was dead silence, but Pisces knew the Necromancer was well aware of the spellbook. Why else would he help Pisces?
“Of course, Pisces Jealnet. We shall discuss terms later. I congratulate you on your success. Survival is the mark of a true adventurer or [Mage], regardless of the cost.”
Then the link broke. Pisces shuddered, sat back, and then went to tell the others they were safe. Safe-er. He didn’t want to part with the spellbook, but at least they had an ally as great as Roshal on their side.
 
——
 
In distant Izril, Az’kerash tapped his fingers together. Why was Pisces refusing help? He had been ready to send…
“They have Relics? The Putrid One’s spellbook?”
His eyes burned with sudden curiosity. He had not expected that! Az’kerash drummed his fingers on the armrest. Now…how was he supposed to render aid subtly? He had to find a way to cover for the interference as well. He had posed as Wistram, or so he hoped. But if he took Pisces’ current position into account…
Toren, peeking in at Az’kerash, saw an entire war council’s worth of maps and books on local geography, fauna, recent reports of settlements in the area, and so on. The skeleton shook his head.
He had no word for what Az’kerash was, but if he had been introduced to the concept of ‘nerd’, ‘fanboy’, or so on, he would happily have used it.
 
——
 
They moved faster after that. With less food weighing down the wagons; they also tossed more gear they didn’t absolutely need. They could share tents, they didn’t need some containers or tools.
They had to outrun their pursuers. The group changed course, heading into the Glass Straits. They needed to fool Roshal’s force.
With luck, they wouldn’t have many or any [Trackers], expecting to be able to scry Pisces. With luck, Pisces and their group would vanish into Chandrar.
Nevertheless, despite Pisces’ assurance of magical help from powerful allies back in Izril—that was how he explained Az’kerash—the incident had shaken everyone.
Eloque was sobbing when Pisces woke up. He stopped, a cup of tea in his hands. It was not that she wept, it was because it was Eloque. Everyone cried. From Rophir to Bearig. Pisces? He had woken up screaming or with his head in his hands.
But she and he had seen…they had fought with Azam, outside of Riqre’s mansion. She looked up when Pisces stopped.
“Dreams?”
“No. I was imagining being captured again.”
The Lizardwoman whispered. She touched her neck, then shook her head. She took the tea, gulped it cold—they had only a small fire—and shook her head.
“I wish you hadn’t killed Hrome. Or that the Death of Chains hadn’t burned Igheriz to ash.”
Of all the things to say—Pisces rocked back on his heels as they sat, waiting for the Glass Straits to cool as the sun set.
“Why?”
She bared her teeth at him, her slitted eyes sharp. Her left shoulder was free of stitching, but her scales were marked from the cutting Qshom had to do, scratched up, but she looked at her left arm like it was the most beautiful thing in the world.
“Because then I could look at their skulls and know they were dead.”
The [Necromancer] could understand that. He sat, nodding. Eloque stared at him, then curled up like a cat, lying on the warm glass.
“And then I thought about the future. If we do escape, and leave Chandrar. I thought of what came next and I kept crying. Isn’t that silly?”
“Why?”
Eloque gave him a weary, weary laugh.
“Because, Pisces. If we do escape and go to a city or nation that outlaws [Slaves], where I will be free? What happens next? I have no Skills—not like Qshom or Bearig. My highest-levelled class is [Slave]. What will I do?”
Mockingly, she gestured at her body. She still wore a dress, now faded with travel.
“Do you want me to entertain you? Do you want a toy to stitch up? I can do that. They took my entire adult life from me.”
Pisces’ shudder made the Lizardwoman look at him.
“Don’t say that. You don’t have to do anything like that.”
“Don’t lie about what I have. I can’t go back home and just start over, Pisces. I don’t know where to begin.”
She shook her head. Pisces hesitated, rocking on his heels. He hadn’t thought what would happen to them after they got to safety. That was what mattered, but what could he tell Eloque?
“I would make sure you reached home, in Baleros, if you wanted it…but I could ensure you found a place in Izril.”
“No. I won’t go to Baleros. Home? No. I was sold from there. I can’t go back and see my family, my village…”
Eloque whispered. Pisces looked at her, and the hairs on the back of his neck prickled.
“Did they…?”
He caught himself, but Eloque’s bright-eyed gaze fixed him like a beacon.
“Did they sell me? Did they sell me as a [Slave]? No, Pisces. They didn’t have to. I…volunteered.”
She began to laugh. Isn’t that funny? Then Eloque told him why.
 
——
 
The Lizardfolk were one of three main species on Baleros. Centaur, Dullahan, Lizardfolk. Humans, Selphids, and Gazers were a larger minority, as were the Beastkin tribes. Some Lizardfolk cities were grand, and the Naga, the catchall term for the Lizardfolk’s many forms from Lamia to Gorgon, ruled.
But not everywhere was rich. Some villages were poor, very poor, and those were the places Roshal haunted. But not as an evil force—at least not in image.
“[Slavers] cannot simply grab people on Baleros. No, they can, in secret, because so few challenge them. They don’t have to. They just come to a village like mine when everyone’s sick or hungry and…”
It didn’t take a giant disaster. Just a plague, a minor one compared to Yellow Rivers, making everyone ill. There wasn’t enough coin for a [Healer] or [Alchemist]. So Roshal had come, smiling and offering a deal.
“They made it sound as if it would be a noble sacrifice, and I had a chance of becoming free. That I’d be treated well. I was the most beautiful Lizardgirl in the village. Everyone thanked me, and I went. It was fine. Fine until it wasn’t. Do you understand?”
Pisces did. He felt sick, trying to imagine it. Something like Igheriz’s smile, right until you saw who he truly was.
“I could have said no and no one would have blamed me. But I went off with them. I think about it every day.”
She was crying again, but not many tears. Not in this dry land. Pisces looked at Eloque, curled up on the ground, tail wrapped around herself as she lay in the dimming sun.
Reach out and take her shoulder. Hug her. Tell her…
He couldn’t tell what was best. So he did nothing, and knew that was worst of all. But he still did it. Pisces hunched his shoulders—then burst out with it.
“I—What should I say in this moment? I—I should like to say something, Eloque. But I am not my teammates. They are better people than I.”
The Lizardwoman looked at him, and then burst out laughing. She lay on her back.
“You’re such a bad leader, Pisces.”
He turned red and hunched his shoulders, but Eloque sat up kindly. To comfort him.
“Not a bad person. You rescued me from Riqre. You and Azam helped us remain free. Tell me of something else, Pisces. Tell me…of your team. Tell me there’s good people, because I’ve met so few. I’ve spent my entire adult life a [Slave].”
So he did. Pisces rode with Eloque by night, and told her about Yvlon, Ksmvr, and Ceria, and how they’d met.
He never talked about himself. He was not used to it. Pisces had never told anyone about how he first fled his father and homeland. He didn’t even tell his team his last name.
But he told the others everything, because they had seen everything that made him vulnerable already. He told them about home, but that was not what they needed. At last, Pisces realized what it was, and it was so simple.
“Where is safety, Pisces?”
Qshom was tiredly looking ahead. The [Necromancer]’s head rose. He stared up at the bright sky, and murmured.
“Home.”
“You mean…where do you mean?”
He looked at them. Pisces rode ahead, and decided to tell them—properly.
“It is a fair question, Qshom. Believe me, I do have somewhere in mind. There are many places I’ve been. Not Baleros, it is true, but now three continents out of the five.”
Heads rose. Pisces looked at them, and then at the patch of sky where had once flown the carpet. He shook his head.
“Where would we be free of Roshal? Terandria? I was born there, and I tell you there is little love of [Slavers] there. But I would not vouch for Terandria.”
He grimaced.
“Terandria bears little love for my class, or those who cannot obey in their way. I have no allies there except…a few old friends. [Necromancers] in hiding, perhaps, if they did not also flee. There is nothing safe there I could count on. Even a single undead is a hanging offence in many kingdoms.”
Every head turned to Ivery, trudging along with his glass pebble. That was it. They didn’t find the undead comforting, but in Terandria, there would have been screams of horror just seeing one. Chandrar tolerated undead a bit more—or had less immediate preconceptions. Pisces went on.
“Nor Wistram. Once, I was a [Mage] of Wistram, but they exiled me for being a [Necromancer]…”
He hesitated. Eloque saw his head lower, and his hands squeeze tight on the reins of the horse. Pisces’ head lifted, and a sigh escaped his lips.
“…No. That is a lie I tell myself. I was exiled for more than my class. I was exiled, rightly, for making a grave mistake. For endangering the lives of other [Mages] and ending in the deaths of many. A terrible accident that killed a good man, and friend of mine. A Centaur named Calvaron.”
He paused a second, and they waited. Like a [Storyteller], and he was better at this than any speech, because it was something he knew, and was building to, Pisces went on.
“Where next, then? Not Chandrar. Izril. Izril is where my home is. Izril is…”
