It was strange, the things they did not know about one another. Rationally, it made sense. Pisces had spent only two weeks in the company of the others. Yet it felt like they had a deeper connection than he had with, say, the Silver Swords, whom he had adventured with.
Deeper…and still, Pisces learned strange things about his companions. Trivial things that nevertheless caught him off-guard.
After the Goblin attack, there had been some debate as to what to do. Merr was all for gathering the bodies and having Pisces animate them. The [Necromancer] vetoed the suggestion.
“What, the bones not good enough?”
“No. I would rather not offend the tribe by making Goblin zombies. Let them collect their dead once we have left. They are no doubt watching.”
Pisces glanced around and could swear he saw a little head duck down. It was too familiar. Merr was confused, but shrugged.
“You’re the [Necromancer]. Any reason why we want to give them their dead?”
“They are hungry. They will eat their own if they cannot eat us.”
The others looked at Pisces in horror. He shook his head. He did know something about Goblins.
“More importantly—if there are Goblins in this area, there may be an oasis nearby. Even Goblins need water. We should scout for it.”
 
——
 
They didn’t find it. There was no map with an oasis listed, nor did they have dowsing Skills. Ceria might have found the water; Pisces could not. Nor was anyone exactly eager to take a horse and ride around, over a foothill into, say, a Goblin ambush.
So they kept moving, and presently, Pisces had to explain his curious reaction to the Goblins, not to mention the language.
“You know a Goblin? What? They’re monsters!”
“Classified as monsters, certainly. But they can speak. Play instruments. I…did not want to fight them.”
Pisces was thinking of Numbtongue. He shook his head. Everyone, from Merr to Eloque, was giving him an incredulous look. Pisces tried to elaborate. And that meant telling them about Rags, the little Goblin whom he’d taught basic spellcraft to.
The others listened solemnly, shaking their heads, but listening. And Pisces felt surprised, because he had shared that. Somehow, he had forgotten how they all saw Goblins.
“Well, that Skeleton Lord helped fight. Dead gods, but it’s fast. Not the best fighter, you said? Still better than any [Raider] I’ve had!”
Merr reached out and slapped the undead on the shoulders. The Skeleton Lord barely seemed to notice. Pisces stared at her. He had never seen anyone do that.
The others nodded. Rather than complain about the lackluster performance of his undead, they looked appreciatively at the ivory Human skeleton walking with them. Bearig frowned at it.
“Now that you mention it, this fellow’s naked.”
“How do you know it’s a fellow, Bearig? Why don’t we put some clothes on it? We could pretend it’s a person and trick people. Come to that—what’s its name, Pisces?”
Eloque investigated the undead, curiously. Pisces’ head snapped up.
“It has no name. Nor gender. It is an undead.”
Toren. But they had no understanding of that part of his past either, so the others objected.
“It should have a name. What about…about…well, a nickname? ‘Bone Defender’.”
Everyone looked at Eloque. She coughed. Bearig was nodding as he offered the undead a tunic. It stared at the piece of cloth and kept walking. Pisces rubbed at his face. He had to actually order the Skeleton Lord to put on clothing. But he held the line at a name.
For some reason, Bearig, the [Cook], was most strident about it. He was giving Rophir a ride on his shoulders.
“It is a tool, Bearig. In time—no. If I—it must be a tool at this moment. There is no…force that would give it greater sentience.”
I think. Could Skeleton Lords develop personalities? Pisces began to sweat at the thought, but the Stitch-Man was insistent.
“I name my tools, Pisces. Every good tool deserves recognition.”
“You…name your tools?”
Qshom gave Bearig an odd look. He glanced at the dagger he was using to remove Eloque’s stitches and waved it at Bearig.
“Would you name this?”
The [Cook] shrugged, a bit awkwardly, his already reddened brow darkening a bit further as everyone chuckled.
“Not every tool, but good ones? I had a ladle I used since I was an [Apprentice Cook]. I called it my lucky ladle. Had a name and everything.”
“Oh yeah? What was it?”
Merr was still frowning at the slight foothills for more Goblins as they continued climbing a slight gradient. Bearig turned beet-red.
“Er…I called him…The Duke of Soup.”
Dead silence. Then, laughter, guffaws from everyone listening. Pisces started laughing, and it was so unexpected and unforced. Duke of Soup? Eloque clutched at her stomach and even Qshom had to grab his head to stop it rolling off the wagon’s seat in hilarity.
It wasn’t even that funny, but it was Bearig’s face and the moment and…it was good to laugh. The laughter even came from a little boy, high-pitched, and for a second—
Bearig glanced up at Rophir and Pisces stopped in amazement. He saw the half-Elf boy’s face twist up in mirth. For just one second. Then the laughter stifled, and the boy’s little face went blank.
“Rophir! You laughed!”
Eloque exclaimed. The half-Elf looked at her, then down at Bearig. The [Cook] was beaming up at him. But Rophir didn’t laugh again, despite the delight on Bearig’s face.
His face went blanker. It almost seemed like he resented that moment of hilarity. As Pisces watched, he reached out, and smacked Bearig’s head.
The [Cook] yelped.
“Rophir! Stop that!”
But the little half-Elf began punching, scratching at Bearig’s head. They were not hard blows, but they clearly hurt.
“See now, that’s enough. Bearig didn’t do anything wrong. Don’t—ow!”
One of the Stitch-Women reached out, and Rophir slashed at her with a hand. She retreated.
“Rophir. Enough.”
Pisces rode over, but the little boy kept hitting Bearig. And the [Cook] didn’t drop him or try to stop it. He grimaced at Pisces.
“Leave him. Rophir, Rophir. I’m sorry for making you laugh. Stop, please?”
The boy did not stop. His face stayed blank, but Pisces saw something running down his cheeks. Tears. He reached to pull Bearig’s hair, and Pisces caught his hand.
“Rophir, enough.”
The half-Elf tried to strike at him, but Pisces was too quick. He caught both of Rophir’s hands and met the silver-grey eyes.
“I understand you do not wish to laugh, Rophir. Bearig does not wish to hurt you. I know…you have suffered. But it is a poor thing to hurt the people who care for you. Enough.”
The boy struggled, then tried to bite Pisces’ arms. The [Necromancer] grimaced.
“Enough. Sleep, Rophir. [Sleep].”
He began to cast the spell, but someone grabbed his arm before he could stop Rophir. Bearig. The [Cook] gave him a shake of the head. And…Eloque.
“Don’t, Pisces. He’s had enough of magic.”
Pisces lowered his hand. Rophir stared at him with huge, untrusting eyes. Pisces recalled Riqre using magic to animate…and surely other spells. He lowered his hands, backing away.
“Let me. Rophir, don’t hit Bearig. Come. Ride with us.”
Eloque let Bearig transfer Rophir to the wagon. The half-Elf boy seemed to accept riding with Eloque and Qshom, and sat there. As they moved on, and Bearig applied just a tiny bit of potion to his head, Eloque put an arm around the boy.
He stiffened, but didn’t pull away. Encouraged, the Lizardwoman hummed. Then, began to sing.
“Hello Naga, how was your day today? Did you meet anyone interesting on your way?”
It was such a bright, cheery song that Pisces blinked. Not at all like a soothing lullaby.
It was a Lizardfolk’s song. Or perhaps—a Balerosian song? Because Qshom started. Eloque stopped singing, and glanced at him meaningfully. Qshom hesitated, then grimaced and opened his mouth. His head, sitting next to them, began to sing. Call and response, Pisces realized.
“I met a [Wizard], hurray, hurray. And I helped him cast a spell on my way.”
He did his best, but the Dullahan couldn’t interject the same energy as Eloque into his voice. The counterpoint still somehow worked, and Pisces imagined a little Lizardfolk bothering a tired Naga. Rophir glanced up suspiciously at Eloque, but then he began to lean against her, listening. So did everyone else.
“Tell me Naga, did you see a snake today?”
“I saw one with five heads and sent it on its way.”
“Naga, that’s a Hydra.” 
“Oh my, you don’t say?”
The silly little song filled the air as the group travelled onwards. Soon, Eloque’s voice died down and Qshom looked at the little half-Elf boy with some relief. He had gone to sleep, leaning against her. Eloque nodded at Bearig, who smiled. Pisces had never known she could sing.
And the Skeleton Lord, which had brought all this about? It trudged onwards, bald, boney head covered by a turban of cloth, attired like a traveller, so only the sockets were visible. Names hadn’t stuck yet, but Pisces heard the caravan arguing.
Such sweet moments, sad moments, amid it all.
And then they came to the Glass Straits.
 
——
 
“Glass?”
Pisces stared at the landscape, which glittered with unbearable light in places, reflected from the sun above. Merr just grimaced.
“Yep. We’re further north than I thought. Dead gods, but I knew it stretched a long way. This far?”
The Glass Straits along Zeikhal were a natural phenomenon, not the product of some great spell, as Pisces had assumed. Somehow, the sun’s natural heat and intensity was so strong in this part of Chandrar that it could bake the top layer of sand into glass.
“Or perhaps there was some spell that began it. Some glass to begin with. Either way—it reflects and magnifies the sun. So it creates more glass, and, well…”
Eloque, of all the others, was the expert here. She had passed this way before, and jumped up and down on the hard glass mixed with sand to demonstrate how tough it was. Like a road, albeit lumpy. You could make better time on it, and the glass was not all one color. The varied sand and minerals created many colors and fascinating lumps of glass. Rarely beautiful; they were all dirty with trapped bubbles or sand, but you could hunt around and find a nice, clear part, or a bit you could polish up beautifully.
“Dangerous as tickling Crelers, I’ve heard.”
Merr had reservations. Eloque nodded.
“We’re travelling at night. It’s lucky we didn’t come by midday; we’d be blinded. By day? This place heats up beyond belief.”
“Is it better to travel the Glass Straits or stick to the wilds?”
Pisces was frowning. Eloque considered it.
“It’s not the most popular route, but Pisces—the Glass Straits are huge. If it’s this or going over dunes…we have wagons. We need a road.”
It was true. Twice now, the group had been forced to stop and push the wagons out of sand. If they tried going through actually rough terrain, they might have to abandon the vehicles and they were too necessary. Pisces bit his lip.
“Are there any unique dangers here?”
“Lack of food. Animals get different, too. Glass animals, some of them. Things that eat glass…I’ve heard you can even find Fire or Glass Elementals. Not worse than giant Sand Worms or what you can find in the sand.”
Glass Elementals? Pisces’ lips moved, but he just nodded. He sent the Skeleton Lord to scout about as they made an early camp. The undead came stomping back before they’d set up with something in its hands.
A giant glass ant’s head. Pisces stared at it and Qshom nearly dropped a tent pole. But it wasn’t an Antinium head. Pisces calmed down. In fact…it wasn’t even an ant’s head.
“Glass Termite. Is it edible?”
Eloque recognized the monster, but passed it to Bearig. He poked the insides, shuddering. The outer ‘carapace’ of the insect was hard glass. The inside? Well, it was flesh, but the [Cook] shook his head.
“I’d rather not try to cook that, Eloque. I’m no [Monsterparts Chef].”
“Well, food won’t last forever! Go on! Give it a bite! I’ll eat some once it’s roasted. Where’s the body, Bone Lord?”
“Don’t call it that. His name is Ivery.”
Eloque called after Merr. The [Bandit Lady] came back after a while with an experimental cut of the Glass Termite’s meat. She roasted it in the cast iron pan, until it was almost black, took one bite, hawked it back up, and came to a decision.
“Right. That’s inedible. And we’ve only got four more days of food for everyone at this rate. Two days of water. Time to go.”
Pisces looked up. He had come to the same conclusion; they had water barrels and lots of food, but even the Chest of Holding they’d taken from Hrome’s caravan had limits and they had yet to restock anything. Merr strode into the camp. All the former [Slaves] looked at her as she raised her voice.
“Listen up. I’m heading off. Anyone who wants to join me—I’m going to reform Merr’s Bandits. Merr the Storm rides again! You’re all welcome in my crew. That is—unless you all want to join me?”
She gave Pisces a look. The [Necromancer] stood there, a bit tensed. Was this the moment? He shook his head, slowly.
“I will pass, Merr. I have no intentions of becoming a [Bandit].”
She grunted.
“Suit yourself. But if you think you can protect everyone who stays…”
Another meeting of eyes. Pisces didn’t sense hostility, just…he smiled thinly.
“I can. And I wouldn’t bear you any ill will for going. If you wished to stay—”
Eloque looked between the two. Merr shook her head and tapped her chest.
“If I’m not needed, I’m off. Food’s a problem anyways. Tell you what. Spare me a fair portion—half of what we’d eat—and a quarter of the horses, and we’re square. Deal?”
“Agreed.”
Pisces breathed. It was more than fair. Merr nodded at the others.
“Don’t worry about light provisions and less horses. We’ll move fast and get more things to ride. Who’s with me?”
 
——
 
Only eighteen people went with Merr. Which was surprising, given how competent the [Bandit Lady] was. But she intended to be a [Bandit] and…it just wasn’t in many.
They followed Pisces because Pisces had promised them safety. But what did that mean?
Pisces and Merr shook hands, and Eloque saw the [Necromancer]’s wary smile. She was upset. She took Merr’s hand, but didn’t know what to say.
“Until we meet again!”
Merr the Storm left, with more horses than she’d asked for; enough to let the others ride two-to-a horse. It left Pisces’ group with far fewer mounts, but between the undead horses pulling the wagons, they wouldn’t be that much slower. More importantly, they had the lion’s share of the food and water.
“Is she going to be alright?”
Eloque asked Pisces privately. The [Necromancer] grimaced.
