Pisces searched for words, then realized he didn’t have to. Slowly, his hands rose, and a bright light filled the Glass Straits. Eloque saw, mirrored dully in the glass, figures rise. Bright walls. Proud people with scales, like her, but with neck spines, stronger builds. Furry, tall people, who grinned, so like Beastkin…
Rophir’s head peeked out from over Bearig’s back. The [Cook] looked up, murmuring. Pisces’ voice was stronger now.
“In the continent of Izril, past the Walled Cities on high, filled with millions of Drakes each, north of the tribes of countless Gnolls of the Great Plains, and south of the Human lands, ruled by the Five Families, each to their strength, are the High Passes. They stretch across the center of Izril, save for two places where one can enter. The wild High Passes’ eastern route, almost certain death to all but Couriers and Named Ranks, and the western route through a valley that floods every spring.”
The land changed, and they saw the hills and valleys, the lush grass so unlike many parts of Chandrar. Pisces conjured a giant rock that slowly lifted up, and two eye-stalks poked out from under them. Qshom recoiled in horror, somewhat ironically, to Eloque’s mind.
“Giant crabs with shells like rocks roam the area. Shield Spiders, which make nests in the grass and wait for prey to fall in. Even trees that explode when you come too near. It is not safe, you see? But a city sits in the middle of this valley. Liscor. A small city by some accounts, but with…decent people.”
Faces flickered past them. A running little white Gnoll. A [Shopkeeper]. A Drake rolling her eyes. Pisces’ gaze lingered on each one. Then the images changed.
Everyone watched. Even the group that had snuck up on the caravan. Spellbound.
“On a hill outside the city of Liscor, there is an inn. It has a sign out front. If you choose to read it—which not many do—it has a strange inscription. ‘No killing Goblins’. And should you venture inside, you might meet an [Innkeeper]. If you do…your days will never be entirely boring. Not always dangerous or exciting—often, but not always. But you will be safe. Safe, for a given value of the word. Even so. I call it home. I have known nowhere else as fine.”
“What is the inn called?”
It was an obvious question. Pisces smiled.
“The Wandering Inn. It is a strange place. How can I explain it. It was destroyed, rebuilt…three times? There is a tower with an Antinium keeping watch named Bird, who eats birds. If you sit down, you can order a drink of…Blue Fruit Juice. Or a cookie. Or a bowl of flies. But be warned, if you sit too long over your food, a little Gnoll child might try to steal it. And there is a garden and…”
His smile faded. For a second, Eloque saw a frozen bier and a figure—but then it was gone, and Pisces was talking about a drink named a Minotaur’s Punch. Plays.
He did not tell them the truth, because the truth was that the inn was not complete as it was. He told them how it should be, and the vision of the inn, his home, filled their heads.
“So that’s where we’re going?”
Bearig looked at the idea. It seemed so far away. But so welcoming. It was good enough to aim at. Pisces nodded.
“However far it may be, that is where I will one day go. You are free to join me.”
He looked at that fragile image of the inn. And wondered if it would be that way when he returned, or if he would have to find a way to bring it back. Someone sighed.
“Not a bad dream, Pisces. Not a bad dream for a [Necromancer]. I thought you were all cynical lots, but I’ve only ever known [Bandits]. Better than any home I’ve known.”
He spun. And there they were, appearing out of the darkness.
Merr the Storm. And…nearly a hundred plus [Bandits].
Pisces’ hand stole to his sword. Eloque gasped.
“Merr!”
The [Bandit Lady] grinned. Pisces stared at the small army behind her. How had she…?
“Found a local bandit group. We hit two spots, got our feet under us. Told you all I needed was a bucket. Hey! Break out the drink!”
Merr waved a hand. There was a shout, and the group, filled with the same people who’d left with Merr, dipped into a keg recently looted.
“But how…?”
“[Raiding Opportunities]. You knew I could tell where good stuff was, couldn’t you?”
Merr winked. She saw Pisces still eying her.
“Don’t be like that, Pisces. We just came by to see if anyone else wanted to join up. Besides—we’re flush with food and loot, so I’m feeling generous. Actually…”
She glanced at Eloque and Pisces and then coughed.
“…I thought we could trade.”
“Trade?”
Pisces’ eyes narrowed suspiciously. What did he have to trade? Merr shrugged.
“Well, sure. You’re a [Necromancer], aren’t you? We’ve got some broken bones that need setting. Didn’t grab any bodies, but maybe we could get you to animate a Ghoul or something? We could throw it at the enemy. You’ve got gold? We’ll trade you, even up.”
Pisces touched his coin pouch. He…did have gold, come to think of it. Merr winked at Bearig, and Rophir, staring at her from behind the [Cook]’s head.
“I’d make a good [Merchant], wouldn’t I? Generous prices and I get free goods!”
Pisces was still silent. He suspected a trap, but even if he tried now…what could he do? Ivery was still, waiting for orders, but one Skeleton Lord and Pisces versus a hundred [Bandits]?
The new ones looked like an experienced group. Well…‘experienced’ as in, lower quality than even the group Ksmvr had taken out. They were following Merr with respect. The [Bandit Lady] was like royalty compared to Level 8 [Bandits]. No doubt she had strode into their camp and asserted dominance.
That was how Ksmvr would put it. Even so, a hundred [Bandits]? With Eloque and the others to protect?
Three dozen Goblins once killed Klbkch the Slayer. It was a story that had made Pisces doubt his ears when he’d heard it. But all it took was one knife-thrust…
Merr knew he was watching her. Could she sense the [Deathbolt] spell in his fingers? Her smile widened.
“Hey, I’m coming by because I knew you were low on food, Pisces. Let’s not do anything we’d regret, eh?”
Her left hand was on her belt. The two looked at each other, Gold-rank adventurer and [Bandit Lady]. Eloque looked from one to the other. The Lizardwoman called out.
“Pisces. Merr is here to help. Isn’t she? She was a [Slave]. Just like us.”
Merr glanced her way. Pisces hesitated.
“Yeah. This one helped me when that bastard was after me. What…do you think I’d do? Even [Bandits] have a sense of honor. Not that I’d expect you to believe me.”
Her sable eyes peered at Pisces. He looked at her and he could hear Riqre laughing. How can you trust her? She had too much to gain.
Riqre, the Naga, Az’kerash, Merr…they all had their own interests. Pisces hunched his shoulders. It was all too easy to imagine when the dagger would come. The instant his back was turned…
He couldn’t trust her. Pisces shifted, adjusting his weight in the horse’s saddle. He really couldn’t trust her.
Because—well, why? Because he was worth nearly a million gold? Because she was a [Bandit]? Yes. She was a [Bandit Lady].
She was also a [Slave]. Yet you couldn’t trust [Bandits]. They were fundamentally untrustworthy.
“Just like [Necromancers].”
The [Necromancer] turned his head. Merr blinked. Her hand nearly drew the concealed throwing knife. Both turned left.
Eloque didn’t know who that was. Who stood there, in the moonlight? Who stomped her feet, threw up her hands, and rolled her eyes? Her eyes were hazel, her skin was fairer, and her hair was a light brown. Her voice was light and exasperated, but it definitely sounded like she was laughing. With you, not at you.
“[Necromancers]. Fundamentally untrustworthy. [Bandits] bad. Goblins bad too. Hey, everyone’s bad! Have you heard of stinking Humans? Sheesh.”
She rolled her eyes. Erin Solstice, the illusion of her, threw up her hands. She flickered…reappeared, resting her head on her hands.
“What the f…?”
Merr the Storm had no idea what was happening. Her eyes flicked to Pisces, but he was absorbed in his spell. He was doing it, Eloque realized. The young woman spoke to him. Like…a conscience.
A reminder.
“Why should you make the effort? Why should you try, Mister Gold-rank? Because, and I keep telling you this: you’re a better person than they are.”
“I am.”
The [Necromancer] muttered. Eloque saw the [Innkeeper] smile. She rose—and then vanished. Pisces lowered his hand and turned back to Merr.
Merr the Storm. Merr the [Bandit Lady]. Merr the Fundamentally Untrustworthy? One of those things was untrue. The [Necromancer] took a deep breath. Then two.
“It does seem like you have enjoyed greater success than we have, Merr.”
He gestured at the group behind her and the beer they were passing out in mugs. Merr leaned on the saddlehorn of her own mount.
“I’m good at what I do. Raiding. Stealing. I know it doesn’t jive with a Gold-rank’s principles.”
“Really. You thought that?”
Pisces raised his eyebrows. Merr gave him a cautious shrug.
“Gold-ranks hunt [Bandits].”
“True. But I have been…a thief. Many times, in fact. That was not my…my objection.”
“Huh. I didn’t know that.”
And she really hadn’t. How was she supposed to know that? She looked at Pisces, who, in her opinion, had been an upstanding Gold-rank…[Necromancer].
Somewhere, Pisces was sure, if his team could have heard that, they would be laughing until they puked. All except for Ksmvr, who would laugh awkwardly and ask for clarification as to why that was funny later.
Maybe…Pisces felt like he was standing on quicksand. It was too hard. He couldn’t do it.
Eloque, though? She looked from Pisces to Merr. Then she sighed, exasperatedly.
“Why are you two acting like we’re on different sides? Pisces! Did you really think Merr was going to claim the money by taking you as a [Slave]?”
“No! I…”
Pisces’ guilty reply made Merr narrow her eyes. But the Lizardwoman was already looking at Merr.
“And you thought Pisces would run you off for being a [Bandit]?”
“…Well, he has principles.”
Merr looked defensive. Somewhere, in a hypothetical bar, Yvlon sprayed her drink out her mouth, nose, and possibly ears.
Pisces shook his head. He looked at Merr.
“I am entirely unscrupulous, Merr. I…”
He glanced at his own group. At her. Eloque saw the [Necromancer] stare upwards. Then at last, he came out with it.
“Merr.”
“Yes?”
The young man looked her in the eyes. He sniffed, for the first time anyone in the group had ever known him, a huge, haughty sniff.
“Would you…care to join our forces in unity? We could use your considerable acumen. And I am not the most proficient leader. I am a superlative—specialist. What I’m trying to say is…”
He worked his mouth.
“Give me a hand, Merr. Please.”
The [Bandit Lady] sat there on her horse. Eying him. Now, why would she help Pisces? Why would she, the woman who kept asking if she was needed, who just happened to come back this way with food and loot…
In her way, she was as bad as Pisces. Eloque rubbed at her head. Actual children. Lizardfolk did not have this kind of problem. It was clearly a Human thing. A Stitch-Folk thing.
“…A hand? All you had to do was ask. Hey! Merr’s Bandits! We’re sticking with this lot! Play nice!”
The [Bandit Lady] turned her head and shouted. Pisces looked at her. He relaxed, slowly.
You can’t trust her! You can’t…
Riqre screamed in his head. Pisces imagined someone charging the Emir.
“Who are you?‘
“Consequences! [Minotaur Punch] or something!”
The imaginary Riqre received an imaginary [Minotaur Punch]. Which was all imaginary. But maybe so was his paranoia.
Merr reached out. She offered Pisces a hand, and he reached out and clasped it.
“Just so we’re clear—I call the shots when it comes to managing things. You can be the Gold-rank, but I’m the one who tells people where to crap. That work?”
She eyed him. The [Necromancer] thought about it.
“I suppose I can acquiesce. Just so long as you appreciate my unique capabilities.”
He tried, he really tried, but he had to sniff and do that. If he’d tried to be genuine, he might have actually vomited. But Merr just grinned and laughed. Pisces sniffed again, and it was…good. Not a nasal problem, just an old tic.
“That sniffing thing you do.”
Eloque had noticed. She stared at Pisces. He gave her a supercilious look. Expectantly. He waited for her to tell him how annoying it was, or to call him to task on his arrogance. Or…
The Lizardwoman clapped her hands together, delighted.
“Qshom! Bearig! Did you hear that? The sound Pisces makes? With his nose? I love noses. They’re so weird! That is the cutest thing I’ve ever seen!”
The Lizardwoman, who did not actually have a nose, peered at Pisces.
“Do it again, please? Why are you doing that?”
The [Necromancer] turned beet red. Merr threw her head back to laugh. And all was well. Today…
All was well.
