“[Bandits] can sense raiding opportunities. I very much doubt Merr intends to forage long. She would not be this confident if she did not have somewhere she intended to be.”
“It’s a shame she couldn’t stay. We could…have used her help.”
Eloque glanced sidelong at Pisces. He shrugged, but nodded slowly.
“It would have been beneficial. Alas. We had nothing to offer her, however, and without substantive gain…she is a [Bandit Lady]. I am an adventurer.”
“Did you want her gone?”
Eloque pressed, a frown on her face. It hadn’t seemed that way, not explicitly. Pisces shook his head.
“I am a [Necromancer]. Far be it from me to be the first to insult her way of life. It is just…we have nothing for her to gain from, and she can survive in Chandrar. Not so for the rest of us.”
That was true, but Eloque was still unhappy. It was done, nevertheless.
They would not rest this night long; they had to cross the Glass Straits by night, and then camp by day. As the caravan plodded onwards, however, they were forced to stop at exactly midnight by an unusual, and at first, alarming spectacle.
The Skeleton Lord, who had been patrolling ahead, nicknamed ‘Ivery’ by Eloque much to Pisces’ chagrin, had halted. Pisces rode up to it, frowning, as the dark glass covered by a light sprinkling of sand crunched under his horse’s hooves. Eloque and the others halted uncertainly, because they heard it too.
The wind had died down, and the rolling crunch of glass under the wagon wheels faded away. All that was left was a strange hum in the air. Then…a low wail from ahead.
The Skeleton Lord’s eyes were glowing bright. Pisces stopped. He stared as something began to trace itself outwards, and swore, galloping backwards.
When he had enacted the [Ritual of the Lord of Bones], Eloque had been so tired and distraught she hadn’t really watched. She had seen him placing the bones from the dead [Slavers] in a curious, concentric pattern around the center pile, ten times as many bones, twenty, perhaps, as had created the Skeleton Lord.
She had watched Pisces raise the bones into the air, seen the glow of power he called upon. Now she saw the same symbols trace themselves outwards from the Skeleton Lord as it stood in the center of the glowing diagram—but with lines of magical force, as green as its eyes, instead of bone.
“Pisces! What’s happening?”
The [Necromancer] looked back. And it was clear he did not know.
“It’s…my ritual. It must have a component I did not know about.”
“What? It’s your spell!”
“Yes, but—it was granted to me as I levelled! I don’t know what it does!”
Magic given without instruction. Eloque was no [Mage], but she’d heard of them gaining spells when levelling they didn’t learn. Thusly, Pisces didn’t know the full nature of the spell he’d cast.
Sometimes…you opened a box and didn’t see the depths.
The Skeleton Lord stood, glowing under two full moons. Staring at nothing. Waiting. Waiting for…what?
Pisces was frozen, staring into an unravelling complexity of death magic. It was true—the ritual was too advanced for him. He didn’t understand his creation.
And that terrified him. It reminded him all too much of another undead he had made. Back in arrogance. Would this Skeleton Lord become another Toren?
What have I done?
It wanted something. That much Pisces could see. But what was the input? What was the outcome? He felt a fool.
I should cast aside my magic. Begin once again from the Putrid One’s spellbook. From true magic. Why do I reach for that which I cannot understand?
“Pisces…”
Eloque’s voice was afraid. The [Necromancer] braced himself. He dismounted from his horse.
“Stay there. I will…something is needed.”
He began to approach the Skeleton Lord, warily. It waited, not turning to face him, but part of its inner being exposed. For something. Something…
Him? Blood? More death? More bone?
Bearig had a hand on his cleaver, but uncertainly. Qshom had a crossbow aimed, but the group of freed [Slaves] were simply tense, unwilling to interfere. Pisces strode forwards—if he had been alone, or with his team, he might have risked waiting, analyzing the situation. Not here. Not now.
He was walking towards the Skeleton Lord when someone else moved. The taut air, the imminent danger again, made one of the others snap. A little figure darted down. A voice shouted.
“Rophir! No!”
Pisces whirled, but too late, the little half-Elf boy reacted as he’d been trained. Conditioned.
No one had given Rophir a weapon, for all he was arguably one of the more dangerous people with a blade. Bearig had found the cutting knife and taken it from the half-Elf boy. Even so—Rophir bent down, and picked up something.
A rock—no, a nugget of glass. A bit of sand turned into a fist-sized piece of heavy glass. He scooped it up and hurled it at the Skeleton Lord’s head with uncanny accuracy for a boy his age.
Pisces leapt for the stone, then remembered his magic and tried to catch it. Too late—the stone thwacked the undead in the head. Pisces whirled.
“No!”
There was a flash. He saw the magic changing and his flaming rapier was in his hands. [Flash Step]—Pisces lunged, conjuring an [Acid Orb] into his other hand. He saw the Skeleton Lord turn with unnatural grace to face him and brace as it raised its weapon. The glass rock?
Pisces stumbled. He nearly careened into the Skeleton Lord, who caught him. Qshom lowered his crossbow. The others saw the Skeleton Lord raise its hand into the air. It had been hit in the skull by the little glass nugget, but now it held the very same bit of glass in one hand. Yet a second nugget of glass lay on the ground.
“What the…”
Eloque saw the undead’s eyes burn green as the lines of magic retreated within its being. It raised the rock overhead.
Yes! So the compact has been made! Look unto me and my great weapon! My bonded nature of death, which I shall use to destroy all that come against me or my master! My—
It regarded the glass rock in its hand. Pisces stared as the Skeleton Lord experimentally threw it. Then stared at the rock. His mouth moved silently.
The Skeleton Lord’s eyes burned. It raised a hand—and the glass pebble reappeared in it. A bound weapon. A…
It tossed the rock again and stared at it. The undead seemed…confused as to how to expand on the varieties of martial combat as they applied to glass pebbles. Ivery tried to recall the weapon again, found it could not, and scuttled over to pick up the glass rock. It kept trying to throw it, practicing with its new bonded weapon.
Rophir hid behind Bearig, but Pisces didn’t look at the half-Elf boy. As the others investigated the Skeleton Lord and its new weapon, the [Necromancer] sat with his head in his hands.
But he was laughing.
 
——
 
It was clear that the [Ritual of the Lord of Bones] was designed to attenuate and customize a powerful…lord of bones. First in construction, then customization. Imagine giving it an enchanted weapon! Or would only a mundane one work?
You could attune a varied weapon to the very heart of the Skeleton Lord, designing its entire battle strategy and combat prowess around a weapon, esoteric though it might be, and the Skeleton Lord would fight with it, an eternal weapon.
Or, in this case, a rock. Ivery the Skeleton Lord could now, at the beginning of each battle, throw the glass pebble. Pisces watched it toss the glass pebble at a Glass Termite. The monster recoiled, and the eight giant termites all attacked the pebble. Ivery stared at the rock, then drew its sword and shield and charged into battle.
“It’s…um. At least it has a sword and shield?”
Eloque watched as Ivery won the battle. It picked up the glass pebble and carefully carried it around. Pisces tried not to burst into hysterical laughter again.
“My undead creations seem to be instructional in what not to do.”
The worst part was that the Skeleton Lord was clearly learning how to use its weapon of choice; it had progressed from weak throws to an actual approximation of a baseball pitch. Pisces had a headache.
“I shall endeavor to replace this undead with a superior Skeleton Lord if we get the chance. I do not know where I will find the correct bones of a skilled warrior, but I could at least give it a proper weapon.”
He muttered. To his surprise, that landed him in hot water. Eloque turned on him, aghast.
“You can’t destroy Ivery! He’s doing his best!”
“What?”
Qshom nodded.
“It deserves a chance. I like it.”
“It’s an undead.”
“It’s been protecting us! It even killed that Glass Hare!”
Pisces stared at said hare, draining of blood. Its skin was glass, but the internals were regular flesh and blood, so Bearig was going to make a stew of it. He rubbed at his head. It was hot, by evening, as the Glass Straits cooled off from the incredible heat of the magnified sun. They’d already learned not to camp anywhere close to the glass road.
The trick of the Glass Straits wasn’t the overall heat; it was the magnified heat as it reflected off natural mirrors. The caravan had camped too close the first day and one of the rays of sun had burnt one of the tents.
They were riding along, taking turns to march on the glass road or sit on the wagon. Eloque almost always had the wagon’s seat, as did Qshom, despite the limited space. Qshom because he was a Dullahan with heavy armor and a [Tailor], both of which awarded him some respect.
Eloque because…she was Eloque and everyone knew why. After five days, Qshom had rid her left arm of stitching. She kept flexing it, peering at her bright scales. Smiling.
The Lizardwoman was in such a good mood that day, that Pisces caught her murmuring to herself and laughing every now and then. He didn’t understand why until he edged over, pretending to read from the spell tome.
“Ooh. Indigo. Nice.”
…What? Every few minutes, Eloque would point to something, chortle to herself.
“Indigo! Indigo. Mm…no, that’s violet. Aha, indigo!”
The [Necromancer] couldn’t resist. He looked at Eloque.
“Are you…enamoured with the color indigo, Eloque?”
She jumped and blushed.
“It’s a nice color! You don’t see much in Chandrar—I always pass the time by looking for it.”
Pisces raised a finger. He scratched at his temple.
“Always?”
“Yep.”
One of the [Slaves] who had been part of Igheriz’s caravan for a long time nodded. Pisces looked at him.
Always?
“Indigo! Look!”
Eloque chortled, pointing out a bit of fused glass with every sign of genuine joy. Pisces stared at the patch of indigo amid orange-yellow glass, from some kind of mineral. He looked at Eloque. Her indigo-spotting habit was…the most annoying thing he had experienced since coming to Chandrar.
 
——
 
Mundanity did not last long. Pisces was riding at the head of the caravan, well away from Eloque’s chortling indigo spotting, which Qshom and Rophir had joined, when his head snapped up.
“Oh, no. Not now!”
His exclamation made Bearig jog forwards.
“What’s wrong?”
“We’re being scried!”
Pisces swore. He looked up, cursed, and tried three spells. Then he just aimed up.
“[Deathbolt]!”
The black bolt of magic shot into the sky to no effect. Pisces leapt down, swearing. Eloque and the others cried out.
“Pisces! Can you stop it?”
“No!”
“No? But…”
“I don’t know how! I was expelled from Wistram before we learned wards or counterspells! Roshal knows where we are.”
Pisces was fumbling for the spellbook, flipping through it desperately. Was there a counterspell somewhere in…?
He hadn’t even realized they were being [Scried] until now. It could have been a while. And sure enough—after three hours of worried night trekking, the first manifestation of their observers appeared.
“Flying carpet!”
Bearig screamed. Everyone shouted in horror.
There it was. A flying carpet, and a pair of riders perched mockingly there. There was no guessing where they were from. Eloque felt it, like prickling on her scales.
Roshal.
She was not mistaken either. Pisces took aim and sent a [Deathbolt] flying towards the carpet. The [Carpet Rider] didn’t even bother to dodge; the bolt just soared well clear of their distant shape. They kept following as the caravan desperately picked up speed, but it was a literal flying carpet to how fast they could run.
They were doing something, up there. Pisces spotted a [Mage] and the [Carpet Rider]. After only thirty minutes, the [Mage] stood up. He aimed again, but [Light Arrow] was his only spell with any tracking and the [Mage] had swatted down the low-Tier spell with ease.
Ivery couldn’t reach them; the undead had jogged beneath the carpet, trying to hit them two hundred feet up with its little pebble for an hour. They were out of bow shot, and…watching them.
Reporting their location. Pisces looked up from trying to learn Lighted Arrow as fast as he could as something glinted from the carpet.
The [Mage] was holding up a mirror. A scrying mirror? The others tensed as it caught the light. But it was not a painful glare that shot downwards. No—what appeared in front of them was a man.
A Human man, reflected from the mirror onto the ground. He smiled, and looked around.
“A Skeleton Lord? You impress me further, Pisces Jealnet. Please—”
For Qshom had shot a bolt through his face. The man regarded the Dullahan with mild interest, and his eyes turned back to Pisces. Slitted pupils. The [Necromancer] froze, his face a mask of hostility. And fear. Eloque was paralyzed. The figure bowed, gracefully.
“—let us talk. I am Emir Yazdil. The Naga of Roshal. My people have found you, Pisces Jealnet. You are all [Slaves]. But we shall be understanding. If you acquiesce.”
“Leave us be. I swear I will destroy you if you approach.”
Pisces whispered. The Naga shook his head.
“…I am told you were in the company of Igheriz, and the Emir Riqre. Neither one represents Roshal, and Riqre…I fear you have the wrong impression of me, Pisces. I should like to speak.”
“Begone!”
The young man’s voice cracked. He blasted the illusion with something that made it actually wink out, but in a second the [Mage] had adjusted the mirror and it was back. The Emir shook his head.
“Pisces Jealnet, Roshal sees you. Let us speak. If you are not willing now—I shall return in an hour. But we shall speak. I would not have this be unpleasant. I hold the other Emirs in abeyance, and they would make an example. Is it not prudent to talk? I have heard you were known for your sagacity.”
He smiled, and Eloque wanted Pisces to refuse. He even spoke in a reasonable way. Pisces’ face was white and he was shaking, but everyone was frozen in fear. The carpet, the scrying spells…Roshal knew exactly where they were.
“Pisces.”
Eloque whispered. The [Necromancer] glanced at her. Then he tried to nod.
