Khelta saw they were following Fetohep as he stepped towards another wing of the palace, looking slightly exhausted from four hours of directing [Mages] about. She nodded.
The Giants who sat around in the lands of the dead were easy to ignore, but they were even more tight-lipped than the other ghosts with secrets.
“A favor for a favor.”
“Just so. And there happens to be one group that would make their secrets known for a single deed.”
Khelta brightened up. That sounded great! Who was…
“Hey! Hey, it’s Serept and Khelta! Are you guys here to bug Fetohep too?”
A familiar, cheery voice made Khelta and Serept stop. They exchanged glances. Khelta rolled her eyes; Serept gave her an apologetic look. They looked up and saw someone had slipped her handlers.
Erin Solstice waved in the company of some ghosts. Fetohep, walking around, slowed, and turned his head, perhaps hearing her. She stood with one of her friends, and Khelta’s eager curiosity turned into a kind of wariness. She bowed slightly, for even a ruler such as she acknowledged legends.
And it was a group of legends who stood before her. No, not just from one time, but all those who had her spirit. Who had the will as one of Erin’s great friends.
Elucina, the [Rebel of String], stood with adventurers, [Mages], warriors, and scholars. Rulers of old. And there had been many. But even if Khelta knew only a fraction of their names and deeds, she knew them at a moment’s glance.
“Those who hate slavery.”
“Great Khelta, King Serept. You have it right. We have heard many refuse to tell you their secrets of life. We come to make you an offer.”
Elucina nodded as Erin gave her a thumbs-up of support. They were all following Fetohep; he had a swarm of ghosts at any second these days. Khelta kept glancing at Serept. The half-Giant stepped back, nodding, and let them talk.
“You have a proposal, Rebel of String?”
“A simple one, great Khelta.”
A masked figure bowed slightly, but the mask’s shape and their figure said clearly it was a Garuda who lay garbed in cloth such that not a single feather was visible, and only a mask stood out from the bundled cloth. They would never fly, not like that. Khelta wondered if something in their life had rendered them…unable to fly.
She shivered. Even in death, there were dark stories.
“We are those who strive against chains, in every era. In every form. It would take a mighty oath, Khelta, but you are honorable, as are your rulers and descendants. Did Erin Solstice voice for you that you spoke truth and received truth—we would give you our knowledge and secrets, yes, even our techniques, for a promise of three.”
“Name it.”
Khelta’s mind was racing. Factions had re-emerged among the dead, and one stood before her. Elucina’s eyes burned.
“That Khelt outlaws all slavery. Now until the end of time. Beyond the end of time. Until every citizen and child ever born or who will be born who is Khelt has passed—they shall all bear that promise. Never again, never in any form. Second—that Khelt tells our story. The story of [Slaves], and the cruelties that lie behind the masked deed, the false pretenses of those who chain others. Golem-makers, [Slavers]—in every form.”
Khelta could just imagine the controversy that would arise if Fetohep were to proclaim that, yet the two were not the most arduous requests. She could well weigh it against the other ghosts’ wraths for immediate gain…but she had a feeling about the final request.
“And the last?”
Elucina glanced at Erin. Then she nodded at Khelta. She seemed not to doubt Erin; perhaps the [Innkeeper] had given her a promise. Well and so. She did not rule a nation.
“That Khelt takes up arms against Roshal, and shall not rest until that nation lies in ash.”
“Ah.”
Khelta sighed softly. Almost sadly. For Roshal had existed even when she was alive, and she knew how much that promise was.
“We do not ask it immediately, Khelta.”
Elucina saw her hesitation, and Khelta raised a hand.
“…But you do ask it in time. And with time constraints, no doubt. An oath. I…understand. We shall discuss this imminently. However…”
Her eyes slid sideways. Erin had been bobbing on her feet; she thought it was a good deal! But then she saw Serept and Califor coming back their way.
Erin tried to hide behind a giant Dullahan. It was no good.
“Erin Solstice, your lessons in witchcraft await. Come with us.”
“Aw! But I was going to help convince Khelta to beat up the [Slavers]! Come on, Califor, join in with me. It’s a good deal, right?”
“Your lack of understanding of politics astonishes me. Enough.”
Califor grabbed Erin’s ear and began to tow the young woman through the corridors, back the way they’d come. It didn’t hurt, and they passed through a wall with Erin arguing. Serept sighed, and so did Khelta.
In…relief. Elucina and the other ghosts noticed, of course, but they did not comment. Khelta turned to them.
“Let us talk. I make no promises, but your desires are not unknown to me, Rebel of String. Is there room for compromise? Is there…?”
 
——
 
Work. Fetohep’s head hurt with trying to understand magical sigils as a [Warrior]. He had actually been studying up on spellcasting; he could do some as a Revenant, in theory, but the truth was that the project outside would work based on his limited communication or it would not.
This next location was just as important, however. If not for the same scope…no, for the same reasons. It concerned a citizen of Khelt, after all, and in her own way, she was as valuable as any other task before him.
Khelt’s rulers did not forswear their vows, and this was a vow made nineteen times over. Thus, the nineteenth ruler of Khelt had invested an equal share of time into this as arming his new great scions.
His subjects were coming to the capital, to be tested for aptitude. Alked Fellbow and the Falcon of Medain had both pledged themselves to his service.
Everything was going splendidly! Or was it? Fetohep was a flurry of mixed emotions. For the greater the deed, the more fell the hour. And…in this case…
“Fetohep, you may walk faster now.”
The King of Khelt had slowed to investigate one of Khelt’s many rooms. In this case, a fantastic bathing area. It hadn’t been the most subtle of choices since Fetohep was not going to hop in any tub, even the one filled with hot, shifting sands.
However, he’d done so as soon as he’d heard Erin Solstice’s voice. Serept had also whispered in his ear.
Fetohep nodded and picked up the pace. He murmured, quietly.
“I take it I need not conceal my actions, Great Khelta?”
“No. I would speak with you, Fetohep. The ghosts desire more for their aid. Tell me…your feelings on Roshal?”
It was a question out of the blue, but Fetohep was quite used to it by now. He responded instantly.
“Unfavorable. I do not like the nation of [Slavers]. If you would have me act with them…”
“No. But how do you rate them as a military strength? If…ah…I were to ask you to go to war with them and bring them to dust and ruin?”
Fetohep nearly walked into a pillar. He adjusted his pace; he was going into a more distant wing of the palace, far from the entrance. He normally wouldn’t conduct much work there, but circumstances in the lands of the dead had pressed him to relocate the project there.
“…Was the Roshal of your time, ah, less powerful than Khelt was, Great Khelta?”
A laugh in his head, a bit tired but wonderfully…wonderful.
“No, Fetohep. I only ask.”
He thought of it, and replied simply.
“Give me leave to unleash all of Khelt’s wonders and warriors. A way to ambush Lailight Scintillation, perhaps. Ample timing?”
“Yes?”
“…It would still be no sure thing. Roshal would mobilize countless nations to its defense. It lacks some of the old legends of its past, but there are names in this generation. Among them, the Naga, an Emir Yazdil of surpassing wealth. There are simply too many nations who draw succor from Roshal. And their hoardings…may surpass Khelt’s.”
“I see. Thank you, Fetohep.”
That was all. Fetohep nodded. Khelta’s voice drifted away, and then she spoke closely in his ear.
“I see we close in on the second great project. Speak freely, and we shall not let that mistake happen twice. And as we speak of it…have you more thoughts to the nature of our enemy?”
Fetohep’s golden flames flickered in his skull.
“I have, Great Khelta.”
“Then speak.”
The Ruler of Khelt did not mince words.
“You stand against a great foe that has come against you in death itself. Which commands power over your kin. Which cannot be slain, only held back, even by Dragon’s fire itself. Six. You tell me six. No names, for that may empower. Even the knowledge of it will be a weapon against us. They devour souls.”
“Yes, yes! And you know them as…”
Fetohep clenched a fist. He was sure he was right this time.
“Spectres. Amalgamations of soul and wrath, which grow in power the more they absorb. They will eventually reach the material world if they accrue enough force, by devouring all.”
He waited. In dead silence, Fetohep walked until Khelta’s strangled voice replied.
“…Almost. Almost.”
Fetohep’s eye-flames dimmed. What was he missing?
The problem was that Khelta could not explain, and he could not understand. It would be so easy if she whispered a word.
Erin had whispered a word into his ears that made it all so…so simple. Fetohep?
He had fallen down. Collapsed, and the rulers of Khelt had been so afraid that he would not rise—though he did after a second—they forbade Erin to ever say it in fullness again. So they danced and he kept positing theories. Close enough. It was fine if he was close enough, but the entirety of it mattered too.
Fetohep sighed and walked onwards, trying to figure out what he was missing that frightened Khelta so. He could not, so he hastened his pace; he had already covered a mile of ground and had further to go.
And at last they came to their destination. This part of the palace had been made in a time when the preservation spells and great magics were not a guarantee; accordingly, the rulers had elected to have a safeguard to preserve the undead and other things if need be.
The walls and floors were cold, frosted. Everice made up actual rooms, and this was an excellent freezer. Not that it was often used as such; the [Preservation] spells would work just fine.
Yet it was suitable for this moment. This project. Fetohep stopped in front of a door and gestured.
It swung open, and four dozen people inside turned and bowed deeply.
“Enough. Appraise me of your progress.”
“Your Majesty. We regret to say that while we have now found the exact poison and applied it in the right methods, the exact method of unfreezing eludes us. Applying the cure, and the cure itself…”
Beyond Fetohep stood his best [Healers], [Mages], [Scholars], [Alchemists], and more. Not just Khelt’s own; he had sent for others, like he had Alked. They were all working on the problem.
“Oteslia was more advanced than we were in regards to the cure. We have been formulating ideas, but the instructions given are sound. A general cure for the poison must be applied before unthawing, or the healing will not take effect the instant the flesh warms. Yet…thawing the flesh is a challenge unto itself. The flesh may be damaged by freezing and unfreezing. Twice?”
A [Healer] was gnawing at his beak, shaking his head. Yet he thought there was a chance, and the others had approved the general instructions that had come from the Last Light of Baleros. Fetohep listened, murmuring, repeating their findings to Khelta, who had her own [Sages] and [Healers] to consult.
…Although some of them were less helpful.
‘Just toss a Potion of Death’s Door Revival on her and move on!’ 
‘Have you not considered using Unicorn horns? No? Well, go get some!’
The materials and Skills lacking…Fetohep shook himself. There was progress and no progress, but he had devoted Khelt’s considerable money to the project.
Oteslia’s [Scholars] were now in contact with Khelt’s, and he had reached out to Talenqual, but the [Doctor] was unavailable. They had all that was needed behind this project. Funding? Check. Talent? Arguably too much of it, some of which got in the way with ideas that only worked with equipment they had in life, or wanting Fetohep to reinvent a certain reagent that wouldn’t be guaranteed to help…or had been replaced by cheaper or more effective ingredients like Sage’s Grass.
“Very well, enough.”
The babbling fell silent. Fetohep looked around.
“What of the final issue? [Mages]?”
One of his people looked unhappy to give Fetohep the bad news. His highest-levelled [Mage] on this project was a [Royal Scholar of Magic], a generalist, but a good one capable of casting many spells out of many disciplines.
The problem was…she cleared her throat.
“The nearest [Ice Mage] of a caliber above Level 30 willing to join the project is still two weeks out via ship, and that is assuming they agree, your Majesty.”
Fetohep’s eye-flames winked out. Yes. The one thing Khelt could not source properly was…well, [Ice Mages].
Chandrar. Ice mages. These things did not go together. Oh, there were technical tundras, but Chandrar just didn’t have the specialists required. They had plenty of [Mages] who could cast ice spells, but Fetohep wanted the best of the best. He waved a hand.
“Send for them. But we must proceed at all speed. Therefore…is all in readiness? How many?”
“Six, your Majesty. With an option on eight more.”
“Six. That is…enough.”
Fetohep saw trepidation in the researcher’s eyes. Even an unspoken objection. He ignored it, though he himself had reservations. Yet…
“Take me to them.”
 
——
 
There was one reason, and one reason alone, that Khelta had stopped Erin Solstice from following Fetohep.
There had been no secrets in the land of the dead that needed it. Until now. It was not some grand scheme against the ghosts, for dominion, against Erin Solstice, even. It did concern her, and she would not accept it. Which was why…she did not know.
Fetohep of Khelt halted in front of an old man he did not know. Human. They were all Human. Six figures. Some who wept. Some who stared defiance, silenced under spell. One—and this was the old man—surrounded by his family.
“I am Fetohep of Khelt.”
“Yes, your Majesty.”
The old man had a cough. He was weak. He had never met Fetohep, and his gaze betrayed the fear of someone seeing the undead for the first time. Nevertheless, he had come here.
Fetohep let his gaze roam past the others. One was being prepared with a spread of the same poison. She was weeping; another was staring at daggers prepared to thrust. This man was too weak to survive either; he would simply…
