Aside from the Tympestshard Council itself, there was one area in particular that Ranthia had looked forward to seeing. Avyna had promised that the vast wetland that barred easy entry into the Tympestshard Council was a wonder. Her beloved had refused to elaborate, but Ranthia had remained eager to see what such a worldly elf considered to be worth such praise.

And at last, the stone-paved road brought them to the wetlands themselves. A vast area of lush grass and vegetation surrounded the road, which turned into a short wooden pier that stuck out into the marshes themselves. Yet there was seemingly no road through the marsh itself, instead their wagons moved off the road and drew together to form an enclosure for the elk to graze within.

“Did we make a wrong turn or something?” Ranthia asked Elencor while she accepted one of Brush’s namesakes and started to gently smooth the nearest elk’s thick fur.

“Oh, right, I keep forgetting this is your first time out here. Nah, we just need to wait for one of the giants that help maintain this area to attend to us. Running off into the marshlands without the consent of one of their pathmasters is going to cost you your wagons, at a minimum. They’ll probably wait until a few other caravans show up so they can handle us all at once.” The elf’s answer came from the opposite side of one of the wagons.

Even once Ranthia was done contributing what she could to the care of the elk, there just wasn’t much to see. The area was, well, marshy. Scattered throughout the marshland there were disjointed wooden platforms and paths that sat above the murk, but there was no clear way to reach them. The area had a rich, damp scent that spoke of a density of life within the placid water, and there were various reptiles sunning themselves near the water’s edge—wholly ignoring their presence. Beyond the platforms, there were a few trees that stood above the marsh, but Ranthia saw nothing else.

There was no trace of the promised giants, just various small fauna and blooms of aquatic flora.

Ranthia was still weirded out that they didn’t keep a watch overnight (“There’s no need, not here!”), but the next day another caravan—one far larger than their own, with over a dozen wagons—arrived and set up next to them. Even better, Ranthia had no idea what the species was that managed their wagons! They were scaly, with crests of plumage on their heads. And they were even shorter than dwarves, with proportions that were sleeker than humans possessed. The only thing Elencor would tell her, with ill-concealed mischief, was that they were kobolds.

Once their caravan was settled in and their unfamiliar, feathery dinosaur beasts of burden were grazing, Ranthia made her approach.

“Good day, I just—” She called out in her best sunny voice.

She was met with a shrill, chirping language unlike any she had heard before. …That and several dozen blades. The diminutive kobolds formed a tight semicircle and aggressively warded her off.

“I just wanted to offer my greetings!” Ranthia hurried to explain, even as they formed up, but the kobolds ignored her words and continued to close in, thrusting their blades.

She couldn’t understand their language, but the message they were sending was extremely clear.

Keeping her hands raised, to show her benevolent intentions, Ranthia slowly backed away. At some undefined point midway between their respective campsites, the kobolds ceased to pursue her and allowed her to withdraw unmolested. Once she was clear, the group chirped amongst themselves as they dispersed back into their own area.

And Elencor didn’t even try to hide his ongoing laughter.

Caravans arrived one by one as time passed, and by the time they’d spent a week camped by the pungent waters of the marsh, the area was getting more than a bit crowded. Contrary to Ranthia’s expectations, each caravan largely kept to themselves—no trade happened and few entities were allowed to cross the lines to other camps.

Ranthia was the first to notice the vibrations, but Elenera was the first to spot the incoming giant several moments later. The woman moved at a glacial pace—clearly in no hurry—and was clad in a tunic that resembled the moss that hung from the boughs of many of the trees scattered throughout the marsh. By the time she finally neared, it was obvious that she was carrying a massive slate—and the look of undirected annoyance on her face was just as unmissable.

“Well, go on. You can represent us as easily as anyone else.” Elencor had walked up behind her while she studied the, well, gigantic woman that approached.

Ranthia spun on him, her incredulity writ across her face—she hadn’t exactly forgotten that he’d let her make a fool of herself mere days ago!

“Relax, it’s easy enough. Just tell the pathmaster that we’re bound for the southwest, for the mountain roads. You already know everything else that you need.” There was no mischief on his face, but Ranthia still struggled to believe his words.

“Uh-huh, why me?” Ranthia demanded.

“This is your first time here. You’ve never had the experience of interacting with one of those that tend to the local treants, so go experience it!” Elencor answered. Given his tone and his expression, it seemed that he felt he was saying something that was both obvious and profound.

…Honestly, it wasn’t the worst of reasons. Ranthia shrugged and strode forward, joining the slowly gathering representatives from the other caravans. Everyone else stayed on the grass, not even setting a single toe (or similar appendage) on the wood that stretched into the swamp. One of the violent little kobolds was the last to arrive, timed almost perfectly to the giant’s arrival.

The giantess’ slate board turned out to be multiple stacked slates. She flipped through them idly until she found the one that she sought, then lowered it down so that Ranthia and the other representatives could readily read the white text writ across the slate. Every other line was written in a different language, but given the High Elvish and Creation text that Ranthia could read, each language repeated the same message.

Please announce your preferred language out loud. If you possess more than one, use the one that comes earliest on this board. If you do not know the name of your language, please step back and wait.

“<High Elvish.>” Ranthia called out—Creation was buried down around the midpoint of the board.

Two other caravans called out the same. And surprisingly, only one called for Creation—the rest called out unfamiliar words from languages Ranthia didn’t know.

“<Mhm, High Elvish first then.>” The giantess spoke for the first time. The sound boomed from her oversized lungs with force that sent Ranthia’s traveller’s cloak billowing and made her eardrums signal their protest to her brain. Each syllable hammered into her, yet they came slowly. Each sound was seemingly articulated as glacially as the giant could manage, with profound pauses between each word that left Ranthia mentally scrambling to make sense of what words were intended to be grouped into specific phrases or sentences.

“<Would you speak at a sensible rate, woman?!>” An elf from another caravan lasted about a sentence and a half before his patience failed him. His demand was given in an imperious tone, as he pointed his little finger at a woman that could crush him like an insect.

“<My apologies, I seldom interact with any except the treant. This is a fast pace to me.>” The giantess’ words were faster, but the difference was negligible.

In the balance, the rude elf had cost them even more time.

The explanation ponderously continued. Any time it seemed as though the elf was considering speaking out again, every other caravan representative fixed him with glares until they were collectively convinced that he would hold his tongue.

One by one they were prompted to announce their destination, number of wagons, and weight class. The giantess had shuffled her slate boards again and was eyeing one that had a heinously complex mass of colorful lines etched across it.

“<Southwest to the mountain roads. Three wagons. Average weight, roughly similar for each wagon.>” Ranthia reported when it was her turn.

As she had done with the previous elf, the massive woman fell silent for a slice of eternity while she stared at her slate. The waits were long enough to leave Ranthia time to grow bored, and she passed it by wondering what it would be like to try and be physical with the woman. Size aside, she wasn’t exactly unattractive—but even with the System, the logistics of potential intimacy were daunting.

“Take this token, you will travel the D-9 line. Do not deviate. We guarantee your safety only while you remain on the assigned line and at either station. We will take payment at your destination station.” The giantess’ powerful voice shook Ranthia out of her daydreams and left her with ample time to brace herself and prepare to catch the wooden token.

It had looked tiny in the giant’s hands, but it was almost as large as her torso! Still, Ranthia managed to bleed the imparted momentum and avoided being bowled over by the hefty chunk of hardwood, with only a few mild bruises to tarnish her feat. She’d fared better than the first elf, at least—he’d been forced to scramble away from the token and retrieve it after it hit the ground.

Elencor beckoned her over after she bowed to the giant, so she carried her token over while the imperious elf—unprompted—began to blather on through an overly elaborate explanation of his own caravan.

“You could have warned me about the cargo weight question. You’re lucky I spent more than a little time with a [Merchant] and knew what was normal.” Ranthia groused.

“Yeah, that’s new. They don’t do new, so I didn’t expect it. Sorry. And you never told me you spoke High Elvish!” Her friend seamlessly transitioned from abashed to playfully inquisitive.

Eh, it probably didn’t matter by that point if she was poking holes in her Prima guise. Ranthia just smirked at the man and carried the oversized ‘token’ back to the wagons.

The token was affixed to a robust metal pole that they carefully attached to the front right corner of the lead wagon. After that, they settled in to camp once again—at the rate the giant was going, she’d be doling out those tokens well into the night.

The next morning, the wagons were reconfigured—all three wagons were joined together like links in a chain, and all six elk were hitched to the lead wagon. They dithered over breakfast while shifts for driving the wagons were assigned, because they would allegedly travel for several days straight without stopping.

Ranthia volunteered that she had experience driving horse-drawn wagons and ended up seated on the driver’s bench next to Brush, so he could train her in the differences. The [Merchants] were visibly thrilled to have another person who could take a shift—Elencor and his daughter blithely claimed they had a poor relationship with beasts. That left the three merchants, Brush, and Ranthia to take turns for days (and nights!) of travel.

When a sign labeled D-9 emerged from the marsh, Brush took the reins and gently guided their conjoined caravan onto the docks. A wooden platform just barely large enough for their wagons drifted through the swamp and Brush carefully guided the elk onto it once it arrived. When they were safely on the platform, it began to glide across the water, toward one of the raised, wooden roads that Ranthia had seen.

Once they transferred to it, they were underway.

It took Ranthia a bit of time, but she finally caught on to the trick behind how the marshland was navigated. The wooden token that they’d attached to their wagon was made out of two different types of wood. Similarly, each path through the marsh was made out of a different type of wood—and they were alternating between the two types that made up their token. Each time they completed a leg across a permanent pathway, they awaited another mobile platform that took them to the next.

She still had no idea how the moving platforms worked—even [Divine Eyes in the Void] couldn’t see very far into the dense marsh. But however they worked, the caravan was delivered exactly where it needed to be, and they never had to wait long for a new platform to arrive when they needed one.

There were points where paths converged—or came near enough that they could have jumped to another if they really wanted to—but they took care to remain on their assigned line. The elk were well-trained and seemingly used to the whole ordeal, but it was still important to remain vigilant. The shifts had no assigned length, they each just remained as long as they felt they were able before they shook the bell-covered rope that had been strung along the wagons. That was the signal for the next driver to work his or her way up to the front to take over, before the relieved driver got to climb back to whichever wagon they were assigned to for rest.

When night fell, luminescent moss that clung to the sides of the pathways provided light—for those that needed it—while the caravan continued its rattling journey across the road of disjointed planks. It was an incredible and clever way to allow people to cross the marshlands with minimal disruption of the delicate environment, but it was also a dangerous mixture of monotonous and nerve-wracking. It was all too easy to imagine that a mere moment of inattention could—if the elk were just a bit less well-trained than they seemed—send the entire caravan into the unknowable depths of the sludge that surrounded them.

Several times a day, Brush ventured out amongst the elk—walking carefully across the wooden struts that the elks’ harnesses were tethered to—and saw to their needs. Their digestive waste was left in the caravan’s wake, but the beasts still needed to be fed and watered, even if the caravan seldom stopped. The beasts had impeccable vitality, yet days of travel remained too much to endure without sustenance. Ranthia offered to help him with the mildly dangerous process, though Brush refused every time.

“This is my duty. They push themselves, so I will do the same.” Brush offered her the most words he’d ever spoken in her presence after she made the offer for the third time.

She never made a fourth.

It felt vaguely miraculous, but nothing ever went awry. Eight days later, the caravan reached the far side of the marshland—the so-called station that served as their destination. An expanse of grasses and small plants, marred by a single, robust tree. There, the elk were given a well-deserved break amidst the lush vegetation while the wagons were once again separated.

