Not that the Deathstalkers seemed to care, as the remaining two continued trying to attack the Shaman despite their worsening injuries. Their sense of self-preservation was truly nonexistent.

Seeing their approach, the Shaman seemed intent on finishing them off quickly. He made some odd hand movements that were mirrored by the robed projection behind him. The energy in his immediate surroundings began to warp and shiver, right as the frog clapped his hands together.

An invisible shockwave of unknown concepts was released, striking both charging Arachnecs. Their movements slowed and became sluggish as the shaman and projection both spread their hands apart and held their palms towards the B-grades. They froze mid-air and started squirming, constrained by some invisible concept as Jake saw their souls being shredded apart.

That’s when Jake saw the most surprising thing yet. The Shaman seemed to really strain himself as he kept using his two hands to constrain the Arachnecs as the projection moved on its own. It made several odd motions as its robe fluttered, forming several layers in front of it, and from these many layers, a new figure was revealed.

A very familiar one.

This figure walked out as a bow appeared in its hand. With a drawing motion, an arrow appeared in its hand as the masked humanoid figure drew its bow and channeled its power for a few moments before releasing the arrow.

An explosion of energy erupted as the arrow descended into one of the Arachnecs, blasting it towards the ground with a large hole in its abdomen. Shortly after, a second arrow struck the other B-grade, also sending it down into the ground.

The summoned figure, which was obviously a projection of Jake, dispersed into spiritual smoke as the heavily breathing Shaman clenched both fists, and down below, the two Deathstalkers finally had their souls crushed, the accumulated damage too much for them to handle.

With a tired sigh, the Shaman lowered his hands, the projection behind him disappearing.

Jake stared for several seconds as he looked down at the dead Arachnecs, seeing the clear signs of destructive energies dispersing from their bodies. Energies left by the arrows that very closely resembled Jake’s own arcane affinity. It wasn’t the same, but it had nearly identical properties.

“I hope you do not take offense at my attempt at channeling your visage,” the Shaman said, pulling Jake out of his own thoughts.

“No... no, I’m just surprised,” Jake muttered. He had a lot of thoughts, but one thing was for sure... shamans were a fucking weird caster archetype.
