“Then—the truth. Let us begin with hubris. No, the creation of Goblins. You see, they’re called the ‘youngest species’ because unlike Selphids or Stitch-folk, they were created last. By the divine, not some other source. The last original species in the plan. Therefore, youngest. It’s a pedantic differentiation that tells you the age or knowledge of anyone who invokes the matter. Actually, you know, we first need to explore multiverse theory or you have no grounding on what I’m going to talk about—”
At this point, even Rafaema interrupted with a raised voice.
“Lord Teriarch, if you don’t intend on delivering a cogent narrative, I think we should all go and visit Lady Reinhart’s mansion.”
She gave Magnolia a dip of the head, and Teriarch bit his lip. Feathi snorted at him with a look of pure skepticism. In the distance, the Wyvern Lord had no idea what was being said, but he was flipping up his tail and mooning the Dragonlord.
“Fine. Direct. Once upon a time, there was no world. No universe. Or rather, just an empty void. A reality so pristinely empty it hadn’t even developed space-time-whatsit. I know the Gnomes had a word for it.”
“Physics?”
Magnolia used one of the terms Teriarch had taught her. He shook his head.
“No, even more elementary. Conceptualization. The basis for reality itself. Now, that was this world—but there were other ones. Other realities, each with their own set of rules and divinities. And one of them had an idea. His name—was Isthekenous. A survivor of multiple realities.”
Suddenly, he was doing it. Everyone glanced at each other, and Magnolia sat forwards. She’d heard Isthekenous’ name invoked once when Teriarch sat on a sword.
“Excuse me, what? Survivor of realities?”
Lulv growled, his hair standing on end. The [Spearmaster] didn’t truck with anything more metaphysical than his spear, and Teriarch gave him a nod.
“You heard me. Imagine a world-ending event. Everyone dies. The same can happen to…everything. Someone slays time. Or unmakes the fabric of the universe. Everything dies. A billion planets in their galaxies or a tiny universe. Reality is, after all, a term that defines a place with set rules. They can be big or small. What differentiates the two are the rules.”
“Like…”
“Like, young Rafaema, there is a reality where magic doesn’t exist. Period. No ‘bits of magic here and there’, magic does not exist. At least, unless someone brings it through a door, and even then, I imagine it’d be weaker or dissipate. Or jumpstart magic for the entire reality, but without outside interference, there is no magic in that reality. And another…I don’t know, everything’s stretchy. Teeth, trees, the ground—pull on it hard enough and it’ll stretch.”
Magnolia at least had grounding to understand multiverse theory. But Rafaema just gave Teriarch a vaguely cross eyed look. Cirediel was, somewhat sadly, the only other person who caught on.
“Yeah! Like each one’s a different kind of book. Different rules in each reality-place.”
Teriarch gave Cirediel an anguished expression.
“…Yes. That’s—quite good. So! If there are multiple realities, it stands to reason each one that is reasonably analogous to our own—and many that aren’t—have higher beings. These take many forms. But one commonality is a being shaped by faith. That is worshiped and has capabilities beyond any reasonable expectation. Omniscient, omnipresent, all-powerful. They possess the ability to bring back the dead, to call down meteors, to speak and make things happen. Essentially beings who have Tier 9 spells and would be Level 90 or higher. Beings who require worship, a people, to survive. Those are called gods.”
He was rather spitefully speedrunning his explanations, Magnolia realized. Multiple hands went up—Teriarch conjured a glowing panel in the air. It read:
 
Omniscient — Knowing everything.
Omnipresent — Being everywhere all at once.
Faith — 1. The belief in something or someone.
2. Within the context of religion, a belief, often without evidence, in the existence of a higher power, see ‘gods’, or of the tenats of said religion.
Religion — The organized practice of worshiping some entity or concept.
Worship…
 
Several hands went down. Many stayed up. Teriarch cleared his throat harder and glanced up at the sky.
“I can see we should go over the basics of realities, but since I am so long winded, I should skip to the inciting, ah, incident. Which would be, one supposes, the creation of what we call the system of levels. The Grand Design. You know what? Let’s start with Goblins and go back. Because their appearance coincides with, well, the final war. As gods had already made this world and brought over their peoples and were commencing the Grand Design’s launch…”
He stopped. Scratched at his chin. Glanced at his audience, who had all sat forwards suddenly, forgetting their questions. Teriarch stared upwards again.
“It really should be sunset. Or a moonlit night. Not the right ambiance. We could get in my Dragonthrone? No?”
He paused. Cleared his throat.
“So. The Elves…”
The Dragonlord stopped. He closed his eyes. Cracked one open.
“You know, Sprigaena, the last Elf, was there. She wasn’t even that important when—you have no idea who I’m talking about. Alright. The Goblins were created to—”
Magnolia’s heart was thudding in her chest, and Teriarch stopped. He laughed.
“I am so nervous. Why am I nervous? Maybe this was a poor idea after all. Am I stalling for time? Why am I hesitating here?”
“Get on with it!”
His audience shouted at him. Someone threw a rock at his head. The Dragonlord was breathing hard. He bit his tongue, snapped at them, eyed the many people whose respect was on the line, cursed, and gave in.
“Fine! The gods created them last of all! They walked out of the sea, and the first mortal people to ever lay eyes upon them were the Elves. None of the divine ruled Goblins; they were no chosen people.”
Everyone went silent. Abruptly, as if the Dragonlord had sucked the air out of their lungs. Mivifa on Cire’s claw. Lulv leaned on his spear, listening. Magnolia’s servants looked up, quills poised to write, but forgetting to for a second. Magnolia was transfixed…until she remembered one of her staff and glanced over and saw Ressa holding her hands gently over a squirming [Maid]’s ears.
Ressga, the little Goblin in Magnolia Reinhart’s employ, was trying to hear. She looked up pleadingly, but Ressa gently shook her head. Ressga stared at Teriarch as the Dragonlord spoke, and Teriarch’s expression was—longing himself. As longing as her face.
“Back then, there were thousands of them. Not tens of thousands; thousands. You may think that a small number of Gods.”
The word hurt them, but the Dragonlord’s voice was soothing. The context he spoke seemed to lift the veil that obfuscated the word. Not dead gods—they listened and understood. The truth was pouring out of every word, second by second, letting them unlock the puzzle in their heads they had never given thought to.
“Thousands. Far more than any singular pantheon normally holds. Ryoka Griffin told me there were religions from her world in which a divine being was in every object, or great and myriad religions with hundreds; this was no singular one. Rather, imagine refugees, lone wanderers, and yes, entire mighty groups joining together for the most ambitious project in history.”
“Refugees?”
Teriarch nodded to Magnolia.
“Oh yes. Laedonius Deviy—I am told that one is fallen, so it is safe to mention. There were threats to them, you see. The ‘rot between worlds’. Seamwalkers and their get, only on a vast scale. I suppose it is safe to mention the truly dead. First of all was Isthekenous. Next came Tamaroth, and with him followed multitudes. Not all the same scope and scale, you understand. The remaining six were always some of the stronger of the divine. Not the strongest, necessarily. But the most tenacious, or cunning, or…”
He began to pace back and forth, and the more he spoke, the easier it was to comprehend, the less ‘God’ hurt and you understood how it was said. The Dragonlord was reciting from memory.
“Each one had a nature, and the nature could change, but it informed their power. It is why the Three-in-One was so fearful. Who could face death herself? She was the last to arrive in the legends my mother told me. Three of the divine who claimed to be true gods of death challenged her for the title, and she bested them and made them her subordinates in her pantheon. She was so fearsome because while they defeated her, while she could be bested, she could never be slain.”
Lulv growled, his hair standing on end.
“Wonderful. Do they have…weaknesses?”
Teriarch ignored the question. He was lost now, eyes alight with excitement.
“I cannot tarry too long, but I was told they worked wonders. Not all were petty. In fact, some were gracious. Diotrichne, another ruler of the afterlife, presided over the first world they made. She refused to let mortals die and walked with them, talking and teaching and loving. It was Kasigna who restarted the mortal coil. And there were gods for all of us. Sauliset of Dragons. Vionte, one of the many rulers who claimed Humanity.”
“So Humans existed before the world? What? And Dragons too?”
The confused question from Cirediel dragged Teriarch back to the point. He exhaled, sighing.
“—Yes. Of course. When they formed this world, they were taking ideas and peoples from their own homes. There were…arguments over whom and what should be included, I gather. So yes, Humans in some form or other came here and joined the many races. Humans, Elves, Dwarves—true Dwarves—Halflings, Orcmen, Beastkin—a myriad of species in their millions, not the few tribes you see today—Kobolds—”
The list of names went on, and Magnolia had not even heard of some of them in Teriarch’s list. His eyes swept across his audience, and when they saw the wide-eyed Goblin, peering at him, his face was pained.
“And yes. Goblins were the last. Be it chance…no, design, I think. Not one of the deities who had gathered represented them, nor wanted to. Thus, as the great project of which I shall soon speak drew to fruition, the last species was created. And this was one of the first sins of the divine. Goblins were created to be monsters, and when the Elves, who lived in grace and magical might beyond all species, saw that, they began to behold the truth of what was planned. The first Goblins stumbled onto shore, out of the waves. And when they raised their heads, fearful and alone—the first species they saw was an Elf. On that day—”
His voice rose. His wings spread wide. Teriarch threw his head back, and illusory figures, small and pointy-eared, stumbled out of waves. Afraid, naked, cringing—until they saw fair folk reaching out to them. Magnolia gasped, and Teriarch looked up at the sky.
“Oh no.”
His narrative cut off. The illusions froze, and Magnolia leapt from her cloud.
“Don’t stop or I’ll murder you! You hopeless fool! Don’t you dare stop or—”
She was striding up to him to give him the slap of his life if he didn’t stop this stupid play-acting and dancing around. She knew he could tell a story! This was it! Then she realized Teriarch’s eyes were wide. With horror. He gazed upwards and breathed.
“No. Now I remember why—oh nonononono. That’s why Mother and I never—it’s coming.”
He was suddenly terrified. His head craned upwards, and Magnolia Reinhart whirled. She looked right and left, across the High Passes, thinking he’d seen something.
The doppelganger? An army of monsters? Something from higher up? The Necromancer?
But none of those things would make Teriarch terrified. For people he cared about, yes, but even if you brought Rhisveri, Belavierr, and Az’kerash riding Elder Crelers, he’d be afraid.
Not terrified. And he was gazing up. Straight up. At…
Magnolia shaded her eyes. The blue spring skies were shining overhead. Innocuous. A lovely day. The sun was shining, the Eater Goats were screaming, the green moon was beaming down at them—wait.
The moon?
It should not have been visible in the sky. Not with the sun out. But suddenly, it was there. Teriarch whispered.
“It’s happening again. I forgot about last time, but I knew. You goaded me into it.”
“Oh hey, the moon’s out.”
Cirediel observed as people got to their feet. Magnolia swiveled to Teriarch.
“What’s going on? Old man?”
He just kept staring.
“Take cover. Everyone get clear. He’s coming down.”
“Who?”
Taletevirion had realized something was actually off. He got to his hooves and craned his head up. Ressa jerked her blade out of her scabbard.
“Magnolia, come here. Now. [Servant’s Order]. Move.”
Magnolia felt herself moving and jogged away from Teriarch. But she kept her head raised, and she saw it as Rafaema fanned her good wing. The green moon hung full in the sky. An orb of glowing green without craters or visible markings. Then…it glowed brighter, and darkness swept over it.
It winked at them. And the air split. Teriarch screamed—turned to run—
A Halfling fell like a comet out of the heavens and hit him in the back.
 
——
 
He came down like a Tier 8 spell.
Taletevirion had seen Tier 8 spells wipe out his home. He’d seen Treants die. He had met other Dragonlords and, not to put too fine a point on it, had dueled the finest [Blademasters] in his long life.
He had never seen something travel from the literal moon to where they were standing that fast. It wasn’t even an impact that carried the velocity with it; if it had been that fast, it would have cratered a good amount of the High Passes.
It still hit the fleeing Dragonlord of Flame so hard the ground quaked. Everyone stumbled, and Taletevirion sensed avalanches beginning on all the mountains around them.
They’ll feel that one in Liscor. The Unicorn steadied himself and heard a scream from Teriarch.
“Run! He’s come to kill us all! Flee!”
The Unicorn was astounded. He’d never heard Teriarch panic like this before. The Unicorn glanced around and saw purple fires blasting upwards. A brass shape—writhing—but what was—
A short figure leapt off the Dragon’s body as the dust settled. He was glowing, semi-transparent, four feet tall.
Magical projection. Magical flesh. I can cut through him in a second. Some kind of bound summon. Taletevirion lowered his horn, pawed the ground, and—hesitated.
That’s no Dwarf. What the hell is—
The Unicorn searched his memory and came to a conclusion as Magnolia breathed the word.
“Halfling.”
