She still loved him. The young woman wanted nothing more than to cartwheel around him and annoy him until he snapped at her, lightly, and have him tell her stories. Only, she was much too dignified to do that these days.
And Magnolia Reinhart, when she looked in a mirror, remembered she wasn’t a girl of sixteen anymore, but the head of House Reinhart, if only in name, these days.
“I could do a cartwheel if I tried, right, Ressa?”
Her [Head Maid] had been chugging water from a flask. Ressa sprayed water out her nose and laughed so hard that all the other servants stopped and gaped at the unique display.
Magnolia envisioned kicking Ressa down a long flight of stairs. Then she resumed watching the Brass Dragon, Teriarch.
He was running laps around his cave, wheezing so loudly she could hear his occasional grumble as Rafaema essentially doubled his pace. Above them, a lazy brown Dragon was flying about, insulting Teriarch until the Brass Dragon blew flames at him.
Gentle flames—still hot enough to melt steel, but probably only a danger to Cirediel in his imagination. It still made the Earth Dragon veer away in a panic and hit a cliff. Instantly, a bunch of Pegasus Riders flocked to him as his voice rose in strident fury, and he swooped after the two laughing Dragons.
Yes, that was happiness. The most she’d ever seen from him. It was in how Teriarch stayed outside, regardless of how he grumbled.
Magnolia Reinhart had known the Dragonlord of Flames most of her life. Short as that was for a Human, she suspected she understood him better than most beings, even other Dragons. Maybe that was vanity; when she regarded Ryoka Griffin or Rafaema, she saw a copy of herself.
Did it hurt her feelings?
Yes, of course. It hurt immensely to feel like the old version and see him talking to them with that twinkle in his eyes she knew so well, or that respect she had once earned.
It hurt worst of all to know that it wasn’t entirely his fault; he’d well and truly forgotten her. Magic always had a cost. No…miracles always had a cost. He’d taught her that.
She liked to think she was better than pure, petty envy. That she could content herself with a few remarks she had earned. Nothing more. But some days, Magnolia Reinhart would look in dismay at the woman in her mirror.
Not because she was ugly or had aged poorly. She had a good weight, no matter what Ressa said would happen without her Skill; Magnolia hadn’t exactly gone to seed with her years, and she liked to think she cut a line between intimidating and charming that worked well with the right pink outfit.
—But only Magnolia, and perhaps Ressa, could see the blonde young woman turning cartwheels around an annoyed Dragon, laughing as she tried to learn sword Skills from his description. Holding the banner of her house aloft as she rode to war because she thought it would save her continent.
Bright-eyed, full of stars in her eyes, idealistic…naïve and foolish and also cold-blooded, willing to do whatever it took to make that better world the Dragon promised her could exist. Magnolia had a mixed relationship with her younger self, as any healthy adult had. Mostly…she still felt like that girl some days. She was just in a too-old body.
Another lap and the Brass Dragon was passing by Magnolia Reinhart, who sat under a pink umbrella on a chair, a cup of what could charitably be called tea in hand. He was panting, but telling stories. That was how you knew he was happy. When he was sad, he’d hide away; when he was in a good mood, he told stories, performed magic…she’d seldom seen him willing to put up with more than four hours of chatter.
He’d been weeks outside, in the air, with Rafaema and now Cirediel. She heard him wheezing as he ran.
“—so there I was, you know, quite flummoxed about the entire event. Did I want to tell them it was only an average set of gear for the time? No! They worked hard on it. It’s just—you know—enchantments. Once you’ve seen [Aegis of True Invincibility], it’s hard to be impressed by a breastplate.”
“That’s not a real spell.”
Rafaema protested in that coquettish way that put both Cirediel’s and Magnolia’s hackles up. But it was a child’s infatuation. There were—cracks—in the admiration that Rafaema was fixated on Teriarch with. Just like how Cirediel refused to admire Teriarch openly and kept needling the old Dragon, Rafaema seemed to sometimes stumble over the cracks in what she wanted to be the Perfect Dragon.
Magnolia knew how that went, and the only thing to do was let Rafaema see the truth at her own pace. Teriarch huffed as Magnolia rolled her eyes.
“He’s telling the Heartflame set story, Ressa.”
The [Head Maid] gave her a blank look. She was, Magnolia realized, listening with as much attention as the other servants.
“I don’t know that one.”
“Oh, come on, he’s told it at least three times to us.”
“I don’t remember every story he’s told…wait, I think I remember…”
Teriarch lumbered past them, still panting.
“I say, hasn’t this been eight laps?”
Rafaema ran a circle around him, chatting eagerly as he glared at her youthful vigor.
“No, nine! So you were there when they made the Heartflame set?”
“Well, the breastplate. As I said, they worked hard. Splendid alloy, you know. Even the Dwarves, the real ones, thought it was well-done, but that’s the thing. Well done. Not exactly a passing grade when you can break even the best Relics by sitting on them wrong.”
Cire called down from above.
“I bet you can, old guy.”
“Hush, youngster. Now, as I was saying, I suppose the Archmage of Drakes caught wind of it. Not my fault! She looked so crestfallen—then she was asking me to do a better job of enchanting the armor.”
“Which you can’t do.”
Magnolia reminded Teriarch, raising her voice. He swiveled to glower at her, then hesitated. A moment of uncertainty, questioning how she knew—a pained grin—
It hurt.
He ran on another hundred paces for Magnolia.
“—synergy. It’s always down to synergy. That’s what every new [Archmage] forgets. You can cast a Tier 7 spell? Good for you. Linking a bunch of Tier 5 spells together? Now that’s scary. And, well, humility. Did I expect them to go, hat in hand, to a bunch of other experts to make the Heartflame set? Honestly…no. Is there a reason it’s endured as opposed to the Dragonforged Set or the Gift of Ancestors or the…you know what, some of the names deserved to die out. Now, if you’re wondering what the set does, let’s first consider the Heartflame Breastplate, which, in my opinion, is being somewhat underused even in the context of the solo enchantment. Is it the best of the pieces I’d ask for if I had the pick? Well, again, contextually, the boots are terrible. All they do is give you [Speed] and [Freedom of Movement]. Terrible, just, urgh.”
“What, permanently? That’s, like, super Archmage, isn’t it?”
Cirediel’s voice was confused, and Rafaema agreed, whereupon Teriarch got huffy.
“Oh, I suppose it’s Archmage in the context of modern Archmages. But what happened to just applying [Extended Spell: Speed] every two hours? You young people can’t be bothered to put up enchantments every hour?”
Rafaema hesitated and gave him another one of those overawed looks that Teriarch thrived on.
“Um, Teriarch, most [Speed] spells last five minutes at best. And that’s with a good spellcaster. Fifteen minutes is the top I’ve heard of on a battlefield.”
“—Well, naturally, there’s a case to be made for all pieces. And am I saying a [Damage Shield of Flames] is the worst enchantment, especially for a Drake, let alone the buffs to Dragonbreath? No! But as I was saying, the helm was where they went to the Gnolls. Back when they were on decent terms.”
“Okay? I don’t know what that means.”
“Skill enchantments, my dear. Free Skills! Even competency with a blade. Now, let’s analyze the gauntlets. Or rather, the pithily named ‘Sol Gauntlets’. Aha. A play on words. Anyone? I’m seeing a blank stare. If I say ‘Sol Gauntlets’, you would say that reminds you of…anyone…? Sol. As in—oh, come now—wait, are you not understanding ‘sol’ as in the sun? S-o-l? Oh, so you were on the same track as—”
Magnolia was spared Teriarch’s rambling as he turned a corner of the mountain he was running around. She was smiling and unhappy, and in this moment, she was not closer to Rafaema or Cirediel or any of the other young women and men that Teriarch had mentored over his long lifespan—though it was mostly women as Magnolia understood it.
She was closest to a Goblin who wasn’t present here. Closest to a baleful Wyvern Lord eying the Dragons from far away, where he’d been exiled.
Sometimes, you had to admit, even if you loved him—Teriarch could be that ancient, painful Dragon to be around.
After the sixteenth lap, Teriarch collapsed on the ground, and in the cool spring air, he let off steam which gave his scales an even more mirror-like finish. Cire flopped onto the ground, complaining about his wings, though he wasn’t that tired, and Rafaema stood and tried not to visibly wheeze.
“—Just think, this is what can occur when one is civil! Scintillating discussion! Historical anecdotes! I have some about your ancestors too, the intelligent ones!”
Teriarch raised his head after a few minutes of panting, as Magnolia walked over, and shouted at the distant Wyvern Lord.
His response was a screech, the Wyvern Lord turning around to flip his tail up, and a bark of sound—an orb of frost breath blasted down towards the Dragonlord. Magnolia Reinhart began to twist a ring as Ressa tensed.
Teriarch slapped the ground with his tail, and a spell intercepted and made the frost burst a few thousand feet away from him. He grunted as the Wyvern Lord screamed again, but didn’t follow up with another shot.
“Clearly, all the intelligence went to his predecessors. I hate to admit it, though, but his breath attacks are fairly decent for his age. You should learn to do that when we practice.”
“It’s—hard.”
Rafaema was visibly embarrassed at being behind the Wyvern Lord in terms of her natural abilities, but Teriarch patted her on the head with one wing.
“Ah, well, you had poor instructors. Oldblood Drakes don’t breathe like we do. Now, one—ten more minutes and we’ll move on to breathing.”
He was in fine fettle and decent shape, happy, and Magnolia Reinhart saw him glance around today, as if he had forgotten something. He peeked at her, awkward, and then spoke.
“I wonder when that Goblin Chieftain will show up. I’ll wager our unhappy friend there might come down when he sees even she can be more reasonable than he. Have you seen her? Magnolia? Taletevirion?”
That last remark was aimed at a pile of rags, which stirred vaguely and revealed a very hungover, very much in pain Unicorn. Taletevirion glared at the sun blazing right over his head and muttered.
“Kill me. Heal…”
He laid on his back, hooves raised to the sky, then leapt upright as his bloodshot eyes cleared. The Unicorn tossed his resplendent mane, did a little jig as his silver hair caught the light, and he threw his head back.
“Aha! Where’s that Rxlvn? Great stuff. What’s this about another young woman you’re definitely-not-courting, Teriarch?”
Even Magnolia’s love of the last Unicorn in existence and his nature as a fellow immortal and companion of Teriarch didn’t inspire her to often seek out his company. He strutted around, sniffing at Ressa’s backside and trying to steal her personal drinking flask as she swatted at him. Teriarch was musing out loud.
“No, no, the little Goblin Chieftain. The one with the attitude. She left after one of my stories, which, I admit, may have gone slightly into the anecdotes.”
“Like all of them.”
Cire muttered, and not even Rafaema could nudge him in good faith. Teriarch gave him a reproving snort.
“I may have been a bit too historically-minded, but I would have thought she’d be back by now.”
“Oh? And why’s that?”
The too-sweet tone came from Magnolia Reinhart’s mouth. She couldn’t help it. Teriarch was fanning his wings, absent-minded, in good humor. Taletevirion stopped chugging a morning shot of whiskey and gave Ressa a knowing eye. He didn’t stop or warn Teriarch, though. The Dragon was a hero of ancient days.
But he also, always, deserved it as well. Whatever it was.
“Well, of course, whatever there is to learn from a Dragon. I’m sure she’s aware of how many of us are left in this world. Goblins would be the most aware given their memories. She was quite insistent I get to the secrets of her people, which obviously, Taletevirion, I am not going to share blithely. But I assume she’d have more of an inquiring mind.”
He heaved a sigh and a shake of his head as he held out a claw to forestall the Unicorn’s arguments he assumed were coming. Taletevirion just gave Magnolia a side-eye. She smiled sweeter as a real note of sympathy for Rags and all the people like her rose in her chest.
For the Magnolias, the Ryokas, and the Ragses of every age—Magnolia kept her voice honeyed, stepping closer and drawing the Dragon in, much like a serpent moving to strike. She was a Reinhart when all was done and said.
“Why, Teriarch, you seem to have a high regard for Chieftain Rags. When you did rebuff her quite harshly. And she was desperate for knowledge at the time. Are you expecting her to return for guidance?”
“I wouldn’t oppose the notion. If I’m to mentor young Cirediel and Rafaema in some of the ways of our kind, I suppose I could allow a few hangers-on.”
Teriarch meant the Wyvern Lord as well, and Magnolia nodded, reasonable.
“Though Chieftain Rags is, in her way, older than all of the others.”
“Given how long Goblins can age? Hah! I think not!”
“And how old is she proportional to how long most survive?”
Teriarch was not entirely deaf. He noticed Magnolia’s tone, hesitated, and coughed into one claw.
“Well, yes, one supposes technically—where is the young woman? In her tribe? Let me just scry her. You know, I assumed she’d prevail on me if she had any real issue, which is why—”
“She’s not going to come back, Teriarch. She is going to live or die, and I do not know how or why. But if she comes back, it will only be to beg for the only help she expects from you. Death and fire. She will not come back for a mentor, an inspiration, for knowledge or a hero. She knows she won’t find one here. Not for her. Not for the Goblin from the Dragonlord of Flames.”
She hit the old Dragon where it hurt. His heart.
He took it like a veteran and held still a second, one bright purple, heliotrope eye wide and winking at her, like the dawn of light on strange and kindly planets he’d told her had never existed in the stars, but might in other lands.
