Groaning, Alevica flew after Nanette and Mrsha. She was just in time to hear the two start fighting.
 
——
 
Nanette was angry as she stormed away from the [Witches]’ circle. Her eyes were bright, and the tips of her ears refused to stop burning.
It was, perhaps, not the time to say something thoughtless. Unfortunately, Mrsha was lost in her own realm of problems.
“Can you believe them, Mrsha? Lecturing me about being arrogant? You don’t think I’m arrogant, do you?”
She hissed at Mrsha as they marched back to Riverfarm, Ser Dalimont doing his best impersonation of a walking statue. Every now and then, Nanette would shoot him a baleful gaze, and he’d move a step further back.
I think they were being sort of jerks, Nanette. I know you’re trying to be helpful and no one respects that.
“Especially Lyonette! I’m advocating for myself—which is very witchy. If I were ten years older, they wouldn’t lecture me! I didn’t see them pulling Erin into a circle.”
Except for the time they talked her into making a hat. And Wiskeria mentoring her.
Nanette missed a step, then glowered at Mrsha so hard the girl switched topics.
I must say, I’m admiring [Witches] more and more, Nanette. Your class does stuff. Important things. You never see a problem and think it’s someone else’s job. You’re invested. That’s really cool. And hard.
Nanette’s flush receded slightly, she developed a pleased look, and her stalking gait slowed slightly.
“Thank you, Mrsha. I can count on you being on my side. It’s part mentality, part…just trying to do things that matter, you know? Sometimes I think about getting my hat.”
Her gaze strayed to the place where she had left it, but then she shook her head briskly.
“—But I’m—I’m not ready for it. I’m a [Sariantfriend]. I’m doing things that matter. I am a witch! And I’ll be a great one because I didn’t need a hat or class for it!”
Her friend gave her an energetic nod and scribbled as Nanette’s chin rose.
Yeah! Do you think I’d qualify for a [Witch] class too, Nanette? I’ve been thinking about getting it, if I can.
Nanette slowed even further, and Mrsha walked past her absently. Dalimont, reading the notecard from behind them, winced.
“You want to be a [Witch]?”
I think I get the mentality. I don’t know about some of it, but I understand the ‘making big decisions’ part. I just feel like I could use it. I know I’ve got a lot of classes, but I could take a few levels. Respectfully, you know?
“Respectfully. You think you’re able to just earn that hat?”
Mrsha noticed the edge in Nanette’s tone too late. She peered up and scribbled hurriedly.
You sort of inspired me to it, Nanette. I know it’s a big thing. I’d take it seriously! Sometimes, I feel like I get the weight of the hat.
That was the last straw. Nanette snapped. She re-colored, jabbed a finger into Mrsha’s chest, and snapped.
“You—Mrsha, you don’t understand what the hat is like. You’re not a [Witch]. You can’t just pick it up like [Druid], [Emberbearer], or your other half-dozen classes! I’m a [Witch]. You can’t be one!”
That stung. Mrsha jerked and snapped back—well, wrote angrily.
Why not? Anyone can be a [Witch]!
“Not just anyone! Mrsha, you’re not [Witch] material. Believe me. It’s serious stuff. Do you think those other witches chewed me out? They’d tear you to pieces.”
What? Nanette, I’m being super serious. I respect [Witches]!
“Clearly, you don’t if you think you could be one. Mrsha, you steal food off people’s plates! You run around and don’t think of the big picture at all!”
The two were halted in the middle of a street in Riverfarm, having an argument that was half vocalized, half angry scritching.
I think I do think of the big picture. And I haven’t stolen food in months, aside from Relc because he thinks it’s funny. And Valeterisa because she gets mad. And—okay, I should stop that.
“Oh yeah? Where were you when I kept trying to convince Lyonette to do something about the wand? Don’t bring up my class, Mrsha. My class isn’t a game.”
Nanette, I just meant—
The [Witch]’s voice lowered until it was intense, and her green eyes flashed. The people on the street, Alevica, and Dalimont watched as Mrsha backed up, alarmed and hurt.
“My class is my burning mother. My class is a hat full of grief. My class is Belavierr and everything that matters. If you think you can be a [Witch], act like it first.”
Nanette poked Mrsha with each sentence, harder, until she nearly shoved the younger girl. Mrsha felt a spark of fury in her chest. She almost lashed out and wrote something, or shoved back, but she kept backing away.
I will then.
She held up the card, but Nanette was already storming away. Not for the inn, but for Witch Wiskeria, the only person Nanette wanted to meet right now. Mrsha stood there, gulping down hurt feelings, and saw Dalimont turning to her.
“Ah—my apologies, Miss Mrsha.”
He was clearly torn between her and Nanette. Mrsha thought and wrote.
Elia’s in the inn. I’m going back there away from Nanette. You’d better keep an eye on Nanette before she tries to fly away with Wiskeria.
That tipped the scales. Dalimont gave her a tight nod and tapped on a speaking stone. He murmured into it, and Mrsha walked towards the inn, still all messed up inside from what Nanette had said. She was so upset she got teary-eyed and wanted to shout, but then she got embarrassed when people stared at her and she thought they could see she was about to cry.
Mrsha stomped into the inn, and Liska glanced up from the couch where she was reading a book.
“Hey, Mrsha, how was the witch thing? Huh? Oh, fine, ignore me. I’m just the [Doorgnoll]. Some people, you know?”
She sighed loudly as Mrsha opened a door into the [Garden of Sanctuary] and vanished. Liska turned to a Human for validation, and he coughed.
“…Can we go to Invrisil now?”
“I’m working on it. Jeeze.”
 
——
 
In the [Palace of Fates], Rags was compiling her notes with her staff. Redscar was gone. He’d returned to Goblinhome to get ready.
Rags had, in fact, sent her best bodyguard to the mountains. Snapjaw, Poisonbite, Redscar…her lieutenants had to prepare. She’d kept some Redfangs on the off chance there was trouble, but the Goblins in the inn were few in number.
The ones in the [Palace of Fates] numbered just four in total.
Even in the Flooded Waters tribe, there weren’t many Goblins that Rags needed here. Trusted? Most of them, except for Gothica. However, if Rags had a full squad in here, it would have been just…
Taganchiel, Prixall, Redscar, Snapjaw, Badarrow—assuming he wasn’t in Baleros—and maybe a few other intelligent sub-officers for flavor.
More Goblins weren’t necessary. The [Palace] was confusing and could trick you into the wrong conclusions. Still, Rags needed someone to hold her notecards for her and to run messages between her and the outside world in case something happened.
So, one short Goblin was peering into the different doors, muttering grumpily about not finding the doors she wanted. Rags scowled at Fightipilota, and Goblinhome’s best flier stopped searching for fates in which she became a real [Fighter Pilot].
After her return from the New Lands, Fightipilota was the natural candidate to ferry Rags around with one of the Frost Wyverns who didn’t have a dedicated [Beast Tamer]. She was fascinated by the [Palace of Fates].
Rags got why Fightipilota was here. She was a decent Redfang, for all her quirks. She was less thrilled by the two excited Goblins who kept grinning at each other.
“Ahem. My notes on the Titan?”
“Oh. Sorry, Chieftain! Uh—uh—here! Rianchi, not that one!”
Dyeda and Rianchi. Rags had promised to show them different places, and a visit to the inn was an easy win for her. Ever since Rianchi had proven himself by running messages to her in the depths of the mountain, the other warriors had treated him like an asset. But not quite one they understood.
So they’d put Dyeda and Rianchi with Rags’ escort on the premise that they could deliver messages and be useful. Rags just wished they’d stop whispering to each other.
She accepted the papers with a long stare at Rianchi, who’d even brought his damn bicycle into the [Palace of Fates]. Rags had caught him riding down the endless hallways with Dyeda on his back like this was a joyride.
The chastened [Gearhead Cyclist] rubbed at his side as he fished out more documents for her and then held out a quill and ink. Rags sighed louder, then checked her notes.
Facts. She was up against a Mortemdefieir Titan, whose name literally meant ‘Death Defier’. Really promising. It was a being about forty feet tall—if assembled—and was currently in five parts, rolling around the troll caverns.
The being had been made by the ancient City of Graves and locked behind doors meant to keep it and other monsters from the ancient wars against the Kingdom of Trolls locked away forever.
Something during the Solstice had unleashed this Titan, and it was trying to link up. Which it would, sooner or later. When it did, it would kill the Trolls, then the Flooded Waters tribe, then 2nd Army, then everything else it could.
The Mortemdefieir Titan could speak words of magic, including instant-kill words, cast Tier 6 spells without preparation, was strong enough to crush mortal enemies to death, and regenerated from any wounds delivered. Fully assembled, it was fast, could use a blade—though it’d have to make one out of the corpses first—and could reanimate the dead.
It also had plagues of insects around it, which were more of a side-product of its killing aura than anything. Its beating heart sapped the life out of the living. The one benefit was that when it was ‘in pieces’, it was less intelligent and mobile. Again, once assembled, it upgraded its abilities multiple times.
Rags thought that was mostly it. Dyeda nodded encouragingly.
“Yah. We only all-dead-very-dead-unescapably-dead. So when we telling Pallass and Magnolia Reinhart so they can deal with it?”
Rianchi gave Rags a lot of nods and gestures at his wife to indicate her idea was good and Rags should listen to Dyeda. Rags answered with a sigh.
“We’re going to try to kill it ourselves.”
Dyeda gazed at Rianchi, and even Fightipilota glanced up.
“Uh. Why, Chieftain?”
Rags strode over to several doors she’d marked with a red paint. She tapped one.
“Scenario where we tell Magnolia Reinhart.”
She opened it. The four Goblins peered inside.
 
——
 
A howling undead Dragon breathed a cloud of insects skywards as the Titan walked down the mountainside. A [Lady] wept as she turned a glowing ring on her hand—
 
——
 
Rags slammed the door shut. Dyeda hesitated.
“Ooh. Yeah. That always happen?”
“One in three times. I don’t like those odds. Door two. We tell Pallass.”
Rags strode over to another door, yanked it open, and Dyeda peered inside…
 
——
 
Goblins were fleeing Wyvern Riders, hostile Wyvern Riders, as Drake encampments glowed across the High Passes. Half the mountainside was in rubble; another mountain was just gone, hollowed into a crater.
The Titan was dead—and so were three armies of Pallass. The Floodplains looked like someone had cast [Meteor Storm] on it multiple times. Because someone had. The Drakes—
 
——
 
Another slam. Rags turned to them.
“Pallass wins, but it loses too many armies. Either way, they usually decide we tricked them. In the really bad doors, they just feed the Titan new armies. Even in the best case scenarios, we lose people we like.”
“Like who?”
“Saliss of Lights. Grimalkin.”
Naturally, if Pallass heard about a Named-rank plus threat, they sent in adventurers. The worst part was…it worked. When they sent Saliss in, he almost always took out one limb of the Titan at least.
If you thought about this like a chess game, a game of sacrifices, sending in Saliss was always an optimal move. That just meant you had to be okay with Saliss dying.
Rags was not okay with any scenario. She wanted one where they won, where she didn’t gamble on anything.
She had a plan.
The Mortemdefieir Titan had a weak point, and one that Rags could exploit, in theory, at minimal risk to her tribe. She had set in motion the plans to capitalize on this and then maneuver her various threats against one another. Her Goblinhome Survival Plan looked like this:
 
1. Weaken the Mortemdefieir Titan.
2. Leak the Titan’s (and Kraken Eaters’) presence to 2nd Army.
3. Inform Teriarch.
4. Let Teriarch, with 2nd Army, take out the Titan (and Kraken Eaters).
 
It was the most workable plan. If Rags could take out one limb, let alone two, the odds of Teriarch winning became exceptionally high. With 2nd Army’s backup, he already had a 9-in-10 win ratio.
It just hinged on Rags taking a victory off the Titan. But she was nervous; she knew people would die even if she won cleanly, so here she was, trying to gain more intelligence in the hours before she had to descend into the mountain.
Rags wished Mrsha were here. The girl had no strategic gift, no valuable insights, but Mrsha…well, Rags just wished she were here. Lacking her, Rags went back to the doors.
“Fighti, stop snooping on other people’s lives.”
She snapped at the Goblin, and Fighti grumbled.
“It sort of fun. You know there lots of weird fates?”
Rianchi perked up. All this doom and gloom was getting him down, but he leaned over to Fightipilota.
“Ooh, like what? You mean like the weird ones with Santa Eldavin?”
“Nuh. Like…close-to-reality but not quite. There one where Ryoka the [Barmaid], for instance, instead of Lyonette. Also, everyone call her Ryoko which is really funny.”
“Psh. Hah! That true.”
“Yeah, yeah. Only, she really bad mother. Mrsha ends up getting raised by Selys instead.”
“Dat a bad mom. Dyeda is much better.”
The [Tattooist] shoved Rianchi as he tried to nuzzle her cheek.
“I’m not having babies right now. What about ones where Ryoka becomes good mother?”
Fighti grinned wickedly.
“Haven’t found one of them. Found one where she and Tyrion get married. You know?”
She began to make hand-gestures. Dyeda grinned as Rags searched for something to throw at them.
“Only, she bad mother to Sammial and Hethon too. Jericha raises them. And marries Ullim, which is weird. Ryoka not good mother.”
“Lies!”
The outraged [Tattooist], for whatever reason, seemed to be a fan of the Wind Runner. She ran off with Rianchi and Fightipilota to find a door that would rehabilitate Ryoka’s wronged name. With Rags’ notes.
In hindsight, it helped because they stopped annoying Rags. The Goblin Chieftain halted as she came to a new set of doors.
She could command them to show her whatever future she liked, with a few limitations she and Mrsha had observed. Here was one of them.
