A day after Elia Arcsinger’s memories played in the [World’s Eye Theatre], Nanette was still slightly smug as she strutted around the inn in her new outfit.
Christmas boots. Yellow raincoat—which was actually a yellow-fabric poncho that made water slide off it like, well, magic. A green t-shirt with the Little Crabs logo on it that she’d bought from Market Street, and light blue leggings that were patterned with tiny hats here and there.
It was such a fantastic fit that Mrsha stared at Nanette over her breakfast omelette. Mrsha had been down of late, and distracted, but Nanette was pleased to see her roommate—and everyone was being complimentary today.
“Whoa, Nanette! That looks great on you!”
Rose gave Nanette a double-thumbs up. She nudged Joseph, who had not really noticed, and he belatedly grunted something like that. Nanette did a twirl again for her admirers and got applause.
From the Antinium. Peggy glanced at Rose’s and Joseph’s expressions, then applauded and smiled at Nanette. A red-headed [Mage] lowered the newspaper she held. Montressa du Valeross eyed Nanette’s color schema and outfit, bit her lip, then beamed at Nanette encouragingly.
“Very stylish. Bezale, what do you think?”
The Minotauress lowered a cup of coffee and glanced up from what looked like a ledger of some kind. She nodded once and spoke loudly.
“I approve.”
Nanette glowed under their praise. More quietly, Bezale leaned over to Montressa.
“It’s good to let children pick their own outfits. And it is quite well put together. On a magical level.”
“Yeah, and we’ll let Lyonette give her lessons on…you know.”
Mrsha scribbled on a piece of paper.
Where did you get that clothing, Nanette?
“I treated myself to it. As a reward. Miss Rose took me into the city yesterday. The rain-poncho and leggings are special. I did a bit of enchanting on the t-shirt myself, though. Guess where the rest of the clothing is from?”
Mrsha squinted at said articles as more people came over, interested by the vivid colors. Even for a city like Liscor with good access to markets, they were clearly high-quality dyes and cloth. Mrsha cheated by sniffing.
“It’s from the Meeting of Tribes! Guess who’s arriving in Liscor soon? Honored Deskie!”
Rose gave the entire thing away, of course. Ishkr blinked and stopped serving tables for a second to slide over.
“Deskie? Really? Lyonette’s mad gambit worked?”
Everyone searched around, but Lyonette wasn’t here for breakfast yet. Nanette strutted back and forth as Rose explained.
“She’s coming, and she sent a bunch of her people ahead—Deskie’s old, so she’ll probably roll in on a carriage. They had tons of great fabrics like this. You should buy it! They’re in the Gnollish apartments and the 3rd District area.”
“So not on Market Street? I didn’t see that yesterday.”
Relc put in, waggling his tail excitedly. Rose winked.
“That’s because they’re not selling it in the open! Yet! Just go and ask; it’s amazing stuff.”
She indicated Nanette again, and the witch looked smugly at the newest arrivals. Two tousel-haired boys were coming for breakfast. Hethon and Sammial stopped when they saw her. Sammial, mostly because he hoped something interesting would happen; Hethon because he could appreciate clothing of any style. Especially clothing Nanette wore.
“Waterproof raincoat. And my shirt and pants. I could go swimming and be mostly dry when I get out! The pants don’t even slow me down in the water. I got the witch hats sewn on—I could swim a lap outside the inn like a fish!”
She looked a bit too self-satisfied, so Hethon muttered.
“Too bad you’re not allowed to do that.”
He received a huge scowl from Nanette at the reminder, because Liscor’s Floodplains definitely had too many aquatic monsters for Lyonette to countenance that. Nanette turned her nose up at Hethon.
“Well, I’m happy to dress for myself, even if some people can’t even compliment me on how I look. It’s too much to expect that from a noble, right, Mrsha?”
Hethon turned red, and Sammial hopped into a chair at their table as Hethon began to apologize in that way where you knew you were wrong but didn’t really want to say sorry. Mrsha didn’t reply to Nanette, and the witch frowned at her.
Normally, Mrsha backed up Nanette in bullying the two [Lords] or most things, but Mrsha was poking at her omelette again.
“Mrsha?”
What? Seen Rags?
“Rags? No—why are you and Rags hanging out so much? I know you two are ‘inn buddies’, but we have important things to do!”
Like what? School? It’s the weekend. I don’t have to do my homework today!
Mrsha held up a note defensively, and Nanette hissed.
“The wand?”
Oh. That. I’m sort of busy today, Nanette.
“With what?”
Things.
The normally energetic Mrsha had a pensive look on her face that might have been constipation, and Sammial and Hethon glanced at Nanette. Who was their fearless leader.
Which was odd…because they were both [Lords] of House Veltras, neither of them had known or liked Nanette and Mrsha before this, and so on and so forth. They hadn’t even been welcome to the inn. But after the Solstice, Nanette was always dragging them into ways to get the wand or do interesting things each day. She was a witch.
She was sort of cool. Plus, she was a decisive person, so they began to scarf their food as Nanette shifted her glower from Mrsha to the woman coming down the stairs.
Lyonette du Marquin took one look at Nanette’s outfit and had to admire the style. But the first words out of her mouth were—
“Miss Nanette Weishart, did you buy all that with inn money?”
Rose’s beam turned into a look of chagrin. Ser Dalimont and Dame Ushar flanked Lyonette as Nanette rose to her feet.
“Good morning, Lyonette. Thank you for complimenting my appearance. I can tell you and House Veltras’ nobility are equally courteous. As a matter of fact, I paid for it with my allowance.”
“You didn’t tell me. Or inform me you went out! As for the coordination…it’s lovely, Nanette. I wish you’d consulted with me. Who…who helped you pick the clothing out? Elia?”
The Named-rank adventurer looked mildly indignant at the suggestion. Nanette folded her arms, narrowing her eyes.
“I asked for Vaulont to go with me.”
Lyonette’s head spun accusingly, but the Vampire was on the night shift. And he was an approved guardian.
“It is a lovely wardrobe, even if the hats are a bit too overdone, Nanette. I just feel like I should know when you buy new clothing!”
“Oh? Are we sharing decisions now, Lyonette? Funny. I don’t recall you ever consulting with anyone else in the family for anything you do. Like with wands. You know, Ryoka said that she trusts me to do what’s necessary with the wand?”
“You called her? I told Ryoka—”
It was day…thirty-two of the wand argument. Everyone else stopped admiring the clothing and made themselves scarce. Hethon leaned over to Sammy as the two bickered, and Mrsha heard them whispering.
“Maybe we should have eaten in Invrisil, Sammy?”
“What? Why? Dad’s just as bad when he’s grumpy.”
The two were actually more immune to awkward arguments happening over their heads than most. Hethon nudged Mrsha.
“We had lessons yesterday. What happened?”
She took a while to respond. Then she grudgingly forked over a notecard.
Everyone saw Elia Arcsinger’s memories when she killed the Goblin King. And Goblin memories of when she killed them. Some Goblins tried to assassinate her.
“What? And we missed it to have etiquette lessons? I told Ullim—every time we skip the inn, something cool happens!”
Sammial exploded with outrage. Which distracted Nanette and Lyonette long enough to greet him, and they all sat down for breakfast.
“Mrsha, dear, you seem exhausted. Are you getting enough sleep?”
Mrsha didn’t mention her late-night shenanigans to her mother, but she was distinctly tired as she munched on her omelette. Under this scrutiny, though, she sat up and held out a notecard.
Merely pondering the mortal tribulations of this world, Mother. Good morning.
Lyonette gave Mrsha a quick glance, but then she smiled.
“I’m glad to see someone isn’t biting my head off. I was thinking we’d go into Liscor to see what this election nonsense is like. Or greet Honored Deskie’s people?”
“I’ve already done that on behalf of the inn. You could do something with that pile of Chemath Marble outside. It’s getting wet, and I’ll bet it’ll get mossy if we leave it out, Miss Lyonette. Or you could help Lord Ilvriss if you wanted to be useful today.”
Nanette’s comment made Lyonette stab her omelette. The two were staring each other down as Dalimont desperately called out.
“Miss Arcsinger! Good morning!”
Elia Arcsinger jumped and turned in her seat. She was there, as usual, looking impassively calm as she ate a red omelette. Calescent had been edging out of the kitchen to say hello; he sighed and stumped back inside as she rose.
“Yes? Can I do anything?”
“Not yet, Miss Arcsinger. Why don’t you join our table this morning? Calescent, you too!”
Dalimont tried to bring in reinforcements, but it wasn’t working. Lyonette put her napkin down.
“Nanette, I think there’s a fine line between indignation—which I understand—and outright incivility. Why don’t we choose which we’re planning on today?”
“I’d love for you to be civil and treat me like a person for once, Miss Lyonette.”
Nanette stood back from the table as Lyonette’s eyes narrowed. Mrsha slipped out of her chair and tried to slink away, but both women pinned her with a glance.
“Rags isn’t here today, Mrsha. Finish your breakfast with us.”
“Yeah, Mrsha. Back me up!”
Nanette beckoned as she took a step backwards. Lyonette frowned at Nanette as the witch backed up another step.
“And where do you think you’re going?”
“What? Nowhere! You’re the one who’s refusing to go visit the people who matter so much.”
“I am preparing to meet them on my own terms and—don’t walk away from me, Nanette.”
Nanette was backing up several steps as Mrsha halted. The witch gave Lyonette a puzzled glance.
“You’re the one walking away from—huh?”
She looked down at her bright yellow boots and hesitated.
“Wait, why are my feet moving?”
She held onto Relc’s table as a sleepy Valeterisa teleported into Relc’s lap. He jumped, then caught her with a grin. Lyonette was distracted for a second and stared at Nanette.
“Don’t be ridiculous. Nanette.”
The young witch was now leaning forwards like someone in an invisible headwind. Valeterisa and Relc completely ignored her as they greeted each other.
“Morning, Valley.”
Relc flirted with Valeterisa as she failed to open her eyes. She opened her mouth, and he inserted a piece of omelette into it. Valley mumbled.
“I don’t want to lay magical foundations anymore. Ooh, a summoning spell.”
She opened her eyes as Nanette’s feet left the ground. Relc twisted, and Lyonette’s mouth opened as Nanette suddenly went vertical; her boots were lifting off the floor, headed towards the entrance to the common room.
“A what? A—it’s them.”
“My boots! Wait, this is good? Don’t do anything silly, Lyonette!”
Nanette squeaked as she hung onto the table with all her might. Hethon and Sammial ran over to grab one hand; Dalimont seized the other, and then his boots began to skid across the floor. Nanette yelped.
“Wait! Wait, this isn’t the same—it’s—this is a witch spell!”
Lyonette had been calling for her sword, a crossbow, for Elia and Vaulont and everyone else. She whirled, and Elia lowered her bow as Valeterisa nodded sleepily.
“Witch magic. Is this an omelette? Relc, I don’t like green onion. Though, a magical fact is that Silvenia, the Death of Magic, does like green onions. Maybe it’s good for me?”
Nanette’s hands slipped out of Hethon and Sammial’s grip, and she went flying out of the common room as Ser Dalimont held onto her waist. The summoning spell was pulling them towards the portal door as the common room door slammed open. Everyone began running after her as Mrsha looked around and tried to slink aw—
“Mrsha! It’s the [Witches] in Riverfarm! Come on!”
Sammial grabbed her arm, and Mrsha groaned. It was going to be another inn-day.
She didn’t have time for this.
The [Palace of Fates] was waiting for her. Mrsha caught the eye of a Goblin sitting in the corner of the inn. Redscar raised his eyebrows and gave her a slight nod as Mrsha jerked her thumb at the hubbub. He nodded and tapped a finger on his wrist. She made a face.
She’d be there as soon as she could.
 
——
 
Rags was sleeping on the floor of the [Palace of Fates], wrapped up in a wyvernhide cloak. She was drooling and twitching occasionally—her dreams were of death and splintered realities, like a trail of lightning arcing ahead of her.
She was stressed.
She was almost out of time.
She woke up when Redscar nudged her, and she glowered at him. Rags wiped the drool from her cheek and defied him to comment. All he said was—
“Mrsha late.”
“Why?”
“Inn stuff. Flying witches.”
“I know they can fly.”
“No, flying horizontally. With boots. Nanette.”
He mimed it, and Rags stopped, but didn’t have the time to devote the mental energy to this one.
“Then I’ll hope Mrsha has time to make it. Otherwise…what time is it?”
Redscar scratched his head.
“Eh, morning?”
Rags rubbed at her face. She had a dread in her body, a nervousness—but she nodded. Two days, Saliss had said. One day down…
“Assemble the warriors. Tell the Trolls it’s today. You get ready for the trap. I’ll fly to Goblinhome in…six hours.”
“Yes, Chieftain.”
Six hours to find something more. Rags pushed herself up as Redscar handed her a floppy, yellow object. She squinted blearily at it.
“What’s that?”
“Breakfast omelette, Chieftain. You not eaten yet.”
Redscar reminded the Flooded Waters Chieftain. She stared at the omelette that was oozing bits of cheese and innards onto the ground, then at Redscar.
“…Couldn’t you have gotten a plate?”
 
——
 
The [Witches] of Riverfarm sat in conclave in a clearing in the forest, a natural space, where they had erected, of all things, menhirs. Big standing stones, ovoid in nature, each one decorated with a particular coven’s motifs.
A ritual spot; one of the central stones was adorned in the iconography of birds. Black feathers were arrayed around it, and a nest had been made at the feet of it. Another smelled of tea, and flowers bloomed around Eloise and her coven’s stone. She sat before the stone, on a cushion, knitting and smiling at Nanette, who stood in the center of this judgment of witches.
