“Show me how the Mortemdefieir Titan was first…deployed.”
Rags closed her eyes and then saw a door lined with bones shaped into scales. She rolled her eyes as she opened the ivory door. Stay classy, Drakes.
A black void was her answer. Rags sighed.
“Well, figured.”
The obfuscation of past events seemed to apply to more than Goblin Kings. Major secrets would be hidden behind this barrier that let neither sound nor image through. Rags had obviously tried to find out how the Mortemdefieir Titan had been made.
No luck.
City of Graves? No luck.
City of Stars? Rags just wanted the <Quest> bounty—but nope.
Dragonlord of Flame looking good? Well, she’d gotten one of him sucking in his gut and preening in front of a mirror, but when she’d asked for his old wars? Nothing.
Anything before the Creler Wars, and indeed, even parts of the Creler Wars seemed off-limits. Rags had a strong suspicion it was Mrsha’s fault.
If Mrsha knew more of the world, or were actually Level 70, Rags suspected more fates would be open to them. Or maybe the [Palace of Fates] was genuinely this limited, but she doubted it.
However, there were tons of workarounds. After some thought, Rags spoke.
“Show me…a future where the Titan wins. Just after it’s killed all its major enemies, when it does something interesting.”
She found another door, made of rotting flesh, and gingerly took the handle. When it opened, Rags saw—
 
——
 
The Titan was sucking entrails out of—
 
——
 
She shut the door.
“Fast forwards to a part that doesn’t involve it despoiling the dead.”
The door opened again.
 
——
 
Even now, the malformed Drake’s face was rotting, flies buzzing around it, insects crawling between rotted teeth. Despite all the death it had imbibed, it was a rotting corpse.
A triumphant one. There it knelt, just past Liscor, where holes had been breached in the eastern and northern walls. The city was silent.
The people within dead or hiding or fled. No one to challenge him. Armies would come. This, he knew, so he knelt in an odd place past the city. By a hill of grass that was wilting away as his breath killed the land. A barrow mound, where everything had once begun. Liscor’s first dungeon.
And the undead giant was crooning a song.
“Skinner. Skinner? Where have you gone? Come out, come out, for I have a song. Don’t keep me, dear one, don’t make me wait long.”
Singing. His tone was like wet meat burbling, his voice deep and gurgling and filled with the hollow tones of the grave. Yet there was a tone. An ancient lullaby. The giant sang on.
 
♫ Mother, I have put our foes to rest
Skinner, craft me your crimson best
Snatcher, judge me not and let me pass
Stalker, an audience is all I ask
I have brought you a Giant’s shroud 
Tell me, Mother, have I made you proud? ♪
 
After a few more verses, Rags decided the giant was either ad-libbing or just sucked at singing. But she was entranced, fascinated, because the Titan was…asking for Skinner?
Skinner, that guardian of the dungeon? In hindsight, a weak guardian compared to Facestealer or the dead Stalker. However—the Titan grew frustrated and began tearing apart the crypt.
“Skinner! I have a Dragon’s corpse for you to wear! Come out! I need armor to bear upon my aching body! I know you’re there, little Skinner! I can hear Mother’s voice.”
He paused, then, as his arm wriggled through the crypt.
“Unless you’re dead? Unless you died? Hah! Hahaha! And little Mother lies in her grave! I hear you too, Mother.”
A few strides and he was by the rift down into the dungeon, poking his malformed head to bellow down into the deeps.
“I hear you wriggling in my head! But I was made before even you! Which of us rules the City of Graves? Is Snatcher dead too? If so—then I am coming down to greet you, Mother. Mother. MOTHER.”
His tone became mocking. Then he was digging down, shredding the earth, breaching the dungeon itself, and it began to shake. Rags sensed it unleashing its monsters against the titan as he laughed and began slaughtering them. Mocking ‘Mother’. Whispering what he’d do to her—
 
——
 
Rags closed the door. Mostly because the Mortemdefieir Titan’s suggestions were both disgusting and upsetting, and she really didn’t want to see if he made good on his threat.
But also, mostly, because she’d seen that black cloud of ‘you are not allowed to know’ approaching rapidly.
“So what have I learned? Hm. ‘Mother’ isn’t well-liked by this Titan. She was created after him…”
It seemed like there was more behind her than Rags knew—not that she knew much aside from Calruz’s ramblings and the suspicion that something was down in Liscor’s dungeon that was nasty as Creler eggs.
The Titan had been wary, too, of Snatcher, which made sense because Snatcher was dangerous as could be. It had come for Skinner like someone seeking help from a craftsman.
A craftsman? Rags pictured the Flesh Worm, made of layers of skin, and it fit in a disgusting way. Had Skinner been…a [Tailor] of the City of Graves?
It was pointless to speculate if she couldn’t pull more answers, so Rags went back to checking for more fates and clues into the Titan’s motivations.
She didn’t get much. Aside from the scenarios where he just kept rampaging, he mostly just went to the dungeon and got into it with the Mother of Graves. He didn’t…well, he didn’t understand anything.
He got Pallass was a city, but he didn’t even call it a Walled City. Just ‘City of Inventions’. He understood 2nd Army was full of Drakes, but aside from calling them his cousins and offering them a chance to serve him, he had few other opinions.
Teriarch he hated. ‘Betrayer’, ‘traitor of Chandrar’, and ‘sanctimonious Dragonlord’ were among the audible insults Rags heard when the two did battle. Which…fair? But she didn’t find any more handy clues, like the Titan disclosing a weakness to salt or something.
—And time was ticking on in that way it had when you were under pressure, crawling along until you took your eyes off a clock, then leaping ahead.
“Chieftain.”
Rags jumped and realized nearly two hours had passed since breakfast. Her stomach hurt, and she needed to use a bathroom.
“Anything, Fighti? Dyeda?”
She turned, hoping the other Goblins had found something, only to be greeted by a very downcast Dyeda hanging her head as Rianchi patted her hand.
“What’s wrong?”
“Dyeda is a big fan of Wind Runner. She really liked Ryoka on scrying orb.”
Rianchi said that as if it made sense. Rags gave Fightipilota a blank stare; the other Goblin was grinning with all her teeth.
“We searched and searched and searched, but there is no door where Ryoka Griffin is a good mother! Hah!”
The Goblin slapped her thighs and laughed, and Dyeda opened her mouth as if to argue, then stared at the ground. She sniffed, and Fighti’s humor left her.
“Is not that bad.”
Rianchi mouthed at Rags as Fighti tried to pat Dyeda on the arm and got a shove.
Is pretty bad, Chieftain. Very sad.
The Flooded Waters Chieftain resisted the urge to scream at them. She knew the other Goblins were stressed as well. She took a deep breath.
“I’m wasting time here. Fighti, I’m flying up to Goblinhome to get ready for the trap instead. Dyeda, stop crying. This is the [Palace of Fates]. Ryoka’s a bad mother, good mother, a Named-rank [Warrior], and the Archmage of Everything. There’s a door with every version of her.”
She waved a hand around irritably, and sure enough, a door appeared, and Rags yanked it open. A battle-scarred Ryoka was having a flexing competition with Calruz for reasons purely unknown to Rags.
Rags got the impression this door was as likely as ten lighting bolts landing in the same spot, but it was a future. She expected this would cheer Dyeda up, but the [Tattooist] gave Rags a wretched look.
“But Chieftain! I know that! I’m not stupid like Redscar! I said, ‘give me a door where Ryoka is a good mother’! Or bad mother! Or any mother! And there is no door!”
Rags just stared at Rianchi, and he added somewhat helpfully—
“Lots of doors where she sort of mother. Tries to take care of Mrsha, Sammial, lots of people. Even one where she tries adopting a skeleton.”
“Does not work well.”
All three Goblins shook their heads. Rianchi frowned.
“But none where she is Mrsha mother. Sort of weird. She always rescues Mrsha. Not one door where Mrsha goes krckch from Goblin Lord army—”
He drew a line across his throat, and Dyeda punched him savagely.
“Don’t look for that!”
“Just saying…”
The little argument didn’t matter at all, but Rags tilted her head, so befuddled by this nonsense that she strode over to a door.
“Ryoka. Good mother of Mrsha. Now.”
She yanked it open. And found—
 
——
 
“I’m sorry. Okay? Okay? Please don’t cry—”
A little Gnoll girl was crying. Crying as Ryoko prised her free and handed her to a somber, old Gnoll. Shaman Theikha of the Gaarh Marsh tribe brushed at Mrsha’s white fur.
“We must make sure no one sees this. And we will take care of her, Ryoko Griffin.”
“You promise? Mrsha, I—I can’t. You’re going to get hurt again, and I can’t do this with a Runner’s lifestyle.”
The little girl had a scar on one arm, still healing, from when a bad delivery had nearly gotten her injured. She was howling now, and Ryoko was choking on tears, but Shaman Theikha had been vouchsafed to her as one of the greatest Gnolls living. If anywhere would be safe for Mrsha, despite her white fur—
She was still howling as Ryoko burst into tears, and Theikha tasked one of her [Shamans] with mixing a dye as she came over to Ryoko to speak quietly. Her eyes were kind as she touched Ryoko’s arm and asked a question.
“Would you not settle down? If it is so hard, we can let both of you enter the tribe.”
“I can’t. I have to find—I—”
Ryoko was trying to turn away. She heard an anguished scream, now, from a mute girl and—
 
——
 
Rags closed the door and blinked. That…was not what she’d asked for. She frowned.
“I said a door where Ryoka Griffin is a mother. Not just to Mrsha, to anyone.”
She yanked it open, angry, and—
 
——
 
She was thirty-six years old and sweaty, tangled up in her bedsheets and blinking as someone ran a hand over her stomach.
“Not yet?”
“Darn. That was a good fertility spell too. And Skill. Do you think—?”
“The [Healer] said I was fine. W-what if I’m not?”
Ryoko gazed up, face anguished. She turned to the [Mage] sitting in the bed opposite her. He embraced her, worried.
“Maybe it’s me. I mean, I’ve never tried for children. Trust me to be the one Lizardfolk who can’t repopulate like a rabbit.”
He grinned awkwardly, and Ryoko tried to breathe. Tried not to feel like she was letting him—
 
——
 
Rags had no idea who the Lizardperson was, but she didn’t really want to stare at two naked adults discussing sex and possibly having more. She frowned at the weird speckle pattern around the Lizardman’s eyes. Like upside-down moons or something.
Rags shook her head. That felt like a divergent path, too, but again—she was getting weirded out.
“Ryoka. Mother!”
She yanked open a third door and stared as the other people in the [Palace of Fates] watched on. And it was always just—off.
Wrong. There was never a door where Ryoka was a mother in the sense of the word she should be. She was always—trying. Giving Mrsha to someone else. Standing apart. Trying. Failing.
The [Palace of Fates] seemed uncertain, which was very weird to the Goblins. Rags had mastered the [Palace of Fates] enough to summon doors, unlike Rianchi and Dyeda and Fightipilota, who were trying to reach her and Mrsha’s competencies. However, despite Rags’ requests, the doors were always not what she sought.
Close, though. Rags was purely annoyed, but Dyeda was inspecting some of the doors the angry Chieftain kept slamming. She lingered on the one where Ryoka was leaving Mrsha in the care of the Gaarh Marsh tribe.
“This one not bad. Not quite mother, but good mother. Sort of.”
It was a strange statement for Fightipilota and Rianchi to hear. The two Redfangs frowned at Mrsha, still howling in the background.
“She giving away Mrsha. That terrible.”
Dyeda frowned at Fighti, and her husband scratched his chin. He understood something of the Mountain City tribe, and Dyeda snapped peevishly back at Fighti, taking the other Goblin aback.
“Sometimes mother not ready to be mother. Is better if they know it. Or bad father.”
Fighti hesitated; the Redfangs had been taught by Garen Redfang, who, in turn, had drawn a lot of his opinions and experiences from the adventurers and civilizations he’d grown up in. But, it occurred to Rianchi, the [Palace of Fates] may have drawn on Dyeda’s opinion of what a ‘good mother’ was, at least for this door.
“She trying to be good. She protecting children, even if they not hers.”
That, at least, the other Goblins could agree on. Fighti frowned at yet another door.
“Maybe she just can’t have kids?”
Dyeda shook her head with a frown.
“Can’t be. Doors are for everything.”
“Oh yah? What about someone old-old? Can’t find a door where they have kids.”
“Hah. Okay. So there this one door where Tekshia Shivertail—you know her, old [Spearmaster]? She drink youth potion and then Octavia makes super-fertility potion, and after lots of drinking, she and—”
Fightipilota scratched her head.
“Huh. And magic fix everything in some timeline. Weird.”
They watched as Rags kept slamming doors, all of them hmming and trying to work this one out. After a moment, someone nudged Rianchi.
Hey, why are we watching Ryoka marrying Laken? Is that how we kill the Titan?
Rianchi whispered back.
“Nah, we’re trying to find a world in which Ryoka’s a good mom. Very hard. Impossible, actually.”
That’s pretty sad. I thought she’d be good at it.
“Yeah, I thought so too. Dyeda very sad about—”
At this point, Rags realized that Rianchi was having a one-sided conversation and spun and saw Mrsha there.
“Mrsha!”
The Gnoll girl gave her a wave; she seemed tired and sad, but the sight of Laken and Ryoka’s wedding being broken up by a furiously objecting Durene put a smile on her face.
Is this really important, Rags? What about the trap? Or did you find something?
Her eyes were alight with hope, but Rags closed the door slowly.
“No. Just a few more hints about the Mother of Graves. Dyeda was saying she couldn’t find a future in which Ryoka’s a good mother.”
“Any mother!”
Dyeda shouted, and Fighti called out well outside of elbow-range.
“Just proves she’s so bad she can’t even be one!”
That was a puzzler, and Mrsha tried the same thing as Rags for a few seconds. Then turned to Rags.
