It was a very odd scene; non-witches had been excluded from the inner gathering, even Lyonette, who had departed once she understood her daughter was not being kidnapped by tree spirits and only being kidnapped by fellow witches. But there were tons of people watching respectfully from the side, including Mrsha.
Nanette was standing in the center of the gathering, eagerly describing her achievement with Elia and the Goblins yesterday. The witches listened, not in silence, but murmuring, trading objects, snacking…
This was a gathering of witches, after all. They didn’t sit like some high council, but more like a knitting group. Yet they were here to pass some kind of judgment or, as Witch Thallisa put it—
“Feedback time. Who wants to go first?”
Nanette stood there proudly, glancing around as the witches murmured. She spoke with a quaver of nervousness in her voice, but mostly delight.
“I didn’t know I could be summoned for a witch’s circle, Witch Thallisa. I abandoned my hat, you know.”
Thallisa was knitting as she sat there. Her hat, made of other [Witches]’ hats, was tilted so the spring air could blow through her wavy black hair. Her eyes glinted, and when Mrsha, being crowded by the excited Sammial, Hethon, Ishkr, and Visma, looked at her, Mrsha heard music. Wild and wondrous voices of hundreds of Gnolls at the Meeting of Tribes. Thallisa caught Mrsha’s eye and winked.
She was a cool [Witch]. Mrsha saw other people had come to watch this supposedly secret meeting of [Witches]. Younger witches, interested lookie-loos from Riverfarm, and yes, Visma and Rittane. Even Iskhr was here because he loved this kind of thing.
She’d been trying to sneak away for the last half-hour. With a sigh, Mrsha listened to Thallisa.
“You claim you’re a witch, hat or no, Witch Nanette. So be judged like one. Sisters, we have a witch about her first great meeting to reconcile. What say you of how she did it?”
Silence fell as the [Witches] looked up and stopped chattering. They glanced at each other, and then a lazy hand rose. A young woman lounging with her legs up against her menhir, Witch Alevica, called out.
“Alright, let’s get it over with. Nanette, your meeting sounded like it sucked. You barely got two sides to sit down and talk. You only did it because you borrowed Erin Solstice’s theatre and Skills, and you’ve got a big head. There, done.”
She grabbed a broom she’d been leaning up against the menhir and tried to fly out of the grove. She zoomed off as Nanette reddened and her eyes went wide.
Witch Alevica shot off to the right, through the trees, came flying back into the grove from the opposite direction, did a double-take, scowled, and landed.
“That’s not how I’d have put it.”
Witch Eloise murmured. Nanette searched around, her confidence visibly deflating.
“What? But I got Elia Arcsinger, the Goblin King’s slayer, and Goblins to talk! I showed them—”
The energetic Witch Agratha leaned over from her menhir, which was decorated with books and lit candles in unwise proximity to each other. She smiled gently at Nanette.
“We’re just giving you feedback, dear. Don’t take it personally. I think these group discussions are wonderful. It’s a way for all [Witches] to give you a bit of advice and to critique. It comes from a place of love, you know.”
Nanette relaxed slightly, and Agratha pursed her lips.
“With that said, I think Witch Alevica had a bit of a point. You were doing this gathering like your mother. Witch Califor could make peace between Drakes and Lizardfolk. And has.”
“Yes, exactly! And I was—”
Agratha spoke clearly over Nanette with a kindly smile that took little away from her words.
“She was Witch Califor and did it sometimes crudely, like someone holding up two naughty puppies and forcing them to make up. No one would say she was perfect. But you, Miss Nanette, are neither brokering peace in war or Witch Califor herself. I think you could do your job better. Now, let’s start with attitude.”
“My attitude?”
“Arrogance doesn’t suit you, Witch Nanette. And it’s arrogance we see.”
That came from a third [Witch] Mrsha didn’t know. The Gnoll girl winced as Nanette began to turn red.
“I’m just doing my best, and I didn’t see you—”
“Nanette, my girl, you reek of indignation and pride. And gold. A witch should do things that matter. But not think she’s always the only solution to any problem. Or should be accoladed for her deeds.”
Hedag interrupted, and Witch Thallisa raised a hand before more [Witches] could pile on.
“We’re getting ahead of ourselves. This isn’t meant to be a pile of dogs on our young [Witch]. I say it was well done. I say it was a splendid thought to combine Skills.”
The [Witches] murmured agreement.
“Oh, that? Absolutely. A wonderful Skill.”
“I’d like to see some memories myself if that theatre can allow it.”
“Splendidly done, there. Ah, one note: did you think showing the Goblin King to the Goblins might make them as mad as he was, Nanette?”
Mrsha peeked at Nanette’s face and saw the girl go scarlet. She began to argue, stuttering, which, Mrsha realized, was sort of the problem. Nanette could argue with Lyonette. Successfully, unsuccessfully, that wasn’t really the point. But [Witches] were her people. And they really didn’t tolerate you having an overinflated ego. Worse—they were trying to be nice.
 
——
 
“—I’m just trying to say that I’ve been doing my best to broker a peaceful solution to the issue of the wand and other matters in my domain! And I have been doing my best with little thanks to my class!”
An hour later, the meeting of the [Witches] was winding down, and Nanette seemed slightly, well, dismayed was a good word for it. Not beaten down; the [Witches] didn’t shout at her or tell her she was wrong.
It was closer to being hit repeatedly by pillows, like when Nanette and Mrsha played in their rooms. But imagine Hedag hitting you with a pillow, soft as it may be. Nanette had that sort of dazed expression on her face.
Petulant as well, but Witch Thallisa smiled at her.
“And we appreciate that, Witch Nanette. You are a witch in your own realm.”
“Exactly! Thank you!”
“Miss Lyonette is your guardian, who fears for your safety—rightfully, I imagine—and who has wariness of these strangers that I would deem appropriate.”
“They could have hurt us! They didn’t, and we owe them a debt—”
Witch Thallisa tipped her hat at Nanette. Her voice was spritely, and she kept the smile up, but Nanette’s retort stalled.
“Absolutely. I merely suggest, Witch Nanette, that some respect for Miss Lyonette’s point of view may be warranted? This is only as one witch to another. If you stand here and tell me upon your hat that your way is the correct and only way, why, I must accede. Isn’t that so, sisters?”
She glanced around and received sage nods from several of the [Witches]. Hedag winked at Nanette.
“Far be it from us to lecture such a learned witch in her ways.”
A ripple of laughter went around the circle, gently, and Nanette turned beet red. Thallisa’s gaze returned to Nanette.
“Witch Califor, your mother, was often right. Insufferably so, you know. She was an excellent witch, a Great Witch, and as we all know, a finer mother. But I suggest, Witch Nanette, you conflate being correct and having your way with what made her so exceptional. Her greatest flaw was that sometimes she was wrong, and when she was, she could not see it.”
They left that one hanging, and at this point, Mrsha felt like that settled that and began plotting her escape. The problem wasn’t having to be here to support Nanette. The problem—Mrsha glanced over her shoulder—
The problem was the Thronebearers. Or rather, Ser Dalimont.
Two Thronebearers. Ushar and Dalimont. One was almost always in the company of Lyonette, the other with the girls. Thronebearers, so different to Mrsha from the first days of them being silly [Knights] asking for Lyonette.
She had a healthy respect for their intelligence. Mrsha had debated slipping back through the door to The Wandering Inn and then heading into the [Garden of Sanctuary] to meet up with Rags for ages. She knew they were on a time limit.
Problem: if she did that, one of the Thronebearers would surely follow, on the basis that Mrsha needed looking-after more than Nanette did in Riverfarm, under the aegis of Emperor Laken and the [Witches].
Naturally, Mrsha could tell Dalimont to get lost and let Vaulont or Elia look after her. Elia would cover for her, but Mrsha knew better than to play her hand by asking.
Suggesting she didn’t want a Thronebearer around would tell their stupid, politically-savvy brains that she had something to hide. Then they’d try to ferret it out. So she had to play it cool.
Of course, the Thronebearers knew Mrsha had things to hide. They just assumed it was other things. They knew Mrsha and Nanette slipped out of their rooms at night, but Ushar had struck a deal with Mrsha. As long as the girls got up to ‘acceptable mischief’, they could get away with a lot.
If they left the inn, they had to tell a Thronebearer. Mrsha suspected they reported a lot of what the two did to Lyonette anyways, but she was also certain they couldn’t monitor her actions in the [Garden of Sanctuary] half as well as Lyonette would like. Let alone find her in the [Palace of Fates].
 
I could just tell Mother about the [Palace of Fates]. Or Nanette. Or someone. But when I do, they’ll take it away from me and do what they think is best. And I…
I believe it is my palace, even if that was a mistake. Therefore, my responsibility.
I am afraid.
I do not want to be the same Mrsha who makes mistakes and lets people die for her.
I wish Erin were here.
 
Mrsha thought these things as Nanette stomped out of the coven, tomato-faced. What she didn’t remember was the power of [Witches].
They could see her. So, Mrsha jumped as a tall [Witch] intercepted her.
“Miss Mrsha. I don’t believe we’ve met. I am Witch Thallisa. Do you require my services?”
She sounded like a piano playing in an empty bar. Her robes swirled around her, and Mrsha looked up into a sharp face that would have been perfect as a strict school teacher—if Thallisa weren’t so used to smiling. The Great Witch’s robes blew, and Mrsha held out a paw and shook the hand.
Hello! I’m Mrsha du Marquin. Your services, Witch Thallisa? Do you mean sewing magic or something?
She’d heard Thallisa was a gifted enchanter—and that she’d once flown a tree into a bunch of Clairei Field [Knights] to save Alevica. Nanette had said Thallisa was a Great Witch, like Hedag, Eloise, and Califor. Thallisa chuckled softly.
“That’s more of a hobby. True, I can enchant a piece of fabric to do wondrous things. But a new pair of boots doesn’t always solve a crisis. When it can—that’s when my craft matters. However, I am often just a friendly pair of ears. If you need to speak to someone, I could listen.”
Mrsha gazed up at the [Witch] and realized, belatedly, Thallisa was reading her emotions. Guardedly, Mrsha held up a card.
That’s very kind of you, Witch Thallisa, but I think…I’m fine. Sometimes we go through tough decisions. And I have people to talk to.
“Indeed? A [Witch] can be a unique pair of ears, but I shan’t press further.”
Thallisa tipped her hat to Mrsha, and the girl nodded.
I know. It’s very kind of you to offer, but if I need a [Witch]’s help, I shall surely seek you out.
The Great Witch left it at that, but Mrsha was suddenly aware of multiple pairs of eyes on her. She hurried after Nanette, heart pounding.
Why not tell them? Why not confide in Laken?
The answer was control. Rags had explained her reasoning to Mrsha, and it dovetailed with Mrsha’s own. The moment they told someone like Laken or a [Witch], they’d want to put their fingers in the pie. Who wouldn’t see the value of the palace? You had to trust them, and neither one really trusted Laken that much.
But even Lyonette or the others—changed things. Rags was seeking a solution in a rapidly-narrowing set of futures, and each variable she changed threatened to upset the board. She had to control variables. The backup plan. The…fallback plan was a bunch of pre-written notecards that would go to everyone Mrsha could find.
Lyonette, Saliss, General Shirka, the Troll Queen, Zevara, Olesm, heck, even Lord Xitegen. But if it came to that—they were in trouble. In a very real sense, only a few people mattered in this crisis.
Rags. Mrsha, for whatever she was worth. The Troll Queen. And Teriarch.
Very, very few other beings could make a difference reliably. Mrsha didn’t really think she mattered…except that she had a secret even Rags hadn’t uncovered. Her worry, the thing that had drawn the [Witches]’ eyes to her, was deciding what to do about that.
 
——
 
“Mrsha, I’m heading back to the inn. Are you coming?”
Nanette called to her, and Mrsha ran to catch up. The [Witches] watched, and after a moment, Witch Alevica flew down; she’d been taking a nap in the branches.
“I always thought Nanette would be a goody two-shoes [Witch]. I never thought I’d get to chew her out harder than my first circle. She can’t even see what that Mrsha is going through. Some [Witch].”
“Ah, well, she’s hatless. Don’t hold it against her.”
Hedag murmured, but her eyes were sharp as she scrutinized Mrsha’s back. Alevica raised the brim of her hat.
“Hold it against—? I’ll bet even if you didn’t have a hat, you’d see her! I’ve seen dying adventurers who look calmer than that girl. Shouldn’t you be running after her?”
“I have to know what the problem is first. Nor is she ignorant to us. She needs a subtle touch. One that she doesn’t feel is an adult grabbing her to fix all problems.”
Hedag murmured, and Thallisa nodded.
“My impressions exactly. If she won’t confide in her mother, well. Witch Alevica, you look thirsty.”
“I do? Well, I didn’t feel like drinking tea until it came out my ears.”
Alevica rubbed at her throat, sighing. She’d been practicing more of the Aklat Vunn language. Thallisa gave her a judicious nod as Hedag grinned.
“You should do something about that throat. Have a drink on me.”
She handed Alevica several silver coins, and the younger [Witch] shrugged.
“Fine by me. I’ll just—wait.”
She glanced around, and the [Witches] all beamed at her and tipped their hats. Thallisa murmured as she tapped her lips.
“I hear that inn does a lovely blue fruit juice in the spring.”
“Oh come on. I’m busy. I’m not the right sort. I don’t do well with children!”
“Says the woman raising three. I’ll finish sewing up that sunproof costume for your little lad tonight. Off you go. Remember not to make Miss Mrsha suspect anything.”
