An agonized roar replaced by gurgling and hissing as air escaped perforated lungs. Another Passmaw bounded away, screaming, bolts studding its face and eyes. None of the Drakes moved.
[Prepared Strategy Three: Fireball Volley]!
[Battlemages], led by Captain Eirthe, threw [Fireballs] as the alche-corps tossed Blast Flasks. Three Passmaws collapsed, pieces blown out of their charred remains. The remainder were recoiling—the wedges split.
[Prepared Strategy Four: Mighty Cleave]!
Swords, axes performing huge cuts as the Drakes surrounded their foe. Every Drake, Gnoll, Dullahan, and Garuda got one cut each. Not that Garuda were in the rank-and-file most of the time. They got assigned to flying divisions.
The last Passmaw tumbled down the cliff, trying to escape; crossbow bolts hit the falling monster and turned it into a corpse rather than let it flee. Spearmaster Gaellis trotted through the ranks, seeming mightily displeased: he’d never gotten a chance to engage.
<“Good work. Alche-squad, disassemble. I want two groups watching for more monsters. If you attract attention, dump the corpses. The rest of you, move out.”>
The [Soldiers] cleaned blood off their blades, checked on the injuries, replaced spears, and moved.
Thud, thud, thud, THUD.
Thud, thud, thud, THUD.
Thud, thud, thud, THUD.
Thud, thud, thud, THUD—
They caught up to [General] Shirka. She was standing beneath an overhang, raising an enchanted spyglass to her face.
“Ancestors damn it, that’s got to be three mountains between us and Goblinhome. This wide arc had better get us the drop on them or I’m blaming you, Ulhouse.”
She was grousing softly and saying what was on every [Soldier]’s mind. The [Strategist], Ulhouse, who gave orders that made him a bastard, even if he was one of the good ones, replied equally softly.
“We’re not going straight up and down them. Although we could for fun, [General].”
That got him grins. The three mountains reached well past the cloud layer, and Shirka gave Ulhouse one of those half-grimaces that everyone knew was hiding a grin.
She wasn’t happy. It was hard for her to hide her emotions from her army at the best of times given her personality and the way they ‘talked’. She was probably not doing her mental speech because they’d tell how royally pissed she was. She’d been angrier than a Terandrian [Queen] sitting on her own crown, and word was she’d thrown half the command tent off a cliff yesterday when Edellein had told her to get a move on.
Stupid engagement? Stupid leader? 
It’d be the talk of the tents tonight. It didn’t matter. 2nd Army had orders. Shirka’s tail was in a knot.
“Tell me that Goblin Chieftain’s still hanging at the inn.”
“That’s what our spy says.”
“I don’t like it, Ulhouse. She’s onto us.”
“There’s no evidence of that, General. Unless someone told her, like perhaps Saliss—”
That earned him one of Shirka’s death-stares. She liked Saliss of Lights. The [General] hissed under her breath.
“We’re made. I can feel it. We should just roll siege towers up the damn mountains and starve them out. Something’s off. I don’t like…that mountain.”
She pointed to one that Goblinhome was on, or next to. Ulhouse eyed it.
“Because of the shape?”
“I don’t like it, Ulhouse. I don’t like this, I don’t like Magnolia Reinhart occupying the pass…keep an eye on the damn Antinium army. If they roll on our flanks, we fall back.”
Shirka sounded hopeful, as if coming to blows with the Seventh Hive of the Antinium was a good thing. Anything to prevent…she ground her teeth together.
“Ulhouse.”
“General?”
“Put all four ballistae in our camp tonight. Under invisibility. I don’t care what the [Engineers] say. I want them up and trained on the sky. This is when I’d blast us with Frost Wyverns.”
“Aye, [General].”
“And I want a slow approach tomorrow. Nice and slow. Watch for traps.”
The [Soldiers] listened as they marched past her. All the hesitation, all the caution from Shirka, who normally liked to be in the thick of battle without waiting…did it make them worried? Yes and no.
Bad orders. Maybe bad enemies, if you wanted to give the Goblins credit.
Bad [General]? No.
Bad army? No.
They said Liscor was the home of some kind of Goblinfriend. The sentiment didn’t play well with anyone who’d seen the Second Antinium War. You had a few detractors; Pallass was getting weird with people who’d met ‘interesting Goblins’. Relatives who said crazy stuff back home—in Pallass.
Didn’t matter. They’d fight other Walled Cities, monsters, Gnolls, anyone. Battle was tomorrow, unless it wasn’t. Keep marching.
Thud, thud, thud, THUD.
Thud, thud, thud, THUD.
Thud, thud, thud, THUD.
Thud, thud, thud, THUD…
 
——
 
The Mortemdefieir Titan had one, no, two weak points that Rags had observed over prolonged watching and re-watching of battles against it.
She had informed her lieutenants, the Troll Queen, and the Trolls of the weak points in a succinct strategy meeting. As well as her inclination on the risky way to cripple the Titan.
The Troll Queen, Dulat. She was a strange being. She played on her drums ceaselessly, directing and organizing the far-flung Trolls in their various enclaves.
Rags had no real view of their society, only that different clans seemed to lead and acknowledge Dulat as their ruler. She used the drums. She had no real ability to ‘see’ the different parts of the ruined kingdom she ruled.
She knew there were threats here—she played the drums loud. She knew her warriors needed to attack, retreat—she played the right notes.
Dulat was a lonely musician, a drummer playing to an audience she might never see. But when she hit her drums, the mountain’s heart beat.
Rags got the impression Dulat wasn’t always so…stressed. Some of her Troll guides had indicated that this was not how they normally operated.
Dulat sat, tap-tapping her Adamantium ‘drumsticks’, which were really maces, on the ground, keeping a rhythm even as Rags pointed to a diagram.
“The Mortemdefieir Titan is a creation of the ancient City of Graves. It is highly, highly intelligent. However, not all body parts are equally dangerous. Its head is the most dangerous; it is the thinking spellcaster. One word can cause magical effects. Dispel enchantments. Cause pain, blindness.”
Grim Trolls nodded; Rags saw their version of ‘chieftains’, mighty warriors armed with steel or the few enchanted weapons, standing with their arms folded. They regarded the Goblins warily, but not disdainfully. They called Goblins the ‘People of Kings’ and were well aware of the Skills that Goblins could have.
It was why they’d sent for aid.
Rags pointed at the chest next.
“The heart of the chest drains life from anything around it. Both are top-tier threats unless we have [Deathward] spells—which we don’t.”
She turned to Prixall, their [Witch], and the Goblin made a face.
“I can enchant…fifteen? I don’t know [Mass Deathward]. I would need a ritual for that, and if the chest is powerful enough, it would eventually break the enchantment.”
The fact that she could do any had given Rags pause, but she shook her head.
“We don’t need to anyways, because while the arms are mobile and can attack, they’re far less of a threat. Now, there are five pieces of the Mortemdefieir Titan.”
She waited for someone to make the connection, and Redscar frowned. He hadn’t realized it below, but now he was looking at a diagram…
“We know, Chieftain. Where other foot?”
There was the head, torso, left arm, right arm…and left leg. No right leg. Rags bared her teeth.
“Idiot lost it.”
In truth, she suspected it was still buried behind the doors or it had been destroyed. However, she pointed to the foot now.
“The foot is the weakest limb. If the Titan starts forming, it’ll grow a leg.”
She’d seen that too many times. The Goblins and Trolls shifted. Redscar shrugged and sighed as if to say ‘it’s always something’.
However, that missing leg was an opportunity. Because Rags flipped the diagram over and pointed.
“The Mortemdefieir Titan can die. But each body part contains a magical stone inside it. It’s big; the size of a Hobgoblin’s chest and round. Even cutting down to it is hard, and the location’s different in each one. It can also move about. However…if you shatter it, the part dies. Shatter one and the Titan gets weaker. When the last one breaks, it’s mortal.”
Although you had to kill it a final time. Not her problem—in theory. The Trolls instantly started muttering hopefully. They began arguing, and then Dulat raised a hand.
“One says she saw it.”
One of her Troll clan leaders was nodding desperately. She had an eyepatch and vicious cuts on her thick, grey skin. The Troll gestured at her scars, and Dulat translated from Trollish.
“She said she saw it on one hand. Just a bit—then the flesh closed. Then it did this—and ran away.”
The Troll pointed at the scars, and Rags nodded.
“If the Titan thinks it’ll lose a gemstone, it will retreat. And it’s hard to get the stones, let alone break them. Even if you yank one out, it’ll start regenerating instantly. But Redscar or someone armed with an enchanted blade can damage the stones.”
Every eye turned to Redscar, and he grinned. Prixall raised a hand.
“What Tier of magic, Chieftain? Because I can cast—”
“Tier 6. Direct hit on the stones only.”
“Okay, nevermind.”
The irony was that hitting the gemstones hard enough was far superior to trying to disenchant or break them magically. Actually, Rags’ entire vibe was that the Mortemdefieir Titan had been created to resist magical attacks; even the sustained bombardment of a Walled City would barely force it to regenerate.
Naturally, if they were meant to be used against other Walled Cities as well as Dragons. Dragonbreath?
“So what’s the plan, Chieftain?”
Snapjaw was grimacing, unhappy mostly because she wasn’t going to be a significant asset in this fight. The problem was her enemy was a rotten corpse and Snapjaw’s usual fighting tactic revolved around flying on Icecube—who was too fat to come down here—or eating her foe. Not exactly a good idea in Rags’ book.
Rags flipped the page and pointed.
“Cutting a stone out of the Titan is…hard.”
We’ll lose far too many Goblins and Trolls doing it in all the fates I’ve seen. She pointed.
“There is an opportunity, though. Whenever two parts meet—in order to link up, the core-stones have to meet and synchronize. Especially when the left arm meets anything.”
Her new diagram had the left arm and the left leg meeting. Those were her chosen limbs, and her audience once again had questions.
“Chieftain! Why them?”
Taganchiel frowned at the left arm, and Rags smiled bitterly, revealing the final clue she’d found in her fate-seeking.
“Because…the left arm isn’t from this Titan.”
A curious silence followed Rags’ words. One of realization, dismay, and then Redscar’s quiet laughter. He raised his hand.
“And what’s the chance the second Titan comes out of the ground, Chieftain?”
She met his gaze.
“Almost zero.”
He relaxed, and the tension eased a bit from the room. Aside from truly improbable futures, it looked like there was only one Titan—and one arm from another being. What would happen was that when the pieces linked, the two intelligences would fight, and the arm would be subsumed into the main Titan.
In fringe scenarios, the ‘other’ Titan won, so you might have an arm and a torso fighting a really angry head and its remaining limbs, but that wasn’t likely, and frankly, two Titans struck Rags as worse than one.
Still, Dulat didn’t miss the obvious danger in Rags’ plan. She pointed and spoke in rather good English.
“So the plan is to let leg and arm join. Then break them when they show weak stones. What happens…if we fail?”
Rags gave Dulat a nod and exhaled. Her heart was pounding terribly.
“Then…the Mortemdefieir Titan gets a lot stronger and will begin calling the other parts to it. If that happens, we fall back on Plan B.”
Goblin hand.
“What Plan B, Chieftain?”
“Hope a Dragon and a Drake army can kill it.”
There was a long silence as everyone regarded Rags, and then Poisonbite muttered loudly.
“Why that not Plan A?”
Rags tossed her stick to the side and rolled her shoulder and neck, sighing.
“Because, Poisonbite, if we kill the limbs, the stones are very magical and very valuable. They’re made of something called ‘seith’, and that much of it could power…anything. Second—if we send the Dragon and the army at the Titan, they might win. If they fail, we’re fighting a Titan, an army, and an undead Dragon.”
This was an acceptable risk. It was the most acceptable risk, and if they pulled it off…Rags searched around for objections.
“We have a battleground picked out. A nice intersection of tunnels, here. Flat ground with multiple places to flank the two limbs. Dulat is allowing the two limbs to get closer to one another and keeping the other pieces back with her warriors. They are going to meet in about two hours.”
She was trembling and knew they’d read it on her. However, Goblins knew fear. Rags studied them and the Trolls, who regarded the small Chieftain.
“We can win. Ready?”
There was no cheer, only nods, grunts, grins from the crazy, sighing from the cynics. Silence from most, determined and quiet. Rags turned to Dulat. The Troll Queen played a drumroll on the ground.
It sounded like the thunder of Rags’ heart.
 
——
 
A Dragon was…happy.
In his way, he was as happy as he ever was, and sometimes the young woman wondered what that meant for him.
He had lost everything he had ever known and loved. He had been a hero. A real, true hero. Even if he didn’t say it as such, she had found every book that mentioned him, and there were so many if you knew what to look for.
He had a hundred names. Literally. He loved the ‘pretend to be the humble mortal’ routine so much he’d done it countless times over the ages. The only thing that changed was the age he assumed. Once upon a time, he’d been a dashing Drake, then a middle-aged wandering hero, then a grey-haired and grizzled veteran coming to the aid of those in need in his pretentious, silly, well-meaning way.
By the time he’d posed as an old man, millennia had passed him by and he’d grown jaded of it all. He’d left the cares of the world behind, disavowed the petty, cyclical wars of hope and violence and triumph and despair that mortals fell into.
But each and every time, the Dragonlord of Flames would once again fly. He hadn’t always even been the Dragonlord of Flames. He’d given up the title more times than you could count.
That silly old man.
