Then he came back with a counterblow, swift and practiced, that world-weary snort of an elder to a pupil, his tone both kind and knowing.
“How many Goblins do you think I have met, Magnolia Reinhart? How many Reinharts? I have assisted so many. For better or worse.”
His head rose, and his bronze mane flowed like a river of copper under the sun. Cire and Rafaema stirred, gazing up at Teriarch with that youthful wonder.
Magnolia had seen it all before. His tricks didn’t work on her, doubly so because he’d forgotten she’d lived a lifetime of this. She held her ground, neither advancing nor retreating in front of his ageless scorn.
“So she is the same as all the other Goblins you let down.”
“I did not let them—”
Heat entered his voice, and the temperature around them rose a few degrees. Taletevirion was on his hooves, watching Magnolia. He gave her a nod of affirmation. Get that bronze lizard. Or so she assumed he was thinking at her.
“Out of the thousands, nay, countless millions you have graced with your presence and wisdom and aid, wanted or not, oh Dragonlord of Flames, how many have you told the secret of Goblin Kings to?”
His eyes held a flicker of bitter triumph.
“One. To my regret and to the suffering of the world. After that—”
“After that, you never tried again. And how many young women have you ever just told the truth of the world to? Be it the nature of Goblins, the names of dead gods, the reason the Gnomes died or the Elves vanished? How many, Teriarch, know why Winter Sprites fly every winter or what the Eyes of Baleros do?”
Rafaema had been sneering at Magnolia; the Lightning Dragon did not like Magnolia, perhaps seeing in her a reflection and comparison that bothered her. Or maybe she just hated the color pink. But now, her eyes slid to Teriarch.
He hesitated.
“I let those I converse with draw their own conclusions. From your statements, you appear to know the truth of all these matters. Which indicates I told you.”
His uncertain gaze swept over her, and she gave him a smile that revealed nothing.
“Everything I do know I pieced out of your ramblings for decades, old man. Out of hints and riddles and obnoxious non-sequitur statements and slipups that revealed more than you intended. Oh yes, I know why Goblins are the monsters. I know something of the dead gods, though you said they were well and truly gone.”
“I had it on the authority of Gnomes—”
“Gnomes! It took me two years of acquaintanceship before you told me they had existed. You gave me a Gnomish riddle and refused to answer questions on them until I solved it.”
“Hah, that does sound like me.”
“I started drinking when I was eighteen, despite knowing what it did to my family. Your cute Gnomish riddle stumped [Archmages] for decades.”
And it was a pun. There was a special place in Hellste for people who made pun-riddles.
Hellste, another place she had to work out existed and was real based on his ramblings. Magnolia Reinhart continued, her voice not angry. Just earnest. Earnestly frustrated, but so weary that it was more like painful, nostalgic reminiscing.
“You make each young protégé work to learn anything valuable, Terrium Archelis Dorishe. I suppose you think it’s kindness, and it has worked for you in the past, I assume. But the wise mentor routine drives each and every one of us to madness. That girl came to you, the last Dragonlord of this era.”
“Not the last, technically. There could be as many as—”
“The last Dragon she will meet who knows the truth of things. With death on her heels, searching for inspiration, for hope, for a miracle. Or just the truth. What she found was that knowing smirk and a bunch of self-aggrandizing stories. You let her down. You have time to ‘teach’ these young Dragons. You may even do a good job of it. But kindly do not have the gall to wonder why Chieftain Rags doesn’t return unless she needs something blasted with flames.”
There was an ooh from the Unicorn behind her. Silence from the audience, which included Oteslia’s and Manus’ protectors. The Dragons regarded Teriarch, and Ressa nodded once. Magnolia just waited. The Dragon held himself upright, crossing his two foreclaws together, his face troubled and pained. He knew how to lose gracefully, too, and exhaled.
“If that is your judgment of me, then perhaps I have let her down. I shall make amends—”
“No, you shall not.”
She snapped at him, and he blinked.
“But you said—”
“Leave her alone. Stop giving her false hope. Don’t walk up to her posing as an old Goblin. She’s rightfully suspicious of them, and you aren’t that good at acting. Don’t tease her with bits and pieces. Tell her what she needs to know or leave her be. This is not another one of your endless, wearying ages. This is an era with dead gods walking the land, an era where you died and were called back to do great and important things. Or have you forgotten your charge? Tell the children all the truth, Teriarch! Or once more, respectfully and kindly, do not bother.”
Magnolia Reinhart’s voice rose. The young woman adjusted her new, pink hat that annoyed the Dragon so much and tossed her head back defiantly.
Her [Assassin] bodyguard and friend, Ressa, lounged to the side, cleaning her nails with a dagger, hair dyed jet-black, eyeshadow and pale powder turning her face into a gothic mask before it was cool, crimson hearts drawn on her right cheek to count her kills.
Magnolia was in the here and now and, simultaneously, standing in the past. Young and old. She could see herself, wearing her flashy new pink hat in ages gone by, Ressa wearing her all-black [Assassin] outfit. The her of now wore all-pink, business clothing, and Ressa had adopted a [Maid] uniform and refused to admit she had ever had a tattoo of a crow with a bloody eyeball in its beak on her neck. She could see that Ressa, see herself; only Teriarch changed, as the ages flickered in Magnolia’s vision. If she turned her head, Magnolia Reinhart fancied she would see Ryoka Griffin, the Dancer of Chandrar, the last Harpy Queen, Dragons, Garuda, Selphids, and beings of every species lined up and nodding approvingly.
—The moment faded, and for a second, Magnolia envied Erin Solstice’s [Immortal Moments]. The Dragon’s mouth stayed open, and she knew she’d finally gotten through to him. Mostly because his voice became suddenly petulant and argumentative as she turned on her heel.
“H-hold on. I feel rather attacked. Sprung upon, you could say, just like a Lesegothian defense. A Frost Giant’s shield to the face. Where is this coming from, pray? I realize we are slightly hampered by the, ah, memory issues, but I feel like I’ve been as straightforwards as one can expect of me—”
“Oh, come on, Teriarch. She got you with everything I’ve been saying since I was a newborn foal. You were chatting up young Unicorns when the Vale Forest was still in the mile high tree club. Take the criticism like a big Dragon, and don’t make yourself look bad.”
Taletevirion interposed himself between Magnolia and Teriarch as the Brass Dragon tried to lumber after her. Ressa also blocked the massive Dragon, who tried to move her with one claw; she pointedly drew the Blade of Grasses and poked it between two scales on his claw.
He huffed at both of them.
“So I should give her a Relic-class artifact and a pat on the back? Here’s a magic sword and where to find Velan the Kind’s other key, good luck? Watch out for Yehthim?”
He was baiting, but Magnolia wasn’t rising to it. She walked on, calling over her shoulder.
“I still don’t know how the Halflings died, Wall Lady Rafaema, Lord Cirediel. At least, all the nuance around the final wars and whatnot. Some atrocities, yes, but I lost my timeline to that disaster years ago. If you’d care to exchange notes in a month or two, we could have a convivial night putting the pieces together.”
“I could do that.”
Even Rafaema was abandoning team Teriarch for the moment. She could see a rout in progress, and Cire nodded rapidly.
“Yeah, that’d be Archm—pretty cool. Cooler than hanging out with this dude who doesn’t tell us anything.”
“I am being slandered.”
“Indeed? Ressa, write all this down so it can also be libel. Though I believe the prerequisite for both is that I have to state falsehoods.”
“Hah! Got him again.”
The Unicorn pranced right and left, delighted, and Teriarch, by contrast, stopped huffing. He was a sensitive salamander, prone to getting his feelings hurt or jealousy if someone had more gelato than he did, mercurial, picky, arrogant, and all the things you’d expect.
But when you hurt his feelings, his real feelings hidden behind all that bluster and the layers of his hide and armor—he did bleed. He called out at Magnolia’s back, no longer outraged, but serious, voice rasping.
“If I have let you down so greatly, I apologize, Magnolia.”
She half-turned, and again, her lips moved upwards in genuine fondness.
“You were the best thing that happened to a young lady raised to be a viper amongst flowers, Teriarch. A fine teacher, inspiration, and so much more. I could not have asked for more.”
The but she left unspoken and slapped him in the face with. He dug his claws into the hard earth.
“—If you were that curious about Halflings, or if I left anything unsaid—”
“Do better next time.”
Now you walk without looking back. That’s how you achieve victory in this scenario. Magnolia strolled away as Teriarch stood there.
She was almost out of there as Reynold held open the carriage door, Young Women 1, Dragonlords 0, stop the count, full victory obtained, no prisoners taken, when he called out at her back.
Because he always had something. Always. And he was clever.
“—Whatever you know about Goblins is incomplete. You know the why, in broad strokes, but even if I helped you infer the truth, you don’t know that original story that reveals why they were called monster. You don’t know…the truth of why the divine are dead. Of why Elves schismed and went to war, the triumph of Gnomes. For I told no one. Not even my own daughter, not my beloved. Not even the Gnomes dared tell others the truth my mother told me.”
Magnolia’s foot stopped on the lip of the carriage door, and she closed her eyes. She had a Ring of Balefire Rays on her finger—a gift from Teriarch. If she twisted it and thought the activation-word, it’d hurt even him.
She turned her head slowly. The Dragon went on.
“She did it so carefully, too. In a place beyond the ears of any being to hear, far from the naked sky. In a room more secure than any Dragonthrone; dare I say it, more private than even The Last Boxes of Gnomes in a way. I know it. Chieftain Rags’ truth. But even more than that. Even the Goblin Kings might not know the truth that I do.”
You bastard. Magnolia Reinhart was no longer smiling. She gave him her own hard stare, her forest-green eyes serious.
“Then speak. If it matters.”
He hesitated, glancing around at Spearmaster Lulv, crouched behind a boulder, Mivifa of Feathers and Feathi, who were trying to stand behind Cirediel, the servants, some of whom were taking notes, Ressa, who had the most skeptical look on her face—he coughed.
“Ah, well, perhaps in a more secluded setting? At least, not with so many interlopers—”
Magnolia swung herself into the carriage, and Teriarch galloped forwards to lean on it and prevent it taking off.
“—Then again, trust is something one should earn. Maybe we should call Chieftain Rags, first, though?”
“Reynold, I have an obstruction on the carriage. Kindly remove it.”
Magnolia called from within, stuffing the first sweets into her mouth. Reynold got up and began to poke at the Dragon’s claw, and he relented.
“Oh, very well—stop that.”
He snapped his claws, and Magnolia popped out of the carriage and appeared in the air. She floated down to sit on a little cloud as Teriarch huffed and conjured more seats for everyone. He realized he had lost credibility, and the only way to win it back, especially for Rafaema and Cirediel, was to provide the truth.
He still had to play it up, conjuring a Unicorn-shaped bed for Taletevirion, but even the irascible old Unicorn didn’t stop Teriarch. He was giving Magnolia one horse side-eye.
Is he actually—?
She leaned over and whispered.
“You don’t know?”
“Me? You heard him. I’ve heard Dryads and Treants pestering him for details on Elves. I’ve met other Dragonlords, and once I learned to tell when they’re all hot air, I realized most of them didn’t know either. Most didn’t even know the question. He doesn’t even brag about this story. That’s how secret it is.”
Despite her incredulity, Magnolia’s skin thrilled to hear that. Were they actually going to hear a legitimate, first edition, unique Teriarch tale?
He sat in a ring of fascinated faces, as skeptical and incredulous as some might be, clearing his throat, brushing his mane back.
“Needless to say, this is the oldest story in, well, creation. This explains everything. Goblins. The disappearance of most Elves before the system of levels and classes even existed, and the entire—nature of the world. The last war of the divine. You could say that all the present unrest is due to the survivors of that war finally re-emerging. That is how momentous this tale is.”
“Which you know.”
Magnolia’s voice dripped skepticism. Teriarch huffed at her.
“Which was relayed to me by a third-hand source. My mother’s father witnessed the events. You see, even among Dragons, they were exceptionally long-lived, and I have outlived both’s lifespans combined, so this is actually the most authentic source you could ask for. Aside from whatever was written down. Or recorded. As oral storytelling goes, it’s virtually unchanged—”
“Aside from the fact that you can’t string together a linear narrative for more than five seconds. Get on with it or we’re all walking to Liscor!”
Taletevirion barked, and Teriarch’s return glare was actually fierce enough to get the Unicorn to shut up for a second.
“This is not an idle story, Taletevirion. This is the truth. I have been goaded to it. So…here I go. I am telling the story of this world. As it ended and began. The folly of gods. You know, I should redact their names. It gives them power. Though most players are legitimately dead. Needless to say that once you know this truth, you are bound in the same struggle as I am, and Erin Solstice.”
“As if we weren’t already. Continue, pray?”
Magnolia raised her brows. Teriarch nodded.
