“Eh, you’ve got shards of your own scales embedded in your flesh, but it looks like only the outer layers. They’ll come out. Seems like most spells bounced off your natural resistance. I don’t like that cloud he hit you with, and that vortex might have done weird things to your circulation. You’ll live.”
He patted Teriarch on the side. The Brass Dragon yelped and hissed at him.
“What? At least fish the shards out!”
“Don’t be a baby. Your skin pushes out pieces of metal or digests it. That’s the entire point of Brass Dragons. Eat a block of iron and two copper blocks for dinner. I need to check on your Lighting Dragon. I think the Halfling held back from doing damage to her brain, but you can’t tell with head-wounds.”
That shut Teriarch up, and he winced as he shifted and felt said metal shards digging into his skin.
“It’ll take ages to heal.”
“Suck it up. You’re the idiot who forgot you could summon killer Halflings from space.”
Teriarch limped after Taletevirion, and he really wasn’t hamming it up. He rasped, a bit triumphant.
“I knew it was for a reason. I knew I was cautious, but I didn’t know why, you see? I actually met him three times. The first was when I was a little hatchling and some Dragonlords decided to talk to us about the past. He came down and killed the old Dragonlord of Storms.”
“Third offense?”
“No…I think not? Maybe he mellowed out? Or maybe the attack matches the transgression? It certainly explains why I decided to drip-feed information to all my acquaintances over the years.”
The Unicorn rolled his eyes.
“Absolutely. No self-reflection needed on any other part. Listen, Teriarch, I’m not part of this little war.”
“Oh come on. You just saw—”
The Unicorn spun and jabbed Teriarch in the foreclaw. His eyes flashed.
“I’m not part of it! You heard my oath, and no, that’s not ‘new’, that’s older than I am! I’m not fighting Halflings, I’m not healing armies, I’m going back north to the forest after this.”
“You don’t mean that. You know Tolveilouka is here, and I’ve explained the odds.”
Teriarch replied quietly. Taletevirion avoided his gaze.
“Not my war. Those six whatevers weren’t there when my forests burned, on either side. My war is lost and dead, and I’m damned tired. Now, if you want to salvage this donkey dung day, you can have a chat with the young women you’ve let down and be honest about other things.”
He meant Magnolia and Rafaema, but Teriarch’s mind flashed towards the Goblin. Groaning, he felt at his side and realized he was leaking blood on the ground. Blood. Him. Even Rhisveri hadn’t done nearly as much damage.
He’d have to take off his exercise program for at least a week, and that actually didn’t feel as good as he thought it would. Teriarch was limping over to Magnolia to tender some kind of explanation and realized she was purring into a speaking stone.
“—Nonsense, Bethal. Has Thomast left you yet? Or your sister turned into a pile of reanimated bones? Don’t scream at me. That’s not a threat. We’re long past threats. I was simply asking if you had any proof your dear patroness was real. It seems she’s abandoned you, for all your little shrines.”
Magnolia listened with a half-smile on her face as a tinny voice snapped back from the speaking stone. She interrupted.
“—Bethal, you’ve always been prone to imagination. Clearly, you have nothing between you and my people but the Terlands. Oh, and loyal Thomast. Tell him to work on his deflecting projectile training. How many can he do at once? Eighteen? And do have fun with your new mistress. You’re serving her so loyally, I’m sure another hundred thousand Draugr will appear in a month’s time.”
She held the stone away from her ear.
“What threat? Good night, Bethal. And do remember me to your sister. I recall her sacrifice. A true heroine of the Sacrifice of Roses. I can’t imagine how she feels to be sharing a roof with a traitor, but—”
She didn’t wait for the explosion of words; Magnolia just handed the speaking stone to Reynold, who put it under a pillow and carried it away. Teriarch stared at Magnolia as she turned innocently to him.
“…Are you trying to weaponize that Halfling? Are you insane?”
Even for her, that was crazy. Magnolia smiled sweetly.
“Me? Never. I’m just encouraging Bethal to do what she does best. Which is raise the stakes. Come now, Teriarch, we’ve been handed an asset that I have to believe is slightly on our side.”
“He threatened to kill me if I tell the truth a third time.”
“So there are rules. Let’s drop him onto Roshal and see what happens. Everything you ever told me about Halflings led me to believe they were no worse a people than any other, and quite kindhearted at times. I can’t imagine an ally of the original Elves would be morally corrupt. What might he do if he ran into the lovely Naga or his new friends?”
—She had a good point. Teriarch had a muzzy feeling that Dragons had tried to weaponize the Halfling on each other, however few had ever known the truth, even in the past, and it had backfired in their faces. He didn’t base that off any exact memories, just a hunch about his kind.
“That one isn’t playing games, and frankly, if he were entirely on ‘our’ side, I’d have expected him at the Solstice, Magnolia.”
She frowned.
“True. I wonder why he didn’t appear for the genuine article.”
“Maybe he can’t harm them?”
Ressa was resting, having just had her ribs repaired by Taletevirion. Magnolia and Teriarch gave the [Assassin] such a look of surprise that the woman grimaced as Ressga adjusted some pillows for her.
“Don’t look at me like that. You saw the three-in-one at the Solstice. Blades did spit to her, and even that Faerie-Knight barely put up a fight. How d’you kill an army you can’t beat? You starve it to death, even if it means burning every field in a hundred miles.”
Wonderful thought. Teriarch rubbed at his brows. He needed to lie down, count how many artifacts he’d lost, and—
He felt the tremor before he heard it. The Dragonlord spun as the High Passes shook—the second time today.
“Oh no. Did Bethal already—?”
Magnolia looked up with everyone else, and Teriarch’s heart beat wildly, but the tremor wasn’t as strong as last time. It was more localized and—he realized—
It was coming from below. That mountain, there. He narrowed his eyes at what he thought might be…
“Trolkedruleth. Has something happened in the mountain?”
Magnolia’s brows shot up in instant alarm. She swayed slightly, bracing against one of Teriarch’s legs as he tried to cast scanning spells, but of course, there was so much magicore and other types of stone that it was virtually impossible to see down that far without preparation. He exhaled.
“I’m sure it’s nothing. And even if it is—something, it is doubtless a matter for the Trolls, who still hold the kingdom.”
He tried to sound reassuring as Ressga, Ressa, Magnolia, Taletevirion, and even a bleary Rafaema all turned to give him a skeptical look. Teriarch paused and cleared his throat.
“It couldn’t be anything serious. There’s nothing down there worse than what might come from the tops of the High Passes, frankly. And even then—no…well, there are the doors. But I’m sure that they’d never be breached—real Dwarves made them, you know. And even if there were remnants from the old Wars of the Deeps…”
He swallowed hard. Then gave everyone a confident smile.
“Bah, what are we talking about? Let’s get patched up and have some tea.”
He was sure, positive, that there was nothing to worry about. Teriarch began to chivvy everyone towards his cave, then decided it was a mess and that Magnolia’s temporary mansion was better. He was herding them into her carriage, trying not to favor his left side too much, trying not to think about old crimes and weapons of war that might survive about twenty-four thousand years of strife.
Not today. His scales were shredded. Vector points for his weaker flesh to be struck. Even a Gold-rank adventurer of the modern age could wound him if they got past his scales. But it wasn’t going to be a problem. He’d eat a damn bucket of copper ore and heal up in a week or two. Teriarch gritted his teeth.
Nothing’s wrong. Everything is going to be fine.
Even he didn’t believe that one.
 
——
 
A man returned to the moon. That was a good way of looking at him.
The man on the moon. It said everything, really. All anyone needed to know.
Very few had ever met him. He wasn’t really…there most of the time.
The Elves were not so cruel as to make him sit for eternity, alone, with naught to brood on but the past and his unending task. When he was not needed, he vanished and was only alive in the thrum of power in their work, in magic itself, and he neither dreamed nor felt time pass.
When he awoke, he knew his job. The execution of it was like a riddle.
Not the fighting. He was like a bigtall on top of the rumble mound with a stick, all his foes younguns trying to knock him down. He’d fought everything before.
Dragons. Djinni. Armies.
Yes, even Gods. Though he knew his odds against one of them in the flesh.
Three chances for those who offended. Or only one. Sometimes, none.
The riddle was the context of where he appeared. Was it a sneering conclave of Dragons? Someone inadvertently trying to create what should be forgotten? Always, it had to be grand in scope.
Something that would truly upset the work of the Elves. That was the prerequisite; if you were careful, you would never meet him. But that old Dragon…
Even for the man on the moon, it had been a long time. That old Dragon knew the truth, so he was watched, held to a higher level of scrutiny by whatever judgment the Elves had made. He, like anyone else who was timeless, should let the matter rest.
What had the woman said? The Halfling relaxed as he felt himself drifting away. In the time before respite took him, he understood.
They’re coming back. The Elves had feared that too. She’d asked him for help, called him to battle, but she couldn’t understand the plan. He was no avenging warrior to slay them if they did return. He was a warrior with a slingstaff.
He’d seen the war when it had been truly made and watched beings stand, miles tall, and slaughter Giants like gnats. Watched the heavens themselves rip asunder as beings wrestled and fought in conflicts he could barely bear witness to. Moons shattering. Pieces of the world torn asunder by the final blows.
He was a single sentry with one mission: to stop the moments when the truth was shouted across the world. And he could tell…
The end was coming. There was a fraying in the spells binding him. A strain in the air.
The man on the moon sat and fished out a pipe, even if it was just a memory of what he’d owned, and puffed on it. Smoke rose, trailing around in odd patterns in the low atmosphere of the moon, and the Halfling sighed.
This, too, was fine. The Gnomes had told him no plan would ever be complete, even when he volunteered.
It was enough to see the ages pass by. Though it hurt.
Man on the moon, they called him. Not all of them. The few beings who’d ever made it up this far had known his name.
The Moon Halfling, said the staring Lizardfolk who tried to get his attention.
Unwise, arrogant [Mages] who tried to claim this place had called him the Guardian of the Eyes of Heaven, but known his species, even brought one of his kind to ‘reason’ with him.
The man on the moon had begun later. When a begging voice from the world below called up to him. When magic itself was dead and only he remained, for the Elves had a mastery of it that had weathered that dark night.
A staring Void Dragon, weary, who asked what and who he was.
Man on the moon. So that was how he knew his people were gone.
Puffing softly on the pipe, the Halfling vanished and wondered when he would appear, land, and meet his match. Then, he was sure, he’d laugh and whoop and cheer as he met his long-awaited end.
It would be a glorious day, and he felt only a day had passed since he said farewell to the world he knew. A day of strange battles and sadness and heartache and decisions and death, but only a day; he could do this another year if he must. But he’d be happy when it ended and he met his match, whomever or whenever it would be.
For then, he’d know they were ready to discover the truth.
