Maybe there are some futures so removed that they just don’t happen. Like there’s no future where you have kids, right, Rags?
Both of them turned and stared for a long time at a green door that had appeared behind them. Rianchi let the intrusive thoughts win and opened it just a hair…
He closed it fast and put his back to it, cheeks flushing with color. All the Goblins peered at him. Rags narrowed her eyes.
“Who’s in there?”
“No one, Chieftain!”
“Let me see! Don’t—oh.”
Dyeda elbowed her husband aside, opened the door, and then closed it fast. They both eyed Rags. She folded her arms.
“Who?”
“Uh. You looking very happy, Chieftain. And older. You probably pretty old! Fully Hobgoblin, too…”
“Who?”
“…Chieftain Garen.”
Rianchi winced, waiting for the Rags-explosion, but the Flooded Waters Chieftain just rubbed at her head.
“Yeah, this place can be stupid. There’s a door where Chieftain Garen marries everyone. Hey, palace, show me one where he marries Dyeda.”
The [Tattooist] blinked, and Rianchi ran over to bar the new door that had, appropriately, a tattoo of a Redfang on it.
“No! I don’t want to see it!”
“You jealous?”
“Yes!”
Mrsha, though, was giving Rags a full frown. She raised a paw, snapped her fingers, and held up a card.
Door where Garen marries everyone we know! With signs, please!
—The hallway was filled with doors. Rags turned, and her eyebrows rose. Rianchi lowered his arms, and Fightipilota began laughing.
Jelaqua, Erin, Ceria, Montressa, Krshia, Pisces—
Mrsha barked a laugh at that last one and dashed over. Fighti was laughing too as she called out.
“Look! Look, there Redscar! We have to show him!”
“Don’t! It’ll make him sad! Don’t be disrespectful!”
Dyeda ran after Fighti, and the laughing Redfang began yanking open doors. Right until she came to a halt and stared at one that said ‘Fightipilota’. That wiped the smirk clean off her face.
The [Palace of Fates] could cut you. Rags felt the brief moment of humor drain out of her, and indeed, Mrsha came back.
“Not as funny as you thought?”
…Pisces is a sad dude. It sort of makes sense, even though it’s really weird. Someone’s gotta love him.
Mrsha paused as she wrote.
Plus, he illusioned himself as a cute girl Goblin, and that wasn’t a really good idea.
Rags snorted despite herself, but then she just stood there, breathing in and out.
“It’s time to go. Unless you have something that can turn the tide of this battle on your own, Mrsha?”
She studied the Gnoll girl and waited. Mrsha du Marquin—hesitated. She stood there, uncertain, eyes flicking to Rags, to the doors, and then wrote.
You’re doing the ‘kill two limbs’ plan? Pretty safe, right?
“Safe is…not the word I’d use. But the best possibility. Anything, Mrsha?”
Maybe. But I am afraid of doing more harm than good.
The Gnoll girl held the card up, and her face was serious and pained—and Rags wondered why she’d ever thought Mrsha was an airhead with nothing that mattered to her. Maybe Mrsha had been like that, but…Rags heaved a breath.
“Then if I fail, I’m returning and we’re warning everyone. Agreed?”
If you fail, tell Dyeda and Rianchi. They’re staying here, right?
The two Goblins glanced up, but Rags had no need of them on a battlefield, and it would be a good use of their time. Mrsha nodded slowly and held out a paw.
Good luck, Rags.
The Goblin took the paw and shook it firmly. Rags felt better, but she had to ask as she looked Mrsha in her eyes.
“Are you sure there is nothing?”
Her response was a hesitation that rippled through all of Mrsha and then a card that made Rags shiver, as if she were looking at Erin Solstice and the [Innkeeper] had a white flag in her hands.
There is always something. But I fear the consequences of it more than even that Titan. Than all of 2nd Army. Wake the Dragonlord of Flames first.
—Well then. Rags stepped back and nodded. She turned on her heel and called to Fightipilota, and the Goblin fell in step with Rags. They left the [Palace of Fates], and Rianchi and Dyeda went into the inn to cover for Mrsha in case anyone was searching for her.
The Gnoll girl remained below and stood there a while, head bowed in thought. She hoped Rags was victorious. Because she was afraid.
Her paws were shaking. Shaking as she made the other doors vanish. She walked down a long hallway now, feet treading across marble, then soft grass.
Like…a garden. A hall-length mirror of glass reflected the tall grass as Mrsha walked towards a single door at the far end, battered and scarred and nearly blown to pieces with a familiar brass knob. In the reflection of the mirror, Mrsha saw herself, walking ahead, and a giant figure, stalking along, step by taloned step.
The Empress of Harpies, Sheta, bowed her head and gazed at Mrsha via the mirror. Bird talons. Dark blue wings, vast, half the height of the Mortemdefieir Titan, regal, wearing ancient clothing, born down by scars and time, her vast eyes blinking with the authority of one of the rare few who had reached Level 70.
Mrsha ignored her. The Harpy Queen watched as the Gnoll girl came to that door and hesitated before it. A single object ran from the door onto the floor.
A long root.
Blooming with yellow flowers.
Mrsha halted before this door, took a breath—
And then opened it and stepped inside.
 
——
 
2nd Army of Pallass. Shirka’s Slayers.
Each army had a name after the general. Whether it was accurate or not, you decide. Of course, they had unofficial names, but the ones on the books were simple.
Edellein’s Elites. Duln’s Defenders. Thrissiam’s Tenacities.
Each army had a style. Generals influenced them, but the nature of armies shaped who they were.
1st Army was always on the defense of Pallass. It usually meant [Lineholders].
2nd Army were attackers. Meant for city-on-city warfare.
3rd Army was mobile. Quick-response, but only within reasonable terrain. No mountain or swamp-fighting experience.
…And so on.
Circumstances had moved Shirka up from 3rd Army to 2nd Army, but she’d kept the army, if that made sense. New roles; not as big a mixup as you might think. Chaldion had still been in command, and he’d seen the right stuff in Shirka. She’d proven as much in several scraps against local Drake cities.
Now, 4th Army under Edellein was 1st Army…that was a weird one. Edellein’s Elites loved their high-level commanders, like [Lieutenant of Perfection] Comois. But they were also called ‘Pallass’ Bandits’ because they loved winning battles where they had the drop on the enemy. And looting enemy forces of all their armor and weapons and ransoming the prisoners off.
Not Shirka’s first pick for siege defense, but Pallass hadn’t been properly sieged since the last Antinium War. Edellein as the leader of Pallass’ armed forces?
Didn’t sit right.
Didn’t sit right at all with the [Soldiers], and they could be superstitious, surly, and even sometimes stupid, but they knew their leaders.
It wasn’t just higher-ups who had a problem with the promotion. General Duln was dead. Chaldion was…gone. Rumor was they’d found him screaming, gurgling on his own blood, unable to die, then some half-tailed lackwit had healed him up. He’d turned into a zombie, drooling, not saying a word.
Bad battle, anyways. Not a lot of [Soldiers] had actually been on the front, but rumors went around all the armies from people who’d been there. At first, everyone had assumed it was High Command doing some propaganda.
Ten thousand Draugr, really? Then they’d understood—no, Duln was dead. Chaldion was out. There really had been a damn war to end all wars.
It made the rank-and-file uneasy, so they talked. Wise officers let them talk just enough, then made them train to forget or reminded them not to gossip. Bad ones let the talk run rampant. But even the best officers couldn’t stop the muttering.
General Edellein. No Thrissiam Blackwing. Thrissiam…Thrissiam would have been a good commander. There was a reason he’d been 2nd Army’s previous [General] and sent to kill the Goblin Lord. He’d been the real successor to Chaldion. Edellein was a Blackwing; one of Pallass’ old noble families, even if that didn’t matter as much as in other cities.
Thrissiam had been General Thrissiam, sir, nevermind the surname. Did you get it?
It wasn’t just 2nd Army that thought this way. If you had to replace old Chaldion, then make it the next-best [General]. Shirka killed things. She was young, but so what? Better Shirka than Edellein. Both would tell you to go into the meat grinder, but one would pull you aside and give you a pep talk.
The other would tell you she wanted you to kill half a battalion before you retreated or she’d have your tail for supper. Which one did you want if you were up against Spearmaster Lulv?
Shirka wouldn’t replace old Chaldion. There was Strategist Esor for that. But if you had to replace the Cyclops, you needed a [General] and [Strategist] who worked like reidmoss oil and naphtha flames. One ignited the other; they were complementary. Put them together and you blew someone’s face off. Edellein and Esor were like a toad and a rock on top of the toad.
If you were ignoring Pallass’ best [Strategist]…Shirka listened to [Strategists], even if she cursed out Ulhouse in the middle of battle. She could take his input and work with it. She didn’t blindly follow, but she listened. Edellein only listened if you said something he liked.
Thud, thud, thud, THUD. 
Worry about their new High Command.
Thud, thud, thud, THUD.
Rumors about the Solstice. About Liscor. If they got leave, would they be allowed to visit? Or would the Goblin thing make that hostile?
Thud, thud, thud, THUD.
Ask if anyone had heard about ‘Goblinhome’. Any more reports? What’s the word?
Thud, thud, thud, THUD.
How long till lunch?
The sound in the background of 2nd Army’s march was the bootsteps of their army. One-two-three-four, with the fourth step just slightly harder than the first.
Not a stomp. Stomping wasted energy, and the army knew how to march. But just a slight bit harder step. Just a bit. And every [Soldier] did it, so it sounded like thunder.
If you were a new recruit to Shirka’s Slayers, you listened to that thud. You could ignore your fatigue, march to the hypnotizing thunder every four steps. Get lost in it.
The whispers and chatter weren’t loud; they were under orders to zip it. After all, they were climbing up winding passages in the mountains, following their [Scouts]’ trails and hopefully keeping off of the Goblins’ radar.
It meant marching fast, heads on a swivel, through one of the deadliest terrains in Izril. They’d had to fight to get this far.
First, they’d had to navigate through the foothills, avoiding both Liscor’s war and the main roads to keep out of sight. That meant night-marches, smearing your armor, and yes, even fighting through the Bloodfields’ perimeter.
They got it done. It might be that this wouldn’t help ambush the Goblins at all; moving an entire damn army was hard to hide. But it was also fair to say the Goblins probably didn’t have an exact read on where 2nd Army was, even if they knew they were coming.
<“Halt! Ten minute break!”>
A command ran back through the lines. A shout, with authority, from [Spearmaster] Gaellis himself. Only, not one out loud.
In your head. Shirka’s Skill. You got used to it. 2nd Army grumbled and talked amongst itself in silence. They still had some chatter discipline; too many unfocused minds was bad. But they talked like that.
Damn Goblins. Making us march out all this way just to kill them. Why couldn’t they be like the Goblin Lord and burn a few cities and come to us?
Broad laughter from whomever had thought that. But not much. That was from Line Battalion 13. They were passed up by a group of silent Drakes and fell instantly quiet.
Slayer Squads. Shirka’s army’s nickname wasn’t just for show. The Drakes who marched past the younger [Soldiers] were older, scarred.
Veterans of the 2nd Antinium War. You had a few main groups.
One. [Monster Slayers]. Decorated with their kills, with the more ‘unique’ sets of armor that gave them a look like Gnoll tribesfolk.
Two. [Antinium Slayers]. They didn’t make armor out of their foes, and none of them wanted leave in Liscor. It wouldn’t have been approved, even if they’d asked.
Three. [Goblin Slayers]. They were grim right now, and anyone who mouthed off about how this was going to be a day’s light work got blasted by them.
2nd Army had a few unique groups like that in the army that set them apart from others. The second was alche-squads; Drakes armed with alchemical bottles, [Battle Alchemists] like Saliss of Lights. You didn’t need as many [Mages] when you had a good [Alchemist].
One other unique oddity of 2nd Army was its [Spearmasters]. Spearmaster Gaellis was the best one. Level 46. He’d faced off against Spearmaster Lulv of Manus and had the scars to prove it.
2nd Army had three [Spearmasters]. They were always looking for more. If you thought you had the thunder, they’d let you train with them, join the spear-based regiment, but you’d get the shit kicked off your tail fast enough.
<“Break’s over. Move out!”>
Thud, thud, thud, THUD.
Thud, thud, thud, THUD.
Thud, thud—
<“Eyes up! Attack coming on your flank! Straight down the cliffs!”>
That was Shirka’s voice. The [Soldiers] on the march spun, and Strategist Ulhouse blared instructions.
“<Three spear-wedges there, there, and there! Bunch it up and brace! Don’t let them toss you over the cliffs!”>
Drakes slammed into position, bracing behind spears, and gazed up. They heard the first echoing roar half a minute later as a great beast bounded down the mountainside.
Passmaws. Eight of them leaping down after what they took as easy prey. Drakes and Gnolls braced, silent, and the roar faltered as the monsters saw not inviting targets, but three quiet wedges of troops. Hard to find any gaps or weak spots. Still, they leapt downwards, thinking to ram the [Soldiers] apart and hurl them down the cliffs.
Brace. Brace…
General Shirka’s Skills activated as the Passmaws landed, showering the [Soldiers] with rubble before darting in with swiping claws, trying to bite with maws big enough to chomp any [Soldier] in half.
[Prepared Strategy One: Shield Wall]!
One. Passmaws slammed their paws into shields that refused to buckle. Drakes grunted; spears rammed through fur, drawing dark red blood. The Passmaws recoiled; the ones biting couldn’t find any purchase aside from spear hafts.
One of the [Monster Slayers] called a target, and it illuminated the throat of the Passmaw as it reared back.
[Target Weak Point]! [Mark Target]!
Crossbows thunked.
[Prepared Strategy Two: Arrow Barrage]!
