He hit the Halfling with an impact that shook the ground, and the blade rebounded as the Halfling grimaced. The Unicorn’s horn flashed brighter than the sun.
The Halfling dropped his slingstaff, and his shield shook as the horn slashed across it. He whirled and heaved, and Taletevirion went stumbling left. The Halfling pointed a finger and spoke a word.
“██████████!”
The word hurt. The silver fur across the Unicorn’s flank exploded in a puff of air. He stumbled, glanced down at his flanks, and saw parts of his body flake away in a gentle cloud of dust. Taletevirion’s horn glowed desperately as he collapsed, trying to undo—
“Wretch!”
Flames baked the Halfling for a second as Teriarch exhaled. Lulv’s howl exploded from his mouth as the wounded [Spearmaster] leapt towards the Halfling, heedless of the golden flames. Teriarch’s flames—
Vanished. The Brass Dragon choked as the Halfling threw something into Teriarch’s mouth. The second vortex opened in Teriarch’s throat, and a howling Dragon writhed, flickers of golden flame escaping from his maw.
A blade ran Lulv through the stomach, slicing through all the spear dances and Skills. The Halfling kicked the Gnoll off the blade and caught a dagger aimed at his chest. His third blow to Ressa made her limbs jerk. One arm twisted around in her socket; she landed, staring at a leg bent backwards.
The Dragonlord was the last. He exhaled again, and a flash of gold marked the vortex dissipating as it finally overloaded. Blood ran from Teriarch’s jaws, and he raised his head—a stone tore the air and hit him like a comet.
—He rolled back onto his claws with the impact. His side was dented in. He could barely breathe, but he still roared. Crimson lightning bolts rained down as the Halfling planted his slingstaff and caught one on it. The warrior waited as Teriarch swiveled to face him.
[Mass Ray of Disintegrations] dodged with a leap from the staff, two bolts parried with a sword.
[Meteor of Extinction] met a stone from that sling and exploded, unformed. The Halfling was charging at him, a tiny figure before a Dragonlord a thousand times his size.
He smiled like death.
The Halfling was too close—the blade sheared down Teriarch’s face, then his side. Blades meant to kill gods. The Dragonlord struck the Halfling and felt a claw break. He knocked the figure back a dozen paces and rasped.
“Enough. Enough. Leave!”
He spat a final tongue of flames at the Halfling weakly. The Halfling’s sword was back, and he walked at Teriarch with a calm, even regretful purpose. To silence the Dragonlord forever? Or to pull a scroll out and seal the Dragon’s mind until the next time he slipped up?
Whichever the case, Teriarch was snarling as the Halfling stopped, wary, and a loud voice interrupted them. Magnolia Reinhart cleared her throat.
“Ahem. If I may have your attention, sir?”
The Halfling turned. He raised his sling perfunctorily, then halted as he saw what Teriarch guessed was over a thousand of the most choice elements of his hoard piled on the ground. Magnolia and the rest of her servants were panting, but she stepped back as Teriarch nodded at her. He thumped his tail weakly, and the Halfling took aim as the ground began to glow beneath the pile of relics.
“Don’t. That spell circle is pre-written and has multiple contingency layers. Try to dispel it and you’ll just set it off. There are enough Relics—enough magical items there to blow any five nations apart. Remove yourself or I will destroy that moon.”
Teriarch pointed a wobbling claw at the green moon in the skies. He bared bloody teeth at the Halfling and spat some liquid on the ground. He hoped he seemed convincing.
“Withdraw, guardian of the Elves’ secrets. You’ve made your point. No memory spells. Just—leave, or we will both meet our ends here.”
He was tense, breathing hard, pain sounding all over his body, unsure how he’d kill this Halfling—he hadn’t even left a scratch beyond the Dragonbreath. However…he saw the Halfling glance at the pile of Relics and then at Teriarch.
The man stepped back and ran a hand thoughtfully through his hair. He leaned on his slingstaff, cocking his head at Teriarch, not afraid, but frowning, like someone making a difficult decision. At length, he shrugged, sighed, and nodded. He stepped back again, and Teriarch exhaled in relief.
Magnolia Reinhart just had to stride in at that moment, so fearless that Teriarch had to admire it—even if he thought she was a mad idiot. He moved a claw to halt her, and she jerked a finger and his claw halted. Her voice was a touch breathless, but when she spoke, she sounded precise, intrigued, not as if she were terrified for her life.
Calm under fire. Like the Quarass or old [Queens] with excellent diction as trebuchet stones were landing around them. That was class.
“Excuse me, sir. I hate to trouble you, and I would certainly not impinge on your duties. But I would be remiss if I did not point out your foes have returned. In fact, House Walchaís is providing the very knowledge you seek to hide. I should be delighted to tender you directions to their whereabouts.”
Even Spearmaster Lulv’s mouth was hanging open. Teriarch tried not to grin. No wonder I liked her in the past.
The Halfling stopped as his body stopped glowing and turned to Magnolia. She actually had a map.
“She’s worshiping your enemy. Kasigna—”
The word made the Halfling react so fast that Teriarch realized he’d been holding back. He raised a finger to Magnolia’s lips and was in front of her in the blink of an eye. She fell silent.
Then, Teriarch saw the Halfling frown and his face become serious and wrothful for the first time. He bowed his head, and Teriarch mumbled.
“Were you one of the ones who defied them? Were you there when Sprigaena broke from her kin and led the loyalists to war against the defiant?”
The Halfling looked at him. Just looked, and Teriarch bowed his head. To a being older than he was, who refused to speak. Magnolia just held up the map.
“Lady Bethal Walchaís is spreading this—worship of that one. Go after her. Here. See?”
She was circling House Walchaís with a pen, and even Reynold had to look at their mistress askance.
“Lady Reinhart—”
The Halfling inspected the paper. He regarded Magnolia as she spoke.
“The dead gods?”
He shook his head. Not his fight? He was forbidden to kill them? Or that he couldn’t? Teriarch tried to guess as he levered himself up onto one claw. He saw Lulv trying to sneak up on the Halfling and slashed a claw; Lulv fell back with a growl.
Magnolia’s face was bitter, as bitter as she had been when speaking to him of his failures.
“So that’s it. You’re intent on preserving this secret, even if the enemies of the dead gods need the truth.”
Shrug. Smile…the Halfling tapped his chest with a laugh and beckoned at Lulv, at Taletevirion, who was sobbing on his feet. He grinned and gestured, flipping his hand up and waggling his fingers.
Come at me.
No one moved. No one wanted to. Magnolia made one last entreaty.
“Then at least, sir, I entreat you in the interests of parity. If we are to be censured, what about others? May I cite Archmage Eldav—oh.”
Her eyes flickered. Teriarch groaned.
“So that’s what it was. Serves that idiot right.”
He conveniently decided not to think about the fact that Eldavin was him and so he’d ran afoul of this security measure three times. Magnolia Reinhart pursed her lips.
“How about Erin Solstice?”
“Lady Reinhart! Please!”
Reynold shouted, but the Halfling just raised his brows. Magnolia glanced at Teriarch’s expression.
“If anyone could provoke an interesting result, it would be her, Teriarch. And at the very least, I don’t see anything wrong with her losing a tooth or two. No? She doesn’t qualify?”
Apparently, Erin Solstice had been careful enough, and now it occurred to Teriarch that someone—Gnomes—might have warned Erin how to phrase things. Magnolia was holding out a hand, and it was little Ressga, the Goblin [Maid], who hurried forwards.
That provoked the second response that was different. The moment the Halfling caught sight of Ressga, he blinked. A look of hurt and delight crossed his face, and he fell to one knee and smiled at her.
Since they were of a height already, he gazed up at Ressga’s startled, nervous face, but the Cave Goblin was brave, jutted out her chin, and defiantly held something out to him. It was…
A picture. Of a rather impishly vibrant young [Lady], posing for the painter, while sitting on her husband’s lap. He had an amazing deadpan expression and his formal [Chevalier]’s outfit on. Lady Bethal had a gown that was black and red and more transparent with thin gauze than it was opaque.
This time, Magnolia held it up.
“Bethal Walchaís. Currently guarded by a few busybodies. I’m sure it wouldn’t make a difference. Barely a hop and skip north for you. I could provide a carriage if you are so interested.”
She waved the picture in front of the Halfling as even Ressa shuffled her feet, slightly embarrassed at the lengths her employer would go to. The Halfling just blinked at the portrait after giving a nod to Ressga. He took the picture from Magnolia with glowing fingers, raised his brows.
Then chuckled. Magnolia blinked down at him, and she saw the Halfling lifting the picture up. Admiring it. Not memorizing the faces. Rather, he smiled.
Nostalgia ran through the Halfling’s expression. He brushed his hair back and smiled. Like someone pleasantly surprised to see something familiar and different. He handed the photo back to Magnolia and shook his head.
“But they—”
Magnolia tried to continue arguing her case, but the warrior from the moon was done. The Halfling ignored her and swung around to Teriarch. The two locked gazes as the smile vanished. The Halfling stared up at the moon, met the Dragonlord’s gaze again, and then nodded. He held up one hand.
Two fingers curled up. He held up a third finger, then shook his head. Teriarch rasped.
“You bear no grudge for the first time we met?”
A bright stare revealed no answer. The two fingers waggled, and Teriarch saw the gaze sharpen. Fearless. Not vindictive. A warning was implicit in that glowing gaze, regretful and merciless simultaneously.
“I know.”
The Halfling gave him a nod, then he skipped upwards into the air. Only—his feet never touched the ground. He leapt back up to the moon so fast that he was there, then gone, leaving only the certainty of his presence behind. Only memories.
And the broken bones.
And bruises.
And frankly, a destroyed landscape.
Teriarch rolled onto his side after a moment and lay there, now wishing for death. He rasped.
“At least this time…I remember. Ow. Ow. No third chances. Is this—is this merciful?”
“I nearly lost a lung.”
“Shut up, Taletevirion. He probably knew you could heal it.”
Magnolia Reinhart slowly collapsed onto the ground as Teriarch wondered how long it would be until the pain stopped. He needed healing…everything, but there were the two Dragons to attend to, the wounded—
Dead gods. Dead gods—he was relieved, terrified, as he had been as a young Dragon, seeing the only other time the Halfling had been invoked. Three times they’d met, now.
Once to traumatize me and bring my mother’s story home to rest.
Twice, to prevent me from giving my own daughter that burden, for better or worse.
The third time because I can’t keep my big mouth shut.
Actually…Teriarch raised his head slightly as Magnolia began giving orders to her staff.
“Magnolia?”
She turned to him, and the Dragonlord of Flames gave her a weak and weary smile. He’d be out of commission for a while, he suspected. Just as well he hadn’t told this truth to Rags, eh? He couldn’t help but give her a bit of a knowing look.
“It seems some secrets are meant to be kept for a reason.”
She stared at him, blank-faced, then walked over and kicked him in the snout. Teriarch rolled over and lay there, panting, staring at the sky. The moon vanished, and the world was the same, as if nothing had ever happened.
After a while, a flying blue ant zipped over a mountain and spotted the devastation. Xrn, the Small Queen, searched around and saw three Dragons lying in heaps, a drinking Unicorn, Magnolia Reinhart tending to her servant, Ressa, and exhaled.
“Three? Wonderful. Now they’re breeding.”
She zipped backwards before the Dragon could do more than glare at her. She wasn’t ready for this battle. Of course, her appearance put a panic in Oteslia’s and Manus’ representatives, and they were all set to try and fight or negotiate with her until Teriarch sourly snapped at them that the Antinium had known about him since the First Antinium War.
He was dragging himself over to Taletevirion, who was trying to reattach one of Cirediel’s teeth that had been knocked out of his jaw.
“Uy oof. An oo ix it?”
Taletevirion had adopted his half-Elven form so he could hold the tooth, and he snapped as he inspected Cirediel’s bleeding gums. He was all business, a medic doing the rounds after a battle. Teriarch could tell how rattled the Unicorn was; getting kicked about by a magical Halfling from the moon wasn’t exactly normal, even for the two of them. He shot Teriarch a glare as the Dragon halted. Teriarch guessed he looked like a mess; he counted four dozen fractures on his scales. They’d heal, but dead gods it hurt. And the problem was…
“Hold still. You’re a Dragon; healing you is a pain, even if I wasn’t injured myself. You’re an Earth Dragon.”
“Ho hwat?”
Taletevirion tried to jam the tooth back up in the bleeding gums, then tossed it at Mivifa. Cire closed his jaw and stared at his reflection in a mirror anxiously as the Unicorn sighed.
“So healing is your area. That, or a Gold Dragon, those smug, vain…Water Dragons too. But I’m a Unicorn. I can fix up a missing limb if you hand it back to me, but you’re so magically resistant it’s like trying to force a needle through a brick wall with my eyeball.”
“But my tooth! You have to put it back! My smile’s ruined!”
Given how Rafaema was still knocked out, Teriarch had little sympathy for Cirediel as Taletevirion limped over. The Unicorn snapped at Cire.
“Stop moaning. It’s only your baby teeth.”
“Oh. So they’ll grow back? I have baby teeth?”
Cire relaxed, and neither of the older two immortals bothered telling him that Dragons didn’t have baby teeth like Humans or other species.
Teri winced as Taletevirion felt at his scales.
“How bad is it?”
