A grinning Halfling stood, whirling a sling staff around his head, shortsword in the other hand. He wore what Taletevirion might have called leather armor, but which leather? It was festooned with pockets, he had a faded scar that pulled on one cheek, and the brightest and most confident grin Taletevirion had ever seen.
When he turned, the Unicorn’s heart hurt, and he had been born after the last Halflings died. For a second, Taletevirion hesitated—and the Halfling swept his gaze across the High Passes. Inspecting the world around him. Then he winked, shifted—and he was barefoot, toes dancing across the ground as he leapt.
The first stone flew from his sling-staff, and a second appeared in the whirling sling in a second. He launched two, and they hit the Brass Dragon lunging at him with his mouth open.
The Unicorn heard the stones hit Teriarch’s scales like thunder. The shockwaves split the air, and he saw the scales ripple like someone had punched a river of bronze. The Dragon’s lunge deflected; he went sprawling.
I’ve seen Giants try to punch him out of the air and break their fists. What the hell is in those stones?
The Unicorn was making a mistake. He never hesitated in a fight. It’s how he’d survived so many wars. But he was stupefied now, and it nearly killed him. He saw the Halfling cock his head, noticed a glint out of the corner of those crinkled, mirthful eyes—
The third stone nearly blew Taletevirion’s head apart. The Unicorn stepped left with the speed of a being who could step out of reality, traversing the green paths, another dimension that let him move unseen. Practically teleportation in itself. He felt the wind howling after the stone and sensed a hole in his mane.
Close. Wh—
The stone curved and tried to hit him in the flank. It barely lost any speed—Taletevirion spun and slashed at it with his horn. It sped up, and he missed—
Stepstepstepstepstep—
“—rot!”
Taletevirion burst out of a frantic dance of dodges as he finally managed to slash it apart with his horn. It numbed his horn down to the base of his skull. He felt the enchantment on it go dead, and his senses reduced to a normal horse’s for a moment.
Antimagic? Oh hells.
When he looked up, the Halfling was watching him. The same smile on his face, feet planted easily, whirling the staff. Waiting for Taletevirion to catch his breath.
He could have killed me already. Or maybe he’s sizing me up. Can’t let him throw again—
Taletevirion lunged forwards, horn pointed, a blade of magic extending his reach. He was a Unicorn, but he’d bested fencers with hands—even Zeladona had acknowledged his mastery. And he cheated—he’d seen Mivifa coming down in a dive with her sword in both hands as Spearmaster Lulv leapt from the side, spear spinning.
Taletevirion stabbed with his horn, going for the Halfling’s exposed throat.
The Halfling parried it. The Unicorn heard a muffled shout, a snarl—Lulv went tumbling head-over-heels backwards, and Feathi caught Mivifa as she went tumbling through the air.
“Named-rank threat! Rafaema, evacuate now! Get to the Manus squad!”
Lulv howled, and Mivifa shouted.
“Cire, don’t—”
Two Dragons exhaled as the Halfling turned. Cirediel sprayed acid mist as lightning roared from Rafaema’s throat. Taletevirion tensed with Lulv.
Which way would the Halfling go? Up? He’d be dead in the air. Left or right? He—
—Spun his sling-staff, and the twin Dragonbreaths parted in front of him. The Halfling had the time to look over and wink at Taletevirion.
“Aw.”
Then he scooped up the burning lightning and acid in his sling until it was a ball of roiling green liquid and lightning and threw it at Lulv and Taletevirion.
The Unicorn dodged.
The Gnoll did not. The howl from behind Taletevirion cut off with the smoke of ozone and burning fur. The Unicorn didn’t have time to heal or check on Lulv. He shapeshifted.
A half-Elf with a blade cut across the ground in a [Duelist]’s cut, and the Halfling flicked the blade aside with his shortsword. He whirled the staff again, and Taletevirion dodged—
“Aaaaaah!”
Rafaema had been heading into the fight. The stone knocked her unconscious. It hit her head, dented her skull-scales, and she just dropped.
“Raef! You—”
A second stone hit Cirediel under the chin, and he screamed as his teeth closed over his tongue. He actually remained conscious—Taletevirion moved around the Halfling, slashing, each cut of his blade meeting that glowing shortsword.
But he couldn’t stop that slingstaff. It snapped again, and Mivifa screamed. A shattering chime was the sound of her blade breaking as the antimagic stone hit it, then slammed into Cirediel. They all went tumbling down as Taletevirion panted.
“Teriarch! Help! Someone stop him or he’ll kill all of us!”
Why aren’t we dead? There was no time to think. Taletevirion danced, and he hadn’t danced like this against Tolveilouka.
The Wildcress Waves in the Breeze followed by a leap. A Diving Heron, and he spun into the Treant’s Branches. 
Swordforms he was sure no one, not even Teriarch, knew by heart. But even if his opponent didn’t know them—he was some kind of master just as alien to Taletevirion.
And he was short. Not to put too fine a point on it, but he was four feet tall. His reach was miniscule, but by the same token, it meant Taletevirion had to adjust for a tiny body. The Unicorn knew his long reach and legs would carry the battle—
Assuming this was how Halfling blademasters fought. The moment the Halfling planted his slingstaff on the ground and used it to vault into the air at Taletevirion, the Unicorn knew he was in trouble.
He’s fast! The Halfling kicked off the ground, and suddenly, he had mobility. Then he was attacking with his shortsword and staff, spinning off the pole, bracing with it, using it to seamlessly advance and retreat.
Like the damn monkey blademasters of Baleros! Hell, hell, hell—
The breathless dance nearly ended in the first rush of the Halfling’s advance, especially because he was still throwing stones from his spinning sling. Staff, sword, sling—and each time the sword touched Taletevirion’s own blade, the Unicorn felt like he was trying to lock blades with a hurricane. He was losing the sheer clash of blades.
The [Maid] helped a lot when she tried to gut the Halfling from behind. He noticed, and Ressa ate a blow from the staff that tossed her a hundred feet and broke at least one rib, but she jumped back in the fight after eight breathless seconds.
The two of them weaved and cut around the ground, trying to pin the grinning Halfling down. He was definitely enjoying this. He pivoted on two toes of his right foot, blocking Taletevirion’s blade with his staff, Ressa’s dagger with his shortsword.
“Okay, he’s showing off. New plan—jump!”
They leapt away, and the Dragonlord of Flames exhaled. The Halfling lost his smile, dropped his shortsword, and drew a shield.
These flames weren’t whirled away. Nor did Taletevirion feel them. Teriarch’s fire licked across the High Passes, purple and gold, flickering and evaporating the stone and soil it touched. Taletevirion caught his breath as he counted who was up.
Magnolia Reinhart, her staff—who’d wisely retreated—Teriarch, and Ressa.
The Dragonlord continued exhaling; he had two dents in his scales, and his eyes were aglow with malice. And fear.
He’d killed Treants with that Dragonbreath. The Halfling should be dead. Dead—but Taletevirion saw the flames parting and a glowing figure shift—
This time, it felt like six of those antimagic stones exploded in short-order, interrupting the stream of fire long enough for the Halfling to bound away. He landed, kicking purple flames off him, but Taletevirion was encouraged by the grimmer set to the Halfling’s face.
Okay, that hurt him a bit. The sling came up, and Teriarch bellowed.
“Begone! Don’t force me to—arrows!”
At first, Taletevirion thought he was shouting a warning before he realized the Dragonlord was using arrows from his treasury. A stream of magical arrows cut the air and began exploding, detonating Tier 5 and Tier 6 spells as the sling began to snap projectiles nonstop.
Magnolia Reinhart was shouting, but it was only when she amplified her voice that Taletevirion even heard her.
“Peace! Allow us to negotiate! Will you lay down your arms?”
She was directing her Skills at the Halfling and must have been using her aura this entire time. The warrior just beamed at her.
“I don’t think he’s here to negotiate, Magnolia. Get back! That idiot summoned him somehow!”
By ‘that idiot’, Ressa meant Teriarch. For once, Taletevirion had to hand it to the old Dragon.
Maybe telling stories is a really bad idea after all. Teriarch roared at them.
“He’ll destroy anything that mentions the truth! Last time, he wiped my memories after beating down three Dragonlords, including my daughter. Skills don’t work on him! He’s the Elves’ doing! He—ulp—”
The mention of ‘Elves’ made the Halfling’s eyes narrow. He flicked open one vest pocket, pulled something out, and tossed it. Teriarch dodged in an amazing display of agility, showing his training really had paid off.
Either that or he didn’t want to get hit by what looked like a tiny bird that grew larger with each foot of ground it covered. By the time it passed Teriarch, it was bigger than he was. It left a smoking, red crater in the side of a mountain, and magma began pouring out.
“Ah.”
Magnolia gave up on negotiations. She twisted the ring on her finger, took aim, and a glowing red line of light aimed at the Halfling. He turned his head, raised his shield—blocked the beam of light that tore the air open and left a glowing line on the ground. Magnolia stared at the Halfling’s unmarked shield, her ring, and raised her hands.
“I’m retreating. Ressa, don’t die.”
She ran for it. Taletevirion would have, in this moment, come up with a clever pincer attack to execute with Ressa while Teriarch locked down the Halfling. Unfortunately, Teriarch ran out of enchanted arrows.
“Sword! Oh come on!”
He tossed a Relic-class sword at the Halfling, and the next stone blew it to pieces. When the Dragonlord hesitated, a stone hit him in the chest. He reeled, and two more struck him as he tried to recover—Taletevirion lunged at the Halfling, trying to slow the barrage of stones.
He’s going after Teriarch. The Halfling had knocked out Mivifa and Cire, but each stone he threw at Teriarch was denting the scales of the ancient Brass Dragon. One of the toughest in the world.
Again, the dance began, but the Unicorn realized the Halfling had enjoyed his fun. His sword sent Taletevirion tumbling, and Ressa was slammed down by the staff so hard she left an imprint on the ground before she rolled away.
Whatever enchantment he has on his sword, it’s more than levelling the field. But he’s trying not to kill or maim us. 
If he was, Ressa would have broken more bones. Taletevirion saw the Halfling’s brows raise a fraction after he saw her leap up; he didn’t know how good they were.
He wasn’t omnipotent. Taletevirion hesitated, then abandoned all pretense at defense. He stood up, held his sword in a guard position, and walked forwards.
The Sentinel Plants His Blade. He calmly went for a swing with all the speed and skill he could muster. The Halfling grimaced, blocked with the staff, and slammed the flat of his blade into Ressa’s chest.
There went a lot of her ribs. She folded up, but Taletevirion thrust with his sword. A simple stab as a stone blew a hole straight through his shoulder and side.
Got you. The Unicorn collapsed onto his side, shapeshifting broken, trying to self-heal, staring at his enchanted blade that had gone straight through the Halfling’s chest.
Magnificent thrust if Taletevirion said so himself. The only opening he’d had or he would have gone for the neck in a beheading, but the Halfling had exposed himself. That was the thing about armor. Fancy or not, if you could cut through it…
The Halfling slowly grasped the blade as he dropped the shortsword. It vanished, and Taletevirion saw it reappear, sheathed, at his side. Calmly and without pain, the Halfling pulled the blade out of his chest. Or rather—out of his armor.
There was no blood on the blade. Of course, he was a summoned being of some kind, probably kept alive by magic. But it should have hurt. It should have—Taletevirion stared at the blade as it clattered to the ground and then realized what he’d hit.
“Oh—oh come on. Is your armor linked to another dimension?”
He hadn’t stabbed flesh. Taletevirion realized he could see a blade slowly sinking into the Halfling’s side. A throwing dagger; Ressa must have tagged him. It was entering the Halfling’s armor, tumbling into another dimension instead of hitting the Halfling’s body.
A wink was Taletevirion’s only reply. The Unicorn put his head down and hoped Teriarch had a plan. The Brass Dragon rasped as he rose to his claws.
“Enough.”
 
——
 
The Halfling’s sling sounded like thunder. Everyone was down or out of range of the fight; Reynold, Mivifa, Cire—he had woken up and was pretending to be unconscious—even the Wyvern Lord had swooped in, taken one look at Teriarch getting kicked around, and decided he didn’t need to be part of this.
The Dragonlord of Flame was bleeding. But he was still putting up a fight; each time a sling stone hit him, he flinched and his scales dented like metal struck by a sledgehammer, but he spat fire that made the Halfling warrior wince as he dodged or had to block. They circled each other, exchanging attacks.
Spells wove around Teriarch, snapping where the Halfling cut them or produced an object from his pockets to intercept or counter the magic. The Dragonlord growled twice.
“Don’t you understand the era has changed? They’re returning—”
A blow to his jaw that dislocated it until it clicked back into place.
“I am not your enemy! You know this!”
That damned, aggravating smile was his only reply. The Halfling didn’t care. No—he shook his head as Teriarch folded his wings, enmeshing himself in defensive spells. He mouthed something at Teriarch. Whether he was mute or not, the meaning was clear.
Doesn’t matter.
He was the guardian of forbidden knowledge. Invoke the gods too widely, touch on the secrets of the world—and the moon would send him to battle. Teriarch knew it.
The Halfling threw a black hole at Teriarch. Or something close. Vortex arrow? Teriarch was nearly sucked into—he pulled himself away and saw his blood flying through the air until the hole in the world closed.
They were in the throes of battle, now. Old warriors fighting on instinct. A Unicorn appeared in a streak of light, knocking Spearmaster Lulv aside. His charge left a trail of grass growing in the soil in his wake.
