Ali rose to her feet amid the cloud of rapidly dispersing mana motes that had once been a fungus monster and studied the cavern that lay before them. Calen had vanished while she worked, presumably headed out into the rotting jungle that had sprouted down here, turning this vast cavern hundreds of meters below the surface into a rancid, humid terrarium.

The cavern was enormous, filled with countless gnarled and twisted tree-like things, clawing their branches up toward the non-existent sun. The ground was lost under a dank mist that blanketed the ground almost waist-deep. Orchids, moss, and ferns spilled from every available surface, but like the trees, everything appeared twisted and warped – mutated far beyond what their natural forms might have been, and showing signs of decay or rot even while growing.

Distant sounds of dripping water mingled with strange croaks, sounding like they were squeezed from the throats of drowning frogs. Mushrooms and other fungi grew or crawled through the mist, contributing to the wall of stench Ali was only now beginning to grow accustomed to, but her eyes were drawn to the black, rune-covered stone of Nevyn Eld’s pristine artificial shrine. It hovered above the mist with its dramatically out-of-place geometric perfection, lording over the warped plants and decaying fungus like a dark ruler lording over a twisted domain. Naia can take care of the rift. I need to secure that artifact as soon as the boss is dead.

“My, isn’t this pleasant?” Malika said sarcastically.

“Tsk,” Mato clicked his tongue in disapproval, nodding his head over toward the center. “Look, there it is.”

Rising from the muck in the middle of the room, almost reaching the craggy roof overhead, towered their final target, the Mana Eater. Five large dark purple and brown buds concealing enormous teeth sprouted up out of the gnarled trunk, and several vines and bramble-like protrusions waved about in the air – dangerous whips that Ali knew could grow vastly longer in an instant. It glowed an uncanny shimmering blue – or to be more accurate, the thousands of tiny flowers that sprouted from its bark and stubby branches glowed with their dangerous spores. Blue spores that would consume the mana of anyone caught within their reach.

Behind the giant plant monster, the rift hung like a slash through the silk veil of the realm, unmistakable and mysterious. It shimmered, dark greens and browns shifting across its surface while the sparkling remnants of mana and mist, torn asunder by the infinitely sharp tear in the fabric of space, lit the rift and its surroundings in an eerily shifting glow.

Suddenly, Ali sensed a strange rush of knowledge from elsewhere, filling her mind and rising to a crescendo. A startling chime sounded, and her Grimoire popped into existence with a flare of magic and light. Ali ducked back behind the rocky entrance to hide her impromptu light show from any observers.

Variant: Extinction, The Spear that Pierces the Heavens added to Imprint: Polearm.

It worked! she thought, hurriedly slamming her glowing Grimoire shut before it attracted any unwanted attention, happy to grant the imprint the extra chapter it needed, perhaps for the first time. She sent her awareness flying back to her anvil, where she found a sweat-covered Thuli grinning with his heavy glowing hammer still grasped firmly in his fist. He did it. Although now her Grimoire was completely full once again and her plans to grow it with more deliberate choices to benefit her dungeon were back on hold.

“No real surprises,” Calen said, reappearing in the tunnel entrance beside them and pulling her attention back to the cavern. “Just creepers, fungus, and little crawling plants left – nothing that should be a problem.”

“How are we going to do it?” Malika asked.

“We keep the mana users at range, and beat it up with the melee classes,” Calen answered. “Not much we can do to figure out our strategy until we know what domain abilities it has.”

“Ok,” Ali said. She was prepared to study it as they probed for options. Everyone studied the room with that now-familiar anxiety of facing an unknown challenge. She would have to be alert to all forms of mana if she were to help her friends survive this.

“Oh, and stay clear of the rift itself,” Calen said. “Those growths around it are Corpse Flowers. I think I read that they explode when you get close. Also, if you see those broad dark-green conical leaf things protruding from the ground, stay clear. They are some kind of carnivorous biting pitcher plant.”

It took a few moments for Ali to see the strange, camouflaged plant he was pointing at. It sat nestled low to the ground, half covered by creep and sludge. A low conical shape that seemed to be a bud or warped leaf of some sort, perhaps half a meter tall and about three meters wide. But, as she watched, a little fungus critter skittered by and the bud cracked open, revealing a broad array of sharp fangs glinting with greenish liquid. In a flash, almost too fast for her to see, the entire thing shot out of the ground and snapped shut over the helpless monster before withdrawing its surprisingly enormous bulk back to its hole and shaking back and forth to resettle itself and rearrange the muck and sludge of its camouflage. Where the fungus critter had been, only a slowly regenerating hole in the creep remained, and from the camouflaged cap of the pitcher plant, a thin tendril of death-mana-laden mist rose before dissipating.

Yeah, let’s not annoy the bitey plants while we hit the bigger bitey plant.

Snapping Putrid Pitcher – Plant Aberration – level 82 (Nature / Death)

“So, plant traps?” Ali asked. It seemed there would be several things to watch out for during combat – and she could easily understand why Calen would be unable to clear those monsters from the room before the battle. They were just as rooted to the ground as the huge, towering Mana Eater that presided over the entire rift chamber, or more accurately, rooted in their holes underground. It was amazing how much detail she had missed when Naia had shown her this chamber the first time – crawling along the ceiling in full stealth had bypassed all the monsters and plants within the room.

“Yup,” Calen said.

“Want me to poke the boss a few times and see if we can learn anything before we get started?” Ali asked.

“That seems smart,” Malika said.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
