“Paul.” Ezekiel sent, and said, “I’ll protect you from everyone in the world, if I have to.”

Paul laughed loud, though not loud enough to break past the music. “I know. I know. Thank you. I thought I was ready to speak of this, but I’m not.”

Ezekiel smirked. “That’s okay, too.”

Paul said, “It’s just that everyone is healing, it seems. Eh. Actually. Your young greenscale friend is fucked up, but Tiffany is doing a lot better. Have you noticed? Yes, you have noticed. Bah. Julia is doing great, too! That gridwork helped her a lot!”

“It did, didn’t it!”

Ezekiel laughed, downed his drink, then signaled to the incani waitress walking around in a thong and floss and the sheerest, smallest robe possible. She was showing more purple skin than any other three people in the bar, combined, and it was great. Paul thought so, too. Two more firewater shots! Bring the bottle! He watched her violet ass bounce as she walked away. It was a good sight. He turned back to Paul, who seemed to be stuck watching the waitress’s ass.

Paul laughed, catching Ezekiel’s thoughts. He turned, and said, “You’re so much more observant than you used to be. You know?”

“I do know.” Ezekiel could not seem to stop smiling. “I know a lot about a lot, but very little about the important stuff. I really should have noticed that about you and your reasoning for not wanting to adventure. Constantly shoved out of the light because your skills aren’t flashy at all.”

Paul affected a glare, without heat. “I’m fine.”

“You say that; sure.”

“The only thing that fucked me up in the last few days was those Hunters,” Paul said, taking a shot from the newly arrived bottle. “Not because of my sister, though. You can nix that thought right away.”

Ezekiel paid the waitress a full gold coin. She set the coin into a small pouch just above her thong, smiling while Ezekiel stared at the obvious goods on display.

Paul poured a shot for Ezekiel, bringing him back to the moment, saying and sending, “The temptation is always there. To make the world a better place, through force.”

Ezekiel zeroed in on Paul, listening intently.

Paul seemed to flinch under the sudden, focused attention. He drank another shot. Ezekiel took another shot, too. Odin was busy singing along with the band, amplifying the sounds of everyone up to new heights and better harmonies, and the band seemed to love it, and genuinely, too; not in that way that the cowed sometimes pretended to love the actions of the rich and powerful. Odin even managed to stay fully bird-shaped! Amazing!

Even Yggdrasil’s orb was bouncing in time to the music around Ezekiel. Everyone was jumping, everyone was dancing.

But Paul and Ezekiel were alone in the crowd, at their table in the middle of the restaurant bar.

Paul said and sent, “The problem is that you can do it, and it works, but then what? We’ve tried this before. Quintlan is not only uninhabited because of monsters.”

Ezekiel exclaimed, “Well you obviously did it wrong in Quintlan!”

“Ha! What? No we didn’t.”

“All’s I’m saying is that you didn’t do anything. Your people did. And a thousand years ago or whatever. What do you know about what happened back then? What do you really know? You were surprised about the Highlands.” Ezekiel asked, “How reliable is the information that your people collect? Are the stories you tell yourself real stories, or imagined ideals? Or imagined horror stories, meant to frighten and box you in?”

Paul affected a scowl, saying, “This surprise over the Highlands was just a matter of me not reading enough. I do not read horror stories. I am not Tiffany. Bah!” He returned to the issue, saying, “The problem is that all central authorities eventually succumb to corruption. The ideas themselves are not a problem. That Empathy Option is not a true conundrum. The fallibility of people is the problem, and while we respect the gods, no one is willing to enact a theocracy, and the gods wouldn’t want to take control of society, anyway. They like being benevolent assistants, like you.” He flipped a hand, saying, “But then we got the other immortals. The mortal immortals. But leaving power in the hands of immortals is similarly asking for an eventual violent revolution. It’s the problem of immortal mediocrity; they usually fall into ruts and short-lived mortals are not in ruts and just look at Frontier and Kal’Duresh—” He froze. He continued, “Where your daughter is from, you know? Kal’Duresh. That place. And Spur! Run by an immortal, but fallen to ruin until recently… What was I saying? Oh yeah. The Empathy Option. Putting power like that into the hands of any system is asking for that system to become corrupted.” He clicked a talon, saying, “Oh yeah! And don’t give power to immortals, because they can’t do as good a job as mortals. They’re too relaxed. Honestly, this is likely the real issue with the Headmaster and what they teach at Arcanaeum. Nothing too evil happening there, just good old relaxing into a rut. And—”

Paul was obviously in the ‘I will talk all night’ part of his drunken process.

Ezekiel interrupted, “All power eventually wanes and waxes.” He said, “This is not a reason to not enact good while we can, using the methods at our disposal.”

“That’s an argument, too!” Paul said, “But stripping free will is not an answer.”

“So we just ask the people. Give them a choice aside from banishment or execution.”

Paul smiled, then said, “There are other options. There’s one they use in this very land, too. It’s called the Antirhine Elixir.”

Ezekiel leaned backward. He frowned, scowled, then cringed. Then he asked, “Does that do what I think it does?”

“Yup! Locks someone out of magic, entirely. Life-long potion, too. No magic. No healing, either.” Paul hummed, as though reconsidering his enthusiasm for the option. “They usually die of an infection. They still regain Health and Mana though, so if they’re high level, they go and get some different Class Abilities. Mana Shield is one of them; automatically use your Mana like extra Health.” He paused. He added, “A few others, I’m sure, but I cannot think of any.”

Ezekiel said, “Yeah. No. Don’t like this Elixir at all.”

“It’s just death by another name, isn’t it?”

“A slow, painful death.” Ezekiel said, “Magic is absolutely wonderful. I don’t think so many people should have as much as they do, but I certainly don’t think that anyone should be locked out of magic— should be locked out of even receiving magic, too! No healing! No [Cleanse]— OH MY GODS. No [Cleanse]! That’s just awful.”

Paul hummed. “Yeah. That is pretty bad, isn’t it. Anyway!” He pointed at a very hot dude by the bar, saying, “Do you want a wingman? I see you looking.”

Ezekiel laughed loud. He pointed at the woman at the table next to theirs, the one who was currently playing around with a berry stem as she eyed Paul. “Do you want a wingman?”

Paul’s eyes went wide, as he looked. The women at the table next to theirs started laughing.

One of them asked if Paul and Ezekiel were going to fuck, and if they could watch.

Well no, there would be none of that, but hey, pretty ladies, you want some drinks?

They did.

The rest of the night went well.

Ezekiel ended up spending 35 gold, which was way more than he expected, and even more so considering what 35 gold actually represented in the Highlands’ stable economy. 10,000 dollars in one night was a lot! But… Maybe it wasn’t.

The four of them had certainly eaten and drunk more than enough, and they had made some temporary drinking friends, but they had spent too much. They’d need to go back to the mountains tomorrow. They’d be more careful about their spending going forward.

In the hotel room, Tiffany and Julia took the room across the hallways. Paul and Ezekiel roomed together. A very drunk [Witness] from the two people capable of such revealed no intruders into the hotel space or anything else untoward, aside from the proprietor of the establishment combing through the rooms, looking for gold or bags or whatnot.

Joke was on him! Ezekiel and his people had nothing! Ha!

As the lights of the moons stretched across the room in pink, white, and silver, Paul laid in his bed, and Ezekiel laid in his own. Odin twittered on the headrest. Ezekiel reapplied his eye drops, and closed his eyes.

Paul rolled over, unable to sleep. He sent, ‘I’m actually demi. Technically.’

Ezekiel opened his eyes and looked over to his roommate.

Paul’s eyes were already open. He sent, ‘Mother was incani. Father looked incani. He bolted when my twin sister and I were born and his truth was discovered.’ Paul stared out the window, at the moons, and at Hell, in particular. He was still drunk and his words reflected that sort of disjointedness, as he continued, ‘A lot of people lie and say they appreciate me, but they never do. A lot of people lie, almost all the time. But you never have.’ He snorted. ‘Overmuch, anyway. It’s… really nice. Not many people are exactly who they appear to be. Most people are a lot worse. Most people truly hate when they find out that I can hear what they think, but you like that I can hear what you think. That’s been really nice.’

Ezekiel listened.

Paul smiled as he looked away, and sent, ‘I still think this experiment in subterfuge is an exercise in futility.’

Ezekiel’s face broke into a wide grin. ‘It’s not that bad, is it?’

‘Not nearly as bad as I thought it would be, but it’s getting there. We attracted the eyes of hundreds of people, but only several that mattered. A few young masters. A few scions. A lot of people dismissed us when we paid with gold. A lot of people started to look the other way.’ Paul sent, ‘There was one pair of people in particular— A pair of Enforcers for Clan Star Song, but they were more enamored with themselves than with us.’

‘About as expected.’ Ezekiel asked, ‘What would happen if I revealed myself as myself?’

Paul thought for a long while.

Ezekiel noticed that his usual telepathic lines of intent were down from a dozen, to just two, and one of those two was to Ezekiel. He had noticed the lack of the usual lines of intent before, as soon as they got away from Spur and Treehome, but he had not truly noticed the change enough to reflect upon this new, temporary normal, until now. Paul was disconnected from his usual people. Usually, he was talking to everyone, right? But they were far from those people, now, and he was probably feeling lonely.

‘Phhhbt! I’m not lonely! Not really.’ Paul sent, ‘And I’m not sure what would happen if you revealed yourself. It’d be annoying for you. Likely a lot of posturing in front of people you would rather not talk to. They’d demand shit. You would counter. Big things would happen. Do you want big things to happen?’

‘Not particularly.’ Ezekiel asked, ‘Are you still deflecting people from me? Even here, outside of Spur?’

‘… I did, once. It was a young master who didn’t like how you looked, back in the third bar we went to. I shouldn’t have done that. I was operating on auto-pilot.’ Paul sent, ‘Archmage Erick Flatt gets a lot less messages these days, though, since we are half a world away from where you’re supposed to be. I am still deflecting the few that get this far, though.’

‘Can you teach me how to deflect people away from me?’

Paul smiled. ‘I cannot express to you how happy it makes me that you are not asking that question out of a desire to get rid of me—’

‘Of course I wouldn’t want to get rid of you!’

‘— But I can’t. You’re not a Mind Mage, and this is… It’s an intrinsic technique. You once postulated that mind mages have something different about them that makes them naturals? This much is true. And you just… Can’t ever learn this technique.’ Paul added, ‘You could fake it, though. Maybe? Some form of [Sealed Privacy Ward] turned into an aura, perhaps? You’d be actually invisible in that case, so it wouldn’t be the same at all… Ahhh. Sorry. I can’t help you, there.’

Well that was slightly disappointing. Not the end of the world. Still disappointing.

Ezekiel postulated, ‘Are you sure it’s not just a [Don’t Notice Me] spell, turned into an aura? Is it even an aura? I don’t even notice you running auras but… I have never noticed you running an aura.’

‘Sure you have! Those ‘lines of intent’ that circle around my head. That’s an aura. That’s always been an aura, and always active. Almost all the time.’

‘Oh!’

‘Eh. Well. It’s not a real aura, though. It’s just aura control.’ Paul sent, ‘And that’s another thing. You can’t learn this technique because you have no aura control outside of Aurify. There is a [Don’t Notice Me] spell, and you could turn that into an aura, but then you have to run that aura all the time, and that’s not even the first problem you would have to overcome. I’m only able to do what I do because I can hear the surface thoughts of those around me, and then apply the [Don’t Notice Me] spell in a directed manner. An undirected [Don’t Notice Me] is very noticeable.’ He added, ‘Everything I do stems from my natural ability, which… you do not have.’

‘Yeah. I can see the complications… Eh. It’s fine. A bit of a let-down, but that’s okay.’

Paul seemed to weigh something.

And then he sent, ‘You could fake my natural ability through a [Telepathy] aura. Open ended, receive only. It would be difficult and you’d need to learn a lot more about Mental Magic, but that would be the first step.’

