‘Maybe some other day.’ Ezekiel smiled in the darkness of the room, and sent, ‘You know, we gotta get back to the mountains tomorrow. I spent most of our gold today.’

‘Ugh! Yeah. I know. Prices are so much better around here, aren’t they? And yet we still managed to spend all that gold. Maybe we shouldn’t have hit up the fourth bar. You know—’

Ezekiel chuckled, then interrupted him, sending, ‘Good night, Paul.’

‘It’s so weird not sleeping under a [Prismatic Ward]. Remember when those Shadow Spiders almost got us?’

Ezekiel was suddenly wide awake. ‘I am certainly remembering it now!’

Paul just rolled over in his bed, sending, ‘Don’t mind me. I’m just drunk. We’re perfectly fine. No monsters under these beds; I checked. Good night.’

Ezekiel stared at the ceiling, his mind working overtime on too many thoughts at once.

Soon enough, Paul filled the air with gentle snoring.

Ezekiel threw a pillow at him.

- - - -

The morning dawned, and Ezekiel woke to greet it. Jet lag? What was that? [Gate]-lag didn’t exist for him, either, and neither did ‘hangovers’. The necessity of having a ‘recovery time’ certainly existed for everyone else, though.

Julia frowned as she stuck a spoon into the rice-gloop that was the common breakfast food of the area. It did not look appetizing. She added a lot of sugar to compensate, as she grumbled, “What’s for today?”

Tiffany held her head, saying, “Hit me with a healing, Julia. This hangover isn’t going away.”

Julia slapped Tiffany on the arm with a blue spell.

Tiffany grumbled. “Shit. I drank way too much.” She pointed at the general vicinity of her head, saying, “This shouldn’t be happening. Were we poisoned?”

Paul chuckled. “No. You just drank thirty gold of the highest proof alcohol in the world.”

“Thirty gold is nothing!” Tiffany said, “I—” She relaxed. She breathed and blinked. “Okay. There it goes. Thank the gods for healing. First time wasn’t enough.”

“Wish I could say the fifth time was good enough for me,” Julia complained.

With a cheerful tone, Ezekiel said, “You should have healed up last night and drunk more water~!”

“Hush, you,” Julia said, as she added berry jam to her rice glop.

Paul took the jam from Julia and added some to his own glop, saying, “Your powers of recovery are more than those of us mere mortals, Scion Phoenix.”

Ezekiel barked a laugh. Then he tried his own glop… Hmm. “What is this called, anyway?”

“Disintegrated Rice,” Julia said. “Called a dozen different names, but more commonly known as congee. So what’s for today?”

Ezekiel said, “Well. We gotta get some more money, and I’m apt to do that before we go hunting for Songstresses. Maybe spend the morning doing that. In the afternoon we can go visit the Void Temple. Maybe look for a hotel in Eralis proper.”

Tiffany nodded along, then said, “Then I need a veil.”

“You were dancing so nicely in the middle of that crowd, though,” Ezekiel said.

“But before that, I was drinking like a void fish,” she rebutted. “Because of the eyes.”

“Ah. Well.” Ezekiel nodded.

Julia said, “Did we really spend that much last night?”

“Oh yeah. 45 out of 55 gold, gone. I don’t want to control our money, either.” Ezekiel said, “This time I think we should kill enough monsters to get that much for each of us. Of course, we could just hunt for a grand-core monster. That’d give us a nice base for all future interactions in the city.”

Julia said, “I know we avoided it last time, but we could consider flying around. Attract a lot of big monsters that way. Then you freeze them and they fall out of the air and we’re rich.”

Tiffany hummed, then said, “There’s making money, and then there’s tempting fate to turn you to paste. You seem to be after the second option.”

Julia said, “The gluttons only appearing when they’re already able to bite you is more scary.”

“You need a mana sense,” Tiffany teased.

Julia groused, “Don’t I know it.”

“The Mist Stone Gluttons were dangerous enough,” Ezekiel said, “But even those intangible monsters stayed away from the sky because Thunder Birds roost up there, and they blast apart anything that flies from kilometers away.”

“And…” Julia said, “That’s another thing. I was thinking that I want a Thunder Bird.”

Tiffany laughed. “I should have seen that coming.”

“We can certainly hunt for one.” Ezekiel said, “Anyone else got any [Polymorph] forms they want? Or anything else they think they might want to do?”

“Hunting a bird would be much more dangerous than gluttons.” Paul suggested, “Maybe we stick to gluttons for a little while.”

“Fair enough.”

“Are there any high-level monsters around here?” Tiffany asked, “We could hunt some of those, too.”

“Oh! There’s another way to get points, though.” Julia perked up. “What’s your Quest Board saying, dad? Anything good in the area?”

Tiffany frowned a little, but said nothing.

Julia glanced her way, her eyebrows smushing together in a questioning sort of way.

“Quests, eh?” Ezekiel said, “Let me check.”

“Point of order.” Paul said, “Any Quests posted here would be events that we would wish to avoid.”

Ezekiel waved him off, saying, “Oh! We’ll be fine. Now let’s see...” He brought up the Quest Board.

Not twenty seconds of reading later, Ezekiel began to frown.

Paul ate his congee, knowingly.

Julia looked between the two of them. She frowned. “What?”

“All of these…! What’s up with this?” Ezekiel handed over three to the group, saying, “Now you tell me: Is this what it looks like?”

Quest!

Deliver a vase of water to Elder Mirizo Star Song.

Reward: 1 point.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script

Lesser Poster: Elder Mirizo Star Song, of Clan Star Song

Quest!

Deliver a vase of water to Elder Bazado Pure Lotus.

Reward: 1 point.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script

Lesser Poster: Elder Bazado Pure Lotus, of Clan Pure Lotus

Quest!

Deliver a vase of water to Grand Elder Charkira Wild Song.

Reward: 1 point.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script

Lesser Poster: Grand Elder Charkira Wild Song, of Clan Wild Song

Julia hummed, reading.

“Ah. Yeah. That. That’s what I was remembering.” Tiffany nodded, as if she had been proven correct. “Yup! This is how Quests go bad. Yet another reason why we don’t do them at S— Home.” She caught herself from speaking of Spur, there at the end.

Julia asked, “And you can do this with Quests? They still have to pay out of their own points, don’t they?”

“Nope.” Paul said, “All you need is someone with a Quest Board to post the Quest and someone with a point to give up, and there you go— Ah. Rozeta does have to approve of it. She doesn’t approve of everything.”

Tiffany said, “If you were to make a Quest that read something like: ‘Go and kill a guy and you will take their points.’ That kinda thing does not work. I think you get smited for that.”

“There’s never been a recorded case of actual smiting, Tiffany,” Paul said.

Tiffany shrugged, “Like I believe the records. Phshh.”

Paul continued, “More normally, Rozeta won’t allow points to be transferred if the people doing the transfer honestly don’t want to do the transfer. You can’t control someone to put their points up for a Quest as Rozeta checks each time someone accesses the Script in any meaningful way, and Quests certainly count.”

“But you could build a culture around Quests and giving points to the people in charge,” Julia said.

“Oh yeah, you can; people do.” Tiffany said, “There’s tons of ways people try to abuse the Script, and themselves, and their children. I heard that some places— Maybe even here? I heard that they have soul mages to fiddle with their noble children to give them 20 in each Stat, across the board, the day after they matriculate!”

Ezekiel’s eyes went wide. “You can do that?”

Julia was equally stunned.

Tiffany nodded, as though she had drawn people into her campfire story. She continued, “Whenever you hear about a noble’s son or daughter going bad a few days after Matriculation, that’s when you know that their parents fucked with their souls.”

Ezekiel gave a nervous laugh—

But Julia just barked a full laugh, saying, “You’re fucking with me!”

“I’m not!” Tiffany said, “It’s true!”

“It is true. It does happen,” Paul said.

Ezekiel’s face scrunched as strange half-thoughts filled his mind with disappointment and worse emotions.

Julia stopped laughing. She narrowed her eyes. “How easy is this soul magic? Could I have saved dozens of levels of points? Does it go higher than 20? I heard that’s the natural cutoff for slow growth, but… I don’t really know, now do I?”

Tiffany said, “You don’t want to do this soul surgery. The only people who’ve done it right have each performed hundreds of experiments that went wrong, damning the souls of children into becoming monsters in order to learn their dark arts.”

Ezekiel suddenly stopped believing Tiffany’s horror story; she had taken it too far. “Eh! You can fix the soul before it hurts the person too much, can’t you? I don’t know if such surgery would require a practitioner to drop bodies before they got any good at it. And besides that? Can’t you just do the surgery on animals?”

Tiffany rolled her eyes, then said, “Sure. I can see what you’re saying. But—” She gestured around at the walls of the room, saying, “Look at all the people here. There’s so many, and there’s no homeless because they’re all yanked off of the streets and thrown into the war machine of the Highlands. I am sure that someone heard the same stories I heard, but didn’t have your morals, and practicing on people would always give better results than practicing on animals. If you think someone around here didn’t get deep into that dark magic and then make a successful career out of it, then I got some Immortality Potion to sell you.”

“Okay. Despite that horror.” Ezekiel straightened his face, and with the most serious expression, asked, “How much for the potion?”

Tiffany laughed. Even Paul chuckled.

Julia asked, “And can you make more Immortality Potion? We can gain great favor if you can!”

Tiffany laughed louder, and the rest soon followed.

When the laughter died down, they got back to Quests.

“So what do these people get?” Ezekiel asked, “These people who put up the points for the Quest?”

Paul said, “Broadly speaking, those people who give up their points are elevated from initiate to clan member. I’m sure I have not heard the whole story there, but I have little reason to believe that anyone undertakes this action without knowing exactly what they are doing. So… You tell me? Does that sound like a bad deal?”

Ezekiel said, “It means they can go out and hunt monsters and level properly. Probably with assistance? I know how our Clan works, but not every Clan is the same. And these ones are a lot different than I thought they would be.”

Tiffany frowned. “I still don’t like it. It’s too easy to abuse, and the people who give up to get into the system permanently hurt themselves so those at the top can become even more powerful. Look at these Quests. ‘Give a vase of water to an Elder’. These are repeatable Quests, for sure. Means the powerful around here are running around on an extra 200 Stats, at least.”

Paul shrugged. “It’s how they do it, here.”

Julia said, “Even a guy with 200 Strength is still going to die to a pillar thrown through his head. The Script does ensure this much.”

Tiffany said, “With 200 Strength, I bet that same guy could punch a pillar with his head and be fine.”

“I meant an unaware target, obviously. Such a target would not be fine.”

Tiffany shrugged. “I would be fine.”

“And you’re an orcol.”

Tiffany nodded. “Not everyone is perfect; this is true.”

With a smile, Ezekiel said, “Let’s math it out a bit. With 200 Strength, Scion of Strength, and a Class Ability for Double Health, you’re looking at 48,000 Health.”

Paul said, “But most people around here are Scions of Balance.”

Ezekiel nodded, saying, “And I’m sure they’re more balanced in their Stat distribution, too. 150 to Strength and Willpower, means 18,000 Health, and 18,000 Mana.”

These new numbers meant he could revise his previous calculations, where he dumbed down his own ‘incognito Stats’ to a bare 6000 mana. He could pretend to have 18,000 mana… But his current idea of going at 6000 mana would jive well with him being a ‘Foreign Scion’ that didn’t participate in these sort of Stat games like the Highlands evidently did… Which meant that maybe he shouldn’t revise any numbers at all.

He certainly didn’t have to be quite so calculating about mana costs, though, in case someone was watching. And with [Witness], you could be sure that someone was always watching. At least, back home, his [Prismatic Ward] blocked most of that. Tiffany had only gotten as good as she had because she was able to pierce through that dense air.

“18,000 Health and Mana. Ahh.” Julia said, “A large amount, that. But all it really means is that they have the resources to back up their actions, and to make up for a failed attack.”

“That’s…” Tiffany scowled a bit, then relaxed, saying, “That’s not incorrect. Fights between Scions might last more than a trio of exchanges if they have the raw Stats to back up a good, actual defense, and if they focus on reflective magics.”

