“Anyway!” Julia said, “I want some more Stats. Got any Quests that aren’t based on the systemic abuse of underlings, and that the posters might actually let us complete?”

“I can agree to that,” Tiffany happily said.

“Yeah. I saw a good one.” Ezekiel said, “Here.”

Special Quest!

FIND the lost alchemist, Tadashi Diligent Scribe, of the Branch Family Clan Diligent Scribe, beholden to Clan Star Song, of Eralis, and then RETURN Tadashi ALIVE and INTACT to Clan Star Song or to any of the lesser posters of this Quest.

Tadashi was last seen roughly 1900 kilometers northwest of Eralis, deep in spiritual herb territory in the Central Tribulation Mountains. He was captured by bandits.

The return of Tadashi is more important than the murder of bandits.

COMPLICATIONS: He has been afflicted by an Antirhine Elixir. If you have no way of returning him intact and unharmed, then do not pursue this Quest. Do not make yourself an enemy of Eralis.

This Quest has been active for <7 hours>.

Reward: 5 points.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script

Lesser Poster: Elder Mirizo Star Song, Enforcer Sikali Song of Clan Star Song. Elder Doniro Diligent Scribe of Clan Diligent Scribe.

“I wanted a good in with the Clans.” Ezekiel said, “This is perfect.”

Julia laughed as she read, “We’re just going to drop all attempts at subterfuge, then?”

“Yes. If it means saving someone’s life.”

Julia eyed her father. “I didn’t expect so much enthusiasm, but I suppose I should have.”

Ezekiel said, “We’ll try to be circumspect, but if we get backed into an unwinnable corner, then yeah. No more subterfuge. I’ve never seen a Quest with a timer on it, so this guy is obviously important to someone.” He added, “And it’s his life, which is more than enough reason to do this.” He frowned. “I’m not sure how best to transport a guy with an antirhine problem, though. Can’t be [Teleport]ed. Eh. Wrap him in a comfortable box and drag it behind on a chain, or something? Attach a flying spell to the other end of the chain, of course. But… Hmm… We did see a lot of monsters in the air over the mountains.”

Julia suggested, “Just go up high enough?” She looked to Odin, saying, “He did fine, didn’t he? Ah. But. Yeah. Thunder Birds. They hunt by sound, and Odin was light, so that just avoided the problem, but you can’t avoid this problem with an antirhine person dragging behind you. If they’re not themselves detected, then the box they’re loaded into, or whatever, would be detected.”

“Yup.” Ezekiel said, “Got it, exactly.”

Julia shrugged. “Just kill all of the Thunder Birds. Or Stop them; make them fall out of the sky. That was my original idea for bird hunting, anyway.”

Ezekiel nodded, then asked, “But how to find Tadashi?”

Julia laughed. “You know how.”

“Yes. But…” Ezekiel considered. “People would see that almost instantly… Though I could put it up well away from the mountains? Now there’s an idea.”

Paul said, “We should not take that chance. Someone would see it. Especially if people are searching for strange magical effects, which they will be. 5 points is a lot.”

“There’s always the manual way.” Tiffany said, “You have 10 Odin and [Witness], after all.”

Odin chirped in violin twangs.

Julia looked to Tiffany, saying, “Yeah, but surely they’ve tried those methods before?”

Tiffany shrugged. “Possibly. If it was us, we would have exhausted all the normal methods already. Including esoteric ones like [Shadowalk] hunting, and [Familiar]s geared toward searching. Honestly, there are so many ways to hide, and there are just as many ways to find. If someone doesn’t want to be found in the Tribulation Mountains they could dig a deep hole and you’d literally never find them.” She frowned, then added, “Or maybe not. There are probably horrible things living underground, too.”

“Yes, there are.” Ezekiel said, “But you have given me a [Familiar] idea, though.”

Julia countered, “I’m pretty sure that 10 Odin is very conspicuous.”

“Of course he is. Which is why I don’t want to do that.” Ezekiel decided, “Not a [Familiar], though. Something I can cast a hundred times. But… Hmm.”

“Point of order, again.” Paul said, “We should probably avoid rushing to find this guy. We are not prepared for such a thing, and —after asking around, just now— I am one hundred percent certain that Tadashi is already being searched for by every power in the area. 5 points is a lot, and this is their culture; they go for these Quests pretty hard.”

Ezekiel went silent, in thought. Tiffany and Julia finished off their bowls of congee, silently thinking. Paul did the same.

With her bowl empty, Julia said, “I still want points, but not if it’ll get us killed. This seems like something that they would kill over, especially if what that driver said is true; that Clans are able to legally murder whoever they want. If everyone is going after him, then we’ll be in their sights, too.”

Tiffany nodded. “Yeah. Hunting for that guy is a bad idea.”

Ezekiel decided that Paul was right. He wasn’t prepared for such a rescue, and Nelboor was full of war.

And looking over the spells he would have used to make a ‘[Searching Buddy]’, [Cascade Imaging] cost 500 mana. Combining that with [Conjure Force Elemental] to create a searching magic was only the barest idea of such a spell. This idea was already 510-plus mana. Such a working was economically nonviable. He needed a 50 to 150 mana spell, at the most. Something to flood a super large area with searchers.

And that base idea wasn’t even touching upon the other magics that he would want to put into such a [Searching Buddy]. Would he want a map to pop up where he was? Or would he want the conjured beings to report back to him, somehow? Or maybe they could just send a flare into the sky once they found the target?

Yeah. Paul was right.

He wasn’t prepared to find Tadashi, and even if he could be after an hour of brainstorming, the alchemist was already being searched for by all the major powers of the area.

- - - -

Ezekiel, Julia, Tiffany, and Paul, stood on the windswept plains northwest of Eralis where no one roamed but the breeze, and those looking for trouble. The mountains were still a few lightsteps away, full of monsters and money and at least one tortured alchemist.

The Quest had said that the man had vanished about a thousand kilometers in that direction, in the center of the South Central Tribulation Mountains.

So Ezekiel looked… to the left. Their monster hunting destination laid a good 900 kilometers south of Tadashi’s vanishing, two valleys over from where they had been yesterday. They shouldn’t run into any trouble with any bandits, or accidentally run into any scions or young masters searching for their 5-point prize.

Accidentally running into Tadashi was perfectly fine, but Ezekiel wasn’t about to encourage such reckless action.

… Maybe if no one found the alchemist by the end of the day, he would risk a [Cascade Imaging] to search for people, and then he’d check in on all of those resulting blue dots. But not before then.

Odin scouted ahead to the target valley. Nothing seemed out of the ordinary in the deep mist of that particular valley. No blooming fires. No wars happening right in front of Odin. No missing alchemists out in the open. There were monsters down there, of course, but that was expected.

With a light step, the four exiled members of Clan Phoenix were once again surrounded by mist.

The Mist Stone Gluttons attacked four minutes later.

In a particular ‘oh shit!’ moment, one of them managed to bite into Ezekiel’s thigh and claw up and down his side at the same time, before Ezekiel hit his emergency button and turned to light, letting the monster flow through him without so much as another point of damage. His thorny shield had stuck itself in the monster's jaw and thus prevented a lot of damage, but the monster was three times Ezekiel’s size, and thus more than able to claw around the tiny deflector.

Ezekiel had taken a claw to the face, directly on an eye, for a critical, and yet...

Killing that beast and the rest was a simple matter of a few more moments of effort. When Ezekiel came back to his body, he checked himself. His [Animadversion] had prevented most of the attack, while his [Personal Ward] had taken all the actual damage and his magenta armor mitigated most of that, anyway. The claw to his eye had scraped at nothing, inflicting no harm. Sure, he had taken damage, but that damage was all to resources that could regenerate. Ezekiel himself looked no worse for wear. His [Personal Ward] would need an hour to regenerate, but by his estimates, he could take another two or three full, direct attacks like that, and not be too worried. He would probably survive even if the monster got a better critical than it had.

And so! He had defenses. They worked. And if the monsters got through his defenses, he had Constitution to fall back on. Ezekiel was stronger than most threats, but threats were still threats.
