“He simply never truly cared for music as made by mortal hands. And Golems play music poorly. They do not create. Perhaps, though…you will show me how to play a harp before we land. If one can be made for my hands.”
Cognita saw her fingers change shape. Barelle’s eyebrows rose and his eyes lit up with curiosity.
“Ah. There is a tale here. I am glad I travelled. To Chandrar, then, Cognita. Adventurers await. If only I could be everywhere and live longer. But such beings do not exist. Even Djinni are limited.”
He smiled. Cognita almost did too.
“There is a word for that, Barelle.”
“Really? Forgive an old [Bard], but I have never known it.”
The Truestone Golem’s eyes glittered.
“I would speak it. If you could survive it. There are words that Golems know that even [Bards] lack. Someday, Barelle. When you are a truly great [Bard], seek me out. I hope you will accomplish it before the end of your life.”
The man’s eyebrows rose. He looked at Cognita. She smiled as she set the flames of his curiosity higher.
It might be an interesting trip after all.
 
——
 
Music rang through the tunnels of the Antinium just once. It was quashed in a moment. The frightened little Worker hid in a corner and Anand had to carry him away with Goat and the others.
He had never heard the Armored Queen, who seemed nicest of all the Queens, even the Free Queen, scream like that. But the terrified little Worker, Pie Piper, had begun to play music and she had heard it and…
It distressed him so much he had to talk to Klbkch during their daily debriefing. That was what Klbkch referred to it as. Anand scurried up to the Antinium, reconnecting nerves and muscle. It was a long, painful process, being rebuilt.
However, Anand had to admit that Klbkch looked more dangerous. He was able to talk, and often discussed the building of ships, which was progressing now that they had a guide, albeit a terrified one.
But that was ongoing and neither here nor there. It was over there, in the underground lake. Today was about music. Klbkch had, of course, heard of the incident.
“Music will be forbidden in the Hives.”
“But why, Revalantor Klbkch? Bird sings to the Free Queen.”
“…He does?”
Anand hesitated.
“No?”
Klbkch stared at him. Anand amended his answer.
“Sometimes. Is it dangerous, in some way, Revalantor Klbkch?”
“It is unpleasant.”
“To Antinium?”
“To the Queens. The Free Queen’s decision is not that of the Armored Queen. Did she…react beyond screaming?”
Anand nodded.
“She was very upset. She told us that we will never make music in her presence again. She seemed…pained.”
For a long time, Klbkch was still, and the custom-Antinium delicately maneuvering gels to aid the developing body worked in silence.
“Yes. She would be. It is not a physical phenomenon, but a mental one that has troubled Antinium since our arrival on Izril, Strategist Anand. I inform you that you may not offend the Queens again and hinder their process. It is a commonality amongst other species as well. Memory causes pain.”
He expected Anand to grapple with the problem, but the Worker just nodded.
“Yes. It does. It hurts when I think of Erin.”
Klbkch was silent. His great wisdom learned from many years had been already internalized.
He expected Anand to shuffle off, but the Strategist hesitated.
“Revalantor Klbkch…may I talk to you about being sad? I am sad. I still think of Erin. So are the others.”
Klbkch evaluated his ability to move, and also his desire to talk to Anand about sadness and Erin being dead. He clacked his mandibles.
“Speak to Wrymvr instead. You informed me he was an inspirational leader in many ways.”
Anand hesitated. Yet he did not scurry off to find Wrymvr, who apparently could be more of a leader than Klbkch.
“…I would, but Wrymvr is not suitable for this conversation, Revalantor Klbkch.”
“Why not?”
“He does not care about us.”
This time Klbkch actually moved his head slightly. He glanced at Anand.
“Wrymvr is constantly appraising your actions, Anand. He is pleased about your progress and…kinder…than I am.”
Anand nodded amiably. He poked his fingers together, then refuted Klbkch.
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch, but I have misphrased my communications. He can be caring, but he does not care about us. My perception is that Centenium Wrymvr is interested in our worth. Not if we live or die.”
Klbkch looked at Anand. Something like…approbation stirred in him. Because Anand was correct. That was probably what Xrn described. Anand went on.
“Wrymvr is very helpful to me. He tries to cheer me up when I am sad. He delivered the ship to me. He does what is helpful. However, I have seen the Twisted Antinium’s Hive. Wrymvr does not care about our lives. Only our function. I believe this is so, Klbkch.”
Ah. So that was why she called him insane. That was the difference between Wrymvr and Xrn. Klbkch considered Anand’s statement. If he was going to be depressed for another week, Wrymvr was going to be upset. So Klbkch tried to say the most comforting thing he could imagine.
“Do not be disheartened, Anand. Wrymvr may see you as a means to an end, but he is not biased.”
“…How so?”
Klbkch raised his mandibles in a fake smile.
“If he believed the benefits were worth the cost he would sacrifice me or Xrn, just like any of the Antinium and expect us to do the same. Wrymvr is committed to success.”
For some reason, Anand did not look particularly inspired by this information. His mandibles drooped.
“Now I am very sad, Revalantor Klbkch.”
The Antinium stared at Anand. This was so difficult. He tried a different tack.
“I have an interesting factoid, Anand. About Wrymvr as it pertains to this morning’s incident.”
The [Strategist] latched onto this and Klbkch saw him stop moping.
“What is this, Revalantor Klbkch?”
“It is not permissible to ask for a demonstration within the Queen’s hearing. However, I can inform you that Wrymvr is, himself, capable of singing.”
“What.”
Anand twitched his mandibles. Klbkch tried to nod, but his muscles weren’t there yet.
“He is capable of singing with multiple mouths. Quite adeptly.”
Rather than cheer Anand up, Klbkch got a suspicious look. Anand doubted him! Klbkch had no other recourse.
“Wrymvr. Wrymvr.”
“Klbkchhezeim.”
The two communicated, True Antinium to True Antinium. In truth, Wrymvr was one of the few that Klbkch could talk to like this and cared to.
“Wrymvr, I must ask you to sing to Anand to alleviate his fears that you do not care for his life on a personal level. Also, because he is growing depressed.”
“No.”
Klbkch paused.
“Why not? As I recall, you quite enjoy singing.”
“I will not sing again. Not until a sign our mission will succeed appears in fullness.”
There was something like Adamantium in that promise. Klbkch understood it full well. Exasperated, he kept Wrymvr in the link as he addressed Anand.
“…I assure you, Wrymvr can sing. He has declined to, but he is capable of music.”
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch.”
“Why are you talking about singing?”
“I do not know. Anand has another issue he is bringing up. Indulging him boosts productivity.”
“You lead them poorly.”
“He perceives you don’t care about his fate. I do not care to converse with you given your lack of helpfulness.”
Klbkch snapped back mentally, coloring his mental tone with frustration. Wrymvr’s response was simple when it came back.
“Yet Anand comes to you. Therefore, he senses you do care, or can. This I agree with. That you do not, or do not try, is your failing. He is not of my Hive.”
The Slayer’s mandibles clicked a few times. In the end, he decided to talk to Anand since it was better than Wrymvr.
“Is it doubtful that Wrymvr is capable of song, Anand? Xrn is. We are able to perform every function you can. And more.”
“So Centenium sang?”
Anand peered at Klbkch, sitting on a stool, interested again. The Slayer tried to nod again and gave up.
“This is so. Are you happy again?”
Anand edged forwards on the edge of his seat.
“M-maybe. If you answer more questions. Were the Centenium like us? No one will tell me much, even the Grand Queen.”
For a moment, Klbkch was dumbfounded. Were they like…?
He couldn’t help it. A fluttering sound, like an insect, emerged from his mouth. Somewhere else in the Hivelands, Wrymvr copied the sound. Anand was terrified. Then he realized.
They were laughing.
“Like you. You are a copy of Galuc. You are nothing close t—”
Klbkch responded to Anand, and Wryvmr’s censor stopped him. He amended his statement.
“The Centenium had different personalities. So…yes, Anand. They were ‘like you’. Each one was different. Each one glorious. Complete in their function, beyond any other Antinium.”
“More or less. Some were more capable in all regards.”
This time Wrymvr’s comment left Klbkch speechless. He was silent—then gave Wrymvr a mental buffet so hefty it closed their connection. That was not an insult to Klbkch. That was…simply wrong.
Anand was still there, waiting for Klbkch’s next words. And because of what Wrymvr had intimated in thought, worse than word, Klbkch went on.
“Each one had great talents, Anand. Each one was…unique. Designed to be forerunners, exemplars of what they did. Some overlapped in talents. Some were truly unique. Yes, some sang. Of all of them, the hundred, there were some who did sing. Our Queen sang. So many could. Song…oh yes. We could ‘sing’. Not as you know it.”
It pained him to speak, so he stopped. Anand listened, then nodded, his eyes filled with understanding at last. They had sung.
“So that is why the Armored Queen was sad.”
“Sad? Yes…I suppose.”
“Did they make music? Or was it just singing that is not singing as I understood it?”
Klbkch’s head lowered. His mandibles drooped. For a long time, he hung there. Then he spoke.
“Only one ever learned an instrument that was not part of their body. If that is the difference, yes. One made music. The rest of us…no. To your question, there was one Antinium who ever fulfilled your criteria.”
Anand listened to the weary Slayer. To stories of old. How alike they were, how apparently different. Centenium. Of every form? Not all the same? What was Antinium, truly? He yearned to know.
“Is his statue among the Armored Queen’s?”
“Perhaps.”
“What is his name? I could look.”
Klbkch hesitated.
“His name was…”
 
——
 
“Czautha.”
The Death of Chains turned. Her body, inside of the Demons’ domain, was condensed. Still, she was reminiscent of a cloud of magic and color that had decided to take humanoid form. Two glowing eyes narrowed. For she was still wrathful.
The Death of Magic returned the look. Silvenia, Islandbreaker, The Curse of Elves, the Traitor of…well, one of Terandria’s traitors, did not back down.
She was a half-Elf. But Czautha thought that she came closest to the heritage of her kind. If Elves were pure magic, Silvenia was among the closest of her kind to that idea. Certainly, the closest living.
“I do not wish to speak with you, Silvenia. Begone.”
This was Czautha’s domain, and so even atmosphere as other species understood it was different. Still, Silvenia intruded.
“Ah, but I wish to speak to you, Czautha. Little whispers have reached my ears since our raid on Chandrar.”
“Our raid on Roshal.”
That was the difference. Little words, which heralded deep rifts. They had not cropped up as the Deathless were returned from their mortal wounds. Then, they had been grateful to live, too busy with the great news.
Flora.
Time had passed since then, and Czautha, the Djinni, Death of Chains, Chainbreaker, was reminded of how Silvenia was. She who loved wars, compared to the Djinni who would liberate her people, all slaves, if she could.
The Deathless looked at each other, and Czautha forced the hostility down. Now was not the time to fight. Silvenia might hold back, but she was always hungry for battle.
“Why have you come here, Silvenia?”
“Two reasons. The first is minor. We have time for the second. Yet the first bothers me. I interviewed the ones we brought to Rhir. One of them is a cousin of yours.”
“So?”
“His name is Azam. Or was. He is picking a new one, I know how you are with names, but since he has no new one…he told me something interesting, Czautha.”
The Death of Chains knew what was coming. She sighed.
“Yes. Which was?”
“In your raid, you came across a spellbook owned by a Gold-rank adventurer. The one who was on the scrying orbs everyone likes to watch?”
Silvenia wasn’t as interested in that. She peered at Czautha.
“He had a treasure. From the Putrid One. A spellbook. So powerful you could see it. You let him have it.”
“And?”
Silvenia narrowed her eyes as she floated towards Czautha. She was displeased. As if it didn’t matter to mention assassinating a [Knight] mid-transit and trying to kill a child and a girl in chains.
“You said I had ‘many spellbooks’ like that one. Did you appraise it? Did you check which spells it contained? Who wrote it?”
“I do not know. It was powerful, but I did not have time to investigate it. Every second mattered.”
Silvenia steepled her hands and ‘sat’, floating around Czautha.
“Indeed. Indeed. So you did not investigate, but you deemed this spellbook had nothing of value to me. Why?”
She was piqued. Former [Archmage] or not, Czautha rolled her shoulders and eyes. Silvenia’s own damaged features glared at her from their healing/stasis spells. Now here was someone who could bring back someone on the verge of death by magic alone. Flora had helped cure her, and thus she had expedited the return of the others, able to divide her magic rather than barely keep herself from dying.
The Djinni replied in a level tone, dismissing the memories of decades of pain, fighting for life.
“You do not need more tomes, Silvenia. I left it with a child of death who could take up arms. Who needed a weapon where he stood.”
What remained of Silvenia’s lips pursed. She was displeased. She glared at Czautha.
“There was the adventurer as well. A [Necromancer] of some talent. You should have taken him too. Level 40 would be acceptable as a lieutenant. Especially one who can create undead hordes. He was known enough. If we convinced him to speak and overwrote Wistram’s broadcast…”
Czautha interrupted Silvenia.
“Death of Magic. Do not lecture me about possibilities and choices. I am still displeased with you.”
The air turned ominous. The magic of the two beings collided, auras unto themselves such that even their distaste for one another created a magical storm that might have killed lesser spellcasters where they stood. Eventually, Silvenia floated back.
