And feathers. Someone had a feather problem. Even…dandruff? Huge dandruff. There were discarded seeds here and there, footprints…
Ryoka Griffin wished she had slippers as she padded bare-foot down corridor after corridor. Yes…this was definitely a lair of multiple people. It even had an entrance from the Court of Masks.
Of course. Sophridel, the Elemental of Masks, ensured their secrecy. It was the caretaker of the Court of Masks. Rhisveri was the ‘boss’, or at least, the first among equals. Probably the boss.
So what was Fithea? Refugee? Guest? Another sharer of power? Gilaw…she was younger.
A lot younger. Compared to all three, she was practically a baby. Still old enough to pretend to be a Great Knight and dangerous as all hell if a light kick could nearly kill Ryoka, but the Wind Runner’s senses were not to be fooled.
She was still not an expert on the wind, her running was arguably surpassed by the best of both worlds, and so on, but she was probably a reigning expert in immortal studies. She could tell Gilaw was young.
Who else was here, though? That was the question. Ryoka got her first answer soon enough. She came to what looked like a hallway leading to various activity-rooms. The sound of splashing water hinted at a bath, or pool. Ryoka peeked into open doorways; there weren’t many doors here, although she’d passed by what might have been the living quarters back a ways.
“Library. Huh. I wonder if there’s an immortal librarian. If it’s an orangutang, I’m leaving. Let’s see. Is that a greenhouse? Wow—oh.”
She nearly stopped in the verdant place, which was probably Fithea’s, but the pool was on the other side and Ryoka just had to look inside. She peered through the door, and saw a huge, just, multiple-olympic-pool sized body of water. No…a practical lake in itself. Was there a dimensional spell on the room?
There had to be! Ryoka gaped up at the sunny ceiling, which looked like it was actually outside. Onto a beach on the far end, and what looked like a damn reef and other underwater nods. She heard laughter, the clink of glass.
“…so there I was. And I realize—they’re flirting with me. Both of them!”
“No. Twins? What did you do?”
“Nothing. Do you think I’m going to shed my disguise? ‘Rhisveri the mighty’ told me to keep it quiet. But could you believe it? Prince and princess of…? Do you think they were serious?”
“I don’t know. I wish I could travel.”
“Maybe next time you can come with. I was just—Gilaw, come in. You can swim in that form?”
A defiant woman’s voice, rather like a squawk, but translated through a Human set of vocal chords, answered.
“Suit yourself, but we’re not coming over. You have to learn to swim…come on. Aunt Fithea! Aunt Fithea, tell Gilaw to stop being silly and…”
A laughing group was in the middle of the body of water. They were teasing a dark-skinned woman with her huge mane of hair. She looked decidedly younger, despite the illusory spell, as she nervously peered into the water she was definitely afraid of entering. Not that she should have feared drowning.
Not among the company of the laughing group inside. They weren’t actually all that Human. Maybe it was inbreeding with Drowned Folks or a mistyping of legends—or they’d grown more Human in later legends. But some had beautiful scales, rather than skin.
Ryoka saw light silver scales running down one young man’s arms. Gills, or something, and fin-like protrusions. Webbed fingers.
Completely Human on others. There were only, oh, eleven she saw visible. Eleven. Yet they swam around, as energetic as could be. With floating dishes, gossiping, talking about their experience on land, as fast in the water as Ryoka was on land. Maybe faster.
After all. They had huge tails, some forked, others the single flipper you imagined. Some didn’t have scales, but a shark’s ‘skin’. Some had predatory teeth, others not.
Nevertheless…they were definitely Mermaids. A laughing young man turned sun-bronzed skin to the door. He saw Ryoka instead of Fithea and went still. Gilaw, shuffling away from the water, glanced up.
“Uh.”
Ryoka had not expected Merfolk of all species. It made sense. Drowned Folk existed. Unicorns had once existed. Why not Mermaids? But she just hadn’t—
“A Human! An intruder! She’s seen us!”
One of the Merfolk screamed. He pointed at Ryoka with a look of such genuine terror Ryoka backed up.
“No, wait. I was invited—”
“Call Rhisveri! Flee! Flee! Gilaw, run!”
They dove so fast Ryoka didn’t even get a chance to answer. Gilaw looked as the Merfolk dove, and Ryoka felt the underwater panic vibrating beneath her. Gilaw rose, her eyes flashing.
“Oh shit. Gilaw, Fithea invited me. Fithea—”
Too late. The Great Knight charged at her with a cawing scream. One fist raised—and she did look like she knew how to brawl. Ryoka backed up.
“Gilaw, don’t—”
The immortal leapt. It was a predatory strike, and it might have actually torn out Ryoka’s stomach or throat, for all it wasn’t the way Humans should move. It would have worked, but Gilaw ran into a wall of wind. It flipped her into the pool.
She landed, eyes wide, and immediately began thrashing and drowning, making screaming protests. Ryoka hesitated, but she saw the Merfolk moving in the water below.
Oh shit, were those weapons? Ryoka didn’t wait to find out. She ran for it. She dashed down the hallway, hoping to get back before Gilaw found her, so Fithea could sort this out. But she heard the angry, wet Great Knight tearing after her, so Ryoka dodged left, praying Gilaw didn’t have a sense of smell, and opened the first door she came to and shut herself in.
That was when she met the immortal named Menorkel.
 
——
 
It was obvious after mere moments of descending into the darkness that this place was not natural. Kevin felt it in his bones.
The strata of the rock was uniform. Some ultra-tough material even Poisonbite couldn’t chip a flake off of, at least not on the move. They had to move quickly too; the Humans had seen them entering and were coming.
A big army. Yet the Goblins were cheerful. As one Redfang, Atter, cheerfully explained to Kevin, this was a good place to die.
“No light. Humans hate no light. Small tunnels. Good to fight many in. Except [Fireballs].”
She was a former Mountain City Hobgoblin, hence her advanced command of linguistics. Compared to that, the Redfang next to her, a normal-sized Goblin, yet wearing the Redfang paint, was practically unintelligible and had no Shaman-name. He was called Pillowhead.
There was a difference in Antinium and Goblin naming conventions. Antinium were random, like Kevin2 and Infinitypear. Pillowhead? Kevin stared at the pillow strapped to the back of the Goblin’s head.
“…Why does he have a pillow on the back of his head?”
“Good sleep. Also, cheap helmet. If he dies, he gets to sleep a long time comfortably.”
Atter assured Kevin. Pillowhead, who had grunted after surviving the outpost stand, gave Kevin an amiable grunt. Kevin looked at them.
He had known them for exactly two minutes by name and already he didn’t want either to die. Die they might, though. Taganchiel had placed a ward at the entrance. He was monitoring it as they fled, following Poisonbite now, because her eyes were best and the Ogres only knew this place, not the layout.
Down they went. Through smooth stone tunnels. Debris became increasingly apparent, and some kind of detritus on the ground. None to obstruct movement, but it proved someone had been here.
No. Someone had built this place. Kevin shined a wand up and saw the strange, pale stone. Why was it so cavernous yet so clearly made? The answer came to him as they passed by a more intact part of the caves. He gasped. Atter made a sound.
“Oh. Dwarves.”
The part of the tunnel not worn to craggy stone was clearly a road, and the walls were not yet fully obscured. Kevin saw cut stone, old reliefs on the walls, depicting some design or mural…he swung the wand of light around.
Oh no. He had a bad feeling about this, and that was about as clichéd as…
“Ward gone. Humans behind. Hurry. They are coming.”
Taganchiel snapped. Kevin looked at him.
“Don’t say that.”
“What? Humans coming. They are—”
“Don’t say it like that, Tagan. Just…trust me.”
It was too silent down here. The Goblins moved, and the heavy tromp of the Ogres and the jingling of armor was the only sound Kevin heard. But he had been promised something. Drums. Drums in the…
Perhaps no one was here anymore? Kevin really, really doubted it. More likely, whatever was here might not have known there were intruders yet. However, any hopes of that ended as their pursuers entered the caves, spreading out through the branching tunnels, or as Kevin now knew, hallways. They made a lot of sound, a furious din in the distance.
They had to come on foot, probably, so it was a foot-race, but the Goblins were slowing. They felt it too.
Something was down there. Something Kevin really didn’t want to meet. He didn’t want a damn magic ring either. Invisibility spells were cheap and he’d seen Ryoka’s missing fingers.
All of Kevin’s worst fears were crescendoing in his head into a fever of paranoia. He almost wanted something to pop out as the Goblins marched downwards. Just get it over with! What was it, Crelers? Evil horrors? Actually…
“Atter. How do you know this is a Dwarf-place? Is it obvious?”
“Mountain. Underground? We lived in Dwarf-place. Many around. This one old. Very old.”
The Hobgoblin’s voice made Poisonbite scowl for breaking silence-discipline, but since they were already followed, she let it slide. Kevin nodded, gulped.
“So…what could be lurking down here?”
“Whatever kills Dwarves. Could be bad. Horrific-death.”
“Great. Uh…one last question?”
“Mm?”
“Do, uh, ‘Balrogs’ exist? Ever heard of one?”
He really had to know. Atter glanced at Taganchiel. She was about to dispel his fears that this particular horror was unknown to her when it happened.
Thum.
The first beat rose upwards from the ground. An earth-shaking sound. It made the Goblins and Ogres freeze. It made Kevin pee, just a bit.
We’re all dead.
Even the Humans stopped for a second. Everyone turned their heads wildly, setting themselves, waiting for an attack. But Kevin knew. Oh, he knew. That sound was huge, and in this confined space, it echoed for perhaps miles. It had come from far away.
It was the sound of something coming. Something waking up. He heard it again as Poisonbite wavered. Then she glanced over her shoulder, bared her teeth. Light from behind them.
“Run! Run or die!”
The Goblins ran. Now, Kevin heard shouts.
“There they are! Get the monsters! To me! To me!”
Someone was blowing a horn, and the pursuers converged, finding the tunnel the Goblins were heading down. Kevin pumped his arms and legs, and one of the Goblins turned—tossed something down and the howls of pain told Kevin they had deployed a trap.
Even so. It was a race downwards. Yet everyone was waiting. Waiting for the next—
Thum.
That was the sound it made. The sound of a drum, the boom of it in your bones. Less loud this time? Perhaps. The first had been a wakeup call. But this next one, when it came, did not leave the silence lingering long.
Thum. Thum.
The beats began. Picking up in speed. Kevin heard them, the boom of something in the darkness. They were coming. Oh yes.
Thum. Thum. Thum. Thum.
…And the drumbeats were picking up in tempo. Even the pursuers seemed nervous—but it meant they picked up speed instead. They wanted the Goblins dead now, before this trick or external threat got them.
The Goblins and Ogres sprinted into a huge space, some giant walkway or gathering point, mere seconds before the Humans. Somo actually turned and struck low someone charging after her. There was a scream—pursuit slowed a bit as the Humans realized they still had to fight at the end.
“Regroup! Box them in!”
More pursuers were coming out of other tunnels. Poisonbite’s head whirled; she saw the other pathways, and pointed straight down the huge intersection.
“This way!”
“That’s towards the drums!”
Kevin yelped. Somo groaned.
“No, no. Bad. Other way!”
Poisonbite just snarled. She did an amazing dive sideways and a crackling ray blasted the stone. Everyone started running after her, dodging as Taganchiel shot magic back.
“We find death or we die! Too many Humans!”
Thumthumthumthumthumthum—
It was fast now, a rhythmic beat Kevin was amazed by. Whoever was heralding their imminent horrific demise also had amazing beat control. Well, if movies could do it…the thunderous sounds were a quick rhythm, just a bit slower than his terrified heartbeat.
Something was coming. Poisonbite held up a claw. She stared ahead.
“Something—”
The Goblins, Ogres and Human slowed in their mad dash. They hesitated, but an army was coming towards them from the rear. Kevin heard the drumbeats change one last time.
Thum-thum thum thum. Thu-thu-thum. Thum. Thum thum.
Kevin stumbled. He slowed, as Poisonbite pointed and everyone ran left, staring at something coming out of the darkness. Wait a second. That was a half-beat. That was…
“Dude. It’s got a rhythm.”
That wasn’t the sonorous war-drums he’d expected. That sounded like something else, suddenly. Terrifying in the darkness, loud as everything. But it also sounded like…
Music. Someone had interrupted the steady downbeat, throwing in double-thums and a changing tempo. It was music.
Oh. And it was getting louder. So loud that Kevin didn’t even hear Poisonbite screaming at them. He saw her gesturing, pointing. Get to the side! Yet the world was filled with the drums.
Thum-thum-thum-thum…
Now it was a march. Thunder in the caverns. The Humans slowed, weapons raised, shining lights into the darkness, illuminating the Goblins, the Ogres, Kevin…
And the things coming up from the depths.
They came out of the darkness in ranks. Not with the Redfang’s military strictness, but shoulder-to-shoulder, with huge, swinging steps. Just seventeen of them. Seventeen, to face hundreds of Humans.
They were not as tall as Somo’s people. Yet each one was huge, their skin surprisingly more pale from lack of light. They carried crude weapons by the standards of civilization, but still, huge clubs of bone or axes. Somo backed up, weapon raised, snarling in alarm. She respected these warriors. Cousins of hers.
Trolls.
Seventeen Trolls thundered down the intersection to the beating of that drum. Weapons raised, ignoring the arrows and spells trying to hurt them. They marched past Goblins and Ogres, not oblivious, just confident. The Humans brought up weapons and shields, but they were not prepared. For Trolls or…
