But then the Hobgoblin just grinned, whipped out his guitar, and began to play. Music brought interesting meetings after all.
 
——
 
It was indeed something, to share time with a master of the craft. Sometimes it was young talent, yet to be developed, uncertain. Other times it was natural ability, the product of endless amounts of practice, but completely self-taught.
Numbtongue was certainly in the latter category. But there were also the musicians of talent, enthusiasm, and practice with formal educations.
Did it mean they were intrinsically better? Perhaps not. But they could be very good, and arguably better than even the self-taught if you added the things money and professional training could buy. Money could buy things that made music better. Especially if those things were magic.
All this to say that sometimes the world’s finest was an illusion. Sometimes, it was well-deserved.
The Four Winds of Teral set out from Wistram Academy with only one passenger. Not a Gold-rank team for two reasons. Firstly, they were too busy and the Courier ship was to leave within the day. The Silver Swords had a reason to stay and learn more, for at least a while longer, despite their pressing desire, and even their leader could see that.
The second was that their passenger refused to have company. And one did not argue with a Truestone Golem.
…Unless of course, one had a damn good reason to do so, and an ego to match. So, amazingly, Cognita was informed she would share passege and that the Four Winds was making one stop.
“I am terribly sorry, Miss, er…Cognita of Wistram.”
The sweating [Captain] saw the Truestone Golem’s head turn. She was reading a book and sitting while watching the waves go by. Cognita looked at Bressa.
“Captain Bressa. You are confused as to my address. When you address a woman of uncertain rank, what title would you use?”
“…I would say Miss, uh, if I didn’t—”
“Then I am Miss Cognita.”
Captain Bressa cast a look at the other [Sailors] of the Four Winds. It was a Garuda-led ship in many regards; she was the child of a Garuda-Human match, but the [Sailors] often had wings. You wanted to harness the power of the Four Winds, the famed Courier-Ship.
“Absolutely, Miss Cognita. I am terribly sorry, and it will not happen again. As I was saying, I am so sorry, but we cannot avoid this contract. The other passengers booked our ship—they have travelled nearly nonstop to get to a port and one of the passengers is a famed individual.”
“I see. I will accept this.”
Cognita sat back. She kept reading. That had been, oh, two days ago. She wasn’t in that much of a hurry to get to Illivere. The outdoor chair she’d been reading in, and indeed, the book, were her company. She didn’t read fast; she watched the ocean. Just watched the ocean, birds, plants, activity on the decks, so it took her two full days to close the book, having read it.
She hadn’t actually moved from her seat for two days straight. A fact that disconcerted the [Sailors] who had to eat, stretch, and sleep. But Cognita was enjoying herself.
She did not look forward to visitors, however. The Four Winds was hired for her, and she would rather not have passengers who stared and asked questions or treated her like…a thing. She wondered how disreputable it would be to toss someone into the sea.
However, it seemed it had to be done. Captain Bressa offered Cognita a partial refund, but the Truestone Golem didn’t want a refund. She just wanted no passengers. She watched, face stony, as they pulled into a dock. She wasn’t sure which continent it was at first. It was not Zeres, and a far smaller port than the ones she knew. And Cognita remembered every port she’d been to, on every continent of the world.
“I am told one of the guests has met you before, Miss Cognita. Perhaps that is some comfort?”
The Truestone Golem’s head slowly turned.
“I do not enjoy the company of many people who claim to know me, Captain Bressa. We will see how I react.”
If the [Captain] had been nervous before…she hoped this would not ruin the reputation of her ship. She already had Khelt’s wrath to worry about—she should never have taken that job for the Terandrian crusade! She was just glad they wanted to land on Chandrar’s south, not anywhere near the Revenant-class undead tearing up the north. She was going to sail wide of the northern coast until that was over.
However, you couldn’t refuse some passengers and just refund them so easily. Were they Cognita of Wistram? No, but one was close. The other?
“Looks like lots of cargo, Captain! Dead gods, look at that. A menagerie of stuff to load and an entire entourage.”
Bressa cursed as Cognita’s eyes flashed. She lowered the gangplank and strode down to meet her guests—and advise them they might have to confine themselves to their quarters. All things considered, it went well.
They only drew their blades in outrage once, but their leader was more understanding when he heard the name ‘Cognita’. They ponced up the deck, and yes, Bressa felt it was an appropriate verb to describe them. Then again, it was a royal entourage of sorts and her guest was a bit famous world-wide.
As for the other one, when he heard Cognita’s name, he came up the gangplank, stopping their leader from introducing himself despite the risk, to Cognita.
“Allow me first, [Prince]. She is not…amicable at all times. Cognita of Wistram? Might you remember me?”
A figure walked up the deck, in travelling boots, and a colorful cloak fluttering behind. In one hand he carried an artifact of such power that Cognita blinked. She recognized it, and focused on his face. Her look of annoyance changed to one of almost pleasure.
“You are Barelle the Bard.”
One of the world’s famous [Bards] swept her a bow. The magical harp he carried, with strings each of unique power, was held in one hand. Cognita actually smiled at him, then regarded his companion.
“I know you as well. Wistram had cause to feature you.”
“Lady Truestone. I humbly greet you in the name of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. My kingdom may be mighty, but it is nothing compared to your beauty.”
The [Prince] bowed with a flourish. Cognita gave him a level look, but passed him from the sea-dunk test. Prince Zenol of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had travelled hard to meet the Four Winds of Teral from inland, and it showed a bit, despite his entourage of servant-bodyguards’ luggage and their larger group.
Barelle the Bard glanced at Zenol as the [Prince] went to oversee the loading of cargo. They wanted to be out of port in twenty minutes or less.
“I believe the last time we met was six years ago, Miss Cognita.”
“Yes. You interviewed me for your latest song. Is it finished?”
Barelle looked wistful. He plucked at a chord on his harp. For a moment, the harbor paused, as a single chord stilled the waters, the rocking boat, and made all go quiet.
Such was the power of the great [Bard]. A man Cognita could respect in that sense.
“Almost. I have sung it many times, but my tales are more popular. It is one thing for me to sing it, with the Skills and power allotted to me. Another to write something that even a Level 5 [Bard] can recite and bring a room to silence.”
“That is true. That you know it is well. I am not displeased to meet you, Barelle. I believe your company is more welcome. As for the [Prince]…equanimous. Are you travelling in his company?”
She had not missed how familiar the two were. Barelle nodded. He eyed the [Prince] as Zenol strode up the decks. He looked fabulously stunning in his rich clothes, without an adventurer’s armor, but Cognita saw his sword was the most powerful artifact he held, and his defensive armaments. He was a match for any one of the Silver Swords at least, beyond them in terms of gear.
He was also an adventurer by the simplest of reckonings; she saw how he had replaced limbs with less-fitted ones. He had taken wounds and it did not show to non-experts, but it did to her.
“He participated in the Village of the Dead’s raid, Cognita. I saw fit to interview him and many of the others. Yet it is Prince Zenol I follow now, because he returns to Chandrar to chase the lead of the missing team.”
“The Horns of Hammerad.”
Memory stirred. Cognita saw Barelle’s eyes light up; he could spot a connection.
“You know them?”
“I am familiar with two of their number. They were—are—[Mages] of Wistram. They live.”
Barelle nodded.
“So it seems. Prince Zenol considers it a debt unpaid, so we are bound for Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
Interesting. Cognita appraised the [Prince] again. He strode up the gangplank, and Bressa called for the ship to depart. Fast as could be, the Four Winds turned for its next destination.
“I see. Why do you join him? Barelle the Bard was content to his station. A great song for the ages, but no more adventures. That is what you told me the last time we met. Now, you are headed towards a continent rife with war, and towards Nerrhavia’s Fallen, at the side of a [Prince] who may endanger you. Why?”
Barelle gave her a shamefaced smile. His hair had grey in it. It had not the first time he met her, before he earned the first string on that harp. How soon it changed. Yet she was glad to see something had returned from his youth.
“I confess, my ambition died out. I was complacent, Cognita. Perhaps that’s why my songs stalled and I just made a comfortable living. But of late, I have had—interesting days. I was there when the first plays struck Invrisil. I met unique people, and had the chance to perform at an event which—well, I cannot say. I found myself asking what the stories behind each were, and I did not know.”
“You were drawn to the stories. That is Barelle the Bard, the Meddling Storyteller of tales.”
The [Bard] who found himself in grand tales and sometimes took up arms that they should end the right way. He looked old and young. He smiled, shamefaced.
“I confess, it was not just the desire to know that made me come out of my semi-retirement, Cognita. One of the stories I had hoped to investigate—ended. Too abruptly. I have seen it many times, as you have. Or maybe it is not ended, but I cannot imagine how it will return. The Horns are part of it.”
“Really.”
“Yes. I met with adventurers from the Village of the Dead raid. They are still fighting over who will gain the Helm of Fire, but the Horns of Hammerad saw what lay in the center of that place. Isn’t that a story worthy of Barelle the Bard? Not to mention, the King of Destruction has awoken! He will be more than the lifeless man on the throne. I wish to see it. So—yes. I am going to Chandrar.”
The [Bard] stood on the decks, breathing in the salt air as Cognita felt the ship move. She envied the life in his eyes, rekindled by adventure. He looked at her, and took her in fully.
“There is a story behind Cognita of Wistram leaving her home. May I ask it?”
The Truestone Golem considered him for a long time. Stories. True and untrue, flawed, the stories she told herself about Zelkyr, the ones told by history and the present.
“Perhaps. Yes, perhaps it was well we met after all, Barelle the Bard. Let us talk. As for the [Prince]?”
She glanced over, to where he was hovering, eyes alight with interest. Cognita glanced at Barelle.
“Does he matter? Or is he just a smaller player in your story?”
Barelle glanced at Zenol, who hadn’t heard them, only saw them looking his way. He bowed again, and Barelle smiled.
“Everyone has a story, Cognita of Wistram. Perhaps you will think more kindly of him if I tell you his?”
She considered it.
“I will listen.”
Thus, Barelle the Bard stood, setting his foot on the lip of a railing, and lifted his harp. The deck went silent and even Bressa turned to listen as Barelle the Bard gave a performance. He strummed one chord that sang like the sea, as blue as the sky. His double-harp had a mortal set of chords, and the magical strings on the other side.
Was it music or chant? Cognita listened. It was not rehearsed, but it was free-form, told by Barelle to the ringing notes. He touched the magical chords only rarely; they had power, but it was power that only had its magic because it was spent more rarely than the mortal chords.
“There is a story behind Prince Zenol of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. [Prince of Sands]. Prince of Isphel. One of many of Nerrhavia’s royal lines that stem from the throne. Long ago, the [Prince] left for an adventurer’s life. For war, for death, for untimely end and strife. He did so not just for glory or gold, but to fulfill fate. His father’s story, which shapes him. A tale of old.”
Prince Zenol watched Barelle the Bard. With a kind of eagerness and pain mixed. Cognita looked at him as Barelle told the story of the former Prince of Isphel. Now there was a man who might have risen higher. Who had risen higher.
A [Prince] who had carried his line into fame. A lion among Nerrhavia’s sheep.
Who died when his son was but a boy and left their house weakened irrevocably. And a legacy that would never be matched. Barelle touched a string like blood and it echoed across the sea as the Four Winds raced onwards. Past. Present. Future. Zenol listened. He whispered.
“[Like a Lion, He Leapt].”
“With his pride, he died alone. He left only his sword. His last Skill. And the burden of legacy on Prince Zenol Isphel. The lion who leaps. He did not die at the Village of the Dead. For he was taught, by Antinium no less, that the lion never fights alone.”
Barelle finished the high chant. There was a moment of silence as the last magic finished humming in the air, then applause. Zenol bowed slightly as people looked at him. He had a [Prince]’s air; many couldn’t have borne an entire story about them, but Zenol kept his head high.
An [Innkeeper] would have fled. But each to their own and Barelle…his eyes lingered on Zenol as he addressed Cognita, more quietly.
“Where will fate take him next? For the bonds of adventurers he returns to his kingdom. I do not know where the story ends, but I shall watch and see whether son steps out of the shadow of father.”
“You are fascinated by such things.”
“It is worth living dangerously to find out how each story ends. And they should end right. Gloriously, tragically—but right. So they call me the Meddling Storyteller.”
Barelle chuckled self-consciously. Cognita nodded. She took some things from the story. Little sympathy for Zenol. An appreciation of who she was. But perhaps…she looked at Barelle.
“I have never known much music. My master never cared for it to the degree of others.”
“Oh? That is interesting. Did he have no desire for it?”
