Kevin began. He didn’t know what to say. The Troll didn’t introduce herself. Nor did she move as Taganchiel stepped forwards with Somo.
“I am Taganchiel, [Shaman] of the Flooded Waters Tribe and Goblinhome. My [Great Chieftain], Rags, will thank you. Trolls are mighty and helpful.”
She gave the Goblin [Shaman] a long look. The Troll Drummer-Queen—she had quite liked the appellation and given Kevin a drumroll of approval—played a staccato beat as she seemed to ponder his words. Then she actually stopped playing, reached to one side, and picked up a bowl of liquid. She drank.
…Not a good sign. She didn’t even deign to answer Taganchiel. The [Shaman] waited, a bit confused.
“Great Troll Queen. You gave aid. We are from a mighty tribe. We will reward help if you offer it. We ask in the name of Chieftain Rags. May I ask your name?”
“Bleh.”
Bleh the Drummer Queen stuck out her tongue, glaring at the stale water or whatever it was. She stared at Taganchiel. He hesitated.
Was it Bleh or…? She looked past the Goblin [Shaman]. At Somo.
“Goblins.”
It was a one-word dissertation on how she felt about all this. Taganchiel saw her quite deliberately look away.
“Troll Queen…”
Shoo, shoo. She literally flapped her hands at him. Taganchiel hesitated, but two Trolls came forwards. They ushered him back with motions from their weapons. Kevin stared at that, uneasily, but the Troll Queen beckoned him forwards.
“Hmm?”
She didn’t really speak, but she made her wishes clear as she pointed at the smartphone. He tried to explain.
“You were playing music. So I…my name’s Kevin. I have music. On here. Would you like to listen?”
“Kvn. Hmm.”
She tried to say his name. Then approvingly gestured. Kevin hesitated—and began to play a song. Instantly, the Troll Queen picked up the mallets, and began to play along to the beat. She began to nod to the beat of the song, pricking her ears up at the unfamiliar instruments.
The other Trolls did likewise, looking approvingly at Kevin. He found himself standing there, in the amazingly acoustical room, just playing music with the mighty drums playing an accompaniment.
Play more music. Kevin saw a keen-eyed intelligence flick her eyes at him. She smelled like dust and a bit like a cave, but not unpleasant. He sat down and played some songs. And she…just played music.
She vibed, the Troll Queen in this cave below the High Passes, this fortress of old. She played on her drums, then did a solo that shook Kevin’s world. Literally. And that was it.
She just played on the drums. The Trolls sat around, some finding food, others cultivating mushroom patches. A few tried to pawn off shiny rocks with the Goblins and Ogres for their gear.
Bleh the Troll Queen ignored Taganchiel, Poisonbite, and Somo completely. She barely had interest in Kevin relaying their questions.
“Will you help, Drummer-Queen? We’re trying to find our Chieftain and she had a great [Healer]. We—the Goblin tribe—can pay you. In gold, potions, magic items?”
The Drummer gave Kevin an amused look. Healer? The last group to need the Healer of Tenbault chuckled as they sat, listening to a rock song. Kevin looked at Taganchiel.
“Money? Food? Artifacts? We could use help.”
The Drummer rolled her eyes. At last she spoke, with a rumble of annoyance for having to negotiate when she could be listening to music.
“Help? You not dead. Humans gone. Helped.”
She stared pointedly at Poisonbite and the others. The Goblin eyed the Trolls.
“Give warriors? Show ways through mountain? Fight with—”
“No.”
The Drummer struck the huge drum with a boom that emphasized her words. The Trolls went silent and Kevin motioned to Poisonbite. Don’t say that again.
“You. Music.”
She pointed at Kevin. He fumbled with his smartphone. The Drummer pointed a mallet at Taganchiel.
“You. Go when music stop. No fight. No help. Go.”
The Goblins traded looks. That was already better than them being pursued, but now Taganchiel muttered with Atter and the Redfangs.
“What do you want, Troll Queen?”
“Not Queen. Heh. Goblins.”
The Drummer was amused. It was so…strange. Taganchiel was caught off-guard, because the Trolls seemed more knowing of the Goblins than vice-versa. He protested.
“You killed Humans for us. We can help. There may be consequences. We can give—”
To that, the Drummer literally played over him until he shut up. She stopped when he fell silent, shielding his ears, and looked exasperated. She jerked a thumb at Taganchiel. Kevin wasn’t sure what to say, but the Drummer sneered.
“Quence? Quence, ‘help’, ‘plan’. Goblin things. This? Troll’s.”
She stabbed a finger at the ground. Kevin nodded. Don’t come to my place and bring your stupid needs and fighting. I don’t want help. I don’t want to deal with this.
That’s what he guessed she was saying. She was literally…unmoved. He looked at her.
“Why did you let us live, then, Miss Drummer?”
She winked at him.
“Song. More songs? Give?”
She pointed at the smartphone. She looked disappointed when Kevin explained it would run out of power. But she shrugged.
Good songs for a bit. She listened to sixteen more songs, nodding to some, shaking her head and making him skip others. Then she sighed.
“Song. Go now.”
Kevin slid from her perch and stood, stretching his legs. The Trolls sighed, but then the beat began.
Thum, thumthumthum thum…
A marching song. It was time to go. One of Poisonbite’s lot had scouted back the way they’d come and looked worried.
“Humans. Many. Coming.”
The rest of the army. Kevin saw the Drummer look up once, snort contemptuously, and play on. She nodded at Kevin, Taganchiel, ignored Somo completely.
“Go.”
“We can help fight.”
“No. Go now. Before die.”
The Goblins hesitated. But now the Trolls were ushering them, with considerable agitation. Only one showed them a different route out of the caves. He jogged along. Hurry, hurry!
Why? Kevin glanced back. The Drummer was sitting there, calm as could be. She nodded at him. Come back and play more music sometime. The inviting drumbeats settled down and the thum began again. Growing in volume until his ears thought they’d burst.
“Fast!”
The Troll barked as they ran. He was leading them to another way out of the caves. Taganchiel kept glancing back. An army was flooding the caves, to kill the Trolls. Was the Drummer not going to run? Did she have that much confidence in her warriors? Why…?
They had their answer near the end of their journey. An hour out of the center of the Trolls’ home must have been enough time for the Humans to get close enough. The rising drumbeats made it easy to figure out which way to go.
They were thunderous where Kevin was, and they were nearly out of the caves. He couldn’t imagine how loud it was inside. But then it happened.
He heard a second drum, quieter than the first, but struck with such force by a Troll’s strength that it made a sound beyond even the biggest drums Humans had ever imagined. It echoed out of the deeps.
Whum. Whum. Whum!
Kevin actually felt like he was in danger of losing his hearing, and he had been in a band and not worn protective earplugs once. But then he heard a second Troll drummer begin to play. Then a third…
Then he realized what they were doing at the same time as the others. They began to sprint for the opening as the Troll leading them sighed sadly that he wouldn’t join in. He helpfully explained their defense mechanism.
“Loud.”
The Goblins, Ogres, and Human fled the Troll Caves and into the daylight just in time. The thunder from below died down, but Kevin still heard it. Like an earthquake.
A hundred Trolls playing drums so thunderously that only the ultra-strong caves could even withstand the vibrations of air and stone. So loud they shattered [Silence] spells. So loud they might actually kill anyone who wasn’t a Troll from the waves of sound alone.
It played like that for ten minutes. A roaring sound that sent every bird for miles flying. Kevin gulped. He didn’t know if the Humans survived it. But he doubted any of them would risk going deaf to try to take the caves from the Trolls.
It was like fighting Merdon, in a way. Poisonbite rubbed at her ears.
“Trolls. How do they do it?”
Their Troll guide was already headed back into the cave. He nodded once at Kevin, turned, and gave Somo a complex gesture that made the Ogres nearly charge him, snarling. But he gave Kevin a wink.
“Thick eardrums.”
Kevin started. That was the most complexly syllabic word he’d heard one of them say. The Troll nodded, and headed down.
They had drums. They clearly knew Goblins. Kevin wondered if they went above. Maybe some went travelling. Were there other Trolls in Izril? He stood there, with the Goblins, as the Caves of Drums became quiet once more. But Kevin would always know, whenever he saw a cave, that somewhere, in a deep cave, sat a Troll, playing drums, without any care in the world beyond music.
It made him less scared of caves. Or at least—this one. Kevin sighed. They’d made it to safety. Maybe with permanent hearing damage. But now…he turned to Taganchiel.
“Time to find Rags. Hopefully she’s at Goblinhome, eh?”
The [Shaman] gave him a blank look. He said something. Kevin frowned.
“What?”
The [Shaman] looked puzzled. He cupped a hand to one ear. He asked Kevin what he’d said. The young man realized there was a ringing in the back of his head.
“What?”
 
——
 
Of all the things to ask about, of all the secrets and deals to be made, she surprised Fithea as she sat in a sanctuary of trees. Not a wild, overgrown place, but neatly-grown. Not trimmed, no, but each plant in its place.
A Dryad’s home. It was Fithea who sat there, looking gnarled and…sad. Yes, sad. Because she was so old. She was wood turned to stone. And Ryoka thought—it meant she had lost something. Everything.
“Thank you for speaking with me, Ryoka Griffin. They call you Wind Runner. I know you now, more than before. More than Courier. Friend of the furthest travellers. Friend of Fae.”
Ryoka shivered. Fithea knew! The Dryad stared at Ryoka, with such an intense longing…
“That voice. Never have I heard it, yet I heard voices. That night. What did you do? Once, I knew, there were some visitors. The winter folk come, but only for winter and tricks. How did you…?”
“I’ve been to their lands, Fithea. Should I call you um, Lady Fithea or honored…?”
The Dryad’s smile was bleak and bitter.
“Those are names this kingdom gives me. Conservator of Forests. Half-Elves speak to me as if they owned the forests. They forget. I am Fithea the Last. Fithea Deadwood. Do you know me?”
Ryoka gulped.
“You’re…a Dryad?”
Two burning, glowing eyes in the old wood face.
“Yes. Not many remember. You do. But look at me. Do you know why my body is lost to stone? My forest is long gone. My tree is dead. The wise protectors fled into the sea. Kin of fang and fur are dead or wild or the last hide. The great forests are all but gone or tamed. So I will soon follow. But for now, I am part of this place they call Ailendamus. For my kind. Do you understand?”
“Immortals.”
Ryoka whispered. Fithea’s smile was cracked, like stone.
“Yes. You have met many, now.”
“I’m…I’m sorry about disturbing them.”
A gnarled hand rose, a slow gesture from side to side like the shake of a head.
“Better you didn’t die. Gilaw is young. Wild. They made her Great Knight because she is strong, but she is a child. I teach her, but she is young.”
Ryoka’s head turned. Gilaw had a room next to Fithea’s, and she had slunk in there, but Ryoka saw the telltale signs of a mess in part of this garden-home. A…nest of dead branches and feathers.
A giant one. It could hold a beast of incredible size, and the feathers, like the one Sammial had grabbed as a trophy, were scattered about.
“Er…what is Gilaw? Maybe that’s a private question. I know I—”
“A Griffin.”
Ryoka nearly spat out the earthy tea she’d been served in a pewter cup.
“A Griffin?”
“Not like the mortal ones. She was one amongst generations. She will someday rule her kind, but she is barely forty years old. They found her alone, born of a nest by chance, parents slain. By adventurers. Fools. But that is how it is for all of us. They are all children. You understand? I live to raise them to be old. Some will be, in a hundred years. Others? Longer.”
Ryoka took in a breath. Fithea was so natural about it. She drank by dipping her fingers into the water, like a tree might if it could move. The liquid in the cup didn’t go down, but Fithea just rested her hand in the cup and it slowly emptied over their conversation.
“You’re willing to tell me all this, Fithea? Just…so easily?”
The stone Dryad gave Ryoka a steady look. No—not steady. It burned with desire. Her other hand trembled as she offered Ryoka food clearly snatched from the kitchens.
“Yes. Yes. You know my kin. They spoke to me, from afar. I have not heard…and you bear coinage of another place. Could—could—are there my kind there? Is there a way? You are my guest. Ask me anything, I shall answer.”
“Would Rhisveri be angry if you did?”
Ryoka hesitated. This wasn’t what she expected, but Fithea looked longing. No, desperate. It made Ryoka feel like she was taking advantage of the Dryad’s desperation because she was about to do just that. Yet it was her way in.
“Rhisveri gave us shelter. He needs us to some extent. He does not rule me. I taught him the magic of forests. He is younger than I.”
“I see.”
Ryoka sipped at her drink again.
“So Menorkel, the Merfolk…”
“They come to us, like Gilaw. Most were always there. It was Rhisveri who brought them together, out of hiding. A final sanctuary built and protected by Humans. Only a Wyrm thinks like this.”
Fithea shrugged. Ryoka was fascinated.
“Then Menorkel. I’m sorry, let me show you some of the money…but can I ask about Menorkel?”
“Of course.”
Fithea’s eyes were greedy as Ryoka pulled out the magical coins. She reached for one, and snatched her hand back, barely able to contain herself. She stared at one. She might not have been able to read it, but Ryoka could, and the Dryad somehow knew what it said.
Life. Ryoka met her gaze.
“Menorkel?”
She prompted and Fithea jerked her attention back.
“He is old-blooded. Oldest blooded, perhaps, along with Wyrms.”
“He’s taller than he looks, isn’t he?”
Ryoka had suspected as much, but Fithea rewarded her with a nod.
“Even here, he is too large to be hidden well. So Rhisveri gave him a charm.”
“…How much taller?”
The Dryad pondered the question. She shrugged, once.
“He is second-tallest among our kind. Rhisveri is taller.”
So…shorter than a Wyrm that could literally rise hundreds of feet into the air. Ryoka gulped.
