They found the Ogres, jogging at a good clip, but not towards their next rendezvous spot. Some of their Goblin companions were with them. One leaned out of her saddle and snapped at Taganchiel.
“Humans.”
She pointed the direction they had to go. Taganchiel’s eyes roamed backwards, then to the High Passes, then the other ascending foothills and parts of the great mountain range dividing Izril in half. He pointed, and without a word everyone broke right, racing in the only direction they could go. He looked at Kevin once, and the young man wondered what he’d say.
The Goblin only shrugged. Rags had the Healer. Hopefully she’d make it back. If they lived, they lived. If not?
Well. Poisonbite roused long enough to poke Kevin hard in the side.
“Why gloomy? You won’t die. Heh.”
All of the Goblins found that insanely hilarious.
 
——
 
The thing about stories was that you told the same ones time and time again. Just in different ways. Sometimes, they weren’t stories you told; they just happened to you.
Loss, triumph, danger…and the thing about such stories, if there was an upside?
You didn’t have to make the same mistakes. You didn’t have to tell your part the same way twice.
It was rare that he took notice of the weather. Yet, even in his busy day—and every day was busy for King Itorin II—he noticed how blustery it was. He remarked on it over breakfast with his family.
Immediate family, that was, and the ones in the capital. Itorin II was, in the way of many Terandrian monarchs, in the habit of spreading his bloodline around. So while he wasn’t as prodigious as Calanfer’s royal family, which he was at war with, he had five offspring.
Two daughters, three sons. A good mix age and gender-wise. You could make do—again, like Calanfer—with more of one than the other, but this was almost perfect. Sometimes…sometimes Itorin wondered if that too had been arranged.
He didn’t like to think of that. Still, the [King] was a rather indulgent patriarch in private, and of the family in the capital, he often breakfasted with his youngest daughter and son, or elder daughter if she could ‘spare the time’ from Ailendamus’ magical academy. For his two elder sons? If one was returned from his command in safety, but at the front, they would make small festivities of it. The other was in training. With the half-Elves.
Again, his two youngest were easiest as breakfasting companions. They loved to talk about tutoring, what they saw on the scrying orb they were glued to, songs from the Songstress, the Singer, questions about some part of ruling Ailendamus they found fascinating, badgering his wife, Oiena, to buy them a trinket while knowing he might indulge them…
But today they were unusually eager to finish breakfast. Itorin II, somewhat content to let silence reign given all the people who’d speak to him shortly, kept glancing out the window. It was, naturally, spelled, but he couldn’t miss the leaves and even branches and dust positively whirling about the castle.
“My. What a windy day. Did a [Weather Mage] perhaps commit an error?”
That idle question garnered such looks of patented surprise and even scorn from his son and daughter that Itorin Zessoprical II was quite taken aback. His daughter, the youngest, but still already nine—nine, how time flew—Oesca, informed her father patiently.
“It’s the Wind Runner, Father. May we be excused? We want to fly.”
The King of Ailendamus, great superpower in the world, rising star to the faded kingdom of old, King Itorin II, Heir to the Lance-Arrows of Ailendamus, Keeper of…etcetera etcetera, gave his daughter a blank look.
“Do what now?”
They had to explain, and assure him that no, no one had been taking artifacts out of the vaults. Especially given what their Uncle would think of that. The name also made Itorin recall something.
Wasn’t that…the prisoner? The one who’d resulted in the costly death of one of the Great Knights, and that operation in Izril that might lead to one of the Five Families’ wrath? The one that had obsessed Rhisveri so?
When Itorin finally came to the window, he saw her. Just like yesterday, when Rhisveri had thrown a huge tantrum for reasons beyond him. He locked eyes with the Wind Runner of Reizmelt, the Courier from the scrying orb.
Ryoka Griffin.
She was outside the castle, summoning the wind to blow mightily. Whirling around this part of Ailendamus in such ferocity…
No, wild grace. Mighty gusts of wind, yes, but only terrifying in a way that exhilarated, as you felt when you beheld a mighty storm without rain, whipping trees and grass around. When you realized how mighty nature was.
The air whipped at her dark hair. Her silk guest clothing was light purple running to green jade, and it blew in a way about her naturally as the wind snatched at it that some movie directors paid lots of money to emulate.
Her eyes were open wide, and she had a strange smile on her lips. Patently mysterious. As if this wasn’t just weather magic, but something else. Oh yes, and one more thing.
Itorin II could see her quite well because she stood, arms outstretched, facing towards him. All fine, all understandable, but he was in Ailendamus’ palace. It didn’t exactly have a 360-degree view all around. In fact, the royal chambers were quite high up.
Thusly, the Wind Runner was standing on top of a tower. Right on the edge, in fact, as the wind blew around her. Facing the royal chambers.
Oesca and Ivenius pointed at Ryoka, the older [Prince] bouncing on his feet like he was as young as his sister was and not a [Squire] in training.
Itorin vaguely wondered if he should call the guard. What was she doing up there? How did she know where the royal chambers were?
“Is that Duke Rhisveri’s…guest?”
Oiena sounded horrified, as a former [Princess] of Taimaguros might. Itorin II didn’t immediately respond. Ryoka Griffin smiled at him, with that same enigmatic look. Then she bowed.
Only then did Itorin realize that a pair of armored figures wearing the colors of the Order of the Thirsting Veil were doggedly trying to climb up the tall tower towards her. More were gathered below, but the Wind Runner didn’t appear concerned as one finally reached the lip of the tower and hauled herself up. She just smiled, lifted something up, and jumped.
Oiena gasped and Itorin went to shield his son and daughters’ eyes before they saw the splat. And he knew from experience it wasn’t a splat. It was…something you never forgot.
Yet her limp body did not bounce from the roof and land terribly still far below. Rather, the Wind Runner leapt off the tower as the [Knight] reached for her…and flew.
For a tenuous second, her bare feet began to descend. Then her momentum shifted. She flew up as the wind blew in a fierce updraft. Up. Itorin’s mouth opened. He had seen [Mages] fly. He had used flying artifacts himself—who didn’t, when they had the chance?
But this?
“She’s flying! I told you, Father! Look, look!”
Oesca danced, pointing with simple delight. The Wind Runner held onto something that ballooned out above her. Itorin II recognized it. It was not the strange, triangular contraption she’d used to fly in her dramatic run, or even her Windsuit; he supposed those things had been taken away from her, if he even knew they existed.
No, this was a simple parachute. A…bedsheet.
Silk. Strained as it inflated perfectly in the wind. Ryoka Griffin soared past the [Knight] who made a grab for her and nearly fell off the tower. She floated down and away as the King of Ailendamus watched.
Pay no attention to the barefoot runner with the bedsheet.
 
——
 
Of course, she got in trouble. No less than the captain of the guard was ready to slap her in irons and beat her for daring to interrupt the royal family. To which the Wind Runner vouchsafed one thing that kept her alive before the [Prince] and [Princess] came running to demand flying lessons.
“Duke Rhisveri hasn’t prohibited me from using my powers.”
The [Royal Captain] hesitated. He stared at the angry Thirsting Veil [Knights], at Ryoka, and at the band on her wrist supposed to lock down her magical powers.
Which it did. All her amazing magical powers like casting uh, [Flashlight]. Ryoka Griffin knew that he knew what it was. She gave him a big, unhelpful smile.
“Take it up with Duke Rhisveri.”
She saw how his eyes flickered at that. Even if they didn’t know he was the true power, the Duke was still the Duke, and he had a reputation. Ryoka was still ready for some impositions, but then came a striding figure.
“Ryoka Griffin. We must speak, if the winds say it so. By earth and sea, by land and tree, will you speak with me?”
The Wind Runner turned. To her eyes, a limping…woman made out of branches turned to stone came her way, her bark fossilized with time, damaged with battles or trials long gone. A mask hung around her neck, a tiny version of the one in the Court of Masks, but one shaped with exquisite care, more than those there.
It was a perfect replica of what everyone saw, and Ryoka did after she adjusted her perspective. A short—but not too short—Dwarf woman, almost as old, hair gone white rather than grey.
The [Captain of the Guard] instantly turned and bowed.
“Lady Fithea! Forgive the interruption. We were just attending to a matter of royal security. We did not intend to disrupt the gardens. Rather, the culprit…”
Instantly, Ryoka noticed that the [Guards] hurried off the grass they’d been standing on. They looked somewhat apprehensively at the woman they knew as the Conservator of Forests, a high-ranking position in Ailendamus.
Fithea gave the man a blank look. Her voice was no different than it had been in the Court of Masks. Dry, cracked, but with a spark of life.
“You are pardoned. I must speak to Ryoka Griffin. Privately.”
“Yes, Lady Fithea, but—”
The Dwarf woman stared at the [Royal Captain]. He looked ready to insist, but then came two screaming figures.
“Wind Runner! Wind Runner! We want to fly!”
The [Prince] and [Princess], both with their friends, and followed more timidly by a gaggle of Ryoka’s biggest fans. The [Royal Captain] tried to block the [Princess] from this miscreant. Upon which point she grew vexed at him.
Ryoka felt bad for the man. But she wasn’t done. So she winked, checked to see if she still had a certain monarch’s attention. She thought she did, although his face wasn’t in the royal quarters.
“I can see I’m disturbing the peace. And the grass. So I’ll move away. Lady Fithea, I would be delighted to speak to you. Maybe in an hour? I’ll just step over here…”
So saying, and before they could grab her, the wind blew up her sailcloth again and she glided over the heads of the guards, and awed children. Like a herd of cattle following the parasailer, they raced after her as she flew away.
All I need now is some candy. Actually—isn’t that an activity back home? Someone flies around and scatters candy for kids? And here I thought I was the first person to channel Mary Poppins.
Ryoka Griffin landed. She turned, and her fans swept around her, begging to use the bedsheets. For a second, the Wind Runner remembered kids doing this for the first time. She looked towards the palace, where a [King] no less had come out to talk with the royal guard. She looked at the bangle on her arm, imprisoning her.
I have done this before. Not in the same way. Not exactly like this. But it was familiar. This time…Ryoka Griffin bent down.
“I’m sorry, I didn’t realize I was in the presence of royalty. Your Majesty, Princess Oesca, I think? And Prince Ivenius? Good morning to you! I hope I didn’t disturb you?”
The Courier sketched a bow. The [Princess] drew up short and everyone else drew back as they realized they had crowded in front of her in their excitement. Rank still existed in Ailendamus. The [Prince] caught himself and the boy, roughly Hethon’s age, maybe a bit younger, sketched a guilty bow.
“Courier Griffin.”
“I…greet you, Courier Griffin. I am Princess Oesca. But I hope you will not wait on my title.”
Oesca sounded unhappy. As a child might, when reminded of her rank as an impediment to fun. Oesca and Ivenius, named after their parents. Naming traditions. Ryoka had researched all this. She smiled.
“Not at all. If I may, I could call you…Oesca? I’m the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. I think you’ve heard of me?”
“You can make people fly. Could I…fly?”
The girl asked eagerly. Ryoka saw a woman sprinting at her, faster than the worried [Knights].
Holy crap, that’s one angry [Nursemaid].
Well, in for a pinch of pain, in for a wagonload. That was the Ryoka way. And if she wanted to make an impact…she hadn’t made one yet. So she winked at Oesca.
“I can indeed, Oesca. You could even fly around like I did. Although I don’t know if your guardians would let you go so high.”
Oesca’s lips twisted unhappily. As if Ryoka was going to let her soar hundreds of feet in the air holding a bedsheet, friendly wind or not.
“They wouldn’t, I fear. And I should hate for you to get in trouble, Miss Griffin. Did that young man find you yesterday? I directed him towards you, but I heard little of his fate.”
Sammial? Ryoka blinked.
“He did indeed. Thank you for that. I should thank you, Princess Oesca! As I was saying. If it was just you, I’m afraid I can’t let you fly alone that high. Everyone can certainly sail around on the ground. But if it’s not just you. Well. Would you like to go for a ride?”
She held out a hand, and smiled, a twinkle in her eye. The twinkle of little girls who broke laws and rebelled. She still had a bit. She wasn’t sure…but then Oesca glanced over her shoulder.
“Your Highness! [Protect the Innocent]! [Protect the Innocent]! Step away from that—your Highness!”
The [Carer] racing towards Ryoka was clearly trying to use a Skill and failing. Oesca stared at her, the adults, and then at Ryoka. She took Ryoka’s hand, and gasped as Ryoka put a hand under her shoulder.
“Hold tight. And no one else beg me for this later. It’s special. Get your parents’ permission.”
She winked at Ivenius. Then Ryoka gripped Oesca tightly with one arm, and lifted the bedsheet parachute with the other. The wind dragged them up as the [Carer] leapt. She had a good pounce. But even so, she missed and dove head-first into one of the [Prince]’s buddies as Ryoka and Oesca shot up into the air.
The [Princess]’ scream made her father and the people on the ground panic like hell. But it was only of surprise for the first, dizzying second of ascent. Then she screamed and laughed—in delight. Ryoka Griffin held on hard, wishing she’d practiced this. But the loop of cloth on her hand meant she wasn’t one grip away from dropping both of them. She kept tight hold of Oesca.
