“Very well. I shall remember this, Czautha. Now is not the time for strife, however. I had two pieces of news. You are needed.”
“I am resting. Unless the Demon King summons me, or…”
Czautha was in no mood to be tugged around by Silvenia, but the half-Elf’s next words made her move. The Death of Magic turned and looked more serious than before.
“Czautha’qshe. One of them is coming.”
The Djinni’s eyes opened wide. Without a word, she looked at the Death of Magic. Then she followed, swiftly.
 
——
 
The Demon Kingdom was not as the Blighted Kingdom painted it. A horrific land of nightmares? It had nightmares. It had scars from war, like the Blighted Kingdom.
Yet this was home to a people apart. It was protected by the Deathless, beings of unsurpassed strength. It was not unpleasant to live in.
This was not the time to admire the Demons’ lands, however. Silvenia flew from Czautha’s domain. She blinked out of the air and teleported. Czautha just flew, and called out.
The Death of Wings took to the air. Harpies screamed around her as the most grievously wounded of the surviving Deathless flew. Czautha called out in worry, but this moment warranted even that.
They assembled. Not just Silvenia. Not just Czautha, or the Death of Wings. The might of Demons came together, lesser though they might be.
Bazeth, one of the Demons’ young [Generals], strode into place with every high-level Demon. Flora of Texas followed. Her nerves were humming.
Not just because Silvenia was there. Because all three Deathless were there, and she had only seen them like this twice. When wounded, and when the Demon King summoned them to give his words.
Now, they gathered a third time. Why?
Because they might be needed. Because their guests warranted it. Yet who would be guests to Demons? Only a few factions treated with them. And who warranted this level of—what? Respect?
Wariness?
“They are coming. Your Majesty.”
Czautha addressed the throne. A faint voice replied. Flora’s eyes flicked left—and the Demons stirred. Bazeth had a tight hold of his weapon. Flora looked at him.
“Is it them?”
“Yes.”
A terse answer. She had not seen him tense. Few came to the Demon King’s court without some measure of hardship, but she had never feared guests before. Not Drath. Not Dullahans or Drowned Folk or the few others.
They were not strong allies of the Demons. There was only one species in the entire world who could convene the Deathless by their very presence. One race which was known across the world.
The Black Tide of Izril. The monstrous species that came from Rhir. Yet oh, how they knew the wrong ones.
For now—Silvenia called out, and it might be warning or challenge. The ranks of Demon officers stirred. Flora felt the air grow tight.
You did not know them. Not the remnant that made it to distant shores. Here came the ones who remained.
The Antinium of Rhir.
What did she expect? Thunder and lighting? Portents? Omens? A bestial roar? Flora had never seen any of them, but she had heard Demons talk about the Antinium like the Blighted Kingdom talked about Demons.
With awe, fear, distaste—like stories. Now, something split the air as the doors were dragged open. Flora expected to hear the voices of the populace, some kind of murmuring, for the Demon King did not hold with silence. Silvenia would make a comment, or…
What she heard was music. The last thing she expected. Music, which by every note and second absorbed and reduced every other sound in the universe to stillness.
It sounded like voices. It sounded like alien reeds, singing. It sounded like what it was—music of insects, come to life. Flora had never heard a song like this.
It was a sign and welcome. She realized she could not even hear all the notes; they strayed into areas above and below her hearing. It should have made the sound discordant, but the musician played on multiple frequencies.
On an instrument he had made. Although it seemed not made, but grown, from the same arms and armor they carried. The same material as their bodies. Not the common chitin of insects, but something developed, refined until it became a kind of material analogous to that of steel or other qualities.
The last of it outside of Rhir was embodied in unbreakable swords carried by Klbkch the Slayer. The body of Xrn, the Small Queen. They had fragments.
These Antinium were made entirely of it. Flora saw the instrument was made of a string she could not name. It looked like a spiral staircase, ascending. Yet there were threads within the complex creation.
No normal fingers could hope to pluck the fine threads, of so many kinds, so thinly dispersed together that it seemed impossible to pick one out from the other, let alone distinguish the difference in pitch.
Yet this Antinium’s ‘fingers’ were thin enough to slip between the gaps, and so numerous they played the welcome, or…was it warning?…with ease. Vertical strings, horizontal, diagonal, ranging into pitches Flora had never dreamed of.
So came their representative. What Flora thought, her only conscious thought was—
How beautiful. Here was an alien. But an alien playing music. Not a bug. An insect of a civilization apart.
How beautiful. And…how weary. Even the music conveyed that. The Antinium stopped, surveying the Demons, without fear. Flora saw they were seven in total.
Their leader and six…representatives. Bodyguards? She heard Bazeth’s voice at last, as if he had held his breath for minutes.
“Czkelcill Mirrex. The Voice of the Antinium.”
Six came with him. Not Centenium—or so she didn’t think. True Antinium nevertheless.
These were the ones the lesser Demons watched, for if it came to battle, it would be Deathless versus the Centenium. They would have to stop at least one of the others.
Bazeth’s hand was so tight on his weapon…by contrast, Flora just backed away. She craned her head up at one; they were all different sizes.
All different forms, engineered for war. She was conscious of the weight on her hip. Yet she didn’t even move her hand towards the revolver at her side. Even if she had it in hand, would it do any good?
The Demon King rose, slowly, on his throne. Czkelcill halted before him, as the Demons watched.
The Voice of the Antinium did not bow. The Demon King spoke, softly, but audibly in the silence now pervading the room.
“We greet the Antinium of Rhir. Our allies.”
The Antinium did not gainsay the statement. Nor did they move. At last, Czkelcill spoke.
“You are not the Demon King of when last we met.”
The figure on the throne smiled bleakly.
“My mother is dead. The Demons have their king. Will you speak with me?”
“Yes.”
The Antinium ducked his head. His neck was long. His eyes…there was a glow to them, which never faded. Two of the Antinium stirred, were still.
They were speaking. Communicating, in flashes so fast that Flora could not even tell what was happening. Yet only Czkelcill spoke.
“We come to confer. To ask questions.”
“Then ask. Do the Antinium come to tell us they will leave Rhir a second time? Or do you wish to know about your kin on Izril?”
It was Silvenia who asked, gliding forwards to set herself in front of the throne. Next to her, Czautha, the Djinni mighty. The Death of Wings, still bleeding ichor, set herself on the other side. Three Deathless.
They spoke to Czkelcill. The Centenium looked at them as the Antinium stirred. Silvenia had provoked them, and the Demons were uneasy. However, the Centenium was unmoved.
“Do they still speak of Klbkchhezeim, Xrniavxxel, Wrymvr?”
“They do. Though they say Xrn was wounded of late. Not how. Not why. It is a rumor plucked from Wistram’s lips.”
Czautha answered next. If she hoped for a response, again, the Antinium’s strange bard made no response.
“Yet she lives.”
“We would tell you if she dies.”
“Very well.”
An ocean of emotions Flora couldn’t see, if the opening wings of the great shelled back on one Antinium were a clue. Scythe blades on another, sharpening against each other. However, it was clear the Antinium were not here to ask about that.
“What news of the world?”
The Deathless conferred. It was not a question that surprised them. At last, the Death of Wings croaked, though it pained her.
“To your kind? Little. The King of Destruction, he wakes and makes great war. We return for battle. Nothing else of note.”
She glanced left once. But did not look at Flora. They were lying to the Antinium. Or withholding truth.
And their statement! Two things to tell the Antinium. The only things that could even possibly concern them. The return of Deathless and the King of Destruction’s waking. Not Ailendamus. Not the Four Great Companies. Nothing.
Czkelcill looked at the huge, winged features of the Death of Wings, but no hint of emotion escaped her eyes. Not so for any of the Deathless. Even so…slowly, that tall Centenium’s head swept around. His fingers plucked at the strange chords.
Once.
Twice.
Three times.
Then he looked straight at Flora. The Demons stirred. More than a few blades shifted. Yet all Czkelcill did was shake his head.
“It is not time for war.”
The Antinium accompanying him settled down. The Demons breathed again. The glowing gaze turned away from Flora, and she would have fallen but for Bazeth supporting her.
“We ask. Perhaps you omit. Now, we ask again. Do not lie. Tell me what changed during the longest day of the year.”
The Deathless looked at each other. The Demon King moved on his throne, and Flora’s head snapped up.
The Summer Solstice? Had they too received children from another world? Silvenia’s eyes flickered, but she dared not confer.
“A great magical event. I sensed it. A weft in space and time, exploited by magic of a scale so great, I cannot explain how it was brought into motion. Yet it was done, by the Blighted Kingdom no less. And it has torn…something.”
“Yes. It has.”
A whisper. Flora jerked. That did not come from Czkelcill. The Centenium just nodded.
“What was done, exactly?”
“We do not know. Something the Blighted Kingdom wrought.”
Silvenia was angry. She could guess. Opened a gateway. Yet her eyes kept flickering across the Antinium. The Demons were wary.
However, it seemed as though they were speaking cross-purposes. Czkelcill’s antennae moved, but one of the Antinium opened huge maws on its armored body and spoke. Not with the cavernous voice that Flora expected but with a deep, feminine voice.
As if it was but a relay for some other intelligence peering out. No—that was exactly what it was.
“You are magic. Does it lie in your power to stop this event from occurring again?”
She addressed Silvenia. Again, the Death of Magic hesitated, and this time Flora, who knew enough of Silvenia from their talks together, realized the half-Elf wasn’t confident.
Silvenia did not like admitting there was anything she could not do. So she was uncomfortable as she replied.
“…I have stratagems in place. It may be impossible to stop, however.”
Again, the Antinium conferred. This time with considerable agitation, although the only sign was the flicking of antennae.
Czkelcill replied.
“Then—can you sense if another attempt is made?”
“Oh yes. I can do that.”
Silvenia nodded, eyes glinting. Czautha’s eyes never moved, but a part of her body changed color and Bazeth blinked. She was signalling the others. Flora knew the Djinni well enough to realize they had complex signs of their own.
What did the Antinium want? It was clear they never came above, and the few times they had were heralded by terrible conflict. Now, though, Czkelcill nodded. A decision had been made, perhaps before they had even come. This was simply notification, politely, as the Antinium did it.
“Dispensation will be made. If it occurs again, inform us. We will come to halt it.”
…What? For a second, Flora didn’t get the implications. Yet the Demons’ officers did. They looked at each other.
Were the Antinium declaring that they were willing to fight the Blighted Kingdom if the ritual occurred again? And their wording?
We will come to halt it. No question. The Deathless looked to the throne, but then Czautha spoke for the Demons.
“If your goal is preventing the ritual from occuring again, great Antinium, will you lend your aid to help us crush the Blighted Kingdom?”
Czkelcill took a long moment to speak, and Flora saw the argument, invisible, in the air. However, when the Voice of the Antinium spoke, it was firm denial.
“No more time can be spared. No more Antinium. We part. Allies.”
With that, he turned and began walking back the way he’d come. As if there was no more that could be said. It was so abrupt the Demons were caught off-guard with dismay. Czautha opened and closed her mouth, clearly searching for words to use. A [Diplomat] spoke in the Demon King’s ear, but was patently unsure what would work on such foreign guests. Skills? Flora wondered if they dared to try it.
Into the uncertainty, as Czkelcill and the six Antinium were nearing the door, the only one of them who would have dared to speak—did.
Silvenia. The Death of Magic floated higher, and called out in a sing-song, teasing voice.
“Just so I know, Antinium. What if we were to tell you the ritual is happening…and make a little mistake?”
The Centenium halted in his tracks. Slowly, he turned, as Bazeth’s face drained of color. The Demons, some horned, other changed by the Blight, suddenly tensed once more. The other two Deathless looked at their insane companion. But it was said.
Slowly, Czkelcill extended one arm. The thin ‘finger’ changed. To something approaching fingers, which moved with such delicate grace into a single gesture like that of Humans and Demons and species of this and Flora’s world.
He pointed down at the tiles of the Demon King’s court. Just down at the ground. What if the Demons made a little mistake? Told a little lie?
“This ends.”
Silvenia’s smile opened wider, wider, like the gates of hell. Until something happened. The Voice of the Antinium plucked at his strings. He played eight notes. No—exponentially many times that. A complex melody.
Abruptly, Silvenia’s feet dropped out of the air. She landed hard, and the bindings of magic on her wounds flickered. The Demons exclaimed. Bazeth stared at his enchanted glaive. The steel looked like…
Steel.
The Voice of the Antinium turned magic back on after a second. Now, it was dead silence.
And Silvenia was no longer smiling. Again the Centenium turned, but one of the Antinium did not.
A different one, tall, like a mantis but only in the scything talons. It stalked forward two steps and Czautha drew her great relic. The Antinium was so fast. It left behind an afterimage or something, so that only when it moved—
