But it did not spring forwards. Did not slash or deliver a second war to Demons and Antinium. Rather, it lowered itself. Spoke. A different voice, also female, but more grating. Authoritative, like Bazeth on a battlefield.
“Decisions have been made.”
The Deathless looked at the Antinium. The other five swung back, and Czkelcill looked at the lone warrior. Waiting.
The True Antinium of Rhir’s head rose. Foreign intelligence stared up towards the Demon King’s throne. It—she—addressed them.
“No chances can be taken. It dies. So speaks War Queen Heclaivk. This War Hive will eradicate. Claim Blighted Kingdom. Fortify. Reprisals acceptable now; not before. No chances.”
“Excuse me?”
Silvenia herself couldn’t believe it. The Demon King rose on his throne.
“Do you mean…?”
“One Hive will eliminate threats. Coordinate assault. Cost acceptable to prevent repeat.”
The Voice of the Antinium turned. Not with surprise, but with finality.
“So decided.”
Flora couldn’t believe her ears. The Demons were stunned. Stunned—and worried. Flora saw them looking at each other. If the Antinium took out their great foe, that was one thing. But—fortify? What if the Antinium decided—if one Hive could destroy the Blighted Kingdom, then…
Demons were speaking up now, unable to keep silent. Demanding questions of the War Queen Heclaivk, who was waiting for a response from the throne or Deathless. Into this moment, as chaos swirled, the Antinium were leaving. All but this lone warrior, herald of countless more.
Czkelcill passed by Flora, and no one dared to stop him, or the other five. His gaze turned and fixed her with a look again, but he seemed content to leave. A Hive went to war, for better or worse. So—
The True Antinium’s footsteps slowed. The other Antinium didn’t notice. They proceeded onwards, and comically halted after two dozen strides towards the door. Bazeth backed away, shielding her with one arm; he had orders to protect Flora with his life.
Slowly, the Centenium’s head turned. Flora saw that bright gaze turn. Suddenly—a discordant note filled the air.
The perfect strings on the instrument, snapped. Thousands of them, all at once. This time even the Deathless froze in sudden, terrible anticipation.
The Voice of the Antinium’s grip had torn the strings. His own instrument! Flora trembled as his gaze swept over her—
—And past her. He wasn’t looking at her at all. He was staring at—at—
Suddenly, the Centenium did not seem so weary. He did not seem so tired, or calm. Something filled the air.
Wrath. The other Antinium were tensed. One spoke, aiming towards the throne, the Deathless.
“What? Battle?”
One word from him and everyone died. Yet the Voice of the Antinium said nothing. Slowly, more strings snapped. Yet when he spoke, Czkelcill’s voice was filled with the same loathing, the same hatred as Flora felt emanating off of him. A rage beyond naming. Cold fury deeper than any grave.
“The enemy has multiplied.”
She did not know what it meant. The Antinium did. And it seemed then, as if the world did end. But how did he know?
What did he stare at?
Not even Silvenia and Czautha and the Death of Wings could see. Yet there the Centenium looked. He felt it. He saw…
 
——
 
It. It paused on its long journey. Past Terandria, far from Chandrar where it had begun. It had delayed, stalled, meandered. The journey meant as much as the end, after all.
It of the six. It was not alone, but only it dared tread on Rhir’s ground now. That was a madness of a different kind.
Even in the land of the dead, Rhir was empty. Two more watched warily from a distance. 
The Huntress and the Dancing Man. They had followed it, seeing a change in one of their companions. They were alarmed, but did not tread on Rhir.
Why had it stopped? What was it looking at? For a moment, it stared at something, and the gaze was returned, across a veil thinner than paper, as wide as—
But if one person felt it—
So did something else. And it too—
Stirred.
 
——
 
“Stirs. The enemy stirs.”
The first croak came from the representative of War Queen Heclaivk. No longer calm, logical pronouncements, but a strained voice.
Suddenly, more voices filled the air, from the other five Antinium. They spoke rapidly, no longer in silence, forcing the words out that they might be heard through one medium or another.
“Czkelcill. Return. Return.”
“The Unitasis Network is breaking.”
“Queens are dying.”
It was so fast. One second everyone was tensed—the next, they were watching a nightmare, but one they couldn’t understand. The Centenium turned. Another voice cried out.
“Slk Hive…eradicated. Wrchrl Hive under siege. It stirs.”
That was enough. The Centenium moved for the exit. The other six were already blurs, and shouts and screams filled the air as they left the throne room so fast the Demons outside thought it was a prelude to war. Silvenia shot after the Bard of the Antinium as he moved after them.
“What is happening? Wait! Wait! What about our reinforcements?”
He stopped only once, and spoke to the Deathless, the Demons, Flora, as they poured out after the Antinium retreating to fight—something. Their old enemy.
“Our kin on Izril. Tell them we are waiting. We cannot wait long. Not anymore.”
Czkelcill stopped a moment. Looked at Silvenia, dead in her eyes. He nodded.
“If we fall, flee.”
Then he was gone, racing back the way he had come. Leaving the Demons bereft of their allies and fearing, with a mystery. What had happened?
 
——
 
“What is it doing?”
That was the question. It had nearly died. All of Rhir had stirred, as, provoked by footsteps, even in the lands of the dead…
Yet it was insane. That was what worried the others. If they could have, the two would have found all five so they could worry together. Of the six, and they all had foibles, strengths and faults, this one was the most…most…
Unpredictable. It walked past the broken lands of Rhir, now. Not close to Drath; Drath was dangerous in death. But further onwards.
Distance had meaning, but here it could be crossed faster, although time had less understanding too. They followed, watching.
Further still. Over sea, as the last large landmasses faded away into the distance. Past islands, bare pieces of land. Some were tiny rocks, and furthest out, closest to that edge of the world was where the furthest Earther had arrived.
Yet. That was not what it sought. Not that island. Not the living, waking world.
Something else. At last, the two, Huntress and Dancing Man could bear it no longer. Because they feared this inevitable conclusion. It would be beyond insanity. Yet if any of them were of kind and nature to do this…
“Norechl. What are you planning? Come back! This is madness. Even for us. Do you not know what lies there?”
So he called the name of it. And at last, with a kind of gleeful malice, it turned.
Norechl. A being with no face, though they could be anything. No features. No real shape to body, like Tamaroth. It did not change like Kasigna. It was…
Nothing. Nothing concrete. The absence of something. It was not of leaders.
It ruled…nothing. It was of lost things. It was of lost things, and that was what you understood. Lost things, dark places, where the forgotten lay.
Norechl stood there, on the rushing waters, over something that warped even this land of death itself. No ghost would ever emerge from the depths. Here was the end of the world.
The Last Tide? No, the Last Tide was what lay up to it. But that darkness past the edge, as waters roared downwards in a forever torrent. Norechl peered down there.
“Don’t go closer.”
The Huntress grabbed the Dancing Man. They were afraid. But just as afraid of…
“Do not. You will ruin all. We will overcome them. There is no point to victory—and this would be no victory if nothing remains. Not even us!”
The Dancing Man warned Norechl. All he got in return was…
A smile. A terrible, malicious smile. A smile with no face.
The exact same smile it had given as it beheld the stolen umbrella, that sword. It turned as the Dancing Man moved forwards, taking a risk—
“Do not—”
—And fell over the edge.
Gravity. Some kind of gravity, no, something pulled it downwards. For a moment it was visible, a shadow even amongst darkness. The Huntress and Dancing Man peered over the edge.
“Norechl is dead.”
The Huntress said at last. The Dancing Man hesitated.
“What if it is not? The others must know. If it is dead it is one thing. Down there. But if not?”
If not? The two looked at each other.
They stared down for a long time, over the edge. Into…
The two backed away. They fled, hoping that their kin was dead. But worse things than death existed.
So the music ran still, as Rhir stirred and Antinium held. So music played, a beautiful thing across places, connecting, binding. A powerful force indeed, until you remembered:
There were places you could fall where even music had died.
