Oh shit, oh shit, oh shit, don’t drop her. Next time I need to make a harness or an easier way to hold onto them!
However, the Princess of Ailendamus knew none of this. She waved with both arms in an astonishing display of trust at the people below, the envious children, as she flew around the palace, and awed people looked up. Ryoka saw a snappily dressed man tilt his head so far back he nearly fell backwards. She nodded at Baron Regalius.
He wasn’t the only person who saw Ryoka that day. A better question was who didn’t see her. While children were first to know, it was hard to miss a flying Courier. The Wind Runner was in Ailendamus. And she was seen, skipping across the ground with the [Princess] of Ailendamus no less, racing across the gardens, as the wind blew strongly. Laughing with the delighted girl in tow.
…Right up until the Great Knight, Gilaw, caught up to her, and with an amazing flying drop-kick, literally kicked Ryoka Griffin out of the air before catching the [Princess] in her arms.
No one said you didn’t pay the price for troublemaking.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin actually missed a lot of the punishment and haranguing. Mostly because King Itorin II, the furious [Caretakers], Royal Captain, and all the others, even Rhisveri, took one look at her curled up on the ground as Oesca berated Gilaw, and felt bad for her.
It was an amazing flying kick. Ryoka had to hand it to Gilaw—or she would if she could move. The ‘Great Knight’, who Ryoka deeply suspected to be some kind of avian immortal, had gotten nearly fifteen feet of air.
And she’d still managed to not only catch Oesca, but hit Ryoka so hard that she broke two ribs and ruptured her stomach.
Punishment had been administered, so Ryoka actually left the [Healer]’s without any more flying done two hours later. Ribs were bound with a poultice-infused gauze, and they’d actually spot-applied potion to her stomach. Ryoka was just grateful she had no appendix anymore or Gilaw might have popped it.
“Miss Griffin, by order of the throne, you are to refrain from laying hands on the royal family without express permission and supervision. You will also confine your…mobility…to the royal grounds and not the palace itself.”
One of the [Knights], Dame Chorisa, informed Ryoka with a blank face. Ryoka, wincing, put her hand over her ribs.
“Duly noted. Do they want me? The royal family, that is.”
“They are at their lessons.”
“Good, good. I don’t think the wind’s particularly nice right now. Was that…Great Knight Gilaw who hit me?”
“Lightly, yes, Courier Griffin. She was defending the royal family.”
“Lightly?”
The Thirsting Veil Knights gave her bright smiles behind their visors, Ryoka was sure, that mixed schadenfreude with…Ryoka suspected…a bit of familiarity.
The Wind Runner began walking down the corridor, now perceiving a certain amount of looks her way, but she spoke to Chorisa.
“Can I ask—what Order of [Knight] is Gilaw?”
“The Great Knight is an…independent [Knight]. A powerful one, as is obvious.”
“Very. When did she appear?”
Chorisa exchanged a glance with the other invisible [Knights].
“…It must have been twelve years ago she was accepted into Ailendamus’ service. She is an…unusual case, Miss Griffin. Zealous beyond reproach. Mute, however, and prone to overeagerness in some regards. Without manners or social graces, but she is entrusted to monster-slaying and guardianship of some of the most important members of Ailendamus.”
She was approving about the zealous part, but Ryoka swore she saw a patch of air wince at the ‘overeager’ part.
“Especially on the training courts.”
Another [Knight] muttered. Ryoka, wincing, nodded. Dame Chorisa eyed her, then walked in front of Ryoka and came to a stop. It was walk into her or stop, so Ryoka stopped.
“Miss Griffin, regarding your conduct. You have invalidated my order’s watchfulness in front of the royal family. In light of your specific nature as Duke Rhisveri’s…guest, you were allowed some licenses other prisoners of state are not. However, if you conduct yourself so again, we will be forced to address the issue.”
Her blank face but slightly clenched jaw told Ryoka exactly what she’d like to do. The Wind Runner smiled winsomely.
“Thank you for being forthright, Dame Chorisa. I’ll keep it in mind.”
That wasn’t the response Chorisa had been expecting, nor was it characteristic of Ryoka. She gave Ryoka a narrow-eyed glance.
“My warning…”
“Completely understood. You have to do what you have to do. I’ll hear you out if I make any errors you feel cross the line.”
Ryoka waited a beat.
“Good luck in stopping me.”
Before Chorisa could respond. Ryoka glanced around.
“And now, I would like to visit Lady Fithea, the Conservator of the Forest. I have an invitation. Can you escort me there?”
Chorisa looked like she wanted to escort Ryoka to a locker and keep her in there. But she blinked at Fithea’s name.
“Lady Fithea? That would be the private section of the palace. The Estexil Wing. Adjacent to the Court of Masks. Visitors are not allowed license to enter…even Baron Regalius or a [General] would be prohibited to enter.”
“Well, she wants to meet with me. You can ask her, but we could go over rather than waste time. Court of Masks, you said? I know the way.”
Ryoka began to trot down the corridors. Chorisa hesitated, then strode after Ryoka.
“We will escort you and confirm you have an appointment. Dame Lacres.”
Another figure materialized and marched off. Chorisa followed Ryoka, speaking hotly as the Wind Runner practically skipped along.
“If you disturb the peace again, Miss Griffin, we will not let it go unaddressed.”
“Mhm. Yep.”
“This is not an idle threat. Guest or not…”
“I understand. What, are you going to beat me with sticks?”
“We are not barbarians.”
“Ah, so you’ll beat me up in private. Want to go hand-to-hand? I like non-lethal fistfights. You can even book a timeslot in the Ryoka-asskicking schedule. How’s tonight sound? I’ll take advance payment on any beatdowns.”
Chorisa’s mouth worked. Ryoka smiled to herself.
Well. She didn’t have to change all the best scenes.
 
——
 
They were being followed. Doggedly; with literal dogs, or so the Goblins speculated. Kevin didn’t actually see them.
Both sides were using camouflage and speed Skills, and Poisonbite was leading them now, so she was making the best use of her Skills, which were suited to the job. Even so…she scowled as she tossed more of the [Thief]-brand scent-destroyer on their trail.
“Too many Humans. Too fast. Place to hide? No good. Place to die?”
She gave the others a thumbs-up she’d learned from Kevin. In short, as Kevin translated it, the Goblins had no way to find a hiding spot. Not with the Humans being able to track them and literally overturn every nook and cranny.
They could find a place to hole up and hope to outlast or just make a glorious last stand. The Goblins accepted this with equanimity, to some extent. They didn’t want to die, but they weren’t going to be paralyzed by the thought of it.
Now, the Human and Ogres were a bit more unhappy by the idea. Especially the Ogres.
Somo, the lead Ogre warrior from the clan she’d been poached from, rumbled and checked her shiny shield.
“No dying. Bring back big birds.”
“Wyverns? Can’t. Ogres can’t fly.”
Poisonbite sneered. Somo rumbled.
“Chieftain promised potions and fighting. Not death.”
There were ten Ogres present. All of whom looked pretty upset at the idea of dying. Even…dangerously upset. The Goblins were remarkably calm; the tallest Goblin was shy of seven feet here, and they were hobs. The Ogres were nine feet tall or larger. They had literally knocked down Tenbault’s gates and Kevin saw blood on their weapons. Even Gold-ranks didn’t like fighting Ogres en-masse, and these ones had discipline.
And armor.
“Not die. You use Skill. You use magic.”
Somo insisted, urgently, pointing a huge maul she wielded one-handed at Taganchiel, then Poisonbite. Both Goblins shrugged.
“No good magic or Skills left. High Passes…we climb and look for good spot? Maybe climb so fast Humans don’t catch?”
“Good way to find Gargoyles or Eater Goats. Or nastier. Let’s do.”
Poisonbite grinned. It certainly sounded like a better option than a slaughter in a cave mouth. They peered up at the mountains.
It was Kevin who decided he had to make a stand. He cleared his throat.
“Leave me behind. I’ll only be a nuisance. I can slow them down. Tie me up and I’ll tell them you went the wrong way.”
The Goblins glanced at Kevin. Poisonbite slapped him on the shoulder.
“Smart! You don’t die, we maybe die less.”
She fished around for some rope. Conversationally, she looked at Kevin.
“Maybe Humans don’t believe. Truth stones. If kill you, can I have skateboard?”
He began sweating instantly. Kevin hadn’t thought of that, but even so, he held out his wrists to bind up convincingly. It wasn’t much, but it was a Kevin-level sacrifice.
It was Somo who interrupted. The other Ogres weren’t deaf, although given their own language, it was doubtful how much they’d completely gotten of the Goblin’s own stylistic dialogue. But it was clear they weren’t happy. One was clearly of the opinion, ‘let’s smash these Goblins for getting us killed before we die’ in a clear display of Ogre-logic.
Somo was a bit smarter, though, and smacked him so hard Kevin saw the ground actually move a bit under his feet. The Ogre, cross-eyed, slunk back in line as she snapped.
“No death! No death! Goblins wrong!”
She waved a club. Instantly, Poisonbite went for the dagger at her wrist. She casually held a deadly, glowing blade coated in poison as she pretended to fiddle with Kevin’s bindings, smiling at him. She was ready to turn and throw, but Taganchiel gave her a warning look.
“Not die if we can help it, Somo. Come, climb.”
“No. Goblins wrong. Not die. Not climb. Better…way.”
Somo was conferring with the other Ogres. She frowned mightily, sniffed the air, and checked the mountains nearest to her. She looked at the others.
“Close?”
They were doing the same things as her. But they apparently couldn’t tell, so one got a better sense. Not by checking the mountain, but by stomping over to the nearest tree, tearing off a branch, and munching on it. Another scooped up some dirt, found a stone, and began to chew.
The Goblins and Kevin both stared. Yet Somo got an answer as an Ogre nodded. She turned to Taganchiel.
“Not climb. Better way. Maybe die. Maybe. Humans die too. Not follow long.”
She stressed ‘maybe’ as if it was a huge accomplishment. Which, to be fair…Taganchiel raised his brows.
“Redfangs don’t know other way.”
“Red-fang. Not Ogres. Ogres know hills. Ogres go…here.”
Somo made a snorting sound and spat. She gestured around the lower-lying areas of the High Passes on the Human’s side, which, to be fair, the Redfang Tribe had seldom if ever colonized. If other Tribes had, they weren’t here and had died.
Ogres had more staying power. Ogres had memory. Ogres were also not like onions and got no jokes in that regard, Kevin had learned.
“Tastes like old place. Old place. We not go up. We go there.”
Somo pointed. Apparently they knew something. The Goblins began to move, after the short break, and the jogging Ogres were suddenly leading. They broke out of the narrow forest they’d been using for cover, yet there was a confidence that sped the step. Taganchiel asked the obvious.
“Where are we going?”
“Down. Bad. Dangerous. Maybe die. Maybe. Humans not follow long. Not stay long. Bad stay long. Maybe die. Maybe…”
Somo repeated herself. Getting nervous. And she hadn’t been nervous, even when she heard they were raiding Tenbault. She’d only demanded a 60% cut of all mana potions seized.
Kevin traded a glance with Poisonbite. Taganchiel patiently raised his eyebrows.
“Where are we going, Somo?”
“Down. Into dark place. Ogres know. Ogres came. Ogres…don’t go anymore.”
Kevin…really didn’t like the sound of that. But it still beat having no place at all. He gulped.
“What’s down there, Somo? You sound nervous. Uh, what’s there to fear?”
Her head turned. She did not look confident at all.
“Thing many Ogres die. Place big clan once go. Five…no, fifteen lives ago.”
Fifteen lives? Oh, she meant fifteen generations. Kevin wondered how long that was. Ogres could live a long time…he licked his lips.
“What tribe? What happened? What’s there?”
“Maybe gone. Maybe all gone!”
Somo looked happy at the idea. Then she frowned.
“Maybe still there. Big clan die. Somo and nine Ogres and Goblins…not live long. Humans die too, though.”
That seemed to be some consolation. Kevin really didn’t like this. Taganchiel didn’t either.
“What tribe?”
“Thousand Warriors Clan.”
Kevin traded a look with the others. One of the surviving Redfangs slowly began checking her weapons, grinning as her friend traced new lines of red on her skin. Somo waited.
“Want know why clan famous?”
“Uh…what’s down there, Somo? What got the Thousand Warriors Clan? Somo, what’s there to fear, exactly?”
She licked her lips as her Ogres led her unerringly towards the entrance to below, ahead of the Humans who had spotted them. The Ogre came to a stop, and pointed, as the stone changed, and they found a tiny crack in the foot of the mountain. That led to strange, ghostly granite, so hard even Poisonbite’s dagger could make no impression. Down into darkness. Down into the deeps.
What did Ogres fear?
“Drums. Drums in the darkness.”
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin missed meeting Fithea. She was actually busy with work, but she gave orders that Ryoka Griffin be admitted past the Golem Sentries in this private wing of the palace.
Not the Order of the Thirsting Veil, which made them mad as could be. Ryoka also wondered if this was against Rhisveri’s orders.
She had not missed the way the Wyrm looked at her when she taunted him with the magical obol. However, he had refrained from summoning her instantly.
Fithea, though…she looked at Ryoka differently. Like, well, the last member of a dying species seeing hope for the first time. It bordered on maniacal, having gone way past obsessive.
Ryoka just hoped it would help. Meanwhile, she realized she had just been invited into the immortals’ wing of the palace.
And there were no minders. Ryoka hurried along the corridors, and noticed a few things at once.
“…Good gracious, it’s dirty here.”
No cleaning staff were presumably allowed here, so it looked like someone literally just blasted a tidal wave spell through the corridors every now and then. Ryoka suspected that because of the streaks of dirt on the marble.
