“A Courier? We’ve never had anyone who’s a Courier as a guest. I thought you were one of us…but you’re not.”
Menorkel was astonished. Ryoka shrugged.
“I’m a bit special. Look, I’ll keep your singing secret, but it was truly good.”
“You don’t think the song needed work? What about the lyrics?”
Dead gods. Ryoka felt like she was talking to a young musician. He wore his insecurities on his face. Both faces. She bit her lip.
Alright, whatever you do, say the opposite of every single thing you’ve ever said to other people. She had hurt a lot of feelings. It helped that she could be genuinely approving. Wait, what the hell was she doing?
Ryoka-things. Giving musical feedback to a Titan. Triton? Did he have an official name? Duotitan? That was stupid.
Just go with it.
“It’s really good. I think you need some kind of accompaniment. It’s not a song meant to be sung alone, is it? Tone? Spot on.”
“Really? I’ve tried with drums and flutes and so on, but I don’t think it fits. It’s new music. You’ve heard of the Singer of Terandria? It’s like that, but no one knows what instruments she plays. I want that…you know, that music?”
Ryoka rubbed at her chin. She knew what he meant. Pianos, electric music, the power of amps, all of that was beyond this world. Perhaps they had equivalents, but no one had put anything together like this.
“You know, it reminds me of pop. But not exactly pop. It’s sort of…electropop.”
“Electropop? What’s that?”
“Uh—a kind of pop. It needs a synth. That’s um, synthetic music. Something soothing. I don’t know, sorry. I don’t compose music, but not a flute. Something more background.”
He needed a music program and a recording set and a computer and she’d have the next pop sensation on her hands. If she was on Earth, Ryoka would have seriously considered throwing over the dangerous and relatively un-lucrative Courier business for the far more profitable world of music management.
Menorkel actually grabbed a pencil with one hand and began scribbling notes frantically as his other two hands fiddled with the microphone. The last one scratched at his short hair.
Amazing coordination. Ryoka was impressed. She’d observed that even the Antinium weren’t perfect with four arms. They could do things in tandem, but this was literally like someone using each hand deliberately for rapidly different tasks.
Two heads. He must have insane ability to multitask. It was probably not a genetically sound move for Humans, but if it existed…Ryoka wondered if he could literally out-think someone or do involved activities like equestrian polo. Heck, he could stand and be taller than someone on a horse’s back.
“I’ve wanted to learn how the Singer does her music for ages. You don’t know what a ‘synth’ is, do you?”
“Uh…you’d have to use magic. Literally copying music and playing it back, sorry. I don’t know how.”
Menorkel groaned.
“That’s what I thought! But I can’t cast that kind of magic and Fithea won’t teach anyone ‘silly magic’. And the Singer’s never performed in Ailendamus. I could listen to her at least, but even though Sophridel told me he tried to invite her a dozen times, she never came.”
Gee, I wonder why? Ryoka was reminded of Ailendamus’ reputation as a war machine and Cara’s own hints in her music video.
Then again, the truth of Ailendamus might have pulled the Singer over here in a heartbeat. Ryoka didn’t know her, but this was something else. She walked forwards slowly…then walked back. Because Menorkel was so tall that if she got too close, she’d have to literally talk while craning her neck straight up. And she was a tall girl!
He was so tall it was disconcerting. And unlike Moore, he didn’t naturally hunch himself over and try to look small and unthreatening. He walked and moved about naturally. Someone had taught him not to be afraid of his height. He seemed fine talking to Ryoka at a remove; it felt more natural to Ryoka too. Her brain could pretend he wasn’t almost twice her height.
“Right. Well, you can do a bit even without meeting the Singer. For instance, I know…a bit about her music. Did you know that the microphone amplifies her voice? Gives it a bit of an echo, maybe. You can enchant it.”
She nodded to the wooden mic he was holding. Menorkel nearly dropped it.
“Really? Is that what it does?”
“Absolutely.”
“Can you tell me more? I’ve never met anyone like—if Fithea wants to talk to you, you have to go. Where did you come from? I heard Rhisveri finally caught a Thief, but no one mentioned a guest. I didn’t think he liked anyone. You’re Human, aren’t you? You smell Human. I thought he’d only like another Wyrm or Dragon or…”
Ryoka coughed.
“Uh, funny story. The thing is—”
The door flew open. A furious Gilaw spotted Ryoka. The Wind Runner whirled, and the wind blew. Too weakly to stop Gilaw from grabbing her and strangling her with an arm like steel.
“Gilaw! Stop! Stop, she’s Fithea’s guest!”
Menorkel stared in horror as Gilaw dropped Ryoka with incredible force. The Wind Runner was kicking, but she was so outclassed in terms of strength she knew she was either going to be choked out or die. Gilaw was making furious sounds, and she was squeezing so tight Ryoka was afr—
“Gilaw!”
A pair of hands plucked the angry Great Knight off Ryoka. She breathed, coughing, gasping, and turned. She saw a pair of kicking legs, heard a furious squawking voice—and saw Menorkel effortlessly holding Gilaw under the shoulders in the way people did to stop a fight across worlds. He was holding Gilaw, armor and all, off the ground. The Great Knight was trying to break free.
And she couldn’t. Menorkel’s other two hands were gesticulating frantically as he spoke.
“Gilaw, shut up! Don’t attack! She’s Fithea’s guest! Fithea’s guest, understand?”
The angry woman couldn’t break free. She calmed down as she was forced to listen, and stared at Ryoka. The young woman looked at Menorkel in awe. Right up until the armored boot stomped her flat again.
“Thou perfidious fiend. I have thee at mine mercy. How dare you desecrate this place of respite?”
An echoing voice snapped. Ryoka looked up just in time to see an armored figure apply more pressure to her back. She groaned as a second figure, armed with a mace and shield no less, and a full set of ancient, ceremonial-looking armor put her full, and considerable, weight on Ryoka’s back.
“Lady Paterghost! Nube, stop her! Lady Paterghost, she’s a guest!”
“Stay your hand, Menorkel! I was not informed of a visitor. This intruder dareth lay her hands on—unhand me at once, child! This is a disgrace to my armor! Nube, stop him—”
The pressure on Ryoka vanished. Ryoka rolled over, heartily sick of being kicked around by immortals. Yet it seemed she’d backed the right Titan. Because as she scrambled up, she saw something amazing.
He still had Gilaw in the restraining hold, and she was dangling there, looking miserable. But with his other hand, he’d literally picked ‘Lady Paterghost’ up from the floor, and she was flailing at him with one gauntleted hand. Then Ryoka saw something ooze from her visored face. Some pinkish, fleshy mass which slapped Menorkel’s arm.
“Nube! Stop that! Lady Paterghost, please!”
Menorkel had a final hand free and he stopped the flailing assault as one of the armored arms extended, revealing more of the inner pink mass to try and pry his fingers free.
Armor? What was that inside it? Ryoka’s eyes fixed on the armored figure—no, the two beings as Lady Paterghost’s head rotated clean around on the shoulders to glower at her.
“How have you infiltrated Menorkel’s mind, fiend? I challenge thee to fisticuffs, before I exact further retribution for your insult to this place!”
Ryoka Griffin just stared at the wrathful, living suit of armor. Lady Paterghost. And what was clearly ‘Nube’, the…what was it? A Mimic living inside her?
However, both Gilaw and Lady Paterghost apparently didn’t equal one Menorkel, who held them off the ground with an ease that astounded Ryoka. He looked around, as if for a place to dump them. Ryoka was trying to back away from a swinging fist from Lady Paterghost that extended, trying to make good on the armored woman’s threat. Gilaw was just dangling, making peeping sounds unhappily that said she wanted to come down.
Predictably, that was when Fithea entered. The ancient Dryad looked at the scene. Menorkel turned pale and dropped all three other immortals with a crash. They were on their feet in a moment. Fithea stared at Ryoka. The Wind Runner smiled.
“Um. Sorry. I should have waited?”
But she didn’t regret it, in truth. Because while she had an enemy in Paterghost, who literally slapped Ryoka with a glove—thankfully not her armored hand—she’d made at least one tentative friend.
Menorkel. Titan of Ailendamus, who only left when Fithea ordered him to spread the word of their guest and calm the others down. Who looked after Ryoka with curiosity and interest in his four eyes.
 
——
 
Music. It was about music. It existed. Sometimes people sang along. However, in a world where instantaneous music on demand was yet to be widespread or fully implemented, people capable of making real music were fewer and further between.
Anyone could hold a beat or sing along. But who wrote the lyrics, who made new music? It was one thing to meet someone who could play decently. Someone who could play beautifully? As rare as a warrior among warriors, or an Archmage of magic.
It was just that they weren’t always as respected. What good did music do to my ability to stab people efficiently? That was the kind of cave-logic you got.
Ironically, not among actual Cave Trolls or just Trolls. They escorted the band of Goblins, Ogres, and one musical Human into the depths. So the master of drums could get a look at them.
Kevin had played three songs, and the unknown drummer had approved. So had the Trolls, apparently. One kept reaching for Kevin’s smartphone and their leader kept slapping the hand away.
Trolls. Male and female, fewer in number than Kevin guessed. Even in their ‘lair’, what he saw of it as they took him to a separate chamber at the heart of this old Dwarven fortress, they were fewer in number than Ogres or Goblins by far.
Yet seventeen had beaten back a small army of Humans. Perhaps it wouldn’t have worked except in this terrain. But those drums certainly hadn’t hurt. Nor was it fair to say Trolls didn’t have their own advantages.
Ogres could all learn to cast magic. Goblins were numerous and could become Hobs and level.
What did Trolls get? Well…the power to heal from a literal enchanted spear going through their stomach, into their guts, in less than ten minutes. The Troll kept pointing it out as he yanked the barbed spear out.
Ow. Look at what they did!
Even the Redfangs were impressed by that kind of resilience. They were wary, ready for a backstabbing, but Kevin was mostly interested in who was playing so eloquently.
Even now, he could hear it. A low, much quieter sound. His ears were still ringing, but Kevin heard a one-man band, just playing some beautiful lounge music on a set of drums, echoing through this place.
Proper lounge music, that was. As in, the kind of thing that was actually fun to have in the background, not obnoxious elevator-type music that made you want to throw yourself through the glass elevator’s window.
“Mm.”
The Trolls’ lead warrior pointed through a huge archway that the music was coming from. The rumbling rhythm was actually shaking some pebbles outside. Poisonbite hesitated, but Kevin had to see. So he walked through and met the drummer at last.
There he sat. The ruler of the Trolls, the lord of the deeps. Leaning back in a seat of stone, holding two glittering mallets in his hands. A blanket around his shoulders, and some wraps of clothing for modesty around their chest and lower half.
He had a huge drum in front of him, shimmering with magic in Kevin’s eyes. He had also chosen a natural place within the deep caves to play in. Even as Kevin watched, the Troll did a rolling melody, hands delicately playing on the massive drum sitting in front of him.
It was clearly a magical drum. The kind of thing that might have been meant to sit vertically, rather than as it did now. Kevin could just imagine it. You struck it with the mallets, sounded an alarm, perhaps used the power in it.
It had been abandoned when this place was left, or perhaps someone had taken it long ago. However it happened, it had ended up here, in the perfect spot for it.
A vaulted chamber, with a circular ceiling reaching up thousands of feet. The Troll King played on the ground, and the sound could echo up and out through the entire underground cave network.
Now he played softly. On the magical drums, with the glittering mallets tapping with the ease of a self-taught professional. Kevin saw it was not the main drum alone; hide-drums accompanied the main one.
It was a drum set. And the Troll, so engrossed in his task, didn’t even bother to glance up at Kevin. He just rumbled on the drum, a growing crescendo.
For the guests. Kevin realized when he slowed down to gesture at the other Goblins. The crescendo stopped rising in pitch and volume. He glanced back, and saw one eye flick up.
Kevin hesitated, and took a few steps forwards. Playfully, the sound rose in volume and tempo—then subsided as he walked back.
Amazing. With that alone—Kevin felt the last tension leaving him. He grinned, and the Troll smiled as he played.
No, wait. Poisonbite took one look at the leader of the Trolls, the drummer of the deeps, and looked more interested. She peered at Kevin as he addressed the leader.
“Excuse me, sir.”
Tum-tum whap. The first discord as the Troll actually slowed. A frown. Poisonbite blinked at Kevin. Then slapped him on the butt, since she thought it was hilarious.
“Idiot.”
Kevin looked at Poisonbite. The Goblin rolled her eyes and pointed. He looked back and corrected himself.
“I’m so sorry. Ma’am?”
The Troll Queen grunted. She. She gave Kevin a look that said he’d made the first mistake in coming here. But she glanced with interest at Kevin.
“Human.”
She rumbled; her voice was as deep as the drums, and her command of the language was a bit guttural. But she eyed the smartphone the music had come from. Then her gaze shifted.
“Ogres.”
Somo glowered, intimidated by this great Troll who was bigger than she was. She thrust her chest out, but the Troll Queen ignored her. She narrowed her eyes as she came to the last group.
“Goblins.”
Dum dum dum. Her hands never stopped moving. But the music was more of a read than her expression or posture. It drummed softly, disapprovingly.
“Thank you for helping us, er, Drummer Queen.”
