The drums! It was so loud, now, Kevin couldn’t even tell if his heart was working. He only heard that terrifying sound, and he was sure it was no different even for the Humans. A [Mage] was screaming a spell. For a second Kevin heard silence as the enchantm—
THUM.
He actually heard the sound blow apart the spell. No one could hear a thing! Yet the Trolls moved, and as the drums rolled, they struck.
Thum thum thum thum!
Every time the drum struck, the Troll warriors echoed it with mace and axe. A fast, yet rhythmic onslaught. They tore forwards, collapsing the first line of Humans like they were made of paper. Kevin was astonished. Yet there was no cohesion in the defenders.
The drum. It was throwing off the other warriors! It was so loud, so pervasive that it echoed through Kevin’s soul with every reverberation. It threw off the natural timing of the [Warriors], the shouted orders, a hostile rhythm they didn’t know and couldn’t predict on first contact. They couldn’t hear orders, or Skills, or the shouts to retreat or regroup.
The Trolls didn’t care. The drums were their orders. It picked up speed and they accelerated. Then a double-beat—they stepped back, slashing, letting the Humans charge forwards into a feint and more slaughter.
“Dead gods.”
Kevin didn’t hear himself say it. He just knew the song from the darkness. It played for nearly three minutes. Three minutes was all it took. The Trolls slowed as the beat lapsed into a very slow rhythm, breathing hard, grunting. But the Humans were in full flight.
As for the Goblins and Ogres? They set themselves, warily, in the corner they’d chosen, staring at the Trolls. For the fighting wasn’t done yet.
Thum. Thum. Thum.
An ominous sound. The seventeen Trolls turned back. Maybe they weren’t as big as Somo’s people, but Kevin swore he saw a cut on one of their arms closing as he watched. The Goblins and Ogres eyed them, and Kevin realized the thunderous drums could debilitate them as much as they had the Humans.
Thum…thum…thum…
It was slowing. Each beat growing longer, until it stopped. And the silence was more ominous than the music, now. The Trolls waited. Not for the Goblins to say anything, but for the sound.
When it played, everyone died.
Poisonbite was glaring at the biggest Troll, daggers out. Atter and Pillowhead were pointing to a flanking position, glancing warily into the depths for reinforcements. Taganchiel, muttering spells. Everyone was tensed, and Somo was readying the maul, prepared to take down at least one of her foes. Death or victory! The species, all humanoid cousins, glared at each other.
Except for the actual Human, Kevin. He had actually relaxed.
Drums in the darkness. Mysterious inhabitants of the underworld. He had been prepared for horrors.
All he saw were Trolls. And the music was not the impartial war drums of some abyssal creature. Someone had played that. Someone had a sense of rhythm and music.
In short, Kevin’s opinion was that someone had good taste. Someone could play music, and if that was so…Kevin had a Kevin-solution.
“Taganchiel!”
The [Shaman] started as Kevin grabbed his arm. He looked at the Human, who was holding a glowing object and completely ruining everyone’s night-vision.
“No lights! Stay back! Fighting!”
The Goblin snapped. But Kevin was pointing at the object he was holding.
“No, no! I have an idea! Can you cast magic on this? Make it louder! Louder, Taganchiel!”
The Goblin eyed Kevin. Poisonbite’s head turned. She glared; Kevin was not a warrior. He was here to negotiate and calm the Healer, but all the plans were upended.
Perhaps Taganchiel saw something different. He took the smartphone, touched it, and grunted. He shrugged, casting his equivalent of a loudness spell. Kevin saw him turn. The Trolls were tensing. Some conclusion might be being reached. But before the drums could play and sound an attack, Kevin pressed a button.
Music began to play. It came out of the little speakers, a bit tinny, a bit low-quality. Even so, amplified by Taganchiel’s magic.
A song. 
The Troll warriors started as drums, far less loud, but drums began to play. There was a strumming sound—then a Human voice shouted, full of excitement.
“Crank it up and play it loud!”
That was Kevin’s voice. But it wasn’t Kevin who said it—at least, not the young man holding the smartphone up and sweating bullets. It was Kevin from a while back. Yet the voice was answered in moments. Someone began to riff on an electric guitar. At the same time, the drums continued, less fancy, but they were joined by a second guitar, and, to everyone’s surprise, and Kevin’s mild mortification, his slightly off-key singing.
Numbtongue himself joined in later, and improved the song. However, it was their song. It was a song Kevin had played with Numbtongue when they formed the world’s first Human-Goblin-Bird rock band. He was pretty sure Octavia and Mrsha had both participated too, come to that.
It echoed down through the Troll caves, an imperfect recreation of a rock song from back home. Nevertheless…music.
The Goblins were staring at Kevin. Taganchiel’s eyes opened wide, then he began to smile. Atter’s head began to nod to the beat, although everyone’s ears were still ringing from the drumbeat.
Somo stared down at the little Human. Slowly, and quite deliberately, she adjusted her weapon and shield to cover her ears. Kevin just grinned. It was a mad, nervous smile. But if he was going to die, at least he’d given it a shot.
The song was halfway through and he was wondering if he’d have to play a second one or if the Trolls would just attack. Then he saw something. One of the Trolls was moving.
It was…nodding. Exactly in time with the beat. The others were giving death-glares, but one Troll was just standing there.
Vibing to the beat. That was why Kevin thought there was a chance they might live. And sure enough—
Thum. Thu-Thum. Thum. Thum, Thum…
The drumbeats were less loud. The Trolls started. One raised a weapon and Somo raised her hammer, but then the warriors relaxed. Because they heard it. The drummer in the darkness wasn’t calling an attack.
They were copying the beat of the song! Replacing the recording’s drumming almost perfectly! Kevin’s head rose. He exhaled. Then he began to grin. He fumbled for a second song with a drum beat from his song collection.
Poisonbite just looked at Kevin and the smartphone. She checked the Trolls, her daggers, then sheathed them. She shrugged. Then sat back to listen.
“This Human. Pretty good. Chieftain should buy Calescent stupid spices.”
Taganchiel rubbed at one ringing ear. He nodded.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin closed the door behind her, and the sounds of furious pursuit died down. She looked ahead, and found herself in a bare room.
Not empty; there were cushions scattered around, an actual cork board with pinned up bits of paper, and so on. A pair of windows let sunlight in, but curtains had been drawn. The sole occupant stood at the back of the room. He didn’t see the Wind Runner, because his eyes were closed.
The young woman just gazed at him, mouth open, much like when she’d disturbed the Merfolk. Yet if that was one thing…the young man’s eyes opened wide after a few seconds. He still missed Ryoka, oblivious, lost in his own world.
There he stood, tapping his foot to a beat only he could hear. Ryoka saw the person he truly was, no illusions, not here in his home. How could she describe him?
Thin. Thin and tall. Lanky, in every sense of the word. Wiry where you’d expect superlative muscle, and so young. So young, compared to the only other member of his species that Ryoka had met.
She couldn’t take her eyes off his face. His skin was dusky orange, like the sky before it set, but blazed with evening—then faded. Of course, that wasn’t the first thing you noticed about him.
Yet his body began to sway. At last, his heads rose.
He began to sing.
 
“I~, I have a secret. And it’s you.
I~, I know it’s never just me alone.
It’s been gnawing at me for so long
Because I’m not honest with them all;
It’s not one, but two.”
 
He was singing. Ryoka Griffin’s mouth dropped, because it was astonishingly good pitch control. His head turned, looking left. Like a performer on a stage to an audience of one—no, two—his second head turned, and began singing.
 
“Everyone I know doesn’t see me
Somedays, somedays I can’t stand you.
But if they could see, could even see,
Would we be fine, just us two?”
 
The first face listened. Two heads, singing in a—a duet. He had something in one of his hands. It looked like a microphone. Only, it was clearly made of wood and painted. Hand-made, the only crude thing. He raised it to the first head’s lips.
 
“They talk to only you,
Somedays, somedays I wish it were true,
But if it wasn’t just us two, just us two,
Would you love me like you do?”
 
It was a song for two heads, clearly self-written. Performed with no intention of anyone seeing. It was so good, though, that Ryoka felt like recording it if she had her iPhone and putting it on the store. Especially because both heads were singing.
Two heads. A young man, a shock of short-cut hair on both heads, light black, skin a kind of unnatural orange that Ryoka had only ever seen on one other race—Gazi.
This was no Gazer, though. This young man…what was he?
If Ryoka could have been where Kevin was and compared the other humanoids, she would have seen how different he was from Ogres and Trolls. Ogres were tall, scaled up Humans in many ways, while Trolls were more squat, while still being tall. Skin like stone for Trolls, just thick skin for Ogres.
Cousins. Neither one was quite as…foreign as whomever this was. Yet he was heir to a bloodline older than both of theirs. Grander. He looked like he was young, which he surely was, yet Ryoka thought he looked astonishingly fit.
What was he? The singing…which species had two heads? Was he a variant of a Cyclops, some relative of Gazers?
No…Cyclops, Ogres, Trolls, ents, the old English word for Giant, eten, none of these descriptors worked. They were all too…young. Too narrow, species that didn’t fit.
Descendants of the original.
She had met his kind once before. Ryoka’s eyes widened as she recalled another member of the species, if distantly related. This? Her knees trembled a bit. She forgot completely about Gilaw, the alarmed immortals. She just looked at him. Could it be?
To find out who this young man was, his species, it was simple. Accept no substitutes. Go back, to the dawn of mythology. To Greek legend. To the age of g—Mount Olympus and their kind. Then go back further, to those who came before them.
Titans.
He wore a kind of loose toga, appropriately, like Drakes; perhaps the only thing that could be easily tailored for his frame. Both heads were attached to a fairly Human body, albeit with long arms, six fingers with carefully-cut nails.
Oh, and four arms. Ryoka had seen the Antinium before, but this was the prototype they were surely built on. A Titan of old, like the giant who had nearly eaten her in the lands of the fae. Yet if he was a rampaging brute, willing to throw down with old gods and creatures like Nama…
This was a teenager, or a young man, species aside, singing by himself in what he thought was private, oblivious to his guest. His song was self-conscious, but he swayed, turning as he sang with natural performative grace.
He was just a kid. And he was eleven feet tall. He was smiling as he sang. Right up until he saw the Wind Runner gawping at him. Then he froze, and two pairs of eyes locked onto Ryoka’s face with immortal terror—and embarrassment.
Ryoka Griffin, from much experience being an embarrassed younger person herself, knew he was probably two seconds from tossing himself out the window. So she raised her hands, and brought them together.
She began to clap. Not just politely, but with genuine approbation. For ten seconds, then twenty.
Then she stopped. The young man just looked at her in horror. The Wind Runner cleared her throat, twice.
“It was really good. I mean it. You…you must be a fan of music. That sounded like the Singer of Terandria’s music. You even have a mic. It’s as good as any song I’ve heard, really. Throw in a guitar, a drum, or some kind of acoustics, and it’s perfect. Just great. Yeah. Sorry, I was looking for a place to hide and…”
She made a wild guess, but there was no way to take what he’d been singing as anything but from a kind of pop-inspired genre. The microphone was the big clue. Someone had seen the Singer’s music video, or perhaps even a copy of her performance and taken the tool without knowing what it was for.
“Wh—what? You think it’s good?”
The blush on his cheeks actually manifested as brighter, not darkening. What color was his blood? Ryoka realized that his pupils were unnaturally large. He had no whites of the eyes; they were different colors instead, and his irises…she hesitated.
Play it calm. The fact that he didn’t jump to panic was a good sign. She checked herself, nodded.
“Absolutely. Did you come up with that song yourself? You could sing professionally.”
She wasn’t lying either. Even if he hadn’t been a good singer, being able to duet by yourself was a great talent, but he had amazing pipes.
“Really. Uh—I’ve never shown anyone. Only a few other songs. That was private. How—how did you get in here? No one told me we were having visitors. You’re a guest, aren’t you?”
The young man glanced around. He was reassuring himself that this wasn’t some random Human discovering his nature. Ryoka nodded.
“Fithea invited me. I know uh, Rhisveri. I’m a guest of his. Sort of.”
That made the young man visibly relax. Then his second head finally stopped grimacing in horror and peered at Ryoka.
“Oh, good. I thought…”
It was astonishing. The second head spoke for the first one as if continuing the conversation for the first. No visible infighting or separation of personalities. Two heads instead of one. Ryoka smiled.
“Sorry. I uh, caused a commotion, but I really am a guest. I didn’t mean to intrude. I upset some of the others. The—Merfolk? And Gilaw? They didn’t know I was a guest. I ducked in here. My name’s Ryoka Griffin.”
“Oh, Gilaw would do that. She gets nervous and she’s only been here fourteen years.”
The young man murmured. Ryoka blinked. This was such a casual conversation, but…no, keep it casual. It surely was to him.
“What’s your name?”
“Menorkel. It’s longer, but you can call me Menor. Paterghost—sorry, Lady Paterghost and Nube insist on full names, but no one else does.”
Paterghost and Nube. Hm. Ryoka’s immortal-senses were tingling. She smiled.
“Pleased to meet you. I’m a Courier.”
