“He’s just a kid, isn’t he?”
Fithea paused in fiddling with a ball of rice. She gave the Wind Runner a sharp look. Because the young woman was correct.
“Yes. If you wish to speak with him, he is a guest. But ask your questions. May I…may I hold this stone? It speaks to me.”
“Of course. They are mine, but I might be willing to trade them. For the right price. And if we can talk…I think we can both help each other out.”
The Dryad was only half-listening. She closed her eyes as she held the stone. Then she looked at Ryoka, with real hope in her gaze. Maybe…Ryoka thought of the broken gate in Ailendamus’ depths. It was gone, but if you could put a bit of money through, maybe you could open it just once, just once for someone who didn’t belong here anymore?
Melidore promised the [Witches]…she looked at the Dryad and began to bargain in earnest. For at last, she did have something she wanted.
 
——
 
Something he wanted too. Rhisveri paced around, snapping at Sophridel. The Elemental of Masks kept secrets, by his nature. He was trustworthy, again by nature, or at least, his main form was.
“I don’t know what she summoned, but that coinage is invaluable. I must have it. She is taunting me, Sophridel, but she can’t know what I possess!”
“This one does not know what you possess, Rhisveri. Secrets kept. Alliances founded upon doubt. Disturbs.”
“I do not need to inform you of every treasure I possess! You are here for counsel, Sophridel.”
Rhisveri snapped at the immortal, who, like Fithea, held some sway even over him. The Elemental made no response. Rhisveri wasn’t sure if he had feelings that could be hurt.
“Explain value of currency. Money is artifice. Like a mask, the worth dependant. Paper. Metal. Negotiable.”
“Not this money. Dead gods, are you blind? Do I have to explain basic economics to you?”
“Yes.”
The Wyrm elaborated with a sigh.
“It’s universal currency. Do you have any idea how valuable that is? It is worth something in every world. And there are more than one! Money, gold even, is worth little in a world where gold might literally pave the streets, but that currency? It is inherently magical and you can feel it too. So the value is not just deferred, but present in the coinage itself. In fact—in everything but a highly-magical society, the value grows, especially if there is not any inherent magic at all! A universal coin that has value that cannot be taken away.”
His eyes shone. He practically salivated at the currency with its unique value. Sophridel gave Rhisveri a blank, blank stare.
“Money is still dependant upon culture and systems of economics. Debatable.”
“Go eat yourself!”
Rhisveri snarled. If there was ever a time he wished for a peer like a damned Dragon…at least they knew the value of concepts like this. He tried to figure out a way to get all of Ryoka’s money and the other objects she owned. Not for…that. Not for everything she owned, ten times over.
It was far too valuable, and no one could know what it was. Not Fithea, not Ryoka. Thankfully, all the people who did know were long dead.
 
——
 
A song for even the dead to listen to. Numbtongue played on his guitar as they travelled. Slower, after the mad dash of yesterday.
Changed. A Nameless Soldier flexed his hands, feeling the air around him belong to him. The other Antinium gazed at the oldest member of their kind among the Free Antinium who was not Klbkch or the Free Queen.
The first Free Antinium with an aura. He was not the only one. Gothica sat, adjusting her umbrella, smiling darkly in a world of midnight. She actually had a little zone of shadow around her.
Perfectly gothic. Ulvama kept poking herself, adjusting to her new class, and Snapjaw was cheering up Badarrow, beaming with her new class.
Fierre was lying face-down in the wagon, under a blanket. The Vampire who had gotten neither aura nor class consolidation was being tended to by Octavia, who occasionally gave her a pat on the shoulder.
Sergeant Gna lay next to Fierre, in much the same ‘corpse face-first in the mud’ position. The [Goblinfriend Bug-Captain] was not happy.
By contrast, the Goblins were in great spirits. Numbtongue was playing loudly, and they were grinning. Occasionally one would poke their head up over the wagon.
“Friend!”
“Shut up! Get away!”
They laughed so hard they nearly threw up. The Antinium kept staring at Gna too. Wow. She was a friend. That was so nice of her.
But of music, it was Numbtongue. He felt, after that run, that he had remembered something. He had not levelled, it was true. Yet he had remembered.
Redfangs. So he played, loudly, and remembered his companions, who would have loved the mad run. He didn’t fear being heard; Niers’ Skill still kept them relatively safe, although they travelled by evening and night, stopping at dawn.
He played the Ballad of the Redfangs, the same song he always worked on. The tale of thirteen Goblins who had come to an inn.
For the three ghosts who marched behind him. A lost Goblin, half-remembered, damaged, following a Hobgoblin warrior with a sword and a big Hob wishing he could munch on some rocks.
Ghosts. The song remembered them. It remembered them all.
What a strange company. One that had literally led an army on a run across countless miles. They looked like regular people unless you could see through a very powerful Skill.
Or…you knew they were Goblins. There were multiple Hobs in this group, with the power of Chieftains…sort of. So, for anyone who could see ghosts or sense fellow Goblins, it was confusing.
Still, the food was good. Even the bugs. Rasktooth kept staring left. Infinitypear saw his travelling buddy frown as he looked at some Goblins gamely marching with him. They were so…ordinary that Rasktooth assumed someone had okayed them. Badarrow, or Numbtongue, or Bird.
Otherwise…he poked the Goblin walking next to him, with a big white handprint on her shoulder. She swatted his finger, absently, and stared at Numbtongue and the ghosts. Another poke.
“Eh?”
She growled at him. Rasktooth gave her a long stare.
“Who you? Where you come from?”
The Goblin gave Rasktooth an exceedingly blank look. She pointed vaguely.
“Over there.”
“Oh.”
Rasktooth thought about it. He glanced in the vague direction she was pointing.
Well, it checked out.
 
——
 
“Six came to rest. Six, for one last test. 
A village with no reason to die, but a voice to hear.
For memory, for flowers, there fell Bugear…”
 
Numbtongue was working on the lyrics. It was hard to put ‘Bugear’ into a rhyme, but his name mattered. He replayed the verses about Esthelm; that was good, workshopped material.
He was glad the Goblins and even some travellers liked the music. Few kept pace with them so late at night, but occasionally he saw a traveller turn to listen.
But it couldn’t be just headturningly good. It had to be beautiful. Something so sad it brought you to tears, so glorious when it mattered that it scorched the soul.
It was wrong to say that Numbtongue had no real desire or inclination towards his class. It was just that he hated playing anything that wasn’t good enough. Especially when it mattered.
For the moment, he played. He had been there, so only he could remember it properly. He, Badarrow, and Rabbiteater.
The last brothers.
It was also wrong to say that the song, as it was, was inherently poor. It was just a composition of Numbtongue’s finest work, some filler, and a conflicting bunch of ideas.
For instance, was it appropriate to have an electric guitar riff instead of a dirge for Bugear? Bugear probably would have appreciated it, but thematically it might be a bit off.
Nevertheless, Gothica glanced up as Numbtongue began to play like lightning, and actual electricity made the horse skip forwards a bit.
Music as you had never heard it, from an instrument born of knowledge of Earth. The Singer might have copies of that kind of music, and her own version, but this was the first instance of it existing in Izril outside of a recording.
The Hobgoblin’s music was electric. The company listened. Fierre poked her head up, nodding appreciatively. Salkis started. She liked this music. It was definitely the right choice to come here, bugs and annoyances or not, even if she hadn’t been able to do nearly as much fighting as she’d hoped. She’d levelled. Worth it.
Niers Astoragon wasn’t sure if he liked it or not. He just felt it lacked accompaniment.
“Bird, am I getting old? Old people have no taste in music.”
Bird tilted his head.
“Whether you have taste or not, you are certainly old.”
“Thank you, Bird.”
However, the consequence of Numbtongue’s playing wasn’t so much in affirming the relative age of his listeners. It was in how it affected them. Especially the ones who’d never heard it before.
Some of the Goblins began oohing or pointing at Numbtongue. Look at that! Look at that! Snapjaw stopped snuggling with Badarrow on her horse—she’d let someone else take over Icecube for the day—to frown.
“One, two…Badarrow, who those Goblins?”
The [Sniper] frowned at the odd Goblins. At last, he took notice of them. Just in time to see one of them approvingly see Numbtongue playing and decide this was a jam session. She pulled out a curious bone flute out of a pouch and began to play on it.
The haunting melody made Numbtongue falter for a second, but it was complementary, not competing. He turned to stare, but assumed for the first second that it was a Goblin disclosing a hither-to unknown musical gift.
The two began to experimentally duet as Badarrow and Snapjaw exchanged glances. They’d picked up Goblins? They were sort of used to it; like ticks, a Tribe could actually pick up Goblins. But it wasn’t something they wanted now.
Especially when attention came their way. And the bone flute/electric guitar solo finally picked up the wrong kind of attention.
“Excuse me. What is that music? We’ve been listening to it for the last hour.”
Numbtongue started. He recoiled, nearly went for his sword, but relaxed just in time as some Gnolls caught up down the road. The group slowed, uneasily, and Garia gulped.
But the sixty-odd Gnolls who’d come their way were as friendly as they could be. They even sniffed Numbtongue.
“Hello, brother! What tribe are you from, yes?”
Numbtongue stared at Bird. The Antinium helpfully tipped his hat, but there was no way his Skill could fool this many people.
Somehow, he did. And the Gnoll group was from a local tribe. Their leader explained.
“We’re hunting, yes? For one-horns. There are few about.”
“One horns? I don’t know them. I thought all Gnolls were at uh, Meeting of Tribes.”
Numbtongue blinked. The Gnolls were sniffing the air, looking a bit puzzled, but they clearly thought he was a Gnoll and their company was full of Drakes and Gnolls. They took them to be City Gnolls and Drakes.
“Ah, you cityfolk. Not all of a tribe goes. Our Chieftain’s over there. Probably eating all the food in sight. We are the Lomost Tribe. We settled this place; well, the Drakes love to say otherwise.”
The Gnoll indicated ‘this place’, which included the local hills, lowlands, which was fairly elevated in terrain. The Goblin with the bone flute rolled her eyes at the Gnolls, but was hiding behind the wagon.
“I see. Uh. Hrr.”
Numbtongue did his best. He felt bemused by the convivial Gnolls. One pointed to his guitar.
“It looks normal, but it must be enchanted, yes? How do you make it sound like that?”
“Skills.”
“Told you.”
Another [Hunter] sighed. They wanted to hear some songs and play with him. That was it.
“Why don’t you stop with our tribe tonight?”
“Er…we are moving.”
“Our tribe moves too. Are you going too fast? Ah, if you cannot, you cannot. But play with us for a bit, eh?”
Numbtongue kept glancing at Snapjaw, who looked alarmed, but their cover was holding amazingly well. He needed this Skill himself! He wondered how Bird had gotten it. He was just preparing to oblige them with a few of his songs he’d learned from Kevin when the Gnoll’s relaxed demeanor changed.
“Hunt Leader…”
One of the Gnolls whispered. The Hunt Leader, who’d spoken to Numbtongue, looked sideways. He cursed.
“Friend, don’t move. You’ve got…Goblins.”
The Hobgoblin gave him the best poker-face of his life.
“Goblins? No way.”
The Gnoll just pointed. Numbtongue’s head slowly turned and his heart beat faster. But it wasn’t at Snapjaw that the Gnoll was pointing. Or even Rasktooth or the Antinium.
It was at a little Goblin peeking at them from under the wagon. The Goblin with the bone flute, and a group of about eight. Numbtongue…had never seen them before today. They were not part of the group. Accordingly…
“Damn. They’re getting bolder.”
One of the Gnolls cursed. Numbtongue tensed. He didn’t know what was about to happen next, but his hand oh-so-casually moved, towards the hilt of his sword. They all had bows and weapons to hunt one-horns, the thick-skinned rhinos who were worth a lot of money for meat, hide, and horn.
The Gnoll [Hunters], oblivious to the growing danger, muttered. Niers watched from his hiding place. Was this going to be a bloodbath? He didn’t care for massacres, but his Skills suppressed their [Dangersense].
Until the hammer falls. They’d lose cover for a long time, but…his eyes narrowed. Wait a second.
The [Hunt Leader] didn’t go for his bow. Instead, he picked something off the ground. Numbtongue’s hand moved—but the Gnoll picked up a small stone, and threw it and sent the Goblin scurrying backwards.
“Get lost, you pests! You’ll die if someone sees you! Scat! Get away from here!”
The Goblins scurried backwards, making rude gestures and calling out to the Gnolls. Numbtongue’s jaw opened.
“Brother—don’t go for your sword. They’re harmless.”
One of the Gnolls looked at Numbtongue with concern. More threw stones and shouted, chasing the little Goblins back. The Goblins stared at Numbtongue’s group, more confused by them than afraid of the Gnolls.
“Wh—you’re not killing Goblins?”
“We don’t. It’s a local tribe. Listen, brother. Don’t get up in arms about killing Goblins to us. This tribe’s known to us. Lomost doesn’t make enemies if we can help it. Kill some of the Goblins and it escalates. I’ll explain it all over some Velrusk Claw if you can spare the time.”
Numbtongue’s jaw worked as the [Hunt Leader] tried to explain to the Goblin-hating Gnoll exactly that not all Goblins were bad enough to murder on sight. It was a tough up-sell, but he might have a chance.
He turned to the others in the caravan. Even Niers agreed. They had to figure this one out. Sergeant Gna was staring at the traitors to her species incredulously. What tribe was this?
