He knew all the stories—or enough of them—and the history, from both worlds. Even so, the Goblins seemed so…different from any generic monster in a video game to Kevin that he never thought of them like that.
They didn’t look like dirty, horrific evil placeholders in the army for the heroes to kill by the thousand. Oh, yes, they had vaguely shark-like features, lots of pointed teeth, red eyes, and green skin.
But they never acted like monsters. In fact, Kevin vaguely suspected that some had better hygiene than he had ever practiced in his life, like Calescent. Normal Goblins were short, but not unintelligent. When one looked at you, it was with more insight than, say, a little kid.
Sometimes, they were so weary and old that a two-year old made Kevin feel like he’d seen and done nothing. Mainly, though, they could be, like people, good and bad. Glorious and mundane.
Numbtongue. Now, Numbtongue was objectively handsome. Some Goblins—more than Humans—were naturally bald, and that went across genders. Numbtongue had hair, the kind of physique only an exercise-freak like a Redfang got, and he looked good, especially since Lyonette gave him clothing and he wore it.
Objectively. Hot. Kevin wasn’t an expert in male beauty, but he had a private dream he’d never told the [Bard]. And that was someday, somehow, to find a way back home. To San Diego, California, and take the Hobgoblin bar hopping for a night and just…see what happened. What would happen if Humans with no context for Goblins just saw Numbtongue rock in, and begin strumming on his guitar?
It might have been chance, a habit from growing up and avoiding danger or battle training, or innate style, but the Hobgoblin liked to choose the shady corner of the room. You’d hear music, and see him there, eyes glowing crimson in the darkness, shoulders and claws illuminated by sparks of electricity as he played on the guitar. Style. Kevin wished he had a look like that.
It wasn’t a grand dream, or even a noble one. It was a quintessentially ‘Kevin’ dream, though. Life should be like that. Not full of fire and glory—not all the time. Rarely. Once or twice in a lifetime was enough for him.
Just full of mundane highs and lows. He couldn’t be an adventurer. He’d tried. Right up until he, Joseph, Rose, and all of the others, equipped with relatively good gear—enchanted even—had gone on their first adventure, financed by Magnolia Reinhart.
Corusdeer skins were worth money. So were the horns. Heck, you could eat Corusdeer. But somehow, Kevin had completely forgotten that you had to skin animals to get…skin.
They’d given up and botched the job. Then they fought Eater Goats…and that was enough. Enough. As Magnolia Reinhart had probably intended, it brought home everything to the Earthers. We can die. And stabbing a screaming, writhing, biting Eater Goat until it stopped moving, even when he tore half of its jaw off and it kept trying to bite the spear impaling it through the head?
Kevin wondered how Erin had stood it. The Goblins told him she had fought in battles and killed people. To hear them talk about her, she was a one-woman army who could throw a knife through your skull, or melt you with a jar of acid.
The Destroyer. An old nickname. Kevin had asked why, and they, the original Goblins of the Flooded Waters tribe, including the Chieftain of Goblinhome herself, had told him about the time Erin Solstice killed her first thing in this world. A Hobgoblin Chieftain, with a pot of boiling oil.
That was the difference. Kevin knew it well. He knew it with Erin—yet he had forgotten that the same applied to Goblins.
They were so chill that until they went to war, he thought they were quite similar. Redscar, trying to ride a skateboard, slamming into half the rocks down the slope until he gave up and declared it a stupid device. Calescent, pestering him to talk about the Carolina Reaper, the hottest pepper in the world. Chasing after Poisonbite who’d stolen his Android and didn’t want to give it back…
Little Goblins obsessively crowded around, watching a video or listening to a song. And then? Finally noticing the Wyvern flights out, wondering where all the Ogres were. Rags coming over and…
Well.
 
——
 
Rags had the Healer of Tenbault. That was what Kevin heard from the outpost they’d established in the foothills. He had only their word because the city of Tenbault was a storm of settling dust, flashes of light—obscured in the distance.
The [Shaman], Taganchiel, was first to arrive. Goblins posted sentry in the narrow pass leading up, or standing watch from the piled boulders and dirt looked up, but they didn’t swing their bows or crossbows up at the Wyvern flying low.
The skies were safe from threats. The ground? Not so much.
Taganchiel shot down, with a chatter in the Goblin’s tongue Kevin missed. The lone Human in the camp hovered as a handful of Goblins raced around, the rest holding their positions. They were administering a stamina and healing potion to the snapping Wyvern, coaxing it back towards Tenbault.
“Tagan, what’s happening? Did Rags get her?”
“Yes! Humans too fast! Chieftain pursued! Gave orders. We go! Go!”
The [Shaman] snapped. Kevin looked up as Taganchiel began casting more magic; two Hobs with shields and spears grunted as they grew two feet in height. The Wyvern flew back, and Kevin looked out and saw the Goblins fleeing.
The Humans were already coming after them. But Rags had planned out the retreat almost as much as the attack. The Wyverns dove, loading Goblins not on horse or wolf-back up, flying, ferrying them to the outpost. The rest proceeded on their mounts, and the Ogres ran, as fast as they could, lugging their steel and iron armor and weapons.
Heading for the outpost. From there, they loaded the Wyverns a second time and sent them flying back towards the High Passes.
Not far. They leap-frogged to the outpost, and from there, into hiding. It was too far to fly into the true High Passes, but there were caves, and increasingly inhospitable and remote ground. All the Goblins had to do was get ahead of the Humans and lose them. Then smaller bands could lay low until they got home. Or were picked up.
…However. The plan was astray already. Rags didn’t return. Nor did a quarter of the Goblin force. And the ones who did…
Redfangs rode into camp and shook their heads as Taganchiel shouted at them. Poisonbite, who’d been in the fighting, was similarly distressed. She looked up as the [Shaman] addressed the dirt-covered, bloodied fighters who’d been in the thick of it.
“Where is Chieftain Rags? Where is Redscar?”
The leader of the Redfangs wasn’t here either, or Thunderfur. Kevin saw Poisonbite dig at one ear. He saw, with a shock, a bit of dried red running from her pointed ears.
“What? What?”
Taganchiel shouted right in Poisonbite’s ear, but the Goblin was deaf. Crowdcaller Merdon. Many of the Redfangs were deaf, despite their precautions. Whether it was temporary or not—it had made the retreat bloodier. They hadn’t been able to hear their comrades, and some had failed to miss the maneuvers or gotten lost in the dust storm.
The rest? A Redfang slung herself out of the saddle, and finally roared an answer.
“Redscar with Chieftain! Fighting! Followed! Cut north.”
“North? Why?”
“Followed. Humans’ fliers. We go!”
Without further guidance, Taganchiel led the retreat as Poisonbite was disabled, and the other leadership, Badarrow, Snapjaw, Calescent, Redscar, were all occupied. He knew what to do. Wyverns flew off, but they had a far longer flight to the secondary dispersal points.
Meanwhile, the Goblins held the hill they’d set up in and waited, tending to their wounds. They knew the Humans would come after them.
So Kevin got to see Goblins make war. From a distance. He sat in their command outpost, nervously holding onto the self-defence wand. Watching as Taganchiel grimly cast spell after spell.
Even they hadn’t predicted how furiously the Humans would come after them. The first group was hot on the heels of the Wyverns and riders, though this outpost was nearly fourteen miles south of Tenbault. Kevin waited, and waited—then there was violence and death. Waiting as they regrouped, rapid loading of Goblins onto the Wyverns’ backs.
Fiercer fighting as the Goblins’ numbers dwindled and the Humans’ grew. Yet, even then…
 
——
 
They finally reached the first line of Goblins. Kevin saw the infantry, the ‘foot’, charging up the slope. Six sallies of [Riders] had been broken, even with [Mages] in tow. It had been a bloodbath the last two times, but whoever was leading them hadn’t had an organized force, just the fastest groups, and had been clearly incredulous that they were being beaten back by Goblins.
They had shields, which protected them from the slings and casual arrows loosed by non-[Archer] classes. However—
The Thunderbow fired with a sound exactly like its name. Kevin saw a Hob, calmly standing behind the turret, aim and loose a gigantic bolt through two Humans charging with howls in the first rank. Another aimed her oversized crossbow, training it on a [Mage].
A bolt of lightning blinded Kevin. When he could see again, the Goblin was gone. One of her companions blinked at the charred body, then grabbed the Thunderbow, and with a roar, shifted the aim and took down the [Mage].
The second, a Redfang, didn’t reload the damaged Thunderbow. He had so many stripes of red warpaint he was practically covered in the stuff. One for each fallen comrade, or so Kevin had been told.
He came down the slope, into the Humans skirmishing with the line of Goblin pikes. An axe in each hand; the Humans looked up as the howling Redfang cut through them. They were already breaking; his charge put them to flight.
“Come back! Ecraw!”
Taganchiel howled. The Redfang lit up with a faint, glowing, misty aura that saved him from the first two arrows that shot towards him; they glanced off like they’d hit rubber, not flesh.
However, Ecraw kept going, cutting down fleeing Humans, charging towards the army exchanging bolts with the Goblins in their superior cover. He was headed straight for an officer. He went through a [Footsoldier], five of the militia, even what might have been an [Armswoman] or…
Kevin looked away as the Redfang fell. Taganchiel stared down as the Humans tried to regroup. He hissed.
“Too many Humans. Now. Now, now!”
The Wyverns had returned. Instead of flying back, though, two took off and strafed the clustered Humans below. They aimed up and one went down, screaming. But the other dropped a payload over the enemy and the screaming—
“What was that?”
It looked like…mist to Kevin. A spray of liquid? He’d heard of Rags’ dust-cloud tactic, and the Wyverns had dropped rocks too via Chests of Holding. But that? The [Shaman] bared his teeth.
“Acid. Too much water. Only burns.”
It ‘only’ burned? Kevin blanched. He saw the Humans falling back, but they stopped long enough to end the Wyvern’s screaming.
“Humans running!”
No one cheered. The latest force was pulling back, but Poisonbite, whose hearing was partially restored from healing potions literally poured down her ears, snarled. Twice, her commando-Goblins had gone down to stab Humans, vanishing and reappearing, and Goblins had died as much as Humans.
“Taganchiel! Break! Get Goblins going!”
They had a reprieve to load the Wyverns. However—the [Shaman] took one look at the loss of a Wyvern—already down since Rags had taken two with her—and at the Humans already trying to regroup. He came to the same conclusion as Kevin had.
“Can’t get all Goblins on Wyverns. Have to run.”
“Run? You want run-run-stab-in-back death? Humans have horses!”
Poisonbite scoffed. The [Shaman] gave her a steady glare.
“Have to run. Scatter Humans—we go. Redfangs!”
The Goblins’ finest looked up from where they were tending to their Carn Wolves and horses. Taganchiel gave them a long look.
“Buy time.”
They grinned, teeth and eyes flashing. Kevin just looked at them. How could they grin and laugh?
 
——
 
The attackers weren’t as hotly after the Goblins here as Rags, but since they could catch these Goblins…they were arriving in more numbers. The Goblins had to scatter them first, though, so the disordered mob retreating, tending to the acid burns, looked up and saw four Wyverns, the only four left to Taganchiel’s force, strafing over them.
The memory of the acid and dust cloud attacks sent the Humans fleeing in a disorganized mass. The Wyverns pursued, screaming. By the time the Humans realized the Wyverns had no more cargo to jettison, they were already banking. They landed on the hill, loaded the last Goblins they could carry, and took off, overburdened, to the High Passes.
The rest of the Goblins and lone Human, the rear-guard, fled on every mount they had available, many running on foot. They might have been pursued, but there were still Goblins on the hill.
Forty Redfangs stood on the hill, banging swords on shields, hooting, loosing the Thunderbows down at the Humans. They dared the Humans to come and take it, aiming at the riders, if not their mounts.
So they did. The Redfangs collapsed the dirt walls of the pass, fought with the Thunderbows as the Humans came up, and made them work for every step. Then they set fire to the Thunderbows, broke them beyond repair, and fled on their mounts’ backs.
They held the enemy for nearly fifty minutes. Kevin had no idea how they did it. What he did know was this: when they caught up to the group running for the High Passes, there were only six left.
It had been one of the more successful battles as Goblins counted it. Not all of them had died. In fact, less than a hundred had. The slaughter at their outpost had been one-sided. Humans had run into waves of crossbow bolts until they stopped. Only at the end had it gotten bloody, along with casualties from fighting adventurers in the city.
However, a hundred Goblins had died. Kevin had even known some of them, briefly. Still, they had died and still they had followed Rags for this risky plan. They had picked their battles, and there was no chance of all of their tribe being wiped out like at the Floodplains.
Even so. Kevin rode with Poisonbite behind him. The Goblin was so tired she’d tied a rope around her and Kevin, then either passed out or simply let the rope support her.
“Shaman. Where we going?”
“After others. Where Ogres? On foot? Find them! We run!”
Taganchiel snapped, looking back over his shoulder. They were being followed, despite the Redfangs’ sacrifice. Already, they were spotting Humans on an intercept course from the east…Kevin wondered if they’d make it to the High Passes.
