“So the goal, dear Jane, of me and all the other Shades of the Spire, is to kill all of those who cannot be saved, like poor, idiot Rutile—” Tania spat out, incensed, “Who decided to renege on his agreement with you! Really now! ‘We’ll go again’? Keep on doing the same thing, waiting for you to make a mistake in the fight? Increasing the challenge past what he set forth, just so he would inevitably win? That undermines everything we Shades stand for! Lying and cheating destroys our credibility as actual threats to the world! Everything else he did was fine and his skill in golemcrafting was magnificent, but we won’t abide liars.”

To Jane’s [Eyes of Magic], Tania lit from within, a thousand dozen streamers of intent, attaching her to every single spider in her entire nest, and likely everywhere else in the entirety of Ar’Kendrithyst. She was a demi, a child of human and incani, but Jane would have called her a demigod; a spark of divine fire lit her from within, casting shadows upon the rest of the world. Jane recognized that form of divine fire; she had seen something very similar to it all day long, burning inside of Yetta.

Tania was Melemizargo's Champion.

Tania sat upon her ordinary throne, and said, “With Planter dead by the Champion of an enemy god, Melemizargo will show, and with his new lease on sanity, he will empower all of his most loyal to utmost glory.” She added, “Our entire plan is quite simple, when you look at it from our perspective.”

“… Why are you telling me this?”

Tania smiled, saying, “Because I have absolutely no idea where you and your father fit into this impossible knot of intrigue! How did you get here? Why are you here? Your father invented a new school of magic, darling Jane!” She added, “You seem to be pretty shit at magic, though. Even worse than normal non-Arcanaeum adventurers.” She stared. “Why is that?”

“… why do you refer to this city as Ar’Kendrithyst?”

Tania paused, then laughed. “I did? Didn’t I?” She smirked, saying, “I talk to a lot of people about a lot of topics.” She nodded. “Thank you for reminding me of this shortcoming. I would do well to meet my Maker with the proper words upon my lips.”

“May I go, now?”

Tania smiled, and spoke with a blood-thirsty gleam in her eye, “Is this conversation over, then?”

“Of course not.”

Tania muttered, “Shucks.”

Jane started cleaning the lead sand from her body, saying, “This conversation will never end, but there will be lulls.”

Tania laughed loud, dropping the itchy [Teleport Lock], saying, "Lulls mean a change in approach, from both of us, but I agree to this arrangement."

Jane needed to get gone—

Everything shook; the ground, the air, the very threads of magic weaving through reality, vibrated once, like some fundamental part of the manasphere had altered. Jane furiously cleaned the lead off of her body.

Command Center reconnected to Jane’s mind. Five voices shouted at her, asking where the fuck she was, and why they fuck did she go dark for five hours.

Killzone took sudden precedence in her mind, saying, ‘Get to the Garden, right now, soldier!’

“Five hours gone!” Jane rapidly cleaned herself, preparing to [Teleport], saying, “What did you do!”

“Just a little sleep spell! Not harmful at all. It works so well on my spiders, so of course it works on you.” Tania spoke, her words plunging ice into Jane’s heart. “And I couldn’t tell you our plans while you had any hope at all to stop what was happening, could I? That would just be stupi—”

Jane [Shadowalk]ed briefly, shedding the rest of the lead on her body, ripping away hundreds of HP, before she vanished in a blip of bright blue.

- - - -

Under the light of an early morning, Jane appeared on the same tower of kendrithyst that she had left. She rapidly recast her [Absorption Ward] at half strength, along with [Conjure Armor], draining 1600 of her mana; hopefully that would be enough for what was to come.

She tried to take in everything her eight eyes saw, as fast as she could, while Killzone yelled in her mind what he needed her to do.

The Garden was a pyre and a desolation. Billowing heat rose into the sky from multiple fires. Trees had been cast down by vast, cutting magics. The air was twisted into ripped distortions here and there. Tentacled bodies littered the land. And in the center, a hundred meter tall statue to depravity had been lifted from everything available. Kendrithyst, tentacled bodies, vines, trees, and magic, all of that, and four living humans, had been twisted into the shape of a person praying to some unseen force in the sky.

Yetta, Cyril, Dorthy, and Basil, formed the head, the heart, and the hands of the statue, their bodies likely twisted into their current living-corpse shapes by the seven Shades that hung in the air around their creation; singing in a coven around their victims, around the statue, hands raised to the sky in the same shape as the statue, power calling to power.

Strange words and deep vibrations thrummed through the manasphere, an ode to the hidden.

Jane set aside the horror of the moment, and got to work. [Teleport Lock] hung heavy all around her; she would need to [Shadowalk] to rescue Yetta and her people, which was the reason everyone speaking into her mind was very mad at her. She was only one of two people with [Shadowalk] able to respond to this situation. The other one was Killzone.

Bright flashes and distant explosions rocked the Dead City on the other side of the Garden; that would be Killzone. He was trying to rescue Yetta and stop the ceremony all at once, but now he was just creating a distraction for Jane.

But it was too late.

The sky shifted.

A single second had passed since Jane landed on the tower near the Garden. She was already too late. The song of the Shades transformed into laughter, as the seven floating Shades each dispersed away from the statue.

Jane moved, [Shadowalk]ing across the entire distance, landing onto the center of the statue, directly on top of Yetta, able to reach her and Cyril, but not Dorthy or Basil. Yetta was the face of the statue, her arms wrapped in the stone and vines behind her, her eyes wide open, staring at a darkness blossoming above that grew in size and strength with the rising sun.

Yetta recognized Jane. She touched Jane’s mind, saying, ‘Yes’.

Cyril linked to Jane in the same instant, saying, ‘Go.’

She grabbed at Yetta and tugged on Cyril, [Shadowalk]ing them out of the vines covering their bodies, ripping away their flesh that was already a part of the statue.

A few Shades laughed louder; a few others mocked that Jane was too late.

Jane moved further away, faster and faster, until the itch of the [Teleport Lock] was gone.

In a blip of blue, Jane dumped Yetta and Cyril into intensive care, and blipped again into the break room. She telekinetically grabbed two mana potions and drank them right down, before blipping back to the Dead City.

Jane was rushing back to the Garden, back into the [Teleport Lock], when the sky finally ripped open.

High above the Garden, dark claws pulled apart the sunlight coming over the edge of Ar’Kendrithyst’s walls. A rip and a tug pulled the rent in Reality wide.

Jane watched what was happening, but she was also headed straight for the statue. Somewhere in all of that, Dorthy and Basil had connected to Jane’s mind, through Yetta’s insistence. They knew to prepare for pain; they waited for Jane.

Jane landed on top of Basil and Dorthy, each of their bodies mutated into twisting hands raised to the sky, as Melemizargo made his entrance.

Time stopped.

Jane stood above Dorthy and Basil, cupped in hands made of out of the adventurers, between the dark god floating above, and the people she was trying to save. Jane couldn’t move. Nothing moved. The air was still, and the laughter of Shades was silent. [Telepathy] connected to no one; or maybe it did, and no one was speaking, or able to.

With eight eyes, and able to see mana, Jane saw more than she ever wanted to.

Melemizargo was a gravity upon the manasphere. Fully black, but glowing with bright white mana, the Dark Dragon was a contradiction. He was also the only dragon Jane had ever seen, in all of her studies of the Adventurer’s Guildhouse Armory, that was four legged, with a long tail, a snakelike neck, and giant wings, four times the size of his body. Horns twisted up from behind his head, while dark whiskers fluttered long beside a maw filled with glowing white teeth that Jane deeply remembered fully open and ready to swallow her, her father, and her car, all at once, only two months ago.

The Dark Dragon was the only moving thing in sight, and he was moving toward Jane, his long wings spread wide like an eagle just before snatching a fish from a lake. Jane had never imagined herself a fish, but here she was, about to die to a legendary, magnificent monster.

Jane took in the sight of it all: Melemizargo’s huge wings, the shadows licking off of his dark scales, his gleaming white eyes and his long whip of a tail...

The Shades were all horrific monsters, and the Dark Dragon was, too, by extension and fact, but, as Jane watched her approaching death, she admitted that sometimes there was beauty in horror. A sword flashing through an enemy, to save a family. A bullet ripping through a chest, to prevent a bombing. A death to give a life. Every world was based on horrific calculus, and right now, that equation was adding up to Jane finally biting off more than she could chew.

Melemizargo silently landed in front of the statue, and the statue was still smaller than the dragon.

He looked at Jane, with eyes of brilliant white. He was about to say something, but he paused. He tilted his head this way and that to get a better look at her. His fangs came out, and Jane, frozen in time, could do nothing but scream in her own mind, as he opened his mouth completely, his fangs bright enough with magic to rival the sun; his maw wide enough to swallow a school bus. But he did not eat her.

Melemizargo took just the tiniest nibble out of one of her legs. He didn’t pierce far; just a drop of her spider blood dimmed the white glow of one of his massive fangs, but the barest touch of his three-meter long fangs sent her to 1 HP, 1 mana, and ripped away her entire personal [Ward] and blue [Conjure Armor]. He licked the blood off of his fangs, with a long, straight tongue. He paused.

He pulled away and closed his mouth. He spoke,

“You are not one of Tania’s! Have we met?”

Jane felt her body loosen. All her magic was denied to her; the Script would not respond to Jane’s command; she could not [Shadowalk] away. But she could move again. So she fully turned toward the Dark Dragon.

She said, “Yes. We have met.”

“But I don’t know any spiders. I gave them to Tania; they're hers. But you're not hers. You’re not Tania, are you? Who are you?”

“… If you would permit me the use of [Polymorph], I could turn back and tell you.”

Melemizargo shook his head. “You may revert your shape if you are able, but there will be zero easy magic in my presence.” He started talking louder, angry, “The Script has made you all so soft—”

“Then please forgive me! I have only been on Veird for two months, and almost every attempt of mine to do magic, Script or otherwise, has failed! Miserably.”

Jane had absolutely no fucking clue where this conversation was going, or why it was going where it was going, but when dealing with an insane god, being demure, thoughtful, and repentant, was probably the best course of action.

Melemizargo nodded, his massive head shifting the air with his movements, his wings beating once, then relaxing, folding in to stay beside his body, as he sat down upon the destroyed Garden. His head still loomed over Jane; if she was a hundred meters above the Garden floor, his head was at a hundred and five.

He spoke with the voice of a teacher; easy and understanding, “Script magic has its place, but that place is not in the Summoning.” He chided, “You should have mastered this skill before today, youngling. Why are you in center stage?” He said, “With all the harmonies laid bare, and all the Twists flattened, even the lowliest person can rise to greatness in the Script, but the Script is a stepping stone. You must rise above! You have obviously [Polymorph]ed into this spider, so [Polymorph] back, without using the Script. You must simply find the harmony of your previous form, and sing that Reality through your soul.”

“… May I try something that will not leave me a gibbering mess if I fail? I am rather good at [Shadowalk], as well?”

Melemizargo laughed, and the world shook. “Yes. You may try this instead.”

Jane had been [Shadowalk]ing for days now.

… Not the most auspicious start to attempting to please a dark god thousands of years old, but it was better than accidentally putting her brain outside of her body. Messing up with [Shadowalk] would probably just cut off a limb, or four.

… How to even start, though?

“Let me help.” Melemizargo said, “This is the harmony you are looking for.”

Melemizargo hummed, and something clicked inside of Jane as the manasphere responded to the Dark Dragon's gentle song. The shadows of the city, even locked in this [Time Stop] between the Dark God and Jane, grew like grass under the sun. Darkness flowed into the sky, and Jane felt the darkness inside of her grow to match.

Jane had felt the melody coming out of Melemizargo, every time she stepped into the shadows. But with this new display, she felt Reality and the Manasphere like never before, like her entire being was made of shadows, like her soul and all of her connection to magic was resonating with Melemizargo’s gentle tune.

In for a penny, in for a pound.

Jane joined the song, vibrating her soul and her magic like she never knew she could.

Suddenly, she was [Shadowalk]ing, her spider legs disappearing into the shadows under her feet; sinking into the deformed bodies of Basil and Dorthy.

And just like that, Jane remembered where she was, and what she was doing. She stepped up and out of the shadows, up and out of Dorthy and Basil, stilling her soul; her magic. “I think I got it now. I will have to work on the rest later. That was most informative.”

Melemizargo smiled wide, showing countless fangs. He flicked his wings wide—

He went utterly still.

“I remember you, now! Yes! You were with that nice man that sang me a song in the Underworld! How is he doing these days? What is your relationship to him?”

Jane went still, but said, “He is doing well. I talk to him every night; he’s my father.”

