Yetta slowly came back to herself, and said, “Thank you… for saving Cyril and I.”

“Thank you for not killing me right at the start of this whole horrific ordeal.”

Yetta laughed loud. “That was just… unfair of me. Sorry.”

“The whole thing was unfair, Yetta. None of it was your fault.”

Yetta sighed, long and low. After a moment, she said, “When I accepted this Championship… It was a group decision. We all knew that there was a very high chance something like this was going to happen. We didn't expect Shades, but... But when Atunir came to me, Odaali was already dead; there was no one to name in our Final Affairs. Everyone we knew was gone. All of us were hungry for vengeance and all of the people on the quest were known terrorists that we had no problem killing. Everything just… sort of happened very fast. And it’s not over yet. The vengeance is still there, but its a quieter thing, now that my— my family is down to just… to just Cyril and I.”

Jane nodded. Her tea had gone cold already, but a tiny bit of [Prestidigitation] warmed it right back up.

Yetta asked, “So how was Melemizargo? I think I would have shit myself.”

Jane smirked. “I probably dropped some spider thread, for sure.”

Yetta scrunched her face, exclaiming, “You met the dark god as a dark spider?”

“Believe me, it wasn’t intentional.” Jane explained, “Apparently Tania Webwalker is Melemizargo’s Champion. And she has the spiders, and Mel is a bit confused and one thing led to another and I ended up talking out of my ass to save my skin, I guess? I’m not even sure. But Silverite said that this was a win, and she would know, so I’m going to take the win.”

Yetta stared at her tea. She cast a bit of [Prestidigitation] fire into the cup, warming the tea to steaming. She almost took a sip, but then she set her cup down, and said, “I need something stronger than this.”

Jane smiled. “I’ll get the alcohol and we can keep talking about a lot of things, because I’m probably going to come with you to Odaali. If I can; if you'll have me.”

Yetta smiled, then softly said, “Okay.”

Jane blipped home, grabbed the good alcohol she had kept stashed in the back of the cold room, and blipped back to Yetta.

Yetta was sobbing into her tea.

Jane set out some shots on the table in front of Yetta while Yetta cried. Yetta briefly came back to herself, did three shots, then went back to crying. For a little while, there were a lot of emotions; most of them sad, but some of them happy and full of laughter. Somewhere in the middle of that, Cyril woke up. Jane and Yetta were already smashed. Cyril promptly joined them in drinking their emotions.

It wasn’t very healthy to drown emotions, Jane reflected somewhere in the middle of the night, but it was nice.

“Healthy?” Cyril shot, “We could all die tomorrow and I’m not drunk enough to handle that.”

“That's fair.”

Yetta stumbled to the door, saying, “Let’s go fuck up a bar.”

Cyril laughed. “You sound like Basil.”

Yetta said, “Well someone’s gotta be an irresponsible idiot! Might as well be me!”

Jane would later reflect that the night after Planter’s death, bar hopping with Yetta and Cyril, was full of pain and strong emotions, but it was also one of the best bar crawls she had ever been on. And the company was pretty great, too.

They got a lot of free drinks.

and

They punched so many idiots.

- - - -

When the soldiers of Spur's Army would later return to Forward Base the next day, they would find bouquets of roses and other flowers laying on the red road. After a quick check in with the proper people, fireballs would rain down on the bouquets, incinerating roses, orchids, succulents, and lots, and lots, of parasites.
