Tiny twinkling stars accented the deep blue of the night sky, while the half-light of pink Hell, the Silver Star, and white Celes loomed above, shining down upon Ar’Kendrithyst, their light empowering the red-violet crystal of the Dead City to glow half as bright as the sun.

Jane stood upon the fourth tallest tower of kendrithyst in the Dead City; the tallest peak near to the Gardens, her eight legs holding her secure to the crystal underneath. A strong wind blew across her spider body, catching on her sharp hairs, telling her, along with her sensitive feet, everything of the sky and land around her that her eight eyes could not. It was a quiet, still night, the shadows were asleep, slowly swirling inside the kendrithyst.

But outside of the kendrithyst, outside of Jane's senses, the shadows and the Shades that cast them were wide awake, and very busy.

Several [Scry] eyes floated near Jane, maybe to take in her perspective as the audience, maybe to put her on edge; Jane didn’t know. They weren’t really watching her. They were watching the procession down below, at the edge of the green, vibrant Gardens.

The Gardens was a palatial estate in the south east part of the Dead City, where some Shade or even the Dark Dragon himself, had cut and stacked and dumped the natural crystal towers of the city, into flat, wide land, only to then bring in dirt and vines and other such sundries to equip the estate with the space necessary to support plant life. From that destructive beginning, and generations upon generations of Shades like Planter, the Gardens had been raised into what it was today:

Glowing blue water pumped up from below to flow across the green land in falls and ponds, under dainty crystal bridges and beside walking paths. Water lilies grew where the blue ran deep. Green grasses flourished everywhere. Glowing fungi grew in artful arrangements on trees and in soil here and there. Hundred meter tall many-branched trees grew around glowing spikes of crystal, themselves glowing amber in the cracks of their bark; their branches dripping with bioluminescent green leaves and magnolia-sized flowers in every color of the rainbow. Glowing ferns grew across the Garden like splashes of green on a forest floor, while roses of brightest pink nestled in the hearts of bloodthorn vines. Everything had been arranged in a precise growth pattern around glass greenhouses and the larger trees, leaving wide walking paths through the whole of the Garden, and ample space for the main attractions.

The Gardens was home to some of the rarest monstrous and medicinal plants on Veird. Tulips which made pregnancy assured and easy. Wide-Cap fungi that increased the health, both HP and natural, of everyone who breathed the spores. Dewy grass that gathered and secreted Water Essence, along with other monstrous plants that each gathered essences of their own.

But there was no animal life. The Gardens was a place of plants, and their Tenders.

Shades of the Gardens have always had a myriad of ways to keep the Garden lush and full of tempting prizes to lure adventurers into Ar’Kendrithyst. Some used animals, some used slaves. Planter used high-tier summoned creatures; his Tenders. When one of them failed in a task, Planter would personally murder and compost the failure himself.

The Tenders were living beings created with a high tier summoning magic, each of them with souls and levels, and each of them, without exception, further created minions of their own loyal to themselves, to Planter, and to the daily, methodical, careful cultivation of the Garden.

Planter stood at the top of the hierarchy of the Garden, with his army of fanatical followers always prepared for war. He had prepared well for today, though you would never know it, if you were just looking at the Garden from above. It looked as peaceful and idyllic as normal; the Tenders and their Ilk weren’t even out tonight.

Which was the biggest giveaway that the Garden was poised for combat from all sides.

But there was a much more subtle preparation committed here than the absence of gardeners. Command Center spoke into Jane’s mind about the differences from what the Garden had looked like two months ago, and everything had changed; practically all of the rarer, mythical plants, had all been removed. The Onyx Rain tree was gone. The Sword-Spike grass was not growing where it should have been. The Sweeping Angel mushrooms, the Doldrums Point, the Hornshredder; all of the parasitic and horrible fungi traps had been removed. Tonight’s Garden, lit up from every angle by the remaining plants inside, the kendrithyst towers outside, and even the occasional spotlightward that had been trained onto nothing, was kinda empty.

Jane moved a little, tapping forward across the top of the kendrithyst tower, to look down.

Not too far below, Yetta, Cyril, Dorthy, Basil, and Allan, stood upon the main bridge leading into the Garden, each of them brimming with power; this was their show and they were ready. Jane had gotten them this far. The rest was up to them.

Jane would watch for a little while though, because someone was coming up on Jane, and making their presence very well known before they actually appeared.

Tap tap tap, came the eight-legged vibrations of the crystal under Jane’s feet.

According to Command Center, Tania Webwalker rode a four-meter wide white spider, that was tapping up the back of Jane’s kendrithyst tower, taking no measure to hide itself or its Shade rider from Jane, or anyone else. Several Shade [Scry] eyes turned to watch her ascend.

Jane was ready to take off in an instant if necessary, but Killzone spoke into her mind, telling her that this could be a good thing; Tania was approaching without obvious anger. Jane tried to believe him, as a white spider much bigger than her, and ten times the size of its Shade rider, drew near.

Jane turned toward the Shade, just as long, hairy white legs of her mount crested the ridge of kendrithyst. The red glow of the crystal turned the monster and its rider into a blood-soaked horror; Tania smiled wickedly, exacerbating her terrible image as a decadent queen of the spiders.

More [Scry] eyes appeared around Jane.

Tania spoke, “Greetings! My little not-my spider. How does the evening find you?”

Jane tried, “Benevolent, Tania.”

“And you do it so well, too!” Tania smirked. “Would you care to have a private chat?”

Jane said nothing. She made sure her escape routes were unblocked; they were. Killzone vetted that no one was sneaking up on her from some other direction, but that didn’t mean that she was completely in the clear. She did not like the look of the white spider, though. It was massive, and absolutely laced with magic, with two massive front eyes, larger than the rest, pointed directly at Jane, like it was sizing her up as a meal.

Maybe it was.

“No tricks! No danger from me or any of my lovelies, to you.” Tania added, “In fact! I will guard you with my very life, while we are having our conversation. No harm shall befall you while my many, many eyes are watching.”

Jane felt the wind shift. Something was different, but she couldn’t place it.

‘What’s going on there, Jane?’ Killzone sent.

‘Something feels off in the air.’

Killzone sent, ‘Agree to her terms, then look behind you, back at the Garden.’

Jane went still. She said, “We can chat right here.”

Tania laughed, riding high upon her white spider. “Lovely!”

The air shattered, briefly.

And then someone dumped lead sand all over her head.

There was a monumental moment of panic, because Jane, Tania, and the white spider, were not on the kendrithyst tower overlooking the Garden.

Jane hissed, then—

“Don’t take that tone with me, young lady!” Tania teased. “It’s just a little change of scenery; you’re still safe.”

Jane casually looked around, trying not to freak out. She was in a large violet cavern the size of an Ar’Kendrithyst city block. Spires of brighter crystal, hundreds of meters long, spiked up from the ground, touching a mishmash of crystal spikes that dropped from the ceiling. And all over every part of the entire violet space, were spiderwebs; shadows upon the light, dotted with thousands upon thousands of reflective black eyes, from spiders of every size. Jane was in the heart of Tania’s territory; one of the many dark spaces in the city from which no one ever returned.

“What do you want, Tania?”

“Oh do try to keep up! I won’t kill you, or even harm you.” Tania slipped off of her white spider, onto the webs of her domain. The white spider silently moved aside, but did not retreat; it stayed to watch. “I just find it so damn tiring to keep up the game in front of all those eyes. I was never meant for the stage, like Fallopolis.”

[Telepathy], [Conjure Armor], and Jane's [Absorption Ward], were all gone. But [Hunter’s Instincts] told Jane quite a lot about where she was, and she did not like it one bit. She started to brush away the lead—

“Leave it there, please.” Tania said, “If you remove the antirhine, keeping my word will prove very difficult.”

Jane stopped cleaning herself. She said, “What do you want, Tania?”

Tania frowned at her, then threw her hands up and down toward Jane, saying, “You ate Befami!” She paused. "At least I think it was Befami." She threw a hand wide, exclaiming, “They eat each other all the time, but I have to give some semblance of propriety when everyone is always watching.” Tania conjured a simple solid chair with armrests, and sat down. “Before we go any further, I need you to understand that you killing and eating Befami is a monumentally big deal to me, but you’re doing so well with their form, that I can’t help but admire everything you do. You’re really quite good at being a spider, Jane.”

Jane remained silent.

Tania asked, “Do you know what is happening in Ar’Kendrithyst, right now?”

Jane would have gasped if she had human lungs. Had Tania really just called the City ‘Ar’Kendrithyst’?

Jane tried to keep up, saying, “Yes. You Shades are challenging the Champion to—”

“Yetta is completely unimportant.” Tania said, “Don’t get me wrong; her presence is important, but she is not. Planter is going to die by the end of the night, because he is both an idiot and an overachiever, and we are all going to help Yetta accomplish her goal. Because, what is important, is that more Shades die. We’ve culled seven Shades, today.”

Jane remained silent.

“Eight Shades, really. You killed one of us, too.”

Jane remained silent, [Hunter’s Instincts] flaring hard. Being in a room of webs made feeling for vibrations in the air and in the ground the easiest thing Jane had ever done; nothing seemed to be sneaking up on her. A [Teleport Lock] held in the air, but if she had to, she could [Shadowalk] away.

Maybe.

Jane tried to cut a terrifying conversation short, “What is your goal, Tania?”

Tania seemed to brighten, her skin flushing darker in the violet light. She said, “I want to tell you a little story. It’s not that long, so listen up.

“One day, an incani man named Bulgan fell into my webs, and he said such nice things that I had to let him go. That was the beginning of a working relationship. You see? I want to kill every human on Veird. Not you, and I guess not every human, if we’re being completely honest, here. But the sentiment still holds.”

Tania removed the white webwork over her hair, revealing a hairless scalp, and tiny horns. She cast a white lightward into the air. She wasn’t human, but she wasn’t incani either. Her skin was the barest shade of purple.

She said, “I’m a half, or a demi, as they say. There’s a lot of trauma there, but I’m mostly over it when it comes to talking to specific people who have done me no wrong.” She added, “Just so you know, you have done me wrong, but you’ve done it so well, I can’t feel bad about it. You and I? We’re neutral right now, with just a hint of fondness for yesteryear.

“Anyway. Kill all humans, and all that. Bulgan tickled my fancy, so we began a working relationship. He told me when humans came into Ar’Kendrithyst, I went and murdered those humans. We got closer. We had a relationship. I’m actually the one who transformed him into a Shade. It was an easy process for him; he had so much hate in his heart that remaining himself afterward was... was mostly easy.

“But there’s a complication. And I don’t mean how disastrous his attack on Frontier went, or how he got poor Befami there turned into a weapon to use against us. Those are part of this tragedy, but not the root cause. This complication came from a much deeper source.

“You see...” Tania leaned forward in her chair, saying, “Someone sang a very nice song to Melemizargo, a little over two months ago. Melemizargo’s [Familiar] caught wind of people bearing his scent, but then those people evaded the spiky little pet. Purodhalia came to me, practically crying, that he couldn’t find and protect the people his master had sent to him.” She frowned. She said, “Honestly, this was the only reason that I didn’t immediately send my best at you; that I didn’t go for the kill after you ate Befami. That I continue to allow you to live. But that’s me getting ahead of myself.” She added, “And that’s all changed with how wonderful you’ve taken to your spider form, anyway. So: back to the story:”

Jane would have been sweating buckets if she had the capability. As a spider, she just stayed very, very still.

Tania sat back in her chair, and continued, “You’re both planar. Your father has invented new magic. You both came out of the desert. It doesn’t take a genius to put all these parts together. Unfortunately, for Bulgan, he was working with half the information. He got some information from his sources in Kal’Duresh and immediately went after you two, well before I had the chance to talk to him, and even after that whole fiasco, and after he fully embraced Shadehood, and after he got the correct information, he continued to go after you.” Tania sighed.

She continued, “And so we come to today’s events, regarding the Champion.

“Bulgan has displayed a remarkable lack of the cunning and deadly man he was before he became a Shade. Filled with power, he immediately failed to kill Frontier. There have been other incidents, but you don’t need to know about those. There are a dozen Shades like this, all throughout our little community. We're all tainted by a little insanity, actually. This is because Melemizargo is insane, and the power we draw from him is tainted with his madness.

“But he has shown more sanity in his observation of you and your father than he has shown in hundreds and hundreds of years.

