Yetta looked up to Jane. “He has to sleep while the recovery magic works, but he wanted to speak to you before that. He's done talking now. Thank you for coming. I would talk to you later. Please.”

Jane nodded. She turned, and walked out of the door.

Cyril breathed, and said, “Keep going, Doc. Yetta. I’m ready.”

- - - -

Jane had a detailed and descriptive personal debriefing via Killzone. It was not a fun experience, but it was necessary. She told the truth, about everything that had happened inside Ar’Kendrithyst. Killzone asked for clarifications here and there, but mostly, he accepted what Jane said at face value.

There was no truthstone in the room… Or at least not one that Jane could see.

An hour after that, there was another debriefing.

Jane met Killzone and Silverite in a stone conference room with no windows, and little furniture.

A green truthstone sat on the table in front of them.

“Please have a seat, Team Leader,” Silverite said. “This shouldn’t take long.”

The truthstone glowed green.

Jane took a seat.

Silverite asked, “Are you positioned to become a Shade?”

“I hope not, and not to my knowledge.”

Green.

Silverite asked, “Do you wish to continue to be a part of Spur’s Army?”

“Yes.” Jane said, “I do.”

Green.

“Why?”

“Because I like rescuing people from danger. It’s what I was born to do, and I enjoy it.”

Green.

“Is today the first time you have met Melemizargo?”

“No.” Jane said, “I’ve met him before in the Underworld, probably same as you, but likely under vastly different circumstances. And just so you know: I never sought him out. Every time, he has just appeared, and every time it has been unwanted.”

Killzone smirked at the green truthstone.

Silverite frowned. She said, “That is enough. Thank you, Team Leader Flatt.”

Jane looked from the black orcol wrought, to the silver dragonkin wrought. Neither Killzone or Silverite looked like they had anything else to say. So Jane stood up, and walked out.

Killzone said, as she reached the door, “You’ve got tomorrow off, if you want it off. Otherwise we’re all back at Forward Base in the morning.”

Jane turned back briefly, to say, “I'll be there."

- - - -

Jane collapsed into bed.

She woke up just in time for dinner, and because she heard a knock on the front door. A quick [Cleanse], [Conjure Armor], and [Shadowalk], put her in her foyer, in front her door. People were on the other side. People she had rescued.

Jane didn’t move.

“I can hear you breathing in there,” said a woman.

Jane chuckled.

A man said, “Let’s go get drunk! Our treat, as thanks for saving our lives!”

“… Sure. Just… give me a moment.” Tears had fallen, but Jane brushed them away. “I’ll be right back.”

Jane rushed to her room and put on real clothes; something that couldn’t be dispelled by some annoying drunkard. In two minutes, she was back by the door. She paused.

She opened the door.

“Good evening, madam!” A 30 year-old human man with orange hair spoke with a flourish, “You might not remember me, but you rescued me from Fallopolis.” His legs and arms were skinny under his average looking tunic and pants. He pulled back the sleeve of his shirt, smiling, saying, “I swear, I used to be a lot more muscular and better looking than this. Gimme a month of that good old orcol cooking, and I’ll be a sight to see.”

Jane giggled.

The orcol woman with the man, and likely the same age, was similarly skinny, but about eight feet tall and dark green. “We got bank accounts, and I want to get wasted. Know any good food joints around here, my savior?”

Jane held back her emotions. She couldn’t speak through the lump in her throat.

“It’s a joke!” The woman said, “We’ve both rescued lots of idiot adventurers in our lives.”

“But we never thought we’d end up being the idiots.”

Jane smiled, saying, “Sure. I know just the place.”

- - - -

Spur was loud with news of the Champion killing Planter, and drunk off of the successful quest. Divine Scans revealed 0 Daydroppers in Ar'Kendrithyst, or anywhere else for 2500 kilometers. Rescued people and volunteer Army personnel partied in the city, right alongside other, normal adventurers. In the bars and the streets, in the restaurants and in the guildhalls both Mage and Adventurer, people swapped stories of their time under the power of the Shades, and of the brave people who pulled them out of the darkness.

Jane drank and ate alongside new friends; some she had rescued, and some she had worked alongside.

Most people spoke of how they were never going back in there, of the horrors they had seen, but also of the treasures hidden in the kendrithyst. They spoke of ten meter tall crystals of gold, under the watchful eyes of the Shade of the Lake. Of enchanted items for plus-hundred Strength, and plus-hundred Vitality, used to keep prisoners alive while the Toymaker played with their insides. Of groves of rare plants, both monstrous and medicinal, scattered all throughout the city, now that Planter was dead and Treant had claimed his spot as Shade of the Garden. Of essences dripping from grasses, and Wide-Cap shrooms boosting the health and Strength of anyone who breathed the spores; just sitting right out in the open. Of the Shades remaking the city into something deeper, something darker. Of how the Champion had killed ten Shades and torn a bloody swath through the crystal streets.

That last one was a lie that Jane could not stand.

Jane cleared what she would do next, before she actually went and did it; soldiers were generally forbidden from speaking of what took place inside Ar’Kendrithyst. Killzone came back with an affirmative; Jane was authorized to spread truthful information with regard to who killed the Shades, and why, but nothing else.

So Jane shouted down the liars and the fabricators. The Shades had killed their own in order to start a Great Purge, or something worse! Jane quickly realized she shouted the truth into deaf ears; people were drunk. Tongues wagged at her, explaining how she didn’t know anything at all.

One particularly offensive dude called Jane a lying soldier out to keep the wealth for herself. That guy lost several teeth, and would have lost a lot more if the guards and the other nearby soldiers hadn't stopped Jane.

But rumors had a way of spreading, and ears opened wider for beautiful lies, than for harsh truths.

People were openly speaking about how they should kill all the Shades, and take their treasures for themselves. Jane watched, as even her own companions for the night spoke with greed in their voices, and hope for shiny, beautiful things in their hearts. She left those two idiots to their own devices. She couldn’t watch people regurgitate lies at each other.

“Where are you getting this information?” Jane asked another pair of rescued liars, after she cooled down enough to not punch someone.

“From the mouths of the Shades themselves,” they said, drinking beer.

“What was their wording, exactly?” Jane demanded.

“ 'The Champion got so much blood everywhere! How are we ever going to resist the rest of the Adventurers!' ” They repeated, drunkenly. “I’m telling you! The Shades are ripe for the picking!”

Jane left before things turned bloody. Several other fellow soldiers left with her, all of them tired of blind fools.

Jane went straight to Silverite, who was working overtime in the Courthouse.

“You know what they’re saying, right?” Jane asked.

Silverite spoke with disgust at the world, “I am fully aware of these baseless rumors spreading in my city, and believe me, there will be no unauthorized entry in to Ar’Kendrithyst. That is about all I can do, but it is not nothing.” She spoke seriously, “This is the good outcome, Jane. Even when the Shades lose, they set up the board for the next time around. There are already Shadelings the entire world over, spreading rumors of Yetta’s ‘easy time’ conquering the Dead City.” Silverite said, “You did very well in there; might have even prevented a Great Purge, or whatever other dark thing they were planning. I doubt it was as nice and clean as ‘they’re not insane anymore’, which is what I’m gathering from the [Witness]es we’ve employed to verify what you said in your debriefing.”

“What were they planning, do you think?”

“We’ll never know.” Silverite added, "But if you find out, please tell me."

Jane knew where she had to go next.

- - - -

Yetta sat to the side of Cyril’s hospital bed, reading a book under a small lightward. Cyril looked whole again, but deeply skinny, and paler than before. Yetta set her book aside as Jane appeared in the doorway, and brought a finger to her lips; shushing.

Jane pointed down the hallway, toward the break room. She left and went to the break room and started making tea. Yetta joined her in the breakroom after several minutes. Jane poured tea for both of them. They sat together at a table in the back of the room; they were the only ones there.

“So,” Jane started.

“So,” Yetta continued.

Jane sipped her tea. Yetta did the same.

Jane said, “They’re holding you up as a savior.”

Yetta spat, “And you want me to tell them we couldn’t have done it without you?”

Jane shook her head. “No. I want you to tell them that the Shades culled their own in order to trigger the arrival of Melemizargo. They used the necessity of a Kill and Exterminate Quest to force you to play their game. That it was not an easy time, and that a lot of good people died, because the Shades are genocidal megalomaniacs with too much power and too much time on their hands.”

Yetta frowned. She wiped her face. She said, “I lost three of my— My best friends, today. I cannot have a conversation regarding political tactics right now. I need you to tell me… Why they died. How come you could not save them, too?”

Yetta was holding back floodgates of her own. Jane almost lost it, herself, but she held it together. It was easier to be stronger around other people.

Jane said, “I’m sorry. I can’t answer that question, because I don’t know.”

Yetta’s hands shook a little as she sipped her tea. She set the cup down, and waited.

Jane said, “What... happened back there?”

Yetta breathed. She said, “Planter splattered me across the sidewalk as an opening move, so I missed the first five minutes.” She loosened, and words began to pour out of her. “I have almost 20,000 HP. Planter’s spell was not a crit. It was just a pure hit for two hundred thousand Force damage. I had [Defend] up and it was only one hit, but I only survived because I’m a Regenerator. Everyone else managed to evade his subsequent attacks. Allan—” She said, “Allan had really good Mana Sense. Cyril, too. But nothing like Allan. He saw the attack once, and was able to tell when it would come again. Allan is the only reason we had any hope of winning; we won because of him.

“Planter might have started off as an orcol, but he immediately went into his [Avatar of Melemizargo] and became a tentacled monstrosity. Limbs like trees, with the length to reach halfway across the entire Garden in one attack. He tore up his Garden to kill us. Dorthy did her Juggernaut thing and bounced his most obvious attacks right back at him. Basil was on minion duty; Allan was on minion duty, too, but sweeping up the smaller targets was Basil’s forte. Planter had a lot of minions, but we ventured down to Nergal and got Basil a Flare Snake expecting minions. Do you know about Flare Snakes? They’re these really big snakes that flash-ash everything they touch. It worked well; Tenders and the smaller wretches were literally falling apart as Basil zipped around the battlefield.”

Yetta got a far off, happy look in her eyes, as tears fell, as she talked of her friends.

“Cyril— Warder. Just so you know. He threw 10,000 point [Ward]s on each of us. His [Ward]s regenerate really fast, too. Scion of Focus… Dorthy was a Scion of Strength. Allan was a Scion of Willpower, though he often lamented that he should have picked Focus. Basil was a Scion of Focus." Yetta laughed, once. "Basil and Cyril would always rag on Allan...”

She went silent.

Jane asked, “But the Daydroppers have only been out for 17 days, or something?”

Yetta smiled, saying, “We’ve known each other for a lot longer than that. Allan was a neighborhood kid who went to the Tower and got himself a ‘right ‘n poper edu-ma-cation’.” She laughed. “Allan came back home to say ‘hi’ to his momma a few years ago. One thing led to another and he joined up with the four of us, forming a nice adventuring party. We’ve been killing monsters around the world for years. When we were kids, Cyril would escape from his gilded tower to come play wyrms and knights with us in the dirt and the fields. Dorthy was the one who got us out of trouble; Basil was the one who got us into trouble. Always deep into the shit, with Basil. He wasn’t a Polymage; he just liked everyone to think he was. He was actually a Seeker. He never told us what he was looking for; always said he’d know it if he found it.”

Yetta breathed. She said, “Anyway. Planter’s minions were taken care of. Planter himself was between an anvil and a hammer; Dorthy on one side, me on the other. Allan raining destruction from on high— Battlemage. Very good at killing; only got stronger as a fight drew on.” She said, “And we killed him. There were no real surprises past the first splatter; once Allan’s Mana Sense got ramped up and he could tell us every spell before it happened. And then… Allan killed Planter, and the rest of us helped.” She laughed. “The rest of us even managed to stop the watching Shades from striking the final blow. They got no credit. Each of us got between 18 and 20 percent; they got nothing. They’re not going to qualify for the Kill and Exterminate Quest, at all.” She sighed. “Then… they all attacked at once. A few as Avatars… A few as themselves. And we ended up in that statue.”

Yetta stopped talking.

Jane filled the silence with her own story, “I was stolen away by Tania. She has mind magic over shadowspiders, greater than anyone in the Army knew. They drilled me pretty damn hard on what to expect from her, and from being a spider inside Ar’Kendrithyst...” Jane said, “Tania only woke me up to taunt me, saying that I couldn’t do anything because their summoning was complete. But… I could. I saw you down there and I rushed to save you two, first. When I came back… Melemizargo interrupted me from saving Dorthy and Basil. I’m sorry for your loss.”

Yetta’s eyes were wide, staring at her tea, as she listened. She sipped her tea.

Jane added sugar to her own tea, then had a sip.

