Denise smiled as she straddled his waist and rested herself on his member. “Let's get you... properly lubricated.” She said and propped herself up on her knees and started to move back and forth across his member. “It's so hot.” She said and closed her eyes and gave herself over to the feeling of his hard flesh against her most sensitive spot. She moved faster and faster, and just when he was going to tell her to stop, she went. A little bit of warm liquid came out of her, and she moved twice more so that it covered him from base to tip.

Denise got off of him and took a foil packet from the dresser and opened it. Once again, she applied it expertly and it just fit over him. She used her hand for a moment to make sure it was going to stay in place, and she straddled him again.

“It... it's going to be a... tight fit.” Denise said, and positioned herself over him. She used a hand to guide him and she tried to sit down; but, the tip barely went in. “T-too t-tight!”

“R-Relax.” Ren said and reached down to use his fingers to play with her nub. She went after a few moments with him pressed against her opening, and the muscles there relaxed. She slid down a bit further onto him, and her body squeezed him like a vise. “GOD!” He yelled and finished.

“So soon?” Denise felt it inside of her, and eased herself up and off of him. “Oh, my.”

The foil packet's contents had swelled up like a balloon, and she was surprised that it hadn't burst. She carefully took it off of him, tossed it in the trash, and grabbed another foil packet.

“This might take a while.” Denise said and put it on him. She got back into position and eased down onto him. It wasn't as bad this time, and she got almost halfway down before her body contracted from having something so big inside of her.

“GOD!” Ren exclaimed again and went.

“Ren, you need some self control.” Denise said and eased herself off of him, tossed the used contents in the trash and reached over to the still open dresser drawer and grabbed another foil packet.

“But... you're so tight!” Ren said. “Seeing you like this, and being with you... I... I can't hold it back!”

“That's...” Denise saw the pleading look in his eyes, and it touched her heart. “You're so sweet.” She said and put the foil packet back in the drawer without using its contents. She straddled him again and she used a hand to position him at her opening. She eased herself down onto him without anything between them, and for some reason, her body made room for him completely and she didn't have to force it at all.

“Oh, GOD!” Denise exclaimed as he slid all the way inside of her, and she closed her eyes as her body enveloped him like a glove. “Ren!”

“D-d-don't... don't move!” Ren said. “Good god, Denise!”

“I... I know!” Denise said and leaned down to kiss him. He fit perfectly inside of her, and she was wrapped perfectly around him. “I can't... how can... it's...”

“Perfect.” Ren said, his voice full of wonder. “I've never felt anything like this before.” He said. “If you even twitch, I'm going to fill you up!”

Denise chuckled, which shook her abdomen, and Ren let the bed sheets go to wrap his arms around her.

“AHHH!” Ren yelled as he went inside of her.

“AHHH!” Denise yelled as she went with him inside of her. “Oh, god... god... Ren!” She went again as Ren kept pouring himself inside of her. “S-stop. Stop! We have to stop!”

“I can't!” Ren said and kissed her. “I was meant to be in you!”

“R-Ren!” Denise kissed him back, and they stayed that way for a long time. Both of them kept finishing as Denise tried to move off of him, and each time she came close to removing him, she kept losing her willpower and pushed her hips back down. She didn't want the feeling to end, and neither did Ren. For the next hour, all they did was stare at each other and let their bodies do the talking.

“I... it's never been like this...” Ren said. “Denise, I... god, you...”

“I know, darling.” Denise whispered and kissed him. “I've never had anything like this before, either.” She smiled. “I barely have to move and I can make you go.”

“S-Same, here.” Ren said and shifted his hips. “It's like... like... we were made for each other.” He said and thrust, then went inside her again. She went, too; and they held onto each other as they caught their breath and tried to calm down.

“Ren, we... we should stop.” Denise said.

“I... agree.” Ren said and panted. “I've still got... several hours left... before I have to stop eating you out.”

Denise chuckled and it tightened her abdomen, which brought them both close to finishing again. “I have to stop laughing.”

“Only if you plan on getting off of me within the next hour or so.” Ren said, and she grinned.

“Let's take a break and not say or do anything for a few minutes.” Denise said.

“You have to stop gripping me so hard.” Ren said a minute later.

“You have to stop being so hard.” Denise countered, but she had a huge smile on her face.

“So... maybe just... if you slide off quick enough...”

“You'll make a complete mess over yourself.”

“Do you really think there's not a huge mess over me already?” Ren chuckled. “I've lost count of how many times...”

“Okay, okay. I'll try it.” Denise said. “On three.” She said. “One... two...” She pulled herself forward and up off of his member.

“AHH!” Ren said and squirted all over her special place, her backside, and even up onto her back.

“Ren... you're amazing.” Denise said and tried to grab some tissues.

“Let me.” Ren said and slid over to grab the tissue box and took out a handful. He held it under her special place for several moments, then wiped off her back and backside.

“I could have done that.” Denise said.

“Then grab some and keep wiping.” Ren said. “There's no way more's not coming out after everything I put in you.”

Denise chuckled and grabbed a handful of tissues and held it against her opening. “We really shouldn't have had unprotected sex.” She said, now that she had a moment to think about what they had done.

“You're kidding right?” Ren asked. “It was nice with the protection, but...” He cupped the side of her face. “You felt perfect.”

“So did you.” Denise said. “I... I think I... I'd do anything to feel like that again.”

“Well, then you know what has to be done.” Ren said.

“What's that?”

“You need to give me a shower.” Ren said and grinned. “I'm a little sticky for some reason.”

Denise laughed. “I'm a little sticky, too.”

“Ooo! Mutual shower!” Ren said. “Can you make it to the bathroom?”

“Can you?”

“If I lean on your shoulder.”

“Then let's go.” Denise said and slid off the bed as she held the tissue over her opening to stop more from coming out. She used her other arm to be Ren's support and they went into the bathroom and got in the shower. Ren sat down and Denise lathered him up, and he used his soapy hands to diligently wash her.
