Unfortunately for it, the hydra’s obvious fear gave her an idea. The cuts that she was delivering were already healing far more slowly than they had when the battle began, but she tried to minimize the damage she inflicted while she scrambled up the beast’s side. She needed to make sure the hydra had enough mana for at least one more blast of excessive quantities of Acid.

While she made her ascent, her other images shouted various nonsense to keep her opponent from focusing on her current body. However foolhardy the beast might be, she doubted it’d stay stricken with uncertainty for long. She didn’t need much time—the terrain was shifting and awkward, but she was a very deft dancer.

Soon enough, she was at the base of the hydra’s remaining necks. With three knives in hand.

Ranthia’s other images ran as a unit, drawing the gaze of all three of the hydra’s heads as they moved in front of the beast. But before the beast could strike, Ranthia rapidly threw her knives, one-by-one. Each blade aimed for her best approximation of where the hydra’s serpentine necks met its skulls.

[Adamantium Chaos]’s new ability proved its worth. All three knives tore through her opponent’s craggy hide.

Ranthia erased her images that had gathered at the same time, then began to replace them with images she formed alongside herself.

Just as she hoped, one of the hydra’s necks surged. She still had to wait until the beast was absolutely committed, but once the Acid made its appearance, she vaulted clear of its body—throwing herself toward its ruined tail.

The deluge of Acid splashed into the bases of all three of the hydra’s viable necks and flowed down its chest. Hide sizzled away and flesh liquefied, briefly revealing bones, before they too succumbed to the potency of her opponent’s conjured (…or, given the smell, regurgitated and empowered) Acid.

Just after the final drop fell from the hydra’s slack jaw, its body teetered.

And fell sideways.

[*ding!* You have slain a hydra [Dweller of the Woods] (Verdant, level 583), [Shelter for Hydra] (Mountain, level 571), [Be Free, Melt Everything] (Acid, level 329)!]

[*ding!* [Echoes Reflected] has leveled from 499 to level 503!]

[*ding!* [Adamantium Will] has leveled from 10 to level 21!]

[*ding!* [Skilled Fingers] has reached level 73!]

Somehow, the lack of actual class levels felt fair—she’d never taken any damage.

“Xaoc, I’ve never actually prayed on behalf of a beast before, but this creature suffered during its time on Pallos. If I might ask, could you see that the next stage of its life, once Samsara has finished with it, is a kinder experience?” Part of her felt silly, but she was convinced that the hydra had lived through one of her darkest nightmares.

That warranted some degree of sympathy.

But she couldn’t linger. Night had fallen during her battle, and she had no idea how much time she had until one of the nearby legionaries or a Sentinel came to investigate her progress. Part of her plans had been unraveled by the hydra’s appearance, but she still needed to arrange what she could.

It had to be enough.

The pooled Acid was fading away with the hydra’s death—and was filling the area with fumes as it went. Ranthia rushed back to where her backpack waited and hurried to retrieve her damaged suit of armor from it. She worked to reconnect the plates while she ran it back, desperate to get there before the Acid was entirely gone! It was a shame to lose a repairable suit, but her Sentinel armor would help to sell her fate. She even—somewhat grudgingly, it would have been a nice memento of the woman she had been—pinned her Sentinel badge to the armor before she dropped it into the fading Acid.

Moments before the hydra’s failing body offered a better option. Its stomach burst open with a horrific squelching noise, and its contents spilled out. Including multiple human bodies, in various states of dissolution.

“Oh gods, I take back my sympathy.” Ranthia fought back the momentary urge to hurl—the smell was even worse than the sight. Fetid, yet… spicy, for lack of a better way to put it. And she really wished she had a better way to put it, because she didn’t want to put herself off of spicy foods for the foreseeable future!

Through a process that was both gross and excruciating, Ranthia located a woman’s body that had a similar hair color. The dead woman was a bit bulkier than she was, though that was fine. With gritted teeth, Ranthia stripped the woman’s failing Legion-issued armor off, before she fished her severely damaged armor out of the dregs of the Acid.

She killed the hydra without a scratch, yet she was forced to shift to undo the damage she inflicted upon herself multiple times throughout the process. But after everything was done, the dead woman was clad in her armor. With the body prepared, she shifted again and rushed to retrieve the false backpack and her crate of firebombs.

Xaoc willing, the alchemical weapons had enough potency. The hydra had ambushed her—she just needed to convince anyone that came that they’d both perished. A final act of vengeance, one that brought both Sentinel Grace and the beast to Samsara.

Ideally, no one would ever come forward with the beast’s true level. The exaggerated report still bothered her, but she had to believe there was only a single hydra—there just wasn’t enough food in the wasteland to sustain two massive predators in the same area.

Ranthia nervously tried to convince herself that she’d done all that she reasonably could. She had prayed for the legionaries that had fallen victim to the hydra. She’d carefully erased her back-and-forth tracks between her gear and the site of the battle, leaving only the sack of hydra bait. Her backpack was in position, and she’d subtly sabotaged a seam of the sack of bait so it would leak—obscuring any other scents in the area.

The crate of firebombs and her fake backpack had been shoved into the hydra’s stomach. Her body double was ready, and the excess length of the woman’s hair and Legion armor were carefully wrapped and stuffed into her backpack for later disposal. The acid had been reduced to mildly caustic mud and even that was drying fast. Her knives, unblemished by the Acid, had been retrieved and reformed back into her bracers.

All she needed to do was rupture the firebombs.

Ranthia left an image atop a sturdy rock some distance away, with her backpack in its grip, then vaulted over to the hydra’s corpse. A needle extended from her adamantium, and she made the smallest possible puncture through one of the firebombs at the same moment she activated [Reflections of Reality].

She was relieved when she finished shifting before the firebombs went off, but her nerves were starting to best her. If Night decided to check on her before he joined the culling of shimagu civilians, she was dead. If any legionary decided to take a peek at a Sentinel’s battle, all of her efforts were for nothing. With every moment that passed, she was in greater peril, and the stupid firebombs weren’t even going o—

Her night vision—which had survived the transition to [Divine Eyes in the Void]—made the world look as though it was midday, even in the dark of night. But even then, she was nearly blinded by the blast.

She only narrowly saved herself from getting blown off of the rock.

In the aftermath, flames raged as chunks of charred hydra rained across the vicinity. In a rush, Ranthia sent an image to the furthest solid patch of rock she dared and threw her backpack to it, even as she activated [Reflections of Reality]. The dazzling bonfire of alchemical fury had to draw attention, which meant she needed to escape the area!

But even as she fled the area, shifting to minimize the trail that she left in her wake, she found herself smiling. No one could possibly believe she was still alive, not after that.

Sentinel Grace was dead.

And Ranthia, Adventurer and [Priestess], was free!
