…Which would have been easier if she’d ever actually seen a hydra. But she needed to stage the scene first, then she could open up the bait and lure the beast into a trap.

Dancing helped. Ranthia allowed her inner rhythm to carry her across the valley as she delivered slashes—without using [Void Edge]—to damage the terrain. She crushed rocks and knocked over other formations. And between the building euphoria of having her escape route from Remus—and whatever horrific nonsense her former nation was getting up to—and the simple pleasure of getting to make a mess?

She was having fun. No matter how important it was to set the stage, the act was undeniably silly. But after all of the stress she’d been under, it was a joy to just let herself go and trust her instincts. She didn’t have the time or expertise to be perfect, she just needed—

[Divine Eyes in the Void] suddenly swung behind her, but the disorientation was crushed beneath her combat instincts. A serpentine head was closing in at speed, and Ranthia was forced to dance to the side while the beast crunched down on the rock formation she’d been cutting into.

She’d been staging the valley to make it look like the hydra had caught her before she had set up her trap to deal with it. …And that was exactly what happened.

[Healer – Verdant] level 583, [Mage – Mountain] level 571, [Mage – Acid] level 300.

“Level eight hundred, huh? Leave it to the Legions to exaggerate when they find themselves outmatched!” Ranthia snarked, while she continued to dance away from the solitary head. The beast was a hydra, and she wasn’t blind.

There was quite a bit of neck that she could follow back to where the body was hiding.

At least she’d learned that hydra teeth were smaller than she’d expected. The knowledge was no longer even remotely useful, but it was certain to stick in her mind anyway.

Another head arced from above, drawing her [Divine Eye]. Ranthia danced clear, though she left a newly formed image standing where she’d been. With every beat of her heart, another image joined her—and she had four others up before the hydra smashed its face into the rough, rocky ground in an effort to crush the image she’d left for it.

…That had to hurt.

Ranthia’s smile was still on her face—a touch toothier than it had been, perhaps, but it was no less sincere. She was out on her own, facing off against a powerful beast just because someone had asked her to and because it was a threat to the weaker people in the area. Sure, there were technically differences, but… For the first time in entirely too long, she felt like an Adventurer once again.

“Y’know what, fine. Let’s do this!” Ranthia shouted. And with that, she began to rush the hydra’s main body.

Regenerators were annoying. She still believed that it was possible to instantly kill one with an undeniably lethal attack, but with a hydra’s bulk and the limited reach of her knives, she wasn’t capable of that. What she could do was inflict constant harm. The System didn’t do anything for free—every scrap of flesh that the hydra’s natural regeneration restored required mana. So long as she outpaced the hydra’s mana regeneration, the fight was hers to lose.

Hydras were supposedly extremely intelligent for beasts, but her opponent hadn’t impressed her. Unless it was trying to make her complacent, the creature seemed to only be attacking with one head at a time. Even as she closed in on the main body, a solitary head peeked out from behind the large rock and struck forward.

Ranthia adjusted her dance to carry her to a nearby rock formation and used its height to vault over the head. She didn’t even bother to slash its neck as she moved past—she’d be able to deal far greater damage to the beast’s body than its more maneuverable necks.

Tentatively, she seemed to have greater speed and agility than the hydra possessed. It was undeniably far more physically powerful, but her still-growing number of images seemed to be confusing it. If she was right about the beast’s speed, she might be able to outrun it and seize the firebombs, except she still wasn’t convinced that they’d do enough damage to properly threaten the creature.

When the Tali pieces came down, she’d rather trust her knives—and her Void—than an unknown weapon. The firebombs would have been great for a surprise first strike, but she wasn’t about to try to incorporate an unfamiliar, volatile weapon into her battle without greater confidence in the results.

Once the distance between her and her opponent narrowed, Ranthia got her first good look at the beast. Strangely, the hydra seemed to be covered in old scars. Pinkish-grey gaps in its leathery hide were almost everywhere, especially on its torso. It also only had four heads—with two massive scars suggesting that it had once possessed more.

Scars on something that regenerated were strange—its innate healing should have left seamless flesh.

Just before Ranthia could deliver her first strike, a barrier of stone raised between her and her target. That was easy enough to resolve, she just tossed a knife into the air, seized the conjured barricade, and vaulted over it. [Adamantium Chaos] brought her blade back into her hand in mid-air.

And she delivered the first two strikes across the creature’s hide.

Even as her Void-kissed knives tore their path through the hydra, its flesh filled the wound and formed fresh hide—unblemished even by the scars that had once been present. But that was to be expected, she just needed to keep up the pressure.

The hydra, quite strangely, seemed to have no intention of allowing her to do so. Two of the beast’s heads rose up, before their necks suddenly bent backwards, driving both skulls directly at her with as much force and velocity as it could muster. It was downright trivial to hop away before they hit, and they hit the beast’s own hide with thunderous force.

The hydra’s body ruptured beneath the blows—it’d inflicted more damage upon itself than she had managed!

Ranthia danced back in, forming images all the while. A swarm of her attacked the hydra, delivering as much damage as they could. Sure, her images didn’t inflict much damage, but against a regenerator, every bit counted. A breadth of damage meant more than trying to pinpoint any vital organ—they regenerated identically, after all. Not that she had any real sense of what was even inside of a hydra.

Seriously, how did it work having multiple heads? Was the creature’s brain somewhere in the body, or did each head exert its own will?

She still had no idea if the hydra was stupider than stories suggested, or if it was playing mind games. The fact that one of its heads was watching her—without attacking—while the other three tried to snap at her images sure seemed to suggest there was some higher plan. But the fact that the hydra bit a bloody chunk out of its own tail about the time she had that thought brought a fresh surge of doubt.

It wasn’t even trying to attack with its tail!

It was difficult to compare the hydra’s regeneration rate with the troll’s. Her own perception had improved markedly since she killed the troll twin, and she wasn’t about to try to consult [Chest of Experience] in the midst of battle. Either way, it was fast. Broken bones fused back together, flesh was restored, and the hide smoothly patched itself over.

But as strange as the hydra’s behavior was, there were some telltale signs that hinted at the beast’s past. Its intact necks were each ringed by a deep scar. Other scars on its torso were mirrored on either side.

Someone had—at the very least—attempted to capture the hydra at some point.

Her [Divine Eye] flicked to a specific head—one with a neck that was swelling rapidly—and Ranthia didn’t even hesitate. She activated [Reflections of Reality] as she danced away from the beast’s body—though she left the five images behind. Her perception warped almost the same instant the attack finally came.

The hydra’s head vomited up a massive volume of vibrantly hued yellow fluid. Stone sizzled and sagged as the Acid burned through it. And a section of the creature’s tail dissolved along with it—without any sign of regeneration.

“…Do you seriously use an element you’re vulnerable to with no resistance Skill?!” Her disbelief was so profound that the question had to be vocalized, even if she wasn’t expecting an answer.

Sure, the Acid volley was intimidating, but the hydra had to have burnt a considerable portion of its own mana on an oversized attack that left it damaged! The beast was desperately trying to escape the expanding pool of Acid that it had wrought!

It was weird. Okay, it was stupid, but that didn’t mean she could stop. Ranthia replaced the image she’d left half-hidden behind a rock formation and started creating more as she closed in anew. Even if the hydra was vulnerable to its own Acid, she still needed to keep up her own damage output. She had no way to know what the hydra’s mana pool or mana regeneration was like, she just knew that she was racing the latter.

Two of the hydra’s heads roared as though it was enraged, and the beast moved her way. The head that’d disgorged the Acid was drooping ever so slightly and wasn’t moving, but the head that’d previously been watching the battle snapped downwards—directly at one of the empty images that was dancing in loose formation with her.

Ranthia lost an image—representing a paltry sum of mana—and pierced through one of the hydra’s eyes in retribution.

The fact that the hydra seemed more insistent on obliterating a smaller threat than it was in trying to eat her probably spoke volumes about whatever the creature had been through, but even if its aggression was the result of trauma… Well, she’d inflicted a significant amount of pain, and it wasn’t showing a single sign that it might consider escape. The beast had to be put down.

Ranthia and her images—with the destroyed image replaced—fanned out as they closed in on the hydra. The pool of reeking Acid was a hazard, but her opponent had moved far enough from it that it wasn’t too hard to ensure none of her images fell in.

Another head reared up and started to look between the manifestations of her, clearly trying to choose its target.

She didn’t get to use it too often, but she had a Skill for just such an occasion.

“Hey ugly! Your mother was a pond snake!”

[Echoes Reflected] let one of her images shout up at her opponent. …And she wished she could blame the insult on the Skill, because that was not one of her better attempts.

Just as she hoped, the hydra’s head snapped down and smashed, face-first, into her image. As had been the case with every similar attack the creature made, the head seemed to be momentarily stunned in the wake of the blow.

While her other images attacked the main body, Ranthia sliced through the hydra’s eyelid and drove her [Void Edge]-empowered knife as deep into the creature’s skull as she could. She had no idea if there was a brain in there, but she hoped she could disrupt the head—at least temporarily.

It was worth trying, at least.

Of all the possible reactions, she wasn’t expecting to see two of the beast’s other necks swell as it prepared two volleys of its Acid attack. Once again, she activated [Reflections of Reality] as she desperately tried to get clear. That time, the Acid came before she could shift.

She was clear of the main body of the fluid, but it was a semi-viscous fluid forcefully expelled—it splashed. The globules of Acid arced wildly through the air at mundane speeds, but there were a lot of them in the vicinity. She side-stepped a larger splash, even as she intercepted flecks of Acid with the flats of her knives and her bracers. She hadn’t tested her adamantium against the Acid—she hadn’t wanted to. Alas, the reality of combat seldom adhered to her wishes.

She finally exhaled when her perception jumped to one of her stashed images. Once again, the hydra had succeeded in erasing the images she’d managed to get close to its body—but it had destroyed one of its own heads in the process.

Even the bones were dissolving, as the section of neck that hadn’t been touched by the Acid weakly spasmed.

But why? Even if it was the stupidest of mindless beasts, the hydra should have possessed a greater self-preservation instinct than that. Minor self-inflicted wounds were one thing, but that had to be extreme, even by hydra standards. There were rumors they could grow more heads if they were severed, though using fire or acid to seal the wound had been listed as a means to prevent additional heads from growing!

…It panicked when I accessed the depths of its head, or possibly when it lost control over that head. The explanation was obvious enough, especially considering who had once controlled the region.

She was virtually certain that the shimagu had made an attempt to infect the hydra, only to (presumably) be stymied by its unique biology. If so, the scars that marked where other heads had once existed were a testament to the hydra’s determination to remain free of their influence. Gods and goddesses, she could sympathize with that.

But it didn’t change the fact that the hydra had to die.

With one of its heads gone and another two stuck in the brief torpor that seemed to affect the hydra after it vomited up the Acid, she only had a single head to evade as she closed in once again. Her opponent was far warier though, seemingly unwilling to commit itself to a strike while any of her images might be able to retaliate. It only finally struck when she had her newly formed images separate—and did so with a deft attack, followed by an immediate retreat, even as blood rained from the hydra’s nostrils.

