‘We didn’t lose time on our way here, right?’

‘Definitely not. This has to be connected to our leaving the memory. Maybe different domains happen at different times? Or maybe this memory is accelerated? We were barely outside for six hours and lost twenty-four days. That’s a difference of a hundred times,’ Esmeralda said. ‘How odd. There was nothing like this for the week you were knocked out.’

‘We’ll add the mystery to the pile,’ Zac said with resignation before focusing on Jisi.

“Either way, I’m here now. I’ll be relying on you going forward. In fact, I wanted to ask you something. How much Potentiality does it cost to become an Inner Disciple?”

“Become an Inner Disciple?” Jisi said. “The cost is individual, and it changes with time. You can check your price by heading over to the markets. The general exchange hall is located there.”

“Are there any other ways? Cheaper ones?”

“Accumulating fate will lower the cost. I hear certain encounters are valuable enough to make the leap in one go, but such things aren’t public knowledge. You’ll also become an Inner Disciple automatically if you successfully form your Inner World,” Jisi slowly said, her eyes suddenly growing wide. “Wait, never mind that! Please, could you wait for a moment?”

“Huh? Why?”

“One second! I’ll be right back,” Jisi said, adding before scurrying off, “Please don’t wander off again.”

“What’s that all about?” Esmeralda muttered from her perch atop Zac’s head. “Should I follow her?”

“Let’s see how it plays out,” Zac shrugged. “We need to find some threads of fate that can increase our income generation.”

Zac started to regret his decision when Jisi returned accompanied by two powerful cultivators a few minutes later. One of them was among the deathsworn soldiers who’d assisted Astora Theomore in cleansing the docks of invaders. Zac didn’t recognize the woman by his side, but she was also a royal guard. Judging by the markings on her lapel and her vast aura, she should be some form of leader.

While both were Peak D-grade cultivators, the captain emitted an absolutely monstrous aura. She seemed no weaker than the D-grade Saints interred in Empyrean Chalice’s Pilgrimage of Faith—powerhouses who could cross the grades and slaughter Monarchs outright.

Zac had fought his fair share of Monarchs and Beast Emperors by now, but he still hadn’t reached that point. Adding whatever hidden aces the captain possessed, Zac doubted he could win in an outright clash. His only hope of victory would be a surprise attack relying on the Void. Not that Zac planned on fighting Astora Theomore’s bodyguards.

If it came down to it, escape would be safer, and it wouldn’t break any rules. Esmeralda could give anyone the slip among the Citadel’s confusing and ever-changing streets, and stepping out of the memory would let them disappear for weeks on end. Except, was there any need to do so? They needed Potentiality, and Astora Theomore would be at the center of the fight against the invaders. Seeing as much of the trial would still take place inside memories, he might as well try to use his connection with Astora to his advantage.

“Again, I apologize for the wait.” Jisi curtsied toward the soldiers before turning to Zac. “I had the luck of encountering Her Royal Highness shortly after we met. Upon learning I had some connection to you, Her Highness tasked me with finding you again.”

“I see. Give us a moment, would you?” Zac said. Jisi quickly nodded and returned to her own manor.

“You are Everit Draom?” the captain asked with a glimmer of interest.

“Indeed I am. How can I help you two?”

“Her Highness would like to continue your previous conversation.”

“Right now?” Zac asked.

“Indeed. The infiltration of false Sealbearers and their helpers is more extensive than we originally believed. Her Highness is gathering trusted allies to combat the invasion before the empire’s interests are harmed. Given your background, Her Highness has specifically requested your attendance.”

“Of course. Can’t have those nasty creatures running around. I already regret I didn’t kill a few more of those things before I set out to sea,” Zac said while looking back and forth between the two deathsworn.

“Please, this way,” the captain said with a slight smile as she led Zac back the way she came from. “I hear you effortlessly killed one of the invaders?”

“I wouldn’t say effortlessly. Those shapeshifters possessed the same abilities as their originals, and I’ve had some run-ins with Xinyi before. Seizing victory so quickly was a matter of knowing your target and striking like thunder,” Zac explained. “Well, the disgusting energy those monsters carry also seems to make them a bit stupid, like aggressive beasts.”

“Knowing your target, huh?” the captain slowly nodded. “Is that how you dealt with your own and your companion’s doppelgangers so quickly?”

“Pardon?”

“The princess asked me to investigate you before she embarked. I discovered that you and your friend appeared out of nowhere with no sign of corrupted invaders. I assume that’s because you had already killed yours. Or did the false realm not target you for some reason? Did you know something would happen, seeing as you left the ceremony early?” The captain’s smiling expression belied the barbs hidden in her words. “I’m also very curious as to why Sage Xiphos tried to apprehend your accomplice.”

“How did we go from friend to accomplice in a few sentences?” Zac frowned. “And you’re barking up the wrong tree. My friend is connected to Lord Grand Dream. I’m sure you can figure out the rest from there. Now, where are we going?”

“What do you mean? We’re here,” the captain said as she pushed open the gates of an outer court manor. “Come, Her Highness is waiting inside.”

“Ah?” Zac gawked, looking back where he came from. His own manor was just around the corner. “We’re actually neighbors?”
