“Hah, you think I’m dumb or something, don’tcha?” Lexi turned to him, chipper smile everpresent. “I know you’re thinking up something in that head of yours. Well, forget it. I ain’t telling you nothing. That said… you need anything? Figured you probably ain’t eaten in a hot minute.”

Oh, fuck, food. Kinda forget that food exists down here sometimes. Hmm…

“Yeah, I could eat. You wanna write down what I ask for, or something?” Markus asked, biting his lip. “Figure that way you’ll have an easier time.”

“Huh?” Lexi stared at him like he was crazy. “Nah, just tell me. We got most things over in that kitchen, and I can get something made to order if we don’t. What’s your fancy?”

Shit. Okay, think of something simple. Something she can’t fuck up.

“Can I just get like… a steak?”

“Okay! Steak. What meat? What marinade? How aged? What rarity? Fried, grilled, or seared?”

“Uhh…”

“You want anything on the side? How about sauce? You need a drink to wash it down?”

“Literally any steak,” Markus said. “As long as it’s not literally raw, I’ll eat it.”

“Okay, great! Coming right up. Think we had a couple of rasko briskets laying around…”

Lexi teleported away before Markus could say another word.

What the fuck was a rasko steak? Maybe he should’ve thought twice before ordering mystery meat from the demon kitchen on another fucking planet.

***

As it turns out, rasko meat was fucking good.

Markus still had no clue what it was. Or what this sauce was. Or what he was drinking.

But it was tasty. And he might’ve been slightly drunk off half a glass of this stuff. It went down pretty smooth, but kicked like hard liquor.

Markus couldn’t remember the last time he’d had a good drink. He’d always been too busy.

He resolved to enjoy it. His life could end at any given moment here. He had to be responsible for his own happiness somehow.

He’d been left with a bottle, which still had about half its contents left.

He considered necking it. Wouldn’t have hurt to stew in liquid courage for a few hours. Surely it’d take the edge off of sitting in this shithole.

But he had the morning to consider. Two fights. Hopefully they’d be relatively easy. Markus was expecting Drathok to bump the difficulty at some point, but he was still fairly sure that he hadn’t learned the current extent of Markus’ power yet.

He’d try and keep it that way for as long as possible. And while the dungeons beneath here were no longer any good option for training, he imagined he could find another substitute if he tried hard enough. Training skills alone was enough to get him levels, and between experimentation with mana and sparring with Cyrus, he was sure he could get it right if he tried hard enough.

Markus had been about to drop off the rest of the bottle in Cyrus’ cell when he walked straight into Rika.

He blinked like an idiot, slightly drowsy, moving back and holding the bar behind him as he caught himself.

“Wh-what are you…” Markus wiped a hand down his face. He looked at her, his eyes bloodshot.

“I told you that you should leave. I told you this is dangerous.”

“No, actually, what you said is ‘I’m dangerous’ like some kind of edgy teenager.”

Rika laughed. Markus blinked in disbelief.

“Anyways, I did leave. Now I’m back. I’m dangerous too, motherfucker, and I brought more books.”

Markus stared down at the top title of the three or four stacked books in her hands.

“Rectal Discomfort and You - A No Holes Barred Commentary.”

“E-excuse me?”

Markus watched as her surefire grin morphed into a look of utter bewilderment.

He snickered. He’d already made his mind up.

So much for pushing people away, huh?

“Alright, fine. Get the fuck in here.”

Rika went to do just that, then paused at the door, all four fists clenching, her tail immediately springing up.

“Is that a freaking hellhound?!”

Right. Something about cats and dogs.
