Not enough. She was slashing downwards across the line of nautiloids, into the center of mass pushing for the city’s western gate. If she had thirty seconds to make a full pass, even fifteen—
Five seconds. The Goblin knew it was not enough time. So she ignored the screaming siren in the plane’s cockpit and brought her craft down—
 
——
 
The thunder. Every Drowned Person had hands over their ears. The blood and fragments of shell were spiraling into the air. Glisal was flinching back, staring up, as Therrium saw the strange craft landing.
That is no bird, but a ship of the sky. He saw the metal. He saw how it was made, so sleek and deadly—but the pilot was mad.
She didn’t pull up but crashed into the center of the nautiloids coming at his gate. She hit one of the biggest ones, a twenty-foot monster, and her ship crunched into half its shell as the spinning blades lodged in the meat of the mollusk. But it crumpled her wings, leaving a trail of blue blood and pieces of her craft.
Madness. It must be conjured by her Skill. He saw the pilot, then, a small figure who pulled the triggers one last time. Her airplane roared death straight into the heart of the nautiloid horde—
Then it vanished. And a little figure was lying in the center of the dazed, wounded nautiloids. She could barely stand, but she had something in one hand. A hand-crossbow. She fired, and he saw it discharge three times.
[Sidearm: Three Reckless Shots]. She fired it into the face of the nautiloid she’d plowed into, then collapsed.
The havoc she’d caused froze both sides for a moment. Nautiloids collapsed as their nervous systems only now registered the bullets that had exploded in their bodies. The others backed away, searching for the threat. The Drowned Folk were just as confused, but Therrium triggered his [Battlefield Voice] Skill and shouted.
“We have the momentum! Give them a Terandrian charge! Don’t let that Goblin die.”
He pointed, and Glisal cast around, then stared at the little figure lying on the ground.
“What Goblin, Captain? That’s a Drake—”
Therrium didn’t reply. He was leaping off the walls, and the [Sailors] charged the shocked nautiloids. They burst out of cover, firing their wands and hand-crossbows, shouting.
A full-deck charge across an entire city. Therrium ran past a terrified Lamont, who was shooting a crossbow as he ran. The surprised monsters recoiled, swinging their tendrils defensively. Before he could run into the first nautiloid, Therrium halted. Grabbed Lamont by the scruff of the collar and tossed him back.
Confused, the Human [Sailor] stumbled—then saw everyone charging at the nautiloids reversing as one. The Drowned Folk fired a second wave of shots—then were running back. It was a feint! Even the greenest [Sailor] knew how to pull off the famous bait-and-switch that put the enemy on the back foot.
It worked. The confused nautiloids were retreating and in chaos already; by the time they began to advance again, the Drowned Folk had caught their breath and were ready. And the monsters’ nerves were breaking. Doroumata’s magic was hitting them with bolts of agony that made them decide this wasn’t worth the pain, and more light spells were flashing from the city.
But that Goblin—Therrium was cursing as he tried to spot her amidst the corpses. Where was…?
—Then he saw the Frost Wyvern coming in low, and icy frost breath was freezing nautiloids. He saw a [Wyvern Rider] lifting his hand as the angry Frost Wyvern strategically excreted onto another nautiloid’s head. And—
A second figure dropped to earth. Or rather—flew. It was the second flying Gnoll that Therrium had ever seen, and it was no less surreal than the first.
 
——
 
Nailren was not happy, but he’d seen Fighti crashing her plane, and he knew no one else was going to know where she was nor be running into the battlefield. So he dove and trusted to Fighti’s invention to keep him alive.
The Fightipilota Mk. IV was no airplane. It was a backup device that Fighti had insisted on taking with her. It was nothing more than a glider, really. Adapted from the Flying Gnoll’s designs. The basis for creating a permanent flying vehicle.
It worked quite well. Nailren swooped down in a terrifying dive until he levelled out. But he was skimming too low, and the nautiloid shells were like walls; he saw a flash of green amidst all the blood and torn-up ground and let go.
“Argh—”
He hit the ground, rolled sixteen times, and heard the glider smash into a nautiloid’s shell. Everything hurt. Nailren was on his feet in a second, breathless.
“Fighti!”
He saw her lying on the ground, shivering. A few tiny nautiloids were biting at her. Nailren charged at her and grabbed her. He threw her onto his shoulders as he kicked a baby nautiloid, then spun.
Giant mollusks all around him, eating their comrades or dead Drowned Folk, many moving back to the oceans. They turned to this tasty, moving treat, and Nailren ran.
He sprinted past an angry nautiloid, leaping over tendrils lashing at his legs. Ducked under another and ran left to avoid another. The city—Nailren had one arm on Fighti’s back, the other pumping as he ran for all he was worth.
He was sprinting over cratered ground as fleeing nautiloids saw him and attacked, but he could see the walls and Drowned Folk, who were kneeling in lines, firing spells and crossbow bolts. Nailren heard a booming voice from the ramshackle walls.
“Cover that Gnoll, you useless sea leeches!”
Spells and arrows flew past Nailren as he sprinted for the lines of Drowned Folk. Then he felt something crawling up his shoulder. He turned his head and saw a baby nautiloid that had been trying to eat Fighti. It revealed a lot of teeth on its underbelly and prepared to leap onto his face as he tried to let go of Fighti and grab—
An invisible hand slapped the baby nautiloid off Nailren’s shoulder. It went tumbling off him, and he felt the spoon around his neck grow cold.
“Spoony—good job—”
Then the Gnoll saw a bunch of Drowned Folk [Sailors] crouching behind a barricade of driftwood and vaulted over it. He landed, tumbling with Fightipilota in his arms, and lay there until someone helped him up. Only then did Nailren feel like he could breathe again.
Dead gods, I hate battles. The next second, he was shouting.
“[Healer]!”
Thankfully, his part in the battle was over. And the nautiloids were in retreat.
 
——
 
The First Land Battle for Nombernaught was not one that would go down in other people’s history books, but it was still faithfully recorded in the City Captain’s log by Therrium along with a tally of deaths and the wounded.
He was not well pleased by how much damage the damn mollusks had done. Even if they were being harvested for their meat, young, and shells, it was proof that a city was no easy thing to defend.
“We need better walls. The one thing those damn Drakes understand well enough. The next time the enemy comes via land, I want actual defenses. Why weren’t we better prepared?”
He was snapping at the Luminary, Hisark, and Doroumata as well as former City Captains like the now-bandaged Horvin and other members of the community with a vested interest in keeping their homes safe.
Hisark and Doroumata were not accustomed to anyone raising their voice at them, and the Luminary bridled.
“Normally, we would have a fleet of ships at the city at any time, Captain Therrium. We did have them!”
“And?”
“And they were only able to defend from the sea, and barely that, because we are ashore. I see your point, Captain Therrium. We shall deconstruct what ships we can, and mount defensive spells and weapons on these walls. It will be costly and we do not have much in the way of resources, but it shall be done.”
Doroumata’s voice was steady, and everyone nodded to her. Therrium rubbed at his coat.
“Good. Someone has to make sure this damn city isn’t sunk within the month.”
“We are pleased you are taking on such challenges, Captain Therrium. Not every Captain of the City is able to take on such projects.”
It took Therrium a second to realize he had to redesign Nombernaught’s defenses. He was so lost for words that Doroumata went on.
“Now, about this stranger who has defended our city.”
“The…Drakes? I had no notion there was such a powerful Skill. What was that strange thing they used to fight the nautiloids with?”
There was a telling silence as Hisark frowned, and Therrium glanced at Doroumata. He saw only one other [Captain] raise her brows silently.
So none of them saw it. The Shadeward turned to Therrium.
“We should investigate. Though perhaps we should ensure our guest does not leave the city?”
“As an asset, you mean?”
“An asset of surpassing value. I would assume you would be first to suggest that, Captain Therrium. I would know what that was before considering letting her leave. In detail.”
The two locked eyes, a dread [Pirate] of the seas and Shadeward of the deeps. Therrium refused to look away.
“I take what I think I can hold. I’m no stranger to a good kidnapping, but I’d rather treat our guest with the highest honors.”
“Why?”
Therrium glanced out the window towards the rifts on the ground he could still see from one of Nombernaught’s higher buildings.
“Because I don’t fancy making an enemy of a group I don’t know the capabilities of. Better to be all friendly-like.”
Better an ally than an enemy you didn’t know, especially if there was anyone else like her. Doroumata nodded once.
“I shall personally check on her odd injuries, then. Make your inquiries subtly, Captain of the City.”
She turned and began to melt downwards into a shadow, teleporting with her magic. Therrium glanced around, and everyone was staring at him. He glowered.
“I only took this damn post because it was insisted upon. I expect that once I do my part, someone else will take over who’s more capable of this krakenshit than I am.”
He was a [Pirate]! The Drowned Cities usually barely allowed him in because of the riches he bribed them with. But here he was playing nursemaid for a city. The Drowned Man ground his teeth, then began giving orders. He might as well make sure they had decent walls.
Damn Drakes. How the hell did they make theirs so tall? It didn’t seem possible.
 
——
 
Chickenruler was not a happy Goblin after the brief fight at the city gates. True, Fighti had saved lives and all that, but she had also made their group very, very noticeable…and he didn’t like that.
Well, there was also the way she’d fought. Chickenruler studied the path she’d taken when she’d driven her plane into the heart of the nautiloid horde.
Firing those guns nonstop and coming out of her Skill firing. Not like any sane Goblin did. Not like someone who thought she was going to survive. As his Frost Wyvern landed and he looked for Nailren and Fighti, Chickenruler put a finger to his temple.
“[Memo: Chieftain]. Fighti alive, Chieftain. We pretty visible like pink Gargoyles, but she help for sure. She, uh, got some trauma. But only like average Redfang.”
He’d seen it before. And it told him something of what Fighti had seen in that other world. Pretty bad war. They’d work on her; it wasn’t like this was new to Goblins. It also meant he’d have to make sure she didn’t get herself killed being a hero later.
More work for poor old Chickenruler. He got a succinct reply from Rags.
“Good job. Try to maintain your cover, and report in to Nanette. I’ll have a liaison there at the inn.”
Try to maintain his cover, she said. Chickenruler saw Drowned Folk turning to him and sighed as he leaned over the saddle. The problem began, well…
Instantly.
 
——
 
“Look, we been here before. Lots of times. How you not recognize us? Who else flying in with Frost Wyverns?”
Chickenruler was arguing with a Drowned Woman trying to be accommodating; it wasn’t as if she hadn’t seen him helping fight the nautiloids. But she was checking some notes.
“We understand, sir. But I just don’t have you on our lists. Where are you from?”
The [Wyvern Rider] hesitated.
“Uh…Horrisbel. Near Yolden.”
“…I don’t see a ‘Horrisbel’ anywhere on our lists. You’re sure you came in under that name?”
Then Chickenruler really began to sweat. Because—well—damn it, no! He’d completely forgotten what name they’d used the last time they’d been here! It felt like ages ago!
“Er, er, we know the nice Drowned Man who we traded with. Belfast or something? Can you ask him?”
She eyed him, but marched off and found the weary Drowned Man with blue blood on his uniform. He gave Chickenruler one glance and nodded.
“That’s our Drake friends. I’d know ‘em anywhere. What do you mean they’re not on the list?”
“He said Horrisbel—”
“No, it’s Floodwaters, right? The City of Floodwaters?”
They turned to Chickenruler, and he slapped his forehead, sweat liberally beading down his back.
“Floodwaters! Right, right. We, uh, changed the name of our city. Just last week. How’d I forget? Ha. Hahaha…”
The stares they gave him, then the polite smiles they wore were a weird kind of pain that Chickenruler had never felt before. He was used to hunger, injury, but humiliation? That was new.
Well, identity established, they did let him dismount and had food for Coldcream and a lot of thank-yous—but Chickenruler was really worried for Fightipilota. And his cover.
“I’ll have someone show you where your friend is. She was badly frostbit, but we had a [Deepsea Healer] looking at her. Hmm. Lamont! Front and center!”
A Human, a genuine Human, came dashing out of the crowd and saluted Belfast. The Drowned Man nodded at Chickenruler.
“This here’s Lamont, a Human, but good as a seafolk. He’s good with visitors. Lamont, they’re keeping the Drake at the Eir Gel Grotto. You know, the giant conch? Can you show our guest around? He can have the run of the city, the City Captain says. Put him up in a good hotel.”
“Can do, Belfast! This way, sir. Was that you on the Wyvern?”
“Eh, sure was. Nice to meet you. I’m Chickenruler. A [Wyvern Rider].”
“Lamont, [Sailor].”
The two walked past Drowned Folk being patched up or other teams wearing full-body diving suits with metal bell helmets made of brass, marching out to cut up the nautiloids. Chickenruler was instantly distracted.
“What that?”
He pointed at the suited figure walking past him. Their helmet had a glass faceplate with metal guards, like a lantern; it was even glowing from inside! It was spooky, and Lamont explained.
“That? Classic, old-fashioned—I mean, diving suit. It’s got a helmet, air supply—Drowned Folk who can’t breathe water naturally or who go into the deep sea wear it to avoid being crushed. Or to cut up big corpses. Because of parasites, see? They don’t want to get anything on them.”
