The Frost Wyvern whined, and Fightipilota hesitated.
“I’ll pay for four steaks.”
She felt a rumble go through the Wyvern’s body as he purred. Fighti peered down at Coldcream.
“Are you sure he should be doing that? I thought it was only cats that purred.”
“Eh, if they can do it, so can he. How much gold you got?”
Fighti checked her side and grunted as she counted coins.
“Well, some of it’s my pay. But most of it’s for buying supplies or trading. Or buying favors. Though Rags said to leave it to ‘experts’.”
She and Chickenruler weren’t considered savvy, diplomatic Goblins. Chickenruler grumbled.
“What, we gotta bring some landfoot all the way out here so they can smooch and schmooze with other people? They know us. We even went to Nombernaught!”
“You were the one trying to talk us out of it last time.”
“Yah, well, that before I realized they had good seafood.”
“You didn’t realize Drowned Folk had good seafood?”
“…Shut up, you owe me seafood when we get to Nombernaught! It’s gonna be days, though. What’s for dinner?”
Fighti sighed as she checked the Chest of Holding strapped onto Coldcream’s back. It was technically behind her since she was facing rearwards.
“Let me see…uh, well, there’s plenty of eggs.”
“Yum.”
“Oh, wait, you’re not allowed to eat those. It specifically says ‘for trading only’. Huh, half are in-cu-bated. What’s that mean?”
“It mean they gotta chicken in them. Gonna grow up! Or you can eat them while they’re in the egg. All crunchy and meaty.”
“Gross.”
“Gross. Gross, she says. You so not Goblin.”
She glared at him.
“Give me any more sass and I’ll throw your sandwich away.”
He paused.
“…Sandwiches? That our meal?”
“Yup.”
Two sandwiches on top of six more sandwiches. Fightipilota stared at sixteen cured hams in the neatly packed-to-bursting Chest of Holding and closed the lid.
“Ever since Calescent gone the food has gotten worse.”
“You telling me! Those Kraken Eaters not good at cooking either! Okay, they make decent roasts, but they not know anything about spices…and the future Goblins have some [Cook] classes, but they go, ‘where my automated Super Mixer 1000?’ Goblins these days.”
Chickenruler was very upset, and Fighti sighed.
“I knew we should have gone to the inn and had him pack the lunches. Chieftain Rags really screwed us over this time.”
“…What else in there? I know I saw a ham. Ham and eggs is good dinner.”
Chickenruler began scheming, and Fighti glared at him.
“This is for trade, Chickenruler. Most groups are starving!”
“Yah, and so am I. For good food. They can have my sandwich. Chieftain Rags, she pretty good, but she not understand what it like being a normal Goblin sometimes!”
“Fair enough. She’s sleeping on her silk pillows and blankets.”
“With her own room. Eating the best food, going to the inn, while we gotta fly all the way here. And she thinks this is fun. She try sitting on a bony Wyvern’s back all day. Don’t sulk, Coldcream, it mean you very thin and svelte. That mean sexy thin, not starving-death thin.”
Fighti grinned.
“And she can’t even pack us a good damn sandwich! And you know she knew what sandwiches we were getting packed because she never misses any details. Which means she just didn’t think we deserved good food.”
“Yah! She so busy cloning herself and fighting the Goblin King and exploding in a ball of fire and killing all of Pallass’ army…”
They fell silent. After a little bit, Chickenruler cleared his throat. Fighti stared back down along the Thunderbow’s sights.
“Do other Goblins believe it all happened, Chickenruler?”
“…Let me put it like this, Fighti. They not not believe. New Goblins appear? Makes sense. Goblins have special Skills and faith? All makes sense. We saw the Goblin King. We saw Goblin Lord Ragathsi. But when I tell them my friend, Fighti, she a [Fighter Pilot] now from the future? They have to see it. Even then, it’s hard to believe.”
Fighti nodded and watched the ground moving slowly beneath them. They weren’t high up; it was harder for Coldcream to fly high with the mana drain sapping his energy each night. But they were high enough they were out of range of most of it.
Otherwise, the Chest of Holding would explode. As it was, they’d been told by Prixall it would hold until Nombernaught with a few days’ grace. Enough time to scout or change routes slightly, but not long. They had to charge it up or they’d lose it, which would mean she’d pull their ears off. That was the only magic they had on them. Thanks to Rags’ [Memo] Skill, they could still communicate with Goblinhome daily. Fighti murmured.
“Maybe I should have been nicer. It’s just…hard to talk about and believe myself.”
She would have gone on, but Chickenruler chuckled.
“That not the only reason, Fighti. The real reason it hard to believe? Who ever heard of a Goblin getting anything nice? That the hardest part to believe.”
He turned and gave her a grin with all his teeth, and Fighti snorted as she sat back in her saddle.
“What, that we survived, that the tribe is stronger and we have Troll allies and the Kraken Eaters are fighting with us? That we’ll actually live?”
“Argh, what this Goblin talking about? You spitting fairy tales, you snorting Dreamleaf! She mad! She mad, Coldcream!”
They laughed, and the Wyvern purred again as Fighti’s spirits lifted, despite herself. Then she shook herself and stared down over the New Lands again.
“Everything’s changed. I’ve changed. And you know what? Sometimes that’s good. At least for me. Hey, Chickenruler. You want a sandwich for lunch?”
“…No? But if we gotta save the good food, we gotta.”
He lost his smile, but Fighti kept hers. She pointed down.
“Well, what do you say about a pit stop? You wanted to know what they were building. Let’s see if we can buy some food.”
She jingled her coin pouch, and he and Coldcream turned to eye her again. Chickenruler licked his lips.
“Wha…you sure? This not on our list.”
“I’m changing the list. What’s Chieftain Rags gonna do? She wants us to build connections, and they might have stuff to trade. Let’s land!”
But what if we’re found out, even with her Skill? That was Chickenruler’s second objection. Then he glanced at Fightipilota and remembered her class. Her Skill. The [Wyvern Rider] hesitated, then he laughed.
“Okay, you crazy, we all crazy. Uh…how do we tell them we’re friendly and not a wild Wyvern or something?”
Fightipilota scratched at her head.
“…You know, I have no idea. Do you have a flag or something?”
“I got my pants. You want to fly that?”
 
——
 
The Wyvern strafed Woll’s Waystation as everyone stared at it. Woll was waving his claws, shouting.
“Come on down! We’re open! We’re—are those pants?”
A flapping article of clothing was tied to the Wyvern’s tail, and the Wyvern circled the Waystation. Nailren heard a shout from a female voice.
“Hey—we’re friendly—can we land?”
“Yes, please!”
Woll screamed back, and the Drake in the back, with crimson scales and a bright red-on-blue jacket, gave him two thumbs up.
Nice clothing. That’s not a Walled City’s uniforms. Nailren knew them all, and he frowned. An independent city’s [Wyvern Rider]?
It made sense, but only one? Scouting? Woll was striding down.
“Someone get some tea going—this is huge! They’ve beaten even the Walled Cities’ advance into the New Lands! They’re either high-level or brave to be flying alone! I swear it’s the same Wyvern we’ve seen flying back and forth.”
Nailren’s ears perked up. He joined the throng waiting for the Wyvern to land.
“You’ve seen the Wyvern before, Woll?”
“That’s right. Well, we saw a lot of fliers coming through a bit ago, but they thinned out. The last group flying were the Wings of Pallass and half of them landed here—looked like someone had kicked them to pieces. They said their captain was still out there. I hope she’s alive. As I said—there’s predators in the air. But this one’s the only Frost Wyvern I’ve seen. The others have been different variants. I can’t pin down which city has Frost Wyverns. I thought Pallass, maybe? But that’s not their colors.”
Indeed, as the two leapt off the Wyvern, Nailren felt like the duo were very odd. The clothing on the female Drake was iconic, expensive, and utterly foreign to him. On the male? More traditional flight gear, but the moment they spoke, little bells began ringing in Nailren’s mind.
“Hey! This place open? We flying—I mean, we were flying in and saw this place! Is very—it’s very amazing to see!”
The male Drake waved, then pinched at his snout.
“Though that place there? It stinks!”
“You landed near our latrines! So sorry, we’re having a crisis! Welcome to Woll’s Waystation! I’m Woll, and what can I be for you? [Trader]? [Host]? Where are you from?”
The two Drakes halted, a bit wary, but Woll dashed up and shook their hands. The Frost Wyvern was snorting plumes of frost, and everyone backed up, but the female Drake shook Woll’s hand with a huge smile.
“Don’t mind him, he’s grumpy. I’m Fighti, and this is Chickenruler. And that’s Coldcream.”
“What names! Hello, hello.”
“Eh, it’s a nickname.”
The male Drake mumbled, and Fighti jerked a thumb at the Frost Wyvern.
“We’re from up north, along the High Passes. A town close to Yolden called Horrisbel.”
“Horrisbel? I’ve never heard of it. And you joined the New Lands rush? I swear I saw you passing over weeks ago, and I thought you’d stopped or landed…”
Fighti grinned toothily.
“We’ve been doing deliveries. Our leader, Lilbrasi, she wants us to trade before she heads down this way. Say, you got anything good to eat? We’re starving, and we have food to trade—we’re just not allowed to eat it.”
“Except sandwiches. Blech. You want one? I’ll give it to you, only one silver.”
Chickenruler waved a sandwich at the audience and was startled when half the crowd stepped forwards. The plain sandwich with tomatoes, grilled chicken, a dash of mayonnaise, and some lettuce was poor fare for the two who were tired of the same sandwich after two days of flying—but for the people of the New Lands?
Nailren watched as Chickenruler handed over the sandwich for a silver coin without even haggling, even when Woll told him he could sell it for far more. Chickenruler’s only comment as Oregg wolfed it down was—
“He looks hungry. Gotta eat when you’re that hungry. Say, there anything to buy here?”
And Nailren thought—no, there was no way. But that naming convention wasn’t like any Drake he’d ever heard of. His [Clandestine Chieftain] class was buzzing at him.
He still didn’t quite understand what was off about the two at first. He suspected they were [Mages] and was having to fight to concentrate on their backgrounds as being odd.
Woll was clearly doing the same thing. He was smiling, but he had a tiny crease on his forehead. That of someone fighting to pierce through a foggy veil…
Nailren followed the two Drakes, ignoring the tugging on one ear. He’d talk to Spoony in a second; she probably wanted to check out the Frost Wyvern. But these two…
 
——
 
The first thing Fightipilota did when she surveyed Woll’s Waystation was to peek inside the unfinished two-story building. She strolled over to the well, saw a very artistic warning to boil the water, observed the people lying in some distress along the walls, and noted the Human on patrol along the low earthen ramparts, staring at Coldcream. She eyed Chickenruler as he walked over and hand-signed to him in Goblin.
“Hey, this place sucks!”
He grinned and gestured back with the expressive body language only they knew.
“Yeah, but I love it. Why’s it smell? Bad poos?”
“Bad well.”
She jerked a thumb over, and Chickenruler’s brows rose as he read the sign.
“They not boiling their water? Damn. That how they get you.”
He clicked his tongue; as someone who handled chicken eggs regularly, hygiene was very important to Chickenruler, especially given where eggs came out of; the same chute as poo in chickens.
It seemed rough. To Fighti, who imagined any non-Goblin settlement as being loaded with nice things, this was shocking. It was like, well…a Goblin encampment.
Not even a good tribe. Chieftain Rags would have set up a better fort within three days, but she was a high bar to clear. When Fighti heard about the dysentery, she began to nudge Chickenruler. He rolled his eyes.
“Okay, they’ve got unlimited death-poo-death. But they got water, food, and they have levels. They not dying. Only some. Maybe.”
She nudged him harder.
“They’re right on our flight path to Nombernaught, and they’re important or might be…”
He folded his arms.
“Chieftain R—Lilbrasi gonna give you that boot for Rianchi.”
She spun on her heel to face him.
“So you’re telling me not to help?”
He grinned at her, shoving his hands into his pockets. She saw him, a short Drake standing in the keep, but she knew the real Chickenruler had to be grinning so hard his ears were nearly falling off.
“Who, me? Nah, I just saying—I’m just saying, damn, speaking is hard—all the things Lilbrasi would. Now I’m done. Let’s do something fun.”
She rubbed her hands together, then they dashed over to the Chest of Holding. Woll was hovering around.
“If I can get you two anything—we have some fresh Corusdeer venison, and I was thinking I could prevail on someone with [Basic Cooking] to whip a meal up? It’s not fancy, but—”
“How about we sell you food? Or anyone who wants it? And, uh, you want chickens? We have eggs.”
The two Goblins came out with armfulls of food and Woll’s eyes popped. The next second, someone charged at them.
“I’ll buy all of—”
A screaming [Merchant] ran at them, and only Coldcream rearing up in alarm prevented a storm of people converging. Fighti stopped, arms full of food, as she saw people come running, and she realized—
Oh. Oh, wait. Maybe we should have done this more covertly or officially. It was just—
She’d never been the person with all the food before.
 
——
 
There was a reason Chieftain Rags made Goblins eat in shifts and line up and enforced strict limits on how much you got to eat. Someone had to be a bastard or there was chaos, and the scrum that nearly overwhelmed the two Goblins and the Frost Wyvern made that clear to Fightipilota and Chickenruler.
Thankfully, that bastard was Woll, and he shouted everyone back and then had them queue up. After a brief conference with him, Fighti and Chickenruler agreed to trade food—with him and with any interested party.
