“He’s fine. Small. What’s he gonna do, sneak up and slit our throats? We’re flying off anyways. There’s no problem if he’s an adventurer. It’s just one. Not all Goblins are bad, eh?”
Something about what she was saying seemed to be sticking in Fightipilota’s throat, because she coughed a few times, then drank some water from a flask. Rasktooth was nodding.
“Yah, sure. I fine, Captain. Food, please?”
“As long as you’re okay with it, Rasktooth.”
Ylawes was hesitating because his stomach had launched a vociferous campaign to forgive and forget. Fighti smiled, then stepped forwards. Because she should shake this Goblin’s hand. Just to prove she was a reasonable person after all.
Rasktooth pushed himself up onto his knees, and Fighti bent over as everyone watched.
“Hey, so…we good, little Goblin? You one of the good ones?”
“Sure, Miss Drake. I is not upset. I hear stuffs like that all the time. You sell us food now, please? I not even be out here if it bother you. All forgiven!”
He smiled up at her, and the older Goblin, growing into a Hob herself, just stood there a moment. She didn’t take Rasktooth’s hand as he extended it, and the Cave Goblin froze, licking at his teeth.
Okay, can we jump them, Captain? And steal their stuff? Nailren’s [Hear Whispers] caught Insill and Ylawes talking.
Don’t cause a fight. I’ll handle this.
Ylawes was moving forwards, a thunderous frown on his face as Dawil got up casually—but both warriors were blocked by Nailren. They glowered at him as he stepped in front of them, but he just smiled at both and put a finger to his lips. They hesitated, and Dawil pulled Ylawes back. Watching.
Fighti squatted down for a second in front of Rasktooth, and her voice was soft. To others, just a Drake awkwardly having a conversation with a ‘good’ Goblin. But her voice came out roughly.
“Hey. Kid. You’re a kid, right?”
“Who, me? I is a big adult. Or young master! I old for a Goblin in my tribe!”
Rasktooth puffed out his chest indignantly, and Fighti half shook her head.
“Nah, you’re just a…a big kid’s just a kid. I’m still—listen. I said a lot of harsh things just now. And my apology wasn’t great. If I were you, I don’t think I’d accept that and forgive and forget.”
Rasktooth’s face scrunched up in confusion. He sat back on his bum.
“No one ever told me not to accept apologies before. This new. But you got lots of food, yah?”
“Yeah. We do.”
“Then we all good. My team very important. They not have rumbly stomachs or bad poos—that more important than me get all worked up over some words. We good?”
He held out his hand again, anxious, and Fighti half shook her head. Ylawes partially turned to Dawil, and the Dwarf was tugging on his beard. Eying Nailren, who just…listened. Fighti’s voice trembled.
“No. We’re not. You shouldn’t take that, kid. Sometimes, you have to. I mean, that’s what they say. We say. You’re the ‘Good Goblin’, I guess. You’re not big enough to cause trouble. There’s more of us than you. Because of the inn, because we want something, we’ll overlook it just this once. You know that means if you didn’t have your team, and you were alone—it’d be different, right?”
The Cave Goblin’s uncertain smile went out. He looked Fighti in the eyes and shrugged.
“Well, yeah. That obvious. But this better than being stabbed in face. Okay? That what you want?”
“No. You should demand more.”
“That sound like a good way to get me killed. You want me to die that bad?”
Rasktooth squinted at Fighti suspiciously, as if suspecting this was some long-form plan to get him killed via super-racism after all. But Fighti’s lips were trembling, and her eyes were too bright.
“Not you. Just—I used to think it was enough too. I did. But then you get to wanting more. More and more. I don’t want to have to ignore the looks or pretend I can’t hear the whispers. I shouldn’t have to justify myself. I want to walk into a store and no one even blink. That’s what you should fight for.”
The Cave Goblin’s mouth opened and closed, then he reached out and patted Fighti’s boot.
“There lot of mean people to Drakes too, huh? That very nice, Miss. But I have a good memory. Last year, I die if I sneeze too loud and the Raskghar get annoyed. Or get killed even if I have my team. I a big Goblin, but I can wait. Sometimes, you very hungry or want to get nice thing from treasure pile. But pushing to the front of line gets you killed. That wisdom.”
“Yeah. Yeah, it is. But someone’s gotta push. I know you’re right. Not here, not—”
Fighti’s head swivelled, and she took in the Silver Swords, Nailren, the guests of the Waystation all eying her. Then she wiped at her eyes.
“I just want to see it someday before I die.”
The Cave Goblin glanced around for help as he patted Fighti’s boots, and Ylawes leaned over.
“Dawil, either anti-Drake racism is a lot worse wherever they came from or…”
“Yeah, lad. Falene’s giving us a look.”
But then Fighti just shook Rasktooth’s hand and stood up. She walked back over to Ylawes, wiping her eyes, and nodded to him. Shamefaced. Embarrassed. But appearing oddly relieved. She stuck out her gloved hand, smiling faintly.
“Maybe we try and say ‘hello’ again, Captain Ylawes? Turns out we do know each other. I’m Fighti. Fightipilota.”
Rasktooth recognized the Goblin name, and his eyes flickered as Ylawes held out a hand, uncertain. Then he sniffed, squinted at Chickenruler, and suddenly grinned. He gave Ylawes encouraging motions, and the [Knight] grudgingly shook Fighti’s hand.
Fightipilota shook Ylawes’ hand up and down, then let go. But she didn’t lower her hand. She made a fist, and Ylawes peered at it.
“Captain, Captain, you copy her.”
Rasktooth encouraged the [Knight], and the man hesitantly did. Fighti bumped it with her fist, and he blinked.
“Excuse me, if this is some kind of greeting, I don’t get—”
“You shush. You know this one. Hands!”
She held out her hands, as if going for a handshake, but palms flat. When he copied her, she slapped his right with her left and copied it on the other side. Ylawes’ face was the most amazingly nonplussed that Nailren had ever seen.
“Um, I still don’t know—”
Dawil was swaying as he held his stomach, but now he frowned at Fightipilota. Vuliel Drae were similarly lying there as Infinitypear rolled over to beg for some good water, but all of them had seen Fighti’s conversation with Rasktooth. They glanced up.
They all saw it. A curious Woll watching from the keep windows, people eying the mysterious Drake…Fighti made Ylawes do it all again.
Handshake, fist bump, palm slap—then she completed the move by stepping back. Fighti spun around on one foot, twirling, and finished with the only thing that fit. She lifted her fingers and flicked Ylawes a pair of finger guns.
The blank [Knight]’s face changed. His blue eyes widened, and Falene dropped a soup ladle. Because that—
“Wait. Wait…”
There was only one silly [Innkeeper] in the world who did that. Ylawes Byres blinked down at Fightipilota, who was grinning fit to burst. And then…he exchanged a look with Rasktooth. Dawil’s head rose slightly, and he began to grin.
They knew each other. They were from the same place. So, sick or not, for a moment, the Silver Swords, even Nailren, felt it. Like a breath of fresh air in the sick, poo-y keep. A chill upon the skin. A leaping in the heart.
A bit of wonder and magic. The [Knight] stared at Fightipilota, then cast around. A smile was creeping onto his face, but…he hesitated, and Nailren saw it in the [Knight]. But then he bit his lip, stepped back, and copied Fightipilota’s twirl.
He shot her the weakest, most embarrassed pair of finger guns Nailren had ever seen in his life, turning beet red. But Fightipilota’s eyes bugged out, and then she was laughing. She jumped forwards and threw her arms around him, then grabbed Rasktooth and swung him around.
“Hah! You are as dumb as they say! You’re great!”
She was laughing in delight as she kissed the Cave Goblin on the cheek, and that must have broken the spell for Ylawes and Rasktooth, because they recoiled. A watching Drake spat out all of his food at the sight, but Ylawes just turned, saw Fighti as she was, and blinked.
No one else had any idea what was going on. The Cenidau warriors had gotten to their feet in alarm when Fighti grabbed Rasktooth, but then they were just dumbstruck. Fighti didn’t care. Nailren realized he was grinning too. Ylawes blinked down at the pile of food, then he rubbed at his eyes.
“Did she send you?”
“Nah. We sent ourselves. But friends? Friends show up all over the place. Hey, Chickenruler, this lot gets the Goblin discount!”
“Sure! How much for a handful of poo? Eh, we’ll waive the poo this time!”
Then everyone was talking amidst the Silver Swords as Petia and Homle gaped at each other, utterly dumbfounded how Ylawes knew two random Drakes. Nailren came forwards because like heck was he going to miss this.
Also—he was wondering if he could get a sandwich on sale.
 
——
 
Who knew being friendly with Goblins would ever have an upside? Not Ylawes. He had always thought Erin was crazy. And then, when he’d begun to change his mind more and more, thought she was still crazy, but doing the right thing no matter how hard it was. Which was why he respected her.
But these Goblins—well, they were a sight for sore eyes and hungry stomachs! It actually seemed to take Fightipilota back how much the Silver Swords ate.
“You guys are sort of thin. You, uh, okay?”
“We only starved a bit. Damn [Merchants].”
Rasktooth was licking his lips over some eggs that Chickenruler was frying for him, and Nailren was sitting with the Silver Swords, eating Fighti’s sandwich.
They were the only people allowed near. A few others kept coming by to ingratiate themselves with the ‘Drakes’, but Chickenruler and Fighti had suddenly lost all interest in anything but the Silver Swords. Fighti raised her eyebrows.
“What, [Merchants] are bad guys all of a sudden? We love them.”
“What, your…people?”
Falene was still blinking rapidly, and Fighti grinned at her.
“Sure! They deliver tons of good stuff all over Izril! All for free!”
“For f—oh. Of course. Well, in this case, these [Merchants] were rather shortsighted. They ran into the mana drain, the salted ground, all the problems you could imagine…”
“Eh, and I bet hunting was hard. Hunts go bad for a bit and you’re eating your chickens and sheepies and pigs.”
Chickenruler shook his head, then eyed the Silver Swords as they bit their lips.
“…You did bring chickens, yah? This the New Lands. There beetles everywhere. This like…chicken paradise. This Khelt for chickens.”
He was so appalled when they told him they’d taken no grazing animals aside from horses that he tried to hand them a bunch of fertilized chicken eggs.
“We’re actually searching for work. We can’t raise chickens.”
“You sure? You very sure? Argh, take more food. Ch—Lilbrasi is gonna want to hear this. Don’t worry, she’ll be happy with us giving you this. Hey, you want metal?”
“…What, just metal?”
Fighti jerked a thumb at Coldcream.
“We’ve got food, but that’s only half the Chest of Holding. The rest is other things Lilbrasi thought was worth something. So, steel ingots, nails, even wood! We have just pieces of wood in here!”
She rolled her eyes at her silly Chieftain until Ylawes sat up.
“We could use wood! Can we get enough for our tent poles? What kinds?”
“I, uh, well…sure! Damn. How does she do that?”
Fighti came back and found Chickenruler had Rasktooth in a headlock and was rubbing the younger Goblin’s head.
“You little kid you! All the other kids gonna be super jealous when they hear where you’ve been! And levelling! Only Gothica higher level than you are.”
“Really?”
“Yah! You doing great. Aside from the dysentery. That actually really bad.”
Rasktooth’s ears wilted.
“I didn’t know you needed to boil water.”
“Eh, maybe we can help. Good food and clean water better. Fighti wants to see if she can get medicine.”
Everyone turned to Fighti, who blushed and jabbed Chickenruler.
“It’s both of our ideas. Might be we can find some. We’ll ask. But, uh, where are you going? Just working while you avoid [Merchants]? Want us to hit any we meet?”
“I don’t want you to get in trouble, but—yes, we’ve got work, and we’re stuck here for a while.”
Ylawes indicated Dawil, who was groaning.
“The food’s so good, and I want to chat, but I’m sick! Damn you, well! Lad, lad, ask about the Goblin King.”
Fightipilota and Chickenruler went quiet as everyone turned to them. Chickenruler’s eyes darted to Fighti, and Ylawes cleared his throat.
“We know it came from the inn. Was it actually…?”
“Yup.”
“Really? A Solstice event? Even without her? And it was actually—”
“Yep.”
Fighti poked at the ground with a claw, and her face was blank. She added after a moment.
“He’s dead. The rest…happened. No one’s dead. At least, no one you’ll miss. Things are okay. Really.”
“Truly?”
Ylawes’ skepticism met Fighti’s calm eyes, and she took a gulp of some tea.
“Yeah. I was there. This time…Mrsha started it. And Lilbrasi. It went—well. Well as it could have, I guess.”
She gazed past them into the cooking fire, and Chickenruler interrupted hurriedly.
“Maybe it better to speak of other things. So, New Lands, huh? No one dead yet? Great, great. Starving happens. You eat some, it’ll all work out.”
Nailren broke into the silence.
“I’m surprised that you two are still flying. Woll told me it was dangerous. You might not know this, but an entire Wyvern wing got chewed up. Only one survived; it might be untenable for you to keep doing deliveries, grateful as we are for them.”
Fighti’s closed face opened slightly, and she smiled as Chickenruler shot her another glance.
“We know. There’s a big warning from Fissival about it. Apparently, they lost Wyverns too. Bad things up there; we’ve seen them.”
“Really? Like what?”
“Other Wyverns. Saw an Acid Wyvern—that was nasty. There was this storm of flying things that we avoided—”
“Bats? There was a huge nest of them.”
“Hah! We know bats. That lunch. No, far bigger. In that big canyon. Hm, there those annoying Wyverns, that creepy centipede that stretches up and tries to eat you, the flying fishies—”
“And you’re still flying?”
Falene was incredulous, but Fighti sipped her tea.
“We have a secret weapon. It’s risky, but we’re confident we can still fly.”
The [Mage] eyed Coldcream.
“What’s the secret weapon? It’s not anything magic besides the Chest of Holding or I’d sense it.”
“Me.”
