He glared at Etaiv; there was such a thing as courtesy, even with [Pirates]! But the [First Mate] was excited. She handed him something, and Therrium read.
His brows shot up. He handed the note back to Etaiv.
“No. That’s stupid.”
“I swear I double-checked it, Captain. It’s no joke!”
He saw Nailren glance over as Fightipilota supervised the loading up of her Wyvern. She was taking mostly seafood back since her people apparently loved it and the Chest of Holding could preserve the fat tuna, swordfish, and other choice cuts. But Therrium was distracted.
“This is the biggest damn news…and we can’t do a thing about it because I have to serve as Captain of the City!”
He cursed and almost crumbled the ball of paper up. The news would reach everyone soon, and he just bet Rasea would take the Illuminary and go hunting. He hadn’t heard from that menace in a while, actually…she was probably plotting her next big adventure.
“Anything interesting, Captain Therrium Guy?”
Fighti grinned at him, visibly curious. He was about to tell her it was none of her damn business when he reconsidered. If he couldn’t have it, he might as well curry some goodwill. So he glanced at Nailren, triggered a spell on one of his rings, and beckoned the trio over.
“This is fresh intelligence my crews picked up. No good to me since I can’t take my ship out and hunt—but since we’re all friends and allies here, I’ll cut you in on the action. You just remember that. And if you ever want a place on a crew, Fightipilota, I’ll offer you a good position.”
Her eyes lit up, and she laughed.
“Eh, you wouldn’t like me when you get to know me.”
He met her eyes.
“I like what I see so far.”
Especially the flying fighter plane or whatever the hell that was. She hesitated, and he nodded to himself. Easier to charm than the damn Isle of Goblins lot. He’d remember that and put a word in Doroumata’s ear. After all, what benefited Nombernaught benefited him. Too many of the other Underseas Crews didn’t get what this could mean for them all. Anyways, he proffered the piece of paper.
“This is from our contacts, which means it’s so fresh it’s still moving. No one else will know…for now. But by the time we can sail out, it’ll be public knowledge. If you share it, best do it now while it’s real value. Here’s the catch: you remember that Village of the Dead raid?”
Fighti tilted her head, and Nailren nodded.
“Of course.”
“Remember, eh, that damn auction where items were being sold for ludicrous sums? The thing that won it all, the two million-gold bounty.”
“The Helm of Fire.”
Nailren’s eyes fixed on the piece of paper. Therrium grinned with savage irony; he’d bid on that damn helm himself and been sorely mad when it was taken.
“It’s missing. It never reached Chandrar and the Emperor of Sands. Damn thing is in the New Lands.”
There was silence, and Fighti raised a hand.
“Er, I forget what that—”
“No.”
Nailren was visibly shaken. But Captain Therrium was chuckling even as he clenched his eel-hand.
“Oh yes. Think about it. When the Helm of Fire was bid on, that was two and a half million gold pieces that couldn’t be teleported to the Emperor of Sands. All in the form of a tiny little helmet.”
That confused Nailren, and he tilted his head, remembering the dossiers he liked to study.
“Doesn’t the Emperor of Sands have a Skill that allows him to transport things across the world instantly?”
Therrium appreciated a smart man and nodded, a twinkle in his eyes.
“Aye, so he does. But d’you think he was keen on dropping anchor on that much money in a single transaction?”
Knowing what he did of kingdoms and treasuries, Nailren would have been astonished if even the Chandrarian empire had that much to spend in a single moment. He bared his teeth.
“Ah, so he must have paid in installments.”
“Very traditional, but it means the Helm had to come without Skill, and without Skill, you can’t transport Relic-grade magic easy. Too far, and the Archmage of Memory didn’t have his precious new teleportation spells up. So that meant a ship, a Courier. With every [Thief] in the world knowing its value? Even the Courier of Izril would have been dead after ten miles if she were in her prime.”
That made sense. Nailren nodded, eyes flicking left and right.
“So what did the Merchant’s Guild do? Ah—they must have held onto it.”
“Right. Held onto it, sent out decoys, and bided their time until they could send the right ship that no one was looking hard at. The Emperor of Sands probably said he had it and then they’d slide it over, nice and easy. Well, here’s the thing: the ship never got there.”
Fighti grinned.
“Ooh. Someone jumped it? Didn’t know what they got?”
Therrium was chuckling darkly.
“Even better. You’d think that, but I bet the Merchant’s Guild had more [Assassins] and high-level [Guards] on that ship than you could match with anything but one of my ships. It was heading straight for Chandrar, disguised as some normal ship. Only thing is, we know which ships are the Merchant’s Guild’s finest, even in disguise. This one was called the Magnificent Oyster.”
Nailren groaned.
“Oh no, I’ve heard of that one. It’s such a terrible play-on-words.”
Etaiv rolled her eyes, but with great anticipation.
“[Merchants] just have to tell you what’s up. They think they’re so clever. Tell them the rest, Captain.”
Therrium strung them out just a second more and then smiled.
“Just before winter ended last year, the Oyster left harbor and came down from the north, hugging the coastline on the western edge. Normal routes these days, and safe enough if you skirt the Hivelands. It was going along, casual as you please, with none of us the wiser when something happened. The only reason it’s news now is because the Magnificent Oyster was declared destroyed.”
“Destroyed? So that means the Helm of Fire’s sunk.”
Fighti protested, but Nailren was thinking.
“No…if it was stolen, the Merchant’s Guild would have put a hell of a bounty out, and the Empire of Sands would be furious. They may already be furious, but they didn’t announce it, nor did anyone advertise the fact the Relic was stolen, which they might. No one said a word. Which meant a Kraken got it or…”
He stared at the piece of paper. Then at Therrium, and his eyes narrowed.
“Wait. Where was the ship when it was destroyed?”
With a flourish, Captain Therrium pointed, and every head turned.
“It was sailing out over yonder. Casual as you please when one’ve the Bloodtear Pirates ships hit it. I bet they didn’t know what they had. Nor did they take the Oyster down; the fighting sunk the Bloodtear’s ship. But the Oyster was damned too, and where could it land as it sank?”
Fighti, Chickenruler, and Nailren turned…and they stared at the New Lands of Izril. Therrium could just imagine it. Bloodtear Pirates—was it when they were mustering for the attack on the Terandrians? Or just chance?
It didn’t matter. He went on, voice low, even merry.
“Now, the Oyster landed with crew and cargo intact. That’s certain. The Merchant’s Guild, doubtless, sent a transport ship to pick up cargo, but you’d head inland after a rough landing, to avoid Bloodtear reinforcements if any were about. Here’s the thing: neither the Oyster’s crew, nor the transport which landed to search for them ever left the New Lands. They vanished. Setting up camp? Trying to get to civilization? Or did the crew think to take the treasure and scarper?”
He thought he knew what had killed them, though. The land itself. He chuckled as Fighti’s jaw dropped. So, Therrium pointed.
“The Magnificent Oyster’s somewhere out there. And the Merchant’s Guild must have been searching, but they just posted this very casually.”
He showed them the note. It was a bounty, a decently-sized one, for anyone who spotted a certain object in the New Lands.
The Magnificent Oyster. What a name. And like that—Nailren’s eyes lit up.
“It’s there.”
“Ripe for the taking. If you find it. If you find it and it’s not still guarded, or there aren’t trap spells on it. If you know to look for it.”
Therrium was thinking. Who might run into such a shipwreck and not know where to look? The Merchant’s Guild was counting on people coming back from the New Lands, none the wiser, but his people had put two and two together. If he understood what they’d been transporting…
Fighti’s eyes lit up.
“Maybe we’ll see it when we fly back! We can see a lot from the air!”
“I bet they sent Djinni. Unless the New Lands kills them. Fliers and vision spells, certainly. It must not be visible, or maybe something covered it. Either way…I’ll pass along the information. I know a tribe who might figure out something. Thank you, Captain Therrium.”
The man waved it off.
“In a month’s time, we’ll search for it as well, but it’s no good to us here. I’ll pass it on to the [Captains] whom I respect. It’s a race, and may anyone but fools win. Anything else before you head off?”
Fighti was hesitating.
“Um, well, we’re going back…and you’ve given us lots of good food. Like the tuna. Especially the tuna. I’ll eat half of it, and I know my tr—people will love it. But—”
Everyone turned to her, and she was staring back the way they’d come.
“Maybe…maybe we won’t get any tuna back to Floodwaters. And if we do, I mean…we have one Chest of Holding, but you’ve got magic. And Coldcream can carry a lot. So maybe…could we take more stuff? For a bit of the favor?”
Therrium frowned.
“You can have as much fish as you want; it’s not like it’s in short supply. But most containers will break before you get to the other side of the New Lands, right?”
She nodded.
“Yah. But the people who might need it, they’d get it.”
Captain Therrium stood there, utterly blank, as Nailren grinned, suddenly, and Nanette clapped her hands and went to air-hug Fighti. Chickenruler grinned, and even old Doroumata gave a nod of great approval. Therrium didn’t get it, even when the other [Captains] did and raced off to grab the best and most appropriate things for the effort. Someone had to explain to him and Etaiv what Fightipilota meant.
After all—they were [Pirates].
[Pirates] didn’t do charity.
 
——
 
There were many reasons to do it. Goodness. But if that didn’t appeal to a certain [Depth Captain], then other good reasons.
For one—style. Or just politics. What told people you were rich in the one thing they wanted—food—than a delivery like this? It put you on the map, it didn’t cost you much, and…
It was a good story. That sold Captain Therrium most of all, so that was how Fightipilota and Chickenruler took yet another detour. They flew back the way they’d come, and the groups that had seen them before saw the lone Frost Wyvern flying again.
“There they are! Hey! Heeeeey! Down here!”
Lorent looked up as Pallassians went pounding out of their tents. They were shouting for Garuda to get up; the Frost Wyvern wasn’t landing, instead flying straight over their camp! Garuda darted up, but half were slow, and the ones that went up came screaming back down.
“They’re not stopping!”
“What? Didn’t they get anything to trade? Order them to come down!”
The Drake [Expedition Leader] was panicking. Lorent carefully sharpened a dagger and saw the people waving, screaming upwards.
It is not their job to save us. Any more than it was the Wings of Pallass’. The [Sharpener] nicked his fingers in a moment of distraction and watched the blood dripping onto the whetstone. He glanced up, once, as a little Drake girl clutching a dagger in the way a Goblin had showed her stared upwards.
And…he remembered that Gnoll had been at The Wandering Inn. The [Sharpener] thought of the [Innkeeper] he was still proud to have given a working knife. He thought of the kind of people that Erin Solstice loved.
Perhaps that was why, as the Pallassians went running after the Frost Wyvern, screaming and begging and then cursing the departing Wyvern, it was Lorent who glanced up again. On nothing but familiarity. Friendship. Faith, of a kind.
So it was he who saw something drifting down slowly. The [Sharpener] carefully put down his dagger and got up. It was…
A strange object. He didn’t understand it, at first, until he thought to the icon of Pallass.
“The Flying Gnoll. The Wind Runner.”
The white canvas was being pulled up as air caught in the parachute, arresting the descent of the object it was attached to. A simple, beautiful contraption designed by a [Fighter Pilot].
And what did this parachute bring down into the center of the Pallassian camp? Why, nothing but a single object carefully balanced by cords.
A…chest. A treasure chest, really, with that old barnacle look on half-rusted metal, because Drowned Folk loved the appearance of such things.
Lorent was first to reach it. But one of the children had also spotted the chest and ran over. He squatted down as the Drake girl stuck a claw in her mouth.
[Thumbclaw: Minor Nourishment]. A [Survivor]’s Skill. Lorent glanced at her wide eyes, and he read what was on the chest. Then he lifted it. The [Sharpener] grunted, and the girl gasped softly, the only sound she’d made in a long time.
“Chest of Holding.”
But the magic…Lorent stared up at the Wyvern, then over his shoulder.
“It’ll run out of magic soon. Call everyone back. We need to unload it before it explodes.”
He told the girl, and she ran. But then she darted back to stare at the chest, and Lorent gazed skywards. He wondered…how many more such chests the Frost Wyvern was carrying. Could you carry that many without them exploding? But surely, they’d found a way. Because he doubted they were the only ones.
After all, there was a note too. As Pallassians came running back, they stopped and stared at the contents of the magic chest.
It was filled with food. Seafood, mostly, but also supplies. Fish oil, salt, everything that Drowned Folk could easily produce. Even fish bones; apparently, you could make a bread out of it, and it was fairly nutritious and good in soup stocks.
A bounty of food for the hungry. Lorent sat back on his heels and let out a breath he’d been holding for months. Just for a second, then he went back to his dagger and began sharpening it. They couldn’t lose their edge. But…
 
——
 
The note. The note did all the explaining.
Of course, Fightipilota and Chickenruler could have just landed and handed over a chest without needing a note. But they might have feared being mugged for the rest of what Coldcream was carrying.
More likely, the two Goblins were just far too shy and embarrassed to accept the gratitude personally. The message was written on each chest, though they’d customized this particular one for the Pallassians.
