“Testing, testing, one, two, three, four—ahem. This is Nanette Weishart of The Wandering Inn. I’m your witch of the hour, and I’d like to bring some news to your attention that no one seems to know about. The New Lands of Izril. I suppose no one’s got news from there, but I have my means, and I have a story to share that no one’s aware of yet!”
She took another bite of sushi and chewed and swallowed it before going on.
“Would you believe no one’s flying around the New Lands? No one with sense, according to everyone there. There are monsters in the air—flying nests of spiders, and apparently, there’s a huge winter area in the New Lands that moves! But it’s no weather phenomenon or rogue Winter Sprites; it’s a super-monster. But first things first. I’ve just learned there’s an outpost in the New Lands. They call it Woll’s Waystation, and it may not be much, but they’ve got free tea!”
Her eyes were sparkling. Nanette had a bunch of notes, but she was mostly ad-libbing the words. She wanted to tell people about what she’d seen!
Everything from Woll to Fightipilota flying by air to important information like Nailren’s Sea Gardens and how welcoming Drowned Folk could be and the nautiloid attack! This was the perfect way to do it.
After all, she just had to get this song crystal recorded, patch out any ‘ums’ or ‘ers’ she made, and her chewing sushi, and then she could show Mrsha, Hethon, and Sammial, and she bet Drassi would be interested in this.
Not that this was Wistram News Network stuff. Could you copy this? Nanette wondered if she could get a Runner to sell this somewhere. She thought it was mighty interesting.
And it was something those darn Earthers hadn’t thought of once! Smugly, the witch chewed on more sushi. She just had to come up with a good name for it.
It was like…an informational broadcast. Or a saved recording.
A savecast. No, that was stupid. Information in a pod! Podcast?
Eugh, even worse. She was a witch, so obviously…it was a Witch’s Tale! Yes, that was just perfect. Nanette beamed, and she went on.
“This just in: if you’ve been in the New Lands long, apparently you might owe a debt of favor to some fliers who were doing all they could to help people hit by the mana drain effect. The Wings of Pallass! Captain Bevussa and her team were sighted giving assistance nonstop, but the air’s deadly. Only one Frost Wyvern’s flying right now, and they’ve been through a tale. But where was I? Oh yes. Woll’s Waystation isn’t much to look at; the walls are dirt, ten feet high, and the roof leaks. I imagine it must smell terrible because all the horses are standing in one corner of the courtyard! You pay a Gnoll two coppers for him to hold them for you—his poor nose! But it’s the only place that exists, and Woll himself is such a character…”
 
[Podcaster Class obtained!]
[Podcaster Level 2!]
[Skill – Soothing Voice Obtained!]
[Skill – Slipless Tongue Obtained!]
[Skill – Superior Recording Quality Obtained!]
 
Later that night, a witch sat up in bed and raced to hammer on Joseph’s door. When he started laughing at her, she threw a huge fit.
