No one got everything, and their Chest of Holding was big, but hardly a storehouse’s worth. They had more places to be, so they only sold a quarter of what was in there.
It was still enough to have people lining up to buy a ham sandwich—which Fighti quickly realized she should sell in halves—a bag of flour, salt—
Everything they were willing to sell was gone within twenty minutes. Gold? Fighti’s eyes were popping at how much they’d gotten.
Remember, gold’s not as important as goodwill. Anything useful, especially artifacts, information, we want that. No one had anything like that to sell so far, but Fighti thought they’d earned some goodwill.
“Remember, Lilbrasi and, uh, where are we from?”
Chickenruler turned to Fightipilota, then shouted.
“Horrisbel! Dead gods, we calling ourselves that?”
“I don’t know, I made it up! But see how many hungry people there are, Chickenruler!”
Or at least, people hungry for fresh food or more to augment their stores. It worried Fightipilota, and she said so.
“Without crops, they can only hunt. Lots of people might starve.”
“True…”
Chickenruler sombered, but at that moment, Woll came over.
“Fresh ham and bread. You two are always welcome here, and if you need a place to sleep, any time, come on back! In fact, if you’d make this a part of your route, I’d be most grateful.”
“If you’re still around in a month. You’re going to starve without crops.”
Fightipilota faced the Drake head-on, and he blinked, unaccustomed to such directness, but she was worried. Chickenruler nodded.
“Yah, no offense, but this? This is gonna get bad real fast. The moment one person gets hungry, they get stabby.”
Woll hesitated.
“Fairly said. I suppose I’m used to city life, but as Salii would say, listen to experts. I should bear in mind Captain Ylawes’ warnings…but there is good news there! Had you not heard a fix for the salted ground problem was in?”
“Huh?”
Fighti had not heard that—they’d been a bit busy of late. She stumped over to the illustration and announcement, and her jaw dropped.
“What? Archmage Eldavin fixed it already? What, is he some magic super-guy?”
“He does seem incredibly capable. Suspiciously so…well, I’m twenty levels too low to make that my focus. We had a [Mage] who brought the news who can still communicate with the outside world. Over there. Miss Falene.”
Fighti was going to tell Rags about this. It made her shoulders ease a bit, and Chickenruler scratched at his head.
“Falene. Ylawes. Feel like I know those names somewhere. Not in a good way.”
“Probably common. I dunno. I feel like I’ve met a ‘Falene’ too. Ooh, look, there’s lunch.”
Fighti turned and promptly forgot about silly people’s names; she saw a pair of armored women waving her over and smelled that heavenly scent: fresh bread.
Part of Fighti’s negotiations had been for lunch. So, in exchange for some food, she’d been introduced to a group that could cook. Thker was groaning instructions at Styrvi as she snapped.
“I’ve made your damn bread before! Go lie down!”
“But I want some good food!”
“You’ll shit it out. You can have broth.”
“I can smell…eggs…”
Evor had poked his head out of his tent and was drooling as other people began to indulge. Rigalde patted him on the head with a grin.
“Eat your shitty broth, boy. Eggs are for men and women who don’t shit their drawers.”
The curses and begging from the other Cenidau warriors was drowned out by the chortling of the two fliers. Fighti pointed at the bread and cooking ham.
“Now that’s a sandwich. Chickenruler, you fry some eggs up.”
“I’ll do that. Hey, you mind if I fry eggs? I’m good at eggs.”
“Be my guest.”
Styrvi watched Chickenruler crack three eggs one-handed and blinked. He winked at her.
“I’m the best at eggs. How you like yours? One side? Mixed up? Boiled? All fry, but runny inside?”
The Cenidau warriors began making requests when they saw Chickenruler executing a triple-flip of a fried egg without breaking the yolk on one pan, and Fighti rolled her eyes. But the other Goblin was enjoying being, well, popular without being a Goblin as much as she was.
And he did have, like…four Skills completely devoted to eggs. He had a problem.
She was just preparing a real sandwich—after washing her hands because like hell she was getting what everyone here had—when there was a plaintive voice.
“No. Did we miss it? Rigalde, was there someone here selling fresh food? I was helping dig the latrines and—”
A tall, blonde man was standing in the courtyard, dripping with sweat, and a half-Elf had come hurrying out of the keep.
“I smell fresh eggs! Ylawes, Woll just said he bought a bunch of supplies from a [Wyvern Rider]! Quick, buy the—”
Rigalde coughed.
“Er, you missed it, Captain Ylawes. Sorry. These two are the [Wyvern Riders]. From the High Passes. They sold out their stock.”
The duo sagged, and Fighti waved with a guilty expression. She almost said they had more, but that seemed like a good way of getting robbed. The only reason Chickenruler and she even left the Chest of Holding unaccompanied was because it was on Coldcream’s back, and he ate things he didn’t like. Then spat them out in pieces.
“Excuse me, Miss…”
“Fighti.”
“Miss Fighti, is there any way we could purchase some food? We’re a Gold-rank team, and we can pay!”
Fighti’s smile slipped as the Human man strode over, and she shook his hand, but exchanged a look with Coldcream.
Oh, hey. Even in the New Lands, it was sort of good to be reminded there were people they hated. After all, if there was any group that Goblins were predisposed against…it was adventurers.
Damn adventurers. She gave Ylawes a cool smile.
“Sorry, but we’re out. Next time we fly by, eh?”
“How long would that be?”
“Oh, you know, maybe a week, two? We’ve gotta resupply. And we might not come this way.”
She savored his face falling, and Falene closed her eyes. Then she put on her best smile.
“Miss, I’m a [Mage] from Wistram Academy. Could I trade with you for any magical services?”
“A [Mage]? Well, we’ve got some back home. I’ll see them in like a week, so…”
Chickenruler was munching down on his sandwich, relishing the schadenfreude like a sweet side dish. Falene tried to talk Fighti into it.
“I see you have a Chest of Holding. If it’s not upkept—”
“Oh, don’t worry, we’ve done this before. We’re good!”
But the ham. The haaaaam. The two adventurers stared at Cenidau’s warriors, but in this, friendship had come second place to the warriors stuffing themselves. The [Knight]’s head bowed, but he heaved a huge sigh.
“I understand. Come on, Falene. We should get a lunch together. Can we have that soup if you’re not eating it, Rigalde?”
They stared at the cauldron filled with well water, ready for boiling, and Falene groaned.
“Oh—fine. Help me lug it over to our camp.”
She tried to carry it, and Ylawes ended up doing most of the carrying as they approached a camp of downed people. Fightipilota saw one of them straighten from ministering to a short Human woman with a beard. Maybe she was a Dwarf?
“Captain Ylawes, did you get any provisions? I didn’t hear until—”
“No, Anith. They’re out. Soup it is.”
Fighti frowned. Ylawes, she swore she knew that name. Not in a positive way either. More like someone cursing the name. She shrugged, and Ylawes cast around.
“How’s Infinitypear doing?”
“I can’t honestly tell, Captain. He’s groaning and saying ‘even the paste didn’t make his stomach hurt’, which…I’ve heard legends of Antinium food.”
“Damn. Infinitypear. That a cool name. Who knew anyone had cool names here?”
Chickenruler commented, and Fightipilota nodded. Then she saw Ylawes opening a tent flap.
“Infinitypear? Are you okay?”
“I am not happy, Captain. Also, my brother is pestering me.”
A complaint from within. Ylawes hesitated as someone argued in denial.
“I can see he’s a bit…it’s sometimes hard to be around someone who’s sick, Rasktooth. Even if you’re being helpful. We need help making a soup. How about that?”
A brief argument as Fighti commented.
“Rasktooth. That a good name. Solid name. Who these people with such nice names? Maybe it is a Drake thing?”
They watched as Ylawes entered the tent, rummaged around, and then came out with someone clinging to his shoulders. Chickenruler took a bite of his sandwich, then began choking.
“G—G—Goblin—”
He pointed as he clutched at his throat, and Styrvi slapped him on the back.
“Easy, easy, it’s just a small one, and they’re adventurers! The Antinium too!”
Fightipilota was also coughing on her food. She pointed, bug-eyed, as a Cave Goblin slid off Ylawes’ back, sniffed the air, then stared at the soup pot with clear disappointment.
“Captain, I never say this, but even I like good food sometimes.”
“I’m sorry, Rasktooth. We missed it. What can you do with what we’ve got?”
Fightipilota and Chickenruler exchanged a look of silent incredulity, and then something clicked in Fightipilota’s head.
“What did you say this team was? Which Gold-rank team?”
She whirled, and Rigalde lifted her hand.
“The Silver Swords, and they’re our friends. We’ve come together well and traded words and food, so I would like there to be no violence or threats of it, Fighti, Chickenruler.”
The two Goblins regarded each other as the Cenidau warriors watched, concerned for completely the wrong reason. They gazed into each other’s eyes, communicating silently.
We have to do it.
Oh, we must.
Then Chickenruler raised his voice.
“A Goblin? Here? Eugh, I cannot even! Damn Goblins, I am so upset!”
He slapped one knee, eyes laughing, as Fighti folded her arms.
“Puts me off my sandwich, so it does. Darn Goblins…”
She shook a fist at Rasktooth, who sniffed the air, frowned, then shook his fist back.
“Hey, you not want that sandwich, you give it to me! It smells really nice!”
The two had fun for all of…well, as long as it took for Rasktooth to stare down at his feet after Fighti threw the sandwich onto the ground and Ylawes to turn, a thunderous frown on his face. Then Fighti felt bad.
Yeah, this isn’t fun. She picked up her sandwich, dusted it off, and turned to Chickenruler. Rigalde and the other Cenidau warriors were frowning like a storm, but the [Wyvern Rider] just hopped up.
“Okay, yep. Let’s go.”
They walked off towards their Wyvern.
 
——
 
Still, Nailren couldn’t place them. He was fighting something. Some kind of information-denial Skill, but whomever had placed it was higher-level than he was.
Level 40? Great. They’re agents or something. Woll’s figured that out, but neither of us want to roil the pot while it’s filled with stew.
Nailren just wanted to know, though. The fact that he could even tell Fighti and Chickenruler were being guarded by a Skill was a product of training, experience, and his own countermethods to being deceived. It was hard to fight this kind of effect.
He was so busy concentrating it was only when Spoony gave his ear a damn hard tug that he yelped and growled. His earring had pulled at the fresh hole.
“Spoony, stop that! What? I’m busy fighting a Skill here!”
He explained, briefly, what was going on and heard a faint tapping sound. From…
Oh, right, his ouija board. He pulled it out and watched the ectoplasm marker skim the board. A passing Human stared at it.
“Dead gods, is that magic? Here?”
“Nope, just a Skill.”
Nailren absently replied, adding up letters. Then his fur stood on end. Because Spoony had just written:
“G-O-B-L-I-N-S.”
His head rose slowly.
“You don’t mean Rasktooth.”
Left ear tug.
‘No.’
He turned his head and tracked the two Drakes who’d gone out to their Frost Wyvern. One had fed it part of his sandwich, and the other was walking back, arms full of something.
“That’s a…”
‘Yes.’
Then he blinked, and the illusion vanished for him. Nailren barely recoiled; he kept his features calm, but his heart began hammering in his chest.
Dead gods.
Under his very nose! And it had beaten him—but not the eyes of a dead woman. He began walking forwards.
“It has to be. There’s only one way—”
Spoony was pulling at his arm, and he realized she was afraid, worried. But he? He was grinning.
“Spoony, I might have to catch you up, but trust me. There’s only one place so silly and Goblin-friendly that they can come from there.”
Sure enough, the female Goblin with the bomber jacket had halted in front of the Silver Swords. She had eggs, ham, flour, salt, everything, and she put it down as Ylawes and Rasktooth stirred from their pot.
“Hey, turns out we have a bit more supplies. Want some?”
Ylawes Byres licked his lips at the bounty, and Falene turned like a hawk, but after a second, the [Knight]’s chin rose.
“Excuse me, Miss…Fighti, was it? But although I’m sure my team would appreciate the vittles, I must refuse to trade with anyone who disparages my teammate.”
Rasktooth sniffed again and gave Fighti a puzzled peek. Nailren realized even the Cave Goblin couldn’t tell it was another Goblin. He poked Ylawes urgently though.
“Captain, Captain, I okay with being disparaged if I get to eat good food…”
Ylawes Byres hesitated, and Nailren saw Fightipilota chuckle. A true, genuine bit of amusement from someone who liked a [Knight]’s stubborn pride on a Goblin’s behalf.
That only made him frown harder, and then it was Fighti’s turn to hesitate. Because—and this was funny to Nailren and no one else—she was playing the anti-Goblin Drake. And now she had to resolve the situation while maintaining her cover for the watchers.
But she didn’t know how. Fighti blew out her cheeks, then paced left, eying Rasktooth as he sat cross-legged outside his shared tent, and Ylawes half-pivoted, putting his body between her and his teammate. Fighti’s eyes flicked to him and his half-outstretched arm.
“I think you should leave, Miss.”
“Hey…wait a second. Maybe I was too hasty. I mean, Goblins. I know Goblins aren’t all, uh, monsters. There’s that inn on television, right? Hey, Chicken, you know that inn?”
“The Wandering Inn? Sure, everyone’s heard about that! Don’t want to get on its bad side, do we?”
The other Goblin bellowed back, and Fighti turned to Ylawes.
“And you’re a bunch of adventurers? The Silver Swords? I swear I’ve heard of your team too. C’mon, we’ve got great food. Hams, eggs, all the good stuff.”
Ylawes’ arms were folded with the pride of House Byres.
“I believe my teammate has been insulted, Miss.”
“Hey! I’m sorry! I’m—Rasktooth, is it?”
Fighti made a show of looking the Cave Goblin over with some hesitation, and then she waved at him.
