The first was an [Alchemist], a Garuda missing half his feathers, who was actually working with the tri-eye rabbit, or rather, its head. He was carefully extracting the eye with a knife and popped it into a flask bubbling over a fire on a corroded metal stand.
The flask was not clean, nor did the harried [Alchemist] seem like he had much to work with. He mashed the eye fast, added water, some dried yellow beetles, what smelled like mint, and two cups of wine. Then he began to strain the mixture out.
“It’s going to last two days once I decant this. Drink half a cup per dose and give it to [Scouts] and [Sentries].”
“Listen, Vebi, if it makes us shit our trousers again—”
A worried Drake accepted the piping hot ‘potion’ as Vebi snapped.
“If it does, you’ll see trouble coming while it happens! Damn—hey, you, you’re with the fliers, right? Do you have any other magical monster parts? I need it. We’ll trade you for it.”
He sprang up and hopped over since he could no longer fly, and Nailren raised his brows.
“You’re an [Alchemist]? How do your potions work without magic?”
Vebi gave him a crazy-eyed stare.
“Badly, and who said there’s no magic? That All-Seeing Rabbit has plenty! There’s magic here; no one wants to believe it, but the animals are generating enough or they can resist whatever’s getting us. It decays the instant they’re dead, though. But I’ve managed to make some potions. Vebi, [Alchemist], I guess, since I left my apprenticeship. What do you have?”
He tore through the things Fighti and Chickenruler had bought from Walt and grabbed everything useful. Neither Goblin stopped Vebi, but Nailren took careful notes of what the [Alchemist] had identified as magical. He was hobbling over to his workstand to see what still had magic in it.
“Sometimes, the potions work even without much magic; it’s not a requirement. It just requires thinking. Not reading damn recipe books and panicking when you can’t perfectly make something!”
He shouted, and that seemed to be aimed at a dozen other [Alchemists] who were standing around, armed with bows or making things out of grass. Unwilling to do what Vebi was doing—which Nailren was pretty sure was heresy by alchemist standards. He squatted down next to the Garuda’s fire.
“You lost your feathers in an accident?”
Vebi grunted.
“Too slow to dodge. I was being a coward at first, but we kept losing people when the monsters attacked or…when someone began having hallucinations after eating the rabbit eye, I knew I had to try something! My potions make you dump whatever you’re eating, but they work. The eye, even the beetles, they all have magic. That potion lets you see further and notice threats. This one, made of those damn leech things? Lets you get something out of blood. Monster blood, animal. Fills you up better than a meal.”
Even by Goblin standards, a blood meal sounded rough. But Nailren just hmmed.
“Who taught you alchemy in Pallass?”
Vebi grinned crookedly.
“None other than Xif himself. But I quit my apprenticeship because I was told I’d have seniors who’d teach me. Fat lot of good they’re doing. I wish I’d paid more attention to Saliss of Lights. This is the kind of alchemy I think he’d do. Madhat stuff. I’ve been trying to remember everything he said whenever he came by to harass Master Xif.”
“Got any recipes we can take back?”
Vebi shrugged.
“Sure. Mash or grind anything magical. Then it’s one of four herbs I have; water, spirits, or wine; and salt, sugar, or charcoal. Mix and match and hope you don’t blow your stand up or someone’s stomach. Argh, I have a book over here with the recipes that work, but I wouldn’t sell any of this!”
Yet he was doing alchemy, and from the way people took his potions, they knew the potions worked. Nailren jerked his head at the rest of the camp.
“You seem like you’re fighting to keep this colony alive, Vebi. How’re the soldiers doing? Who else is holding it together?”
The Garuda grunted.
“The soldiers? You mean retired veterans, low-level idiots, or members of the Watch? They didn’t send anyone high-level with us. A few are decent and levelling. But they would have been all chewed up and eaten by that first shark raid.”
“What kept them from all getting eaten?”
Vebi glanced up as he decanted a second potion into a bottle.
“At first? It was the Wings of Pallass. Gold-rank team. They were doing flybys for everyone in the region. But they stopped—I think they ran into trouble in the air.”
Given the threats up there, Nailren wasn’t surprised. He listened as Vebi described the fliers running scouting missions to find food and even killing animals.
“They stuck around as long as they could, but they had to send some of their teammates off due to injury and because of how much they were losing. Our leadership took them for granted, but it got us mostly here in one piece. As for how we’re still alive? I’d take some credit, but most of it?”
His head jerked over to a lonely figure sitting at the edge of camp.
“They’d tell you it’s Pallassian grit. I say it’s our highest-level non-combat civilian. That’s him over there. The name’s Lorent.”
 
——
 
Lorent the [Sharpener] was working on a sword with a whetstone and other pieces of his trade. And he looked thinner, but the sword he was working on seemed sharper. As if he’d reduced his own body in exchange for the tools he made.
Fighti was a Redfang, and when she saw the edge he put on the blade, she whistled.
“That not going to last. That’s a three-cut blade, then it’ll chip or dull.”
It was too sharp, if that made sense. The sharper an edge you put on a sword, the thinner it had to be, obviously. Too sharp and it’d dull fast. A good sword was actually, at times, semi-blunted so it would cut reliably for a long while.
However, this sword…Lorent just glanced up at her as he replied.
“[Ten Cut Edge]. Then it dulls. Ten will do. Nothing less will cut through shark hide and bone.”
He lifted the sword up and put it on a rack where four more were waiting. Then he went back to sharpening something else. An arrowhead.
Now, Fighti understood how they were alive. She picked up the sword.
“Can I try it on something?”
Lorent gazed up, eyed her, then glanced at her Wyvern and the food she’d brought.
“Once.”
She searched around for a target, then saw some coral wood that had been brought out for fuel. Fighti tried a slash vertically through the wood. Not hard; she didn’t want to break the blade. The sword went halfway through the block and stopped. She blinked, and then she had to lever it out of the wood.
That was way too easy. Rather unnerved, she put the sword back on the rack. Lorent instantly reached over and did something.
She realized there was a weird little item hanging on each sword. A row of beads on a bit of string. He swivelled one around, and she saw it was ten beads white, one black.
“Those idiots swing the sword too many times then chip it. We can’t waste the metal.”
“But they use your sharpened blades?”
The Dullahan’s face was flat, but not emotionless.
“My oversharpened blades. I know my work. They need them. Regular weapons? [Rustless Edge], [Superior Balance], [Quickdraw Coat]. [Three-Coat Sharpening]. These are for high-level monsters. You brought food, thank you. Do you need me to sharpen anything?”
Fighti shook her head; she carried the crossbow as a sidearm, and Chickenruler was just a flier. But Nailren produced his sword and let Lorent work on it and several of his arrows.
“Are you confident in this group’s success?”
“I must be. We are levelling and searching for the right spot to settle.”
“I think I’ve heard of you from Pallass, Lorent. Do you remember The Wandering Inn?”
For a second, the Dullahan’s fingers stopped moving the blade over the whetstone. He glanced up, and his impassive face shifted slightly.
“Yes. Erin Solstice. Someone came to us and said she fought a war at sea. Pallass’ [Mages] found the broadcast. She stabbed a [Prince] through the back, armor and all, with a kitchen knife. I remember that knife; it was forged so well. So beautifully with only a single flaw. It was a crime not to make it as good as could be. I only had to maintain it twice.”
He stared ahead, then handed Nailren’s sword back to the Gnoll.
“I saw that. And I realized that was why I levelled that night. They said he was an important [Prince]. And that she helped a Goblin Lord; a monster. These things may be true.”
The [Sharpener]’s eyes gleamed for one second, and he stared at something else.
“…But that was a beautiful knife. An edge like no other. If I could put such an edge on perfect metal—it must all be sharper. Blades that can do what magic cannot.”
He got back to work and, after a moment, glanced up at them.
“I’ll sharpen more things if you can bring back food. Do you need anything else?”
They did not. Nailren got up and walked back, and Fighti poked him.
“He, uh, looks a bit crazy.”
Nailren nodded.
“They need a bit of crazy right now. Better to let him work and hope he doesn’t lose himself in his class. But this is counterlevelling. We should go before they begin to demand things of us.”
 
——
 
Leaving the Pallassian group was hard on multiple levels. They did indeed try to pull rank on the ‘lesser Drake city’, which worked not at all, but the real problem was when they asked if some of the children could be transported. Even to Nombernaught.
That put Fighti and Chickenruler in a bind, and the two argued; not only was an air-trip dangerous, but they were setting a precedent, and they could not play passenger delivery across the New Lands. Nailren was not in favor of accepting.
“If you do this, you’ll make yourself a target.”
He got a glare from Fighti and folded his arms.
“Children are one thing, but you might run into more spiders in the sky or worse, and they’ll panic, and you don’t know how to handle them. If you let children, what about Lady Haviet? Where do you make a distinction? They’re safe enough here.”
In the end, the children themselves decided the matter. When they heard they might have to leave the expedition, half hid or clung to adults. They didn’t want to go.
It left a sour taste in Fighti’s mouth for a long time afterwards. It was too familiar to a Goblin—only, this wasn’t a good tribe. Goblin children were always in danger, but a good tribe at least gave them a chance. Or didn’t have many to begin with, like the Redfangs.
That left her less keen to meet with other groups, and thus, it was almost a relief when the next group they flew over made it clear they didn’t want company.
 
——
 
“Whoa!”
Fighti recoiled as something shot past her face. At height, no less! She and Nailren had just been speculating what the burnt-out campsite they’d spotted from above meant. Attack? Fire gone wrong? Or just wasteful campers?
Was this group from that campsite or just another one? She stared down, and a group of eighteen Humans were milling about. One had thrown something at them!
“Evasive! That’s a throwing Skill!”
Nailren snapped, and Coldcream threw out one wing and shot right. Chickenruler spat curses.
“Those aspat idiots nearly hit us! Coldcream, poop on them!”
“Just fly on, Chickenruler! That was some throw!”
It had to have gone nearly two hundred feet, and it’d been fast. What was it? Fighti stared down and saw someone had a…spear? It seemed crude, but the [Thrower] was in the center of a circle, aiming, pointing back at them…Fighti put her finger on the trigger of her Thunderbow. But after a second, the arm lowered, and she relaxed. Then the figures began waving up at her.
Mistake? Chickenruler was urging Coldcream onwards, and Fighti glanced at Nailren. He put a paw to his ear.
[Remote Eavesdropping]. [Ignore Ambient Sound]…
The [Clandestine Chieftain] still couldn’t hear from that far away, not with the wind against him and at such a remove. However, someone did have the ability to dive down and listen.
Spoony. He didn’t realize the ghost was gone until the ouija board began to vibrate. Then Nailren realized she was transcribing the conversation.
 
——
 
“Stop! Stop, you idiots! It’s not a wild one! There are people on there!”
Too late. Zamie’s arm had gone back, and the [Javelin Thrower] hurled one of the crude spears skywards. It almost hit the…flying lizard. Everyone saw it roll left, and then they were arguing.
“Don’t throw anything! We have to get their attention!”
“There’s weird Dragon-people on there. Do you see that?”
“Don’t throw! Don’t—hey! We’re down here! Help! Please!”
After a second, everyone began waving and shouting, but it was too late. The two scaly-people and the furry one were flying away. It wasn’t Zamie’s fault; he’d thought it was another wild monster.
But it drove Londie to tears. He could barely walk, and Mecody had to come back after running for half a mile, trying to get the Dragon-thing to land, to help him up. Londie sat, not from just despair, exhaustion, or hunger, though these things were all weighing on them.
Lost. Trapped in this other world or place, like the rest of the Spirited Generation. But it wasn’t uninhabited. They’d just lost their best and only chance of help, though. And they needed help.
Even if they had these…classes and levels. What good was one of the world’s best javelin throwers or an ultramarathoner out here?
No…Mecody might make it if he took off running. But he wouldn’t. Londie…he kept feeling at his side, at an intake port on the side of his stomach and for medication that was rapidly running out.
Earthers, newly arrived, eighteen of them. Among them, a [Javelin Thrower], a [Marathoner]…and a [Diabetic].
But it wasn’t a story the two Goblins and Gnoll knew. They kept flying.
 
——
 
You didn’t stop running into people even when you went deeper into the New Lands. Not all had come from the west; many had landed on other parts of the coast, but those tended to be non-Izrilians. But there was a trend for who was going to make it and who was not.
A lot of Chandrarians occupied the south to southwest of the New Lands. Lots of kingdoms shouting up at Fighti to land or offering her servitude for her services to King This or Exalted Queen That.
She didn’t care for them exactly. Some of the forces who’d landed were no expeditions, either, but miniature armies complete with [Soldiers] and more. She avoided those groups; not worth tangling with nations.
