However, you got to sensing trends in survivability. Adaptive groups always seemed to have something they’d found out about the New Lands; the ones who gave Fighti a doomed feeling were just pushing on ahead, wearing themselves down to find the ‘treasure’ she doubted existed here. At least in such terms.
You either found something useful or you yourself were hardy enough to survive. Or both.
“This is a Sandleech. That’s what we call it. Lives in the sand. Eats blood. Regenerates. Like a Hydra.”
“Um…no. Not like a Hydra. And it’s edible?”
“Sure is.”
A smiling young woman with a nose so badly broken it was visibly twisted left sliced a huge piece out of the Sandleech, which was brown, pulsating, and barely bled. She flipped it into a pot, and it began to burn.
“Sorry, you have to char it up until it’s black. Might get sick otherwise. Just wait until it’s black on all sides and inside.”
She poked through the Sandleech to ventilate it, and the resulting mess was so black and overdone that Fighti assumed anything nasty in it was well and truly cooked. And it probably tasted better than the—
Here was the thing. She was a Goblin. She ate nasty foods, but she was also a Redfang and used to a bit of standards, since they hunted.
The Sandleech was bad food. Even by Goblin standards. The oozing, nasty thing was already clotting its wounds and curled around its prey—one of the leech-sucker things, which was all-but dead and being drained of fluids.
“So you feed it on other monsters?”
“Whatever we find, Miss. We think it’s great for surviving long-term. How about half of one for a big bag of salt? It doesn’t matter which side you slice, it’ll regenerate. Or our Landshrimps?”
Those Fighti was familiar with; the mobile Landshrimps were scavengers that ate bugs and bits of stuff too. There was a huge cage of them dangling from one of the caravans in….
Frontier Caravan #3. She recognized that naming convention, and Fighti suspected that none of them were going to be normal. This ‘Lord Calidus’ had made a pretty interesting caravan here.
It was mostly young men and women, all Human, and all pretty cheerful. Not crazy cheerful like the nut-people of Caravan #4, but just…upbeat.
“How’d you get out this far?”
“Oh, you know, Miss. Jogged. We were keen on getting out here. Making a fortune. We’ve been hunting and whatnot. Still not sure how you gut animals properly. Is that how you skin stuff? We can cut things up, but that’s fascinating.”
Nailren was demonstrating proper gutting technique to a pair of young men who’d nailed a Corusdeer. Two neat holes in its head showed Fighti they had good archery Skills. Not a lot of common sense.
“So you’re okay for food?”
They wanted salt and other basics like oil, but food was fine. The young woman beamed.
“Sure are. We fish, hunt, ‘n so on! Fishing was hard, but we got the knack. Nice hole over here too.”
They had a little outpost near a ravine of rocks that were infested with the Landshrimps and a pond. Pretty idyllic; the young woman jogged over to the pond, then pointed.
“There’s these lovely fish here! Have you ever seen the like?”
“Sure. Trout.”
“Wow. Trout.”
The young woman breathed as she peered at the very ordinary fish swimming around. Fighti eyed her, and the young woman hesitated.
“I mean, unless they’re common?”
“Oh, no. Just where I live. I, uh, knew a group that lived in a place where it rains all the time. They love fish.”
“Of course! Well, here, let me get you one. You can eat all you want. Even two trouts for dinner!”
She bent over the pool as the fish darted around, and Fighti glanced around for a fishing rod.
“I don’t know if we have time t—”
Splash. The young woman’s hand darted down, and she yanked two fish out of the water in a single motion. They landed, flopping, on the ground, and Fighti’s jaw dropped.
“Whoa. That’s fast!”
The young woman picked up the fish, beaming, then hesitated.
“It is? I mean, I have a Skill.”
“Right. Still very fast. Uh, thank you. I’ll trade that for some salt!”
“We can pay for the rest. Here. Is this enough?”
Two fish and fifteen gold coins appeared for the medium-sized bag of salt that Fighti was about to hand over. The Goblin stopped, eyed the gold, and blinked at the young woman.
“Is this a joke?”
The young woman hesitated. The two youths learning how to properly butcher a deer glanced up, and Nailren turned. He cupped his paws to his mouth and shouted.
“Fighti, stop projecting your Drake economics on other cultures! She’s from a city, you see.”
The young woman’s face had gone anxious, but she relaxed as Fighti turned to Nailren and threw a fish head at him. Then she faced the young woman again.
“That guy, he’s always so judgey. Fine. I think you’re overpaying…why don’t I take three gold coins, eh? It’s pricey, but we’re not that mean.”
“Oh, of course. Three gold coins. How much d’you think the salt would be worth in a regular city?”
“Uh…one gold coin if it was low stock?”
“How many fish per gold coin?”
“…Sixty?”
“Sixty? But you can survive without salt, not fish!”
“That’s true, but—you know what? That’s a good point. I like your logic.”
It was proper Goblin logic. The young woman asked a few more questions, and Fighti managed to vouchsafe that there were things called fishing rods that she was sure their group could improvise. They were only about thirty strong and seemed well-supplied. The young woman stood there as the two young men came over.
“Fishing rods. You know, I saw them on a ship once. Of course! I thought you just used the hooks to hit anyone you didn’t like!”
She laughed, and so did another of the young men. The third one, who had a nasty scar across his nose that made Fighti wonder if he had nasal problems, just grunted.
“Aime, don’t you think we’re taking up too much of these good people’s time?”
“What? They’re nice, Locklas, and they’re Drakes. From around the High Passes. They’re not—judgey. You’re not, are you?”
Aime turned to Fightipilota, and for a second, her eyes went round and shone with a bright, searching gaze. Fighti had the distinct impression she was being sized up and went still. Her Skill was ready to go, but whatever Aime saw—she smiled.
“We’re just out here trying to make a new start like everyone else. Thank the nice Gnoll, Locklas.”
“Hmpf. Good job. Here’s your pay.”
The young man with a scarred nose turned to Nailren and shoved some coins at him, but the Gnoll waved it away with a smile. He touched Locklas’ shoulder, or tried to; the young man recoiled fast.
“Listen. Sometimes we help each other out out here without pay, yes? We are all friends in the New Lands.”
“Friends.”
Aime murmured, and the second young man, who hadn’t spoken until now, smiled. He opened his mouth, revealing a lack of a tongue, and bared his teeth. Fighti grinned at him.
Who the heck are these people? She was just asking what this group had seen or done when there was a whistling sound. Instantly, Locklas whirled.
“Snakes.”
Fighti turned, and the biggest damn snake she’d ever seen, with black scales and white speckled diamonds of color around its eyes, slithered out of some bushes. There were a few more whistles, a thunk—a second snake slithered halfway out of the bushes then curled up.
Someone had chopped it in half. Aime tsked.
“I thought we killed the entire nest! Watch out, Miss Fighti, Mister Nailren, they’re venomous.”
“Must be a new nest. Maybe we should raise them?”
“They’re too violent! Get back—”
Fighti and Nailren were running fast towards Coldcream, who was lashing the ground with his tail and standing up. Fighti saw more snakes appear as the rest of Caravan #3 appeared and began hacking them up. Without much fear for the striking serpents, and for good reason—as the first one slithered towards Aime, it opened its mouth, revealing two dripping fangs, and lunged.
She did a double backflip over the snake as it struck through where her midsection had been, landed, and slashed with a knife backhanded.
She took the snake’s head off in a spray of blood, and Fighti stopped and stared as Aime, tsking, kicked the still-convulsing body aside. Then she smiled at Fighti as if nothing had happened.
“Can I buy a second bag of salt for some snake meat and hide?”
 
——
 
Fightipilota sold two bags of salt and other supplies to Aime and her group and waited until they were well in the air to start screaming.
“Who were they?”
Nailren glanced down.
“[Assassins]. Did you notice they had a brand on their bodies they’d covered up or removed? Locklas had one on his hand. Aime had a circular mark on her back.”
“What about the guy without a tongue?”
“I suspect it was there.”
Fightipilota shuddered.
“I didn’t know [Assassins] had brands!”
“Regular ones in a Guild don’t. But Ranks do. I suspect those were all new [Assassins]. They get sent from Roshal and spend their childhoods learning to kill. Hence them not having much common sense around anything. Best guess? They murdered everyone else and they’re pretending to be regular colonists.”
Fightipilota’s skin crawled as she stared back at the camp. She didn’t deny they weren’t regular people, but turned to Nailren.
“How are thirty [Assassins] part of a caravan group to the New Lands?”
“You’d have to ask Lord Calidus Reinhart.”
Nailren replied calmly. Fighti shuddered as she resolved never to let Coldcream and Chickenruler land around that caravan. They hadn’t been murdered, which suggested Aime wasn’t just killing everyone her band came across, but still.
[Assassins]?
 
——
 
Aime watched the Drakes and Gnoll fly off before she rubbed at her broken nose.
“That went well. I liked them. Told you they weren’t working for Lailight Scintillation.”
Locklas uncocked his handcrossbow as several other members of Caravan #3 emerged from cover where they’d been ready to take the Wyvern down.
“They could have been there to search for us.”
“We have Lord Calidus’ promise. We’ve seen Wyverns flying; they probably were on delivery. This isn’t poisoned, anyways. See? Yum.”
She was eating salt out of the bag. Locklas jerked the bag out of her hand and gave it to Hikife, who was tongueless.
“You use it on meat. You’re too trusting, Aime. They were under some kind of concealment spell or Skill.”
“They didn’t want to report us. I used my Skill. [Sight Captors] doesn’t lie, or they’d have been so high-level we’d have all died. Cannibal?”
One of the highest-level members of their group, who were indeed Ranks meant for the Assassin’s Guild, was a Human with sharp teeth. The young man sat there, playing with his shortbow.
“[Foe Appraisal] said that if we tried it, the little Drake would have killed us all if we didn’t drop her in a moment. Leave it. If they come back, they come back. Why didn’t she want the Sandleech?”
“She said it was too nasty. Weird, right?”
Aime chewed on the blackened piece of meat. It tasted good to her—in that it was food. Kept you alive. But everything in the New Lands tasted good to her. Snakes, Landshrimp, even water.
They were free. The Ranks had been worried when they’d eliminated the rest of the caravan when they wanted to turn back—they’d been assigned as guards, but their Slave Marks had all died in the New Lands. They’d thought they were free—until Lord Calidus had revealed he had been keeping an eye on them via a Skill.
However, he’d been highly amused and claimed this was within his predictions for how their particular caravan might have ended up and cut them a deal. If they found him something worthwhile in the New Lands, he’d pretend they were ordinary caravanners and wipe their names from the Assassin’s Guild registry.
Thus far, it hadn’t been that hard, a few monsters aside. Better than the Wishing Well. Aime sat down and put her feet in the pond. You could do that and no one would beat you for weakness.
“Fishing poles. Did you know they existed?”
Cannibal and Locklas shook their heads, but Hikife nodded.
“Why didn’t you say anything?”
Everyone laughed at that. Then Locklas raised a hand.
“The Gnoll had lots of interesting advice. Like not eating all the intestines of animals unless you clean them. He also warned me to use protection if I have sex.”
“What kind of protection? A knife? There’s no Masters around, so that’s not an issue, right?”
Aime twisted around to frown at him, and Locklas sat and began chewing on some snake bones.
“Dunno. So Sandleeches aren’t valuable. Snakes aren’t that valuable. Landshrimps aren’t that valuable?”
“Not as much as some gold.”
They stared at the coins Aime jingled in her palm and looked around.
“So what’s valuable, then? Gold? Where does gold come from?”
“Merchant’s Guilds? Maybe we should dig and find gemstones. We should have had Aime ask how planting works.”
“Ha! I told you it was a good idea not to kill them! Hikife, pass the salt.”
 
——
 
They were on what Chickenruler guessed was the last two days of their trip to Nombernaught, having resumed more-or-less their regular flight path. After the Super Wyvern encounter, he’d amended his flight path permanently to avoid their territory—this was the second incident with them in those canyons.
Detouring whenever Nailren wanted to see something had taken time, but they were getting close to Nombernaught when they saw something odd.
“Hey. There’s that frozen area we talked about.”
Nailren craned his neck.
“Strange. I’d assume it was in the north, not in the middle of the New Lands. Well, more to the west coast now, unless you were off.”
Chickenruler scratched his chin.
“No, we close to Nombernaught now. Weird. It moved.”
“It didn’t move, you’re just old, Chickenruler.”
Fighti argued. She folded her arms as he glared at her.
“I remembered where that tower was, and the melty-rocks part.”
“Okay, true, the river of lava was there, not where I thought. But it can’t move.”
The ‘cold zone’ was a swirling snowstorm of weather, and the Goblins objected to it being mobile because, well, it was winter. In spring! They weren’t ignorant of places where snow never melted, but that was where it was either cold, like Cenidau or the Iron Vanguard’s lands in Baleros, or high.
“It’s supposed to be in those foothills north of even the half-Elves. So we’re either way off-course or it moved.”
Chickenruler pointed out the obvious, and Fighti scratched her head. She stared into the vortex.
“…Okay, let’s think. Maybe it’s a snowstorm. One that just…moves?”
“We know magical storms can exist. Why not magical snowstorms?”
