“Not Wyverns. They have something in them that inflates and deflates. Makes them light. It’s how they dive so fast; they turn it off and boom. Super heavy. But it means it takes energy to keep going high. Easier to stay low-ish. Mana drain gets Wyverns too, and if something does come up, eh, we usually have a minute at least.”
Nailren nodded.
“The Thunderbow’s your first offense?”
Chickenruler called back.
“First offense is [Burst of Speed]! Or [Bond: Noxious Fart]!”
He cackled as Coldcream huffed, embarrassed, and Fighti whispered.
“That’s his actual Skill. I’m second-offense. I shoot, we dodge. We might go upside down or something. You a good shot with the bow?”
“I’m better stationary at long ranges, but yes, I can ride and shoot.”
“Good. Aim for wings.”
Nailren glanced around.
“Most [Wyvern Riders] would have similar precautions and gear and fly in a full wing. Your trump card that you think will keep you safe…let’s say something bypasses all of our defences. How fast can you activate it?”
She grinned.
“Very fast. Then I have five seconds.”
He paused.
“To activate or…”
“To kill or hurt whatever’s coming at us. Chickenruler runs, and I attack, then catch up. If I fall, I stay in cover until you find me. Fly off if you have to.”
Nailren blinked at Fightipilota, and she bared her teeth.
“Not sure if it’s a good trump card?”
“Just wondering if I’ll get to see it.”
She hmmed as Chickenruler glanced over his shoulder with Coldcream.
“Maybe. Maybe. You good at keeping secrets? We are trusting you.”
Nailren smiled.
“I’m the best at keeping secrets. If we’re on the same side or not opposed, rest assured, they’re kept.”
“Which side is that? Your team’s?”
“Gnolls and Goblins.”
“Oh. The big sides.”
“Yes. Some might say that we’re not obliged to be on those sides, and that’s fair. I’ve chosen that point of view.”
Fighti nodded, resting her feet up for a bit.
“I think those are good sides. I like yours. I think Chieftain Rags does too. Well, we’ll see if I need to use it. Like right now if you two don’t stop staring and pull up!”
They were diving again and nearly hit a tall hill of rocks before they got over it. Fighti sighed.
 
——
 
The first night’s camp with Nailren was pleasant; the Gnoll pointed out those coral tree patches and helped set up a fire and tarp for Coldcream to sleep under and hide from other predators. Everyone was keen on not finding out what preyed on Frost Wyverns.
Nailren even broke out some honey to eat with the Cenidau bread, and a little pot of gumbo from the remainder of fresh food that the two Goblins had brought filled the stomach nicely.
There wasn’t much to do at night other than keep an eye out. Nailren offered to, but Fighti waved it off.
“We’re fine. There’s a reason Chickenruler is the one who flies New Lands. It takes a bunch of Redfangs and two Wyverns without him. He’s a [Paranoid Sleeper].”
“Super paranoid. I have lots of Goblin Skills. Good at staying alive. Eleven years. I’m like 88 in Human years.”
Nailren’s brows rose, but he nodded.
“I also have Spoony. She’ll alert me if there’s trouble. You can guard, right, Spoony?”
“YES.”
She pointed on the board, and Fighti shivered. He really was crazy. And practical! He even set up a little rope trap; just some rope strung around with heavy stones that’d slow anything coming their way. That done, they settled down.
Aside from lookout and conversation, once you were done with that, it was time to rest. You tended towards early mornings and early sleeping in the wild. Unless you had some business at night.
Fighti fidgeted as they were lying down. She coughed.
“Eh, Chickenruler.”
He had a sleeping mask on his eyes, and he lifted it as Coldcream wore a huge version of the same.
“Wat.”
“Um, well, we’re sleeping and obviously it’s very bad if we jumped, but it’s not long till midnight. So…do you think we’re mostly safe?”
He gave her a long, studying look, then eyed Nailren.
“Sure, with our Gnoll friend.”
“Okay. Well, then, maybe I’ll…”
“Yeah, yeah.”
Chickenruler waved her off. Fightipilota went hopping out of their shelter excitedly, searching for an open spot. Nailren’s brows rose.
“It’s dark out there.”
“Dark better be afraid of her right now. You look up, maybe you see her.”
That was the enigmatic comment from the older Goblin. Nailren was stepping out of the shelter when he sensed and heard something—strange.
A roaring sound like nothing he’d heard before. He flinched back as wind struck his face, heart pounding, and aimed a bow up. He saw—something—soaring upwards, saw the flash of moonlight on a metallic surface, and his nose smelled something foul and acrid, but not quite like what he’d noticed around Russell.
“What was—”
Five seconds. For five seconds, something split the night, silencing bugs, fading away as it went up, up, up—so high he couldn’t imagine the velocity. Then it stopped, and a hush fell over the world.
Nailren stared upwards, but whatever it was was gone. When he walked back into the camp, Chickenruler’s eyemask was off his face, and he and Coldcream were staring up.
“What was that? Is it a secret?”
Chickenruler glanced at Nailren and sat back in the little hammock he’d strung up.
“Eh, she probably didn’t want to show you in the dark. If we see trouble, you see it. Sure, it secret. Everything secret. What you think?”
“I…don’t know what to think. I’ve never heard that or seen that in my life.”
Nailren sat, shaken, wondering where Fighti was. Had she sent something up?
Chickenruler just smiled as he lay there.
“Good. That means it all ours.”
“Where’s Fighti?”
“She coming down.”
Now, Nailren went out again, and he had to stare up for a while before he saw the odd, oblong shape in the air. He watched as the parachute steered itself towards their camp, and then she landed amidst the coral foliage.
“Fuck. Ow. Damn.”
She crashed down, and he went to cut her out, but then the parachute vanished and Fighti strode back into camp. She was breathless, eyes bright with delight, and innocently walked over to her hammock as he stood there. Chickenruler was already snoring, or pretending to. Nailren saw her catch his eye.
“What?”
There was mischief in her grin as she lay back down. Nailren just exhaled and sat down.
Dead gods. He had to stop smiling every day or he was going to make a habit of it.
 
——
 
Fightipilota’s great Skill, the one that had taken another world to create, made her one of the deadliest things in the sky…for five seconds.
Actually, five point six seconds, she was fairly certain; she’d hit Level 18, and it seemed to be pushing her Skill higher. She could use her Skill every day, and it was…powerful.
There was no other word for it. Her Skill was the only reason she and Chickenruler were allowed to fly solo, or at all, in the New Lands. With that said, it was far from invincible.
5.6 seconds was a long, long time for anything she didn’t like. But her Skill was balanced by a few factors, and the time limit was actually the least of her concerns. Fighti saved her Skill for nightfall as a treat if she could, but it was far from guaranteed.
She knew it probably scared Nailren. She knew it scared Chickenruler and Coldcream to some extent. It…okay, everyone who saw and understood what her Skill did treated her like a monster.
It was weird to go from being the silly Goblin with dreams of flight and a funny name to one of the Flooded Waters Tribe’s biggest weapons. And that was what she was, wasn’t she?
A weapon.
True, she was good at flying the New Lands. Fighti thought she had a good personality, could crack jokes, put in her fair share in any task, and so on, but she was battle now. She had been a flier.
There was a difference. Here was that difference: Naumel, the Kraken Eater’s [Chieftain], and Redscar.
Naumel was a beast in combat, able to regenerate, with amazing tactical abilities, and he had thrown down with even Named-rankers. He was unquestionably the Goblin you wanted when there was blood and danger.
Outside of danger, Naumel was no one’s favorite Goblin, even among the Kraken Eaters. He was lazy. He didn’t train, he had bad hygiene—
“And he farts.”
“He does? I thought he just stink.”
The conversation as the trio flew over the Eternal Grasslands tended towards gossip. Fighti and Chickenruler had to holler at each other normally, which precluded long conversations. But Nailren had offered to try and man the Thunderbow, which let the two Goblins gossip.
He was still getting used to flying, and the revelation about Fighti’s abilities, but he sat, able to hear them, if disinclined to join their conversation. Fighti thought he was paying attention, though. Their eyes roamed the sea of yellow grass, and she could well imagine how Russell’s group had been stuck here so long.
Coldcream flew fast with Rags’ and Chickenruler’s Skills, and it’d still take at least another full day of travel to get out of this area. On foot, where you might go in a circle? She wondered if there was anything to eat here. It didn’t look like it, nor did it have many of those Sea Gardens that Nailren talked about.
You either have to hunt, have your own provisions, or have something that eats grass or you’re dead or eating the grass yourself. Dark. Anyways—she leaned on Chickenruler’s seat and shouted.
“No, he has farting competitions! His Fomirelin? Some are clean. Others are gross. So big they say, ‘why bother cleaning when it all get dirty’? Yuck.”
“I not hang out with them.”
“Yeah, well, I have to since they respect me. Naumel sucks. No one likes him. Even his Kraken Eaters like our people better.”
“Really?”
Chickenruler was close to an original Flooded Waters tribe Goblin; he hadn’t been from Rags’ first, tiny tribe, but he’d been absorbed before the Redfangs, so he had a lot of pride. Fighti felt the same and nodded importantly.
“Snapjaw is very popular because she’s a Fomirelin. Also everyone knows her teeth are sexy.”
“Oh yah. Nothing like someone who can eat half a Corusdeer in a bite. But she and Badarrow are very nice.”
“True…she had to kick a few idiots who didn’t care. There’s also Prixall.”
“Everyone like a good hat. And mask. Let me guess, Poisonbite not very popular?”
“Hah! She tried flirting with a Fomirelin lady and got laughed at. Very hilarious. Everyone likes Student Rags, and Kraken Eaters really like Gothica.”
“Ergh. Glad they working with us if Naumel not that popular. They really not like him?”
“His tribe eats green meat. Once he got his butt kicked by Chieftain Rags, they decided they can fight with us and not eat spoiled food. Besides, all Naumel does is laze. He doesn’t train since he thinks you should fight at least once a week in a life-or-death struggle. Chieftain Rags has him killing monsters and he’s still bored. So he just sits, complains, eats, watches the scrying orb, or has sex.”
“…Sounds like a Redfang. Stop kicking my seat! Stop kicking my—”
Fighti stopped. She folded her arms.
“He made like sixteen babies already.”
“Arcsinger’s arrow in my eye. That way too many!”
“Yeah, well, he stopped when Chieftain Rags said he has to help raise them. Kraken Eaters love making babies. Lots of them kept bugging me about it. That’s how they think. ‘If you’re strong, babies gotta be stronger’.”
She harrumphed. Then sat there and gave voice to that feeling.
“It’s just…that’s Naumel, you know? Everyone tolerates him because he’s a good weapon. Not a good person. But Redscar, he’s all good. Everyone likes Redscar.”
“Eh, he okay.”
“No, you know what I mean! He’s teaching Goblins all his lessons from the [Palace of Fates]. For fun, he’s experimenting with swords, training, trying new techniques out—Goblins want to be him. He’s the reason the Redfangs aren’t just…part of the Flooded Waters tribe. He’s keeping us alive. He’s a weapon and a person. And I’m more like Naumel, I guess.”
She said that quietly, but Chickenruler twisted in his seat.
“You not. Everyone know Fightipilota, everyone knows you brought back good stuff from New Lands. They say to me all the time, ‘that Fighti, she crazy, but she good! Now she got her class that’s great.’”
“No one says that. Don’t lie, Chickenruler.”
“They do! They do!”
“Name one person who said that.”
“Uh, well, Gothica.”
Fighti didn’t dignify that with a response. She just stared down at the grasslands and saw Wyverns falling from the sky. Little crosshairs dancing over their [Riders] begging her to stop, screaming at her as she shot their hearts out from under them.
Skies filled with smoke and flaming planes plunging down and the Goblin King howling. Her fingers twitched as Chickenruler glanced at her. What she didn’t say was that the reason Rags made her liaison with so many of the new Goblins was because Fighti could boss everyone around.
Kraken Eaters, future Goblins, even Naumel would eye her and listen. They had all seen what she carried.
A bit of Ragathsi of Civilization’s madness. A piece of her burning, mechanical heart and the death it spat across nations. A weapon from the future was what Fighti had stolen from the [Palace of Fates]. She didn’t regret it; they needed her power.
But she had just wanted to fly. Chickenruler was pursing his lips.
“So, uh—glad Rianchi okay. Fightipilota, hey, you know, not every newcomer is bad. Many of those Trolls, they’re deep thinkers. Not big on talking until you get them going. And Cazmaw, well, he dumb as his Chieftain, but we got to talking one time. He sort of admire you. Maybe when we get back he gives you a watermelon and you show him around?”
“Bleh.”
“Well, okay, yeah. He only into you for your Skill, and he huge. But, uh—”
Fighti leaned over the Wyvern’s wing and pointed down.
“Hey. There’s another group. Let’s say hello.”
She was grateful for the interruption. So was Chickenruler, and they banked downwards. It wasn’t hard to see a group if they were flying over them in the grasslands. But most that Fighti had seen were not doing well.
 
——
 
[Merchants] looking weary, underfed, and pushing wagons through the unpaved terrain. Exhausted adventurers asking for a lift. Colonist groups begging for a landmark, anything—
And a very cheerful group of smiling Humans. Fighti almost told Chickenruler to fly the moment they saw all the smiles. It felt like a trap.
“Hello, hello and welcome to Frontier Caravan #4! We’re settling this outpost in the name of House Reinhart and Lord Calidus! Can I offer you a cup of rainwater? Peanut? Almond? Dekac? Treepopper?”
