Every eye focused on Fightipilota, and she did not elaborate. What was crazy was that clearly, most of the regulars of the inn believed her.
Petia and Homle were whispering to each other.
“Did that Drake kiss that Goblin? And they all know each other from Liscor?”
“I think so, Homle. They must be mad up there, or very, very odd.”
“They did say they were next to the Yoldenites.”
“True. That explains a lot, actually.”
 
——
 
Another stranger came over as Fighti and Chickenruler were furnishing the Silver Swords with some of their best supplies. Russell had been gazing at the Frost Wyvern nonstop, just…admiring the way its scales flexed and articulated with every subtle movement. Even watching Coldcream poop and once again affirming that this could not be any animatronic from his world.
He hadn’t known what to make of the two Drakes. And he was still a bit—shy after last night. But when Ylawes turned, the [Knight] instantly strode over.
“That’s right! Fighti—this young man is a friend of ours. Russell, meet Fightipilota, a very trustworthy, very capable representative from the spot I was telling you about.”
The inn? And that name—Russell’s instincts pricked at him again, and the strange Drake woman eyed him, sniffed, and seemed to put her guard up at once. Russell’s free hand twitched, and for some reason, the two tensed.
Then Ylawes, with all the subtlety of a drunken hippo tap-dancing on a table, leaned over and whispered.
“She’s a Goblin, Russell. Her tribe is a friend of Erin.”
The [Gunslinger] recoiled as the illusion vanished. Fightipilota blinked up at him as his jaw worked.
Lenora, Arnie, Chester, and Honarai hesitated as they came over, but Ylawes just turned to Fightipilota with such a genuine smile that Russell’s understanding of this fantasy world had to adjust again.
Our classic hero of heroes is friends with Goblins. Just like Erin Solstice said. It wasn’t an opinion shared by many, clearly, but Russell was receptive to the idea. Any time observing Rasktooth and Infinitypear, overhearing their dialogue, and Russell had a hard time thinking all Goblins were like Orcs.
Plus, if you knew anything about the behind-the-scenes of the Lord of the Ring’s writing, then you knew that Tolkien, a religious man, had often worried about the Orcs not being redeemable. When Fighti introduced herself to the Earthers, they all jumped, but Drakes and Gnolls were so outlandish as to make Goblins actually more relatable to their notions of fantasy. Arnie put it back.
“So it’s World of Warcraft instead of Lord of the Rings. Got it. Do you all serve an Evil Emperor or Demon King? How many evolutions do you have?”
Chickenruler and Fighti eyed him. Fighti had just as quick a reaction to meeting the Humans.
“These the new Earthers?”
Falene nodded, and Fighti rolled her eyes.
“Oooh, fun. How about we come back in three months when they’re all Coach Josephs, not Drunk Josephs? Unless—wait, we’re not doing passengers back to the inn!”
She glowered at Ylawes, and the [Knight] protested.
“They landed in the middle of the New Lands, and they’ve been wandering around for at least a month, Fighti! We were giving them directions back to Liscor, but we can’t go there ourselves…”
She was rubbing at her face as Russell eyed her, still wondering why she put his guard up. But Fighti was grumbling.
“We didn’t bring enough seats or belts! We have three. We could maybe tie a fourth up, but you don’t want to do a harness with rope. It snaps and then—”
She made a gesture, and Russell paled at the implications. Chester went dead white. He backed up a step, which already told Russsell the [Candidate] was highly acrophobic. Besides which, Russell shook his head.
“I reckon we should go on foot, anyways. A bunch of Humans flying with two Drakes stands out. Maybe some of us—”
But I’m not riding all the way to Liscor. Russell wanted to see Izril’s south. Instantly, Honarai began arguing for a ride, but Lenora turned to the Silver Swords.
“I’d stay too, if we could learn from the Silver Swords.”
The first group of people they’d ever met were adventurers and trustworthy. After Russell’s meeting with Ylawes, everyone was glued to the Silver Swords. Arnie himself agreed.
“You don’t leave the trainers and the tutorial group. They’re going to teach us magic and swordplay!”
“I’m not flying.”
That last part came from Chester, and Fightipilota put in drily.
“We’re not flying anyone back to Liscor, anyways. We’re headed to Nombernaught, and unless you want to go there…we’ll figure this out on our way back. Especially since a lot of you have the [Poo Explosion] Skill, and that’s not going away anytime soon.”
That did settle that. Russell stood there, asking questions of Chickenruler about his Frost Wyvern. He actually even got close enough to feed Coldcream a piece of ham; the Wyvern licked it out of his hand, and the barbed tongue reminded Russell of a cat.
“How does it stay aloft? And those scales—how tough are they?”
Not that he had any inclination of tangling with a Wyvern, but the more Chickenruler explained how Wyverns had some kind of internal balloon that made them almost weight-negative and how they hunted from above, the more glad Russell was that he hadn’t gone anywhere near a nest.
If my bolt-action even goes through their scales, I’d need to hit their heads, and there’s no guarantee I’d kill them even if I had a perfect shot. The idea of Wyverns just dropping at you out of the sky…he’d have to keep his head up.
Beautiful, though. Coldcream nuzzled Chickenruler’s hand, and the [Wyvern Rider] grinned—right up until Arnie came over to ask about whether or not you needed a crystal or collar or something to tame the Wyverns. He seemed exceptionally disappointed when Chickenruler told him he had to capture a Wyvern then win their trust and affection.
“Is there like a gauge or stat you can see? I guess I’ll have to pierce the veil first before I can play around with the internal mechanics of the world.”
Chickenruler eyed Arnie as he went over to keep asking Falene for magical lessons. Russell shifted on one foot.
“Sorry about that.”
“Yah. You definitely new here. Don’t talk like that to actual Drakes. Or anyone who has animal friends.”
The Goblin appeared vaguely offended, but Russell bent his head to whisper as he patted Coldcream gingerly on the mane.
“I was advised to be careful about other factions. Should I be worried about Drakes?”
“You want my opinion on Drakes?”
“If you have one.”
Chickenruler’s face screwed up with novel amusement, then he sombered. Looked Russell up and down.
“Yah, I heard they snatchy with you people. You watch out for the Walled Cities. And normal Drake cities. They pretty bad too. Killed lots of Gnolls, so why not Humans? Gnolls okay…some of them. But Humans! Peh! Worst of the lot! Tons of nasty ones. House Veltras, any Reinhart not called ‘Magnolia’—”
“Wait, slow down. Walled Cities. Gnolls…who have tribes? All these are different powers, right?”
“Oh sure, tons of powers. Other people know more.”
Chickenruler was airy as Russell reviewed some notes he’d made with the others about the state of this world. It confirmed his suspicions: there was a need for some paranoia, if not towards good men like Ylawes Byres.
“But we’re just a group of Humans. If we obey Drake laws, we should be able to pass through their lands just fine, correct?”
The Goblin eyed Russell once as he scratched Coldcream delicately along the eye ridges.
“Sure, maybe. Safe as Humans in Drake lands get, I guess. But you not just any Humans. You Earthers. All them groups I name? They all collect you. Like, uh, shiny rocks. They snatch you, you not get free. They try that to even Erin, the [Innkeeper] everyone knows.”
“They do? Who tried that?”
Russell’s heart began to beat faster, and Chickenruler replied in a matter-of-fact voice.
“Pallass sort of tried I guess? I dunno, I not know politics. But Roshal definitely tried. Put her on a ship. Then she got free. That was a big fight at sea. Now she not at the inn, just so you know.”
“Where is she?”
“Eh…Baleros? She not able to come back. Because she knife that [Prince] in the heart. Awesome stab.”
Russell stood there as he realized the young woman who had met him was not just a simple person in this world, but deep in it. So famous that any random person he met might know her name or have an opinion about her.
That, of course, made him like her more, even if it made him warier of her. And some of her friends.
 
——
 
Fightipilota poked Ylawes as she leaned against one wall of the waystation. Nailren was frowning at Russell, who was engaging Chickenruler in talk.
“Hey, Captain Ylawes. Sorry about all the racisms. Quick question…who’s that?”
She nodded at Russell, and Ylawes explained how they’d met. Fighti’s eyes narrowed.
“That’s what it is. He’s got a gun.”
“You know what it is?”
“Smells familiar. He’s dangerous. Not sure if he recognized me—you really are a lucky idiot. If he shot you, you’d be very dead, armor or not. Well…Chieftain will want to get what he’s got, but we’ll see if we want to bring them back. Goblinhome doesn’t need more trouble.”
On that, they could both agree. Now that she understood who he was, Fighti relaxed a bit, though it interested Ylawes to notice Russell glance at her now and then. As if she disconcerted him.
Some kind of shared sense they had? At any rate, he was conferring with Fighti as well over their situation, and she was shrugging.
“If you want us to carry you to Liscor, we can. Not right now—but I’ll tell Chieftain Rags, and she could send Wyverns. Might take a long while—we’d have to go back, then I need to run escort for them. Three weeks?”
“That’s a long time! It’s tempting—I don’t know how well we’d fly, and we’d still be in trouble in the north, I suspect.”
“Well, you spending one week pooping here. So think about it!”
She slapped his arm, and he winced. At this, Nailren sidled over.
“Ylawes, I hate to interject. But it seems like you and this young group of Humans have become quite close.”
“Earthers.”
Fighti helpfully supplied, and Nailren exhaled, looking mildly gratified, but also annoyed.
“I thought so. Well, that takes the fun out of that mystery. I’d love to know more—then again, I don’t have any tribe nearby. What is that young man carrying?”
He indicated Russell, and Fighti again supplied.
“Gun. Wait, who this guy? We friends?”
Ylawes nodded, and she frowned at Nailren vaguely, as if trying to place him. For his part, the Gnoll’s ears twitched.
“…Some device from Earth?”
“A dangerous one, apparently. Russell claims it’s how he’s kept his team alive so far. Fighti agrees.”
Ylawes didn’t know what the device did, but he had felt his [Dangersense] going off. Nailren hmmed, appearing unhappy.
“You’re sending them to the inn, though?”
“Yup.”
“Then it’s not my business. We’re deep enough in the New Lands as it is, and the Meeting of Tribes has all the information it needs, I suspect.”
Nailren dusted his paws as if literally to absolve himself of the problems, and Fighti nodded.
“They too much work for us too. Plus none of them have Kevin-energy, so we don’t really want to make friends. That guy, Arnie? He got anti Kevin-energy. Even if he figured out how we evolve. But he make it weird. Honarai cool, and Lenora good at drawing. Chester…Chieftain Rags might like him.”
She shook her head, and both she and Nailren turned and favored Ylawes with a smile. And he realized, much to his indignation, that neither one wanted to help the Earthers. Yes, they were innocent-ish children from another world, lost and stranded.
But they were kind of a pain in the ass to deal with.
 
——
 
After a while, Fighti decided it was time to go. Fun as this was, they had to fly, and the Silver Swords were restocked.
“We’ll come back if we find a cure. No promises. Drink lots of water, eat some salt; it helps with the pooping. Hey, kid, you take care of yourself. Got it?”
She saluted Rasktooth, who stared up at her and nodded as Chickenruler hopped on the Wyvern’s back. Woll was back to give them more tea and remind them to head here again, but Fighti stopped.
“Hey, Ylawes, those Earthers you got…is something wrong with them? Did they eat some brain-maggots? The one called Arnie is creepy. He’s just staring at me.”
Ylawes eyed the young man, and turned around with Fighti.
“They’re, um, awkward. The one called Honarai is just as random, but the others are quite decent. Russell seems like a good man, just very worried.”
“Honarai? She’s cool. Reminds me of the future.”
What did you say to that? Ylawes coughed.
“Er, yes? We do want to get them to the inn, and maybe it would be best to arrange transport on foot. We could get them an Overnight Carriage and some gold. It’s just hard to arrange. Mrsha hasn’t been calling regularly…”
Fighti inhaled, and he grew anxious.
“Is she alright?”
“What? Yeah. Sure, sure…but, uh, no wonder she hasn’t been calling. She’ll be back. But maybe in a bit? You could tell the inn. Maybe they don’t want more drama, though. You could, I dunno, take care of them?”
He fidgeted.
“That’s, ah, quite difficult out here.”
Fighti pulled a face.
“Yeah, I know. It’s just that Drakes do pay attention to who’s flying, and Lilbrasi’s Skill won’t work on them. I’ll ask. It’ll be her problem. And we’re not keeping them. My man Kevin’s the only Earther who has a free pass in our base. Everyone else walks there and back.”
She grinned. Ylawes’ face clouded, and he shuffled his feet, then spoke.
“Kevin’s…dead, Fighti. At the Winter Solstice. I don’t know if you…”
He trailed off, and for one moment, her head turned and that strange impossibility shone into his eyes. She peered around, then shook her head.
“Nah.”
“But I was told…they were sure of…”
Her eyes glittered, and she put a finger to her lips.
“You gotta go back and ask. Like I said, a Solstice event for the records. Not while we’re being watched. Too many eyes, even here. Like that guy. Who is he, again? He’s with the inn or he’d better be if we’re talking around him.”
She jerked a thumb at the Gnoll she didn’t recognize, and he blinked. Ylawes pivoted.
“—That’s Nailren. He’s from Liscor too. I mean, he was a Silver-ranker who went to Erin’s inn sometimes.”
“What?”
Fighti whirled, embarrassed. She’d never met Nailren! She waved at him.
“Sorry!”
