“Oh. Smart.”
The two walked on, and after a moment, Lamont coughed.
“So you, uh, you’re Drakes.”
“Yep.”
“Was that—did I see an airplane or was that something else? An, uh, flying machine?”
Chickenruler gave Lamont the blandest gaze possible. Earther. He shrugged.
“I dunno what that was. My friend has it. Some Skill thing, you know? I just fly a Wyvern. Much simpler.”
“Oh, got it, got it. Um—so where are you from?”
“That’s the question I want to know, sometimes.”
He confused Lamont sufficiently to get to the ‘Eir Gel Grotto’ and found that Fightipilota was there with Nailren, and to his relief, the [Deepsea Healer] seemed to know her stuff.
 
——
 
“Looks like some magical ice alright. Needs dispelling. Until then, this will keep her fine as can be. We don’t have much, but this is our finest healing pod left.”
Fightipilota was, at this moment, mostly naked aside from some privacy fog on the huge, blown glass orb she was floating in, a facemask on with a tube leading out of it that gave her air.
The moving censor bars were, funnily enough, a Skill. The [Deepsea Healer] was named Juresei, and she was half-Shrimp. Her delicate feeler-stalks on her other side were manipulating some controls that were tied to the pod, and Nailren was asking questions.
“What is she in?”
“Water. And Eir Gel. It’s a mixture of the two; like a healing potion, but permanent.”
“Really? I’ve never heard of dunking someone in the liquid.”
The Drowned Woman snorted as Chickenruler and Lamont came into the room.
“Well, you wouldn’t on land. Most landfolk don’t buy much Eir Gel, anyways. The island it comes from can produce enough for the entire world—or used to. But getting enough to fill a pod like this? It takes a lot, and the most pure and aged stuff. Now it’s all been corrupted, this is all we have. We have to keep cleansing the gel, but it’ll run out, and then…”
She shook her head, then hit another button.
“For your friend, we’ll do all we can. Doroumata’s daughter will have to dispel the ice, but this will keep her warm.”
The water was almost bubbling with heat as she upped the pod’s heating. Nailren nodded respectfully.
“Thank you, Healer Juresei. May I ask how long it’d take to recover…?”
“I don’t know frostbite. But assuming she hasn’t lost anything…I’d give it four, five days? She’s young and tough. Though I swear she didn’t feel scaly at all. Did they wear off or are Drakes not as scaled as they look?”
Chickenruler didn’t know how to answer that, but Nailren was scary-smooth.
“I’m sure she’s just passed out so her scales aren’t moving like they would normally. She’s like a snake, or so I’d guess. I don’t know Drakes that well, mind you.”
Juresei chuckled.
“Like a snake. As if that’s clearer! Well, I suppose landfolk snakes and sea snakes are close enough? Very well, you can leave her in my care. If you’d like to stay, I’ll find a place for you to rest, but she’s not in danger now she’s in the pod, or so my Skill tells me.”
That was a relief. Chickenruler sat down—then leapt to his feet as no less than Shadeward Doroumata entered the room. She was terrifying, and the [Healer] bowed all over herself, but Doroumata just inspected Fighti, then lifted a hand.
“[Dispel]. Hmm. Failure. [Targeted Dispel]. Failure. [Salt’s Purification]. Some effect. I would test this out more, but she is our guest.”
Bits of ice had flaked off Fightipilota’s body with that last spell. Doroumata twitched her fingers as three of her daughters hurried into the room.
“Mother, we could link and—”
“No. I wish to try my magic against this magical beast. Shadows, envelop.”
The pod went dark as shadows raced up it and turned the water black. Juresei began to protest, but Doroumata just put a hand on her staff, which was a twisted piece of black coral, and spoke.
“[Shadows Consume All].”
Okay, that sounded real ominous. Chickenruler shifted, but Doroumata just waved the shadows away, and when they vanished and the glowing gel returned, he saw the ice was gone!
“I simply ate the magic. It was…powerful. Level 40 cryomancy, I suspect. If one was dedicated to inflicting frost. You say something cast it on her?”
“Eh, more like she sort of was nearby and it froze her. Hey, I’m Chickenruler. Thanks for healing my friend.”
Chickenruler held out a hand, which provoked a gasp from Juresei and the daughters, but Doroumata took his hand in her fragile, withered one and studied his face.
“Fascinating. On behalf of Nombernaught, I thank you…Chickenruler. And you, stranger?”
Nailren was next, and she peered at him, then squinted.
“You…have a curse on you.”
“No, Shadeward, I respectfully do not. Just a friend.”
That got her attention as well, and Nailren grinned as the daughters tried to see what Doroumata had sensed. Then she was demanding answers, and Chickenruler? He walked over to Juresei to make sure that he was allowed to come back later, then wandered out of the healing grotto. Lamont took him to an inn in the city, and Chickenruler was told he’d be eating like a [King]. But the very first thing he did was ask if they had sugar, milk, and ice.
The milk turned out to be the hard part. Drowned Folk didn’t do cows. But they did have other mammals in the sea, and you could milk almost anything. So Chickenruler ended up making the first seafolk-based ice cream. He was a tiny bit proud of that, even if it was green.
They had all those things, so he mixed up a huge batch of ice cream, split it with the fascinated kitchen staff, and took the rest to Coldcream and fed the Frost Wyvern to his heart’s content. Then Chickenruler went back and slept like a log.
 
——
 
[Fighter Pilot Level 20!]
[Class Change: Fighter Pilot → Wartouched Fighter Pilot!]
[Wartouched Fighter Pilot Level 20!]
[Skill – Aircraft: Emergency Boost Obtained!]
[Skill Change: She Flies on Another World’s Wings (5 Seconds) → She Flies on Another World’s Wings (7 Seconds)!]
[Skill – Summon Bound Turret Obtained!]
[Skill – Create Bound Turret Obtained!]
 
Fightipilota awoke in the weird floating tank twice, the first time in a panic, before someone told her where she was. The second time she stared out at the world beyond and saw a Drowned Man with half of an eel’s face studying at her, arms crossed. She realized she was naked and began flailing around until someone told her no one could see anything.
Then she went to sleep again and woke up in a bed. Apparently, she’d been well enough to move out of the healing pod so someone else could use it.
Chickenruler, Nailren, and even Nanette visited her and kept her up-to-date. Apparently, Fighti had helped save a lot of lives in the battle. She didn’t feel…great about it.
She felt like an idiot, diving in there. Her plane had been at 52% durability when she woke up. And she was lucky, she suspected, to even have that.
It gave her time to think. Like about her class levelup and what it meant.
Well, clearly it meant she might have a tiny bit of what Nailren called ‘Warsights’. He was worried about her. Fighti was fine, really. She just had a bit of the Redfang madness. You see too many friends dying in battle, you got a bit crazy.
So she’d seen an entire world vanish and been in a war where thousands of people had died each second and the Goblin King himself had been rampaging. Oh, and the girl she’d tried to save had bled out.
That was fine. She’d get over it. Probably.
Seven seconds of flying time meant she’d not be so stupid as last time. As for her other Skill, she reckoned it let her bind a ‘turret’ and summon it whenever she wanted. Probably the Thunderbow, but it made Fighti decide that she wanted Chieftain Rags to design a really nice weapon for Fighti. Something mobile so she could use it on Coldcream’s back, but more powerful. With a padded seat.
These things kept her from thinking about her mentality when she’d been diving into the nautiloid horde. It was more embarrassing when Drowned Folk kept coming over to her to thank her for saving someone’s life.
They believed in expressing thanks in material ways. Half had offered her actual money until she’d said she didn’t want money, but she’d take a snack while she was lying in bed.
So she had a mountain of snacks, from seaweed crackers—which went really well with sweet syrup-stuff milked from undersea animals—to lovely sushi.
Sushi. Mm. Fighti’s stomach hurt from lying in bed all day—mostly because she couldn’t get up.
Like, physically. Whatever damage that ice had done to her, the [Deepsea Healer] had managed to reverse, and she’d actually saved Fighti’s fingers and toes from being lost to frostnip. But the tradeoff was that she’d turned Fighti into a potato.
[Sea Cucumber’s Restoration], she’d called it. Fightipilota couldn’t even get up to pee without help. She’d be fine in another day or two, but it meant Fighti was bored.
They’d put on a television for her, but she got tired of it at night, so she was lying there, wondering how much trouble she was going to be in when she got back to Goblinhome, and just…thinking, when someone stepped into the little room they’d given her.
Fighti thought it was her [Healer] or Chickenruler coming to report how weird things were in Nombernaught again until she realized this was someone else. Then a man came in and sat.
Lord Olvos Lanight. He was dressed in civilian clothes and looked a lot skinnier, because she was so used to seeing the fellow in his mithril armor. He didn’t say a word as she lay there.
He was…staring at her. She quite recalled the last time they’d met after she and Redscar had helped him take revenge on the Sword Crabs. He’d cried on her shoulder, then. But she didn’t know if that old man was friends with her.
He knew she was a Goblin. Well, Chickenruler had said he suspected the City Captain and the Shadeward had figured out who they were. But according to Rags, that might be fine because Drowned Folk had a different perspective on Goblins.
Lord Olvos, though, was a Terandrian. And he had a shadowed expression on his face.
Also, and Fighti couldn’t help but note this—it was well past midnight. No one was awake. She lay there, immobile, as he stared at her. Possibly, he thought she was asleep. When she spoke, he did start.
“Look, if you stay, you gotta help me pee. Deal?”
She thought that might chase him out of the room altogether, but Lord Lanight didn’t move. He just sat there, his grey hair barely illuminated by the green moonlight coming through a window. Then he stared out the window at the cracked, green moon.
“I am sure you are aware of the…Goblin King incident. Which half my kingdom does not believe actually occurred. As well, the Goblin Lord named ‘Ragathsi’. I viewed the result of her rampage on scrying orb.”
Fightipilota said nothing. She noted, in that distant way, that Lord Olvos had a sword at his hip. She bet it was mithril, like everything else the man had. He was an important guy, she understood. Not like a Goblin Lord in rank, but maybe between there and a Chieftain?
She didn’t know Human things. She didn’t know him for all she’d shared some moments with him. And the way he was studying her…Lord Olvos went on after a moment.
“The King of Oztera is dead.”
Who? Fighti bit her tongue on that, and Lord Olvos clarified after a pause.
“I realize you may not know who that is. Oztera is a kingdom of Terandria, one of the Hundred Families’ remaining kingdoms. He is dead. His palace…a hole has been burned through it. The Goblin Lord did that. As well, a noblewoman, Lady Faire, has been killed, her estate levelled. Pallass’ 2nd Army is all but destroyed. I am sure you are aware of this.”
He waited, and Fighti said nothing. Lord Olvos brushed at his cheeks; he’d shaved and looked better, if not exactly happier than before.
“I…House Lanight owes you a debt for avenging us. You saved my granddaughter and prevented me from wasting my life. These are facts as pure as mithril. But also a fact is what I have seen and been reminded of. You understand? Do you—were you there? Did you take part in those events?”
This time, he waited, clearly expecting a response, so Fighti stared up at the ceiling and then tried to shrug.
“Eh, all that? Couldn’t be me. Must have been some other tribe. Wasn’t my Goblin Lord.”
She saw him twitch and inhale sharply.
“Fighti…pilota. Do not lie to me. The Goblin King arose, is that true?”
“I mean, maybe? Sure. Didn’t last long if he did.”
“—And you have nothing to say to that? That Goblin Lord murdered a [King] and a palace and wrought so much devastation—I am reminded of the Goblin King’s sins. I am conflicted. How can you claim ignorance?”
He was rubbing at his face, in great moral distress or something. Fighti stared up at the ceiling and wished they could have done this after she peed. Or maybe, and she was just spitballing here, maybe she was just sort of tired, had almost lost all her limbs to frostbite, and then crashed her plane. Which had hurt. A lot.
“Let me ask you a question, Lord Olvos.”
“Very well.”
He blinked at her, and she frowned at the ceiling, trying to remember.
“You, eh, you know Ailendamus?”
“The Kingdom of Glass and Glory? Yes, we border them. They’re the largest kingdom in Terandria. Well, kingdom—they’re more an empire, a dangerous one. Bitorm is no friend to them, but we are wary of being enemies. Why?”
He crossed his arms, and Fighti smiled.
“But they made war on the Dawn Concordat, right? Killed lots of people?”
“That is the least of the sins you could lay at their feet.”
“Wow. That so bad. Hey, what’s with Ailendamus? You darn [Lord], why are you killing people in Calanfer? I like Calanfer!”
She glared at the ceiling since she couldn’t raise her head, and Lord Olvos replied after a moment.
“…I’m not part of Ailendamus.”
“You sure is.”
“I am not. I am from the Lantocracy of Bitorm.”
“Yeah, but you’re Human. All Humans the same, right? All Terandria is.”
Silence. After a moment, Fightipilota managed to turn her head to him. She didn’t give him a smile, more like a Goblin’s grin.
“What was that about my Goblin Lord and my Goblin King?”
She wasn’t that good with words, but she had a definite impression she’d scored a point there. Lord Olvos frowned thunderously, not happy about being taken for some Ailendamus stooge. After a moment, he exhaled.
“…The difference is that Goblin Kings are hereditary to Goblins. They occur, inevitably. But for that, I would accept your comments.”
Her smile edged wider as he stared at her legs covered by the blanket.
