She was new to her class and not trained, at least from Earth, but everything about Fighti screamed that Malia needed to talk to her. Well, a lot of people in Nombernaught had some kind of issue that’d benefit from time with a therapist. [Sailors] who’d seen too much at sea, Drowned Folk reconciling their taking of the Sea’s Gift or the form it took, all of Doroumata’s daughters…
Fighti blinked at Malia. Then pointed at her face.
“Me? I’m great. Couldn’t be better. Compared to the average person in my society, I’m amazing.”
Whether or not that was true, Malia had no idea. But before she could talk Fighti into coming to her office, the Drake took two steps forwards, then fell face-first into the sand.
Malia and Sidney turned, and Captain Therrium checked the bottle he had brought out. He grunted.
“Landlubbers.”
No ability to hold their alcohol.
 
——
 
Fighti’s head hurt like hell when she woke up with a sunburn, until they got her something for the hangover and the burn. That aside, she supposed she didn’t mind the Earthers—once she was sober, and a day or two of lazing by the beach did help.
Chickenruler and Nailren were sailing with Lamont out in the bay. They had invited Fighti, but she really did prefer to just rest at the moment. Assuming she actually got rest with all the unwanted company. Not just Drowned Folk wanting to thank her or chat, either.
Captain Therrium didn’t plague her again, but Lord Olvos did show up. Not just for her. He seemed to make a point of playing with Sidney, who took to the grandfatherly…grandfather who was all Human.
So did Haley, a [Squire] clearly enamored with Lord Olvos that he seemed to want nothing to do with. It was like a Hob trying to get rid of a clingy Goblin, which amused Fighti.
They had a few words over the time she spent there, mostly fending off the persistent Malia, and just recovering a bit more. Not about her nature or what had happened. Mostly, amusingly, Malia.
“Is she harassing you as well? She insists I visit her for ‘therapy’.”
“What’s that?”
“Lying in an office on a couch, discussing my feelings, and processing my grief. Telling her how I feel.”
Fighti made a gagging sound. Lord Olvos nodded.
“I have lost…everything. What need have I to explain it?”
“It’s for healing!”
Malia shouted, exasperated. Fighti had bribed Coldcream, and the Frost Wyvern was licking on a giant popsicle she’d had made and keeping Malia back with his tail. Every time she tried to run around, he’d just lumber over and block her with his body. Fighti called back.
“Who wants healing? Scars sexier. Sometimes, it’s better to bleed out!”
That stumped the young woman so much that she stood there until Coldcream flicked her into the surf. Lord Olvos nodded to Fightipilota.
“One should bear the grief and guilt.”
“Yep. Sadder the better. More weight.”
They nodded at each other, then both eyed the other and glanced away to Malia, who was swimming back towards them. Fighti coughed.
“Why didn’t you leave the New Lands?”
“It felt like giving up all that had been lost here. My granddaughter I was glad to see go. I will not return home. I will die here.”
Lord Olvos sat, wearing a button-up shirt and long pants, since beachwear was against his Terandrian sensibilities. Fighti opened her mouth.
Darn, looks like our killing the Sword Crabs didn’t fix him. Eh, it doesn’t, really. But was him wanting to die…? She coughed.
“Sounds like your granddaughter would be real sad if you died.”
“I don’t intend to if I can help it. I simply shall not go back. Not until I find something here. Something worth it all. If I do not, I will end here, as is fitting. An unmarked grave or none at all befits the failure of House Lanight.”
…Maybe he did need to talk to Malia. Fighti said as much.
“You sure you don’t need to speak to her?”
“I’m not the one who dove into the center of a nautiloid swarm.”
“Hey! I heard you were jousting them!”
“I had a Skill. You are young. You clearly need help more than I do.”
“I didn’t try to lance Sword Crabs for half a week! You go talk to her!”
“I am not in need of her services.”
“Well, neither am I.”
Both glared at each other. Malia, trying to edge around Coldcream, saw the Drake and [Lord] fighting, shoving each other towards her. She eyed them, then smiled and let them continue fighting.
Making friends was part of her therapy.
 
——
 
In the end, they had to go simply by expedience; when Fighti summoned her plane in secret one day and it was able to get off the ground, she knew they would make the flight back. So she told Chickenruler.
It wasn’t easy to just depart, though. Shadeward Doroumata was actually one of the biggest objectors. She had been seeing to the repairs of Nombernaught and was very unhappy not to have talked to Fighti longer.
“We would like to host you far longer, as you deserve. It is clear your city of Floodwaters could be a valuable ally. On behalf of Nombernaught, I invite you to stay.”
Doroumata was a keen observer, but, uh, her best overtures of friendship were still more scary than welcoming. As for Therrium, he seemed like his face hurt when he tried to smile. He hadn’t tried to make nice after the beach incident, but he also agreed they should stay.
It was Nailren who bailed Fighti and Chickenruler out of the issue.
“I believe these two must report back, but as they do visit Nombernaught regularly, I asked to be taken with them. I trust I am not intruding in your city, Drowned Folk? Your generosity is mighty, and I would like to present gifts, if now is appropriate.”
Doroumata hesitated and blinked at Nailren as Therrium sighed.
“Yes, gifts. From a Gnoll, we accept, of course. We have no bad blood between us and the tribes. We shall reciprocate.”
He clearly expected to exchange some meaningless trinkets. When Nailren produced his map, Therrium’s eyes locked on it.
“You have a map of the New Lands?”
“Just one section of it and some observations about the New Lands. For instance, the phenomenon of ghosts, yes? And places where plants grow. I would gladly gift this to the Drowned Folk. Would you share anything you have learned?”
Doroumata shot a quick glance at Therrium, and then she smiled at Nailren.
“A capable [Explorer] indeed. This is not the venue for this. A ship’s deck—or pub, in Nombernaught. We must have you with drink in hand before you tell us your exploits.”
“Eh, it not that much—”
Chickenruler began before Fightipilota and Nailren elbowed him. Then the [Wyvern Rider] clearly realized he could get free drinks and shut up.
 
——
 
That was how Fighti found herself in a room with no less than three hundred [Captains], [First Mates], and just interested Drowned Folk, drinking and telling them what she’d seen. It wasn’t so formal as a speech; people did go respectfully quiet, but there was a murmur of voices. And there was a ‘lobster’, all buttered, she ate as Nailren and Chickenruler helped talk.
“So you’ve seen more explorers? We’ve seen few that made it this far west! But a few—yes, a few of our folk who sailed across the coastlines have met others.”
A [Captain] with a jaunty hat called out as she drained half a mug. Nailren’s ears perked up.
“Which ones did you meet? We ran into starving Drakes as well as others who had endured hardship well enough. Many are suffering even close to the border of the New Lands.”
He described the Silver Swords’ plight, then the Pallassians, and the Drowned Folk muttered. The female Captain was half-Shark and spat some foam onto the floor.
“Landfolk. We’ve kept to where we can fish or stocked up going inland. All that damn rock and sand…it hurts the feet! We’ll remember that ere we go. As for who we met? Well, we ran into a curious group of Drakes! Not like the bastards we feared—”
Someone nudged her, because more of said Drakes were sitting there. The [Captain] flushed.
“I meant—not Walled City Drakes like those of Zeres! These were friendly as could be! Sat on ponies and had slings. They were Yodellers, the lot!”
Nailren grinned.
“You mean Yoldenites.”
“Aye, that sounds right!”
There was general laughter, and someone tossed a cup at the [Captain] who was such a poor narrator of events. But then Nailren stood up.
“I do have a story for all those present, one almost as serious as the hunger and privation in the New Lands. There is danger and death. But you know that, surely. I must warn you, though, as I consider the Drowned Folk friends, though I cannot not speak for my people. As an explorer, one who would call your people friend—let me tell you a story of ghosts. It is no false tale, before you laugh. I have some small proof.”
There was a gleam in his eyes, and the Drowned Folk obligingly listened. Nailren was clever; Fighti grinned as she saw [Captains] rolling their eyes, but Shadeward Doroumata lowered the light levels in the room, giving it a spooky ambiance. Everyone listened to Nailren’s tale of hauntings, which was a good ghost story, but clearly, many thought it was an exaggeration.
Which was why Nailren didn’t reveal the presence of Spoony until the end of his tale. She had been having a grand time blowing cold air across people’s backs or moving utensils around subtly. But when he theatrically reached for a drink to wet his throat, she lifted the tankard and brought it over to him.
Jaws dropped, and every head turned to Doroumata. When she shook her head, indicating that was no magic—Fightipilota saw veterans of the sea go dead white or toss salt over their shoulders. They reached for lucky trinkets, and she realized—seafolk were very superstitious.
They were also a bit of romantics at heart. Fighti’s description of hungry Drake children had half the room swearing at the idiot Drakes of Pallass, the other half tearing up.
Bloodthirsty [Pirates] were soft as kittens after three drinks or so, and there was something here that reminded her of Nailren. A feeling of a people yearning for a great adventure.
When Nailren described the tower they’d seen, or the other landmarks, hinting of great adventure, the Drowned Folk sat up.
“The Crossroads of Izril exist! To the krakens with caution! I’ll take my crew on land and damn hunger or danger! No disrespect to Nombernaught, but we’re losing our march on landfolk to caution!”
The [Captain] of Salt’s Bath stood up after the sixth round or so, and a furious argument broke out over ‘crewing together’ to make sure they had a hold on this area, or going it alone to find what was out there. Other Drowned Folk came over to ask Fighti how dangerous she really thought it was out there, or if Nailren had heard about the attack on the Adventurer’s Haven.
Drowned Folk didn’t have much experience with land-based undead, so they couldn’t judge how dangerous such monsters were. But mostly…
They wanted to know about The Wandering Inn. And who should be there to explain that and make introductions but the most self-satisfied little witch in the world.
Nanette Weishart had a cup of goat’s milk in hand, and while Mrsha appeared twice, the little witch was allowed to stay up late and speak to the fascinated Drowned Folk.
“Fightipilota, you’re so lucky to see the New Lands. I can’t even leave the inn without supervision. And Captain Nailren’s seen so much—you know, no one’s got any idea of what’s happening in the New Lands? Most people aren’t sure where their friends have gone.”
Nailren sombered, and Fighti bit her tongue. The Gnoll spoke gravely.
“Many groups are lost. I saw an entire room in Goisedall devoted to searching for the missing. This is not a safe land, no, Nanette. But I will be back to it the moment we leave. I cannot quit, you see. I suppose I’m cursed.”
He turned, flashing a toothy grin, and the Drowned Folk probably fell a bit in love with that damn Gnoll. Fighti certainly did for the spirit of a Redfang she saw in his fearless spirit. And Nanette’s eyes shone. She glanced at Doroumata and Therrium, and the two older leaders of Drowned Folk watched the younger generation sailing towards danger with a kind of forlorn envy. Remembering something they had once embraced wholeheartedly.
 
——
 
—Of course, they began to sing after that. It began with the Drowned Folk asking Nailren to teach them his people’s song. That was how Fightipilota, Chickenruler, a drunk Coldcream poking his head through a window, Nailren, Nanette, and a room full of Drowned Folk sang Great Plains Sing.
Then—the Drowned Folk taught Fightipilota their song. Land’s Farewell.
 
“I slipped off the deck, and there I drowned
Now I will never leave her
We left land to be born at sea
And we’ll never truly leave her…”
 
Fighti hadn’t known that the Drowned Folk had a song like that. She sang with a chorus of hundreds, filling the echoing ship’s hull turned into a pub, and the song spread into the street as Drowned Folk stopped carousing or going about their business. They turned and joined in, turning their faces up to sing that anthem of their people.
The [Fighter Pilot] turned to Chickenruler as they sang, and both Goblins’ faces were filled with a curious emotion.
Envy. They wished, in that moment, they had a song to share that defined their people. Something they could sing as one. Fighti took another drink, and the courage burned its way down to her stomach. Then she sang louder.
 
——
 
Those damn Goblins weren’t so bad. True, Captain Therrium had a splitting headache the next morning, but he just took some Hangover Tonic and was right as rain.
“So you’re flying back to the New Lands, eh? Well, for all the materials you’re welcome in Nombernaught. For bailing us out when we were under siege, you’re at least honored guests three more times.”
He was straight-faced as he went to see the two odd Goblins off the next day. Luminary Hisark winced, but Therrium believed in delivering the real value of a favor, not some namby-pampy about ‘always grateful’.
Fighti grinned at him.
“Lilbrasi—our boss—probably wants to hold onto any favors or use them later. So we gotta pay for drinks next time. But we’ll bring more metal and stuff. You got a wish list?”
“Steel’s fine. But if you have anything better, or glue, good glue—”
Therrium rattled off a list, and she nodded. Plenty of busybodies were also hanging around, [Captains] who were too damn busy to help around the city but wanted to talk to the exciting explorers and fliers. Therrium pointedly ignored their attempts to break into the conversation until someone sidled up behind him.
“Eh, Captain Therrium. Got something for you.”
“What? I’m talking to our guests.”
