Nailren’s reasonable question had the Goblins glancing at each other. Fighti turned to Chickenruler.
“We’re real close. What if we…?”
“No.”
“Come on! I’ve got my Skill, and it’s cold. Coldcream loves the cold. Plus, I think I see snow-creatures down there.”
True enough, at the outskirts of the huge snowstorm were animals. Corusdeer trampling around, a white bear, even a Snow Golem. The area blanketed by the snow was huge. As large as Kishkeria’s Grasslands. If it was a snowstorm, then it might take a week for someone to trek across on the ground.
Despite his complaints, Chickenruler had to admit the vortex spinning through the air was appealingly cool. Literally. And he had a thought.
“What if we got some ice? People love ice.”
“Eh…it’ll melt.”
“Not a block of ice. Then we go to Nombernaught or find colonists and give them shaved ice with honey or some jam.”
Fightipilota turned to her friend.
“Chickenruler, sometimes you have brilliant ideas. Why not?”
Nailren grinned as the two Goblins turned to him.
“If we’re cautious, I think it’s fine. Let’s enjoy some ice. Or ice cream. Think we could make that?”
“Genius!”
The trio were all set to head into the snowstorm, even just the outskirts, but for one problem: Coldcream. The Frost Wyvern balked the instant Chickenruler tried to steer him into the magical snowstorm. And, in fact, he seemed to be flapping faster. And pooping. And…heading away from the snowstorm as fast as he could.
The laughing Goblins and Gnoll heard the Frost Wyvern whimper. Chickenruler stopped tugging on the reins. Fightipilota took a hold of her Thunderbow, and Nailren began to peer into the snowstorm. They flew on for a good fourteen minutes before Fighti coughed.
“Hey, uh, Nailren?”
“If you’re going to ask whether or not I think the snowstorm is getting closer, the answer is yes.”
“…Anyone here got [Dangersense]?”
“No.”
“Not me, but Coldcream frightened.”
They stared into the snowstorm as it moved towards them despite Coldcream’s frantic flapping. Fightipilota put a hand on her seatbelt, then stopped.
“Could just be coincidence.”
“Fly south, Chickenruler? If it’s the wind…”
After five minutes of flying south, Fighti unbuckled her seatbelt.
“I have to see what it is. I can’t shoot the air.”
Nailren was peering into the storm, and his fur was starting to freeze already. It was so cold…snow and wind were whipping the trio, and he whispered.
“I think I see it. It’s…fast.”
“If it was fast, it’d catch us already.”
“Not if it’s flying in circles.”
“Oh, come on—”
Then they saw it. Just for a second, something flickered past them, and Fighti swallowed as Chickenruler jerked. Coldcream whimpered.
“That’s fast. Did you see it—”
“Yes. It stopped. It’s checking us out. It looks big enough to eat a Frost Wyvern. But perhaps it hasn’t ever seen one being ridden.”
Fightipilota was hesitating. She turned to them.
“I’m going to use my Skill. When I do…”
She peered into the storm, remembering the Wyverns.
“I’ll draw it off. Better that than opening fire, I think. Because I think it’s very fast, very big, and very death-y if it gets us.”
“You’re sure?”
She nodded slowly. There was a flicker—whatever it was circled again in the snowstorm. Did it land? Was it generating the snowstorm via its movement? The ice was coating Nailren’s fur now, and his jaw wanted to chatter, but he called out.
“How do we find you?”
“Parach—”
A roar in the storm. It felt like the very clouds shook. Nailren shouted, and Chickenruler screamed.
“Coldcream, dive!”
The Frost Wyvern was screaming as he dove, wings folded, and Nailren’s stomach dropped. He clung to the Wyvern’s back as he felt his body rising up and experienced true, animalistic fear as they fell, trying to escape—Fighti was screaming too, and Nailren saw, just for a second, his ouija board tear loose from his side. It was attached to his belt by a loop of cord, and it pulled taught as the little planchette flew around crazily, then slapped against the board. Spoony? Did she see something? He saw the little arrow pointing to a letter.
‘A.’
He waited as they dove, in that moment made of terror as the roaring beast strafed them, inspecting the trio of odd pests on the Frost Wyvern’s back, and Fighti let go. Then Nailren saw the planchette stay on ‘a’ and realized what Spoony was writing.
‘Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa—’
 
——
 
It was, perhaps, a king of the New Lands if any deserved the title. A true sovereign of ice and cold, and it could not have been made of the magic that rose the seas. It must have come from Cenidau or Baleros or some place of pure cold, drawn to this land for the reasons all were.
That it did not kill and eat the Frost Wyvern was due to its curiosity, for it was a sentient being. Or perhaps…the Frost Wyvern and riders were a casualty of happenstance. For you see, there was another group who’d been walking the New Lands, a caravan of sorts, and it was all too possible they had drawn the King of Frost’s attention.
The man had halted as the others arrayed themselves for battle. Wind and frost blew over them, so cold that some of them felt it, but they refused to flinch even as the temperatures dropped well below zero. They were waiting for their leader to move, but he just waited.
This was how it was done. He stood, rapier in hand, the other holding a wand, waiting for the beast to descend. He had to teach them that.
The Lich waited, his black eyes and white pupils fixed on the apparition he could not see with his sight, only sense by the pure ice-mana it radiated. And it recognized him, a being of death-magic. They stood there, regarding each other, and the Frost Wyvern plummeted past them.
Breaking the standoff. Both the being of frost and Az’kerash glanced to the side, and the Necromancer blinked.
A screaming Frost Wyvern, a Goblin, Gnoll, and female Human ghost were all clinging to the Frost Wyvern as it dove, trying to break its fall and keep flying away. His head turned as he watched them flash past him.
“You don’t see that every century.”
His children watched him, not understanding why he smiled. Then, the Necromancer’s eyes lifted to the master of one element. He flicked his rapier up questioningly.
“Only one of us has life left to lose.”
Did it hear his quiet voice? The storm itself seemed to rumble, and Devail’s sword aimed up, though the undead Chosen was uncertain.
“Father, where do I strike?”
“Whatever you can. Get back. It will destroy everything when we clash. Survival is enough to level. For me, victory will earn me the same.”
The two beings didn’t blink as they regarded each other. Az’kerash knew what he stood to gain or lose, but what did it win? Pride? Knowledge it was the supreme authority? But before he could make up his mind on whether to open the combat—
There was a roaring sound the likes of which he had never heard in his life. The Necromancer flinched, sword and wand aiming up—
The tyrant of frost whirled, startled by the same sound, and Az’kerash heard the noise receding. He felt something activating—
“Localized [Teleport]—but tremendous mana! No, that’s a short-ranged [Gate]—”
It was fast! Az’kerash’s [Haste]-enhanced reactions saw the being above him jerk, then take off after whatever had appeared up there. Racing, yes, racing the apparition with every appearance of fascination. Perhaps delight.
The Necromancer heard nothing as the snowstorm followed the whimsical being. After about five seconds, he thought he sensed confusion—and the storm was blowing away from his party. He turned and saw the Frost Wyvern banking. Az’kerash wiped some snow from his hair.
“Divest yourselves of snow. [Mass Invisibility]. We continue onwards.”
He wondered what that had been, but he was focused on his objectives. The Necromancer kept walking, eyes on the ground. He suspected he could dig anywhere and find what he wanted, but the question arose: if this being of ultimate frost was half as adept as he was, and Nerrhavia likewise, why were they not here with shovels?
“The quality is not the same. Deeper. Where the deepest and densest parts of the ocean bed existed. Keep spotting ruins.”
It was nostalgic, and he only wished he were alive. The man known as Perril Chandler would have loved the adventure. Az’kerash was just…
Cold.
 
——
 
Five seconds to fly. Five seconds before death caught her on frozen wings. Fighti flew. She had no confidence she could kill whatever that was.
She activated her tele-jump and then gunned the throttle. The Skyshadow Mk. 1 roared away from the blizzard, and she sensed whatever it was following her.
Five seconds. Passing slowly as could be as she listened to her heart pounding. Then—
The cold air and snow stopped racing past her cockpit. She appeared in the air, falling, and screamed.
“[Deploy Parachute]—!”
It unfolded around her, but the air was so cold the fabric froze, and she went down fast. Thankfully, there was snow below her. It cushioned her fall as she landed—hard—and lay in the snowbank the storm had brought with it.
Dazed, staring skywards, she finally saw what was creating the storm. It landed with a howl of wind, and the chill it brought froze everything around it. Snow turned to ice. The ground cracked, and Fighti held her breath as she stared at…
It’s not a Dragon. That was the one thing she could think. Close, but no Dragonlord of Ice. Even so—she felt the ground tremble as the Ruler of Frost cast around, searching for that strange object it had been racing.
It was no idiot; it was searching the snow, moving around, trying to find the odd creature it had thought might give it a fine challenge in the skies.
However, it couldn’t find the little Goblin lying in the snow. A huge, clawed foot pulled up the ground as Fightipilota lay there, not making a sound. And she realized the curiosity of this creature was going to kill her.
It was freezing. Far, far below zero, and despite her warm bomber jacket, her gloves, her boots—the frost this creature was emitting had already frozen her extremities numb.
She tried to cover her face. Curled up in a ball as she heard a roar of frustration. The beating of great wings—and then it leapt into the air and sped off, searching for its prey.
Fighti lay there, waiting for the world to warm, but the storm blew over her as it followed this being which brought its own weather to the New Lands. Snow, blowing and blowing, and Fighti began to shake uncontrollably.
Then giggle.
She was giggling when Chickenruler and Nailren finally found her. Not that either had been able to see her in the snowdrift she was buried under. It was Coldcream who’d smelled the ‘prey’ in the snow he was used to, and the two leapt down.
“—frozen! She needs help! She’s blue. Fighti, can you hear me?”
“I see it. Fly, Coldcream! Fly as fast as—!”
The frozen [Fighter Pilot] didn’t reply. But her teeth were locked together in a bared grin, and she was shaking. Giggling as Nailren tried to figure out how to warm her and realized her temperature wasn’t rising. There was ice on her skin; some kind of magical ice. She was so cold she already had frostnip.
They flew, and Fighti laughed. Because…even with a plane from the future, a monstrosity of engineering and magic, she did not rule these skies.
What a relief.
 
——
 
A crisis in the skies. Nailren held Fightipilota upright in the seat in front of him with every blanket and piece of cloth they had wrapped around her. They were flying straight for Nombernaught without slowing. They only landed once to start a fire before they realized this magical ice wasn’t melting.
The blankets were smoking and half-frozen from the ice on Fighti. The smoke came from embers that Nailren had wrapped amongst the blankets; they were the only things keeping the Goblin from freezing over.
What they needed, right now, was magical help or a [Healer], and only the Drowned Folk had that. The half-Elves would be another day or two of flying, so they sped westwards through the night and into the dawn.
Nailren was mostly silent as Chickenruler urged Coldcream onwards, using Skills as often as he could. Sometimes, he talked to the air—he was in contact with Chieftain Rags somehow. She’d noticed when Fighti failed to report in and had realized there was a problem.
Good system. But it spoke to how remote they were and how dangerous anything could be, even with Fighti’s powerful Skill. One injury out here and…
Nailren kept trying to think what they could have done better. Avoid the storm, yes, but they hadn’t realized it was following them, and at that point, the creature was too fast. Land, the moment they saw it, and wait for it to blow past—that would be standard operating procedure.
But after that? Fighti distracting the frozen creature had been the best and most pragmatic move. Sometimes, you were faced with such situations. So he focused on trying to keep Fighti awake and alive. Not that he could do much.
Fighti was turning blue. A condition that Nailren had never seen before, not having much experience with Humans or people with visible skin at low temperatures. But Spoony was very worried.
“H-U-R-R-Y-.-H-U-R-R-Y.”
“I know. Fighti? Stay with us.”
She had been giggling for a while, but now she was still. Staring at something. Nailren was grateful for any distraction as the sun rose. And who should it be but the only other force who could invade the New Lands from afar. That distant power—and they were a power—who were realizing the influence they could wield.
The Wandering Inn. He saw something flicker to his left, vanish behind the Wyvern with a squeak of a high pitched voice, then re-appear and stabilize, following them. It was a girl, of course. The one who watched over friends near and far.
“…Nanette?”
Nanette Weishart was staring around, appearing mildly acrophobic as she stared down at the ground rushing past them. She was holding onto a baseball cap on her head and she had a full uniform and jersey on. Nailren just stared at her.
“Where’s Mrsha?”
“Getting ready for school! Also, Lyonette said she shouldn’t see someone else die…is Fighti alright? Rags told us there was a problem!”
Nailren laid out the issue, and Nanette’s eyes widened.
“A monster created a permanent winter? You’re going to Nombernaught, right? I’ll let them know to expect you!”
She was gone for a while, and Nailren guessed that it might be seven o’clock by the time he saw a distant city on the horizon around emerald waves lapping against a vast, long shoreline.
“So beautiful.”
