Coldcream closed his wings and dove, dropping away from the spiders, and Fightipilota’s seatbelt snapped against her chest. She felt her stomach rising as she leapt off the Wyvern’s back, and then she was in freefall. She gazed up, and the white cloud was dropping towards her, big, big, spiders with pink eyes—
“New Lands sucks sometimes. Hey, spiders. [She Flies on Another World’s Wings].”
The Goblin grinned as the world flashed around her. Then she was sitting, hand on the yoke of the roaring aircraft that appeared around her mid-flight. Engines blaring, dials spinning. She pulled the triggers, and there was thunder.
 
——
 
Nailren saw the airplane appear around Fightipilota in a moment. One moment, she was falling, the next, the compact fighter plane with sleek, dark blue metal was rising, and its guns made him clap his hands over his ears.
“Ha! Hahaha.”
Chickenruler was laughing hysterically. His head rose as Nailren’s open mouth followed Fightipilota. She fired for all of one second—then she just flew through the cloud.
Whatever the Cloudfall Spiders had been expecting, running straight into spinning propellor blades moving at three thousand revolutions per minute was not in the plans. They were minced, and Fighti tore through their nest—but her plane had developed an odd sound.
“It’s jammed her spinny-things! Oh no!”
Bits of spider were raining down as Chickenruler and Coldcream shot away, but they began to circle. Nailren saw the plane turning, nose towards him as the roaring of its blades stopped.
Five seconds. He feared Fighti was going to fall right among the spiders she’d torn through until he saw the plane flicker—
It appeared in front of Coldcream, a good five hundred feet, and the Skill vanished. Fightipilota fell, cursing, and her [Deploy Parachute] Skill opened the emergency parachute with the Redfang crest on it. She landed as Coldcream swooped down towards her, and Nailren recovered enough of his wits to shout.
“Jump on!”
The Cloudfall Spider nest was badly damaged, but there were smaller pieces forming as they rebuilt their homes and divided. Fighti ran up Coldcream’s leg as he landed, grabbed Nailren’s paw, and then she was in her seat, buckling up, as they took off.
The next few minutes were making sure they were safe and not being followed. They went against the wind, and Fighti checked herself.
“I think I’m fine. Ow!”
She pulled a tiny white, translucent spider off her neck and grimaced.
“It bit me!”
She had several spiders on her that had been on the plane when it vanished. She yanked them away, cursing.
“They bite hard. They poisonous?”
“I don’t think so.”
Crunch.
“Hm. Good. Tastes like air. Bleh. Ow, they bit my tongue!”
That made Fightipilota less terrifying to Nailren. A bit. But he sat there, and then had a thousand questions. He listened as Fighti caught her breath.
“Okay, no more action today, yeah, Chickenruler?”
“Hope so. Should we land and camp?”
“Eh, eh…maybe a short day. Did you see me go through them?”
He grunted.
“I saw you do that thing you don’t like.”
“Stall out? Yeah, propellor jammed up. Their thread’s tough.”
“Idiot. If you didn’t have your teleport-thing, you’d die.”
Fighti grinned, coming down off her adrenaline-high.
“Yeah, well, I knew I had it. I read the manual while I was in the air! It was close, but I had to do that.”
“You could have just flown around it and shot it all up. That’s smart.”
He was scolding her, despite the admiration of a moment ago, with clear concern for her safety. But the [Fighter Pilot] shook her head, and she visibly calmed.
“Two reasons I couldn’t, Chickenruler. First: bullets were going through the nest. Just like the Thunderbow bolts, but worse because they’re so fast and small. I could have fired spells, but the second reason—I needed to conserve magic and ammunition. I also took damage in that last fight.”
Chickenruler twisted around as Nailren’s brows rose.
“What? How much?”
“Uh…says 5%. Not bad. And I’m down to 89% ammunition. Fuel’s 95%. Hard to run out, but mana is at 33%. New Lands drains it too, maybe even when it’s not active.”
He stroked Coldcream’s neck.
“Who has a summon-thing that takes damage?”
Fighti jerked a thumb at her chest.
“This girl! Don’t worry, it repairs daily. I’ll report to Rags how much tomorrow. But I gotta be safe with it.”
She turned to Nailren, then, and he saw her grinning at him. The Gnoll coughed mildly.
“…From the Solstice event?”
“Yep.”
He took a breath.
“Alright. I hate to ask, but how much did I miss…?”
So she told him a story even he couldn’t believe, and he knew Erin. But the proof was in the skies.
 
——
 
Chieftain Rags was not happy about Nailren nor being told that Fighti was having to manage her plane, but the [Fighter Pilot] had good news for her the next day.
“Chieftain, update. Plane repairs 2% nightly. 3% fuel, 4% mana…1% ammunition. Got to be careful.”
“Avoid engaging where possible. You’ll never believe what Rianchi’s doing. Get me a report on how trustworthy Nailren is now he knows your secret, idiot.”
Well, from her that was practically as good as it got. Fighti sighed as she tried to calculate how each statistic worked. She was fairly certain that the tele-hop function was drawing from fuel and mana—there was no way for her to burn 5% of the fuel in five seconds.
The Skyshadow Mk. 1 was experimental technology from the world of the Goblin King’s future. Top-of-the-line magitech engineering; in it, she could and had killed Pallass’ [Wyvern Riders] with ease.
However, it had drawbacks. Fightipilota had asked for and gotten a rundown on the history of fighter planes from Kevin way back when, and her understanding was that this echoed a very specific time in aviation history.
Dogfighting, planes that went below the speed of sound. It meant the Skyshadow had no ‘missiles’, which she understood were like mini-planes that flew at you and exploded, and fast as it was, it couldn’t traverse the New Lands in a matter of seconds.
It did have a number of magical functions: everything from [Invisibility] to spell attacks she could activate…if the New Lands weren’t draining mana. She wished she had more time in the cockpit. Every five seconds she had another chance to touch a dial or pull this lever and see what it did…
Well, this was enough. More than enough. The autocannons on the Skyshadow had chewed up everything that had come at her in the High Passes and New Lands so far. Now that Nailren knew how well-protected the Frost Wyvern was, he understood that the Flooded Waters tribe was one of the few groups with a flying ace in the New Lands. Those magic fishies or other airborne threats could ground Garuda and even other Wyverns. But Fighti would take on the skies with her class and level.
The only thing was…
 
——
 
Every day in the New Lands was another hazard. This time, they were jumped in the evening, with the sun shining blood red, and Nailren thought it was settled. They’d seen the duo of Wyverns rising up at them fast, but Coldcream had gone for altitude, and they’d dropped Fighti. He watched her dive, and again, the Skyshadow appeared and began firing from well outside the Wyverns’ range.
Three seconds of engagement. One to turn, and one more to roar towards them before she tele-jumped, appeared overhead, and Coldcream actually managed to slow so she could slam into Nailren.
“Ow. Nice w—”
“Chickenruler, fly, fly faster!”
The screaming [Fighter Pilot] clung to Nailren as Chickenruler twisted.
“What, why?”
“They’re not dead!”
“What? But you shot—”
“Yeah, fly faster!”
Two shrieking Wyverns were rising behind them. Nailren twisted around, and Fightipilota’s eyes were wide as she stared at the smoking craters and blood on their scales. One was bright orange, the other grey, and they were hurt, maybe badly, but—
“You shot them, though.”
“Yeah.”
“With your pew-pew things.”
“Autocannons, three full seconds.”
“…You blew apart plate mail in testing. Blew apart, not even made holes in.”
“Yep.”
Coldcream and Chickenruler stared back a second, then the Frost Wyvern began flapping as fast as he could. Fightipilota gulped.
“Okay, Nailren? You can let go now. I’ll just get to my seat. You working on that map?”
“Yep.”
Nailren circled this area three times and wrote ‘death zone’ on it. Fightipilota nodded.
“Damn Wyverns. First one keeps flirting with my Chieftain, now we get two more. Ours is a nice guy, though. Pretty stupid, but once you get to know him, hey, he’s not bad. I wish she’d give him a chance.”
“…What?”
“I know, ‘what is she thinking’? She doesn’t like other Goblins either, but you hear about kingdoms marrying their [Princes] and stuff for armies and money. We get more Wyverns? I don’t think she’s doing better. She’s selfish, that’s what I’m saying.”
“I see.”
“Yup. They still following us?”
“…Yep.”
“Hey, Chickenruler? Fly faster.”
 
——
 
Mostly, though, they just…travelled the New Lands. At a speed no one could match and from a vantage point that made Nailren worry. So much so that Spoony noticed. He confessed his worries to her as they were flying, surveilling the lands below and noting it all down on his map.
“It’s too easy, Spoony. I worry that if you can just fly across the New Lands—what is there to explore?”
These were the selfish anxieties of someone who wanted this adventure not to end. However, Nailren needn’t have worried; if he was amazed by the Goblins’ perspective, they envied his.
 
——
 
“Hey, what that?”
“Dunno. Looks cool.”
“Damn, you think we can land?”
“Nope. Remember your ABCs.”
“Always Be Checking With the Chieftain To Do Anything You Dumb Idiots?”
“Yep.”
That was the, ah, flow of most conversations on Wyvernback whenever Fighti or Chickenruler found something interesting. And there was tons of interesting stuff! It was just…
They knew that Rags was right, here. There were enough dangers in the air to avoid landing and making targets out of themselves. So if they saw something fascinating—the great rift in the earth, a mysteriously undestroyed tower, the bones of some huge sea-creature—their orders were to mark it down or just pass it by and never go near it.
This was on the basis that ‘cool things had trouble around them’, a Kevin way of saying something adventurers and Goblins were well aware of. Novelty was trouble.
The one tiny, black goat amidst a pack of Eater Goats? Death.
The lone Wyvern who wasn’t the same color as the rest? Death.
The one adventurer who didn’t run, drew a sword, and waited for your entire tribe at the choke point? Death.
But, damnit, some things were worth dying for! Nailren had quickly picked up on Fighti and Chickenruler’s orders after getting used to the air, and he was quite complimentary of Rags’ orders.
“It’s a sensible precaution, even with Fighti’s trump card.”
“Sensible. What, you some [Shaman]?”
“Technically, I suppose? I had training. When are you allowed to land?”
Chickenruler counted on his fingers.
“Food and rest. Meeting a new group to trade with—but we have to be careful who. And emergencies to hide and stuff. Or if we got a job from Pink Lady.”
Nailren’s eyes flickered.
“Magnolia Reinhart gives you work?”
Fighti glared at Chickenruler, who hunched his shoulders.
“Just to deliver stuff and check on groups. We see lots of ones that didn’t make it.”
The forerunners of the New Lands. Nailren sombered, but then he thought as they skimmed over what looked like a vast beach, minus the water. So a desert, but with a lot more stuff in it.
“Well, you landed for Woll’s Waystation. You could land and talk to other groups you meet.”
“Nah. What they got to trade? And it’s too dangerous with two Goblins. What if they notice us? We not that good at pretending, especially with Drakes.”
“Fair enough. But what about two Goblins and a Gnoll?”
The two Goblins hesitated. Nailren’s grin demonstrated that like a good [Shaman], he really did know how to interpret orders. So the flying team made a few more unauthorized pit stops on their journey.
Whenever they saw a likely group, they would dive, wave, and if they got waves back, they’d land. It was…fascinating. They were headed deep into the New Lands; there weren’t that many groups out this far already, and they had to stay low so they didn’t have a huge view of the landscape.
But the groups they did meet?
Interesting. Heartbreaking. Or just—
Tough.
 
——
 
You had to be tough to come this far. Getting this deep into the New Lands meant you hadn’t known about the bad soil. You’d walked into the mana drain trap. And yet—you’d kept going.
For whatever reason, you’d stuck it out and gotten this far. It didn’t mean you were doing well or were happy. But there was a toughness in the Humans who were posted up against a broken wall of some kind. They were clearly using it as shelter; blocks of coral wood had been made into a second and third wall and mud used as mortar. A tarp had been draped over the space for a home; it was a base, clearly.
They did not appear happy. However, they were alert. Armed well enough; Fighti casually eyed the heavy armor on the team of warriors who’d come out to greet them. However, she was letting Nailren speak.
He was surprisingly good at it. Fighti had no idea how to speak to other species or those from different places. She’d probably say, ‘yo, you not gonna kill us?’ to all of them. But Nailren scrutinized clothing, read into accents, and just…seemed to know the world.
For instance, his first instinct was to swing himself off the saddle, raise one paw, and shout.
“Captain Nailren of the Pride of Kelia! Silver-ranker! We’re cartographying the region and travelling to Nombernaught! May we speak? Are you Terandrian, Balerosian, or Izril’s north?”
His bark made the Humans glance at each other, and a huge, heavyset man half-turned to someone in the rear, then shouted back.
“We’re Izrilian! One second!”
After some murmuring, he walked forwards with a palpably upset-looking Human woman. She held out a hand and greeted Nailren and Fighti, who’d slid out of her turret seat. They seemed friendly, and she had her Skill ready; Chickenruler stayed with Coldcream.
“How do you do? I am Lady Haviet of House Meliope. I am, ah, the leader of this expedition into the New Lands. Did you—did you fly in? Are the Walled Cities coming?”
Her face seemed to betray hope and fear, and when Nailren assured her this was an independent city, her face fell.
“Oh, I see. Would you, ah, take passengers?”
It was a question that threw Fighti and Chickenruler. Fighti scratched her head.
