Just one amusing thing. Due to the way the chests had been rushed out, Captain Therrium had tasked a [Scribe] with writing all the notes, which they’d done and gotten things 99% right. It was just that when they’d come to names, they’d heard ‘Chickenruler’, and well—names being names, this was the result.
 
To the explorers of the New Lands:
Nombernaught delivers a gift from its harbors. The Drowned City waits on the southwest of the New Lands. Come to trade, stay as friends. This gift is made to all with goodwill as the only price. 
On behalf of Shadeward Doroumata, Luminary Hisark, the City Captain, and the City of Floodwaters by Fighterpiloty, [Explorer] Nailren, and the Ruler of Chickens, we wish you fortune and success.
 
PS: If there are children in danger, send them to our safer harbors or we’ll keelhaul the lot of you if they die.
 
——
 
It was pretty funny to realize Goblins were too shy to accept being lauded for a noble act. No one had thought of it. A city of intelligent people and Fightipilota was the one person who’d thought to feed hungry people.
It wasn’t hilarious, but Nailren had chuckled about it. He didn’t think it mandated eighteen minutes of nonstop laughter, let alone the third time it happened. But then, he wasn’t the older Human man pointing at Fightipilota’s red ears and laughing.
Lord Olvos Lanight kept laughing, even when Chickenruler and Fightipilota began to huck things at him. Yet, the two embarrassed Goblins didn’t seem to realize that it wasn’t really just amusement that had the old man in stitches.
To Nailren’s ears, there was a note of hysteria in the laughter that had nothing to do with the heights. The old [Lord] was wheezing for breath. Laughing. Like someone having a nervous breakdown.
Perhaps, because he had insisted, begged to be taken along, to see…something.
What? Had he expected to see Fighti and Chickenruler dump all the food in a pile and fly off the moment they were out of sight of Nombernaught?
Nailren wasn’t sure, but he thought the obvious truth had broken something in the old man. Like someone who had tried to test the obvious, again and again, and been forced to acknowledge that reality was not what he had believed it to be…Lord Olvos lay there, weakly, staring down at the New Lands of Izril.
Nailren leaned over to Fightipilota, who was grumbling as she sat, red-faced.
“Stupid old man. We should have left him.”
“I think this is good for him. Well, in a way. It certainly keeps him from having to make an Earther his [Squire].”
She considered this and sighed.
“Yeah. I guess that’s a good deed. Oh—hey, look at that.”
They were passing over something below. A strange sight that pulled Lord Olvos up as well. Chickenruler slowed and almost passed on, but Nailren and Fighti, even Lord Olvos, shouted at him that he must land.
After a second, the Frost Wyvern did. Despite all Rags’ rules and regulations…they landed, and the quartet stared at something in the New Lands they had never seen nor dreamed of.
“Oh. So this is what these lands held.”
Lord Olvos sat, crosslegged, and Fightipilota rubbed at her eyes.
There it sat, just past the Eternal Grasslands. The yellow tufts of grass even crept up half the valley where earth had heaved itself upwards, forming a huge basin with raised dirt edges, like two hands cupped together. The yellow grass gave way to regular green, blooming with tall wildflowers; butterflies spiraled upwards in a cloud.
They flew together in a double helix, dodging a school of fish, who swam past the butterflies, mouths open. A few leapt up, snaring the frightened insects, before plopping down in the tube of water that carried them upwards then around the valley in a spiral.
Fish and water. Floating. A disbelieving Frost Wyvern stuck out his tongue, and a red carp swam straight onto it. Coldcream chewed the fish down, then opened his mouth and stuck his head in another vortex of water swirling upwards in defiance of gravity.
“Tribes. Did Kishkeria make this? Or is this just natural gravity magic? Magicore in the earth…?”
Nailren’s voice trailed off, and he knelt there as the rush of a river overtook all sound. Then a shadow covered him, and the Gnoll peered up. Above his head, a shark swam, yet the Gnoll was safe from the roaming predator of the sea.
He sat in a tunnel below the waters, a landbridge that let one walk under the lake that flowed overhead. Fightipilota and Chickenruler walked out of the tunnel, shielding their heads, afraid that the waters would come rushing down at any moment. Instead, the water spiraled skywards until you could see a few droplets hovering just over the valley’s edge. There the magic carrying the water up failed, and it rained down in a gentle spray, leaving rainbows.
The fish swam in this unique ecosystem, seemingly content and unbothered as gravity bowed to this strange place. No one spoke as Fighti stuck a hand into a backwards-waterfall. The flow was so strong that when she placed a rock in it and held on, it carried her up twenty feet before she let go. She watched the rock swirling into the sky.
She landed next to an old man, who stood in the center of the strange wonderland. Water was running down his battered mithril armor and into his eyes. He watched as the sunlight entered the valley and turned the blue waters green, then orange in places. Fighti looked down and saw, buried among the valley, magical crystals shining with the colors reflected above.
She flicked some water droplets from her hand and watched them float in front of her, then fall skywards and come shooting down in a rushing torrent that moved around them. A wave that played with the ground and then spun away.
“Hey, old guy. You okay?”
He blinked and seemed to breathe only then. Lord Olvos Lanight cleared his throat.
“I think…we have come across a wonder. Miss Fightipilota?”
“Yeah, Lord Olvos?”
The old man stared up at the river flowing above his head. And he wiped at his watery eyes.
“I…think I’ve found the place House Lanight would have settled. Someone should preserve this. I would have travelled a thousand miles to see this as a boy. Someday, people will come far and wide to see this strange valley. Did—didn’t you mention there was a team searching for work?”
Fighti had all but forgotten. Nailren’s ears perked up. He nodded.
“The Silver Swords, yes.”
Lord Olvos nodded as well.
“If you would go on—would you send anyone looking for work here? I think I have a job for them. No, I’ll have to call to Nombernaught for my horse, a flag. I’ll stay here.”
He wanted to claim this place? It mystified the Goblin for a moment until she realized this was how other species did such things. Put down a flag, as if he had made this spot or could just own it…
Fighti turned to Nailren, and an objection rose up in her throat. Wasn’t this land for Gnolls? Lord Olvos followed Fighti’s gaze, and guilt crossed his face.
“Is that—do you object, sir?”
He addressed Nailren. The Gnoll was gazing up at the magical wonderland, but when they looked at him, he just shrugged.
“I am not all Gnolls. Could I forbid you from claiming this spot, Lord Olvos? Would it even work? The New Lands are vast. Surely, there are a thousand such wonders. Regardless, who could hold this spot? Not I. Only Plain’s Eye if they chose to come this far. Do you intend to keep this place as it is?”
“Unspoiled, yes.”
Nailren nodded and turned his head back upwards.
“Then claim it. But do not ask me for permission again.”
The [Lord] of distant Terandria lowered his head in acknowledgement and rested a moment. He slowly sat on the ground, and Fightipilota opened her mouth, then saw the biggest fish she’d ever seen in her life breach the floating bubble of water in the center of the valley. A miniature sea. Wordlessly, she sat down too. Lord Olvos turned to her.
“I will pay you, of course. I will need guards. People to find this place. A map.”
“Mhm. In a minute, old guy, sure. I want to see this first.”
Then she marvelled at another wonder of the New Lands and wished she had time to explore it. But someone had to fly.
 
——
 
And that was that. There Fightipilota went to drop Nailren off at Woll’s Waystation and to bring gifts from above to those who needed a little miracle.
Another day, another adventure in the New Lands. Like a river that defied gravity, a wonder never seen in any part of the natural world before this.
Or a tower guarded by a Golem. Or—or someone giving food to little, starving Drakes. Something to make you cry with injustice, but also cry because goodness was done.
And no one knew about it. Some people had even forgotten about the New Lands altogether! Wasn’t that crazy? They went about their lives and barely thought about the people suffering in another part of the world, another world entirely.
It was not right. It was the way the world was, but, manifestly, it was not the way the world should be. And it grated on the witness to Fightipilota’s heroism, the songs sung between Gnolls and Drowned Folk—but arguably, not even most Drowned Folk or Gnolls had heard about.
It rankled Nanette’s beret. And she was wearing a beret today. She had on arm bangles, a flowery top with literal flowers on it, and in defiance of the wet weather, bright yellow shorts and clogs.
Mrsha the Mildly Appalled took one look at Nanette over breakfast and held up a card.
You’re doing this on purpose, aren’t you?
“I’m sure I don’t know what you’re talking about, Mrsha.”
Uh huh. Did you enjoy yourself last night with the Drowned Folk? Some of us have school, you know.
Nanette turned a smile on Mrsha that spelled trouble.
“As a matter of fact, Mrsha, I did! And I wish everyone could hear about it!”
You could write into the Liscorian Gazette. They’re a bit boring with all this election nonsense.
Mrsha chewed on some breakfast cereal as Nanette scowled.
“I thought about that, but it’s too slow! And I don’t like writing like you do, Mrsha. Plus, it’s just for Liscor! This is something bigger! You know what? I’m going to do something far more exciting.”
Okay. Some of us have school, you know.
“It’s not my fault you’re in school.”
Nanette had cordially refused to be enrolled in school, because she was a bit too old, and also, because she was a witch and had plenty of education from the other witches. Lyonette had thus far lost that fight handily, so Nanette had plenty of free time.
That was how she ended up lugging an old plush armchair from the World’s Eye Theatre, one of the tables, a lantern, and a bunch of Yelroan’s paper and ink into one of the inn’s spare rooms. Lyonette, of course, noticed Nanette trying to heave an armchair down the corridor.
“Nanette, dear, are you, um, redecorating?”
“Just…working…on a side project, Lyonette! Don’t mind me!”
The [Princess] hesitated, but she knew that Nanette hated being helped. So she turned to Sir Dalimont, who discreetly lifted one corner of the armchair for Nanette. The girl glared as the [Princess] waved.
“Well, just let us know if you need something else. Er…Colfa and I are seeing about making the choir a regular thing. And I’m sure the [Witches] in Riverfarm have time for a lesson. And Rheirgest’s [Necromancers] might love some tea and be willing to teach magic or Master Hexel give another lecture on good architecture!”
Nanette ignored all these friendly, helpful things she could be doing. And it was a sign of her stubbornness that Lyonette included learning necromancy on the positive activities she hoped Nanette would try.
After getting the room mostly in order, and finding a piece of wood and writing ‘Nanette’s Workroom, Keep Out!’, Nanette wiped her brows and then put her hands on her hips.
“I know I need…something. Darn. I don’t have the magic for this, and I doubt even Witch Califor did. There’s no help for it. Archmage Valeterisa!”
She hammered on the door to the Archmage’s rooms, but Valeterisa was out in the High Passes building her academy. Damn! Just when Nanette needed help!
She tried Montressa’s rooms next, but the younger [Mage] must have been with her master. Which left…
Mage Bezale opened her door and stared down at the little girl with her hands on her hips.
“Mage Bezale, I’d like a favor, if I may?”
“Er…”
“I can pay!”
The Minotauress was not immune to the promises of gold. When she heard Nanette out and had finished scratching her head, she had a very sensible suggestion.
“Why not just use…an empty song crystal, the kind the Singer of Terandria uses? They record everything at a very, very high fidelity. They have to; you just record until it’s filled. And then you can copy it, transport it, all very simple. I can teach you the basic spells.”
And that way I don’t have to deal with whatever this is. Bezale even had a few empty song crystals she’d used to make contraband recordings of the Players of Celum with. She handed Nanette a few, accepted a lot of gold in return that the girl had for some reason, and shut the door.
Nanette ran off, delighted! She only had to find one more thing…
Calescent was a far more understanding person. When he heard her out, he rummaged around the kitchen and found a little egg holder for her that could fit the fist-sized song crystal with a few alterations.
Like a hammer and some pliers for bending. Nanette was done just before lunch, so she brought the makeshift stand for the song crystal into her new room and decided she needed a pillow because she was a bit too short in the armchair to sit at the right height on the table.
She was busy writing some notes out, preparing herself, when there was a knock at the door.
“Nanette, sweetie? Would you like lunch?”
“I’m busy, Lyonette! Thank you!”
“Oh. Well…how about a tray of some Drathian sushi? Calescent said you were talking all about it last night, and he’s made some for everyone.”
“I…suppose I could have some.”
Nanette got up reluctantly and opened the door. Lyonette tried to peer inside.
“Everything going well?”
“Yes, thank you! I’ll show you when I have something to show!”
Nanette shut the door and took her tray to the table. She broke the little chopsticks included with the tray and began to nibble on the sushi after a few misses with the instruments. Then she brightened up.
This was the life. Nanette activated the song crystal and cleared her throat. Then, after a few false starts, she began to speak in a clear voice as she leaned over the impromptu microphone. Not like she’d seen Drassi do, which was loudly and trying to get everyone’s attention, but more informally.
Like how Nanette felt she’d want to tell someone.
