Fighti wanted to get back to flying, even if her Skill hadn’t repaired itself enough for her to trust it. She’d conjured it this morning, and she thought it might fly. The wings were all dented inwards, and the propeller in front didn’t work, but she could probably glide it for seven seconds, and the guns might not blow up when she fired.
Good enough to get on the road, right? Well…when she suggested it, Chickenruler kicked her.
“You dumb? You wake up all of one hour and you want to leave? We resting! Your Skill can’t protect us, and Coldcream still hurty.”
Resting. Fighti protested that she and Coldcream were fine. However, both Chickenruler and Rags were adamant. Stay and rest a while; the Drowned Folk weren’t indicating their welcome was wearing out, so Fighti found herself on holiday in Nombernaught.
Again.
 
——
 
It was weird. The first time Fighti had been here, she’d loved it. But she’d been keeping a low profile and just stayed near the inn they’d been given, going to explore a few nearby streets at most.
Now, she was an esteemed guest with the run of the city, but it wasn’t as fun. Again, probably because she had nearly died dive-bombing nautiloids and maybe exploded on Olvos. She wasn’t…good.
“You just a bit Redfang-crazy. Chieftain Rags gonna have Taganchiel or Prixall talk to you when you get back.”
“Great.”
Maybe it’d help. Fighti kicked around the city, hands in her pockets, keenly aware there were so many more important things she could be doing than ‘resting’.
If she had access to Goblinhome’s engineering department, she could try to fix up her plane or work on prototypes—or just create the turret she could apparently summon at will. She was thinking an even bigger Thunderbow. With multiple kinds of projectiles.
Weapon.
—The city had a lot of access to the harbor, which you’d expect from any Drowned City. What Fighti found funny was that it had an indoor swimming area that looked like, well, a beach.
With lighting and everything. It was contained inside, and she didn’t get it until the Human [Sailor] whom Chickenruler had befriended, Lamont, explained the obvious.
“Nombernaught is usually fathoms deep, and swimming is deadly. Drowned Folk want to swim at their leisure, hence this area. During the winter, everyone saw the beach garden at The Wandering Inn, so they altered it.”
The result was some pristine damn waters, all green and lovely. Fighti saw Drowned Folk playing in the waters, even some visitors from the ships.
A kid was running past Fighti, being chased by a [Squire] with a practice sword.
“I’m getting you this time, Sidney! Avast, you lily-livered landlubber!”
The shrieking girl was part of a group of kids fleeing the big, bad Human with a sword. They dove into the water, then pelted the [Squire] with mudballs, and Haley threw up her shield.
“Hey, no mudballs! No—”
Someone inked her with a long-range spit-shot, and she spluttered. Lamont pointed them out.
“That’s Haley and Sidney. I’m part of a little group here—we’re sort of earning our way in Nombernaught. Fighti, right? Chickenruler said you like vehicles. I have a mana-powered sailboat if you wanted to try it…”
“Pass.”
Chickenruler elbowed Fightipilota hard, but she was just sitting, staring at the waters. Too moody to want to check out that awesome-sounding thing. She was, in fact, so determined not to have any fun that she was being snappish to everyone.
Including Coldcream, who was helping to make ice cream on the beach in exchange for a cut of the spoils. He wanted to snuggle her; she pushed his head away. That nearly earned her the boot of justice from Chickenruler until someone sat next to her.
“Get lost, Lord Olvos.”
She turned her head, glared—and Captain Therrium Sailwinds was sitting there in full captain’s regalia. He fit the beach about as well as Shadeward Doroumata would have.
“Healed up, Miss?”
“Yeah, thanks. Not in the mood to chat.”
“Fair enough.”
The Drowned Man nodded at her and went back to scrutinizing the people bathing. Fighti appreciated that. She’d heard that Captain Therrium was a dangerous [Pirate], but he had a stoic attitude she needed at this moment. Rather like Redfangs.
 
——
 
Captain Therrium cursed internally. He knew he should have sent one of his underlings to soften the Goblin up, but no one could tell she was a Goblin but him and the Shadeward. Maybe a few of the [Captains], but—
Well, what in the depths was he supposed to say to re-open the conversation? He sat there, glowering into the sea, until someone oohed.
“Oh my goodness. Captain Therrium? I never see you at the beach! And our dashing Drake heroine? You make an amazing duo.”
His heart sank as he recognized that voice. Half the Drowned Folk playing around had spotted her and were fleeing the area. It took something to be feared in Nombernaught, a city of [Pirates]. But she was that feared. He rose, trepidatious despite himself.
“Stow that quill, Writer Caroline. That’s our guest. I won’t have you making up doggrel about her.”
The [Romance Writer] gave Therrium what she probably thought was an innocent look.
“Who, me? I’m just making observations, Captain! About the grumpy man with a heart like a shell. Who never socializes, never smiles unless it’s at treasure. And the one person he chose to greet—hello, Miss! I’m Caroline, sort of a famous writer. And you are?”
Fightipilota glanced up at Caroline and moved some wet sand around with her claws.
“Not interested. I’ve had it up to here with you people. Get lost.”
Therrium’s brows rose. Caroline faltered.
“Hey, does that mean Humans?”
“No, just your type. You’re not special, and unless you made this beach yourself, I’m not interested. Plus, you don’t want to write about me or whatever.”
Fighti said that with utterly misplaced confidence. Because Caroline edged closer, peering at Fighti.
“I don’t know. I think my class is telling me I absolutely want to get to know you better.”
Amazing. Therrium’s eyebrow rose despite himself. Was Caroline’s insane class actually overcoming the illusion-Skill the Goblin had? That was an amazing edge use-case for her class, but Fighti’s flat look met Caroline’s dancing eyes—a second before she nailed the [Romance Writer] with a mudball.
“Aaah! My eyes!”
Down Caroline went. Fighti lifted a second mudball.
“Beat it. You’re as bad as Arnie. Okay, almost as bad.”
 
——
 
Caroline had dropped her notepad and quill and fumbled to save them from the waters.
“You’re awful! Haley! Haley, did you see that? Protect me! What about chivalry? Don’t you dare laugh! See if I write anything about—”
She turned to shake a fist at Fighti, then stopped dead. She stared at the little Goblin who had replaced the Drake in her vision. After all, Fighti had just thrown a mudball in her face. Caroline’s jaw dropped.
“No. Way. Oh my—”
She began edging away, taking notes as fast as she could write. Especially because Captain Therrium was smiling and offering Fighti a drink.
 
——
 
“Anyone who hits that nuisance is a friend in my book. Here.”
Drowned Folk drank all the time. Much like [Storm Sailors], they didn’t believe in waiting until the evening to drink; in fact, Therrium objected to the practice.
“Drinking in the night ruins your sleep. You start early.”
“Hey, I like that. Guess you’re better than talking to those Humans after all. So what do you want?”
Fighti was still being direct. Captain Therrium drank deeply from his cup, filled it again.
“Cultivating relationships with useful people in the New Lands.”
“Oh, cool. My city and yours can be good allies. You can leave the bottle.”
He paused, then leaned over the cup and grabbed Fighti’s jacket and dragged her closer.
“I am thankful for your actions, woman. But mind me, there’s respect among equals; we were that. Some from you wouldn’t go amiss.”
The Goblin bared her teeth, ready to say something he’d regret. She picked up a mudball, and then there was a voice.
“Oooh.”
Both Fighti and Therrium turned, and Caroline threw up her arms and fled as both hurled mudballs at her. Therrium looked disgruntled as he leaned back.
“That woman is a menace. People read what she writes, so she has half the [Captains] walking scared of her. The other half welcome it.”
“Yeah, yeah. Whatever. I’ve seen crazier.”
“You must have been at Liscor, then. Seen other folk like her?”
It was a probing comment from the [Captain] who was probably sharp and dangerous. Fighti took down the rest of her wine and shoved her cup at him.
“Listen. I don’t know anything worth stealing. I just visit the inn sometimes and eat their pastrami sandwiches, which are excellent. There’s your intel.”
“A contact with access to the center of Izril’s worth having. What’s your price?”
“Higher than whatever you’ve got.”
His eye flashed again, and Fighti tilted her head. For some reason, she felt like he was familiar, despite him being the only Drowned Man she’d really talked to besides…
“Wait what’s your name again?”
“Therrium Sailwinds. Captain of the Passing Shadow.”
“Huh. Small world. Do you know Seborn Sailwinds? He’s a Gold-ranker who stayed at the inn a lot. I liked him.”
Therrium blinked in genuine astonishment. He sat back.
“Seborn? He’s my second-son. A fool who fled to land and—he stayed at that inn? I knew he was around Pallass.”
“You’re Seborn’s dad?”
It…sort of fit? He was half-Eel, but some of his features were the same. The scowl looked right. Therrium and Fighti sized each other up again, this time with more interest.
“Is Seborn still in Liscor? He might be useful after all, though I’d rather you between the two. I’m a straightforwards man. I’ll make you an offer for information and a hand in the right place, nothing that compromises your loyalties.”
Fighti grinned. Rags had said she was allowed to let herself be bought off, but she’d never thought it’d actually happen.
“Wow, my first bribery. I get a free drink back home. You should have asked Seborn. He’s way more useful. And probably easier to bribe. What, you didn’t talk to him for…two years?”
“He forswore my crew and abandoned his post. Claims I owe him—bah, he’s entitled. He’s run his mouth about my ‘debts’ on television no less. If I owe him anything, it’s after I beat him senseless. Let’s not talk about him.”
“What? I like talking about him. You sound like my dad.”
That threw Therrium twice. He eyed Fighti.
“Your…father?”
“Oh, yeah. My real dad, not the one who got my mother pregnant. He’d toss you off a cliff and make you climb back up to get tough. Got a lot of my brothers and sisters killed, after betraying his team, and then nearly got everyone else killed for his selfishness. Died well, though, so I guess there’s that.”
…Was this a compliment or an insult? Captain Therrium had no idea, so he filled Fighti’s cup.
“I treat my sons like my crews: equally according to merit.”
“Oh, so you play favorites like my dad. I was never that important to him either.”
She beamed at him, and now Therrium grew really uncomfortable. He snapped.
“If Seborn’s in Liscor, I’ll make him an offer, then—”
“What? No, he’s gone. Left after all his team died. Most of them. Fought a huge Hag Queen. Didn’t run. The last half-Giant of Izril died, but he didn’t. Even my family thought it was a sad story. The Winter Solstice.”
“—Hag Queen? I saw some of the Winter Solstice, but Draugr—how tough is one of them? Are they really Gold-rank threats? What possessed him to risk his neck there?”
Fighti lay back on the beach.
“I’m drunk. What’s in this wine?”
“It’s fortified.”
“With what?”
“Rum. Go back to the Winter Solstice. No, wait. His team. He was running with some damn misfits, wasn’t he? Outcasts. Half-Freaks? They weren’t a good Gold-rank team, or so I h—”
Fighti kicked Therrium in the chest. She executed a somersault axe kick to his chest, and he stared at her.
“Don’t talk bad about that team. My dad joined them.”
“Hit me again and I will break that leg.”
Drunkenly, Fighti raised her fists and squared off with Therrium as Lamont and Chickenruler paled and began wading towards her. She glared.
“Your son—you don’t know him. You don’t know me. So you’re coming in with all these little gifts. Money. Hah. You weren’t there. Seborn could get me to waste any fleet he wants. You couldn’t get me to piss in a bottle. Except that one. I need to use the restroom.”
She took a swing at him, and he dodged it effortlessly. Therrium stood with a snarl.
“I’m no [Deckhand] to be spoken down to. I warn you once in good faith—”
She kicked sand at him. Captain Therrium grabbed her and lifted her up by one leg, upside-down, and felt his [Dangersense] go off. He stared at her as the drunk Fighti grinned at him, and he hesitated.
How the hell did my son meet these strange Goblins? Then someone poked him from behind. He swung around, snarling—
 
——
 
Sidney had a stick. She backed up when Therrium came around, but when he saw the girl’s face, he dropped Fighti.
“Girl. That hurts.”
Therrium ameliorated his tone only very slightly for the girl, but he did do it. It was a bad look to shout at a child, much less one whose story was known across Nombernaught. The [Survivor] backed up, trembling, and Therrium threw up a hand. Her lip was quivering dangerously.
“Don’t cry, damn it. Stop wailing or I’ll have half the crews annoying mine. Here. Have a drink.”
He held out a wine cup, and Sidney hesitated. It was a new Earther who strode forwards and slapped the cup out of Therrium’s eel-hand. He sighed.
I am going to make an example of one of this lot one day. However, this young woman he was also reluctant to war with. Because Malia was actually useful.
You didn’t mess with a [Thought Healer], so he glared at her. She glared back.
“Captain Therrium, you don’t offer wine to children!”
“Why not? It works.”
His reply stumped her long enough for him to pick up his bottle—it was too good to be left behind—and go stomping out of the beach. This was a pointless endeavor with the pests around.
Malia glared at him, then turned to the drunk Fightipilota.
“Miss? Miss Fighti?”
“Oh great, you’re multiplying. Shoo. I don’t want whatever it is. No, I’m not a pet, I don’t want to be bribed, I’m not telling you what it was, and I don’t want to hang out. Does that cover it?”
Fighti glared at the Earther, but Malia just put her hands behind her back.
“Miss…I’m very sorry to interrupt, but my class was telling me that I might be of use to you? I’m Malia, a [Thought Healer].”
