“I dunno if we’re that different. Some Goblin King pops up? Most Goblins go to fight. Eh, but not all. You just think ‘all’ because you see lots of Goblins. Plenty of tribes don’t. Some. I dunno, I wasn’t there. But you Humans not all the same? Weird. Someone says, ‘crusade’, and that seems to work every time.”
Now, he glowered at her.
“That is a reductive way of viewing our continent. We do not all go on crusades nor do we—”
He hesitated. Closed his mouth and studied her again. Fighti stared up at the ceiling.
“Yeah, well. You never asked if I was on the Goblin King’s side or against him.”
There was a long, long pause, and she sensed him studying her.
“You fought him?”
“Yup. Shot him lots. Doesn’t really work. Damn bastard regenerates faster than a bucket of water in a rainstorm. But hey, you gotta stab who you gotta stab. Make it quick, would you?”
She treated him to a brittle, exhausted smile without artifice. Without fear. If he wanted her dead, dead she was, and there was no more point to this conversation, in Fighti’s mind.
They’d said their parts, done the little stupid dance.
It reminded her of apologizing to Rasktooth. And how the good apologies she’d used to love, the people who let a Goblin live—weren’t enough.
This conversation wasn’t giving her anything, so she really just wanted to pee, sleep, or for him to leave. But he sat there, troubled, as if—
“Feel like the strange little Goblin’s made your big head all confused? Now you’re the one who has to decide if I’m good or need the old chop-chop. Poor Lord Olvos. The weight of the world on his shoulders.”
The man started, and his white mustaches moved faintly in the moonlight as he jerked upright, eyes narrowing. But Fighti just giggled at him.
“Should I not care? Should I not be wracked with indecision, Fighti? I came to you earnestly—”
“Yeah. Now I know why Rags looks like she hasn’t pooped in ten years sometimes. She has to do this all the time? Talk to people, non-Goblins, and keep explaining what we are? That we’re not all one Goblin, in love with the Goblin King? Dead gods, but it’s tiring. You think you’re the only Human? You think you’re the first?”
“I’m well aware other people have accepted Goblins before. There was an adventurer.”
Garen. How the stories echoed. Fighti closed her eyes and remembered her annoying, charismatic, disgrace of a leader. It just made her angrier, so she spat.
“Yeah. An adventuring team took in a single Goblin and look what that did. Oh no, he caused the next Goblin King! One Goblin lived, fought, betrayed his team, and then died. Leaving nothing behind.”
“He founded the Redfang tribe. One of the foremost tribes of Izril, who settled the High Passes. The same tribe fought against the Goblin Lord, Reiss. Or joined him. They still exist; one with their iconic red warpaint is deemed a [Blademaster]. A tribe whose members continue to represent Goblins’ strength.”
Lord Olvos’ words made Fighti’s eyes snap open. And she realized—he was staring at something propped up by her bed. A folded jacket. A bomber jacket from the future with the silly insignia of a Goblin who wanted to fly. And which still had those decorative crimson…
His eyes turned to her. Fighti snarled.
“So you did your homework. Big deal. You’re one little Human [Lord]. From one kingdom no one here cares about.”
“We mine and forge Mithril.”
He seemed vaguely insulted. Fighti rolled her eyes.
“You’re not important enough…to doom this world. You can’t kill my tribe. You can’t do more than kill, what, a thousand Goblins? You can’t even kill giant crabs. Just kill me. Or do your worst. You think you can threaten me? All you can do, old guy, is take one Goblin out of this world. Or add one to it.”
It took him a second to infer what she meant, and the [Lord] sat back in his chair.
“I am not a monster.”
“Sure. But you hear stories. Female Goblins never want to get captured. Wonder why.”
The man didn’t want to respond to that. Fighti went on, ranting now. She wanted to hurt him. Wanted to chase him out, because she didn’t want to deal with this.
“Let me tell you about my day, old guy. I nearly died. I saw the most beautiful, cold, amazing thing in the world, and it nearly killed me. Which sucked. Then someone said, ‘oh no, a bunch of Drowned Folk might die!’ So I went and did what I could. Because that’s what I wanted to do. Because that’s me. Just me being me. But because I have power, just a bit of power, I scared one poor Human so bad he shit himself and had to run over here to convince himself the big bad little Goblin isn’t going to fight House Lanight. Because I’m not some dumb monster he can ride down with a lance.”
“You saved my life and my granddaughter’s. Questioning my preconceived notions is my duty, as is protecting my kingdom and house. It is no easy matter. I am sorry for my actions. I was overwhelmed with grief.”
Fighti turned her head enough to spit over the side of her bed.
“You’re doing it again. Making this all about you! So worried that my Chieftain or I will kill a bunch of you. Yeah, we’re high-level. Yeah, we can destroy things. So what? Go be afraid of King Othius. Look into his cold, dead eyes, and then you’ll see a man who won’t stop. He’ll drown cities in the bodies of his silly [Heroes], send them up a hallway until they’re climbing over each other. Shooting everything that moves. Humans, Drakes, children—you want a monster? Try a man who won’t die even when you saw him in half with bullets. That’s a monster.”
Her fingers were twitching. She still saw the Blighted King gazing at her, straight through her. His screaming soldiers executing everything.
“Crelers all around and he couldn’t care less. Just about him surviving. Scary Goblins. Did you even see the thing the Drakes made? We had to stop it. We. Sure, your stupid little armies got there, but without us, it would have come out long ago. Without Trolls. All the monstrous species fighting other people’s mistakes. And our reward is being the scary monsters.”
He didn’t say a word, and Fighti held up one hand. Eyes locked on him.
“I can kill you. Is that what you want to hear? I can kill you and your House, and I can probably kill a lot of Nombernaught before they kill me. So can anyone. I earned this power. I earned it fighting a war no one will ever know, in a place that never was and never should be and—”
Goblins walking through a city meant only for them. Talking by the thousands in their odd, silly communities. Working jobs. Complaining about having to make a living. Dancing, raising children, no longer being a tribe. Too many for you to know them all.
A glowing city plagued by a rain of arrows. Tears sprang to Fighti’s eyes, and she was too tired to wipe them away.
“That’s how it works. Go be a good [Goblinfriend], Lord Olvos. Or go and be our enemy. It’s better for you if you try and kill us. Because if you take our side, if you’re the one person who stands up for us, they’ll kill you. Just like they tried to kill Erin. They’d rather turn seas to boiling steam and continents to glass than change. And you know what? We live. We’ll be around, even if you kill me, my entire tribe, and every baby on the continent. There’ll be the next Goblin, and she’ll rise higher. Until she’s so mad, so angry, she becomes that thing you deserve. The Goblin King.”
Fighti could see him roaring out of a good man’s soul, puppetting a body he had no right to. And then she relaxed and lay there.
“…And then a Goblin like me will fight him. Fight him and drag him screaming back to Hellste. And level. And live—until she ends up in a lovely room with some Human asking her if she’s a ‘good Goblin’. That’s how it works. A cycle, just like Chieftain Rags says. I was a good Goblin. I did everything right. I saw our future—”
Flying in the burning skies, fingers resting on the triggers. Looking around as people died, searching for a single white Gnoll in all the blood and chaos. Seeing a little red child being airlifted away. And then Fighti whispered her confession.
“The future of Goblins is only war. To live, we have to fight you people. Again and again, until we level and scare you more, so we have to fight harder. Run further. I did it better than anyone else. My reward is my great Skill. All I wanted to do was fly. Instead, I became a weapon.”
A beautiful one made of whirling metal that could roar out of the skies. Flight…but all she did was kill. For seven seconds each day. Fighti lay there, and tears blobbed out of her eyes.
“I just wanted to fly. But instead I get to be the monster you all want me to be.”
That was it. That was everything. She had gone with Chickenruler back to flying the New Lands, trying to pretend she was still the same Goblin with dreams of the future. Instead, she had gone to the future, and it had hurled back a shard of itself in her. Forged her into what was necessary.
It was only a dream. This was what was better for the tribe.
It just hurt. And she was allowed to cry. Someday, it wouldn’t be a waste of water. She’d seen it.
Fightipilota had forgotten Lord Olvos was there, really, at the end of her ranting. He was sitting there, half-shadowed, listening. Then she was embarrassed. Angry.
Lord Olvos stood up slowly with that popping sound of old joints. Which made him wince. She couldn’t see his face as he stood over her. Fighti closed her eyes.
She’d told the truth. However, the rasping of a sword in its scabbard didn’t come. The man’s voice was husky as he spoke.
“The Lantern of House Lanight is a treasure of my kingdom. A lantern carried since the days of the Kingdom of Bitorm’s founding. Lost. Not forever. It shall endure beyond you or I. It is a magical lantern without the power to save lives or harm. Merely reveal. It reveals magic, paths, truths, and some say, the quality of the soul.”
Great. She said nothing, and the man turned.
“I have often thought my kingdom relied too much on our lanterns to see by. I do not need it. I have been blinded at times, gazing into its heart. Rest well, Fightipilota. I am sorry for troubling you while you were healing.”
He turned and walked out of her rooms. Fighti stared at his back. Then she put her head back on the pillow.
So. She lived.
She didn’t laugh or say a word. She just cried a bit, then fell asleep. Dreaming of flying after a vast creature in frozen skies. Lord Olvos walked out into the streets of Nombernaught. Quietly piecing together a story from a delirious Goblin’s rantings. But he believed her.
 
——
 
The Goblin was snoring in her rooms, and no one else had come to bother her. Which was good; one of the dresser drawers moved slightly, and a little figure stretched and rubbed at his limbs.
Even for a Drowned Boy who was half-Octopus, it was a narrow, uncomfortable squeeze. He whispered into a speaking stone.
“Th’ [Lord]’s gone, Captain Therrium. Lotta talkin’ I don’t get. Sounded important. Saved it on the song crystal for ya. Them Terandrians like to yap a lot. Goblins too. You want me to follow him or lock the door?”
After a moment, he heard a negatory and sighed, then curled back up again as he closed the drawer and waited.
 
——
 
When Fightipilota woke up the next day, she found all her energy was back. She practically popped out of bed.
“Hey! I’m healed!”
Then she ran around the room in delight, stretched, scratched her itchy nose, her butt, and then sighed in relief. She stretched again, relieved to not have lost any mobility or gotten any scars from her travails. She liked scars, of course, but they ached even if they were highly decorative.
Then she went to find her friends. The hospitality of Nombernaught awaited, and Fighti had a personal date with as much seafood as she could eat.
She found Nailren and Chickenruler with Lamont, whom they’d quickly made friends with. The [Sailor] was in the calm bay of Nombernaught, showing them something he had made, or rather, remade after taking it from Wistram.
It was…a mana-powered sailboat. There was a kind of fancy, glowing battery that ran on electricity and mana and powered the craft around. Lamont had taken the battery with him when he’d escaped Wistram, and it had taken a lot of time and help from his girlfriend, Dorace, one of Doroumata’s daughters, but Nailren was taking turns with Chickenruler and sailing it around Coldcream, who was bathing in the waters.
When they saw Fighti was awake, everyone ran over, and Chickenruler punched Fighti in the shoulder.
“You idiot! Do you know how much trouble I’ve had to fix?”
She grinned as Nailren grabbed her arm.
“Any levels?”
“A few. Hey, what this? And who this?”
Lamont was a bit in awe of Fighti and shook her hand, asking about the fighter plane he’d seen. She did her best.
“What? Pssht. That—you must have been mistaken. But hey, how cool did it look? Scale of one to a hundred.”
There were other obvious Earthers with Lamont, and Drowned Folk interested in meeting the two ‘Drakes’. Fighti met Caroline, a [Writer]; Haley, who was a [Squire]; Sidney…and Captain Therrium.
The Drowned Man was some kind of famous, scary [Pirate Captain], but he gave her a nod and a shake of his hand as he stood there, arms folded. Even Lord Olvos appeared after a while, and Haley practically dashed over to him; apparently, she wanted him to take her as his [Squire]. Which he did not want to do, clearly.
It was strange. Oh, not the different people and Earthers all here. That was just like The Wandering Inn. The strange part was that everyone was being super-nice to Fighti. Nice as in ‘we think we need to treat you nice’.
She could tell the difference. No one told her to shut up, no one bossed her around like some Drakes liked to try to do, and everyone was…buttering her up. Buttering her like a piece of toast.
Fighti eventually realized what it was. It was, for the first time in her life, being an equal to these other peoples. Not in a position of superiority; Captain Therrium felt as dangerous as Rags to Fighti, and Doroumata was as scary a spellcaster as Valeterisa and seemed a lot sharper and meaner if she had to be.
Nor was Goblinhome even close to Nombernaught for grandness. But…Fighti had something they didn’t.
You can hurt us, and I could hurt you. Parity. Even if it was backed up by killing Skills and levels, it was such a surreal experience Fighti felt mighty uncomfortable.
The feeling of being a Relic-class blade. She’d get used to it. She was a bit hazy on her late-night visit from Lord Olvos, but she remembered it with keen embarrassment. She hoped she hadn’t revealed anything that would get her tribe in trouble. But…well, what was done was done.
