It was just one day.
But one day changed a lot. It turned a [Gunslinger] from a man with a secret to a stranger in strange lands, but not alone. Russell sat with Ylawes Byres as the sun rose, talking.
Not about great and consequential things like the state of politics or even the inn that the [Knight] held behind his eyes, a lighthouse to walk towards.
They spoke as Russell put aside the gun he had held with trembling hands, sitting on the walls with the weary man whose battered armor was his goodness. Talking.
“I never had a dog when I was growing up.”
“Me neither. I always wanted one, but my old man wasn’t a fan. And we didn’t have space in my trailer growing up. That’s…”
Russell fell silent, embarrassed, but the [Knight] just ruffled his hair and listened.
“Oh, I see. A moving wagon. I lived in a manor with plenty of space, or so you might imagine. There were plenty of mountain curs in the village, guard dogs—we live close enough to House Radivaek, and it’s famous for dogs. Beautiful breeds. But my father never let me have one, as much as I begged. I trained so hard I gained a Skill, and I thought a dog would be my reward, since a beagle had just had puppies. He gave me my first set of silversteel armor instead.”
“Really?”
Russell watched Ylawes swallow some water and wipe at his mouth. Then sigh and gaze at the battered metal gauntlets. Twitch his fingers, then glance away with a rueful smile. A Human’s face. A person’s expression that spoke of something small and sad he’d never mentioned to anyone before.
“It wasn’t like it ruined my childhood. I just thought I’d be best friends with one, that’s all. Later, my father told me my mother didn’t want the dog tearing up all our carpets and heirlooms. And that my two sisters had objected to one.”
“Huh. My mother was living in an apartment, so even if she’d wanted one—wait. Is there more?”
Ylawes’ lips had twisted unhappily. He took a longer drink of water and passed the flask to Russell, who took a swig. Just water tasting faintly of metal. But good. Civilized, for all the wall they sat on was packed dirt and they were far from the cities the man spoke of.
“I thought those were the reasons for ages. It turned out that both of my sisters had wanted a dog. And my mother? She’d grown up with pets. They got a cat after I left, and it was a nightmare for shedding and sharpening its claws. It seems…my father was worried I’d get a class like [Beast Tamer] or one with a focus with a dog as a companion instead of a [Knight].”
“That’s…”
Familiar. Familiar and utterly different. Russell searched for a word.
“…not fair.”
Ylawes shrugged once.
“I suppose my father thought it was for the good of House Byres. He apologized to me about it the last time I visited. I forgave him, of course. A [Knight] is traditional. Even if I don’t think…you do a lot in the name of House Byres. My sisters don’t swear by our house anymore or carry the crest as openly on their gear. I think I understand now.”
His earnest blue eyes turned to Russell, and the [Gunslinger] was neither so open nor so good. He scrubbed at his own black hair and then he spoke.
“I think I was supposed to enlist. In the army. It would’ve paid well. I was in a school that would have made me an officer. Good prospects. You do twenty years and you have a pension—”
Ylawes was nodding. Not asking for clarification. Picking up what was not said. And Russell sipped from the flask before handing it back.
“…I was picking up work, though. Hunting. That’s what I was good at. I’m a decent shot. I know the swamps like the back of my hand. Turned out I was good and reliable enough that even adults wanted me to guide them. You get a few vets—people who’ve come back from serving. And they’ve got stories. It comes out at night. So I dropped out of school. He stopped talking to me after that. My dad put a lot of money into getting me into the right school.”
Ylawes nodded.
“I never thought about the expectations he had of me. It just seemed natural. What was good, honorable, or mattered to House Byres was what I cared about. Then, one day, I saw both of my sisters sitting in an inn. And I realized they didn’t really like me anymore. I thought it was them. Then…it wasn’t like I ever really disagreed with my father. But it’s as if we were both following the same road, and now we’re just a bit off. Two arrows aimed in the same direction, but diverging. Strange how bad that feels. I feel like I’m letting him down.”
“You get used to it.”
The [Gunslinger] half-turned, and he met Ylawes’ gaze. For a second, the two half-smiled at each other until Ylawes’ stomach rumbled and he invited Russell to have some breakfast. The [Gunslinger] reminded Ylawes he was on guard duty, so Ylawes went down and brought some up to eat together. And both men wondered who had had it worse.
Fathers.
New Lands.
People from different worlds. Different classes. Russell sat on the battlements and smiled wearily. When the day dawned, he smiled genuinely. Wondering what was coming next.
 
——
 
Nailren was annoyed by the dysentery outbreak. Firstly, because it took all the Earthers out of commission, so he couldn’t talk to them; Russell and Lenora were too guarded. Secondly, he was annoyed at himself for not figuring out the danger.
Idiot. He could have saved a lot of people from trouble. The illness was going to tax Woll’s Waystation, and it could kill. Dying of diarrhea…it sounded like a joke, but the fluids and energy you lost would kill you, and it smelled bad.
He was no [Healer], though, and even his shamanic training didn’t give him anything to help with this. There was only one amusing thing in this entire affair. It seemed like Spoony really didn’t like floating around and seeing everyone’s distress.
She had freaked out when he visited the latrines and steadfastly refused to even get close. He wondered if you could repel ghosts with enough foulness…well, it probably wouldn’t work, but it was funny.
The Gnoll was standing on the walls of the keep, debating going hunting to just get away from the stench for a bit, and wondering if he should explore the New Lands; the Earthers would be laid up for days by the sound of it. He was gazing over the place that Woll called Kishkeria’s Grasslands.
“His Ancestors, but that Drake does know how to pick a good view.”
The wind blew, and the yellow grass rippled for a hundred miles ahead of Nailren. As if he stood before a sea no one had ever dreamt of, and he could leap into the waters and swim through the yellow grass.
Nailren inhaled a fresh breath of wind and grinned. Who needed Earth when this was in front of him? He realized that someone else was on the walls when Russell halted, mid-patrol, and turned on his heel.
The young man had a spear today. Not whatever he’d had last night. Nailren supposed he’d gotten it from one of the Drakes who was now sick. Russell was visibly wary of Nailren, and he went patrolling back down the walls.
Why are you so secretive, Human? If you killed that Cericel, then you should have taken credit. Unless you’re carrying something truly dangerous. And if you are…what?
This man was like the person that Nailren had gone to Liscor to investigate. He’d been eying Erin Solstice as a possible person of interest, a threat or even a Drake prop. He’d found someone cheerfully independent and seemingly good-hearted, but Russell…
The one thing Nailren thought he could tell was that the young man wasn’t a warrior. He had never killed someone. But he seemed dangerous.
The two glanced at each other and locked eyes for a second. Nailren took another sniff of the air and regretted it. Then his eyes fixed on something else. Past Russell. And he forgot his suspicions a second.
“Incoming. You’d better sound an alarm.”
The young man’s head turned. And then he stopped still on the walls. His head rose, and Nailren’s head craned back. Then, after a second, he shaded his eyes and grunted.
“…Or not. Not ferals, then. But Woll will want to hear about it anyways.”
“Is that—is someone riding—”
“It’s a Wyvern. And those look like Drakes. Must be from the cities.”
Ever seen a Wyvern before? Strange if you haven’t given that they’re on the news? Nailren was about to add when he saw Russell’s face. The Human stood there, eyes wide, gazing at the distant, pale blue Wyvern flapping towards them.
He looked like Nailren’s team had when they first saw the New Lands with their own eyes. Ecstatic. Disbelieving. The Gnoll gazed at Russell, then peered away.
He supposed even Humans from another world were allowed to find his world beautiful. Then Nailren shaded his eyes again. He hadn’t seen many fliers at all, and Woll had suggested the skies were dangerous. But these two…
Well, interestingly, they were almost as short as Woll, despite being Drakes.
How…odd.
 
——
 
A lot could happen in a short amount of time. The world could change, if only just for you.
But they knew that. No one would ever truly know, or perhaps, care what had happened to them. That was fine. That was normal for Goblins.
However, this time…it felt like something had happened. They were truly different. So even though the route was the same, they followed it like new people.
The pilot, flying at the head of the saddle on top of the Frost Wyvern, kept turning his head to his passenger, who was mounted near the middle of the Wyvern’s back, between the wings. Her gloved hands were holding the Thunderbow mounted to Coldcream’s back, but she wasn’t gripping the turret hard. She was just…staring down at the New Lands.
Chickenruler, the Goblin [Wyvern Rider], and Coldcream, the Frost Wyvern, both kept glancing at their sole passenger, Fightipilota. Then her head would rise, and she’d catch them peeking.
“Hey. Eyes on the air. We’re diving.”
“Oops, you right.”
Coldcream turned his head forwards, and Chickenruler pulled up on his reins, correcting the Frost Wyvern’s course. But then he couldn’t help it. He peeked back at Fightipilota. And she was different.
Maybe…a bit taller? Certainly, her ‘flight suit’ was different. She had on long pants and a shirt that ran up to her black gloves, but she also had what she called a ‘bomber jacket’ on top of the uniform. It was a splash of red on a plainer blue; a slash of red that had splashes, like paint. It tickled his sense of aesthetics, and her gloves and boots were the same quality as the fabric.
Not cotton nor silk, but something else that wasn’t actually as pleasant to the touch, but seemed to resist stains and was warm enough; the inside of her jacket was padded. Not with feathers or fleece, either. Something else.
Something from another time. A place that Fightipilota had gone to and come back from.
Another world. Now…it was over. The [Palace of Fates] was closed. Chickenruler hadn’t seen what was in there. He’d just been flying Chieftain Rags and Student Rags around and was there when the Goblin Lord they called Ragathsi of Civilization had killed an army.
Madness and insanity, even by Goblin standards. Then it was over, and they continued. But, Chickenruler had to believe—
It was all different.
Fightipilota had levelled. Her class had changed. She was now the thing they’d joked about. A miracle that the Goblins had believed in because they wanted it to be true, becoming a reality that shocked even their wildest dreams:
[Fighter Pilot].
It was the reason the two of them were even flying in the New Lands. Chieftain Rags was not exactly minded to draw more attention to her tribe. However, they had her Skill.
[Guise of Neutrality]. Add that to the fact that Chickenruler and Fightipilota had relationships with groups in the New Lands and that Rags wanted to head there next to relocate Goblinhome, and she’d approved their flight.
Plus…Fighti had just had to get out of Goblinhome. Everyone had been pestering her to show off her Skill, and while she’d spent a lot of time with their new aviation team, she’d begun snapping at other Goblins who wanted her to tell them stories. Chickenruler had proposed the flight to get her out, and it was working.
He just…
He really had questions himself. But he kept his mouth shut. A Goblin didn’t get to his ripe old age of eleven, or learn how to rustle two hundred chickens in a night, without knowing when to keep quiet.
 
——
 
Fightipilota wondered if it was a dream. It felt like it. Flying over the New Lands was surreal. It was so…peaceful.
One second, she was flying in the skies with explosions all around her, chasing the Goblin King and Mrsha. The next, the [Palace of Fates]. And then…
Here. Now she was supposed to pretend none of that happened. That Mrsha hadn’t died, and that, perhaps, it didn’t matter.
Her claws twitched on the trigger of the Thunderbow. Fightipilota took her claws off the controls. But it was real. Her class. Her Skill burned in her mind and…
“Hey. You think he okay?”
Chickenruler and Coldcream jumped and peered ahead, but Fighti didn’t mind them looking. Or even asking, to be honest. He was like her only friend in the air. The older Goblin scratched at his leather helmet.
“Who?”
“Rianchi, duh.”
“Oh, him. Yah….he probably okay?”
Chickenruler remembered belatedly and shrugged. Fightipilota stared back the way they’d come.
“He’s probably just lost or something. Chieftain Rags had someone else going to sweep for him.”
“Yah, he’s fine, Fighti. He a Redfang.”
“He is, but—he’s also Rianchi, you know? What if he runs into an Eater Goat? Just one could kill him. And I dropped him off by the Bloodfields. What if he cycled into it while he wasn’t looking?”
“He fine, Fighti. Other worlds not kill him, this won’t either.”
“Yeah, maybe. I should have stayed.”
She leaned over the Thunderbow, moody. Chickenruler snorted.
“You needed to go flying. Chieftain Rags was right. I was right. In fact, you saving Rianchi.”
“From what?”
“From putting your boot up his ass when he come back so hard he never sit down again.”
Fighti grinned at that. Fair enough. She shook herself out of her funk, then turned around in her seat.
“Nice weather today.”
Even Coldcream rolled its eyes. Fighti jabbed the Frost Wyvern’s flank with a boot.
“It’s nice weather.”
The New Lands rolled over them, a patchwork of different areas slowly becoming one huge, familiar plain of yellow. Chickenruler breathed out.
“We close to the big grasslands now. Hey! I told you that little place was gonna be there. See? It even has a roof now!”
He pointed at the little structure they’d passed before the [Palace of Fates], and Fighti grunted.
“Fine. I owe you dinner.”
“Yas. And Coldcream.”
“Hell no. I’m not paying for his meal!”
