A slightly dishevelled man with loose clothing was part of a rather worn caravan on the leading edge of the other expeditions. Not because they had more protections or Skills than anyone else; far from it.
They didn’t have high-level [Guards] or a good leader. But they had been marching with a will, and hunger hadn’t killed them. Their fast pace was odd, as were the smiles. Fighti held out a gloved hand, ready to run like spit for Nailren and Chickenruler, who were sitting on the Wyvern’s back.
She insisted on putting herself in danger, because, well, she was the danger. But this Human man had too-wide pupils, and despite the lines on his face and even a bit of grey in his hair, he had been almost jogging along.
“I’m Fightipilota, er, a [Wyvern Rider] doing deliveries across the New Lands. And you are…?”
“Where are my manners? [Caravan Leader] Mulhot. Well, I’m new to my class, and here I thought the New Lands would be joyful. Ha. HAHAHAHA.”
He threw back his head and started laughing, whereupon a young woman and two men did likewise. They were wandering around, eating, drinking water they’d collected in buckets—very practical.
And they were all quite, quite…there was a strange smell in the air. Fighti eyed the food they were eating. She saw a young woman pour a cup of…nuts.
Nuts of every shape, size, and color. Peanuts. Walnuts she had to crack with one hand. Macadamia nuts. Bobble Nuts, round fat ones that floated across entire seas—
“You, uh, you like nuts, I see.”
Mulhot’s face froze up at the casual comment. He took Fighti’s gloved hand and squeezed it with sudden, frantic strength.
“We killed a rabbit the other day. I nearly ate it raw. Just a bit of oil—nut oil, ha. Hahaha—it’s not hard to make oil if you squeeze the nuts—and the meat! Oh, the meat. So tender. So juicy! Not like nuts. You need water with most nuts, unless they’re container-nuts, in which case they have water inside. That’s how you survive, see? Bocca nuts for when it’s dry. Macadamia nuts for energy. And Zicca nuts forever!”
He threw his hands up, and there was a cheer. Fighti backed up a step.
“…So you don’t…?”
Mulhot’s face went from joyous insanity to desperation in a heartbeat. He pointed a trembling finger at the caravans.
“All we have are nuts. I don’t know how it happened. We—we had regular rations, we thought. All pre-packed, and I even had a storage Skill! That was my job, see? I was hired ‘specially because I had [Storage Crates]. Thought it was odd when I was interviewed since Lord Calidus passed on over a hundred men and women. Then our magic died, and I thought we were lucky. But then I realized—there’s lot of nuts in our provisions. Good! Stores well. But then we ran out of flour, and meat ‘n eggs were long gone, and that was fine. We had nuts! Plenty of energy. But we started opening the provision crates. Bit of food on top of each crate. The rest? It’s all nuts.”
For some reason beyond Fightipilota, this caravan had enough provisions for their journey into the New Lands—but all they had were nuts. Which was good! Nuts were nutrient-dense, could be used in many different ways, and heck, might even grow! They had a few little saplings they’d actually planted in the soil.
“That’s a Kilka nut. Grows in the harshest terrain—volcanic. And we said, well, if it can stand that, why not salt? It’s growing. See? See? Traded some of them to other groups for fruits. Delicious fruits.”
They were very, very not well. When Fighti offered them one of her bad sandwiches, they tried to give her armfulls of nuts. Well, some of Caravan #4 were mad for anything but nuts.
The others? They ate their nuts with a joyous, even relaxed atmosphere. Mulhot pointed at the young woman crunching down nuts.
“That’s Lesile. My daughter. She’s gone mad, I fear.”
“M-mad?”
Fighti didn’t think he was one to talk, but he hissed at her.
“She loves to eat nuts. [Flavored Nuts]. It’s a Skill she got. Along with her class. [Nut Lover]. Don’t laugh. We laughed. Until more of us started getting the class and Skills. You eat nuts for months on end, day after day? Turns out there are nut-Skills. Makes them taste good. Makes you stop going insane over eating them day after day. There’s more. Our arrows were rusting in all that rain. So you see that [Archer] there? Bagbel. He’s got [Craft: Nutshell Arrow]. Makes them out of acorn nuts.”
“…And what’s with the ‘sane’ members of the group? Your eyes look bad.”
Mulhot realized he was cheek-to-cheek with Fighti and drew back, patting her shoulders.
“My mistake! My mistake! I’m so sorry…it’s the Zicca nuts, of course. When we realized all we had were nuts, we found an encyclopedia in the crates. Of nuts! There’s lots of magical ones in here. Zicca nuts give you energy. Make you a bit—crazy. But they keep you cheerful. Ha. HA.”
So that’s how they were moving at such a pace. The entire damn caravan was high on nuts! Mulhot was pointing a finger ahead.
“The grasslands end, and we figure if we find a good camp spot we can hunt. Fish. That’ll be the end of the madness.”
“Why didn’t you turn around when you realized all you had were nuts?”
He gave her a look as if she was crazy.
“We all had to buy into this expedition, Miss. And how’d we get back without coin? Who wants to buy nuts? Don’t be crazy. But if you go north, if you could send word to Lord Calidus? I-I have a letter. I’ll pay you to send it to him. From all of us. Just tell the Runner not to stick around for a tip. Heh. Heheh. There’s other caravanners like us, you know. Not a one normal. But he’s promised us riches if we find anything worth salvaging. Better nuts than some of their groups.”
“Like what?”
Mulhot shrugged.
“I saw one that was all women. Just…nothing else. Women, teens to an old grandmother. Didn’t trust us. Thought we were all crazy. Us. Then there’s Caravan #3. Good people. Even further ahead than us, despite setting out before. Gonna make it, I think. Didn’t want to stick with us, though. We’d have slowed them down. As for Caravan #8—those poor bastards.”
“Wh-what happened to them?”
“They were all [Nudists]. Worked well enough since they wore shoes. Right up until they got to the grasslands. There’s ticks and bugs here. High grass. Scratchy. Burrs. The rains led to mosquitos. Not a drop of insect repellant among them. But you know what repels some insects? NUTS. HA.”
Fightipilota ended up trading an entire crate of supplies to Mulhot and the ‘sane’ people of Caravan #4. In exchange, she got, well, nuts. She didn’t eat a Zicca nut and only had one last question for Mulhot.
“So you’re still sane? What’s your class? You must have levelled a lot to get this far.”
He hesitated.
“Me? Oh, you could say that. You could say that. I’m a Level 21 [Nut-crazed Caravan Leader]. But I assure you I’m sane!”
They flew off fast, and Nailren checked his fur after they were safely in the air. He made one comment to the Goblins.
“Do you think they have red Skills and classes? Or are the nut-classes just…ordinary? And which one’s scarier?”
“Bet they’re brown. Like nuts.”
Chickenruler muttered darkly. Fighti just kept staring at the little forms as they flew away.
“Who packs a caravan full of nuts?”
 
——
 
Not every group was nuts as…that. In fact, there were entirely normal people. Fighti landed in front of one curious group making their way along a river that were so at home there they were actually wading rather than walking. Because they all had water-Skills, it turned out.
“Jovs of Oswen. We’re all marshfolk. These here Otterdogs, they don’t do well on land, so we’ve stuck to rivers, and it’s not been bad.”
“What about crocodiles and the like?”
Ylawes had related that encounter to Fighti, but the young man just slapped his vest; he was bare-chested beside it.
“Taste good enough. And the fit’s not bad.”
He was wearing a reptile hide vest, and the Otterdogs were very cute as they scampered up to Chickenruler and Coldcream, then went yipping away. Jovs jerked a thumb at his people.
“We’ve done well enough out here. Lost all our magic, same as everyone else, but, well, we never had much. I just wish we had a few [Message] scrolls. We were to link up with other groups from Oswen once we got a good place. Even some of our nobles wanted t’come down, and they’re as good at surviving as any! Damn good shots.”
Hmm. Why did Oswen ring a bell? Fightipilota saw Nailren hesitate as he scratched a few Otterdogs’ bellies, but she gestured around.
“So not many monster attacks? Or you’re just that good at fighting?”
Here, Jovs did hesitate, and he took a fisher’s hat off his head.
“I wouldn’t say that, Miss. I took over for Master Filbou. He didn’t make it. Wyvern attack. Not yours—but you see why we were so wary when it landed? Orange one, even bigger than yonder one. Snapped up three water buffalo with its mate, would have done for even more than six of us—but we were saved by adventurers.”
“Really? Who?”
Jovs pointed up.
“Wings of Pallass. They dove the Wyvern, drew it up and away. We thought they’d gotten eaten, but they netted the Wyvern, then helped us recover our lost goods. Hope they’re well. They weren’t looking great when we last saw them. Two had infected wings, and they were all out of gear.”
“Huh. That’s the sixth time someone mentioned them.”
Fighti had heard similar accounts all across the New Lands. Jovs nodded.
“They were flying cover for the first wave. Brave lot, especially their leader. If you get word back to Oswen, please let Lady Buscrei or Lord Somost know there’s a debt there to be paid?”
“Of course. Hey, how much for an Otterdog? Kidding, kidding…”
Only when they were in the air did Nailren turn to Fightipilota.
“Oswen was destroyed during the Winter Solstice.”
She froze up. Half-turned her head to the merry, waving folk below.
“What? Why didn’t you say something?”
The Gnoll just shook his head as he smiled and waved back.
“Do you want to burden them with that? They might turn around, but for what? It’ll distract them if they even believe us.”
And distracted people die. Fightipilota bit her lip and said nothing as they moved away.
 
——
 
Then they flew, passing by more and more groups as the grasslands finally gave way to new areas. Fightipilota soared over an odd ruin of stone and pointed down at it.
“Say, look at that. Doesn’t look like a dungeon or city.”
The Frost Wyvern circled a group of Drakes who’d stopped and were inspecting the weird patch of stones. It looked like a circle from above, and it had an arch in the center, a big one. A monument? It was like a pot’s lid to Fightipilota, at least from above. Okay, maybe not exactly, but—
“Want to land?”
It was barely fifteen minutes since the Oswen encounter, and Fightipilota hesitated. She waved at the Drakes, and they didn’t seem to be in distress or want her group to land, so she shook her head.
“Nah. If we stop for every group, we’ll never get to Nombernaught. Think I could eat a Zicca nut and live?”
“Live, yes. Happily? Do you want to have a bad experience while flying?”
“Eh…no.”
They flew on, and after a minute, Fightipilota glanced back towards the weird dais of stone. She blinked, then frowned.
“Hey. Where did that Drake caravan go?”
Nailren turned and shaded his eyes. But there was no one there. Wagons, Drakes, everyone had just vanished. Perhaps they’d seen something and used a stealth Skill? Found an underground…but the wagons were gone.
“Should I go back?”
Chickenruler called out. Fighti stared at the dais.
“And do what, land?”
She turned to Nailren, and the Gnoll slowly marked the spot on his map and circled it a few times. Sometimes, you dodged trouble just by luck. And the thing about luck…was that it always ran out.
 
——
 
She saw combat the next day. Pretty soon after they’d risen, too.
“Fighti! You see that?”
“I see it! What is it? Evil wool?”
“It’s a damn cloud! An evil cloud!”
It had been hovering low to the ground, over the rocky ground and Sea Gardens they’d been flying over for Nailren’s mapping, when they realized the odd, white cloud was a bit too…mobile. When it had begun floating up and after them, they’d realized it was alive.
But what it was? None of them were certain. Nailren loosed an arrow, but he was no judge of distance in the air, and it fell way short. Fightipilota knew how the Thunderbow operated, though, and waited until she could fire a shot that dropped and hit the edge of the cloud rising towards them. It ripped—and she squinted.
“Aw.”
Nailren narrowed his eyes, and his fur shivered.
“Aw.”
Chickenruler screamed.
“Aw what? What is it?”
“Spiders.”
Coldcream heard that and began flapping faster. Chickenruler shot a glance over his shoulder, and yep, it was spiders.
White spiders all jumbled together in a cloud. Lighter than air, somehow; their translucent bodies were floating upwards as they crawled in such a swarm that…Nailren hollered.
“I know what those are! Cloudfall Spiders! They’re using webs, and they can project air!”
“Great! So we’re fighting flying spiders! Coldcream, hit them with your breath!”
The Wyvern spun, firing a blast of ice at the Cloudfall Spiders, who slowed and dropped precariously—but the cloud shed the frozen parts and kept rising.
It was a swarm. An annoyingly adaptive swarm; every time Fighti’s Thunderbow punched through their webbing, it didn’t do much to slow their ascent, and they just re-patched the holes and jettisoned any dead weight attached to the bolts. She was growling.
“They’re big. Chickenruler, I’m going to engage!”
“Wait! Let me try to freeze them again—”
Their protocol was to avoid Fighti using her Skill, but she knew before Coldcream whirled and spat that it wasn’t going to work.
The Wyvern Lord might have been able to blast all the spiders in one go, but Coldcream’s breath wasn’t that long-ranged. If he fired it at point-blank, he might do a lot of damage, but then they’d be on him. And she wasn’t sure how sharp their fangs were, but she was pretty sure how she, Nailren, and Chickenruler would fare.
Her heart was thrumming as Chickenruler cursed.
“[Burst of Speed]! Come on, come on…how they so fast?”
“They’ve got the wind behind them. We’re not catching it with a Wyvern’s wings. We should have headed against it.”
Nailren shouted, braced, eyes on Fighti, and she nodded. The spider-cloud was seconds away, and she spoke.
“Chickenruler, dive in three, two, one—”
