“Not at all. I should have introduced myself. Nailren, formerly a Silver-rank Captain. Now [Explorer]. May I compliment Lilbrasi on her fine work? Though I think you could raise your prices.”
Fighti shook his hand and then saw him make a fist. She performed The Wandering Inn’s new, secret handshake, and he did a twirl and offered her finger guns. That made her like him. She grinned.
“It’s goodwill over gold. Or artifacts or important stuff. We’ve got lots of food right now, actually. Things are good.”
“Very sensible.”
“So, uh, what’re you doing here?”
Chickenruler was almost ready for takeoff, but Fighti was hugely embarrassed by not knowing this stranger whom she had a connection to. Nailren produced a scroll from his belt pouches.
“Working on a map, actually. It’s hardly detailed, but…”
“Ooh! Lilbrasi’s going to want that. Hey, great detailing! I recognize some of this!”
[Basic Cartographer] or not, Nailren calculated how far he’d ridden per day and done an actually extremely thorough job of mapping out each area he’d crossed. Fighti tapped the map.
“I didn’t know there was an inn. We might have to stop there. Get a drink. Heh. Looks right to me.”
“Really? It’s so patchwork until we get to the grasslands.”
Ylawes was frowning at the almost checkerboard-like way the Coral Lands, the grasslands, and other areas were scattered around, and Fighti shrugged.
“That’s how it looks close to the edges. I think it’s like…spread out. Maybe the magic got weird near the edges? When you get further in, you get big areas like this. Nice name too.”
She jerked a thumb at Kishkeria’s Grasslands. Then pointed.
“There’s some weird icy area that moves in the center-north, and that gorge is huge. You get some very nice canyons that way—we had to dodge Wyverns there. Even the Coral Lands stretch out for ages. You just have to keep riding.”
“I’m going to need to ride for a month or more to cover that ground. Or just take what I can map and trust others to do the rest. I envy your bird’s eye view.”
Nailren sighed, not too unhappy, but she saw how his eyes lit up at the places she mentioned, and they were only a few. Fighti peered at him, then glanced at Ylawes. He seemed super-honest, so she spoke casually to the Gnoll.
“So you really were at the inn? When was this? The Horns, when Rags was still with her first tribe?”
The Gnoll scratched at his chin.
“No, I’m after their era. I don’t know the inn’s history that well—I’d be after the Horns went to Albez, when the dungeon was opening. I was just hanging around; not nearly like a regular. I saw the Face-Eater Moth attack and fought the Raskghar, but only that.”
“Oh, oh, you were with the Redfang Five era! Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Rabbiteater, Badarrow, Numbtongue. The legends.”
Even among the Redfangs, they had attained a kind of immortality. A moment when five Goblins had all become Hobs and been…at the inn. Nailren smiled.
“I was. It was a shock to see them.”
“Eh, you didn’t try to kill them, it’s fine.”
She tested him gently, and he coughed, abashed.
“Well, I’d never be stupid enough to try and test five Hobs who were clearly good fighters. But, well, you see and hear a lot of things if you travel far enough. I knew there was a precedent. Baleros and the Isle of Goblins. Seafolk have a different relationship with Goblins. Cenidau too.”
“I was surprised by that. Evor accepted Rasktooth quite quickly.”
Ylawes remarked, and Nailren shrugged.
“You have to see it how they do. Northfolk would probably kill Goblins, but they’re low on the priority list. There are some tribes in the north, and they likely are as dangerous as bandits. After seeing them on television? Evor might have talked to Rasktooth if he’d met him and Infinitypear alone. One can only hope. The trauma from the Goblin King is fresh in Izril, Ylawes. There were points in time when Goblins didn’t evoke the instinctual fear and hatred they do now.”
“I can’t imagine that.”
“Trust me, Gnolls have made alliances with every species in our history. I used to pester my [Shaman] for the strangest tales as a cub, and they have some oddities! Remind me to tell you about the Gnoll who shaved himself and masqueraded as a [Prince] for four years before getting found out.”
Fightipilota snorted, and Ylawes gave Nailren an incredulous smile, but she felt like the Gnoll was quite capable.
“Anything you need? Or we can help with? A friend of Erin’s is a friend of ours.”
Nailren thought a moment and shook his head.
“No, but there is one thing. I told Nanette about these sea gardens, as I call them, where you can grow plants. If you were to spot them—and I have a warning for you, actually. About ghosts.”
Ylawes slapped his forehead, and Fighti’s jaw dropped. She’d neither known about the sea gardens or the ghosts.
“You serious? This isn’t a joke you’re playing, right? Because I’m gonna tell Lilbrasi, and if it’s a joke, everyone’s going to laugh at me. And that means I’ll come back and throw a ham on the ground in front of you.”
She warned them, and Ylawes assured her seriously it was not.
“I ran into them myself. Actually, I have something we found—or we could give you as a thank-you…let me get it.”
He headed off, and Nailren folded his arms.
“As we casually stand here, I just would like to assure you it is true, Fightipilota, and you can laugh or nod or not react at all. Because at this very moment, I do have proof and even an example—a friendly ghost I met. Spoony will now poke your shoulder, and you hopefully won’t make anyone try to listen in on us…if they are, they are. But adult Gnolls tend to have to focus and give themselves away when they’re isolating sounds.”
And then there was a poke on Fightipilota’s arm, cold and gentle, and she managed not to leap up and shout. She gave Nailren a wide-eyed look.
“You took one?”
“Well. I thought it was interesting.”
He was crazy. He really did come from The Wandering Inn! Fighti shook her head.
“Lilbrasi is going to be all over this. Where’s Numbtongue when you need him? Probably seducing, I dunno, some half-Giantess or something. I have seen the sea gardens you mentioned. I think. But we had to fly fast and keep an eye out for trouble. This time, I could land and check them out.”
Nailren’s eyes brightened.
“Feel free to share it wherever you go, but if you’d credit me, I’d be very grateful. Just a bit of vanity. The ghosts…I think it’s important people know that, too. But it occurs to me it might be better to not tell people that. Let justice sort itself out. Or maybe telling prevents…no, nothing would prevent it, sadly. But if you’d map out some sea gardens or anything, I’d love a copy of a map if you leave it with Woll.”
He peered wistfully at the Frost Wyvern. Fightipilota had a crazy idea, even by her standards, as Ylawes came jogging back.
“Fighti, I have a gift for you. It’s not much, but…what’s your preferred weapon?”
“Me? I’d love a flare gun. Right now, it’s just a hand-crossbow because of my Skill. I use a shortsword with it, but I don’t have one I like.”
Fighti tapped her side, and Nailren’s brows rose. Ylawes didn’t get what she meant either, but he fumbled and handed her a long blade of…
Fighti almost dropped the Mithril blade. She blinked at it, then her jaw dropped when he leaned forwards and whispered what it was.
“You sure?”
“We have a number. We’d send them with you, but they’re useful as, well, bartering objects. Not that I want to make a habit of that.”
“Can I have another? And, uh, do you have like two hundred pounds of it? Got an axe?”
Ylawes handed an axehead over then eyed Fighti.
“…Why two hundred pounds?”
“I think they’d make great wings for a project I’m working on. No? Damn. Next Solstice event, then. So…we’re heading off now.”
Fighti jerked a thumb at the Wyvern waiting for takeoff and resolved to get Ylawes something nice. Mithril sword. No one had better try to confiscate it back home! She glanced at Nailren, who sighed.
“I might be gone, but if Captain Ylawes’ people are sick as we think, he might be around. I may ask you to leave anything with them.”
“Yeah…about that. I don’t like drawing, and I don’t like drawing on Wyvernback. Hard to do that and aim the Thunderbow. And there is bad stuff up there. Can’t be distracted.”
Nailren blinked, but nodded.
“Of course, practicality first. It was just a thought.”
Fighti smiled tightly.
“Well…if there was a third person, they could draw a map and hand us crummy sandwiches. Damn, we should have made some! Oh well. If you want to map the New Lands so bad, no one’s flying solo but us. It’s sort of dangerous, but we have a trump card. Wanna come with?”
Nailren blinked at Fighti in true, genuine astonishment, and Ylawes’ mouth opened.
“Nailren? Fly with you?”
“I…don’t know. I’ve never flown.”
“Eh, it’d only be a week. Less, really. We’re going to Nombernaught and back. We can’t fly all the New Lands, but you can see a lot. Just an offer.”
But who’d fly with a pair of Goblins? Only a crazy person would. Fighti held her breath even though she didn’t know if this was a good idea. Rags would kill her.
If she found out. It was crazy, funny, Fighti had a trump card, and the Gnoll was from the inn. He hesitated, glanced back at the keep, and for some reason, sniffed.
“How long did you say dysentery lasts for?”
“I dunno. Week or more if it’s nasty.”
He paused, then Nailren turned away.
“Let me arrange for my horse to stay here. Ylawes, can you see to it? I’ll get my things.”
“Nailren? Are you serious? You want to fly?”
The Gnoll turned, and Fighti saw a smile almost as fearless as hers, and Nailren began to stride off.
“It’s a new era, Ylawes. We already know Gnolls can fly. Why shouldn’t I?”
And that was how Fightipilota found herself with a new guest, and Nailren found himself seeing the New Lands as few people had before. He couldn’t tell if that was the wonder—or Fightipilota.
He really, really, wondered what had happened at the inn this time.
 
——
 
[Memo: Fightipilota].
“Fightipilota, check in. We’ve established where Rianchi is. He’s fine. All nominal here. Progress and sitrep. (I’m using your silly language.)”
You got twenty-five words with Rags’ [Memo] Skill, which Woll and Salii would have considered short, but it was still powerful. Fightipilota’s reply took twenty-five minutes, which already told Rags something when she sent it.
“Hey, Chieftain. Not silly language. Got to Woll’s Waystation. Nice place. Dysentery though. Met Silver Swords and Rasktooth. Also Nailren. He’s flying with us. Later!”
Twenty-five words exactly. Because Rags could only use that Skill a limited number of times per day, Fightipilota had probably twenty-four hours before any trouble came her way. She put her feet up on the Thunderbow.
Heh.
In truth, her new friend did have her checking her six now and then because it was strange to have any non-Goblin flying with them. Chickenruler thought Fighti was crazy, obviously, but they got bored on the trip.
And Nailren was interesting, even if he didn’t talk much. For one thing, even though he could see them as Goblins, he seemed more focused on staring down and working on his map. He made conversation, of course, but it was all so…normal.
“There’s a Sea Garden. And another. Looks like this area is rife with them. It might be a splendid spot to settle. Do you think your tribe’s aiming for a spot like that?”
When they hesitated, he glanced up.
“Don’t answer me if it’s secret. I just thought it was obvious they’d relocate after the incident in the High Passes. And the New Lands is the perfect place to go, isn’t it?”
Fighti coughed.
“Maybe. Chieftain Rags isn’t keen on the mana-drain stuff. Which is why she’s moving slow. Also, she’s gotta kick the new Goblins into line. But since there’s that magic ritual, we don’t need the Sea Gardens, right?”
Nailren scribbled on his map as he glanced at her.
“Not necessarily. A few things struck me about Archmage Eldavin’s magic. He came out with it very fast. Which might mean that he knows the issue or he’s just that talented, but in my experience, [Mage]-magic is famous for being refined. [Shaman]-magic is spontaneous but tends to be the best result if you put the effort in.”
“Oh, really? I didn’t know that. Why that matter?”
Chickenruler frowned, and Nailren gestured back the way they’d come. Woll’s Waystation was already a dot on the horizon, if that wasn’t Fighti imagining she could even see it. And the New Lands kept going. The grasslands were just the first step; they’d come to some rocky terrain, but those Sea Gardens were like vibrant specks amidst the harshness. No one on ground level would think something like that existed, and but for Nailren, they wouldn’t have known what it was either. He went on, thoughtful.
“Well, has anyone tested the quality of the soil that Eldavin’s spell creates? My guess is it’s average, or even below-average, for quality at best. I know [Farmers] put a lot of stock in the value of soil. These Sea Gardens sprout with life. Either the soil’s magic or just the highest quality. And the mana to perform that ritual is not light, even if it’s within reach of other casters. Settling in a place like this might be worth not having to deal with the soil issues.”
Dead gods, he sounded like, well, Chieftain Rags. She had thought the soil ritual wasn’t refined yet. But mostly…Fighti stared at Nailren until he glanced up.
“Do I have anything wrong? I’d love to be corrected. I don’t know Goblin tribes that well, so this is all extrapolation.”
“No, not that. How…how do you know how Goblins think?”
Nailren smiled briefly at her dumbstruck expression.
“Goblin tribes and Gnoll tribes have a lot of similarities. Even if we’re different species, I can still guess. I’m pleased to know I’m not that far off base. With that said, I’m not at home in the air.”
He peered down, and Fighti saw him shudder.
“Thankfully, I’m not that afraid of heights, but if there’s anything I should know…”
“Don’t fall. Never take your seatbelt off. Um…if you see something coming in the air, shout. Oh, and Frost Wyverns don’t like flying in rain, so we avoid that.”
He nodded, peering around alertly.
“How dangerous is it, flying closer to the ground like this?”
Fighti shrugged.
“Better than clouds.”
“Really?”
“Yep. Clouds hide things. Also, Coldcream gets tired flying higher and maintaining altitude.”
“Truly? I thought he’d glide along on hot air like birds do.”
Fighti snorted and patted the animal affectionately.
