Fighti muttered something as he gazed at Nombernaught, a Drowned City on land, the first in ages. He wondered if Fighti’s Skill had recharged. Could she use her Skill to get there faster? But she could barely move, and if she crashed…
However, even here—Nanette reappeared.
“Nailren! Nailren—”
“What’s wrong?”
Her eyes were wide, and her pigtail braids were all wild. She was pointing.
“Nombernaught’s under attack! There’s thousands of giant, evil shell-monsters attacking the gates!”
He felt Fighti go still in front of him, and Chickenruler turned his head.
“What? More Sword Crabs?”
Nanette shook her head wildly.
“No…worse? Better? I don’t know! They’re called—”
 
——
 
“Push back the nautiloids! Hold the line, you worthless sealice, or I will behead the first man or woman who runs!”
The City Captain of the Drowned City stood on the ‘walls’ of the city, which were just ramshackle wooden gates made out of driftwood and with a single, besieged gate. Nombernaught had never been built with walls in mind. It had been meant to float in the sea, where attacks could come from any angle.
Defending it was hell. The City Captain, the man or woman who had to serve as defender of the city for a month, was usually tasked with making sure everything ran smoothly. Settling fights between [Captains] in the docks, maintaining security.
But also, when the city was under attack—they fought. Who would it be, today of all days, but the man who wanted this post least.
Captain Therrium Sailwinds and his crews were holding the gates themselves. The half-Eel Drowned Man had a cutlass in one hand and a wand in the other. He fired a bolt of purple magic at the first giant nautiloid attacking the gate.
Drowned Folk armed with spears and tridents were stabbing at the waving tendrils that slashed at them and tried to drag them under its shell, where the razor beak-teeth were waiting to tear them apart.
It was a huge damn nautiloid with a spiral conch shell on its back. Two watery eyes were staring outwards with malevolence as it grabbed a screaming [Sailor] up; a sword slashed through the tendrils holding the woman, and she landed.
“On your feet! Get back in line!”
Therrium’s second-in-command, the half-Starfish Drowned Woman Etaiv, was wielding two cutlasses and cut her way back towards the gates. The injured nautiloid retreated.
The problem was…it was one of at least a thousand attacking the gates, and each one was huge. Nine feet high, their shells shielding them from attack, scuttling forwards towards the city filled with magic and meat.
A full damn army of them. They fought side-by-side, dragging their prey forwards, slashing across faces with sharp sucker-lined tendrils that ripped and tore flesh and broke bones. Therrium saw the lines of skirmishing [Sailors], Nombernaught’s security force and the ship’s crews, buckling. He was cursing them.
“Hold, I said, you pathetic wastes of ship space! Nombernaught is ripe for the taking if you buckle and run! Push them back!”
They kept retreating! Therrium saw his crews holding the nautiloids back where they were stationed. But he had to admit—he’d never seen so many!
A nautiloid attack at sea was bad enough, but it’d be a dozen, two dozen at most. But then, he’d never had to protect so many people. Yet despite his reluctance to be here, he was well aware of the stakes.
Let even a dozen of these into the city and they’ll eat everyone they catch. Drowned Folk without combat classes would be ripped to shreds in a second, so Therrium roared.
“A city of the underseas is in peril and you’re running? What’s wrong with you, cowards?”
At last, someone shouting his name got through to him. Therrium turned with a snarl as he saw [Sailors] backing away from a particularly large nautiloid slashing its tendrils out like a whip. The cowards refused to even try to block—!
“Captain Therrium!”
It was one of the retired [Captains] who served as Nombernaught’s permanent security force. The Drowned Man was half-Crab, and he had blood running down his face. The man gasped.
“Captain—the [Sailors] can’t hold this line like your crew can! They’re under Level 20!”
Under Level 20…? Therrium’s Human eye bulged in his eye sockets before he remembered, well, yes. These were as close to civilians as you got. His crews were made up of the hardest, most battle-seasoned Drowned Folk [Pirates] the seas had. Compared to them…
He saw a Pufferfish Woman aiming an arrow. She spat onto the arrow, loosed it, and the big nautiloid recoiled, then withdrew into its shell. But even Glisal was cursing.
“Captain, they’re too big for my poison to kill!”
“Dead gods damn it—get me a backup crew! Prepare to fall back past the walls! Hold, I said!”
Therrium whirled and leapt off the wall as another nautiloid came for the gates. His enchanted cutlass pierced straight through the thick shell, and he stabbed deep, leaping off the spiral shell as the tendrils tried to rip him away. He landed, grunting, then slashed across the nautiloid’s face. Spun so his right side was facing the beast and fired the wand three times into its shell.
The nautiloid curled up into its shell as blue blood and smoke streamed out the opening. Therrium grabbed a rope someone had tossed down and let them haul him onto the wall again.
“[Fight, You Rats]!”
Emboldened by his personal example and his Skill, the Drowned Folk surged back on the attack—and a beam of brilliant light flashed across the nautiloids advancing on the right flank. Therrium cursed and shielded his face, but the blinded monsters had it far, far worse.
“Was that the damn Luminary? Tell him to watch where he’s aiming his magic! I don’t need blindness, I need them dead!”
He roared. As if in answer to his words, he saw a shadow spreading under a group of nautiloids to the rear. They were ‘firing’ at Nombernaught. Which meant throwing tiny little spawn at the defenders with such velocity that they knocked people off the walls.
And the small nautiloids were fast, had sharp beaks, and could lay your flesh open. One flew onto the walls where Therrium stood—but in this case, the monsters had made a mistake.
Glisal pounced on the angry little nautiloid as it landed, trying to bite anything it found. She scooped it up, netted it, and then hung the confused creature on her belt.
“I got one! That’s worth its weight in gold if you get it to a good [Beast Tamer]!”
Other nautiloid children were also being scooped up by enterprising Drowned Folk. Having a giant pet armored mollusk was not a bad deal if you raised them right. Therrium was swearing.
“Stop looting and fight, Glisal! Kill those—what the?”
The shadow spreading under the group of ‘firing’ mother nautiloids had no origin he could see. It had formed a rough, circular blob, and he watched it deepen. Then—he saw black tendrils rise from the shadow, grab the monsters who tried to scuttle out in alarm, and pull them down.
They sank into the vast shadow, and it bubbled like some liquid in an abyssal sea. Then—the shadow pool began to spit chunks of the nautiloids back up.
Therrium glanced around, and there was a voice in the speaking stone affixed to his earring.
“Captain Therrium, the north walls are holding. Shadeward Doroumata is sending more of her daughters to your location.”
“Ah…good. Hurry it up.”
Dangerous as he was, Therrium found Shadeward Doroumata unsettling. One of the most legendary spellcasters amongst the underseas was defending her city, and he saw the identical young women, the Starfish Drowned Woman’s daughters, standing on the walls, firing shade-based spells that struck through the nautiloids’ armor and sent them scurrying back.
They were winning—but Therrium saw more Drowned Folk being dragged into the maws of the nautiloids and knew the damn monsters would be getting fed one way or another. His eyes roamed the battlefield, searching for something he could use to carve through this mass. If only he could trust the regular [Sailors] to hold while he took his crew and sortied…! All the high-level crews were at sea or exploring the New Lands, damn them.
He saw a single figure holding the north gate in an open section of ground. No less than six nautiloids were dead, their huge bodies fouling up their friends trying to move past them, but the small crew holding the gates were mostly just firing arrows. Therrium saw Haley, one of the ‘Earthers’, shooting a longbow past…
“Is that the loon of a [Knight]? Lord So and So?”
He pointed, and Lord Olvos of House Lanight lifted his lance and began to ride at another nautiloid. A fool’s errand, surely—but he speared the creature through its weak underbelly as it came at him. Therrium grunted.
“That lance is twice as long as they use—and it’s barbed.”
Indeed, Lord Olvos rode away as half the lance stayed in the nautiloid, which looked to be bleeding out rapidly. He rode back to Haley, who tossed him a new lance while grabbing the old one. She was fitting a modified harpoon onto the end.
Clever. Etaiv had climbed back onto the walls for a break and leaned on the railing, panting.
“That’s the [Knight] who tried to out-joust the Sword Crabs, isn’t he? What’s he doing? Defending the city? That’s a first for landfolk!”
“Doing it better than most of ours. How the hell is he fighting so well?”
Therrium had forgotten he was on speaking stone. The dry voice of Doroumata herself answered him.
“Lord Olvos Lanight has a new Skill. [Nemesis: Crustaceans]. I have trusted him with the northern gates.”
Fair enough; the man was doing the job well. But Therrium hesitated.
“…But Shadeward, nautiloids are mollusks.”
He was almost positive about that. The Drowned Woman replied, amused.
“It appears neither he, nor his Skill, cares. It’s close enough for his tastes, it appears. [Bolts of Pain]. These nautiloids refuse to retreat. I have never seen so many…they must have been germinating within the New Lands. Push them back, City Captain.”
What a victory for ignorant landfolk. Therrium returned to cursing the men and women. He was preparing to order them to fall back past the gates and begin a fight in the city proper. It would be ugly, but they’d choke the entrances with their bodies and pray they could cover all the sectors.
That was, of course, when some random landchit of a girl came to talk nonsense about a friend of hers in need. Therrium roared at the girl to get out of his way as he fired more spells from his wand, cursing the mana-drain that affected even parts of Nombernaught. She vanished, and he had just carved his way through two more nautiloids and was drawing breath to sound the retreat when she reappeared.
“Captain! Captain Therrium!”
“Get out of my way!”
He slashed through her with the back of his hand, and Nanette waved her hands.
“Wait! We have reinforcements coming! But we need an anti-scrying spell for fifteen seconds!”
“What? Reinforcements? Unless it’s a damn army, it’s not going to stop that!”
He pointed at the nautiloids coming by the hundreds. Nanette hesitated, but then she puffed her cheeks out, stood up straight, and put her hands on her hips.
“In the name of The Wandering Inn, I promise you won’t regret it! Pull your men and women back and turn off scrying, please!”
Therrium doubted most landfolk were watching this battle, if they’d even made it onto the news; they never cared when Drowned Folk died. But he was in no mood to oblige her. Though that name…
He heard a gasp from his right, and Etaiv stepped back as someone rose out of Therrium’s shadow. A copy of Doroumata peered at Nanette and spoke.
“You will have it, child. If you are wrong, I shall hold this grudge with my city. When?”
Nanette’s eyes flickered as she wavered. She lifted a finger and pointed east.
“Whenever the Wyvern’s overhead. Ch—Lilbrasi says she’s preparing a Skill! On my mark…”
Who? That Wyvern? It was far too far away! Therrium snarled as he turned back, raising a hand. Then he saw the tiny Wyvern flicker…
And grow a lot larger. Captain Therrium spun back and got a firsthand look at a special from The Wandering Inn: chaos and wonder. He heard Nanette shout.
“Mark! Now!”
Doroumata’s lips moved, and there was silence. Therrium stared up and swore he saw a little figure falling from the Wyvern’s back. Then?
There was a terrible roaring in the air, and he didn’t know what he saw next.
 
——
 
[Unit: Lightning Repositioning].
That was Rags’ Skill. It took Coldcream from far outside Nombernaught to flying over the embattled city. She had asked Chickenruler to help defend the city if possible, but not to risk himself. She wouldn’t have even used her Skill, except for Fighti.
Fightipilota had asked her Chieftain for permission to go in. Well, she’d told Rags she was deploying and her Chieftain could help or not. Rags had told Fighti she was in no condition to fly, secrecy, all the good reasons.
Didn’t matter. The shivering Goblin had heard enough. City in danger. Monsters. She was frozen. Couldn’t feel her arms or legs.
She undid her seatbelt, and Nailren reached for her. She locked eyes with him, and he didn’t grab her. So she toppled from the back of the Wyvern and fell.
The Drowned Folk could win this battle. This was not the last stand of Nombernaught. This, too, the [Fighter Pilot] knew.
It. Didn’t. Matter. She saw the fighting Drowned Folk below her and, past them, a city in danger. The cold wind was blowing over the ice on her jacket and arms, and the Goblin was delirious. Frozen. For a second, her mind played tricks on her, and the struggling figures looked like…
Goblins. An army fighting to defend a city of Goblins. Something that had not existed. And might never exist. A strange and painful dream of the future. The [Fighter Pilot] laughed, and she heard the explosions in the air around her. The firepower of another world exploding the world to bits.
She reached for that memory and brought a piece of the future back with her.
[She Flies on Another World’s Wings]. Then the fighter plane was screaming down across the battlefield, and Fighti’s numb fingers were on the joystick of the fighter plane. She pulled down on the triggers with her shaking fingers and didn’t stop firing.
[Aircraft: High Impact Rounds].
Her twin-linked autocannons were roaring, cycling the rounds as fast as they could fire. Fighti saw blue blood exploding across the line of giant mollusks as they pierced the shells without slowing and exploded in the center of mass. She had five seconds—
Magical spells. She thumbed the side triggers, and two blue bolts of lightning shot from her plane’s underbelly. A shower of disgorged light spells. Then a [Greater Orb of Force], falling from below her.
