“To where?”
“Anywhere. We have been here for months and—with due respect to the good Captain Walt here, it has been dire.”
The [Lady] was not keen on being here. And the man, who turned out to be another Silver-ranker, scratched at his visibly rusted armor.
“We lost what little magic we had. Could be worse, but we’ve teamed up with other northern teams who got out this far. We’re sort of scattered around this area. You seen ‘em?”
“Not from where we flew in from, but we have been low to the ground. I’m afraid our destination is Nombernaught, Lady Meliope, and my co-fliers have a mandate not to allow anyone to fly with them.”
“What if I were to make a request? I am from a noble house.”
Fighti hesitated as the [Lady] turned to her, but the Captain coughed.
“Lady Haviet, we can’t identify this group, and begging your pardon, you’d be at the mercy of any accidents or—unpleasantness if it were to occur.”
He didn’t exactly lower his voice, but Fighti just nodded. That was sensible. Lady Haviet’s voice rose.
“I’d take being kidnapped if it meant some hot tea and a bed without bugs in it! I—oh, very well. Please, make the request, and if you should fly back, I will pay—generously—for transport. Do forgive me. I must retire.”
She walked unsteadily back to their camp, and Nailren turned to the man, Walt.
“Has it been rough?”
The Human scratched at a scruffy beard, shrugging awkwardly.
“What, the lack of magic? The fact nothing grows here? The damn unusual creatures? I’ve seen worse. Lady Haviet, well, she brought a lotta magic and expected it to be easier than how it was. I’ll say this for her: she told us to keep going. Her house put too much gold into this to just turn it around. Sorry, Captain Walt of Ensoldier Shields. Silver-rank like yourself. I remember the Pride. Damn, that’s from a while back. Egliv’s still kicking around in Alais’ party. How the hell did you come here?”
Another handshake, and Nailren grinned at Walt. He vaguely remembered the man. Only from the Creler attack at the Bloodfields, nothing else. Nailren nodded at Lady Haviet.
“It’s a long story, Captain Walt. These are friends of mine, and I’m actually no longer adventuring; I’m just an [Explorer] now. So you’re on guard duty?”
Walt shrugged, tired.
“It pays well, and you know how it is. Took us a while to get ourselves on our feet, and this…well, it’s not the worst we’ve been through. Poor Lady Haviet’s had it hardest. I hope you have something to trade; it’d perk her up.”
“Strange she stayed, though. She doesn’t trust you to continue exploring without her?”
Nailren took on an informal tone with Walt, which the man reciprocated. Fighti didn’t know what to do until Nailren nudged her and glanced at the Chest of Holding. When she brought out one of the crummy sandwiches, he almost grabbed it.
“Wait, d’you want to trade? We’ve got plenty of shit. I mean, valuable samples.”
“Sure. We can’t sell much—but you want some oil for that armor?”
He did indeed, and it was actually the oil that was bought, not the food. Lady Haviet insisted on toddling back out to oversee what they sold—a mix of carcasses of dead animals, none of which Fighti had ever seen before, and things like seashells and even a bit of ore.
“Mostly, we’ve been just scouting. We’d have tried to settle a valuable spot or try one of the dungeons, but after seeing what happened at the tower…Lady Haviet understands our capabilities. She had to stay to oversee any trades or such we made in her family’s name. It’s why she’s so upset; the rest of her family jumped ship after two weeks.”
Walt was scrubbing at his helmet with a brush and applying oil. Nailren raised his brows.
“Wait, there were more?”
Walt lowered his voice as the rest of his team made faces.
“Sure were. Her husband, their eldest son and daughter, two cousins—they had a huge argument. Ended up with them drawing lots. Guess who got the short straw?”
Fighti wasn’t that surprised, but it impressed Nailren, who whistled.
“Not even her husband or son staying?”
“Nope.”
One glance from one of Walt’s teammates told Fighti that meant some big drama, even if she didn’t get Human dynamics completely. Walt shoved his helmet back on his head.
“She’s kept up, which is more’n I can say for a lot of team leaders. Like I said, it’s mostly just inconvenience. Remember Alais? She’s another security leader—that’s what we’re calling ourselves since this isn’t an adventure—whom we’ve teamed up with. Egliv’s on her team, now. She can barely cast spark spells. She had to kill a damn shark-thing with Tier 1 magic. They’d love to trade if you had time.”
Alais had killed a Landshark with a Tier 1 spell? That was impressive. Nailren’s brows rose, and he hesitated, but regretfully jerked his thumb at Fighti and Chickenruler.
“We have to be in the air momentarily. But you wouldn’t happen to have any tips to share, would you? Places of interest? I have some news about potential gardening here. I call them ‘Sea Gardens’. Oh, and someone’s figured out how to make the salted ground fertile!”
Walt was interested more in the Sea Gardens than the magic ritual. He spat on the ground.
“We’re not doing any agriculture. We keep moving and hunting. And we’ve food enough, really. We have way too much flour that’s not gone bad…but some greens would be nice. I’ll have to see what we can share.”
Out came Lady Haviet a third time. The notion of a salad cheered her up, and she asked forlornly.
“Do you think there would be any—any tea in these Sea Gardens I might acquire?”
Nailren produced the tea bag that Woll had given him, and Haviet nearly traded half their supplies for it. When he handed it over to her for free, she clutched it to her chest with actual tears in her eyes.
“Oh, thank you so much, Adventurer Nailren! We brought enough flour and dried goods, but tea—! Walt, tell them everything we’ve seen. Within reason.”
That meant there was something valuable Walt was holding onto, but he was open enough about local landmarks. He did raise one finger.
“Right, did you see that big tower that’s not broken down over that way? About four day’s ride for us.”
Fighti had, multiple times. Nailren’s eyes lit up.
“It was beautiful. Actual architecture not lost to time, despite the weathering. Did you approach it?”
Walt’s face was grim.
“We got close enough to find another group fleeing it. Bunch of idiots. I mean, it was two Gold-rank teams. Drakes. They tried the tower, but something’s guarding it. They said it was a Golem, three times as large as any regular man. Minced both teams so fast only the ones who’d been spread up even had time to run.”
Fighti swallowed, grateful they hadn’t landed. Nailren bit his tongue.
“Did they approach stealthily? Did they aggravate it?”
Walt shook his head.
“They went with…damn, I think it was Alais’ group. Hey, where did the Golem team go? Sorry, we’ve had to join up with other groups, and—I think they were trying to sneak up on it with [Rogues]. Didn’t work. By the sounds of it, both Gold-rank groups got taken out so fast they never had a chance. That’s a Named-rank threat, so as far as we were concerned, we’re staying away. I’ve seen Gold-rank threats. We can’t do that.”
Nailren marked the tower on his map.
“Good to know. Thank you. And if we swing back this way, what do you most badly need?”
Walt grimaced.
“Greens? Salt, oil—anything to keep our armor in good condition. If you had mana potions that didn’t vanish overnight, we’d take that. Oh, and tea.”
It was funny. Food was low on his list. Apparently, the Haviet family owned wheat fields, so that accounted for their generous supplies, but Fighti decided that the Silver-rank team was just more capable than a lot she’d met. None of them seemed like dedicated [Archers], but most had a bow ready, and one even took a pot-shot at a rabbit and got it. They brought over the animal.
“Souvenir.”
The rabbit had three eyes, two on either side of its head and one in the center of its forehead. Walt grimaced.
“We’re pretty sure the third eye’s magical. They can see almost anything coming. Doesn’t mean they can dodge, though. Correy’s got [Stealth Arrow].”
“Nice. Wait, this is for us?”
“Yep. You’ve been generous, and well, us Silver-rankers from Liscor have to do things for each other.”
It was just a small gesture, but it was the kind of thing Fighti liked so much she gave Walt another bag of sugar. Then they got on their Wyvern and took off.
 
——
 
Not every group was doing as well as that one, of course. Fighti had been arguing with Chickenruler. He wanted to give the rabbit minus the eye to Coldcream as a snack. She thought it’d do very well in a frying pan with some spices. Nailren had been caught in the middle as the tie-breaking vote when they nearly ran into two Garuda.
“Wait! Wait! We’re friendly! Are you from Fissival? Pallass? We’re down here!”
They darted down as Fighti swung her Thunderbow at them, and she blinked. Nailren whistled, then swore under his breath.
“Tribes. That’s nearly three hundred!”
One of the largest expeditions Fighti had seen so far was camped out in the middle of the grasslands, and they were not doing well. The Drake leader approached with a Dullahan, a Gnoll, and one of the Garudas in tow, and Fighti realized who they had to be.
“Pallass’ 1st Colonial Expedition. What city are you? I, ah, request in the name of the Walled Cities any supplies you can give—trade with us for. Please.”
They were hungry. It didn’t always look like being skin and bones; you actually got a fat belly when you were really starving. Right before you died. They weren’t there yet, but one glance around had Fighti conferring with Chickenruler about how much they could give. They were supposed to bring it to Nombernaught…
Then Fighti glanced over the Wyvern’s back, since she wasn’t sure if this group was dangerous, despite seeming to be from the City of Inventions. She stared down and saw a little Drake standing behind the wary adults. It was a girl who might have been seven or something, sucking on a claw. Fighti stared at the child.
 
——
 
The tri-eye rabbit was first to go, then most of their food. Nailren drew aside one of the Gnolls as the rest of the food was parcelled out—not all of it was being eaten at once. It would have to be rationed.
“Hey, friend. What is going on here? Who brings children on an expedition?”
This was a Pallassian Gnoll named Girfer. He looked unprepared for this; his fur was a mess, and while he had a sleek bow, Nailren didn’t believe he was as good a shot as the weary Silver-rankers.
“I—I didn’t think it was a good idea! Listen, uh, brother. It was some [Senator]’s idea.”
Nailren stared as Girfer gestured lamely.
“You set up a colony, you need kids, right?”
“Not in the first wave! How many have you lost?”
Girfer didn’t want to say. He was sniffing the air, glancing at the cooking fires, and whined.
“We’re not the only group who brought kids! And we did better than most; our alchemical stuff ran out, but we had crossbows, and the [Soldiers] with us can fight. Listen…do you take passengers? Which city is this? Because we’re Pallass—”
“You’re not going to get those two to do anything for the City of Inventions.”
Nailren interrupted Girfer brusquely. The Gnoll bristled.
“We’re a Walled City! And we have [Mages] who can cast [Message]! If they don’t help us—”
“Your city attacked theirs in a war not too long ago. You’re lucky they don’t strafe the camp.”
Nailren hated Drake mentality sometimes, and Walled Cities had it worst. Seeing Girfer’s slack-jawed expression and then the worry come over his face was just a sign that Walled Cities’ citizens never thought about the enemies they made. Or rather, that they’d ever suffer the consequences of their actions.
He didn’t like this one bit. Nor, clearly, did Fighti or Chickenruler. Chickenruler had actually gotten off his Wyvern’s back—a risky move this time. Nailren strode back over. He was worried Pallass might be stupid enough to try and commandeer Coldcream. However, Fighti was having a word with the children, who were begging for more food.
A Goblin’s word. She was showing the little Drake girl something.
“Like this, like this. Stab, then run. You is slow, so you get one stab. Don’t try on monsters. Sneak, sneak, stab. Right here or here. This is where they bleed to death. Practice on rabbits. Anyone can sneak up on a rabbit if they try hard enough.”
She had a grim expression on her face as the Drake girl stared at the dagger and held it awkwardly, in a way that made Nailren’s skin crawl under his fur.
It was how he’d teach someone to hold a dagger if he wanted to show them how to assassinate someone. A reverse grip, not like how a knife-fighter would hold it with a saber grip.
Fighti kept giving lessons to the kids until someone objected.
“Listen, Miss Flier. The children are not to be taught such lessons! They are safe with us!”
Fighti glowered at an objecting Dullahan woman.
“They’re safe until they’re not.”
“We would rather die than let any of them come to harm! As long as any one of us is here, they won’t need to do anything so violent!”
The Dullahan woman was ushering the children back, and Fighti’s voice was dark.
“Oh yeah? When you’re all dead, will they have a chance or none at all?”
The Dullahan woman’s head rotated around a hundred and eighty degrees on her shoulders, and she gave Fighti a look of mingled horror and fear. Nailren just studied the little Drake girl clutching her belt-knife.
Scales don’t look that baggy. The green’s faded—lack of nutrition? She’s six. How much does starving stunt your growth? If they can find food, she’d be fine. But there’s just too many mouths to feed here. Their clothing was decent enough; he realized they had a lot of non-combat classes here. [Tailors] and [Bakers]—the idiots had come with everything they needed for a colony.
But they hadn’t come ready for the wilds. What Nailren was curious about was…how was Pallass’ colony still alive?
Numbers did not guarantee survival. Especially without magical weapons; Pallass’ edge would have rapidly vanished, and losing people to Landshark attacks or other monsters was a threat. In his talks with other members of the colony, Nailren realized they’d faced both bandits and monsters.
Something was keeping them alive. Perhaps the fact they had enough people who could fight? But Nailren suspected good leadership amidst their fighters, or a higher-level individual.
He found two.
