“Identify yourself,” a voice spoke. Ameliah jumped and whirled, dropping into a defensive crouch. There was a slender man standing there, hand resting at the ready on the hilt of a thin sword belted at his waist. He relaxed his hand after a moment, releasing the sword and holding his palm out facing her. “Easy, don’t attack. I’m not your enemy, Guilder.”

Ameliah relaxed, mirroring the man. He had the silver plate of a Watch sentinel hanging from his neck, and he’d clearly seen her own plate as well. He’s good. I didn’t even hear him. “What’s going on?” she asked, motioning toward the dome. “What happened to the city?”

The sentinel snorted. “We got fucked is what happened. The DKE sealed it off somehow. I’ve never seen anything like it. We can’t break through.”

Ameliah ran a hand through her ragged hair, still breathing heavily from her run. “Damn it, I hate being right. Which Citizen?”

“Westbridge. Now that was a fight to see. Here, come to our camp and I’ll tell you all about it. You look ragged as all hells, pardon my saying so. Where’d you come from, anyway? Vestvall?”

She shook her head. “Jarro.”

“Long way by foot,” he said, starting to walk down the road. “Come on, my patrol is just ahead. I had them hunker down when I spotted you. The bloody amateurs are louder than a herd of drunken goats.”

Ameliah followed him, saying nothing as they joined up with a group of four Watch officers that came out at his call. True to his word, they were quite loud compared to the silent footsteps of the man. Idly, she noted that he was leaving no tracks in the snow.

“Calm down kids, just a Guilder,” the sentinel said. “Hey, Cob, you got any trail bread? She looks half-starved.”

“Yes sir,” said one of the men, removing a paper-wrapped bundle from a pocket in his cloak. “Here you go, miss…?” he trailed off as he held the package out to her.

“Ameliah,” she said, taking the package gratefully and unwrapping it. She tore into the hard Watch ration, devouring it in a few quick bites. She’d hardly had time to hunt during her run.

“Damn,” another of the officers said, watching her. “Doesn’t that hurt your teeth? Those things are like rocks.”

Ameliah laughed. “You’ve never had a Guild ration bar, have you? Trust me, that was soft by comparison.”

“Right, let’s go. If she really did come in from Jarro, she’ll have been on the road for at least a week. Those mountains aren’t exactly an easy climb.”

“Three days,” Ameliah said.

“Pardon?” said the Watch sentinel.

“Three days from Jarro. They wouldn’t let me through the platform.”

The sentinel whistled. “Now that IS impressive. You see men, that’s why you shouldn’t look down on—Ah!” He jumped back as an arrow burrowed itself into the snow near his feet. “Hey, Skaper, what the hell?”

“Stop calling me a man, Tabot,” the female Watch officer said, lowering her bow. “And give me my arrow back.”

“It’s just a saying,” the sentinel said, pulling the arrow from the snow. “I know you’re not a man, obviously. Phoss would’ve ordered you flogged for insubordination. You’re lucky that I’m so friendly and that he’s trapped inside. Damn it, this is why I hate leading patrols.”

Ameliah smiled. He seems okay, for a sentinel. She shook her head. She had to stay on topic. “Your camp,” she said, “is Halgrave there? Any other members of the Guild? A man in seamless plate armor and a black cape, or a mage in an orange robe? Maybe an Osaran with a ponytail, or a big bearded warrior with two shields? They’re pretty distinctive.”

The sentinel shook his head. “All adventurers are distinctive, but no. Halgrave left for Southguard once he realized he couldn’t batter his way through the barrier. Said he needed to contact the Guild. As for the others, I haven’t seen them. I know that shields guy, bit of a troublemaker. Haven’t seen him since the barrier went up though.” He looked at the officers trailing along behind them. “Any of you goats seen anyone by that description?”

“Goats?” one of the men said.

Tabot grinned. “Well, I can’t call you ‘men’ now, apparently. Now stop bleating and answer the nice lady’s question.”

Ameliah snorted. Nice lady? Really? Never mind, I’m not sure I like this guy as much anymore. The officers looked to each other, then shook their heads. Her face hardened as her thoughts returned to the fate of her friends. She couldn’t afford to be distracted by the oddness of this particular Watch patrol. Message Tallheart…Message Rain…Message Jamus…Message Val…Hells, Message Carten…Damn. All out of range or blocked. I hope they’re with Tallheart, not trapped inside. I’ll rest for a few hours, then go see if I can track them down in the forest. Tallheart wouldn’t have stayed here, not with all these people so close by.

She looked at the barrier. Don’t do anything stupid. Rain and Val, you two in particular.

Sitting deep in the chill of Winter, Rain shivered. It had been over two hours since he’d started, and the chill was starting to get to him. He was using Aura Focus, meaning all of his physical senses were blocked; however, Winter’s effect wasn’t physical.  At first, he’d stopped every so often to look around the room and make sure that nothing bad had happened, such as Velika showing up. People had figured out that he couldn’t hear them while he was using Aura Focus and they pelted him with questions whenever they felt the skill lighten up. That annoyance, plus the knowledge that he couldn’t do anything to stop her if she did show up, had eventually convinced him to stop checking. He was all in, come what may.

While he waited, he kept himself distracted by keeping an eye on his Adaptation panel while he trickle-charged his armor. His tolerance for Clarity and Focus buffs had both improved slightly, but not as much as he hoped given the ridiculous boost he was generating right now. Just two points for Focus and six for Clarity since he’d last looked at it back in Staavo’s place. None of the other categories had changed, though his total tolerance had gone up by a point. He hadn’t adjusted the ring, wanting to see if things went faster or slower depending on how far above his tolerance he was. Results so far were inconclusive.

Adaptation

Effective

Total

Base

Potential

Buff

Tolerance

Strength

5.29

41

10

23%

31

13

Recovery

5.33

31

10

41%

21

3

Endurance

3.6

30

10

30%

20

2

Vigor

6.46

35

10

38%

25

7

Focus

23

39

10

100%

29

13

Clarity

209

221

200

100%

21

9

Current

Tolerance

Enchantment Stat Boosts

147

128

Enchantment Resistances

50

Unknown

It looked like boosting his tolerance wasn’t going to be a fast process. It wouldn't be too bad for Focus and Clarity, but the others were going to take longer. He didn’t have any physical skills, so training and time were the only tools available to him. He was planning to start working out more regularly to attack the problem.

While he’d been using Winter, he’d had the time to unlock some skill trees. He’d stopped at ten unlocks, not wanting to strain himself after working so hard on the Adaptation panel. They were different soulstrain categories, and he was pretty sure he would have been fine to keep going based on how he felt, but he didn’t want to borrow trouble. He kept himself busy by playing around with potential builds in his mind.

One that had caught his fancy recently was something that he’d dubbed the ‘passivist’. It was a shame that the pun really only worked in English. It was all about picking up as many passive skills as possible, with only a few actives for utility as well as some pre-combat self-buffs. He had no idea how viable it would be in practice, but on paper it was putting out some impressive numbers at level eighteen. It was a lot more rounded than his own build, with good offense and defense, just a bit lacking in utility.

Mana Striking was an odd passive that used mana to boost damage on any physical attack, armed or not. Combined with the multiplier from Strength of Arm and a few other things, basic attacks ended up doing a few thousand damage, which was insane. He wasn’t that sure of the numbers, just going by the damage of punching practice with Carten as the punching bag.

Additionally, the build had great staying power. That was thanks to Mute, a skill which tripled all regeneration, health, stamina, and mana. It did this at the cost of temporarily sealing other active skills. He’d heard about Mute a while ago, but as nice as getting another regen multiplier would be, it wasn’t compatible with auras. Winter was better after all the boosts he had, but it wasn’t surprising that most people went with Mute for recovery between fights. It was a great skill, assuming they were willing to spend the points to unlock the prerequisites. The so-called Passivist would be able to keep it going constantly as it didn’t affect passive skills. They’d only need to lower it to recast buffs.

Rain shivered again as he looked at the build he’d outlined in his mind. This would trash me in a one-on-one, even with my armor. I wouldn’t have a chance, but…imagine if I had one on my team. Velocity alone would be massive, but if I also had Prismatic Intent with Precision, Acuity, and the Imperial Auras… Woof. Crazy. He closed out the dozens of open windows with a frown. I need to see if I can get tabbed browsing working. Things are getting a little cluttered.

He took a moment to clear his mind. The gamble of revealing Winter appeared to have not backfired—no one had bothered him since he’d made it clear he wasn’t going to respond to any more questions. Still, he wanted to be in good condition in case things got dramatic. To that end, it was time to drop the skill. He felt perfectly fine apart from the cold, but he was conscious that using Winter when he was past his Tolerance was what had made him go froot loopy before. He hadn’t boosted himself that high obviously, but he didn’t want to push it much further.

As his senses faded back in, he gasped. The room was freezing, his shivers had been his body’s way of telling him about the cold that he couldn’t feel on his skin thanks to Aura Focus. That thought was pushed aside by his recognition of the woman seated across the table from him, her face even colder than the air.

“Well, what are we going to do with you?” asked Sentinel Lamida mildly, her voice fogging the frigid air. Rain’s eyes darted around the room frantically, looking for support. There were plenty of metal plates to be seen—silver ones bearing the shield emblem of the Watch.

Craaaap.
