SANGLIORE REGIONAL FORTRESS

The guards on the roof had tried to follow him inside, but he'd thrown one of Niala's “sticky wall” potions in the stairwell, and it had plugged up. According to her, it would remain like that for about twelve bells, or until someone poured a solvent on it.

He ran through the fortress, keeping up Quick Step, Marathon, and Iron Body. Now and then, around windows, he encountered a few sleeping soldiers. The others didn't have time to react when he dashed past them. He was already gone when they managed to turn his way.

Every door leading outside of the inner keep was sealed with a stick potion. He'd done his best to memorize the layout before launching this assault, and he was fairly confident he'd gotten all exits, but ultimately it didn't really matter. Even if they found a way leading out, they'd find the fortress surrounded.

The lessening din of strum cannons outside told him that Niala was busily blanketing the area with her sleeping gas. All he had to do, now, was to make sure everyone inside was also incapacitated.

He activated Purify Blood; even if it wasn't really necessary against the sleeping gas, having drunk one of Niala's neutralizing agents, it cost him little to be extra prudent.

Level by level, he shattered sleeping potion vials, filling the interior with somniferous vapours. Whoever he encountered who didn't immediately fall asleep, he knocked out with a quick Strong Arm jab.

He wasn't even paying attention to who he was encountering, though he figured the group of 6 men flanked by twice as many guards he found in the basement near one of the escape tunnel entrances must have been some of the nobles responsible for this mess.

One of them had yelled loudly and indignantly enough to be one, at least.

He yawned as he went up another set of stairs, throwing out more sleep potions left and right.

The initial assault had been exhilarating, but this part of the plan was a bit of a bore, if he had to be honest.

Alfonzo's heart hammered in his chest, his blood pummelling his temple even as he fought off the haze trying to drown his consciousness. His breath came short and strained through his filtering mask as he stepped over his fallen colleagues, his knuckles white as he gripped his halberd, careful not to make a sound.

The pink smoke stung his eyes and kept him from seeing further than a few meters ahead. He navigated by memory more than sight, and he'd only been in this place for a week.

In short, he was lost, alone, and panicked.

When the air sirens had wailed, he'd expected the Crown's forces to come pouring in from the rooftops and courtyard, but a peek outside had shown a sky clear of any airship.

Puzzled, he'd run toward the closest mustering point, only stopping to drink a neutralizer and put on a filtering mask when he heard the chemical attack alarm.

Then, a man ran past so quickly no one at the muster point was able to tell which livery he had, and soon after, pink gas began filling the corridors. His group ran toward the nearest exit, only to find it blocked by some beige goop. They tried cutting it off, but their weapons got stuck fast. One guy even managed to get his hand glued to the substance.

The first of their group fell limp then. The second followed as they made their way to the next door, finding it barred by the same substance.

One after the other, as their panic mounted, they fell. Now and then, the sounds of short-lived scuffles echoed through the stone hallways, followed by bodies hitting the floor.

Now, Alfonzo was alone, and something was prowling the fortress, looking for anything still standing. He'd already come across a few people, their faces bloodied. He didn't stop to check if anyone was still breathing.

He just had to find a way out of this deathtrap.

Through the hazy air, a blue glow manifested ahead of him, moving across. He stopped, frozen mid-step, not daring to even breathe. His legs faltered under the assault of the gas, and he shuffled a foot to stay upright, hitting some discarded weapon. The metallic clang sounded like an explosion.

The blue glow stopped, then started moving toward him. Swallowing, his heart threatening to jump out of his rib cage, he levelled his halberd at the light.

A demon wreathed in blue fire emerged from the haze, two orbs of blue flame where his eyes should have been. Terrible, arcane runes were alight and dancing under his skin.

The demon walked straight at him, grabbing the spear point of his halberd and ripping it off his hands with the ease of disarming a child, before snapping it in half like a twig and throwing the pieces to the side.

Alfonzo's mind blanked out. A single overriding command blared inside his skull: get away.

He turned to run. An anchor on his shoulder pulled him back. An inflamed fist filled his vision, and then nothing.

David let the man crumple to the floor. He turned and looked around. That should have been most of it.

With a sigh, he made his way back up to the keep's roof, using a solvent to clear the way. Outside, night had fallen, but the approaching airships had their searchlights on full, scanning the battlefields for any pockets of resistance.

The beams directed their own troops, all inoculated with Niala's neutralizers and wearing filtering masks, to come and arrest whoever was still conscious.

He looked around and soon spotted the indigo light of his wife's wings. She was flying lazy laps around the fortress, a zip of light leaving her vicinity now and then to impact upon a weapon emplacement she had missed, sometimes onto someone who was lining up a mana rifle or strum cannon toward one of the airships.

He took off his mask and walked to the battlements, observing the area around the fortification. A wide, death-quiet field of limp bodies, barely visible through the pink fog that clung close to the ground.

He looked back up at his wife, flitting about like a magical angel of desolation. What would the battlefield look like if she had used something lethal, instead of a sleeping gas?

Yep, she was scary.

And very cute.

TWELVE HOURS LATER, COMMAND ROOM IN THE SANGLIORE FORTRESS

The various captains of their assembled force listened to Lord Wardenfel as he read the preliminary after-action report.

“So far, only two confirmed deaths from the side of the rebel forces; an unfortunate who fell on top of a dagger, and another who ended up with their face in a tub of water. Several minor wounds, but the enemy force was mostly captured in full fighting strength. Eleven of the twelve nobles were identified and apprehended. The twelfth is thought to have found a way to slip away.”

He flipped to another page. “Damage to the fortress is minimal to non-existent. All disabled weapons and doors have been cleared of the disabling substance and tested to be fully functional. No casualties of any kind among friendly forces. All within the span of a single bell.”

With a nod, he put down the report on the table and looked up at the officers crowding the room. “In summary, this is the cleanest, most absurd lopsided victory against a significant force behind heavy entrenchment and fortification ever recorded that wasn't a surrender or preceded by a siege.”

The room was silent apart from the uneasy shuffling and coughs of military men and women, who all turned their eyes toward Lord and Lady Allwarden, next to Lord Wardenfel.

When they had heard the “plan”, they had all thought it to be a staged display, something to precede the actual assault, to be lauded as the might of the Allwardens despite the heavy sacrifice that their troops would suffer.

Now, this new, secretive noble house had just displayed capabilities that were so far out of touch with their military reality that they might as well be fairy tales.

Nobody not present would believe the reports. They would think as they did; an exaggeration for the benefit of a newly founded house.

Not them, however. They knew, even if their minds balked at accepting what they had seen in person, that these two individuals had enough power to go up against an army and win, exerting the same effort as one does weeding their lawn.

Their collective gaze shifted to Lady Wardenfel, who was beaming a smile at her older sister, herself seemingly attempting to fold upon herself and disappear away.

Apparently, the small lady had offered to cook them all a meal to celebrate their resounding victory. At the offer, Lord and Lady Wardenfel had reassigned an overwhelming amount of support staff to clearing the kitchen and making sure it was furnished with ingredients.

If they were being honest, none of them really understood what was going on anymore.

The cleanup operation was wrapped up within a few days, and mostly involved processing the prisoners.

The house guards would be getting a relatively light sentence, though they were still going to be stripped of their position. Most of them would end up in penal companies for a few years.

The mercenaries proved to be a slightly more problematic matter. In accordance with the kingdom's mercenary charter, no companies were allowed to fight directly against Crown forces when employed by an entity within the kingdom. Any who did such a thing would find themselves judged as criminals or seditious elements.

Infuriatingly, their contracts were from Tavergunn, which meant they had been acting as enemy forces and were thus protected by the same charter. They were slapped with heavy fines and let go, to everyone's discontent.

To Angeline and Isaac, this was further evidence that the Tavergunn principality was covering something; in addition to having rallied forces toward the rebellious nobles, they had also put in place mercenary contracts far ahead of time.

Further, the twelve nobles who had been present in the Sangliore fortress were known to be involved with the other scheme, the one involving Sonnel and the Pakag clans. Hopefully, they would be able to retrieve information from their eleven prisoners regarding that bit of contrivance.

That was a matter for them to investigate further. For now, the crisis had been resolved, and the “super weapons” were set to leave.

The captains and aides had all gathered to see them off as well, asking if they could be allowed the honour of paying respects to the heroes of Sangliore with a visit.

Perhaps, over a dinner?

Ignoring the supplicants, Angeline and Isaac gave their thanks and well-wishes to David and Niala, watching them depart on their summoned indigo mount, back toward Riverwall.

Without any urgent matter, David and Niala decided to detour through Majestic and visit Cornelius. The older catkin was euphoric at having one of his daughter back, puddling into a crying mess in her arms as he mourned his empty home and their absence.

A few minutes later, he was bouncing in joy as Niala discussed her alchemical discoveries and experiments with him. When she presented him with an imbued potion, he dragged her off into his lab and shut themselves in.

David was starting to accept this would be the normal sequence of events whenever they visited. Since he had some time, as he didn't expect them to reappear before quite a few bells, he went out shopping.

He was, after all, rich, and there was no greater mercantile city than Majestic, at least on this continent. He was looking forward to surprising Niala.

Their stay extended to nearly a week before Mahala wrangled a few guards to restrain Cornelius from attaching himself to his daughter to keep her from leaving.

As he bawled for her to stay, she wished him the best, thanked Mahala, and they flew away for Riverwall, without any stops this time.

Niala put on the speed, David feeding her with Mana as she pushed their summoned mount forward while she both shielded them and gave them heavy tailwinds. They arrived at their destination before the day was over, appearing as an indigo comet across the sky for anyone who looked up during their passing.

The operation at Sangliore was, as they had said, a test of their capabilities. They came out of it with some confidence, though it was still hard to estimate what they would be up against once they returned to the hummers' lands.

The rescued octuple in Town told them much, but even they had to admit they didn't know what was inside the pyramidal temple at the core of the humming lands apart from the Orchestrator; the highest authority among their kind, and unseen by all except for the Ones.

Having been designated as a One by this entity, they expected Niala to be allowed entry, but could provide nothing more.

The upcoming expedition occupied much of their bedroom talks. Even if they were going in circles at this point, it still eased their minds. All they were waiting for, now, was for the enchanters at Timeless Runeworks to finish their blast grenades.

A week later, David was notified that the Runeworks' first and last weapon was completed.