“She wants to win the war nearly as much as we do,” Nathan said. “But her goals for the conclave may be different from ours. At worst, it’ll be because she thinks she knows the evils of Davrar better than we do."

“Which she might,” Aarl said tentatively. “She’s seen more of them.”

“But she hasn’t felt them,” Sarah argued. “She is an ally, but she is not a mortal. She doesn’t know what it’s like to know your entire people will be unmade, that there is nothing you can do to defend them. For her, there is always another battle, another chance to win. We get one opportunity, one life.”

Stella interrupted, putting her hands out to calm the siblings. “Instead of arguing, we should discuss the details of our battle plan and our contingencies. Generalities are good enough for the Questors, but we need to have an actual idea of what to do.”

“And then we should go to sleep,” Aarl said, yawning. “We’ll need the strength to kill lots of Questors tomorrow.”

The Heirs spoke quickly about the battle, going over their preferred plan and then diving into follow-ups and contingencies. It wasn’t enough for the Ashen Accord to win the war; it had to be obvious to all that the Heirs did the heavy lifting. That meant they were going to cut loose and dominate the battlefield as much as they were able.

Nathan went to bed in a pile of blankets on the floor, feeling surprisingly unbothered by the battle that would happen tomorrow. They had a plan and knew more about what they’d face than they had going into the blight or even Esebus. The last thought he had before slipping into sleep was that by this time tomorrow, they would have finished Sarya’s deeds and secured their conclave. Or they’d be dead, and wouldn’t care anymore. The thought was more comforting than Nathan expected.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 4

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 9010/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 9

Inspiration 10

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 4

Forewarning 8

The Truth of Magic 4

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 4

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 4
