“I recall the tunnels as being very apt for me to move about in. Wide—spacious, even. Some reached forty feet tall and had a vast clearance to either side. Perfect for mobile battles. Jumping from wall to wall—evading monsters. Far better than close-combat in tighter spaces. The floor, if I recall correctly, was made of wood, a substance we encountered infrequently. The walls of enchanted stone, again in hindsight. The primary enemy stood about eight feet tall, cast spells, and sometimes talked. They had about a hundred limbs, each long and spiny, and they would come in packs of eight to eighty.”
He described some kind of insectile monster, thin and whiplike, mimicking how it would strike, scurry back—and his shivering Worker audience could imagine how sharp their protrusions might be.
“What kind of creature was it? It talked? Another species?”
Klbkch hmmed.
“I believe I’ve seen them on Izril. You could call them a species. I called them pests.”
“Wait. Wait—were you meeting other species? That many limbs—Selphids? No—”
Everyone was suddenly trying to reconcile that idea with a species they knew. But Klbkch had to think. He put his chin in his hands.
“I’ve seen them here. I’ve killed a number—though they’re far different in scope. What are they called? Uh…ah…oh! Of course. Silverfish.”
“Silverf…”
This time, only Valeterisa, Montressa, Pisces, and the other [Mages] got it. Klbkch went back to talking as if they’d solved all this.
“These ones were larger. I didn’t understand the magic they worked, of course, but most of it was just lightning or fire or acid. Mundane spells, one assumes. And they had no Skills, so dispatching swarms was just a troublesome thing. Plus, they kept their library-tunnels clean of the nastier monsters you could run into. I think the Creler Wars wiped them all out. I distinctly recall setting most of that tunnel section ablaze and melting the rest with Devrkr. Excuse me, Devrkr the Glowing. No Silverfish to be seen—just Crelers at that point.”
“You did whaaaaaaat?”
Valeterisa nearly had a heart-attack, but Klbkch shushed her.
“That came later. Another story. At the time, the First Queen wanted me to collect the ‘books’. I was heading down one of the tunnels, eating sapstuff from one of the moss-creatures that scuttled about. They were about two feet tall, and most beings, including me, let them live because they produced an edible gel. After a quick stop in one of the libraries to collect eighteen such books, I determined that my lingbegh would fit no more if I were to acquire the crystal samples for the Queens. So, down I headed through one of the vast holes in the floor. You see, they led past the fiery lava chutes.”
Grimalkin of Pallass had been born for this moment. He had trained. The [Sinew Magus] had Pryde holding pieces of paper, which he was scribing with his notes as his journal was filled with a dictation spell. Klbkch’s tale was as yet uninterrupted, though multiple people wanted to raise their hands.
“I had noticed the Silverfish had stemmed most of the molten rock, so it was merely warm—perfect breeding ground for them and other monsters. But I had to head down past that to find the crystal caverns that lay adjacent to the libraries. Perhaps they had even been excavated by the original owners? It was there I ran into my first Crystal Golem. Or perhaps you’d call it an advanced Earth Golem. It was almost as tough as my swords, although slow and unintelligent.”
A what? Bevussa mouthed as she flapped in. Bird turned his head to stare at her feathers, and he patted a seat next to him. Klbkch was shaking his head ruefully.
“After eighteen minutes of striking it at increasing levels of force, I’d cracked its body. Excuse me—it was merely ten feet tall, but the sounds of our battle woke up everything in what might have been a mile radius. I was told by the War Queens they could hear the impacts from the Hives. In hindsight, I killed lesser automata far more easily. Mithril Golems—again, we didn’t know they were Mithril—were far less durable. They could be cut—these Crystal Golems, which would plague our excavation attempts, required intense force to crack. Galuc himself became one of the best Centenium at destroying them, which led the War Queens to assume they were easy to defeat. A young Wrymvr—this was before he developed his enhanced exoskeleton and levelled—once fought six for three days and nights before someone rescued him.”
Klbkch chuckled at this. He scratched at his chin.
“—Half the monsters who came to attack us fled when they saw us. One of those obnoxious Armored Crawlers appeared—twenty feet by twenty feet—and I used it battling the Crystal Golem to locate the core and finally break the body and destroy it. The Crawler was mostly battered to death, and the rest of the monsters set about eating it when I cut it apart. Then, I put the pieces of the Golem in the lingbegh before heading deeper into the tunnels. Now, I recall most of the crystals turned oddly purple near some dead bodies and undead, and it didn’t occur to us at the time that these were undead and death-magic. So I had never run into anything like the Wailing Pit before. I attempted to communicate for six minutes while it attacked me, as per my orders, then decided to kill it.”
“Question!”
Someone had to interrupt. If only because the story—for all it was compelling—needed context. It was, in fact, no less than Erin Solstice who was consulting with several people whispering in her ears at once. She poked Rags, got a poke back, pushed Grimalkin’s notepad out of her face, and decided on one.
“Okay. Uh—what’s a lingbegh?”
Klbkch looked blankly at her.
“Oh. A bag of holding. Again—we had two. In the entire Antinium population. We had no idea how to make more, and so many Antinium had their own storage capabilities, but I, as the mobile explorer, was issued one of the two we acquired from the surface. So as I loaded it up, I noted it probably had capacity for about fifty-two more pounds of rough matt—”
“Question!”
“…Yes, Erin? I am trying to tell a story here.”
“Where’d you get the lingbegh if you couldn’t make them? And is this, uh, still circa pre-dating the Creler Wars?”
Klbkch hesitated.
“No Crelers in the tunnels…yes, yes it was. So it was before we delved into crystals if we have to segue. This is making the story convoluted, Erin. Let us all put aside my expeditions into the crystal-acquisition. Sometime just before Wrymvr was created, we were branching out in tunnels to see what threats were out there. About, oh, seventeen Centenium had been created. The best metric for our history as we had not begun to keep time, then. It was at that time when I was leading a group of what we’d translate as Borer Workers on my explorations. Then—as we tunneled, we elected to go high, rather than low. That was the first instance when we breached topsoil. As it so happened, it was just past morning, I believe, and I looked up and saw the sun and sky over Rhir.”
Klbkch stared ahead, and the Workers in the room susurrated. The Antinium nodded to himself.
“A stunning sight. We had no concept of the surface—only the waters which we assumed filled most of the world. You see, we had found that if we moved too far in some directions, we ran into the sea. We did not know it was the sea—but it was informing our expansion. There was a lot of land if we expanded laterally—as you understand directions. And even more if you went down, but there was more water if you went too far down.”
He paused and muttered darkly.
“…There’s always more damn water. At any rate, we reached the surface, and I actually appeared when we met the first being upon Rhir. In hindsight—again—it was a half-Elf. I was more concerned for the Borer Workers and subdued what I now take to be an [Explorer] of some kind. But we were so close to their camp, I ended up engaging a small force of magic and blade-users. I imagine it shocked them as my form was not as…humanoid. But when I realized they were speaking language, I did not immediately kill them and retain their bodies for dissection.”
“This was before the Creler Wars? Where, exactly, did you tunnel up?”
Klbkch was getting clearly annoyed by Grimalkin.
“Somewhere on Rhir. Anywhere. It was near the coastline, I believe.”
“The Demon’s coastline?”
“No. Anywhere. As I just mentioned, we had tunnels expanding across the continent.”
“You had tunnels under the Blighted Kingdom?”
“We might still have them. But we collapsed our exterior tunnels once we began finding large cities above our heads and after…no. That is a sadder tale. Come to think of it, the library tunnels might have been on the eastern coast. I recall having to run for two days to get there at max speed without sleep. As I was saying—it was a group of half-Elves. Mostly. And two shorter folk. Once we established I was not going to kill them, one offered me the lingbegh of such value. Perhaps as a peaceful gift?”
“Dwarves?”
“No. They were different. I’ve never seen their kind since.”
Erin sat bolt upright.
“Did they have goggles? Were they—funny?”
“No. Well, moderately amusing. I recall they were a half-folk like half-Elves. Halflings? I am done taking questions, thank you. So, that was how I obtained the first lingbegh. I think another was found on a corpse, and so that was the item of little significance other than its ability to carry objects that I was using as I explored the fascinating crystal caverns. I see you waving your hand, Erin. I am ignoring it. The death-crystals seemed to be able to reanimate the Wailing Pit endlessly no matter how much I cut it up. Naturally, I noticed the connection and disabled the death-crystals instead, breaking them up into shards. I collected samples of the pit and crystal and continued downwards. Whereupon I saw the most fascinating prismatic shards, multi-colored. Of course, some colors were not visible in the stratums we see today. If I had to describe them…”
Klbkch never really got through his story, despite his best efforts. He kept having to go back, explain details he clearly thought were irrelevant—mostly to non-Antinium.
The Workers were hanging on his every word. And it was to them that Klbkch spoke—eventually concluding, annoyed, that he’d need to tell these stories in the privacy of the Hive. But he seemed pleased.
For the others, what was the point of his tales? From Chaldion—panting as he clutched at a stitch in his side—from Grimalkin to Pryde to Erin herself—perhaps it was the secrets, the value they placed in knowing worthless things like magical, burned libraries under the Blighted Kingdom.
But for the Workers and Soldiers? Maybe for them the worth was just…hearing a story. From Klbkch. Seeing who he had been, not just the cold Prognugator they had known.
Someday, they might remember him by these tales, not the deaths of Aberrations or the harshness. Maybe it added something to him. Perhaps…it also informed Klbkch. For he realized they didn’t know any of this.
They had never had sapgel. They didn’t know these things. Absently, he accepted a little bag from Mrsha the Occasionally Clever—and began handing out cookies to the Workers.
Feed a child a cookie. He put one into Rosencrantz’s hands and munched on one himself. Then, Klbkch realized something.
He had a legacy. He had stories. And—Relc said the other thing.
“Klb, buddy.”
“Yes, Relc?”
“You’re old.”
 
——
 
The present day.
 
Age really just was a number, you know. It was an attitude—and it was relative by species. ‘Old’ meant that Klbkch was old.
It meant the last Dragonlord of Flame was old.
It did not necessarily mean Silvenia, the Death of Magic, was old. For all her hair was silver—she had a spark of youth that refused to burn out. Easier to call Czautha old—and even the Djinni was different.
Old was a perspective. In that sense, the Demons lacked oldness. Oldness sometimes came with peace. It came with knowing your war was done—it came of seeing triumphs and regrets in equal measure, not a constant fight for survival.
Well, that could wear you down. But some creatures like Silvenia thrived in strife. So she was not old.
Neither was Rhisveri, incidentally. Compared to that arrogant Brass Dragon, he was youthful. Not young…no, no. Just—in his prime.
That was how he was going to think about it. The Wyrm paused his morning ablutions, his exercise routine twisting around his pillar-gymnasium, and combat training. He’d upped the intensity.
Obviously, he was in fine shape. He needed to improve. This was…a young man working hard. That was definitely it.
It was not analogous to someone in his middle age striving to keep his body in as much shape as he could. He didn’t recall a time when he could have slithered across half of Terandria without noticing it.
By early morning, Rhisveri was lying across his huge palace floor, head on his side. Someone was trying to be respectful—but eventually had to snap.
“Duke Rhisveri. Are you paying attention?”
“Absolutely. I’m fully here. I’m just—adjusting my posture.”
The Wyrm groaned. His scales ached. He’d pushed himself too far. He thought he might have pulled a back muscle, and he was all back muscle. He tried to adjust his head and gave up and conjured a sea of pillows so he could stare at Visophecin.
“Yes, I get it. Blighted Kingdom up to their tricks. So they’re going to Baleros. Let them. I thought we were ‘holding our borders’ while these pests advance into our lands.”
“So long as you are aware of the situation.”
The Lucifen were so damn touchy. Visophecin was unto a kind of spymaster, and his understanding of world events eclipsed even Rhisveri’s own. The Wyrm nodded. Then gave up.
He conjured his fake body, and Duke Rhisveri felt the weight of the tired Wyrm’s body vanish from him. He rolled his shoulders, then stepped away with Visophecin.
“I merely exerted myself unduly. I need to hone my reflexes. I will admit, the Dragonlord had some impressive tricks. But I, myself, just need to improve my technique. He was out of shape. Slow. I am in my prime.”
Visophecin eyed the Wyrm. Wasn’t he over eleven thousand years old?
For once, the pointed look was something Rhisveri chose to ignore rather than counter with any stare of his own.
“If you are so exhausted, Rhisveri, perhaps reconsider your…posturing.”
“Me? Posturing? Don’t be ridiculous. I’m just proving a point. You’re the one who’s taking Ry—that Thief’s suggestions so literally. Overhauling our judicial courts while Wellfar has fleets harassing ours at sea? While we have war on our border with Pheislant?”
