Now you knew the weight upon him, the legacy that remained in places like Erribathe, and his legacy—there were things so old that even Teriarch, Terrium Archelis Dorishe, called old. Things he had heard in legends—and now knew to set himself against.
Older than most magics. Capable of casting spells thought dead, in languages that truly were dead, keeper of relics that predated the Walled Cities.
Dragonlord of Flame. Feared by his name. Enemy to old powers, laden with a duty that had called him from beyond death.
—Forgive him as he slept. Curled upon his hoard, eyes tightly shut.
Sleeping. Sleeping, three months after he’d woken. And it had been about nineteen days of pure slumber. Or perhaps forty-nine.
He kept turning off the spell that was meant to wake him up. He couldn’t remember how many times he reset it.
How could you relate to a Dragon? Perhaps in this—he lay there, not quite asleep. Not quite awake. Waking up, hearing the persistent shrill of magic telling him to rise—and turning it off.
Again and again.
It was not restful oblivion. It was more a denial of waking. Because his conscious and unconscious minds both knew that he had a monumental task before him. He knew every passing second he wasted he would have to struggle more.
Yet he slept. He slept, putting off his efforts a moment longer. Because he was tired. Bone-weary, with something more than mere exhaustion. Though there was that too.
His wings still hurt. His body ached and though much of that was age, more came from his wounds of old. Not just recent events.
They weighed him down, and he would rather he slept. Because when he tried to rise, he felt a kind of mortal horror stealing over him. And it echoed days as he slept. Echoed and echoed—
What have I done?
 
——
 
Three months. Three months since Erin Solstice woke, and the Brass Dragon had no idea what had happened in the world. He knew what he had done.
Oh yes.
It haunted him, for all he had found the moment itself nostalgic. For all he had burned with passion as he dared the petty rulers of Terandria to think beyond their shores, to come to Izril, to rise—
He had conceived a horror after that. And it had driven him to this cave after he had done the rest of what he could in the world.
For Teriarch now dreamed of memories. He imagined—he saw—armies scorching their way across another nation’s lands. Slaughter—war—
He had sworn not to. Sworn to…
Who? To Sheta? No. Too far back. For the last Queen of Harpies, he had waged strife against his own kind.
To someone else. Many someone elses. He recalled…sitting in this very cave, perhaps. Telling someone he would not. He—
Didn’t remember. The memories had been taken from him. Severed by his own mistakes. It didn’t matter. The content was the same.
“I shall not begin it again. I shall not take a side and burn the other to ash. I shall not see their blood dripping from my wings and fangs.”
Not again. He had promised. And then broken that promise.
And done it once more. He had just invited a continent to battle for a new land. What had he done?
What he had to do. What he had to do, to arm them in levels. To reclaim older eras. He knew it, but there was such bile in his stomach at the thought he could have breathed that instead of fire.
Dreaming, the Dragon shuddered. And he backed away from waking up, as if he were holding himself asleep.
For he feared what he’d do when he rose.
They should have picked someone else.
The Dragon was not really asleep. He was in that stage where you drifted off…woke up…found yourself sitting and staring at a wall before falling back into your pillow. Or in his case, a shower of coins.
For a Brass Dragon, metals were just a kind of resting place. They could actually lounge on a sea of coins—other Dragons tried it and got them jammed in crevices and back-aches.
Get up. He knew he’d do it eventually. The Dragon snorted a bit of flame, and the gold melted. He’d…
“Rise. Rise and fulfill your duties as you swore! Rise and—”
—His voice jolted him awake. Teriarch turned off the alarm. Another day? He groaned. Then his head lolled b—
“Rise. Rise and f—”
They should have chosen someone else. They should have chosen his daughter. No. Not her. Not them. Not this burden, but not him either. Take Yderigrisel—no, not him. Take Muz—no. Take…
Take someone else. The First Dragonlord of Gems, Saracandre, had the wisdom to do this. The will and might, imperious as she had been when she lectured a little hatchling about manners. He’d just been climbing on a giant emerald. Anyone would do it.
“Tomorrow. Tomorrow. Make a note—tomorrow. Definitely tomorrow.”
But the Dragon drifted off—and when his two alarms blared, he turned both off and reset both. He did not want to do this. His wings hurt. His heart hurt. He could dimly feel that it was changing seasons. Fall was running out, and he wondered if it would snow. Then remembered why it should not and groaned under the weight of fear and trepidation.
He had to fight them! But choose which sides? Arm which forces? Do…too much. He knew he’d get up eventually. So couldn’t he rest another day? Another week? Another month? He knew he’d get up and…
He had done too much already.
 
——
 
Then.
 
That haughty Wyrm. Rhisveri Zessoprical. Teriarch flew from Ailendamus after a week of negotiations.
A week of camping out like a savage in a forest, wiping mud off his scales and trying to present himself in full dignity with the pettiest Wyrm in the entire world—and thus merely average when it came to his damn species.
The last Wyrm. Teriarch tried to remember that—but it was hard. The boy was haughty.
“Take the Dragonthrone.”
“No.”
The entire week-long argument could be best summarized in those two sentences. Oh, there was more nuance to it.
Delicately prying into the Lucifen and Agelum’s new, strange alliance. Finding out to his disbelief that the Infernal Court was no more—that a Goblin King had done what the Demons could not—treating with the other immortals, all of that had been fine.
He had persuaded almost all of them that the Dragonthrone would be a suitable gift—a peace-offering for Ailendamus’ ambitions. But Rhisveri, the Wyrm, refused to take it.
Most of Teriarch’s discussions had truly been assuring them he had not come to rule, nor join, nor threaten the immortal cabal of Ailendamus. Some had taken him at his word.
…Maybe one group had taken him at his word, and that was the Merfolk who remembered their own Dragonlord protector. Even the Agelum had been suspicious.
Fair. Fair. He, for himself, had been glad to meet them. Even Lady Paterghost.
 
——
 
“I fear you not, Dragonlord. For I am Lady Paterghost of Taimaguros undivided, inhabited by my sworn protector and companion, Nube!”
The Mimic hiding inside the suit of armor shook so hard Paterghost had to hold still as she tried to face and sneer Teriarch down. Which took some doing, because the Brass Dragon was a hill compared to her. And she had no face.
The enchanted suit of armor recoiled slightly as Teriarch lifted a wing, but he merely saluted her with it.
“The will of Taima and Guros unite behind you, Lady Paterghost. May I inquire as to your exact station?”
Then she hesitated.
“I—am a Lady by right of my extended service to the crown! For a thousand years, I have served the halls of the palace, and my own lineage can hardly be doubted, nor service to the crown.”
“Ah. Then you are royally appointed to the title?”
“N—not as such.”
Then he realized she might not be as noble as she claimed. Or that Taimaguros wouldn’t have been exactly keen to have an animated suit of armor clanking around greeting [Princesses] like some maternal protector.
But then—spontaneous life like hers was extraordinary. Anyone could make a suit of enchanted armor. Teriarch could probably animate some chainmail in a [Blacksmith]’s shop in a second.
—That wasn’t the same as a being with will. Drathians believed in the power of statues, items, to come to life with affection and time. But it was exceedingly rare for someone like Paterghost to exist.
She must have been in the presence of something highly, highly magical, and her armor might have belonged to someone beloved. That she was immortal was fairly unquestionable. If she maintained her armor, she’d live for as long as metallurgy endured.
Nube was the more interesting one. It must have been some greater form of Mimic, and Teriarch was reminded of the unpleasant thing that sometimes bothered him in his cave—but this one was more traditional, an inhabitant of items.
It was also, he suspected, more than half the reason why Paterghost was dangerous. She might be fairly adept by herself—with her unique frame and Nube’s power, they were probably skilled enough to down all but a Named-rank adventurer in this age with ease.
How to deal with someone like her? Ah, of course. Soothe the ego. The Dragon spoke quickly and eloquently, flicking his wings as if they were a-court and gossiping in parlance.
“Ah, then you must be claiming peerage under the aegis of the Rigor du Servis, an old form of establishment under the Hundred Family’s Havingtel reign. I recall that they merely required three hundred years of citizenship in a knightly capacity for de facto entry into the noble halls.”
Bastards. Three hundred years of combined military service as a [Knight]? A lot of deaths to be called the barest low-level nobility.
She was completely ineligible, but Paterghost instantly brightened up.
“Yes. Exactly. Did you say ‘Rigor du Servis’?”
“I believe the texts may be extant. I salute you, then, Lady Paterghost of Taimaguros. May we converse as equals?”
She puffed up so much he feared her chestplate would explode. But then, Teriarch had always been good at statecraft and the art of diplo ento umbris.
Bullshit diplomacy. All you had to do was know enough old customs, and one inevitably fit a situation.
 
——
 
That had been pleasant. Meeting young immortals? Almost painful. The fierce little Royal Griffon, an actual Titan and hearing how he had been found—pinned by a boulder his mother had placed on him, probably to save him until he was large enough to survive—
The things they had done and lived through to get here in this era. And Rhisveri sheltered them.
It was hard to reconcile with that strutting Sariant Lamb peacock of a Wyrm, all arrogance and hints that Ailendamus could wipe out any forces Teriarch could bring to bear. Perhaps he was better than Teriarch thought—
“Rather paunchier than your illustrations, I must say. I took a look at Sophridel’s references, and my oh my, you must have spent a fortune on bribing [Artists] of your time.”
—Nevermind. Teriarch had resisted the urge to flame the insolent Greater Wyrm multiple times in their discussions.
They weren’t even good insults. But then—the Wyrm was furious. A Scroll of Resurrection that Teriarch would have fought for had been plundered.
An actual relic. An actual legendary object. How did one survive this long? Why did no one—well, if Wyrms had it, it made sense.
He had every right to be wrathful, especially since that young woman—Ryoka Someone—had killed the last Dryad.
The last Dryad. Oh! Teriarch wept silently. But he had more to do, and if he could not make allies with Ailendamus, stemming the hatred of Rhisveri somewhat would do.
 
——
 
Thereafter, he had flown to Calanfer and skulked around, collecting news, setting up his grand entrance. It had even been fun—if exasperating—
—Until it was done. Until he was perched outside of the palace, listening in and hearing all the excited talk and he realized he might have begun a war.
Then he heard his name being whispered to the leaders of other nations, and he felt a wave of—of—
Panic run through him. He could not deny it. They knew he lived.
They would come for him. Again and again, until he faked his death and hid. [Heroes] and adventurers and people begging his help. Young women. Girls and—
He did not want this. He did not, but he had to impel them to move. So he had done what he could, moved all the levers. But the truth was that even now, he was ashamed to admit it after his speech to them.
“The Dragonward Bells shall ring. One last time.”
A grand boast but he—
He did not want to die.
He had already died once! Why did he fear it? The Dragon was weary of his fear, weary of it all—so after a few more efforts, he had flown back to Izril.
Okay, he’d teleported. And been so weary from his fighting with Rhisveri, all the magic and travel he’d been up to—he’d spent weeks in the sun and under the stars. He’d been so exhausted he dragged himself into his cave and slept a good damn month.
Then…stayed abed for the next two. In grief. In guilt. In denial of his duties.
Blame him not.
Please.
He wept, even dreaming—tears at the corner of those unique eyes. For what he had done.
For what he was too weak to do.
 
——
 
Two and a half months ago.
 
Archmage Eldavin had great plans for the future. Great plans.
—He was upset about the Earthers being stolen, though. Even with all he knew, even with Wistram’s might, there were things that could not be easily replaced.
Earth’s knowledge was one such thing. He had confronted one of the architects of this disaster. But Aaron Vanwell hadn’t even flinched much before Eldavin’s wrath.
He had been smiling that evening.
Smiling and as light as a feather, as if a great weight had been lifted off his shoulders. The young [Mage] had raised his hands as Eldavin interrogated him.
“Archmage Eldavin—everyone in Wistram said we weren’t prisoners. Only that you were keeping Elena and everyone ‘for our own safety’. That’s what the Drakes and the Drowned Folk said. And they insisted. It’s not our fault. We can’t fight Gazi, right?”
Sourly, the Archmage had conceded it was hard to see a moment where refusing Archmage Amerys or the other high-level [Mages] would have been easy. However—
Recovering them would not be an easy task. Even if he wanted to. Doroumata was one thing. He’d hinted to her she should grab some of the incoming Earthers off the ships.
Instead, she’d grabbed all the Earthers she could and helped Trey Atwood escape. That…that young man had hurt most of all.
“The King of Destruction over me. What does he have? Troy—no, Trey’s sister? Then Reim first—Az’kerash—the damned new lands, and—”
He had a headache. A mortal frailty, which he disliked along with his aching shoulders. A backrub from one of his companions had sorted that out—but he was still growing used to…
To not being a Dragon. It felt odd, because Eldavin had never felt like one—but now he knew he was not.
