That was all he said to Teacher Minni, afterwards. She looked at him, but the Duke was back to full arrogance, preening and condescending to the children. As if ‘Rhissy’ and Rhisveri were different people entirely. As if one were but a puppet, mortal and silly, who had been taught by a Dryad and befriended a half-Elf. And the other—
The other was a Wyrm, who stood above them all, expecting naught but praise and applause. And the applause did actually continue for a while. The Duke stood imperiously proud…until he bent down and a shy little boy of three asked to see his ‘favorite’ doll, Fithee. Then, the Duke looked around—and produced one and handed it to the delighted boy.
“Keep it. And remember—she’s a superior being. A Dryad, understand? I can always make more. You want one? And you? Fine—give me fifteen seconds. Who wants…”
And he produced little versions of cloth characters, not the sock puppets, for as many who wanted them. The Duke tried to hide behind the curtain and looked around to see if anyone had noticed—but of course, that was why they applauded.
It was, needless to say, a broadcast that topped all of Wistram’s metrics. It had everything from embarrassment to a rallying success to sadness to hilarity and something new.
As Fetohep would say—
“The pretentious pomposity of the Duke is, perhaps, rightly said to be without equal in Ailendamus. Few men could sink so low, but underneath a mountain, nay, a cordillera of artifice and incompetence lies something genuine enough to amuse and capture even an infant’s attention. From infant to adult, there lies a deeper reservoir of something that might be mistaken for wisdom in time. 3/10. A blasphemously bad opening saved by an intriguing performance. Without the former, it could have risen to greater heights. 5/10. Or perhaps the former informed the latter’s success. 6/10.”
 
——
 
They had more to give than swords and sorcery, you know. And he did know it. Sometimes, the Dragon just forgot.
But perhaps other people were learning to be—if not old—then different than young. Tell them stories.
Show them a path forwards they had not yet seen. But you could not do that in a cave or while sleeping.
They were finding their path, but the Dragon…the Dragon lay there, indulging in self-pity. Which you had to admit, he was good at. Sometimes, you needed help or a reminder. Sometimes—
Klbkch stared into the distance from the top of The Wandering Inn. He stood on Bird’s tower as the Worker shook his fist and told him to get off. Klbkch ignored him.
Rhisveri, Visophecin, and Ailendamus quieted a moment as even the Wyrm’s ego shrank enough for cogent thought.
And onwards the Haven came, bearing aspects of the north with it. Mihaela Godfrey only felt old when people and things reminded her of it. Like mirrors, which were entirely inaccurate to her truth.
Old was just a word. And there was always someone, something to wake them up. Even in their worst moments.
For the Dragon—well, for a Dragon—it was coming.
Three months had passed since the [Innkeeper] came back. Two full months of slumber.
 
——
 
Now.
 
Rafaema of Manus had left her City of War nearly a month already. She was sick of her massive escort and their pace, but she could see Pallass rising in the distance. And then it was only a hop and skip and kicking all her minders into a ditch. She hoped—
He’d still be there. He had told her he’d find Rafaema, but she had realized he hadn’t said when, and she’d waited two months. So she was going to find him, damnit.
“You’re not coming.”
“Luciva will kill me and Ferris and Aldonss if we don’t go with you, Rafaema.”
Spearmaster Lulv was immune to the Lightning Dragon’s glares.
“You are the worst pick to come with me.”
“You need me. Liscor has a Gnollish population.”
“You just want your spear back. Do you think Liscor will like you? You? Of all the—if Makhir wasn’t busy—send anyone but you! If you mess this up for me—”
The Dragon clenched her fist. Ferris, Lulv, and Aldonss all exchanged glances as the elite [Soldiers] pretended they could hear nothing.
What, exactly, Rafaema was going to meet—who—er—what—
They didn’t know. She had refused to say, and Luciva herself was…silent. She wanted them to report back. Everything. They definitely didn’t know they were going to see anyone—anything that might change the fates of their city.
Definitely. And they could be unobtrusive, start no issues, and quietly go about their business. Manus. Subterfuge. Tact. These words were sometimes conflated. Often with laughter.
If it had to be done, it would be. Rafaema didn’t care. But she was nearly there—and her wings opened wide, and she had a thousand questions. A thousand expectations.
Those could be harsher than anything else.
 
——
 
Now.
 
Someone else was also coming, but from the opposite direction. She had no escort—at least not upon the breeze. She clung to her glider and steadfastly did not look down.
Ryoka Griffin was flying south as people looked up and waved to her. Her face was still burning red after that damn broadcast.
She knew people wanted to talk to her about it, especially—she reluctantly looked down and groaned.
—The man riding after her with a carriage and an entire convoy behind him. She made a gesture.
“Shoo. Shoo!”
This was going to be a disaster. Especially if she went to the place with the old guy—and Tyrion followed her. Absolutely not. She’d figure something out.
She was smart.
She was reasonably smart.
She could think.
Ryoka Griffin groaned, and in truth, she had no idea if she had the right to visit the only place she could call a kind of home. To visit—people she owed so much to. A girl she should not keep running from.
Here she was, taking Liscor’s most-hated man to Liscor. Ryoka could not imagine someone worse to bring.
She wouldn’t have done it, honestly. She would have left the…left the Dragon who didn’t remember her alone. Really, honestly. Even if it had been two months and she feared he might not have remembered her.
Or gone to sleep. But they could not wait. So Ryoka flew onwards, because she missed her friends. She missed that inn. And she had something else.
It had appeared, as such things did, on her pillow, which was not scary at all. But Ryoka supposed, just once, she could overlook it. At least, here, she felt for the sender of the delicate letter written in pink letters.
 
Dear Ryoka Griffin,
I need a favor…
 
——
 
Now.
 
The letter still galled her to send. It was painful—not because you shouldn’t ask for help or be humble.
It was just that Ryoka Griffin was not the person to ask for anything. Not for this.
Magnolia Reinhart had been first, and it was a petty thing to quibble over. But she had. She truly had.
She’d spent thirty years. More than thirty years prying a silly old man out of his shell. Only for someone to swoop in and do much the same thing. And bring him back from the dead.
Sometimes, you could be the removed [Lady] who stood outside of the great hall. No one needed to be covered in glory. It was a sticky thing, and it didn’t ever last. Also, it attracted flies.
—But this?
Magnolia Reinhart was grumpy when she woke. She was so grumpy that even Ressa didn’t needle her and just handed over a doughnut. And coffee. With sugar and cream.
“There is something so entirely unpleasant about sleeping in a moving carriage. Tell me there are some [Bandits].”
“We cannot run over them, Lady Reinhart.”
Ressa glanced out the window meaningfully—the modest, unpink coach was still enchanted…but barely. And sleeping in it for nigh on a week? When she could have done the same trip in two days with long rests at an inn, max?
Magnolia Reinhart’s one advantage was that no one, ever, in the history of time would think she was in anything but her pink carriage. Which was currently destroyed.
Both of them. Her backup had been lost. The first, to [Assassins]. The second, to Belavierr. Magnolia Reinhart took the breakfast and muttered darkly.
“Damn running them over. I’ll grab a crossbow and a wand and see to it myself.”
Her uncharacteristic bad mood was not going to get worse. She was going to come to Liscor…tactfully. Stop by The Wandering Inn, perhaps, and make some amends with Erin Solstice. Or talk to Larra and see what was possessing her.
Bother Valeterisa—Magnolia Reinhart knew she was disliked, and so she would be as graceful as could be. She only hoped she could make a good impression as such a figure of enmity. But she had to go, and if she met Ryoka Griffin—
Well. She was certain even Tyrion wouldn’t stray close to Liscor, which was one problem accounted for. Magnolia Reinhart yawned.
“I forgot the High Passes had so many monsters. Are you sure you need…all this, Ressa?”
She glanced sideways pointedly. One of the reasons why Magnolia could not lie down to sleep in the carriage—which was still fairly generous—was because of Ressa’s packed items.
Too many to fit above the coach or in the trunk. They had, of course, food, supplies, potions, gold on hand, all the mundane necessities. Things you used to free a coach. Rope, crowbar, spare axels, auto-loading House of El crossbows, Storm Titan bolts, Drathian summoning crystals…
Ressa and the [Maid] sitting with a giant shield and morning star stared at Magnolia. The [Head Maid] glanced left at a [Duelist Maid] with a silver bell attached to her flamberge.
“Fairly certain, yes, milady.”
“Oh. Well…hand me that crossbow, would you? I hear Liscor has a Garbichug problem. I used to have decent aim, you know.”
She stared out the window as she waited for a crossbow to be fished out. Her banter was light…but she was waiting. Just waiting. She truly did have to come here.
Or what was all of what she’d been doing—for? Magnolia stared out the window. The High Passes. If she had to empty out every monster in them, Void Eater Goats or Bossels or whatever Ressa was nervous of, she would.
That old man had better not forget her. Or—Magnolia Reinhart looked at the mundane crossbow bolt Ressa was offering her. She thought she spotted a Garbichug already. Disgusting creatures. They came from Rhir. So Magnolia plucked a Fireball Bolt out and put it in the crossbow as everyone leaned back. Magnolia delicately rolled down the window and took aim.
If he forgot her, she would remind him.
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart, Ryoka Griffin, and Rafaema of Manus. They had business with the slumbering old man. Each one different.
And so they came again and again—just as the first time he had ever met a little Harpy perched on a branch, singing in the rain.
Just like all the others, from his daughter to the ones who had come seeking his aid, seeking revenge. Seeking—
Something else. Perhaps that was why he slept, that lazy Dragon.
He was waiting—no, hoping someone came to wake him up.
