“Not of this. Nor for you to make war on Ailendamus so and give children weapons of war. Other me—Eldavin. What power did you invoke to save yourself just now?”
Teriarch’s eyes were focused on him like beams of power—but trepidation lurked there too. So he didn’t know?
“Shall we speak of it? If you swear, I shall tell you what I can. We are not enemies.”
“—By whom shall I swear?”
The first name that came to mind was one he thought of too much. Eldavin whispered.
“Sheta’s honor. No—swear by Nirayicel.”
Teriarch flinched at that. How had he come back to life? Eldavin swore he had felt himself die. No—Ryoka must have done something. But had he…?
Eldavin was shaking. He longed to reach out and talk—frankly—but he was guarded. Until Teriarch dipped his head.
“By Nirayicel and Sheta’s honor, then. I swear.”
Those were the only two that Eldavin knew—but he knew how much they mattered. So Eldavin slowly descended, and the Dragon rose.
They hovered in the air and spoke briefly. One would speak as the other wasn’t even done finishing their sentence—for they were close enough to know what they would say when hearing most of it. Eldavin began.
“If you had but reached out to—”
“Let you inform others?”
“I have not—”
“Then my wrath will be necess—”
“We are not enemies, fool! Did it ever occur to you that we might ally against common enemies?”
The Dragon recoiled. He looked at Eldavin, and he was so haughty when he replied that Eldavin understood, in a flash, every complaint Magnolia, Ressa, Ryoka, and all his acquaintances had ever leveled at him.
“I do not make it a habit to consult with magical accidents before I correct them.”
Eldavin was left speechless. I should really be humbler. He drew himself up and looked his counterpart in the eyes. Slowly, the half-Elf touched his chest.
“I am myself. Teriarch, I am Eldavin the mortal. I have my own dignity and desires, and yes—it was done by accident. Or rather, sabotage. An enemy we did not know of struck at me. But I am now here, and I am worthy of dignity. Or would you spit upon the first Golem to cry out for mercy, the first Stitch-folk to smile?”
That wounded the Dragon, and neither had to dredge up arguments—they had lived through those times. Teriarch growled.
“We are not the same. You are not the same. Simulacra have existed before—say I could have let you live. Your actions are indicative—”
“Forging Wistram anew?”
“Sleeping with half of Wistram, more like. Those are mere children compared to your perceived age. Have you no shame?”
The Dragon snorted smoke, and Eldavin colored.
“I am young to love and had no perception. That is an unworthy comment.”
Teriarch lifted an eyebrow of flowing copper.
“It strikes home nonetheless. So you claim this ‘Terras’ faction is also innocent of ambition? Tell me, when will you usurp the other Archmages’ power?”
“So you don’t deny it would be something you’d do!”
Eldavin blustered. The Dragon replied steadily.
“If I were to paint a nightmare of how I would do my worst—yes. You are compromised. Admit it.”
“I can learn and change. You are the one rendered impotent by your fears. Incomplete. Do you remember Magnolia? Ryoka? Say you do. Say you haven’t forgotten what that young woman did for us—what they have all done. How can you hide now?”
The Dragon retreated a few steps, on his platform of light, and then held firm. His wings hunched, but when his head rose, his eyes burned.
“I am here now. Am I not?”
That was true, and the two stopped. Panting, Eldavin felt the last of his prepared spells fill his mind. But he was determined it not come to blows.
“Just—just come inside. I shall swear upon the same honor of those we knew. Let us speak. We can prepare. For Seamwalkers, for what is coming.”
The Dragon gave him an uncertain look, and Eldavin tried to guess what paranoia, what traps he might be expecting.
“—Or name your place! Safe ground. Valeterisa’s mansion, a café anywhere in the world. Name it, and let us not do what baser instincts would have us start with. We can be the only allies the other trusts.”
Teriarch closed his eyes, and that was a sign of trust—or at least hesitation—that Eldavin clung to. He waited, and the Dragon whispered.
“A single question before I agree. Which one did you pray to?”
Eldavin blinked. So he did know. It made it easier. He nodded.
“Kasigna—”
He saw Teriarch’s head snap back, and the Dragon reeled. His eyes rolled up in his head. Eldavin reached out.
“No, the name shouldn’t—”
He stepped forwards, then stumbled. Stepped back—and looked down at the glowing sword of the Empire of Drath.
Edge of Heart’s Fire. The blade was embedded in his stomach where the Dragon had planted it, concealed in his claw. He ripped it up as Eldavin fell back.
Yet the Archmage didn’t die. His pentagram activated, flashing around the Brass Dragon. Five elements—
Teriarch burst through it as Eldavin rose from the sea. His body was knitting—but even as he hurled spells up and the Dragonfire lanced down, he shouted.
“You dare? YOU DARE? You swore upon her honor! Your daughter’s—”
“That name must die. And you with it. We are enemies, Eldavin. Burn.”
Then the Dragon flew up. Up and up—and the flames that seared the sea itself until all of Wistram awoke to the roar of the seas—a world of steam—
That was his wrath.
—But the Archmage of Memories emerged to claim it was a spell gone wrong. He emerged, and the Dragon fled the mortals. Fled Eldavin’s threat to reveal him and set the world on edge if he returned.
Dragonfire had met faith. For the first time in such an age that even Teriarch had forgotten there were things to humble even his kind.
 
——
 
That was then. He had tried. He truly had. Had he hesitated?
The Brass Dragon slept. And he feared weakening, for he knew among his foes—some of whom eclipsed him for age, made his might look paltry—
He was also fighting himself.
Teriarch feared Eldavin like no other. For—the half-Elf had sworn to him, in the breaths between the fighting attracted Wistram’s attention and Teriarch had to flee—
“Stay away from me, Teriarch. Or I will do everything to hurt you in my power.”
It was a terrible thing to face someone who truly knew all your weaknesses. Even if you could hold few swords to the necks of children and those Teriarch had loved—for so many were gone—
There were ways. How far might his other self stoop in service to her? The Three-in-one! Of all of them to worship…
Teriarch made a sound like a whimper as he dozed. For, of all of them—it would have been her he would have followed, too.
Now you understood the Dragon. In part. For no being save his kind—and even most of his kind, even Wyrms—could not understand his burdens. No one could be as the Dragonlord of Flame; even in misery, even in his utmost wretchedness, he was incomparable to any other.
This was the truth. But if there was one thing that Terrium Archelis Dorishe had truly forgotten, it was this:
In this grand world where his tale had been written upon ancient stone and his name yet echoed amongst the living and the dead, even for the being who had once been the contemptuous, wise, noble, and even silly Dragonlord of Flame—
Sometimes, it wasn’t all about Dragons.
 
——
 
Two weeks ago.
 
“I’m old, now. I’m old. I guess this is it. This is my time. When I go—I want you to remember me as I was. Okay? Not like this.”
A weak claw grasped at the arm as a voice rasped. The faded look of the man he had been was but nostalgia in the man’s eyes.
“Weak. Gone to seed. Listen, kid—I think it’s time you have my spear.”
“Shut up, Dad. You’re injured, not old.”
“No, I’m old.”
The Drake determinedly stared up at the ceiling as he lay there on his back. He didn’t even notice the second visitor to his room in The Wandering Inn at first. He sighed, long and loud, and the bandages on his mostly-healed neck showed the closed wound that would have killed someone else.
Deniusth hadn’t needed to lend Relc his scarf, but even with potions and a [Healer], he’d been told to take it easy. Still, the Drake had been able to move about yesterday.
What was wrong with him now? Klbkch, who some called Klbkch the Slayer, one of the first Centenium ever to be created, eighth of his nature, who remembered the First Queen and predated the Creler Wars—leaned against the doorway, arms folded, as Relc weakly groaned.
“I’m old. Klbkch. It’s time for me to retire.”
Wing Commander Embria was so exasperated she barely glared at Klbkch—which showed how much on the same page daughter and partner were. Klbkch addressed Relc bluntly.
“You are not old, Relc.”
“I’m dying.”
“What happened to him? He was mobile yesterday, despite the [Healer]’s orders.”
The last thing that Klbkch had seen of Relc was the Drake bothering everyone in the Watch House. Embria sighed. Loudly.
“He went to the Adventurer’s Haven.”
“…And this convinced him of his age?”
“No.”
“We don’t need to bring it up!”
Relc spoke loudly at the ceiling. Embria went on, ignoring him.
“Apparently, he had found interesting company, and he was having a grand night in some room they had. Dancing, drinks, food—and then he slipped, bent his tail, and couldn’t get up. And his partner abandoned him.”
“I’ve grown weak! Klbkch—it’s like that monster, Facestealer. If I was young, I’d be dodging him with my eyes closed. This is it. I can feel the Ancestors calling me. Or something. Do they do that?”
Relc cracked open an eye and stared at Klbkch. The Antinium gave him a long look, as he sometimes did when he was on-duty with his partner.
“How would I know?”
The Drake decided to keep staring at the ceiling.
“I hear them calling me. I’m old, Klbkch.”
“No, you are not.”
“Yes, I am.”
“No, you are not.”
“Yes, I am—”
“You’re not old.”
Klbkch snapped, and Embria closed her mouth. Relc’s head rose, and he stared at Klbkch. The Antinium caught himself—and snapped his mandibles together sharply.
“Jeeze, Klbkch. Stop being such an old man.”
Senior Guardsman Klbkch looked at Relc. He resisted the urge to dump Relc out the window.
 
——
 
“Aw, come on, Klb, buddy. Embria, say something that’ll make me look better.”
“Me?”
A few minutes later, Klbkch was still mad. He sat on one side of Relc’s bed; Embria had a chair. Despite his faulty claims he was old, Relc did seem to need more sleep and rest. Especially if dancing could actually make him too weak to rise for a bit.
He had come back. Menolit had not. That said it all, really. Relc’s distant stare of deep regret was only diminished by the awareness that Embria was right there and deeply unimpressed by everything.
Normally, Klbkch would have some sympathy for Relc’s woes. But not in this instance.
“You are not old.”
“Fine, fine. I’m not old. Sheesh.”
“And I’m not old either.”
“Absolutely.”
“Age is an arbitrary number that applies to different species differently. My capabilities have not been reduced. If anything, I have reclaimed my former functions, and the Queens should be aware of this.”
Relc and Embria exchanged a quick glance. Relc coughed and reached for a cup of water.
“You, uh—you not enjoying your work as a [Guardsman], buddy?”
“I am. It is immensely relaxing. I am just—undervalued.”
“Me too. Me too. Undervalued by the Queens—that’s our Klb. You’ve got a new body, a new Skill—heck, you can outpunch me. You’re not old. I’m not old. We’re young!”
“Absolutely.”
Klbkch sat there, arms folded, and Relc coughed. He looked at Embria for support, but she was a member of Liscor’s army. Klbkch was the enemy. She was just sitting here.
“So, uh—what’s gotten you upset, Klbkch?”
“That blue-shelled clam with half an antennae.”
Relc hesitated.
“Xrn?”
Klbkch nodded. Now, Embria was drinking long from Relc’s morning cup of orange juice in fascination. Both Drakes began picking at the breakfast-in-bed that one of the Goblins had brought to Relc. A service the Drake greatly appreciated, no matter who gave it.
The inn was doing inn things below, but Klbkch began speaking as Mrsha tumbled past the door with her show-and-tell items.
“Xrn intimated to my face that I was still at risk of being a casualty with any delicate task. That I could not fulfill a role close to hers or Wrymvr’s despite her injuries. Which, I note, are quite debilitating.”
“Uh—nasty wound that. Head wound. Same as me. I really feel for her—”
“She is the crippled one. Practically incapable of controlling her magic. Erratic. I am not.”
“Yeah, but she’s wounded. A bit of solidarity?”
“I taught her how to use a sword. Even if I erred in Antinium familial protocol—”
Now Embria blinked, and Klbkch hesitated—
“That I do not have superiority over her as an ‘older brother’ unit. That I may be behind her in pure combat potential does not warrant laughter. Much less for thirty minutes.”
“She laughed for thirty minutes?”
“Intermittently.”
The fuming Revalantor of the Free Antinium was in rare form. As in, Relc had never seen this of Klbkch. The Drake only noticed now that Klbkch had a bit of a pong about him—but not sweat.
More like burnt ozone or the more ethereal scent of raw mana. And—Relc noticed one of Klbkch’s scabbards had melted at the tip, showing the silvery blade. Klbkch glared ahead.
“Then we fought.”
“You did what now?”
“I merely attempted to prove my point. And I was hampered by the tunnels. I was also careful of her wounds. We also trespassed into an area with Soldiers and Workers, and I was mindful of them as well. One loss given the conditions proves nothing.”
Mrsha poked her head back into the room. Lyonette was about to grab her until she heard that last bit. Relc and Embria sat there.
“So you lost. Buddy, it happens. Someday, Embria’ll kick my tail. Not yet, of course, and I’ve never had siblings, but everyone loses a round.”
“I could return to my old role in a heartbeat. She had the gall to call my organization of the Free Hive ‘outmoded’. I thought of the Free Hive from its inception. With the Free Queen. She claims I cannot ‘keep up with the new Antinium’. That I am hidebound. I do not even have hide. Factually. Incorrect.”
“Dead gods. I’ve never seen someone take Klbkch down like this.”
Relc whispered to Embria as she chewed on some bacon. She was fascinated. Klbkch sat there, staring at the ground.
“…Relc. Do you think Antinium can retire?”
His partner’s jaw dropped, and then it was a reversal. Relc sat up and patted Klbkch on the shoulder.
“Klb, buddy, you’re the most dangerous [Guard] in Liscor.”
“No. I am the fourth best.”
