“Perhaps not. What next?”
The servants looked down at their list. They looked up and gave him waxy smiles.
“It, ah—just says ‘applause break’ and concluding speech, Your Grace.”
It was then that the Wyrm began hyperventilating. He sat behind the curtain, hearing the precious seconds winding down as Minni asked everyone to be good and to listen to the nice Duke and got a chorus of ‘yes’ from the kids.
What a hero. What an unsung champion. She had to go out there with that horde of rabid vermin each and every day and hold their scattered attention?
Rhisveri could run. He could run—and he’d be laughed at forever. His reputation? Visophecin was out there. He was chuckling, that horned devil. That demon!
“W-w-what should I do?”
Was his voice trembling? The servants looked at each other, and one whispered.
“If a child were to run into the cameras, Your Grace?”
The Wyrm stared at the servant. That was so obvious. Fetohep would call it out in an instant, and Rhisveri would be the Duke who had to fake the cameras going down to save face.
Wait. Dead gods. Teriarch was going to see this. The Dragonlord, the immortals—they’d seen all of this.
Rhisveri had been hot, despite his cold-blooded nature. Now, he went ice-cold. He was spinning. He was stumbling around behind the curtains, and the servants were telling him to breathe, to calm down, to go out there and just begin the history lesson and—
And then Duke Rhisveri, overwhelmed, went quite mad. So entirely mad. And he did the only thing he could think of doing.
 
——
 
“Perhaps we should bail him out now?”
The Lucifen were having the most fun they’d had all year. But they were aware of how petty Rhisveri could be, so they’d come with a backup plan.
Azemith glanced into the hallway where their ace in the deck was waiting. Uzine was ready to take over for Rhisveri and help the Wyrm save face. There was—probably—no way that even Rhisveri could mess with the Agelum’s way with kids.
Visophecin was nodding reluctantly when the curtains swung back. He looked up, expecting to see Rhisveri at his lowest…and prepared to save that image for his darkest hours when he lay dying, just so he could laugh.
But he stopped. The Lucifen’s eyes opened wide—and the other Lucifen turned—and stared. Azemith and her partner, Igolze, stared, and Paxere whispered.
“Oh no. We’ve gone too far. He’s lost it.”
The guests, the audience, even the commentators on the broadcast—all stopped. It took them a moment to understand what they were seeing.
Rhisveri had set something up in the brief minutes he had. It was…well, it was about stomach-height. Low enough that the children could see the edge, if not over it from where they sat.
It was just some bits of wood forming a rough window into which an empty square of space sat.
And…very conspicuously—Rhisveri, ducking down behind it. He was a tiny bit too large for his contraption, so you could see him peeking out from the sides and over the top if you were tall enough.
“What the flying f—”
Paxere’s whisper was silenced by her parents. But Visophecin had felt a sudden pit open in his stomach. Wait a second. This looked familiar. Was this…?
The children were staring at the box, and some were wondering where Rhisveri had gone and how much longer this would take when the first unholy being rose from behind the wooden square.
It…opened its ‘mouth’ and began to speak in an exaggerated way. It was a light blue color, and it had two tiny stubs for arms. It was somewhat crudely made, or at least, you felt—you could see the stitching on parts of it.
Oh, and it made the entire room stare. Children included. What came out of the little being’s mouth was a bright, chirrupy voice, slightly off—as if it weren’t coming from the being itself.
It was—in fact—
A sock puppet. And only Visophecin and one other had ever seen its like before.
“Hey, little boys and girls! I hear you’re bored of boring old Duke Rhisveri! Well, I’m the Mini-Duke! Rhissy! And I’m going to entertain you because he’s not here!”
Statues. Waxworks. People engraved in time in complete frozen silence. The children looked at each other as the little puppet cast about.
“Oh wait, darn! I forgot my clothes! One sec!”
He ducked down—and then came up with a bright red coat that he was shrugging on. ‘Rhissy’ wiped at his brow.
“Whew! Alright. Don’t tell anyone I was naked. Wait. My pants!”
He ducked down again, and then someone made a sound. Oesca. It sounded like—a snort. The kind of humor you got at a gallows, perhaps. Or the ludicrousness had just overwhelmed all other emotions. But the children—especially the three-year olds and youngest ones—were showing the first signs of attention they had so far.
Especially when the second puppet slowly rose up over the edge. This one was better-made, and she—she was definitely she—had darker skin, black hair, and looked very familiar to some.
“Psst. Rhisveri’s silly. And he smells.”
“Hey! You! You’re not supposed to come back till later! Get out of here!”
Rhissy rose with ‘pants’ visible on his underside and a club with nails. He began whacking the other puppet, and Puppet-Ryoka fled. Now, the children were looking at each other but pointing to the play.
“What is going on? Is he mad, Visophecin?”
“I dearly hope so.”
The Lucifen pointed—then ducked as the bat went spinning past his head. It bounced off Igolze’s head, and the Lucifen staggered.
What the giggling children didn’t realize was how damn hard the puppet had thrown an actual piece of wood. But the puppet just pointed one stubby arm.
“Hey, you! Shush! I’m talking here! Alright, kids. Do you like…stories? Can I hear a ‘yes’? Come on now, don’t you know words?”
“Yes!”
A few children picked it up, and now almost all of them were focused on Rhissy. The puppet beamed.
“Great! Then let’s have a little story. A fun story—and a true story, not like all those boring ones. How many of you have heard of ‘the Lightning Thief’?”
He counted hands.
“Oh, not bad! Well, I have a story that happened in Ailendamus. It’s called ‘the Barefoot Thief’. And it’s about a Thief who broke into Ailendamus and stole something. So listen up! It’s about the most amazing Thief in the world. Who managed to not only ruin poor Rhisveri’s life, but makes everyone else miserable! Just by existing! If you want, throw things at her whenever she appears. Alright…here we go!”
He ducked down, and the same puppet from before rose. The children sitting there blinked as little cotton tomatoes and stones appeared in their laps. They stared at the female puppet as it rose.
“Hey, everyone! I’m Ryoka Gr—I mean, Ryoko Griffin! And I’m the best person ever! I’m a famous Courier because I can run barefoot. And I can even fly with the wind! My personal wind! See!”
Then—with an amazing farting sound—the puppet flew up a bit and zoomed around, and the audience saw there was no hand attached. There was even a smell effect and visible green gas. Someone gagged, but the children began laughing.
“And I help people! Like this! See! I have your delivery, sir!”
She landed, and a farmer tipped his cap to her as another puppet rose.
“Why thank you, Miss—”
“You’re welcome! Another good deed done!”
‘Ryoko’ swung around and slapped the [Farmer] in the face with her hair.
“My eyes!”
He went ‘stumbling’ around, then slammed into a rake, which smacked him in the head. Ryoko turned.
“What happened? Oh no! Let me help you up! Whoops! I dropped your rake!”
She then tossed it into his face. The screaming [Farmer] writhed around as Ryoko wiped at her brow.
“Whew. Another good deed done. Hey! You know what I love? Stealing from people. This is my rake now. I found it. Hey look! I’ve got a rake!”
She picked up the object and waved it overhead happily as the farmer lay there, crawling after her. And by that point—the first tomato flew at Ryoko. But the children were laughing. And when Rhisveri appeared, stroking his little beard and talking about how happy he was, they were already trying to warn him about the evil Thief coming his way.
It was a silly play. It had fart jokes and slapstick…and you could throw things at Ryoko whenever she appeared. But what kept Visophecin staring, and the immortals—and perhaps even the adults too was because this was a Wyrm’s tale.
A true tale. Perhaps the only one Rhisveri had ever thought to tell. In his desperation, he fell back to it, with some alterations.
But the core was the same. The children giggled and cried out and booed the Thief as she ruined people’s lives in comedic ways, and the Rhisveri-puppet tried to clean up after her and reason with her. That was just artistic license.
—Yet the friendly Dryad and the Great General Dioname were not. Of course, it was just a fantastical element to make the children ooh and admire them. Watching Dioname’s puppet beat down both Eldavin, Tyrion Veltras, and ‘Ser Solstice’ made them laugh. And they cried out when Ryoko lit ‘Fithee’ and her forest on fire.
“Fithee? Fithee? Where are you? Are you alright? Please be alright.”
—But there was silence when the little figure went rooting through the ashes, crying out that name. Such a silence among the Lucifen you could have heard them blinking. They didn’t take a breath.
A little puppet called out, alone, with such emotion that Visophecin realized Rhisveri was mad. Mad—and so raw he had the children crying. Until the Dryad rose.
“You cannot defeat the forest. [Regrowth]. Don’t be sad, Rhissy.”
“Fithee!”
And the forests rose and sent the Windy Thief flying. And Fithee appeared, and the two puppets hugged. Then they went to rescue Great General Dioname, who was fighting off half of Izril by herself.
It was a children’s story, and at the end, when Rhissy, Fithee, and Dioname celebrated and locked the Windy Thief up, the children cheered and clapped. And the Lucifen applauded like a quiet storm, staring.
Staring at the Duke as he appeared, bowing, looking proud of his performance, which had the children begging to beat up the evil Windy Thief or make their own puppets. He didn’t seem to realize the others were there—and even afterwards, not how much they’d truly seen.
“Everyone thank Duke Rhisveri! I’m sure he’ll put on another performance again—and maybe even the little—what did you call them?”
“Sock plays.”
Rhisveri exhaled as the broadcast began winding down. He stepped over to Visophecin and muttered out of the corner of his mouth.
“There. Nothing simpler. I may have stumbled thanks to your pranks at the start—oh, don’t look at me that way. I just took some liberties with the tale. What did you think?”
“It was—well done.”
The Duke stroked his chin, not seeing Visophecin’s odd look.
“Well, that’s fiction for you. Pure improvisation, really. Purely…I knew I could do it.”
The tale of the ‘Windy Thief’ was going to become an Ailendamus classic. As was, perhaps, the new artform that the Duke of Ailendamus had just pioneered. Something less artful than a [Puppeteer]’s dolls—but just as adaptive. Perhaps more so.
And he himself had found a talent, if an odd one. The Duke of Ailendamus exhaled, and the Wyrm relaxed. Whether he ignored it or didn’t see the reaction that separated child from adult—or how real his story had been—
He took a bow. And then proceeded to do an encore after much begging—this time about the Windy Thief back at it again with an obnoxious ‘Green King’ who kept opening and slamming doors while Rhisveri was trying to sleep. They were stealing another of his treasures again.
At least there—Fithee and Dioname danced around. Smiling. Smiling and showing the Wyrm’s wounded heart to the world.
The laughing, bouncing children quieted down like magic. But the only magic was in the little puppets, each carefully made. So you could practically see, despite their button eyes, their cloth—something as alive as any Stitch-Folk.
“Duke Rhissy?”
A little doll like Princess Oesca rose to the girl’s delight and awe. The ‘Duke’ was staring at his palace, half of which had been destroyed. He turned, and his angry voice was quiet, tired.
“Yes? Occi?”
“Are you mad at the Windy Thief for everything she’s done? Are you going to punish her badly?”
The two puppets turned, and the Windy Thief was in a cage being beaten with sticks by several knight-puppets as Dioname and Fithee watched. But they stopped, and Rhissy’s puppet spoke slowly.
“You know, Occi? I think I’ll let her go free. With a very stern warning and orders not to come back to Ailendamus.”
“Noo—”
The children echoed Occi’s tone of dismay.
“But what if she causes more trouble, Duke Rhissy? She nearly…nearly got Fithee hurt, and Dioname too. Shouldn’t we lock her up for all of time? That’s what mean Viscount Vis would do.”
The stern ‘Viscount’ stared down from a hill, swishing his cloak now and then. But Rhissy just glanced up at him and leaned over to Occi.
“You know what, Occi? I could do that. The Windy Thief is a silly girl. A troublemaker. But you know something—she’s not a bad person. She’s incompetent, smelly, and she makes tons of mistakes. But…”
“That’s very true. But?”
Rhissy stared at the Windy Runner as she stopped cowering. And his voice was soft as the children watched.
“—But you give people a second chance. There’s no second chance if you just—lock them away. That’s what Ailendamus does, you know. All but the worst people, we give another chance. Even mean old Viscount Vis does that. Even if it’s hard—you can be forgiven. So let’s let the Windy Thief fly away.”
Then they went over and unlocked the cage, and the Windy Thief apologized. Then flew away. And the Duke sat down and looked at his castle once more.
“The castle’s all broken, Duke. What happens when King Itorin comes back?”
Occi was worried, but the Duke shrugged.
“Things…don’t matter that much, Occi. People do. So let’s rebuild. We’ll do it together.”
And so they did.
It was a children’s tale that got applause from the audience. It wasn’t real. Everyone knew that. Even most of the kids. But it was something…something that even Duke Rhisveri seemed to realize was more than it had begun as—
“Lessons. Morality plays. That was clearly the intention. I could see someone—myself since I’m such an expert—putting on more in time. For their tiny minds.”
