It had been a long time since Nuvityn, King of Men, Elfwed, Leader of the United Peoples of Erribathe, Descendant of the Hundred Families, heir to the Shrouded Crown and the relics of his ancestors, walked the halls of his palace as an observer and not an occupant.
He had other names, other titles accorded to him such that if you wanted to be pedantic, you could use everything from Avel’s honorary Golden Archer title to the actual accolades he’d won in the north among the Taligrit folk. Manoerhog Nuvityn.
The Taligrits had a unique sense of humor. Nor was it a slight. A younger, brash Prince Nuvityn had once joined their festivities and won the title fairly. The most astute diplomats knew that was no…fanciful term like an honorary dukedom.
It was a term of endearment that won you a free drink at every pub you came to and had a lot of local prestige. It came from the great and historied practices of Taligrits, who some called the last [Barbarians] and savages of the north, for all they had a proper kingdom of sorts.
The name, uh—came from the saying. Manoerhog.
As in—‘Man Over Hog’. Which meant you’d beaten a wild boar in a wrestling competition where you endeavored to toss the angry pig into the mud.
Never let it be said that Erribathe’s great [King of Men] did not know how to inspire all kinds of folk. In truth, the Taligrits would have fit right in with some of Erribathe’s wild folks.
He still thought he looked the part. Nuvityn’s hair had finally gone to grey, but only threads amongst dark brown hair. His lines, for all they stood out on his face, still only emphasized a man not yet gone to seed.
He could still stand proudly without clothing or spells to disguise his gut. He still looked like what he was.
[King of Men]. He walked among his people like a reminder of that. He was not touched by immortality like his queen, half-Elven beauty, which was impossible. He was simply what a person could be, in his advancing age. Even when he felt his age in the night, a bearskin cloak hanging around his shoulders, he walked upright.
As if a procession trailed him. Servants did—but perhaps even the mist walked in his shadow, swirling about him. He could look silly. He could be a fool—but sometimes, it sounded like the world was heralding him and the land quieted to watch as he passed.
Then—when he laughed, when he joked, the air was light and free, and youth flowed around him, like when he had emerged with a dizzy hog to be crowned Manoerhog, and given the delighted pig half his drink. For he had been both and learned his manners from half-Elves in their eternal villages. But he had ridden bareback and wrestled with his folk of Kehndroth. Spent years in every part of his land growing up.
The third-largest kingdom of Terandria was vast enough for the nomadic Kehndroth folk with their fine steeds to mix, coming down from the highlands with the metal-loving Osverthians. Half-Elves of three forests—and yes, folk who would happily throw down with a wild pig for fun.
Only, the Forem tribes wrestled bears. Black bears, but they knew how tough the Humans were, and the bears sometimes trained on each other. Not just for the ego of…bears. If they managed to knock down all the challengers in the village, they were fed as much as they could eat.
Erribathe was a varied nation many knew little about. It had the dignity of its years, and the Kingdom of Myth was known as one of the Restful Three. It was a proud nation, proud of the legacy it had not lost.
Yet—betimes, even Nuvityn felt more like the Manoerhog than the King of Myths. It was hard to grow up in the Age of Waning, and he had lived two hundred and forty-one years.
As half-Elves did, really. Though his kingdom was more plentiful, the aspect that had kept him from madness was that Erribathe did keep away from the world.
Two hundred and forty-one years. Long enough to have remembered a time before Zelkyr. To have sent his forces to Izril in outrage—then to Rhir—and then to have fought off the Necromancer when he fell to his madness.
Better to live now rather than to wake up with the mists hanging foul and low and receive a summons. To hear an army by the hundreds of thousands was descending once more, led by that perverted Archmage of Death.
Not that the Necromancer had ever done more than hurl Ghouls into his lands by the thousand. That ‘small’ act was enough—riding in the night, swinging his sword down upon glowing eyes preying upon his border-folk when he was nearing his two hundredth birthday had told him he was old.
For all he shared his lifespan with his consort, Queen Eithelenidrel—it wore on him as much as the reverse—aging faster, living among Humans—wore on her.
Perhaps he would abdicate his throne and give Prince Iradoren his reign. The boy was naught but seventy years of age, for all he looked half-that. He had grown up twenty years among the old villages of half-Elves, so you had to subtract that from his age.
All of this would have left Nuvityn wanting, as he knew Iradoren wanted, to carve out a more fitting legacy for his time. To make Erribathe shine as it had done in days of old.
—But those days were past. And Nuvityn had tried.
What people forgot—even the ‘old’ ones like Feor—was that there was a time before Zelkyr. There was. And in those days, if he recalled his memories of a child correctly, used tonics to drift back to recall clearly, dictated his memoirs—
They had said the same things they said now. The Antinium threat? New, yes, but overshadowed, perhaps, by the threat whispered in his father’s courts.
The Nagatine Empire rising. An age when Lizardfolk had threatened not only Izril—but Chandrar and Baleros. The Blighted Kingdom, battling the Demons, had refused to fight across Baleros.
The Archmage of Baleros, then, the Archmage of Eyes…what was his name?
“Coloquex?”
It sounded vaguely right. Now he had driven fear into the hearts of men. Then died. His forces had persisted thereafter for a long time, even with the Thousand Lances, the aggrieved forces of the Walled Cities, even the might of the Five Families and nations like Nerrhavia’s Fallen coming to arms.
Why—Hellios, that conquered nation, had made itself known in that time. In that age, Nuvityn remembered Khelt had ignored the fighting steadfastly. Its king had not been as—provocative as now.
No one remembered it. Only half-Elves would listen when Nuvityn sat down and talk about it as if it were common knowledge while the Humans looked on blankly. Why, the threat of the Nagatine Empire had persisted since.
Their great temples. Their spells, which some had called profane—Jungle Tails, that silly Great Company, had not been so laughable then.
“Better the Forgotten Wing than them.”
They had risen by dragging down the Lizardfolk in a bloody series of wars—and Nuvityn himself had quietly pulled some strings from Erribathe. Not forces, but donations of gold to the young Titan.
Of course—the fall of the Lizardfolk was more than just the Titan, for all he was the one most people would cite if they thought of it at all. There were other factors at play. Brave heroes of the generation after the fall of Coloquex. They had helped quash the last conspiracies to create empire.
Funny. Back then, the next generation must have thought they were marching and fighting across ancient history. Certainly, the figure who was now as legendary as the causes he had striven against had written it like that.
The Lightning Thief. Once, a dashing young man. Now, a figure of stories. He had stolen the Eye of Baleros, fought his way across a continent—then vanished into the pages of books.
Nuvityn had thought him dead. He could not steal age as easily as lightning—but perhaps not.
All these old things were coming to life again. All these names being spoken—and older names still.
So that was why he padded through his palace in the dead of night, a magical light at his side. His guards held back, and now, the King of Myths rose and beheld something he took for granted.
“Where is it? The Draconium compendia. Not here. Not here…”
He scanned various walls, growing frustrated until a delicate cough and a figure pointed him to the correct hallway. Embarrassed, annoyed, he followed the hints until he found it.
Then Nuvityn gazed upwards. Iradoren was not back—he was raring to go to Izril. They all were. But he had reported in, along with a number of his servants and minders, and the truth was clear.
How many nations now heard that word floating around in more than idle jest? Not just one—but one of the true ones. A name so old it made Nuvityn’s blood chill.
A name so old that the other nations were probably frantically sorting through books, hoping one had survived ten thousand years. Bothering old half-Elves who had lifespans of a thousand years at best.
While the truth…the truth was upon his very walls. That was the age of the Kingdom of Myths. And so, Nuvityn shone up a light upon the walls.
It should have been a torch or some fickle lantern with a flame, wavering—this light was too pure, too constant. He should have felt a great breeze blow through his palace across marble shaped, so some claimed, by Elven hands.
—But then, that was a lie, and he knew it had merely been half-Elves. Perhaps close enough in lineage to claim the Last Queen of Elves, Sprithae, had been within ten generations of them—but no more. And the palace had been rebuilt many times, anyways.
Even those ages were too old for Erribathe to record. Yet this—Nuvityn looked up and sighed. For now he saw it.
Lists of enemies and allies. Some had been removed—this wall obsessively updated, until the last [Kings] realized—there was less point. Now, it was simply art, and he remembered sitting here as a boy and begging his half-Elven tutor, Nenre, to tell him all the stories.
He wondered if she were still in her village. Perhaps he should summon her. But—Nuvityn looked up. And he heard what the other rulers heard, though the wording changed:
 
Have you heard it? Do you believe? 
I have seen him in Calanfer’s Eternal Throne. I have glimpsed the truth writ upon the wall, in wings that beat silently. I have listened to his voice.
Wake from your dreams of mortality. We are at the beginning of a new era. Once more, even now—
There are still yet Dragons.
 
There they stood upon carved thrones that blazed with the elements. Like a kind of family tree—sitting above brave members of their species who had won their way onto mortal paint. Names of the most famous or infamous of their kind.
The Tyrant of Gems, Muzarre. The Silver Knight, Yderigrisel. The Wings of Life, Sasitoret.
Lesser Dragons. Lesser Dragons—you understand? He could almost hear Nenre trying to explain it to him. Each one might be terrible and cunning, brilliant and heroic as you pleased.
—But they were still lesser. They knelt to no [Kings]—some gave their might to causes and nations, but they only listened to one another’s authority.
And that was them. The beings who sat upon those thrones—none dared call themselves King or Queen. Nevertheless, there they were. Or the last of them.
Their likenesses had changed, and Nuvityn thought it a crime that he did not see all the ones that had come before. But only the last Dragonlords remained. He had to remember this had once been a list, an actual resource of dread enemies that his Kingdom of Myth had fought against.
Armies garbed in relics to deny them a goal. Alliances between nations to bring one down. An individual, a single being capable of such devastation that they were nations unto themselves. So capricious and forceful that they required—perhaps created—[Heroes] and legends of old to match them among mortals.
He had long since memorized their names as a boy. So of course he knew one of them. Slowly, Nuvityn let the light shine across each one—and there had been countless Dragonlords. One for each weyr—until entire species of Dragons vanished.
They were all gone. Yet the last…he knew names they said had still appeared in the last great calamity of this world.
The Creler Wars. Three Dragonlords had still flown then. Or rather, flown out of that hell. They had seen Dragons die, emerging to battle a common foe.
The Last Dragonlord of the Wind had fallen, they said. Aeitendeske. His light played over a Dragon with wings spread, eyes shining copper and viridian.
The ‘Dragonlord of War’ was listed below the Dragonlords, apart. But Khetieve, the Dragonlord of Waves, still sat upon his throne, a trident gripped in one claw.
Did he live? Now, Nuvityn had questions. Were they enemies?
Were they…enemies? Iradoren had asked, because it was no longer clear. They were gone. Gone—and even if there were a few, one, he had been in hiding. Was he still some great foe to vanquish or a bastion of knowledge that should be sheltered? Like a Unicorn—guarded such that such things should not vanish from the earth?
Nuvityn felt—strongly—that it was the latter. But he had not lived those times.
“Summon Nenre, my tutor of old. I must hear her tales of Dragons again.”
They had done terrible things. And he—like all the others—stared down at Nuvityn, and the king shivered like the boy who had gazed up at those eyes. Heliotrope and cerulean, gemstones set in the mural. Next to the last Dragonlord of the Void, Xarkouth, head turned as if to address the Dragonlord of Sanctums, the Silver Dragonlord—
Teriarch. Dragonlord of Flame.
So old. So old, even by their standards. Dragonward of the Iltantian Empire. Wyrmbane—a title to one who had slain or aided in the death of a Greater Wyrm. ‘Traitor’ of the Dragonfall Wars, when Walled Cities revolted and their hold in Chandrar was broken.
He had stolen into Calanfer’s throne, bested the Winter’s Watcher and a member of the Thousand Lances, revealed the Lightning Thief might live—and made a challenge to the kingdoms of Terandria.
What might such a creature want? Some great war that even he feared? So he hinted—hinted that it might be Rhir that needed to be scourged ere another Creler War began.
All of it made Nuvityn wish he had come two hundred years back! Then a younger man would have had the will to ride out to Izril hell-for-leather. Now…now, Nuvityn’s heart beat as he imagined it.
The Dragon had come to Calanfer and set kingdoms scrambling in a day. What might he be doing now? A being of his might, roaming the world? What deeds, what goals had he?
The Dragon stared down at Nuvityn as the [King of Men], King of Myths, Manoerhog, felt his kingdom’s long silence and inaction had come to an end. It was painful. And glorious.
 
——
 
