A half-Elf with the knowledge of a Dragon and a handful of levels. He had a long way to go to reclaim his power. Even without knowing who he had been…
I shall be better. I have Terras as a faction, and they are skillful, even the ones who have been sloths all their lives like Telim. Form a base of power and work up. I have allies.
He had duties, too. Which Eldavin did not like. But he had to admit…he felt young. If he had ever been old, really. As a simulacrum, he was technically less than a year old.
But he just had to figure out a spell to reverse age. He’d heard there was some [Chronomancer] in Rhir—the techniques existed. If he had not seen fit to give himself anti-aging spells, Eldavin well knew that there was alchemy and other ways to get to the same goal.
He had more knowledge than Wistram had ever lost in his head. Eldavin could see himself arming Wistram to the point where it could take care of a lot of his tasks without his direct control or more than guidance. Which left him placed to…
To enjoy this world. Food! He didn’t remember eating a lot of it, so it was fresh. Food, youth—activities such as chess.
And yes, companionship. He felt, now, a bit silly. Eldavin’s, uh—indecorousness when it came to female attention had come to haunt him slightly.
In that it seemed like every faction of Wistram had at least one female [Mage] who wanted to take personal lessons from him. No, wait. ‘Personal lessons’.
He disliked that. He wanted a genuine connection based on more than physical attraction. But those things took time…didn’t they?
The half-Elf put a hand to his head as he moodily walked around his grand suite of rooms allotted to him. He hated that feeling of half-knowing a lesson or something. How did one—date at this age and authority?
“Perhaps that app on Ryoka’s phone. No. No, I am not going to invent that. Television, radio, yes. Not something for personal gain.”
He folded his arms and faced one of the walls where Feor had donated an image of a picturesque half-Elven village. Eldavin stared at the wonderful landscape and amended his thoughts.
“…Besides, it would be easier to attend a ball or two. Meet people in real settings. I wonder. Terandria, Izril, Baleros, Chandrar, all have social functions. Isn’t there an invitation from that Empire of Sands?”
A rising power or so he was informed. And he had better start meeting and charming all the other nations, not just Terandria. Eldavin was hunting around for a pile of letters when he heard the knock on his window.
His windows were enchanted, so it was probably a hell of a knock. But it sounded faint—and Eldavin turned and sighed.
“Oh, for the love of aphrodisiacs. This has gone too far. Excuse me—no. No.”
He crossed his arms, then realized the person throwing stones couldn’t hear him and tugged in his beard in vexation. But she kept beckoning, and he went to the doors leading to his balcony.
The aforementioned attempts to get on Eldavin’s good side through his lower side? They resulted in some odd meetings. A young lady deciding to swim with him. A student after one of his lectures asking him to clarify an issue.
A Stitch-Woman leaving a hand on his doorknob. That was original. Stitch-Folk flirted in interesting ways. Eldavin should have made it clear—he should have mastered his baser desires.
Otherwise, you got things like the very charming, very attractive—and very naked Drake woman floating outside his balcony.
She was ‘clothed’ in a rather transparent film of what was either a robe, bedding, or shower curtain—which could not fulfill all three roles in any meaningful way. She had some rather magnificent—
Er—
Scales. Lovely turquoise. And her wings were flexing in such a magnificent way as she hovered there—was she flying with her wings or using [Levitation]?
Maybe the spell he’d taught Telim had already gone around? Or she was one of the talented [Mages] who kept their heads down instead of being Archmages, like Galei.
Wait, was this Galei? If it was, Eldavin couldn’t see through the illusion, and he’d have something to say to the Ullsinoi faction. Eldavin opened the windows.
“Young woman, someone is going to look up, and I shall not be the one to explain this to the Council.”
She laughed and flew back a pace.
“Archmage, can I have but a moment of your time?”
“Please, this is hardly the method.”
“But it is working. Come, please. You can surely meet me for a moment.”
Eldavin looked around to make sure no one had opened a window—but he saw illusion magic blocking most views of this area of Wistram.
Plus, it was past midnight. The half-Elf huffed, but decided there was no help for it. He hurriedly cast a spell and strode out across a bridge of light. The Drake woman flew backwards.
“Young woman. Please.”
She wanted to fly out across the beautiful bubble of calm surrounding Wistram. Eldavin strode after her, conjuring a breeze to blow her back—and she lost the robes. He closed his eyes—and created a robe of cotton to hand her.
“Let’s speak civilly.”
“Oh, fine.”
She stopped, puffing her cheeks out, and drifted back to Eldavin. He approached her and then noticed something odd. The moon was clear, and she was very—vividly—naked. He could see a lot he probably shouldn’t be seeing. His clear view did not uh, lead to clear judgment. But what he saw on the rocks surrounding Wistram was that she had no shad—
 
——
 
Whumph.
The sound of the invisible Dragon exhaling Dragonfire wasn’t the actual roar of flames, but the sound the air made as it was displaced.
He’d forgotten to muffle it. Damn. Teriarch had also forgotten the shadow of the naked Drake. It worked, though.
In his experience, even the canniest Archmage sometimes fell for the old ‘naked, amorous illusion’ trick. Dragons, Selphids, Dwarves…it got them all.
Men and women, thank you. Though he had to own, female Archmages sometimes didn’t appreciate a naked fellow, no matter how splendidly done, posing behind a decorative cloud. You got them by organizing a group of young, fit [Mages] wrestling on the sand or in the water. Then, while they were peering out from behind their enchantments—
Dragonfire.
It was a concentrated stream, a barrier-shredding flame. It should have killed the simulacrum fast.
—Unfortunately, it caught the half-Elf calling himself ‘Eldavin’, one of Teriarch’s pseudonyms, mid-teleport. He had noticed the shadow.
The scream of agony was still there, though, as Teriarch flew up, cursing. He had hoped for a clean kill.
Wistram had enough magics to do damage, even if they were crippled! He was watching for Golems as he flew up—and the balcony doors were open.
Rookie mistake. The Dragon punched a claw through the open doors and hurled the smoldering figure within out. Then he followed it.
Take the fight outside Wistram’s bubble as fast as you can. They’d detect grand spells. Teriarch flew past the bubble and then unleashed.
“Activate!”
Bolts of lightning criss-crossed the air. They hit the sea, creating geysers of water, struck away from desperate barriers—but when they found Archmage Eldavin, they anchored his position.
Disintegration. Eight beams shot at the simulacrum—curving as he tried to fly.
Was that—[Wings of the Phoenix]? He dove, corkscrewing, then did a minor teleport when he saw the beams twisting. Teriarch’s mind was flashing as he chanted more spells, and he realized something. Several things.
He flies like me.
Of course—he was him. But it was disconcerting. Teriarch had never fought—
The second thing was that the simulacrum wasn’t dying. Of course not. He’d made it to regenerate wounds, to endure terrible damage. It was regenerating off its mana supply.
Make something too well and it turns on you. Golems. You fool!
“—ncy Teleport]!”
He’d just tried to use [Emergency Teleport]. Probably to safety. But the teleportation spells were locked down even if you could teleport to Wistram. Teriarch whispered as he saw the figure burning the beams of tracking disintegration out of the way.
He knew how to do it—you had to throw matter in front of disintegration spells until they ran out of power, so Eldavin just conjured walls of falling stone and rocks to eat the spell—then dove into the waters.
It wouldn’t stop this.
“Gaze of the Medusa.”
Teriarch’s eyes burned—then the water, the fleeing half-Elf—even the sleeting rain turned to stone.
Stone droplets shattered as a wedge of the ocean began to petrify. The half-Elf might not die of it—but he slowed. And Teriarch exhaled again.
This time, it was a ball of flames—like a [Fireball] but accelerated. He gasped for air as it burned a hole through stone—the water—and hopefully the Archmage himself.
He flies like me. He knows my tactics. Of course he did. Teriarch had given his other self all the memories of combat and magic he thought it needed—even vital memories for the short-term.
He had never thought this would happen. Now, he was correcting his mistake. Archmage or not. Part of him or not—it had to die.
Eldavin had to go. He had done far too much damage unknowingly. Did he scream something as he saw the ball of fire coming at him? Teriarch watched—
And the ball of fire winked out. The Dragonlord of Flame’s eyes widened. He hadn’t seen—something that eats Dragonfire? Even the Necromancer couldn’t do—
“Stop!”
The Archmage of Memory rose. He was burnt beyond belief, but to Teriarch’s incredulity, he was healing. Then the Dragon realized his mistake.
The simulacrum could use potions! It had used a healing potion, and despite the Dragonfire—no, the first blast had charred him to his bones.
But what had stopped the second one? Eldavin rose as Teriarch began casting subvocally. Then Teriarch observed the final thing.
“[Pentagram of the Five Alchemies]…”
He was using magic like a [Mage]. Magic of boxes. Magic unlike a Dragon. Teriarch spoke at the same time as Eldavin and got a nasty shock.
“World’s End Permafrost.”
A wave of cold that froze the sea deeper than even the Medusa’s Gaze spell blasted out. But it met a glowing five-sided pentagram, and Teriarch watched the spell being sucked into one of the five quadrants.
His alchemy magic! The Brass Dragon’s eyes widened. But how had the spell come out that fast? He knew how complicated it was. It was almost as if…
Then he saw it, and his heart skipped a beat. In pure disbelief. He saw the half-Elf chanting, lips moving soundlessly—and something burned over his head. An active Skill.
[Rapid Casting].
He had Skills?
“Impos—”
The Dragon almost said the word, then caught himself. He shot forwards, flying upon jet-flames, and bit.
The move caught Eldavin off-guard. He tried to shield himself—grabbing the teeth as they descended in a flash. The Dragon felt the incredible strength and realized Eldavin must have cast [Diamond Body] on himself and strength spells.
Exactly what he’d do. The two fired at the same time.
“[Wave of Seething Acid]!”
Teriarch exhaled. Then gagged, dove, exhaling the burning spell. Damn! It was only Tier 6 and weak, but it was in his mouth. Idiot—
When he emerged from the sea, he expected to see the Archmage in agony if he were alive. But he saw the final thing that made the Dragon freeze and his heart pound in fear.
He had expected to kill himself—hoped to do it first. He had wondered if ‘Eldavin’ would see him coming. That he had not—that he had survived this and the first Dragonbreath attack was just chance.
But the other two?
Violet flames were trying to burn away the Archmage of Memory. They had the same intensity that could make magma look like lukewarm bathwater. They could burn in the vacuum of space.
A Dragonlord’s fire. Yet the half-Elf held it an inch from his skin, and not via a spell. His hands…what was he doing?
They were pressed together. Clasped, and Eldavin was whispering. The words made Teriarch’s head hurt. It sounded like something impossible.
A prayer. Then Teriarch tried to read the class—the Skill—and he saw nothing. Then he feared.
 
——
 
The Miracle had saved him twice. Eldavin’s skin was burning, but he whispered. His second class had saved him where magic could not.
He was trying to kill himself! Teriarch—of course, he didn’t realize. Eldavin? Teriarch? It was confusing, but the half-Elf knew he had to survive this. To retreat to Wistram. But the only thing that could stop the Dragon’s advanced magic, mana pool, and innate abilities was this.
[Divine Protection]. The [Believer of the Old Faith] held out his hands and shoved the fire away. Then he lowered his arms, panting.
Something was drained out of him. Not mana but…belief. Yet he had a reservoir of it. After all—he knew who he was believing in.
He knew they were real.
Did the Dragon say ‘impossible’? Or did he just think it? Eldavin thought he could read the thoughts behind those two brilliant eyes.
Teriarch was in the sea now, staring up through the waters like some great fish. Graceful—poised to strike or move.
And worn out. Heavier than he should be. Slower, too. No one would realize it on first sight, but the Dragon was old. Eldavin, though—he knew.
The [Pentagram of the Five Alchemies] was burning behind him, empowered by one of the Dragon’s spells. Eldavin held it back a second, though, and spoke. The first words he’d been able to get out in the lightning-fast skirmish.
“Wait. Teriarch. Myself. We’re not enemies.”
The Dragon flinched at that word. He looked up—as if pondering what to say—and then stuck his mouth out of the water.
“I hoped to make this quick. Eldavin. You are me. A part of me that should not be. You know, if you are me—that we should not walk this world. I know what you must feel—lower your arms. I will take your memories after destroying you. I can promise no more than a swift death. But you know it must be done.”
Eldavin stared down. Incredulously. His first instinct—no, that was why the Dragon had ambushed him. But he called back down, rasping between healing lips.
“I want to live. Just—just fly back. Or let us converse. Civilly! Are you so willing to destroy new life? Part of yourself?”
“Some things should not be done. Of all beings, I can judge myself most harshly. You—look what you have done so far. Made war? Gathered power to yourself like a petty dictator? This is not what I—we would do in control of our faculties.”
That stung. Eldavin spread his arms. He conjured two balls of light and hurled them down—to illuminate the two.
“And hiding in that cave was better? Ryoka Griffin impelled us to action by reason, fool. Or have you forgotten her? Did you forget Magnolia? Our oaths? Haven’t you seen how the world is in need?”
