“That’s just what we say to make Jeiss feel better. Right now? You’re the top. You’re a killing machine!”
“I’ve lost all my old levels.”
“You’re still a [Swordslayer]. Name me someone who can slay like the Slayer, huh?”
“Ksmvr took my sword school. He is three years old. I have fallen behind a three year old.”
Relc gave Klbkch a punch in the shoulder. Klbkch fell over and lay there on the bed. Now, he was drained of power.
“Buddy—buddy—losing to Xrn isn’t a bad thing. Everyone does that. Even—even Grimalkin! Is that you? Hey, guy.”
Grimalkin froze as he and Lady Pryde walked past the door. Erin had elected to put a place to shower on the second floor, and the two were covered in sweat. He turned.
“Me?”
“You lost to Xrn too, right? See, Klbkch? Everyone loses to Xrn.”
“I have never lost to Xrn. My new body is terrible.”
“It looks great.”
“It is inferior. I am inferior.”
Klbkch lay there for a while as the inn’s guests crowded around him. They began to break up as Relc tried to shoo them away from his partner’s moment of greatest weakness. But the truth was—Klbkch had seen it.
He really wasn’t good for more than paperwork in his Hive. He had no authority over Pawn—who didn’t listen to him. Bird had rebelled from the Hive. Xrn had the [Crusaders]. Even weakened, she and Wrymvr exceeded him.
What was he? Even with his new Skill—he didn’t do anything for the Hive. Klbkch lay there for how long he couldn’t say. Until someone poked him in the back.
“Revalantor Klbkch. Revalantor Klbkch, is now a bad time?”
“Er—the worst time, maybe, buddy. You guys need something?”
Klbkch tried to pick out the person from the voice. He could tell most people by sound alone—this was clearly a Worker, but not one he knew.
“We would like to speak to Revalantor Klbkch. It is not a matter of urgency. Perhaps.”
“Oh?”
Klbkch began to rise as he saw a group of Workers clustered at the doorway. One was next to Relc’s bed. Pryde, Grimalkin, Lyonette, and Mrsha had all made way for them. Klbkch turned.
“Ah. As Revalantor of the Free Antinium, there is something only I can fulfill? A task for me, I take it?”
His head rose, and he sat tall. He was standing when the Workers conferred and one raised a hand.
He was one of the new Workers, Rosencrantz, who had been assigned to the inn. The Worker, who wore the inn’s uniform-apron even when he was off-work and had a tudor flat cap with a feather sticking out of it—and his favorite line from Hamlet written on his back-shell—politely shook his head.
“No, Revalantor Klbkch. We do not have need of your authority. Pawn and Belgrade and Revalantor Xrn do these things.”
Klbkch lay back down on the bed. Another Worker piped up from the back.
“Look at him. Embarrassing. We definitely got the worst Prognugator of all the Hives.”
“Hey! Who said that?”
Relc raised a fist and shook it—Workers ducked and flinched out of the way, covering their heads, but one of them refused to move.
“Crusader 57. Want to start something, old man?”
The two partners decided to lie in the bed while Embria reached for the empty orange juice cup. Relc needed a drink too—and a clawed hand reached out and produced a second cup.
“Here. For handsome Drake.”
Peggy winked at Embria, who gave the Hobgoblin a long look. But the Hob was passing around food to everyone.
The slain Gecko and Slayer lay there as Rosencrantz poked Klbkch again.
“Revalantor Klbkch. Revalantor Klbkch. Do you have time?”
“For what? What would you need me for if not as a Revalantor? To apprehend Mrsha for a crime? To sign your budget? Here. Signed.”
Klbkch pretended to sign something. But Rosencrantz bounced on his feet. He had been chosen by the other Workers—many of whom were not Painted or [Crusaders]—Crusader 57 was here, but he was…him—because everyone had thought he was least likely to die as Erin’s employee.
If Klbkch got mad. The Worker hesitated, then spoke timidly.
“We can only come to you, Revalantor Klbkch.”
“Why?”
“Because Infinitypear and Rasktooth say you tell stories. We would like to hear this story. And we are told there is a story time custom.”
Relc’s head rose, and his eyes fluttered open. Klbkch’s own head slowly rose, and his antennae twitched.
“You what now?”
Before he knew it, nearly two dozen Workers were trying to crowd into Relc’s room. They sat down on the floor in front of the bed. Rosencrantz sat too.
“We would like a story. I have seen this custom in Liscor with children and adults. As a member of the Watch, we believe you will honor this custom. Miss Solstice told us to tell you to do it when I asked.”
“You…want me to tell you a story? What story? What is Infinitypear—”
Klbkch was getting annoyed until he recalled his impromptu recollections with the Goblin and Antinium. Word, it seemed, had gotten around.
And like Workers…like these new Workers, suddenly he had a dozen faces staring up at him. Earnestly. Again, mostly non-Painted, non-[Crusaders].
“We would like a story. We are told it is free.”
These Workers, with the exception of Rosencrantz and Crusader 57, had no money to spend on fine things like books or paint. They were not filled with faith or able to buy delicious bowls of acid flies.
Relc’s head turned from the Workers to Klbkch in confusion. Embria was giving Klbkch the oddest of stares—and Grimalkin was exchanging the longest look of confusion with Pryde. Mrsha cupped a paw to her ear as Klbkch spoke within the room.
“I do not have stories to give. I am no [Storyteller]. I merely related factual events that occurred to me to Infinitypear.”
“Okay. May we have factual recollections of events as they occurred?”
“Of what?”
Klbkch looked so blank that Relc had to agree.
“Listen, Workers. Uh—kids. Klbkch is a good guy, good partner. Not old—but he’s not exactly a great storyteller. I’ve been his partner for ten years, and believe me, he tells stories about as well as Erin makes hamburgers. You think she’s good when she invents them until you see what a real street vendor can do.”
Erin had decided to join the fuss. She had walked up to the room—now, she put a hand over her heart, sagged down the wall, and lay there on the ground. Klbkch was nodding—and the Antinium’s heads bowed.
“Oh. We understand.”
Relc tried to be encouraging.
“Maybe go to Bird, huh? He can probably tell whoppers. Klb—well, what would you even ask him about?”
The sad Workers were rising as Rosencrantz turned.
“We would ask about the time before the Creler Wars when the Antinium were under Rhir. But we will ask Bird. We heard Revalantor Klbkch had done many adventurous things, but that is all.”
They were filing out, and Relc didn’t stop them—probably because his jaw had detached and was bouncing off the floor. Then, and only then, Klbkch spoke.
“Wait. Bird was not there. But I was. In fact…Xrn was not there for a large amount of time. I was. And Wrymvr is not here and a poor speaker.”
The Workers froze at the door. They turned back hopefully, and Klbkch sat up. He stared at them—then in one motion, turned his back to them and stood up. Rather like he had when he had talked to Infinitypear and Rasktooth, he walked over to a window and stared out of it.
A jet-powered bee zoomed past the window. Klbkch ignored Apista. He spoke as a Sariant Lamb slowly climbed up the window’s ledge, listening.
“I suppose—if you had a few questions, I could relate the factual, actual accounts as someone who was certainly there. Did you have a particular topic?”
The Workers mumbled to each other, and Grimalkin lifted a claw. About to speak—then he caught himself as Pryde held a finger to his lips. Don’t ruin this! Embria, dead-Erin, Mrsha, everyone listened as Rosencrantz turned innocently.
“We do not have good topics. What is a good topic?”
“Something. Anything.”
“Um. Shiny gems such as the one Numbtongue gave me?”
Rosencrantz had tied it under his hat so he could look at the beautiful bit of quartz. He waved it at Klbkch, and the Slayer eyed it.
“Ah. That will do. Gems. As I recall, the Hives wanted gems at one point. There were any number of projects, but the minerals became more and less valuable as time went on. At first—useless. Later, Xrn wanted them for magic, and we discovered their properties for the creation of Antinium. I was sent deep to search out pockets of them and guide Antinium to dig them out. Galuc and I would excavate huge amounts and often unearth nests.”
“Galuc?”
“Galuc the Builder, who stands in your image. No…”
Klbkch went back to staring out the window, then turned. And he realized they didn’t know. So he tried to show them. But the room was too small, and now, half the Goblins had stopped on the way to breakfast. So…
 
——
 
“…he stood this tall. And wide. Imagine a Worker this vast and you have him.”
Klbkch jumped up and touched the top of the common room’s ceiling in the [Grand Theatre] section. Everyone looked up, up—and Grimalkin muttered.
“Sixteen feet?”
“Approximately.”
Klbkch landed and then drew his swords. Some of the Workers ducked—but he just showed them the blade.
“This was back during the era when we were first battling the other species for dominance, after the Antinium had been established. My own body had been damaged after we discovered beings of flame and rock. Flame or perhaps Magma Elementals, you might call them. As was the custom, the First Queen inspected my body and decided to change it. She used the latest techniques—to adjust my form to accommodate for the techniques of blades, rather than the ones built into my body.”
“Question. Question…”
One of the Workers raised a hand. Klbkch stared at it.
“…You had different bodies?”
Klbkch gave Rosencrantz a blank look.
“Of course. Centenium went through multiple iterations. Wrymvr is ever-changing, but even the best of us were made multiple times. My last form…I think my blades were hidden and would extend outwards via gas sacs, but if I was injured even slightly, I lost that ability. As I was saying, my next form—which became one of my last versions with minor upgrades—made use of blades. These blades.”
He put down both blades on the table, and Relc made a sound.
“Wait. Those blades? I thought they were just some enchanted, cheap blades. How long ago was this? You were joking about the ‘before the Creler Wars’ thing, right?”
“Relc, I am relaying history. Please don’t interrupt. We’re not on duty. I have never had them enchanted. But these blades…”
Klbkch lifted one. It had no breaks or dulling of the edge, and it was perfectly balanced. Perfectly light. Ksmvr and the Custodium bore imitations of this—
“—these were made in the Antinium’s first forges. Ah—forges is a strange word. We often did not use fire. It was this that made the War Queens demand I go searching for all kinds of gems. Of course, we were making Antinium bodies out of the gemstone. Blades and arms—until we learned how to grow crystals. But that took a long time before a clever Shaper Queen saw it done, so the first places I went looking for the crystals were the old libraries and buildings.”
He stopped. Klbkch stared at a wall and then chuckled, a laugh he’d learned in Liscor. His audience, Workers, dozens now, were spellbound. Everyone else stared at each other and tried to place this.
This was still under Rhir? Before the Creler…
“What libraries? There are libraries? Why are you laughing?”
Valeterisa raised a hand and stood on her toes. She waved it, and Klbkch replied absently.
“Oh—my amusement was that in hindsight, we did not realize they were libraries at first. It may seem silly, but Antinium had no need for written history given our telepathy. When the First Queen realized what they were, she spent ages down there. But Xrn could tell you more of that. Yes, they were vast—often caved in and infested with monsters. Magical artifacts, in hindsight. Mostly, the Antinium stayed away because some of the unleashed magic could destroy entire Hives. I went down there alone to harvest enough safe magic to be digested in Growing Vats or—in this case—for the crystals.”
“You—ate the magic?”
“To create some Antinium. Again, this was before we learned to produce a lot of what we required—each new type of Antinium was akin to an experimental prototype. A thousand would be made, their efficiency and deficiencies noted, and the Shaper Queens under the First Queen would create the next generation. But where was I?”
Klbkch really was a bad storyteller in some respects. He said some things like they were obvious that had people practically gagging—Embria on a bite of eggs—to write this down. But he also got distracted by a single hand.
“Yes. You?”
“You killed them. diDn’T you? You bastard.”
Crusader 57 had just been getting quiet, unusually so, when he sat up. He meant the ‘prototype’ Antinium. He stirred—and Klbkch’s response was calm and even amused.
“Of course not. We added their ranks to new generations—or used the Antinium in auxiliary roles. They were never ill-made. The most promising would even have their deficiencies corrected. They were not like the Queens, you know. The First Queen could do anything. And she made True Antinium. We would kill them for what? They were us.”
“Then why us? Why us Workers and Soldiers by the thousand?”
The Worker exploded, and the other Workers swayed back. Some urgently patted him, because they didn’t want to think of that. Crusader 57, though—never forgot. And to that, Klbkch looked at the Worker, and his response was unapologetic. If you had come to Klbkch for that…in that sense, he was a bastard.
“If you had been created in the Hives of Rhir, you would not look like a pale imitation of Galuc, Crusader 57. You were never meant to be constrained to a single body. I could look around and see not one Antinium similar to another. We failed to keep even a shred of that…that dignity.”
He stared up at the ceiling and then down, and it seemed, then, that Klbkch’s habit of facing a window, looking elsewhere when he spoke, might not just be stage fright. But almost as if he were trying to see something so alien to the world around him…
Even Crusader 57’s rage quieted. For Klbkch’s voice was filled with longing. And guilt. His audience, growing as Workers quietly opened the door to the basement and came up, scaring the hell out of Gothica—sat there next to Relc munching on popcorn.
“The tunnels and libraries. Yes. We called it dorixiidwrf.”
His audience winced as Klbkch spoke in a tongue that was only meant for insects. It had a hint of the ultrasonic to it. But Klbkch was already moving on.
