Viscount Visophecin didn’t rise to the bait. Both of them knew that judicial and military matters wouldn’t entangle the other. Plus, the Lucifen moving out of their role as judges freed them up for other tasks. Rhisveri just disliked the person whom the idea had come from.
“I am simply—rising to the occasion.”
“Then should I have the event broadcast?”
Here was the thing about a Wyrm and Lucifen. Ryoka might see two comparable beings of great power working together, and Visophecin was often the cold calculus to Rhisveri’s initiative, a good match sometimes.
—But without her to make them show off, they did sometimes snipe at each other. In this case, Visophecin’s face was straight, but he was calling Rhisveri’s bluff.
The Wyrm didn’t sweat. But he did nearly miss a step.
“Why—why not? I doubt we can convene Wistram News Network, but have it on our local ‘television’ broadcast. It will be a demonstration of our abundant talents even if it’s only ‘the Duke’, rather than Itorin himself.”
“I’m sure it shall be a sight even my fair cousins will be inordinately stunned by. I shall have all of House Shoel watching. And recording your moment.”
“No—you needn’t, er—it’s a simple task. Barely worth televising, really.”
Suddenly, Rhisveri felt oddly nervous. Which was stupid. But Visophecin was smiling. He never smiled. The Lucifen gave him a full Avelian salutation, the most ostentatious bow you could give.
“For you, Rhisveri, I shall have it ready in an hour.”
“So soon—was it an hour? Are the ch—I could reschedule.”
“The children will be ready. Perhaps His Majesty, Fetohep himself, may even watch the broadcast. I shall reach out to Wistram News Network as best I can.”
“I—doubt we should trouble them. Where?”
“The Solar Classrooms, I believe. Princess Oesca shall be in attendance along with the commonfolk children and nobility. A group of sixty.”
“Sixty?”
“I believe you said, and I quote, ‘if this Fetohep can entertain one, I can entertain sixty’. We have cleared the classrooms of all props and the usual toys and books. I leave it to you to decorate ahead of your arrival in…fifty-six minutes. Excuse me. I must hurry to get the scrying spells in place.”
Then the Lucifen was striding off. And Rhisveri opened and closed his mouth and wondered if he’d bitten off more than he could chew.
Fifty-six…fifty-five minutes. Solar Classrooms. Right. Rhisveri began to walk through the corridors of the palace at a sedate pace. Then—when he was certain Visophecin was gone—he began running. He only stopped when the Lucifen stepped out from behind one of the pillars and asked if anything was wrong.
Visophecin smirked.
 
——
 
What was going on here? Well—well, let’s just think of current trends. Newsworthy broadcasts.
As in, Fetohep of Khelt’s rather pompous showboating to the world. Splendidly done. That magnificent shiny dress, his shows of his richness—and his ‘proof of good rulership’, such as being able to walk through a city without seeing the ailments of poverty, hunger, and so on.
He’d already publicly embarrassed a number of cities and nations with his ‘impromptu checks’. And he was so popular apparently Wistram was discussing having a separate channel dedicated exclusively to him.
None of that bothered Rhisveri, of course. His nation would have passed any of Fetohep’s requirements with flying colors. Which was doubtless why it hadn’t been showcased.
In fact, people didn’t speak about Ailendamus enough. It was practically a paradise, a technological leader, and far, far larger than puny Khelt. Which meant that Rhisveri was that perfect ruler.
He had just the way to prove it, too. A number of rulers, from [Lords] to the King of Avel, had taken up one of Fetohep’s challenges to…hilarious results.
That being—entertain a child or children for eighteen minutes, or an hour, using only your own personal talents. It had attracted record viewers on Drassi’s channel, and she’d even split coverage with Sir Relz and Noass because of how popular the recordings were.
Mostly because…they were live. And they ranged from everything like seeing a [Lord] trying to impress a bunch of frightened children and shouting—to the King of Avel shooting his famous bow past a group of children and then leaping for cover when one aimed the bow at him.
And the King of Avel had been one of the more successful clips. The funniest ones were when the [Lords] got nervous. There was a now-famous image of one of Chandrar’s [Emirs] hiding behind a curtain after getting stage-fright from an uppity little Stitch-Girl.
Of course, some [Lords] proved they could do it and thus won a great deal of popularity. For instance—the rising star of Izril. The now-famous name of that great [Lord] had been doing the rounds on the broadcasts last night.
 
——
 
The [Lord of Love and Wine], Lord Pellmia, did a forty-five minute broadcast where he demonstrated how wine was made, everything from the picking of grapes with an enthusiastic bunch of children to squishing them in a messy—but laughing group.
A nearly flawless demonstration of natural charm and understanding of children. The grape-treading was horrifically gross to some species who hadn’t realized that was how you made grape juice and wine. Like Dullahans.
But Lord Pellmia, juggling peaches while he danced about with the children in the grape press, had probably doubled House Quellae’s usual sales for the month in a day.
As Fetohep would remark, ‘there stands a [Lord] well aware of both the business of his lands, the nature of his people, and his own talents. A threefold man, where most of these half-wits are equally half-men at best. 8/10.’
 
——
 
It had everything for the modern viewer. Funny antics. Powerful people embarrassing themselves in real situations. And a snarky and critical host in Fetohep.
Naturally, Ailendamus had considered doing the same. But King Itorin wasn’t the most interested, perhaps wisely seeing how other rulers had fared.
It wasn’t even natural charisma you needed—you had to be good with kids. Not necessarily a skill other rulers had. Some, like King Itreimedes of Avel, had the ego to drag everyone around with him to mixed results.
Others, like the Sleeping Queen, Geilouna, were canny enough to invite children for a sleep-over where they could eat snacks on beds, gossip with her, and pet her menagerie of animals.
She still got a 5/10.
Rhisveri, though…Rhisveri had told Visophecin to arrange a trial of his own. Not that he answered to Fetohep!
He had been alive when King His-Xe had been causing trouble! Well, born in that time. Yes, Khelt might be a bit older than he was. But Fetohep was a gnat of a ruler. Rhisveri was just…proving to outside viewers he could do anything the King of Khelt thought was admirable.
The Wyrm was a master of all abilities after all. He could fight in multiple bodies, cast magic, and he was a renaissance man of countless talents.
Entertaining children? H-how hard could it be? Especially with Visophecin broadcasting it, damn him.
He wouldn’t get Wistram News Network here on such short notice. All Rhisveri had to do was get some props. And, uh—sixty?
What kind of an activity involved sixty children? Wait, how old were they? They were Oesca’s age, right?
 
——
 
It occurred to Rhisveri, forty-eight minutes later when he peeked behind the curtains, that maybe Visophecin was holding a grudge for something.
Not telling him about the Scroll of Resurrection? Or refusing the Dragonthrone? Or exiling Ryoka until she found a Dryad?
There could be any number of reasons. It occurred to Rhisveri that, given the extensive scrying orbs ready to record the room—that Visophecin might have manipulated him into allowing the recordings.
They were already in the palace and setting up when he approached me. I’ll melt that devilish bastard. A credit to his entire species.
The last thing Rhisveri hadn’t considered was this: Princess Oesca was here, and she was a bright, capable young woman. Young, yes, but nine years old. Capable of stringing together a sentence without drooling much. Able to wipe her nose.
She was…the oldest child in this room by far. Visophecin had intimated she would be the average age. But in truth, the children were three to seven at best.
You bastard. He was here, in person, with half the Lucifen in the palace watching with their faces perfectly straight in the background. Rhisveri was staring in horror at sixty children, some of whom were already crying—and his props?
 
——
 
The broadcast was being televised via Wistram News Network and on Ailendamus’ local channels. King Itorin II, when he had heard of it, had cleared his schedule for the day.
Something after his talks with Ryoka had told him that it would add years to his lifespan if he watched—and he was not wrong.
It started as gloriously as Itorin could hope. After the introduction, through which some of the children had begun asking ‘where’s the snacks’, Rhisveri appeared behind a royal purple curtain. He had a number of servants helping him—and his own impressive magics, which levitated his props into the room.
“I am Duke Rhisveri of Ailendamus. Brother to King Itorin II, who has come to entertain you all. I trust we shall enjoy ourselves so immensely we are without recourse but to laugh with delight.”
He entered with his head held high and his voice ringing. Two children instantly tried to hide between Oesca. She was the only one who clapped…and the clapping petered out very quickly.
“I believe I shall have some Quellae wine. And snacks.”
Was he smiling? Itorin II, who had been taking tonics just in case his hairline receded further than it already had—almost felt like the hair follicles were regrowing in real-time. And it got better. When the Duke paused and swallowed, he did rally. The first time.
“I’ve prepared—an object lesson in fine baking. Which we shall all attend. Let’s mix up some of Ailendamus’ fine—fine—cuisines…”
He looked around at the children, which he had definitely assumed to be Oesca’s age. In other words—capable of rudimentary cooking. The servants placing bowls in front of the children watched as the first toddler promptly opened a bag, knocked over all the flour in a poof that caused a dozen more to sneeze—and another stuck an entire dirty hand into the pot of butter.
“I—assumed your collective ages would be older. But fear not! I have also prepared wands for you to—”
One of the [Head Servants], possibly a nursemaid, actually grabbed Rhisveri in the bravest act of any of the staff and told him—in whispers that Itorin could practically hear—that you did not give pointy wands capable of casting dangerous magic to children. Especially children who put things into their mouths.
Rhisveri’s face mottled—then went white. The room was dead silent now as the guests not aware of what this would be coughed or tried not to look at him.
“I—I have musical instruments next. A dulcimer.”
He was copying Fetohep! Itorin II’s ribs hurt. His wife was giving him a look of deep concern, but he wiped tears out of his eyes. He had to see. He had to—
All ten of the Lucifen began applauding wildly as Rhisveri was handed the dulcimer. The rest of the room, [Mages] and camera-people included, applauded, and the children did too. Ahead of the music. Rhisveri gave Visophecin a look of pure hatred.
House Shoel were pure evil. When Rhisveri began playing—oh, it was glorious. Itorin II began hiccuping.
He was playing classical high-brow music. The kind that required quiet seating, the right company and mood—and probably more wine—to appreciate.
The children listened for about twenty seconds before one began speaking.
“Is—is this—why is the scary man here? Where’s Teacher Minni? Where’s the toys?”
“Where’s the toys?”
They were getting upset, and several began crying—assuming that Rhisveri had taken away the plentiful toys and objects that adorned the Solar Classrooms. Oesca made it worse by trying to help.
“It’s just Duke Rhisveri. Don’t be scared! He’s going to entertain us.”
“I don’t want him! I want Minni!”
Then half of them were pointing at one of the beloved palace teachers, who was waving with a pained smile from the side. Rhisveri kept playing, trying to smile.
If you tuned into Wistram News Network’s broadcast, you could get live commentary from little images of other rulers in the sidebar. Fetohep was just staring, mouth open slightly, while Drassi shook her head in complete disbelief. Queen Geilouna was drinking her entire cup of wine.
Several servants looked at Rhisveri and the man’s increasingly reddening face, and then Teacher Minni rushed forwards and clapped her hands.
“Alright, everyone. Big smile for me! [Who Can Smile]? Let’s have a snack and a short break!”
She made a smile with her fingers. The faltering dulcimer cut off—and the children obliged her with a smile. That they could smile was good—a [Teacher]’s Skill to make sure all was well.
They cheered up, and the crying stopped as a snack was quickly procured and divided up. The snack, incidentally, had been meant for the half-hour break in this hour-long performance of Rhisveri’s abilities.
How long had it been?
Seven minutes. Itorin called for more snacks and to make sure this was recorded and shown across his great lands. In honor of his brother.
 
——
 
“Seven minutes?”
Rhisveri’s face was grey behind the curtain as he wiped sweat pouring off his brow. He—he felt like the Dragonfire of Teriarch hadn’t been as hot as this.
He had feared fighting his actual brother less than going out behind that curtain.
“We could cut the broadcast, Your Grace? Perhaps magical interference?”
One of the servants seemed ready to do it just to save Rhisveri. But the Wyrm just knew his face was going to be all over the television if he didn’t—didn’t—
Okay. First step. [Grand Fireball]. Throw it out the window. Then, if they aren’t impressed, another one for the entire room. Aim at Visophecin.
No, he couldn’t do that. C-could he?
Whatever you do, don’t cry. Don’t shout. Don’t beg. Hold onto a scrap of dignity.
“Wh-what’s next on the schedule? What else do we have?”
“Er…you were going to teach them the art of Drathian folding? Little paper cranes and such?”
Rhisveri stared at the colorful pieces of paper and the sample. He stared at the children.
“Those wretches will blow their noses on them and eat the rest. What else?”
“A lesson on Ailendamus’ history and General Dionamella’s sacrifice? We, uh—have a painting of her?”
The servants were staring at him with such intensity he didn’t need telepathy to read their thoughts. Please not a history lesson. Please not—
