Jelaqua had a small bag of colorful corn and regular stuff from the north. It was very pricey, and she figured that if they tried it, the Dullahans would love it. Milden glanced towards his father as he took the bag.
“Thank you, Jelaqua.”
She smiled at Milden; of all of Maughin’s family, she liked him most, and vice versa was true.
“No problem. Hey, did you catch the King of Destruction tearing Nerrhavia’s Fallen a new one?”
He perked up a bit.
“I did. They cut the scrying spell too early. He rampaged straight through the pikes, just like you said.”
Jelaqua snorted.
“Ah, that’s what I keep saying. At his level, it doesn’t matter if pikes beat horses. You can’t out-number a guy like him. Back when I was in Baleros…”
She was going to spin him a yarn about her time as a commander when Mordol spoke up.
“Milden, the customers.”
The younger Dullahan stopped and gave Jelaqua a guilty glance. He bowed his head to his father, and Jelaqua waved a hand.
“Sorry, you have to go.”
She smiled at him as he got back to work. Then she stood around for a moment…until someone else approached her.
“Miss Ivirith. Good morning to you.”
The last member of Maughin’s immediate family was Linteca. She made Jelaqua’s stomach hurt less than Maughin’s parents, but it was still awkward around her.
She was twenty-eight. Youngest of the family—Maughin was nearing forty—and the least-respectable member. Before Jelaqua, she would have been considered the problem-child, but it seemed Miss Vhiren was getting on great with her daughter. Because her daughter’s isle of discontent had been eclipsed by Jelaqua’s moon of problems.
Linteca was a Street Runner, you see. Not a City Runner, which was respectable. She was twenty-eight, pulling minimum wage in a very unrespectable job in Pallass, even if she had enough work. The city needed Street Runners constantly with its millions of people. Even so, for a family like Vhiren’s…no.
Mordol had succeeded the family business and so was a good kid. Maughin was the great [Smith], a beloved class by Dullahans, and the best in Pallass, so unassailably fantastic despite his oddities with his wife; his parents would never disown him. But Linteca?
Jelaqua happened to know that Maughin gave her some gold each month so she could have more money to spend and so she didn’t have to live with her parents. Despite that, she didn’t like Jelaqua…Maughin thought it was a way for her to get on her parents’ good side.
“Hey, Linteca, how’s the running going?”
Jelaqua smiled, and Linteca bowed her head stiffly.
“It is busy as ever. I brought the towel to your door.”
“Oh. Uh—thanks. You know how it is. Maughin and I can’t mind our own strength.”
Damn, they’d given Linteca that job? Jelaqua flushed. Linteca gave her another bland expression.
“Yes, I am sure my brother cannot mind his strength.”
And Jelaqua was almost done with the passive-aggressiveness for the day. She wished she had a monster to punch. She smiled, tight-lipped. Her Drake’s tail curled into a knot, which made one of the Drake clients freeze in horror; Drake tails should not move like that unless a Selphid was controlling them.
“—Well, I’ve got to get going. I’ve got some fancy meetup to get to.”
“Oh, with who? Fellow adventurers? I thought they were all in the New Lands. Unless these are more retired veterans such as yourself?”
Linteca raised her eyebrows. Since Jelaqua was annoyed, she went petty and smiled airily.
“Adventurers? Oh no, it’s just some Walled Nobles. You know, a brunch between that sort? Maughin’s too busy to attend, but I figured they’d have good sandwiches.”
Mordol glanced up from the counter, and Linteca hesitated. Jelaqua just knew Vhiren would hear that. She hoped the old harridan exploded out of jealousy.
“I’ll see you later. Good luck running, kid!”
Jelaqua headed out of the store and then slumped as she left. Well, so much for mending bridges. Here would be a moment when she found a friend to vent about Maughin’s family.
If she had one.
But her team was gone, and in their absence…Jelaqua hadn’t really made a friend in Pallass. Not yet.
 
——
 
The problem was her social status and who she hung out with. As a former adventurer and current [Wife], Jelaqua didn’t have a circle to get together with. Ideally, it would have been Maughin’s friends or family, but the Dullahan community was pretty standoffish.
But hey, you were a new wife, you could hang with the others, right? Again, Jelaqua was handicapped because she was, unwillingly, not just some housewife, but a socialite.
Maughin was Pallass’ best [Smith] with Pelt gone. Which meant he ranked above your average household. He wasn’t old money, and so he lived on the 7th Floor, but he was important, so that was how Jelaqua found herself sitting in a parlor next to Drakes, Gnolls, and a single Garuda in the middle of high society.
She hated it here. All the other wives and husbands were heads of Guilds or Walled Nobility, and they had a bit of an elitist attitude towards a common [Smith]. Much less his adventurer wife.
And their conversation sucked.
“So, as I was saying, this New Lands venture is completely untenable. I’m pulling out my investments.”
“Really? Are you sure, Minsvi?”
A Drake [Wife] was speaking airily to the table they were all sitting around, and a few of the other wives gasped. They were mostly [Wives] with that exact class; not many people with a job had time to hang out in the mid-morning.
[Trophy Wives]. If not that exact class…they looked good. A Gnoll was turning to Minsvi as Jelaqua sipped on some coffee and munched on a decent sandwich. You’d think they’d have better, rich as they were, but it was just a crustless piece of bread with fancy ingredients and zero compositional ability. Minsvi nodded importantly.
“My husband—he works at the Merchant’s Guild, Miss Ivirith, just so you know, and he knows everything—he said that multiple [Merchant] expeditions have lost everything. Just everything! This Consortium of Enterprise he was following? The last [Message] they sent was that they’d lost all their magic, they were running low on food, and their hired help were threatening to rebel!”
“Dead gods! What a disaster!”
Everyone was discussing the New Lands, and the group tittered with dismay. Minsvi nodded as Jelaqua eyed the sandwich plate.
“I told him to pull all our money out, and you should too! There’s no profit in the New Lands.”
“But we have a caravan already on the way, and we’ve invested a 30% stake in it!”
Stressed, one Gnoll stood up and turned. She was Senator Eriff’s wife, around his age. Minsvi nodded to her.
“Well, get it back! It’s better than watching all the gold vanish. Even adventurers are fleeing the New Lands. After all, without magic or food, it’s hopeless, isn’t it, Miss Ivirith? You wouldn’t take your team into that nightmarish land, would you?”
In a heartbeat to get out of here. Jelaqua tried to smile around and noticed most of the [Wives] giving her fake smiles. They didn’t like a Selphid among them any more than the Dullahans. The problem was…few people were used to Selphids in Izril.
The dead body thing, her species, unnerved them. Jelaqua doubted she’d do this brunch again. She wished Maughin were here; at least then he’d be able to talk to the other husbands and she’d be able to stand with him.
Another problem Jelaqua had was her tongue. She just couldn’t hold it. Oh, she could be nice if she had to, but when she was asked a question, she liked to be truthful rather than to play into whatever people were saying. So she shrugged.
“Eh, my team? If it was the Halfseekers at full strength, we’d go into the New Lands. Mind you, we’d hate losing magic, but if we were forewarned, we’d do it.”
“What? Without magic or food?”
The group was askance, and Jelaqua took a sip from her teacup. She slurped too loudly; half of them winced, and the Garuda hid a smile behind her beak. Jelaqua blushed orange, but then she went on.
“Pardon me. Whatdya mean no food? You just mean we can’t grow it. There’s plenty to eat if you can hunt. My [Rogue], Seborn, he has a knack for sneaking up on things. So long as we’re around something edible, that’s food. And our [Green Mage], Moore…he could tell you what we could eat.”
Moore. She swallowed hard, but forced a smile and went on.
“No magic’s hard, but most [Mages] can generate a bit. Moore could…could have gotten some from the ground, I reckon.”
“But Miss Ivirith, what’s the point? If there’s no magic, all these ruins are worthless! Nothing to explore. No magical animals or plants!”
Miss Minsvi was determined to be a wet blanket. She waved a claw, and Jelaqua fixed her with a kindly eye.
“Aw, well, it seems bad right now, Miss Minsvi. I feel bad for all the folk who went in not knowing how tough it was. But there’s always something valuable in a place like that. The land itself.”
“Land where you can’t use magic? What use is that?”
Jelaqua counted on her fingers.
“[Farmers]. [Ranchers]. If there’s good ore, a [Miner] would be there. Free land is great, ‘specially if it’s not hard to clear and use. More than that? Sure, let’s say this magic-draining thing affects all the New Lands. Anything above Artifact ranking is still going to have magic in the ruins. Plus, there are highly magical beasts I’ve heard. You hear about The Adventurer’s Haven coming under attack?”
They had not. Jelaqua had to explain that.
“That’s a lot of value. Not easy value, but any adventuring team might hunt those monsters because that’s gear you could never buy. Most importantly, though, I think there’s one last trick to the New Lands.”
She was staring at the sandwiches, all of different types on the tray. Was she going to gamble on another one? She could use a bite, but that last sandwich had been pretty mediocre. Everyone leaned in.
“Which is…?”
Jelaqua blinked.
“Oh, well. If the magic’s all going somewhere, where’s it going? It’s always somewhere, right?”
That was just logic. She’d journeyed with enough [Mages] to know that. Jelaqua expounded on her statement as she reached for a sandwich.
“Seborn says that there’s places in the ocean that drain magic—but Drowned Folk reckon it’s a beast or something down there. If I were in the New Lands, I’d take my team hunting for the source of the mana drain. If it’s an object, spell, or monster, that’s where the money’s at. So I don’t know about pulling your money out of the New Lands. But if you’re saying there’s nothing there, I disagree. Politely.”
She smiled at Minsvi, who glowered as the other wives murmured. Jelaqua was about to take a gamble on a tasty-looking flatbread when someone reached out.
“Why don’t you take one of these, Adventurer Jelaqua?”
The Garuda woman passed her a seemingly fruit-filled sandwich that appeared highly suspect. Jelaqua hesitated, but decided to take the gamble. To her surprise, the ‘fruits’ were actually pineapple, which went decently well with some roasted chicken! She munched on it, pleasantly shocked it was made well.
“This is good!”
The other [Wives] were debating the New Lands venture more quietly, ostracizing her, but the Garuda woman leaned over.
“I made it myself, actually. You’re exceptionally knowledgeable, Miss Ivirith! Or is it Miss Dulamet? Forgive me, we’ve met at the last get-together, but Werdin and Maughin were talking the entire time. I’m Melika.”
“Oh, pleased to meet you. Wall Lord Werdin’s wife?”
The [Socialite] was vaguely familiar, and she had some colorful feathers and a hefty golden necklace with a huge emerald on it. Definitely the wife of a rich man—Wall Lord Werdin Blackwing was from one of Pallass’ biggest noble families.
For all that, Melika seemed genuinely friendly and fascinated.
“We have some business in the New Lands as well, so hearing it’s not a complete waste of time is a relief.”
“Ah, well, I wouldn’t put much stock in my words. Just seems to me that if they’ve bought all the goods and hired everyone, there’s not much gold to get back. Everything’s a huge gamble like this, so I’d bet on a big return rather than wasting most of my gold, you know? Not that this is advice!”
Jelaqua hurriedly clarified, and Melika nodded.
“Of course not, but I might repeat a bit of what you said to Werdin. He’s been so stressed…”
That was when Minsvi spoke loudly.
“Unless Pallass’ army can do something, I think he should be! Melika, your husband knows General Edellein, doesn’t he? Is there any news from the New Lands? I’d trust his opinion over a former adventurer’s any day.”
Melika frowned at her as Jelaqua sighed internally. But then the Garuda snapped back.
“Only some kind of super ice-bird, which, just as Miss Jelaqua said, is a sign the New Lands has magic! Minsvi, you’re being terribly rude. I think Miss Ivirith would be more happy to speak to anyone with earholes to listen—over by the window?”
Then she stood and beckoned to Jelaqua. The adventurer blinked, then rose, and Minsvi hesitated. But a third of her group glanced between her and Melika and clearly thought the Garuda was better to follow—when Jelaqua got up, another third decided to follow.
The two groups split, and then Jelaqua was staring down at a view of Pallass from the grand glass windows, and Melika was smiling at her.
“You were talking about The Adventurer’s Haven, Miss Ivirith? We went to it when they visited—such a grand inn! I had no idea it was in the New Lands!”
Jelaqua blinked at her, and the suddenly-attentive ladies, and then wondered if Melika wanted something from her. At the very least, she wasn’t being sneered at, so Jelaqua took another bite of her sandwich.
“Sure? The inn? It’s probably one of the most defensive structures in Izril. More than a fortress! Now, if it was under attack that bad…”
 
——
 
After an hour, Jelaqua decided she liked Melika. The Garuda might be a [Socialite], but she was sharp! Less of a vacuous airhead than her class and demeanor suggested.
Of course, she was still a rich lady of Pallass, but who wasn’t in this room? That she listened to Jelaqua was nice, and she had some weight socially speaking. Whether that came from her husband…
He showed up after an hour with some of the married men, who chatted awkwardly in groups of their own. There was a very funny gender divide with speaking with the ladies, but it seemed that Jelaqua was an exception as an adventurer.
“Adventurer Ivirith, I hear you had some opinions on the New Lands? Did you hear about the ice bird that stopped the entire Walled City’s forces for a day? I heard it took two Named-ranks to break the wall!”
