And then they had sex.
The sex was spontaneous. Organic—dead bodies were still technically organic, right?—and fun. The Selphid jumped on the giant Dullahan, wearing a fresh Drake’s body, and Maughin made a surprised, gratified sound.
“Again, Jelaqua? Are you sure we won’t wear out your body—?”
“Hey, all the nerve endings are intact, and we’re married. Get that codpiece off, you silly [Smith]!”
The details of the sexening were not necessary. It was common enough in Maughin’s 7th Floor home, next to the smithies, that if they didn’t have soundproofing spells, the neighbors would have definitely called the Watch. But as it was, the rather large home with rooms and hallways sized for someone of Maughin’s considerable height—nine feet—was rich.
Soundproofing spells on the walls and even a miniature forge attached to the Dullahan-style building with its crablike design and thick, thick walls were signs of wealth. Just like the glass windows and marble flooring in the entryway.
Of course, other Pallassians thought such houses, sometimes referred to as ‘Dull Houses’, were eyesores. They didn’t show off like traditional Drake architecture, and Dullahans favored an austere style of wealth. Like…stone flooring instead of putting a carpet down everywhere. Cold as hell unless you lived in your padded armor. Or were a Selphid.
Jelaqua didn’t mind it at all. She’d been actually very nervous about having to take care of a garden. She’d heard it was traditional for wives to do gardening when they got married, but Jelaqua had the opposite of a green thumb. And stone floors meant you could sweep it a lot easier than having to beat a bunch of carpets—and she wasn’t quite down with hiring a [Cleaner] or help.
It was little things like that which helped the married life.
And the sex.
 
——
 
Afterwards, they lay together in post-coital bliss, and Jelaqua grew insecure in about sixteen seconds after happily laying with Maughin. They weren’t cuddling as Dullahans didn’t really do that. The armored folk of Baleros were private, so Maughin’s armor came back on the moment they were done—his interior ‘self’ was a lot more sensitive and vulnerable than even regular Human flesh, so, again, like a crab, he instinctively covered up.
Dullahans were an odd species even by the standards of the myriad groups in this world. They were more divergent from the typical humanoids—a half-Elf, for all their longevity, had most of the same biological functions as a Human, but Dullahans were more different, with detachable limbs and armored bodies. Weirder. Harder to understand.
As a Selphid, Jelaqua related. The fact there was a Dullahan community in Pallass made them outsiders, even if there were generations of native-born Pallassians here. But Maughin had come from Invictel; he was a Dullahan who knew home and pined for it.
One of the reasons they’d liked each other when they met. Strangers far from their homeland. But you found a new home wherever you went—and love? Oh, she’d found it at last.
Jelaqua Ivirith, former Gold-rank Captain of the Halfseekers, Selphid, [Steelforged Whirlwind], the Selphid known as ‘Jelaqua the Tempest’ during her time as a mercenary in Baleros, lay in bed. Happy. Again, for sixteen seconds. Then she peeked at Maughin.
His head was on the bedside stand, having come off his body. It was reading a book; he’d been too distracted to read a minute ago, but now he had reading spectacles on and was perusing ‘Ponderings on Metallurgy, A Treatise on Forgotten Metals and Ores of the Waning World’ by some writer. He had a smile on his face, but Jelaqua coughed anyways.
“Um—that was fun!”
“What? Oh, yes, very.”
Dullahans weren’t that expressive, so that sounded dismissive, but it was actually encouraging. They were shy too, in a way. Jelaqua paused, then went on.
“I don’t think my body’s bad. It doesn’t smell, right? And it’s holding up in all the right places? Nothing—mushy?”
This time, Maughin had to pause a moment. The nature of Selphids was that they inhabited dead bodies. You had to be okay with kissing an animated corpse, but even he had limits. Jelaqua worked hard on her ‘social’ bodies to make sure they were preserved and, well, not corpse-like. He coughed as his body stretched out a hand to cover his mouth.
“Yes. Very fresh, Jelaqua.”
“That’s great, um, Maughy. Dear.”
They both paused. The nickname wasn’t quite landing. After a moment, Maughin’s body turned, and he regarded Jelaqua with his head.
“I enjoyed it, Jelaqua. I always do. You don’t have to do it because you think I want to.”
He blushed faintly. He was so open and direct compared to some Dullahans—but they were in private. Jelaqua relaxed a bit.
“Who, me? Of course I enjoy it! I just worry…aw, nevermind.”
Relieved, she rolled over in bed. Maughin went back to reading, and Jelaqua sighed. Married life. Her, a Gold-rank adventurer, married. She couldn’t believe it. She was still so happy.
And terribly sad. Moore and Ulinde. Jelaqua closed her eyes, but she didn’t cry or Maughin would think it was his fault.
The Halfseekers are gone. And it’s my fault. We saved lives. It’s over. I’m married now. Be happy, be happy—
It was easier when they were like this. She could believe the world was indeed that sparkling rainbow of happy-ever-after she’d wanted as a small Selphid. But then the sun rose. And the problem with married life—at least, with Maughin—wasn’t him.
Not him, the dedicated [Smith] who genuinely loved his strange new wife despite all her quirks.
No, the problem was being…well. Married to a Dullahan.
He had family.
 
——
 
Her name was Vhiren Dulamet, a common last-name. She was a [Baker], Level 28; nothing special, but she had enough to operate a bakery with her husband, Mordol, and they had a son working as an assistant [Baker] on the 7th floor of Pallass.
Not prosperous; they were middle-income at best, but they’d moved up in the world, literally, since their son was Pallass’ best [Smith]. Vhiren was 5’6’’ and had decorated metal armor that was quite elegant and impressive given her actual status. Again, made by her son. She had grey hair cut in a short bob, and her armor was polished white, which actually worked well because flour didn’t get that noticeable on it.
Jelaqua feared her more than an Adult Creler. Every time Maughin’s mother came over, she squirmed around inside her body, and Vhiren came by so often.
“I brought bread, Maughin. Fresh-baked. I hope you are eating well?”
“Very well, Mother. Jelaqua was just making breakfast. Will you eat with us?”
Vhiren hesitated.
“Oh. No. I have eaten. I will just sit and talk. Is there tea?”
Such polite words. They hid levels of meaning so deep you had to be there to understand the nuances. For instance, Vhiren was sitting with her head on a table as Maughin’s body fed him breakfast. Her body was moving about Jelaqua and Maughin’s living room-kitchen, opening cupboards, ostensibly to put the fresh bread somewhere.
Investigating. Critiquing. And the dialogue—well. Bringing fresh bread to her son was a natural thing for a [Baker] to do! It didn’t imply that Jelaqua was failing to keep the household up.
The same with not being hungry—it wasn’t a deliberate slight against Jelaqua or a refusal to eat what the Selphid was making. Unless you read it that way. The same with the comment about tea that Jelaqua instantly began to make.
You should have made it already. I can’t believe this is my son’s wife.
Vhiren didn’t say it, and her face was too polite to suggest it, but she didn’t like Jelaqua. Maughin, by contrast, was very respectful to his mother and made small talk about their business, the things in Pallass—Jelaqua joined him for breakfast, which was roasted corn-on-the-cob with a hearty side of braised beef dipped in a sauce she’d bought from a local [Saucemaker], very good.
Maughin’s mother eyed the food.
“Such interesting cuisine, Miss Ivirith. Do you not know any traditional meals? I could lend you a cookbook.”
Jelaqua hesitated, wiping her hands on a towelette. She tried to smile at the old Bagrhaven.
“I, uh—I know a few recipes, but I’d love to borrow a cookbook, Miss Vhiren!”
She was spared from having to say more by Maughin glancing up from a newspaper he was reading. He spoke with the hint of a frown.
“I like her cooking, Mother. I asked for the corn. It comes from a specialist [Farmer] up north. I had it once in Liscor and liked it. I am working long hours at the smithy today as well.”
“Oh, of course. Which farmer is it?”
Instantly, Vhiren abandoned her line of questioning. The slight at calling Jelaqua ‘Miss Ivirith’, the implication she couldn’t cook—they were all digs. And Maughin didn’t miss them. His frown, his slight censure of his mother…Jelaqua held her breath, feeling elated and unhappy.
Vhiren left soon thereafter as work was beginning. Maughin glanced out the window; it wasn’t even dawn yet. Both Vhiren and her son worked the early hours, and Jelaqua was used to it as a Gold-rank adventurer. When Vhiren was leaving with an empty basket, Jelaqua turned to Maughin.
“You didn’t have to—”
“She was being rude. I can tell, Jelaqua. I know everyone says females of any species talk in code, but it is direct enough if you listen.”
He put down his newspaper and began to clean his plate, and Jelaqua wrung the towel between her claws—she still had the Drake body.
“But you’re fighting with your family! It’s such a—a—”
A problem in Dullahan culture! Maughin censuring his mother in any way was already extraordinary. That she came over and they were civil was because they did care for each other, but the Dullahan’s face developed a stubborn cast.
“The rift began at our wedding. She will not relent; neither will I. I am not wrong. She will see it, or we will continue forging our opinions against each other.”
A Dullahan family drama. Jelaqua hung her head, and Maughin patted her arm.
“It is not your fault they are prejudiced. Come now, Jelaqua. How can I help you smile?”
Because he meant it, she smiled. It was even genuine as she kissed his head on the cheek, and he put it on his shoulders and prepared to head out for work in his forge on the 9th Floor.
“I’ll see you tonight! Good luck with the big wagon order! Is it all New Lands?”
He grumbled softly in his chest.
“New Lands or replacing what was bought up. Ridiculous. One moment they have no need for good wagon parts because ‘Wistram is superior’, the next everyone demands it because magic is missing from the New Lands.”
She grinned up at him.
“Nice to be appreciated?”
“I hate wagon axles. I’d rather work on the Adamantium…I will be back late. Please, do not wait up for me. Farrier Bealt is teaming up with my forge to handle a hundred and twenty wheels by midnight.”
Dead gods, that was a lot. Even for a [Smith] like Maughin who had lesser [Smiths] and [Apprentices] under his command—but he could do the work. Jelaqua nodded.
“I’ll be heading to that fancy get-together at lunch. You couldn’t…?”
He shook his head.
“I’m sorry, but I cannot take an hour.”
She knew that and sighed. Then she smiled and pushed at the small of his back. She was so strong she could shove even him towards the door.
“Well then, get to it! Wait, your lunch!”
She grabbed a wooden box and hurriedly activated the cooling rune, then shoved it into Maughin’s hands. He smiled at her as he began to stride down the still-dark streets of smooth stone, towards the elevators and the 9th Floor. Jelaqua waved at him, then stood in the doorway a moment.
Around her, the dark homes of her neighbors were beginning to light up, and she inhaled the scents of Pallass through her dead body’s nasal passages. Whenever she had a fresh body, she savored every sense. She was lucky; she had plenty of dead bodies, and Pallass was big enough that she could get more. She could smell the faint whiffs of alchemy from above, baked bread from behind her, and the tang of metal which hung around Maughin’s house. She couldn’t tell if it was chilly or not, but the spring air felt fresh enough.
“Okay, Jelaqua, another day of marriage.”
She snapped her claws, then glanced over her shoulder. First order of business?
Replacing the towel she’d accidentally ripped by twisting it. The problem with being a Gold-ranker was that she was too strong. The good thing was she and Maughin were wealthy enough.
The bad thing about being married was…Jelaqua was still unsure what to do with herself. She hadn’t realized it, but being a [Loving Wife] was, uh, sort of hard.
She was a Level 38 [Steelforged Whirlwind] after the Winter Solstice. Lower-level than you’d think for an adventurer and mercenary’s life of over 33 years, perhaps. Too many other classes.
A Level 11 [Loving Wife], newly consolidated from her [Lover] class. Plenty of great Skills like [Body: Slow Decay] or [Body: Fresh Flesh] so she could be more living with Maughin and less horrifically gross. That was her real class, anyways. [Wife]. Her new life…the rest of it was behind her.
Level 23 [Mercenary]? A different life.
Level 26 [Bounty Hunter]? Another period, another continent. Consolidated into her main class with [Mercenary].
Level 6 [Sullen Fisher]? Never again, thank you. Jelaqua stretched and remembered a miserable Selphid girl pulling fish up on the shores of a village and then stared around the City of Inventions.
“Life’s good. It really is.”
She was fifty-eight years old, and she’d lived a lifetime of other classes and jobs. That wasn’t as long as it would be for a Human since Selphids could live longer if they didn’t get the Wasting. But it was a full life, unlike that of half-Elves. For an adventurer? Ancient.
Jelaqua would get used to the wife thing. The first thing she did, in fact, was try to make peace with Miss Vhiren.
It, uh, went as well as it always did.
 
——
 
Jelaqua waited for twenty-six minutes at Steelforged Loaves, the bakery that had an image of Maughin drawn proudly on the signboard. Only after she waited patiently that long did Vhiren send out someone from behind the counter to get rid of her.
“Miss Ivirith, can I help you?”
It was her son, Milden, a thirty-one year old Dullahan still living with his parents. Mordol, who was running the counter, didn’t look at Jelaqua, though some of the mostly-Dullahan customers were giving her the side-eye. They knew about her, of course, and the fight Maughin was having with his family. But no one said anything in public. Dullahans were terrible gossips.
“Hey, Milden, I’ve got some of that fresh corn from Farmer Lupp. I reckoned I’d share some.”
