“¡Es un alien de verdad! Pero es más bacán que estos lamecerdos. ¿Dijo que era qué? ¿Una aventurera?”
They seemed to like her, especially when Jelaqua showed them her muscles and mimed throwing Troydel. The young man from Poland was engrossed in a translated series of questions when someone else came over.
“Hey, did I hear you guys are from Peru? We’ve got a Spanish-speaker here! Marco, c’mon!”
A gaggle of four Earthers approached from Oteslia’s camp. They also had fruits and vegetables, which the two boys instantly perked up on seeing. Jelaqua grinned at a nervous young man—they were all young, but he was twenty-five, maybe?
“Well, you speak common. Jelaqua Ivirith, former Gold-ranked adventurer. I’m just here as Troydel’s friend since no one else could make it. And you are?”
He blinked at her, but smiled faintly.
“Ertan, from Turkey. Ah, um, [Entrepreneur].”
“What kind of class is that?”
He gave her an embarrassed shrug as three more came over, one boy, two girls.
“It’s my class. From Earth. I got it when I came over. We all were at the ruins of Troy—they’re all tourists. This is Marco, Cidney, Anh… ”
Each one from a different nation, apparently, but they all had a far stronger command of the common tongue. Troydel introduced himself hesitantly.
“How long have you been here?”
“Only two months. We were working in Oteslia when they found us! Did you say two years? Are you part of the Spirited Generation? Does anyone have a working phone? And the list?”
Cidney was from Austria, Anh from Vietnam, Marco from Portugal—when Troydel heard that, he got very excited.
“I know someone from Spain! Joseph!”
“Joseph!”
Everyone but the two young Peruvians knew that name. The word drew over more Earthers, and one bounded over.
“You know Joseph? Is he coming?”
“We were saving up to visit him! I sent him a [Message], but the Mage’s Guild says he got too many—”
“Are we all going to live together now? I hope so! I can’t stand where we are! We can’t walk around without an armed escort, and they’re all getting ready to fight giant ants all the time!”
It was a babble of voices, and then everyone was shaking hands, asking where the others were from, and trying to date when they arrived. Jelaqua smiled as she introduced the concept of ‘Selphids’. The only group that knew her species, in fact, was the Fissival one.
“We knew a Mage Sa’la at the academy! This is so cool—Troydel, you’re one of the oldest Earthers we’ve met! Only Elena was here when you were! But of course, we’re not all from the same time. What year do you remember being on Earth?”
One of the Earthers with more familiarity about this world was named Andrea. There was Saif, Eun, Jacques…they had an exasperated familiarity with their Fissival agents they were trying to get away from.
Troydel frowned at her.
“I’m from 2018. I knew someone from 2016.”
“2016! It’s been…five years since then!”
“Five years?”
“¿Qué está diciendo? ¿2016? Pero si estamos en 2025…”
The Earthers were comparing dates, which alarmed them as much as Jelaqua when she realized what was going on. She held up her hands.
“Hold on, hold on. You’re saying only two years passed for Troydel, but as many as six years passed for you all?”
“Yes! Six years!”
“That can’t be right.”
“Nine.”
That came from Inti, softly, and provoked a sudden silence in the room. The Earthers glanced at each other as the excitement drained from every face. Then Eun, a South Korean [Student], turned to Troydel.
“Are you the only one from Pallass? Did you lose anyone else?”
Troydel gazed at Eun for a long moment and swallowed.
“Not me. I mean, sort of. Yes. I know some others who died.”
Eun nodded, somber. In the resulting silence, someone began to cry. Jelaqua pushed agents and Earthers aside and found a young Earther from Salazsar’s section.
“Hey. Hey, kid. It’s okay. It’s going to be okay, alright?”
Her contingent had seen losses. The way they reacted to Troydel’s words, and the expressions on the other Earthers’ faces, told the Selphid a story. Those who’d seen fellow Earthers die—and the dawning horror on those who had been spared that so far.
The girl that Jelaqua was holding was nearly as pale-skinned as the Selphid and had blonde hair and pale eyes. From somewhere cold, Jelaqua guessed. She stared up at the Selphid and flinched as she felt Jelaqua’s cold hands, but the Selphid was murmuring to her.
“Hey, kid. It’ll be okay. Just breathe. What’s your name? Troydel, introduce yourself. We’re from Pallass.”
Someone spoke as Troydel came over to squat and hold out a hand. Jacques, who hailed from Ireland, flushed as he raised his voice.
“God damn. God damn it. This isn’t funny. This isn’t fair. Why is no one from home doing anything about this? All the scientists and all the news—and now we’re here, being held hostage by these bastards!”
The professional billiards player pointed at the agents of Fissival, and a rumble ran through the Earthers. The two Peruvian kids glanced at each other in alarm as the [Mage] refused to translate that—but Marco did. Jelaqua saw one of Manus’ agents lift a claw to his earhole, then call out.
“Break! We’re calling a break—Manus’ agents, disengage!”
Then Drakes and Gnolls were there, and the Earthers were protesting.
“Wait, you can’t—”
“Let go! I want to talk to—”
It descended into chaos, and Jelaqua turned to Zemize. The Pallassian agent hovered there, but didn’t grab Troydel as he tried to hold the hand of the Earther in Salazsar’s care and spoke, urgent.
“Hey, just send a [Message] to Troydel, Joseph, or The Wandering Inn if they let you, okay? There’s more of us and—”
The Salazsarian Gemskeepers were trying to separate them, but Zemize held out a claw. She didn’t grab Troydel. She looked like she knew Jelaqua would hit her if she did.
 
——
 
The flight back to Pallass was silent until they landed in Pallass. Troydel kept staring back at the place they had been camped, and all of his nerves had turned into a longing to go back.
“That was fucked, Zemize.”
He managed that after a while. Zemize opened her mouth, and Jelaqua spoke over her, staring out a window.
“What did you expect? They know they’re captives, and you put them in a room like pigs you were trying to fatten up. They’re all going to be unhappy. You’d better arrange more meetings.”
“We will. We want them to be happy, but each Walled City is territorial—”
Jelaqua turned her head.
“They’re children. What is Zeres going to do to their two boys? Make them build weapons of war?”
“They’ll be treated well.”
“They’d better.”
The entire affair left a sour taste in Jelaqua’s mouth, and her tastebuds were all but nonexistent in this body. But if there was one positive effect, it was on Troydel.
“I’m gonna write them all letters. I can do that, right? Joseph and Imani and the others will want to too!”
Zemize held up a claw.
“Troydel, you cannot tell the others about this. If you try, I will stop you and restrict your access to the inn.”
He wore the most stubborn expression Jelaqua had seen so far. He stopped, gritted his teeth, then the [Engineer] swung around.
“Well, I can write them and meet up, right? I’m going to do that! And those other Walled Cities have no fucking clue how to charge up a smartphone, except Fissival! If they want to find out, they’d better—better let us meet up! I’m going to the inn.”
“You can’t—”
Troydel shouted at Zemize.
“To get recipes from their countries from Imani! And her snacks! And a bicycle and soccer ball—I can do that, right?”
He stormed off so fast that Zemize had to run to catch up, calling for backup. Jelaqua unfolded herself from the Pegasus’ carriage. She remarked to the air as she watched Troydel running.
“Hey, he looks older already.”
She was mildly proud of him. Jelaqua hoped his determination stuck.
 
——
 
There was nothing she could do about the Earthers in other Walled Cities. One Selphid couldn’t do much other than get herself in trouble, but Jelaqua still walked around Pallass for a while, thinking about everything.
Making weapons of war. Each city probably trying to find more Earthers, build their technology. But what the heck does that mean? You can’t copy something like a flying carpet overnight. They say they’re building these…‘guns’. I didn’t see 2nd Army with them. I bet it’s the work of years, not months.
A lot of chasing big projects that might pay off, but like Felkhr’s flying, would only appear in the long term. In the short? Jelaqua sort of thought the Walled Cities were paddling through a poo swamp with Wailer Frogs underneath their boat. Compared to Wistram, they were moving at a snail’s pace.
No wonder they were so upset. In their race, in their hurry, they were letting things fall behind they, ironically, shouldn’t. Like the Engineer’s Guild. What Pallass needed, what Maughin needed, and Jelaqua herself, was a spark of change.
Not the slow-moving rock of the shifting tectonic plate of industry and civilization, but the burning spark of innovation, the crackle of change that arced into the future at a speed that caught the eye and swept everything up with it.
You could not predict nor call upon that power easily. But you could cultivate a place where it appeared. For that…there was always that building which had defined so much of this period of her life.
The inn.
 
——
 
This time, Liska paid more attention to Jelaqua.
“Oh shit. It’s you. Hey…you! Not going back to Pallass yet, right? I, uh—hold on—where’s my speaking stone—here’s the door to the inn. Right here, see? Door.”
She got up and actually ran to slap the door to the inn for some reason. Liska began panicking the moment Jelaqua appeared, and the Selphid sighed.
“No, I’m not heading back right away. Sorry if I missed Lyonette or someone.”
“Someone, yes, right. Uh, how can I help you?”
“Actually, I’d like to go to Esthelm.”
She wanted to speak to Pelt on Maughin’s behalf. However, it seemed like the inn wanted her. Liska’s eyes slid to the door.
“Why don’t you, uh, uh, go to the inn? We’ve got a special on all Selphid guests.”
“Oh, really? Do I eat free?”
Jelaqua was tired and played into the game. Liska nodded a few times.
“Yep! Go ahead!”
She gestured, and Jelaqua stepped out of line—and so did a pale-skinned Gnoll, who brushed at his fur.
“A Selphid eats free special? Parent’s tits, what a strange city! I like it. Hello, Sister.”
A Selphid traveller grinned at Jelaqua, and she laughed at Liska’s face.
“Brother! Where are you from?”
“Oh, Baleros, but I came to see the New Lands. Scout it out for home—”
They headed into the common room, chatting, and Jelaqua winked at him as Asgra ran up.
“Hey, my friend is here for the Selphid eats-free-special? I might have to leave you, Brother. But if you’re in Pallass, let’s have a drink!”
The happy Selphid accepted a menu as Asgra stared at him, then Jelaqua, then ran to tell on Liska. Ishkr slapped his face at the bar, but then came over with a smile to welcome the Selphid.
And Jelaqua saw them looking at her, and this time, perceived the difference in their expressions.
“I…think there’s either something really good, or really bad you have to tell me.”
She commented to Peggy as the Hobgoblin came over to take her order. Peggy hesitated, then nodded.
“Yah. You want something real sweet first? Not spicy. Is really bad when you get snotty and touch eyes.”
Jelaqua laughed.
“I just ate, actually, and I’m all sick from the air. Can I get something to settle my stomach? Just a juice or…”
She took one mouthful of blue fruit juice when Peggy came back.
“You, uh, want to go inside the [Garden], Miss Jelaqua? Real quick. Okay, not quick. Also, here.”
She handed Jelaqua an entire roll of toilet paper. Jelaqua stared at it.
“For your eyes.”
Well, that wasn’t ominous at all. The Selphid sighed as she walked into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Oh…her eyes travelled up to that mist-covered hill as the door closed behind her. No one was in the garden. Well, Apista, flitting from the yellow…flowers? Jelaqua stared at them. Then she came up the hill and bent down.
“These aren’t Faerie Flowers. What happened?”
They were just ordinary yellow flowers. She felt shivery when she saw that. And she knew something terrible had happened. Something vast. The Goblin King had pushed a hole through the wall of the inn, but even she had trouble believing it.
Then she heard the door open and sensed something appearing behind her. It closed—then opened again. Two people? A voice murmured.
“Oh shit, here we go again. Uh—the flowers got destroyed, Jelaqua. It’s…a lot happened. It’s really good to see you.”
That voice. Jelaqua blinked as she stared down at the flowers. Then the Selphid closed her eyes and sensed the two behind her.
Someone middle-sized behind her, lean enough, and someone very tall, taller than Maughin, even, standing just beside him. 
No. No…it was close, but not quite the same dimensions she knew. But even so, she felt her actual body writhing as she froze and then stood up. She turned slowly.
Then she saw Kevin’s face and the torso of someone impossibly tall, a billowing cloak of green and brown surrounding him. Jelaqua stared into Kevin’s eyes and his pained, happy smile. Only for a moment.
Then she gazed up, and her face crumpled up.
“Moore?”
He stood like a statue himself, and she realized he had a huge beard, far grander than the one she knew. He was taller and older and…stronger. It rolled off him, a casual aura of power.
Moore. Not Moore.
Lord Moore’s face was filled with frozen pain. As of someone seeing a dead woman. A ghost. Kevin glanced between the two and realized that if this was Jelaqua’s first moment seeing her friend…
Lord Moore of the future had lost Jelaqua Ivirith years ago, fighting the Mother of Graves. He leaned on his staff as if it were the only thing keeping him up. A half-Giant whose voice croaked as he tried to explain, tried to say—
“Jelaqua. A strange miracle allows us…you and I in one spot is—I would have found you, but I feared—”
Words failed him. He raised a hand, then lowered it, afraid to touch her or make the first move. Kevin was apprehensive too.
Those who witnessed the dead returning to life often wept. But they could also—rage in denial or lash out in hurt, regrets. He stood back as the Selphid gazed up at Moore, and the strangest thing happened.
