Unlike Pelt or Hedault, Imani or Troydel, or anyone else that Kevin had met since his return, from Zevara to Fierre…the Selphid woman did not seem surprised when she saw the two of them standing next to the rain pouring in from the ceiling of the domed [Garden of Sanctuary].
The Selphid stood, a seemingly young woman with orange eyes, her dead body swaying in the breeze, like an undead. But what undead could smile like that? For one moment, she was shocked—and then the most graceful smile touched her lips. Understanding and calm.
It was so surprising that Kevin’s and Moore’s own trepidation and grief turned to shock, and they gazed at her.
Jelaqua nodded once.
Suddenly, it all made sense. Her peaceful days, the oddities, everything. She murmured as she reached out, and Lord Moore recoiled—then let her touch his chest. She put a hand on it gently, then reached up to tug his beard with a faint smile.
“You look so old, Moore. So much more distinguished. Where’s Ulinde?”
“I—I—she wasn’t with me.”
That was all he managed. A voice so filled with pain that she closed her eyes. Then nodded. She gave Kevin a smile so radiant his knees turned weak, and he thought Maughin was the luckiest guy ever.
“Kevin, you rascal. You look just right. I wished I could have said goodbye. I’m sorry I missed your funeral.”
“That’s okay. I know you and Moore and Seborn and Ulinde were…you guys were real heroes.”
He croaked. Jelaqua nodded. Then she spoke softly as the inn’s staff and family peeked into the garden, as Apista buzzed down and then away before she cried. But the Selphid’s words hit them all, like her class. [Steelforged Tempest]. Everyone could catch what she threw.
“Ah. This is so much kinder than what Erin described. Or no, she said it was like this, didn’t she?”
Moore and Kevin blinked at her, unprepared for this strange statement. Then Kevin understood; Lord Moore could not. He had never had this conversation in his world. Kevin stepped back.
“Jelaqua, you think—”
The Selphid gently beamed up at Moore as she stood on tip-toes and reached as high as she could to cup his face in her hands. She nodded to Kevin.
“I never got up, did I? This is such a fine dream. So much better than I could want or deserve. But this…?”
She gently tapped Moore’s cheek, and he flinched, then realized what she believed. His eyes widened, and Jelaqua stepped back. At peace with herself. She turned to Kevin and shook her head.
“I don’t need it. This is enough, Kevin. I was staying away from here on purpose. But I’m happy, I am. Tell that Goddess of Death, or whomever she is, I’m ready now.”
There was no point reaching for a flail. No weapon she could wield. Now that she knew she stood in the lands of the dead, in this dream, perhaps the final dream before she passed on, the Selphid breathed in and out and gazed at Moore, and her heart shook so much she almost believed it was still beating.
She waited
—and waited
…and waited to wake up.
