“Archmage Eldavin is very sympathetic to those entering their advanced years, especially in homes with multiple floors. So, he has enchanted a ‘Magical Elevator’ which can rise and fall with ease. A simple flagstone or other object, even a cushion, becomes a free-floating object! This is a very pricey enchantment, but imagine it! Having an elevator like those around Pallass in your home! Without sound or breakdowns…”
Okay, that was it. Jelaqua actually stepped forwards at this point.
“Hey, I’ve seen a lot of magic in my time, and I have to try this.”
No one just made a [Levitation] spell like that, much less in an enchantment! It had to be fake—Moore couldn’t do that, and he was Gold-rank, and neither could Ulinde. If they could…
The Selphid tried her best to disprove the floating cushion. When it lifted her into the air and people gasped as she rose six feet, she did a huge hop and stomped on it.
The [Mage] below her flinched.
“Miss, Miss, there’s no guardrails or safety spells, you’ll hurt yourself—”
“Don’t worry; Selphid. I’m just testing—”
She grinned at him and then threw her weight from side-to-side, trying to destabilize the spell. If it was just a lifting spell, it’d go sideways and hurl…
The cushion didn’t move. To her dismay, Jelaqua swung herself under the floating object, trying to see if it was actually a sneaky spell that pushed up from below, but there was nothing to interfere with. She swung herself back on top of the cushion, and it was solid as a rock.
The [Mage] seemed incredibly smug as Jelaqua inadvertently sold the enchantment better than he ever could. As it lowered her down, he spoke.
“Invest in your old age or just add a phenomenal new spell to your home today!”
Speechless, the Selphid stood there. She stared down at the levitating cushion and felt, suddenly, old. And young.
This is magic of a kind we never had. Everyone was wide-eyed, gathering around it. It made her feel like a Bronze-rank adventurer seeing a [Fireball] for the first time. And Jelaqua thought—
If this is what they’re coming out with now, what will the world be in a year’s time? Who the hell is this Archmage Eldavin? 
He was truly an Archmage like the old ones, then. Jelaqua wondered, as the [Mage] began informing people they had backlog on orders and receiving his first requests—
How much money is Wistram making on all this?
 
——
 
Jelaqua went drinking that night. Not because she was depressed about the advancement of magical technology—that was actually fun. She just…had nothing else to do.
Seriously, she was as bored as a leech on a War Walker’s back. The Selphid took a mug of ale in hand and sat herself down at Tails and Scales, savoring a hot fry-up of noodles and meat from Lasica. Rufelt was at the bar, slinging drinks, and she was grousing to her only friend in Pallass. Acquaintance? Bar-partner?
Her team was gone. Jelaqua drank deep from the ale, then began to eat with the chopsticks.
“I just feel like there’s more to life than breaking in the new bedspread, you know? Not that I mind that. I reckon we’re going for one to three times a day. Two on average.”
“Uh huh. Wow. That seems like…a lot?”
Jelaqua frowned as she slurped up some noodles. Rufelt glanced at her and her partner; he was probably listening, but busy, and he seemed to like her. Her partner…well, they both were allowed in here.
“Maughin sometimes says so, but I don’t hear him stopping me, you know? I think he’s just worried I’m forcing myself to do it. Which—not the case. Dullahans get a bit prudish about sex. But between you and me—we’re all over it. Positions and everything.”
“P-positions?”
Her partner was eating their stir-fry and listening hard. Jelaqua lifted two fingers.
“Yep. He knew two. But we were doing this yesterday. And then this—wait, I need both hands for that.”
Even Rufelt had to turn and stare. After a second, the young man sitting next to Jelaqua swallowed.
“Whoa. Doesn’t that—take a lot of effort?”
She winked at Troydel.
“Selphids don’t get tired. And a [Smith]’s got stamina for days. So where was I? Right, the sex. You can really switch it up. Like—today I’m a Drake. Yesterday, I was a Human. Makes a difference.”
“R-really?”
She nodded, and Troydel’s cheeks were red as he listened. Jelaqua wondered if this was her life now. Troydel, the Earther who worked as an [Engineer] in Pallass, was her only friend.
Barmate.
Whatever. He definitely seemed really interested in all her talk about sex, which she had to admit, she was probably more open about than most women he’d met. She drained her mug.
“It’s a lot of fun, but you can’t fill an entire day with sex. Well, you can—but then he gets sore, and without healing potions—Maughin has work. So what do you do between all of that?”
She had no job. Jelaqua slumped at the bar.
“We do plenty of stuff together; it’s not that Maughin doesn’t make time. But I need a hobby for myself, you know? He’s happy to either be together or alone. If I’m not around, he’s always working on his mistress over a hot fire.”
Troydel and Rufelt both turned to stare at Jelaqua until they recalled she was talking about the block of Adamantium that Pelt had given Maughin. She called that his mistress, which had resulted in a number of very funny misunderstandings…
“How’s the Adamantium going? No one in the Engineer’s Guild says we’ve got that.”
Troydel swallowed his bite of food, and Jelaqua shrugged.
“Eh, he’s figured out how hot it needs to be to forge. So hot he can’t do it, not in Pallass. He nearly melted a hole into the 9th Floor—wait, speaking of, there’s my big lad!”
She saw the familiar figure bow his head as he entered Tails and Scales. Maughin smiled when he saw her; he was covered in soot and smelled of smoke.
“Jelaqua, I thought you were here. I finished early.”
“Maughin!”
She leapt up, and he eyed her mostly-finished plate. Troydel waved at him, and Maughin nodded to him with little more than brief recollection.
“Do you want to sit here or…?”
“I’ve got dinner for you! Let’s go back to our home. You’re filthy! Rufelt—”
“I’ve got your tab, Jelaqua.”
Rufelt waved at her, and Jelaqua followed Maughin outside, beaming.
“So, how was work?”
He grimaced.
“Boring. And I had a setback with my new smelter and forge. I can’t get anyone willing to build me an Adamantium Forge—no one knows how! All the [Engineers] are too busy, somehow. For Adamantium?”
He began complaining, and Jelaqua listened sympathetically.
“You’d think they’d want it.”
“I would, but something’s going on. The Guildmaster of the Engineer’s Guild, Chief Bellien, told me everything’s being diverted. And I can’t forge it without something far hotter than even a Mithril Forge! I just don’t know how, and I’ve had the block for months…I’m failing Master Pelt’s expectations.”
“Come on, Maughin, don’t get down. You’re not a failure. It’s Adamantium. If you learned to forge it in ten years, you’d still be on-track!”
She was then preoccupied with cheering up her husband, and she guided him back up as he grumbled about wheel axles and a new [Apprentice] who wasn’t pulling his weight. Jelaqua was glad to fuss over Maughin and hear him out. She got him dinner in his home and helped clean his armor.
And then they had sex.
 
——
 
The next day, Jelaqua saw Maughin off for work without his mother, which was a relief. She stood in their entryway for a long moment when he was gone, then scratched at her head.
I have nothing to do today. Nor did she want to wander Pallass. So there was only one thing she could think of. The thing she’d been avoiding.
She took a breath, then steeled herself. Jelaqua marched out the door, then came back in and double-checked she had the Demas Metal flail in her bag of holding.
Just in case.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn hurt like an open wound. It was laid open; a product of the latest disaster, apparently.
She didn’t know.
She hadn’t been visiting. When Liska saw her come through the door from Pallass, she waved Jelaqua back.
“Hey, no need to pay! [Ignore Restrictions: Magnolia’s Fees]. Good to see you, Jelaqua!”
“Thanks.”
Jelaqua smiled weakly at the Gnoll. But the Selphid didn’t enter the inn right away. She stood in the entry hallway for a long time, listening to the rain falling.
Here…no, they hadn’t died here. They’d died at Liscor’s northern gates. She should leave some flowers there, though the rain would wash them away. Here was where a lot of smiles had taken place. Some tears, some Crelers.
Jelaqua walked towards the door and hesitated. She rested a hand on the wood—then stepped aside swiftly. An Antinium nearly ran over her.
Rosencrantz? The Worker recoiled and then smiled.
“Miss Ivirith, you have come to the inn! Welcome! It has been so long.”
“Hey, Rosencrantz. I’m just stopping by. Sorry I wasn’t here for the…”
Jelaqua waved a hand, but the Antinium was opening the door wider. She hesitated.
I shouldn’t be here. I don’t even know if someone died—I didn’t come running when the Goblin King emerged. She’d thought about it, but Maughin had seemed so afraid that she’d just stood outside the door to Pallass and…let the [Soldiers] run through first. Not that it had been open, but she hadn’t gone. Not like Saliss.
Yet the Antinium was beaming at her.
“Let me get a good table for you. Please, enter! Miss Lyonette will be so happy, and Miss Mrsha. You have been gone for so l—”
Then he froze. Gazed at her as Jelaqua lowered her eyes.
“Oh.”
Yeah. The last Halfseeker in Pallass followed Rosencrantz to a table, and she saw his demeanor shift. To anxiety. To uncertainty. He didn’t know how to treat her.
Moore was dead. Ulinde was dead. They had fought willingly, but Seborn had just…left. No arguments, no fights like normal. He and she hadn’t killed each other with recriminations. She deserved it, but he always knew how to twist the blade.
They could have run. They hadn’t. And they had paid that final price.
The Halfseekers were done. She hoped he was doing okay.
Jelaqua stared blankly at a menu and saw, out of the corner of her eye, Rosencrantz hurry over to another familiar face. Peggy. He whispered into her ear, and she brightened and began to wave at Jelaqua—then froze.
She and Rosencrantz glanced at each other, then began whispering furiously and pointing. The Selphid nodded to herself.
Yeah. How the hell do you talk to me? She didn’t know how. Erin would come over, and they’d probably cry or brawl, but this was…hard. She wasn’t part of this inn anymore. She was a visitor, a friend, she hoped, but now she was a Pallassian.
After a while, the two servers sent someone over to her. Asgra. The Cave Goblin peered up at Jelaqua as she shoved a glass of water and menu onto the table.
“Hey, Jelaqua.”
“Hi, Asgra. How are you doing?”
“Um. Good? You is gone for a long time.”
The Cave Goblin glanced at Peggy, who made motions at her. Jelaqua pretended not to see as she forced a smile.
“Sorry about that. And missing the Goblin King thing…how’s the inn?”
Anyone die? She wondered who’d tell her. Asgra clenched at her apron.
“Is, uh, is good. You weren’t there, right. You didn’t visit afterwards?”
“No. Sorry.”
The Cave Goblin stared up at her, and Jelaqua avoided her gaze. Asgra’s eyes darted to Peggy.
“So you, uh, not visit since before the pala—the, uh, Goblin King? And not since? Not once?”
“No.”
“Oh. Okay. Right…I just go over here for a second. You order food! On the house!”
Asgra ran off, and Jelaqua saw all three staff members begin pointing furiously, stare at her, and go running away. She sat there for another minute, gazing at the menu, then pushed herself up.
“Hells, I can’t do this.”
She moved away from the table and headed for the door. She could see how hard this was for them. Someone had died, and they knew she was in mourning.
She shouldn’t have come back.
The old days would never come back. Jelaqua walked past a young man who dodged around her with an open-mouth, but she was too upset to say hello, if she knew him. The dead haunted her memories.
Ulinde, Moore, Kevin…someday, she’d be strong enough to return.
Not today.
 
——
 
Jelaqua left flowers at Liscor’s northern gates. There was a small place for them, an altar the Watch had not cleared away. There were, in fact, other flowers there.
That hurt in a good way. She left them—then looked around Liscor, but she couldn’t stay. The Selphid went back to Pallass, and this time, without anything to do, she went to Tails and Scales to drink.
 
——
 
…It was closed, obviously. The bar opened in the evenings. So Jelaqua wandered the city, looking for a place to drink. The trick wasn’t in the open bar itself; there were plenty. It was in finding one not filled with either [Soldiers] carousing before being shipped off to the New Lands campaigns, or mourning the dead of 2nd Army—or both.
Jelaqua had gone to the first funerals with Maughin. By now, she avoided the processions of people wearing white. She knew they were still grieving, but she couldn’t give them her honest emotions. She wasn’t unsympathetic or gleeful; never. But nor could she mourn them.
She knew what they’d gone into the High Passes to do. Whenever she saw a child walking along, Jelaqua had a vision of Goblin children and had to look away.
It was a war. She had been a [Mercenary] Captain. There was never one she’d felt proud of fighting. So, whenever she entered a bar with people wearing white armbands, she just walked back out.
As for the [Soldiers] leaving for the New Lands—Jelaqua hoped that Pallass’ armies could take care of the grunts. She really did. By now, everyone knew about the magic and food issues, so she hoped that at least this wave would be better prepared.
I’m retired. I can’t put my finger on any of this. I’ll just have a damn drink, go back, give Maughin the night of his life, and…continue.
It was so damn hard. And she’d done it oh so many times.
 
——
 
Jelaqua finally found another bar on the 6th Floor, near the Engineer’s Guild. It was named Discombobulated Theorem, and they served her drink in a mug with a gear on it. In fact, they had a complicated mechanism where you pulled on a lever and the drinks sloshed down a funnel into the right mug that was ejected from a dispenser.
In practice, it made all the drinks taste sort of the same because they used the same slide. Jelaqua didn’t care. It was midmorning, and she was…well, not alone in the bar.
A bunch of [Engineers] were actually sitting around. [Mechanics], [Architects], [Builders]—Jelaqua was surprised by how many of them were having a drink for lunch.
