Well, compared to Halrac, Todi, Ceria…Jelaqua might well actually be that since Ylawes would never have come to Pallass. She scratched at the back of her head.
“I’m just a former Gold-ranker, Melika, if I can call you that. I’m trying to be a good [Wife] for Maughin, you know? I’m too low-level, but…”
She saw Melika stiffen a bit and stopped grinning self-deprecatingly.
“What?”
“You—have the class? [Wife]?”
The Garuda seemed suddenly worried, and Jelaqua shrugged, embarrassed.
“I’m only Level 11. [Loving Wife]. You know—”
“Oh. Oh my word.”
Melika’s eyes widened, and she fluttered her wings at the table, shedding a few feathers. She stared at Jelaqua.
“Really? You have [Loving Wife]? Not [Trophy Wife] or—and it’s just that? Not…colored?”
Ah. The Selphid put down her cup and stretched as she gazed over her shoulders.
“Nope. Just [Loving Wife] from [Lover]. It’s actually a pretty bad class—I got the big class consolidation after really jumping Maughin, so now we keep doing it like Corusdeer in hopes I’ll level up. Good excuse for the both of us, anyways.”
She winked at Melika. There was a joke amongst adventurers that jumping into bed together helped you level. In practice, it was probably that adventurers got together after moments of extreme stress and danger, so that was when you tended to hear a levelup, but Melika was just gazing at Jelaqua, thoughtful. Her next words cut Jelaqua like a blade.
“You actually love him, don’t you? Master Maughin? When I heard about the engagement, I did think it was odd given what I know of Dullahan culture.”
The Selphid paused and eyed the Garuda. She was resplendent, her feathers groomed, in one of those toga-style dresses, wearing jewelry, the height of beauty, sophistication, and society.
Jelaqua Ivirith took her measure in an instant now that she had a read on Melika.
“I wouldn’t marry someone I didn’t love. Is it that uncommon in high society? With you and Werdin?”
Melika avoided Jelaqua’s gaze, fiddling with a fork and spearing a strawberry on her plate.
“You can learn it. Skills help, if you’re so inclined.”
“Sounds miserable.”
“Well, not everyone can be a fighter!”
The Garuda sounded too-defensive, and Jelaqua bet she’d heard that before. The Selphid lifted hands in apology.
“I didn’t mean to imply…it’s just a choice.”
“Thank you, Captain. I just didn’t have the talents in other classes to be an artisan, warrior, or—anything else. This has afforded me a life many would envy. It is a choice. If I could have, I might have been an adventurer, but it’s an impossibility for me. I can barely lift an ornamental sword, let alone a real one!”
Melika looked greatly defensive, and this would be a fine moment to apologize—if the Selphid did that. Instead, Jelaqua just stared across Pallass where she could see some Garuda and Oldblood Drakes flying. Pallass had, as a Walled City, lots of Oldbloods. She murmured.
“Not everyone can be a [Fighter], it’s true. But anyone can be a [Mercenary]. Besides, ornamental swords are usually heavier than real ones. If you wanted to start up the life, you could do it tomorrow. Might be harder in Izril since they’re rarer, but I believe you could do it.”
She met Melika’s eyes, and the Garuda laughed.
“I’d be dead in a weekend, Miss Ivirith.”
“Maybe. Or maybe not. It’s the kind of thing anyone can do if they’re desperate enough. I’ve known [Mercenaries] who started older than I am. In their sixties, that is. Old women who couldn’t swing daggers straight who learn the life. You can be a leader or use a wand—if you’re fighting to get to the next day, anyone can do it. Don’t sell yourself short. And don’t let me imply I’m downtalking marrying into a cushy life. I’d have done it when I was a kid, to get out of my no-name village, in a heartbeat. It’s not easy doing that either.”
Jelaqua hoped she wasn’t offending the Garuda, and the ruffled feathers on Melika began to lower slightly, a good sign. Melika pecked at a few seeds in a big spoon, then cleared her throat.
“Thank you for that vote of confidence, Jelaqua. I—I suppose I’m a bit sensitive about the subject. This is from Baleros?”
Jelaqua nodded easily.
“Oh, yeah, home. But it’s like that everywhere. I’ve been on Chandrar all of two years—too hot for me. I hated rotting in the sun, but making a living like that, the rough work, is possible from Chandrar to lovely Terandria.”
Everyone needed [Mercenaries], even the nicest kingdoms. Melika appeared patently envious and leaned forwards.
“You’ve been to Chandrar? May I ask what it’s like? I’ve always wanted to visit, you know—home.”
The way she said it was with that longing Jelaqua was familiar with. The Selphid glanced at Melika.
“You’re Pallass-born?”
“Ever since I was a chick, yes. I’ve always meant to go, but, well, Werdin isn’t interested, and he’s far too busy, and I can’t just up and leave at any moment. Plenty of my friends have gone, and they say visiting the Shield City of Qualvekkaras or flying with a Garuda tribe is eye-opening. Sometimes…discouraging, but I wanted to know if I’d feel the call. I don’t know my home, you see. I wonder if something would awaken in me if I were to fly under Chandrar’s skies.”
There was that longing in Melika’s eyes, like a caged bird, that Jelaqua didn’t like. Because it seemed to the Selphid that was how the Garuda viewed herself. The Selphid coughed into a fist.
“This may be out of turn, Melika. But if you’re thinking of Chandrar as some miraculous land where you’ll find yourself—in my experience, you don’t, usually. Home is where you are. Something you make. Not something people tell you or a place you have to be. Take it from me, a Halfseeker. Home is where my team is. Home is Pallass. I miss Baleros at times, but just because I’d like to kick around the cities there. Not because it’s where I should be.”
She gave the Garuda woman an embarrassed smile, berating herself for sounding so preachy, like she was back with the Halfseekers again. Melika sat with her beaked mouth open and then stared at Jelaqua again.
“Oh my. That sounds so—I feel a bit better for hearing that. I am in the presence of the Halfseekers’ Captain, aren’t I? For a second there, I felt like I was a child hearing your team! Was that the speech you used to give when you toured Drake cities?”
Jelaqua turned so orange her skin lit up.
“What? Damn it, you remember that?”
“Captain, I told you, I remember the Halfseekers! When you were a Silver-rank team with your original teammates, going around and adventuring on behalf of the few—I saw you in Pallass when your team visited! I was twelve, and my mother had no idea why I wanted to see a Silver-rank team so bad.”
Jelaqua stared up at the ceiling. Dead gods, when was that? Twenty years ago? Moore wouldn’t have joined, then, and not Seborn…
She’d been an adventurer so long. Melika was going on, blushing herself under her feathers.
“It meant something to have a team like yours. You had Scorchlings and that half-Elf with you—”
“Jumpin’ Jiorf.”
“Yes! And you’d go to cities and take on quests on behalf of those who needed it.”
Jelaqua nodded, lost in memories. And it paid like shit. No matter what Ylawes claimed. Or maybe Drakes were stingier than Humans. 
But it had been good. Melika went on, lowering her voice.
“When I heard about Garen, I…I’m so sorry. I always thought it was the most extraordinary thing, Captain Jelaqua. Your team was practically Named-rank. Except for having a Goblin, I think it should have been.”
“Maybe. But that was then.”
More regrets. Jelaqua blinked the visions from her eyes, and Melika went on.
“That’s part of why I work with my charity, you see. We give money to those in need and even to children with health-conditions due to—you should visit! You’d be such an inspiration to them!”
Jelaqua started and began to protest.
“Aw, no. I’m nothing inspiring.”
“Please, Miss Jelaqua? It would mean so much for a Gold-rank adventurer to visit them…”
The pleading gleam in the Garuda’s eyes, and also the knowledge that she’d been a fan of the Halfseekers, meant Jelaqua couldn’t refuse. Well, now she had more stuff to do.
And it was honestly good to have a friend in Melika, a real one. The Garuda promised to talk to a few [Senators], though she admitted it was hard.
“Everyone is fully on board the Wistram magic craze. When they realize we’re just giving money to Wistram and none is coming into the city, it will reverse. It’s a silly trend, and those are hard to shake without something exciting that looks good, Captain Jelaqua. But please let me invite you to more brunches? I would greatly love to be a friend with my heroine.”
She gave Jelaqua a shy smile. In response, the Selphid offered her a two-fingered salute and a real grin.
“Now you’re making me feel old, Melika. I’d be delighted.”
And she meant it. Jelaqua’s heart rose as the odds of Maughin’s forge decreased, but she truly did love having a friend.
Inspiring. It was good to know that’s what the Halfseekers had been. It had been such a funny idea from a down-on-her-luck Selphid that no one wanted to party with. A depressed Jelaqua who’d looked around and realized someone needed to smile at people who didn’t fit in.
“Argh. Thirty years. We did it, lads and lasses.”
She stretched outside of Melika’s mansion and raised a thumb as the Garuda waved her off. Jelaqua turned her head, and her teammates stood behind her, a vision so much more ephemeral than Erin’s statues. But more permanent than even the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Written onto her soul.
The Selphid whistled as she walked into Pallass.
 
——-
 
A [Guardsman] arrested Jelaqua six minutes later. She was in line for the one place she knew she could go, had to go: The Wandering Inn.
It was easier these days. You just gave your passport, and there were four doors operating on the 8th Floor checkpoint. Get past the security—and it was easy on the way out, harder on the way in—and then you just waited for the door to open in the nice lobby.
The Watch was there to keep order, of course, and an officer would walk down the line inspecting people casually. But today, a female Drake halted. She checked something and then gestured.
“Miss? Please step out of line.”
“Who, me?”
Jelaqua blinked, but she complied, and the officer asked her name, checked her passport, which was four times as long as anyone else’s—Jelaqua had to register every dead body she had—and then nodded.
“We’re detaining you temporarily, Miss. Please stand here.”
“What? But what did I do?”
“Miss, please step over there.”
Everyone was staring at her. Jelaqua complied as the Drake spoke into a speaking stone and then eyed Jelaqua as if she’d done something wrong. The Selphid soon realized the [Guards] had no idea why she was being apprehended—but she didn’t have long to wait.
“Right here, Agent.”
Someone came striding down the street towards her, and Jelaqua turned as a Drake in civilian clothes, looking like an [Engineer] of all things, flashed a badge.
“I’ll take it from here, [Guardswoman]. Thank you. This way, Miss Ivirith—”
She would have steered Jelaqua off just with that, but the Drake coughed into one fist, nervous.
“Agent, your papers? New protocols.”
The Drake, who was slightly familiar now that Jelaqua was squinting, pulled a face. Visibly annoyed, she fished out a handful of papers, and the [Guard] had to fuss over them for a good six minutes while speaking into a stone before they could go.
“Damn Fissival idiots.”
That had to be because of the Zevara incident. Another thing Jelaqua had to catch up on at the inn—she needed to buy that Drake a drink! The Eye of Pallass pulled Jelaqua away and then nodded.
“We’re bound for the 10th floor. Follow me, Miss Ivirith.”
“What? Why?”
“Pallass’ business. I’ll explain on the way.”
The Drake strode eighteen steps before she realized Jelaqua wasn’t following. She turned and glared, annoyed. The Selphid was standing in the street, arms folded.
She recognized this agent now. Even wearing the guise of an [Engineer], she didn’t quite fit in.
Maybe it was intentional. She just appeared a bit too sharp, too professional for the outfit she wore. She had light green scales, but Jelaqua bet they could change at a moment’s notice, and short-cropped neck spines. She walked like someone eternally on business, a step faster than anyone else—and this was in a Walled City—and spoke like she outranked everything and everyone, they just didn’t know it yet.
Zemize. She strode back to Jelaqua.
“Captain Jelaqua, on the authority of Pallass—”
“I’m not moving until you tell me what’s going on.”
Jelaqua was no pushover civilian. She was a Gold-rank Captain, and Zemize began to snap, then eyed the Selphid’s annoyed composure. She hesitated, sighed loudly, then jerked her head.
“I have a Pegasus waiting to go, Adventurer Jelaqua, and we’re thirty minutes behind schedule! I was searching for you, and we have multiple damn carriages from Wistram who’ll be way ahead of us—carriages from Wistram.”
She said it like that was a particularly stupid thing, and Jelaqua just raised her brows.
“I’m not flying anywhere. If you have an adventuring problem…”
Zemize drew closer and lowered her voice, ominous.
“Nothing of the sort. This is a safe mission, though one you’ll be sworn to silence on. And that you’re uniquely qualified for on multiple levels. It’s your own fault, Captain.”
She gave Jelaqua a semi-sympathetic, unsympathetic eye as the Selphid frowned at her. What could she have done…? Zemize jerked her head.
“Come on. You had to know being friends with Troydel had consequences.”
“Wait, what?”
 
——
 
Troydel’s best friend was sitting in a carriage attached to a team of Pegasi ten minutes later. She stared at her best friend in Pallass. He stared back.
“Hey, Jelaqua. Thanks for coming.”
“I didn’t have a choice! They just grabbed—why am I your best friend? What about Joseph, Imani, or—”
Jelaqua furiously gestured at Zemize as the agent slid into the carriage and spoke out the window.
“We’re secure. Seatbelts fastened. Take us up!”
The carriage lurched, and Troydel turned green instantly. Jelaqua felt her own sense of vertigo, but the Selphid just suppressed her body’s biological urges. Zemize took over as Troydel clung to his seat.
“We have a forty-minute flight to the rendezvous point. You were Troydel’s first pick within the city, Miss Jelaqua. We have standing orders not to attempt the inn, and their confidentiality is beyond suspect.”
“Standing orders from whom?”
