“Hey, lads. I thought you had to be sober to work in the guild.”
She tried to jest with a few of them, and the first [Engineers] raised their heads looking like they were spoiling for a fight. But something about Jelaqua was good at defusing the situation. As if you could sense she was jocular—or that she could put your head through a wall with one hand. After a moment, one of the [Engineers] jerked a head.
“What’s there to work on? Pull up a chair if you want, Miss. Why are you here in the middle of the day?”
“Retired adventurer. What’s your excuse?”
The Gnoll had grease on his fur and the yellow suit of a Pallassian [Engineer], which always got stained with oil. It was a mark of pride, but he growled as he leaned over his cup.
“There’s not enough projects to work on.”
Jelaqua laughed softly.
“Crocodile dick. This is the City of Inventions! I know for a fact that my husband—he’s a [Smith]—can’t get your Guild to do anything.”
The other [Engineers] at the table were two Drakes, a Garuda, and a Human. Not Troydel; they were a bit older. Veteran engineers? All the odder. All of them glowered.
“What he means is there’s no projects, Miss. No budget for it. And if there’s nothing approved, there’s no work. At least, nothing that isn’t shit. Everyone’s either being told to build forts in the New Lands or work on some hush-hush project that only the top-levels work on…or we’re sitting around with barely more than maintenance work!”
That did shock Jelaqua. She eyed the talkative speaker, a Drake.
“How’s that? You’re one of Pallass’ two main forces. Between you and the alchemists, I heard you lot never stopped. Why’s no one approving more projects?”
“We can’t get funding. The Assembly of Crafts gives us work as well as common citizens. But right now, no one wants anything, so we’re saving money. No offense to your husband, but if it’s a project that might require city funding or cost more than we know, it’s not going to get approved. The Guild is in damage-control mode. All because of those bastards at Wistram.”
Everyone in the bar nodded, and Jelaqua felt a light spell activate in her head.
“Oh. Oh. Their new magic?”
All of the [Engineers] glared. The Gnoll raised a paw.
“Their fucking new magic, Miss. Did you see it? Did you see—? Those traitors in the Mage’s Guild are saying it’s better than our work! Because it is!”
He threw up his paws, and half the day-drinkers tossed things at him, but the Gnoll growled around.
“I saw their lifting spells! I jumped up and down on that pillow like I was riding a horse, and it didn’t budge! Some idiot in the crowd asked me if I could build a lifting elevator in their house like that. Soundless? Without any extra space needed? I laughed at him until he turned around and bought a levitating pillow!”
Jelaqua winced. Pallass was famous for its elevators and its gear-based inventions, though!
“Okay, but that’s one thing. There’s plenty for you to make, right?”
Dead silence. One of the Drakes leaned over.
“It’s like Wistram is trying to kill us. We were working on a new concept from the Kid—this moving floor.”
“Shh, don’t tell her that!”
“Shut it, what does it matter? It’s cancelled! Wistram came out with a moving floor spell like they knew we were working on it! Winches and pulleys? How about a dead gods damned anti-gravity rune? Just slap it on a crate of ore and throw it up a floor!”
Oh. Jelaqua remembered seeing those runes. The [Engineers] were practically shaking. With nerves as much as anger.
“The Assembly told Chief Bellein they were thinking of cutting our budget to invest in that.”
“They can’t do that! You’re Pallass’ pride!”
The [Bartender] himself seemed shocked and joined the conversation, but one of the [Engineers] waved a bleary claw at him.
“If the results show that we can’t beat magic, you can’t argue with them. And we can’t. Hells, if that magic lasts ten years, you might as well replace every elevator in Pallass with one of them.”
One of Jelaqua’s drinking partners raised a mug to throw, then lapsed into silence. The Selphid cast around, and it was so damn gloomy in here she felt like she was in apt company. Silently, she slapped a few coins on the table.
“Get me a round for the table, bartender. There’s got to be something, lads. Surely there’s something you can make that magic can’t?”
They regarded each other. One shook her head.
“Even the Kid has no ideas. It’s like all of his ideas are the ones Wistram has—I never thought I’d want him to roll on over to Bellein with a new design, but I’m begging for it. Hells, even that Eye of Pallass was turning all the charms up on him.”
The Gnoll grunted as he drained his mug.
“Hells, I’ll sleep with him if it gets us work!”
Everyone laughed at that and pelted him with mugs. One of the others shouted.
“You want us all to get killed on a zipline? I nominate Oilene!”
“I nominate your sister, Markk!”
“I nominate Markk’s mother!”
That, at least, was funny. Jelaqua grinned until she peered out the window and realized the sun was setting.
“Oh shit, I have to go make dinner!”
Somewhat unsteadily, she got up and ran back to her home. Jelaqua threw together a decent meal, and when Maughin trooped in, she was smiling.
He was gloomy.
“Jelaqua, I just heard the Engineering Guild is in a crisis! Chief Bellein told me I might as well pay Wistram for the forge I need—but I can’t muster that kind of money! The Mage’s Guildmaster himself said it’d cost tens of thousands of gold pieces!”
“I heard about that. Oh, Maughin—c’mere, you. Surely you could build it yourself? I could help with—”
He was shaking his head.
“It’s not just gold, Jelaqua. The amount of heat it’ll take—I don’t know where to begin, Jelaqua. It’s more than just making a bunch of steel. The Adamantium will melt steel like butter in a crucible! How could you…? Well, I have some ideas there, but not for a forge! How was your day?”
Jelaqua hesitated as she tried not to let him smell her breath.
“Oh—you know—I was hanging out with friends.”
“You made some?”
He smiled in relief. She changed the subject fast and got him seated while he complained.
“If only someone would allocate funding back to the [Engineers]! I don’t understand. Maybe magic is more efficient, but Pallass is the City of Inventions, not the City of Incantations! And even they can’t keep up! I hear they’re buying Wistram magic and trying to reverse-engineer it!”
Talking out his woes over dinner took the rest of the evening. Jelaqua swore she’d try to help Maughin…somehow.
“I know! What if I tried to talk to someone important, Maughin? There’s got to be someone who knows a [Senator] or two. I’ll do that; you just work on your end.”
She gave him a huge smile, and he perked up a bit.
And then they had sex.
 
——
 
Jelaqua felt like she was going a tiny bit crazy the next morning. Just a bit. She felt like one of those poor pets they sold in stores. The edible rats. Well, they were all edible. What were they called?
Hamsters. One of them spinning in a wooden wheel. Looking forwards to parts of her day, but going in a circle.
Maybe I should have a kid. Just do a bit of splitting…only, Maughin wouldn’t be part of that. And getting another Selphid to split themselves—no. Maybe they could adopt a kid?
Selphids were one of the few species that there were no fertility spells for. A Dullahan and Centaur would have a baby with far more ease than a Selphid could ever really bear a child with another species’ help. Jelaqua put that out of her head as soon as she had the idea.
She wasn’t ready for that. Managing companies of, well, older children had taught her that it was a stressful life that didn’t solve things. She had to figure this out for herself, and one way that actually did help was trying to resolve Maughin’s issue.
Jelaqua was no well-connected genius. She didn’t have the ear of a [Senator], and Maughin knew a few representatives of the Smithing Guild, but he was already using them. In lieu of ideas, Jelaqua did the only thing she could: she wrote letters to the women she’d met in the brunch and asked them for help, then sent them out via Street Runner.
It was an awkward thing to ask, and Jelaqua was fully prepared for rejection, but the Gold-rank Captain had done far harder things, like begging for gold from clients—this was easy.
Okay, having Linteca trot up with one of the rejection letters wasn’t fun. The Dullahan handed Jelaqua with a knowing gaze.
“Arranging a lunch date, Miss Ivirith?”
Jelaqua snapped back at her.
“No, I’m trying to help Maughin, Linteca! To build his new Adamantium Forge!”
The [Street Runner] wilted slightly in the face of Jelaqua’s actual annoyance. Embarrassed, the Gold-ranker toned down her glare. She shouldn’t do that to civilians. They weren’t her level. She was turning into a real monster in her retirement, like the others.
I can’t do this. I can’t just be one of that lot, who gets married, settles down, and then two years later they’re divorced and back to adventuring. I won’t.
Linteca hesitated—then nodded silently, almost in apology, and trotted off. Jelaqua gloomily sorted through the polite rejection letters, which she knew for a fact you could just get the Runner’s Guild to write for you. Even for Street Runners, it cost gold to send that many letters out!
I should just go bother a [Senator] in person. Though people are still shouting at them about Edellein…how can I help Maughin? Who would know how to convince the Assembly of Crafts or build what he needs?
She had no idea, except maybe a few [Smiths] she’d known, but they weren’t as good as they needed to be. There was only one place that might serve…
The inn.
Before Jelaqua confronted that idea, she was saved—Linteca came running back, breathless.
“Jelaqua, I have something for you. It’s not a rejection letter—I know the stationery. Here!”
She shoved a letter into Jelaqua’s hands. Surprised, the Drake blinked down at the bright blue card and opened it.
 
Dear Jelaqua, I would love to have a brunch to chat! Would you be interested in coming to my mansion? 
—Melika Blackwing
 
Melika? Jelaqua remembered the Garuda, then brightened up. She began to scribble a reply, then turned to Linteca.
“Wait, where does Melika live?”
 
——
 
Melika and Werdin’s mansion was one of the biggest in Pallass. The open skylight, the actual greenery—Jelaqua stared up at it, open-mouthed, and then when someone came to the gates and led her in, she stared at the tree planted in the courtyard until Melika shouted down.
“Jelaqua! I was just setting up brunch! Come on up!”
She was fluttering down from the 2nd floor. Jelaqua strode up the carpeted staircase, staring at the servants and the richness of this place.
“Er, I’m not interrupting, am I, Melika?”
The Garuda was all smiles, and she had more food—fruits snacks from Oteslia and some nuts you could chew on while they sat on a huge veranda staring down across Pallass.
It was richer even than the last place they’d been, and Jelaqua shifted awkwardly, but she’d been in clients’ households before. Melika laughed gaily.
“Not at all! I don’t have that much weighing on my time. I just have the charity fundraiser later tonight—I contribute to a few of them, you know, since I have no job. Aside from that, I mostly just keep up the house and attend social gatherings like the one we were at! But it does get tiring after a time, doesn’t it? Everyone’s gossiping about the New Lands and so stressed…that was the seventeenth one this month!”
The [Socialite] stretched her neck. Jelaqua opened her mouth.
“We’re barely eight days into the month.”
“I know! That’s life in the upper echelons of Pallass, Miss Ivirith. You don’t have to participate, of course. Some of our most famous members refuse to touch high society. But there are benefits. How have you found married life?”
They were talking before Jelaqua knew it. She had a Human body on today and shrugged self-consciously.
“Eh, it’s not hard. That’s sort of the problem. Keeping Maughin and myself fed, managing a household, that’s the kind of stuff I could do blindfolded as a Gold-rank Captain. Then it’s just filling time between making meals. Which, what can you do? I was jumping Maughin’s bones while we were on honeymoon, but now he’s working.”
She realized she might be slightly indecorous and crude, but Melika was rolling with Jelaqua’s more straightforward style in the best example of her class. She laughed, then sighed ruefully.
“I’m afraid that you wouldn’t get much sympathy from our peers. But then, they’re managing a far larger home, Jelaqua. Between finances, a garden, a child—”
“Oh, right. You get one of those and it’s never enough time. Do you have one?”
Melika paused.
“A stepdaughter from Werdin’s last marriage. Salkis. She’s a lovely girl, but in her young adult years, you know? Rebellious, seldom checks in. I worry about her, but I can’t do much. She and Werdin fight like Drake and Gnoll whenever they’re together. I try to play peacemaker, but I think she doesn’t like me much.”
She wore a sad smile, and Jelaqua shook her head. Former marriage? She shouldn’t have asked.
“Ah, well, I appreciate you taking the time to discuss Maughin’s problem. I suspect you’ll tell me it’ll take time and maybe it’s too hard to get the Assembly of Crafts to change their mind, but I have to do something for Maughin. He’s passionate about that, and if he doesn’t actually do something with his mistress, I think he’ll explode.”
The Selphid saw Melika’s eyes widen and realized her mistake.
“Sorry, sorry! I meant that hunk of Adamantium, not an actual mistress…”
The Garuda coughed on her tea and then began laughing as she caught her breath. Jelaqua grinned, orange-cheeked, as Melika shook her head.
“Adventurer Jelaqua, you are a breath of fresh air. May I confess that I’m so impressed by you?”
“Me? I doubt you’ve heard of the Halfseekers.”
Jelaqua waved it off, but Melika insisted.
“No, I have! Of course I have! Your team was so famous across Izril, north and south! You were adventuring twenty years ago when I was a chick…we don’t have that many in Pallass, you know, and none at all in high society, really. I tried to talk to Captain Bevussa, but I rather fear she didn’t like me, and it’s not easy being in Pallass as a Garuda…”
Oh, she knew Bevussa was actually the Captain of the Wings of Pallass? Well, she might as a Garuda. Jelaqua shrugged.
“Isn’t Saliss of Lights around?”
“Yes…but who can talk to him? You’re the friendliest Gold-ranker Captain I’ve met, Miss Jelaqua.”
