Jelaqua was chatting with them and getting some intelligence on the New Lands, as if she would ever go there. She saw Werdin march over as the head of the Engineer’s Guild came in, took one look at the scene, and walked out.
Now there’s a fellow who doesn’t want to be here. Jelaqua had nothing better to do, so she stayed put. She saw Werdin grab Melika’s arm.
“Melika, did Salkis come back? I told you and the staff to grab her! She’s causing more trouble—”
“Salkis? What did she do this time? I don’t know—”
Ooh, marital troubles. Werdin growled at Melika for a few seconds before joining the conversation as if all was well. When he spoke, Melika went mostly quiet.
All of it put Jelaqua’s tendrils in a knot. Drake high society. Eugh. It was so…gendered.
She’d heard Terandria did the same. Most Selphid’s sense of ‘male’ or ‘female’ changed with whichever body they wore. Jelaqua was an exception in that she felt female, regardless, but she could definitely wear a male body if she needed to. You couldn’t be picky about that, but it led to complications that way, too.
Maughin definitely got weirded out whenever she wore a male body and wanted to get cuddly, but he didn’t do the ‘you must be silent when I speak’ thing.
Still, Werdin was impressed enough by her theories on the New Lands. He snapped his claws as he drank some wine.
“That’s an adventurer’s take. That’s what I want to hear! A bit of guts in the New Lands, not just pull the money and run!”
He nodded authoritatively, and suddenly everyone liked Jelaqua. The Selphid rolled her eyes as Minsvi piped up.
“Actually, I happen to know a few Gold-rank teams who are in the New Lands, Lord Werdin, if you were so interested…”
Jelaqua backed out of the conversation on the pretense of getting a drink. She sort of hoped Melika would follow, but the Garuda was glued to her husband’s side. Jelaqua ambled over to the drinks and blinked.
“Wine at this hour?”
She was no lush. Jelaqua grabbed some purified water instead and sighed.
“Ugh, it’s not being served in a proper bottle or glass. Tastes just like water.”
These rich people. She was topping her glass up when someone else poured themselves a drink of water, and Jelaqua saw a familiar Drake toss down the entire cup and fill another one.
“Wh—General Shirka? What are you doing here?”
None other than 2nd Army’s [General] was here! Shirka looked about as happy as Jelaqua had felt, but she turned and nodded at Jelaqua.
“Adventurer…Ivirith? Good to meet you. I’m attending this brunch by way of invitation. 2nd Army is reforming at Pallass.”
She nodded around, and Jelaqua frowned at her.
“Yeah, sorry about that disaster. I haven’t seen a force get beaten that badly since I was in Baleros.”
The Selphid feared she’d put her foot in the cowpat, but Shirka only stiffened a second before offering her a brittle smile.
“At least someone’s not sugarcoating it.”
“Sorry, sorry. You know us Balerosians. No tact.”
“Well, you would know war. As a former [Mercenary] yourself, I mean.”
“Hey, you know about that?”
“You do have a file, Adventurer Ivirith.”
Shirka favored Jelaqua with a faint smile, and the Selphid rolled her eyes.
“You Drakes and your files. So how’s it going? Burying the dead, attending the funerals—agh, it was never easy. Sorry.”
But the [General] didn’t seem to mind. She spoke as a few people drifted towards Jelaqua, then away when they saw Shirka. She was probably doing the political thing, which any commander had to, but she was definitely out-of-favor in Pallass. And she talked to Jelaqua with that familiarity both had with war and armies.
“It’s been a disaster, but it’s not my first war, if that makes sense. Frankly…the [Slayer] corps are ‘easier’ than most, because their classes meant most were single. Dedicated to the fight.”
“Ah. Their families knew what was coming?”
Shirka nodded, and Jelaqua shook her head.
“We had a few of those in Baleros. Not that I served with them—but you get loyalists to every species. Dullahans treat theirs the best, which is weird to say, I know. The Eternal Nobles—sorry, I forget their exact name. Selphids who follow the Minds get a bit weird, though.”
General Shirka grimaced.
“The [Slayers] were certainly a problem for any [General] who commanded 2nd Army. But they were an asset. The fact that they all perished under my watch…”
“Hey, a Goblin Lord and Goblin King appear and everyone dies. Mind you, I’d have pulled my army back rather than face that monster.”
“So would I.”
Oh. That was not a happy expression Shirka wore. Jelaqua hesitated.
“So what’s next for 2nd Army? Rebuilding?”
Shirka drained her cup and filled it, again with the water.
“Yes, retraining and recruitment. It’s a long process, though I intend to have 2nd Army ready for action within a month, if not ready for a war.”
She wasn’t beaten down; that was good. Jelaqua whistled.
“You can recruit that fast?”
“From the other armies and our allied cities? Yes. Bringing them up to standard is far harder, but we drill rigorously. The real problem is our…edge. Our Archmage’s card.”
“Your what now?”
Shirka waved a claw and tried to explain. She grimaced into her cup.
“Excuse me, I’m using internal slang. It’s standing policy for every army of Pallass to have a defining trait or characteristic that they can use against a foe. A ‘secret weapon’, but not that prosaic. 1st Army had exceptionally heavy armor and General Duln and Strategist Chaldion. 2nd Army had our [Slayers], and so on. General Edellein had a rather outstanding [Lieutenant] and a number of specialist units. Without one, we won’t be approved for combat until we find another edge.”
Jelaqua raised her brows.
“Sounds like a real problem to come up with in a few months’ time. Are they just giving out special forces these days?”
Shirka offered her a mirthless smile.
“Exactly. There aren’t many good options, and it is standing practice. This isn’t confidential, incidentally. I have only a few options. One of which would be to demand a hundred Eyes of Pallass with combat capabilities for 2nd Army.”
A hundred [Spies] serving in a combat role? Jelaqua winced.
“Yeah, they’d love taking orders from you. And wouldn’t ever disobey orders. I’d rather have a hundred kids.”
Shirka’s face said she would too.
“It’s one of the few ways I can claim to have a specialty—well, I’m looking into custom armor or something else that can qualify. The problem is that’s not a very genuine specialist unit, even if I arm our veterans up. And the only other option is—worse.”
She stared into her cup and shook her head. Jelaqua was impressed.
“Worse than a hundred [Spies]?”
“Oh, I didn’t believe it either. I’d rather have our [Slayers] again. Sometimes, I see Saliss’ point about Pallass. The things we don’t know and the sins of the city—like wielding a poisoned blade.”
Now, what did that mean? But Shirka didn’t elaborate; in fact, her gaze drifted away, and Jelaqua didn’t get any more from her. Then Werdin was bringing her back to discuss the war in Reim, and well—that was brunch.
It was entertaining enough, and Melika waved at Jelaqua afterwards.
“Miss Jelaqua, I’d love to do this again!”
“Hey, so would I. If you ever have a brunch like this, just invite me.”
Jelaqua smiled, and Melika promised to, but from the glower a few of the other wives gave her, Jelaqua doubted she’d be top of an invite list. Then she was free for the day. Jelaqua Ivirith walked around Pallass.
With nothing to do in the world.
 
 
——
 
Normally, Jelaqua enjoyed her downtime, but that was because it was between adventures. You just ate, relaxed, and knew the good times would end, and you’d be slogging through the mud towards a monster den. But what happened when the good times were forever?
She didn’t train. Oh, she’d swing her flail around now and then, but Jelaqua was no [Warrior] who needed to train muscles; she was a Selphid, and her body determined her strength. Nor was she quite down on wifely hobbies yet.
Cleaning their home didn’t take too long. Jelaqua didn’t garden, and Maughin wouldn’t be back until late, so there was no dinner to make; she’d already put some food in their Preservation Pantry for him to eat.
So she did what anyone with wealth in Pallass did.
Tried to find something to buy.
 
——
 
The Grand Bazaar on the 1st Floor wasn’t super-interesting to Jelaqua; she’d been there a lot, and most of the curios or knickknacks weren’t something she needed. So instead, she attended a more upscale place to spend money: the Mage’s Guild.
The one in Pallass always had the latest magical enchantments, spells, or services on offer. Jelaqua stood with a crowd of murmuring people as the [Mage] created magical, light-based illusions of their latest services.
They’re getting better at that. It used to be they just gave us fancy pictures. Jelaqua eyed some of the things with less interest—she’d seen the magical carriages that were all the rage.
Maughin doesn’t have time to travel, and we have the door. Plus, buying one of those is way outside even our budget.
Same with the Adventure Rooms—she’d seen real adventure, thank you. But there was more!
“We’re now offering advanced magical artifacts, citizens of Pallass! Have you ever wanted to talk to a friend in another city without going through the Mage’s Guild? Now, our Infinite Message Scrolls are 50% off! And we have a new, advanced Book of Messages with the ability to ‘connect’ to anyone anywhere in the world!”
The [Mage] had a book that didn’t really impress Jelaqua; any decent [Mage] could cast [Message]. What was better than a scroll? Which was tempting, though The Wandering Inn had something far better.
The poor Drake charged with selling these items had to cough at this point and mutter into one fist.
“ExceptionsapplynoteverylocationiswithinmagicalreachWistramtakesnoresponsibilityforfailurestoconnectormagicaldamageduetohostilemagicalinterference.”
A portly Gnoll in the front nodded to the [Mage].
“Gesundheit. Why is this book so special, Magus…? More pages means I could have multiple [Message] spells, but that’s not worth that price.”
He pointed at the price, which was sitting at eight hundred gold pieces for the book. Way too high for anyone but Jelaqua, who barely blinked at the fee.
Pretty cheap. Any Gold-ranker would get it, and that Scroll of Messages is only twenty gold? What a steal!
She was considering the scroll when the [Mage] flipped the book open.
“Ah, I’m so glad you asked, sir. This book is capable of creating a ‘chatting room’, wherein multiple people can speak on the same [Message] spell at once! With this, you’re no longer on a dedicated one-way communication spell you need to have a [Mage] link your scrolls to. You can, with ease, write the name of the chatroom up top, here…and voila!”
He wrote ‘Test Room 1’ up top, and instantly, the page filled with glowing text. Jelaqua blinked as she saw a bunch of writing appear.
 
Wistram Academy: This is a showcase of our new Chatting Room feature! Simply write the room you wish, and it will be created for anyone to participate in!
Pheislant’s Mage’s Guild: Exactly! You can also add colored text without needing new ink—in fact, these don’t use ink at all—your complimentary quill will write it for you! Reusable pages! Hello from Pheislant, the weather is cloudy with a chance of rain!
Reim’s Mage’s Guild: Speak to penpals across the world with ease! You can also have multiple conversations going on at once, and all our [Messages] are encrypted with Archmage Eldavin’s magic! The weather is hot and sunny!
First Landing’s Mage’s Guild: For an even more premium option, we offer spellbooks with quills that can auto-write for you as you dictate or read each message aloud! This is just one of the new items coming from Wistram Academy! It’s a bright, blue day over here, weather of 72 degrees! That’s 72 Feldivals’s, our new universal measure of heat!
Elvallian’s Mage’s Guild: ELDER CRELER ATTACK! ABANDON ALL HOPE! THERE ARE THOUSANDS POURING OUT OF THE GROUND! FLEE! FLEE FOR YOUR LIVES!
Wistram Academy: Identity verification services are also available for a small subscription fee! Be careful whom you talk to! Children under the age of thirteen are advised to have a parent when using this product. Wistram Academy will never ask for personal information…
 
What a product! If she’d had that when she was adventuring, Jelaqua would have been talking to other teams or back home…she was counting up their monthly budget.
She was rich. She had fifty thousand gold pieces from the Village of the Dead alone and a smaller fortune saved up, but Maughin didn’t want her to spend her money on him and vice versa.
Jelaqua was running a home like a good [Wife]. She was helping cook, supporting him, trying to fit into Pallass. Not because she felt like she had to conform to his parents’ vision of a respectable bride. She knew she’d never do that.
It was just that it was easier to throw herself into this life she had. If not, then she just had two more graves. A team she’d led to their deaths.
She’d go crazy, so worrying about a budget it was. Jelaqua hummed to herself as if she still couldn’t smell the snow and blood, hear the Hag Queen laughing. Healer Demerra had called it ‘disassociating’, but what did she know?
I’ll have to ask Maughin about this, but I think he’d love to have other [Smiths] on the line! More than one customer was asking about the book and if there were discounts for a smaller one—but the magic didn’t end there. The smiling [Mage] hurried over to another display.
“If you’re interested in our magical items, remember, Wistram Academy is the only institution with such magic, everyone. No one can compare! Any aspiring [Mages] can learn any Tier 4 spells with our new teaching program, and we are now offering dedicated spellcasts! For instance…[Vermin Purge]! Do you have a pest problem in your house? Do you suspect you do? A [Mage] can eradicate them all in a moment and ward your house with our new line of ward spells!”
Dead gods, he had everything. Jelaqua’s brows rose as the [Mage] began offering tons of crazy things. Not just new ward spells that were going to last longer than a year—they had a decade guarantee of good service!—he was showcasing the craziest thing yet.
