“The Grand Strategist. Troydel asked for someone to go with him to the meeting. Congratulations.”
Jelaqua turned back to Troydel, who was trying not to look out the window.
“Oh fuck, oh fuck—”
“Where am I going?”
The Selphid shouted so loud one of the Pegasi stared over its shoulder, and the [Driver] called for them to be quiet. Zemize hissed as they fell silent.
“Captain, you are to be discreet, and you are sworn to silence on Pallass’ authority! You will provide moral backup to Troydel, who will gain intelligence for us and act according to the outline I gave him. Troydel, have you memorized the list of prompts? Where’s the packet I gave you?”
“I—I, uh, I think I left it behind!”
He felt around his seat, and Zemize’s eyes bulged.
“You what—”
Jelaqua was glancing from the young Earther to Zemize, who seemed stressed, irate, and fed-up all at once. The Selphid harrumphed.
“There’s no way you two slept together. Let alone you hitting that target three times.”
The Eye of Pallass’ glare could have stripped paint off wood. Troydel turned beet red, and Jelaqua turned her ire on Zemize.
“Where are we going? And if you get cute, I’ll rock this carriage so hard it goes upside-down. I might survive a drop. You won’t.”
That threat made even Zemize get refreshingly honest. She spoke quickly.
“You’re aware, of course, of the Earthers, Captain Jelaqua.”
Erin had never had a full conversation with the Selphid, but she’d kept her ears open. She grunted. Zemize gestured at Troydel.
“Troydel is the only Earther under Pallass’ nominal authority. He is heading to a very secret meeting with—”
She sighed
“Wistram’s magical carriages carrying several other Earthers. Those who have been located by other Walled Cities. Principally Fissival. A…well, just a meeting between them. Any information gleaned from them about their world, technology, or whereabouts of other Earthers is of vital importance. Wistram as well, though it’s out of date.”
Oh. That made sense. Jelaqua blinked at Troydel, who was rubbing at a grease spot on his hands with nerves.
“I can’t do this. I’m stressed, Zemize! Why couldn’t you get Imani or Joseph? Everyone’s going to ask about him or the inn, and I can’t explain shit!”
“I tried to get Coach Joseph, but my superiors vetoed it. He’s not Pallassian.”
Zemize snapped back. Jelaqua just sighed. She put her feet up on the seat.
“So you lot finally figured out the Earther thing, huh? Now you’re all running around? I bet every nation and company, from the Four Great Companies to the smallest kingdom, is doing the same.”
The Agent of Pallass didn’t reply. She just pulled out a file and began to coach Troydel on what to say. But the airsick Earther and Jelaqua weren’t having it. The Selphid put a hand on Zemize’s arm.
“While I’ve got you—why is the Engineering Guild underfunded right now? It better not be because everyone’s buying Wistram magic.”
Troydel and Zemize turned and, interestingly, both developed a sour expression. Zemize grunted.
“That’s a move from the Assembly I don’t agree with. Troydel has been putting out new design plans with solid merits—”
Troydel puffed his chest out, and Zemize added.
“—with copious help and teaching—but Wistram appears to have the same ideas he does. And their magical abilities with Archmage Eldavin are unsurpassed. Accordingly, demand for the Engineer’s Guild has plummeted. It is a problem I think is inadequately addressed. Well, that and they are suffering from a shortage of high-level classes.”
Jelaqua nodded to Troydel.
“Ah, so he’s the ‘Kid’. I thought so. What’s the secret project every high-level [Engineer] is working on?”
The Drake’s glower intensified.
“There are too many loose lips in the Guild—! Argh. If you’re being upgraded to this clearance level, you might as well know the rest. I’ll need to re-issue you a passport later with markings on it. Don’t let me forget. The Engineer’s Guild is working on a joint project with several Walled Cities to reproduce Earth-technology. The most…important piece of it.”
Jelaqua glanced at Troydel, and he spoke helpfully.
“She means guns. I don’t really know how they work, but they had me drawing up designs, and all the [Alchemists] except Saliss are on it; except there’s no sulfur on the markets and stuff.”
Jelaqua whistled. She had no idea what a ‘gun’ was, but she could guess. Zemize’s glower intensified.
“We’re behind some competitors. We don’t know who or how long, but we will catch up. In the meantime…it leaves the Engineer’s Guild sadly short on high-level leadership and jobs. We cannot make this an open project.”
“You’d think with Felkhr, everyone would be commissioning his flying wings or something.”
Jelaqua still remembered the Gnoll soaring through the skies. Troydel glared down at his feet, and Zemize pursed her lips as if to spit out the window. The Earther muttered.
“Yeah, I thought that too. Then Archmage Asshat had to start selling Boots of Flying. Mind you, all of it’s ‘premium’. He’s having monarchs bid against the richest people for everything. But, he says, as soon as he secures ‘more manufacturing resources’, it’ll be in the hands of everyone.”
There was a long moment of silence. Then Jelaqua developed the same expression most [Engineers] of Pallass were wearing.
Sometimes, magic took all the magic out of the world.
 
——
 
The Meeting of Earthers had Troydel unhappy. Exactly why, Jelaqua was unclear until he whispered to her. They’d set up a not-at-all conspicuous tent in ‘neutral ground’, and she could see all the guards.
Not literally, but there were too many [Invisibility] spells so the air kept rippling as they walked towards the tent. Jelaqua rolled her eyes.
“Lots of amateurs here. I wonder which city it is? I can see someone’s tail moving there, there’s a parting in the grass there—a shadow there—I bet you could smell half this lot. And then even if they’re all clever and super-invisible, you just know they’re there because of their aura-stuff.”
She threw out an arm casually and clipped someone in the air before they recoiled. Troydel stared at Jelaqua.
“Whoa, you can sense auras? Do you have one?”
She snorted.
“Clams have auras. Can I use mine? Nope. But I picked that trick up back, oh, a decade ago. I never get to use it against invisible enemies. They just never show up when you’re able to counter them.”
“Hah. Good one. Show up.”
“Hm? Oh, ha-ha.”
Troydel was tensing, and Jelaqua nudged him.
“What’s the big deal? You should be happy to see more people from home! I’d have thought you’d be all over them, shooting your shot.”
Zemize shuddered at the mental image. Troydel whispered to Jelaqua.
“Maybe a year ago! But now it’s not—fun. You know? After Erin got killed? It’s not fun pretending to be all that. And what do I tell them? I’m not Joseph. Or Imani! She lost an eye, and she was back to work the next week! I’m just an [Engineer]. Not Kevin, let alone Erin or Ryoka or—”
His mouth shut fast, and he stared at Jelaqua. She missed the gaze and patted him on the shoulder softly.
“Listen, Troydel. You know what you shouldn’t do?”
“Compare myself to others?”
Jelaqua saw the tent beginning to uncamouflage itself as they got closer, a ripple of magical fabric big enough to hold a hundred people easily. She frowned.
“What? No. You should definitely do that so you understand where you are in the world. Below the others? Sure, I won’t argue. But listen.”
She took his shoulder as he glared at her, but her grip was so strong he winced. Jelaqua met Troydel’s gaze.
“You saw Erin die. You know what happened at the Winter Solstice. Even if you weren’t there. You survived this long—and you’re going to hide away and not make the most of seeing people who made it here? You are the kids who made it here.”
She stabbed a finger at the ground.
“No matter how much of it was luck or chance. The lucky living have no right to waste what they’ve got. Now get in there!”
She slapped his back so hard it cracked, and Troydel made a faint sound. But then he glanced at Jelaqua and nodded. Back a bit straighter, he walked into the tent.
“Nice work.”
Zemize murmured to Jelaqua. She was about to vanish when the Selphid grabbed her neck spines.
“Oh no you don’t. You’re going to figure out how many of those kids there are and if they’re being treated well. Not quietly; you’re going to march up to their handlers and ask.”
“Let go of—I am an Agent of Pallass, and each city is operating their own programs—no one is going to just reveal—”
“Are they happy, are they fed, did they bury friends? If the Walled Cities won’t share that, then they’re failing their kids. Get in there.”
Jelaqua practically tossed Zemize through the cloth tentflap. Then she dusted her hands off and turned.
“Anyone else want a pep talk?”
Dead silence from the rippling air and hidden agents. After a moment, a tent pole coughed.
“No thank you, Captain. Can I get an autograph?”
The Selphid signed one, then stomped into the tent.
Kids these days.
 
——
 
Inside, Jelaqua saw she had more work to do. Six Walled Cities had rolled up. There were twenty Earthers in the tent.
Twenty. Pallass really was the smallest contingent! Fissival had the most at seven, but every other Walled City had at least two! And yet the idiots inside the tent had all the spy-abilities of the Walled Cities’ best, and all the charisma of Moass.
Because each group of Earthers was standing in their ‘spot’ with items from each Walled City—produce from Oteslia, and a few animals like Shockwoolies and [Druids], weapons from Manus with trainers, etcetera—like some kind of show-and-tell combined with a meet-and-greet.
But it was really like a dance, because each group of Earthers wasn’t talking to the others. A few were waving or making off-handed, too-loud comments, but they were sticking with their handlers because it was inherently awkward.
Too many in the rooms. Too many staring Drakes or Gnolls speaking into stones, monitoring everything, writing it all down. Too hard to cross the invisible barrier of pressure to be people.
Troydel had frozen in his corner with Pallass’ display of alchemical items and miniature dioramas. Jelaqua walked over and called out, loud.
“Hey, Troydel! Introduce me to your friends!”
“Who—?”
She grabbed him by the shoulder and went for it. Jelaqua was a former [Mercenary Captain]. You had to, had to introduce yourself to potential clients and enemies. If you didn’t, well, each person you ignored might decide it was easier to stab you in the back compared to someone you’d had a drink with and who knew your name.
She moved with Troydel across that social barrier like it wasn’t there because it was not. She headed straight for the first Walled City where two rather thin, dark-skinned kids were standing with a lot of Zeresian agents.
“Halt! Earthers only—”
The first Zeresian agent who tried to stop her put an arm in front of Jelaqua, then a hand on her shoulder. Then he skidded across the carpet. Two more tried that—the two boys goggled at Jelaqua as she came over.
One pointed at her face and the glowing orange lines of her body and recoiled.
“¡Su cara! ¿Qué onda? ¿Está mal o qué?”
Jelaqua had no idea what they’d just said. But she smiled and waved, as if they were Drathians at a port.
“Hello! I’m Jelaqua! This is Troydel. Nice to meet you!”
The Zeresian agents were about to drag Jelaqua off, or try, when Zemize blocked them. Good for her. Three more Agents of Pallass appeared, and they scuffled in the background as everyone turned to watch the meeting. Troydel whispered in her ear urgently.
“Jelaqua, that was another language! I think it was Spanish—I don’t speak Spanish!”
“What, not a word? Give it a shot!”
“I’m from Poland! Uh—uh—hello! Hola. Español?”
The two boys grew excited instantly.
“¡Sí, hablamos español! ¿Pero…dónde rayos estamos?”
“¿Tienes un celu que funcione? ¿Son aliens o qué? Espera… creo que ni habla español.”
“Yes, hello! I don’t speak English well.”
They had a strong accent Jelaqua had never heard before. Troydel mimed himself. He spoke with exaggerated slowness, gesticulating.
“I—Troydel. This—Jelaqua. My name is Troydel. Good to meet you. Muchos gracias!”
The two boys glanced at each other, and Jelaqua sighed. She stepped on Troydel’s foot.
“They’re not idiots, Troydel. Hey, hello! Jelaqua Ivirith. Adventurer.”
She stuck out a hand, and one of them blinked, then cautiously took it. He exclaimed at her grip, then smiled gingerly.
“Luis and Inti. Hello! We are…from Peru!”
“Peru!”
Troydel exclaimed, and then the ice broke faster. He pointed at his face.
“I’m from Poland!”
Inti exclaimed.
“Poland! Do you have a phone? “¿Dónde carajo queda Polonia?”
They were having trouble until a Zeresian [Mage] huffily brought something over.
“We communicate by written [Translation] spell. If you write down a question, I can cast the spell…”
Oh, that’s how they did it? Jelaqua gestured at Troydel.
“We’re from Pallass. City of Inventions! Come on over, lads, and we’ll show you what’s here. Where did you two come from? I mean, how’d you end up with Zeres?”
She pointed. There was a delay as one of the two boys—they couldn’t have been more than fourteen and fifteen respectively—grabbed a quill and wrote. Then the answer was translated. Troydel exclaimed.
“You were at sea?”
That didn’t surprise Jelaqua. They seemed too thin and sunburnt; she doubted Zeres was treating them that badly. One nodded, solemn.
“Sixteen days.”
“Holy shit, dude! How long have you been here? Hold on, how long…”
Luis read the question and then nodded. He turned to Inti and then counted.
“Twenty-three? How long are you?”
Troydel blinked. He turned to Jelaqua as if she knew and ruffled at his hair.
“It must have been…two years, now. I’ve lost count.”
The Zeresian [Mage] stared at him, and Zemize turned with a hiss, but Jelaqua just glared at her patiently. The two boys began whispering in awe. In the common tongue this time.
“Spirited Generation! Spirited…”
They knew something, but Troydel wore a blank expression as they grew excited, then, Jelaqua thought, afraid. She smiled at them.
“I’m a Selphid. Here, let me write down…a Selphid. I live in dead bodies. See?”
One of them nearly leapt a foot in the air when she showed part of her real body and waved it at them out of a fingernail with a hole in it. They stared at her in horror—but then one began exclaiming.
