“I'm sorry, but I can't talk right now.” Ren said, and Princess trotted up into the air. “I have a party to get back to.” He said, and then Princess disappeared.

*

“WAIT!” Elerlyth said and climbed up onto her Phantom Steed and sat in the saddle. She flicked his reins, but the steed didn't move. “Go! We have to catch him!”

Etheria shook his head and still didn't move.

“Why won't you go after him?!?”

“Probably because he knows they are long gone.” Hailey said. “You saw how fast he moved on the ground.” She said and walked over to the horse and pet it. “Now imagine how fast his steed is.”

“Goddammit!” Elerlyth exclaimed. “I know where he's going, so let's go there!”

Etheria turned it's head and motioned to the pile of loot.

“Forget it! Let's go!”

Etheria didn't move, and she climbed down from the saddle.

“Ugh!” Elerlyth grunted and stomped over to the pile of loot and stored everything. She walked back to her Phantom Steed and handed Hailey the contract. She tore it up, since the previous owner was now dead, and then it disappeared.

“Thanks, Elerlyth.” Hailey said. “Can you take me home?”

“I can't, I have to go!” Elerlyth said as she climbed back up onto the saddle, flicked her steed's reins again, and it didn't move. “Come ON!”

Etheria used his lips to pick at Hailey's hair, and it made her laugh.

“UGH!” Elerlyth grunted again. “Fine! Get on.”

Hailey climbed up and sat behind Elerlyth, and then the Phantom Steed reared back and flew up into the sky.

“This is great!” Hailey said as she gripped Elerlyth from behind. “What a wonderful present!”

Elerlyth didn't say anything, but she seethed inside. It's not my fault! I didn't know it was his birthday! She thought as they flew through the air.

*

Ren arrived back at the Main House and thanked Princess, gave her some food, and she went back into her house. “I better check the pool for Railyse.” He said and ran over to the site. It was nearly to the top, so he pulled the Ring of Water Walking off the Hand Of Glory and jumped into the water. He swam to the bottom and started to gather up the steel squares, and deactivated the water-producing enchantments as he stored them.

Ren came back up to the surface and used his Water Manipulation skill to pull the water away from himself and tossed it back into the pool. He walked around the pool and used his Staff of Earth to make a small thin shelf just under the top ridge of the pool all along the walls. He changed the enchantments on the steel squares to Anti-water and placed them inside, and nothing but water could get into the small space.

I can go and get Railyse and her water elementals tomorrow... oh, damn. Ren thought. I'm going to be gone for about two days.

“That's okay.” Teepo said. “She knows you're busy.”

Ren sighed and ran back to the Main House and went inside, activated Sneak again, then crept up the stairs and went into the apartment. The maids were still asleep, so he carefully took off the cloak and stored his armor, then laid down on the bed.

See you later, buddy. Ren thought, and then whispered as low as possible. “Logout.”
