“They’re going out the gates! No! Stop them!”
He alone had eyes on the two from his vantage point. Hissl and Moass had grabbed the first carriage they’d spotted and commandeered it. They slowed at the gates, but whatever they did—they forced the [Guards] to let them through.
God damn papers! Drassi was in hot pursuit of Zevara, following the Watch Captain, but he could see that she had lost Hissl and Moass without eyes on them. Could she see them with her Skill if they were in a vehicle?
Joseph ran across the eighth floor, and Kevin found him.
“Joseph! They’re fucking getting away!”
“Quick! To the 9th Floor! They were headed out the western gate—we might be able to spot them from there! I know the carriage they were in!”
The two young men ran up the stairs. A [Soldier] guarding the entrance to 9th Floor was about to stop them, but he recognized Joseph.
“Coach? What’s going on—”
“Move! We need to find a carriage! Where is it? Where—?”
The two young men tore across the dizzying heights of Pallass. Four hundred feet down, tiny vehicles and people were moving across the vast trade road. Joseph tore at his hair.
“No! I can’t see shit! They’re getting away!”
Kevin had a scrying orb he’d gotten from somewhere. He showed Kevin a view of Zevara. The Watch Captain was cycling out of the first floor, following the trail—but Drassi had lost the two in their carriage as well. Zevara was looking around wildly, peddling hard—
“What are you searching for, Coach Joseph?”
A voice in his ear. He spun—and Zemize, the Eye of Pallass, was there with Relc. She was speaking into a stone.
“If you saw which carriage it was, we can locate it for you.”
“Uh—uh—it was bright red with silver trim and I think the logo of some kind of shipping group on it! The logo was white, and it had silver wheels too! Fancy!”
Instantly, Zemize and a group of her people scanned the ground. Her eyes seemed to dilate hugely, and Joseph remembered—
Eyes of Pallass. He and Kevin turned to her, and it was the Drake who pointed.
“There. [Mark Target]. Is that the vehicle?”
Kevin peered dangerously far out from over the balcony, and Joseph gasped.
“Yes, yes! Zevara! Zevara, that one!”
He swore he saw her too, a tiny silver shape moving out of the city, but she couldn’t hear him!
“Does she have a speaking stone?”
Zemize asked coolly as she spoke into her own speaking stone. Relc growled.
“What do you think we are, rich? I’m going after her—Joseph, Kevin, signal her somehow!”
“Dude, we can’t shout that loud! Can she see your [Mark Target], Zemize?”
“Sadly, no. We’ll get them. Unless they enter another city’s territory…they might try to get out of our aegis.”
The Eye of Pallass was tense, and Joseph realized she was as helpless as he was. A Garuda leapt from the walls, but the carriage was moving fast—only Zevara was right there. And…
He stared down at the carriage, then put one foot up on the battlements. Joseph got his other foot up, and Kevin grabbed for him.
“Dude, are you crazy? You’ll fall!”
“Don’t let me. Hey, Kevin, isn’t there some kind of detective story with a guy who plays football?”
Joseph’s eyes never left the tiny dot glowing below him. Kevin peered down as Joseph felt at his bag of holding. He always had a few footballs there, autographed, so he could kick them around and give them as gifts.
“What’re you…oh.”
Agent Zemize blinked at him. Joseph was doing calculations in his head, trying to account for height and drop and the wind—it was insane. But it was the only thing he could do. He bounced the ball up on one foot and then took a breath.
“[Mighty Kick]. [Pinpoint Shot]—go!”
He jumped, kicked the ball as hard as he could, and fell. Kevin, Zemize, and three [Soldiers] had to catch him before he dropped off the walls. Joseph felt them pulling him up, but his eyes were locked on the falling orb of black and white.
“Come on…come on…”
 
——
 
Zevara was panting for air. The bicycle was whirring beneath her, and the ground was flashing by. She saw people staring at her—there was a siren going off in Pallass, but she was just focused on the vehicles ahead of her. Looking for one that stood out. Something—anything—
It fell like a divine revelation from above. Perhaps it was the Antinium’s faith. Or some impartial force of justice. Or just Joseph’s incredible aim.
A soccer ball flew down and hit a red coach like a falling meteor. The ball exploded with a shockwave that made the other vehicles swerve away, and the carriage rocked; its roof was dented in, and it slowed—Zevara biked alongside it and shouted.
“In the name of the Watch, halt!”
She caught sight of a wide-eyed Drake staring at her. Moass. He raised something in one claw. A wand.
Zevara reacted on instinct. She hit the front brakes, and her bicycle flipped forwards. But she had already let go. It catapulted her against the door of the carriage, and she grabbed the latch as a spell blasted through the glass over her head. Then she pulled—and the door swung open.
“Halt in the name of the law!”
“Are you insane?”
Moass gaped at her, and Hissl snarled. He had the reins, and he swung the carriage left, trying to knock her free. She saw Moass aim at her again.
“[Freeze, Criminal]!”
His arm locked in place, and she swung herself around the open door and grabbed the opening. Moass unfroze and tried to aim at her—she slapped the wand out of his grip. Then she was punching and breathing fire as he tried to kick her out of the carriage.
Hissl let go of the reins to join in. It was two on one, and they were trained operatives. But she was a [Guardswoman] and a [Watch Captain]—and they were fighting in the confined carriage, not a place the two Drakes were used to.
Moass was trying to draw another wand from his belt as he kicked at her. She grabbed one leg and brought her elbow down on his groin. Her boot caught Hissl in the face as she breathed fire on the two of them.
Fire, fire—and mostly smoke, honestly. She was panting, exhausted, but she had a lot of smoke.
The carriage rolled to a stop as smoke billowed from it. Then a coughing Drake emerged, blinded, tears streaking from his eyes. The other leapt from the carriage as Drassi, hanging out of a vehicle of her own, slowed.
A Watch Captain leapt out of the carriage and put a flying elbow in Moass’ back. She drew a sword as Hissl whirled. He aimed a wand at her, and she snapped.
“Drop it!”
He hesitated, and his face screwed up when he saw Drassi aiming the camera at him. Zevara took hold of the sword with both hands.
The Drake agent hesitated—and then a blur halted at his back. Spearmaster Relc, the Gecko of Liscor, aimed his spear at Hissl, and the agent sighed. He raised his hands overhead and dropped the wand.
“You’re making a mistake, you idiots! We’re on the good guys’ side! Do you even know what you’ve done?”
He hissed at Watch Captain Zevara as she knelt on Moass’ back and began to cuff him. Relc leaned on his spear and grinned.
“Listen to this idiot, Watch Captain. ‘Good guys’? Who talks like that? What’re you, Manus? Or Fissival?”
Watch Captain Zevara stood, a pair of cuffs in her hand. She was breathing hard as she strode over to Hissl in full view of the road, the walls of the City of Inventions rising behind her. She snapped at Hissl as she cuffed him.
“The only side I’m on is the law’s. By the authority of Liscor, you are under arrest! Now…”
She glanced up, and seemed to spot Drassi and her camera only then. The Watch Captain stared into the camera, and that was how most of Izril got to know Watch Captain Zevara.
 
——
 
“The only side I’m on is the law’s!”
Watch Captain Zevara put her head in her clawed hands. Then she put her fingers in her earholes. Sadly—most modern scrying orbs had a rewind function.
Watch Commander Venim played the moment she arrested two agents of a Walled City again. Then he cleared his throat.
“I believe Wistram Academy stated that the broadcast broke a record for people watching.”
“What? Impossible. What about the Goblin King or the King of Destruction or—Erin?”
He shrugged.
“Something to do with the fact that when you sell more scrying devices, there are more people to watch. The political fallout from this is, of course, enormous.”
He eyed her, and she recalled their conversations about far smaller events. Zevara slumped in her chair. It was hours later; she’d taken nearly an hour to get the two into Pallass. People had been cheering and coming out to be on camera, and Kevin and Joseph had been dancing on the walls. But the ebullience…
Well, it hadn’t actually faded. She knew she was in a world of trouble, but still—we got them. She steeled herself as Venim read some reports.
“Let me have it.”
“Where shall I begin? Aside from the fact that you insisted—on live television—that Liscor had jurisdiction and shouted down six Watch Captains—and Watch Commander Linsetl—each Walled City is pressing us for answers. None harder than Fissival, who denies that these are their people.”
“Oh, so it was Fissival? I would have bet Manus.”
Exactly who the agents were hadn’t really mattered in hindsight. Venim nodded.
“Their extensive use of magical items is a clue, but mostly…one of them, Moass, had a piece of correspondence on his person that referenced one of Fissival’s Three.”
“Really? That’s…amazingly sloppy.”
Zevara was shocked, and Venim nodded.
“Well, there’s going to be a lot of heads rolling. Proverbially, I think. The Eyes of Pallass are just as embarrassed for not knowing that Fissival’s agents were bypassing them. They claim jurisdiction over Liscor.”
“Really? Well, everyone’s denying it.”
Venim’s lips quirked slightly. He wasn’t as incandescent as she expected, but perhaps he’d entered a place after anger. One could only hope. She wondered if she was going to keep her rank after this.
“Normally, I’d agree with you, but Drassi is, at this moment, going over the entire event on air. She has a lot of witnesses, including Coach Joseph.”
“Not K—Randy?”
“The other one? No, I think just Coach Joseph—and a lot of [Guards] and witnesses in Liscor. I think I saw her out my window.”
He turned to gaze out of the office window, and Zevara swallowed.
“Arresting agents of a Walled City…probably has consequences.”
“Oh, I have multiple messages calling for you to be punished. And one job offer from Oteslia…and a commendation from Zeres…and from House Terland. Actually, I have quite a lot more messages, but my [Receptionist] can’t keep them all organized. Those were the big ones.”
It figured some of the Walled Cities liked another failing, but this was a bad look. Zevara exhaled.
“And how much damage have I done to the Watch’s position?”
Venim steepled his claws and stared at the ceiling.
“Well…you pulled rank on Watch Commander Linsetl and all of Pallass’ Watch. But I hated Linsetl, that uptight bastard. So I’m going to ignore that. And Fissival can shout, but they’re all the way on the east coast, so what are they going to do? Fire spells at us? They’d probably miss and hit the Bloodfields instead.”
She opened one eye and stared at him.
“You’re not serious. I just caused the biggest incident in the Watch’s history.”
“True, true. I was thinking about what to do. Obviously, this entire situation exposed flaws in how we operate, Zevara. We got heated…”
Venim got up and stared out the window. He only turned when the scrying orb, still softly playing the recording of her chase and the aftermath, switched to a new perspective.
It was of Watch Captain Zevara, dirty, sweaty, but triumphant, arguing with several [Senators] and said Watch Commander. Exactly what Hissl and Moass were stealing had been revealed, and more importantly, from whom.
“Antinium? That’s what all this fuss is about? Who cares what happens to those things?”
An appalled Senator Errif barked, clearly on the verge of confiscating the invaluable healing scrolls for Pallass, but Zevara had one foot on the Chest of Holding, and she was trying to shove her badge up Watch Commander Linsetl’s nose.
Which one was barking at the crowd and cameras? [Watch Captain] or [Guardswoman]? Zevara didn’t remember, but the words were probably from both.
“They’re not Antinium, they are citizens of Liscor. The only reason these two got away with it was because they were pretending to be agents of a Walled City who could do what they pleased. The only reason they got this far was because no one cared what happened to a minority species in the city! There will be equal justice for Antinium, Garuda, Humans, Gnolls, Selphids, or any species in my city. This is Liscor’s property, and anyone who puts their claws on it will be arrested! Sergeant Relc, kneecap anyone who gets close!”
Zevara watched Sergeant Relc jabbing with the butt of his spear at everyone until Venim switched the scrying orb off. He stared at it in his hands, turning it over, before glancing back at Zevara.
“You know, I respect what you do. I didn’t see the Antinium angle, but you weren’t wrong. It’s just that the realities of the job were fighting with what I felt was your approach. This being such a big story has swung public opinion with us. That matters. The fact that a Walled City was framing the north and robbing the Antinium…it could have raised tensions, and I’m not blind to that. Nor is anyone else.”
He pulled up a piece of paper.
“The Free Queen has expressed her personal gratitude to you and wishes you to be given ‘suitable commendation for the act of a [Watch Captain]’. I don’t believe she knows what your class is, but it’s startling. Lord Xitegen has also expressed his support.”
“Well, he would. He likes anything that affects Drakes or Goblins.”
“True—but he’s not blind to the fact that you did the right thing.”
Zevara shook her head.
“The Walled Cities are angry, Venim. Don’t sugartail it.”
“They may be angry, but Liscor caught them in the open with their pants down. That reversed the problem, Zevara. Don’t you get it? If you’d caught those two privately, I’d get an order tomorrow to let them go and apologize while we’re at it.”
Venim smiled at her.
“Instead, Fissival might have to issue a public apology! At the very least, someone’s paying for those two and their crimes! Do you know what the funniest part of all this is?”
He sat down, and she eyed him.
“No.”
“You know how Joseph said that ‘Moass’ was Noass’ brother? It turns out that really is his name.”
Venim chuckled. Zevara’s jaw dropped.
“No.”
