“Hissl is a fake—but Moass was so convincingly bad that he kept it. And they are related. Though it’s more of siblings twice removed.”
She couldn’t help it. She threw her head back and laughed at that. Venim chuckled along too, then he stared out the window again.
“You went past me on this one, Zevara. Rightly so, but I’m the Watch Commander. My head wasn’t on the swivel, but something has to be done. We can’t have this go down twice.”
She braced herself. Here it was. She sat up, and Venim exhaled as he seated himself once more.
“In light of recent events, Watch Captain Zevara, I’m moving Sergeant Relc up to full time Watch Captain for south district.”
“I see.”
He nodded and fiddled with a piece of paper.
“I have a change of positions for you, if you’d like to sign…”
She stared numbly at the papers. You had to file papers…then her eyes narrowed.
“What’s this? This has my class wrong.”
“Does it? I was under the impression you were [Watch Captain] Zevara and [Guardswoman] Zevara. You never filed your second class, but I did see you were on the books twice.”
Venim innocently peered at Zevara, and she read.
“This…is promoting Senior Guardswoman Zevara. To—Special Investigator Zevara? What kind of rank is that?”
She’d never heard of it before. Venim coughed into one hand.
“It’s what it sounds like. Investigations. Deep crimes. Walled Cities have the position. It’s higher than Senior Guardswoman. Given your aptitudes, I think it’s the best fit for you. And it also gives you more authority over other members of the Watch. Though not other Watches. But there’s a proposal about that…”
“Wait, I’m not being fired?”
Zevara burst out, and Venim laughed at her.
“Zevara, if I fired you tomorrow, I’d probably be gone the next day! Liscor loves you! This has only made it worse. No, my problem was figuring out a role you fit, and I had a—visitor—who made some excellent suggestions. Yes indeed…”
Visitor? Zevara narrowed her eyes. She had an image of a tall half-Giant stooping to enter Venim’s office, but he just gave her an innocent gaze.
“Special Investigator I’ll take, but I got a taste of what happens if I leave my city. There’s no fixing that.”
“Funny you should mention that. Lord Xitegen Terland was so taken with your work, he issued a proposal after the broadcast. He’s suggesting you be given broad investigatory powers in Celum, Liscor, and Esthelm. And he’s asked other local cities to join in. Pallass shot the idea down instantly, but more than one city seems intrigued by the idea. Or rather, you.”
“Me?”
She gaped at him, and he nodded.
“A Watch Captain willing to chase down two agents of a Walled City can’t be intimidated. More than one city’s privately asked if you’d look into a crime in their areas. How about it, Watch Captain? You can always go back to managing your Watch House…and I expect you to help Watch Captain Relc, but I fear what will happen when you get bored.”
He smiled at her, and Zevara peered down at the sheet in front of her. She dipped her quill in ink, then pushed the sheet back.
“I need to do one thing before I agree, Watch Commander.”
“Oh? What’s that?”
Zevara got up slowly. She polished her badge on her uniform and gave him a crooked smile.
“All of this is predicated upon my doing an excellent job. But there’s just one problem. This case isn’t finished. I have one last task to do. Excuse me.”
She saluted and strode out of the office. Venim blinked at her back, then reached for a speaking stone.
“Excuse me? If I have news about Watch Captain Zevara, can I get an interview with Reporter Drassi?”
 
——
 
There was one last piece of business to take care of. And it wasn’t glamorous, and it wouldn’t make the news…but it was why she’d tried so hard in this case.
Zevara had already opened the Chest of Holding that Hissl and Moass had been taking to their city. It was indeed filled with countless objects that the two Drakes had stolen from Antinium.
They’d been cleverer than she thought, actually…they’d known some of it wasn’t real faith-infused items, but they’d taken a full sample, probably to test what this effect was. Already, the items were going back to the Antinium who’d lost their goods.
But something was missing. She’d personally interrogated Moass about it, and he’d told her to her face that they hadn’t stolen everything. Antinium gave chase. Or they had to ditch the items when the Watch noticed…a lot of it had been reclaimed when the other posed as Senior Guardsman Lens, but she’d had one specific item in mind.
That thing? It wasn’t worth stealing. And the Worker put up such a fuss we ditched it. Not worth the trouble.
How ironic. Zevara tracked down the place where Moass had directed her and searched. She had no Skills for this. Nothing but her feet, her intuition, and time.
All you had to do was put pieces together. Moass had ditched the doll the most expedient way possible. Rather than toss it in a gutter, he’d handed it off.
It took time and a map to plot a few likely paths, but Zevara was looking for someone. She asked people walking by and eventually got some locals who knew of a Drake girl that would walk around this neighborhood at this time.
Specifically—one who wouldn’t mind a one-eyed, one-legged Gnoll doll. Zevara got an address and knocked—then was told her quarry was somewhere else. She asked if she could go there now, and the address made her thunk her head against a wall a few times.
 
——
 
It was always, always The Wandering Inn. Though to be fair, Zevara would have never looked twice at the little Drake girl chasing around Mrsha and Ekirra after school.
“Miss Visma?”
Visma peered up from the latest doll in her collection bouncing around on her arm. It had a new eye, new leg, and she seemed very worried when Zevara knelt down…but when she heard the Watch Captain’s rather long story, she only hesitated a moment before giving Zevara the doll.
Ekirra and Mrsha’s jaws dropped. Visma the Hoarder giving anything away? She glared at them.
“It’s not mine! I’m not a [Thief]! If someone’s missing their precious doll, they have to have it.”
That was how Watch Captain Zevara ended up making the trip into the Free Hive. When Pawn saw what she had, he smiled and told her his prayers had been answered. She said she was a rather funny answer to an Antinium’s prayer, but he just replied that that was how faith worked.
She supposed it was very convenient for him…but when she approached the cell and tapped on the door, she saw a curled up Worker raise his head.
Carpenter Laikos said nothing for a long time as he inspected the doll, and Zevara explained how Visma had fixed it up.
“She apologizes if she messed anything up, and there are ways to, uh, resize the doll and repair it. If you—”
“Thank you.”
Laikos hugged his doll to his chest and sat there. He folded all four arms around the doll and trembled. Then he peeked up.
“Am I going to die for being an Aberration now?”
Pawn interceded, promising Laikos that no one would kill a Worker while he was around. Zevara just nodded along, hands in her pockets, as Laikos sat there, playing with the doll’s arms. Thanking her now and then.
Over and over as Antinium regarded her, and more came over to thank her for recovering something they’d lost.
She thought about it that night—well, she couldn’t sleep. She tossed and turned in her apartment, then got up and re-watched the news on a scrying orb she’d bought. Put her fingers in her earholes at the right times…
Just sat there. Thinking of Laikos, thinking of the future. Trying not to smile too hard. Zevara lay down at last, head spinning, and she knew that her city was still filthy, deep down. It had things like the Brothers that you couldn’t eradicate. Concessions and bad things and petty crimes…but somewhere out there there was a Worker sleeping with his doll in his arms.
“Ah. No wonder I’d never have made Watch Commander.”
She just could finally articulate why. Zevara slept, and the voice said—
 
[Class Change: Streetwise Guardswoman → Smokebreath Detective!]
[Smokebreath Detective Level 36!]
[Skill – Lungs: Ash Dragonbreath Obtained!]
[Skill – Greater Immunity: Smoke Obtained!]
[Skill – Investigation: Five Senses Maximized Obtained!]
[Skill – Mark the Quarry Obtained!]
[Skill – Investigation: Eidetic Memory Obtained!]
 
[Watch Captain of Integrity Level 38!]
[Skill – I Outrank You Obtained!]
[Skill – Summon Patrol Obtained!]
 
——
 
The rain was falling in Liscor’s streets, which weren’t as mean as they could be, but it was still suitably dark without magical lights. A few flames glowed from behind shuttered windows, but the city was largely quiet in the night.
All the good little boys and girls were tucked in. And the bastards were out—but even they sometimes didn’t know who the biggest one was. A wise person glanced over their shoulder. Or put their back against the walls.
It was the kind of mood that Kevin had been trying to evoke with Zevara. The hard-bitten, run-down, gritty mood of problems and people who solved them. Imperfect people, the kind who took down a shot of whiskey and smoked a cigar while narrating the mystery.
And a dame. You had to have a dame.
Kevin wasn’t the only one who liked noir, actually. He had a bunch of movies on his laptop, all stolen, and Erin had seen a few appropriate films herself; the [World’s Eye Theatre] could show you so much. Even memories. So Bird and his Antinium, the few, the free, had more culture in their antennae than the rest of the Hives, even Pawn’s Painted Antinium.
One of them stood, smoking on a puffer stick, as rain trickled down onto her armored shell. She spoke.
“It was a dark night, like all the others. Wet. But the waters were washing away a few sins of the city. Just a few. Everyone was celebrating the Watch Captain with a spine like mithril and never stopping to think of the Antinium who were victims in all this. Poor bugs with souls. Swept around in Liscor’s changing currents like the helpless, wriggling things they were. True, there was Pawn. They had a man down there with eyes on the sky, but he missed the small things. Like the dame.”
Her cigarette glowed as she puffed out more smoke. Noiraid, who had chosen her name because she loved the genre so much, listened as footsteps stopped in the rain. She continued narrating.
“I was standing on my corner, waiting as always, when the dame came by again. She was tall, and some would have called her beautiful, but she had a glint in her eye that spoke trouble. Me, I don’t like trouble, but a lass has got to make money somehow, and I don’t quite fancy it in ways that involve me lying on my back, one way or th’other. Still. Something told me she’d be pleased by how things shook out, even if it didn’t go according to plan.”
She glanced up as a woman appeared between the raindrops without them seeming to touch her. She had on a maid’s outfit, and she bowed slightly.
“Miss Noiraid?”
“That’s me, sweetheart. Job’s done. The Watch Captain’s all over the news. Your doing?”
“I can’t comment on that, Miss. My employer was very pleased at how things turned out. Spontaneously, in some cases.”
Noiraid nodded.
“Tell the Pink Lady that I always accept bonuses.”
The [Maid] offered her a briefcase. She could have done a bag of holding, but Noiraid had insisted. The Antinium cracked it open, and the [Maid] coughed.
“This gratitude and bonus includes another offer, if you are so interested, Miss Noiraid. Employment takes many forms.”
The Antinium Worker turned and ate her cigarette.
“Thanks. But I’m a lone operator. Besides, a gal’s gotta have some secrets.”
She blew a smoke ring up, and the [Maid] sighed. Noiraid walked through Liscor’s streets. Yes, indeed. A good job done, and bread in the jar. Gold in the suitcase.
This was her kind of day. She just hoped when the rains stopped that she had enough dark corners to pose under. Everyone else hated the rain. But it was too damn thematic.
After a while, she coughed out the cigarette butt. It was pretty hot.
