Zevara had pulled out a truth stone and was indeed staring at it. It flashed white, and she had a thought.
You can fake these things. But is she? It looked above-board to me, but…
“I’m afraid I’m allowed to ask more questions, Lady Cecille. Roll the window down? Completely, if you wouldn’t mind?”
She bent down and peered into the carriage. The window came halfway down, and she finally saw the pale-faced, pursed-lips of Lady Cecille Reinhart. She was…well, Zevara didn’t know if she was attractive by Human standards since they were all sort of doughy, but the scowl probably didn’t help.
She was wearing different clothing today, but the scarf remained. Zevara glanced at Cecille Reinhart and guessed at her height. Then she smiled.
“What is so entertaining, Watch Captain? Or does the rain truly grow mushrooms in those brains of yours?”
Zevara’s smile gritted, but she just eyed the scarf.
“Lovely scarf you have on, Lady Cecille. Almost like…rosewood crossgrain.”
She thought nothing could have made Lady Cecille look more like she was scraping skunk droppings off her foot, but the slow head-turn of outrage said that Zevara had managed a mortal insult.
“Rosewood crossgrain? I knew Drakes had no taste. Just look at you. But you think this resembles the inside of some tree? This is Scintilla Ichtania, the thread of the Crimson Weaver spider. The most complex and beautiful cloth you will ever see in your life.”
The scarf whirled as she lifted it, and Zevara saw it didn’t really resemble the grain of a tree at all. In fact, she was surprised even Carpenter Laikos had mistaken it for that. The insane spiderweb pattern that whirled across the [Lady]’s body were like a million branches of a spider’s web writhing and dying in a bloody sea of night.
Beautiful.
Haunting.
Expensive.
But close enough to rosewood crossgrain, she supposed, for an Antinium [Carpenter] to mistake it as such. Zevara leaned over the window.
“I’m afraid that makes you even more of a person of interest in my case, though, Lady Cecille Reinhart. When was the last time you went down, oh, Colecutlet Street?”
The expression the woman gave her was of utter scorn.
“Do you think I know the streets of this damned wet city, Watch Captain.”
“…I suppose not. Then when was the last time you wore an all-blue dress and pushed a Worker on the street?”
Zevara’s eyes were locked on the [Lady] for any tell, any sign, and her truth stone was in her grip. The [Lady] just stared at her. Stared at Zevara with utter contempt on her face…until her eyes narrowed.
“Listen to me, Watch Captain. I swear, on House Reinhart, by my blood, and by my hope to never be bothered by you again that I never have left this carriage while in this city. My desire to walk the slippery streets? Zero. I have stolen nothing. I have committed no crimes in this city. Yet.”
The truth stone was shining white the entire time. Zevara gave it a dismayed look. What in the…?
Cecille gazed pointedly at the stone.
“Now, if you will excuse me? I suggest you use that brain you claim to have, Watch Captain, and refrain from chasing the wrong tail. Aren’t you Drakes good at that? Or is it just the dog-Gnolls?”
Zevara jerked back from the window, and it snapped up.
“Hey! I wasn’t done asking questions—”
The carriage shot forwards, and she nearly fell on her face. Growling, Zevara saw the flunkies stepping back as the [Driver] whipped the horses forwards. She strode after Cecille.
“Halt in the name of the Watch! I have—”
She saw the carriage shoot down the street annoyingly fast even in the rain and on the slick ground, then come about sharply. Zevara sighed. Even the [Lady] wasn’t stupid enough t—
The carriage accelerated fast. She jumped left, swearing, and saw the horses swing around—the [Driver] was giving her a pale-faced, wide-eyed stare as he yanked at the reins.
Then he ran her over.
 
——
 
This time, there were sharp pains in her chest. Broken ribs. Zevara lay on the ground as someone walked over to her. A foot nudged her in the chest.
“Oh dear, you’ve run her over. Sollux, you fool! Quick, summon the Watch! Guards? Guards! Arrest this man and save this poor Drake!”
Ow. The foot had kicked her in the broken ribs. Zevara lay as the shout was taken up, and she hoped someone had a healing potion. Someone…
A voice interrupted her pain after a while. Someone bent over her, shielding her from the rain.
“Watch Captain, I do not believe your investigation is going well.”
“Noi…raid?”
The dame was back. Smoking on a nali-stick. No, wait, she was just eating it. She had the envelope in her hands; Zevara’s vision was hazy.
“Yes, Watch Captain. I believe you have been hurt quite badly. And you have not found the thief yet.”
She just ran me over. But Noiraid seemed to disagree. She squatted down.
“Lady Cecille Reinhart is a difficult customer. She haggles and goes behind my back. It is muchly inconvenient, as Bird would say. I knew she was dangerous. Thank you for being an example.”
“Call a [Healer].”
“Hmm. I do not think that will help with the broken bones, Watch Captain. I believe you require a favor. And a demonstration, now that you have some answers. I hope you will deal with this matter for me. Carpenter Laikos did not want his new doll, and I do not like failing.”
What? The doll? Was this just about the doll? Zevara didn’t understand. The dame stood over her and pulled something out.
“Here we are. This is a very good one. Listen, please, Watch Captain.”
She read from something in her hands. Zevara listened, and it felt like Noiraid’s voice shifted slightly. Still female, they embodied another speaker, or perhaps…many, all speaking the same words. And not just words—she felt like the meaning was in her broken bones. Filling her.
“When it is dark in the Hive, dig up to the light. See it, time and again, because no one should ever keep you from the sky. We have rules, my brothers—and sisters—and orders, and a Queen. But we also have our own choice to make. We may live down here and merely hope, abandon it, or we can do what we must. What we must, because we can, and because no one else will save us.
Not even her. What we receive in our lowest moments is merely…a helping hand. A finger in the right direction. The rest is up to you. So when I say, ‘I hope’, my friends, I truly mean ‘it must be’ someday, somehow. Even if I must make it happen myself.”
Then there was light—and a cessation of pain, and Zevara gasped as she pushed herself up. She came up, water spilling out one earhole, shaking herself, and stared down at her armor. Her ribs! She—felt at her ribs.
“Huh? I’m—I’m healed?”
Noiraid lowered the blank scrap of paper and handed it to Zevara. It crumbled to ash as the Watch Captain saw the glowing words that she had been reading dissipate in her grip.
“Very healed, Watch Captain. Even your bruises.”
It was true. Zevara felt at her jaw, and the swelling was gone. She inhaled—no sharp pain, no footsore blisters—
“Dead gods! That was like a healing potion! A high-grade one? Is that—”
Noiraid dusted her palms off.
“Yes. And yes to whatever you were going to ask next. You have your answers, Watch Captain. But I am still missing mine. I would offer to help more, but—”
She glanced around. Pounding boots and whistles—a Watch patrol was coming. Noiraid walked towards the Antinium still loading things into the warehouse.
“I think the Watch is very busy today. Please try not to get yourself badly hurt again? The market value of this article of faith is higher than the sum of gold you gave me.”
Then she was gone, and Watch Captain Zevara was invited, once more, to a meeting with Watch Commander Venim.
This time, he wasn’t very happy.
 
——
 
There was an art to being chewed out by a superior. Truly, Zevara had lots of experience with it with the old Watch Captain. How you reacted or what you gave your boss mattered.
Sometimes, you just stood there and took it like a lump—other times, you fired back, depending on whether or not you’d pay for it. For instance, Zevara used to be summoned and scolded for ‘stirring the pot’.
The old Watch Captain, Eresc, had been big on not stirring pots. Every time she’d gotten one of Soot’s subordinates, or made a big fuss, he’d accused her of putting the Watch in danger. And she’d argued with him until he’d thrown something at her, because she was a Senior Guardswoman and if he fired her, the people who’d voted her into her position would have something to say to him—and Liscorians had never been exactly quiet about how they felt.
Venim was different. She liked him, but it was clear now they had philosophical differences in how they operated. And she needed to get along with the Watch Commander, so Zevara tried not to snap.
It worked well at first, because the first thing he did was offer her a seat and ask if she needed a [Healer].
“You’re not looking as rough as I feared. Did you have a potion, Watch Captain?”
“No potion, but I got some healing, sir.”
“Really? How?”
She hesitated, but he should know about the scrolls. Venim’s jaw dropped when she relayed that.
“Healing scrolls? Ancestors, and the Antinium have them and they’re, what, manufacturing them?”
“Yes, sir. Which explains the thefts and, to some extent, the trouble I’ve been having with other individuals of note in my investigation. Has Lady Cecille Reinhart been arrested?”
Here Venim hesitated, and Zevara’s heart sank.
“She’s fled the city.”
“No, in fact, she was very cooperative in summoning the Watch. At this very moment, your assailant is in prison. Sollux, I think? Her [Driver].”
“Her…she ran me over, Venim!”
Zevara’s ribs hurt just remembering it, and Venim sighed.
“On truth stone, her man swore she gave him no orders whatsoever and admitted to hitting you. She passed every truth stone test—and she’s a Reinhart. She’s paid a fine, and her servant is in jail. This…is a complicated matter, Zevara. I was going to address the Brothers raid first, but you deserve to hear it straight off. Before she was even in my office, I had an [Advocate] for House Reinhart meeting with the Council.”
“An [Advocate]? What kind of class is that?”
“The kind that advocates.”
Venim didn’t laugh. He glanced to the side.
“House Reinhart controls a vast amount of trade. Magnolia Reinhart’s family…they run Invrisil. I suppose they took it from her? They indicated that if Lady Cecille was impeded in any way, things would get—messy between Liscor and Invrisil.”
“So you arrested her. That’s an open threat against Liscor.”
“After deliberations with the Council, we fined her extensively and let her go. There’s a precedent, Zevara—”
She was on her feet. This was where the anger came out. It reminded her of Soot, and she said so.
“Watch Commander! We don’t bow to outside pressure!”
“Captain Zevara, take a seat.”
He waited until she did and stabbed his desk a few times with a claw.
“That’s an unfair statement to throw at me, and you know it. How many times have you gotten orders from a Walled City and had to enforce them? We don’t want trouble with House Reinhart. If she had crossed the line and you’d been maimed, I’d have her locked up. But I am told that House Reinhart loves to make their point with [Assassins]. Esthelm’s Watch Captain and Celum’s sent me a [Message] to that effect. These new Reinharts—or old ones, I can’t tell—are aggressive. You’re not the only one Lady Cecille has run over.”
“What? She makes a point of doing that?”
Zevara was stunned and outraged. Venim clarified.
“Not in our city, but it seems vehicular damage runs in that family. We should arrest her, Zevara. But she has truth stones on her side.”
Truth stones. Zevara felt at the one in her pocket and cursed.
“A fat lot of good those have done me recently! Every single person I’ve used it on has evaded it or I’ve been certain they could subvert the stone.”
“Well, maybe I can help with that, Watch Captain.”
Venim was giving her a guarded expression, and she blinked at him.
“What?”
“I’m going to put you back in office in the northern district. Relc will act as acting Watch Captain in your district—you take the northern Watch House. Captain Ronss handed in his resignation an hour ago. I’m trying to talk him out of it, but we need to show people the Watch hasn’t been beaten. The fact that you walked out of their bar is a good start.”
Zevara’s mouth dropped open.
“Ronss did? But the raid—”
She caught herself, and Venim put one fist on the table and gazed at her heavily. Guilt in his eyes. Different from the bad Watch Captain Eresc—he spoke straight out.
“I take responsibility for the failed operation as much as Ronss. He told me that you had a bad feeling on the ground—we should have sent Sergeant Relc and double-checked the information. And known how dangerous those damn Brothers were! We can’t afford to back down, though, Zevara. Not now that we’ve gotten a bloody nose.”
She stared at him.
“With respect, Venim—I think the error was in doing the raid once we knew there was nothing to be gained from it. And the last thing I think we need is to take on the Brothers.”
“Excuse me?”
He blinked at her, genuinely confused. Zevara repeated herself.
“I met the leader of the Brothers—Robb. He seemed willing to avoid more fighting if we can help it.”
“Captain Zevara, I can’t believe I’m hearing this from you. Did they use a Skill on you? A gang of criminals just attacked the Watch in broad daylight! Examples have to be made!”
Ah, there was the disagreement. Zevara took a breath.
“Again, with respect, Venim, I think that’s the Walled City in you talking. This is a nasty gang. Taking them on would cause a lot of casualties—true casualties, not the dustup we just saw. We don’t have Pallass’ armies backing us up. After seeing the Brothers fight, I’d soon as let them exist without going after them again. To that point, it’s what the rest of the gangs want. They’re annoyed the Brothers are muscling in and hoping we wear ourselves out battling each other.”
His jaw worked as Venim actually pulled out her file and glanced at it.
“Zevara. You went after the Soot gang for a decade. Your tenacity and unwillingness to back down is local legend. Where is this coming from?”
She looked him in the eye, seriously, hoping he’d understand.
“The same place that the rest of me operates, Venim. Practicality. I never closed the Corused Steer—a bar I know deals in drugs and has murders aplenty. I went after Soot because he was a bastard who pushed the line, went after the Watch, and wanted to make this city his. But I’ve always let some problems go.”
