“…Of course. I’m Agent Zemize. Part of the organization that Watch Captain Zevara appears to be interested in. Who, exactly, got into trouble in Liscor? We just got some very…interesting reports from there.”
So they didn’t know? Actually, that suggested she’d just heard about the scrolls. Zevara knew that secretive groups might not share information with each other, but she couldn’t resist tweaking the Drake’s tail.
“Only today? Your people have been there for weeks or a month, I’d guess.”
Zemize colored slightly, and the [Receptionist] jumped in with a smile.
“Some things get passed up the chain of command too fast, Watch Captain.”
“Even the biggest news.”
Zemize muttered, and Zevara was aware the agents loitering around their lobby having drinks or chatting had doubled in number. Well, well, well. It appeared a lot of them were interested in the scrolls.
Kevin was smiling broadly, and he interjected in what he probably thought as a hard-bitten tone of a serious fellow. In reality, it had all the seriousness of a duck.
“Seems to me the right hand doesn’t know who the left hand is yanking off in Liscor. Shame. This would have never happened with Chaldion.”
Everyone turned to eye him with expressions of such disgust that Kevin hesitated. However, Zemize jerked her head in a grudging nod after a moment.
“It’s…more chaotic, certainly. Different focuses with all the crises of late. So the Antinium are selling healing items? That’ll make High Command happy. No one wants to hop in bed with the Antinium.”
She grimaced, and Zevara folded her arms.
“It seems to me that the Walled City’s position on Antinium is shooting themselves in the tail. But I’m just a lowly Watch Captain; it’s not like you’re months behind the north.”
That soured everyone’s drinks—until she added the second line.
“—Of course, it might be you were always on top of things. Two of your people have been involved in Liscorian affairs, and I’m sure you could ask them about all they know and failed to share.”
That seemed to work. Zemize glanced at the [Receptionist], who raised his brows politely.
“I can’t guarantee you’ll get a meeting, but I can, at least, search up these agents. Who would be…?”
They only had one card to play, which were their names, so Zevara nodded.
“Agents Hissl and Moass. I’d like to know exactly what they’re doing and their ranks and purpose as well as a meeting, if I may.”
Zemize laughed out loud, then covered it with a clawed hand.
“Moass?”
“I know, right? Is that, like, a naming convention in Pallass? Noass’ cousin?”
Joseph grinned at her, and she was about to respond when she hesitated and closed her mouth. Zevara saw the [Receptionist]’s eyes flicker, and he frowned. Ever so slightly. But then he was nodding to her.
“Ah, those two. I’m afraid they’re definitely not available at this moment, Watch Captain. If they’ve compromised your time, I apologize. I’ll put in a note that you wish to speak to them, but revealing details of any members of our group is highly prohibited.”
“Of course I knew that.”
She tried to keep her face straight, but then changed her mind and added a grimace. Zevara cast around, as if lost.
“But if I could just speak to your superior or—someone? They have too many clearances for me to stop them, and I can’t trace their passage—”
The [Receptionist] trotted over to the counter and jotted down a few lines.
“We’ll try to make arrangements, but as I said, they’re not here. I trust they didn’t interfere with your job in any way?”
“Of course not. They only talked to Venim. I happened to get their names, that’s all.”
“I see.”
Zemize put in mildly.
“We have to do this kind of thing, Watch Captain. We’ll get back to you as soon as we can, but as you observed, there’s all kinds of news. No hand knows what the other’s doing.”
Her lips quirked, but her eyes lingered on the Watch Captain.
“Out of curiosity, I suppose that outside of The Wandering Inn, the foremost Antinium expert in the city would be Guardsman Relc, wouldn’t it? But he’s seeing the Archmage of Izril…”
She grimaced, and Zevara smiled at her, making a show of folding up her own notepad.
“That’s him, and he’s filling time as acting Watch Captain. If you were interested in Antinium knowledge, you might want to talk to them yourself. Although you might want to be careful. The wrong questions turn some into Aberrations.”
Zemize shifted slightly.
“I’d heard that. Well—I suppose we’ll have to let our people handle things. Is there anything else, Watch Captain?”
“No, thank you. You know where to find me if Hissl or Moass have time…thank you.”
Zevara spun on her heels and walked out the door. She was hoping like hell neither Joseph nor Kevin said anything or gave it away, but Joseph just waved at Zemize.
“Don’t let Troydel drive you crazy, Zemize! Or take you to dinner, because he definitely thinks that’s how he’s going to score a goal.”
She shuddered faintly as the doors swung shut behind them.
 
——
 
Only after they were in The Wandering Inn did Zevara let Joseph speak. He’d tried to, twice, but she’d been almost positive someone was following them.
Liska turned out to be as good as a full Pallassian checkpoint though. She refused to let her [Forcewalls] open for anyone but Kevin, Zevara, and Joseph.
“No entry today! Inn’s off-limits unless I know you, and I have a really bad memory.”
Once they were inside, Zevara stepped into Kevin’s room upstairs, and then Joseph hissed at her.
“Okay, what was that about? Even I could tell something was off!”
Kevin gave Zevara a significant gaze.
“I think they were bluffing, don’t you, Zevara? I’m pretty good at telling when people are using a poker face—I have to sell tons of stuff to monarchs, and not all of them like the price tag. They do that ‘too-casual’ thing.”
She nodded, heart beating fast.
“Agents Moass and Hissl aren’t Eyes of Pallass. Zemize didn’t recognize their names. You’d think that even if they were pseudonyms, she’d know better than to laugh at them, right?”
“It could have been a bluff.”
Joseph countered, but Zevara shook her head.
“No, they were caught off-guard by the scrolls. You heard them fishing about Relc. I bet that it’s a sloppy oversight without Chaldion; Walled Cities are peculiar, you two. They have flaws.”
“No kidding?”
Neither Human seemed surprised, and she glowered defensively.
“They can be efficient! But when it comes to the Antinium, they’ve always stayed away. I think they treated the Free Antinium like the other Hives, who can’t be negotiated with or infiltrated outside of the Queens. The fact that the Eyes didn’t know about the scrolls suggests they had no real agents looking into the Free Antinium. Probably the inn, but Lyonette didn’t know about the scrolls either until Holytext came by the other day.”
Kevin snapped his fingers.
“And they can’t get into the inn because of Vaulont and the Thronebearers. But wait—then who are those two Drakes?”
He threw up his hands, and Zevara murmured.
“Whomever they are, they have top-level security clearances. But they were never the main suspects in our investigation. Merchant Yerham and Lady Cecille are. Hmm. We’re getting so close, I can feel it, you two. I think it’s time to shake the nest.”
She had almost all the pieces, she could tell. She just had to rattle them around into one cohesive whole and it’d make sense. She knew the crime, she knew the victims, she knew the motivations; this wasn’t some impossible crime.
The motivations were simple and straightforward…at least, she thought. The oddity was in the act of the theft itself and, in some cases, the suspects.
“Okay, so we have that Lady Reinhart and the [Merchant]. How do we rattle them? Are they connected?”
Zevara put her head in her hands. She was thinking hard. It felt like every event that had happened to her these last few days was connected. She narrowed her eyes.
“Think. Think…we can get Pawn to announce his part of the plan. But unless we know who they are and what they want, we’re only going to get lies. I think—”
Her head rose, and she stared at Kevin. He fidgeted.
“What, Captain Z? Too much noir commentary? I can shut up.”
It wasn’t that…something about him was throwing her brain into disarray, and not just that he was alive again. Kevin.
Wait a second…her eyes narrowed, and she put another piece together. Then she sat bolt upright.
“I think I know who Merchant Yerham is. All I need is to confirm something at the Merchant’s Guild! I can’t do it myself—”
“Why not me? I had an account there. Damn. Now I’m Randy, I have to get my helper to do it.”
Kevin raised a hand and cursed, and Joseph lifted his.
“I have an account with them. I can ask.”
“You do that. I don’t have his name, but…you know what, there’s an even better thing we can do. Kevin, you’re going to help me lay some bait. Pawn will announce his change today. We have to spring a trap.”
His eyes widened as Zevara jumped up. Then they narrowed.
“Wait, me? Are they Roshal?”
“No—but they’re also very interested in you, Kevin. For different reasons, I think. It won’t put you in danger.”
She assured him, and he grinned when she told him what she needed.
“Oh man, that? That’s easy. I can make it even better. Give me thirty minutes to get to my shop in Esthelm. Actually, I might have the parts in my room. But wait, Zevara—”
He stopped her seriously, and she turned.
“What?”
“If this is the final act, you’d better have Relc or someone backing you up. And don’t forget—”
Kevin gave her a serious gaze.
“You’ve got to be ready to explain the entire crime afterwards. We could knock Venim out and put a speaking stone in his mouth if we want to pretend he was the one who figured everything out.”
She pointed a finger at him.
“I have no idea what you’re talking about. I’m glad you’re back, you idiot.”
Then she dashed out of the room as Kevin smiled.
“Yeah.”
He slapped his cheeks, then, and regarded Joseph.
“Ow. Dude, this is going to be so awesome. We’re having an Erin adventure!”
“I hope no one shoots me.”
“Hm. Good point. Let me get a chestplate on. It’s happened twice to Earthers so far.”
 
——
 
Forty minutes later, a rather bulky young man wearing a chainmail vest came riding into the Merchant’s Guild at the same time as Football Coach Joseph walked in to withdraw some money from his account.
“Coach Joseph! How can we help you today?”
He was a big shot, so someone was on him like Apista on dreamleaf. Joseph bantered with the receptionist about the game and made small talk as the other Human man shouted loudly.
“Hey, is there a, uh, ‘Kevin Hall’ of Solar Cycles here?”
The Merchant’s Guild went quiet. [Merchants] turned, annoyed by the voice, and then recognized the name and sombered. One of the [Receptionists] hurried over.
“Young man, lower your voice! What are you wearing? This is a respectable establishment!”
He scolded the unrepentant fellow, who swept his black hair back.
“Sorry, guv’nor. I’m a City Runner with a priority delivery for Kevin of Solar Cycles. Name’s Randy the Roadmaster. I heard he was about here? It’s urgent. Would have been a Courier job, but I know Kev, and he likes me.”
The [Receptionist] hesitated. He was a Gnoll who’d worked in Liscor before the Crazy Human had gotten here, and he was well familiar with the notables in the city. Including Solar Cycles.
“I, uh—I don’t know what to tell you, Runner Randy, but if you’re talking about the owner of Solar Cycles, he passed away last winter.”
“What? No? Kevin? I loved him! And this is specially for him—he ordered it, and as soon as we made it…what am I gonna do? Kevin! My man!”
Randy clutched at his chest. He staggered and nearly knocked over the object he’d put down. The [Receptionist] eyed it.
“What is…that?”
The City Runner yanked the cloth covering a huge metallic contraption full of gears and cylindrical rods. He pointed at it as the [Merchants] turned.
“This? It’s a Ford W4-G50 Engine. ‘Least, that’s what I think it’s called. Made of carbon-alloy steel and engineered to hell and back. Fraerling-tech, straight from…well, I can’t say. It’s for his shop! His shop is around at least, right?”
The [Receptionist] gave the strange object a wide-eyed stare.
“An engine…?”
“Yeah. He says it’ll make bicycles look like pushcarts. Said. Fuck, man. He built my bike for me! Look!”
Kevin pointed at his bicycle, which was highly-customized.
“It’s one of the new ones. Folds up, full shock suspension, triple gear system—how’d it happen? Who did this?”
He pounded one fist into his hand, and the [Receptionist] held out a placating hand.
“I’m, ah, not sure. It was rather shocking. The entire Solstice—”
“Is there someone I can talk to? I need to talk to someone. Wait—the inn. Is the inn okay? You’ve got to tell me what’s going on!”
Randy grabbed the [Receptionist]’s arm, and the man was both sympathetic and realized there was an opportunity here. The Gnoll patted the Runner’s arm and eyed the [Guildmaster], who’d come out himself; he got the nod and gestured.
“I have some refreshments. Please, sit, Runner Randy, and I’ll get you all the information we can. You appear exhausted.”
Wet, certainly. Randy wobbled after him, then turned.
“My bike—”
“We’ll put it away for you, sir!”
Someone jumped up, and Randy nodded. He followed the [Receptionist] into a side-room, and all the [Merchants] crowded around the engine at once. They waited until the door was closed before breaking into a babble.
“Someone get me a Magic Picture on this, now. I need a [Message] as well!”
“Kevin, he said? That inventor in Esthelm? Damn shame, I liked him…”
“What is this contraption? Do you think we could buy it, or—? Hey, hands off! You don’t know what it does!”
Someone slapped the hands of a [Trader] reaching for it, and there was an argument. Behind them, some of the hired help, mostly [Bodyguards] or regular [Guards] who assisted [Merchants] with their work, had a discussion of their own. Gold was gold, and knowledge was also gold—
A pair of men grabbed the Runner’s bicycle and wheeled it towards the back doors, not the front. Presumably to park it somewhere discreetly in the back rooms, or outside where it could be watched but not interfere with the august…augustness of the Merchant’s Guild.
