They were unarmed, save for a man with a belt knife—they must have lost their weapons in the crash! She raised her fists as one came at her. He was bigger than she was and threw a gloved punch; she leaned back and threw a counter across his face.
It felt like she was hitting a rock. He tried to tackle her and made the same mistake as a lot of Humans: he forgot she had a tail. It had snaked through his feet, and he went over.
Zevara kicked him in the chest and got a blow to the side for her trouble—the second man came in swinging, and she backed up and opened her mouth.
Flames baked the screaming idiot until the third put her in a choke-hold. She gasped, throwing an elbow up and back, trying to get him to let go—until a fist punched the man off his feet.
“Hands off the Watch Captain!”
Relc followed up the punch with a kick to the ribs. He spun as Zevara gasped and blew another stream of flames at the man scrambling backwards.
She and Relc backed up into each other as the three of Cecille Reinhart’s servants came at them. Zevara spat a poof of smoke in one’s face and ducked a wild swing—Relc threw an uppercut that knocked the man off his feet, and the Human behind him tried to bring two fists on the back of his head. Zevara swept the Human’s leg and then jumped on his chest. She stomped with both her feet, bounced off him, and swung around.
The last man was flailing at Relc, who advanced, grinning as he caught a fist effortlessly. The [Spearmaster] pointed his free claw—the Human twisted just in time to see Zevara’s helmet approaching his nose.
They were down, and Relc was chortling as he dusted his claws off.
“Good fight, Captain Z! I knew you had them handled, but my punching fist got lonely.”
She grinned at him as she rubbed her knuckles.
“You came just in time, Senior Guardsman. I think that’s all of them. Wait, where’s Lady Cecille?”
They spun around—and found the [Lady] sitting cross-legged. Her arms were folded, and she gave them an icy gaze.
“I wish to issue a complaint to your commanding officers, Watch Captain. I am a [Lady] of the Five Families and you have impeded me on my travels and put my life in danger.”
She sneered at them, despite a bruise on one cheek and her rather wet, windblown self. Zevara just eyed Relc.
“Can I hit her?”
“Me? I have done nothing wrong, Watch Captain. Order your [Thug] away.”
“You’re under arrest for fleeing Liscor, Lady Cecille, and attacking the Watch!”
“Me?”
Cecille’s eyes widened in mock outrage. She brushed at her dress.
“I was merely departing the city. I committed no crimes—”
“You have Antinium healing scrolls in your possessions.”
“Bought legally.”
Relc was staring at her as he pointed at her broken carriage. Cecille sniffed.
“You shot at Watch officers! Your carriage had scythe blades!”
“My men protected me. They must not have heard you were Watch officers and acted overzealously in my defense. I did nothing. My carriage has self-defense mechanisms.”
Zevara put her hands on her hips. Truly amazing. So that was why Lady Cecille hadn’t drawn a wand.
“We have you on resisting arrest and your people’s actions, Lady Reinhart.”
“I demand to see my [Advocate]. House Reinhart will not accept your allegations. Now, I believe I’ve hurt myself. I must have a [Healer], so you will escort me there right away or I will charge you with mistreatment of a [Lady] of the Five F—”
Cecille Reinhart was brushing at her dress and striding towards one of the horses, and Zevara believed she actually would have tried to get on it and ride away. However, at that moment, a young man ran over and hit her with a bicycle.
Kevin Hall raised his enchanted bicycle overhead and hit Lady Cecille with it again. And then again. Possibly, she’d tried to say, ‘how dare you’ or ‘what is this’?
But it turned out her ability to drive like a madwoman and poise under fire was not backed by a sterling constitution for actual harm. Kevin lowered the bicycle and checked it for damage as he panted. Zevara and Relc stared down at the comatose [Lady] who wore an expression of utter astonishment; her eyes were rolled up into her head.
“I saw her making a run for it!”
Kevin innocently lowered the bicycle, and Zevara tried not to smile. Instead, she put on her sternest face.
“Thank you for your help, civilian Randy. I’m afraid that was utterly inappropriate, though. You should make yourself scarce before the [Lady] wakes. We have her under arrest—wait, where the hell are we? Esthelm? We must have gone miles!”
She realized this was nowhere near the places around Esthelm she knew. Relc scratched at his head.
“I think if it’s not Esthelm…the nearest big city would be…aw, hells.”
He turned his head, and Zevara actually closed her eyes this time. Then she swung around and saw a Golem Horse riding her way and a bunch of familiar, giant figures. And wouldn’t you know it—running ahead of them with a commendable turn of speed was Lord Xitegen.
 
——
 
“Watch Captain, we do keep meeting in the most unfortunate of circumstances. Cousin Cecille, you look delightful. Kisses, but I’m afraid you’ve got something on your face.”
“Who struck me? I’ll have them hung!”
Cecille Reinhart was screaming fury when she woke up, and that mask of contempt had well and truly slipped. Fortunately, Kevin had ridden off and Lord Xitegen had taken over. The rest of the Watch had finally caught up, indicating how fast the chase had been—far enough to take them into Celum’s lands, it seemed.
Given it was the only city between her and the north proper, Zevara bet they were just past Esthelm’s grounds. But it meant Lord Xitegen was the final word here, and Lady Cecille knew it.
“Xitegen, these thugs from Liscor attacked my carriage! Arrest them and find out who struck me!”
The Lord of House Terland was giving Zevara one of those pre-emptive apologetic gazes, but she was gratified by his response. He turned, smiling, sweating a bit in his noble running outfit—and you had to admit, he did have thighs that wouldn’t quit. The twisting aura of black ribbons, like snakes, around Cecille deformed, and she went staggering backwards.
Did he just hit her with his aura? Xitegen boomed genially.
“Cecille, I’m delighted to see you’re as nasty as ever, but you forget yourself. This is my land, my city, and I don’t like you. So do shut up while I talk to the lovely Drakes. What, pray tell, is she charged with, Watch Captain Zevara?”
“Resisting questioning by the Watch, attack on Watch officers, and lack of suitable attire in public.”
Zevara added the last one with a straight face, and Xitegen glanced at Cecille’s disorganized state. He chuckled again, then sighed.
“Did she hurt anyone in your pursuit?”
“No, but the lives of my people were threatened.”
“A fine, then. Hefty enough given you had your bullyboys out, Cecille. And are those scythe-blades? I thought you didn’t have any more carriages with those, unless you just add them in. My, my. You must learn to stand and answer for your crimes. At least in places with proper law and order.”
The [Lady] folded her arms, lips compressed. The rest of her men were in various states of injury, being propped up by Xitegen’s Golems. She said nothing, and Xitegen focused on Zevara.
“She’s no fun when you actually have her beat. And if you think she’s the worst viper of the house…Cecille’s a big one, but they have worse. I can see she’s distressed the Watch and upset Liscor greatly, and I wouldn’t be surprised if you banned her and her people, but out of courtesy to her house, if not her, and for your safety, I am minded to let her go with a hefty fine.”
“You what?”
Relc was getting a glimpse of the north’s style of law enforcement first-hand, and the rest of the Watch were also incensed. However, Zevara was cool. She felt better now. She knew she was in trouble with Venim; he’d been cursing her before this chase. However, right now, she was Senior Guardswoman Zevara, and her job wasn’t done.
Plus…her eyes glinted as she nodded at Lord Xitegen.
“I suppose if it’s your land, your rules go, Lord Xitegen. I hope that someday you respect the law when it’s not convenient to ignore it.”
That needled him a bit. His chest inflated, and he sighed.
“Well said, Watch Captain. But I trust I won’t have issues with you over this?”
She saluted him crisply as Relc stared at her.
“No, sir! But may I entrust the second part of Liscor’s duties to you? Namely, the compensation for the recalled items in Lady Reinhart’s possession?”
He blinked at her.
“The what?”
 
——
 
Lady Cecille had nearly eighty scrolls in her possession. If you counted them as healing potions, that was a lot of money. Xitegen murmured.
“What’s the going rate on healing potions these days, Seconda?”
“It is eighty-eight gold pieces and seven silver where purchasable, Lord Xitegen. The Merchant’s Guild in First Landing has…zero in stock at the list price. Inquiries to be made with the [Guildmaster] directly.”
“My oh my. And the Free Antinium are refunding how much, Watch Captain?”
“One gold coin.”
Xitegen snapped his fingers. His eyes had lit on the scrolls, and Cecille was growing paler and paler by the second. She knew what he was going to do, and Zevara had a good inkling.
“Well, I am happy to compensate Cecille myself! Seconda, credit eighty-eight gold pieces to Cecille’s personal account at the Merchant’s Guild, would you? And I will confiscate these scrolls. You may assure the Prognugator that I will dispose of them properly.”
“Not return them to the Free Antinium, Lord Xitegen?”
Zevara was thinking of Robb’s comment. The Thigh Man himself bought scrolls from Liscor…Xitegen raised his brows at her, unashamedly direct.
“No, I rather don’t think I’ll stuff a gift horse back where it came from, Watch Captain. Call that more unscrupulous behavior, but I rather think your people would applaud you if you confiscated such items for them.”
She had to agree with that, but the Watch Captain was still too smiley. Too calm. Xitegen noticed.
“…Unless you have some claim?”
“Oh, no, Lord Xitegen. If Celum wishes to confiscate the scrolls, we of Liscor’s Watch can do nothing. I will simply go back and inform Pawn and Miss Lyonette of my inability to recover the scrolls, but I am sure they will trust your good word and hold you to account for any imbalances.”
Relc slowly smiled as Lord Xitegen’s face became frosty.
“Ah. Princess Lyonette and the Free Antinium. Groups of utmost restraint and sobriety.”
“And unwillingness to hold grudges. I speak from personal experience, Lord Xitegen.”
He rubbed at his chin.
“…And the only group that will sell these damn things in the future. I see, I see. Very well done, Watch Captain. Here I thought you couldn’t play northerner’s games. It would appear that Drake stubbornness is only skin-deep in some cases. Very well—take them. And do remind the Prognugator of my commitment to fairness.”
He flicked his fingers and turned. Cecille snapped.
“You’re letting her walk over you, Xitegen? You coward!”
“Cecille, the continent has changed since Magnolia put you to bed. If you want to play your old games with Liscor, go right ahead. But I think today would be a lesson, if I thought you were capable of learning.”
He shot back, and Cecille’s eyes focused on Zevara. There was a grudge there, oh yes. The Watch Captain just saluted the [Lady] as Relc gathered up the scrolls.
“I deeply regret the loss of your vehicle, Lady Reinhart. In the future, I hope you will cooperate with the Watch to the utmost extent of your disabilities.”
“Yeah, or bring more goons! I didn’t even get in a good punch!”
Relc grinned at her, and the [Lady]’s nostrils went so wide that Zevara was impressed. She didn’t know Humans did that. But the [Watch Captain] did step forwards.
“And in the future, try to just buy goods from the Antinium, Lady Cecille. Stealing from them is crass, even for a [Lady].”
The woman’s eyes narrowed, and Zevara felt her aura wrapping around her like dangerous, slithering vines. However, the Watch Captain didn’t move away. Cecille’s voice was low.
“You truly are a fool, Watch Captain. I will remember this—and if you think I needed to steal from those wretches, you are twice as delusional and ignorant of the north. House Reinhart’s coffers run deeper than you can even dream.”
Huh? Zevara met those simmering eyes, and again, she felt that disconnect. Was the [Lady] lying? If so, Zevara would never know, even with a Skill or truth stone, if she had one. And yet—she stood there until Relc coughed.
“Zevara, Venim wants you in his office the moment we go through a door.”
“I’ll take you to Celum. It’s almost as close.”
Xitegen offered Zevara, and she stepped back. But now…now…
 
——
 
She was thinking when Venim slammed his hands on the table and shouted at her. Thinking, her hands and feet locked in parade rest, as three other people stood behind her.
Watch Captain Ronss, Watch Captain Beilmark, and Sergeant Relc, acting as Watch Captain for her district, winced as Venim shouted.
“Arresting a Reinhart out of Liscor! Disregarding my orders! Stealing a Watch uniform—”
“As a matter of fact, Watch Commander, that was my property. I merely clocked in as Senior Guardswoman Zevara. Relc can show you the day log.”
“I do have it. I thought it was a joke.”
Relc had the booklet, and Venim spat at Zevara; she thought flames would be broiling her if he had her abilities.
“You do not have a Senior Guardswoman’s rank! You are a [Watch Captain]—”
“Actually, I have both classes.”
Her soft voice brought him up. He peered at her.
“What?”
“I’m a [Guardswoman] and a [Watch Captain], Commander. I have dual classes. Both over Level 30.”
She gazed over his shoulder, and the other members of the Watch stared at her—then Relc raised a hand.
“Hey, Captain Z! High five! I knew there was someone else like me!”
She high-fived him, which brought Venim straight back into rage mode.
“This is all technicalities, Zevara! You disobeyed my orders and pursued that investigation on your own!”
“And caught the [Merchant] and [Lady] stealing the scrolls, yes, Watch Commander? She was correct there was more going on.”
Beilmark interjected. Venim hesitated, because he was, again, mad but not stupid. He could tell his Watch Captains had Zevara’s back. He sat himself down, glaring.
“Am I the Watch Commander of Liscor, Watch Captain Zevara?”
“Of course, sir.”
