[Level 33 Streetwise Guardswoman!]
[Skill – Pursue the Quarry obtained!]
 
 
When she woke up, she wasn’t dead. Zevara knew that because everything hurt. But there weren’t any sharp pains; so no broken bones.
Somehow. Nor was she chained up. Another plus. She was, in fact, lying on a cot in a root cellar of some kind. She based that on the smell—and the sounds of movement above her. For a few moments after she woke, she lay and took stock. Mostly of her new levels and Skill.
Nice. Even with her head aching like a football after the Little Crab’s team practice, Zevara appreciated the new Skill. Good for footchases. It was always a bit of a mystery which class would level after she did something. She had to just guess why she gained a level.
They’d raided the Brothers, so why the [Guardswoman] over [Watch Captain]? Probably because the [Watch Captain] had been an idiot, taking that fight when she knew it was bad. The [Guardswoman] had fought decently well enough, hence the levels.
But it’s the [Watch Captain] who’s very much in trouble now. This was bad. Kidnapped by a gang? There was no hiding she was awake; Zevara had moved a bit, and she knew someone was in the room from the faint sounds of paper, breathing, murmurs from above. The creak of floorboards. Cards? A basement?
Time to face the music.
Zevara sat up slowly, opening her eyes, and someone spoke.
“Before you go thinking to do something unwise, Watch Captain, just know the hat’s back on the head. There it stays until it goes off. That’s the way it works, see? Not often we need to remind folks how it goes, but Liscor—it’s new to us. Reckon we’ve both had a bad day, as it were. You’re a prisoner, by the by.”
Her head throbbed. Zevara thought someone had punched it hard enough to knock her out. Her neck felt like it had been twisted half-off.
“For what, a ransom?”
“Just until a few of ours get let out. It’s simple enough. Unless Drakes don’t do hostage swaps?”
“Oh, I think we’ll figure it out. Especially if you got Ronss too.”
Zevara winced as she turned her head; there was a lantern glowing on a stool, and a man was sitting in a chair at a card table. Ah, tophatman.
He looked bad. Cuts on his face and nose clearly broken; a bandage was over it, but she probably seemed far worse. He wasn’t smiling, and a huge gash on his lip twisted as he pursed his mouth to spit and thought better of it.
“Him? He got out. So did most of your guards. They scrap better than most. Or maybe it was because there was a fire-breathing Watch Captain throwing down behind them. You’re lucky you didn’t burn half the boys up.”
“[Non-Lethal Strike]. I don’t kill unless I have to.”
Her jaw hurt horribly. Zevara worked it, then remembered she could use her hands. She touched a gigantic bump, and the tophat man’s lips twitched.
“At least one of you knows the score. Seems to me that Watch Captain Ronss is a fucking idiot.”
“He was promoted to the job last month. And given bad intelligence. He never worked in the Watch when we had to step wary of gangs. Relc and Klbkch were already a duo when he made [Guardsman].”
This civil discourse was nice. She’d had worse after being worked over in a fight. The hatman spat.
“Never got beaten down and left in an alley? What kind of self-respectin’ Watch Captain hasn’t had at least five of those?”
“The kind that comes from Pallass. Venim played this wrong. I don’t know what gangs Pallass has, but I doubt they ever beat down an entire Watch unit.”
Zevara rested her head against a wall. That was what the mistake had been. Well, mistakes.
I should have told Ronss to back it off the moment they said the gems weren’t here. I did, but I thought we could take them.
She’d known the Brothers were dangerous, but she’d never seen them fight like that. She’d thought Ser Normen was some kind of prodigy among them. Now, she wondered why he hadn’t made all of them Knights of Solstice.
“Alright, let’s talk. Who the hell are you?”
“Call me Robb. I’m the fellow in charge of Liscor’s chapter of the Brothers. And you’re the old Watch Captain. The one who knows this city. The one who’d know better than to force a gang to put its back against a wall.”
“If I knew better, I’d have stopped this from getting out of hand. My city’s changing. I never ran into a gang like yours back in the day. Even Soot’s heavies didn’t fight like that.”
Robb grinned and grimaced as blood ran from his cut mouth.
“We have a reputation we aim to keep.”
And it was going to go through the roof now they’d taken out ten squads of Liscor’s Watch. Zevara didn’t know how they’d address the Brothers. With heavy gloves, she suspected, if they had to arrest them. If not…leave them be.
Damn it. She’d have preferred the Watch won that fight, but she supposed they had done well enough if they’d mostly gotten away. Certainly, another Brother at the table appeared pretty bad. Oh—he had a huge scar across his cheeks and nose. A clearly healed wound from a very straight slash.
He was the one she’d cut in the fight. He must have had a healing potion? For a bad cut like that, he needed it. He had a bowler hat on and gave her a nod.
“Nice swordwork, Watch Captain. Nearly put me to rest, so it did.”
They were way too convivial, but Zevara wasn’t fooled. There was an edge to the Brothers right now. She suspected only the hats on their heads were keeping them civil. Impropriety had been offered—she was in danger.
“So…do I get to keep all my pieces if the hostage exchange doesn’t go forwards? Or is there going to be a message?”
Robb shuffled the cards hard without eyeing her.
“Depends on how this Watch Commander plays it. But we’re an upstanding sort, Watch Captain. Looks bad, don’t it, if a beloved Watch Captain gets hurt. The Brothers make a living keeping the streets clean. Not bloody. Blood only goes down when there’s a point.”
He stabbed the table so hard his finger left a hole in it. Yep, he was mad. His head turned to her.
“Seems to me—someone owes us a lot of blood for this. Not every fellow’s walking away from this. Now we’re in bad with the Watch, and the Watch’s got a bloody nose. You wouldn’t happen to know who decided to tell that fine Watch Captain we had all the gems in our bar?”
Zevara thought of Bobble and kept her face straight.
“If I did have names, I think I’d put myself at risk of their wrath.”
“Not if there’s none of ‘em left to be wrathful.”
Bowler hat rumbled. Zevara felt a prickle down her spine. Alright…if she said a name, people would die. She could—if a [Guard] had died or been maimed, that was on Bobble or whomever had set up this disaster. Played both sides against each other. But she felt the [Watch Captain] in her refuse.
This was a mess. This was bad—and she knew that the Brothers were on a knife’s edge, almost literally. Even so—Zevara’s eyes narrowed.
“If you think Liscor’s going to roll over and let you in as the only gang, you’re mistaken, gentlemen. The Jeweler’s Guild was a big move. Too big for a gang. That’s all flash, not what I’d expect of quiet folks like you.”
Robb raised his brows, amused.
“You think so? It’s big, it’s showy, aye. But it ain’t earning us bad marks as far as I can tell. Who cries for the [Jewelers]? Not many. They’re rich here as in any other city. We know who to hit if we want people to smile at us on the street. We take where it makes sense. Don’t squeeze a rock for water. Squeeze a fat, bloated tomato and water the streets a bit.”
“Downright altruistic of you. So you like to spread the wealth?”
“Modestly. Maybe we have to bribe a lot of hands. Not much to do but take our coin.”
And have everyone rooting for you to hit another fat [Merchant]. Wonderful. It was going to make rooting the Brothers out very hard if no one minded their presence.
“So you mean to tell me your gang’s a net positive for Liscor? I’ve heard you clean up the streets. You cut down on bad crimes, and only do protection money and big jobs? You must leave the small fries to their work. For a bit of money from them too.”
Robb gave her a gap-toothed smile.
“It don’t pay to be honest, Watch Captain. But it pays to be the cleanest rat in the bucket. I hope you can see your way to avoiding this kind of thing with us again.”
For answer, she just spat blood out of her own mouth.
“You’re lucky he’s on desk duty or you’d have met Sergeant Relc today. You think that cute shoulder-charge works on him?”
There was a chuckle in the room, and the air grew colder. Robb dealt his cards with a sigh. He tossed down a card in front of Zevara, then another as he circled the table.
“Looks like we’re going dancing with your district in the future, Watch Captain. Can’t say I’ll enjoy that. At least you’re not in charge of northwest.”
Ancestors, they were going to be a problem for Ronss. Zevara checked her cards with one hand reflexively. Two 2s. She raised her brows.
“What’re you playing for? Unless you left me my money pouch—”
“Oh, it’s just pride and life on the line. Same as always. What’re you in for?”
She glanced at the group of men and then made a beckoning gesture with two clawed fingers.
“How about you tell me what your best item you sell is. And if none of my [Guards] are lying in a morgue, I don’t come back with the Free Antinium and Sergeant Relc.”
Robb actually missed serving a card. He half-spun in his chair, and one of the other men at the table, the four-hundred pound giant, lowered his cards.
“‘Scuse me, Watch Captain. But I reckon you don’t get who’s being interrogated here, as it is. I don’t think you’ve got that many cards to play.”
“Deal them up. What are you selling, and why does it involve the Antinium?”
Robb was dead still as he eyed her, and Zevara’s gaze didn’t waver as sweat slid down her spine. She added after a moment.
“Noiraid told me I’d get an answer. Don’t leave me hanging.”
He blinked and then flicked a card at her. She caught it. Another 2. Robb dealt in the table, except bowler hat—he’d folded. He stared at her.
“You know the good missus?”
“I’m on an investigation. Antinium have been stolen from, and Humans are doing it. Want to clear your names?”
There was a laugh from the watchers in the background—and then Robb blinked.
“We wouldn’t steal from them. They’ve got nothing as-is. We trade with them, Watch Captain. Fair prices, with our margins. Miss Noiraid could tell you that herself. Unless she pointed the finger our way.”
She hadn’t. In fact, the Brothers were a good candidate for this set of thievery, but it just didn’t fit them. Zevara sat back as another card was dealt. A [Prince]. She still had a few more cards. Metaphorical, and literal.
“I want the truth. Give me what I want or believe me, I can make trouble.”
“You and your entire Watch House, Captain Zevara? How do you think that’ll play?”
Robb held the fifth card between his fingers to her, and she bared her teeth at him.
“I don’t know. Ever thrown down with Antinium Soldiers? There’s at least three hundred of them in the Free Hive.”
She grinned at their blank expressions, and clarified.
“Under the treaty with Liscor, they can have three hundred Soldiers at maximum. Though it looks like more when they’re on the streets. When the Watch in Liscor falters—the Black Tide marches.”
Robb stared at her until a smile split his lip again, and he handed her the final card. She showed three 2s, a [Prince], and the [Archmage]; no one had anything higher than two pairs.
“Well played, Watch Captain. Someone get her a sample to look at. We had to dip into the stash after this scrap. Our most valuable item does come from the Antinium. Miss Noiraid brokers a lot of it. It’s rare, and we sell it to very, very interested clients. All of ‘em north-folk. Big names. A few have come down to get it direct like, but it’s a very respectable business.”
Zevara got up as the table broke apart, and Robb motioned. Now she was onto it—she saw a familiar scrap of parchment in his hands. He offered it to her, and she unrolled a cheap bit of writing paper with words that glowed on them.
“Don’t read the whole thing unless you want to use it. We’d charge you for that.”
She blinked down at the writing. It said:
 
‘Hope. What is hope? Hope is something you must learn, for we are born without it. We are birthed, given our tasks, bleed, suffer, and die, and there is little hope down there. 
Hope is the first moment you realize that things can be better. It is a taste of fresh air. Hope makes life harder, because once you feel it, you cannot unfeel it or lose it. It is heavy and painful, and it makes the darkness and the suffering worse.
Hope is worthless if it is alone, because it is just longing, and it will never save anyone. Hope is not faith. Faith that is just hope means you do the same thing without working to make things different. Faith, and true hope, is action. When it is dark in the Hive, dig up to the light…’
 
The glow from the text seemed to fill her up, as if she heard a voice speaking the words. A familiar voice. Pawn’s voice. She felt like something was stirring inside of her, a feeling provoked by the words—until Robb snatched it from her fingers.
“Apologies, Watch Captain. That fellow has a way with words, don’t he? But this is worth more than you make in a month.”
“What—what is that?”
The leader of Liscor’s Brothers offered her a crooked smile.
“Something only Antinium can make. It takes all forms. Mostly the good word. Sometimes other things.”
Now her mind was focused. Zevara croaked.
“Other things? So regular Antinium walk around with—this?”
“I think the fellows in that Hive don’t realize what they’ve got. Or they don’t care. There’s not much of it, mind. Good enough to sell in small batches, but quite a few fine fellows have it. Most won’t sell; it’s Miss Noiraid who knows who’s willing to part with it for gold. You say someone’s stealing this stuff?”
Zevara looked the Brother in the eyes.
“This is a Watch matter.”
“Of course, of course. But that’s bad for business. If the good bugfellows started getting antsy, that hurts us all. I’d love to comply with a Watch inquiry into important business.”
She folded her arms and made a quick decision.
“I think some people don’t understand how to tell what’s genuine…stuff apart from just possessions. Thefts have occurred. Humans. Your lads wouldn’t know anything about that, would you?”
