She’d had to ask Relc for help. Kevin nodded, a bit more reassured, then fixed Zevara with an odd, searching stare.
“Weird. You’re sort of flipping how you talk, Zevara. Weird double-personality thing. Coming from someone with practice in that—how’s the Antinium thing legal?”
He winked at her, and she faltered before giving him a coy smile.
“I can’t get Yerham on that. But if I wanted to make his life hard, I’d simply put it in the Free Hive’s hands. They can either demand them back or announce to the world they made them and put the House of El in a bind. But you know, Kevin—it’s not less messy that way. Say I did tell the Free Queen and she was upset, though it was legal. Maybe she punishes Pawn. Maybe she punishes the Workers. Maybe…she tells the Silent Queen to do a few assassinations with Silent Antinium.”
Yerham was near enough to hear that as he was being arrested, and he visibly blanched. Kevin sighed.
“Yeah, that checks out. But that’s breaking the law too.”
She nodded.
“Sometimes, the smaller crime is in service to the larger. And I hope your world’s laws can account for that. Not that I want that kind of loophole, but I’m bearing in mind that we have nations here, Kevin, and they break the law in big ways, with war and killings. This saved us from having to make it that incident. I can’t arrest Antinium Queens, Kevin. Yet.”
That made him grin. He saluted her with two fingers.
“If everyone were subject to the law, equally, then I’d have fewer problems with it, Zevara. Okay, that makes me feel better.”
She returned the grin, and the Watch Captain wiped it from their face. She folded her arms, eying the young man.
“So…what is entrapment, and tell me about anything I’ve missed in the course of my duties.”
“Aw, come on, you did it again! Okay, let me try.”
They were having a discussion, and Zevara was writing under the eaves of a building, when Relc’s speaking stone suddenly squawked. He yanked it out and put it to his ear.
“What’s that? She went over the north gate? Oh shit, Captain—”
Zevara spun.
“What? Impossible! It’s all water! The gates are sealed!”
The roads themselves were underwater at the highest point of the spring rains! Only bridges connected each hill, and they weren’t big enough to get more than a handcart over! Relc just shouted at her as Kevin’s eyes widened.
“She’s got an enchanted carriage! Apparently, it jumped the wall! Now it’s going straight over water! Zevara, she’s headed north, directly to Esthelm!”
Zevara felt her pulse accelerating. Despite herself, she grinned as she whirled.
“Then what are we waiting for? We’ll beat her through the door! Get me horses and all the [Guards] you can get. Go, go, go!”
“Holy shit, it’s a chase!”
Joseph shouted, and Kevin grabbed his bicycle.
“I’m coming with you!”
“Absolutely not—”
Zevara was already running down the streets, and Relc was even faster than she was. But she didn’t miss a loud, very upset voice coming from the speaking stone.
“Watch Commander Venim wants a word, Captain Z—”
“I’m busy!”
 
——
 
Now she was breaking laws. Of a sort. It was more like…the law just hadn’t caught up to her. Yes, she liked thinking of it that way.
“You can’t deploy the Watch in another city! This is—we’re not arresting a Reinhart! Not in Esthelm!”
A Watch Captain was shouting at her, a frantic Human man, as Zevara mounted a horse that Relc had secured from the stables. She shot back.
“We’re not arresting her! We just want to talk to Lady Cecille Reinhart. Her conduct in jumping Liscor’s walls seems suspicious. She’s a person of investigation—”
And she’s running because she has the Antinium’s scrolls. Yes, call it ‘entrapment’ like Kevin had said. Pawn recalling the scrolls might also not fit with the perfect definition of the law. But something wrong had been done, and both Zevara and Cecille knew it. Zevara added to the terrified Watch Captain.
“Plus, she ran me over with that damn carriage yesterday. It’s a menace on the roads. We’re pulling her over for a chat, Watch Captain.”
She turned her head to the skies ahead. It was clear around Esthelm, but she could see it sleeting down on the road just south of her.
Liscor’s rains ended at the Floodplain basin, and somewhere in the torrential deluge, a black carriage was riding over the waters.
Lady Cecille Reinhart was no idiot. She’d heard the Antinium announcement about the scrolls—and the recall—and she’d gone straight for the north gate. The [Guards] hadn’t expected her to be able to leave through the water.
Magic carriages. Damn things. It seemed the Reinharts loved them—but she had to pass by Esthelm on the road north. So Zevara and a dozen [Guards], including Relc, were ready to catch her.
He was on foot; everyone else had a horse. Kevin had a bike.
“Ke—Randy—get lost!”
Zevara was riding for the gates, but Kevin was on his personal bike, and he was adamant.
“Like heck I’m missing the final chase!”
All they had to do was get out the gates and they’d be on Cecille the moment she arrived, but the Watch Captain was freaking out. He barred her way.
“You have no right to enforce the law here, Captain Zevara!”
“A crime has been committed in Liscor, Watch Captain! Are you telling me you don’t acknowledge it? What if I was after a [Murderer]? You’re the Watch, and so am I!”
She drew the swarthy man up, and he hesitated.
“But that’s a Reinhart! Do you know what she’ll do to you if she holds a grudge?”
Zevara knew all too well, but she shot him a glare as smoke exited her mouth. It billowed up around the horse, who snorted, as if this was hyping her up.
“The law applies to everyone, Watch Captain! If I was afraid of the damn consequences, I would have quit long ago! Move aside!”
He still hesitated, but Kevin glanced at the man, then whistled.
“Pelt!”
The Dwarf had come to see what all the hollering was about. He shoved people aside, and when he saw Kevin, his face went pale. But he too had met Kevin—
“What nonsense are you up to this time, you fool? Get back before you get killed again!”
The Watch Captain stared at Kevin, seeing only Randy, but Kevin just pointed at Zevara.
“I’m helping Captain Zevara catch a criminal! C’mon, Pelt! She’s a Reinhart! Talk some sense into Watch Captain Merde over here!”
Pelt stared at Zevara, and then at the Watch Captain. He blinked at Zevara, then exhaled.
“A Reinhart, you said? Magnolia?”
“No.”
“Shame.”
Pelt stumped over and picked up the burly Watch Captain. He effortlessly lifted the man and shoved the rest of the Watch out of the way. Zevara blinked down at Pelt, who pointed at Kevin.
“If you die again, I’m not putting anything on your grave this time.”
Kevin just laughed. He rode his bicycle out the gates as the Watch galloped out—just in time.
“I see the carriage! She’s coming!”
[Guardswoman] Jerci pointed, and Zevara did indeed see the Reinhart carriage leaving a spray in the storm. It was moving fast, the team of four horses at a dead gallop.
“Dead gods, she’s going to run those animals into the ground. Go for the harness! Spread out—”
Zevara waved her hand, and the Watch complied. She took another look as the carriage hit the dry earth and saw water tearing off the carriage in a spray that left a rainbow, the least-befitting thing for Cecille Reinhart. Speaking of—Zevara’s mouth dropped open.
The [Lady] of House Reinhart wasn’t in her carriage. She had lost her [Driver], Sollux, and without him, she’d taken the reins. She was in the [Driver]’s seat, leaning over the reins, black dress billowing behind her.
She seemed like murder as she stared down the road and saw Zevara. She lashed the horses again, and they ran, tired or not, as her aura crackled with malice around her.
“Halt in the name of the Watch!”
Zevara roared, and someone shouted.
“Liscor’s Watch! Just Liscor’s—”
Cecille Reinhart shot past them, and Zevara didn’t even have the chance to say ‘after her’—she dug her heels into her horse’s sides, and the mare shot off. The Watch raced after the carriage, and Kevin swore.
“Wait, leg cramp, leg cramp—wait for me!”
Zevara wasn’t a great rider, but she could still gallop down the dry road as dirt clumps spat behind the carriage wheels. She gained swiftly on the carriage, shouting.
“Cecille Reinhart, you are under arrest! Halt the carriage or—”
“[Dangersense]! Captain, watch out!”
One of the Watch shouted, and she peeled back just in time. She’d been ready for Cecille to pull a wand on her, or one of her flunkies, but not for two long blades to click out of the carriage’s sides.
“Whoa! It’s got blades! Get back! Get back!”
Jerci galloped away in alarm as the carriage swerved right and left. The blades would have taken off the horses’ feet! Zevara urged her horse left and saw a window roll down.
“Crossbows!”
One of Cecille’s people fired the crossbow at the Watch, and Zevara ducked; something flew past her helmet, and she spat flames back—the window rolled up fast, and now the Drake was galloping next to the carriage.
“Cecille Reinhart! We’ll use deadly force!”
The woman shot her a glance and sneered—one of the Watch, Jerci, had managed to aim a bow while galloping. An arrow shot towards her coach and then snared itself in the air—a dozen black ribbons strangled it, and it dropped.
Dead gods, that’s a dangerous aura. The Watch was having trouble getting close! It was Sergeant Relc who closed the gap. The Gecko of Liscor was on foot and running hard.
“Argh, I hate horses! Slow down! I said slow—[Triple Thrust]!”
His spear struck three times with pinpoint accuracy, and one of the scythe-blades on the side of the carriage broke away. The Watch closed in, firing wands and striking the windows with their blades, keeping those from within from taking another shot at them.
“Cecille Reinhart!”
Zevara was going for the leads of the horses. She raised her sword to chop them and set the horses free when she saw Cecille press something in her driver’s seat.
“Watch o—”
The cloud of black smoke blasted everyone, and the Drakes’ horses screamed and slowed, rearing and unable to run while blinded. Zevara coughed as it got into her lungs. She broke out of the melee, wrestling her mare forwards—only Sergeant Relc had escaped the cloud. He charged after Cecille.
“Gotcha!”
His spear struck the carriage once, twice—he left huge gouges in the black paint. Then he took aim at a wheel. The entire carriage swerved as Cecille cursed. This time, it glowed and sped forwards.
“Oh come on—”
Zevara saw Relc accelerate, cursing. She shouted her own Skill.
“[Pursue the Quarry]!”
Her horse accelerated, not as fast as the carriage, but leaving the rest of the mounted Watch behind. Zevara clung to her mount, flat as she could. Minutes stretched out as the ground blurred beneath them; they dodged around slower-moving vehicles, and Zevara didn’t know whether her Skill would run out first or Cecille’s magic.
 
——
 
The enchantment ran out moments before Zevara’s Skill. She was almost on the carriage now, as it slowed, and she saw Relc panting just ahead of her. Now she saw the horses flagging!
She tried to urge her horse to move faster, but the mare was going full-out, and it wasn’t enough! She saw Relc nearing the carriage. He raised his spear—only for those black ribbons to snare his feet.
“Argh!”
He tripped and went tumbling! Relc slashed at the ribbons, cursing, and Zevara saw the carriage break out of the pass that led past Esthelm. Where were they? 
“Come on, just a bit further! Come on!”
The mare was trying, but she’d already been galloping full-tilt, and whatever Cecille Reinhart was doing, it was motivating her horses to gallop faster, exhausted or not.
Zevara saw green fields flash past her and cursed. Cecille was going to get away! She—
“Watch Captaaaain!”
Kevin pedaled past her, and Zevara nearly fell off her horse. Somehow—he’d caught up to them! No, now the Skills had ended, he was gaining on Cecille’s carriage!
Kevin’s enchanted bicycle was glittering in the sun as he stood up in the footrests and pumped his legs. He was an experienced biker from Earth, and he was on the max gear and Hedault’s enchanted pedals to outspeed the flagging carriage! But what was he going to do?
Zevara cried out a warning as she saw Cecille Reinhart glance over her shoulder. The [Lady] didn’t raise a hand, but one of the windows rolled down.
“Kevin! Watch out—”
The [Mechanic] was next to the rear wheels of the carriage, on the side without the scythe blade. He saw the window roll down and pedalled frantically a pace closer—then reached out and slapped the side of the carriage.
“[Rapid Disassembly]—oh shit!”
In slow motion, Zevara saw the back left wheel pop off the carriage. Beautifully, too. It was like it was pulled off and disassembled in each component part, axle, spokes, everything that could be removed spread out in a neat manner next to the carriage.
In motion. The pieces hit the ground and vanished instantly. And the carriage?
It lurched onto one side, skidded a hundred feet, and then the other wheels couldn’t keep it steady. Cecille’s carriage hit something—a rock—and overbalanced.
It rolled across the road as the horses tore free of their leads and galloped away, screaming. Zevara saw the [Lady] go flying—the carriage rolled eight times then came to a halt. The [Watch Captain] passed by Kevin; he’d wiped out to avoid the carriage wheel. Zevara’s eyes were on Cecille Reinhart, lying with her beautiful black scarf on the ground.
Was she alive? Zevara jumped from her saddle. She bent down and saw Lady Cecille’s eyes were open. She was lying on her front, panting for air—either an amulet or Skill had saved her or she was the luckiest woman alive.
“Lady Cecille? Are you hurt?”
The woman made no sound. She stared murder as her eyes locked onto Zevara—no, past her?
The boot nearly caved in Zevara’s head as she knelt by the [Lady]. It slammed into her shoulder instead as one of the three goons swore. They’d come out of the carriage dizzy and battered—but ready for a fight.
“Zevara!”
Kevin shouted as the Watch Captain lurched back. She reached for a sword she didn’t have—only her baton. When she grabbed it, one of the other men slashed at her with a shortsword. It buried itself in the baton, and she twisted, dragging it from his grip. She threw it aside, blade lodged in the baton and useless, and backed up.
