His eyes narrowed. Robb motioned to her, and she followed him up out of the cellar. The rest of Brewman’s Bar appeared fairly trashed from the fighting, but he moved past Brothers who were in annoyingly good shape and found another familiar face.
“Lemmingway, you do work with Miss Noiraid, right? You have anyone stealing from the bugs on those streets? You’d stop it right quick if you did, correct?”
Lemmingway, the young man who’d charged her with knives, was sewing up an elbow with needle and thread. That was tough—he glanced up, startled.
“That, boss? Yeah, we ran off a few idiots. They just tossed what they took. I woulda given them something more, but you said go gentle. So we went gentle as milk on a cat’s tongue. Gave it back to the Watch fellows who showed up, nice and proper.”
That squared with Guardsman Cossl talking about how some items were recovered. Even so—Zevara frowned.
“Lots of Antinium were missing things.”
“How many thefts have you seen?”
Robb demanded, and Lemmingway protested as he bit the thread in half with his teeth.
“Not that many, Boss! You want us to look out for that kind of thing?”
The Brother’s leader nodded, and Zevara thought that would help—but it didn’t deal with all the Antinium who’d already lost items. Poor Carpenter Laikos—but now she knew why the items were being stolen.
Just not what they were.
“I want to know where the Antinium sell this stuff. Maybe I can see if anyone else is lurking about. You said the north has lots of buyers? Not the south?”
Robb raised his brows.
“Oh, aye. All the big players—and new ones. The Flower Lady, Mister Thighs—he’s new, but sharp—and the old players. The Wit, the Shallowgrave Sisters—all under House Roses, you know? Anyone with eyes wants them.”
She had to decipher some of that. She didn’t know all the nicknames, but everyone knew Magnolia’s, and Mister Thighs was obvious. Well, well, well. But it begged the question—
“Really, the nobles?”
“Oh, and the gangs. They’re all respectful of us because they know what we’ve got, and none of them thought Liscor was worth the effort.”
“None of the south?”
Lemmingway laughed at that, and Robb snorted.
“The south has different deals. The gangs, yes. But no city. Who’d want Antinium goods? We made some offers, and they turned their noses up. More for us. Astonishing, really.”
He shook his head, tutting over the failure of Drakes. Zevara was stung by that.
“You don’t mention Gnolls in all that.”
“Ah, them! Well, I think Miss Noiraid has another deal going on. Clever folk, that lot.”
Huh. Something no Drake was part of—well, it made sense with the Antinium—but everyone else wanted badly. Zevara worked her jaw with a wince.
“Okay, I want a guide to the spot now.”
“After we make sure the lads are out of holding, Watch Captain.”
Robb answered instantly, and she remembered she was a prisoner. Right. Damn. Zevara was about to ask if they had a pillow so she could lie down and let the world spin for a moment, or if they had a drink, when there was a knock at the door.
The Brothers went quiet. Lemmingway produced several needles, which he held between his fingers.
“There ain’t a codesign. You want us to—?”
Robb rose slowly.
“Hold on. Hold on—”
His eyes flicked to Zevara, and she hoped like hell Relc wasn’t stupid enough to raid the Brothers to save her. Not even with the entire Watch House! Zevara was tensing, ready for anything, when someone kicked the door in.
Then there was fire. A Brother ready to leap on the intruder froze up, and the green flames burned, making the men with hats flinch back. A man pulled off his helmet, and Zevara stared.
“Gentlemen. I’m a bit disappointed in you all today.”
Ser Normen was wrapped in green flames. The [Knight] strode into the bar fast—ignoring the dangerous men around him, because he was one of them. Or had been. His eyes were focused on Zevara, and Robb put up his hands fast.
“Normen? Ser Normen? We were just—”
“I’m here for the Watch Captain before things get messy. I heard you threw down with the Watch—Captain Zevara’s a friend of the inn. A friend of the Order of Solstice. If she’s hurt—”
Two more [Knights] were at the door. One had pink flames—Jewel? And the other had grey and black flames, and a Brother who had caught sight of him went dead white. He backed into one wall, and Zevara squinted at a [Knight] she didn’t recognize. Robb choked as he saw the third [Knight]. She saw his face drain of color.
“T-that’s—”
The rest of the Brothers were ready to go, not seeing whatever he had. Zevara moved. The [Watch Captain] didn’t realize she was between the two armed groups until she was shouting.
“Stand down! Stand down; that’s an order! I’ll have no more blood here! Lower your weapons!”
To her amazement, it worked. The armored [Knights] hesitated, unwilling to stab her, and one of the Brothers halted, hat in hand. Robb leapt in as well, shoving his people back.
“Hold it, hold it! That’s Normen! Back it up!”
Normen lowered his mace and looked Zevara over as the Brothers untensed.
“Watch Captain? We thought we’d have to rescue you. Are you alright?”
She winced as she tried to smile at him.
“Just beaten up. The Brothers got it bad too. Is anyone dead or…?”
“There are a lot at the [Healer]’s, but somehow, no.”
He seemed as confused as she did. Normen glared at Robb. Zevara moved to keep herself between him and the other man—she felt like one punch and there might be more blood and she refused to have it. Normen snapped at Robb, confused and angry.
“How did the Brothers take off their hats and no one died?”
The big man rubbed at his nose, clearly unsettled. And as the rest of the Brothers cooled, they seemed to notice something that drained the fight from them too. Zevara was so busy glancing around for danger she didn’t see what had them on edge. Robb muttered.
“W-we scrapped hard, but we used some of our inventory to ensure no one kissed the ground for good. That looks real bad. But, ah…Normen. That’s a dead man behind you.”
Robb was still staring at the unknown knight. Zevara was trying to remember what each fire meant. Grey…and black. Robb was backing into a wall. Normen just gave Robb a weary smile.
“Dead’s no excuse when there’s things that matter to be done. Watch Captain Zevara’s coming with us.”
“But the lads—”
Normen’s green flames burned as he pointed at Robb.
“She walks. And mind the rest of the fellows understand that some things you take your hat off over—this? You put it back on. The city needs her.”
Zevara wasn’t sure she liked being singled out like this, but she did appreciate the dramatic rescue. She nodded at Normen, waiting for Robb to object, but the [Knight] with the…bowler hat was striding into the room.
“Hello, lads. I have an offer for you.”
Crimshaw smiled with two eyes aflame, and Zevara stepped back from someone who gave her all the wrong vibes. A killer as cold as Soot, blazing with beautiful, deadly fire.
She glanced at Normen, and he nodded to her.
“We came to make sure you were alright. The Brothers will be—a problem for Liscor, and we can’t stop them. I’m not one of them anymore, even if they respect me.”
She nodded at him.
“That’s my problem. I appreciate you putting in a good word for me. They won’t cut my throat if I arrest too many of them.”
“Oh, they only do that to the Watch Captains they think are rotten.”
He offered her a weary smile of regrets and motioned to the door. Jewel saluted Zevara with her sword.
“Can we take you back to the Watch House, Captain Z?”
The withering glance that Zevara shot her made the [Swashbuckler] falter. The Watch Captain shook her head.
“No. Actually…you’re too noticeable. If I can go on foot, I have somewhere to be.”
The [Knights] blinked at her, but she had just had a thought. Now was the perfect time to go to the spot where Antinium sold their items. The entire city knew the Brothers had just thrown down with the Watch. If a thief was going to be anywhere…
 
——
 
Thirty minutes later, Zevara was panting and walking down a street in the warehouse districts near the Antinium Hive entrance. She was almost grateful that all eyes were on the Brothers’ hideout; few people took her as anything other than a [Guard] on patrol.
She eased into a shadow, groaning as she felt all her bruises screaming at her. This was apparently a street where Antinium could sell those mysterious scrolls. What they were…she’d forgotten to ask Robb. Damn. She’d go back later if she needed to.
What a day. What a disaster. She had to debrief with Venim and Ronss about just how south this had gone, but if no one was dead—she just needed to figure this out. A small win, that was all!
A Human shoving one of the Workers down so she could nab them and arrest them and close the case. But life was never that easy; no one committed crimes in front of the Watch, because, well, that’s what they were there to deter. Duh.
Zevara saw several Antinium glancing around as they held objects that looked suspiciously like bits of wrapped up scrolls…or maybe even bigger texts. They were all coming out of a warehouse’s side exit while Antinium Workers loaded it up with goods and brought out more.
Aha. A place where Antinium would always be, so if a few snuck away…Zevara sighed. Actually, it occurred to her that the thieves had never struck here in her interviews. Of course not. This was the one spot where there were too many Antinium.
“Think, idiot. You have the Brothers doing ‘official’ business with Antinium, some [Thieves] trying to cut out the middlemen, and people trying to just buy and sell here. All of it illegal or unregulated, but only the [Thieves]…why steal? Why not just buy it outright?”
Well, being cheap was always a reason. Zevara eyed a gaggle of Antinium comparing what they had in their hands. They looked like…regular Workers. A Soldier? And a Painted Worker? Oh my, the Antinium were learning to be criminals. At least, some of them. She sighed, wondering if it was worth just approaching them and asking what they were doing—they might freak out, though, if they thought she was going to arrest them. But she didn’t even think they had real contraband. Just—
At that moment, a black carriage with the crest of House Reinhart on it rolled past Watch Captain Zevara in the street. Her jaw dropped.
Lady Cecille Reinhart’s carriage came to a dead halt in the street, and that rat-faced [Driver], Sollux, leapt down. Three of the flunkies did likewise and he snapped his fingers.
“You lot! We want to buy whatever you’ve got. Pronto! We’ve got gold. You get that? Gold.”
The Antinium had jumped when the carriage appeared, and they hesitated, then crept forwards nervously. Sollux rolled his eyes and made beckoning motions as the carriage window rolled down.
Zevara couldn’t believe her luck. She crept forward as the Antinium spoke to the impatient [Driver]. He was glancing around warily as they were and spoke loud enough to hear.
“Yes, gold. Give us all of the things. The genuine articles, not…er, Your Ladyship? How do we know what’s authentic?”
He hurried over to the window as it rolled down more. From her side of the street, Zevara only saw the other side of the coach, but then she heard a slap, a yell—and the Antinium flinched.
Sollux came back, rubbing his face.
“—Just give it over! And it’d better work or we’ll tell your Hive-leaders or whatever about this!”
The Antinium were very nervous then and argued amongst themselves before one was brave enough to hand over a little booklet. Sollux stared at it, showed it to the flunkies, who all shrugged, but then ran it over to the coach. He came back.
“Okay, that’s one. Is that one? How much?”
The Antinium didn’t know, so Sollux counted two gold coins into a palm. The Antinium clutched them to his chest, and Zevara thought of the pet shop.
How many pet shop tickets and acid fly bowls did that buy? Or Fortresses of Fluff? Now she saw why Noiraid and the Antinium were selling this stuff. She bet Noiraid got a better price, though. From the looks of it, these Antinium had just caught onto the deals like she had.
Another one was approaching the carriage—but Sollux waved them back.
“No, no, you don’t approach her with your filthy everything. You give it to me, I give you gold. Her Ladyship doesn’t want to breathe the same air as you v—v—very nice bug people, got it?”
Dead gods. The sheer contempt radiating from the carriage was like an aura in itself. Actually…Zevara knew something about auras as Lady Cecille definitely had one. Her boredom, contempt, and dangerousness coiled around her like a snake’s scales. Zevara eyed the carriage, wondering when she should interrupt—
And then an eye appeared in the blinds. One huge, staring, green eye. It swivelled right, left—and locked onto her.
[I See You]!
It was as if someone had drenched Zevara in cold water. She jumped back with a jolt of surprise—too late. She’d been spotted? How?
Lady Cecille Reinhart—! Some kind of Skill? When Zevara peeked around the corner again, cursing, the mood had changed. Sollux was in his carriage, and the three flunkies were striding her way.
“Ancestors—”
Zevara stepped out from behind her corner as if she’d intended to do that all along. Instantly, the three bodyguards halted, and the Antinium froze. They fled as she raised a hand.
“Wait! No one’s under arrest—damn it.”
The guilty ran when the Watch came, and the Antinium were very guilty, even though she doubted she’d have even done more than lecture them. Lady Cecille Reinhart, though, was made of sterner stuff.
The window cracked down slightly as Zevara walked over.
“Lady Cecille, a pleasure to see you again.”
“Watch Captain, how unfortunate. Tell me, does the Drake Watch enjoy harassing the nobility?”
“We don’t have many of your class in our cities, Lady Cecille. I do apologize. May I ask what you were doing?”
The [Lady]’s voice was unruffled, and she didn’t even glance at Zevara; she was literally powdering her nose using a mirror. But that eye had been all malevolence a second ago.
“Merely some business, as I informed you and that thug of a Drake last time. Have I done anything illegal, Watch Captain?”
“I don’t know. It seems to me you have been dealing with Antinium quite personally.”
“I have stolen nothing, Watch Captain, as you observed. And I tire of your accusations. Whatever you may think in that copious brain of yours—”
Cecille Reinhart drawled, then snapped.
“—I have broken no laws in Liscor. Put that on a truth stone and eat it!”
