“Well, I don’t feel like it. I rather feel like you’ve taken on the role of ultimate discretion in the city and I’m only acting in the job until you decide otherwise. We must have a hierarchy of command here, and if we do not, then there is no system behind our laws!”
He had a good point. Zevara shuffled her feet.
“I do acknowledge your authority, Watch Commander. I just…believe, strongly, that there are matters in which an officer needs to be able to overrule their commander. To be the one executor of the law who cannot be swayed. It happened in Esthelm and Celum as well; the law is measured differently in each city when I should have had jurisdiction in each, or at least, cooperation!”
He pulled at his neck spines.
“The law is subordinate to politics, Zevara; we’ve been over this! You know it!”
“It shouldn’t be.”
She met his eyes, and he opened his mouth to shout…then sat back.
“You’re right. It shouldn’t be. I’m not happy with it either, but I didn’t take this job because I was enamored with dreams or ideals. Every one of us has had to compromise in some way. So yes, I acknowledge that the full weight of the law wasn’t backing you up. The Merchant’s Guild is trying to get Master Yerham out, and the House of El has an [Advocate] waiting for me. It shouldn’t be this way, but it is. At the same time, I need you to follow orders.”
She was nodding and knew it was time for her punishment, but she was still…thinking.
“The case isn’t closed though, Commander. I have it from both Lady Cecille and Merchant Yerham they didn’t steal the Antinium’s items.”
He twitched.
“Watch Captain—I need you to follow orders.”
Someone else spoke up. Watch Captain Ronss had a black eye and a nasty scrape over one cheek, but he was still working. He gave Zevara a glance as he stepped forwards.
“Sometimes, it’s the wrong orders though, Watch Commander. If I’d listened to Zevara, we wouldn’t have gotten into the mess with the Brothers.”
“Watch Captain Ronss, thank you for your input, but this and that are different matters. Alright, let me focus on the things I can agree with.”
He crossed his arms, clearly trying to mediate.
“—The Antinium issue was bigger than I imagined. All those scrolls…over a hundred were recovered between the two Humans, and that’s a vast fortune in gold and healing. The Council is meeting to negotiate with the Free Antinium for the Watch and our army. I agree, it was worth prioritizing! At the same time…we had officers investigating!”
“But not experts, Watch Commander. I put Jerci and the Antinium on it, but they made things worse. One poor Antinium lost his mind—we don’t have good Senior Guard pairs. Me and Klbkch…well, we might not have done better since Klbkch is actually pretty bad with Antinium himself, but we need more specialists.”
Venim nodded as Relc put in that rather astute observation, and Beilmark shot him an astonished glance and nudged him approvingly. He grinned, and Venim gave him a brusque nod as he checked the report again.
“True. But the chase was far too risky. That [Lady] is a menace. Did you…did she really have blades on her carriage? I think that’s the one law she actually broke. Those are highly illegal.”
“Really?”
Even Zevara didn’t know that. Damn, she could have hit Cecille with something harder than Kevin’s bicycle. Well, that alone made her smile.
Ronss grinned too.
“C’mon, Commander Venim. You were cheering on Watch Captain Zevara, same as the rest of us! Dead gods, an old-fashioned chase? We haven’t had one of those for years!”
Venim made a slashing motion at Ronss, but the overexcitable Watch Captain turned to Zevara as she blushed.
“I wish I’d been there to go after her! Mind you, I can’t ride for anything, but Lens—you know Lens? He was moaning that you didn’t pick him! He’s got [Rider] Skills and the class, and he just got off leave!”
Zevara’s whirling thoughts solidified in a moment. She and Relc exchanged a glance, and then they swivelled around to face Ronss.
“What was that, Ronss?”
“Uh, what?”
“Lens. What did you just say about him?”
Senior Guardsman Lens, who was at the heart of her investigation without any leads…Zevara stared at him, and the Watch Captain stuttered.
“Well, I—I just said that he was upset you didn’t take him. But it’s no big problem. He was on paternity leave until yesterday, so…”
“He was what? That’s impossible.”
Relc interrupted urgently. Now the cards were falling in Zevara’s mind. Ronss eyed Relc.
“He had a kid. I’m sure of it.”
“But I read his reports! All this month! He was the one who dealt with the Antinium…thefts…”
“What’s this, Sergeant Relc?”
Venim had caught wind of the same thing as the others now. Beilmark was sniffing the air out of reflex, and Zevara spoke.
“That’s why no Antinium ever got their stolen items back. Senior Guardsman Lens never returned them.”
“Wait, he’s been stealing from Antinium? Lens?”
Watch Captain Ronss’ eyes went round in horror, and she shook her head. Now, Zevara was pacing, pacing around the office, ignoring Venim.
“Not Lens. But it makes sense. I just talked to Merchant Yerham and Lady Cecille. Both looked me in the eye and swore they weren’t the ones stealing from Antinium…but they were the ones the Antinium described. A [Merchant] in clothing and a [Lady] with a rosewood scarf.”
Beilmark rubbed at her badge with one finger.
“They could have lied to you, Zevara. Remember the Named-rank adventurer? Regrika Blackpaw?”
Zevara nodded, but she didn’t agree.
“Maybe…but it never added up. I didn’t know why until I met the two. Yerham is an agent of the House of El. He’s more interested in technology, and his man wasn’t violent; he just ran away when I chased him. He said it himself: why steal from Antinium? And Cecille Reinhart…she’d steal from them, but they always identified her as the one doing the crime. Carpenter Laikos said she shoved him and took his doll.”
“I’d believe she’d steal candy from Mrsha, or try. What’s off about that, Captain Z?”
Relc commented. Zevara regarded him.
“It doesn’t fit her character, Relc. The nastiness, yes, but being hands-on? The entire time she was in Liscor, I never even saw her step out of her carriage. When she told me she never set foot on our streets, I believed her! The idea she’d do the dirty work herself, let alone touch an Antinium…it doesn’t add up.”
“But…those are your suspects, Watch Captain.”
Venim interjected, trying to piece it together as well. Zevara looked at him, and an idea coalesced in her mind. Well, when you’d run through all the other options…
“There’s one last party, Commander. And a few more odd things. When I talked to Pawn, he showed me the articles of faith. It’s pretty obvious what they look like if you’ve bought a few. Cecille Reinhart could recognize them, but Antinium who were stolen from lost personal items without faith as well as valuables. The [Thieves] didn’t have nearly as much experience as people working with them.”
“Okay, that does seem odd. But if they saw a [Lady]…”
“They saw a [Lady]. But I don’t think it was Cecille. Not only would it be stupid of her to just walk up and snatch things…I think it was a fake. An illusion.”
Relc’s brows shot up, and Zevara murmured as the pieces fit.
“Carpenter Laikos. When I interviewed him the first and second times, he described the [Lady] as wearing a ‘rosewood scarf’. Red and black. So did other Antinium. But that doesn’t work. Because Cecille might wear a scarf, but it’s not that pattern. It’s more like a spiderweb. Relc, you saw it. Would you call that rosewood?”
“Uh, no. It was expensive as heck. Magical.”
Zevara nodded.
“It’s the kind of thing you could easily mistake, but Laikos told me himself—he knows beauty. Even if he didn’t appreciate it, I doubt a [Carpenter] would confuse wood patterns.”
Venim frowned.
“He’s an Antinium, Watch Captain. He might not have known the difference. But are you saying that wasn’t the [Lady]?”
Zevara nodded.
“It just looked like her. Just like Guardsman Cossl said he handed over items to Senior Guardsman Lens—who couldn’t have been there. It’s so clever. The paperwork’s in our system, and only the Antinium would realize that no one actually got their items back.”
“So someone was posing as Merchant Yerham and Lady Cecille to put the blame on them. And then they also hid items that the Watch recovered by posing as Lens!”
Beilmark murmured. Zevara nodded, and Ronss threw up his hands.
“But then—this is a disaster! It could be anyone! Wait, I bet it’s the Brothers. Rings of disguise aren’t cheap! I bet it’d hard to fake a magical scarf, which is why it appeared cheaper, but even that costs more gold than any random person could spend. But Zevara, you have no proof!”
Relc’s face fell, and Zevara let out a smoky breath. She swore she heard Kevin’s voice narrating in a deep monotone.
And in the room, the beleaguered Watch Captain with smoke-for-brains finally put two and two together. The crime was good, perfect, and she had no evidence, but the bastards had made one mistake by being too clever…
She turned to Venim and realized he’d gotten it. Zevara glanced at the others and shook her head.
“Oh, no. There was only ever one other group spotted around the Antinium, Ronss. And they overplayed their hand. It could have been anyone…except for one problem. Tell me, Relc, since you’ve been doing desk duty. Who has access to all the stamps and paperwork you’d need to file Lens’ report?”
He shrugged and counted on his claws.
“Hardly anyone. For a Senior Guard like him? You’ve gotta be at a desk in the Watch House, filing the damn stuff—you used to chew me out for not doing it after a patrol. Then you glance it over and add your stamp. So…it’d be a Watch Captain, really, if you were faking the entire thing. Or Venim. Or…”
He drew in a breath, and Zevara nodded. Venim finished the sentence.
“Or someone who has all the clearances. Who appears on no lists and can fake paperwork. Agents who…”
Who have all the best gear. Rings to disguise themselves, become invisible, and who could enter and leave a city and take all the paperwork they wanted…or put it back in its place. 
Zevara saw Hissl and Moass with the folders under their arms. She spoke softly.
“Hissl and Moass. The two most generic and silly names I’ve ever heard. Everyone I met laughed at the names because they’re so silly. So fake. And that’s it. That’s our motive.”
“How?”
Venim was watching her, and Zevara focused on him.
“Isn’t it obvious, Venim? They’re like you. They’re Drakes. They hate the Antinium! Buying something from the enemy—Robb, the Brothers’ leader, told me himself. No one in the cities is buying the scrolls. But that’s just stupid, isn’t it? This is a rare resource! You probably won’t get a High Command in any major city who’ll authorize giving the Antinium gold. But stealing from them…”
That made sense. It explained why they were unfamiliar, why Noiraid and the Brothers didn’t know them, and why they’d rushed to pin it on the north. That was just cream on top of the pie they were serving themselves.
“But which group?”
“I don’t know. But I’ll bet it’s a Walled City. Not Pallass’. They didn’t know the two. Watch Commander, I need you to put out a full alert for Hissl and Moass!”
Venim hesitated as Zevara spun, and his eyes flickered.
“But they had all the right papers. If they belong to a Walled City—”
She slammed her fists on his desk, and he jumped.
“Commander, they stole from Antinium! This isn’t the same as Yerham or Cecille! This is a crime!”
“Petty theft.”
“Is it a crime or not, Watch Commander? Or are the Antinium not good enough, huh?”
Relc gazed at him, and the Watch Commander met Zevara’s eyes. Then his features firmed, and he grabbed a speaking stone.
“Watch Commander Venim to all Watch Houses. I have two criminals I want apprehended on sight! They go by the names of Hissl and Moass and represent themselves as agents with all the proper papers—they are to be detained without release for any reason on my orders…”
Watch Captain Zevara spun. Her blood was pumping in her veins now, and she gazed at Relc.
“What’re the odds they’re still in the city, Captain Z?”
She shook her head.
“The moment Cecille Reinhart heard the announcement from Pawn, she ran. But she knew we were coming after her. They’ve been laughing at us, probably reading our reports and seeing us going after the Humans! They might be taking their time—but either way, there’s only one way to their city.”
“The inn.”
She was running out of Venim’s office a second later. Relc beat her to the doors and flung them open. Venim shouted.
“Watch Captain, if they make it to Pallass, they’ll be in the jurisdiction of the Walled City!”
She stopped in the doorway dramatically and met his eyes.
“They’re Liscor’s criminals. Our responsibility. First, I arrest them. Then someone can try to take them from me.”
Then she was running, running out of the office and down the street, and she knew there was only one thing between Hissl and Moass and their getaway.
Liska.
 
——
 
The [Doorgnoll] was bored as she sent people through the doors, so she was chatting. It meant she slowed down the [Door of Portals], but since she was doing her job and there were no lines forming, you got what you paid for. Which was her and only her, because she was awesome.
“So where are you headed?”
“Uh, Celum, Miss.”
“Ooh. What’s in Celum?”
“Er—an [Apothecary] I know. I’m getting a cream.”
“For what?”
Liska was harassing a woman at the door, who hesitated, then leaned in and whispered to Liska. The Gnoll’s mouth dropped open.
“Oh. Um. Good luck. Next!”
A group of rather impatient people were jostling in the queue as she switched the door to Invrisil. One stepped forwards.
“Excuse me, Miss?”
“Hey! [Form a Line], buddy!”
She pointed, and he snapped into line, seeming shocked she could do that to him. Liska was channeling her Erin, and she glared at him.
“No cutting, no exceptions! I mean, unless you’re part of the inn. But you’re not. I think.”
She squinted at the Drake. Nope, he looked like some generic loser she’d never see again. He protested.
“We’re in a hurry—and we’re agents of Pallass!”
He did appear rather antsy, and so did his partner, who brandished some documents at her. She whistled.
“Ooh, look at those fancy passports. Alright, well, I need you to put them in the right place.”
“Where?”
