“Good of him. Are you sure you should be on your feet, Jerci?”
“It’s just a bruise, Watch Captain! You saved me from getting stomped by that half-Giant of a Human.”
She saluted Zevara, and the Watch Captain smiled. Another Senior Guard put in.
“The Brothers are quiet. Annoyingly quiet; some came over to ask if everyone was well. Polite bastards. I hear there’s trouble on the streets, though. Someone wants to know who tipped us that bad intel. Watch Captain, I heard half the Corused Steer mysteriously burned last night.”
She winced.
“Knowing Bobble, he’ll have it up and running in a few days. I want a bit of payback for that bad information as well, but I’ll be content to just ruin their business. The other gangs will be more active when we’re recovering. So I want eyes on them—”
She remembered she was on break.
“Er—is what I’d advise. I’m sure Sergeant Relc is taking care of everything.”
They nodded, and as if she’d summoned him, Relc came crashing down the stairs.
“Wodriff, where the hell do you stamp equipment forms—hey, Captain Zevara! What’s going on? Aren’t you on break? Venim’s going to spit fire if he hears you’re here.”
She jumped.
“I’m not doing anything, Relc.”
He gave her an unfamiliar, amused look as he folded his arms.
“Sure, suuure. I’ve got this, Zevara. Don’t you worry—I put people on the Antinium case. They’ve already got results.”
“Th-they have?”
She was dismayed as Relc nodded and turned.
“Jerci, you and Bugeater Squad took a walk around, right? Tell Zevara.”
He’d put Jerci on the case? The [Guardswoman] brightened up.
“Right, that was after Ronss checked on us. We went around and talked to lots of the Antinium who were stolen from, Watch Captain. Bugeater Squad did most of the talking, and then they told the Painted Antinium. Got us a meeting with Prognugator Pawn and everything.”
“You—you told Pawn?”
Zevara shot Relc a worried eye, but she realized Relc hadn’t had her conversation with Noiraid. The [Watch Sergeant] nodded happily.
“The Painted Antinium didn’t even know it was a big problem. They’d heard of a few thefts, but not among their own that much. Pawn said he’d re-issue all of them with whatever they lost, then taught the Antinium to call the Watch, not leave it till later. And guess what I found?”
He brandished something at her. It was a stack of reports.
“Senior Guardsman Lens’ reports. Seems like he really did get all the stuff back for the poor Antinium. Over sixty missing items cases—fixed.”
“He did? Then the ones I interviewed…”
“Probably the ones who aren’t gonna get their stuff back, but I reckon we sorted a lot of that, Captain Zevara. I think that covers the problem—we still don’t know much about the thieves, but I hear there’s a bit of a buzz about the scrolls.”
Relc tapped one earhole meaningfully. Zevara focused on that.
“Wait, news is spreading?”
“Sure is. Well, Valley told me that. She can, uh, read high-level [Messages] apparently. Seems like Pawn realized how valuable his scroll-things were, so he decided to offer them for sale. But the Walled Cities told him to eat his tail. Well, they told Venim that—you know how they are with Antinium.”
He grimaced, and Zevara shook her head. The anti-Antinium bias was way too strong.
“Those’re healing items! We need some for the Watch, Relc!”
He grinned at her.
“Don’t worry, I sent a note to Pawn with Jerci asking if he’d sell some to us. See? Black market dies down, Antinium get most of their stuff back, problem solved. We couldn’t have done it without you!”
Relc was trying to be congratulatory, and she knew this was, in fact, fine work from him. From [Watch Sergeant] Relc? She’d have given the old Relc a medal for this much forward thinking and tact. And yet…
“So you didn’t get more about the thieves, Jerci?”
She turned to the Gnoll, who scratched one ear and called someone over.
“Not really. Bootstrap, it was mostly the same as in your report, right?”
“Yes, Off-Duty Captain Zevara. The stolen-from Antinium reported a man in [Merchant] clothing matching the description of Merchant Yerham or a woman with a patterned red-and-black scarf much like rosewood. The Antinium are very embarrassed—they did not know that their items were being recovered, and they were ashamed to tell Pawn.”
Zevara’s heart sank. Nothing more than what she’d gotten. She thanked Bootstrap, who saluted her, and turned away.
“Well, uh, I guess that’s that. There was no problem on your patrols, then? Good work, you two.”
Jerci beamed, and Bootstrap saluted again.
“No trouble, aside from one attack by an Aberration, Watch Captain. However, the Painted Antinium took custody of him.”
She paused. Zevara’s head swivelled.
“An Aberration?”
The Watch muttered, and Relc lost his smile. Jerci nodded, puffing out her chest.
“Oh, yeah, he just came at us while Bootstrap and the others were questioning him. He was screaming about a doll or something—we got him down, and then the Painted Antinium took him away.”
“They didn’t kill him?”
Relc had a troubled expression on his face, and Jerci shook her head.
“Nah, they said that Pawn was going to pray for him. I didn’t know you could do that. I guess the Painted Antinium really are different. Poor Worker, really. A lot of the others seemed super upset too. All the ones on our report didn’t get their stuff back.”
The Watch concurred, murmuring amongst themselves.
“It happens. Who steals from Workers?”
“Well, they didn’t have anything to steal…guess they’re now going to be reporting crimes. Hey, Captain, are you going to hang around here all day? You’re looking peaky, even if you did get healed.”
Zevara was? She looked around for a mirror, then remembered there was one in the bathrooms for the Watch. When she walked in, Zevara halted and just stood there.
An off-kilter, blue-scaled Drake blinked back at Zevara inside the bathroom, one without armor, purpose, or the strength of law on her side. Zevara saw her reflection in a mirror, and she realized Relc was right. She was pale. Off. Bad. Suddenly, she smelled something rank, despite Jerci’s fresh pot pies.
That stink in the air. Grime under her claws. She glanced at Relc and saw he was trudging back upstairs, getting back to work. He didn’t see it. He hadn’t talked to Laikos or Noiraid—or maybe he was just too busy seeing the big picture.
But she didn’t think this case was closed all of a sudden. Zevara clenched her fist. Laikos! Noiraid—!
I need to get back on this. Now. She could just hear Venim telling her that the matter was resolved gracefully with Relc’s presence, but she needed to know more. Pawn. Yerham—wait a second, Bootstrap had just confirmed that Lady Cecille and Yerham were subjects of interest again! Thieves? But she’d passed the truth stone—
Damn the truth stone. It wasn’t useful in this case. Zevara used it all the time now, but she remembered a time when she hadn’t had one. Back before every Senior Guard was issued one—you had to trust other Skills or just your gut and evidence.
[Guardswoman]. [Watch Captain]. Her classes were writhing at her, now. Both of them said injustice was being done, that there was something missing. That someone was laughing at them while the wool was being pulled over their eyes.
She hated that. But the [Watch Captain] had been put on break! Her claws were tied. She had orders, and the Watch had to have orders. Venim was her superior…
Zevara wanted to punch one of the armor lockers. She stared at her own locker on the far end with her gear in it. Without it, she was nothing.
“With it, you’re still nothing. A failure of a [Watch Captain].”
A Drake stared back through the mirror at Zevara. Not the tired, uncertain, off-duty Drake woman, but someone who was even filthier. Footsore and tired, up against impossible odds.
The [Guardswoman] spoke, her voice growling.
“Attacking the Brothers was always a mistake. The Watch doesn’t pick stupid fights. No matter how hard it gets, it only takes one bad scrap and there’s blood on the streets. You almost got them all killed.”
Zevara blinked. Without even a change, she found herself gazing at a coughing Drake wiping smoke from her mouth. She stood taller than the [Guardswoman]’s slouch, but she was weighed down by duties. Responsibilities. Red tape.
“They broke the law. The Watch Commander gave me orders.”
The Senior Guardswoman sneered back.
“Orders. You ignore those when you have to and pretend you did your best. Nothing on the street fits the box you want the law to go into. Orders didn’t get us out of the Brothers’ den. It was a mistake to go after them.”
The Watch Captain hung her head for a moment before meeting her counterpart’s eyes.
“Yes. It was. I should have pulled Ronss back, rank or not. But that doesn’t mean I’ve been doing it right in the investigation, either. Look at you! You’re just running around, reacting to problems. No plan, just harassing a list of suspects. Lady Cecille is completely innocent, and so is Merchant Yerham. We don’t have anything on them, and Venim can see that!”
She jabbed a claw at the mirror, and the [Guardswoman] recoiled. Zevara growled back, defensive.
“I’m working with almost no evidence and only a single partner, if that! You know how the job is! I’m not some Level 50 [Investigator] who can pull the answer out of a Skill! I have to pressure them!”
The Watch Captain folded her arms, disgusted.
“You are a Senior Guardswoman. How is twisting Merchant Yerham’s arm in the guild in any way acceptable? I’ll have your badge.”
“Hah! Venim has your badge! You and I both saw Yerham’s face. He’s guilty.”
“You can’t run your investigation off that.”
“It’s called instincts. I know you have them.”
“We represent the law in this city, and part of that is being trusted!”
“Then why didn’t Relc stop us? He saw the same thing we did!”
The sounds of the Watch House were muffled as the two argued, nose-to-nose against the mirror. Someone rapped on the stall door.
“Occupied!”
Both shouted, and the surprised [Guard] retreated. The Senior Guardswoman lowered her voice, mindful of the noise they were making. She snorted a spark out of one nostril and cursed.
“Damn, that smarts. Look at us. We’re nothing without the armor and the badge. My way isn’t wrong.”
The [Watch Captain] opened her mouth, and Senior Guardswoman Zevara lifted a claw.
“I am not wrong. Remember the kid who stole the bike? Did you see me haul him off to the Watch House for a night behind bars? I didn’t. I could have, and I didn’t.”
“He was a [Thief]. He stole, and he’ll do it again. Liscor has a program for children like him. You should have hauled him in.”
That made the Senior Guardswoman uncomfortable, so she turned away from the mirror.
“We…grew up like that. We turned out okay. He was small fry, anyways. Look, I know the difference between a big crime and a small one! I ran down that damn [Thief] who went after the bike in the Merchant’s Guild because it was different. Adjust to the crime. Merchant Yerham knew something, and he has the weight of the Merchant’s Guild behind him. I had to push. Same with Lady Cecille.”
This time, the Senior Guardswoman waved a finger before her counterpart could get a word in edgewise.
“Don’t say a word. You saw it. She did ‘nothing’ wrong. But remember how we found her? She was barging into Honored Deskie’s workshop. Let’s say we weren’t there. Do you think her bullyboys and that [Driver] wouldn’t have harassed the Gnolls there? Maybe they make a few threats. Maybe Deskie calls for the Watch, but I bet she’s smart enough not to make an issue about it. The [Lady] gets her way, and no one’s ever filed a complaint with the Watch. Nothing for you to dirty your tail over, Watch Captain. This is what I think of that.”
Zevara spat into the porcelain basin and wiped her mouth. The [Guardswoman] exhaled.
“The law must be nuanced. It has to hold power to account—more than those without. Everyone tries to dodge the law, but some can dance with money and Skills. And they’re doing it now. You have to put me back on the case.”
The Watch Captain knew she was right and hung her head.
“I don’t know how. Venim—damn him, he’s in his rights to take me off duty. This is too personal. I’m going crazy.”
The Senior Guardswoman barked back.
“Nonsense! No one cares about the Antinium enough. No one sees the picture, even other Antinium. That’s why it matters. It has to be us. This isn’t some great, big crime sweeping Liscor. It involves powerful people, but it’s always been about those without a voice. Antinium Workers. If the Watch isn’t there for them, then who should it be there for? The Jeweler’s Guild?”
She injected all the scorn into the world in her voice. Watch Captain Zevara stood there, shaking her head.
“The Watch is there for everyone, Guardswoman Sunderscale. It’s just…”
She paused, and the other Drake waited, eyes bright. The Watch Captain slowly tightened her claws on the sink basin. She tried to articulate what was boiling at her, and then she had it.
“It’s not about who has more power, who’s richer, or needs more protection, Guardswoman. This isn’t just a theft. It’s killing Antinium. Carpenter Laikos has been declared an Aberration. The Brothers pulled a non-violent heist. This is a homicide. A slow one, but if you take away Oldbreath Cough tonics from someone with excessive Dragonbreath buildup in their lungs, they die. And Laikos won’t be the last one.”
It clicked, and both Drakes stared at each other. The Watch Captain straightened and felt at her clothing.
“You need a badge.”
“And armor. At least, I need help.”
They nodded at each other, suddenly resolved. Zevara exhaled. It had been a while since she’d had a heart-to-heart with herself. She nodded, reached out, and shook hands.
“Ow.”
She’d punched the mirror by mistake.
 
——
 
A few [Guards] were eying one of the bathroom stalls when the door finally opened. One of the Gnolls was whispering.
“I swear, there are two women in there. They keep shouting at each—huh?”
When the door opened, they saw Zevara in plain clothes coming out, flicking water from her claws. The other [Guards] eyed the Gnoll [Guardsman]. He hesitated.
“I swear, I heard two voices shouting at me! Uh—”
Zevara gave him a friendly nod, oblivious, and strolled into the Watch House. There she stood and folded her arms, observing. Thinking.
The course was clear, but the path was still shrouded in darkness. Time for solutions.
