“Up my ass. But not seriously—I’m not making an exception for you! Back of the line! And if you complain, I’ll kick you out! Just say the word and make my day: I have a Named-rank adventurer I can call on.”
She rubbed her paws as the Drakes spluttered. They shuffled back—then she made them go to the back of the line where they grumbled. Just to spite them, Liska took extra long bringing everyone in from Invrisil.
When she finally opened the door to Pallass and let people through, she conjured a [Forcewall] at the door.
“So, Mister Agent Drakes, what brings you to Pallass?”
She purred at them, and the shorter one glowered.
“We’re returning to our cities. On urgent business.”
They had, she noticed, a Chest of Holding between them.
“Ooh. Did some shopping in Liscor, did you?”
The taller one smirked.
“Not much shopping. May we go, Miss?”
“Sure, sure. It’s Liska, by the way.”
“Thank you, Miss—”
He walked into the [Forcewall], and Liska beamed at him.
“Miss Liska.”
“Miss Liska. Thank. You.”
“What’s your name?”
A muscle twitched in his cheek, but the shorter Drake exhaled and offered her a patient smile.
“It’s Hissl. And I’m Moass, Miss.”
“Moass?”
She started guffawing on her couch and pointed at him. The shorter Drake shifted.
“Yep. Had it every day I was alive. Moass.”
“Moass. And I thought Noass was bad enough…oh, dead gods! Do you know Noass? Is that your family name? Is your dad like—Groass? Is your mom Fatass?”
The two agents were trying not to encourage her as people in line fidgeted. Liska wheezed and eventually waved a paw.
“Okay, okay. Go on through. Moass.”
She saw them huffily stride through the door into an open checkpoint and sighed. Well, that was fun.
A few minutes later, the door to Liscor burst open when she changed the dial to it, and someone leapt through.
“LISKA!”
“Aaah! What is it this time?”
Liska fell off her couch as Zevara stormed into the room, flashing her badge around. She was panting smoke.
“Lock down the door! No—did two Drakes come through here to Pallass? Hissl and Moass—open the door, I need to ask the guards—”
Liska got up, gawping, as Sergeant Relc appeared behind Zevara. He had his spear, and the clamor as she changed the door dial attracted people.
“What’s going on? Captain Z? What is it?”
Kevin and Joseph came skidding into the room ahead of Lyonette. They seemed to know what was going on. Zevara gasped.
“It’s the Drakes. Are they in Pallass?”
“Y-yeah. They must have left only a few minutes ahead of—”
“Move! Watch pursuing a suspect!”
Zevara charged into the door to Pallass followed by Relc, Kevin, and Joseph. She could hear them shouting at Pallass’ [Guards]. Liska sat on her couch as Lyonette whirled, demanding to know what was going on.
She hadn’t done anything! It wasn’t her fault! Then she heard a siren going off in Pallass, and someone shouted.
“It’s on the news!”
Liska lifted her scrying orb, and there was Watch Captain Zevara. She watched the orb. Then she sat back on her couch.
“Why do cool things never happen to me?”
Then she thought about the Goblin King.
“Actually, I’m fine. This is great.”
 
——
 
Then it was just the chase. The simplest part of the entire case, when the suspect was fleeing and you had nothing left to do but get them.
Of course, it was hard. They had a lead on her, and they were in a huge Walled City, but Zevara didn’t have to worry about the mystery any longer. She was devoting all of her mind and body towards one thing:
Get them. The image of Carpenter Laikos was in her mind, and Noiraid, asking if Antinium mattered. Well, she had only her actions as proof.
“Out of the way! We are after criminals, and you are obstructing the Watch!”
She was shouting at the barred gate, and the Garuda shouted back.
“We’re the Watch! I—hey, attack, attack!”
Sergeant Relc was stabbing the enchanted gates with his spear. He muscled it up before a mechanism locked it in place, but he refused to let it drop. Joseph bellowed.
“Open the gate! Some idiots are impersonating the Eyes of Pallass, and they’re escaping! Can’t you see it’s Watch Captain Zevara?”
Beyond them, people on the streets were turning at the clamor. The [Guardsman] hesitated—Kevin burst through the door behind them, lugging something.
“Oh come on—out of the way! [Rapid Disass—]”
Before he could try his Skill on Pallass’ gates, the mechanism abruptly released. Relc yanked his arm out, and Zevara heard a familiar voice speaking.
“Eyes of Pallass. Zemize. Apprise me, Watch Captain.”
Zevara charged through the door, and the female Drake was there with a group of other Eyes of Pallass. She barked.
“Hissl and Moass. They’re escaping with a fortune in Antinium healing items! They’ve been stealing from Antinium for at least a month and pinning the blame on the Humans!”
“And?”
One of the agents raised a brow and put out an arm. To stop them? Zevara snarled.
“They stole from citizens of Liscor, and if you don’t respect that, then know they were masquerading as Eyes of Pallass the entire time! They just came through the gates, and your security let them through!”
There was a round of curses from the agents, and Zemize instantly yanked out a speaking stone. She barked into a stone at her wrist.
“This is Zemize to Floor 1. Prepare to lock the gates!”
“It’s not going to do any good—they’ve got papers like yours!”
Joseph was shouting. Zevara could just imagine the two slipping away in the chaos, or worse, disguising themselves.
In a city this large…all they had to do was change their identities, not even with magic, and they’d slip out!
“We’ll never find them. Does anyone have a tracking Skill? I don’t have anything of theirs—”
She turned to Relc, and the Gecko was peering around at the crowds.
“Damn. If only we could get them to reveal themselves! They can’t get to the first floor that fast, Captain Z. We’ve got time.”
“But how?”
Then Zevara began to eye the ground. She walked forwards as Zemize snapped.
“Leave it to us. We have detection spells at every gate. I need a description of the Drakes, and then we’ll know exactly who they are and where they went. Even if they get on a trade road, we’ll have their vehicle. I need twenty Eyes on me!”
She grabbed Relc and towed him with her. He cast a glance at Zevara…she was walking down the street, following something. Like…footsteps? The [Spearmaster]’s eyes widened, then he cast around.
“Kevin, Kevin—”
He jerked his head at Zevara, and the young man nodded and followed her. Joseph didn’t notice. He was just thinking.
“Hm. How do you get these guys to show themselves?”
He looked up and glanced around.
“Wh—hey, where’d everyone go?”
The [Football Coach] spotted Zevara in the crowd and began to run after her. Then someone grabbed him.
“Joseph!”
A female Drake with bright yellow scales grinned at Joseph. Drassi Tewing and her Channel 2 camera crew had appeared as if by magic. He blinked.
“Wh—Drassi? What are you doing here?”
“[Reporter’s Intuition], Joseph! Plus, I have someone watching the inn at all times. What, do you think I’m stupid? I swear I just saw Zevara and Relc. What’s the scoop? And how much danger?”
He protested as he searched for Zevara, but she was gone.
“Drassi, we’re chasing some guys who stole a bunch of Antinium goods! They’re impersonating Eyes of Pallass! And we can’t find them…”
Her eyes were glittering as she signalled the [Cameraman] to begin recording, but not broadcasting—yet. Joseph’s rather famous face was already attracting attention.
“Wait, two disguised as Eyes of Pallass? Tell me everything—but how can I help? Can I help?”
“I don’t know…there are so many people here. I can’t tell how you’d spot them, even at the gates. One’s tall and green-scaled, the other’s got blue scales…wait. Wait—”
He was staring at the camera crew. The [Football Manager] was remembering games in packed stadiums and that damn camera that zoomed in on people. He seized Drassi’s shoulder.
“Drassi! I need you to broadcast something right now, across Pallass! Everyone watches emergency broadcasts, don’t they?”
“Well, yeah, but—”
“Do as I say!”
 
——
 
Channel 1 was hosting Noass and Sir Relz opining on the state of the economy with all these new coins in circulation when their broadcast was interrupted. The two [Commentators] broke off and glowered.
“What is it this time?”
“Channel 2 broadcast! It’s an emergency news story!”
Those overrode everything else, and Noass growled.
“It had better be important or she’ll be censured by Wistram!”
He saw the image of Drassi flash up onto a screen in front of him, replacing his and Sir Relz’s image so they could see how they looked. Someone turned up the volume, and Noass saw Drassi wasn’t alone. It seemed like she was on the 8th Floor? What was going on this time? The inn?
“Ancestors, it’s the 8th Floor again. What is it, a second Goblin King?”
There was a nervous titter in the room as Sir Relz leaned forward, and then Drassi spoke.
“This is Drassi with a live announcement for all of Pallass! I’m here with Coach Joseph with an urgent appeal to the citizens of Pallass!”
Interested civilians were turning behind her, and many more were checking scrying stones or new, cheap devices from Wistram that had lit up with the alert. Drassi turned to Joseph, who was scanning the crowds.
“We’re looking for a pair of Drakes on exceptionally urgent business! They may be about to leave the city—it’s a pair, apparently holding a Chest of Holding? One’s tall, the other shorter. The taller one has green scales, the shorter, blue. And they go by Hissl and Moass! That’s right—Noass’ long lost brother is in our city! Please, if you see them, shout and wave at us! We’re going to the balcony of the 8th Floor, and we’ll hopefully see them from there.”
“Er, what?”
Noass’ mouth had dropped open, and Sir Relz eyed him. They realized the cameras were rolling again.
“Noass, your brother’s in this city? You never introduced me! Never even mentioned him!”
“My—wh—I didn’t know I had a brother! I have a brother? I thought I was an only child! Moass?”
They stared at the screen, and Drassi was jogging along with Joseph, who was nodding.
“Uh, that’s right. His long lost brother! Moass! If you spot them, call it out! Don’t let them leave! Here, do you see them?”
The camera showed a dizzying view of the city with huge staircases leading down to the smallest, central floor, which was still massive. Tens of thousands of people were walking up and down the steps, but the movement had slowed; they were staring up at Drassi as she shouted.
“Moass! Your brother is searching for you! Does anyone see two Drakes with a Chest of Holding? Wave—don’t wave if you just want attention, you idiots!”
She and Joseph were scanning the crowd. There was just a sea of tiny people below; Noass was fanning at his face.
“I feel faint. My brother? Was it my mother? My father? Wh-what do I do, Sir Relz?”
“Steady, Noass. The odds of someone seeing them in this mess are low…”
But the entire city was now searching. Drassi was glancing down at people waving just for attention, cursing—but then she grabbed Joseph’s arm.
“Wait. There!”
She pointed, and they saw a pair of Drakes running down the stairs. Noass gasped. It was exactly like Joseph had described! Only, they were running, and the waving people were shouting and trying to get them to stop.
Noass was standing up.
“I—I have to go. Dear viewers, I must leave and, uh—”
He could get out of the studio and head down. Dead gods, what did—
And then Joseph shouted.
“Watch Captain Zevara! There! There they are! Don’t let them get away! They’re thieves!”
Noass froze. He saw the camera focus—and there was Watch Captain Zevara, who was moving along the 8th Floor. She’d been following something on the ground, but when she heard Joseph’s voice, her head snapped up. She turned—and the two Drakes began to run faster.
“Wait. Thieves? What?”
Drassi was joining in the shouting.
“They’re almost at 1st Floor! Stop them! They’ve stolen from the Free Antinium! Get me an elevator! The Watch Captain of Liscor is after them! But she’ll never make it!”
Zevara was six floors up. Joseph cursed as he wavered—but he was standing where he was, keeping an eye on the fleeing shapes. He shouted at the Watch below, but they were busy watching the television, which was on a five minute delay—only Zevara had seen. And she—turned—as Kevin grabbed her arm.
He had a bike.
 
——
 
Her bike. Zevara stared at it as Kevin pointed.
“They’re getting away, Zevara! Come on!”
She blinked at the gleaming contraption of metal and remembered him catching Cecille Reinhart’s carriage. Then Zevara looked around.
The two Drakes were running at full sprint for the gates. She was eight floors up—she swung herself onto the seat, and then she was peddling, shouting.
“Out of the way! Watch in pursuit of criminals!”
The people of Pallass had just caught up to the part of the broadcast where Drassi revealed that Hissl and Moass were criminals. Then they gazed up from their scrying orbs to see a Drake hurtling down the 8th Floor on a bicycle.
Zevara’s head was down, and her tail was up to avoid the wheel. She was cycling madly, smoke blowing out of her mouth as she glanced at Joseph’s pointing finger. Her Watch uniform was smudged with rain and grit. Her bike skidded, going diagonal as she swung right.
The staircase—! She gazed down tens of thousands of steps and cursed as she saw the pedestrians. Then her eyes fixed on the gap between stairs.
The huge bannisters of smooth stone that skateboarders had been zooming down since Kevin invented the device!
There was a newly-installed railing that had a sign. It said ‘no skateboarding’.
Zevara jumped it with her bicycle. She didn’t even know she could do that—then her wheels hit the huge gradient.
“Oh sh—”
She accelerated down the ramp, and her bicycle tore past staring faces. A Dullahan [Guardsman] dove out of the way as she shot off the 7th Floor and caught six seconds of air. She clung to the handles as her body lifted up—then landed in the seat.
It hurt like hell, but she was racing down the 6th Floor—then the 5th—above her, Kevin was screaming and shouting.
“Go, Zevara, go! Holy shit!”
He’d never seen any creation of his going half the speed she was. He hoped to hell the shocks and brakes were working! But where…
Where were the agents?
 
——
 
The Watch Captain was shooting down the 4th Floor like an arrow as Joseph caught his breath in dismay.
