This break Venim had put on her wasn’t the worst punishment ever, in hindsight. Zevara could go out and make inquiries on her own. Why not? She was off-duty…but she wanted to talk to Yerham and other people. She might get to Pawn, but never Yerham as a private individual…!
Her frustration was her lack of rank. If she could only go out there as an officer, not some random Drake! However, the odds of snatching her gear out of her locker, with everyone here, were zero. Even Gireulashia, that giant Gnoll who could move like a breeze, couldn’t evade that many eyes. Venim would have to discipline her for that.
Hm. Zevara’s head tilted as she heard Relc shouting from the 2nd Floor, asking if anyone knew where they kept seals for Street Runners. She thought of the Drake who also had two classes from his time as a [Soldier] and as a [Guardsman]…
An idea pinged Zevara’s mind. Slowly, she uncrossed her arms and looked around the Watch House, carefully. Several [Guards] were eying her, gossiping about how she’d been put on leave. But they were sympathetic, not watching her. So, Zevara sauntered over to the desk and called up at Relc.
“Hey, Relc. I’m heading out. You’ve got this well in hand; I shouldn’t have nosed about. Good…job. Ancestors, why does that feel wrong to say?”
He grinned at her, trying not to seem proud.
“It’s weird for me too, Captain. If Klbkch could see me now…I miss that bugger. You know, I have a Watch report for his arrest? For kidnapping a [Prostitute].”
Sergeant Wodriff spat his coffee onto his desk, and every [Guard] in sight focused on him with a thousand questions. Zevara just grinned at Relc and suppressed her own mad questions. Focus.
“I’ll, uh, ask about that later or Venim will kill me. Question—all our old stuff’s in the storerooms here, right? The new Watch Houses have all the new gear.”
“Yep. Snazzy new armor, the latest stuff, some of it from Dwarfhalls Rest or Pelt’s smithies—why?”
“I think I left some of my stuff in the back. I never claimed it because I’m always working—mind if I grab it?”
“Sure. Who’s got a key to the storerooms?”
Relc cast around, and Wodriff tossed a key at Zevara. She caught it, thanked him, and unlocked the musty back rooms where old gear, broken items in need of refurbishment, and so on were kept. She came out less than ten minutes later, flipped the keys to Wodriff, and waved.
Ordinary Citizen Zevara walked onto the streets, adjusting her bag of holding on her belt. She inhaled, exhaled, then coughed.
“Damn dust.”
She decided she’d go to the bath house next.
 
——
 
The bath houses of Liscor were big, had private bathing areas, hot and cold areas—and offered more than just bathing. You could get laundry done here for a small fee; with all this hot water and soap, it just made sense.
Zevara paid a few coppers for her own stall and a bit of soap and stepped into it. She cleaned up a bit—then dumped some absolutely grey water into a sluice. She did that a few more times, then walked over to where heating runes would dry you off. After standing there a few minutes, she smoothed her neck spines and checked her face.
She was rather…familiar bare-headed. But if you put on a Drake’s helmet, the cap of leather with a gap on the back so your neck spines nestled amidst the leather hood—why, then she looked like any other [Guardswoman] Drake with blue scales.
Assuming, of course, she had armor on. But that would be ridiculous! Her Watch Captain’s gear was right in the locker in the Watch House where she’d left it. And it would be a crime to steal Watch armor. She didn’t commit crimes.
On the other hand, if you went in the back of the Watch House, you might well find some old, battered armor that hadn’t been repaired and re-issued to new [Guards]. More importantly, a Watch badge. One that belonged to her, so she could take it.
Senior Guardswoman Zevara was written on the gold-plated badge that she polished on her worn armor. It still fit, and even if she was slightly damp, the [Guardswoman] looked the part.
The bathing house attendants barely glanced twice at her except to nod at a [Guard] on patrol as Zevara stepped out of the bath house, adjusting her uniform. She told herself that it wasn’t going behind Venim’s back.
He’d just…not realized that she had two classes. He could bench the [Watch Captain], but the [Senior Guardswoman] had a case.
“This time, we’re going to do it like the old days.”
Zevara didn’t have her sword; she swung a worn baton around on a leather strap as she strolled down the street. Following her instincts.
Something was wrong in Liscor, and she wanted answers. However, a good [Guardswoman] needed backup. In lieu of official support, she went searching for the next best thing.
 
——
 
“Zevara, are you alright?”
Lyonette du Marquin eyed Zevara in her scruffier armor when the Drake came to call at the inn. It was chaotic as ever; there were a lot of undead around, and Zevara really wanted to know why a pale-faced man was being bandaged up by Colfa.
“Never better, Lyonette. I’m actually on a…private investigation. Hence the armor.”
“You, a private investigation? Does the Watch Commander know you’re doing this?”
“He’s aware of my status.”
Zevara avoided Lyonette’s eyes, and the [Princess] narrowed them. Zevara coughed a few times.
“I, uh—is everything well with that fellow? I was wondering if you had time to go for a walk with me.”
Lyonette was one of her only friends. The [Princess]’ eyes lit up, but then her face clouded.
“I wish I could, but the, ah, situation is a bit fraught right now, Zevara. You see, Vaulont there, had a run-in with, um—remember Tessa?”
“Shriekblade?”
Zevara saw Vaulont pulling at a big gash on his cheek. Lyonette’s nod said a lot. Zevara wilted.
“Oh. Well, if you’re busy…is there anyone else free?”
She cast about, and Lyonette’s head snapped around.
“Not Mrsha. Absolutely not her!”
“Mrsha? Why would I take a child on an investigation?”
Lyonette was half on her feet before she relaxed, put a hand over her heart, and breathed.
“What—of course you wouldn’t. Not you, Zevara. I’m sorry. Mrsha’s at school anyways. I just—had an image of Senior Guard Mrsha arresting Lism for some reason.”
Zevara almost laughed at that. Someone else raised her hand.
“Well, if she needs a sharp mind, I can—”
Ser Dalimont grabbed Nanette and jogged out of the room with her under one arm as she kicked and shouted. Children weren’t exactly on Zevara’s Top 10 list…or any list, actually. She frowned, then had a thought.
“I know. Is Bird here?”
“Bird?”
 
——
 
Bird was in her tower, shooting at fish with Elia Arcsinger. Both stopped and turned when Zevara knocked on the door—because it said to, and also not to come in unless Bird was present.
“Watch Captain? I did not do it!”
“I…didn’t say you did anything.”
“Oh. Well, what am I doing if not the thing I did not do?”
The [Queen] relaxed. Zevara glanced around.
“I was actually wondering if you knew where, uh, Noiraid was?”
“Noiraid? Oh…no.”
The Drake waited for more, but Bird just strung an arrow.
“You don’t have a way to contact her?”
Her? Elia’s ears perked up, but Bird just shrugged.
“I am not like Pawn, Watch Captain. I let Noiraid do whatever Noiraid does. Which I am not very clear on, but she says she is happy, and that is that.”
“You have no idea what she does?”
Zevara was utterly skeptical of this, but Bird shot her a look out of one emerald eye.
“It seems to me that knowing what she does means I get in trouble with people like you, Watch Captain. Noiraid comes by on the weekends to watch movies in the theatre. She likes the smoky-ones. Kevin’s laptop has better taste than Erin’s brain. Now, if you will excuse me, I am pretending I am busy so you leave me alone.”
“Er…you wouldn’t happen to want to join my investigation?”
“No.”
“You don’t even know what—”
“Lalala, I am shooting fish. For a cooking dish. If I sing loudly enough, maybe Zevara will leave me alone. She and I are not buds, because I think she is a…hm. That’s too harsh, actually.”
Zevara sighed. It occurred to her now she had missed out on possible backup by not cultivating strong ties to The Wandering Inn. She was trooping downstairs and wondering if she could get someone else she sort of liked. Who was she on good terms with?
…Liska? Zevara was walking down the second floor when the door opened and someone stepped out.
“Dude, soccer isn’t that fun.”
“Football. And that’s my entire job, man. Don’t make me kick you. I don’t want to kick a guy I cried over.”
Joseph and that familiar young man…Randy emerged from a room. Randy froze when he saw Zevara, and she blinked at him.
That’s Kevin’s old room—
He leapt inside so fast Joseph was left standing there. He saw her and started.
“Oh—Watch Captain! Hey! Hey—how’s it going?”
“Joseph. Who’s your friend?”
“Who, K—Randy? He’s shy. Unless this is a really good time to say hi?”
Joseph glanced at the door, but Zevara put up a hand.
“I’m actually in a bit of a hurry, Joseph, apologies. I’ll meet your friend later. Randy?”
“Uh, yes. Hi, Watch Captain! Great to meet you.”
A wobbly voice came from inside the room, and Zevara raised her brows. She leaned over to Joseph as the [Football Coach] hesitated, then trotted with her.
“He’s really shy—”
“Tell me if it matters, Joseph. I’m used to secrets. Just—please tell me this is one of those Human names that doesn’t mean what I think it does and not a nickname? Like Noass for Drakes?”
Joseph stared at Zevara open-mouthed and then peeked back at the room. It took him longer than she liked to realize that she was joking. Then she heard a strangled noise from inside the rooms. It sounded like someone trying to stifle laughter. Then a brief sob—and a gale of amusement.
Familiar, infectious laughter. Zevara’s steps slowed, and she felt her scales prickling. She turned her head.
It was like a memory coming to life. An impossible sound—a familiar voice. And the head of sandy hair…no, black…?
Like a friend you had said goodbye to forever that appeared in your head when you least expected them. A memory, fading with years, that every now and then grew vibrant and cut you again.
Only it wasn’t…a memory. There were tears in his eyes, and he was sagging against the doorknob. He wore a shirt with Solar Cycles emblazoned on it, and his eyes were filled with pain and guilt, and he appeared older.
The Watch Captain halted. She forgot her case. She forgot her weariness, for a moment, and forgot that the ashen wheel turned and there were no miracles.
No.
Perhaps.
In this inn…? Her heart began to constrict, and she remembered why she avoided this place. Feared it. Even her.
“Kevin…?”
He raised his head and regarded her, and the [Mechanic] closed his eyes, then opened the door.
“Hey, Captain Z. I didn’t run over your tail this time. Do you like my bicycle after all? I’m…back.”
He spread his arms guiltily.
“Sorry I didn’t say anything earlier. I’m supposed to be dead to the world.”
She just stood there as Joseph caught his breath. The Watch Captain turned back around and looked Kevin up and down. She hesitated—then her voice croaked as smoke trailed from between her teeth.
“Did we bury a fake? Was it so Roshal didn’t—?”
Her head swung to a window, where a hill sat in the rains. Kevin shook his head, wordless, and he was beginning to tear up again.
“Damn [Onion Ninjas]. All I do is fucking cry…no, it was real. It’s just—the same reason you had Goblin Kings running around. This inn. Just this inn, Zevara. And a miracle.”
He spread his arms, almost as if he wanted her to be angry. The Watch Captain said nothing at first, but her mind wondered what an [Onion Ninja] was. Then…she raised her hand and saluted him.
“Welcome back, Kevin Hall. Watch my tail this time, will you?”
She averted her gaze and brushed at her eyes with her free hand. She got no further, because he rushed her in a hug. Zevara gasped as she felt real arms throw themselves around her.
I’m supposed to be at work. I can’t cry. Just—just—
She patted him on the back and almost broke. Almost—but Joseph’s muffled sob made her and Kevin glance over. The [Football Coach] blew his nose on his shirt.
“Fuck me, Kevin!”
“Dude, privacy.”
Zevara began laughing. Despite herself, she couldn’t help it. On her darkest days, when her city seemed the grittiest—she would never admit it to the [Innkeeper], but she was glad to have that inn there.
Proof of miracles.
 
——
 
It took Zevara a while to process this unexpected moment. But she had time; Kevin walked with her back to Liscor, and Joseph tagged along. He bounced a ball on one foot, and she and Kevin talked.
“So you’re hiding your identity because you’re worried Roshal will finish the job?”
Kevin was dry-eyed, but sniffing.
“Mostly, yeah. I’ve been telling everyone I know. Listen, you can’t report this or anything, okay?”
He gave her a serious look, and she frowned, slightly hurt.
“I wouldn’t put you in danger.”
“Right, but I just mean, you’re sort of the law and…”
“I know when to bend it.”
Joseph and Kevin exchanged a skeptical gaze, and Zevara frowned.
“I do! I’m not even supposed to be on duty, but I’m doing it.”
Kevin blinked.
“Wait, wait? You’re…what’s going on?”
Nothing would do but for her to explain what she was doing. Zevara grew embarrassed as she told him she’d snuck her uniform out, but Kevin wore an expression of increasing delight.
“Dude! You’re doing the undercover cop schtick? You’re going rogue? Where was this Zevara last year?”
“I’m not going rogue. I’m just…”
Too late. Joseph and Kevin wore such looks of delight that she knew she was playing into some kind of Earther-notion of theirs. Zevara stomped on, grumbling.
“This is why I can’t talk with you people. I’m getting back to work. I’ll check on you later, but I have a job to do.”
“Nonono, you have to take us as backup! Joseph, dude, are you free?”
“I’m so free to bust some heads on the mean streets.”
The Watch Captain thought that the mean streets would chew these two young men up without even pausing to pick their teeth. However…you had to have backup.
“Tell me you have some combat classes?”
“Well, I’m building a weapon, and Joseph has his soccer ball. Ever been brained by one of those?”
“Football.”
The Spaniard corrected Kevin, and Zevara halted them.
“I’ll take you on my first errand. But not anywhere dangerous. I need people checking my work—that’s the only reason I’m willing to take you along. And the fact that you were dead.”
