That was the last anyone in the Merchant’s Guild thought about the bicycle, including Randy, but when the two men had exited the Merchant’s Guild, they kept going. Casually, they walked it down the street, checking to see if anyone had noticed them—and then halted in the first alleyway they came to. They did not have to wait long.
Three more men came striding out the Merchant’s Guild back entrance. One of them wore more impressive clothes than his bodyguards.
Merchant Yerham. He halted as his eyes fell on the bicycle.
“There’s no hope of getting at the engine. But this is almost as good. I want two, two of you to take it to Invrisil this moment. Then come back with everyone you can get. I don’t care how, just get them. Hire [Mercenaries] if you have to.”
“You sure, sir? The Watch was asking about you yesterday—”
Yerham ignored the question from one of the men.
“If it’s half of what that City Runner said, we need it! We—”
There was a noise at the end of the alleyway. The men froze and moved to block the bicycle. Yerham spun as someone came strolling out from where they’d been loitering, spinning a baton.
“Merchant Yerham. What excellent timing! I was just searching for you. I had a few more questions, if you don’t mind.”
Watch Captain Zevara was smiling. Smiling in that not-so-nice way that made Yerham start sweating. The men behind him tensed—then froze up as someone else stepped forwards.
“Oh, hey, it’s Yerham! Nice to see you again! And Captain Zevara, I thought you were on break! I guess that’s your off-duty uniform?”
Sergeant Relc and a squad of [Guards] sauntered into view from the other side of the alleyway. Relc was beaming way too hard with all his teeth, and Guardswoman Jerci was trying not to grin too.
Merchant Yerham breathed faintly.
“Watch Captain, this is rather inopportune—”
“Oh, I imagine it would be, Merchant Yerham. Being caught in the middle of a theft is never pleasant. But then—you have experience with that, don’t you?”
His face went paler, and sweat began to bead on his upper lip, but he blustered as the rain wet his hair.
“I do beg your pardon! That is an outrageous thing to say to me, a respected [Merchant]! If you’re referring to this bicycle, I was simply admiring the craftsmanship of it! I hardly intended to steal it.”
He stood aside with the men as if there were nothing wrong with him having someone else’s bicycle in the middle of an alleyway. Zevara just smirked.
“I have no doubt you’d never lay a finger on it, Master Yerham. But somehow, magically, I do think it would have vanished from poor Runner Randy’s ownership. Then moved quite far from Liscor. All the way to, perhaps, the House of El?”
One of Yerham’s men bit back a curse, and Zevara folded her arms. The [Merchant] was still trying to bluster.
“Th-that’s preposterous! What evidence do you have to—oh.”
The ‘oh’ was because two young men stepped out from the alleyway. Joseph and Kevin were grinning. Kevin, who’d been playing Runner Randy, had a rather appalled [Guildmaster] in tow, and Zevara’s eyes gleamed.
“Merchant Yerham. What is this?”
“Yeah, what is this, Captain Zevara? I knew he was guilty of something, but when you said he was going to commit a crime, I had to see this.”
This was the thing Kevin had warned Zevara about. She couldn’t help but smile as she laid out her reasoning for all present.
“I’m aware I need evidence. Well, I have two pieces, Sergeant Relc. The first is that if we search Yerham and his men’s belongings, we should find a signet ring of the House of El. Something that any [Lord], like Xitegen Terland, would recognize. You see, all these men are working for the El Family under Merchant Yerham. He’s an agent of the family; it was one of his people we were chasing two days ago.”
Relc’s eyes brightened.
“Wait, it was? But he stole a piece of a bicycle…oh.”
He glanced at Yerham, and Zevara nodded.
“Straight outside the Merchant’s Guild, where anyone who’s not known to the guild would have been recognized. I thought that was odd. In hindsight, perhaps the [Guildmaster] might have realized that too, but I doubt Yerham did more than send one of his bodyguard out to perform the theft. If we hadn’t been there, it would have gone unreported except as a random theft.”
She gave the [Guildmaster] a pointed gaze, and the Drake flushed.
“But that’s not proof, Watch Captain! I do admit, when Coach Joseph inquired, there was one less man in Yerham’s company after the—incident. But it’s not illegal to work for one of the Five Families.”
Zevara shook her head.
“No, but I think we’d have Yerham dead to rights—if we asked the right truth spells. Remember, Relc? Yerham was so nervous, but when we asked about the Antinium, he relaxed. He thought we’d caught onto his theft that was going on that instant!”
Relc made an ‘oh’ as he smacked one fist into his palm.
“That bastard! He got us! Well, now I’ve got a truth stone I’ll shove right up his…”
“There’s no need for that, Guardsman!”
Yerham raised his hands, sighing. He scrubbed at his face.
“I’m happy to pay any fine for my indiscretions you may find via truth stone. I presume it comes with some jail time?”
“And penalties in the Merchant’s Guild!”
The [Guildmaster] barked, red-faced. However, Zevara noticed Jerci’s frown and nodded. The Watch had picked up on things too.
“You’re too keen to give up, Master Yerham. My guess is that you were sent to Liscor to steal the latest technologies for the House of El. Steal or buy—you’re probably actually fairly upstanding about it. I know you went to Spinner Deskie to see if you could get that technology or more from the Gnolls.”
He gave her a rueful look.
“It’s usually easier to be honest, Watch Captain. Yes, aside from Solar Cycles, who can’t be reached, we’ve been completely above-board! I imagine an, ah, advocate from the House of El will reach out shortly, if I can be allowed to send a [Message] through the Mage’s Guild?”
Just like his man, the El Family had powerful connections, and what did Zevara have on him? Organizing a few thefts? In Celum, Xitegen might let him off with no more than a slap on the wrist; the Five Families protected their own.
Ordinarily, Zevara would be hopping mad despite figuring out his game, but she still wore that sardonic smile. Yerham’s own faltered as she stepped closer.
“I’ll let Sergeant Relc handle your charges, Merchant Yerham. I imagine it might only be a fine without even being banned from Liscor. There’s just one little wrinkle that might make Lord Deilan El less than happy with you.”
His eyes flickered.
“Confiscation of our goods? Anything stolen, we of course will return, but I didn’t realize we lost our possessions. That seems inappropriate, Watch Captain.”
She prowled around him.
“Now, why would you jump to that, Merchant Yerham? Unless there was something you had—legally—that was even more valuable than stolen bicycle parts? Like, say, scrolls purchased from Antinium and the Brothers?”
The man stiffened, but then forced himself to relax as the [Guildmaster] regarded Kevin and Joseph, utterly confused.
“What scrolls?”
“Purely legal purchases, Watch Captain.”
She yanked his bag of holding off his belt and pulled out a scroll. Zevara smiled evilly.
“Yes, I thought you’d argue that. And you are correct! Under the law, the Watch does not confiscate items unless they were used in the pursuit of a crime or could be used to harm others.”
“Or they’re contraband or we’re exiling you or something real serious. Article 4, code…uh, well damn, I forget.”
Relc chipped in happily. Zevara nodded. She fished out more scrolls and found the man had dozens. He stared at her, frowning. Zevara counted, then smiled.
“We’ll see if you have more in your chests or on your people. But…this should do it.”
She fished in her bag of holding and pulled out gold coins. One for each scroll—she tossed them into Yerham’s bag of holding.
“W-what are you doing, Watch Captain? Are you buying those off me? I regret to say, you couldn’t afford the cost of them.”
He tried to laugh, and she gave him an innocent gaze.
“Me? Oh, no. I’m simply fulfilling my duties. You see, there’s been a recall issued.”
“A what?”
The last of his confidence drained away as Zevara chuckled.
“Prognugator Pawn of the Free Antinium has put healing scrolls up for sale through the Hive. In addition to this, he’s been made aware that illicit versions of his people’s goods have been sold—purely accidentally, I’m sure. Accordingly, he requested the Watch find and return any such items to the Free Hive. He fears they might be defective and has offered fair compensation for the scrolls. I think that must cover what you spent. That was how much he said the inferior copies were worth.”
One gold piece per scroll. She stepped back, stuffing them in her bag of holding, and now Yerham was pale-faced.
“You can’t do that! I acquired those for far, far more than—do you know how much that is? How exceedingly important—?”
He choked on his own words, and she raised her brows.
“A terrible accident occurred in which Workers sold what they were not allowed to, Merchant Yerham. If it transpires you spent more than what you were compensated, please have the Workers report the correct amounts and the Free Antinium will reimburse you. But there was no real crime committed. We’re just restoring order.”
Relc was grinning and nodding as the House of El’s men glanced at each other in clear dismay. This was the real value they’d been after in Liscor. Bicycle parts? Hah! The [Merchant]’s lips were tight, but he gave her a slight nod.
“I see. Well…done, Watch Captain. Will you be confiscating the Brother of Serendipitous Meeting’s stash as well?”
“I’ll leave that to Watch Commander Venim. I imagine their stocks will also plummet.”
She folded her arms, triumphant, as Kevin punched the air.
“And that’s a wrap! Case closed!”
“Not quite, K—Randy.”
Zevara held up a claw as Yerham’s men were put in cuffs. He was standing there, swaying, probably seeing weeks of hard work vanishing—and how he’d have to explain that to Lord Deilan El. She dropped her loud tone and spoke quietly.
“If you cooperate with the rest of my investigation, we may miss some of your possessions, Merchant Yerham. I need answers into the second part of my case, which is still unresolved.”
He blinked at her, then drew himself up.
“You have me dead to rights, Watch Captain. What can I answer? You did indeed shock me with your questions. If I can—assist in any way, I’ll be happy to.”
“Mm. Well then, in the interest of cooperation, talk to me about Carpenter Laikos.”
“Who, Watch Captain? Was that the Antinium you asked me about? I confess, I must have talked to a thousand this month alone. All but a few escape me.”
He shrugged, helpless. She frowned at him.
“Would you remember a Miss Noiraid? A female Antinium?”
He hesitated, then coughed into one hand.
“Yes…a good number of scrolls came from her, but the cheapest ones were bought directly. Several duds, but far less expense once you know what to search for.”
“And how many did you steal from?”
Yerham blinked, and her [Sense Intentions] got genuine puzzlement out of him along with the worry.
“Steal from? Watch Captain, I told you the truth in the Merchant’s Guild! I stole from none of the Antinium. I may be acting in the interest of House El, but I’m not insane. I’d rather not tangle with an Antinium Soldier!”
She frowned.
“You were seen in relation to several thefts.”
“I don’t know anything about that. I rather fear most Humans appear the same to Antinium—and vice versa, Watch Captain. I never recognized Miss Noiraid until she stepped out of the crowd and spoke. On truth stone, I assure you, I bought all my scrolls legally…though I can see why it’s a bad look. No one wants to publicly buy anything from the Hives.”
His lips twisted, and Zevara glanced at Relc and another [Guard]. Both of them shrugged; their own Skills hadn’t failed Yerham.
“Well, you’ll have some time in the Watch’s jails for us to confirm this story. But don’t worry—I’m sure House El will have you out right away.”
He sighed, and Zevara turned to Relc. He smiled at her.
“Got him, Watch Captain!”
“But not the thief. And I rather think that she’s the real flight risk. At least we know she can’t flee Liscor via the magic door. Lady Cecille Reinhart’s in a carriage.”
Zevara focused her attention on the only other suspect. The [Lady] who’d run her over. She was walking over to congratulate Kevin and Joseph on their parts of this operation. Rather to her surprise, Kevin seemed less-than-pleased, despite pulling off his ruse perfectly. He was trying a cigar and coughing.
“Fuck, Palt gave me one of these, but it’s not even that cool. I feel like a tool posing with this thing in my mouth.”
He handed it to Joseph, who handed it to Jerci. Kevin shoved his hands in his pockets and turned to Zevara.
“You know what’s fucked up about all this, Captain Z? Noir and cool investigation stuff aside…that was entrapment. Or something close, I dunno what you’d actually call it.”
“Enwhatment?”
She didn’t know the term, but Kevin’s mouth twisted, and he explained.
“It’s where the law puts bait out so they can see someone committing a crime. Where I come from, it’s illegal, and cops use it all the time to charge people. I never thought I’d be helping an officer do that. But I guess I like you.”
There was a woebegone look in his eyes, and the Watch Captain hesitated. She coughed into one claw.
“That isn’t a law in Liscor.”
“Yes, I bet.”
“If it is a problem, and I see some of the reasoning, you can explain it to me and I will bring it up with Watch Commander Venim. We did catch Yerham in the act.”
Kevin didn’t quite meet her eyes.
“Sure, that’s good. Just bitter, y’know? Especially because it turned out he wasn’t technically in the wrong, we just got him with Pawn recalling the scrolls. Which I bet isn’t kosher either.”
Zevara didn’t know what to say in the face of his failed expectations, and it hurt. Or rather, one part of her didn’t know what to say. The [Guardswoman] laid a hand on Kevin’s shoulder.
“It probably is breaking the law in some way, Kevin. But hindsight’s gotta count for something. Yerham’s man already tried to steal a bicycle, and it’s true he was acting within the confines of the law when he bought all the Antinium’s scrolls. Still, the Free Hive wasn’t aware they were being sold. If I were doing this the proper way, I’d have Yerham under surveillance. But we don’t have that.”
