“Dude, didn’t you date Ceria? Because I’ll hit you with my football no matter what you say.”
 
——
 
Zevara was spared from watching Joseph bouncing his football off the back of Kevin’s head when Pawn returned and led her to Laikos. The Antinium was chained up in a dirt room with a door on it, barely more than a hole in the ground. But it had a door—which was rare in the Hive.
He didn’t move as Zevara halted and saw him curled up, wrapped in chains. She felt bad, and the two Earthers stopped fighting.
“He will not eat. We have prayed for him, and there is a way back from being Aberration—but he must find it. I do not understand what is wrong.”
Pawn confessed to Zevara, antennae drooping.
“Someone stole his doll.”
“What? I’ll buy him a new one.”
Joseph laughed incredulously and stopped when Zevara gazed at him with Pawn.
“It was all he had. I think—he’s upset. No, outraged.”
That was the right word for it. It wasn’t just anger. It was that feeling of someone who had been robbed. Who saw an injustice done…and had no faith in fairness being rendered for them.
She hoped she could restore some of it.
“Carpenter Laikos, do you remember me?”
“Yes, Watch Captain. This one remembers.”
His voice was dull. Not fluttering with fury. Zevara knelt down in the open doorway.
“I’m still investigating your case.”
“The Watch officers said this one’s doll was lost.”
“…Maybe it is, Laikos. I can’t work miracles—”
Zevara glanced at Kevin.
“—but I’ll try. Don’t you want another doll?”
The Worker didn’t move.
“No. I do not want hers. I want mine. It is not fair. It is…nOT fAIr.”
Kevin stepped back as Laikos’ voice changed, and he surged against the chains. Pawn stepped forwards.
“Laikos, Laikos, be calm. You must be calm. Who bought you a doll? Bird? Zimrah? Chesacre, Thaina?”
Pawn turned to Zevara, and she realized he didn’t know who Noiraid was. She doubted the Worker was keen on introducing herself. Zevara cleared her throat.
“Laikos, I need to know anything more you remember. I know the Human woman stole from you. The one with the beautiful scarf.”
Under Pawn’s touch, Laikos calmed down a bit. His voice was dull.
“The scarf of rosewood patterning. Black. Red. Yes. Not beautiful. This Worker has seen beauty. Not beauty.”
She frowned. She supposed it was a matter of opinion; Cecille’s scarf was beautiful to her, and she didn’t go in for fabrics.
“Did anyone else approach you that day, Laikos? Or stare at you? Did, perhaps, a [Merchant] stop you?”
He hadn’t mentioned it, but the [Carpenter] went still.
“Merchant Yerham inquired as to the carpentry techniques employed by this one. Correct. He inspected my…possession…”
“He didn’t try to buy it?”
“No.”
“Who else spoke to you, Laikos? Most people don’t.”
“…A Drake [Carpenter] who spat and borrowed nails. Guildmaster Eitgret addressed us to inform us of our disassembly job. Two Drakes who inquired about this one’s occupation.”
Two Drakes? Zevara nodded at Kevin.
“Moass and Hissl?”
“This one does not know their names.”
“Uh, green scales and blue?”
“Yes. Then the thief came back. And my…my…it was stolen.”
Again, the three suspects were there. Pawn regarded Zevara as Laikos grew agitated again.
“Do you have what you need, Watch Captain?”
She closed up her notepad.
“I think so. I think I need to investigate these two agents of Pallass. I know Yerham…but they’ve beaten my truth stones, and without one of them, we can’t get them on anything!”
That was her major concern. She pounded one knee, and Kevin raised a hand.
“Kevin, I swear, if this is some stupid idea…”
“No, c’mon, Zevara. Well, it’s sort of from movies—but mysteries. Joseph, back me up. If we can’t get these guys in a lie, can we trap them somehow? That’s how it always works in a mystery.”
Joseph scratched his head.
“I haven’t read Sherlock Holmes, sorry.”
Kevin scoffed.
“Sherlock Holmes. There are plenty of other mysteries!”
“Like Clue?”
“No, what about Detective Conan? You know that one? It’s this manga—”
“More Japanese stuff? C’mon…you and Leon are terrible. And we got rid of him.”
“Dude, don’t compare me to Leon.”
“You’re right, I’m sorry.”
It was hard to ignore the banter in the background—she just had to pretend she had a less combat-effective Relc and Klbkch backing her up. Zevara swung back to Pawn.
“Sorry about this.”
He gave her a rather severe glare.
“If you would mind not chatting so casually around one of my Workers having a crisis?”
Kevin and Joseph shut up, and Zevara rose.
“I’m still investigating things, Laikos. I promise you. In fact…”
She hated to admit it, but Kevin had given her an idea. A rather underhanded idea, but the [Streetwise Guardswoman] thought it was her only chance. Pawn tilted his antennae upwards as she took him aside.
“Pawn. Would you agree to making a slight change to how you’re handling this matter?”
“Of course, Watch Captain. Anything to help with an official Watch investigation.”
“I, er, uh, yes.”
She stumbled over her words so much that Kevin grinned and began to monologue.
“It took a crooked mind to solve a crooked case. No more staying on the straight and narrow. The law was only as good as the baton in my hand, and I was going to crack my way straight into the heart of this case like an unboiled egg…”
“I’ll be praying for you, Watch Captain.”
Pawn muttered as he clasped two of his four hands together. Zevara just sighed.
 
——
 
Two monologues later, Kevin, Joseph, and Zevara were at the inn again. They’d taken Zevara’s bicycle—Kevin wanted to show her all the features and get her to admit she liked it.
“I’m returning it to Solar Cycles now you’re alive. It’s a bribe, and it’s too big to fit in the safe.”
“Aw, come on, it’s great. Check on how well enchanted it is!”
“If it’s so enchanted, why did you keep running over my tail? Three for Pallass.”
She nodded to Liska, and the Gnoll obligingly let them through. She waved away Zevara’s coins.
“Joseph and Kevin can take whoever they want with them free of charge. And just so you know, Watch Captain…”
She stopped Zevara, and the Drake turned to her, recalling the other day. She expected an apology. Instead, Liska glowered at her.
“It’s not my job to stop thieves at the door! So a little less attitude next time, huh? And if you don’t like that, you can talk to the [Forcewall]. The only thing The Wandering Inn needs to guard is itself.”
Indeed, she’d moved her couch and working space so that people would come into the waiting chamber and exit the door after filing into lines for their destination—but the door to the inn itself and Liska were blocked off. By glowing walls of shimmering air of all things.
[Forcewalls]? Zevara was astonished anyone was paying for the spells until she realized it was just Liska’s powers. The Gnoll put her feet up on the couch.
“All aboard for Pallass? Remember your papers!”
Zevara was in the checkpoint on Pallass’ side, watching people file into three different rooms for processing, when she felt at her sides.
“Oh, shit on my tail—I forgot! Er—hello. Watch Captain—Senior Guardswoman Zevara, on investigation?”
She did her best, but the bored Garuda who opened a sliding panel gave her a long, long look.
“Liscor’s Watch?”
“Yes, I have a matter I’m looking into.”
“If you don’t have a Grade 5 Passport or higher, or special clearance papers, and you’re not on the list, I can’t let you through. We didn’t get anything from Watch Commander Venim about an investigation.”
Shit. Zevara began sweating and cursing. Any papers to go to Pallass would go through Venim for a cursory inspection!
“I—ah, forgot to file them. We’d like to ask questions of the Watch House or possibly High Command in Pallass?”
“You want to talk to High Command?”
The [Guard] looked her up and down, and she muttered.
“Rather—about the Eyes of Pallass?”
The Garuda’s brows rose higher, and she guessed how stupid a question that was. If only Chaldion were here—! Well, she’d seen him around the inn, but he wasn’t in any condition to do anything. The [Guard] sighed.
“Look, Senior Guardswoman, I can’t let you in. But tell you what, I’ll query the Watch Commander right now. It’ll take a few minutes.”
No! Nonono! Venim would flip his desk. But how did she refuse without appearing more suspicious? Zevara was sweating bullets when someone came to her rescue.
“Hey, wassup? Can you make an exception for us, Guardsman? Me and my friends are just visiting Pallass.”
The Garuda nearly left his seat as someone walked in behind her.
“No crossing the yellow line before we say t—oh, Coach Joseph!”
He recognized the young man instantly and relaxed. Joseph threw up a casual peace sign.
“This is Senior Guardswoman Zevara. She’s with me. C’mon, can’t you let her through?”
“I don’t know…you’re on the list, Joseph, of course, but—”
“Just write us in. This is Randy. He’s also sort of a football expert. The Senior Guardswoman is actually helping me out on some stuff.”
Joseph lied with a smile, and the Garuda shot Zevara a more impressed eye. Zevara couldn’t believe it! He relaxed, clacked his beak, then sighed.
“Oh—fine. Let me get this down. Zevara and ‘Randy’? Dead gods, what a name.”
“Dude, you’re telling me.”
Kevin flashed him a grin. The Garuda chuckled and then nodded.
“Alright, go on through. And, uh, Joseph. Any idea who’s winning the big game between Liscor and Pallass? We have to win this time, right?”
He sounded wistful, and Joseph flashed him the thumbs up.
“Don’t tell any Liscorians, but I think this might be the one.”
The Garuda grinned, and Zevara gave Joseph a look of mild awe. He put his hands in his pockets, embarrassed.
“What? They love their football here. I respect that. Actually, I need to disguise myself. Kevin’s got a Skill, but—”
He touched a ring on his finger, and she jumped as he transformed into a Dullahan in armor.
“You have a disguise?”
Joseph winked at her.
“Yep. Too many people want autographs or to try out for me. But I can probably get you talking with anyone who’s not actually a [Senator]. C’mon, I know most of the city.”
Kevin nudged Zevara.
“Our man on the inside was Joseph. Not just a pretty face and a good right foot. You needed someone who could grease the wheels of a city like this and not come away stained black. So far, he was on the up and up, but I had my eye on him. Still, if he could get us one step closer to finding the truth, we’d do what it took…”
 
——
 
It turned out the power of Joseph’s fame was a door-opener in ways Zevara’s badge was not. The Watch House on the 8th Floor barely paid attention to the badge when they realized she was Liscor’s Watch.
“Listen, Senior Guardswoman, it’s usually a matter for the Watch Captains to handle between cities. You can’t just come in and demand—Joseph?”
Cue him speeding past the Desk Sergeant, all the way into the office of a Watch Captain Qissa. She was made of sterner stuff than her people and gave Zevara a familiar look.
“Watch Captain. I wondered why a ‘Senior Guardswoman’ was here. Why didn’t Venim send a message? Unless…it’s urgent. Joseph, is this something I need to consult Watch Captain Kel over?”
She had a wary expression on her face, as one did around Earthers or the inn, but Joseph just gave her a relaxed smile.
“We’re just asking about a Watch matter, Qissa. Zevara’s doing it privately.”
“Uh huh. Privately.”
Qissa’s tone was laced with suspicions until Zevara stepped forward to the table.
“It’s a sensitive matter, Watch Captain. I’d like to speak to and know the particulars of two of your agents who came into Liscor. They’re not on any of our lists…or yours. I believe they’re entangled in a crime occurring in Liscor.”
Qissa’s skepticism turned into a huge grimace. She sat back, steeping her claws.
“Ah, them. That changes things. I don’t know anything.”
Zevara exchanged a glance with Kevin and Joseph.
“Nothing? No lists or…?”
“We don’t write it down, and the paperwork around them tends to vanish. Highly annoying. It’s the kind of thing that happens with that kind of agent. I imagine Venim thought he’d seen the last of them in Pallass…listen, I can’t help you. I can tell you who to contact. They have…well, not a headquarters, but a place where outsiders can ask questions. But I warn you—they don’t give out answers.”
She scribbled on a piece of paper and handed them an address. Then asked Joseph about the game. Her note took them to the 7th Floor and what seemed to be a rather corporate office. There was a Drake [Receptionist] at the desk, cool air blowing from enchantment spells inside, and big, glass windows and outdoor seats on a balcony.
If Zevara needed more clues to guess this is where the Eyes of Pallass hung out and operated from, the too-sharp way the Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda checked her over was another.
There was a bit too much magic in here, a bit too much opulence for the dreary lives of office workers. Kevin seemed delighted by all the ‘spy stuff’; Joseph just kept frowning around.
“I swear I know half these guys. Some of them hang out with Troydel. Actually, he swears he’s slept with that Drake.”
A female Drake glanced up from a water fountain and blinked at him. She must have had very good hearing, because she called out.
“Coach Joseph and…Watch Captain Zevara. Whatever Probationary Engineer Troydel has told you, I hope you disregard it.”
She frowned at Kevin, which impressed Zevara, because it meant Kevin’s Skill was still working. She approached as the male [Receptionist] slipped from behind the counter.
“How can I help you today, Watch Captain?”
Well, it felt like an interview already. Zevara got the same vibes from this as her meeting with Robb, but she folded her arms.
“I’m just here to follow-up on a case of mine. It involves two of your people. They’re not prime suspects, but I need to talk to them and ask some questions.”
“Pointed questions?”
The Gnoll raised his brows, and Zevara glanced at him.
“Only if I thought they were necessary. Is there a problem?”
“There are individuals who are above your jurisdiction, Watch Captain. This isn’t your city.”
“But Pallass would have to be cooperative, right? Because everyone’s interested in the law being upheld.”
Joseph jumped in, and the two agents hesitated, clearly made uncomfortable by him. Zevara suspected he was a very important person in their books, and the female Drake coughed.
