She poked Kevin lightly, still amazed he was real. Zevara glared at them.
“But if there’s trouble, you run and call the Watch, got it? I was run over yesterday as part of my investigation.”
“Dude, what? How are you alive? Healing potion?”
“Magic scroll, actually. Which is what I’m looking into now. There are these scrolls—”
She led them to the Antinium Hive entrance as she explained this incredible discovery and realized that her unlikely backup was, in fact, useful. Because all Kevin said was—
“Oh shit, they’ve got healing scrolls now? Faith classes are so fucking broken, Joseph.”
“Kevin, I saw the Prophet. I know.”
She squinted at them.
“Wait, so you know what this stuff is?”
“Different world. Wait, do you know that?”
She grunted as part of her head exploded and tried to act natural.
“Well, who doesn’t? I saw the, uh, Grand Rapids place where Erin was, too.”
I just didn’t think it was—could she talk to someone about this? Was there an inn support group? There had to be. Kevin nodded casually and nudged Joseph.
“Right. Told you she was as smart as Grimalkin, Joseph. Anyways, it’s a trope in video games. [Priests] are great healers. So there’s a black market for healing items, and the Antinium are, like, the poor guys getting stolen from, and you’re the undercover cop going rogue to solve the case?”
She eyed him.
“I feel like you’re making fun of me.”
“No, no, this is really cool! Please take us with you. I’ve been bored between crying my eyes out, and this is big. Where are we going?”
“For a meeting with Prognugator Pawn. The Watch talked to him, but I need more details. And…there’s an Antinium I need to interview again. A [Carpenter] who went Aberration.”
“Oh shit. Well, let’s go.”
 
——
 
Entering the Free Hive scared the hell out of Zevara, actually. She didn’t know how Lyonette did it so casually, but she was able to ask an Antinium entering the Hive to relay a message for her. Then she and Kevin waited as the rain poured down.
Joseph vanished for a bit; he kicked a ball, and a dozen children wanted to show him their moves. She had to admit, watching him scrimmage in the street, that he was pretty good with his feet.
Kevin seemed to be thinking hard, muttering under his breath as they waited. She hoped he was taking this seriously. When a Painted Worker came to lead them to a meeting with Pawn, they descended into the dark, claustrophobic tunnels.
It made Zevara shiver, and when they ran into the huge thoroughfare with countless Antinium moving in sync, she froze in terror.
She couldn’t help it. She had survived the 1st Antinium Wars. She might have panicked except that at that moment, Kevin decided to speak. His voice filled the huge cavernous space despite the rhythmic footsteps, the hypnotic identical patterns of sound—or perhaps that was because every Antinium froze when they heard a voice.
“We descended into the Hive searching for answers, the three of us. It was pitch dark down there, darker than the bottom of a toilet bowl at midnight when you’re trying to piss and not miss the rim. The Antinium, now, we needed answers from them. The easy way or the hard way. The only question is whether we’d understand the answers we got.”
“…Kevin, what are you doing?”
Zevara hissed at him, and Joseph punched his shoulders.
“Dude, is that the thing?”
“Yep. C’mon, Zevara, I have to do this. The Watch Captain gave me a look like she wanted to peel the skin off my bones, but then, I heard she’d killed a monster who did that. She was breathing smoke as she stomped past the Antinium. All of them, moving identically, in their Hive, and here we were, sticking out like ticks on a Unicorn’s ass.”
She tried to ignore him. Remember he had just died, Zevara, remember he had just died and don’t smack the back of his head. The worst part was that it was probably helping; the Antinium moved away from them, and she distinctly got the impression they were listening to Kevin.
Everyone liked Kevin. That was part of why she hadn’t turned him down; someone had to be charming. She didn’t do charming. And he certainly threw people off.
Even Pawn.
 
——
 
“You wouldn’t know it to look at him in his meek white robes, always smiling and carrying around that censer smelling like cinnamon and goodness, but this [Priest] was the most dangerous guy in the Hive. Maybe even he didn’t know it yet—but trust me, I’ve seen hard customers, and this guy could hold a door open to hell itself. Right now, he was playing nice, but once the Watch Captain put the questions to him, who knows how bad it could get?”
“Um. Hello, Kevin. Watch Captain, this is unexpected. Why is he talking like that?”
Pawn eyed Kevin, who it seemed had already re-introduced himself to the Antinium, and Zevara pushed Kevin aside.
“I’m following up on the Watch investigation, er, on my own time, Pawn. Can I ask you a few questions about those scrolls? And there was a Worker turned Aberration. Carpenter Laikos, I think? I’d like to talk to him.”
Pawn’s expression cleared, then he drooped.
“Ah, yes. Laikos. I have prayed for him, but my [Benediction of Hope] did not work. It does not always…I hope he will come around in the next few days. If not…”
Zevara’s stomach twisted up, and Kevin stopped his weird monologue to eye her. She nodded to Pawn.
“First things first. You’ve been told about the scrolls?”
He smiled at her.
“I was aware of the scrolls for a while, Watch Captain. Who do you think gave them to Workers and Crusaders? I did not know they were being stolen, though. It is most distressing.”
“So you know…can I ask how you discovered them?”
For answer, Pawn beckoned the Antinium over that Zevara had met at the inn. Holytext.
“It began when we were transcribing the Book of the Sky. Some pages, especially when written with…fervor, would transform. Become magical. When anyone read them, they would activate. Sometimes healing, but other times other effects. It depends on the intention.”
“Intention. So you can make more?”
“Oh, yes. Only a couple per day for most Antinium. Even Holytext does not have the ability to make more than three on a good day, and most are not as powerful as a strong healing potion. But I can make texts of appropriate strength to my Miracle.”
She wrote fast, taking notes.
“Which one would that be?”
“[Cure Mundane Wounds]. I rather think it was used on you recently, Watch Captain. You have traces of faith about you. I apologize. It is not like magic, but I can see things I had not before.”
“Dude, Pawn, you can make healing items, and you’re just giving them away to Workers?”
Joseph was aghast as he broke in. Pawn blinked at him.
“Why should I not, Joseph? Those are the ones who need healing the most. They could never afford healing potions—and with the shortage, it makes sense to give ordinary Workers and Soldiers what we make, does it not?”
“Well, yeah, but it’s worth a ton. Healing potions are so insanely expensive I can’t even get them for my football teams. Do you know what they’d pay for this?”
Pawn shook his head.
“I had not thought of it, Joseph, until I was told by Guardswoman Jerci of the issue. Now I see I have put Workers in trouble. These thefts…they were afraid to tell me of them, Watch Captain. Do you know how many thefts were reported?”
“I have several dozen cases I investigated personally.”
Pawn’s mandibles closed, and Zevara looked up.
“Not accurate?”
“After being informed of Guardswoman Jerci’s case, I asked my people to investigate the matter ourselves. We have counted 471 cases already.”
Her eyes widened.
“Impossible. I had numbers that were high, but—”
“It seems Antinium do not speak when they suffer. I had hoped the Watch was looking into the matter.”
“We have—and are. I know over sixty cases were solved by Guardsman Lens. He returned items back to the Workers who were stolen from.”
At this, Prognugator Pawn tilted his head.
“He…did? I have not heard of any items being returned. In fact, all the Antinium who were stolen from report a mixture of items being taken, not just healing scrolls.”
That wasn’t right. Here, Zevara floundered.
“No, I saw the report—”
“Perhaps there are even more Antinium who did not come forwards because the matter was resolved.”
Pawn’s voice was doubtful, and Zevara nodded. Kevin stopped doing his annoying monologue and jumped in.
“Question, guys. Why steal stuff that isn’t the scroll?”
That was easy. Zevara nodded at him.
“No one understands what the Antinium are doing, Kevin. Apparently, other objects can manifest this faith effect? A [Thief] would steal anything Antinium carried, assuming or hoping it was…infused with faith?”
The Prognugator nodded, clasping his hands together.
“This is so, though it is rather obvious. An object imbued with faith glows, is warmer than normal, or has other properties that make it easy to tell apart. I suppose those not used to us could be mistaken.”
Zevara thought back to Lady Cecille and nodded slowly. She seemed to be able to tell what the faith items were on sight. So unfamiliar [Thieves]…
“Do you have any objects I can see for reference, Pawn? Ones that aren’t one-use scrolls?”
He blinked.
“Of course. In fact, I have the strongest items with me. Master Pelt furnished me with this, but it is, um…slightly inconvenient. I had asked him to reforge items of religious value, you see, and he managed the task, but not as I had anticipated.”
He brought something out and handed it to Zevara—but opened his hand in the air. She reached out to catch it, but instead, stopped.
“Whoa. Dude.”
A beautiful, brass censer, little holes trailing incense lit by a glowing ember inside, was floating in the air. Pawn took hold of it, and it drifted after him, utterly weightless. He poked at it.
“He took the objects and rendered them into raw material which he used to smith these objects. He claims it is not very ‘pure’ metal and wished to destroy it, but I objected. This censer is the most holy object in the Hive.”
“I see. Wait…did you just say holy or…?”
Pawn smiled at Zevara. He flicked the censer through the air, and it left a trail of smoke which traced over Antinium, who gazed up and raised their hands as if the trail of incense was a blessing.
Which it turned out to be. Zevara felt an odd tingling, and Pawn explained.
“Those who breathe in the holy incense move faster, work harder, and so on. Depending on the incense. Cinnamon is strength. Mint is speed. It is a very confusing item, but one I think Erin would approve of. Faith takes many forms.”
“So you believe so hard in things that they become powerful? That’s not fair.”
Joseph muttered wistfully, and Pawn quirked an antenna at him.
“Coach Joseph, you are the world’s most famous [Football Coach] because people believe in you. Wealth and fame because of belief. Is what we do so different?”
“I can’t put my hands on someone and heal them, so yeah.”
“Hmm. A fair point. But [Mages] can blow things up with a word.”
“Also fair. Got me there.”
Pawn put out his hand, and Joseph shook it. They focused back on Zevara, and she exhaled.
“Well, no regular Worker has something that powerful, Pawn. This is clearly the work of individuals who want your items. Now that the Antinium have something of value, a black market has sprung up. May I ask what you intend to do?”
He nodded.
“Naturally, I consulted with the Free Queen on the matter, and she agreed: we shall sell the items, of course. At reasonable—very high—market values. It will allow us to give our Antinium more money. That will cut down on this…illicit selling. I will still give the healing items to Antinium, to Liscor’s army, and even the Watch. And the inn. Yes, Lyonette will like that. But I will not sell them to our enemies like damned Hectval or anyone else.”
She blinked.
“That’s generous of you.”
“All those who are our friends should be healed.”
“And your enemies, Pawn?”
Kevin asked, and the Worker smiled, but not in a nice way.
“They may eat cake laced with laxatives. Or burn.”
For some reason, Kevin and Joseph shuddered at what Zevara took to be a mild threat. And she nodded at Pawn, but bit her tongue.
“I think Watch Commander Venim will be delighted by your proposal, Pawn, as will the Council. May I speak to Carpenter Laikos?”
“Of course—he is in a holding area for his and our safety. One moment while I find out where.”
Pawn walked away, and Kevin leaned over with Joseph.
“What’s with the grimace, Captain Z?”
“Don’t call me that. It’s nothing. Pawn’s doing the right, sensible thing. I was just thinking…it’s not going to cut down on the black market.”
“Why not? He sells it to our allies, everyone lines up to buy it, problem solved.”
Joseph didn’t get it, but Zevara shook her head, and so did Kevin. She eyed him, and he explained.
“Think on it, Joseph. It’s like decriminalizing weed. People still go to their local dealers instead of a dispensary. Why’s that?”
“Kevin…I lived in Spain. We don’t have legal weed, only seeds and stuff. I don’t know why your stupid American stuff happens.”
“Oh. Right. If Pawn has super high prices on the scrolls, sure, people will buy them. But a lot will want to get them cheaper. And who’s got scrolls?”
Joseph cast around.
“His Workers. But they won’t sell them, right? They’re Antinium.”
Zevara thought of Noiraid.
“Some will. Antinium are developing vices and wants. If one sells a scroll for a fraction of its value, they get a lot of gold in their pockets. Less than it’s worth, but far more than, what, a few coppers a week?”
“Ah.”
Joseph let out a breath of pure understanding, and the two Humans and Drake regarded each other, each one creatures of vice. But Pawn was a largely incorruptible Antinium of faith. Joseph bounced his ball on one foot.
“Should we tell him?”
“…I think it wouldn’t help. He’s doing what I’d do. There will always be lawbreakers. Just fewer. My main concern is the thefts themselves. He said hundreds of Antinium—and not one remembers Senior Guardsman Lens?”
“I smell a rat. Think your Senior Guardsman’s corrupt?”
Zevara gave Kevin an outraged eye, and he raised his hand defensively.
“You’ve gotta consider it, Captain Zevara. It’s the first thing that happens in cases like this. Police on the take, corrupt officials, dark nights, smoking hot dames coming into your office…”
“This isn’t whatever you’re referencing.”
“Aw, so no hot women?”
Zevara tightened her lips into a grim smile.
“I’ll introduce you to Noiraid. She’s smoking.”
“Sweet. Wait, fuck, she’s an Antinium, isn’t she? Does she look like Bird?”
