“But the Brothers just attacked us—”
“Because we forced them into it, sir.”
“So there’s no plan on biding our time and striking this Robb fellow later? Building a case? If that’s it—”
He was still fishing for something she didn’t have. Zevara rolled her shoulders.
“Let me put it like this, Venim. There’s problems in the city. [Murderers]. The corrupt—and there’s flaws you can deal with. The Brothers aren’t a problematic gang unless they’re pushed. We have more to deal with like the Antinium thefts—”
“Hold on, hold on. You’re putting two dozen Antinium thefts over the Brothers? Are you mad? Zevara, you took on Soot! We have a Watch three times as large as yours was!”
“I never got Soot!”
She snapped back and tried to modulate her voice. Venim sat back, and Zevara’s tail lashed. She couldn’t help it.
“I never got him. Sometimes you can’t, and I had Klbkch and Relc on my side. I guess Lady Cecille Reinhart is the same. Unless they slip up, some fish are too big to catch. But the Antinium—that’s something I can handle. No one’s paying attention to the Antinium, Venim. That’s on us.”
“They’re part of their Hive. I assume they police themselves for internal affairs. As for this…this is highly distressing, Watch Captain. I don’t…”
Venim pinched the bridge of his snout with his claws.
“—I don’t consider them an issue. I consider the integrity and image of the Watch in Liscor paramount. Ronss is shaken. The Watch is shaken. I need you leading the Watch, not pursuing lines of inquiry that get you run over.”
That stung.
“I thought I was supposed to be finding a niche that fit me with less work, Commander Venim.”
He raised his hands.
“One that is structural, in keeping with your office, not acting like a [Guardsman] on an investigation, Zevara! You’re out of office all day, and you take Relc, who’s supposed to be leading—then it’s down to the Desk Sergeants to keep order. What if there had been a crisis?”
This was true, and Zevara hung her head, trying to find a response and realizing that was her mistake. Venim stared at her until he broke the silence.
“I’m taking your advice on the Brothers under advisement, Watch Captain.”
He was? He gave her a nod, stiffly offended.
“I’m not an idiot. This is your city, and you were there and saw them in action. Even so, I’m making a judgement call as Watch Commander—I’ll put some good [Guards] on the Antinium theft case. Antinium, maybe, since it’s their matter. You’re to act as north district’s Watch Captain until Ronss gets back or we get a new Watch Captain. Assuming you’re not hurt.”
He eyed her, and Zevara hesitated, because that was largely reasonable…but she knew herself. She was about to push back.
“May I make a suggestion, Commander?”
“Very well…”
She saw him frowning and knew they were both trying to be reasonable. Zevara took a breath.
“Don’t let Ronss go on break. Or resign. Put him back in charge of his district. If he can’t handle it, he can’t. But he made a mistake. Dead gods, I’ve made plenty. He goes in, he puts in effort, and the [Guards] will support him.”
“Hmm. I can talk to him.”
Good. Venim nodded, and Zevara went on.
“Second—give me a [Guardsman]. One of the Antinium, but let me continue working the Antinium case.”
“Oh come now, Watch Captain! I’m compromising here! Can’t you do the same?”
Venim snapped at her. She flushed.
“This is a bigger case than I think I anticipated, Watch Commander. Now we know what the Antinium are selling—I was told that Cecille Reinhart, the Five Families, and major gangs are all buying the healing scrolls! This is huge. If it really does heal as well as potions—and it healed broken ribs—then this is thousands upon thousands of gold pieces in a black market. It’s only going to get bigger.”
He drummed his claws on the table, frowning hard.
“I can’t believe there’s just some magical ‘healing’ that can replace healing potions, Zevara. There has to be a catch.”
“Maybe it’s more limited than we think, which is why everyone’s fighting over it. The north…but not the south.”
Right, hadn’t Robb said that? Venim raised his brows.
“If there is a healing item of any kind, then the Walled Cities will want it, Zevara. They’re not blind.”
“No. And it’s odd. The north never had strong ties to Liscor…why is no one in the south buying this, even on the sly?”
“Well, they’re made by Antinium. I wouldn’t trust an Antinium healing potion, would you?”
Venim gave her a supercilious look until he realized that she probably would, and her best Senior Guardsman had been an Antinium. He coughed.
“—I see your point, Zevara. Even so, this hunt has nearly gotten you killed once. Put it in your people’s claws.”
She didn’t want to. She trusted a lot of her [Guards], but the Antinium were an unknown quantity. They were hard to talk to, thought differently, and it made work with them difficult—even for other Antinium, she was realizing.
“With respect, Commander, I’d prefer to be kept on the case.”
He exhaled hard.
“So noted, Watch Captain. But I am your Watch Commander, and I’ve heard you on Ronss, the Brothers, and the rest of your duties. I’m ordering you to focus on the big picture. Appoint some investigators in the Watch, oversee them. Drop your involvement in the case.”
He tapped the desk, and she shot him a surprised expression and saw his face was set. And that he thought he was doing this for her own good. Much like when she told Jeiss or Beilmark they were needed on another hunt and they kicked up shit.
‘Yes, sir,’ would be an appropriate thing to say here. She’d gotten him to move on a lot—a lot more than she thought she’d do if she had a Senior Guardsman telling her how to do her job. But…
She thought of Carpenter Laikos and the strange Miss Noiraid. Would another Antinium even be able to interact with her and know how much more—streetwise she was? Would another member of the Watch?
Humans didn’t know Antinium well enough. Most of the [Guards] weren’t Liscorian natives from decades ago. Beilmark was, and Relc knew Antinium, but they were in leadership positions. Moreover, they were dealing with [Merchants] and Lady Cecille, and there were still those two agents mucking about. They needed authority. Did she have a Senior Guardsman pair who could do that…?
“Watch Captain, your word?”
He was getting impatient. Zevara cleared her throat.
“I, uh, if I could lead a training group on the—”
“No, Watch Captain. You’re off the case. Understood?”
He snapped at her, and she almost saluted. He was pressuring her. Some kind of authority Skill? Or just their classes—[Watch Commander] over [Watch Captain]. Her mind said ‘say yes’. But her treacherous mouth said:
“No, sir. This is a critical issue to the city in my opinion. I need to pursue it.”
Uh oh. She saw his face harden when she said that, and she realized that with all his affection and respect for her position and attempts at being reasonable, he was still a Watch Captain from Pallass.
“I’m the Watch Commander of Liscor, Captain Zevara. I gave you a direct order. You don’t have to like it, but it’s done.”
“I…feel the need to disagree, Commander Venim. I think you’re not considering the Antinium angle due to bias.”
His eyes narrowed. She stared over his shoulder. Then he just sat back and exhaled.
“I think this has been a hard day for the both of us, Watch Captain.”
“Probably, sir.”
Her head still felt like it remembered pain, even if she’d been healed. She was exhausted—healing scrolls or not, healing still took a toll. Venim nodded a few times, staring over her shoulder, and they both realized they had the same expression when they were in uncomfortable moments like these. Venim smiled briefly, then nodded.
“Clock out of your work. And take the rest of the week off. Paid leave. Sick leave, rather, since you were hurt.”
She blinked at him. Venim added as he glanced at her claw, still holding the truth stone.
“And turn in your truth stone and your armor to Sergeant Relc.”
“My truth stone—?”
She realized what he was doing, and Venim gave her a level, cool stare.
“We’ll revisit this conversation once we’re level-headed, Watch Captain.”
He was putting her on leave. She couldn’t believe it! It was deft, framing it like sick leave, but she’d pushed the limit, and he was taking her off-duty for a week!
Part of Zevara, the Watch Captain, had to admire the way Venim had defused their argument. The rest of her was hopping mad.
“But I—”
“If whomever Sergeant Relc assigns to the case can’t find answers, then we’ll talk. In a week. We’re doing it my way, Watch Captain. Truth stone, please.”
He didn’t trust her. She hesitated, then placed the truth stone on the desk with a soft click. Zevara stood back and nodded to him.
“Watch Commander, thank you for your time.”
He gave her a pained gaze.
“I am exceptionally glad you weren’t injured in the fighting, Watch Captain.”
She hesitated on the way to the door.
“Thank you, Commander. It was hairy.”
“Yes—I had twenty squads ready to grab you while we released the Brothers. Then you were missing, and we didn’t know where you were and only had their word you were alive. Sergeant Relc was ready to go in himself. The Council almost called Strategos Olesm for some of his people.”
He’d done all that for her? She flushed. Now, she felt like a callous idiot.
“Venim, I only meant—”
Venim waved a claw at her.
“Let’s not be hatchlings about it, Zevara. We’re heated. Next week. Please, get some rest. You look like you’ve been run over—twice.”
And that was that. She left his office, and the [Receptionist] tried to pretend she hadn’t been listening in to the entire thing. Zevara walked back heavily to the Watch House, where everyone began applauding and cheering when she came in.
“Watch Captain, you made—”
When they saw her face, the cheers died down. Zevara glanced at Relc, who hesitated. Clearly a speaking stone had already informed him—
“I’m on sick leave for a week due to my injuries. Sergeant Relc, you’re acting Watch Captain. Take over the Antinium case for me, would you? I’ll have a report for you.”
Zevara took off her armor as the [Guards] murmured. She put it in her locker, then wrote up a report. Handed it to Relc. He gave her an odd gaze.
“Ancestors, Captain. You got punched in the head by Brothers, got run over by a [Lady]…did Venim finish the job?”
“He put me on break, Relc. That’s all.”
She offered him a weary smile, and he looked her over, then patted her on the shoulder.
“Yep, that’d probably kill you. Sorry, Captain Z. I mean, Zevara.”
She wished he wasn’t so right. Zevara mingled in the Watch House for a while, checking on Jerci—who was okay save for some bad bruising on her stomach—discussing the raid and trying not to let them dwell on Ronss’ mistake—and then she saw them all staring at her awkwardly.
In plain clothes. Right. She was…on break.
Zevara put her hands in her pockets and walked home in the rain. She hadn’t been put on break since she was a Senior Guardswoman.
Damn.
She really hated it.
 
——
 
The next day, Zevara woke up feeling stiff, but way too vigorous given all she’d gone through recently.
“Ancestors, the scroll does work.”
She’d half thought it’d wear off in the night, but she almost leapt out of bed and had so much energy she went shopping and filled her pantry. The bicycle helped; she pedaled through the rain and thought about Merchant Yerham.
“He’s part of the thefts. He knows about the scrolls. That’s clear. Cecille Reinhart, Yerham, both approached Crusader Lehrne, who was selling them. And the two Drakes, Moass and Hissl, know too!”
Wait…they knew. Were the Walled Cities catching onto the issue? That explained a lot. Agents paying attention to the inn, and they’d definitely know about the healing scrolls. Venim was sure to file a priority report.
That suggested they’d known earlier…but Robb had insisted the Drakes didn’t buy any scrolls.
Hmm. And Merchant Yerham…she hadn’t gotten enough out of him. There had been that bicycle theft. Did Relc have people looking into Yerham?
Zevara was halfway through making breakfast when she decided that she should check. Not that she was going back to work. She was, uh, just…
 
——
 
…Bringing her patented ‘bread and meat fry’ to the Watch! Zevara strolled into the Watch House, and the Desk Sergeant stared at her.
“Captain, is something wrong?”
“Er, no, no…just bringing some food around. Want some of the old fryup?”
She offered some bread tangled with a bit of ham, which became a new fusion with some oil and eggs scrambled into it. The Gnoll grabbed a piece and took a bite.
“Err, greasy as always, Watch Captain. Thank you.”
“Sergeant Relc around? I mean, acting Watch Captain?”
The Gnoll grinned at her.
“He’s in your office. He keeps coming out because he says he feels like he’s being scolded by your chair.”
Zevara laughed at that. She headed around and surprised guards who were coming off duty or clocking in—they took some food, made small talk with her—and Jerci came out of the kitchens.
“Hey, I’ve got the pot pies finished. Did someone burn some—Watch Captain?”
She had made over six dozen small pot pies and filled them with a Gnollish meat filling. The first one was as good as anything you could get at a restaurant; Zevara tried to hide her scraps behind her as Jerci took a bite.
“Yum. Tastes like my dad used to make, Watch Captain.”
“Er—you cook well, Guardswoman Jerci. They’re putting you on kitchen patrols often, it seems?”
The [Guardswoman] rolled her eyes.
“Yep. Just because no one wants the Antinium to cook. But I swear, Bootstrap can cook better than Sergeant Wodriff.”
The Desk Sergeant barked at Jerci as the others laughed.
“Watch it, Guardswoman Jerci! I can make a mean stew!”
“Yeah, so can Bootstrap. And his is better because he follows the recipe exactly, sergeant!”
Having tasted Wodriff’s cooking, Zevara would take Bootstrap’s offering over that. She might not cook as well as Jerci, but no one avoided her food. Though it did sting when she heard a younger [Guard] lean over and whisper.
“Jerci, I thought your dad was still alive?”
“He is. We just made him stop cooking.”
Gnolls sometimes forgot other people could hear whispers. Zevara cleared her throat as she addressed the room.
“So…any trouble from the Brothers? What about Ronss?”
She asked, and Jerci glanced at the others.
“Ronss is in office. He looks pretty bad, but everyone says he’s checking on those who got busted up. He walked with my squad last night.”
