The woman shook her head, breaking out of the spell she had been under, before nodding. “My name’s Camilla, not Cammie. But yes, that’s me.”

Before the situation could get any more awkward Liz came out of her room and moved forward to shake Camilla’s hand. An action that Matt noticed she didn’t resist at all.

Camilla nodded to Liz before introducing herself once again. “My name is Camilla. Nice to meet you, but I don’t think this was a good idea.”

Liz pulled back slightly and asked, “Wait what? Why? Uncle Waters sent you here, right?”

The dark-haired woman nodded slightly. “Yes but…” She shot a look at Matt before saying, “I don’t think it will work out. You remind me of someone I know, and I have had enough of his type.”

Matt cocked his head but inwardly shrugged. Her issues weren’t his to deal with.

She then asked Liz, “Is he part of the team proper?”

Liz nodded. “Yes, we joined up as a team for The Path of Ascension.”

Camilla looked at Matt before shaking her head. “Then I think I need to back out of this deal. Sorry, but I can’t trust him.”

Matt finally spoke up, “You don’t even know me? How can you instantly not like me?”

She ignored his question and asked Liz, “And what are you two dating as well? How could you—?”

She cut herself off and stormed into her room, her door sealing behind her.

He looked at Liz and questioned, “What just happened?”

She shook her head. “I have no idea, but I’m not super happy right now. Who is she to judge you like that? If she wants to leave. Good riddance.”

Liz entered her room, and Matt joined her. He was still pondering the other women off behavior when Liz asked, “Are we being dumb?”

The odd question threw Matt for a loop as he tried to figure out how they were the odd ones in that situation, but Liz clarified, “Are we dating?”

With the sudden twist in the topic, Matt paused to consider her words.

She wasn’t wrong but it seemed like such an odd question considering they had decided to not date so they didn’t ruin their working relationship.

After mulling over his words for a few seconds while Liz started to unpack. “I mean we do work and live together twenty-four seven but…”

He let his words trail off as he wasn’t sure how to finish.

Liz thankfully did. “We really just didn’t want to date because it might ruin the team, but if we are already practically dating, why don’t we just date and see how it works out?”

As Liz plopped down next to him, Matt asked, “I guess we can just take it slow and learn together? We have time.”

“That’s right. We both have Concepts, so our next bottleneck is Tier 24. Nothing wrong with waiting until Tier 15.”

After they sat there in silence for a while Matt had a thought and voiced it. “So what? We have a ten Tier dating period?”

He had no idea how this dating, waiting thing was supposed to work but he was excited about the prospect. He liked Liz and making things official was a step in the right direction in his book.

Liz laughed and said, “We can still do everything a normal couple can do. We just don’t have sex, so if we do break up there are less hard feelings. If it’s worth doing, it’s worth doing right.”

The Empire didn’t have large sexual taboos, but he understood what she was saying. “That seems incredibly arbitrary.”

Liz shrugged. “Think of it as a courtship instead of dating.”

Matt looked at her and cracked a joke, “What, do you think you’re some kind of princess?”

With that, the tension broke, and they laughed until they cried. The awkwardness between them banished.

***

Camilla looked at the message Aiden sent her once again before screaming into a pillow.

She had used the money he gave her to have a high priority message sent to him saying she couldn’t join a team with someone like Matt.

She had hoped he would give her the okay and allow her to set off on her own, but he had put his foot down.

Either she came back to his estate and his protection, stayed with his niece, or she got a high Tier babysitter to watch over her and ensure nothing bad happened to her.

She wanted to lash out and refuse.

She wanted to show him that she was ready.

She wanted to do a lot of things.

In the end, he had done so much for her after saving her and he was the one person she knew she could trust. She just couldn’t return to his estate and all the therapists.

It had become too stifling.

She had trained to be able to protect herself and didn’t want a high Tier bodyguard she didn’t know watching her at all times. To have that much power over her.

That was too reminiscent of before.

Which meant she needed to get along with his attractive niece and her boyfriend who reminded her of Duke Cumulus far, far too much.
