An explosion got everyone to turn their head toward the bend around the hill, just in time to see a blue human fireball hurling away from the work site.

David flared up his mana into his foot, tremor stepped into the air, and launched himself back toward the Hummers.

A second explosion rang out soon after, followed by a great gout of fiery blue mana erupting over the hill.

Isaac was the first to react. “Captain Bastonian! We advance! Support my brother!” He ordered, then began marching toward the battle, donning his helmet and clasping it in place.

Leandro, Niala, and the Scion Guards stepped after him. The captain's barked orders followed their advance.

As one, a hundred Azure guards moved toward the sounds of battle.

Kassimir Three-One would have raised an eyebrow if he still had eyebrows. Instead, he looked at the rebounding deep vessel, the scion, with impassive surprise.

This was new. The Deluded ones did not possess such abilities, instead relying on tools and constructs.

It mattered not.

He reaffirmed his hand, palm out, and invoked another blessing.

A half-orb of sickly-yellow energy unfurled from his hand. The flying scion slammed into it, fist-first, and-

Kassimir's eyes widened.

A great burst of blue flames erupted at the point of contact.

The blessed shell cracked.

It held.

But it had cracked.

What-

To his left, Ulryan Three-Twelve invoked a blessing of containment. Tendrils of divine energies flew outward, aiming at the Scion.

The small breath he held dissipated as the energy strands coiled around the anomaly. No one could escape the-

The man's mana saturated the very air around his body, dissolving the blessing of containment.

Kassimir's breath caught in his three lungs once more.

Not possible. He mind-cast to his cohort.

Anomalous. Vichel Three-Five sent back.

Potential. Kirmin Three-Twenty-One declared.

Capture. All eight voices concorded.

Eight palms rose, directed at the target.

Eight blessings of subduing erupted.

Niala, following Leandro, turned the bend and immediately had to shield her eyes, as arcing beams of sickly-yellow energy reached out from the hummer's palms and at David.

Her husband flashed blue, his body erupting in flames. The arcs landed on him. Puffs of black smoke were the only visible effect. He roared, kicked at the ground, and projected himself at the nearest Hummer, one arm cocked for a punch and glowing blue from a strong arm and battering ram combo.

The Hummer projected a half-sphere of yellowed glass-like energy.

David's fist landed on it.

The barrier shattered. An explosion of devouring blue flames punching through its centre.

A blast of air buffeted her group.

The Hummer was flung back, arm still extended, eyes wide open and devoid of comprehension.

To the right, Jordo dug himself out of the hill into which the initial explosion had embedded him.

Behind her, the sound of a small army as the Azure Guards rounded the bend.

Half the Hummers turned toward the approaching foes, the other half turned toward David, palms held up.

Niala squinted, retrieved two phials from her belt, and summoned the winds in her other hand. She'd found that her wind powers were much more effective at getting her potions to their target.

With a little bit of concentration, she could make them fly fast enough that a small bang accompanied their launch. It did attract attention, but she'd also figured a workaround.

She let the strands of wind gently pick up the two phials from her palm and then floated them far up into the air.

Before she could make the wind slam them down toward her target, the ground beneath her trembled.

And then white tentacles burst out of the ground all over.

To their credit, the Guards enacted their plan immediately; they stomped at the ground en masse, disrupting it and revealing the burrowing tentacles.

There were, however, too many of them.

The tentacles weren't travelling underground; they were already there. They were just waking up.

Hundreds of white appendages reached for the guards. Most of them were fended off, many were cut, but some found something to grab.

Quick-acting guards severed many of those, but a few held on. The guards they were attached to began panicking, yelling for them to get cut off.

Between the assault of even more tentacles and the resulting confusion, most of their call went unheeded. Their calls turned to screaming, and by then it was too late; their eyes glazed over, and they crumpled to the ground, alive, but inert.

Nobody noticed how the mausoleum seemed to quiver each time a guard fell.

Isaac stomped on a tentacle while slashing at another one. His empowered movements crushed the appendage to a pulp and cleanly severed the other one, even while he cursed under his breath.

He glimpsed a flash at the corner of his eye, turning his head to spot one of the enemy fling intangible tendrils at a small group of guards. It passed through their flailing weapons and shields, grasping them like ribbon fingers and immobilizing them. Draining tentacles were upon them in moments. They screamed, then fell to the ground.

The guards were holding their best, and only a dozen or so were laid low, but their number was increasing, and too fast.

The only group that hadn't suffered any casualties so far were his brother's Scion Guards. Leandro was a whirlwind of blade and stomps- anything hostile approaching him was turned to pulp, while the rest of them were fighting back to back, using short, efficient movement.

Yet, for all of their prowess, the tentacles assaulting them were fewer and slower. And the reason for this...

In the middle, Niala was throwing potions at the ground. Wherever they landed, fumes rose, and the squirming mass fell away, leaving only a few languid specimens which were soon cut down.

He turned on his helmet's amplified speaker and shouted orders. “GUARDS! Form up on the Scions!”

He didn't dare say why, in case the Hummers could understand him.

Bisecting another pair of tentacles, he looked at Niala, who nodded back at him, threw her other set of phials at the ground toward the Azure guards, and glanced up into the air.

He chanced one look, and his eyes widened; they were hard to spot, but there had to be a dozen little phials floating far above the battlefield, in the direction of the hummers, and more were joining them, flying up from the catkin's hands.

What the-

And then she inverted her hand and slammed it toward the ground.

Kassimir Three-One picked himself up from the ground. The shattering of his blessed shell had been a surprise, but had done little damage to his reinforced body.

His robe temporarily changed its texture, the dust upon it sloughing off like water. He looked at the battlefield.

Three of his cohort were barraging the anomaly, covering each other and keeping him from being able to manoeuvre freely. The blood golem was intercepting the Carnagh tendrils before they could reach its master, though Kassimir doubted they would survive the immense amount of mana emanating from him.

Which meant it was all the more imperative they brought him back.

If the First Sanctified could feed upon that vast vessel...

He stumbled forward as something crashed into the back of his head and shattered. His hand reached for the site of the impact, finding it slick and covered in glass shards.

He brought his hand in front of him. No white blood; the attack hadn't pierced his skin.

But then, why did he feel so... exhausted...

His eyes snapped wide in disgust.

Poison! He cast out while invoking the blessing of purification.

Only four thoughts answered.

Kassimir Three-One let his gaze scour the field. His unblinking eyes confirmed what he already knew: three of their numbers were unconscious.

This didn't happen.

The Threes did not succumb to poison. Their cardio-vascular system was engineered to filter out toxins too quickly for any substance, even the most vitriolic ones, to do anything more than impair them.

Secure the cohort. Retreat toward the Carnagh. Keep blessings of protection up at all times. Concentrate on harvesting the vessels to awaken the Carnagh. His thoughts were quick and decisive, overpowering.

The conscious members of his cohort followed his orders.

They didn't have the choice to do otherwise.

David hadn't exactly seen what had happened, but he knew it was Niala's doing. Enemies falling asleep was her specialty.

To his annoyance, the remaining Hummers reacted quickly, using their infuriating tendrils to collect their fallen and retreat toward the mausoleum behind yellowed energy shields.

Around him, Jordo was blasting tentacles with his eye-laser like unlucky moles, their flesh bubbling and exploding as soon as they dared poke out.

He looked at the Azure Guards, who had begun moving toward the Scion Guards, where the tentacles were either asleep or moving like molasses.

They were trying to grab and drag their passed-out members along the way, but a resurgence of tentacles turned the effort deadly; a dozen more guards fell, and the remaining ones recoiled toward the “safe” zone around Niala.

From there, a defensive circle formed, and approaching tentacles were hacked away, all the while Niala was throwing more phials out, creating a larger safe space.

With her safety mostly assured, David cracked his neck and knuckles and aimed himself at the five remaining Hummers.

He walked forward, pumping more and more mana into his imbuements. Each of his steps landed like piledrivers, compacting the soil in cracking slabs.

He kept feeding mana to his legs, more, and more, filling the reservoir behind the dam, until even it, his resolve, began fracturing.

And then he stopped, and lifted one foot.

His boot disintegrated, reality around his limb distorting from the obscene amount of mana gathered in a single point.

His foot reached its apex.

Time stopped for a fraction of a moment.

And then, aimed at the Hummers and the mausoleum, he brought down a Tremor Step with the fury of a crashing moon.

The ground parted below David's feet. A nascent crevasse radiated out, jagged, angry, toward the Hummers, splitting soil and rock apart, a void eating its way toward the enemy.

Before they had finished turning their heads toward David and the widening depth racing their way, it reached them. They began falling as surprise reached their eyes.

The earthly wound kept going, reaching the mausoleum in a heartbeat, and then a ripping sound, like flesh tearing, and something deep and guttural wailed.

The tentacles all arched, as if they had stepped on pins.

The tear finished its path of destruction, leaving behind a new chasm a dozen metres wide.

The dust settled. The guards who had stayed on their feet helped the ones who had tumbled to the ground.

David looked down the length of the crevasse, and his eyes widened when he saw what had become of the mausoleum.

Or rather, the creature that had masqueraded as a mausoleum.

A bulbous mass, with a mausoleum-shaped mass atop it, held in mid-air between the two vertical walls through hundreds of tentacles drilled into them, many of them having ripped at their base, and oozing a white oily substance.

The mass undulated, puffed, deflated. It didn't seem to know what it should be doing.

And then, from the bottom of the split, sickly-yellow light.

David grimaced. The pit-bound Hummers were floating up, ensconced in a bubble-like field. He took some satisfaction when he spotted two of them with a limp arm, but still they held their palm out and contributed to whatever magic was extirpating them out of the ground.

A scream, from the south, where the guards and the bend were, caught his attention.

He swivelled his head to find the tentacles grabbing and grasping at the guards with renewed, desperate frenzy.

And from further back, Angeline and the half dozen Azure Guards protecting her, running away from an eruption of smaller tentacles, each one as hungry to coil around flesh as their bigger cousins.

He turned and angled himself toward Angeline, kicking at the ground and launching himself forward.

Isaac beat him to it, slamming into Angeline and pushing her off from a patch of ground that exploded in a squirming mass, grabbing at the man's armoured limbs.

Before anyone could react, more flailing appendages emerged from the ground, grasping at the fallen troops, coiling around their limbs, and dragging them back toward the revealed creature.

Their limp bodies left shallow furrows as the mass of flesh laboriously dug itself to the surface, its limbs being reabsorbed within its mass, captured victims engulfed alongside.

The Guards noticed, and swelled forward their brethren. A few were rescued. Most were too far away.

Angeline stepped toward Isaac, whose powered armour whined as it struggled against the pull of the tentacles. She unsheathed a hidden blade, which began glowing red along its length when she pulsed her mana at it.

Isaac glared at her even as he grunted to resist being dragged away. “Get away, woman!”

But she kept hacking at the tentacles. Each of her slices severed cleanly, but before she could do enough, a sound of screeching metal ripped out of Isaac's armour. His resistance faltered as it lost power, and he was flung back toward the creature.

Angeline yelled. “NO! ISAAC! YOU IDIOT! THE WOMAN'S SUPPOSED TO BE KIDNAPPED, AND THE MAN COMES TO HER RESCUE!”

Isaac yelled back as he fell away. “WHAT IN THE PITS ARE YOU YAMMERING ABOUT, WOMAN?!”

He disappeared into the creature's flesh, which by now had re-absorbed the mausoleum and had begun inflating like a balloon.

The hummers let themselves get grabbed by tentacles and pulled into the fleshy construct.

It floated up and away, the last few victims pulled into its mass.

David kept from jumping at the creature and pummelling it with Battering Rams, not knowing where the victims inside were, he couldn't risk hurting them.

“DAVID!” Niala yelled.

He turned his head toward her. She was waving at him.

He kicked at the ground and was next to her within a few steps.

“I need mana.” She said.

He held out his hand. “Take all you need.”

She nodded and clasped her hand in his. She looked at the crowding guards around them. “Everyone, stand back please.”

The guards glanced at each other, but did as asked.

Closing her eyes, Niala held her other hand palm out and began gathering winds, as she had at the demonstration in front of their house guards.

Except this time, she didn't stop at a football-sized sphere, but kept going.

More and more, she pulled the wind in, all the while her hand glowed indigo from a weaving tale.

The sphere of wind grew the size of a house, its outer membrane turning opaque. Indigo light seeped out of her palm and enveloped the globe.

The light then dove into the winds, and cracks formed all over the sphere's surface. The shell broke in a flash of brilliant light, and a giant, indigo-brilliant hawk flew upward, out of the dissolving, glittering mist.

The back draft of its wings buffeted those on the ground, their clothes flapping and snapping in the wind.

It flew a lazy circle and landed next to Niala and David, lowering itself to let them on.

Not needing to ask questions, David jumped atop the aetheric construct, extending his hand for Niala. She grabbed on, and he pulled her up, settling her in front of him. She then looked at Jordo and nodded. The golem understood and climbed on as well.

They grabbed onto the glimmering plumage, readying for take-off. Niala looked at Leandro, then Angeline. “Get airships. We'll give you a signal.”

Her sister, for once without a smile on her face, dipped her head. “We'll be ready.”

Niala and David nodded. She sent a mental signal to the magical beast, and it rose to its talons, unfurled its wings, and was airborne in a single flap. Air and dust radiated out from its departure.

The people on the ground turned their eyes to the sky and watched as the lord and lady of the Reign Ascendant flew away on a flying steed made of winds and mana, racing after immortal foes who had stolen away their people.

Sybil, eyes glinting, thought that the epic was practically writing itself.

She just needed to find someone to write the book.

Her eyes widened.

Sammie, next to her, sighed when he caught her expression. He didn't know exactly what she was thinking, but he knew it would be pointless to try to stop her.