Given his newfound ability to tailor the environment, he could borderline decide the evolution path of certain things. Yeah, Jake definitely saw some possibilities there. Perhaps that was the biggest point of this entire evolution. Jake felt that it had opened up a lot of future possibilities, even if it wasn’t necessarily that useful right now.

Outside of the fact that all existing aspects of the skill had also been increased, of course, making Jake’s ability to learn from consumed poisons more potent and even making potions he chugged even better than before.

Actually, as Jake compared the two again, he noticed another minor change that had to be mentioned. Before the skill stated that if Jake failed to fully and instantly consume a natural treasure he’d eaten, he would suffer a backlash and have his internal space damaged. Now, it had changed to saying that he “may” damage his internal space. A single word changed, but with a massive impact, as it was a testament to just how durable the internal stomach was now.

Jake was really looking forward to fully exploring all he could now eat and to expanding his palate even further... but all of that was for later. For now, it was time for Jake to leave this odd place, and as he refocused on his own soul body, he realized that he had now rid himself of the lingering concepts for the most part.

Having taken this time to distract himself, Jake felt his mind was now fully clear as he took a deep breath. With eyes wide open, he stared at the massive gate one last time, seeking to consolidate all his insights and all his practice. Everything came together as his body emanated power, true success imminent.

As Jake was enveloped in this powerful energy and felt himself resonate with the entire realm and the golden gate, something moved. Out of the corner of his eye, he spotted a few golden pages floating through nothingness, fluttering as they gave off faint echoes of power. Jake flashed a faint smile and gave silent thanks before he closed his eyes, intent on being fully awake the next time he opened them.
