This shield grants the user an armor bonus, and protects them as if they were wearing heavy armor. This causes the wearer to suffer heavy armor penalties.

Protection: +20% defense to armor

Penalties: Dexterity -10, Agility -10

Durability: 1,140 / 1,200

“Wow, it saved 40 points.” Ren said and repaired it. Tee-one absorbed the enchantment, and Ren activated Rocky Hands. His hands were covered in the Earth element, and he poked the bare shield.

Platinum Shield (Very Rare - Heavy)

This shield grants the user an armor bonus, and protects them as if they were wearing heavy armor. This causes the wearer to suffer heavy armor penalties.

Protection: +20% defense to armor

Penalties: Dexterity -10, Agility -10

Durability: 1060 / 1,200

“You just did 40 extra points of damage.” Tee-one said. Ren repaired the shield and Tee-one enchanted it with a single Anti-earth rune.

“I think this is going to hurt.” Ren said and poked the shield. “AGH!”

The Earth element around his finger disappeared instantly as it was ripped away from him and sucked into the shield.

Resilient Platinum Shield (Very Rare - Heavy)

This shield grants the user an armor bonus, and protects them as if they were wearing heavy armor. This causes the wearer to suffer heavy armor penalties.

Protection: +20% defense to armor

Penalties: Dexterity -10, Agility -10

Durability: 1,100 / 1,200

“It didn't take any Earth damage at all.”

“That's because I took it.” Ren said. He deactivated his Rocky Hands skill while his lost Health regenerated. “Regeneration is awesome.”

“Hey, we should use the Ring of Regeneration enchantment to boost yours.” Tee-one suggested.

“Regaining another 5% of my Health a second would be nice.” Ren said.

“Five percent? What are you talking about?” Tee-one asked. “You know what the effect is, so just make a Regeneration rune.”

“With 19 of them, I'll have 100% of my Health back in a second.” Ren said, amazed.

“Why stop at 19?” Tee-one asked. “If you do an entire diamond with it, you'll have 750% Regeneration, plus your own 5%.”

“Wow.” Ren said. “I... I need to sit down.” He took out a chair and sat down, then took several deep breaths. “Tee-one, I... thank you.”

“It's my job to help you, Ren.”

“I... I can...” Ren took out his Book of Runes. “Thank you!” He quickly opened it to a blank page and drew a medical symbol, a cross with two intertwined lines wrapped around it, then drew a basic heart in behind it. He poured a bunch of Mana into the image, then it disappeared and reappeared in the book.

Notice!

You have created a new Augment rune: Regeneration. This rune grants the user a +5% Regeneration ability that can regenerate Health, heal wounds, and regain lost limbs. Takes 1 minute for full restoration.

Warning: Causes pain appropriate for the damage while undoing it.

Ren did his glyph making technique and they all appeared in the book, from 2 runes up to 10. It would take two glyphs of 10 to make a 100% Regeneration enchantment, and Ren was so happy that he almost couldn't speak.

“T-T-Tee-one!” Ren nearly yelled.

*

Tee-one nodded and ran out of the warehouse and across the street. He activated Ren's Sneak ability and went inside the Main House. He knelt beside Princess and touched her Amulet of the Spider. He used Double Infusion and enchanted it with 5 glyphs of 10 runes each of Regeneration. It gave her 250% Regeneration every second, and he touched the amulets Riley and Stacy wore.

Tee-one enchanted them with Regeneration as well, then snuck up the stairs and went into the bedroom. He had 5 more amulets to enchant in order to give Ren peace of mind.
