Clear of the battle, Huushal glanced around and spotted Yesui and Yosai, their weapons dripping with blood as they beamed at him. Chuckling to himself, he rode towards the village, narrating the events in his mind. The Ravenous Wolf had nipped at their heels and tore at their soft bellies. Tired and wounded, his prey now ran into the jaws of his pack and together, they would rend until nothing was left.

Good, good. A fine addition to his growing collection of war stories.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Mila crouched next to Rain, a little disgruntled. “I told you they'd come from the south and hug the east coast. Now we're on the wrong side of the cove and your soldiers can't cross. They can't lighten themselves enough to stand on the quins while they swim.” Neither could she, but she'd inherited incredibly dense muscles and bones, meaning she weighed far more than her small frame suggested. There was only so much Lightening could do.

“My apologies, you were right once again.” Rain flashed a smile and she refrained from smacking him, turning to glare at the bandits on the other shore instead. Almost a kilometer across and three kilometres long, the cove was large enough to support seven villages, almost ten thousand souls. The bandits waited patiently as their comrades disembarked, and when they finished, the longboats rowed away, cutting through the water towards the beach, leaving close to forty longboats behind. “Mila you're with me. Rustram, Pran, and Saluk, stay here and cover our crossing. I'll send boats back for you.”

She swallowed her angry response, instead grumbling beneath her breath at the indignity of it all. Why couldn't she wait here for a longboat? Unwilling to lose face, she handed her bow to Song and followed Rain down into the water. As his fat quin eased into the water and paddled towards the other shore, Rain stood upright with bow in hand, watching the departing longboats. Thinking up terrible punishments for him, she waded in and held tight to her quin Atir's harness, laying flat on her stomach and allowing herself to be dragged through the water while she lightened herself as much as possible.

How humiliating.

At least she wasn't alone in her plight, most of Rain's squad mimicking her actions. The other Sentinels stood, including Song, the beautiful woman standing heroically at Rain's side, like a pair matched by the Mother herself. Pushing aside her childish jealousy, Mila submerged her head in the clear water to watch the unridden quins escorting them across, digging through the sand for clams and chasing away any threats.

Emerging at the other side, her hair plastered to her skin as water dripped down her face, cold and miserable. She watched enviously as the quins pulled three longboats back to where Rustram waited, the little wagon quins delighting in the work. There was no need for her to embarrass herself, the bandits hadn't even noticed their crossing. She could have taken a boat and arrived dry and comfortable, but no, Rain wanted her to follow him. Stupid Rain.

Resigning herself to her fate, she brushed her hair aside and waded out to cut loose the remaining boats, shoving them away to let the currents drag them out. If a person were caught in those tides, it would likely mean death by drowning, the boats zipping off as if carried by wings. The quins realized the dangers and stayed close to shore, Atir chirping nervously as Mila worked, consigning the boats to their watery graves.

Rustram and the others arrived and Mila struggled to keep from glaring. It wasn't his fault, as Rain made the correct decision. Rustram was second-in-command and should never be risked at the same time as Rain, in case the worst should happen. Still, she felt a little resentful as she emptied her boots of water, the quins dragging the boat right onto land so he wouldn't even get his boots wet. Unfair, stupid Rain should have realized her plight and brought someone else instead.

Following Rain's lead, she mounted Atir and rode into the forest, stealthily shadowing the bandits as Huu harassed them, staying well back and hiding their presence until Fung was ready. Viciously stabbing every bandit who crossed her path, she showed no mercy to the wounded. If the bandits learned they were surrounded, their efforts here would be largely wasted. Fung's retinue was no good in the forests, so the bandits needed to be herded towards the open fields.

After long, agonizing minutes of patience, Rain silently signalled to ready the charge, and Mila gripped her spear and shield, her blood lust rising. She was wrong to be upset with Rain, he had much to think about as the commander, his strategy of 'divide and conquer' working brilliantly thus far. She couldn't fault him for that one mistake.

No, if anyone was to blame for her plight, it was the bandits in front of her. If they'd arrived on the west coast, she could have stayed warm and dry and Huu would have crossed into the water instead. They owed her a debt for her humiliation and she was ready to collect in blood and fire.

Who knows, perhaps she'd find a worthy opponent to properly vent her frustrations on.

Chapter Meme
