Ren woke up in the same spot next to Lucy's phantom form. Ren saw that he was a bit early and Donan's shop was still closed. Ren walked over to Sally's and it was still in darkness, too. Ren kept going down the street and noticed that Issac's light was on. Ren knocked, just to be polite, and entered Issac's shop. Issac had his back turned to the door again. Ren didn't want to disturb Issac, since Ren's knock hadn't gotten Issac's attention, and activated Sneak. Ren creeped across the floor; careful of where the boards looked to be weaker, and avoided stepping on them. Ren saw that Issac was enchanting something and slid around the side of the table and just stood there. The item was a gauntlet. Issac leaned in close to the intricate glyph that was etched onto the back of the metal hand.

“Activate.” Issac said. The gauntlet glowed for a moment... and then imploded as if it was a soda can and all the air had been sucked out of it.

“Ah, dammit.” Issac crumpled up the sheet of parchment he had in his hand and threw it across the room and into a pile of similarly crumpled balls of parchment.

“I didn't think Dark Magic could be imbued like that.” Ren said and poked the collapsed metal glove with a finger.

“Ahhhhh!” Issac jumped away from the table and clutched his chest. “By the love of...” Issac shook his head. “Ren! What the hell are you doing?”

“I came to visit.” Ren said and smiled. “It's been a while since I've been here.”

Teepo chittered in delight because he always enjoyed when Ren unintentionally scared people.

Issac calmed down and came back to the table. “Just a visit?” Issac asked. “You don't have any questions?”

Ren thought about it.“Actually... I do.” Something had been nagging at Ren for a while, now. “When you first told me about enchanting, you said that the enchanment was permanent. I figured out how to activate them without hitting them on something, but how do you turn them off?” Ren remembered that he and Aimus had worked really hard to soak every tree with water and then disenchant each rune Ren had placed. It seemed like a difficult thing to do... especially if it had to be done each time. The same thing for at the campsite and when Ren was waiting for Lucy. It was a waste of mana, too. You only get back a fraction of what was put into an enchantment when it was absorbed again.

“Oh, that? Just say 'Deactivate'.” Issac said and took out another sheet of parchment.

Ren just stared at Issac as Issac drew another intricate glyph on the paper. “You... you're not kidding, right? Just saying 'Deactivate' will stop the enchantment?”

Issac nodded and kept drawing.

Ren thought about it some more. Well, I guess that would make sense if 'Activate' starts the enchantment without having to touch it.  Ren laughed. I should have known it would be that simple.

Stat Change!

You have gained some understanding about basic enchanting.

Wisdom +1

“Can anyone do it?” Ren asked. “Activating and Deactivating, I mean?”

“No. Unless you give whatever you're enchanting the impression of who you are making it for, only the enchanter can deactivate it.”

Ren thought about that... and figured he should get a message to Aimus somehow to tell him he can deactivate the water rock Ren had given him and didn't have to break it to get it to stop. Then another thought occured to Ren.

“So... how do rings work?” Ren asked.

“Hm?” Issac said and continued drawing.

Ren was watching Issac work, but couldn't make heads or tails out of whatever it was that Issac was drawing.

“Ah. You remember the simple copper ring I gave you?” Issac said.

Ren nodded, took out the ring, and placed it on the table.

“If you just enchant something with defense in mind, it will always be 'on' and protect the wearer.” Issac said and picked up the ring. “If you try to put an offensive component into it, there's a good chance it will take the finger of whoever's wearing it.”

“Really? Why?” Ren enquired.

“It's difficult to direct an enchantment once it's activated.” Issac said and Ren nodded. Issac smiled. “I see you've had some experience with it, then.”

Ren nodded again.

“An enchantment emanates outwards. On a ring, which is round, it will go outwards, and possibly inwards, in all directions. Some rings are flat on the inside, but the rounded edge of the ring still touches the finger. That's why protections or enhancements are usually cast on them.” Issac said and put the ring down on the table next to Ren, and started drawing again.

I guess that's why Issac had used the fire example when he said if you enchanted something with just 'fire', whoever wore it would more than likely just light themselves on fire. Ren thought about it. I wonder if it would work if there was a raised flat area on the front of the ring?  Ren pondered.

“Why not ask?” Teepo said.

Issac said I should be finding stuff out like this for myself. He's given me more help than he realizes.  Ren thought to Teepo. I'll do some experimenting with it later.

Issac finished his drawing and turned around to get another metal gauntlet. Ren activated Decipher and stared at the drawing. Ren could see the Dark rune mixed throughout, but that was all he could make out. This is definitely at least an Expert glyph. Ren thought.

Issac put the gauntlet on the table, stared at the drawing, and placed a hand on it.

“What are you trying to do? Increase the impact of a punch or the swing of a weapon?” Ren asked.

Issac turned his head to stare at Ren as the glyph etched itself on the metal glove. “How did you figure that out?” Issac said, a little shocked.

Ren shrugged. “I saw the Dark rune in your drawing. Since it manipulates gravity, either you're making it so that whoever uses the glove can either punch really hard, or swing a sword hard enough to do more damage.”

“Yes, that's exactly right.” Issac said.

Notice!

You have discerned the nature of an enchantment using only a single clue.

Intelligence +1

“It's a special order. I've been working on it all night and I can't get it to work.” Issac said.

Ren leaned in and stared at the drawing. Nope, still nothing new. “Well, I know you aren't going to tell me what's in this new glyph... otherwise you'd be giving away some of your best secrets.” Ren said and smiled as he stood up straight. “But... if it was me... I'd have a good portion of the runes or glyphs as reinforcement for the glove... maybe a third? Another good portion as protection... not for the person, but for the glove since it's going to be taking the brunt of the punishment... and the rest as Dark runes or glyphs.”

Issac stared at Ren like he had never seen him before. “What... what made you come up with that mixture?”

“If all you put on it was mixes of Dark runes, then that would have been all I saw. It wasn't. I couldn't make anything else out, though... so it made me think of what else should be included. I haven't seen anything even close to what you have here...” Ren said and waved at the drawing. “...so I just thought about how I would do it.” Ren shrugged again. “If the person is strong enough to use the glove in the first place, then it's not the hand that needs to be protected. It's the glove.”

Issac picked up the piece of parchment with the glyph on it, then crumpled it up and tossed it with the others. Ren watched as the parchment landed near the pile and Issac took out another piece.

“You know... you could have just flipped that over and used the other side.” Ren said.

Issac laughed. “Mindful of my wasteful ways, are you?”

Ren smiled. “I guess someone has to rein in your appetite for destruction. It might as well be me.”

Issac laughed again and clapped Ren on the shoulder. “Naming you my novice was a better choice than I could have imagined.” Issac said and nodded to the gauntlet. “Go ahead. Dismantle it.”

Ren stared at Issac, who smiled.

“There's only a slight chance you may learn something from it; but since it's here in my shop, and I'm letting you do it... I'd say the odds are pretty good.”

Ren reached out a hand and touched the metal glove where the enchantment was. The glyph glowed for only a second and then broke apart.

Notice!

You have learned a new glyph: Augment

“Was it something good?” Issac asked with a smile on his face.

Ren took out his Book of Runes and Issac's eyes widened at it's doubled size. He's already past Intermediate Level 5?

Ren flipped through the pages and Issac averted his gaze. Issac was sure there wouldn't be anything in it that he hadn't seen before, but it was respectful to not stare at another's hidden work. Ren got to the end of the single rune pages and read the new rune.

Augment

This rune adds +1 to any stat specified at the time of enchantment.

Ren's eyes bulged and told Issac what it said.

“Yes, defintely something good.” Issac said.

Ren did his glyph imagining and made the double, triple and quadruple rune glyphs to fill the page in only a moment. Issac couldn't help but stare at how fast Ren had done it and forgot that he wasn't supposed to be looking into Ren's book. Ren touched the tarnished copper ring that was still on the table and tried to use the new glyph that combined 4 of the Augment runes.

“Ren, don't!” Issac said, but it was too late.

The copper ring glowed for only a moment... and then it melted. The smell of burning wood filled the little shop quickly and Issac poured some water on the copper puddle.

“Sorry.” Ren said.

“Only certain materials can hold higher level glyphs.” Issac shook his head. “That old ring would barely hold a double rune glyph, let alone one with 4.”

Ren tried to pry the copper from the desk with his fingers, but it was stuck tight. Ren equipped his blacksmith's belt and used a chisel to pry up the melted metal. Underneath was a black and charred pit about a quarter of an inch deep. Ren stored the copper and the blacksmith's belt into inventory.

“Just be more careful in the future. I'd use iron if you want to do more powerful glyphs on a ring.” Issac said and then drew a glyph on the parchment. Ren followed Issac's movements but still couldn't tell what it was. Since most of it was made of glyphs Ren hadn't seen before, he assumed that he wouldn't learn anything else. Once the glyph was completed, Ren recognized the new rune he had received as well as the Protection and Dark runes.

Issac held onto the parchment and placed a hand on the gauntlet. The glyph etched itself onto the metal glove and Issac leaned in closely. Ren, just as curious as Issac, leaned in as well.

“Activate.” Issac said.

The glyph glowed and Issac and Ren watched for the uncoming implosion... that didn't happen.

“Yes!” Issac said and raised his hand in the air. “Ren, thank you for helping me figure this out.” Issac tried to pick up the glove and it didn't move. “Ugh.” Issac grunted. “Deactivate.” Issac picked up the glove and put it into a finely carved wooden case and closed it. “I'm sure I would have figured it out eventually; but your insight into making the glove itself stronger instead of the person wearing it, made it a whole lot easier. Thank you.”

“They don't call me your novice for nothing.” Ren grinned.

Issac looked outside and saw that dawn was apparoaching. “Well, it looks like I spent yet another whole night working.” Issac chuckled. “It's the bane of our existence, isn't it?” Issac said and winked at Ren. “Time. It waits for no man.” Issac picked up the box and put a lock on it. “I've got to get this sent off right away.” Issac said and walked to the front of his shop. Ren followed quickly and stepped out just before Issac shut the front door.

“See you later.” Ren said and watched Issac walk off down the street. “I probably should have asked him where to send messages.” Ren shrugged and turned around. Donan's shop was open now and Ren hurried over.

“Good morning!” Ren said.

Donan jumped and Teepo chittered in laughter.

“Jeezus! Ren where did you come from? No, nevermind. Stop sneaking around and get in here.” Donan said and Ren walked over to where Donan stood. “I can't believe it's still going.” Donan said and bent to look at the bottom of the forge. “It's still just as hot as it was yesterday.”

“It'll stay that way, too.” Ren said. “But... if you have to leave the shop and don't want to worry about it burning down or something, just say 'Deactivate' and it'll stop.”

Donan got near the forge and said 'Deactivate' and the fire and wind glyphs turned off. The stones were still hot, but it wasn't running anymore.

“Just say 'Activate' and it'll start up again.” Ren said.

“Activate.” Donan said and the forge lit again.

“Ren, I didn't say this before. Good work! This is going to save me so much money in coal and trees.” Donan said and grinned.

The mention of money reminded Ren of the 2 large sacks that Nodal had given Donan. Ren looked around but didn't see them. “Where did the money go? I hope no one stole it!”

Donan laughed and clapped Ren on the shoulder. “Haha! That was 2 days ago, Ren. I put it away, of course.”

Ren was relieved to hear that. Jumping in and out of the game at different times really was messing up his perception of time. Ren wasn't sure how he was going to deal with it. Every fourth day in game he had to be logged out to do his physical therapy. If Ren neglected doing therapy too many times, the doctor would take the VR headset away without question.

“I suppose you want your share.” Donan said and went to the cupboard.

“My share?” Ren said.

“With the cost of the materials, that includes getting it delivered here from the mines, the use of the shop, my mentor's cut, and the discount... well, I couldn't charge my own brother full price for them, could I?” Donan said. “There's still quite a bit left over. I think 15% for an assistant is good enough, don't you?” Donan didn't turn around.

Ren looked at Donan's back. “Well, if we're dicussing costs... if I hadn't changed your forge, you would have had a really hard time trying to make all those short swords.... and keeping up with me.” Ren said.

Donan half turned towards Ren. “I'll admit it helped.” Donan said, reluctantly. “20%.”

“If I wasn't here, though... you wouldn't have completed the order at all.” Ren said.

Donan turned the rest of the way to face Ren and crossed his arms. “If you'd been here the whole time, I wouldn't have had to work so hard to get them all done before they were due.” Donan said. “18%.”

Ren thought for a moment. “Well, that's true. I've already apologized and you've accepted it, though... you shouldn't dock points for that.”

Donan nodded.

