“On that note... even though I was here, I didn't have to work as hard as I did, either... or for as long. If I'd set even a slightly longer pace, we never would have made the deadline.” Ren said and smiled.

Donan raised his eyebrows.

“Come on... you know I'm kidding, Donan!” Ren chuckled. “Not once have I ever failed to give it my all, the whole time I've worked here.”

“All right.” Donan smiled. “25%” Donan said and tossed an already tied bag of money to Ren.

Ren caught the bag and then stared at Donan.

“But... but...” Ren stammered.

“I wanted to see if you would defend yourself.” Donan smiled again. “You made a good argument in the end.”

Ren sighed and Donan laughed. Ren opened the bag and dumped the contents into his coin pouch and tossed the empty bag back to Donan. Ren looked at his coin pouch contents and nearly fainted.

Ren had received 1000 gold, which then became 10 Platinum coins.

“D-D-Donan!” Ren stuttered. “How?”

“Do the math.” Donan said. “1000 short swords at 10 gold each. It's normally 15 but I gave my brother a 5 gold discount. That makes it 10,000 gold. Half taken away for materials and delivery, 1% of every sale for my mentor, 1000 gold... and that leaves 4,000 gold. Your cut was 25% of that.”

Ren was left speechless. So... much... gold! “What... what... what am I going to do with it all?” Ren finally said.

“I'm sure you'll think of something.” Donan said and smiled.

“Is... is this normal? Huge orders, I mean?” Ren asked.

Donan nodded. “Once every few months or so, I get an order for shields, or swords, or daggers. Some things are more expensive than others. Daggers? A gold each. Almost no profit in them. Shields? 7 to 10 gold. Short swords are 15 and long swords are 30. People don't normally have access to blacksmiths as good as us. Their stuff breaks eventually and they need replacements.” Donan said. “Between those orders, I fill anything that's missing at local armories and stores for a half decent profit. Not as good as selling them direct, but it's still a good business.”

“I had no idea.” Ren said. “When I started here, I thought it would be fun to learn everything I could. I didn't even consider it as a business that made money.”

Donan laughed and clapped Ren on the shoulder again. “That's why I liked you, right from the start. You showed me that you had heart and potential. You didn't think of it as a job at all, did you?”

Ren shook his head.

“Well, now you know.” Donan said. “Want to learn how to make a long sword the normal way, and not cast it?”

“Can't I learn both ways?” Ren asked, eager to get started.

“Of course you can, Ren.” Donan said and smiled. “Of course you can.”

Over the next week, Donan showed Ren how to make everything that could be held in a hand. Daggers, short swords, long swords, great swords, pikes, spears, battle axes, great axes, throwing axes, maces, flails, and even a lance. Lances weren't used much anymore, but it didn't hurt to know how to make one anyways. Shields were next, ranging from small bucklers to giant tower shields. Ren learned it all and sucked it up like a sponge.

While they had been working, Ren had filled Donan in on everything that had happened while Ren was at the homestead. When Ren got to the part with the dire wolf, Donan stopped working and listened intently as Ren relayed each moment in detail.

“I was wondering how you managed to survive.” Donan said when Ren finished the story.

“You were wondering?”

Donan nodded. “I noticed your cloak after Nodal came to pick up the short swords and I've been curious about it ever since.”

“Why didn't you ask?” Ren said.

Donan smiled. “I figured if I got you talking long enough, you'd eventually tell me about it.”

Ren laughed. “Well, it worked.”

Donan nodded. “It's better to have the story offered, instead of nagging for it.” Donan said. “It's a much better story if the teller isn't reluctant to give the details.”

It was Ren's turn to nod. “Now that I think about it, I kinda liked using the mallet. It just... felt right.” Ren said. “You wouldn't happen to have a mold for something similar, do you?” Ren asked Donan. “Or where I could maybe make one?”

Donan shook his head. “The only mold I have is for a bigger normal hammer.”

“Can I see it?” Ren said.

Donan got up and went into the back for a few minutes. Donan came back out with a 2 foot by 1 foot stone mold and gave it to Ren. Ren opened it and sure enough, inside was an empty cavity for a hammer that was about twice the size of a normal hammer, with a flat front and a clawed back. There was a metal spacer, so if you wanted a wooden handle instead, you'd put it inside. It didn't fit Ren's use very much. Ren would have to find something else that looked closer to what he wanted so it could be modified, or try to make something from scratch.

I'll have to think about that later. Ren thought. There's something else I want to learn first.

“Donan... I've been thinking.” Ren said. “How do I make armor?”

Donan grinned. “I've been waiting for you to ask that.”

Another week passed as Donan showed Ren all the different types of armor that could be made and how all the pieces fit together. Lucy only came back in the game for a brief time, and Ren spent several hours with her just walking around the town and pretty much giving Lucy the full tour. After confirming that nothing new was in the Market District, They went back to the blacksmith's shop and Lucy logged out again. Her new job was taking up all of her time. Ren missed seeing her smile.

When Ren told Donan that he had leather pelts, Donan helped Ren make a full set of leather armor. Ren used the dying station to make it a dull red color. Once Ren had the recipe for the full set and could tell where it could be altered, Ren modified it and lined each armor piece with his spider silk cloth after dying it black. It increased the armor's durability and doubled it's Defense value. Ren smiled and equipped it.

Thick leather boots, leather pants, a leather coat with thick panels on each shoulder, leather gloves, and a leather helmet, but Ren didn't like how it looked and didn't equip it. Ren put on his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, with the hood up, and he was fully protected.

“Very nice, Ren.” Donan said. “You look like an Adventurer. All you're missing is a weapon.”

Ren smiled, but Donan couldn't see it because the hood cast Ren's face in shadow. Ren put everything into inventory and smiled so Donan could see it.

“I have something I want to show you. We've been so busy that it slipped my mind until now.” Ren said.

“You seem to be bad for that.” Donan said, teasing.

Ren chuckled. “Tell me about it.” Ren took out the meteoric ore and put it on a bench.

Donan stared at it. “I've never seen anything like that before.”

“Really? No old stories or rumors of weird green stones or fire across the sky?” Ren asked.

Donan shook his head.

“You're gonna love this story, then.” Ren said and told Donan the story of the meteor and how Ren found out about it.
