Eager to get down to business and show him the fruits of her labour, Luo-Luo opened her mouth to speak and was immediately met with Lord Husband’s hand raised for silence. “Are we private?”

Realizing he wasn’t speaking to her, Luo-Luo moved aside as a previously unseen Expert stepped out of the shadows, a young man with no real distinguishing features wearing a bored, almost complacent look. “Yes boss. No one can hear or see us.”

“Good.” His easy smile melting away, Lord Husband waved for the Expert to take a seat. “Luo-Luo, this is MuYang. From here on out, he’ll be reporting to you.”

“...Ah.” Eyeing the mundane looking Expert in trepidation, she wondered what sort of parents would name their son ‘shepherd’. Well, at least he rose above his station and became a peak Martial Warrior. “And what will he be reporting?”

“Information,” MuYang replied. “News and gossip is all I have for now, but Consort Luo only need ask and I shall endeavour to uncover all I can.”

“He has a spy network,” Lord Husband said, while waving at the stacks of documents. “Use him to vet our prospective business partners, sabotage our rivals, ferret out traitors, that sort of thing.” Shrugging, he added, “I would have introduced you earlier, but he’s been busy cleaning house these past few weeks and things are finally in order.” Why tidying his living quarters would take several weeks, Luo-Luo wasn’t sure, but her spirits rose as she studied her would-be spymaster. A quiet, almost mousy looking man, and though she knew he was an Expert, his commoner’s garb seemed oddly fitting on his deceptively muscular frame. With his help, not only could she learn more about her competitors’ plans, but she could also strike back at those traitors and turn-coats by sending MuYang to find evidence of their wrongdoings to present to the Adjudicators.

Unfortunately, Lord Husband had other ideas. “Luo-Luo, MuYang, for your first collaborative effort, I want you to find out the name of that smug, smarmy waiter and where he lives.” Gone was the light and carefree Falling Rain, and in his place was a man burning with anger and thirsting for vengeance. “Then go steal every last coin he has to his name and dose his water barrel with Mandrel Stalk extract. Two spoonfuls per barrel, but no more. He won’t die, but he’s liable to shit himself at the table after a cup of tea.”

How petty...

“Mandrel Stalk is in short supply and Marshal Yuzhen has placed military priority on all transactions.” The words slipped out before Luo-Luo thought better of it, and she almost wilted before Lord Husband’s glare, brimming with the promise of pain and violence, though not directed at her. “If Lord Husband wishes to purchase any, the sale must first be approved.”

“Ah. Ink and paper, please.” Though Luo-Luo leapt to her feet to obey, MuYang was three steps ahead of her, somehow already aware of where she kept everything. Using his metal pen, Lord Husband wrote out a list of ingredients and instructions on how to prepare them before handing it over to MuYang. “Find a pharmacy and have them make a dose, this is good for a barrel.”

Peering at his neat but uninspired writing, Luo-Luo committed the instructions to memory and asked, “This is a laxative?”

“Yea. Mandrel Stalk is popular because it’s readily available and easy to prepare, but I’d rather not explain why I need it. This will work just as well.” Frowning, he took another look at his writing and said, “At least, I think it will. Losing my Natal Palace means my memory’s not what it used to be, but I’m pretty sure I memorized this prescription before I formed a Natal Palace, which... may or may not make a difference.” With a heavy sigh, he added, “I’ll double check with Lin later.”

Unsure how to console him, she merely nodded and said, “Lord Husband is wise.” Needing to establish herself as an authority figure to this low-born ‘shepherd’, Luo-Luo turned to MuYang and spoke using her most commanding tone. “Tell no one what the prescription is for. If they must know, say you’re adding it to animal feed to soothe their stomachs.” With Mandrel Stalk prices at an all time high, Lord Husband’s prescription could earn a tidy profit depending on the cost and availability of ingredients, but more importantly... “How extensive is your spy network? Write out a list of contacts and where they are stationed so I can plan how to use them.”

“Consort Luo’s request is impossible.” Though his tone was patient, MuYang’s eyes betrayed his true thoughts, treating her like a vapid little girl playing at games. “We work to uncover taint and corruption wherever we may find it, and our enemies are vast and powerful. The identity of each contact is a carefully guarded secret, and no one is privy to all their details, but even if I were, I would not hand them over to a mere Consort.”

“Leave the spy work to MuYang,” Lord Husband said, cutting Luo-Luo’s authority off at the knees. “You can trust him. He swore an Oath to BoShui, and I trust BoShui with my life. However,” he added, fixing MuYang with a glare, “You will treat her with respect, understood? If you think her a mere empty-headed maiden, then you are sorely mistaken. She’s an intelligent woman and remarkably talented in both business and the Martial Path. You would do well to heed any advice she gives and while I understand your caution, if you cannot trust her, then you might as well leave now and return to BoShui’s side.”

Annoyed Lord Husband wouldn’t let her handle things on her own and blushing at his compliment, Luo-Luo struggled to look calm and confident while MuYang shrugged and said, “By your command, but don’t you think you’re giving the waiter too much attention? If you want revenge, then kill him and be done with it.”

“This isn’t about revenge,” Lord Husband said, though his icy tone said differently. “Besides, I won’t have a man killed for refusing me a table.” Nodding at the window, Lord Husband continued, “If I wanted revenge, I’d send you after those idiot fops outside who think sarcasm and alliteration is the height of wit. No, what I want is to send a message.”

“And what, pray tell, would that message be?”

Smouldering with barely restrained fury, Lord Husband spoke through gritted teeth. “I don’t mind if people insult and disparage me, but the moment something affects my family, then I will unleash hell. I don’t care about reputation or public opinion, all I know is my family was disrespected, my mother was disrespected, and I will not stand for it. Someone paid that shit-bag waiter to snub me and my family, so I intend to make sure he lives to regret it.” Settling back in his chair, Lord Husband's eyes grew hard as he rattled off a list of instructions to ruin the poor waiter’s life. “Look into him. If he has debts, then buy them and send people to collect. If he has a woman, then drug him with aphrodisiacs and hire a prostitute to seduce him at home. If the restaurant is for sale, then buy it and fire him. If he has friends to lend him money, then rob them and leave evidence pointing to him. All the while, spread word about how his life went to shit after he disrespected my family, so everyone knows why he’s so wretched and miserable, but leave him his legs so he can still walk away.”

Perhaps Luo-Luo could learn from Lord Husband’s example and use this against their business rivals. Fear was a powerful tool, and with Experts and spies at her command, financially ruining a lesser family would be child’s play...

Taking a deep breath, Lord Husband closed his eyes and exhaled slowly, visibly shedding his anger before opening them again. Favouring Luo-Luo with a smile, he said, “Now, let’s move on to business. You said there were matters which needed my attention?” Chuckling beneath his breath, he eyed the many stacks of documents and added, “How’s about we schedule a regular meeting so things don’t pile up like this again. Like say, twice a week?”

“It sounds wonderful, but Luo-Luo worries for Lord Husband’s health. To begin with, the new crossbows have arrived, but...” Beaming from ear to ear, Luo-Luo reached for the first stack of documents and launched into her report, but only with half a mind. The other half was busy keeping herself from jumping for joy, because she realized he saw her as family. That’s why he was so quick to warn MuYang to be respectful, and even though she could have handled him herself, she still appreciated the sentiment.

It took nine months and a grievous, life-altering injury to bring it about, but Lord Husband was finally warming up to Luo-Luo. In light of this, perhaps playing for cattle wouldn’t be the worst thing in the world, provided he was there to enjoy it too. She could see it now, the two of them sitting together beneath the moonlight while the cattle slept and paid them no mind. She’d play him a romantic tune while he leaned against her, tired from a hard day’s work yet revitalized by her music, and then... perhaps...

If only...

Such a shame Lord Husband was in no condition to...

Well, perhaps in another nine months...

Chapter Meme
