Neatly stacking the last sheaf of documents, Luo-Luo went over her report once again, tapping each relevant stack as she moved past to ensure everything was in place. It’d been two weeks since Lord Husband’s last visit, and they’d barely covered half of what she wanted to and only heard his thoughts on a quarter of what she brought him, circumstances which left her scrambling to put out the metaphorical fires cropping about their burgeoning mercantile enterprises. While wholly capable of handling most business issues without his input, there were certain things Luo-Luo wanted Lord Husband to know about so he could prepare himself for the stormy seas ahead.

Oh who was she fooling? Their ship had sprung a thousand leaks and it was all she could do to keep it afloat.

Worst of all, she had no one to blame but herself. Before his downfall in Sinuji, business had been thriving and she made coin hand over fist. Whether it was bells or baubles, tools or trinkets, wagons or water clocks, she made massive profits with every contract and amassed a fortune which even Lord Husband couldn’t squander away. Though he had advised her to take things slowly and set a foundation for future progress, she convinced him to strike while the iron was hot and invested the lion’s share of their profits into expansion and development for a variety of different endeavours, expecting they would pay out a hundred times over if events continued as expected.

And they would have too, but alas, man proposes and Heaven disposes.

While she knew it had always been a factor, only after Lord Husband took grave injury did she realize just how much of their success had hinged upon his distinguished reputation. Who wouldn’t want to forge a connection to the Number One Talent in the Empire and first ever external Imperial Consort in history? Their business partners saw this as a chance to build a relationship before Lord Husband came into true power, so they were all too happy to accept less than ideal terms in their business dealings, but all this came to a crashing halt after his reversal of fortune in Sinuji. Where he’d once been a rising dragon with limitless potential, Lord Husband was now little more than a defeated savage in the eyes of the nobility, the ‘Broken Barbarian’ whose days were numbered, which meant all the goodwill which came with his lofty status immediately dried up and disappeared.

How far she’d fallen, from playing concerts for the Emperor to playing nursemaid to a cripple.

Surprised by her hurtful and inaccurate thoughts, Luo-Luo shook it off and continued with her preparations, hoping to cover as much as she could before Lord Husband lost interest or grew tired. With so many vultures and jackals crawling out of the woodwork, she’d been working day and night to salvage what she could, but their losses were considerable as their business partners cheated and betrayed them to their competitors. Day after day, she received word of ‘bandit attacks’, ‘damaged shipments’, ‘ruined materials’ and more, manufactured delays and setbacks which cost her dearly when she couldn’t fulfill her contractual obligations. Though she could pursue legal action against those deceitful merchants, there were so many issues it would take the Adjudicators months, if not years to sort through the mess, and by then, the fines would be a mere slap on the wrist compared to the profits they’d make in the meantime. If not for Marshal Yuzhen and the Yo family’s steadfast allegiance and constant support, Luo-Luo feared she would have managed Lord Husband’s business into the ground and left him a destitute pauper.

If only she’d listened to Lord Husband’s advice and offered their business partners better terms...

Business and politics were supposed to be her areas of expertise, her fields to excel in, her niche with which she earned his approval, if not his affection, but the results spoke for themselves. Forget about profits, Luo-Luo would be ecstatic if she could recoup their losses by year’s end, but with only three weeks left to go, it seemed like wishful thinking. While they were still earning a tidy revenue with their cast iron business thanks to military contracts from Marshal Yuzhen and Marshal Yo, all of her other investments had turned to dust. Lord Husband’s exorbitant spending only exacerbated the issue, leaving her with minimal funds to defend against their competition and protect what few assets they still had left. Though she’d tried to bring it up during their last meeting, he’d been adamant about continuing to fund the Tyrant and his Teacher in their costly and unprofitable endeavours instead of putting his profits to better use, and nothing Luo-Luo said could convince him otherwise.

Not that she blamed him for rejecting her advice. Were it not for his health issues and lack of other options, Luo-Luo imagined he would have long since replaced her as his business manager and perhaps relegated her to the role of scullion maid or cattle minstrel.

He doesn’t appreciate you, doesn’t understand your true value...

The mere thought of being ordered to play for cattle set Luo-Luo to fuming, her outrage only matched by her exhaustion. Though merely a lowly Imperial Servant, her musical performance had earned her a standing ovation from the Emperor Himself, and Lord Husband would have her play for smelly, stinking cattle? The indignity was too much for her inner artist to bear, but he didn’t even notice. Every now and then, he would ask if she had time to play him a song, a request she would happily comply with if he didn’t insist on an audience of livestock. All her suggestions regarding a private performance or even a dinnertime show were rejected because he was genuinely interested in seeing how his hairy beasts would react, and though she knew he meant no insult by it, she saw his request as an affront to her hard-earned skills and refused to humiliate herself to indulge his curiosity.

Though crippled and medicated, he still possessed a brilliant mind, so why couldn’t he understand her aversion to playing for cattle? She couldn’t outright refuse him as it would be crass and unbecoming of an Imperial Servant, but surely even he could see there had to be something afoot after months of evading the subject...

He is blind because he does not care and treats you like a slave to be ordered about...

Lightheaded from indignation, Luo-Luo brewed herself a pot of calming tea, and had only just seated herself when mother-in-law Sarnai’s voice rang out behind her. “BoHe tea, a fine choice. Rare and expensive, but fragrant and enjoyable, a true treat for all the senses. I saw some in the market the other day, but I couldn’t bring myself to make such an extravagant purchase.”

Almost spilling her drink as she scrambled to her feet, Luo-Luo put on her best smile and curtsied before the fearsome woman. “Consort Luo greets esteemed Mother.” How does a woman with a four-legged cane move so quietly? And she just had to show up the second Luo-Luo took a break... “If it pleases Mother, then Luo-Luo is happy to present all three bricks back for Mother to enjoy.”

“Three whole bricks? My word, you purchased so much at once? You must drink it morning, noon, and night.” Patting Luo-Luo’s hand, Sarnai smiled without smiling and said, “No need dear. You keep it for yourself. I’m a simple woman with simple tastes. Apologies for coming in alone and interrupting your relaxing tea time. Rain and the others are putting Erdene in the stables, but I had to get off my feet.”

Wishing she could curl up and die of shame, Luo-Luo pulled out a chair and set to brewing a fresh pot of ‘simple’ tea for everyone. On the surface, it seemed like a harmless statement, but Sarnai saw Luo-Luo as an extravagant and spoiled milksop and was none too shy about voicing her displeasure. It wasn’t entirely fair since the BoHe tea had been a gift from a business partner, and Luo-Luo only kept it for herself because Lord Husband preferred water or mild teas mixed with honey, milk, and butter. Explaining wouldn’t help matters one wit, because Sarnai’s poor impression of Luo-Luo stemmed back to their first meeting, when she walked in on Luo-Luo talking about pawning Rain’s valuables for his wedding banquet. Even when the business had been wildly profitable, Luo-Luo still couldn’t win her mother-in-law’s approval, and their relationship had only worsened in recent weeks as Sarnai used her as a verbal striking post to vent her frustration on. Luo-Luo hadn’t even been allowed to join Mila and Lin-Lin on their journey to Sinuji, relegated to looking after the twins and animals while making their way to the citadel, but Sarnai held Luo-Luo’s absence against her, as if she didn’t care enough to ride out to her Lord Husband’s aid. There was no winning against the sharp-tongued dragon woman, so most days, Luo-Luo did everything she could to avoid her mother-in-law, a difficult prospect considering they lived in the same manor.

Poor Luo-Luo, with a husband who didn’t love her and mother-in-law who disapproved of her. All that was missing was a father-in-law or brother-in-law who lusted after her and even the most tragic of opera writers would consider her existence too miserable to even contemplate...

You deserve better than this.

All of Luo-Luo’s attempts to make polite conversation were met with hidden barbs and cutting remarks from Sarnai. Though it only took two minutes for Lord Husband to hobble in with Blackjack roosting in his hair, Luo-Luo was on the brink of tears as greeted him, Li-Li, and Lin-Lin as they entered. After pouring tea and setting out snacks, she lifted sweet Tate into her lap and kissed his brow, using him as a physical shield and emotional barrier to guard her from the fiercest woman alive. “Did you enjoy your lunch at the Garden of Enlightenment?” she asked, hoping to make small talk and divert the conversation away from her flaws. “Luo-Luo has heard many good things about the food there and regrets she could not join you, for there is much work left to be done.” Even if she were free, Luo-Luo would much rather eat dried jerky and stale steamed buns than endure a full meal filled with vitriol and abuse from her mother-in-law.

“We wouldn’t know,” Sarnai replied with a sniff. “They refused to seat us since we were a whole two minutes late for our reservation and had already given our tables away.”

Appalled by the restaurant’s blatant disrespect, Luo-Luo had the sinking suspicion that Sarnai blamed her for making the recommendation, but there was more. Huffing in anger, Lin-Lin pouted and said, “Those stinky liars, they never intended to let us in. We booked the entire lower level so we could eat with our guards, but there were people already halfway through their meals, ya?”

Even Li-Li seemed visibly angered by the event, her eyes hard and scowl grim, but Lord Husband merely laughed it off, his mood carefree and light as always. “No need to dwell on it wifey, we still had an enjoyable lunch, didn’t we? Don’t look down on common street vendors, with Charok off on an adventure, they’re some of the best cooks left in the citadel.” A gross over-exaggeration, but what else could he do besides accept the snub? If he had even raised his voice in irritation, by this time tomorrow, half the Empire would know of Falling Rain’s public tantrum because he wasn’t immediately seated at a popular restaurant. Matters such as today were undoubtedly engineered to solicit a reaction from him, one his enemies could use to trample over his public image and further ruin his reputation. The sooner the public forgot about his contributions, the sooner his enemies could openly act against him, because no matter how great a hero he might have been, it was all in the past now.

Oh her poor, pitiful husband, making the best of his situation without losing hope. A shame on the Empire, for though its citizens loved their triumphant heroes, few cared to remember the fallen and defeated. This was why she was so desperate to turn a profit, because while Lin-Lin and the others were optimistic about a recovery, Luo-Luo knew his chances might as well be non-existent. Best to accept that the path of a warrior was closed off to him, but he could still live a good life as a wealthy merchant, and if he were so inclined, an appointment as a Lieutenant Marshal wasn’t too far out of reach.

This was, of course, unless he frittered away his fortune on Spiritual Herbs and experimental Runic devices...

Once finished with their tea, Lord Husband suggested the other ladies bring the twins back to the residential district to visit the Divine Turtle and the roosequins. It didn’t take much convincing considering the voluminous stacks of documents sitting on the table nearby, and soon enough, Luo-Luo was left alone with Lord Husband which caused her heart to race in excitement. Though his body was ravaged by injury and his future prospects bleak, she admired his steadfast perseverance in the weeks since, and he was still a handsome, confident man despite his ailment. Not once had she seen or heard him weeping in despair, nor had he fallen into one of his sullen, sombre moods since his return, unlike how he behaved in Nan Ping and SuiHua. Now, every time she saw him, he was always working towards bettering himself and his quality of life, whether it was pushing himself to do things on his own, reading through books in search of a new prescription, or designing a new contraption to aid him in some way. Most other men would have turned to drugs and alcohol or given in to their anger and lashed out, but not him, because crippled or not, Falling Rain was still a dragon among men.

