He held her for a long while, thinking that perhaps his Armani might dry her out. As it turns out, the absorbency of the Italian fabric was dogshit. His little girl was trembling against his body, but not from the cold.

He covered her with his jacket.

“Is that…”

“Yes,” the voice spoke to his heart, into his chest.

He looked down at the girl with the hair plastered over her face.

“Did you…” He left the rest unsaid.

Eppie shook her head against his shoulder.

Curon hugged his little girl close to his chest again, ignoring the glances from the LAPA parents and the students. He wanted to say something, something that would comfort Eppie, or make her feel warmer—but he was a man of music, not oration. Maybe I could beatbox? No… he sucked at that. Maybe… he could do a rendition of Better? He could—

Vaughan reached them a moment later with Mirabelle half a step behind; neither woman had dressed for weather like this, and neither seemed to notice the rain at all. Eppie left his arm and hugged the woman instead, filling Curon with strange and unbidden jealousy.

They asked her the same question, and Eppie nodded, then shook her head.

Then someone else joined the throng under the awning. A mixed girl, he knew her. It was the first time Curon had seen Luciana Mio in person.

He watched Eppie leave Vaughan and Mirabelle to become, instead, the comforter.

Eppie hugged Mio as the girl sobbed into Eppie’s neck.

Then came the Arriaga family, Paco among them.

The two men shook hands.

“Is that…”

“That’s our man.”

Paco smiled with satisfaction, then said a prayer, or maybe a curse in Spanish. He spat on the floor and watched the spit dissolve in the rain while Zara joined the huddle.

The final pair to find them was Eric.

“Holy shit…” Eric caught Curon’s eyes, saw Eppie, then his own eyes grew to the size of hen’s eggs. “Christ, DID SHE—”

“She’s wet and cold, that’s ALL,” Curon hissed, catching Eric before he could speak the horror on his mind.  Emily reached out and controlled her Newfoundland’s excitement.

“Eppie, are you…” Eric calmed almost instantly. “Are you alright?”

“She’s fine,” Curon pulled the lawyer aside, then, under his breath, he told him that “she didn’t do it.”

As a group, they stood under the covers while the rain ran its course. Behind them, the paramedics finished what they'd come to do and wheeled a covered stretcher, unhurried now, toward the open doors of the ambulance.

Curon watched it get loaded like cargo.

He heard his daughter whisper, under her breath, to the Nikkei girl in her arms, “Mio… I want to talk to you about something very important.”

Another sheet of rain bucketed down on the school.

The paramedics slipped inside the ambulance and turned on the lights.

Frederic Curon was suddenly imagining, without meaning to, another July, another ambulance backed up to another set of doors, and a girl he hadn't yet learned the name of,  loaded into the same van by the same people.

He reached over and ran his hand through Eppie’s bedraggled hair, slipping a lock of hair behind her ear.

His girl looked up, her baby blue eyes questioning but warm.

Thank the Powers that Be—Curon sent a prayer skyward to the great bards of future and past—Thank God—that his daughter and muse had survived.
