The [Prismatic Ward] that the first Ophiel had provided, as the Flare Couatl appeared in the Human District, was gone. That Ophiel was down to less than a hundred mana and barely able to fly. The others were all down to maybe half-mana. Erick dismissed the hundred mana Ophiel. He summoned three more. Erick was back down to low mana himself, but he was up to nine Ophiel.

Erick had a freshly summoned Ophiel spend his entire self to erect a new [Prismatic Ward] across the house. Erick was back down to 8 [Familiar]s.

Erick pointed at his house, [Hunter’s Instincts] still active. He said, “It’s a [Prismatic Ward]. It should be about 26,000 points of defense. We can Rest inside.” He looked to Jane, demanding, “Jane. I just got [Hunter’s Instincts]. You go inside. This is not your fight.”

Jane went from looking eager to fight, to visibly shaking, her words trapped in her throat. She did not look at her father as she silently turned and walked back into the house.

Erick’s eyes went wide as he watched her go. He did not expect that to work. He Handy Aura’d up, into the air, saying, “I’m going to stand up on my tower and kill it when it appears.”

Mog said, “I’ll wait with you.” She blipped up to the flat surface of his mage tower, fifteen meters off the ground, landing inside a bubble of [Prismatic Ward] that extended up from the tower. She called down at him, “It’ll be back soon.”

Silverite hauled a half-conscious Poi toward the house, following Jane into the front door.

Erick landed beside Mog, saying, “I made a mistake, Mog. I should not have allowed it to get the drop on us like that. I should have attacked it out there. I should have trusted Silverite’s judgment. I should have listened to you.”

Mog kept her eyes on the sky, watching for the return of red, as she said, “Yup.”

Kiri landed beside Erick and Mog, asking, “How many Wraps were you able to cast?”

“Three.” Erick added, “From Ophiel, so the effect is less.” Erick flared [Hunter’s Instincts], and the world shifted. As Health drained, time seemed to slow.

He watched people running to hide indoors, all the way on the other side of the empty expanse of the flat Human District. He saw the glassy stretches of orange stone that ringed his house like a moat. His gardens were gone. The Mage Trio’s house was scorched; Erick hoped they were okay, or not at home. He heard the sirens blaring out their warning all across Spur, but he also heard Poi talking to Silverite in the house below, and Jane roaring at a wall, impotent and hating every second of her torture. He felt his body like it was a tool to use to bring about the destruction of his enemies, and right now the enemy was—

The sky blinked red. Erick simultaneously demanded his highest-mana Ophiel to cast another [Prismatic Ward] right across the top of the tower, right on top of Erick, Mog, and Kiri. An Ophiel disintegrated; spent. 7 left.

The Flare Couatl appeared all around the Human District, scorching the orange stone. His eyes blazed as his mouth opened a dozen meters wide, revealing tower-sized fangs and an endless, incandescent gullet that poured heat across the house like a blowtorch.

The dense air around Erick, Kiri, and Mog, flexed, but did not break; it would not last forever.

Erick demanded another Ophiel expend himself, casting another [Prismatic Ward] into that gaping mouth. As soon as the calm, dense space appeared, interrupting the torch, the remaining Ophiel [Blink]ed into that space, each of them rapidly casting more and more [Endless Plasma Wrap]s into the glowing insides of the Flare Couatl, wrapping the beast in white, fiery light.

Radiance flickered across the creature’s red scales, brighter than the beast’s own fire, burning bright even in red sunlight.

The Flare Couatl tried to recoil, but his fangs caught on the [Prismatic Ward]. He chomped down; equally unable to break the [Prismatic Ward]. His body flickered behind Erick, on the other side of the house, slamming against the [Prismatic Ward] around him and his tower like an ineffectual avalanche.

Ophiel called clouds and lightning from the near sky, but the Flare Couatl flared harder, cracking the dense air around Erick and around the house as his rising heat cut through the spell above.

Erick cast a [Wintry Sea] into the Flare Couatl.

About three seconds had passed since the attack began. Mog had yet to move; she was waiting for an opening. Kiri cast spell after spell at the red creature, but the Flare Couatl didn’t seem to care about her fire. He didn’t seem to care about Erick’s fire, either.

But as blue light tore into the red snake, he cared about that, very much.

He roared, loud and hot, breaking the [Prismatic Ward] in his mouth, igniting the sky, as blue light crawled into—

The Flare Couatl blipped up, then left, then right, each time moving thousands of tons of its own body, trying to get away from the blue light. But the blue light stuck with the red snake, crawling through his entire length, diving in and out of the two hundred meter long beast, as white fire continued to crawl over his scales. Where the blue light touched, the snake's skin cracked like broken ice on a frozen pond. When the blue light passed, blood soaked out of the Flare Couatl.

Erick said, “I could cast more [Wintry Sea]s, but it’s dangerous.”

“Don’t do any more,” Mog said. “Backup is already coming.”

As Mog spoke, a bolt of black, long and sinuous, half the size of the Flare Couatl, rocketed out of the west, tearing over Spur like a bullet from a very, very large gun. It was not a wyrm, though it looked like one, because it was a dragon. Black, long, wingless and in complete control of itself, the dragon ripped through the Flare Couatl with some long bladed spell.

“Mine!” roared the black dragon. “Mine!”

Thirty meters of the Flare Couatl’s tail fell like a whale thrown from the sky. It crashed into the wall of Spur, breaking the wall as the tail broke into meat and blood and bright white bones. The Flare Couatl screamed as the dragon roared, whipping back onto the snake, black claws and black legs grabbing and tearing into the glowing white surface of the red beast.

Blood splashed across the Human District, striking stone and turning into pools of fire, as the black dragon fought the red feathered snake in the skies above. It was a one-sided battle. The dragon tore the snake apart, ripping off feathers, pulling it from the sky. In under ten seconds, the dragon cracked the snake across the walls of Spur.

The snake went limp as its fires died, and the white glow around its body faded. The blue glow attached to the snake transferred to the dragon, but the dragon simply flickered black, and the blue glow died, too.

Erick got a notification for killing the Flare Couatl, but he ignored that notification for now because the dragon did not stop its assault, and he had not gained a level. The dragon tore into the red flesh of the feathered snake, ripping scales apart from wings, tearing skin from fiery meat. The dragon’s fangs flashed bright white as it ate its opponent like a starved man at a banquet. The very walls of Spur shifted into knives, turning into cleavers under the direction of the black dragon.

Cleavers the size of houses chopped down through the red snake, carving it up.

The dragon dove into the snake’s chest, digging out the heart, consuming the organ. It moved on to the head. Chop chop went stone cleavers. The dragon opened the skull, and ate the brain in five quick, messy gulps.

Kiri puked off the side of the tower.

Mog just stared at the feasting dragon, wide eyed.

Erick asked, “Should we be worried, Mog?”

Mog kept staring, as she said, “… No. Probably not. This is just… Rather intense. I knew we had a dragon on staff, but… I didn’t really know, you know.”

Erick watched the feast, saying, “No. I don’t really know. But if you didn’t know either I don’t feel so bad.”

Mog chuckled, or at least tried to. It was a nervous sound that cut quickly. Soon, the only thing Erick could hear was the munch crunch of a dragon devouring its enemy.

The black dragon paused for a moment, its entire body covered in gore and meat. It looked up. It turned toward Erick. A few hundred meters separated them, but they locked eyes for the briefest of moments.

The dragon, and what was left of the Flare Couatl, blipped away in a shattering of black light.

Then Erick puked. At least this time he held it in until the battle was over.

- - - -

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 65, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 1,597,236,147,954,331/2,777,789,003,528,800

Class: 6/6

Points: 4

HP

959/1200

1200 per day

MP

2104/5100

20,400 per day

Strength

20

+20

[40]

Vitality

20

+20

[40]

Willpower

65

+20

[85]

Focus

65

+20

[85]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!
