Erick returned to Windy Manor in a blip of white light with Ophiel on his shoulder. The sun came down from the east, barely peeking over the tall trees around the manor. Poi waited for him on a bench on the lawn in front of the large western windows. The sapphire scaled guard immediately stood up as Erick appeared, his face tense. But he relaxed as recognition set in.

“Hey, Poi.” Erick asked, “What’s up?”

“Nothing.” Poi added, “Nothing. Glad to see you’re okay.”

Erick smiled. He teased, “I’m glad to see you care so much.”

Poi deadpanned, “I care about my ride back home.”

Erick laughed. Poi cracked a grin.

Kiri rushed out of the front door, saying, “Oh thank the gods. When the [Crystalline Air] went down we all started to panic.”

“Ah!” Erick said, “I have a reason for that. Here.” Erick materialized two blue boxes of [Prismatic Ward] and tossed them to Kiri and Poi.

Poi casually caught his box, but Kiri’s eyes went wide as she snatched hers out of the air. Poi read the box and dismissed it as he gently sighed out into the early morning sky.

Kiri shouted, “Holy gods.” She read the box again. She laughed.

Erick quickly gave permissions to Poi, Kiri, Teressa, Rats, Ophiel, and Jane, as he looked past them, to the house. He lined up his new spell then spent an extra 250 mana to Extremely Shape a 4500 point [Prismatic Ward] across the whole of Windy Manor; over the exposed wooden exterior and massive western windows, past the roof and into the ground an extra meter. The air around the manor shifted in some dense way, showing as a slight bend around the edges of the protected space, but nothing when viewed straight on. As the spell settled in, Windy Manor seemed a bit dimmer, and a bit brighter. Warmer yet cool. And shielded for over 50,000 points of damage.

Erick had originally considered [Prismatic Ward] to be some flashy thing, a brightness and a darkness and everything else all rolled up in one, similar to the fractal crash of [Crystalline Air], but more. That idea had shifted as time went on, for the base idea of [Prismatic Ward] was to protect, to nurture, to ensure survival. Survival was not flashy, or at least it wasn’t flashy for Erick, or for Hocnihai.

Reading that man’s journals had helped Erick in many ways to achieve what he had achieved today. Erick barely understood all the math in all those pages, but he understood the need for a place to call home. That’s all that Hocnihai was looking for, after all, from the Greensoil Republic to the Wasteland Kingdoms, he had been betrayed and hurt on all sides but he had eventually found a place of his own.

As Erick watched [Prismatic Ward] fill Windy Manor, he knew that Oceanside was not his home, but it was good enough for now.

As Kiri watched the spell take hold her eyes went wide and a tiny squeal escaped her lips. When the spell finished, she rushed to the Manor’s entrance, to touch the solid air hanging across the open space. Her hand moved through the dense space without interruption. The air did not fracture like with [Crystalline Air]; it didn’t seem to do anything at all. Kiri rushed into the house, laughing as she moved.

Poi watched the house, asking, “A permanent spell?”

Erick said, “I wasn’t expecting it, but it’s nice, right?”

“It’s something.”

Erick smirked. He said, “You know… I haven’t added ‘air’ or ‘water’ to the permissions, but water flows through the space anyway. You can breathe, even though it’s solid.” He added, “This is exactly what I imagined when I cast.”

Poi said, “Have you already given me permissions?”

“Of course!”

“Remove them for a moment.”

“… Okay?” Erick removed Poi from [Prismatic Ward]s permissions. “Done.”

Poi nodded, then blipped blue. He did not move, though. He just blipped in place. He hummed. He said, “It denies [Teleport] exactly how we all thought it would. Now… for this...” Tendrils of thought extended from his sapphire head. “That’s not blocked, so that’s good.” He turned to Erick. “Done. Please reinstate my permissions.”

Erick did so, then said, “We’ll still get messages if Spur needs us, then?”

“Yup.” Poi said, “That is exactly what I was testing.”

Kiri rushed out of the house, her emerald eyes glittering as she said, “This is amazing!” She exclaimed, “And it’s permanent! That’s crazy! Magic is supposed to degrade but this doesn’t! How did you even do that?”

Erick smiled. Now was a good a time as any to share his ideas with Kiri. He said, “I think it might decay all the time, but it also regenerates all the time, like how a Grand-[Prestidigitation] stove or a Permanent [Special Ward] recovers over time.”

Kiri stopped in her steps. She said, “Okay?”

Erick walked toward the house, saying, “I have this theory about [Renew] already being a part of [Ward]. The Headmaster spoke about how a Permanent [Special Ward] was more like how [Mend] returns an object back to its remembered state, so I’ll have to research that some more. You can help, but first, let me lay out my ideas and you can have at them, too.”

Kiri frowned a little, but said, “Okay?”

In the comfort of the house, Erick spoke of his [Renew] ideas. Kiri mostly listened. She was willing to accept his reasoning, but surely someone else would have tapped into this possibility before him, right?

“I think we need to research [Mend] more,” Kiri finally said. “I don’t know nearly enough about this spell.”

Erick said, “I agree. But we’ve got time, and lots of stuff to do besides.”

Kiri’s eyes blazed emerald as she smiled, saying, “We do, don’t we.”

- - - -

Erick stood beside his wooden desk, looking over a dozen books that laid scattered across the various surfaces of his room, while Ophiel sat on a perch by an open window. A gentle breeze flowed across the winged [Familiar]; he was in his preferred position for when Erick was working in his office.

Kiri had taken Erick’s idea of [Renew] being inside [Ward] and run off on her own to investigate; her eyes alight with passion. But for Erick, it was back to studying. He might not have gotten far with [Gate], but he was doing well with enchanting despite the math and diagrams and rigidity of the discipline. The dozen books set around him now were all the most well respected books on the subject, each holding clues and rhymes and the runes of all the most common spells. One of the books was a complete breakdown of [Prestidigitation], stretched out to 500 pages of text and pictures that detailed everything known about this most complicated, most basic spell.

The sheer volume of magical effects produced by [Prestidigitation] was worthy of a few thousand pages of in-depth study, but this smaller tome was a perfect primer on the subject.

Thanks to these books, Erick was now able to enchant any of his normal spells into rods or wands as needed. He could enchant [Prestidigitation] into knives to make them sharper, too, or make a stove that never ran out of fire or power. He even made a hat that he could pull a ‘rabbit’ out of. It was a ‘rabbit’ made of fuzz and nothing that instantly puffed away as soon as it was released, but it was still a fun little effect to enchant into a hat.

Needles that sewed fabrics together on their own. Needles that sewed lace on their own. Cards that shuffled themselves. Cups that always kept their contents cold, or hot. Gems that turned the wearer’s clothes sparkly. Salt shakers that added salt flavor without actually using salt. [Prestidigitation] was quite fun. Erick had learned a lot trying to form that spell into the desired enchanted effect.

But enchanting a staff with an aura was quite another endeavor entirely. This was yet another of his goals in coming to Oceanside. A Staff of Withering Domain was a bomb he did not want to create, not right now, but there was another spell in his arsenal that also needed to be made for others to use. A Staff of the Exalted Storm. But there were problems. A lot of problems.

Firstly, it was damned expensive, and Erick was already running low on supplies. Each try for a staff of [Exalted Storm Aura] took a full grand rad. Secondly, his first five forays into enchanting such a thing leaned against the wall in the corner of the room, their metal shafts blackened and twisted, while the diamond orbs on top were broken, cracked things. Erick left them like that instead of [Mend]ing them back to metal ingots and perfect spheres because how the magic failed to take hold was supposed to tell him how the enchanting failed. Hence the books all around him.

Erick read over auras and mathemagics, he pored over diagrams and energy rates. He studied pictures of staffs and how enchants failed, trying to figure out what was wrong with his methods.

He Handy Aura’d one of the less twisted staffs into his hand. The gem on top was cracked in a spreading spiderweb pattern, while the staff itself was simply blackened and pitted. He Handy Aura’d through three different books, looking for the answer.

According to this book—

Poi stepped into the open doorway, saying, “Sir. A monster approaches Spur.”

“Okay.” With a hundred Handy hands Erick rapidly set book marks into his books, closing them but leaving them where they were, while he set the broken staff back into the corner of the room. He summoned five Ophiel and began sending them across the ocean, saying, “It’s almost time for the rains, anyway.” He asked, “What kind of monster?”

Poi stood tall and said, “It’s the Flare Couatl.”

A sudden, bone deep, dead tired emotion washed through Erick’s entire body, settling into his chest and behind his eyes. He blinked long, simultaneously halting Ophiel’s procession to Spur as he said, “Monsterified?”

Poi said, “Initial reports are inconclusive, but disturbing. He attacked some rookies training outside the city but they managed to escape. Now, he’s hovering outside the walls, demanding that the rookies who escaped be released to his custody. That was five minutes ago. He vanished when Silverite said no, but promised to be back after he gathered enough hostages to force a trade.”

“Silverite would never trade hostages.”

Somewhere outside of Erick’s office, a chair slid across the floor. Footsteps drew near.

“Exactly, sir.” Poi said, “But there’s another problem. The creature is asking for you, personally.”

Erick groaned, mostly silently.

Kiri stepped to Poi’s side, watching.

“Okay.” Erick nudged Ophiel to continue on to Spur, as he said, “I need to be there in person.”

“If you wish, sir.” Poi said, “I’m ready when you are.”

Kiri offered, “You just summoned your Ophiel, right? I’ll take us all to Spur.”

Erick had worked out a system for Ophiel to expend the least amount of mana to [Teleport] to Spur, where a few of them took most of them toward the end and then blipped backward, back into position. But they still ran through 250 to 750 mana each blip; it added up. And there was no room in Erick’s system for them to come back and take him and Poi along for the ride.

“Sure,” Erick said. “That works. Thank you, Kiri.”

Kiri turned around, toward the balcony that ringed the central airspace of the house. She cast into the open air, conjuring a disk of swirling green Force inscribed with an innate circular [Teleport] rune. Kiri’s [Teleporting Platform] was modeled after Erick’s, though she went for [Airshape] instead of [Stoneshape]. Air was everywhere, after all. Stone was not omnipresent; there was barely any stone inside of Windy Manor. Kiri hopped over the balcony, landing on her platform. She turned to Erick and Poi, waiting for them to join her. Poi went first, over the balcony rail, onto the platform. Erick followed.

Erick asked, “Did you talk to Teressa and Rats, Poi?”

“They know we’re going.” Poi said, “Whenever you’re ready, Kiri.”

Kiri answered in a crash of green light, blipping the three of them a thousand kilometers northwest, over the ocean. They continued to blip across the wide, wide waters, under Kiri’s power, across prairies and over mountains. Soon enough, they appeared above an endless tan desert where sunlight caught on endless crystal agaves and mimics.

They continued on, to Spur.

- - - -

Kiri blipped her platform into the air just outside of the house, in orange Human District of Spur. Seven tiny Ophiel hovered above the roof of the house, while a small crowd had already gathered on the grounds below, in anticipation of Erick’s arrival.

The two orcol guards who Silverite had watching over his house, Turock and Veel, stood to the side, near lemon trees of the garden. Jane stood by the door. Erick locked sight on his daughter, and though Silverite and Mog were also nearby, he instantly hopped off Kiri’s platform and rushed to Jane, to wrap his daughter in a hug.

Jane chuckled over his shoulder as she hugged him back, saying, “Good to see you too, Dad.” She let go, whispering, “But there’s a crisis.”

Erick let go of Jane, saying, “Right, right.” He looked his daughter over a little, making sure she was really okay. She was, as far as Erick could see. Same brown hair clipped behind her head, same brown eyes, same wry smile. So Erick nodded, then turned to Silverite, asking, “What’s the score?”

He hadn’t seen Silverite in almost two months. She was the same pure silver wrought in the shape of a dragonkin as before. Silverite was the only wrought Erick ever knew who wore clothes. Today, she wore a nice, simple white dress, with a few frills on the arms and hem. Her face was a harsh thing, though.

