Silverite said, “The Flare Couatl is still a person, but this does not matter anymore. He has decided to gather up adventurers from outside the city and bring them here, to try and force my hand into giving up those who he already tried to kill.” She looked to Mog. “Mog?”

Mog was the same massive pale-green woman that Erick had always known, with huge muscles and short black hair. She wore her leathers today; normal brown. They might have been her conjured armor, or not. Erick had learned a small secret in the past month: Mog could freely change the color of her magic. She was happy with people not knowing what her magical effects looked like; she liked catching people offguard. She was not happy right now, though.

Mog frowned, saying, “In the last week we have had three unsubstantiated reports from two different parties that the Flare Couatl tried to kill them while they were out hunting mimics. The one team that reported twice never came back from their latest hunt. That was two days ago. And now we have this.”

Erick felt a flush of anger at himself. He asked, “Has any Cinnabar Hand been found in Spur?”

Silverite stared at Erick with hard, completely silver eyes. She said, “Yes.”

Erick inhaled sharply, then said, “What? Really?”

“Yes.” Silverite said, “Two of them, two weeks ago.”

“… Anyone I know?”

“I don’t think so.” Silverite said, “I need that Flare Couatl dead, Erick. It has killed thousands of hunters since it appeared but I fear it is running out of targets. It’s also gotten too big. It’s an actual threat to Spur. Merit and Killzone are standing by for this confrontation, as are the other archmages of Spur. They will not move unless—”

The sky cracked with power, like a far away thunderstorm announcing its presence. Red bled across the roof of the world; a mist of blood and hatred and magic.

Mog said, “It’s back.”

All seven Ophiel held still in the crimson air, their bodies slowly expanding to their full size. Eyes opened up across their flowing wings as they silently gazed north. Erick watched the sky with them, as the entire city of Spur witnessed the Flare Couatl appear in the sky beyond the northern wall.

Erick felt his blood go cold as his heart beat hard.

The Flare Couatl lazed in the air like an impossibly large sea snake, matching the city walls for width and dwarfing every wyrm that Erick had ever seen. Two hundred meters long, three hundred? Erick didn’t know. The Flare Couatl was a lot bigger than Erick remembered. Blood red scales glittered in the red sunlight, flickering with power, while multiple sets of bright red wings flowed down his back, from behind his massive blunt nose, to his long tapered tail.

He spoke, quietly but pervasively, his voice carrying through the city, “I am ready for a trade. I also wish to speak to Erick Flatt. Please do not deny me this simple request.”

Erick quickly asked Silverite, “The people he wants— They’re not impostors, right?”

“They are not.” Silverite said, “If you can’t fight it, get it to leave.”

Jane stepped toward the Flare Couatl, but caught herself before she took a second step. She winced. She said, “Fuck.” She whispered, “Shit. I can’t be out here.” She looked to Silverite, saying, “I can’t help. Don’t make me.”

Silverite said, “Then cower in your home like the rest of those who need protection.”

Jane locked up for the briefest of moments, staring daggers at Silverite. She quickly came out of it, nodding. She rushed back into the house, closing the door behind her. Erick stared at that door for a hot second.

Erick looked back toward the Flare Couatl. He took into the air on his Handy Aura, saying, “I’ll see what I can do to get him to leave.”

It took mere moments to fly over the stone buildings of Spur, to reach the wall. It took less than that for the Flare Couatl to notice Erick flying his way, flanked by seven now-tiny Ophiel. Erick set down on a flat stone tower next to the northern city gates. The Flare Couatl hung in the red sky in front of him, radiating a heat that failed to reach Erick, but that Erick still felt on his skin like a sunburn starting.

The series of events for Erick to get to this point almost caused him to wander off into thought in an attempt to escape this current situation, but he remained in the present. He spoke to the Flare Couatl, using [Prestidigitation] to increase his voice a little, “Greetings! I heard you were looking for me!”

The Flare Couatl watched Erick, his eyes blazing like miniature suns. Erick felt his stare like the stare of a killer, deciding how best to proceed with the killing. But he did not draw closer to Erick. The Flare Couatl just hung in the sky, watching. Thinking, maybe? Erick wasn’t sure.

The Flare Couatl said, “You are Erick Flatt.”

“For my whole life, so far!”

“I wish to know if you have discovered how to [Scan] through the problems of [Polymorph].”

“I have done some research on the subject in my time at arcanaeum, and I don’t think what you want is possible.”

This was not a lie. He had done some research, but reading a few books on [Scan] and making the spell that Messalina wanted were entirely different beasts. No matter his ideas on DNA, or mitochondria, or whatever possible unique bacteria might inhabit the people of Veird, making such a spell would prove the death of him. So Erick didn’t plumb the depths of [Scan] magic too deeply. At least not yet.

Besides, if Erick were to make such a spell, it would be Particle Mage Only, and thus useless for Messalina’s needs. Erick might not have a major problem with her using soul magic to move willing participants into other bodies, but there was absolutely no way that he would ever work with her. She was still a mass murderer, even if you discounted all of her soulwork.

Researching [Scan] was not the only bit of magical history that Erick had looked into. He had also looked into Messalina. The Life Binder, as she was known to most of the world, was a story told to children to scare them into being good, and also a real person, responsible for the deaths of thousands of people, all because of some unknown reason; some schism that happened between her and the Headmaster, centuries ago.

The Flare Couatl watched Erick with eyes of fire. His mouth opened just a tiny bit, then closed. He spoke without moving, “Then I must continue my work the hard way.” He added, “I know I said that I would bring back some hostages to trade for those that got away, but this was me speaking out of turn. I will not do this if you can tell me that those who escaped my wrath were not hunters.”

Erick honestly said, “As far as I know, and as far as Silverite and the people here have told me, the people you seek are not impostors. If they are hunters, then it is up to the laws of Spur to decide their fates. They are in our custody until such a decision is reached.”

The Flare Couatl shivered in the sky, his wings flickering as he gently undulated.

Erick continued, “Thank you for what you have done to search out the Cinnabar Hand and to rid the Crystal Forest of those who would kill without care for the damage they do. I wish you the best of luck in finding your true quarry.”

The Flare Couatl slipped left and right, just a little. His eyes stared down at Erick. He said, “They are hunters. Every single person in that group. In due course you will divine what I already know, and you will pass down the same judgment I would have passed. That you take more time to come to my conclusion is of no consequence to me.”

The air singed red. The Flare Couatl was gone, just like that.

Here one moment, gone the next.

Erick almost collapsed to his knees. He held himself upright for one brief moment, before blipping back home. As he appeared in front of Silverite and Mog, Erick muttered, “Fuck, he got big.”

Mog nodded, silently.

Ophiel, all seven of him, winged through the sky, quickly coming back to Erick.

Silverite said, “Do you have a spell that can kill him without destroying Spur in the process?”

“… No.” Erick corrected himself, saying, “Maybe.” He added, “I might, tomorrow. I need to level some things. Fire’s not very useful against Flare Snakes, right?”

Mog said, “It works, but not well.”

Silverite said, “You should figure out what you need to figure out, Erick.” She pointed to the empty, red northern sky, where the crimson glow of the Flare Couatl slowly left the air. “That Flare Couatl is talking to everyone. Not just you. His discipline is gone, Erick. Maybe he’s not turning into a monster, but what he is turning into is something much worse: a dragon without the need for a cover. A dragon turning erratic.”

Erick asked, “Then shouldn’t someone like the Headmaster come kill him? Isn’t that how this works with dragons?”

Silverite’s eyes went wide. “I don’t want a fight like that within five [Teleport]s of Spur, and neither do you.” She spat, “And those people the Couatl chased off were not hunters, either.” She seemed to deflate as she said, “They were just adventurers, Erick. Nothing more, nothing less. They got in a spat out there and started fighting each other. To hear them tell it, it wasn’t even a serious fight.”

Erick felt yet another flicker of unwellness pass through his body. He forced that feeling down into obscurity. Erick steeled himself, then said, “Okay. I get what you’re saying. He needs to die.”

Silverite said, “What do you have to use against the Couatl besides fire. Tell me if I need to call someone else.”

“… I’m going to go out and work on it right now.” Erick said, “I will do what I can for Spur and for the people here, Silverite.”

Mog, Kiri, Poi, and the two guards stationed at Erick’s house, just watched, silently.

Red faded from the sky as the world slowly transitioned back to blue skies and orange stone.

“Fine.” Silverite blinked long. She eventually said, “Good. Thank you.” She breathed deep, then asked, “Are you going to stick around for the night? If so, there’s some—”

The sky flickered red. All seven tiny Ophiel whined loud as they hovered next to Erick, hiding against his sides.

Erick whipped around to the north, but the bloody stain in the sky spread out from directly around his house. The Flare Couatl materialized above and in every direction, all at once, like an incandescent snake coiling around the Human District. The Flare Couatl’s head appeared around the garden like any number of wyrms Erick had ever fought, but unlike all those wyrms, an intelligence laid inside this creature’s eyes. The air turned radiant, hot, and deadly. Lemon trees burst into flame. The ground scorched into glass. One of the two orcol guards puffed away, going from flesh to bone to dust in a flashing second. Erick’s skin burned as his own [Personal Ward] went cracking bright white.

Erick reacted through Ophiel faster than he could react on his own. Ophiel cast a rapid fire [Endless Plasma Wrap] out of three of his bodies, layering white fire around the red serpent, as another tiny Ophiel wrapped a [Prismatic Ward] around Erick, catching several of the nearby people in the [Solid Ward]. Erick simultaneously granted everyone around him permissions.

The Flare Couatl vanished again in a smattering of red.

The entire event had taken a single second.

Poi fell to the ground, bleeding from his eyes and ears. Kiri blasted the empty space where the Flare Couatl had been. Mog rushed into that same space, heedless of Kiri’s fire, slashing at the air with a cleaver twice her own size, hitting nothing. Silverite pulsed silver, rushing to Poi.

A chaotic fraction of a second turned into yelling moments as Jane appeared beside Poi, her hand glowing dark blue. Everyone yelled at everyone else. Silverite frowned at the dead, burned body of Turock. Veel was nothing more than ash on the hot wind.

All Erick could do was ask, “What?”

Poi’s voice cut into the noise, as he said, “I chased it away, but not for long. It’s barely a person anymore.” He winced as he said, “Mayor. This is going to get rough.”

Jane was suddenly by Erick’s side, slapping him with a glowing blue hand, saying, “Wake the FUCK up, dad.” She demanded, “Are you here, now?”

Erick came back to himself. He said, “Yeah. Yeah. Jane. I’m here. Sorry about that. I don’t know what happened.” He added, “I tagged him with [Endless Plasma Wrap] but— I don’t know.”

Silverite helped Poi to stand. Kiri blanched, a dozen emotions crossing her panicked face, her green scales turning a shade lighter. With a quick motion, she smothered the flames burning against the stone.

The garden was completely gone. The Flare Couatl had flashed wood and fruit and vines to ash.

In the distance, all across the city, a warning siren began to blare; a chorus hailing an oncoming death. Erick opened his senses wide, turning on [Perfect Hearing] and [Ultrasight], trying to—

Now was not the time to be stingy with his points. That Flare Couatl was coming back, and he had no time to try and combine a proper physical skill. He would have to do like Jane did. Erick just bought the damn parts, and then the final skill, spending 3 points to do so. This was why people saved points, after all.

And then he went and Favored it, too.

Tracker’s Instinct, 1 HP per second

Hunt clearly.

Lightfoot, 2 HP per second

Move quick and silent

Hunter’s Instincts, 10 HP per second ~{Favored Ability}~

You are the predator.

Like daughter, like father.

Jane said, “All that training helped, but we’re not out of the fire, dad.”

Erick nodded. He took stock of his current situation. [Hunters Instincts] flared, providing him with enough focus to fully consider the lay of the battlefield.

