“For what I planned to do with you.”

Xuunah thought furiously about what he could do, and Ren felt all of her swirling emotions. He didn't say anything until he told Artemis to come with them, then took both women inside the building and into Xuunah's apartment. He shut the door behind them and then quickly moved the furniture out of the way towards the walls to clear a large space in the living room.

“What are you doing?” Xuunah asked.

Ren held up a hand to quiet her, then he asked Artemis to hold his things for him. Ren equipped his old bodysuit to replace what he wore and handed over everything he had in inventory, then gave her everything he had equipped as well, except for the Beetle Crown Ring.

“Teepo, I can't take the chance of losing you, so I have to take off the ring.” Ren said.

“No problem.” Teepo said. “Just make sure you summon me when you're done.”

“Of course. I'll see you in a little while, buddy.”

“Bye, Ren.” Teepo said and dissolved into the ring, and Ren handed it to Artemis.

“Ren.” Xuunah said, and he turned to her. “Please tell me what you're doing.” She said. “It's like you're planning to die or something.”

“That's always a possibility.” Ren smiled. “I don't think it was ever intended to happen this way, so this will be the first time it's been done by an Adventurer.”

“Ren, tell me what...”

Ren took a step up into the air and gave her a kiss on the lips. “Get ready to do this yourself.”

“Do what?” Xuunah asked. “You haven't told me what's going on!”

Ren took a step back, inhaled a deep breath and let it out, then braced himself. He closed his eyes and remembered what he had seen the day he first met Xuunah... then activated his Helm of Polymorph.

“REN! NO!” Xuunah yelled as she realized what Ren was trying to do, but it was too late. Once it was started, it had to be completed. The glow within Ren's chest grew brighter and brighter as the Polymorph process continued and Artemis had to hold a hand up to stop from being blinded by the glare. Xuunah watched in horror as Ren's physical body started to fade away.

Ren didn't scream at all as his body was torn apart molecule by molecule and converted into Light.
