The threat was not a joke, and Gilam and the newer Raider froze as they imagined trying to explain that—or the loss of an ear. But the coldly furious leader of the Raiders just tossed something down on the table.
“There’s a feast. Everyone here, get ready. If you can’t make it—too bad.”
“A feast!”
At last! The excitement turned into a fever’s pitch, and everyone scrambled to get ready or see where it was.
“Oh. Are we inviting our prodigal daughter?”
One of the veteran Raiders murmured to the [Raidleader of Slaughter]. The leader of the Bloodfeast Raiders let his eyes flash warningly in reply as the two watched the nobility gather up.
“We’ll see if she arrives. It’s close enough that she has no excuse. You make contact.”
“Got it. Why so close? That damn door covers too much ground…and with Veltras about…”
“I want to see what the [Innkeeper] can do. This lot will go mad if we have to avoid a third of Izril. Besides—I need more levels. Time to take some risks.”
That was a good reason. So the Raiders began to move out. And if there was a story there, and if the leader of the Bloodfeast Raiders wanted to tell it, it was a simple one.
Look at the oldest man in that room of young bucks and does, fighting and squabbling and doing what they pleased. He alone in a room of killers commanded respect and fear and wariness. His hair was white. He was a [Bandit Lord], oldest of the living.
Korizan Reeles had been a [Raider Chief] a long time ago when he ran into the first nobles going out covertly to do all the things that they wanted—but couldn’t dream of. But they played at breaking the law when he knew how filthy you could get when you soaked in blood or indulged everything Izril’s underworld had to offer.
It wasn’t hard to be a facilitator to the whims of the nobility. But making a club—making a gang, making the most fearsome group to haunt Izril? That drew them in, and many had a surprising gift for levelling in their real classes. But any fool could point a Wand of [Fireball]. And once he had their support—and they were rich and influential—
Well. It had taken decades for him to make the Bloodfeast Raiders as they were. Korizan could keep doing this and be rich off their killing sprees and self-indulgent whining, but even Korizan had something greater to aspire to. He had become a [Bandit Lord] and reaped the power of that class. And now?
The world was changing. Everyone was saying it, from the [Pirates] to the gangs. What was old was coming back around, and there were ghosts of real bastards as well as heroes. The call was coming.
Twelve [Bandit Lords] across the world. Twelve, both on land and sea. Once they filled each and every seat—
The [Bandit King] could emerge. And then they would see a contest and a class that could set a blaze that only the Goblin Kings could match. Everyone wanted a crown.
Korizan smiled as he looked past the raiders. But he had wayward members to get into line, and he had to win his seat. He didn’t really care for Gilam or any of their reasons. The Raiders all thought of this as a grand rebellion, a secret, their true nature.
Izril’s underworld drank in the excesses of the nobility and bloomed well with all the blood and gold and carrion they fed it. But it was all in service to him.
 
——
 
Numbers mattered. Twelve [Bandit Lords] would rise. Three Deaths held the world in sway. Six Walled Cities remained. Someone was counting.
“Twelve. Three. Six. Five families of Izril, as there ever were. Some numbers change. Many remain the same. There is auspiciousness in all. The Deaths have dwindled. Once, there were twelve. Before my time. Then there were eight as I lived. Now three. Does that make them stronger?”
A hand, young and supple flesh, was rolling around a series of bone-dice. Painted pips of color ran from one to six on one die—numbers on another, one to twenty. Another die so finely cut as to be almost spherical?
One to a thousand.
Odd trinkets, and the hand began to fiddle with an abacus next. Then jot down the numbers in series of magnitude. It was not like how a [Scribe] or [Mathematician] dealt with numbers. They had a certain respect for numbers, but Yelroan, the great [Mathematician] of his age, used numbers like a tool to calculate the world.
This person treated numbers like they were powerful in their own right. Four mattered more than fourteen. Seven was auspicious.
It was…an exceptionally annoying methodology to take towards life. And it annoyed one of the listeners beyond belief. The rest of the room was silent, almost bordering upon reverent. And the speaker continued.
“The numbers change—but see how primary they are. Four Shield Kingdoms. Four Great Companies. Not a single one above ten. The Great Tribes diminished. Their own number has dipped below ten for this coming era.”
At this, the annoyed listener couldn’t help but break in, his tone sarcastic.
“One would assume cause and effect would surely be the cause rather than the self-selection of numerology.”
Ordinarily, that would have won him wholehearted support and laughter, even if sycophantic. But today? Even his bodyguard looked slightly askance at him—and two eyes that seemed to be numbers in themselves, curved pupils and twisted irises to form a ‘2’ in their unsettling gaze—they focused on the speaker, and he hesitated.
Those eyes had not been like that months ago. They had slowly twisted into their current configuration. A mark of power.
Similarly—though the body was young—the voice was old. And the smile…the smile made the speaker hesitate. The hands flicking the abacus paused.
Then the [Patternlord of Graven Icons] raised his head. And his smile never wavered as he flicked that thousand-piece die across the table. It rolled and rolled, like a marble, and when it slowed…
“You say so, Emir Yazdil? Numbers have weight. Numbers distort our reality. For proof, look no further than here.”
The die stopped dead as it ran into a cup of water. It halted—and the number ‘five’ showed on it.
“Five have survived a scourging. Six, then. For the great Emir of Roshal cannot be discounted. Six have emerged where one held sway. But we are allies, so I hope you will forgive me foibles.”
The Emir Yazdil was not happy as he stared across the table. But he bowed, ever-so-slowly, at the waist.
“We belong to different ages, Lord Thatalocian.”
He received that smile again. But Yazdil held his tongue because the speaker was a [Lord]. Not an [Emir]. He had come from Terandria in a time when Roshal had embodied more than one port. He was…
What was his level? Higher? Lower? Yazdil thought they were approximates, and he had concluded immediately that despite the levels, Thatalocian could be killed. He was without resource. He had been helpless when he had first been found. If he had been…managed, he would have been an invaluable asset.
Giving him flesh was a mistake. To be clear, Yazdil had not been the one to do it and would have prevented it if he could. Roshal had too many sycophants and fools. Now, it was too late. Four other figures sat, letting Thatalocian speak. And while any one could die—all four were united in purpose.
Roshal had always had leaders. They rose and fell, and some were twisted, and some were mighty. Riqre had been one such. His death had not deprived the Slavers of Roshal of undue talent. Just another voice. Emir Yazdil had sat upon a throne of power.
Now he was sharing it, and he did not enjoy the feeling. The newcomers…had dangerous powers. For instance—the numbers that Thatalocian was so casually spouting?
“Aaah. Aah. Thatalocian. You made a mistake.”
A voice spoke from another pair of ‘lips’, a whispering reed of a ghost’s true body. Yazdil’s lip curled as he stared at not a person…but a flickering man. He stood with a hundred faces, shifting, his form never constant even as a ghost. For he had never had one body. A Jinn sat there, lounging, and even the [Slavers] and other Djinni looked on him with a kind of awe. Yazdil? Yazdil bared his teeth as his scales prickled.
He did not like this at all. And they were not even the…most famous names of Roshal. They had claimed most were lost to vengeance. The Rebel of Strings and Seamwalkers and something worse still. They had refused to tell him what, exactly, it was. He was almost certain he knew thanks to Erin Solstice, but their details were invaluable and they were withholding them all. So Roshal danced in uncertainty and upon their whims.
They had also claimed that Riqre and the most…infamous figures had never been among them to begin with. Was that a lie? It sounded too true to be a lie. Even so—the survivors had all been remarkable.
“The mistake reveals itself, Pazeral. Look. You see, Emir? Knowledge.”
One of the numbers that had been so carefully written down by Thatalocian was…glowing. The [Patternlord] looked at it covetously and with great delight. And Yazdil had to stare.
A number melted off the old piece of parchment. Dripped and ran, and the ink fell away. As if it did not fit. As if the page…slowly, the [Patternlord] wrote another number.
“Oh, oh. See how it shines? It makes so much more sense. Four, and four! And four.”
He cackled to himself as if there were something so beautiful about it. Yazdil’s breath caught. Because if this was true…
“No. No, they should all be dead. We confirmed they were dead. No!”
One of the lesser [Emirs] was holding her head. Moaning in abject terror. The others shivered, andThatalocian?
He laughed without a care in the world. He re-wrote the number, and now it gleamed.
Deaths of Rhir: 4.
“Who, I wonder? And how? Are they wounded? Will they emerge? I do not know. You see, I only know the shape of things. Not the reason. But do not discount my methods, Naga. Nor fret. We have come to balance the numbers. But let us then speak of little gifts to restart what we have lost. We shall repay it all in time.”
Secrets revealing themselves. Yazdil did not doubt Thatalocian’s Skills. But he fidgeted and plotted, desperately, while knowing that the other five would be rising like great edifices in Roshal. His authority was no longer in sway. He hated it.
What had become of his Roshal? He had sworn to defend it against outside threats to the last. Now…it had slipped away before anyone had come to burn it down.
My city. His eyes rose and the other five stared at him. They had to know his displeasure and they smiled.
Great ghosts were never meant to be given flesh. But Roshal broke every rule. And Thatalocian whispered.
“…But there is only one [Innkeeper] who matters at this moment. So let us discuss that, too. Have a care to listen well, Emirs all. We have much to do. We are all allies of convenience for now. Until we redraw the lines of the board—the time of Roshal’s great friendship should begin again.”
 
——
 
There was great evil, if you choose to call it that. Splendid good fighting it. A lot of people in between who were capable of reaching either side or bouncing between both.
In the end—it didn’t really matter, did it? The thing was, if you knew how the world worked, there was always great good and evil out there.
And the [Thief of Inheritance], Bviora, claimed that she knew all the stories. Or all the ones that mattered. She was simultaneously world-weary and green and new to all her pretense.
For instance, she drank a solid Firebreath Whiskey on the rocks like the hardest Drake [Soldier] or someone looking just to get drunk. She ordered like a pro.
The flush in her cheeks said quite clearly she could talk the talk but not walk the walk. Vetn was sipping from some far lighter Velrusk’s Claw. The thick, purple ooze was admittedly an acquired taste, but he thought it fit.
“Let me tell you something, Vetn. You’re playing on the world’s stage now. We are, I mean. If you screw up, we both die. You’re a Face—so I don’t think you need reminding, but you know who we’re stealing from.”
“The Slayer himself. I know.”
They were speaking openly, but even here, Vetn felt a prickle on his back. However, the safe-room was in Pallass, and they had half a day rented in it.
Safe-rooms were one of the best places to conduct clandestine meetings. They were neutral ground to almost all gangs and enchanted to keep you hidden, and listening spells were rarely put there. Oh, you could spy on people in one, but if anyone found out, the safe-room owner was going to be dead.
No questions asked. You couldn’t meddle with something like that. It wasn’t the ‘honor’ of thieves that kept this place safe. It was cold practicality.
Something that Vetn feared Bviora was lacking. He wouldn’t have even heard her out if not for that token that she had flashed at him. With it, he might be able to buy the criminal underworld off killing Tesy.
His friend was hiding in The Wandering Inn, sneaking out only to paint a few walls. Vetn had shouted at Tesy for doing it once, but it was like a compulsion, and the [Magical Painter] was barely eating, anyways.
Something had to be done, and Vetn had grown up helping Tesy get out of mistakes with Qwera. Despite this being Tesy’s fault…there was no question for Vetn whether he should do something. If Tesy was facing down all of the Walled Cities, not just Salazsar, Vetn would have to steal him away to another continent.
That was what it meant to care about someone. It was just that Vetn also didn’t want to die.
So he carefully weighed trying to steal from Bviora against helping her with her plans. He got paid for the attempt, of course, but as she pointed out—you didn’t get a second chance.
“The target is Klbkch the Slayer’s swords. They’re among the most valuable items the Antinium have…and the only thing I need. If they actually had any other Relics, this would be easier. But unfortunately, they don’t prize much, and kidnapping would only work for their Free Queen or the Slayer—and it’s too hard to do that to either. Forget the Small Queen or her staff. I thought about the new Antinium, but I can’t tell what they’re worth.”
Bviora laid out her reasoning quite openly, which surprised Vetn. But then—she talked like a pro.
She’d invited him to get a drink before they adjourned to the safe-room, took down a shot of Firebreath Whiskey, and she was—chatty. Like a [Mastermind] or an underworld veteran. Only the flush in her cheeks and the slight sense of nerves let Vetn know she was scared.
Oh, and her age. She couldn’t have been twenty yet…and that crystal hand. It was an odd feature for any [Thief] to have, and he suspected she’d gotten the old-fashioned punishment of the old choppity-chop for stealing in some city.
