But she was quick with it. He’d seen her use a Skill, and she’d nearly stolen Qwera’s goods with him watching her. In fact, he had the distinct impression the hand was more than a mere artifact.
It made every sense in his body tell him it was valuable. Bviora noticed his look and twitched her hand.
“You paying attention, Vetn?”
“Just wondering why you need me to steal from the Slayer. That hand’s good enough to make an attempt.”
She grimaced and massaged her crystal hand with her flesh-and-blood hand.
“You stopped me. I’m not as fast with it as I should be. Besides, even if I get the Slayer’s swords, you know that’s not the problem. How much do you know on the thieving history of the swords?”
Thieving history was an odd concept. Some items were so rare there were records of attempts made that any good [Thief] studied. The Heartflame Breastplate, for instance, was getting a bit of a reputation. Although since it was mainly worn by Keldrass, or other recipients, it was hard to get at.
“Let’s see. I never paid attention to the Antinium…I was too young to remember the first war. Didn’t I hear something about the swords?”
“Right. They’re not worth much to non-Antinium. They’re not enchanted, but they’ve been recovered after several battles where the Slayer ‘died’. Thing is…I heard the Antinium always got them back. Even when the Assassin’s Guild went after the Slayer and someone stole the swords—the Antinium always get them back.”
“Uh oh.”
Vetn didn’t like where this was going. Bviora smiled tightly.
“Want to guess how?”
“They hired someone to steal it back? Ransom?”
“Back when all of Izril was united against the Hives? Please. The Antinium probably didn’t even know to ransom it even if they had gold. No—whoever had the blades was murdered. Silent Antinium came for them. Snuck into cities—one time, the Flying Antinium literally slaughtered a city to get them back.”
“Ah. Small wonder no one goes for them. And they’re not Relics?”
“No magical signature, which is convenient for hiding them…but somehow, the Antinium always figure out where they are. I think they have their own means of—hearing? I dug up records claiming they have something called ‘Listeners’. Which is why we’re not talking about it anywhere close to Liscor. We’re also going silent on this mission.”
“To steal a bunch of blades that will get all the Antinium after us.”
Now came the hook. And sure enough, Bviora flashed that token at him with a cocky smile that was meant for him to both be allured by her open cleavage and/or the thrill of the mission and/or her confidence.
She got a 0 for 3 on all counts. But Vetn humored her as Bviora went on.
“It’s a standard hostage situation, only we trade the swords for something else, Vetn. The Antinium will play ball. They have to.”
“…Why don’t they just kill us and steal the swords?”
“Well, we hide them. And if they don’t answer my request, I’ll hurl them into the sea. No one’s tried disposing of the swords, you see. My notes on the Antinium say they don’t value much. Your job is just to help me pull the theft off, then run interference while we negotiate. You do that—the token is yours.”
She gave him another confident smile, and Vetn tried to count on his paws. He was counting how many ways this was going to go wrong.
Klbkch kills me. Erin kills me. The Antinium hold a grudge. We fail to hide the blades. They assassinate us. The deal falls through. I get such a huge bounty I have to flee Liscor. Erin puts a <Quest> on my head…
“This is looking worse and worse the more you speak.”
“Oh, come on. I thought you were a good [Thief]. Where’s your sense of adventure, man?”
She slapped him on the back, and Vetn lost his patience. He tried to grab her hand, but she twisted away with a grin. Yet his glare was serious.
“Alright, enough. Stop playing the old man at this. I have a few demands. One—I want the token with an impartial broker, not in your hands. If you get killed—I get paid for the attempt.”
“Hey, that’s standard, kid. Don’t act like this is my first heist.”
She scoffed, but she was getting nervous. Vetn growled in the back of his throat. She flashed him a grin with all her teeth, and his sense of—oddity heightened.
“Second—you stop doing that. And you tell me why I’m stealing the swords and who you are. How do you have that token?”
This time, Bviora’s smile flickered out, and she snapped back.
“You don’t get twenty questions. Do you always ask this much of a client on a job?”
Vetn’s growl grew deeper.
“I do when they flash things they should not have. That token is older than you, and it’s worth more than…if it’s fake, we have a problem.”
“It’s not fake. We’ll get it appraised and guaranteed. Believe me. Orchestra? Off Sellme’s back. It might not get the bounty from the Walled City off him, but the underworld will listen.”
Bviora insisted, rolling the token over her knuckles. Vetn just stared at the symbol that had been emblazoned on the metal. It was an old-fashioned coin, minted in a limited run and enchanted—like a Runner’s Seal, but this token was a currency only known to a few people.
This one? It had been cast out of Orichalcum, the purple metal that stood between Mithril and Adamantium in rarity. Vetn hadn’t seen more than a few things made of the rare metal, and he was a [Thief] who’d handled more artifacts than most Archmages.
But the sigil was what tipped him off.
“Tell me how you got it and what’s up with the hand. Or I walk, Bviora. You’re too suspicious. Some hotshot [Thief] comes into Liscor, throws around a lot of value, and acts like they’ve seen and done it all? And wants to bother the Antinium, who no one steals from? You’re decent at stealing….but you can’t be over Level 40. You’re below that, and so I’m the better [Thief].”
“You’ve seen me move. I was as fast as you!”
She bristled, and Vetn hesitated.
“Yes…but that was your hand, wasn’t it? Tell me. I’m serious. I don’t like this, and I think the odds are 80% we die. Even if it’s for Tesy, there are better ways for me to do it.”
Bviora folded her arms.
“You say that, but you have no good options but me. Gold won’t pay off Salazsar. Sit down, drink some milk, kid, and I’ll clue you in if you’re trustworthy.”
Again, it was the right lines…maybe the right lines if Vetn was speaking to a veteran [Thief]…delivered too fast, breathily, and by the wrong girl. He got up without even finishing the Velrusk Claw. Vetn spread his paws and walked out.
“You’ll be back!”
Bviora called out at his back. Vetn walked out the safe room door, and it magically sealed after him.
 
——
 
Three and a half hours later, he was in his rooms in Liscor when Bviora knocked on his door. When he didn’t answer, she hammered on it until he yanked the door open.
She was panting and looked like she’d been running.
“I ran over half of Pallass to find you!”
“I left. We’re done. See you.”
“Wait! Fine! I’ll tell you! Just not here!”
She dragged him back to the safehouse, looking a lot less confident. Vetn had called her bluff, and Bviora was muttering as she locked the saferoom door.
“But that should have worked! I know it works.”
“It works if I don’t think you’ll crack first. And it works if you’ve actually pulled that stunt off personally. I’ll grant you—you sound good, but you’re an amateur. Who are you?”
Vetn folded his arms, and Bviora turned beet red. She stammered for a second.
“I—I—oh, fine! I’ll tell you, but if you leak the information you’re dead, got it? It’s not me that’ll kill you. It’s all the others.”
“Yeah, yeah. What, are you part of some new [Thief] gang? Is the hand a gift from your employer?”
Vetn’s real guess was that Bviora was an agent of some other power, though why they’d sent a kid, he had no idea. But the truth…for the first time, he heard the entire part of the story, and not the mysteries. Bviora drew herself up, raised her hand, and he focused on it.
Jade crystal, shaped to mimic a real hand perfectly. It was one of the most high-level prostheses he’d ever seen, and he had suspected it had made her a better [Thief] than her level should be. Bviora flexed her hand—then spoke quietly.
“You’re right that I don’t deserve this hand, or the attitude. I cut my eyeteeth on stories of thieving. Good and evil—everyone’s got an agenda, you know. There’s people you can trust, wars, sides…it doesn’t matter to me. I mean, maybe I’d have fallen in love with someone or decided to support the King of Destruction if I’d been able to choose. But I’m here, in this back end of Izril’s stomach, by myself on a mission, Vetn. And I need the Thief of Clouds because…my rivals are getting the march on me.”
“Rivals?”
He raised his brows, and Bviora clarified.
“In the game. I have a sister who’s already stolen a march on me. Well, I’ve never met her, but she was behind the heist in Calanfer. Half-brothers, half-sisters, not all of ‘em Human—and we’re all after the same thing. Winner takes all. Literally, I’m afraid.”
She looked sad and distraught and determined all at once. And Vetn was scratching his head. Again, Bviora brandished the hand at him.
“I thought once you’d seen the coin and saw my hand you’d put it all together. But the stories ain’t what you think, are they? Believe me…they never wrote about the injuries. You have to know. Come on, now.”
The tone annoyed him, but he had to admit—there was something odd about the hand. Vetn glanced at the coin, and his brows snapped together. He knew what the coin was. It was one of a hundred favor-tokens, most redeemed, and anyone who had one would honor the request made.
There were few things more prestigious in the underground world. They had belonged to a living legend whose name echoed in this world still. But—he looked at Bviora, then the coin, then shook his head politely.
“No. No way.”
“Look at my hand.”
“You’re joking—”
“This hand can steal anything. I don’t even know how to use it, but I inherited it. Not all my half-siblings have a limb. The best of us do. Two legs, a hand, an eye, an ear—I heard good old Dad lost the top half of his genitals too, but I really hope no one got that.”
Vetn’s mouth opened. And it stayed open as he stared at the coin in her hands. And the sigil engraved there.
It was…the mark of a bolt of lightning being caught by a hand. The iconic moment that had given a certain [Thief], the [Thief] who had the world’s most popular book series, the one that Vetn and all the others were styled after, his name.
Thivian Stormless. Bviora raised her crystal hand, and her hair, which was faintly red when undyed, the mark of Terandrian royal blood, was semi-transparent under the dim light of the safehouse. Her eyes were deadly serious. That hand flexed, and Vetn felt like he could hear the roar of waves and see the smile of that famous man.
“I am Bviora Stormless. The Lightning Thief’s daughter. And I’ll be the one to settle this…game. To do it, I need to steal more than anyone else. And one of the things that’ll win me everything is in the Antinium’s clutches. No one else knows it, but I did my research, and while everyone is running around collecting artifacts and Relics, I’m after the real goal. If I obtain both Eyes of Baleros that my father took from the jungles—I will inherit everything.”
Desperate eyes. Determined eyes. Vetn stared into Bviora’s gaze and sensed a wild will and the daring to take on the Hives. He held his breath—then nodded.
“Okay. You nearly got me that time. But The Lightning Thief’s daughter part was too big a lie. Alright. See you.”
He turned and began to jog out of the safehouse. Bviora’s face turned pale.
“Wh—but I was telling the truth!”
“Sure you were. No second chances. See you.”
Vetn hurried out the door. Bviora strode after him—then saw him break into a run. And then she glanced at her hand and realized—he’d just stolen the Lightning Thief’s mark.
 
——
 
She almost got him. But Vetn had decided two things when Bviora told him who she ‘was’. She was probably telling the truth about the game and whatnot. But the Lightning Thief’s daughter? Please. Even if he believed her—he’d rather just take the token and go.
He was one of the fastest Gnolls in existence. Before Bviora had even realized she had been stolen from, he was down the entire street and rounding the bend. Vetn could beat your average Courier in a short footrace. He had also plotted his escape vector.
“—wait! You can’t—”
She was quick! The safehouse was five streets away from the main railing of the 6th Floor, which overlooked Pallass’s lower floors. Vetn saw her emerge from a long thoroughfare just as he was at the railing.
Heads turned—but Vetn didn’t slow as he reached the railing. He just leapt—straight over the railing of the 6th Floor and dropped. Some people cried out, but most probably assumed he was either copying the now-famous Flying Gnoll of Pallass or he was a Street Runner.
Vetn flew, heading straight for the center of Pallass. The bazaar—and then he’d race out Pallass. He’d literally run to Salazsar and turn in the Lightning Mark if he had to. Bviora was out of luck.
Vetn was passing the third floor and preparing for landing. [Feathercatch Roll]! It worked if he timed it right. If he did it wrong, he broke something. But he’d fallen from greater heights without—
The Thief of Clouds sensed something. It came behind him like a storm. It reached for him, and he twisted in midair. A Garuda was diving past him, shouting and asking if he was okay. But the Garuda’s laughing-concerned face froze as Vetn entered a world of extreme speed.
[Enhanced Reactions: Stolen Seconds of Theft]! One of his great Skills activated. The Level 43 [Renowned Masterthief of Treasures] looked back—
And something was coming. It snaked across the streets of the 6th Floor, over the railing, and down through the air after him.
There was water on his fur. No—a storm. Vetn’s eyes went round as he tried to dodge in midair.
Was that a hand? It glowed. It came at him so fast—he went to block it, but the Skill activated, and a hand of jade grabbed his shoulder—and he heard a voice.
It sounded like Bviora’s, but laced with thunder. And a man’s voice. Vetn flashed—
 
——
 
“Huh?”
—And he was sitting in the safehouse. The Lightning Mark was in Bviora’s hand, and she was panting and clutching her crystal hand in the other. Sweat streamed down her face, and the hand was glowing—
