Vetn stared around. Then he strode towards the door. He opened it—ran outside, and looked around. Then he saw a Garuda flapping lazily up through the skies, unconcerned.
The same Garuda who’d been diving next to him not a moment before. The Garuda waved as he spotted Vetn staring up at him!
“Hey, get a flying pair of wings and join me!”
He didn’t recognize Vetn. The Thief of Clouds had gone back in—
“[I Stole a Better Tomorrow]. His great Skill. You’d think I could use it on the Slayer, couldn’t you?”
Vetn whirled. Bviora was on her knees. She looked up at him, pale-faced, then collapsed onto her back. She was breathing shallowly, and he knelt next to her.
“Th-that—”
“Told you. Hey. I’m gonna—just take care of—”
Her eyes rolled up in her head. Bviora passed out as Vetn grabbed her. He stared down at that hand—and then he heard it.
That great story began to blow across his fur. And now he was part of it.
 
——
 
“Hola, Vetn. How’s it hanging? Cómo estás? That’s Spanish, Mrsha.”
Erin whispered out of the side of her mouth to Mrsha as Vetn and a young woman entered the inn. He had her arm slung around his shoulder, and he looked completely shocked.
“Everything alright, Vetn? Who’s your friend?”
Lyonette instantly took notice of the almost-unconscious Bviora. Her head was lolling, and they both smelled a bit of sweat and drinks.
“This? Um. A friend! She had too much to drink, and I’m letting her lie in my room. I hope that’s alright?”
“Hmm. Why don’t you…let her rest in a spare guest-room? That’s quite alright. Dame Ushar can help you.”
Lyonette looked slightly askance at the idea of Vetn putting Bviora in his bed and being unaccompanied. He didn’t even seem to get the implication. Not that Lyonette probably thought he was a bad guy.
“She alright?”
“Absolutely. Thank you, Erin. Did you, uh—how’s things? Have you been doing any witchcraft recently? Post any <Quests>? Or is it just—the Solstice effect?”
Vetn gave Erin a strange look, and the [Innkeeper] put her hands on her hips.
“I’ll have you know not everything is my fault! Um. What did I do?”
“Nothing!”
Vetn hurried upstairs with Dame Ushar helping Bviora. Erin turned to Mrsha, who was writing her homework, an essay on the merits of growing wheat over Yellats given Izril’s biome, on a piece of paper. Mrsha looked up.
 
…the inferior Yellat does not fare well in the humidity of Izril’s climes. And while one must admire the industrious way in which the plant goes, forsaken of much tending, the propensity to rot, I feel, means the good folk of Izril must turn to hardier plants such as the auspicious wheat stalk. 
Is it not nobler to see gold rise from the field rather than see an orange Yellat toil in the dirt? I could go on about the difference in the two plants from a purely aesthetic point of view, but my most excellent friend and penpal, Fetohep of Khelt, might take umbrage, so I will conclude by saying…
 
She scribbled on a notecard and held it up.
He’s a suspicious guy. Thieves are. Maybe he stole something?
Erin scowled and put her hands on her hips.
“He better not have. Tesy is already in huge trouble, and if Vetn’s stealing, he’s in huge hot water. But he’s always out of the inn doing…suspicious stuff. You’re right, Mrsha. And he didn’t even notice I was on my feet!”
Erin gestured at her standing, upright position, looking indignant. True, she was leaning on the table, but she was upright! A month of rest had done her good, and Mrsha smiled approvingly.
I have already tendered my congratulations. But perhaps some fine vittles in the sugary way would do for tonight’s celebrations?
“Oh, you—fine, a milkshake!”
Erin tickled Mrsha until the Gnoll girl giggled. Then Mrsha ran over and presented her essay to Lyonette.
“Are you done? So fast, Mrsha! And so eloquent! Erin, look at her essay!”
The [Innkeeper]’s own good mood turned to slight hesitation as she read the most advanced essay for a kid Mrsha’s age in school she’d ever seen. But Lyonette was delighted, and Mrsha was done with her homework, so the girl got a snack.
“How about a banana smoothie and…some crackers? And what do you want to do?”
I want the Lightning Thief stories!
Mrsha immediately dragged Lyonette over to the fireplace and plomped herself in her mother’s lap. A smoothie and some sweet crackers from Ishkr and Mrsha bounced up and down as one of her favorite books came over.
Nanette instantly appeared, and Lyonette winced as her growing girl ground her bones against the table chair.
“Oof! Don’t jump, sweetie. You’re getting, uh, slightly heavy! Alright. I suppose I should have our smoothies too. I think they’re going to sell, Erin, so long as we can get fresh fruit from Oteslia. Where’s the book?”
“Are you reading the first adventures, Mrsha? Can I join in?”
Mrsha almost slapped Nanette’s hand away from the cracker bowl—but after a moment let her. The two had made up, so Lyonette smiled encouragingly and called out.
“More crackers, Ishkr? And another smoothie for Nanette and me since Mrsha’s so generous. Where’s the book? Oh, thank you, Ser Sest!”
The [Knight] had gone up to the rooms to get it. Everything was just right for a good story session, and Lyonette was reaching for it when Mrsha and Nanette interjected.
Wait! Ser Sest must read the book! His mellifluous voice is essential!
“That’s right! Can Ser Sest read, please? He has [Excellent Diction] and [Engaging Discourse]! And he can do the voices and parts better than anyone, Miss Lyonette!”
The [Princess]’ face fell, and Ser Sest coughed and turned red as the children begged for the superior reader to take over. Only Numbtongue was better—and he would often just start reading the book since he’d never heard the story himself.
“I, er, would be delighted to let you and Miss Mrsha relax, Your Highness.”
“I suppose we could let that happen. I think I do a perfectly wonderful Captain He’re, myself.”
Lyonette sniffed, but Ser Sest had opened the book to the bookmark, and he began to read aloud as Erin smiled in the corner—and began staring at her assignment.
She was training to beat Shaestrel. And one of her attempts to ‘train’ was staring at a picture. It was one of those changing pictures that was either a person’s face or something else if you looked at it from the right…perspective.
But she listened, and upstairs, a young woman began to wake after a half-hour to a story she knew by heart.
 
——
 
…the Lightning Thief strode into the bar and sat down at the table. “You must be Captain He’re. Nice to meet you, kid,” he said. She looked up with the most offended expression any Dullahan had ever worn. “Kid? And you must be my contact. It is not ‘Captain’—I am a [Mercenary] and I’ve left my company. One more word of disrespect and I am leaving.”
He sat back in a chair, put his feet up, and she rose to her feet so fast she nearly knocked the table over. Her armor was bright steel, good quality for a warrior, but hardly a sign of wealth or achievement. And he was not yet the Lightning Thief, just a young [Thief] who had made his mark stealing from Archmage Zelkyr’s Golems. But he smiled as quick as his hands, which had already poured himself a drink from her pitcher.
“Go ahead and leave if you want. You’ll be back.”
He’re stormed out of the bar. But she was back six minutes later and halted in front of his table.
“Give me my money pouch back.”
She slammed an armored fist down, and Thivian Stormless laughed. A [Bard] was tuning his guitar at the back of the tavern, and a few heads turned as the young man threw back his head. He’re seized his collar, but before she could headbutt him—
 
Vetn sat upstairs in his room, lost for words. Bviora, by contrast, had all of them, but little energy. She could barely sit upright.
“See? I…pushed too hard. Convinced you, didn’t I? Got anything to drink? And eat?”
“Let me get some.”
When he hurried back into the room, Bviora was checking her hand.
“I picked my mark, too. You didn’t try to cut my hand off. Not that it’d…do you much good. I inherited this. Cut it off and it’s just a magical artifact.”
“Has anyone tried?”
She gave him a tight smile that told him his answer.
“Most don’t guess, like you. But a few people have—and some just want the magic itself. Unfortunately, it’s hard to use the power.”
“Hard? You just used a Level 60 Skill. Or was it Level 70? Was he actually Level 71 when he died? This is unbelievable. How—”
Bviora raised a hand, panting.
“You’re in with me now. No turning back. And I can’t answer all the questions. Not yet. Just—just know I got all his hand-Skills. Or a lot of them. But I can’t just fire them off.”
“Do you only get a few per day? Per week, then?”
“Worse.”
The young woman gulped for air, but she was rallying. As she took a bite of some crackers and smoothie, looking intrigued but happy with the food, she explained.
“I won’t be able to use Skills for an entire day at least. The higher I pull, the more energy it takes. And it locks my own Skills down…it’s a kind of tradeoff.”
“I’ve never heard of something like this before.”’
“Yeah, well. How many people do you know who have an actual limb? I’ve had this since I was twelve.”
“Did you have to lose…?”
Vetn saw Bviora freeze, and her face went cold. She spoke without looking at him.
“There’s a lot the books don’t tell you about the Lightning Thief. Read them first, then ask me. Although the series isn’t done—he must be close to sixty in the books. Believe me, he lived a lot longer than whenever they’ll end. And left a lot of kids behind.”
“So you’re—”
Bviora gave Vetn a tight smile.
“One of his many children. Great grandchildren, in my case.”
“Whoa. That seems…”
The Lightning Thief had stolen from Zelkyr near the end of the Archmage of Golem’s lifespan, but he wasn’t that old. He was the oldest living legend still in popular circulation. Bviora grimaced.
“Listen, he fathered his first children before he was sixteen. There’s plenty of time for him to create a huge family—and they all lived like he did. I’m one of dozens competing for his inheritance.”
The Lightning Thief’s inheritance? Vetn’s head was spinning.
“You mean, more than his hand?”
Another sad look crossed Bviora’s face, but she was determined now, eating fast and speaking faster.
“There’s more at stake than you know, Vetn. We’re all working at cross-purposes. Some love him, some hate his guts. Most are good at stealing or just fast. I was lucky to get the hand—not so lucky in having a crew. You know He’re? Her daughter had an entire team helping her do her heists.”
“Wait…the Dullahan [Mercenary] had a child with—”
“Oh, dead gods. Read the books. It’s pretty obvious they had kids. Why do you think he always appears with a new woman every book? Half the ones are having a child as he’s sailing across the seas or—I don’t have time to tell you everything. Just help me steal the blades and you’ll see the rest. There’s more than just that mark if you help me. Thief’s honor. Lightning Thief’s honor.”
There was no greater vow—or had been. Vetn sat there, aghast, as Bviora looked at him. Now that she had his help, there was no question of that, and she looked triumphant as she sat up.
“Like I said, you’re part of history now, Vetn. Everything you thought you were doing? Your friend, your thefts—it’s time to leave your mark on history.”
She said that as she sat in The Wandering Inn, right above an [Innkeeper] staring at a piece of paper and trying to beat a faerie at chess. But that was the thing. Bviora said all that while knowing about Erin Solstice, without a hint of joking or irony in her voice.
Because she believed it.
 
——
 
Stories, tales, and reasons. Good and bad. They made up this world and informed everything that came next. How they were told mattered. Some were grand, others humble.
But they all went together because characters met and had lives. So, as Bloodfeast moved and the Lightning Thief’s granddaughter plotted, amidst it all, as winter began to reach its zenith, a man polished a helmet, nervously, but thoroughly.
His name was Normen. He was untested, unsure of the armor he wore or the new blades he carried, and least of all of his class. Yet he was a [Knight] in the Order of Solstice. He had been told that the only other living [Knight], Rabbiteater, was soon to depart Terandria for Izril, and he was wondering…wondering when he would be called upon.
For he had no quest, no vows, nor deeds to accomplish. He was a [Knight], but one without purpose. And perhaps he was not ready, but he wondered if it was time. So he slowly donned the helmet, and from that…
The Order of Solstice began to write their own story.
