They found Erin half-buried in a huge snowdrift. Bird was ducking beneath the ledge of his tower, and once they excavated Erin, the [Innkeeper] shook her fist up at him.
“Bird! I could have died!”
“But you didn’t! Another victory for me! I’m very sorry.”
Even by the standards of The Wandering Inn, that was surprising. Fortunately, there was a precedent; Erin could have sworn she’d sensed Goblins and Antinium sneaking onto the roof to go skating into the snow, so Bird had probably known she’d be fine. A Worker using their backshell to slide down the roof got a lot more velocity than she did.
Ryoka Griffin was just coming down off her heart-attack as she helped Erin get inside, and the snow was dusted off the [Innkeeper] and she was unfrozen near a fire. Ishkr brought her wheelchair down as Erin relaxed.
“Bird threw you out of his tower, Erin? Seriously?”
“I kept tickling him. That’s consequences for you. Plus, I’m fine. Just wet. Jeeze, it’s cold out there. And I need to talk to you now.”
Erin shivered. Ryoka opened her mouth, then craned her neck to one side.
“Oh no. Someone stop Sammial. No sledding off the roof!”
“You can’t stop me! Hethon. Let’s go. H—”
Hethon grabbed his brother, and the two boys only stopped fighting when Erin looked their way. They froze, and she narrowed her eyes, but the [Innkeeper] quite deliberately pretended she didn’t notice the two Veltras boys.
“They’re seeing Goblins and Antinium, Erin. Trust me, that’s good for the future of both races.”
Ryoka, predictably, made all her arguments in advance. Erin glared at her friend.
“I didn’t say anything. And you don’t have to bring stuff up.”
“Sorry.”
The two sat there awkwardly for a moment before Erin looked up and smiled in relief.
“Aha! Eggnog! See, this is the stuff Imani doesn’t sell. Want some?”
She offered a mug to Ryoka, and the Wind Runner eyed it.
“Is it genuine eggnog?”
“Yep. Cinnamon, eggs, custard…”
“Pass.”
For the second time that day, the Wind Runner made the [Innkeeper]’s eyes narrow dangerously. Erin shook her head slowly and sadly.
“I don’t understand how you live, Ryoka. It’s eggnog. It’s winter, and Christmas is, uh…premature in some parts of the world, but we did that too! How do you have no Christmas spirit?”
“I want to live longer than you will, Erin.”
“Pssh. You just don’t enjoy things. See? Nanette and Mrsha love it! Right, kids?”
Nanette and Mrsha were sipping the eggnog greedily around a table. Ryoka scoffed.
“They just like sweet things. You could feed them burnt sugar and kids would eat it. You’ve got to realize some of our traditional foods are literally killing us, Erin. Marshmallows? Eggnog? It’s sugar and fat.”
“Oh, look at Miss Dietary here. Desserts are great!”
Erin pounded a fist on the table in outrage. Ryoka held up her hands.
“Whoa, whoa. I agree desserts are great. I’m all for dessert. I’ll take some viennetta. That’s classy and tasty.”
She made a show of looking around as if expecting her order to show up. Erin Solstice sat back in her chair and stared up at the ceiling, defeated.
Now that she was back, Ryoka Griffin was throwing some proverbial hands. Which, in fairness, tended to be where she excelled as opposed to actual fisticuffs.
“Ryoka. I hold a grudge, you know. I’ve had a bad day. You don’t wanna get on my bad side.”
The [Innkeeper]’s warning didn’t notably faze Ryoka. The Wind Runner raised her brows.
“Spoken like a real [Tyrant]. Ever thought about visiting Chandrar? Nerrhavia’s Fallen would love to meet you.”
Twice. Twice she went for the low blow! Erin closed her eyes for a moment. But the reminder of one of the people she knew, Nerrhavia—who would probably have put a scorpion in Ryoka’s bed for half the insults—made Erin refocus.
“I hear Nerrhavia loves its war crimes. You should take Tyrion to visit. I’m sure you’ll love General Pellican or whatever his name is too. But I didn’t want to talk about that.”
The Wind Runner exhaled. She and Erin looked at each other, then relaxed. Ryoka spread her hands with a rueful smile and accepted a cup of tea.
“Alright. Alright, how can I help you? Is it about Shaestrel? She came down bragging about beating you.”
“She brags? I know she’s cheating!”
Erin was outraged, but Ryoka shook her head.
“She seems to think it’s an honest victory. Mind you, she might just be doing it to piss you off. How can I help?”
“She’s winning when she should be drawing, at least. And every time I get to an…‘inflection point’, she starts playing perfect games. I think it’s whenever I push her to the point where another lost piece of sub-optimal play would lose her the game. But I can’t tell how she knows. Bird said—well, Shaestrel seems to be playing a game different from the one I’m playing. Or…doing something weird. Do you know what I’m talking about? You went to the lands of the fae, so I need your insight.”
Ryoka Griffin frowned, resting her hand with the missing two fingers on the table and drumming her good fingers as Nanette peeked over with sudden interest.
“I told you about perspective, didn’t I? It sounds like that’s what Shaestrel wants you to learn. Or something like it. But I’m not better at chess after learning that trick. It’s close, though.”
“…Perspective? You didn’t tell me all about—oh, you mean turning them aliens into guys with toy nerf guns? I thought that was magic.”
The Courier held up a hand.
“No, no. It’s the way the entire land of the fae works. It’s—well, it’s the way any world works. Layers of perspective. It’s more literal over there, but I’ve seen through magic here. Like invisible Centaurs and stuff.”
She stared past the [Innkeeper]’s shoulder, and Erin’s head didn’t move.
“Yeah, I’ve sensed Palt doing that. My inn, my rules. He’s just slipping my staff his stupid cigars. I’ll have someone break his legs later.”
A shamefaced Centaur reappeared and trotted away quickly. Ryoka shook her head.
“—But that’s what I mean. I saw through that without a Skill.”
Erin scooched up to the table with sudden interest.
“Explain it to me again how you did it. Maybe I can learn from it. You told me the story in the garden, but we were a bit distracted by everything.”
“What part?”
“Um…all of it. Do it from the beginning.”
Ryoka did a double-take.
“Wh—all of it? Erin, that’s like a huge tale.”
“Well, we’ve got time. Or are you busy today?”
Ryoka Griffin had actually sort of been wanting to go for a run and then maybe tour Pallass and—she decided that Erin had a point. It wouldn’t hurt to tell the story again. And from the way a little witch was moving her chair over and Mrsha was looking around—
Well, why not? And here was the curious thing. Even if some of the inn knew what Ryoka had gone through, they had only the facts.
Just the facts about her land of the fae visit without the details like the Faerie King or the big reveals. Erin and Ryoka had kept a lot secret, but the guests had never heard…
How Ryoka Griffin told her own story. And suddenly, the Wind Runner was sitting there, trying to tell them how she had gone to a world beyond.
How did Ryoka Griffin see those events? She sat with her raven-black hair being braided by Nanette and Mrsha to have something to do, sipping from a cup of tea, looking uncomfortable and embarrassed by turns. That awkward self-reflection never entirely left her until she got into the story. Then she spoke with an odd confidence that made you believe what she said was true—because she was certain of this when she sounded doubtful about everything else in the world.
“I…it was a mistake, a kind of disaster and accident combined. It generally is with me. I don’t mean for it to go like that, but when I realized Erin needed help, I convinced myself my way was the only one that would work, and I ran around getting the pieces in order. But it was luck that brought it together. You know about how I found the portal to the lands of the fae, right?”
That was more known as many of the inn’s guests had been there or heard the story. They nodded or whispered for clarification as Ryoka took a breath.
“Well—when I actually got to the Lands of the Fae, they were empty. I stumbled through that portal into a field of flowers. And like an idiot, I never noticed—no, wait. Let me back up. When I exited the portal, I was on a hilltop with flowers. And there were thousands, maybe millions of hills, each with a stone portal. Like a Stonehenge, or more formal doors in some. It felt like a vast crossroads—only, most of the doors were locked. Including the one I came through.”
This was not how she’d told the story to Erin, with the details. The [Innkeeper] put her chin in her hands and listened as Mrsha scrunched her face up, trying to imagine it.
How big was this hilly place? Bigger than the Floodplains by a little? A lot?
Ryoka blinked at the question.
“Endless, Mrsha. Whatever you could imagine—it was bigger. Look up at the High Passes just outside, you see? When I…the first thing I saw when I began to look around for life, any life, was a forest. It seemed small, at first. But the closer I got—you move fast and slow in that place. Fast, between each realm. One second you’re running and the next you’re in the forest. But then you move slow, until you find the exit. So I was jogging toward the forest. Then I looked up, and the trees were taller than the High Passes. Each one like the tree of Oteslia. World trees. Countless years old.”
Her breath caught as she stared up, as if seeing them again. Until a voice brought her down to earth.
“Impossible. That has to be some exaggeration, Ryoka.”
Lyonette scoffed mildly. She gave Ryoka a look of frank disbelief. The Wind Runner gave her a look of actual annoyance.
“It’s only impossible until you see it, Lyonette. If what I’m saying sounds inconceivable to you—well, it is. But it’s true. When you hear it, you’ll think I’m exaggerating, and that’s fine. If you ever see it—then you’ll know it’s true. That land is the land of stories. It is the heart of every tale about gold at the end of a rainbow. In our worlds, there is no gold. There’s no tooth faerie, and there’s no Santa Cl—”
Erin kicked Ryoka so hard the Wind Runner’s eyes watered. Ryoka caught herself.
“—But it’s all true there. When you say ‘the forests are gone and the Treants dead, the Dryads extinct’, it’s true. When you talk about species gone from any world, it’s true. But over there—it’s the heartland of stories. Fables and myths walk there. I felt small as a gnat, running through that forest. And I came across legends with every second and hour.”
“Like the dudes with the sword?”
Kevin’s eyes went round as he looked at Erin. She had a way of un-exaggerating everything, and Ryoka was exceptionally narked to hear how Erin described the King Arthurs three. She had a solemn awe about her, like someone who had witnessed a revelation.
“Not yet. Shush, Erin.”
“Aw, but you only learn the perception trick later. I changed my mind. Skip to—”
Erin was shushed by half a dozen hands, claws, and paws at once. The [Innkeeper] sighed and folded her arms, but then began listening again. Because Ryoka was talking about fascinating things.
“One of the things I saw was a spider. Or rather…an egg with a spider. I can’t believe I forgot it. It was in the center of a faerie ring—that’s a circle of mushrooms—in a clearing in the forest. I looked into the center, and there it sat. A beautiful, translucent spider egg with a little spider inside. It looked like a jewel, waiting to hatch.”
“Spiders don’t sound that fascinating, Miss Ryoka.”
Nanette shuddered, and Ryoka hesitated.
“No, I know it doesn’t. But this one…argh. I can’t describe it, and I never could. But this one was like the archetype of all spiders. If it hatched, it would be a king or leader among spiders. Maybe it would become a giant, or else the primogenitor of a new kind of spider that would be better than any before it. Maybe it would be a terrible destroyer, a pest upon worlds. But there it was, in a little egg. Dangerous. Magical. Do you see what that place was?”
She talked about the lands of the fae like everything there was realer, more magical, and better than this world. Not to deride this one. Sammial and Hethon, pulling chairs up, looked at each other.
Ryoka quite liked this world, with all its faults and foibles. She spoke of the lands of the fae like she didn’t belong. Like someone honored with a visit. Like everything there was something to dream of on mundane nights, to aspire to.
Her eyes were wistful as she described Nama, the mysterious and friendly furry woman, guardian of one of the world trees. And the sudden feeling of being an intruder, of the Wild Hunt bearing down on her.
“—Then I met three men, standing around a great piece of weathered stone in the forest. Just like before, I stumbled upon it, a sacred place. Erin might describe them as ‘three guys’, but they weren’t. You all—aside from Kevin, Imani, and Erin—have no context for them. So let me tell it to you like this. One man stood there in three ages. As a boy before he found his destiny, as a young man in his prime and glory, and as an elderly man at the end of his life, wounded and dying. They were all captured at a great moment in their life, and there they stand forever. For what lies in front of them is an ancient stone, and embedded in it is a sword. A magical sword.”
“A Relic?”
Menolit was trying to parse this. Ryoka shook her head.
“Beyond a Relic. In that stone sits what they call the Sword in the Stone that only a true [King] can draw, Menolit. It has many names. It’s said whoever holds it can never lose a battle. He who draws that blade would become King of Britain, and the man who stands there is King Arthur. The King of Chivalry, the King of Knights. There is no one who can match him. Not the King of Destruction, not…anyone.”
Oh, the burning ears of monarchs across the world. But Ryoka told that story straight-faced now, and Mrsha slowly wrote this all down to her best penpal friend, who was suddenly very interested in what she had to say. Kevin was purely open-mouthed, but Ryoka kept going.
