“That’s right. Him. You may not know him, but he was right there. Boy, King, and dying man. Each one was there, frozen in time. Like—like Erin’s [Immortal Moments]. You see, this is the moment before each one picks up the sword again. The boy will draw it and become king. The young man will be granted another blade by the Lady of the Lake—or perhaps Excalibur will be reforged. I don’t recall that part. But the old man…at the end of his life, with his kingdom in ruins, dying, he will return that blade to the lake. And each one knows his fate, how he will die, and he can choose not to fulfill his destiny. But he will take that sword. He always will.”
She raised her head, eyes sparkling with tears and rubbed at her face angrily.
“I’m butchering this tale completely. I’m so sorry. I don’t know how to say it.”
The emotion was there. Ryoka clarified again as her guests sat, spellbound for all Ryoka was no [Bard]. Numbtongue sat there, demanding to know more along with the rest.
“So a boy, a man, and an old man stand there. Can they move?”
“Oh, yes. They can move. They’re…it’s like they’re sort of immortal. The man himself died long ago, I think. In another world. But Arthur’s legend remains. You see? His story is there, and all three met me. I was…well, I escaped the Wild Hunt. I was never colder, but the moment I entered that glade, the pursuit stopped. I don’t think they wanted to anger him, or perhaps it was respect. And the Arthurs were quite confused. But gracious. They said someone had been touching their sword.”
Erin gulped as Ryoka’s head swung towards her. Kevin was currently chewing a handkerchief to pieces.
“You what? This is a joke, right?”
Ryoka exhaled.
“No, it’s not, Kevin. And trust me, Erin’s just a sword-touching thief in the night. She took nothing but a memory, if that. The real thing…when they heard my story, the Arthurs three decided to help me. I think they were sort of bored, you know. They were all telling each other tales of what would happen or reminiscing about the good and the bad.”
“You would think they would share notes on how to do it better rather than leave their kingdom to fall to ruin.”
Lyonette was mildly appalled by their lack of foresight. Ryoka rolled her eyes.
“That’s not how it works, Lyonette. It’s fate. The instant one takes the sword, they vanish and don’t remember this. Only in this place do they choose. You see? They know what will happen, and they still choose their fate for the good of their land. That’s…the heart of nobility. That is the King of Knights.”
She was pulling something out of her pocket. And it had a glow, for all it was a scrawl written on a scrap of parchment. But already, some of her audience were scoffing, like the practical Goblins who wouldn’t pull a sword out of a stone because it was stuck in there good—and probably cursed by the sounds of it.
But the [Knights]? Normen, Ser Dalimont, Ser Sest, Ser Lormel, Dame Ushar? Awash. Awash with tears. Some of them could not have even said why, only that it spoke to their class.
And when they saw that name—Normen’s heart leapt so hard he thought it would burst.
 
Arthur Pendragon.
 
An autograph for a great fan. Ryoka Griffin shyly showed it around as Erin, professional sword-toucher and Grandmaster of Scales, Gnome laugher and meeter and greeter and hamburger server of legends—felt the first moment of true jealousy.
The Wind Runner looked as proud as could be. She leaned forwards now confidentially.
“Between you and me—of the three, I liked the young Arthur the most.”
“The boy? Why? Wasn’t the young man the best?”
Kevin was incredulous, but Ryoka hesitated.
“…He was sort of full of himself, if I’m honest. I imagine you would be if you were the greatest king of your time with the most legendary knights at your beck and call. The old one? He—was sad and noble, but he was encouraging the boy to do it all again, even though he knew the pain that was coming to him. He thought it was all worth it, despite the cost and his kingdom burning. His own son killed him, and he didn’t seem to regret raising his own child like that. No. I didn’t like the older Arthurs. But the younger one looked at them. He saw their mistakes, and all he wanted to know was whether he’d do more good than harm. Whether he’d save his kingdom. That’s the one I liked.”
She looked fondly at that signature from the boy who would be king and then cleared her throat.
“Right. Where was I? I think they were bored, but perhaps…maybe they were doing it because I was someone who needed help. And that is who Arthur was. A king who went on quests and adventures, just like his kingdom. So guess what he did? He drew the sword from the stone. Then—he challenged the entire Wild Hunt to buy me time to keep going.”
The story continued, and even Erin Solstice was drawn into it. She listened as Ryoka kept speaking and noticed something. In her long tale, as Ryoka met a child with a stick in a dangerous city full of tricks and broken glory, as she travelled across a great refugee camp and made bargains, stole a handbag, and met other lost souls—she talked about them like that.
Each one, from the silly aliens to kind Nama, to the glorious king waiting for her, like they were all alive and vibrant, each one unique and special. And she was the careless, lost observer blundering around and needing help.
Perhaps that was how she saw herself.
 
——
 
Stories. Stories were interesting because, as any great storyteller knew, how you told the story was as important as the details themselves. And there was no truer test of a person than…how they told their own story.
Whether they did it humbly or if they lied. How they focused on some details or left out important elements. What they thought mattered—that was the fascination of autobiographies, especially when contrasted with other perspectives.
History was far more entertaining when it was told from a first-hand account. The great overview was important, but everyone was the hero of their own story.
Erin would get her lesson on perspective in the end, but as Ryoka Griffin told her story, someone else was telling a story…that related to the inn, but from the perspective of people who weren’t Erin. As they saw it.
“Some have called her the ‘sky’. And I agree she is. But she was never a sky to me. She was a door.”
“You what now?”
Anand of the Free Antinium turned his head left as he tried to nail another board into place. The framework of the boat was done; the keel that was apparently so essential had finally been produced according to the standards of the person listening to him.
A Drowned Woman. She sat on a rock, shivering now and then, but her fear of the Antinium was abated. Her name was Torthe Suorloks, and she was a captive of the Hives.
He felt bad about that, but Wrymvr had said he would personally eat her or melt her if she ran away or Anand let her go. But if she made a working boat…she got to live.
It was a deal Torthe clung to, and Anand had been the one who gave her food and realized she was sleeping in a dirt hole rather than a bed. She hadn’t warmed to him, exactly, but she was listening to stories.
One of them was about the [Innkeeper]. Even the Drowned Folk had heard of Erin Solstice, and Torthe, who clung to any scrying orb recordings of the outside world, had wanted to know more about Erin the moment she knew that Anand had met her from the start.
He had been there. But Anand did not tell the story like Pawn did.
Pawn told the story from his pulpit, eyes shining like his faith, to the other Antinium. He brought the vision of a sky down into the Hives.
Anand told the story methodically, like the nails he and other Workers were hammering into the ship, checking his work. Logically, piece by piece.
Tok, tok, tok.
“When I was but a Worker with no name, I did not understand what the Free Queen was doing. Defending her Hive, trying to expand and improve us. I was just a Worker. I fought, I watched other Workers and Soldiers die, and sometimes I went above. The first time I saw the sky, I was frozen. I could not move for…half an hour, perhaps.”
“Because it was foreign? And you felt you might fall into the sky? It was like that for me when I was a girl. I’d walk around on deck with a rope around my waist because I thought I’d fly up.”
Torthe looked hugely embarrassed at the admission and glared at him twice as hard as if to make sure he wouldn’t laugh. She had a curiously slick body and webbed skin between arm and chest and along her legs.
Half stingray. Her voice had that resonant tone. As for the stinger…well, it seemed like the Drowned Folk adaptation had struggled with the stingray body. She had several spines on her back that made walking behind her dangerous.
“No. I understood the sky would not do that to me. I was just amazed because it was beautiful, and I have lived my entire life underground. You see? I was stunned, as my people are, because the tunnels do not change and have little color—and Liscor and the world beyond is filled with sun and moons, light and smells and shapes. But when I thought about it—of course this world existed. I just did not realize it.”
Torthe frowned as she sat forwards a bit. Anand plucked another nail from the bucket one of his hands held.
“Erin was like that. A door. When I met her, I thought I would die. Klbkch had already made us do a dangerous job unearthing Liscor’s crypts. I had seen Workers die, and I had no great expectations for my life. But the first time she met us, she offered us food.”
“…So? You were charmed by a woman’s smile?”
The tone Torthe was using was slightly offensive, but Anand knew he had to clarify. She had been very worried about how she would be treated in captivity, but had been reassured by the fact that Antinium had no desire to mistreat their prisoners. Or genitalia.
“No, Torthe. I thought her lips looked weird, actually. But no one had ever offered me food before. Let alone good food. No one had ever been kind to me, and like seeing the sky, I was stunned. Then I realized something. I thought, ‘oh, of course. This can happen.’ No one had ever been kind. No one had ever taught us a game. But it could happen. And once we realized that, we Workers…that was how we became Individual. Do you understand?”
Then the Drowned Woman fell silent, and her eyes looked begrudgingly sympathetic. The Workers around Anand were listening in. They were volunteers from every Hive save the Twisted Hive, but mostly from the Armored Queen, who liked Anand. They listened so hard to the [Strategist]’s calm explanation.
“When I realized what could be done, it was as if the world became full of doors. And I asked myself whether any of the things I thought were ‘real’ were true. Belgrade was another door. He saw a world in which our Hive would not have to sacrifice thousands of lives each month against monsters. Erin Solstice is a grand door. A terrifying one.”
“How’s a door fucking scary?”
Anand lifted another board up and held it in place as two Workers nailed one side, then began his side.
“It is scary because you can fall through a door. And once you open it, you can never go back. She is frightening, I think, because she can turn a wall you lean on or the ground into a door. And then you realize nothing is permanent. Nothing has to be how it is. Klbkch can be removed as Revalantor. A Queen could die. I could be more than a Worker, and I have no excuse not to try. But if you don’t open the door, you can pretend that’s all. Erin is like that. We wanted to be something more, and she helped us. But if you do not go to her wanting that, she’ll leave you alone.”
He paused.
“Unless you get in her way. Then she stomps on you.”
The Drowned Woman looked uneasy about ever meeting Erin, but Anand carefully hammered the board into place.
“We are nearly done with the Sinkity Ship v.34.”
“Don’t call it that. That’s bad luck. You have to respect a good ship. Treat her well and she’ll help you level and sail. Mock her and she’ll fall to pieces like the rest of your ships.”
Anand looked at Torthe.
“…The Unsinkable Ship?”
“Too much bad luck. That one’s doomed to fail.”
“Ah, I was told the ‘Titanic’ was also a bad idea. These names are difficult. Let us think them over while we apply this coating.”
The Workers buzzed around to their next task as Torthe began to spitball ideas. But then she paused and grudgingly coughed.
“You didn’t tell me what happened. Only what it’s like.”
Anand smiled. He had left that out, hadn’t he? But like a good [Strategist], he’d baited her into asking. Casually, he turned to the ship and kept speaking.
“Oh. Then let me tell it properly now you understand what it was like. When I first met her, I saw her do what every non-Antinium species does. They freeze. They look nervous or uncertain. It is a facial motion, sometimes, or a bodily one. Sometimes subtle. And not even Erin was immune. But she didn’t react with hostility. She was just…uncertain. Curious. And kind. She did not have to be. But she decided she could be. So the first thing she gave me was a cup of blue juice. It was very sweet. Then, as I was sitting and she was talking, she asked if we wished to play chess. And you see—that was the first thing in the world I understood. It has rules, logic. It makes sense. That was how it started. We must have played games for hours…”
 
——
 
They told stories, each person and group and people, because no one had a perfect, impartial rendering of how it had gone down. The story, sometimes, was difficult because it was the first time someone had to explain how their life had gone, and they weren’t quite certain themselves.
It was important to listen. There were some stories that would shatter a world in half if told. There were stories that cut to the heart of everything.
This…was not that grand a story. It was pathetic and urbane in places. The teller told it like that to the young men and women from another world.
She did it by admitting this was a persuasive tale meant to get them on her side. She did not make much of anyone, including herself.
They were all flawed, selfish people, and the only thing that saved this cynical tale from being too banal and jaded was the teller herself. For she was everything her tale was not, and the truth leaked in, sometimes, between the words.
Flashes of wild magic. Eyes that had seen more time than even most of her people could dream of. She sat in the air, and despite the cold, water ran from her fingers. Or rather…liquid mana, crystallizing and falling into baskets.
Mana stones. For even sitting and telling a story, the Death of Magic was busy. Silvenia of Demons spoke a name so old that few even knew it.
