She’d sent him a letter. Princess Oesca of Ailendamus liked Sammial. Sammial had been in Ailendamus and, to hear of it, had gone flying, seen [Knights] and great magic, gotten to know two Couriers, and walked in on Ryoka Griffin in flagrante delicto at least once.
Hethon envied all of that. He’d told Ryoka, privately, that sometimes it did feel like the world revolved around Sammial. When Hethon thought of his family, it was of his father, then his brother, then him.
His mother he tried not to think about. Ryoka had entered House Veltras’ tiny main family, and she was not a mother. She wasn’t a Jericha, either. Perhaps…she filled the role that Jericha and Ullim had tried to occupy. And if you added Tyrion, a younger Tyrion doing his best, things added up.
Ryoka’s stories of the lands of the fae were still making Hethon’s heart race. He was walking about The Wandering Inn to calm down. Sammial was busy trying to make Mrsha and Visma turn into giants with his mind.
Hethon…Hethon had tried the perspective thing Ryoka mentioned. It sounded fascinating. He stared out the window at the High Passes and tried to make it as small as a foothill.
No good. He was willing it, and Ryoka had described it more like seeing the truth. But still…Hethon loved seeing the High Passes up close. From the Vale Forest and beyond, it was tiny, but here?
He could see where it met the cloud layer. See the wrinkles of the clouds fold over, surround the peaks. Hethon loved clouds. He loved lying on his belly staring across a field of grass and seeing crickets hopping about or ladybugs flying.
Mind you, he wasn’t always happy to run in said grass, which was why Sammial was the active, energetic [Lordling]. Hethon knew what was in the grass or a pile of leaves, and he just…didn’t like bugs.
He knew that made him a bad Veltras, who were supposed to love nature. Ryoka got it. His father was hard to talk to, and Ullim was too understanding. Jericha kept trying to let him ‘prove himself’ by offering him to do a forced march or camp out without a sleeping tent.
Hethon didn’t really want to prove himself that way. He had been a very unhappy young man, even before he was poisoned. Ryoka had made it better.
Exploring Liscor and Invrisil, having a father that took him on rides or tilting…had it begun that day he’d hit the ring target? Ryoka hadn’t been responsible for that, but it had felt like that was the beginning of days getting better.
His eyes.
When Hethon Veltras spoke of his family, he spoke of his father who could not be assailed. Or Sammial, the talented, wild child. When Ryoka had asked him about himself, Hethon had been surprised.
“I’m just sort of normal, Ryoka. I don’t have any special abilities.”
“Not your eyes?”
She had teased him, and he grew shy. He had inherited his father’s vision, though Jericha said Hethon might have even better eyes. He knew that was an exaggeration, and Ryoka made too much of it.
“They’re just sharper than normal. That’s all. I can’t impress people by looking at them. I wish I had Sammial’s ability to shout or—I wish it were something noticeable.”
Right now, Hethon was staring up at the High Passes, watching a Goblin—or what he thought was a Goblin—descending the mountain. It was moving fast, which was why Hethon had picked it out even at that range. The slightest blob of green, about the size of a mote of dust…he wondered if it was falling or something to go so quickly.
It was only when Hethon heard the faint scuffle of boots on floorboards that he realized someone was watching him.
“You stand still very well. Hello. Are you with Ryoka? I’ve seen you around but we’ve never met.”
A young girl—well, his age—was staring at him. Nanette had pigtails, no hat, but she looked sure of herself. Hethon was instantly unsure. He was on the second floor of the inn and wondered if he were in her way or in trouble.
“I’m sorry! I was just—I’m just visiting. With Sammial. Has he done anything wrong? I’m his older brother. Hethon.”
She laughed, and he instantly felt younger than she was, for all he was taller by a good bit.
“You’re Hethon Veltras. I’m Nanette Weishart. A witch. Pleasure to meet you.”
“A pleasure to meet…”
He tried to bow and take her hand and nearly yanked her down. Flushing, Hethon stood, and Nanette dipped a curtsy.
“Are you lost? Looking for Ryoka’s room?”
“I—yes. I was just going to wait for her and ask her something. But I know she’s with Sammial.”
“Her room is right there.”
“Oh, thank you—”
It had her nameplate on it. Instantly, Hethon felt stupid and stupider because he didn’t really want to go in there and wait. Nanette seemed to sense it and gave him another smile.
“How do you like The Wandering Inn? I know your father’s banned, but you must be grateful to Miss Erin.”
“I am? I am, for letting me stay!”
Again, the young witch gave him a puzzled frown.
“And for saving your life.”
“For saving my life?”
He felt stupid. This time, Nanette frowned mightily.
“She helped deliver the cure to you, you know. But for her, Ryoka would never have left Invrisil. Erin Solstice fought the Assassin’s Guild and persuaded Saliss to help, I should imagine. It’s not a fact your father might acknowledge, but I should think you’d be grateful!”
“I didn’t know.”
“And Miss Ryoka didn’t mention it? That sounds like her.”
Nanette tossed her head, and Hethon grew a bit angry and defensive.
“She probably did and I forgot. But she was the one who risked the wrath of the Circle of Thorns herself. I’m grateful to everyone who helped save my life and Sammial’s—Miss Solstice too. But Ryoka Griffin’s the one who travelled thousands of miles alone.”
“You mean with Lady Maviola and Saliss of Lights. She only flew the final distance alone, and the Couriers of Izril defended her.”
“Well, she went the entire way. I don’t think diminishing her deeds is fair.”
For some reason, they were quarreling before Hethon quite realized what he was doing. Nanette stamped one foot, looking vexed.
“I’m not diminishing it. But it is like a [Lord] not to notice that every deed comes from more than one person. A [General] is supported by thousands of [Soldiers]. Ryoka Griffin is a very brave woman, but she would admit she relies on her many friends. And Erin Solstice is many of those friends.”
Hethon had the unpleasant feeling he often got when he was in a conversation and didn’t know what to say. He ducked his head and muttered.
“I didn’t—I apologize if I’ve offended you, Miss Nanette.”
“Witch Nanette. And I’m glad if you reflect on your mistakes. Good day to you.”
She turned on her heel and marched off, back straight. Hethon stared at her, aghast and annoyed by how quickly they had gone from introductions to her being offended. Flouncing off. He had never seen someone more appropriately flouncing in his life.
Hethon stuck out his tongue at her back, which was childish for a fourteen-year-old. But it beat cursing her. He turned beet red as she turned her head around and gave him an arch sniff.
To save himself from further defeat, Hethon retreated into Ryoka Griffin’s room like a routed soldier. There he sat on one of her chairs, adding this to the list of moments he’d scream into the wind about.
Why couldn’t he be like Sammial? He was downstairs, already making friends with the white Gnoll Doombearer. Hethon had been too awed and intimidated by Mrsha to try.
He had a terrible urge to snoop through Ryoka’s room as he sat there. But he had a feeling he’d be caught rifling through a drawer that held undergarments right as Ryoka, Nanette, Sammial, or all three walked in, and then Hethon would just have to jump out the window. So he confined himself to looking instead.
The room was messy. Her sheets were messy, there was Sariant Lamb fur under Ryoka’s bed and scraps of parchment too. Ryoka’s room was like…a potential garden of wonders combined with just pure sloth.
She had a pair of pants crumpled up…on top of three other pairs of pants she had probably been meaning to wash. Hethon averted his eyes from that and stared at a miniature bathtub on the windowsill. Did that green blob, the ‘Winter Sprite’, use it? It was a tiny brass tub filled with cold tea.
And there—there was a map of Izril and pins in places Ryoka had been. It was right next to a toothbrush in a cup and five tins of toothpaste gel from the [Alchemists], not a single one used up. And next to that was a defensive wand with a tag.
 
For Nerry? [Light Arrow]. Too weak.
 
The lamb? Ryoka had notes like that everywhere, actually. There was even one pinned to her pillow.
 
Don’t forget to do your laundry.
 
And another line further down.
 
Seriously, do your laundry. You’ve used every shirt at least once.
 
The final scribble was ominous.
 
You’ll regret this.
 
There was something so funny about how Ryoka even dealt with her personal possessions that Hethon smiled. He looked around, but the Faeblade wasn’t there. Not that he’d have touched it…
Because he was bored, Hethon got up and wondered if he should help her tidy up. He was stacking the toothpaste containers to create one full container when it also occurred to him a [Lord] did not touch a lady’s things without her consent. However, Hethon was also getting slightly appalled by the mess.
He wavered, then decided he’d better go find Ryoka. Hethon turned away and then winced.
“Ow.”
His head hurt. And his chest twinged. For a second, Hethon thought he was getting Sammial’s bad breathing, which Ryoka called ‘asthma’. But his eyes stung with tears, and he swiped at them, bewildered.
“What? Elk’s oath—what’s—”
It was coming from Ryoka’s desk. There—on top of it was something that drew Hethon’s gaze. A wand.
Only, it wasn’t the [Light Arrow] wand. This one was dark and looked metallic. It was like a piece of a branch, not the smooth and manufactured wands some [Mages] liked. It—
Hethon was touching it before he knew what had come over him. He held it in his hand, and his eyes stung, his head swam, and his heart hurt.
“Ow. Ow. What’s—”
He began to put the wand back on the dresser almost as fast as he’d picked it up. Stupid! Hethon knew better than to touch random wands from Jericha. But it had almost been like a compulsion. He turned, meaning to let go of the wand.
Then…Hethon stared. He turned—froze—and stood there a good minute, mouth open. His heart, which had been painfully beating, suddenly picked up the pace.
“What? What’s—”
Hethon stared out the window—and rubbed one eye. They stung. Hethon stared—then clapped his hands to his eyes.
“It hurts! It—stop, stop!”
He let go of the wand, placed it on the dresser, and when he looked again, it was gone. But the pain in his eyes was real, and when he raced over to Ryoka’s mirror, they were bloodshot—spots of blood appearing like when you hadn’t slept in ages.
What was going on? Was he cursed? Frightened, now, Hethon backed away and left Ryoka’s room fast. He hurried down the hallway, telling himself that it wasn’t a spell or curse—just backlash from what was probably a high-grade spell. But he froze as he passed one of the hallway windows. He stared out of it and…
 
——
 
Nanette was walking back down the hallway when the thoughtless [Lord] caught her eye again. He was staring out the window, and she wondered if he just liked staring at mountains. She peered out the window, at his face, and decided not to bother him. But as she passed—Nanette traced the place his eyes were moving and then stared out the window again. She narrowed her eyes—and tried to see what he was looking at. Then gave up.
Mystified, she continued on her way. For there was no way she could have seen what Hethon Veltras saw. The [Lord] looked back at Ryoka’s room, but he wasn’t holding the wand. Yet suddenly—he stared out the window, and the High Passes were there. Looming into the clouds. The sky that was visible between those great peaks was dark and cloudy, filled with winter.
Yet the longer he stared—the more he thought he was growing mad. For he saw it. In the flickering of shadows in the clouds, in the distant flakes of snow—in every shadow of ice, in the blowing of the wind that moved the Floodplains beyond—
He saw a great forest with trees that had no end to them. Tall and wild, without end, in the distance, just on the horizon. A forest he knew oh, so well. But—
The Vale Forest was hundreds of miles northwest of here. And he had never seen these trees. They looked so tall and wild.
He thought he was seeing the lands of the fae. Then he blinked—and it was just clouds, just the horizon. Hethon tried to laugh it off. But when he turned his head and stared again, just right—
The forest was still there. Hethon hesitated—but he didn’t know if he wanted to tell Ryoka what he’d done. Maybe it was temporary? Maybe it was a hallucination brought on by the wand doing something and her story. And he was afraid of upsetting his father. So he held his tongue. Besides.
It was his first real secret.
 
——
 
“Tell me about your parents, Numbtongue.”
“Why? I don’t remember them well. I wasn’t sure which ones were which.”
That tickled the Drake with onyx scales to no end. She rolled over in his bed, watching the Hobgoblin tune his guitar. Salkis, or Lady Salkis, the odd Wall Lady of Pallass and talented knife-fighter, Bloodfeast Raider, had been showing up in The Wandering Inn more and more of late.
In secret. Usually at night. She wasn’t exactly a stranger, and Erin was certainly friendly to anyone who had helped rescue Mrsha, but Salkis had a remove that the others from the Fellowship of the Inn did not.
She was an enduring enigma, although she was just as curious about the rest of the inn. Numbtongue…well, the [Bard] was open-minded, and Salkis was intrigued.
He was the strangest Goblin she’d met. And she thought she ‘knew’ Goblins, at least, more than most people. But he really was a [Bard]. He could cut down an enemy in battle, sing a song, and order a plate of spaghetti for lunch, all like a real person.
Numbtongue was, in fact, more normal than Salkis herself, and she wasn’t sure whether that was attracting her or dismaying her. He seemed to take pleasure in things like that, whereas it was tedium to her.
“You really didn’t know your parents?”
“Nah. Goblins in the sewers were too busy doing things. Everyone there was like…a parent. But not. It’s hard to explain without being a Goblin. We were a tribe. Everyone took care of everyone.”
“You were a group. I get it. Like the Fellowship of the Inn.”
“Mm. But stronger.”
Salkis frowned.
“We were in each other’s company for months. How is there a stronger than that?”
