Numbtongue grinned and began to pluck at his guitar strings.
“Goblins know everything about each other. We were good friends. A tribe…a tribe knows each other’s thoughts. If you and I were in the same tribe, I could toss something at you at any moment and you’d catch it.”
“Try it w—motherfucker.”
The guitar pick bounced off her face, and Salkis caught it in the air irritably. Numbtongue laughed. She had the briefest urge to kick him, but it wasn’t like her own comrades in arm. That trick would have gotten one of them stabbed, but Numbtongue…
He didn’t seem to be testing her. Again, it wasn’t what she had been looking for, but it was why she stayed. That and—
“Hey, Numbtongue. Are you around? I was going to—oh. Sorry.”
The door opened, and Garia Strongheart strode in. She took one look at Salkis lazing there, stopped, and the Drake grinned.
“Hey there.”
“You want to stay? We’re just talking.”
Numbtongue looked up, but Garia was already retreating, red-faced. Her eyes lingered on Salkis until the door closed.
“No, I was just—I’ll catch you later—”
Numbtongue settled back down, looking vaguely disappointed. Either he didn’t get it or he did and he didn’t understand the problem. But Salkis rather enjoyed spoiling Garia and Octavia’s day.
But curiosity…there was a reason why Salkis asked Numbtongue that question. It was a kind of question she tended to ask people she met. Her comrades among the Raiders and anyone she hung out with, be it friends or lovers who knew her identity.
She herself didn’t always realize she was asking. Numbtongue’s answer fascinated her, but when he turned it around, she clammed up.
“What’s having parents in Pallass like? A Wall Lord?”
“He’s not really a Wall Lord. The title is depreciated. It’s ornamental; in Salazsar or even Manus, it’d be worth a lot more than it is in Pallass. His real job is just a businessman. We have a lot of properties in Pallass. Blackwing Family. It’s not interesting.”
Salkis’ shoulders hunched, and she sat up, speaking dismissively. Numbtongue raised his brows.
“Sounds interesting to me. What about your mother? What’s it like having a Garuda mother?”
“I don’t care. She’s not my mother. She’s my stepmother.”
“Oh. Sorry.”
“There’s nothing to be sorry about. She and I don’t talk. She literally married into the family because she wanted the prestige. My father gets a pretty bird to hang on his arm at functions and other benefits—and she’s part of a Drake Oldblood family. Win-win.”
“…Is she nice?”
The question provoked such a blank look in Salkis that Numbtongue played through an entire chord before she just shrugged and lay back on her bed. She was about to leave the room when she decided she wasn’t done asking him questions.
“Forget my family for a second. If you had no parents—tell me again about how you got here. To the inn. Tell me about…Garen Redfang. About being one of the Goblins sent to kill Erin Solstice. You never finished the story of Esthelm.”
She sat up excitedly, because Numbtongue was good at telling stories. The [Bard] produced his guitar.
“Want the ballad?”
“No.”
His hopeful look turned to disappointment, but then the Hobgoblin perked up.
“I’ll tell you…if you fix my hair.”
He pointed at his black hair, and Salkis rolled her eyes. It was one of his latest obsessions. Goblins did not normally worry about their hair, and some didn’t even have hair. But Numbtongue had discovered the joys of combing his hair—or having someone else who knew what they were doing comb his hair and apply the shampoo or hair treatments.
Octavia had mixed him up a bunch of tonics, and even if Salkis was a Drake, she knew her way around a comb better than Numbtongue, who had really not known what the heck it was for the longest time.
She fussed with his hair behind him as he spoke. And this was how Numbtongue told it.
“There were thirteen ordinary Goblins. Good warriors. Elites of Redfang’s tribe. But ordinary Goblins that Garen Redfang gave orders to. He said, ‘go kill the [Innkeeper]’, and so the silly Goblins tried, but they didn’t know where she was. So. They got lost. They were hiding from the Goblin Lord’s army in a city that had just been sacked, filled with undead, an annoying skeleton, a really annoying [Knight], and a lot of suffering Humans when our story stopped last time. Let’s see. What happened next?”
He closed his eyes as Salkis’ claws gingerly massaged his scalp. It was the most boring thing she’d done, the kind of thing her ‘friends’ in Pallass would do with her, fuss over their neck-spines. But since it was Numbtongue…
The one thing she objected to was how he told his story.
“You keep saying ‘ordinary Goblins’. Don’t do that. You were Redfang Elites. Trained killers.”
“Ordinary elites.”
“Seasoned warriors.”
“Ordinary seasoned warriors. Ow. Don’t pull my ears.”
He swatted at her, but the Drake was genuinely annoyed.
“I know how this story ends and what you all did. Look at you. Even if you weren’t back then—you’re a Hob. You’re the highest-levelled Goblin in…what you and the other twelve Goblins did wasn’t normal.”
“Mhm. We were pretty great. So?”
Salkis drew out her words exasperatedly, as if trying to leak the truth into his brain.
“So…you weren’t ordinary.”
Then she saw his pointed grin spread across his face. Salkis almost dug her claws into his scalp, but Numbtongue replied slowly.
“But we were. Why does this annoy you so much?”
“Because you’re not proud of yourself! If you do something amazing, you should admit it. Or what’s the point? I thought you were proud of your dead brothers. Doesn’t it—diminish them to call them ordinary?”
The [Bard] developed a deep, thoughtful frown. Salkis expected him to be offended, but he wasn’t. And even then, after a long moment, he shook his head. He laid his head back against her chest and spoke dreamily as she continued working with the hair, adding a scented soap.
“Nope. We were ordinary Goblins. That’s the best part. Think about it, Salkis. Thirteen normal Goblins, twelve small ones and a Hob, did all that. We went to Esthelm and held off a Goblin Lord’s army. We fought a Gold-rank adventurer. And we saved a young woman from being a monster, and she saved us. Then…six Goblins found an [Innkeeper] in trouble. Five stayed at her inn and did great things. Five fought a Goblin Lord and won. Ordinary Goblins. You see? Anyone could do it.”
“No. Not just anyone.”
“Anyone could. But we did. That’s the difference.”
Earnestly, he sat up and insisted. It was that confusing humility she didn’t like. He was endlessly proud…but Salkis changed the subject.
“You’re special, Numbtongue. We’re different. It doesn’t matter if you’re a Goblin or Drake. Trust me, I know a bunch of people who’re the most influential in Pallass. And you know what? They’re boring. My father’s just a rich Drake. He’s…maybe you were lucky, growing up in the sewers.”
“Huh. That’s the first time anyone ever said that to me.”
Salkis just shook her head, and more words spilled out angrily, as they always did.
“Well, you might not have known your parents but yours are fine. All of my—all the people I know can tell you stories about theirs. My father…do you know what it’s like to know you were only born so you could make him look good? Like Melika—that’s my Garuda ‘stepmother’. He really doesn’t notice me sneaking out of the house. He’s just annoyed when I get him in trouble or stain the family reputation. You’d think the Blackwing family is better—but there’s nothing special about Edellein, one of Pallass’ [Generals]. I could do the job better. Or you could.”
“Generaling is hard work. You sure he’s just talk?”
Numbtongue had his eyes closed, but he was listening. Salkis produced a lather with the soap, scrubbing his hair furiously.
“Please. There’s no point to any of it. Walled Cities…that’s why I like this inn. And Goblins. You don’t obey stupid traditions. You don’t have the stupid traditions. Things are fun here.”
She meant it too. Salkis only wished she could shake Ryoka Griffin and get all the answers from her about the phone—but she was too wary of being found out. That couldn’t happen, and even Numbtongue…even he was a risk she was unwilling to take.
With that said, the Goblin grinned up at her.
“You’re pretty fun, too.”
She felt her heart leap, and this was as fun as being called to a feast—and far more convenient. Salkis pushed his head up and looked around for a washbasin.
“Well, keep me entertained and I’ll stick around. Got a plan for today?”
“…Want to see a room where you can fight all you want?”
“Do I?”
And she left her tale at that. She could have gone on, about loneliness, or perhaps apathy and respect and feeling alive when she held a blade and no one knew her face. But that great desire had died down somewhat after being on an adventure. Yet still…
Salkis’ story was not unique to her.
 
——
 
His name among the Raiders was not Gilam Quellae. Many probably knew it, because he was not the best at keeping secrets, but the Bloodfeast Raiders enforced their secrecy in more ways than just oaths.
It was dangerous to be one of them, and while they were chaotic, unpredictable, and quarreled even amongst themselves as this hidden bar could attest—there was often blood on the floor every day—there were rules.
Break them and you died. No exceptions. Lord Lien of House Bellrui had been an example of what happened when you broke with them. The boss was also not someone you questioned.
There were two kinds of Raider. One was the criminal element, the permanent Raiders who had no life beyond this one. The other kind was Lord Gilam’s kind, the numerous Bloodfeast Raiders who came when called.
Or in this case, to blow off steam between feasts. It was hard to organize a feast, and they had to choose their targets well. Between events, you paid your dues, maybe had a smaller ‘outing’—and you complained.
“What’s wrong with your old man, Gilam? Or is it your mother?”
That got a glare from one of the other [Raiders]. But the asker had a mask, a spear, and was, in fact, their deadliest spearfighter and high on confidence. Low on caution. He’d murdered a [Spearmaster] when they’d raided a city in the south. After all, the Raiders were filled from both sides of Izril.
They were the most unified group of Izril in that sense. They were filled with contempt for their noble families or cities, and so Gilam had a sympathetic audience.
Like Salkis, his story was common among the Raiders, but his way of telling it was different.
“It’s that old man. Any of you met him?”
The more cautious members of the group were noncommittal, but the spearmaster shrugged.
“I remember visiting for some reason or other. I thought he was fine. What, does he get out a belt when the doors close? Does he have a basement?”
They had a basement, and a few members shifted slightly, but Gilam just sneered.
“No. But you’ll never meet such a lickspittle in all of Izril. Have you seen him following around high-and-mighty Lord Veltras or trotting along to every gathering? He’ll usher in common folk as if they own the manor and go pay a visit to his [Farmers] or [Vinters] with hat in hand.”
“Ah, a coward?”
Gilam nodded, rising to the question as he took more gulps of wine from a cup.
“Sanctimonious coward. He’s lectured me more times on ‘humility for my class’ than I can count. He does nothing with his gold and influence aside from toadying up to the others at every ball he can invite himself to. Oh, and he’ll probably remarry once his current wife dies.”
Some of the other Raiders raised their brows. Another of their number, Bein, leaned over. He and Gilam were close.
“Oho. So they don’t live long around Lord Pellmia, eh? Does he get tired of them or is it something else?”
And again, Gilam gave his friend a deep and confused frown.
“Neither. It’s poor health or something which did in—he’s just unfaithful. He’ll mourn a few years, then bounce to his next wife once Betta’s mother dies. He’s just a sad shell of a man pretending to be a beloved [Lord].”
Bein nodded agreeably, having no real interest in this conversation other than humoring Gilam. He had heard it all before, but at this, one of the [Spellscourges], a Raider with wands and who liked [Fireballs], a staple of their fighting, leaned over with a huge frown.
“Wait. So does he beat his wife?”
“Not that I know of.”
Gilam was looking annoyed by the lack of a resounding affirmation. The Raider, who had a mask on like a snarling dog, adjusted it.
“No basement? No private manor or shed? You’ve got to know. Come on, no holding out on us. We all share the secret stuff like the Circle of Thorns.”
More fidgets. That culling of the Circle had, ironically, brought more of their number into this group. But Bein just waved that off.
“Gilam’s never said anything like that. Pellmia’s an old codger boring as brass. He’ll sit in his manor sipping orange juice and act just like he did on the scrying orb as behind closed doors. Unless he’s actually a bastard?”
“I told you, he’s worthless.”
Gilam growled, annoyed now, and a hand on his sword hilt. But there were a lot of weapons here, and so no one stiffened too much. The masked dog Raider sniffed behind their guise.
“A coward who rode against Ailendamus. Sounds like you just hate his guts. You call that a bad father?”
“You think he’s all that? I’d trade places with anyone here in a heartbeat.”
Gilam laughed derisively, and the other Raider’s voice turned dangerous.
“If Pellmia had a hidden shack in the woods he visited every weekend, you’d know what bad looks like. Mine has a riding crop they bring out when they’re mad. I bet you don’t even have a single scar from your parents. What a crock. You don’t need to be in the Raiders.”
He turned away as a kind of silence fell, then mocking laughs made Gilam sit up in his seat. His face went blank—and Bein stepped back. The dog-mask Raider had only a warning note from his [Dangersense]. He turned, wand raised—and Gilam was on top of him, sword drawn.
Blood, laughter, and cheers erupted in the bar before their leader drew a blade, shouted, and one of the older Raiders struck both grappling [Lords] with a blast of pain magic that forced the two apart. Gilam rolled with a sword in his hands, roaring a challenge—but stopped when he saw who it was.
“I can’t leave you for five minutes without you breaking the rules. I should cut an ear off both of you. Or keep you from the feast.”
