“They called it the Infernal Court, I think.”
“The Infernal Court? I thought it was the Burnished Court in the Blighted Kingdom.”
One of the new Earthers raised a hand. Silvenia grinned.
“That’s just naming conventions. There’s multiple ships with Pride in the name. Even a Lady Pryde. Words are repeated, and no one has a dictionary. King of Destruction is accurate but so…basic. So you understand it, the Infernal Court was gone before the Blighted Kingdom ever rose. Nor was it some inner circle of nobility in a nation. It was the nation. That was what they called it, or so my studies indicated. They held sway on Rhir before the Blighted Kingdom. Over six thousand years ago, before the Creler Wars. Far before it, I suspect, because Rhir was abandoned for quite some time before Crelers emerged and it was resettled as a garrison. The last masters of this land were the Infernal Court.”
“But the books we read make it sound like Rhir’s been the Blighted Kingdom forever.”
And to that, Silvenia laughed. She threw her head back.
“They lied. It’s quite easy to do with a little history book and a quill. The Blighted Kingdom would have you think they’ve been around since the dawn of time. But they’re only six thousand years old. Rhir was resettled to safeguard against more threats like the Crelers. Demons. Blighted Kingdom. We’re both young. That is the first lie they tell. Neither group is what you think it is. Demons are a name. Or do you think Harpies were always called Demons? Once—they ruled Izril.”
She pointed at a Harpy wheeling overhead, the last of a species gone from every other part of the world. Silvenia rotated one shoulder, and her mending bones clicked together. She winced.
“Truth and lies. That’s what Othius is so good at. Some groups know the truth. Others…well, it is convenient to have the Blighted Kingdom defending Rhir. There is a threat. But if Demons overran the Blighted Kingdom tomorrow, the threat would remain. The Antinium know it. We are just two factions fighting over a continent. And the Demons are the ones the world knows as evil.”
From her mouth, it sounded so petty, so banal. Until you remembered that she had sent more souls into their graves than any mortal army. Until you saw Silvenia smile with that ruined face.
“Just so you know—that is fine with me. I live for war and strife. I was shattered long ago when I came to Rhir as a young [High Mage]. I learned the truth of Demons and the lies I was fed, and when I broke Wistram and joined the Demons, I did it because I found this cause worthier than the Blighted Kingdom’s. But don’t mistake me. Czautha has nobler goals. Serinpotva has every right to her vengeance. I am just war, a hungry beast to point at Rhir. I only crave levels and strife.”
She was truly mad. And in her eyes lay an unending conflict that Lord Hayvon stood on the other side of. The two could grind each other and entire armies and walls and nations to dust between those single-minded wills.
For a moment, the Earthers shuddered. Flora, the first girl to come here, the girl with a gun—felt a chill despite knowing Silvenia longest. But then the Death’s vibrant stare faded, and she became, briefly, that scholar, if a bitter one.
“But so you know—the Infernal Court predated the Blighted Kingdom, and if any of you ever learn more of it, I would dearly love to know and reward you for it. They were no better than Othius’ lot, by the way. Rhir corrupts. Or perhaps those that come to it are rotten and broken themselves. What I know of them was that the Infernal Court grew in power until, like so many stories, their excesses came back to haunt them. My line of history, recovered by a [Historian] who could pull destroyed texts, read thusly: ‘They were destroyed, both from within and externally, for their sins outnumbered all decency.’”
“Who were they? What did they do?”
Silvenia grimaced.
“I have a name—where ‘Demon’ came from, actually. They may have been…a species, but I don’t want to taint your conclusions. Wait…why are you doing that head thing?”
The Earthers were exchanging significant looks, and as anyone familiar with them knew—Silvenia teleported a foot forwards and seized a boy’s arm. He was barely fourteen and jumped, but she was gentle.
“You know something?”
“I—I—”
“Silvenia. Peace, please.”
General Bazeth interposed himself, and the Death of Magic backed off. Flora answered for Silvenia.
“It’s just a name, Silvenia. But…infernal? Rhir’s called ‘hell’, and Demons—were this group of people called…Devils?”
Silvenia’s look of excitement turned to disappointment as the Earthers held their breaths with a considerable degree of nerves. Her explanation about the Demons’ false name was very reassuring to anyone with a certain religious background.
Devils now…she exhaled.
“No. No…alas. It would have been too much to ask for, I suppose. If only I had a Level 50 [Historian] again. I was so close. That new Gnoll girl might do, but it’ll be decades until she can pull from that far back. And abducting people is always harder than it looks.”
She punched a hand into her thigh. Then she remembered herself.
“Come, come. Back to my story. Are you fed? Do you want more popped corn? [Finger of Gigantism]. Have some.”
She pointed, and a popcorn kernel grew until it was taller than the children. Silvenia inspected a gigantic flake of nutritional yeast and the butter and salt. She broke off a bit, took a bite, and nearly threw up.
“I don’t see what that [Innkeeper] was talking about. This is disgusting. Crazy is right. I’d rather eat carrion again.”
One of the new Earthers raised a hand.
“Why…why didn’t the [Historian] find out all the rest of the information, Silvenia?”
She gave the group from Bangladesh a thumbs-up. The [Translation] spell was mostly working, although it was adding unnecessary bloat to their statements. It was still good for a spell she’d had to apply to stones the Earthers not fluent in English carried around. She doubted many [Mages], even Wistram, would have access to it. Let alone [True Translation].
“Funny you should ask. It was my fault. The first time is always a surprise, but I didn’t think to give him magical wards. I should have. He pulled the wrong piece of text with his recovery Skill. When I checked on him the next day, there was only a crater of scorched earth where his house had been. Some things are really meant to stay hidden.”
The Earthers shuddered. Silvenia shook her head sadly, grimacing.
“Even [Historian] is a dangerous class to have. [Librarian], definitely. Ever heard of giant Silverfish that cast [Disintegrate]? Well, they were our allies once. Though it was never easy negotiating with them. Guess who got the job because she can make magical books which they eat? Then the Blighted Kingdom hit us with a plague spell, and the poor things died out. So I sent it right back at them and invented Vorepillars.”
For a moment her features flickered with something like guilt, as if that were not the whole sstory. But then Serinpovta looked their way. The great Death of Wings was holding her own kind of court as Harpies flocked around her, and she was organizing the Demons. Even in her wounded state, there was a sharpness to this place that had been lacking in her absence.
A ruler was different from the endless well of power that was Silvenia. One organized, the other created or produced. General Bazeth had already gained three peers of his class, and there were classes beyond merely ‘[General]’.
“Out of curiosity, Silvenia, what were the rulers of the Infernal Court called? Just so we know? Otherwise, we might miss the facts you want us to find.”
“Oh…alright.”
Silvenia sighed as she acknowledged it might be worth sharing this tidbit. She exhaled, then whispered a word as a basket full of mana gems floated away and another set down next to her.
“They were called Lucifen. But th—”
Half the Earthers shouted. The other half looked bewildered as the very familiar name rang across the ones who knew some variant of Christianity. Silvenia’s eyes lit up.
“Well, well, well. Tell me everything.”
 
——
 
There was an irony that the most dangerous woman in the entire world didn’t know all the world’s sins.
But the world had been bigger five thousand and six hundred years ago, when the Creler Wars had still been ongoing. Silvenia had been born when the threat facing the world led to the rise of legends and heroes. She had been born in the ages when Dragons were still dying.
Now, all but one was dead. Perhaps there were more. If there were, they were hidden as well as the Lucifen. And the Lucifen would remain hidden, thank you.
She was employing search-spells again. You could tell. He’d had to head down to the library when the ward-spells went off.
The tomes were glowing. A sign they were resisting the Death of Magic’s searching spells. That allowed him a slight smirk as he returned ‘upstairs’ to his waiting audience. It was nice to know they were able to match the Death of Magic in some small way.
Yet hubris and Silvenia was a reminder of how far they had fallen. So Viscount Visophecin told his story like this:
“My forebears are dead. They were not weak.”
He gave this speech to House Shoel every decade. It was a tradition as he understood it. Once, it had been a far grander convocation where, like the Meeting of Tribes, his kind would come under threat and with flattery and politicking and the head or heads of the Lucifen would speak their will to be debated and challenged. It would inform their people’s deeds, and it was a centennial event.
Then, as these things happened, the Lucifen found themselves speaking to the Agelum and sharing the podium. After the disaster of Rhir when they went into hiding, for ten thousand years, Agelum and Lucifen had shared words here.
Those days, as the Library of Infernus clearly indicated, had been filled with strife between the races. It was not easy for proud Lucifen to hide. They had always been secret ‘Humans’, or taken the appearance of half-Elves, Beastfolk, and so on to gain influence, but being in hiding was different.
It took the Creler Wars to unite them and force both Agelum and Lucifen to the edge. Izril, gone. Chandrar, abandoned. Baleros…
Their enemies had never forgotten them. The Infernal Court had been the first in a series of deaths. The height of their strength had turned into routs as Naga drove them from Baleros, the blood of Izril warred with infernal might and won—and Chandrar’s Immortal Tyrant hounded them from her domain.
It was some small pleasure to see each group fail in its turn. Hunting Vampires in turn became the hunted. The Immortal Tyrant died, and the Eyes of Baleros were lost. But at the same time, Visophecin was aware of how reductive it was.
Hence his speech. It was Paxere’s turn this time. She and the older of the Lucifen young were considered ‘worthy’ of the speech.
Eight young adults, each decades into their maturity as the Lucifen regarded such things, Paxere being thirty-eight, and the youngest, Oelvix, merely twenty-two. They did not fidget and had the appearance of being attentive.
Failure to at least put up the front might mean years of having your hand held and your actions critiqued. Autonomy was a hard-won thing in Lucifen these days. Paxere had listened to this same speech or variations thereof twice already. She might be forty-eight when she finally was accorded more rights as a functional adult and could skip listening to this speech. Of course, what she didn’t realize was that the adults had to listen to Visophecin too—just at a different time.
She rebelled, of course. It was not like any Lucifen to accept shackles easily. But Visophecin’s kin had learned to watch their young, and they had to be far more careful than ages past. It was rumored to be harder to watch a young Agelum.
Having known Uziel and the other Agelum for all his life, Visophecin could well imagine how bad it would be. An Agelum whose strength had yet to wane could probably literally outrun most pursuit, and they would be peerless fighters, even if young.
At least Paxere wasn’t as insubordinate as Visophen had been when he was young. Visophecin had learned to gate-walk when he was thirteen. Chasing him down had nearly driven his forebears insane.
And anyways, of the eight Lucifen, Paxere was probably the closest to full maturity. She was cradling her damaged hand, her fingers missing. A rare wound among immortal Lucifen. She could have requested a regeneration potion, but such things were rare even among House Shoel. Accepting her injuries without long complaint was one reason why she was being considered for full autonomy.
She has been humbled. Perhaps she understands this lesson in more than words, now.
“My forebears are dead.”
Visophecin repeated himself slowly, and the listening Lucifen stirred. Their eyes focused on him, and the faint scent of oil and metal, the tang of brimstone—an infernal scent, as Ryoka Griffin called it—grew.
She had a way with flattery. She was not always elegant, but she had captivated Lucifen’s desire for admiration with genuine approbation and awe—and fear. After centuries of hiding, small wonder they had been obsessed with her.
But what she had observed was what Visophecin had always known.
“Curulac of a Hundred Days slaughtered the last of the Lucifen and Agelum who could remember the Creler Wars. In the past, you would sit with Agelum as your peers. No longer. Uzine’s generation is the last unless something changes. This…breaking of our species was the formation of House Shoel, the last alliance of Lucifen and Agelum. Our negotiations with Ailendamus, our seclusion here was not cunning. It was desperation.”
They barely blinked, but he could read their distaste for the speech by the minutiae of their eyes, the flicker of their auras. Visophecin was starting bleaker than previous invocations—and still, the Lucifen held his course.
“My forebearers are dead. And they were not weak. You are all aware that I have access to our warform. I am considered to be the most dangerous of House Shoel without exception among the Lucifen.”
Slow nods. This could not be doubted. When Rhisveri had first been contentious, Visophecin had dueled him. The Wyrm was mighty, but Visophecin was a powerful spellcaster, and he had seen war.
And yet—
“When Lucifen and Agelum died, the Goblin King killed them, even in their warforms. An alliance of both Agelum and Lucifen died on Curulac’s blades. I have seen it. If you wish for recollections, visit the Library of Inferus. The records are clear.”
