The air should have been freezing when it blew through the window. The snowflakes were thick, like fat marshmallows they were so big. They flurried down and made travel miserable.
Unless you had a magic door. But even if you did, when it blew and the wind howled against the side of the inn, it felt like the ages of ice before Humans had emerged out of the many species of Earth.
There was something primordial about it, a desire not to be out there when the wind hit you. That was death and isolation and, perhaps—if you stared into that blizzard—one final great journey into the snow. But that was only if you had nothing to stay for.
That might be a better land of death and a better way to go than the one the young woman sitting in her cozy room had seen. Erin Solstice’s blanket was checkered, squares of color cut and stitched together to make a quilted cover…on top of four other sheets.
The inn’s fires were still stoked at night, but it could get cold by the time you woke, so everyone bundled up. Across from her bed was a writing desk with a chessboard, all magic, glowing and ready to play.
There were, in fact, two desks in Erin’s room to hold her chess set, go board, and actual writing implements for letters and her possessions.
A twisted lump of blackened mithril was a paperweight. An acid jar labeled ‘not ink’ sat on one corner of her desk, and she had two books she’d been meaning to read propped up there. At this moment, Erin Solstice sat in a wheelchair across from a third table with no chair on the other end. But there was a third chessboard sitting on it.
Erin had all this space because she’d done away with the wardrobe and vanity that Lyonette insisted upon having in her room. A dresser did fine for Erin, and she had a hand-mirror. Plus, even Lyonette couldn’t fit all her things and Mrsha’s gifts and possessions without some strife.
Of late, Erin had heard the mother-daughter duo was having…difficulties sharing the room. Mrsha having to put away her things and the two having their own space and sharing one bed was getting tougher. Mrsha sometimes resented having a mother telling her what to do in her room. Her mother sometimes regretted a little Gnoll girl rolling over and axe-kicking her in the face in her sleep.
“Is it time for Mrsha to get a new room?”
Snow blew through that window, the only open window in the entire inn. It swirled in—but before it touched the floorboards, the snow vanished.
And what the air smelled like was the earth of her mother’s garden, the scent of flowers. Erin looked down at the petals and pollen scattered on the floor of her room.
She sneezed. Hayfever instead of freezing cold…well, she wasn’t allergic exactly, but sometimes the changing of seasons got her a tiny bit stuffy. And yet, she made no move to close the window.
Slowly, Erin Solstice moved a rook across the board and frowned as her opponent laughed.
 
“Is that all you have to ask me?”
 
Shaestrel of the fae sat cross-legged on the chess board. When she moved a piece, it was with a finger, and a tiny jet of wind slid a piece exactly where she wanted. Erin frowned as a queen went a-hunting and stole a pawn. Then she saw the trap and moved a knight into position.
“I dunno. Rooms aren’t free. The inn either needs to get upgraded or some other guest loses a room. But it’s better than the two fighting. Do fae have roommates?”
The Spring Fae gave Erin a blank look.
 
“Y’know, I think ye art the exact opposite from Ryoka Griffin. She expects us to be all things and nothing, ideas and concepts and tangential to the divine. Fated and fatesayers who bind with a word, and she’s right to think it, but she overthinks things.”
 
“She’s sorta like that.”
 
“Aye. And ye think we’re a bit too mundane. You think I…pay for rent? Wait, what even is the term?”
 
“Sublet?”
 
“That sounds like a proper stupid term, thank ye. No, I do not have roommates. But I can admit that sharing the lands of our realm with all our—guests—can get tiresome.”
 
“That sounds like a roommate to me. So I was right.”
Shaestrel slowly narrowed her eyes. But she went back to playing without a word, and this time, when Erin moved a bishop, Shaestrel pointed and a pawn shot up the board without her even pausing to think. Erin…correspondingly took longer. She bit her lip, moved a knight, and cursed.
“Oh, shit—”
 
“Check and the mate.”
 
Erin lost. Erin Solstice lost. Which was not unheard of. Indeed, it was a normal thing for even the best player of the game to lose. Especially if they went up against a computer.
But as the [Innkeeper] pushed her board back and looked at Shaestrel, who was smirking—she couldn’t help but feel slightly tilted. She couldn’t help but be rattled. And mad. And certain that she was being tricked or, quite possibly, bamboozled.
“Are you cheating?”
 
“No. Not as ye’d call it. As I told ye when I challenged you, Erin Solstice. I am the best at this game.”
 
The Faerie’s smile was huge and mocking. And Erin Solstice? She slowly tilted her king over on her board. The little Drake figure lay on his face, and Erin Solstice exhaled.
“That’s sixteen losses for me. Zero wins.”
 
——
 
On game seventeen, Erin cheated for the first time in her life. Not by stealing pieces or moving them around or doing something as drastic as using Kevin’s laptop. How would she even read the laptop without it being obvious? Magic? A concealable speaking stone in her ear? Vibrating underwear?
No, no. That was stupid. Erin just used a Skill.
[Immortal Moment].
It wasn’t as good as when it came upon her naturally, but time slowed between the moves. In this case, for the first time—Erin Solstice got sort of annoyed by the Skill.
It was one thing to feel immortality in the moments when you sang or stood in grief, trying to cling to time. Another when you were trying to figure out a move, sweating without sweating, and trying to concentrate.
The Skill prolonged the agony, but Erin used it anyways to get her advantage. She felt guilty about it, but her opponent didn’t seem to care.
And Erin lost anyways.
 
“A fine game. Ye danced me quicker to the point of no return this round. Yer ‘Skills’ are funny to watch.”
 
A third of the way through the game, Shaestrel said that as Erin took a pawn with one of her knights. The [Innkeeper] looked up, frowning—and Shaestrel rotated one arm and flexed her tiny green muscles.
 
“—But I do not take it easy on any foe. So. ‘Tis time for me to use 1% of my real power.”
 
She grinned like a Goblin, and Erin Solstice’s eyes narrowed.
“Who told you to say that?”
 
“The one called Troydel. Why? Does it make ye mad? Yer scowling. Oh, check.”
 
And then?
Checkmate in 7.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice’s twenty-first game with Shaestrel was the nastiest yet. She went into it throwing her pieces into risky gambits, varying her tack. She had just come out of a game with Niers and won that one.
She wasn’t getting worse. If anything, Erin suspected she was far, far better than she had been on Earth as a player. And she was analyzing Shaestrel too.
“…2300.”
 
“Fifteen and twenty-two eight. Are we chanting numbers at each other?”
 
The Spring Faerie raised her brow. Erin shook her head.
“No, I’m guessing your ELO score. That’s a chess number to determine how good you are. You…you’re one of the best chess players in the world. Not at the top, but you have enough experience, and you know how to play really well when you concentrate. You would have beaten me most of the time if we played before I came to this world.”
Shaestrel waved a hand modestly.
 
“Well, ye pick up games if you live as long as I do. I never but played now and then, you know. One game when I visited a mortal world adds up.”
 
How many games was that, then? She wasn’t a chess fan? Shaestrel clearly thought she was good at some game—but Erin Solstice’s frown persisted.
“Yeah, but that’s my problem. You’re very good from being immortal, I guess, and just having experience. But I play this game every day. I can see it. Whenever you start losing…something changes, and you wipe the board with me. Then you start playing like Stockfish. Or better.”
 
“I play like a what-fish? I thought your world was boring as shite. You have fish that play chess?”
 
Shaestrel put her chin in her hands, looking fascinated. Erin had to explain.
“No, it’s an AI program that’s named Stockfish.”
 
“Oh, boring. Does it tell ye what to do? Does it do more than play chess?”
 
“Nope. I betcha we’re working on it, though.”
Erin knew time was passing in her world, but the idea of artificial intelligence, real sentient computers, felt a long way away. Shaestrel nodded reasonably.
 
“Well, then. Tell me when it does, and I’ll take a look. That’s always funny to see.”
 
Concerning statements like that aside…Erin Solstice went back to playing, stumped. She had no idea why she was losing other than Shaestrel was definitely cheating or…doing something Erin couldn’t stop.
Here was the problem. Twenty games of pure defeat lay behind her, and it looked like twenty-one was going that way, too. Although it was taking a lot longer and Shaestrel seemed to be on the back-foot, she had begun doing her ‘trick’.
Erin felt it. It felt like defeat sneaking up on her, even as their pieces tangled up and took each other off. Here was the thing—even if she couldn’t win, even if she was theoretically below, say, an ELO 3000 player that Shaestrel might be if she used her ‘real power’—
Erin should have drawn a lot of games. High-level chess games ended in draws. But pure defeat?
The twenty-first loss was a bad one. Erin saw it in the shape of the board, stopped—put her hands over her face, and then snapped.
“How are you doing that?”
Shaestrel laughed until she nearly threw up. She rolled around on the table, and Erin nearly flipped the chessboard over for the first time in her life. She actually stood up, weak legs and all, and strode around, punching the air. When she came back to the board, reality was reality.
It was crude, it was lopsided—but even so. She stared down at her last remaining chess piece, cornered in the upper left corner of the board. And spread out around it, as if her white piece were the eye, was the vaguest outline of…
A bird.
 
——
 
The game was about more than the game with Shaestrel. Part of it was probably humility. And Erin was definitely humbled by losing like that, even if she suspected the fae was cheating in some way.
The problem was that Shaestrel’s moves were good. Perfect. Perhaps…beyond perfect. But the faerie had thrown down the gauntlet, and Erin had to figure out why she was losing.
After that game, she went to the only master she could think of.
“Shaestrel has learned the art of bird-chess? She must be a true master.”
“Bird…don’t start.”
“I have never stopped, Erin.”
He sat in his tower with a big, white coat on, lined with wool fur, and looked like an adorable poofball in his snowy lookout. Even now, he was on the hunt for birds, but he complained.
“We must all eat the humbleness of pie, Erin. Losing is good for you. I, myself, must shoot Snow Golems. See?”
He drew an arrow, loosed it, and Erin saw a roaming Snow Golem fall over as Bird shot its head clean off. She felt a bit bad about that…but the naturally occuring, magical monsters were a hazard to the new farmers in Liscor.
“I had no idea you were so helpful, Bird.”
The Antinium sighed.
“I was told I would receive some money for helping, Miss Erin. The Watch wanted me to hunt Golems. So I do this. We must all do responsible things now and then. I hunt Golems. You lose to faeries. We are alike.”
“…Bird. How do you make those bird games in chess? I think it was a clue. Either that or she’s messing with me, but I need to know your secrets.”
“Aha. So the apprentice comes to the master.”
“Has Troy been talking to you about stupid catchphrases too?”
Bird looked somewhat insulted.
“No. I am just stating facts. I am the master of birds, Erin. You are a master of chess. I take it back. Now, we are not the same. I make bird-games in chess when I can. It is not easy.”
In fact, he couldn’t do it with Erin that much anymore since she’d just trounce him and take his pieces. Against a new foe like Venaz, Bird could manage it, but it wasn’t common. It might be as low as four percent of all his games that turned into the actual shape of a bird. Nevertheless, it was fairly amazing.
“I can see knowing the shape you want to make, but how do you get your opponent to do it? I’d have to smash their pieces and move mine into place and hope I could maneuver them like that.”
Erin was trying to imagine how to even conceptualize the outcome Bird seemed to aim at. The Antinium sipped from a mug of hot milk as he chattered away to Erin.
“This is simple, Erin. You are thinking about it wrong. When you play me, you play to win.”
“Uh huh.”
“But I am playing to make a bird.”
“Right. So where’s my error in logic?”
Bird tapped one of his twitching antennae.
“You think we are competing. But I know we are not. Your goal is not my goal. So I can win or lose. It does not matter. But you are not defending against me, and therefore, I can win in my goal.”
“…I definitely defend against you, Bird. I eat your bishops every time they come out.”
The merry Worker waggled a finger in front of Erin’s face and smiled with his mandibles.
“No, Erin. You are just winning in your silly game of chess. You are not defending against my goals. I am trying to make a bird. Win or lose, you are not defending against the bird. It emerges from the board like…”
He snapped his fingers.
“…A chick out of an egg. Does that help you?”
Erin put her chin in her hands. She sneezed a bit in the cold and wondered if she had the energy to go down the stairs back to her chair.
“Bird, I think it does, but now I have a headache.”
“I am known for that, too. You did not defend against my headache either. You are defenseless, Erin. See?”
Then he began to tickle her through her jacket. Erin laughed.
“Bird! You silly kid! Stop it! Stop it! I’ll tickle you!”
“You cannot tickle me, I have no tickle sp—not the antennae! Hahahahaha! Stop! Enough! I will throw you out of my tower!”
 
——
 
The Bird talk made Erin feel like she had a bit of the puzzle, but she was no expert in solving riddles or…confusing fae shenanigans.
For that, Erin had to go to a real expert, and she knew just who to ask.
But first, she had to fall.
“Aaaaaaaah!”
An [Innkeeper] rolled down the roof of her inn, plummeting past a window where Lyonette was having lunch. The [Princess] spat out all her food, and the guests raced outside.
