Those records are clear. However, even Visophecin didn’t have a clear picture of the Infernal Court’s downfall. He had a lot of accounts and personal reminiscences that painted a fairly clear picture of arrogance and complacency and excess, the traditional death of great empire.
However, the rest was gone. The last Archfiend, Cormelex, had seen to that.
“This is not a lesson in history, but hubris. Lucifen are immortal, not invincible. Silvenia, the Death of Magic, far exceeds our kind. Dioname, the Great General of Ailendamus, could be said to exceed my power, especially with her ability to empower an army. We may lead Ailendamus, but mortals have the capacity to exceed her. And you are all aware of a visitor that challenges even Rhisveri’s strength.”
Another reminder. The Lucifen knew about Teriarch, although how much probably depended on how much they had gotten from their elders. If they didn’t know, none were foolish enough to let it show.
“Viscount, what is the purpose of this lecture? Humility? We are all familiar with history. The death of Fithea is not lost on anyone. Tragic as it is.”
Oelvix. He probably thought he was anticipating Visophecin’s speech—and like a young wit, a singular wit at best—he probably thought he was being clever.
The silence made the young Lucifen flush, and then Visophecin continued speaking as if nothing had happened.
“The Dragons are dead. The lesson we have learned is simple. Each immortal species is simply incapable of maintaining itself. Reproduction, however crude, is more viable for a species’ survival than the power of individuals. Once more. The Lucifen who came before you and I were not weak. And yet they are dead, and we have been shattered again and again. We are the last. And mark my words, cousins. As I lead House Shoel, even as we control Ailendamus from shadows—I do not think we will return to our glory.”
Then their eyes were on him. Visophecin said it calmly, and that flower in his chest that thought they might rebuild still refused to wither. Hope was that twisting vine that grew even amidst despair. But the intellectual, logical side of him…
“Even if every single one of us were to commit to reproducing, even if we all avoided natural death, lived a thousand years, our people will not recover. The Agelum are dying. We hide from our enemies, who might remember our deeds and come against us. None of this is any one individual’s fault. Even Cormelex. It is the same thing that had laid low Dragonlords and the path of this world.”
He faced them calmly. They were drawn into his speech despite some having heard variations of it before. After all, Visophecin did not ever tell it the same way. He had some small gift of oration, nothing like his maternal siress. But Visophecin employed it now. He ran his eyes across each of the eight’s faces, let them stare into his gaze and see his lack of fear. His resolve. And his will, for this was not despair. This was how Visophecin told their story, Agelum and Lucifen both.
“You are bound to House Shoel’s rules. We are a community, and you have a responsibility to your peers. But there will come a time when you are accorded the respect of fully-fledged individuals. Then, you will make the decision that each of us does. And that is how we end. Lucifen. The Agelum have made their choice. But we are all entitled to inform this world upon how the last of the Lucifen shall meet their end. With dignity, with strife or vengeance…”
He paused.
“…This age may be the last of all of us. Or it may be said that this is an hour like the Infernal Courts. If you would take part in it, then learn maturity.”
He glanced pointedly around, and each of the Lucifen fidgeted as they remembered recent indiscretions for which they had been upbraided.
But Visophecin just looked back in time to when he had been young. And Silvenia was older than him, but even she had not known Lucifen.
She had been born in an age filled with great magic and seen Walled Cities die. She had lived in the half-Elven villages for countless centuries in time immemorial, come out of her hiding to become a great [Mage] of Wistram, seen the Blighted Kingdom founded and rise and betrayed it.
How must she view the changing world? Visophecin had been brought into this world less than a thousand years ago. He had been young when Curulac came to Terandria and made to end a species once and for all.
Sadness. Dignity. The two comingled into a feeling he had no word for. That word defined the Lucifen. Defined immortality. Perhaps he would come up with a name for it.
He ended the little convocation with that. It was not the best speech he had ever given, and not the worst. Paxere bowed to him slightly.
“Was the warning to avoid Wistram’s eyes, Visophecin? That is a lesson I have taken to heart.”
“Not directly, no. Call it…self-reflection, Paxere. Projection as much as analysis. I do not doubt you will have your autonomy in time. What will you do with it?”
That surprised her, but she masked her reaction and smiled.
“Perhaps go on a long journey, Viscount. Though that might earn me the condemnation of my peers or delay my autonomy. I think it would still be for the best.”
What a strange thing. Especially telling him—though perhaps her own custodians, Azemith and Igolze, were aware of this, and so Paxere felt like telling him was no loss. But it was strange because the Viscount…he smiled as he adjusted his suit.
He had been thinking the exact same thing, recently.
 
——
 
Visophecin walked through the halls of his kind, plotting how to evade Rhisveri’s scrying spells that were doubtless meant to see if anyone was breaking his injunction against helping Ryoka Griffin and reviewed a report from Azemith. She had not found Gadrea, and it had been weeks since she had been discovered as having left.
The Devil was waiting for something, he realized. Perhaps…a great challenge. A single foe to set himself against, so he could say it was that he had lost against. Meaning to the end of his people.
He murmured the end to his speech as he walked House Shoel’s halls. Quietly, under his breath, the unspoken question.
“My forebearers were not weak. Was I?”
He asked for the simple reason that like the Agelum, the Lucifen had waned. Just like their kin, they had lost power, and sometimes Visophecin attributed that to a…weakening of the harshness that his kind had always held.
Visophecin judged himself no less vicious or intelligent or deadly in capability than those who had come before him. But never had Lucifen and Agelum been—more than allies of convenience at best. Yet here he was, caring for the last of them when Lucifen of ages past would have held their heads under the water and laughed in the doing.
Did that make him weaker? Logic said that the Lucifen’s own dwindling power, less pronounced than Agelum’s, was not based on anything as qualitative as their own brand of morality and feeling. But sometimes he wondered if he had taken the wrong tack with Ryoka Griffin. The trouble with a conscience—or a set of conduct so alien to humanity and many species—was that he had no moral compass.
And the only beings older than he, from Fithea to Rhisveri to even the Dragonlord, were also strangers. Visophecin was the oldest of the Lucifen. And as he had spoken—that was too young.
He had attained his warform by practice and effort, but the great powers of Lucifen started at the warform. At least some remained. Like…
“Gate.”
He did not have to say it. The magic that opened into a realm that only the Lucifen could navigate with ease was intrinsic to their kind.
It looked like blackness, and the platform that he could walk on, or road, was important not to stray from. There was a ‘down’, and you could fall straight into somewhere you would rather not be.
Although this is a contained dimension with finite limits. He had clocked the landmass at about half of Ailendamus—and it contained the labyrinth that Ryoka Griffin had escaped from, the battleground that Eldavin had fought in, and more. A kind of travelling dimension as well.
With it, he could conceivably travel across Ailendamus in a breath. House Shoel had to anchor it to a point in reality, so there were limits to Visophecin’s ability to teleport. He could not, say, appear in Invrisil in a moment’s notice.
At least, not with this particular spell. In the past, Lucifen had been able to use far more abilities. Not teleportation necessarily…but they had possessed the powers of law and judgment in more than just titles.
Why had they lost those? Like the Agelum, it was the question Visophecin was dying to know. Perhaps literally dying. While Ryoka did not have a definitive answer, it rankled him that he could not ask or have her working on this issue because of mere…pride.
He appeared in the palace of Ailendamus and proceeded through the private chambers of Rhisveri. There was no one there, but Visophecin kept silent and walked swiftly, masking his presence with magic.
One thing Rhisveri had access to was long-range teleportation magic. He even had glyphs, the kind he’d used to cast [Greater Teleport]. There were dangers as the late Dame Eclizza had proved, but that had been the Death of Magic.
The odds were…remote that he would be in that kind of danger. And Rhisveri was not always attentive. If Visophecin just teleported to Izril and made a pretext of an excuse later, what would Rhisveri do?
“At the very least, I could attach a permanent locator spell to Ryoka Griffin. If I had access to that, I could conceivably use [Long-Range Teleport] by hoarding mana. It would be an unpleasant way to travel across continents and take days per trip…but it could be done.”
Visophecin slowly walked into the chamber with the teleportation rune. He glanced around, but Rhisveri was doubtless napping, counting treasure, or something else because the Wyrm’s breathing wasn’t even audible.
“Good.”
Visophecin turned back to his task, and a giant blue sock puppet wearing a black hood bobbed its head up and down. The Lucifen froze—then swung around and pretended to be walking on. The sock puppet followed.
“It would be really convenient to teleport to—I’m sorry, did you say Ryoka Griffin? I must have misheard you. No ears. I’m Rhissy, by the way. Nice to meet you, Viscount.”
Visophecin didn’t say anything. He kept on walking, trying not to obviously look around for the Wyrm. Was he camouflaged? Invisible? The sock puppet floated behind him.
“I know you couldn’t have been thinking of leaving via Rhisveri’s teleportation runes. Because that would be close to treason, and boy oh boy would the Duke be unhappy. We’ll keep this between us, agreed?”
“Not at all—Rhissy. And it would be paranoid for Rhisveri to monitor his teleportation runes.”
“You’d think so. Right? But—and this is so funny you’re going to laugh. Ha. Hahahahaha.”
The sock puppet threw his head back and laughed like a maniac. Visophecin wondered if any of the immortals were good at dealing with mental…strife.
That had been Fithea.
“Hahaha. Anyways. The funny thing is—Sophridel was just here the other day. I wonder why? He wasn’t that stealthy. Nor was Menorkel. One was trying to get to Izril, the other to the Singer of Terandria.”
So that was why he’d noticed Visophecin. Those fools. They weren’t half as stealthy.
“Perish the thought. I was merely looking for Sariant Lambs.”
“Oh, those pests? Ryoka’s got one attached to her. She even carries it around. I tell you, mortals. They’re just gullible fools.”
Rhissy scoffed. Visophecin, who had been on the back-foot and as close to sweating as he got, pounced in a second.
“Intriguing that you know that, Rhissy. You would not be going behind Rhisveri’s back and back upon the Duke’s word by scrying or…dare I suggest, visiting Ryoka Griffin?”
“W-who, me? Perish the thought!”
“Indeed. Why don’t we keep this from the Duke? We wouldn’t want you to annoy him.”
Rhissy’s mouth opened and closed as Visophecin gave him a sliver of a smile. There was a muffled, far deeper voice.
“You repugnant sliver of Garbichug sphincter—ahem. How kind of you, Viscount! Did you want me to get the Duke for anything?”
“You may tell him I was merely conducting routine surveillance.”
Visophecin sighed as Rhissy bobbed his stupid head up and down. The sock puppet smiled.
“Very good! I hope you’re doing well, Visophecin! Get out.”
The Lucifen gated immediately out of the palace. On his short walk back to House Shoel, he fumed quietly. Rhisveri had access to abilities the Lucifen didn’t. That was how power was maintained, but it chafed Visophecin to not be able to interact with the critical events as he saw them.
He had long been a shadowy figure in Ailendamus. But now, as he desired to take an active role, it eluded him. But he needed to join in these events if what she said was true. He was not ready for what was coming. Eldavin had been one of the greatest challenges of his life. More were coming.
My forebears. What have I lost that they possessed?
They’d had it all and still fallen to ruin. He needed to know—why. And for that knowledge, he would give almost anything. He thought of Ryoka Griffin…then the man who had stood behind the [Innkeeper]. There were no pictures left of him. But Visophecin’s blood still chilled when he wondered who that had been. He dearly wanted to go on a trip of his own.
And besides, with all due respect to Ryoka’s ability to attract immortal attention, he doubted she could truly pull a Dryad out of thin air.
 
——
 
Ailendamus had truly changed Ryoka. Not all the way, but she was a bit more thoughtful after coming back. Even more mysterious, and to Hethon at least, she looked calmer.
As if, despite all her failings and floundering, she had helped to bring her friend back in some way. And that made it all worth it.
Hethon didn’t begrudge her leaving. She’d been kidnapped after all. He didn’t really hold it against his father either. Tyrion had gone to save Sammial and Ryoka. Of course, Hethon was too young to fight in a war. He’d had…fun with Buscrei’s relatives in Oswen and even visited some of the other family.
But he’d been glued to the scrying orb and listening to reports from Jericha every day. He’d stayed up night after night until Lord Oswen gave him a tot to drink if he promised not to tell his father, and he stayed up with cousins on late-night hunts.
He could even shoot a bow decently, now, and Sammial was jealous of his sword lessons. Hethon’s little brother was jealous—as if he hadn’t met a [Princess].
