“If it’s because of you, then it’s only ten percent because of you,” said Alden. “And ninety percent of it is me figuring me out. I still admire so much about Hannah’s goal for being a support hero, but…”

“Doesn’t fit with the new hero type you’re crafting for yourself?”

“It’s not that. It’s less big picture than that. Me pulling away from my old vision in this case is based on some practical, basic stuff. Like in Engaging with the Unexpected, the question is usually, ‘What would you do?’ And my answer half the time is either, ‘I’d do nothing,’ or, ‘I’d do something I actually think is wrong to prevent another superhero from doing something I think is wronger.’ I think working as a city hero like Hannah did, I’d get tired, and probably fired, rapidly. So even if I do decide to slip into a costume, something less like that and more like what Haoyu’s parents do, or Instructor Fragment, would be better for me. Why?”

Boe shrugged. “No major reason. We’ve touched on the topic from a couple of angles since I got back. You told me you weren’t going to devote a ton of time to making nice with the Chicago team, even though they’ve given you an opening. That’s a big decision. I just wanted confirmation.”

[Alden: Confirmed. You being a technical criminal isn’t the main factor in this decision.] “Every other decision in my life is about you, of course. I can’t get you off of my mind. I only chose my Azure Rabbit trait because I suspected it would make me jump higher, and—”

“If you say what I think you’re going to say, you dumbass—”

“I just want you to look at me the way you look at frogs.”

“You are not funny.”

“Then why are we both laughing?”

Boe straightened his face, then gave Alden a superior look. “I was laughing at you, not with you.”

“Sure you were.” A tear of mirth tickled its way down Alden’s cheek. He wiped it away. “Now, if you’ve got a minute, I did want to ask you something. Several things. Mostly about your own future plans.”

“My own?”

“Yeah, man. We talk mainly about me since everything happened. I didn’t mean for it to be that way every time I called you.” [I’m not the only one learning how to handle this whole superhuman lifestyle. What about what you’re dealing with? I think if we account for catspace, you can’t have had much more time than I have to get used to it all. Don’t you want to pick my brain about what you’re planning sometime? If you’re going to come to Anesidora one day, I’ll rent all the apartments around yours so that I can bother you from every direction but you won’t have to hear from other feelers. If you become a superhero, I will buy all of your merch and wear it constantly. And if you’re going to stay in hiding, might I suggest any of the great places on Earth that lack an active hero team? That money I’ve put you in charge of will spend even better in some of those places, right?]

Boe was staring at him so hard he was calling to mind a very different friend.

“Do I have a booger hanging out of my nose or something?” Alden asked. “I don’t think I said anything to deserve this awkward silence.”

Boe shook himself. “No…it’s…of course I have things I want for my future. Ideas. That’s what people our age do, isn’t it?”

“It’s all a scam to keep guidance counselors in business. Share your ideas with me instead of them. I work for free.”

“Sure,” said Boe. “I will. Not…now, though. It’s almost one in the morning here, and that would be a long convo.”

“It does sound like a longer one. Fun, though. Okay. I was in the middle of figuring out what I wanted to put in a letter to someone anyway. Dream of me ribbiting at you.”

“I will not fucking do that.”

“You hope.”

******

******

Hn’tyon Bithe,

The Here-to-There ended with such an unexpected act by Olget-ovekondo that I don’t feel like I said a proper farewell to you. I’m glad to have met you, and if our paths don’t cross again, know that I believe I have grown through our meeting.

Life here on Anesidora is mostly safe and mostly peaceful. I wish safety and peace for you and the family you’ve chosen, even though it’s a wish for a harvest out of proper season.

I hope I’ve said that well enough for my meaning to overcome differences in language.

Sincerely,

Alden

***

Hn’tyon Emban-art’h,

Thank you for inviting me to help with the Here-to-There. It was an experience I don’t think another human has ever had. I learned so much and enjoyed working alongside you, your friends, and Stu.

I’ll remember it always. I look forward to seeing you again and maybe being beaten at throwing paper flyers.

Sincerely,

Alden (the human one)

***

Hn’tyon Ryada-bess,

It’s hard to explain why meeting you has had an impact on me without telling you things that are too personal. I keep trying and then erasing it all. I’m sorry that in this version I’ll probably tell you more about myself than you wanted to know and still not everything I wanted you to hear.

In a way, I died on Moon Thegund.

I didn’t lose all of me, but I lost so much. And when I came back here, to Earth, I thought I’d never stop grieving for all the missing pieces and fighting against who I am now and all the ways I feel different.

Sometimes, I still grieve. Sometimes, I smile even though I’m screaming inside because it’s rarely okay to show your darkness to someone else, and it’s never easy.

Right now, I want to take those words back and not show them to you. I hope I don’t. I hope I leave them in.

One thing I have to say is, I’m glad I didn’t die there. Another is, I keep finding new pieces to replace what was lost. And there are parts of me I was sure were worse after Thegund—parts I called bad—that don’t bother me much at all now. I believe that some of them may even be strengths I haven’t learned to appreciate yet.

It was so hard for such a long time, even after I came back to this place I thought would feel like home. If you’d met me several weeks ago, you’d have met a t’tchispa freaking out and slicing its belly open on rocks, trying to make myself fit back in.

I hope you read that poem you were standing on at the train station, or you’re going to think that sentence was weird.

I’m seeing a mind healer. I’m facing my fears in my dreams instead of letting them consume me. I saw you folding the kooba skins, and I won’t presume to know what it meant to you, but in watching your action I recognized a weakness in my own compassion that I will try to make better.

I couldn’t have done any of this in the immediate aftermath of Thegund. I couldn’t have done it without the help of people who’ve been looking out for me. Stu is one of them. I know you have people like that, too.

I’m sending you a picture of Everly Kim trying to keep her new exfoliating cloth away from everyone in our class who wanted to touch it. It was funny. Kon said to thank you for buying it.

I’m honored to know you.

Thank you.

I hope I’ll see you again.

With a yell in my throat,

Alden
