I woke up the following morning on the third story of the building where I’d discarded my clothing the other day. I discovered that Cat Footed did help my Hell Hound self a good bit, but it did not let me climb walls the way a human body did.

I let out a long yawn, licking my chops as the morning sunlight hit my face, then transformed and geared up. I was finishing wrapping the bandages around my wrists as I stepped out from the shadows and looked over my domain.

But it wouldn’t be my domain for long. I was already outgrowing it, and I needed to continue on to the Broken Fang, the Black Pyre, and then maybe even the depths if that is what the Hellborn Firewitch Path required of me.

Still, I needed to be sure I was indeed the strongest here. I’m not sure if it was out of sound strategy or not, but as I looked toward the far reaches of the city, where the buildings became larger, more decrepit, and more densely packed, I felt something in my heart. If there was something out there that was an even greater predator than me, I wanted and maybe even needed to kill it.

With that thought, I got moving, jumping down to a lower roof, running across and jumping to the next, then continuing through the city in such a fashion. The low-level skeletons below that were now of no interest to me were clueless of the shadow of death that passed over their heads.

I wasn’t even worried about hunting breakfast. I supposed, if I found nothing else interesting in the city and decided to move on today, I could hunt some food on my way to the Broken Fang.

However, if I did find a worthy foe to hunt, then I’d change my plans as needed.

* Luke *

Luke liked traveling with Themiel. There was such freedom in just picking a spot to sleep for the night after their hunting, and then just going to sleep without having to return to the Fortress, go through those cramped halls, and hold himself back from wanting to teach other Umarii that he didn’t like a lesson.

Best of all, Luke got to cuddle up next to Themiel again! Ever since his last great strengthening, Themiel didn’t let him sleep in bed with him and instead made him sleep on the floor. Luke didn’t like that, though he understood he was simply too big for the bed now.

But out here, there were no beds, and Luke was free to sleep closer to his master again!

“Look there, boy,” Themiel said after they had been walking for a while this morning.

Luke looked and saw something in the distance. It… looked like the ruins they would train in but it was bigger. Much, much bigger. Like if the Fortress were not part of a mountain but just out in the open but then fell apart like the ruins they’d hunt in. That’s what that place in the distance seemed like to Luke.

“The Oracle told us to go here first and see if we find anything. If not, we are to head to the Black Pyre.” Themiel crouched down beside Luke and put an arm around his side and pointed. Luke knew this meant to look in whatever direction his finger pointed towards. Usually, Themiel would do this when he wanted to point out something he wanted Luke to kill.

But that did not seem to be the case this time.

“That large mountain there, and the smaller, flatter one next to it,” Themiel said. “That’s the Broken Fang. There’s a lot of goblins there, the green things we killed before. We’ll pass through there to get to the Black Pyre. I’ve never been so far myself, but I’ve seen the maps.”

Luke whined and looked over to Themiel, then licked the side of his face. He didn’t precisely understand everything his master was saying, but he could tell that Themiel seemed worried.

Themiel smirked and patted Luke’s head.

“Anyway, apparently we need to make friends in the Cursed City. Not sure what we’d befriend in that horrid place, but let’s go!”

Luke trotted after Themiel as they continued on.

He looked over and thought, it’d be nice if Themiel could run faster like he could. If Themiel could move at Luke’s speed, they probably already would have made it to that place they were supposed to be going to. But then again, Luke was getting bigger and bigger. Maybe once he was big enough, he could just carry Themiel? Luke would like that.

But their travels slowed once more before actually making it there, as another shape appeared in the haze of distance. Themiel stared at it, then looked down to Luke and nodded his head towards it.

It didn’t take Luke long to figure out what it was, once the wind blew the right direction and Luke managed to smell it. It smelled of death, several days old but still edible. It was prey that had been killed, the same kind Luke loved to hunt for meals, but this one was considerably larger than the ones Luke usually killed.

Then, Luke smelled other death, much fresher. When they came close, it was some other four-legged predator that wasn’t too different from a Hell Hound. Luke walked over and sniffed it. It seemed its belly had already been eaten.

Luke froze, then sniffed more carefully. There was something else that was familiar. Very familiar.

Luke started sniffing the ground all around the monster, trying to seek out that familiar smell. What was it? It was so faint and the nearby smells of death covered it so much more that it was truly very hard to say for sure that it was even there at times.

“Hmmm, now this is unusual…” Themiel said, looking over the Waste Walker first. He crouched down by one of the legs. “Broken leg… did this happen before it was killed?” He examined it closer. “Looks like it was done by teeth.” He looked over his shoulder to see Luke sniffing away from the two kills.

Luke kept losing the trace, though. The smell he wanted to find did not stick well to the dusty ground of the wastelands. He’d lose it, circle back around, find it again, but only to lose it again.

What is this smell? And why did it seem so important to him? For some reason, it made him think of his brothers and sisters. It made him think of home.

“Luke?” Themiel asked, walking away from the two dead monsters. His eyes narrowed as he watched Luke sniffing around. “Hm… as I thought, there’s something else, isn’t there?” He examined the Skarrick. “At first I thought it got crushed in the hunt, then eaten by its packmates. But no, something else got it… Did something else kill the Waste Walker, then come back while this thing was scavenging?”

Themiel looked along the dirt. “Skarrick always travel in packs. There should be more corpses if something far stronger attacked them, or at the very least, some evidence of injury of this third party.”

Themiel paced away from the corpses, looking for signs in the dirt. But he would have the same difficulty as Luke. Between the dusty quality of the wastes and the low constant breezes, little was left clear to the naked eye, and Luke did not believe Themiel had any tracking skills.

Luke finally pointed his nose towards the city. He couldn’t keep track of whatever thing he was smelling, but he was sure of one thing and that is that the smell moved in that direction, towards the city.

It seemed Themiel understood. “Alright, boy. Let’s go check it out.”

They continued through the last stretch of the wastes. Sniffing the ground, Luke completely lost traces of the smell, until suddenly he did smell it. He instantly tore away from Luke’s side, where he found some blood. It wasn’t clear on top, but enough of it had pooled here that it managed to get into the dirt far enough the wind wouldn’t carry it away. Luke sat on his haunches right there, staring back at Themiel with his tail wagging behind him.

“What is it, boy?”

Once Themiel came over, Luke pawed at the spot where the smell was the strongest. Themiel crouched and moved the dirt around with his finger. “You’re really interested in whatever this is, huh? Looks like it got wounded here.” He looked over to the corpse of the Waste Walker that was quite far away. “Hmmm… yeah, seems something killed it, left it, Skarrick came to scavenge, and then it came back. But the fighting against the Skarrick makes no sense… There shouldn’t only be one dead.” Themiel rubbed his head. “Come on, Luke, let’s just keep going.”

They got closer and closer to the city, and once the ground beneath Luke’s paws turned from dusty wastes to dusty stone, Luke realized the smell was ever a little clearer, but that wasn’t all…

Themiel ran ahead to look at a pile of bones. The same kind of pile Luke would make whenever he was training.

But that wasn’t all. Looking further down the street, there were more. Something here had been training a lot!

“Stay close, Luke,” Themiel said, running further ahead.

More and more piles of bones the further they went in, until the street opened up to a much larger area. There were several skeletons wandering around, and some stone thing that looked like half a person in the middle of all of it. And, of course, more piles of bones.

Luke lowered as he watched the skeletons shuffling about. These ones looked stronger than the ones he would train against, and the way Themiel placed a hand on his back to tell him to stay in place made Luke fairly sure that was indeed the case.

Luke put his nose to the ground, looking for that smell again, and again, it was faint, but clearly it was here. He just did not feel like he would be able to find whatever it belonged to since it was so faint it must not have been here recently.

That is, until finally they turned another corner, and a breeze brought it clearly to Luke’s nose.

“Luke! Wait!” Themiel hissed at him.

But Luke didn’t listen! He was too excited about finding the thing.

Luke went between two buildings and found blood on the ground. He put his nose right up to it and sniffed deeply. This smell… It was so familiar. Why did this thing’s blood seem so familiar? And why couldn’t he stop wagging his tail?

“Luke!” Themiel yelled, bringing Luke’s head up. There was a skeleton standing over Luke, already swinging its sword down, far too close for Luke to react; he could only brace himself for the blow.

But then, Themiel was there. He caught the skeleton’s sword at the hilt, then thrust his other hand forward. He used his push skill that blasted the skeleton into a scatter of rolling bones as a shockwave exploded from his palms.

Luke saw the skull roll across the ground, still screaming, so Luke ran to it and got his jaws around it. He then clenched down, bursting it into shards between his teeth.

“Luke! Don’t run off like that!” Themiel said, looking over his shoulder and up the alley again.

Luke whined, ears folding down and tail drooping, knowing he had been bad. He hated being in trouble.

After confirming they hadn’t grabbed the attention of anything else, Themiel placed his hand on top of Luke’s head. “It’s okay, boy. But you have to stay focused.” Themiel then walked over to the dry blood. “Is this the blood of whatever killed the Waste Walker?” he mused.

Luke pawed near the dry blood then put his nose down, getting a good whiff of it, familiarizing himself with the scent as much as he could.

“You’re reacting to it just as strongly, so I’d guess yeah. Is it what killed all these skeletons too? What kind of creature could it be, though? The Skarrick was killed by teeth, but the Waste Walker had dagger wounds…”

Themiel let out a heavy breath. “Luke, keep following the trail. We’re going to look for it.”

Luke’s ears perked up as Themiel tapped the blood then pointed. “Follow,” Themiel ordered again.

Luke’s tail wagged as he excitedly led his master out of the alleyway, nose close to the ground as he continued tracking the thing.