“Out darn spot! Out, I say! You see, this is the part of the play where she’s imagining blood on her claws, kid. But it’s in her mind. You have to really understand the text and the play to get that from just the script.”
Relc Grasstongue turned to Mrsha, and pointed at the script of Macbeth. It was slightly altered and he was clearly not reading from the exact script as written in the Shakespearian verse, but it was close enough. The little Gnoll nodded as Relc continued following the Players of Celum practicing on stage.
“See, the messed-up thing is that she doesn’t even stab the guy. She’s just got a tiny bit of blood on her hands after taking the knives. I mean, come on. It’s definitely written for a Human [Lady], right? A bit of blood and she’s not even freaking out about disemboweling the old [King]? Weak.”
Another nod. Relc held out a fist and Mrsha bumped it with a tiny paw. She was a Plains Gnoll and he was a former [Soldier]. And a Drake. They knew what was up. Relc turned back to the script and Mrsha peered over his shoulder, wagging her tail.
For some reason unknown to everyone, Relc was in charge of Mrsha for the day. It was a scenario few could have envisioned, including Relc and Mrsha themselves. But Erin Solstice was out of the inn on her holiday, and Lyonette was very busy managing…everything in Erin’s absence. And because the day staff of The Wandering Inn was also on break–the inn was currently being rebuilt after its destruction–Lyonette hadn’t been able to get them to babysit Mrsha.
Or rather, even her monetary offers had failed to get Ishkr, who’d committed to another job to keep the money flowing in during the break and Drassi, who was on a long holiday. And the other Gnolls and Drakes Lyonette employed, while good workers, weren’t familiar enough with Mrsha. And everyone else was busy.
So, Relc. He and she were sitting in a bar, watching Liscor’s members of the Players of Celum practice. After all, the magical door was confiscated. Or ‘being managed’ by the city since the inn was damaged. Of course, at the beginning the city had needed it to clean up the Bloodfields and so on, but now it was just ‘theirs’ and Lyonette wasn’t fighting them on it just yet. Erin was in Pallass and Relc was happy.
“Hey! Another beer for the table! And get one of those milks for Mrsha!”
He waved at a passing [Server]. The Drake nodded and came back with a drink. If there was something wrong about having alcohol in the presence of a minor, well, it was only to Erin or Ryoka’s delicate sensibilities. No one else had a problem, including Mrsha and Relc. She sniffed Relc’s drink, but she’d snuck tastes of beer enough to know it was bitter. Goat’s milk, now–Mrsha lapped it up happily with her tongue and then drank. Relc, fascinated, copied her.
“Hey! That makes it taste better. Who’d have thought?”
The Drake’s long tongue flicked into his own drink. Then he gulped a mouthful down and sighed.
“This brings me back. Alcohol, a hot day in the camps…you know, I have a daughter.”
Mrsha broke off from watching the [Actors] to give Relc an encouraging look that said ‘do tell!’ Of course, she was vaguely aware of this, but she was humoring Relc. She swiped some more crisped nuts from the bowl he’d sensibly ordered to go along with the drinks as Relc went on.
“Embria, you know? I used to do just this. Well, not in a bar. And it was more like me and the squad sitting around. But she would sit just here. And it’d be great. Hm. Damn. I remember swearing a lot back then. I shouldn’t swear so much around kids, right?”
He looked at Mrsha. She shrugged. She’d heard worse. Relc nodded to himself.
“Just like this. She liked it, too. She was always asking what we’d done that day, even if it was just marching through crap. What happened?”
She grew up. Mrsha tried to sign with her paws. Relc eyed her.
“Yeah. Yeah, I know. You’re alright, Mrsha. Hey, you wanna go somewhere after this?”
He waved at the play on stage. Mrsha blinked. Relc not wanting to watch the Players? The Drake correctly interpreted her look.
“It’s not that I don’t wanna watch. It’s just that I’ve seen Macbeth like…thirty times? I know, but the last six times were all this week. I’d watch the Lady Macbeth Temile was telling me they were putting on, but he’s gone. Or dead. I heard he’s missing a finger. Tough. The thumb’s really important for holding the spear, you know? A pinky…”
Another shared nod. The poor [Actor] had lost one of the worst digits. Relc sighed as he watched the Gnolls and Drakes on stage. They were pausing to confer over the lines.
“I wanted to join. I’m actually on a backup list, in case all the [Actors] break their legs. And yeah, I thought about it, but I like them. Anyways, I’m a [Guardsman]. I’d have to quit to join up; I can’t make the time without it.”
Mrsha looked at Relc. She tilted her head sideways. So why don’t you? It’s what you like. Relc was unclear whether this was him picking up on her sign and body language, or the voice in his head.
“It’s simple, kid. I like my job. I like puzzles, and plays, but I’ve gotta be a [Guardsman]. You know? Even if Captain Z gets on my tail every other day. I don’t want to be in the army. But a [Guard]? I have to hit something. You know?”
Mrsha paused and shook her head. Relc sighed.
“Yeah, maybe you don’t. It’s hard to explain.”
Pensively, he stared out across the bar. Then he brightened.
“I know! Let’s show you! I know Lyonette said I should stay here, but it’ll just be a quick outing. What about it, kid?”
Mrsha blinked, and then nodded happily. Relc grinned as he got up, fishing for his coins and a tip.
“I knew I liked you. Embria was the same way. Follow me!”
 
——
 
Twenty minutes later, Relc was coaching Mrsha, his voice gentle.
“Okay. You’ve got the knife. But it knows you have a knife. So watch out. It’s gonna pounce. If it gets you with its claws, you’re dead. Dead. You’ve got a weapon, and your smarts, but it’s bigger and maybe faster. And it has a hard outer body. Got it?”
Mrsha nodded. She eyed the tiny dagger she was holding in her paw. Unsteadily, on two feet rather than her usual four-legged mode, she waved the knife threateningly at the baby Rock Crab. It was…well, a huge crab. Usually, the Hollowstone Deceivers were giant, hidden monsters with huge shells. And they were longer than you thought when you thought of crabs–at least, to Erin and Ryoka. Not so much circular as elongated near the back.
Still, they had many crab-like features, including two claws, long legs, and a shell. They were in many ways typical crabs. Again, until you considered that these Rock Crabs were huge. Even the children! This baby Rock Crab that Relc had uncovered outside the city was twice as large as Mrsha and it had just been born! The rainy season that had precipitated so much life in the way of fish and so on had also let the Rock Crabs spawn their brood. And oh, what a brood!
The muddy Rock Crab may have been big compared to Mrsha, but it was weak compared to what it would become. Relc had dragged it out of the mud and now it sat, twitching, and clearly regarding Mrsha and Relc. Looking for a way to flee? Of course! This Rock Crab had no rock shell yet, and it was far too small to take on even a quarter of the weaker species living on the Floodplains. However…Mrsha faltered.
It was still big, and this Rock Crab would live off of rodents and smaller creatures until it grew bigger. Perhaps it would be fed by its parent? She glanced at Relc and the Drake cheered encouragingly!
“You can do it! Just stab it in the face! Everything hates that! Remember, it’s gonna jump! Let it get you and you’re dead!”
She really wasn’t certain, but the Gnoll cub nodded and advanced, wobbling on her two feet. The baby Rock Crab backed up, and Mrsha heard it clicking dangerously. She paused. Stab it in the face. She aimed Relc’s knife, took another step and slashed–
The Rock Crab leapt at her. Mrsha forgot everything she’d been told by Relc, dove, and slashed with the knife. The Rock Crab’s new carapace was too weak to fend off the blade and she gave it a deep cut. But the Rock Crab was attacking! Mrsha snarled and slashed with her knife, darting left, right, away from the Rock Crab as it tried to snap one huge claw onto her head or body and crush and tear her apart.
“Stay mobile! Don’t let it get behind you! That’s the way!”
Relc roared, following Mrsha and the Rock Crab as they fought in the grass and mud. Mrsha nearly had her knife in one of its eyes when she saw the Rock Crab lower. Too late, she backed up, but the bleeding, cut Rock Crab leapt. Mrsha twisted, but one claw seized her paw. And the Rock Crab was pinching hard, as it drew her closer–
“Nice try!”
Relc kicked the Rock Crab so hard Mrsha felt only the impact–then she was staring at the Rock Crab’s pincer, still attached to her arm. Nothing else. A bit of blue blood trickled from the stump. Mrsha looked around and saw the Rock Crab land. It was…dead. Relc wiped one foot on the ground and turned to Mrsha.
“You nearly had it, kid. If you could have stayed on your feet better, I’d have given you a buckler. But that wasn’t bad! Embria took ages before she could hold a spear–we used to give her this cut-down one. Whaddya think?”
Again, Relc’s grin and tone would have earned him an immediate smack or kick if any other of Mrsha’s caretakers or mother had been there. But Mrsha just smiled and nodded as she gingerly prized the pincer off her arm. She felt invigorated! Pumping adrenaline, the feel of the fight–it was like being on a hunt with her tribe all over again.
And Relc knew that. Mrsha looked up and nodded at him. He sighed.
“Yeah. But don’t you go fighting anything else! But you get it, right? I can’t just give this up.”
He sat down as Mrsha licked her cut arm. The Drake eyed her.
“How bad is it? Wanna potion?”
He pulled a healing potion out, but Mrsha refused it. The cut and bruise on her right arm was a mark of pride! She smiled at Relc and he grinned at her.
“You gotta fight. Too many monsters in this world not to. You can run away and leave it to someone else but–aw, hell. Even Erin fights, right?”
Mrsha nodded. And so she sat for a while with Relc on the muddy hill, staring at the dead Rock Crab. In the end, Relc brought it back to the city since you could make something out of it! Unfortunately, Lyonette met them, having been looking all over for the two. And she put two and two together in an instant.
She did not in fact, smack Relc. But she did go for her sword. Mrsha’s mark of pride was healed in a trice and Relc had to flee at speed. He was not welcome in the inn for the next six days, which was too bad. Because he and Mrsha did understand each other.
And after a dinner of Rock Crab stew, which was very good, Mrsha had the Rock Crab claw in her room, polished of meat, but a trophy of her victory. Until Lyonette found it and made her throw it away. But the ensuing tantrum and fight was so bad that it ended up in Relc’s apartment.
A little reminder of an evening spent between an unlikely pair of friends. And two souls who remembered what it was like to be wild.
 
 
Story #2 – Tersk and Dekass
 
(About an hour before the Wyverns attack Pallass, Tersk and Dekass of the Armored Antinium reflect on why they’re visiting Liscor.)
Wyverns flew towards Pallass. The Wandering Inn was reopening. Erin Solstice had just been placed under arrest. Wherever you looked, there was something interesting happening. And it was going to be an interesting day.
However, if interest was a sliding scale, nothing had tipped so far in the grand scheme of people’s day in general, in either Liscor or Pallass. True, some had witnessed the strange, sad, blue flame from the ninth floor. But those who had been able to see it from afar were very few, compared to the majority, who were, as yet, experiencing days that were varied and not unified by any common denominator of interest.
For now, smaller things were fascinating. Like the reopening of The Wandering Inn. Two Antinium standing around and staring at the crowd, the other Antinium eating, and at the hustle and bustle felt very fascinated. And out of place.
Both the Prognugator Dekass and Tersk of the Armored Antinium felt as close to naked as an Antinium could get out of their customary, steel armor. And that was only one of the artificial shells that members of their Hive wore. But they were undercover.
“Fellow Antinium of the Free Hive Pawn, is it customary for Antinium to eat as they please here?”
“Yes, Dekass.”
The weary voice came from Pawn, a smaller Worker. He was eating at a table with Yellow Splatters, Dekass, and Tersk. The two guests from the other Hive were being hosted by the Free Antinium as the first visitors to use the newly-constructed passage that would, in theory, link the Free Antinium to the other Hives.
It was still being expanded to allow mass-transport, but a small number of Antinium could currently make the long, long trek underground. That only two had after the tunnel’s construction was a sign, in Dekass’ opinion. It proved the Free Antinium were not that useful to the other Hives. He, personally, could not fathom why the Free Antinium as a Hive existed. They were so…inefficient. Their Hive so small. And they were poor allies of the Armored Antinium.
Not that the Hives weren’t all united. Of course not! They all served the Grand Queen and they were all complete allies. Absolutely. And the Armored Queen did not have her quarrels with other Antinium Queens, especially not the Twisted Queen and the Flying Queen and their Hives. If anyone asked, Dekass would absolutely explain that to them. It was one of the reasons he had blended so seamlessly into Liscor, posing as another Antinium without anyone noticing.
Anyone at all. It was also probably why Pawn had to stop and poke himself in the head every now and then. Probably a defect in the Worker. Dekass had pity for the Free Antinium, but only in an abstract sense.
He was, after all, a Prognugator, and he evaluated purely on the logic of what he saw. The Free Antinium had little to boast of. The Painted Antinium just wore…paint. The strange [Sergeant], Yellow Splatters, despite having a voice, was still inferior to a Prognugator’s creation process. And Pawn?
“I am waiting to experience the manifold benefits the Free Antinium—I mean, our Hive has to offer…us.”
Dekass looked around, sitting with military stiffness. Pawn’s antennae waved and he looked around. He met Tersk’s gaze, then Yellow Splatters. Wearily, Pawn replied.
“I am sure you will enjoy the food when it arrives, Dekass.”
