“Waiting around for food is extremely inefficient. We have already waited two minutes and fifteen seconds. Is this delay customary of…our Hive?”
Pawn paused.
“This is not our Hive. This is an inn. We are visiting it and it is very busy.”
“For optional nutritional supplementation. Tersk has explained it to me, but I still do not see the benefits. Why do Antinium need additional nutrients? Is the Hive’s resource that low?”
Challenging questions from Dekass. He was pleased to note that Pawn put his head in his hands. All four of them. Clearly, Dekass was exposing many flaws of the Free Antinium. He didn’t quite understand why Tersk kept glaring, but Dekass would make a full report to the Armored Queen. The Free Antinium had nothing valuable! Nothing except their strategic location under Liscor.
And…Klbkch the Slayer. Dekass clicked his mandibles softly together a few times. He looked around warily. And him. But everything else? No.
For some reason, the conversation kept ending abruptly. Dekass, waiting impatiently as he surveyed the inn, decided to keep probing the two Free Antinium. After all, they had to wait for their food. What an inefficient system! And this Yellow Splatters had insisted that the other Workers and Soldiers be served first. But this table was filled with the most important Antinium!
It boggled the mind. What had changed Tersk so after visiting this place? Dekass clicked his mandibles before speaking.
“The two week delay we encountered on…not arriving in the city was regrettable. However, I have toured the Free Antinium’s facilities thoroughly.”
“Extensively.”
Pawn agreed. Yellow Splatters rumbled behind him.
“Aggravatingly.”
Dekass decided to ignore that last comment. He looked at Tersk.
“When will we depart, Tersk? We must return to our…designated work area soon.”
“When we have eaten food.”
Tersk replied absently. He was locked onto the Drakes and Gnolls circulating the room with trays. Dekass did not see the point. He folded two of his four arms.
“We have imbibed sufficient nutrients each day in the Hive. I do not see why—”
“Sorry for the delay! Four bowls of soup! Here you are, Pawn, Yellow Splatters!”
A bright voice made all four Antinium turn. Pawn uttered a prayer of relief as he turned to the server.
“Thank you, Lyonette.”
“No problem, Pawn. Let me know if you or the Antinium want seconds! I’ll come back later, but it is busy—Relc sit back down and stay out of the kitchen! I’ll get you more food!”
Lyonette ran off. Dekass noted Pawn’s head turning to follow her. That was another peculiarity. Of course, his cover was perfect, but the Human hadn’t even looked twice at the Antinium. And Dekass had seen Drakes and other species before. They had screamed and fled. Or died.
The thought made Dekass restless. This was one of the few times he’d been deployed out of the Hive on a non-confrontational mission. The Armored Antinium did not do ‘stealth’, so reconnaissance was limited. And Prognugators were far too valuable to waste.
What if this sustenance was poisoned? Tersk had talked about it nonstop, as if it was somehow more nutritional somehow. But Dekass eyed the steaming bowl and frowned.
“Tersk. Has this bowl been thoroughly tested for—”
He looked sideways to see Tersk practically dumping huge spoonfuls of soup into his mouth. Dekass stared. Then he looked around. Pawn, Yellow Splatters, and Tersk were eating. Tersk was ravenous, but Pawn and Yellow Splatters ate with a controlled grace. But their waving antennae and raised mandibles told Dekass they were enjoying it.
Enjoying…food?
Dekass looked at the hot bowl of acid fly soup he’d been served, complete with sausage and a very nice spread of veggies mixed with white rice. All tied together by a flavorful, hot broth. No gluten; the Antinium were allergic to it. He gingerly opened his mandibles and ladled a bite of soup into his mouth. Suspiciously. And then—
Flavor. Dekass paused as the soup hit his internal taste receptors. His entire body stopped. He began to shake. Pawn stared at Dekass and sighed.
“Finally.”
 
——
 
About twenty minutes later, Belgrade arrived at the inn. The Antinium hurried into the inn and looked around. It was packed. But he saw Yellow Splatters at once and hurried over to the table.
“I apologize for the delay. Anand delayed in taking over my shift. He expresses his fervent desire for food. And he wished to take my spot.”
“Is he upset?”
Pawn looked up anxiously. He and Yellow Splatters were eating a second bowl of the warm soup. Belgrade nodded.
“Yes. However, I won the chess game three times out of five, so I have the right to visit on this day. Anand wished to speak with Revalantor Klbkch anyways. Food is secondary for him. Is Erin here yet?”
“Not yet. We are eating. Please, sit.”
Belgrade sat. He saw Pawn turn and wave at a passing server. But the Worker couldn’t help but notice a…pile. Of dishes. Next to him. He turned his head.
The Antinium shared food equally. One Antinium didn’t eat more than the others. Of course, Pawn visited the inn more than the others, but he never asked for anything the other Antinium didn’t get. And he shared Lyonette’s treats, even brought food into the Hive. And he conjured his magic bread each day.
So it was a bit…odd…to see the pile of plates, bowls, and cups in every conceivable container stacked neatly next to one chair. It looked like someone had eaten half of the inn’s dishes—and then tried to lick the table clean. Without a tongue.
“Pawn, are you substantially underfed? Yellow Splatters?”
“No. Tersk and Dekass were experiencing food here.”
Belgrade’s mandibles lowered noticeably.
“Ah. Are they here?”
Tersk was one thing, but Dekass another. But Pawn smiled.
“I believe Dekass has understood the merits of Liscor at last, Belgrade.”
“Oh. Good. I still do not like him. Where are they?”
Pawn pointed. Belgrade looked around just in time to see two very stuffed Antinium waddle over to the bar.
Drassi was happy. The [Gossip] may have had her class as a vocation, but she had any number of lower-level classes. Liscor’s mandatory [Soldier] class, a [Receptionist] class she’d had for all of eight levels before she got fired for chatting too much at the Adventurer’s Guild and her latest class—[Barmaid].
And now, she’d evolved her class into [Bartender]. And Drassi was happy. Bartending was a great job. Sure, you had to know how to mix drinks and she was still learning, but Erin was bad with alcohol and her idea of good bartending was Drassi filling mugs, not mixing drinks. And meanwhile, Drassi could chat.
“So, I haven’t seen Erin, but between you and me, I know where she is. Pallass Hunting. It’s some fancy hunting experience for Gnolls and Drakes. She was talking with Rufelt and Lasica after her inn broke and they sent her over for some actual rest and relaxation.”
She was leaning on her bar, chatting with Elirr and Krshia. Everyone had come by to ask Liscor’s number one chatterbox about Erin. Even Lism! The grumpy Drake was sitting with Olesm and Drassi was glad he wasn’t pestering her about ‘that darned Human’. But Krshia and Elirr were friends.
“Pallass Hunting?”
Elirr looked blank as Drassi explained the concept. He shook his head along with Krshia.
“City Gnolls, no? If they want a hunting experience, have them come to Liscor. Our [Hunters] can show them the experience of running away from Rock Crabs and avoiding Shield Spider pits.”
“Well, I think the point is that it’s easy. But I hope she comes back soon! The inn’s not the same without her, right? I was just thinking—oh! Sorry! One second!”
Drassi saw two people standing at the bar out of the corner of her eye. She turned—she was working and Lyonette had had words with her—and stopped.
“Hello. We are ordinary Antinium. We would like to peruse your supply of liquids.”
Tersk and Dekass stared at Drassi’s bar. They stared at the drinks. They stared at Drassi. She stared back. The Drake’s mouth opened. She looked at Krshia and Elirr. The Gnolls blinked at the…strange Antinium. They’d been wandering around the city and the Council had been asking what was going on, but they did have a deal with the Antinium.
“Um—you want drinks?”
“Yes. We have money. You have liquids. I am told it is customary to drink.”
One of the Antinium looked at Drassi challengingly, as if she was going to dispute the facts he’d been informed of. She hesitated, but Drassi was never going to miss this prime gossiping experience.
“Uh—of course! Sit down, anywhere you like! On this side of the bar. Drinks! For money! Yeah! That’s how it works! I have never had an Antinium have a drink here. That’s amazing.”
The two Antinium froze as they sat on stools. They looked at each other quickly, and one of them raised his hand.
“Ah, but we are ordinary Antinium so any misapprehension you have is clearly your fault, Miss.”
“…Right. Uh—what do you want to drink?”
“What liquids are customary?”
Dekass craned his neck to see the menu on the chalkboard. An actual drinks list. Drassi beamed.
“Well, most people get an ale, but I know Antinium have this thing about gluten. So—we have stronger stuff. Gin, rums—whiskeys, although they’re hot—”
“What is the point of drinking a liquid other than water? Is there an enhanced nutritional benefit? Does it taste good? That is important information.”
Dekass interrupted urgently. The Antinium had food all over his mandibles. Drassi thought she’d seen him inhaling food. She paused.
“Well—yes! They’ll make you fat. Believe me, I used to drink half my meals. I had this awesome time with Selys when we were—ahem. Yes, they do taste different, too. Some people don’t like the taste! Erin hates ale. And she doesn’t drink, which is weird for an [Innkeeper]. Then again, if you’ve met Peslas—he’s another [Innkeeper], you can appreciate not having a gut like—”
The two Antinium were just staring at her. The [Gossip] realized they had no idea what she was saying. And for once, she was stymied. She—she felt a pang. She had to up her [Gossip] level! Until she could chat with Antinium! But for now, Drassi gave them a proper explanation.
“The main thing is alcohol. People like to get drunk.”
“Drunk? What is this phenomenon of which you speak, [Bartender] Drake? I am currently undecided on your gender, by the way.”
Drassi looked at Tersk. She looked at Dekass to make sure they weren’t joking. Slowly, she reached for a cup. She’d thought Antinium had tough lives recently, but now she was convinced Erin was right about them. It was just like Numbtongue. Drassi was going to cry about this later! And tell all her friends!
“Why don’t you…try this?”
Dekass and Tersk stared at the tumbler full of deep rum. They looked at each other, and then Dekass reached for the glass.
 
——
 
Four minutes later, Tersk and Dekass sat at the bar. They were drinking. And talking. Both sipped from the rum as Drassi had shown them. They were enjoying themselves. And talking.
“That was…a unique experience, Prognugator Tersk. I begin to understand. I had been unimpressed so far, but now I am impressed. Yes.”
Dekass nodded a few times at Tersk. He wasn’t tipsy—yet. But he’d eaten so much he was entering the first food coma any Antinium had ever experienced in Izril. Well, outside of the Queens. Tersk waved one antennae at Dekass, very pleased. He’d eaten almost as much as the younger Prognugator.
“The Free Antinium have little in the way of military might or other unique military resources, Dekass. That is what I observed of my time there. They have more unquantifiable attributes. Such as…morale. And, I think, an understanding of the facet of living that escapes even the Armored Antinium.”
“I did not comprehend. But after eating that…food, I did. I begin to finally agree with your point, Tersk. Is this what you wished to show the Armored Queen?”
The older Prognugator of the Armored Hive nodded. He waved one hand around the inn. Dekass was enjoying the rum. It had a pleasant quality.
“As I mentioned to you, Dekass, the Free Antinium are weak. Weak in shell and number. But…they have this. Bartender Drassi, another shot, please.”
“Coming up!”
Drassi filled their tumblers as she hurried along her busy bar. The two Antinium stared at the second shots of dark rum. Then both Antinium lifted the glass up and drank it down efficiently. Drassi blinked.
“Wait. I told you that doing shots isn’t—you drink and socialize, remember?”
Dekass nodded.
“I recall your lecture, female Drassi [Bartender]. However, I have socialized adequately without this liquid. It is somewhat tasty, but I must experience this new phenomenon of which we speak. We will then imbibe until drunkenness begins. Will this be ample funding?”
He reached into the bag of holding he had been issued for this mission. Drassi was protesting.
“Look, I know you’re Antinium, but I can’t be in trouble if you get drunk. And if all the Antinium at the bar want a drink, I don’t know if Pawn’s budget—”
“We are paying for ourselves. This is our funding. Is it ample?”
Dekass slapped a handful of gold coins on the bar. Drassi stopped mid-sentence. She looked at Dekass, at Tersk, and then at Lyonette. The [Princess] pointed, and signaled Drassi as adeptly as Mrsha.
“—You know what? We can work with this. You want to get drunk? Let’s just see how many alcohols Erin has…”
Before the Wyvern attack commenced and Zevara charged into the inn to demand Lyonette grab the door, and Tersk’s secret scrying orb was compromised by Wistram’s alert, the inn was lively and full of laughter. And part of the entertainment for the people still deprived of Erin Solstice was seeing two increasingly drunk Antinium talking louder and louder at the bar.
They were obviously, obviously ordinary Antinium. As Dekass kept trying to reassure people. He was enjoying himself. And what was the harm?
Many dismissed it as the usual Antinium oddity. But at a table, a discreetly watching Antinium slowly thunked his own head onto the top of his tankard. Repeatedly. He only stopped when a Drake leaned over. Relc eyed Dekass and Tersk as they began asking how they knew they were drunk.
“Hey, Klbkch. Who’re those new Ants? New types of Soldiers in your Hive? Come on, you’ve been in a bad mood all week. Lighten up, lay it on your pal.”
Klbkch turned to stare at Pawn. The Worker raised his arms helplessly. He’d done his best. Klbkch shook his head.
“I do not wish to talk about it.”
