… But before the building could begin, first things came first.

Probably some more talking, actually.

And also checking up on the Benevolence.

Erick gazed out across the sky of his [Gate Space], and focused upon twisting iridescence upon that expanse. Within seconds, lightning appeared, like great serpents writhing across reality. But instead of tangling, and showing themselves as fulcrums upon which all of Veird would move, they settled down. The larger threats were no longer there. All that showed was a scattered net of barely-visible problems, like twisting black threads far in the distance.

Erick knew what he was seeing.

Fairy Moon had killed the Red Dot Mage, and that problem was no more. It had vanished from the sky. Goldie had eliminated the problem of Patriarch Xangu, and that problem had also vanished. The third tangle, however, was still there, but that fractal mess had spread out and dimmed a great deal, becoming just another part of the background sky. A larger part, for sure, but not nearly as much of a present danger as it had been.

Even the problem of the Converter Angel was almost as dim as the other problems, far in the future; the hundred year wall of change coming when Yggdrasil finally matured and became his own person. All of that danger was barely even visible, far beyond clouds of uncertainty.

… And that was fine.

This was good.

The first order of business was done!

Erick grinned a little as he dismissed his sunform and plopped down on the rim of his stone fountain. The sounds of trickling water and flickering flames melded with the susurrus of the easy breeze that touched upon his skin like springtime. A little ways away, Yggdrasil hung in the sky, his rainbow crown and canopy of flaming green leaves rustling in the wind, their light rippling with the movement.

Erick cleared his mind of everything.

And then, gradually, he considered all of what had just happened.

Starting off his new world order with two high-profile assassinations might not have been the most morally prudent way to start a new world order. And yet, the sky was clear of problems. Benevolence would stand for a while longer. At least hundreds of thousands of people would not die due to the actions of Xangu, or the Red Dot Mage. Objectively, Erick had made the right call.

One could not fault that murdering one’s problems tended to make those problems go away.

It was the same as when he had exterminated Terror Peaks, and all the Hunters of the Crystal Forest, and all the Hunters and serial killers of Songli. (And all the monsters he had killed, too, of course.) As least he hadn’t gone on any murder rampages himself. He didn’t actually kill all those people on his own; he had simply enabled them to be found and killed in the first place by the civilizations they had wronged.

Erick felt bad about what he had done, but also, he did not feel bad about ordering the deaths of those two future problems. Terror Peaks was finally gone. Now that that culture was fully eradicated, maybe Songli wouldn’t have to face the same problem in another 50 years; Erick had broken that cycle as much as he could. And! Messalina could finally get some closure for the murder of her Village. Perhaps Erick could actually get some positive diplomacy out of the Life Binder.

Maybe, if she hadn’t already solved Rats’ malformed soul problem, then Erick could solve that problem for him! He had invented a [Reincarnation] machine, after all. It wasn’t the same as [Resurrection], for Erick’s machine degraded broken bits of the soul and replaced them whole cloth, but he was surely to get pulled into the [Resurrection] debate for having made the Renewal Tank. His name would be spoken of beside Messalina’s name, for sure.

Erick did not like Messalina, for she had chosen to pursue the Red Dot mage by throwing parasites out everywhere she could, all in order to catch every Hunter she could find. She had even worked with Caradogh and he had used those parasites to directly harm Spur. Messalina was maybe 35% responsible for the tragedy of the Farms.

But he could get over that, too, if Messalina proved to be a valuable ally. That all depended on how she responded to the news that Erick had solved her Red Dot Mage problem. She couldn’t get her revenge, which seemed to be her primary reason for acting as she had. If she turned out to be too much of a problem then Erick would just have to kill her, too.

And then probably kill her several more times to be sure.

An unpleasant thought, but it was what it was.

… He would probably have to kill her.

Erick moved on.

Now that the trials of that final meeting with Fairy Moon, and Melemizargo, and Rozeta had passed, Erick realized that he was actually rather satisfied that Fairy Moon had murdered the Red Dot Mage so quickly. He was satisfied that Goldie had managed her assignment as well, even with the [Blessing of Empathy] in her soul if that Blessing was, indeed, still there. It probably was. Rozeta would have said something if it wasn’t, or if Melemizargo was trying to pull an actual trick.

The Dark Dragon’s goal of regaining a universe of magic was better served by Goldie retaining her [Blessing of Empathy], and not trying to trick anyone, so… Erick felt that Goldie still had her Blessing. Whatever the case with the Blessing, Erick was still eager to see how she fared in her assignment. Looking out at the clear sky, she clearly succeeded, but what did that mean? She had killed Xangu, yes, but what about all the other parts of her assignment?

Would Erick finally gain the knowledge of who was behind the soul spears and the Extreme Light materials? And had he really gained the Shade of Assassination as a… a what? A soldier? A guardian?

Did he want that? Absolutely not. And yet, Erick had already —and would continue to— accept that poisoned chalice of a gift. In the same way that he felt his own goals currently aligned with Melemizargo’s, Erick felt that Goldie’s ‘assignment to work with Erick’ was the manifestation of that alignment.

… Was Erick comfortable with, apparently, falling right in line with Melemizargo’s goals?

Again: absolutely not.

But at least there hadn’t been a battle. At least Rozeta and Melemizargo and Fairy Moon seemed to have come to some sort of understanding. Most people seemed to be on the right page; accepting that Erick had made the anti-Sundering Element, and that he could continue to act as he wanted to act, free of most influences. And eventually, Erick would open the path to the stars, and Yggdrasil would open up all the rest.

Yggdrasil was young, but he was growing.

Erick breathed deep, listened to his own little world for a moment longer, and then he asked, “Yggdrasil? Are you doing okay?”

Yggdrasil’s childish voice carried on the wind, “I’m okay. Are you okay? That was a lot of talking with big people.”

Erick smiled at Yggdrasil’s words, and at the improvement of those words. He was barely 7 months old, and he was speaking in mostly-full sentences. “It was a lot of heavy talking, but I think the largest of the large talks are over.” He glanced out at the sky, and focused on one thin black thread, far in the distance. “I don’t like how the Converter Angel is still around… And apparently smart enough to not try for a confrontation. So that’s concerning. At the same time, though, I don’t want to be enemies with the Angels, or the Demons. I’ll probably have to have another heavy talk with those two forces and with Kirginatharp, the Headmaster—” A thought occurred. “Do you know about Kirginatharp? Have you seen him yet?”

Erick didn’t think he had ever directly said anything about Kirginatharp to Yggdrasil, but it was entirely possible that the old dragon had visited Yggdrasil without Erick’s knowledge, though that seemed out of character for Kirginatharp. Erick had certainly said some… less than great things about Kirginatharp, though, and Yggdrasil had overheard those words, for sure. And that might be bad. Erick didn’t want Yggdrasil to have a bad impression of Kirginatharp, though there were certainly a lot of reasons to have a bad impression of the dragon.

This could be fixed, though.

Now that Rozeta had personally vetted her son, and… possibly defused whatever sort of bomb might have happened otherwise, Erick wanted to have a talk with him.

He needed to know why Kirginatharp taught magic the way he did. Why all the math? When communication was more important. Why all the rad dust for enchanting? Instead of runic enchanting. Why not teach about runes? Why not teach proper metalwork? Why not teach gridwork? Gridwork was a very simple way to make magic that Tenebrae had taught Erick, and Jane, and Teressa, which had finally allowed Jane and Teressa to start making some decent tier 2, 3, and 4 magics. Gridwork, at least, should be taught in every basic magic classroom! And yet there was so much more that Erick had only ever experienced outside of his two months of lessons at Oceanside Academy.

And why not aura control!

And the truth of Elemental Bodies! That they were aura control workarounds!

And what about Idyrvamikor? And the Dragon Curse? What the FUCK was up with that shitshow?

And what about enchanting! The enchanting methods taught at Oceanside were fucking terrible!

And what about accretion! And how magic used to work!

And the truth of how the Script was different from real magic! All the things that the Script does for a person, as compared to what base magic is like! And how people made 10 mana per day, but the Script recycled mana for everyone to use as though they were true mages! And how Wizardry was just ‘having a lot of your own mana, and working it properly’—

Well.

Now that Erick considered it, perhaps Kirginatharp taught magic like he did in order to weed out all the bad apples before properly teaching all the good ones. Still, though… Erick was still going to ask the guy these questions, just to see how he answered.

Yggdrasil answered, “I’ve heard you talk of Kirginatharp. I don’t know him.”

“What do you remember me saying?”

“You don’t like him.”

“… Ah. Well. It’s a lot more complicated than that.” Erick began, “My issues with Kirginatharp started when Tenebrae showed us this way to do magic, called gridwork. You were still too young to talk, or to really know what was going on back then, but that little revelation was but one of many contributing factors to my disillusionment of Oceanside, and its Headmaster…”

The wind blew, and Ophiel chirped as he played gentle games with himself. The fire above the fountain warmed the air. The stone of the platform was solid under Erick’s feet, while the water burbled over the lip of the fountain, to then flow through a channel in the platform, to trail out into the open breeze, to Yggdrasil.

And Erick told a long story.

Yggdrasil listened, and asked questions.

Eventually, the story ended. Erick felt he had painted Kirginatharp in a rather decent light, while still explaining obvious problems.

Erick finished with, “As far as I know, Kirginatharp has done a lot of good for the world, and the people living in it, but there are a lot of problems with his stewardship. The Book Binders, who use [Duplicate] to publish approved books by the millions, which is both a good and bad thing. His Curse which controls the dragons; also good and bad. With regard to his teaching methods, I’m sure he’s operating under a lot of restrictions from the wrought, because even if he is the Second to Rozeta, he’s still just one dragon, and it is the wrought who truly control the spread of magical knowledge… Which is not a bad thing.” Erick said, “I’m pretty sure Kirginatharp tries to help as many as he can, but… magic is dangerous. That much is very true. And yet, magic is the solution to… So much. Not the solution to everything, but magic is certainly the solution to all material problems.”

“What can’t magic solve?” Yggdrasil asked, as though such a question baffled even him.

Erick smiled, saying, “Magic can solve everything, but there are a lot of moral issues with using magic to solve interpersonal problems. So for those, talking is usually the best way to work through any issue with other people.”

“Why did you Bless people, though?”

“Because the other option was death, and I believe that enabling a person to see what they did wrong is a better solution than killing them, and ending all possibility for a better future.”

“Why did you…”

Yggdrasil asked questions about everything. From what he had seen in Ar’Cosmos, to what he saw elsewhere in the world, to what he had heard Erick speak about in passing, to everything he could think of.

Erick relaxed as he answered. He knew that he would need to spend a lot more time with Yggdrasil than he had. Which was great, actually, because now, Erick would have that sort of time.

One hour passed in calm answering, and then a second hour flitted away without Erick minding at all. Eventually, though, the questions slowed, and then stopped.

Erick asked, “Are you tired, Yggdrasil?”

“I’m awake...” Yggdrasil said, “But I am tired.”

Erick stood up. Ophiel had settled down here and there across the space, upon the stone and in Yggdrasil’s branches, but when Erick moved Ophiel flapped and sang in violins from ten different bodies. Some of them took to the air again. One of those little guys hopped back on to Erick’s shoulder.

Erick said, “Then it’s time to start working again. I’m going to be a lot closer to you for a long while now, Yggdrasil, like back when I was at the cavern near Stratagold. I was thinking of making another house in your branches at Candlepoint and we could see each other every day. Would you like that?”

“Yes! I want another house. You can live with me.”

Erick smiled wide. “That’s what I’m going to do, then.”

He gave one last look out across the lightning sky and tried to gauge the growth he had seen and felt in the last two hours. The place had started off as roughly a half a kilometer across, but as Erick had sat there, talking and listening, the place had grown a little bit. It was, perhaps, a meter wider on all sides, ballooning out from ‘half a kilometer wide’ to ‘maybe 502 meters across’. Hard to tell, exactly, since the outer edges of the [Gate Space] were rather nebulous, since they were made of iridescent lightning and then a hazy nothing far, far beyond where Erick could see. The place was growing, for sure. Actual growth would come with time, but even this much was enough to reach all across the world, and that was pretty awesome.

He had already sent Goldie to the Underworld far on the other side of the world, and Fairy Moon to Archipelago Nergal. Could he reach anywhere on Veird, already?—

Erick paused.

