Erick said to Yggdrasil, “If the next ten minutes are calm, then that bodes well for the next few hours. If all we do in the next few hours is talk, and talk, and talk, then that bodes well for the next day. If we get a day of calm order, then that bodes well for the next week. By that time, either we’ll be at war, or we won’t. What happens is pretty much all up to them.”

Yggdrasil’s weather-balloon-sized [Scry] eye appeared in the air outside of the balcony while Erick spoke. It rapidly shrunk down by the time he finished, and then Yggdrasil took his open spot on Erick’s left shoulder. Ophiel fluttered upon Erick’s right shoulder.

Yggdrasil said, “If war comes then you come to me. I will protect you.”

Erick smiled a little at the iridescent white eye, then he looked out across the waters, saying, “We can protect each other, as family. Have you spoken with your sister, Jane, much? Or with Poi?”

“They asked what I saw inside Ar’Cosmos, but I didn’t know what to tell them, so I said nothing. You said never talk of Wizards.”

Erick nodded. “I did say that. Thank you for keeping my secret, Yggdrasil.”

He probably could have said a lot more, to clarify everything for Yggdrasil, and to make Yggdrasil feel safer because that is what parents tried to do for their children, but they had already spoken for a long time and this next conversation was likely going to confuse the heck out of him. And also, Erick had made Yggdrasil with the express purpose of protection, so the normal way to raise a child didn’t really count here. Either way, Yggdrasil would likely never need to keep quiet about Wizards anymore, since Erick was going to come out in a big way, but that would confuse the big guy and Erick did not want to do that. He could already see it now; ‘But you said not to speak of Wizards!’ And here Erick was, headed out to meet the wrought and to likely field a ton of questions about Wizardry…

Erick was hesitating. He realized this.

… So he forced himself to lightstep off of the balcony.

Here we go.

In a flash of light, Erick suddenly stood atop the water, outside of the beach, outside of the wrought staging area. About twenty wrought, including many that Erick knew, stood well over forty meters away, near the tunnel or at the back of the staging platform, near boxes and floating [Force Platform]s that looked like they were waiting to be transported to the Surface, or something like that. All that luggage boded well for future relations, though that could just be a feint. Erick didn’t feel they were a feint, though.

Four wrought stood only twenty meters away. High Inquisitor Kromolok of the Church of Rozeta. King Alfonin of Stratagold. Second Prince Sitnakov of Stratagold. And Geode Guardian Tasar. One white aluminum incani, an orcol father and son made of black adamantium, and a human woman of adamantium and green copper. They all had smaller spells active, and could likely activate more as needed. But they didn’t seem ready for war. They just stood there. Waiting.

Erick went first, “Thanks for trying to save me from Fairy Moon. I remember seeing Tasar’s Spatial Domain spread out, trying to fight the [Gate], while Sitnakov managed to hold it open in the first place with a well-timed punch and then a rip. Unfortunately, I was a bit brash in the estimation of my own abilities, and thus, Fairy Moon succeeded in her fairy-napping. I would blame myself, fully, but Fairy Moon was the one that actually did the deed.”

All of them flinched in barely-perceptible ways, except for Kromolok. The High Inquisitor was completely calm.

King Alfonin asked, “And yet you have chosen to ally with your mind jacker?”

Harsh words, but not untrue.

“This world and its people are not nearly as good or as evil as their methods would suggest.” Erick said, “Most are just trying to do their best with the tools they have available. Does this mean I forgive Fairy Moon? No. I do not. I doubt I will ever forgive her for doing that to me, or for doing that to anyone else, but I have accepted that it has happened, and now I am moving on, both for my own sanity, and for the sake of building a better world.”

No one else spoke. King Alfonin obviously wanted Erick to speak more.

So Erick continued, “My initial hope in allying with Ar’Cosmos is that I would be able to help the dragons remove their Curse and come out into the world like normal people. Now, though… That might change, with [Renew] enabling Ar’Cosmos to expand across the entire world, allowing the dragons an entire second world to themselves. I suspect that I will still help people to rid themselves of their mangled half-Curse, which will allow them to come over here. I suspect that House Benevolence will end up becoming something of a halfway point between Veird and Ar’Cosmos. This is fine with me, for I hope to found a record of diplomacy-first, and violence only when absolutely necessary.

“As for my initial plans, which are widely known to include a Gate Network and the retaking of the Crystal Forest from the crystal mimics, I plan on continuing that.” Erick said, “But that’s up to your people, and your reactions to all that has happened here today.”

The wrought listened.

Sitnakov had mixed emotions. Tasar had mixed emotions, too, but she was clearly hopeful and deeply relieved; Erick still sounded like himself, so maybe he was still himself. Kromolok was not surprised at Erick’s words at all, and he was likely talking to Alfonin through some unseen [Telepathy], confirming as much, or giving other kinds of advice.

King Alfonin listened, stared a little, then spoke as the king he was, “It is our hope that the dragon exodus actually happens, and that the soldiers we send over to Ar’Cosmos remain unaffected by fairy ensorcellment. If your words are true, then we look forward to a working relationship and we expect you to intercede on our behalf inside Ar’Cosmos…” For a moment, he looked ready to continue speaking in his kingly manner, but then he sighed, and spoke like a normal person, “This is going to end badly, Erick. It will take time to fall apart, but we fully expect it to fall apart.”

Erick instantly said, “Then I’ll have to tell Fairy Moon to kill all of the dragons who are doing wrong, or else I will kill them myself. Or! I will have to Bless the offenders into Benevolence. I’m probably going to have to do that anyway just to prove I can; to show off that a Wizard truly can make the world a better place one way or the other.”

They all flinched when Erick said the ‘W’ word, including Kromolok.

Kromolok instantly said, “Please never say that word again. We can pretend that you’re not, and if the pretending is good enough then we’ll only get a few dissidents disagreeing. We can deal with a few people spouting dangerous truths, and I do not mean killing, or mind control. Discreditation. Anti-propaganda.”

Even as Kromolok spoke those words, he realized Erick was going to disagree.

Kromolok doubled down. “Please let us not choose this path, Erick. We can...” He stopped trying, “Shit.”

Erick nodded, then said, “I’m not pretending anymore. I’m never lying again. I am terrible at it, and lies only lead to delayed problems and hurt feelings, which I will likely be dealing with for the rest of my life. That’s only half the problem, though. That’s not even mentioning all the assassinations I expect to protect myself against, and all the enemies out there I have suddenly gained, now that I am a known Wizard. If I didn’t need to lie about being a Wizard just so that I wasn’t murdered by practically all the powers of this world, then maybe all of this could have gone a lot smoother. Much more organized and happy. But that didn’t happen, and so we are here. Maybe with my own actions, other Wizards will be able to come to me, to be able to live openly, which is something I plan to allow, and which I demand you allow, too.”

King Alfonin glared.

Kromolok frowned. He knew Erick was just arguing for something he didn’t truly believe.

Erick added, “But Wizards are still dangerous; I don’t disagree there. Perhaps, though, instead of killing them, we could come to some other sort of arrangement. I’d like to gather Wizards and check to see if they’re good people or not before you go making them enemies. But, in the worst cases... Maybe a [Blessing of Empathy] instead of murder? Or neutering? I don’t know. I’d like to talk about all that and more, though. I’d also like to talk about the organized concealment of magical knowledge that your kind had perpetrated for a very, very long time.”

King Alfonin instantly countered with, “If you cannot keep certain secrets of magic hidden from the rest of the world, then you and we are going to have problems. We had thought you were with us on this requirement but now you talk of ‘organized concealment like it is a bad thing’? Bah!”

Erick almost scoffed—

But Kromolok stepped forward, saying, “Since it seems all parties are amenable to continued diplomacy, I suggest that we take this conversation private at this time.” He glanced to the people beside the crates and boxes. “Table and chairs, please.”

In that moment, Erick realized that everything was probably going to be okay.

He still didn’t remove his sunform, though.

Erick waited until a table got sorted out and then he sat down alongside the wrought. And then Kromolok proved that he could grab Erick anytime he wanted by opening up the talks with telepathic communication, to ensure that all words said between the five of them were confidential.

The conversation was tense, and remained tense for the next two hours, but that tension gradually and firmly transformed from one of wariness at true danger, to one of necessary diplomacy and the hammering out of details. Erick never turned off his [Pristine Benevolence] or his [Lodestar], and nor did he let his ten Ophiel get too far out of sight, and neither did Tasar or Sitnakov speak…

But both Tasar and Sitnakov seemed to relax a great deal throughout the conversation. Both of them seemed on edge and ready to fight, for that was what their jobs demanded, though neither of them actually wanted to fight. Silent Sitnakov seemed especially contrite.

In the end, it was a good telepathic talk.

Mostly, Erick presented his arguments for open magic for all, for a post-scarcity world and effective-immortality for all, using the magic he had learned in Ar’Cosmos to make everything better for everyone. And then King Alfonin and Kromolok beat Erick back down to nothing through concerted efforts of historical evidence that Erick’s wants would lead to a great deal of tragedy. The Reincarnation Problem was just another example of the Resurrection Problem, and while it was better that Erick was directly telling people that the person who came out of the tanks was not the person who went in, if this magic were to spread, then the powerful people of the world would gain total and complete control over everything, and the peasantry would be crushed into slavery-but-by-another-name.

Erick wasn’t convinced by Alfonin and Kromolok’s words against [Reincarnation], mostly because neither of them actually had their heart set against [Reincarnation]. They both would have loved to have a world of immortals, but neither of them saw this miracle as truly possible. It would get corrupted in some way if Erick tried, and so he shouldn’t try. Erick left the Reincarnation Dilemma alone for another day.

Erick agreed to keep [Gate] a secret, and was told to not even tell them. He had expected Tasar to ask about that magic she had been chasing most of her life, but she retained her silence. She seemed like she wanted to figure it out herself. Erick got the unsaid opinion that if she ever did get close, that she might ask him to help her with that final step. It was possible that Tasar didn’t even know that much about herself, though, so Erick wasn’t going to say it, or even offer his services. She would have to ask, first.

Erick also agreed to keep [Duplicate] a secret. If he copied anything he was only to do it for specific needs, and in specific ways. Mostly, he was only to copy things out of sight of others, and to tell people that he got his materials from Stratagold’s reserves, and that all the silver, or gold, or whatever, were granted to him by the Heavies for his specific Gate construction needs. He was strictly forbidden from using his materials for actual material gain. Anything copied needed to be for Gate Network production, only.

Much of the argument was actually about runic defenses and the construction of a town, and basic security issues. Erick had planned on making a runic [Renew] web which allowed everyone to contribute to the defenses of his Gates, and the town. Stratagold was not happy with this idea. They argued for Gate defenses only, and to allow them to control those defenses. This was absolutely not acceptable, but Erick would allow them to participate in the defenses of whatever central infrastructure he created, and to mostly-control their own sides of the Gates down here in the Underworld.

‘It’s still my [Gate],’ Erick sent, ‘It’s also my Elemental Benevolence, so I don’t think you could crawl through the inner workings and somehow hurt the infrastructure I already built, but I don’t want to allow for such a possibility, either. In the future, though, I plan on allowing people into that [Gate Space] if only to view the Benevolence as I have, and to see the upcoming problems and opportunities as I see them. As for right now, though, no one is allowed to fully control the Gates I make. If it makes you feel better, though, know that the future looks clear of most major problems.’

King Alfonin zeroed in, saying, ‘When you say ‘looks clear’. What do you mean by that? Exactly.’

The man was very concerned with apocalypse-level events, as Erick had expected the king of Stratagold to be, and so, Erick explained how he viewed the Benevolence.

That took another hour, with examples given of what he had managed to glimpse here and there in the hundred-year wall happening when Yggdrasil finally matured. Erick didn’t give any exact examples, and remained silent on the one example he could have given of Bright Smile, for he had to straddle a line between multiple nation-level forces, now that he was both allied to Ar’Cosmos, and Stratagold.

He did tell them about the problem of the Converter Angel, though.

To which King Alfonin looked to Sitnakov.

