Jane rapidly moved past being worried about threats, to going solid. When Erick spoke about how everyone produced different amounts of mana, she asked what that meant. And so, Erick explained the intricacies of mana, and what it meant to use one’s own mana to make magic, and how the Script lined up your own mana for when you created spells. And what it meant to be a Wizard. He spoke more of Benevolence at that time, too.

He ended up going over things two or three times in some situations.

The parts about Ar’Cosmos were especially confusing.

Announcing that he had created a sidegrade-magic to [Resurrection], in the form of [Reincarnation] sort of just broke everyone except for Poi. Jane started laughing, saying that of course he had made [Reincarnation]. Kiri needed a drink. Teressa had foreseen the need for a drink, though, and plopped down a large beer right in front of Kiri the second she asked. And then Teressa started handing out beer to everyone.

Erick thanked her for the beer, and drank deep.

Three beers later, and with a break for after Erick had spoken of this day’s current events, the tale had lost its edge for most everyone and Kiri asked for a retelling, but better, now that she was ready for the whole thing. She was deep in disbelief and yet she wanted to get it all over with as quick as she could. Erick couldn’t blame her for that.

“Maybe I’ll tell it all again another day, Kiri.” Erick needed to end with tactical level explanation of what the future would look like, though, and began saying, “But now that I am allied with the wrought, and Ar’Cosmos, and apparently I have Goldie working for me and killing people like the Red Dot Dragon and Patriarch Xangu, I’m probably going to need to move to Yggdrasil. Down at Candlepoint. And also create House Benevolence… And other assorted organizations. And the Gate Network, too.”

Kiri’s eyes went wide. And then she giggled, nervous and not nearly drunk enough, as she said, “I want to be a Benevolence Dragon. It’s just [Dragon Body] and [Benevolence Body], right? And a bit of Wizardry—” Her eyes went really wide as she stared into her empty mug. She whispered, “Oh gods. Oh gods. This is real.” She looked up at Erick. “Glad you are back. Please let me accompany you wherever you go. But I need to go lay down and not think of this right now.” She got up and went to Erick.

Suddenly, Erick found himself in a hug.

And then Kiri broke it off and went out of the kitchen, and up to her room.

Erick barely had time to feel utterly freaking fantastic that Kiri had taken that so well, before—

Teressa got up from her chair. She announced, “I am staying too, of course. I will need to adjust myself about… The Wizard thing. I don’t need to be a part of Spur’s Army, anyway. I can move on, too.” She stared, and asked the question that had been stuck in her mind ever since Erick had mentioned a specific word, “Is it possible to [Reincarnation] the long dead?”

He hadn’t actually made that spell, yet, but even when he did he didn’t think [Reincarnation] would be able to work on the long dead. Or maybe it would? Erick had no idea, but he didn’t want to get Teressa’s hopes up.

“I don’t think so.” Erick said, “I’m sorry.”

“No!” Teressa shouted, unsure why she had even shouted that. “I mean… Don’t be sorry. It’s not your fault. I just… You hear stories of Wizards and… and… Not miracle makers… And yet.” She stared at Erick for a little while longer, completely unable to process her emotions. And then she walked out of the kitchen, toward her room.

Poi sighed a little, but he seemed happy. He got up from his chair, saying, “I’m glad to have you back, Erick, and I plan on sticking around to the end, however far away that might be, but I do owe quite a lot to Spur and Silverite and Killzone. I will try to get something set up between Spur and whatever happens at Candlepoint, as well as reroute forces… or something. I don’t know how they will react to this sort of thing, since you never truly know until the news actually breaks. But barring any sort of catastrophic reactions from Silverite or any of the rest… You don’t have to leave the Army if you don’t want, and I, for one, would like to remain in both camps, but even if you choose to leave, a report will help to ensure that Silverite and others understand what has happened, and can prepare for the changing world.”

“You have a lot of foots in many different circles, Poi,” Erick said, smiling a little. “I’d give you a message to take to the Mind Mages, too. I’m pretty sure you know what it’s going to say, but I’d still make it, if you would have it.”

Poi nodded. “Ready.”

Erick put together a ten thousand mana message, containing most every tactical-level thing that he had gone through over the course of the entire Worldly Path. He left out all of the personal stuff, and focused fully on what was actually important; the changing world.

A second, 500 mana message contained all that it would take to understand [Gate], so that someone might one day make their own. Another 500 mana message contained everything to know about the current day’s events, and what that might mean going forward. This last message also contained Erick's hope to interact with the Mind Mages on an institutional level; to ally with them, too, to ensure that he was never mind controlled again, and to hopefully gain the same sort of relationship with the Mind Mages that Kirginatharp enjoyed.

It took Poi several minutes to grab, contain, and distribute that message, and he looked strained the whole time. But eventually he relaxed. Eventually, the message got out.

Poi breathed deep, saying, “Ascendant Prime would speak with you about your offer. Tomorrow? Or the next day?”

Erick had no idea who ‘Ascendant Prime’ was, but this was good. “Tomorrow.”

Poi nodded, and then he bowed deep, speaking with the voice of another, saying, “We thank you for your Benevolence, Erick Flatt, Wizard, Archmage, Fire of the Age, Scion of Light, Father to Yggdrasil, and so much more.” Poi rose, and his sapphire eyes were filled with golden radiance. “We look forward to a working relationship. We will speak tomorrow.”

Erick simply nodded.

The golden fire in Poi’s eyes died and he blinked a bit as he came back to himself. Then he nodded, and walked out of the kitchen.

Jane just watched him go, her own eyes a bit wide at seeing the golden fire inside Poi. And then she turned to Erick, saying, “Goddamn, dad. What happens now? I’d joke about an apocalypse, but you’ve… prevented all of those, forever?”

“Hopefully we have a return to normalcy! Planting things. Growing things. Making buildings and various networking.” Erick smiled wide, saying, “And you can tell me all about what you’ve been up to.”

Jane breathed deep, got up, refilled the beers, and then said, “I want to see your monster form.”

Erick balked. He hadn’t spoken much of that; only enough to say that it allowed him a secondary Status. This was where she wanted to start? Really?

Erick started laughing.

“I’m serious!” Jane said, trying not to smile.

Erick chuckled, switched to his Other Form, then said, “You’re looking at it!”

“… No? Nothing changed.” Jane pointedly frowned at him, saying, “My mana senses might not be as good as most people’s but even I can tell that you got some weird magic going on. I can’t see inside of you at all.”

Erick smiled a little, then took off his fairy necklace. “Better?”

“… That’s a fucking weird monster form, dad.” Jane said, completely serious. “It’s just… You. But with a spherical core? I don’t like it. Also why do they call it ‘accretion’? Cultivation is a much better term.”

“… You don’t like it?” Erick asked, feeling as though he had a case of the giggles approaching. He put the necklace back on, asking, “Miss Spider Queen doesn’t like the human-shaped monster form?”

“People-shaped monsters are weird! You even got that [Perfected Body] thing going on!” Jane said, as she waggled her own [Perfected Body] hand at her father.

Erick just laughed.

Jane chuckled a little.

And while he laughed, tension finally began to leave Erick like pressure from an infected wound that had finally been popped. He had been worried about a lot. About the wrought. The dragons. Melemizargo. The responses of the gods. But perhaps more than that he had been worried about his family. About Jane. Kiri, Poi, and Teressa. Would they be okay in a world where he was a known Wizard? Likely not without a whole lot more defense than this simple house, but those defenses would come with time. Erick still didn’t know about how Kiri and Teressa truly felt, either, but they seemed to have taken this news a lot better than he had thought they would. Poi’s non-reaction had been a welcome relief, too, but he had known about Erick’s Wizardry for a long while now. Jane seemed to take all this the best of everyone.

There was still a lot of healing and reorganization and talking left to go, but this was a great start.

This was good.

Jane wasn’t done asking questions, though. “But seriously, dad. This is all pretty fucking weird.” She stood. “And I want to see the [Gate Space].”

Erick breathed deep. He nodded. Then he gestured to the left and a ring of lightning opened up. Beyond lay a rather small and floating Yggdrasil, a similarly floating stone fountain, and a sky of lightning. Erick stood up from his chair. “Let’s go see the [Gate Space].”

“First, though,” Jane said, as she came in for another hug, her eyes already misting. “I’m very glad you’re still here. I missed you.”

Erick hugged her back, his sight blurring with tears. “I missed you, too.”

Jane chuckled a little. “And apparently you’ve been cheating with your spellwork this whole time.”

“The Script is the real cheater!” Erick laughed. “And I have it on very good authority that I am also ‘good at magic’, according to more than a few people and dragons.”

Jane laughed.

Eventually, they broke apart. Eventually, they went into the [Gate Space] and Erick started explaining everything again. He asked about Jane’s recent adventures and she told a long story about the Soul Slime, and the adventures to recover her sword, which she still hadn’t found yet. But for now, they stood there, father and daughter embracing in the kitchen dining room. Beside them, a portal to Benevolence sparked the growth of green lichen and tiny glowing mushrooms upon the stone floor.
