And Sitnakov finally broke his silence, sending ‘If it would please, Archmage Flatt, I have been asked to… repent for certain actions undertaken which might have inconvenienced you. In light of your requests made to that fae, and also that Shade, at your previous meeting, I ask that you allow me into your entourage to combat this Converter Angel, and any other threat which you might deem necessary for the protection of the realm. The Converter Angel has been down here on Veird before, but they have also retreated several times before. We’ve never been in a position to truly bring any force against the Surface destabilization that is the Quiet War, until now. We don’t expect to be able to catch the angel, but… If you would allow me, I ask to be able to assist with that… And also with ensuring that Goldie doesn’t become a problem…’ He added, ‘And all the other assorted problems of a similar nature which you will no doubt encounter.’

‘Granted.’ Erick said, ‘I expect this agreement to work out well between us, Sitnakov, or else I will be forced to do things I do not want to do. Also, don’t antagonize Melemizargo too much, okay? I’m trying to ride a line there, too.’

Sitnakov’s eyes went a bit wide. ‘Uh. Yes. I agree to this.’

King Alfonin relaxed a little at the conclusion of that interaction. He had expected Sitnakov’s inclusion into Erick’s personal circle to be much more difficult than Erick had made it.

Erick said to the king, ‘I don’t want this working relationship to be difficult. Please don’t you be difficult, either.’

‘… Of course, Archmage Flatt,’ King Alfonin said, annoyed at being read so easily.

Kromolok managed not to smile at how well this was going, though that was a bare thing.

Tasar broke her silence, saying, ‘I would ask for some major [Gate]s between a few Geodes and the Surface. Or perhaps just to here, and then they can take a [Gate] to the Surface from here.’

‘Sure,’ Erick said, easily agreeing to that request as well. ‘I’ll have to charge a gold per person and per ton of product— Ah. That reminds me. I need to talk to the Wayfarer’s Guild, too. Prices will need to be standardized, or something, as I’m not looking to put too many people out of business. Perhaps I’ll just do large gates per nation, or something like that, and likely hire everyone I put out of business, or something. Whichever the case, I’d look forward to talking to you about pricing and Gate Network locations at some other time, Tasar. But none of that can happen right now. In normal situations, [Gate] can only reach about 500 kilometers near Yggdrasil, so the Network will start off small. It will grow with time, and probably a lot faster than I expect.’

Tasar breathed easy, her face going a little softer, her entire self seeming a little happier. Erick had accepted her offer, she was happy for that. She said, ‘I’m delighted for your acceptance, and to go slow. This will change everything so the slower we go with it, the more stable I hope it to be.’

King Alfonin seemed pleased with that turn of events, too.

The conversation moved on to logistics and Tasar participated this time. Sitnakov mostly just sat there, but he did participate when the topic of monster killing came up. Sitnakov seemed to want to be Erick’s go-to man for monster problems, which was probably due to both his battle-hungry nature, and his desire to repent. And probably a bit of ‘not wanting to be around the Wizard overmuch’, which was fine.

Whatever Rozeta had said to him must have been some talking.

They spoke for a while longer about business, movement of goods, movements of people, security. They did not talk about pleasant things. They did not talk about easy times ahead. They spoke a little about what had happened at the gathering of powers, up there on the sands of the Crystal Forest, but as Erick was allied with Ar’Cosmos, Stratagold kept most of their thoughts on that talk to themselves. Which was fine.

He was not going to make himself vulnerable to these people, either. Not right yet. Erick never dropped any of his defenses, throughout the whole discussion. Eventually, when he was no longer vulnerable, he would drop his sunform. Eventually, he would relax. That day would probably be tomorrow, or maybe next week, but it wouldn’t be today.

For today, Erick finished talking with the wrought, told Sitnakov that he would pick him up in ten hours, and then he went straight back to his [Fairy Stronghold].

Once again behind a modicum of defenses that probably wouldn’t stop anyone from doing anything if they truly wanted, Erick copied his bed, destroyed the original and [Cleanse]d away the remains, and then he collapsed into the soft mattress.

- - - -

Ten minutes later Erick turned over, still too wired to sleep, or relax. So he shifted into his Other Form and accreted for a while. As mana turned to solid lightning and filled his veins with power, falling into his body like static rain to gather inside his core, Erick felt better, like he was getting a full body massage. His core turned a bit brighter, his soul felt a lot lighter.

This was good.

His meeting with the wrought had gone much better than he had ever expected it to go.

Erick got up, grabbed his adamantium carving knife, and went outside the [Fairy Stronghold]. He looked up at all of Yggdrasil’s branches, and asked, “Hey, Yggdrasil. Want to try making some enchanted items out of wood today?”

Yggdrasil readily said, “Yes! I want to help make things!”

And so, that was what they did.

Just some practice stuff for now. Making Gates would come later.

Half an hour and a lot of whittling later, Yggdrasil had wanted to contribute a lot more to the cause than just some twigs, but that was all Erick had needed for now. With those tiny twigs, Erick had managed to carve two eternal stonewood rings, each with a crystallized mana diamond set in the wood.

Both rings gave +14 to All Stats, which was a far cry from the +32 of his previous ones. Mana light and diamond and with a layer of [Exalted Rain] silver locking that light into the ring, allowed for rather fantastic levels of Stat buffing, but diamond rings didn’t work inside Ar’Cosmos. These little beauties would likely work both in Ar’Cosmos, and here on Veird, and they already worked in both his forms, too, (he checked to be sure, though) which was great.

Erick would have done more carving and tried for higher Stats, as well as picked out a few things from the Script for his Other Form and tried to make some new spells based on what he had learned, but it was time to move on. He had gotten a telepathic call. He had put off that call, and yet, he was still glad to receive it.

‘Hello, Poi.’ Erick smiled as he leaned back in his chair, in his [Fairy Stronghold]. ‘Glad you called.’

‘Are you?’ Poi asked, a little annoyed. ‘Because you could have called first, you know.’

‘Yeah… Well.’ Erick let his false happiness drop. ‘I’m worried. About you, and Jane, and Teressa and Kiri… About what everyone in Spur is going to say, or do. It’s… Not a fun feeling, Poi.’

‘Be that as it may,' Poi sent, ‘The truth of what happened between you and the wrought and everyone else hasn’t gotten very far. Not yet. No one here knows anything about your Wizardry, or [Gate], or anything, but we just got a call from Nirzir about strange happenings at Holorulo’s Yggdrasil, so everyone knows that something has happened. I’ve been telling them that I cannot break Mind Mage confidentially, but that information wall is only going to last another few hours, at best.’

Pure adrenaline seemed to shoot through Erick’s body as Poi spoke, launching him to his feet and breathing hard. When he was done, Erick sent, ‘Okay. Okay.’ He breathed. This was really happening. Right now. ‘Okay.’ Erick calmed as much as he could, then he sent, ‘I’ll be home in ten minutes. Can you get them ready for a talk?’

‘Of course. It will be done.’ Poi sent, ‘Silverite and Killzone will need to be informed too— but all of that can happen later… And I’m very glad that you have returned safely.’ With a softer voice, Poi sent, ‘We have therapy programs for mind controlled people, if you wish to participate.’

Erick wiped away an unruly tear as he chuckled, and sent, ‘Maybe I’ll take you up on that therapy offer… I’m glad you’re still with me, Poi. You probably know how much it means, but I have to say it anyway: I’m glad you’re still here. That you’ve chosen to stay. Despite everything. I know you didn’t sign up to be a Wizard’s guard, but… Your presence means a lot.’

‘I’ve grown with the assignment, Erick, and I have long decided to stick around till the end, however far that might be. It’s not been that bad and... I’m glad you’re still here, too. And congratulations on [Gate]! See you soon.’

‘Thanks, Poi. See you soon.’

- - - -

In a flash of lightning and light, Erick stepped into his home, in Spur.

The three story, two tower mansion was mostly as he had left it. Beyond the foyer, a grand staircase wound up to the second floor. Other staircases went up to the third floor. With his mana sense, Erick scoped out the whole house in under a second. His room was the same. The library seemed to hold more books than before. The third floor had been changed in order to accommodate an operations room in the empty magic room, and a [Scry]-chair room on the opposite side of the hallway, inside of the dense air. The whole house was still filled with his own massive cast of [Prismatic Ward], still emplaced back during Last Shadow’s Feast, back when Erick had been burning [Death’s Approach] and had ten times base mana and endless regeneration. Erick’s own mage tower had been left alone. Kiri had fully taken over a few upstairs rooms as her own work rooms, while Jane’s tower was a mess of gridwork diagrams pinned to the walls. Teressa’s room was as orderly as a soldier’s, while Poi’s was marginally the same.

The pantries were stocked. The vegetable and otherwise garden out front seemed well maintained and well used, while the cocoa tree garden out back looked the same, but more on an industrial scale than a personal scale. The chocolate ladies at ‘And Dessert!’ were probably doing well with that business.

And all of Erick’s loved ones were in the kitchen.

Jane stood beside the dining room table, looking worried and unable to sit down due to nerves. Poi had likely told her that he would be home soon. Poi stood near the door, refusing to answer Kiri, as Kiri demanded answers. Sunny, Kiri’s little couatl [Familiar] was curled on Kiri’s neck, flapped her wings and looked around. Other Sunnys, stationed around the house and outside, had already spotted Erick. Sunny had also noticed Ophiel, as Erick’s own [Familiar] began popping into and around the house as Erick arrived. The couatl summon began to shimmer in a radiant alert display of rainbow colors.

Teressa had noticed Erick first, though. Perhaps even before Erick had landed. She stopped idly stirring the stew on the stove, and said, “He’s back.”

Erick dropped his luggage on the floor as he called out, “I’m back!”

Jane rushed out of the kitchen and straight into Erick’s arms. She held him tight, and he held her. She cried a little, and Erick did too. Kiri came out of the kitchen next, with Poi and Teressa following close behind. All of them looked worried, and for different reasons.

Still holding Jane tight, Erick said, “I’ve got some good news and some bad news, and hopefully the good outweighs the bad.”

Kiri and Teressa went stiff, going from excited and hopeful, to wary. Poi remained silent.

Jane pulled away a little. And then she pulled all the way away. She sniffled, stopped crying, and brushed away her tears. She breathed deep, and then looked at her father. In that moment, she seemed able to take on the world. She asked, “What’s wrong?”

Erick opened a small [Gate] next to him. Everyone stared at the wreath of lightning hanging in the air, and then Erick shut the [Gate], saying, “Apparently I can open [Gate]s from anywhere when I want to leave a location. I couldn’t open a [Gate] to get here, though. Maybe I’ll need to plant Yggdrasil in Ar’Kendrithyst, or something, in order to overcome that limitation… Or probably just grow the size of my [Gate Space]. And that’s the extent of the good news. As for the bad news...” Erick simply said, “Apparently, I’m a Wizard, and that’s just the start.”

Teressa fainted. Erick caught her falling form with an Ophiel.

Events proceeded rapidly and rather incoherently from there.

Kiri shouted about, ‘No you’re not! Those fairies fucked with your mind!’

Jane tried to be rational and calm, and demanded answers about everything else. She didn’t care about ‘the Wizard-thing’ right now. To which Kiri yelled about how Jane didn’t understand that ‘the Wizard-thing’ was the big deal, here. Erick interjected about how ‘the Wizard-thing’ wasn’t that big of a deal, because of everything else that had happened today. Explaining what he meant by that took a while, though, and caused Kiri’s emerald green scales to turn pale, and her eyes to go wider with every bit of new news.

Teressa rapidly recovered, but she did not stand up. She sat there on the floor. Listening.

Erick eventually managed to move them all to the kitchen. Poi helped.

As soon as Poi got in Kiri’s crosshairs she demanded to know how long Poi had known. Which was, of course, a silly request, and Kiri instantly retracted her words. Jane just looked at her father with worry in her eyes, unable to ask much.

With all of them sitting around the table, Erick began to weave a better story, with lightpaintings to illustrate what had happened, starting when he stepped onto the Teleporter Pad at Enduring Forge. He got to the Core and started talking about all that, and about the Grand Wizard’s Tower he had visited, and some of his talks with Rozeta. He spoke of his species change, which caused Jane to freak out a little, but Erick moved on because nothing had really changed.

Kiri remained pale the whole time, and especially when Erick got to the part about becoming a member of Archmage’s Rest, and facing down a wall of level 95+ wrought and Melemizargo, and then facing down the inquiry. When he got to Fairy Moon she was mostly over ‘the Wizard-thing’, and was now worried about everything else.

Teressa was conflicted. She had no words. She just listened. She liked hearing about Benevolence, and how it ‘ended the threat of the Sundering’, but she was still conflicted.

