“Huh.”

… Probably not, actually. Erick would certainly test the theory bubbling up in his mind, but he was pretty sure that he could only reach to where the Benevolence showed a problem, or within some innate distance from Yggdrasil. Looking out across the half-kilometer wide space, and based upon the ‘100x reach’ inside [Gate]’s blue box...

“Within 50 kilometers of Yggdrasil? Or… Larger?” He actually had no idea. It was time to experiment. Confirm some things before he started making more plans. Erick said, “I’ll be back soon, Yggdrasil.”

“See you soon, Father!”

Erick picked a target and opened a lightning portal into the Crystal Forest. His goal had been the sheer wall of stone that surrounded the desert. Specifically, a spot near the northern wall, far, far north of Spur, just south of the Wyrmridge Mountains.

He stuck his head out of the hole in reality… And then he stepped through. Ophiel followed.

Something had gone wrong, and it was time to find out what. Surrounded in his sunform and with all ten Ophiel flying all around him, and high in the sky, Erick saw nothing but dunes all around. A northern wind blew hard, scattering the edge of his sunform into silent sparks.

Sand, sand, and more sand. No mountains in the distance at all.

Erick lightstepped upward, leaving behind a trail of bright white lightning, before he settled back into position a good forty kilometers up. The first thing he noticed was that he had left a lightning trail behind. The lightning was new. It was a problem, too. It seemed like a rather large weakness to openly display the direction one lightstepped… But that wasn’t the main problem right now.

There were dunes in every direction. As far as Erick’s many senses could see.

“Okay. So.” Erick asked himself, “Where am I?”

Ophiels zipped around, playing with their own new ‘lightning form’. It took them a grand total of ten seconds to figure out how to lightstep without leaving behind lightning. Erick smiled at that, and then he got to practicing, too. Soon, he was zipping around just like he used to, leaving behind no vulnerable tells of where he was aiming to move.

And then he got to exploring. He decided to lightstep 50 kilometers south, since that might have been the increments he was dealing with.

Nothing.

He moved another 50 kilometers.

Still nothing.

So he had Ophiel spread out in every direction, hopping through the light with 50 kilometer hops—

Half a minute later, Ophiel started responding with sights from multiple directions, and Erick realized where he was. He instantly lightstepped 450 kilometers south to where Ophiel had spotted a known landmark, and he stopped. All of Ophiel rapidly caught up.

To the south, the desert ended in a large wall, easily thirty meters tall and half as thick. It was not the wall of Ar’Kendrithyst. It was more like an earthworks construction rather than an impossible barrier, though both sides of the walls were rather flat; no monsters would be crawling up and over that line in the desert. Beyond that wall lay a poorly-maintained land of green grasses, small trees, and scattered shrubs. Someone had [Grow]n the desert to green and then left it to fallow; to flourish or die on its own merits. This land was rather far from civilization, but it was rather near a source of water.

A lake.

And far, far in the distance, was a green and rainbow mountain, poking up above the blue horizon like a mirage. Yggdrasil. Had to be. This was Candlepoint’s lake. To the southwest, about 30 kilometers away, lay that city. All the rest of this walled-in land was just to prevent crystal mimics from getting near the lake. Erick turned around and gazed at the empty sands, to the north, and realized that he had probably had his meeting with Rozeta, Fairy Moon, and Melemizargo, roughly 500 kilometers from Yggdrasil’s Candlepoint body.

[Gate]’s blue box read, exactly, ‘The outside distance your nodes are capable of reaching is 100x larger than your gate space would suggest.’ Erick had suspected that this meant he was at 50 kilometers of reach, but no. He was at 500 kilometers of reach. Maybe his ‘half a kilometer wide’ node space was actually a lot bigger than he thought? Or the ratios were different from how he thought.

“Well that’s all… Somewhat in line with what I expected.” Erick reoriented toward the east, and a little bit toward the north. “That means Spur is over there.” He turned back. “Okay! Good. I know where I am now. Time to see if we’ve got a 500 kilometer limit, or something smaller.’

Erick opened a portal to the grass traveler lands.

He stepped through.

A river wound through the lands directly below, while grasses grew on all sides. This was not grass traveler land. This was south of grass traveler land.

Erick lightstepped south, aiming for a 500 kilometer jaunt, expecting to find Ygg—

Erick stopped. He had found Yggdrasil exactly.

Yggdrasil’s rainbow crown and green mountain of a canopy spread down below. With a quick step, Erick shifted positions to stand inside Yggdrasil’s greenery. And yup! He was at Holorulo’s Yggdrasil. The lake down below had seemed large back when Erick had first planted Yggdrasil, at being nearly 3 kilometers across, and connected to the wide and deep Wanzhi River via a large lock. Now, though, Yggdrasil’s green canopy had overshadowed the banks of the lake, and his roots had drilled through the entire embankment which separated the lake from the river.

Erick asked Yggdrasil, “Is that where the fish notifications came from?”

Yggdrasil said, “They were biting people so I stopped them biting.”

“Have the people tried to repair the embankment?”

“Most don’t get close to me anymore.” Yggdrasil said, “The Wandering Soul people still get close. I keep the box filled! Some others tried to steal but I solved that.”

A few diplomatic problems? Thefts? Eh. Nothing to fret over. Erick hadn’t gotten any Kill Notifications for people, so… it was fine? It was fine.

Erick asked, “Do you want the embankment repaired? It would keep out the scary fish and let people come here more easily.”

“… I don’t know?” Yggdrasil asked, “Do I?”

He was fishing for the correct answer, and he seemed reluctant for some reason. Erick had a guess at that reason, since Yggdrasil’s roots went far and deep into the Wanzhi River and he probably wanted to keep his roots out there, but the embankment needed to be repaired.

Later, Yggdrasil would have to make these correct decisions himself, but for now, Erick guided him, saying, “Yes. Let’s repair the embankment. You can still stick your roots out into the river, though, like you are, but the people who will come here will want a lake free of dangers. You’re going to need to protect many people, Yggdrasil, and the lessons on how to protect people have already begun. It’ll be a nuanced and difficult subject, and I don’t get it right all the time myself, but that's fine. All you can do is try your best.”

“Okay! Where do I start fixing?”

Erick began, “I’ll show you how to start with some [Stoneshape], and then you can continue, okay? It goes like this…”

Erick stretched his senses through Yggdrasil, took a moment to adjust himself to the heightened senses, and then with the power of a World Tree, began moving stone and dirt through the waters, like he was playing with sand on a beach. Through his actual eyes, though, he watched as the world transformed in front of him.

Erick started the repair, but he let Yggdrasil take over, and with a bit of direction the separation between the Wanzhi River was restored.

“Good job, Yggdrasil.”

“I like my roots in the river.”

Erick smiled wide and patted the big guy's white bark, saying, “I’ll be right back; I’m headed down to Stratagold, next. See you there!”

“See you there!”

Erick stepped through the lightning and arrived at Yggdrasil’s Stratagold cavern. The water was clear, the sky was stone. Everything was dotted with massive glowing crystals that were so large, and yet so far away, that they looked like stars. Their light was a lot stronger than starlight, though. The entire cavern was as bright as the Surface at midday.

Erick landed on Yggdrasil’s branch, patting the big guy, as he said, “Hello again, Yggdrasil.”

“Hello again, Father!”

A second later, all of Ophiel flitted through the portal Erick had left open, and then he closed that portal behind them. With a quick flap of Ophiel’s sunform, Erick checked out the beach that led to the embassy. That once sandy locale was now half brickwork and buildings. The architecture was rudimentary, being rather blocky and completely unadorned, and so the buildings were probably placeholders. Where the tunnel to the embassy lay, though, there was a staging ground of brickwork and utility, where people were setting up.

Instinctively, at being seen, Erick almost pulled Ophiel back before they could truly notice the little guy, but that was impossible. So Erick just left Ophiel hanging out on the waters away from the beach. He didn’t want to deal with Sitnakov and Tasar and Riivo and King Alfonin and Kromolok… And others. He wanted to open a portal to Candlepoint, to escape the coming talk...

But that would be the wrong move, for multiple reasons. His stuff might be down there on that beach-turned-boardwalk, captured by the wrought after Erick had been fairy-napped. Or maybe his stuff was inside his [Fairy Stronghold] here, at this Yggdrasil. Whatever the outcome of the coming diplomacy, Erick needed his stuff, or maybe just his knife, in order to carve some Gates…

Erick steeled himself and…

Went into his [Fairy Stronghold] instead. So he chickened out! So what. It was probably a good idea to have gone into the [Fairy Stronghold] anyway, since Tasar still had access and if they had wanted to fuck Erick over, or something, they could have destroyed his house. And he needed to check on that!

And… The [Fairy Stronghold] was exactly as he had left it.

Nice wooden walls with a nice wooden floor. A few stories of rooms and large open spaces in the center. Kitchen, bathrooms, etc. Balconies that opened to the outside. A bedroom for him, and a personal library with most of his collected books from the journey. His adamantium knife and various metals and otherwise were all exactly where he had left them. The wrought had not destroyed anything.

This boded well.

Erick was glad he had come in here first.

The only real difference from the last time Erick was here, was that the room in which Tasar had been practicing her Spatial Magic was fully cleared. All her little projects and various theories and mathematics that she had been piecing together in order to understand [Gate] were gone. No bowls of water, that she would blip back and forth and turn from ice to liquid and back. No hourglasses, randomly resetting their levels of sand. None of that.

Looking back on her experiments, and knowing what he now knew, all those experiments failed to grasp the truth of [Gate]. The current understanding of the Dimensional Ban, and even current language, failed to even allow oneself to understand the actual problem of [Gate]. Though, Erick supposed, taking Spatial transformations and applying those ideas to reality and Reality transformations, was on somewhat the right track. Perhaps the problem was that Veird’s various literature and plays and such did not ever deal with the idea of ‘traveling to another dimension’… Which was another problem to bring up with Kirginatharp.

Or perhaps the people of Veird didn’t like to think about the Sundering (or the fae?) too much, which was yet another perfectly reasonable explanation for the lack of dimensional thinking in popular media. Though, on the other side of that argument, dimensional thinking actually worked and was easy to make happen here with mana. Erick didn’t understand the exact reason why [Gate] was so misunderstood, but whatever.

Anyway.

Tasar had left a note behind after she had cleaned up. That note sat rather conspicuously on a table to the side of her experimental space. It was a short note, reading simply, ‘If ever this note should reach you, I pray that when you come out of Ar’Cosmos that you are the same person who went in. ~Tasar, Geode Guardian’

Erick cast his mana sense into the past, to view exactly how long it had been since Tasar had left this message. He was good enough to have Remade [Witness], and since Erick had been fairy-napped about 13 or 14 days ago, then he should be able to see some… thing…

“— Ah! There she is.”

Erick caught a glimpse of everything getting cleared out of the space, and then fast-forwarded a bit to find Tasar setting down the letter. It was blurry, but he could make her out. At a guess, Tasar had been here and cleaned up maybe two days after Erick had been taken. She hadn’t been inside the house since then, or, if she had, then she had erased her presence. Erick hadn’t permitted other people to enter the house, so she was the only one who knew the way, but even still, it was odd to not see anyone else try to barge into this land since then.

“… Probably just erased themselves from the manasphere, if they did invade.” Erick glanced at his own history in the manasphere and saw nothing. He felt the pink/green/white gemstone hanging around his neck. “I doubt this little thing is unique, at all.”

Erick looked around again.

It boded well that no one had torn down his house with outside Fae Magic, and that no one had torn down Yggdrasil, though. Erick cast his gaze back out to the wrought upon the beach who were all very aware that Ophiel hovered out above the waters. It was rather hard to miss the little guy, Erick supposed. He hung there in the sky over the clear waters of the lake, like an eldritch jellyfish with tendrils of silent lightning flickering out of all parts of his tiny sunform. He wasn’t very good at holding his [Pristine Benevolence] in at all, but that was fine, for now.

Erick put Tasar’s note in his pocket, gathered up all his necessary enchanting stuff and a few necessary books into a go-bag, left it there, and then stepped out onto the balcony, facing the beach in the far, far distance. Yggdrasil’s green leaves and branches held far overhead, looking like a green ocean and lightning because of the distance, but those leaves were each meters across, and the branches were hundreds of meters thick. The big guy seemed to have grown a bit since last Erick had seen him, too.

