Ren woke up on the couch, and Teepo told him he'd been gone for nearly 2 hours. He landed on Ren's shoulder as Ren snuck out of the house and went up to the workshop. He enchanted the pieces of the Automatic Ballistas and helped Tee-one assemble them. Once the cartridges were attached, Ren stored them with the others. He now had 8 of them, and each had a hundred shots. He figured that should be more than enough to deal with 30 giants, no matter how well they were trained.

Ren thanked Tee-one for all of his help, and asked if he wanted to fight the giants. Tee-one said he would do whatever Ren wanted him to do.

“That's not usually how asking works.” Ren said and chuckled. “I ask, you answer. I'm not going to make it an order.”

“Would you rather I stayed here and worked?”

Ren took a breath and let it out. “You're deliberately not answering until I give an opinion, aren't you?”

Tee-one smiled.

“I'd rather you keep working.” Ren said and smiled back.

“Then I decline your offer to fight.” Tee-one said. “If you're getting the dwarves to help, I'll only be in the way, anyways.”

Ren looked at the smelters. “I've got a plan I need to make, but...”

“There's an empty workbench right over there.” Tee-one said. “Have fun.”

Ren smiled and went over to the workbench. He took out the small wind-up toy boat that he'd found, and then his tools. He carefully pried off everything that could be pried off, and he was left with just the main part of the boat.

“Here goes nothing.” Ren said, and gently used the edge of a tiny saw to cut into the top of the boat. He went slowly, because he didn't know what was inside, and didn't want to damage anything. He made it all around the edge, and successfully cut the top off. He lifted the top off to see the inner workings, and examined them. He turned the key to see how the mechanism worked, and the large metal coil compressed slightly.

“No way.” Ren said, and watched as the coil spring kept getting smaller the more he turned the key. When it was as far as it could go, he let the key go. Nothing happened, and he frowned. He picked the toy up and looked at anything that might be sticking out a little. He didn't see anything, and put the toy down.

“Something needs to release the coiled spring.” Ren said to himself, then noticed the top he'd cut off didn't sit flat on the workbench. He picked it up, and there it was. A small protrusion that he assumed hit the mechanism. He flipped it over, and realized that the top cabin needed to be pushed down to start the boat.

Once he knew that, he picked up the bottom of the boat and used the tip of a small tool to simulate the cabin being pushed down. He saw a small gear move in, and a little lever released the coiled spring. A loud whir accompanied this, and the wheels on the bottom of the boat spun furiously. The spring uncoiled in only a couple of seconds and the wheels rolled on by themselves.

Ren wound it up only a couple of times, set the boat on the workbench, and hit the spot where the protrusion would hit it. The boat moved about a foot, and stopped.

“So, it needs some kind of resistance, or the spring tranfers all of it's energy right away.” Ren said, picked the toy up and wound it a couple of times. He examined it as he hit the switch to see what parts moved where, what stayed still, and how the gears transfered the energy to the wheels. He repeated this a few times, just to make sure he understood how it all worked, what size the gears needed to be, and how they should all be attached. Ren grinned when he received a popup.

Notice!

You have learned a new recipe: Wind-Up Toy Boat

Ren moved the toy boat aside, and took out a piece of wood. Since the original was made of wood, he needed to see if he could reproduce it and still have it work. With the system's help and guide outlines for the parts, it took Ren about half an hour to fashion all of the pieces needed to make the toy. All he needed now was the coil spring.

Ren went into the forge room and took out a 2 foot by 2 foot paving stone. He used a small chisel to dig out a very thin channel from corner to corner, two and a half feet long. Ren poured a small amount of molten metal out and let it fill the channel. He absorbed some of the heat from it, folded it over, and stuck it in the forge. When it was hot enough, he hammered it out to the same length it was and folded it again. Ren repeated this several times, and when he thought it was enough, he stuck it back into the forge.

When it softened, he took it out and started to wrap it around his finger. He knew the right size and shape it had to be, so he absorbed the heat as he made looser and looser coils, until he got to the end and bent it to hook into the main gear. He polished it to increase the Durability, and went back out to the workbench. He assembled all of the pieces in the proper order, and he didn't have any problems. Surprisingly, the pieces snapped together easily, and didn't need to be nailed or secured in any way.

I guess they'd have to introduce glue or something otherwise. Ren thought, and put the new toy boat on the workbench. He'd even made all of the external parts; a sail, a rudder, and even a little figure to sit in it. He took a deep breath, reached out, and turned the key several times. The boat sat there, and he tapped the cabin. It released the coiled spring, and the boat took off across the workbench and flew off the end.

“Oops.” Ren said as it clattered to the floor. He went over to it, and saw that it had survived its fall unscathed.

Notice!

You have unlocked a new skill: Craft Toy Level 1 (Beginner 0%)

This skill allows you to make various toys. Recipes known: Wind-Up Toy Boat. Higher levels will allow greater speed and ease making new toys, and unlocks new recipes if you are unable to find them on your own.

“Cool.” Ren picked it up and grinned. “I can make toys!”
