Ren held one out to Stacy, she sniffed it, then opened her mouth and took the pill. She swallowed it, and nothing happened. It took another minute, and then she started to glow. Her body was engulfed in a gold light, and part of her back rippled. Everyone watched closely as two panels on her upper back popped out and slid back, then sharp metal protrusions started to come out slowly. They kept coming, and Ren smiled as they finished deploying, and Stacy flicked them several times to expand them.

They were wings. Metal-feathered wings.

Riley barked excitedly and started to jump around.

“All right, take it easy.” Ren said, and Riley settled down and held his mouth open. He took the pill and started to swallow it... and it got stuck. In his excitement, he'd tried to swallow it as fast as he could, and it turned slightly to wedge itself in his throat.

“Stop, stop!” Ren nearly yelled, and Riley calmed down. “Open.”

Riley opened his mouth, and Ren reached into his mouth and down into his throat.

“Almost... al... most... got it!” Ren exclaimed and pulled his hand out quickly. Riley clamped his mouth shut, and went through the same transformation as Stacy.

“That is so cool.” Teepo said.

It sure is. Ren thought, proudly.

His two steel dog constructs, Riley and Stacy, started to flap their wings to take off; and nothing happened.

“Easy, you two.” Ren said, as he felt their frustration. “They don't just work right off the bat. You have to get used to them before you can fly.”

They stopped flapping their wings and folded them in close to their bodies, instead of completely retracting them.

“We'll work on it later, okay?” Ren said, and pat them on the head. “Now, who wants to loot bodies and gather bolts?”

Everyone raised their hands, including Ruck, and he laughed.

“Well, don't just stand there looking at me! Get to work! Move it! Move it! Move it!” Ren commanded, and the dwarves took off to clear up the battlefield. Ruck went to the nearest of the giants and stored the several bolts on the ground by him. Riley and Stacy picked up a bolt each, and ran over to give them to Ruck to store.

“I didn't get anything?” Teepo asked.

It'll have to wait for a few minutes. Ren thought to his friend. It's something so special, that even I can't wait to see what you think of it.

“Cool.” Teepo said, because he could feel how happy Ren was about it. “I can wait.”

Thanks. Ren thought and went over to the moat. He used the Wand of Spanning to make a bridge to cross it, and went to the center of the giant camp.

“REN!” Laurelia exclaimed, and picked him up. She nestled him between her breasts, and held him tightly. “You did it, you handsome little devil!” She rocked him from side to side. “YOU DID IT!”

Ren didn't know what to do. Having a giant yell in your ear hurt a lot; but, he didn't want to hurt her feelings by telling her that. He didn't have to worry for long, because Deresdra was there to talk some sense into Laurelia.

“By the gods, he's not a squeeze toy!” Deresdra said, and laughed. “Put him down before you break him in half.”

Laurelia blushed, and Ren felt the change in her skin as the blood rushed to her face. “I... I'm sorry.”

“It's okay.” Ren said. “No harm done.”

Laurelia eased her hold on him, and then put him down on the ground.

“I feel like I should apologize for not being bigger, though.” He said, and Laurelia laughed as he walked over to Deresdra. “How are they?”

“They're even more battered than the fish at the cafeteria.” Deresdra said, and smiled. “It's mostly just exhaustion I'm treating, with a few scrapes and bruises.”

“Do you need a hand?”

“Sure.” Deresdra said and pointed to the male giant that sat beside her. “Take out a Major Healing wand and concentrate on this bruise.”

Ren took out the wand, and she held up a hand.

“Wait.” Deresdra said. “You can see the bruise, right?”

Ren nodded.

“Now, imagine the damage underneath. Crushed muscles, compressed blood vessels, and possible damaged bones.”

Ren nodded again. “I got it.”

“Now, use a single spell and then wait.”

Ren did so, and waited. The bruise quickly faded from the giant's arm, and Deresdra smiled.

“Perfect.” She said. “I think you'd make a good healer.”

Notice!

You have unlocked a new skill: Healing Level 1 (Beginner 0%). This skill allows you to properly diagnose and heal minor wounds.

“Thanks.” Ren said, and used his Master Tailor Sewing Needle to repair the giant's clothing.

“Good god, that wasn't a trick?!?” The male giant said as he stared at his repaired clothing. “I thought you'd made the kid's old clothes glow to distract him, then replaced the clothes with new ones!”

“No, it's not a trick.” Ren said. “It's real. I can magically repair clothing.”

“Do me next!” One of the female giants said and stood up to come over to Ren.

“I'd like to help heal the injured first, and then I'll take care of cleaning and repairing clothing.” Ren said, and she stopped walking over.

“You're going to clean them, too?!?” She exclaimed with a huge smile on her face. “That's great!” She said and went to sit back down. “I can wait.”

Ren chuckled and turned to Deresdra. “Can you keep showing me how to heal things properly?”

Deresdra nodded slightly, and then smiled.
