His big hands knotted into fists as he realized he still had no clear recollection of what must have been an epic fight.

It’ll come back, he told himself. Later. Without thinking any further, he put all of his new attribute points into vitality and endurance. Whatever happened, we must have been pretty beat up, he thought, glancing at Aliandra. I hope she’s ok.

He reached toward her arm to check on her, but the sudden hisses reminded him the rats were still being overprotective.

In that instant, the peaceful image of his tiny friend sleeping in a circle of restoration magic was overlaid with her scrambling backward in abject terror, silently screaming while the matted paws of a great beast beat on a blood-and-froth-covered magical barrier until it exploded into shards. The rage and hate surged through him with such a shocking power that he reeled backward from the image, falling heavily onto his side.

What… was that?

He cautiously sat up once again, swallowing uncomfortably at the sudden dryness in his mouth. His body seemed to be trembling from shock. But Aliandra still slept peacefully beside him.

Just an image? Hallucination?

Just as he began to trust his relief that the scene was gone, the image returned, rage surging through his body and mind. He saw himself gripping Aliandra’s leg in his jaws, thrashing her tiny body back and forth on the stone like a cat killing its prey, while she screamed for him to stop.

As the image mercifully faded, he found himself retching in a cold sweat.

That can’t be real… can it? Please…

But the rage had been powerful, and the memory of her bones crunching under his fangs was all too real. The brutal ease with which he had thrashed her back and forth, even after her screams had fallen silent and her body limp.

And, to his horror, he found he knew the taste of her amber blood.

Oh no! What have I done?

***

Name: Mato BahrRace: BeastkinClass: Druidic Shapeshifter – level 6- Arboreal Sanctuary – level 5- Swipe – level 3- Brutal Restoration – level 6- Bear Form – level 4- Wolf Form – level 2- Primal Rage – level 6- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Identify – level 4- Cooking – level 4- Wilderness Lore – level 5Aptitudes- Languages: Common, Beast - Mana (Affinity): Nature- Strong (Racial): +7 Strength- Tough (Racial): +10 EnduranceAttributes- Vitality: 40- Strength: 33- Endurance: 34- Dexterity: 7- Perception: 6- Intelligence: 8- Wisdom: 19Equipment- Weapon: Mace – level 1- Body: Leather Vest – level 1Evasion: 12Dodge: 6.66%Health: 400/400Stamina: 340/340Mana: 190/190
