“Please, I am but a mere lady. I do not have the Title of a Lady, which is rather irksome to even maintain. And, please, there’s no need to stress over formality with me.”

Anya spoke reassuringly. The head of the Veridian Family was… nothing like what Edithe imagined. She stared at the noble lady, before looking past her at Hadrian. He was just as lost as Edithe was.

Neither of them expected this, evidently enough. They’d been worried about meeting with the Veridian Family. If there’d be any sort of issue. But so far it had gone the exact opposite way. It had been rather pleasant instead of hostile.

Edithe nodded with a bit of uncertainty.

“O-of course. I appreciate your… generosity?”

She was never one who could deal with nobles. Their diction alone had too much nuance. Edithe was a street rat— the daughter of a prostitute. She felt stiff when talking with Anya.

“I’d love to chat with you for longer, Edithe Dawnrise. I’d especially be delighted to hear about your exploits in the Plaguelands. But, alas…”

Anya glanced back. Footfalls echoed down a nearby corridor. More figures were approaching for the meeting.

“It seems that the meeting is starting soon. And while we still have time to chat, I’d rather not intrude upon your reunion.”

“My… reunion?”

Edithe didn’t know what Anya meant by that. She stared, perplexed. Confused. Then she heard the footsteps grow louder and louder. The door to the hallway was thrown open— quite literally thrown open.

It broke and went flying, nearly hitting a handful of the gathered adventurers. Helena Warshade’s eyes flickered. She flicked a finger, sending a gale of wind to deflect the door. A figure raced through the crowd and leapt forward.

Anya Veridian stepped back. One of the Merrysters sighed audibly. And Hadrian had to duck to avoid the blurred figure. Edithe watched as it zipped straight for her. She braced herself— until she heard the excited voice.

“Ediiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiithe!”

A familiar silver-haired girl collided into Edithe Dawnrise. The red-haired woman found herself on the ground as a pair of arms hugged her tightly. The world seemed to freeze as Edithe saw the girl’s beaming face. The exuberant smile.

“Salvos…?”

“That’s me!”

Salvos spoke as she clung onto Edithe. Slowly but surely, the red-haired woman returned the hug. She ran a hand through the girl’s silver hair, laughing as she used [Identification] on her friend.

“It’s been a while. You’ve grown quite a lot since we last met, haven’t you?”
