The three cores falling through the green clouds, being battered by hundreds of tendrils of corruption are being cracked and fractured more with every hit.

Thousands more coiling tornadoes of Royal Vibration infused corruption follow downward, as in these milliseconds within my mind palace, Miriel Vermillion has closed the gap even further. The ruler of the green zone of the Upper Realm is less than 100 thousand kilometers away, following me down through the massive hole in the Citadel.

Yet, they all start to glow white hot the instant the [Celestial Emperor's Sacred Body] is activated deep within my mind.

Out from every crack and fracture, dense Celestial energy pours out.

It looks like it's in a liquid state, but at the same time, it looks like fibers of pristine glowing and sparkling muscles and flesh. Like my noble form has been injected with a vibrant energy.

It spirals out from every crack and fracture, growing from nothing but a Celestial liquid, to a mass that twists and grows, pushing back all of the incoming black coils of corruption.

They are repelled by the pure explosive force of this strange living Celestial liquid erupting outward.

It is hot, and has a very unique essence to it, so much so that when it comes in contact with the Celestial energy being manipulated by the [Celestial Prism] buff used by Miriel; this pure ether being used is pulled in toward my combination of ether and mana being manipulated by the explosion of energy.

The Royal Vibrations holding the coiling corruption together keeps the majority of the Celestial energy from being stolen.

The white liquid grows and grows, pouring the contents of my ether energy pool outward.

It grows past my previous size of 500 kilometers instantly, growing over 1000 kilometers in diameter before the pulsing and swirling fibers of white muscle begin bursting outward to start forming a humanoid shape.

It continues growing larger and larger, and in the depths of my mind, I begin to see the light of reality again rather than relying on a shadowy visual reconstruction using only echo-location of energy fields.

I deactivate my mind palace, and focus entirely on activating this new buff, along with my self-regeneration's true core ability.

Instead of a domineering aura of suppression surrounding me, making everything darker, colder, and closing in to shrink my reality; the opposite explodes into my consciousness.

My High Noble Vibrations surge upward in their strength and vigor, now using the Celestial Energy as an amplifier; as well as the rising stats surging into my mind.

Notifications of 100,000 base stat points being added to each individual stat as a basic rank up reward, the visuals of my linked worlds surpassing 300 million, and the increase in my borrowed stats by an additional 12% are the instantaneous notifications.

Ava and Maria both still hold a full 4% each, answering the question of where the missing 8% still are being used. Only one of them is still mid-battle, but I don't overanalyze this fact.

My mind is far more consumed by the burst of perception and control over my environment that is unlocked.

A white wave of energy bursts through the air, upward, flooding through the entire Grand Citadel.

It may be cracking into pieces, and falling from the sky, but I can now feel every single ether command and physical structure within it, and feel as though my High Noble Vibrations are finally hitting their next evolution point. This state of explosive enlightenment is what I felt beneath that sea of corruption as it pushed down on me from all sides, yet I pushed back.

That, in a far more violent and explosive state, is happening now.

My arms, legs, face, heart, organs, and veins pumping with blood are all recreated by the Celestial energy that bursts out from my cores.

At the same time, the countless dark black cracks stained with corruption and Royal Vibrations begin to heal up, negating the possibility of them losing their structural integrity and bursting on the spot.

My blood-bonded armor reforms around my body, and even the Soul Sword that was shattered into millions of pieces, and large portions of its energy absorbed by the corruption, it begins to reform and spin around me again.

My Sacred Celestial body grows larger and larger, surpassing 4000 kilometers in height.

This does not stop Miriel from continuing his downward assault, and tens of thousands of corruption coils come crashing down toward me.

Instead of running away, or trying to put up an impenetrable defense to hide behind like before; I outstretch my bare hands.

The glowing white Celestial hands grab onto the first few thousand dense coiling black masses and tear them apart, like a beaded curtain.

I drag them all aside with ease, then pull downward, snapping thousands of them off, tearing them from their central mass, and thrusting myself upward with the momentum.

I catch my white and red soul sword orbiting around me, and slash across my body with both hands to attack the massive main grouping of over 30,000 coiling tendrils of corruption.

A dense white burst of energy slices through all of them, creating an opening for me to fly through, and once again be eye to eye with the monstrosity that is a True Royal Demon.

It's continuing to grow, reaching over 9000 kilometers even while on its way over, while my sacred body has begun to slow down its growth at about 5000 kilometers tall once my ether pool releases everything it's absorbed from the Citadel so far.

My bright white eyes stare into the dark red and purple shadows of an ancient demon, as my Soul Sword collides with his two open palms, making contact with his cold bare flesh once again...

–

The shockwave is devastating.

Dark purple energy clashes against hot white light.

A Royal holds back a High Noble that is on the verge of breaking through to this higher realm.

The Celestial Energy bursting outward is hotter, more dense, and unique than any of the ether in the pool that this Demon has been siphoning from Green Zone Citizens and purifying for tens of thousands of years.

It is an unfathomably hot source of energy, one he was positive this human was not capable of mere milliseconds ago... It is even more powerful than his own lesser version of Celestial Energy, as Demonic energy and Mana react very differently to Medium Quality Ether emulsification.

The Royal Vibrations on the other hand, are undeniably stronger than the High Noble waves of energy coming from my pristine white energy form.

This is very clear to me, as even now, when I make physical contact with that monster, I feel a shiver in my soul, and a slow-moving black stain of corruption start to seep through my blade the longer we hold contact.

We collide with near equal force, stopping in midair, allowing the explosion of our auras to demolish reality around us.

Every single ether command, and solid piece of the Citadel I felt intact, and malleable just moments ago are shattered to dust. Everything is destroyed. Mutilated into microscopic particles. It's like the entire green zone stands still for a moment, as a ripple in space between us distorts everything around for tens of millions of kilometers.

That includes the layers of defenses held together by a thread by Ren a million kilometers above us.

Every single layer is shattered like frail glass, and the full power of a Celestial High Noble aura and the Demonic Royal Vibrations of Miriel Vermillion burst upward toward hundreds of millions of innocent and unsuspecting Lords.

Reality has turned black and white.

Both light and dark auras burst through the air, fighting for dominance.

The instant it bursts through the hundreds of millions of Lords in the sky, my mind is filled with more notifications than I've ever felt before.

None of the Lords floating in the sky have the mental capacity to understand what has hit them.

The wave of auras is moving so fast, that they should all instantly pass out and lose access to their systems.

In fact, the burst of energy coming afterward, carrying shrapnel from the Citadel, will certainly kill them all; Elite or not, link of loyalty or none; it appears this clash has guaranteed their certain demise.

Yet, the system takes this collision of auras, from two reality-bending entities in a clash of mental and physical force, as a catalyst to mutate the system and environment to even include the complex minds of the Lords above us as part of our duel.

Every monster, intelligent or not, is given an option instinctually: submit to the Cold Royal waves of corruption, or the Warm Celestial call of the Rising Emperor.

Hundreds of millions of Lords, from 5th to 2nd Class, of the unintelligent nature, that were trapped in the Wilderness for their entire lives, with built-up resentment for the demons, instantly create links of loyalty with me, linking their home worlds to my base of borrowed strength.

Many of the Lords watching the tournament that have not yet chosen are forced to. Tens of millions more worlds are added to my pool here as well.

Though... there is one additional unexpected source of many, many worlds.

It is from over 100 million Demonic Servants, Admins or Guards, 1st and 2nd Class Lords' minds trapped in the avatar of their oppressors. They have been unable to think or act for themselves without a mental probing or full override command dictating their actions.

All of them were fighting to keep the Lords in the crowd in line, and stop them from trying to escape through the crack in the ceiling moments ago. Now, their real subconscious finally gets to act on its own.

Many of them have only their home world, but many others have more than one, even up to 10 or more worlds from various trade deals or rewards over the millennia.

Over 90% of the Lords high up in the sky glow bright white with Celestial Energy, surviving the initial mental burst of the shockwave, while others that are truly loyal to the demons turn dark black, purple, and red, dissolving instantly into liquid corruption.

Even now, I feel this Demon's overwhelming presence seep deeper into my sword, and try to attack my mind and soul again...

My enemy is still stronger.

I let out a yell, and it echoes out into the air with the Demon's mad laughter.

The rippling waves of ether, divine threads, and disintegrated Citadel mass floating in the skies all start to pulse with the same rhythm as my cores, while I channel my High Noble Vibration's true path of creation, and begin to pull it inward to take control of my environment, and pull in even more necessary power...

Another final dinging sound rings in my mind once every Lord above chooses their fate.

__________

[Congratulations! Rising Emperor's Domain Milestone Reached!]

[1,192,508,366/1,000,000,000 Worlds Claimed]

[New Perk Unlocked: Galactic Player]

Info:

The [World Wide Connectivity System][i] interface and permissions have been updated!

The [Fast Travel][i] interface and permissions have been updated!

The Rising Emperor may now appoint 5 Administrators[i].

The Rising Emperor may now borrow an additional 5% of all Base Stat Points and Mana Control efficiency from all subordinates under the allegiance of the Rising Emperor.

Members affected by this perk are not required to be within range of the Rising Emperor's Domain.

This buff stacks with the [Galactic Footprint] perk, [A Light in the Darkness] perk, [Path to Domination] perk, [Authority among Worlds] perk, [Ruler of Worlds] perk, [World Collector] perk, [World Domination] perk, [Imperial Reach] perk, [Expansion] perk, [Dominance] perk, [Authority] perk, [Power Holder] perk, and [Ruler's Gaze] perk if used simultaneously.
