It would take time for Kyung to come to terms with his new life, because he’d been conditioned to take solace in service. A few months ago, Min Gyu suggested hiring a servant to take over Kyung’s duties, and the poor boy had looked so afraid and betrayed, it was as if he thought he himself were being replaced. Yan said Kyung just needed time to adjust, but what Min Gyu lacked most of all was time itself. Ten years at most, and likely far less, time which would pass in the blink of an eye, or be cut short in the heat of battle. Perhaps this was too little too late, and Min Gyu would die having never met Kyung the man, and only knowing Kyung the slave, but if so, then he had no one to blame but himself.

Feeling maudlin from thinking about what could have been, Min Gyu mussed Kyung’s flickering cat-ears and shuffled over to the washbasin. “Where did you head off to this morning?” he asked, if only to fill the silence.

“...To protect Li Song.” Sheepishly refusing to make eye contact, Kyung grumbled, “She left camp again, with no guards or escorts to speak of. The Bekhai are too lax with their children, letting them wander about as they please.”

Min Gyu didn’t disagree, but it was hard to tell with the Bekhai. Last night, he’d watched Li Song leave with a bucket of meat and walk almost a full kilometre away from camp, just to scatter it across the ground and come back. The girl had no visible escorts, and upon her return, Min Gyu only found two trailing behind, whom he later identified as Fire-bird Tenjin and his wife, Tursinai. This wasn’t to say there weren’t more guards hidden around her during those twice-daily excursions, but either this was the most poorly presented bait in the world, or the Bekhai were all idiots who didn’t keep track of their important children.

Probably the latter, which was frankly horrifying. While Baatar intended to rebel if Rain should die, Min Gyu suspected Akanai would overthrow the Emperor Himself if her sweet daughter suffered so much as a single scratch...

There was nothing to be done except ask his guards to keep an eye on Li Song, a task Kyung had apparently taken on for himself. It seemed he believed Akanai had poached Li Song away and that the girl belonged with Min Gyu instead of the Bekhai, but on this, they disagreed. He barely remembered teaching the girl, as she’d been one of many in a batch of warrior slaves he’d intended to sell or gift away. The first real memory he had of the green-eyed half-cat was after she emerged victorious from a sparring tournament meant to determine which of his students would go along with Jin Tok to the Society Contests. The slaves had been added simply to pad the numbers and simulate the consecutive duels of the Contests, but then Song emerged victorious with humiliating ease. Oh how he’d berated his students for losing so readily to a slave, but now, that slave stood higher than any of his students in both skill and social status, aside from his loyal god-daughter Da’in.

At least he didn’t have to feel bad about snatching away his sweet granddaughter from the Bekhai anymore, for he surely had more to do with shaping Li Song’s Martial Path than Akanai had with Yan.

On that cheery note, he sauntered out of his tent where he was greeted by sweet Kishi waiting for breakfast. The affectionate quin pup had slept in Yan’s yurt last night, which meant Eun was already up and about and they would both be out shortly. Settling into his chair to hand feed little Kishi, he spotted Xiao Qi tending to the kettle over a nearby fire, while the rest of his personal guards puttered about in an attempt to look busy.

Well, no time like the present. “Xiao Qi,” he called, and the young man leaped to attention. “Demonstrate the Forms. You favour the Oriole, correct? Start there.”

“Yes, Lieutenant General.”

Grinning from ear to ear, Xiao Qi launched into a passable Demonstration, while Min Gyu evaluated his performance harshly, which for some reason made the young fool smile even more. “The Oriole is a bird, Xiao Qi, not a fish floundering on dry land. As the Tiger embodies Honing and the Bull Reinforcement, the Oriole Forms are intertwined with Lightening at their core. This isn’t to say you must be Lightened to use them, or that you cannot apply other Chi skills to these movements, but they are meant to familiarize yourself with their use, yet...”

All of his guards listened closely, and when Xiao Qi finished, Min Gyu subtly looked to Kyung for another name, which he promptly provided through Sending. Three more guards were called out, and Min Gyu made an effort not only to remember their names, but to learn the others as well. He’d neglected his guards and students too much since taking Yan in as his Disciple, but if he put things off any longer, then these young men and women would have devoted themselves to his service for nothing. They were a good bunch, loyal and hardworking, traits Min Gyu now realized were far more valuable than talent, so he offered them what wisdom he could in the short time they had left before setting out on their journey once more.

And truth be told, he would have need of their skills soon enough, for it was only a matter of time before everything went to shit, regardless if Rain lived or died...

With Yan still immersed in the mysteries of Insight, there was little for Min Gyu to do all day save lecture guards and play with little Kishi, and the second day of travel went by without incident. After stopping to make camp, he sauntered over to Rain’s carriage to speak with the boy, mostly on the matter of the Guardian Turtle. “You cannot allow your movements to become too predictable,” he warned, while Rain nodded along like a chicken pecking grains from inside his stately carriage. “Our enemy holds the initiative, so we must be on our guard at all times. A single careless moment is all the opening our foes need to strike.”

“Understood Grandfather.”

“If the Guardian Turtle wants to frolic in the river, then let her go on her own. There’s no need for you to accompany her every day, is there?”

“Not at all Grandfather.”

“Good, good. This might seem too alarmist and cowardly, but this is for the best. Also, speak with Li Song and ask her to stop leaving camp on her own. She might not realize it yet, but as Akanai’s daughter, she makes a tempting target of opportunity for our enemies, and she would not be the first noble lady to be kidnapped and ransomed.”

“I will be sure to share your concern, Grandfather.”

All in all, Rain was attentive, polite, and deferential throughout their entire conversation, which should have immediately raised alarms in Min Gyu’s mind, yet it still came as a complete shock when, not one hour later, Kyung informed him that Rain was on his way down to the river with the Guardian Turtle in tow. Muttering a stream of obscenities under his breath, Min Gyu gathered his guards and hurried over to pull the boy’s ass out of the fire if need be, but under a cloak of Concealment so not to spook off any enemy combatants who were already in motion.

Since Rain insisted on dangling himself out as tempting bait, then Min Gyu would be remiss not to take advantage, which he would have suggested if Rain hadn’t been such a wilful brat and shared his plans in the first place. Either way, the Medical Saint was only a hop and a skip away, and the boy wasn’t called the ‘Undying Savage’ for nothing.

Running at full sprint, he and his guards caught up to the boy in short order and found him riding his quin at a slow, sedate pace while the Guardian Turtle trundled along behind. An improvement from yesterday, bringing the mount instead of going on foot, and there were thirty-two more quin-riders there with him. This was in addition to his standard escort of sixty Death Corps guards, so perhaps some of Min Gyu’s warnings had gotten through his thick head, but not much. Worse, the quin-riders were decidedly not Bekhai, as evidenced by their less than natural posture in the harness. The longbows and leathers might be enough to fool an outsider, but Min Gyu’s experienced eyes revealed these riders to be Falling Rain’s riffraff rather than Akanai’s elite Khishigs.

Well, perhaps riffraff was too ungenerous. Truth be told, the boy had done an admirable job turning his motley crew of cripples, misfits, and bandits into a disciplined fighting force, and he had a surprising number of Experts emerge from under his command. Like their commander, Rain’s retinue had plenty of experience and potential, but they were sorely lacking in immediate strength, which was what the boy needed the most of all.

Then again, an entire thousand-man retinue of Peak Experts might not be enough to keep him out of trouble...

As if matters were not dire enough, a handful of those riders carried lit torches, and others iron torch stands, an extravagance which would have been laughed at only two years ago before the boy introduced cast iron to the Empire. Since the sun had yet to set, this meant Rain intended to spend several hours keeping the Guardian Turtle by the riverside, as if he felt he weren’t tempting fate enough already. This went beyond mere idiocy and into the realm of suicidal stubbornness, or at least he thought as much until the boy stopped a quarter kilometre away from the water and his mounted archers formed up in front of him.

Scanning the riverbank in search of whatever had spooked the boy, Min Gyu was at a loss to explain it. It looked like it always did at this time of the day, with ships and barges pulling ashore while sailors and soldiers made camp for the night. A waste of time in Min Gyu’s opinion, for the soldiers could easily sleep in hammocks while the ship continued sailing through the night, but the captains of these boats were not the seasoned sailors of Yantai and not used to navigating by anything but sunlight.

Putting aside his pride for his hometown, Min Gyu went back to looking for danger, but again, found nothing amiss. There was no obvious trap on the way down to the river, or armed soldiers suspiciously gathering around them, or any other discernible reason for Falling Rain’s riders to draw their bows, yet they did so all the same. Those carrying the torches and stands arranged them between the riders so there were eight riders surrounding each stand, and it soon became apparent why as the riders brought out their cloth-wrapped, pitch-soaked arrows held them ready to light and loose at a moment’s notice.

Mother in Heaven... had the boy gone mad? Did he intend to attack a ship? They were all under military contracts, which meant an assault on one was tantamount to rebellion, even if the passengers intended to assassinate him.

Noticing the commotion, the soldiers and sailors were quick to scatter, save for those Min Gyu presumed had come in on the ship Rain was currently threatening, though how they knew they were the target was anyone’s guess. These fellows drew their weapons and... milled about, neither charging ahead nor moving to defend their ship and the precious cargo within, which was... curious to say the least. Orders from someone Scrying nearby, perhaps hoping Rain would dig his own grave? As for the boy, he sat on his quin and paid the ships and sailors no mind while patting the Guardian Turtle’s cheek to keep her in place. “It’s okay Ping Ping,” the boy crooned, his quiet words so distinct on these otherwise silent plains. “We’ll get you to the river soon enough. I just have one thing to take care of first, and then we’re good to go.”

“Private Falling Rain.” So focused on what was happening before him, Min Gyu failed to notice the Justicar’s arrival, marching in from Nian Zu’s camp with a dozen Enforcers at his side. Eyeing the arrows and torches from behind his expressionless steel mask, the Justicar continued in a wry tone, “When your Death Corps guard informed me of a crime in progress, I did not expect to find the culprit would be you.”

“I wouldn’t dream of it, Justicar.” Dismounting to salute as his rank required, Rain smiled and gestured towards the ship. “The culprits are over there, on the ‘Vast Distance’.” The ship’s name was painted in bright colours and bold characters on the hull and two sides, as per navy regulations, though as far as Min Gyu could tell, no crime had been committed just yet. Even if they intended to assassinate Rain, they had yet to act, which meant Rain had called the Justicar over far too early.

Strange that he would trust them still, even after they all but forced him to his death in Sinuji, but this was a matter for another time.

Evidently, the Justicar had come to the same conclusions Min Gyu had. “And what crime have these sailors committed? Did they attack you?”

“No, but they probably intended to.”

“Have you any proof of your allegations? Written orders? An informant willing to swear an Oath?”

“Nope.”

“...” The pregnant pause spoke for everyone present, even the soldiers under Rain’s command as they turned to gawk at their commander. Visibly repressing a laugh, the Justicar coughed and said, “Then no crime has been committed, save for your own.”

