Despite the dire circumstances and calamitous tribulations to come, Du Min Gyu looked forward to meeting this latest challenge head on, namely keeping the five Supreme Families from quietly assassinating his future grandson-in-law.

A seasoned veteran of hundreds, if not thousands of battles, he well remembered the thrill of combat and rush of victory, and for many decades, he sought to relive his glory days as a military officer. Though his leg was crippled and largely useless, his mind was as sharp as ever, but despite his constant requests for assignment, the higher-ups, led by Colonel General Shuai Jiao, refused to give Min Gyu the chance he so desperately desired.

For good reason. Contrary to his beliefs at the time, his Dream Smoke addiction had left him addled, irritable, and easily distracted, which made for a poor commanding officer and an even worse supporting one. Looking back on it now, he realized his many public curses directed towards Shuai Jiao had been unwarranted and ungenerous, because Min Gyu had clearly been unfit for duty. In fact, despite not drawing a salary, he should have been stripped of his rank long ago, but he recently learned that Shuai Jiao had staunchly opposed it for several decades because he saw no need to ‘trample over the reputation of a Hero of the Empire’. When Yan and Da’in dragged him to Shuai Jiao’s hosted luncheon during new years a few weeks past, Min Gyu had offered the stately Colonel General his heartfelt thanks and apologies, but the magnanimous warrior refused to accept any and all gifts, save for the token string of coppers usually gifted to servants and peasants. “You earned your rank,” Shuai Jiao had said, treating Min Gyu’s gratitude as air. “I merely did what was right.”

Which was essentially the Colonel General’s storied history summed up in a single sentence. Much like his Northern counterpart Nian Zu, Shuai Jiao kept away from politics and alliances, and spent most of his career hunting Defiled, pirates, bandits, and rebels with ruthless efficiency. Unlike the other two Colonel Generals of Central, Shuai Jiao had been born into poverty and lived a modest private life, far from destitute but well below his station with the bulk of his salary donated to the coffers of various temples and monasteries scattered about the Empire. Even his hosted luncheon was little more than a token gathering, arranged and paid for by Marshal Yo Jeong-Hun for the sole purpose of reminding power-hungry officers and overzealous nobles of Central that Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao still lived, and they should temper their ambitions accordingly.

A selfless man with a brilliant mind, Min Gyu respected and even admired Shuai Jiao’s ethics and accomplishments, but personally, he couldn’t stand the uptight, sanctimonious prig, no matter how much he tried.

Shuai Jiao’s continued refusal to assign Min Gyu any military duties didn’t help much either, especially now that he was truly in good health and no longer addicted or even using Dream Smoke. When he brought up the matter of military assignment during that most boring and stifling of luncheons, the bald Colonel General shook his head and said, “You are not yet ready, Lieutenant General. Reflect on your excursion to the Canston Winery, and you will understand why.”

It irked Min Gyu to be spoken down to like a pupil in need of lessons, especially by a man three decades his junior, but Shuai Jiao had a point. The Canston Winery had been a failure on so many levels, and not just because his forces would have been wiped out if not for the timely arrival of several friendly Divinities. While the appearance of a Defiled Divinity had sealed the fate of Min Gyu’s expedition, their outcome had been bleak even before the crazed Ancestral Beast made her ghastly appearance, and the fault lay at his feet. He’d forgotten too much in the long years since he last served, and so much more had changed, but his mistakes at the winery were almost too numerous to name. One mistake stood out above all others, however, for Min Gyu should have sent scouts into the winery to assess the situation before committing his entire force like a hot-headed young bull, but after so many long years of inactivity, Min Gyu had been overeager to prove himself once again.

Now, he had another chance to prove his worth, but this time the stakes went beyond the revitalization of his once illustrious career. Should he fail in this task at hand, Min Gyu might well find himself at odds with not only Shuai Jiao, but also every other Colonel General of the Empire, including his current ally and camp commander, Nian Zu. Grateful as Min Gyu was to have earned Baatar’s trust, he knew he was no match for the sharpest military minds of the Empire, and if it should come to open rebellion, he and the Bekhai would find themselves crushed with little more than a whimper.

Though the odds were stacked against them, Min Gyu was determined not to let things get so far, and not just because he didn’t want his precious grand-daughter to die an unmarried widow. Optimism aside however, their journey to the Central Citadel had gotten off to a rocky start, what with him being occupied with caring for Yan’s needs while she meditated in the Medical Saint’s meditation garden. Oh what a trial it had been resisting the urge to step into the grove himself, and the temptation had nearly done him in, but he held fast and stayed strong until it was finally time to leave. Past time, in truth, but he’d forgotten to account for Bekhai obstinance in his down-to-the-minute plans. Were it not for his constant reminders that Rain needed them, Yan, Sumila, Alsantset, and Sarnai would all still be back at the garden, meditating without a care in the world while the amber-eyed rascal rode towards his imminent doom.

No, that was defeatist thinking, and Min Gyu would not allow himself to succumb to doom and gloom. Falling Rain was a child of miracles, so while his chances of survival seemed slim at best, if anyone could emerge whole from this, it would be him. Although Min Gyu lacked a personal army to lend to the cause and had been too preoccupied to make advanced preparations, he intended to do everything in his power to make sure the boy made it to the battlefield in one piece, and then everything else was in the hands of the Mother Herself.

Fresh and well-rested after several days camped at the peaceful Bekhai farms, Min Gyu spent their first day of travel in a state of heightened awareness. Not only did he have his personal guards report in every quarter hour, he also raised a cordon of buffeting Wind Chi about the boy’s carriage to ensure no Concealed assassins approached his position. That turned out to be a grave mistake, because with so many Experts and Peak Experts watching over the boy in secret and reporting back to different commanders, it was all but impossible to keep track of all the Concealed comings and goings around Falling Rain’s carriage.

This, coupled with the stress of the whole situation and his personal struggle to reacquaint himself with the rigours of command, left Min Gyu in a less than ideal state by the end of the first day. Although nothing of significance had taken place, the calm day helped him re-learn a valuable lesson of command, and that was to always conserve your resources, including the attentions of the commanding officer. While Colonel General Nian Zu was ostensibly in charge of this convoy, and the Bekhai contingent were under Major Alsantset’s command, Baatar had personally entrusted his family’s safety to Min Gyu, which, more than anything, spoke of the half-wolf’s poor judgment. Regardless of his misgivings, Min Gyu intended to do everything in his power to keep the boy alive, but he would be of no use to anyone if he exhausted himself with his hyper-vigilant ways.

Thus, he approached their second day of travel with a different mindset, intending to leave Nian Zu to handle the day to day minutiae while Min Gyu himself waited on standby in case of emergency. Waking naturally at the break of dawn, he forced himself to relax and remain in bed for a few minutes longer, if only to enjoy what might well be his last moments of peace. Considering the strength of their foes, there was a decent chance that despite all their best efforts, the boy could have died sometime during the night. If this were the case, then there was nothing Min Gyu could do for him now, so there was no point rushing over to make sure Rain was still alive.

Instead, he lay in the dim darkness of his officer’s tent and took stock of his surroundings, finding Kyung conspicuously absent and another personal guard standing in his place at the front of the tent. One of Kang’s boys, or perhaps a nephew or grandson, Min Gyu couldn’t remember the exact details, only that he had blood ties to the boy in some way. Why couldn’t he remember the boy’s name? A terrible sign of things to come if his mind was starting to slip, but was this truly a lapse in memory due to advanced age, or had he never bothered to learn the boy’s name in the first place? Thankfully, Kyung returned in short order and sent the guard away, and Min Gyu sat up the moment they were alone. “What was that guard’s name?” he Sent, hoping it would be an unfamiliar one.

“Xiao Qi. Grandfather,” Kyung replied, stooping to help Min Gyu onto his feet. “Duan Xiao Qi.”

Little Seven? What an asinine name, but then again, some people had so many children, a simple naming scheme probably made it easier to keep track of all the brats. “Duan? I thought we were related in some way?”

“By marriage, Grandfather.” Though the tent was almost uncomfortably warm thanks to the already lit braziers, Kyung took no chances with Min Gyu’s health and wrapped a thick, heavy cloak around his shoulders before helping him out of his nightclothes. “Xiao Qi is the cousin of Du Kang Bin’s third Consort.”

Who himself was the grandson of a second cousin, which meant Xiao Qi was barely a relation at all. “Third Consort? Seven wives aren’t enough for Kang Bin, and now he needs consorts as well? No wonder his progress has stalled this last decade, it’s a miracle he even has time to eat and bathe.” Still, blood wasn’t everything, or even of importance, for family was so much more that mere relation. Kang Bin was family not because of blood, but because he’d been one of the few who stayed loyal after Min Gyu declared Yan as his heir and Disciple, and loyalty should always be rewarded. “How are Xiao Qi’s skills?”

“Lacklustre, but he works hard even without guidance.” Coming from Kyung, this was almost a scathing reproach, implying Min Gyu had neglected his personal guards of late, most of whom were only here to learn from ‘Great Teacher’ Du. “Xiao Qi’s father tried to convince him to leave last year. The boy refused. Vehemently.”

“So chatty today.” Chuckling to take the bite out of his words, Min Gyu let the cloak slide off his shoulders as he slipped into the robes Kyung held out for him. “You’ve been teaching the guards in my absence, I take it?” Kyung hesitated briefly before nodding ever so slightly, and Min Gyu beamed in delight. “Then there is nothing to worry about, for you are my most prized pupil and only grandson.”

And damned if it wasn’t true. The boy was fierce as any warrior, not quite a Peak Expert, but so very close, and he soaked up instruction like a dry desert soaked up rain. Cupping Kyung’s cheeks in both hands, he took a moment to study this recently acknowledged grandson, with pride and guilt intermingling in his chest. It felt so strange to look back on his memories and see how he’d neglected this poor boy, never treating him like the promising young man he’d been, or even as a person at all, only a tool to be shaped and otherwise a silent guard at his side.

Kyung was there during those hard days when Min Gyu’s stomach rebelled and refused to keep anything down, and there during those long nights when chills and withdrawal kept him awake and ranting all night. The boy had never seen Min Gyu in his prime, yet still he revered him, a crippled, drug-addled fool who could do nothing but teach. That was the worst part, in Min Gyu’s eyes, because while Yan shared his Blessing, it was Kyung who inherited the essence of his teachings, a warrior who struck first, struck hard, and moved on to the next battle, leaving naught but destruction in his wake. How had he not seen this sooner? “Is there anything you wish to do, grandson of mine?” Min Gyu asked, his heart aching at how foolish he’d been to be blinded by mere labels. “Any dream you wish to pursue or ambition you hope to fulfill? A wife, a family, a career, a passion?” Anything to help assuage this guilt...

“Nothing Grandfather. This one is content as he is, serving at Grandfather’s side.” Though Kyung’s words were intended to reassure, they weighed heavily on Min Gyu’s heart and made him worry for the future.

“There will come a time soon when I am dead and gone,” he said, and Kyung flinched in place as if he’d been struck. “You, on the other hand, still have many centuries of life ahead. What will you do then?”

“Whatever my new Master dictates.”

Now it was Min Gyu’s turn to flinch, followed by a long, dejected sigh. “Yan is set to inherit your Oaths. She already treats you well and sees you as a brother, so she will respect your wishes in the future. Should you have any requests, either now or after I’m gone, you make sure to speak your mind, understood? And no more ‘this one’s anymore, use ‘I’ in informal settings and with people of lower rank. You’re Du Min Gyu’s star pupil and grandson, so it’s time you behaved like it.”

“...Yes Grandfather.”

