“The Vast Distance has committed a crime, I’m merely here to ensure they don’t escape justice.” Reaching into his saddlebags, Rain pulled out a stack of papers and brought them to the Justicar, explaining the contents of each page as he handed them over one by one. “This is a copy of the ship’s manifest, from when it put in at SuiHua seven days ago. This is the harbormaster signing off on the delivery, tools and construction materials, mostly. Then, the ship was commissioned to deliver a shipment of food to the Northern Citadel. Here are those papers, as well as the loading documents and new manifest. The ship then docked in the Northern Citadel for three days, ostensibly to resupply, but instead they sat idle in the harbour with only a handful of people embarking and disembarking each day, according to the daily reports here, here, and here.” Grinning like a fiend, Falling Rain handed over the last document in the stack and said, “But early this morning, the ship left on first tide, carrying a shipment of, and I quote, ‘personal effects’, to be delivered to one ‘nameless recipient’ in the Central Citadel.”

...This was it? This was Rain’s grand reveal? Mother in Heaven, Min Gyu had failed yet again...

“A most grievous crime indeed.” Nodding at the boy as if everything made perfect sense, the Justicar continued, “Tell your soldiers to lower their weapons. The Disciplinary Corps will handle things from here.”

“Would you mind if I escorted you down to the river?” Gesturing at the Divine Turtle, Rain shrugged and explained, “She’s thirsty.”

“So long as you and your men do not interfere with my duties.”

With that, the Justicar set off with his Enforcers shouting for the sailors to drop their weapons and surrender into Imperial custody, while Rain fell in behind them, so proud of his work that even his quin seemed to strut his way down. Shaking off his disbelief, Min Gyu Cloud-Stepped over to the boy’s side before thinking better of it and raised his hands to placate the startled Enforcers who noticed. “What a fine, dutiful grandson-in-law you are. Hmph.”

“Oh hi Grandpa Du.” Shrinking back in the harness, Rain at least had the grace to look ashamed. “To be fair, I never actually said I wasn’t coming down to the river, just that I understood your concerns and that I didn’t have to go with her every day. Today will probably be the last, since I doubt the same trick will work again.”

Snorting in anger, Min Gyu glowered until he couldn’t keep silent any longer. “Well? What are you waiting for? A pat on the back and a kiss on the cheek? Explain.”

“With the ship? Oh, the ship-master violated Imperial Mandate.” Seeing Min Gyu didn’t understand, Rain smiled. “Marshal Yuzhen noticed it before we left, that someone was pulling strings to keep the Vast Distance docked. Turns out, it was to deliver assassins here to kill me, but they screwed up. The ship-master had to write something in the manifest, or the harbormaster wouldn’t let him out, so he claimed he was carrying ‘personal effects’. Problem is, the Legate mandated that all ships above a certain size were to make themselves available for military shipments, and military shipments only.”

“So? Plenty of military officers have commandeered ships to deliver personal effects in the past.”

“Yea, but they used their actual name and rank to do so, making it a legitimate military shipment.” Shrugging, Rain explained, “I’m guessing some spoiled Imperial brat thought his Imperial Privilege superseded military regulations, and it probably does, but now he’ll have to send a representative to inform the Disciplinary Corps and lose face from taking such overt actions. Not a huge deal in my opinion, but by the time these assassins are released, my people will have memorized their appearance and we’ll have pictures of them distributed to every soldier in camp, so this lot won’t find it so easy to hide in plain sight again.”

Not a huge deal? The boy’s opinion was utter dog-shit. For an Imperial Noble, losing a band of assassins was but a minor setback, while publicly losing face was proof of ineptitude, a far more grievous sin in many eyes. This blunder could set off a chain reaction as other families and factions took note of this disgraceful display, for now the lowliest Imperial Consort had bested a tried and true Noble in a game of wits. Still, no point letting Rain grow conceited, especially since it sounded like Marshal Yuzhen had done all the work. Carefully hiding his pride and amusement, Min Gyu shook his head in disbelief and said, “You intentionally rode out to confront a ship filled with assassins with less than a hundred soldiers at your side. Why not tell me in advance so I can safeguard you, boy?”

“Er...” Casting his gaze around as if in search of something, Rain frowned, then shrugged and whispered, “I thought if you or the Colonel General disappeared from camp the same time I set out on my jaunt, then the assassins might’ve lost their nerve and scattered to the winds. Same deal with more soldiers, so this was the best I could do. Thanks for your concern, but don’t worry Grandpa. I didn’t come out without making other arrangements.”

As soon as the boy finished speaking, Min Gyu swept the area for Concealed Khishigs, but despite looking high and low, he found nothing amiss. “Are you certain you have guards lurking about?”

“He is safe in my hands.” Jumping at the sound of her voice, Min Gyu spun around to find the Medical Saint’s mysterious companion standing directly behind him. “Take pride, Du Min Gyu,” She Sent, her smirk coming in clear despite the dark veil covering her face. “Your method of detection is unique and effective. It took several days to come up with a means to overcome it. A most interesting puzzle you presented me with, and for this, I offer you my thanks.”

A few short days ago, Min Gyu had cautioned himself against ego, even while celebrating how he’d uncovered these same guards, but now...

Perhaps circumstances were not as dire as he once thought. If nothing else, the presence of this mysterious warrior meant the Bekhai hidden depths were deeper than anyone ever imagined, so it was possible their ill-fated rebellion would do more than just whimper...

Assuming the worst of course. Hell, with this woman guarding him, Falling Rain might even make it back to Baatar in one piece, or breathing at least.

Chapter Meme
