See you soon, My Lord. Princess thought.

I'm going to make it. I'm going to make it. Ren thought as he tried to get as far away from the starter city as he could. He felt immense pain as the Lightning concentrated on his fingers. His armor started to peel away from his fingertips, and he saw the flesh start to dissolve and be replaced by translucent skin.

“S-s-sorry! N-n-not a w-willing host!” Ren said and came to a stop, gripped the sword by the tip and the hilt, then brought it down onto his knee to shatter it.

*

*BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM*

The sky lit up like a second sun as the elemental explosion expanded. It was so powerful that even though it was a mile up in the air, it still shook the ground for nearly a hundred miles. The sound alone travelled for thousands of miles past that.

With nothing to house or contain it, the Lightning dissipated. If anyone had been around and hadn't died from being so close to the explosion, they would have heard a soft scream be cut off.

People in the High Elf Kingdom and in the Human Kingdom had no idea what could have happened to make such a loud sound, and rumors started spreading right away. None of them were even close to the truth.

*

Despite being so far apart, and because of their Light Connections with him, Xuunah, Symmetra, Artemis, Nathalia, Frikara, Lusinia, Andrela, Verwynn, and Navruth all felt Ren die instantly. They all burst out crying at the same time, mostly in relief, because Ren hadn't felt a thing when it happened.

********

Notice!

You have died!

Time until you can log back in: 5 Hours, 59 Minutes, 55 Seconds

Ren slipped off the VR headset and took a deep breath. Barbara took the headset from him, and then he felt a hand on his chest.

“That sure was something.” Elise said, and he looked at her. “I guess if you have to die, you might as well do it spectacularly.”

Ren chuckled. “You mean instantly?” He asked, and she nodded. “Yeah, I didn't feel a thing.”

“I'm glad.” Elise said and kissed him. “That was very brave of you.”

“Naw, it was a mistake.” Ren said. “It was supposed to end with the sword absorbing it all.”

Elise chuckled. “You know that old saying.”

“Yeah.” Ren said and put a hand on the one she had on his chest. “No plan survives contact with the enemy.”

Elise nodded.

“Did you stay awake all this time?” Ren asked.

“Kind of.” Elise looked over at Barbara. “When I dozed off, a friend woke me up for the good parts.”

Ren chuckled. “You missed my whole story telling session, then.”

“Yes.” Elise said. “I'll watch it later.”

“I don't know how you can do that.” Ren said and sat up. “You always seem to manage to watch everything I do, and still keep up with everything in real life, too.”

“We all do that.” Barbara said. “You should use the bathroom so you can get some sleep for the rest of the night.”

“Yes, ma'am.” Ren said and got up from the bed.

“Do you need a hand?” Elise asked.

“No, thanks. I've got it.” Ren said and walked towards the bathroom. He came back out a couple of minutes later and climbed back into bed. Elise held her arms open, and Ren smiled as he slid into her embrace and cuddled with her.

“I love my life.” Ren said and rested his head on her chest, then sighed happily.

“I do, too.” Elise said and kissed his forehead. “Goodnight, darling.”

“Goodnight.” Ren said.

Barbara turned the lights down to a soft glow and left the room silently.
