Torix shrugged, "Well as a necromancer, allow me to revive it."

I winced at the terrible joke. The lich pulled Kessiah's remote away from her hand with telekinesis. He grabbed the device and clicked a button on it. A 2-D map of Giess popped up. He pointed at it,

"Here is where we are."

He pointed at a portion of the graph on the line between silver and common ground. Torix gestured far north, "Here is where we are going, the city of Rivaria." A blip on the map pinged, surrounded by white snow and the silvers. Torix crossed his arms,

"It's frigid there, so some winter wear will be necessary. As we travel, we'll be skirting the line of the silvers territory."

Torix pointed at me, "Do you remember how you plotted the point for the first silver base you found?"

I nodded, "Yup."

"Then doing so for the other camps should do rather nicely. Once we've plotted the points, I'll organize with Tohtella to orchestrate rescue missions. We'll be more than able to do so between your tournament fights, Daniel."

I grinned, "Alright, sounds good. Plenty of fighting."

Torix glanced at me as if he peered over a set of glasses,

"Speaking of fighting, I took the liberty to memorize your tournament schedule before we landed there. We wouldn't want you missing out on a mythical skill from forgetfulness, now would we?"

I frowned, "Uh, yeah...probably not."

Torix gave me a quick nod,

"I imagined that was the case. Regardless, with the quest rewards from the mission, we should be able to strengthen ourselves quite a bit. With Althea's new class and your extended level cap, we have quite the force behind us."

He closed the hologram, "We'll find them, and we'll destroy each of the three camps in much the same way."

Kessiah and I nodded. Althea materialized between us before leaning onto me. She smiled at me, "Wow, you almost gained more levels than I did."

I smirked, "I did kill five out of seven."

She rolled her eyes, "Yeah, but I killed the ancient general. That counts for something."

Torix nodded, "Both of you exceeded your goals from the start. Now, are we ready to leave?"

I looked around, "Uh, where's Caprika?"

Torix dragged his bony hands down his face, "She's in her room, preparing herself."

I squinted, "For what?"

Torix sighed, "One of her relatives is coming to watch the tournament fights. In particular, to watch you and see if you represent Caprika well."

Caprika's door swung open, and she walked out in flowing robes. The accentuated her figure, and they matched her hair and mask, both red and white. She glanced between us all,

"Well, is everyone already ready to leave? I didn't realize I was holding...Wait..."

She stepped up to us, her high heels clattering on the hardwood,

"You...You're over level 7,000. I can't see your status anymore either. What happened?"

I shrugged, "Eh, I fought a few people."

She turned to Althea, "And you...You're a Breaker now?"

Althea scratched the back of her hair and raised a hand, "It's not that big a deal...Ok, it kind of is."

Caprika shook her head, her smooth mane rippling, "You two were made for each other."

Torix walked up, "I'm leaving. You're all welcome to join me."

I followed behind him, tired of Caprika's perpetual state of amazement,

"We running this time?"

Torix nodded, "Most definitely. That car was far too slow for my liking."

Caprika looked down at her fancy dress and stilettos,

"Wait...what?"

Kessiah walked up, patting her on the back, "Get used to it. We rough it, Harbinger style."

I rolled my eyes. I walked out of the doorway, all my stuff in my dimensional storage. As I opened the doorway, I received two notifications.

Finished Quest!

Destroying the Fragments of Emagrotha(lvl 10,000+ | Party Size: 10+ | Guild Affiliation: Any) - The reason behind the encroaching infestation of silvers has been determined. Lehesion is leading a group of Skyburners, infecting the land with silvers for an unknown reason. Your intervention has stopped this spread near Yildraza.

While further intervention is necessary to stop this threat, you've made your mark on the cause. Such an initiative is commendable and deserves compensation.

Reward: 1 Blue Dungeon core, positive affiliation with Giess, positive affiliation with Speakers, Speaker class offer.

Bonus: Bonuses are canceled due to party size of 2 or more.

Finished Quest!

An Encroaching Invasion(lvl 8,000+ | Party Size: 10+ | Guild Affiliation: Any) - You discovered the camp spreading silvers near Yildraza. With your combined team, you decimated the cause of the obstruction. Excellent work.

Rewards: 50 red dungeon cores, 1 blue dungeon core, and allows the formation of one guild branch in Yildraza.

Bonus: Bonuses are canceled due to party size of 2 or more.

I raised an eyebrow. As I did, mana coalesced in front of me. Seconds later, a blue, humming sphere of energy radiated out. It was a tiny star floating in front of me. I grasped it, magic swimming up my arm. An icy sensation followed, leaving me numb.

I grinned at its vibrancy, a sense of excitement rushing up my spine,

"A Blue Dungeon core. Woah."
