"A lecture on respect and decency, from a bloodsucker!" Helix started laughing performatively.

"Yes," Tulveg insisted, infuriated at the orc's open hostility. "One who learned the error of the ways of his elders. I recognized that the First Blood were fools to withhold their gifts. This is no way to live. To think of another as merely the shape of their birth? As merely a thing that fits the stereotype? It is a fine way to find yourself slain by one of those who deviates from the mold." His words were lined with a dangerous edge towards the end.

Before the argument between the orc and the vampire could spiral, however, Adam offered something useful. "I found the seed. It's lodged inside its coal-burning engine."

"What?”

“Inside where a person's stomach should be," Adam clarified. “It’s just an Initiate in Physicality and Toughness, so it still has a coal-burning engine.”

"How'd you find it so fast?" Shiv asked. "You had a hard time digging through a human body, right?"

"Automata are simpler in a great many ways. I generally know how the components come together. More importantly, their insides are not filled with grotesque organs and fluids and bile." Adam shuddered mentally. "Simply put: wires, machinery, plastic, and silicon pieces, I can deal with that much easier. Have Malcolm check the patient’s engine. It should be there."

Shiv wondered how he was going to let Malcolm know without seeming omniscient, or at least very, very questionable. He was only an assistant medic, experiencing his first day of class. Worse, he was supposed to be traumatized as well. Putting those things together meant that Shiv had to sell this as something of happenstance or pure luck. And that's what he did. He leaned over, staring at the automaton patient's small chassis.

"Hey, guys?" Shiv said, pointing at one of the long wounds. "I think I saw something glinting inside there."

Both Malcolm and Maxine waved for him to step aside, and they looked down. Malcolm's fan head expanded even larger. Instead of projecting a wave of Biomancy this time, it was a piercing noise that felt like drills going into Shiv’s ears.

"Someone call Maiden, because we have a genius right here! That's another sweet find, Marcus. You sure you weren't some kind of bot whisperer up there in the north?"

Shiv shook his head. "I haven't had that many experiences with automata, to be honest."

"Well, you're starting out right." Malcolm leaned down and extended its middle finger into the other bot’s body. It let out a grumbling groan that sounded like the grinding of gears.

"You know where the seed is?" the bot patient asked.

"Me? No, but our little machine whisperer here," Malcolm said, nudging Shiv with his heel, "managed to guess it right in one go."

Deception 47 > 48
