Anthelleon, stubborn and prideful as ever, insisted on carrying Mahvel herself, on her own two feet. Standing tall, she strode from the room to present Neyvern with their son. Ranthia chose to give the emotional couple some space and instead remained behind to help the [Midwives] clean up.

Not that there was much to clean up. Elves were incredibly efficient and neat, even in childbirth.

“Does it always go that smoothly?” Ranthia asked, mostly just to be friendly.

“Birth is the easy part, usually. I’ve been here almost four hundred years now, and I haven’t seen any complications at that stage. Read about ‘em, mind you, but never seen one myself. Early pregnancy’s usually the most fraught bit, though hopeful mothers might only know about those difficulties if they’re actively trying and visiting us for support.” A lithe, blue-haired woman answered.

It was frustrating sometimes, but elves truly were just better in almost every way. Their natural baselines were considerably higher than Ranthia’s, which meant the System’s weight had that much more to improve. They were beautiful, almost without exception. They were healthier and innately immortal. And the cycle of life and birth was just… easier for them, because of course it was.

Elves were perfect because the gods had iterated their way up to that point. Conversely, humanity was presumably one of the earliest attempts.

But the System was also a powerful equalizer, especially when precious few elves faced undue hardship. Which was part of why Ranthia refused to lay around idle. Helping Anthelleon—her sister, the first she ever had—was important, yet a piece of her remained impatient for Spring. With each day that passed, her journey to Ithil drew nearer.

“Sorry kid, there’s no milk in there, you’ll have to settle for this.” Ranthia grumbled quietly at the infant cradled in her arm.

Elven ingenuity had crafted something Ranthia had never seen before—a handheld false breast that was filled with milk. [Mages] helped remove excess milk from mothers that produced more than their children needed, then stored it within the unusual containers for anyone who needed them. Alas, even though the false breast looked and felt completely realistic and delivered milk that was perfectly warmed through the enchantments concealed around the handle, Mahvel wasn’t fooled.

He wanted real titty, but no matter how aggressively he fondled Ranthia, she wasn’t on the menu.

“Quit behaving like a teenager and just eat.” Ranthia pleaded, as she once again offered the artificial nipple to the babe’s lips.

Honestly, she wasn’t a fan of his antics. He was probably too young to mean anything by it, but she regretted not having anything stiffer and more padded to wear. Still, he was her nephew. She supposed she owed him some degree of tolerance and patience.

And it was kind of awe-inspiring to hold the newborn elf in her arms. Anthelleon had refused to give him up—often even refusing to let Neyvern spend much time with him—until at last, three days later, her well of stamina ran dry and she dozed off. Neyvern was just as exhausted, and Ranthia foolishly volunteered herself to take the kid for a few hours.

It was her first time holding her nephew. She couldn’t call him cute or handsome or any of the other plentiful adjectives that Anthelleon piled on the kid—he was… doughy. Doughy was the word that she kept landing on, no matter how unkind it was. Which absolutely had no impact on how emphatically she agreed with her sister’s praises, but her heart was never in it.

He didn’t even have any horns. Which, in retrospect, probably made a lot of sense, from a “mothers need to survive giving birth” perspective. Neyvern had confirmed that they usually grew in right about the same time kids unlocked their System—when they turned 8, just the same as it was in Remus.

Still, the kid was… alive. He was a tiny elf, fragile and untouched by the System. His blond hair was wispy and thin, his limbs were clumsy, and he had a horrid habit of refusing to let go of anything his teensy little fingers managed to close around. But his eyes were bright and he gazed intensely at everything.

Everything except the source of food that Ranthia offered.

She finally gave up. If the kid wasn’t hungry enough to accept a stand-in, she wasn’t going to force the matter. Instead, she balanced the bulb of milk on the arm of the chair and grinned at the kid.

Ranthia passed her hand over her face, revealing a silly expression. She widened her eyes, stuck her tongue out, and forced the corners of her cheeks as high as she could raise them. Then she passed her hand over her face again, revealing an expression of exaggerated surprise.

The newborn in her arms didn’t laugh at her antics, but his eyes did light up.

And that was pretty freaking great.

“I’m home!” Ranthia called out as she passed through her door.

It was weird to have been away for almost three months, but her nephew was finally sleeping through the night more often than not, which meant that passing the kid between the three of them wasn’t a necessity any longer. And she was pretty sure that a healthy distance would help her future relationship with him. She’d stepped up to help her sister, but she was far fonder of children when she could pass them back to their parents and leave.

At least deleting the stinky sludge that the kid unleashed without warning—from both ends—had helped [Pinpoint Barrier] reach level 59.

Instead of a telltale Vlip followed by an excited bunny-tackle, Clover approached one slow hop at a time, until she came into view. There were no words, of course, but Ranthia was pretty sure she knew exactly what the annoyed thump meant.

“What, is my long-awaited homecoming after almost a season inconveniencing you?” Ranthia deadpanned.

The sleepy bunny shamelessly agreed.

“Alright, that’s it.” Ranthia blurred into motion and swept Clover up before her Bond could even react, nuzzling the soft bunny fluff while she mercilessly showered Clover in affection.

Bunnies were so much cuter than babies.

She was so caught up in it that it took her almost a full second to realize just how long it had taken for Clover to start to thrash. Warily, she focused one of her [Divine Eyes] on her Bond.

[Rabbit – Dark] level 8. [Rabbit – Dark] level 8. [Artisan – Forest] level 256.

Ranthia stiffly set Clover down before she reacted. She could feel her temper flaring with every beat of her heart. Clover had reset her first two classes. Her bond was cycling, and she had done so without even so much as consulting her! The entire reason that Ranthia had desperately pushed herself and taken on inordinate risks and exhausting hunts was to give Clover more vitality—more time on Pallos—so that she could find the means to achieve immortality.

And in her absence, Clover had thrown almost all of that work out the proverbial window! The bulk of her vitality was gone. And without it, she would age far more quickly. Each day that passed suddenly had a weight that Ranthia hadn’t even known—because no one seemed to know just how much time a giant field rabbit had.

She wanted to yell. She wanted to scream, to rage, to demand.

Instead, Ranthia forced herself to take a walk. Without a word, she turned and left her home.

Realistically, Ranthia knew Clover had an explanation. The years they had spent together were still few in number, but Clover was an adult rabbit. It didn’t matter that she would be a child by human—or elven—standards, she had proven her cleverness time and time again. She had proven her worthiness. There had to be an explanation.

Ranthia just needed to cool her head enough to listen to it. Metaphorically listen, at least—it wasn’t like Clover was going to start talking. But her Bond could write, and that would be important.

And sure enough, when she returned to her home, she found Clover waiting on the table with a stack of paper and an inkwell. One sheet of crisp, elven paper was between them already, with a few words written on it.

Trust me, I have a plan.

Ranthia took a deep breath and forced herself to nod.

“I do trust you, sweetling. I truly do. But this isn’t enough and you know it. For Xaoc’s sake, I need to know the plan. Please.” She wasn’t as calm as she would have liked, but she was more than a little impatient for answers.

Clover tried to stamp her foot and glare at Ranthia, but when Ranthia refused to back down, the bunny finally deflated a bit. At last, she nodded—an oddly human gesture.

And, before Ranthia’s eyes, Clover began to age. She wasn’t being philosophical either, it wasn’t a moment of an immortal perspective—Clover quite literally started to age. Rapidly. Her ears drooped more and more, her coat began to grey, her nails thickened, and her eyes began to grow cloudy. Within seconds, Clover went from the peak of a healthy adult to a decrepit elder.

And then—thank Xaoc—the process reversed itself, just as swiftly. Ranthia’s mounting panic receded, and she found herself gawking at her rabbit.

Once Clover was restored to the same bunny that Ranthia expected her to be, she once again altered her left forepaw for writing—the paw itself widened and a single nail elongated, curving more sharply as it did so. Clover raised her paw and dipped the nail into the inkwell, then the ink lowered as it was somehow absorbed into the claw, and finally she turned to her sheet of paper to write. The lines of her characters were no match for Ranthia’s graceful, flowing script, but they were far neater than Clover’s earlier writings—muscles within the digit of her paw gave her far more fine control over the nail than she’d once been capable of.

…Okay, seeing Clover grow increasingly excited as she explained was adorable, but Ranthia was feeling somewhat daunted by the time her bunny began on the third page of her information dump. But if—if—she was parsing her Bond’s highly specific explanation correctly, Clover’s mortality problem was… already solved.

According to her, Biomancy made it easy to just… disable aging. It wasn’t like Ranthia’s own immortality, where she was constantly reversing her age every time she shifted to a fresh image, it was just disabling the “biological” processes that caused someone to age, while also preventing any and all degeneration of the body. Except Clover was still letting herself age sometimes, because she was trying to prove that the aging process was beneficial to her mind developing, even if her teacher said that it was likely irrelevant.

That led to a three page aside, while Clover scribbled excitedly about something called “Build a Better Bunny with Biomancy,” which seemed to be some sort of plan for the idealized form that Clover intended to make permanent. Except she wasn’t ready and was still iterating because of… well, Ranthia ended up completely lost around that point. One moment Clover was scrawling about cranial structures, the next she was offering a “simplified” explanation of types of brain… bits and how they differed in functionality and purpose.

But even if Ranthia couldn’t understand half of it, there was a plan. And they had more time than she had started to fear!

Though she had some minor regrets when Clover zipped off and returned, hauling a dense stack of papers on either side of her bun bod—papers that were clutched in beaks that had grown out from her sides.

Her bunny was adorable, but Biomancy made for some downright unsettling sights.

And she had a funny feeling that she was in for another long night.

If Lumornor, or anyone else for that matter, ever again asked Ranthia what she knew about Biomancy, she planned to answer with “Far too much.”

“In Ithil? Algaras. Definitely start with him. The man’s a bit eccentric—and that’s coming from me—but he’s a miracle worker with leather, and I know for a fact he’s handled wyvern before.” Myntheria was speaking far too loudly, but since her words were directed at Ranthia, no one else seemed to pay them any mind. Not even the young elf that she was painting reacted.

Ranthia was still trying to keep the fact that she’d slain a wyvern somewhat quiet. Sure, her eventual armor would be a plain giveaway to anyone that knew what they were looking at, but she had no interest in bragging about the accomplishment.

“I’m a bit surprised you actually have a name. Everyone else I’ve asked, aside from the Lodge’s owner, couldn’t really tell me anything except what not to look for. And even the barkeep only had a business name for me—Rykellos Armorers.” Well, Ranthia verbally claimed that she was surprised, but she truly wasn’t. Myntheria always seemed to know a bit about… pretty much everything. And she was starting to suspect that the cute elf might be considerably older than most of the City of Arts’ inhabitants.

With an act of will, she once again wrested her eyes from her friend’s exposed, paint-accented breasts and leveled her gaze upon the woman’s eyes, where it belonged. Gods and goddesses, she was usually better about not gawking!

“I’ve been to Ithil a few times, and creative sorts tend to stick together. It makes it easy to pick up names and basic details.” The elf breezily waved off Ranthia’s suspicions. “Rykellos’ place would probably be able to help you—he ascended as the god of armor just a few centuries ago, by the way—but they tend to stay pretty busy making custom orders for spoiled brats. Good quality, mind you. Just expect a wait to even speak with anyone other than their sales team.”

