Ithil wasn’t the caravan’s first destination—they had five other cities and an isolated farm to visit before they arrived—and Ranthia was looking forward to seeing more of the nation that had become her home. Most elven caravans were fairly lackadaisical and were prone to prolonged delays, just because the weather was too nice or too foul for travel, which was why Ranthia had waited for that specific caravan. Its stringent schedule kept it moving at a brisk pace, which suited her.

It was too bad that she’d have to celebrate her birthday during the journey, but that was a small price to pay. She was finally on her way.

A short time after sunset, the caravan came to a stop for the night. The wagons were drawn into a cluster and the campgrounds bloomed around them as each elf efficiently assembled their tent and necessities. Ranthia found a place on the outer edge to erect her own tent, though she immediately abandoned it to volunteer to help make dinner.

And less than an hour later, she backed away from the four cauldrons of stew that she had helped to make and manage.

[*ding!* [Home Cooking] has leveled from 141 to level 144!]

[*ding!* [Soups & Stews] has leveled from 68 to level 79!]

Meh, it still refused to merge. Still, not bad gains from such a short bit of work. Cooking in such vast quantities was a novel experience for her, and there’d been no small amount of pressure to do it right. She was determined to enjoy her journey, and helping to provide a tasty meal for everyone was an important first step in that.

Ranthia used her arm and traveller’s cloak to protect her own bowl of soup and her generously thick crust of buttered bread as she made her way back to her tent to eat. The weather was too foul for anyone to gather to socialize. Instead, Ranthia settled in to eat, then made herself comfortable in the fur-lined “sleeping cocoon” that she bought for the journey. With high expectations for the coming days, she allowed the pitter-patter of rain against the waterproof cloth of her tent to lull her to sleep.

Weather aside, it was a great first day for her journey.

[*ding!* The shimagu have gone extinct.]
