There were a lot of things to see inside. From the dragonkin children in robes rushing up a staircase, calling out that they were going to be late, to a pair of greybeard orcols poking at magic over a table in the sun, to a ‘bank teller’ area where two paper pushing dragonkin called ‘next!’ to a waiting line of people. There were several people in another ‘lobby-type’ area, with two large wooden placards prominently displayed on a large wall that were absolutely covered in small pieces of paper. This place looked like an active business as well as something of a school.

And right in front of Erick, was the receptionist’s counter. A pair of women sat behind the counter, one an iron-flesh wrought in the shape of an incani with medium-sized backswept horns, the other a purple incani with upturned horns. The actual-incani gave Erick a dirty look as he approached the counter. The wrought frowned at the incani’s reaction, then backhanded the incani’s shoulder in a friendly sort of way.

Erick stepped to the counter. The incani had already put on her most professional face.

“Welcome to the Mage’s Guildhouse, sir. How may I help you?”

“Hello. I’m interested in both a bank account and getting some wardlight work. Or any other jobs you may have? I’m not sure how any of this works; I’ve never had an experience with a mage guild before.”

“Of course. To join the Mage’s Guild and to use our banking services we require a 50 gold—”

The wrought’s playful slap of the incani’s shoulder was less playful this time.

“Ow,” said the incani, not actually hurt, her face full of barely restrained anger.

“Take a break.”

The incani stood up and walked away, huffing as she straightened her back and sauntered out of sight through a doorway.

“Ah. Sorry.” Erick said, “I didn’t mean to offend her?”

“You and your daughter are making quakes, Mister Flatt, yet you haven’t been in town a single tenday.” said the iron-flesh not-incani. “Some would say too many quakes, but those of us who remember Old-Spur welcome the presence of strangers, and keep our judgments private until sufficient evidence has been presented.”

“It’s not my intention to cause problems.”

“We’ll see.” She said, “The bank isn’t here, though. That’s down on Merchant Street.” She pointed out the door. “Head to the Western Gate. Big building, you can’t miss it.” She raised her hands around her. “In this building we deal with schooling and mage work, but mostly schooling. Other than that, we’re pretty much exactly like an adventurer’s guildhouse, but we’re in tune with the interior economic heart of Spur, rather than the more combat oriented, monster jobs you’d find in an adventurer’s guildhouse. When someone wants some intermittent mage work done they come here and post a ‘help wanted’ ad for a single silver, detailing pay and expectations. Usually, the job is completed to satisfaction, following the laws of the surrounding town and the etiquette required of all guild mages. To accept a job, you must be certified to accept that type of work.

“Mending is the easiest of certifications, tied with Cleansing. You only need to have the skill. Lightwork is a common request but it’s hard to break into that scene. Most of the prominent listings from our better clients have artists they contract directly. This includes the public lightwork requests issued by Spur.

Her cavalier attitude turned a bit menacing, in a polite yet firm way. “All itinerant and intermittent mage work in a city with a Mage Guild is handled by the Guild, and requires 1 silver to go through the Mage Guild, one way or another.” She switched emotions. She was all iron smiles as she said, “That’s the basic rundown. Guild signup is 5 silver. This bookwork fee is non-negotiable.

“Would you like to sign up as a guild member? This is the only way you’re allowed to do non-permanent, non-apprentice mage work in this city.”

“Uhh.” Erick shrugged his shoulder, then put on a happy face. “Yes! I do.”

“Very good! My name is Anhelia, nice to meet you.” She glanced down at something behind the counter, then looked over Erick’s shoulder. There was a big clock there, above the entrance door. “You can have a seat in the lobby.” She pressed something under the lip of the counter. “I’ve just rung the intake officer. They’ll be with you shortly.”

Erick nodded. “Thanks.”

He wandered over to the lobby area, but did not get a chance to sit down before an orangescale dragonkin arrived from behind the front desk. The newcomer talked to Anhelia, who pointed out Erick.

Orangescale walked over to Erick, saying, “You?”

“Me!”

“Come on then. I’m Tamarim.” They walked through the lobby, then under an archway that separated the front rooms of the guildhouse from a two story hallway with rooms on each side, and a tall picture window at the end. Tamarim opened the second door on the right, on the first floor. Erick couldn’t see how anyone could access the second floor. “In here.”

Tamarim went in first. Erick followed.

The room was basic stone, twenty by twenty feet, maybe ten feet tall, with a window opposite the entrance. Several simple chairs were stacked in the corner by a short, mobile desk. Tamarim moved the table away from the wall then set down two chairs, one on each side of the table, before pulling out a sheet of paper and a pencil.

Tamarim sat down, ready to write. “Name?”

“Erick Flatt.”

“What certifications are you trying for?”

“Uh. [Mend], [Cleanse], and lightward work, but I’m not very good with lightwards yet, so I’m not sure what sort of qualifications I’m going to need. Or… Where to go from here.”

Tamarim nodded, checking off boxes on his paper, then scribbling something else down.

“What—”

Tamarim said, “The first two I don’t need to certify. If it turns out you’re a liar, then you’re in for a bad time. Though for lightwork, I need to see something. Give me a few of your best and one of your worst.”

“… okay.”

Erick moved toward the center of the room then began casting, exactly how he had a few hours ago, trying to recreate that faux-cut-crystal orb. He burst 20 mana into [Ward] and started Mana Shaping for 30 at the same time, creating the basic structure of his lightward. He poured mana in to the spell in 1 point increments, flowing around a blob of white light, like grains of sand rushing around a glittering sphere cotton candy, pulling stray threads of light into a better form.

A surface formed, hard-looking as glass but soft as an illusion. Still, he poured mana into the [Ward], shaping a dozen cuts in the surface all at the same time, twisting the carving around the whole, leaving behind a pattern of perfect geometry. The color shifted from white, then kept shifting. He thought to hold the color to white, but he knew as soon as he thought to do that, the whole thing would mess up.

Which it did.

65 mana spent, this [Ward] was a failure.

Tamarim asked, “Were you trying for a lumpy pink and orange shadowolf?”

Erick tilted his head at the lightward. “Shadowolves look like that?”

“PFFFT.” Tamarim snorted. “In an unrealistic cute sort of way.”

“No… I was not going for that.”

“Keep going.”

The next orb was a 75 mana perfect glass sphere with cut lines and radiant white light.

But the sphere itself was invisible.

Shit.

“Invisible light source is an interesting choice,” Tamarim said. “Continue?”

The next lightorb was an attempt at a 35 mana [Ward 3], with no Mana Shaping. It was an orb of green sludge that actively dripped onto the ground. The drips vanished after a second. The main sludgeball did not.

“Are you trying for an artistic wardlight license?” Tamarim said, “Because that’s not a thing you can get certified for. You get noticed by patrons and they give you work. That’s how that works.”

Erick grumbled, then tried again.

52 mana, a half-baked idea, and a quarter time spent shaping the mana, produced a fractured crystal of daylight that was like looking at the sun through a splintered mirror.

Tamarim leaned back in his chair. The incani from the front desk was leaning against the doorframe. She sniffed, then walked away. Tamarim, though, he looked interested.

“I like it.” He said, “I like it a lot.” He quickly added, “But nothing I’ve seen qualifies you for lightorb work. Would you like to keep trying?”

“I got more in me than that.”

“I’m sure you do, but if I can’t see you produce three perfect sunlight orbs in a row I’m not qualifying you for lightwork.”

“… Fair. I still got levels to go on [Ward] anyway, so this isn’t a waste of time. Not for me, anyway.”

“Your [Ward] isn’t capped?”

“Only level 6 right now. Why? Does that do anything for me?”

“Probably not.” Tamarim waved toward the empty space in the room. “Keep going?”

“Yes.”

45 mana, most of an end-goal thought, and half crafting time, made a perfect sunlight orb.

“Huh.”

“Very good then,” Tamarim said. “Two more to go.”

45 mana, most of an end-goal thought, and half crafting time, made a blacklight. The sclera of Erick’s eyes shone purple, the white of his shirt glowed purple, even his jeans took on a purple tint.

“Of course,” Erick said. “The exact opposite of what I was going for.”

“Well that’s an odd one. Don’t do another. Just— One minute.” Tamarim left the room.

Erick waited.

Tamarim returned with Anhelia in tow. She glanced at a few of Erick’s lightorbs, but stopped on the fractured sun and the blacklight. She moved from one to the other, not sure which interested her more.

But what interested Erick was that the blacklight turned Anhelia into a glowing purple person.

“Hmm,” she said.

Anhelia walked around, half of her iron body soaking in the sun, the other half fluorescing purple.

“Dismiss the rest, except for these two.”

Erick went and did as she asked. As each competing light source vanished, the effect of the fractured sun and the blacklight increased. Before, she was grey-black with yellow highlights and a purple side. Now she was black with gold highlights and a radiant purple shadow. She looked amazing.

“Okay. These are beautiful.” Anhelia turned to Erick, looking the part of a demonic goddess. “You don’t qualify for lightorb work, but this is good anyway. If you can duplicate any of these lights you’ve just made, you will have people asking for your light orbs across the world. But I don’t think you can, because almost no one can actually make these things. Over the next twenty four hours we will be dissecting these orbs to figure out how you made them. If we can, you will be well compensated.” She frowned. “Don’t get your hopes up. They look like random chance masterpieces. These things happen.”

She turned toward the blacklight orb, her horns shining purple in the light. She sighed.

Tamarim said, “If you wish to continue the examination we will do so in another room.”

“Uh! Yeah. Let’s do that. I still got mana.”

40 mana produced a sunlight orb.

42 mana produced a sunlight orb.

41 mana produced a misty grey orb that screamed. Erick didn’t know how it was screaming. Neither did Tamarim. Light orbs were not supposed to make noise! Erick dismissed that orb as soon as Tamarim pronounced it a failure, which was exactly 10 second too late to stop other people from investigating the room.

Anhelia said, “I don’t know how you did that, but wardlights should not scream.”

“I’m not even capped at the skill. I have no idea how that happened!”

“Okay. So. It’s cute how you think that that is supposed to be an answer to how you caused an impossible thing. But it’s not.” She left the room as quickly as she arrived, saying, “I don’t think that was a [Ward 3] at all!”

Tamarim turned on Erick. “Was that something other than a [Ward 3]?”

“It was a [Ward 3]! I wasn’t even using Mana Shaping for the last lot.” Erick deflated. He wasn’t low on mana, but he was already tired. “I’ve gone through five mana pools today. I’m done.”

Tamarim nodded. “Okay.” He scribbled on the paper he had been writing on, then handed it to Erick. “This is your filled out form. Hand this into one of the receptionists up front and pay your fee, and we can come back to this lightorb certification some other day.” He pointed at the two floating sunlight orbs Erick had managed to make. “You’re very close. You were almost at 3 in a row. You can dismiss them now.”

Erick waved his hand and his certification failures vanished.

- - - -

Erick turned in the paperwork and waited half an hour to be called over to the receptionist. The bronzescale girl behind the counter handed him a silverish metal token that looked like a dogtag, with his name on one side and his guild number on the back. ‘SPR-179b105-1317’ was the only understandable part of the number, the rest of it was a swirling design that flowed around the entirety of the badge.

“The badge costs an extra 3 silver, for a total of 8 silver today,” she said. “Would you like to purchase a chain to turn the token into a necklace? This is an extra 2 silver.”

They always get you with the upcharges, don’t they?

“Sure”, he said, annoyed, but trying not to show it.

He slid the receptionist a gold; she slid him the badge on a thin silver chain.

“The Mend-Cleanse-Light job board is that one over there. You’re only certified for the first two portions of that board.” Bronzescale pointed to a large wooden panel on the side of the lobby, lined roughly into thirds. It was absolutely covered in tiny pieces of paper, affixed to the panel with tiny tacks. Three people were currently reading from the board. Next to that was another wooden panel of roughly the same size. “The one beside the MCL Board is the Esoteric Board. Skills the requester thinks you’re going to need are listed with the most prominent skill first. The whole thing is alphabetical, but most listings this time of year are for [Grow]. Preservation [Ward]s are always popular, too, but not quite popular enough for the MCL Board to become the MCLP Board.” Bronzescale smiled. “Good luck! Welcome to the guild, Erick.”

After perusing the MCL board for a bit, and picking out a job, it was time to open a bank account.

- - - -

Opening a bank account was a non-event, thanks to his Mage Guild membership. Still cost him 1 silver to open the account, though. The Mage Guild liked their silver.

- - - -
