Ren tapped his chest where his Maker's Mark was, that matched the one on both Xuunah and Nathalia. “We'll both know when it happens, and I'll come and get you.”

Xuunah nodded and he gave her another kiss, touched each of the maids briefly, then opened a portal over to the Pixieland ride. Suniva still wasn't ready to spend more time away from her people, so he gave her a kiss and used a portal to the underground chamber, then opened one to the Fire Realm.

He stepped through into the spawn point building and checked the player menu to discover that it was nighttime.

Ren unfurled his wings and flew out of the building and up into the air to see that Fire Dancer and Zetaya were tucked into the same bed, with what looked like the right space between them for him to fit into, so he landed on the floor and made himself and Teepo the appropriate size. Teepo flew up to land on the wall and Ren used his Fire Manipulation ability to split the blanket of Eternal Fire apart, equipped his red silk pyjamas, then carefully climbed onto the bed between them and laid down on his back without disturbing them.

Ren formed the blanket back over them and took several shallow breaths, held in his sigh, and closed his eyes. He quickly drifted off to sleep. After a few minutes, Zetaya rolled onto her side and put her arm over his waist. Not long after, Fire Dancer sighed and rolled over towards the middle of the bed and her hand rested on Ren's firm chest. She opened her eyes at the odd feeling and saw that it was him. Her hand gripped his pyjama top tightly and she was tempted to kick him out and make him go over to his own bed, then changed her mind and let the cloth go.

“...love... you...” Ren whispered in his sleep and moved his arms out to rest them around both women's shoulders. Fire Dancer looked at his face and could feel that he was deep asleep, so she sighed softly and rested her head on his shoulder. She looked over at Zetaya and saw that she had already done that and was cuddled in as tightly to his chest as she could be.

I think she missed him almost as much as I did. Fire Dancer thought in amusement and closed her eyes, then let sleep take her again. Everything always seemed to be better when Ren was around.
