Rather than catching the jelly crabs physically, Shiv reached out with the twelve heads of his mana hydra and swept through them. He seized their biologies and examined their damages. Most of them were already dying, drying rapidly. Few of them burned outright due to the protections allowed by their shells, but the rapid diminishment of the moisture and the sudden shift in temperature was fatal for them—and not in a good way; the jellyfish-like meat inside the exoskeleton grew dry and crusted quickly. They were dying too fast.

Shiv reeled one of the jelly crabs in and, with a casual flick of his arms, pried its outer shell open. Only bits of tissue remained. Its essential organs were practically vaporized, and everything else was crusting along its hardened ridges. Piss. Ass. Shit. How am I going to preserve this thing long enough to use it as part of the meal? Can I even do that?

And while Shiv considered the jelly crab, something moved in his periphery. He turned and saw an entire school of fish hovering upward with their bellies pointed at the surface. Using his Atlas, he quickly realized that he had induced a sort of fatal fever in the fish, and the rest of them were going to die soon as well. It was a disquieting sight. Something about the ecological disaster he just caused made Shiv feel shame, and a little bit of resentment toward Princess Plum Blossom. A few gulps and a bit of flavor on her tongue came with a whole lot of death.

But weren't the appetites of humanity so different?

What was it that Georges said? We live in an industrial slaughterhouse because we give more of a shit about feeling good and being fed than we do about being any kind of decent. And it will stay that way so long as cunts with swords are the ones in charge.

The fish were pretty well steamed; however, their scales were bursting free from their body as pockets of subcutaneous fat exploded in messy detonations. Shiv wasn't sure if he could preserve any of them either. Let's find out.

He released a few jelly crabs and used his Aegis of Assimilation to capture a few hundred fish. From there, he did his best to preserve their biological state. Suddenly, quite simply, a solution revealed itself. His Biomancy was a weapon against biological degradation. He could maintain their biological architecture even in the face of extreme environmental changes. He could keep them alive. These were injuries, after all.

Helix would have smacked me over the back of my head. The thought made Shiv grumble. The System had pushed him to this point. He'd picked up what he could along the way, but he was still overwhelmingly powerful, raw in strength and magical potential, but tragically unskilled and bereft of practical knowledge. His brief time at the university was interrupted by the System throwing random encounters and chaotic events his way. He still had a body there, still intended to finish his schooling no matter what it took, but there was something else now. The loop was a trap. This place was technically a prison; however, he could also make use of it.

He didn't know how fast things were progressing outside, if Valor and the others were trying to find a way in to save him, but if the narrative loop could be reset, then maybe, maybe this was a sign, a symbol of truce between him and the System. At least a place where it couldn't reach him so easily, where he could practice his non-violent skills, where he could enjoy and accept his deaths without throwing himself into one desperate battle after another.

This can be a place of practice, Shiv realized. And with that, a feeling of serenity came over him as he began experimenting with his biological magics to ensure the flavor of the fish and jelly crabs.

The Chef Unwavering 82 > 84
