And suddenly it wasn't Toasty’s choice anymore. The decision was made for him, and now he had to suffer the consequences. “I… Yes, my Princess.”

He sounded on the verge of tears, but he refused to let them out, for weakness was punished before the Princess of Summer. With this fertile harvest come to pass, one could not lose their position. After all, the Anointed Knight had shamed himself enough by being whisked away when his Lady needed him.

“Undying One, Undying One, I need you to promise me something,” the Anointed Knight hissed, trying to get Shiv to stop.

“Yeah, I can't really do that right now. Gotta bowl the heat up.” Then Shiv shot away, accelerating fast across the world as he splashed down into the kelp forest once more. The water parted around him, and his sheer speed immediately induced a blast of boiling bubbles that spread out wider and faster. Shiv didn't accelerate further. Instead, he held himself in place and used his Bifurcated Processing to first augment his Toughness. A pillar formed, one that speared high into the air, glowing red-gold, like a beacon of defiance amidst this most strange and exotic realm. It grew harder and stronger, encasing Shiv and protecting him from the limits of his own speed and strength. He was going to need it.

In the moments that followed, he began to shake. He concentrated his tides around his body, causing them to turn and swivel. Soon he was spinning in place; the world became a blur, and he got faster and faster. His Pillar of Orichalcum rattled. The water around him shook violently. The once placid waves turned to turbulent tides, and the schools of fish fled in all directions, seeking the borders of this great soup bowl. Shiv crashed against the base of the forest, grinding through the soil and sand, creating a swirling mist that obscured him, but his pillar continued to shine through. He pulled himself slightly off the ground using his Shapeless Tides and then held himself there as he gritted his teeth and exerted his physicality to its maximum extent. Every overflow tide he cultivated was then spent in an instant, driving his acceleration to new heights, though it was his inertial sheath that did the bulk of the work. It was practically stretching and ripping parts free from his body now. The only thing stopping his dismemberment was the counteracting powers of his Heroic-Tier Toughness Skill.

He was a Pathbearer enjoying an arms race against himself. Everything needed to be in relative balance; otherwise, pain and death were certain to follow.

Pockets of steam clambered upward around him. He was moving fast enough to combust air now, fast enough that he was constantly generating shock waves that shaped displaced chasms in the ocean-sized soup bowl. More hissing bubbles tumbled upward around Shiv. He was feeling the burn too, mainly inside his skull. He wasn't in danger of an aneurysm, but there was still a burden placed upon his subconsciousness—an active and purposeful strain that made him feel alive.

He wondered how many other Chefs could perform such a feat of cooking. He wondered how Georges would have seen this done. Shiv wondered a great many things, but while he kept his eyes closed, his senses were open, and his Pyromancy, though underdeveloped, was still more than capable of detecting fluctuations in the temperature around him. The water still wasn't hot enough. He wasn't going fast enough. Shiv needed to accelerate. He needed to use more strength, more speed. His pillar remained bright, but the first fissures crawled across its surface as Shiv accepted pain as a price for the Anointed Knight’s promised humiliation.

It was piping hot when he finally opened his eyes again and stopped his vibrations. A feeling of hollowness swallowed Shiv. He had gone into a trance at some point, lost track of time. He had no idea how long he spent trying to boil the water.

But it was boiling.

He'd succeeded.

Inertial Overdrive 278 > 281

Pillar of Orichalcum 383 > 385

Blood oozed out from slight rips in his flesh. Even with his Pillar of Orichalcum, he could see minor gaps lining the red-gold tower around him. His inertial sheath was less a membrane and more a cloud of constant destruction, thundering with a cataclysmic yield of pent-up destruction. An intrusive thought forced its way into Shiv's mind. He wondered now if he accelerated into the Princess's flesh and discharged, would he be able to cleave a bloody chasm into her? Would he be able to slay a noble of the Summer Court?

Such a thing was tempting to find out. If his overall meal was judged to be insufficient, he would make an attempt on her life if only to fulfill his curiosity.

But for now, it was time to discover if he was the winner in his little bet.

However, the moment he tried to move, he discovered an unexpected penalty that came with his success. The inertial sheath was overloaded with momentum. It wasn't going anywhere, and every time he moved a bit more, it built. As he tore out from the water, water tension clung to him thicker like a chain, and a few thousand tons of displaced boiling water exploded up into the air like a rising fist the size of a small mountain.

Shiv remained in place even as the fist plunged down, but most of the water rose around him like a stream of steam, evaporating upon contact with his person.

Curled fingers of white-hot air rose free from his body, and Shiv turned. He used his Shapeless Tides to control himself, to keep his membrane compressed. Even so, it was a heavy battle. He had to devote at least 2% of his Legendary Physicality against his speed at all times. That was how much kinetic energy he'd stored up. As he stopped spending more overflow tides and focused on using them to contain his rattling person, he awkwardly glided toward the gawking Bread-Knights in jerks of movement. It was hard to control his speed and stop himself from tearing a gash across the air. He wasn't used to being this fast, and a slight slip would cause the air to ionize and undo all his work as plasma disintegrated the meal he was trying to make.

Still, he wanted to stare the Anointed One down to greet him eye to eye, face to face, as he discovered how much shit his enemy was about to eat.

The moment he saw the Anointed Knight's face, Shiv couldn't help but laugh. He looked like he had seen death. He looked like a man contemplating suicide. He looked like a knight who had been stripped of his dignity. His emotional core was a miasma of misery.

“So, how long was I under?” Shiv shouted to the Princess. His voice was barely louder than the constant thundering that went off around him. His inertial sheath made communication hard now. Despite this, Princess Plum Blossom heard him without any difficulty.

“Only about three and a half minutes.” She held up a huge golden pocket watch, though it looked small in her hand. The Deathless did a double-take as he fell to the wave of Chronomancy radiating out from her mechanism.

That feels Legendary… at least. System, just how godsdamn powerful are the Fae? The impression that he was just a big fish in a moderately sized pond on Integrated Earth cemented itself. Shiv knew there were other worlds out there, ones with higher mana thresholds, ones that he would have to face in the future, with the inevitable Incursion or World Quest connected to his death. But that understanding was mostly theoretical. Aside from Evanescia’s stolen abilities and glimpses at Udraal’s power, he hadn't faced anyone beyond Legendary-Tier. The gods were a different matter altogether, but they powered their Avatars to operate at the very peak of a world's ambient mana threshold.

There didn't seem to be such rules in the Fairwoods. Everything worked here, but at the same time, narrative laws reigned over material force. Power came second to character development and literary entertainment.

With that epiphany, Shiv’s A Glimpse of Perspective triggered. He caught a flash of something, something from the perspective of an omniscient deity. It glimpsed down at the Fairwoods, at the clock hands connected to the Broken Watchtower at the heart of this place. Across the great and vast realm of the Fairest, massive explosions enveloped the world, truly colossal explosions, great enough to obliterate Integrated Earth. These cataclasmic attacks were unleashed as magic spells, as strange artillery projectiles carrying apocalyptic payloads, or simply caused by entities moving so fast they were beyond Shiv's ability to perceive, appearing as thin tendrils of light.

But as every blast cleared, the Fairwoods remained unblemished. Not a tree was incinerated. Not a patch of land was cratered. Not a single building was defaced. Even the clouds remained in place, fluffy and blue or gray and sour with rain, depending on where in the Fairwoods the calamity originated.

Ultimately, it didn't matter, and the message was clear. Your personal power and the Tier of your skill were still respected. You could unleash that much energy. It just wouldn't matter. This place was not a place of matter. This place was a place of folklore.

And ultimately, no one read about a bomb breaking a particularly large piece of rock unless there was an emotional weight behind the shattering.

A Glimpse of Perspective 79 > 82

As the rush of philosophical insights faded, Shiv found himself staring directly into the massive eye of Princess Plum Blossom. She was leaning over the table, looking down at him, and he was so utterly dwarfed by her ocular organ that the absurdity of his current circumstance slammed down upon him once more. “Were you thinking about discharging that skill of yours? It looks like you have quite a lot of vim and vigor packed in.”

Shiv chuckled. “It wouldn't even tickle you if I popped my sheath, would it?”

“It would be a very pretty blast nonetheless! Quite bright, like a lovely firework going off over my table. Though I would not appreciate having all my dishes and utensils reset.”

Shiv grunted in acknowledgement. If she was going to eat him, he would try to blow her up regardless. There was always a chance she was bullshitting, but in the meantime…

The Deathless pointed a finger at the Anointed Knight's face. “When I'm done trying to make a meal out of that,” Shiv gestured at the boiling bowl of ocean-sized kelp forest, “I'm going to go on a little trip, and I'm gonna find every living creature here. Every single one that's capable of laying a black and brown and filthy egg from the folds between their legs. We're going to give it to you. A promise is a promise, my Anointed Friend.”

“A promise is a promise,” the other knights repeated as a chorus.

“A promise is a promise,” Princess Plum Blossom echoed in a sing-song tone.

“A promise is a promise,” the Anointed Knight choked, his mind veering toward the sweet bliss of suicide. “Why…”

“See you soon,” Shiv whispered with a malicious rasp. With that, he speared through the air and splashed into the boiling waters once more as he considered his next step. First, he examined the jelly crabs, sinking low. Some of them were utterly gone, dissolved during his vibrational trance, but others still remained; however, a new problem emerged. The moment he got close to one of the jelly crabs, it tried to get away, but was quickly flung off the floor of the forest as it tumbled through the air from the shock waves radiating from his body.

There, it began to develop cracks, and death soon followed. It was basically crushed by the passive waves of pressure washing out from him, and that dealt damage to the surrounding kelp as well. To Shiv's surprise and fortune, however, the kelp themselves were of a sturdy make—far harder than most of the creatures. That made sense. Soft, weak vegetation would basically turn to slurry before the Princess could get to indulge in their flavors.

She needed something strong, something that would last. Of course, the kelp would be more durable than what might be found on Integrated Earth.

Alright, time to change up some of my strategies. Can't exactly touch them physically. But I can another way. I just need to switch bodies.

Shiv promptly swapped his Severed Shadow with his physical form. The vibrating body blinked to the other side of the table, casting ripples of destruction across the horizon. Cups, bowls, plates, and more were flung high in the air as a rain of descending shrapnel. Shiv felt the heavy impacts as a hail of plunging porcelain bombarded the great wooden expanse. He hoped none of the descending shrapnel would spill into his bowl, but that was a chance he had to take. I thought my Severed Shadow would have gotten further by now. But I guess I was too focused on boiling the small ocean rather than doing anything else.

Still, the risk was minimal, and the distance between his physical body's current position and Princess Plum Blossom, considerable. He wasn't out of the Summer Court yet, but he would continue fleeing using his Revenant later. And suddenly, he was glad that he didn't have his Vitae golems anymore, because if he were still running a Vitaemancy Skill, then he would have never been able to escape from this place, would have never had such an overwhelming advantage. In the Fairwoods, the only thing that gave him a true edge was his Unique Skills. The levels he gained with those couldn't be reset with each loop. They were why, sooner or later, he'd find a way to escape. He was sure of it.

Right now, he just needed to be a little more patient.

