Let me tell you something, Shiv. There's a bloody big difference between being a proper Pathbearer and a cunt holding a glowing sword. Let's start off with a reality check, yeah? Most people who think they're martial Pathbearers are actually cunts holding glowing swords.

Now, these swords of theirs might be big, and they might glow, and they might shoot fire. These people might be really good at swinging these swords, so good that they can cut a building in half or some other nonsense like that. And they'll impress all the stupid cunt children who dream of becoming cunts holding glowing swords themselves.

Now let me spoil something for you: most of these cunts with their glowing swords die ugly, meaningless deaths. They'll wander into a cave thinking they'll walk out loaded with mithril and with a monster's head hanging off their hip, but instead get themselves torn a new one by something with too many eyes, too many limbs, and way too many fucking teeth.

What follows after that is a lot of crying, begging, bleeding, and a looot of suffering before some very ugly dying. And all these cunts usually piss and shit themselves before they die, so don't fall for that propaganda nonsense. No one faces down a horde of Jotun with a stoic look on their face and a blade clenched in their hands. You want to know who performs the last dance? Stupid cunts holding shitty swords while the nobles perform a tactical retreat back to one of their villas so they can write a sob story about how brave they were when they were the biggest cunts of all the shits stupid enough to take the field.

Now, how do you tell if someone's a proper Pathbearer instead of a cunt with a sword? It's simple. Can they do something aside from killing someone else or breaking something? The world, and I know you might find this hard to believe, was made by builders, cooks, and artisans. You know, the people who create things rather than the people who kill things.

Now, it's the unfortunate fate of every artist to suffer under the heel of a cunt with a sword. Because the cunts with swords are good at that one thing, and that one thing allows them to squeeze their fellow man. But a cunt with a sword doesn't make anything. They go out; they kill monsters. Sometimes you need a cunt with a sword. But when that's all you're good at and that's all you're worth, you're going to eventually run into another cunt with a sword. That cunt’s sword will be bigger and better than yours, and their cunt will swallow yours.

But neither of these cunts will be able to make shelter for themselves. They won't be able to feed other people or figure out which berries are poisonous and which ones aren't. They won't be able to repair their own clothing or fix their own sword. They won't be able to find their own way home even if you give them a map and a compass and a talking fucking dog with a Heroic-Tier sniffing skill.

I guess the main thing I'm trying to impart on you is that you want to be able to give. You want to be able to create, not just take, not just reduce. Civilization is about people. I know a lot of people are just cunts and assholes, but even if they're cunts and assholes, think about what they give each other. Think about what they do for each other.

If we're all supposed to be just killers, and that's supposed to be the pinnacle of the System's ideals, then why do we wear clothes at all? Why do we bother making food? Why do we bother cooking? Why do people pay each other so much money to be entertained? Why aren't we just monsters? Why don't we act like the beasts that surround us? Why don't they rule the world?

Now, you think on that the next time you take one of your trips down. You can be stupid sometimes, boy, but you're not just some cunt, so don't treat yourself that way. You got more to offer than just death. And that’s what you’ll find if you keep going after those bloody vampire nests.

—Georges Archambault to Shiv

328

Patience

It took Shiv way too long to figure out a solution to his water boiling problem. He kept trying to think of a way to boost his Initiate-Tier Pyromancy so that he could heat up the aquatic forest through magic, and when that failed, he started considering how he could steal the body heat from the various fish and transfer that over to the waters. But just as he realized the inherent stupidity in such an idea, the concept of transference clung to him. He realized how his inertial sheath was rattling violently—how the atmosphere combusted or ionized when he got fast and uncontrolled enough.

Ultimately, he didn't need magic. He just needed strength and vibrations—and he had both in ample supply.

But before he began, there was an insult he had to address. Shiv shot out of the water like a bullet, and he came to a sudden stop before Toasty. The sonic boom he left in his wake flung a tide of water over the Bread-Knight formations. A few of them were swiped right off their steeds, while others cried out in alarm, declaring they were soggy and unfit to be consumed by the Princess.

Toasty stared Shiv down with his chin held high and his eyes narrowed. “What do you want, Undying One? Have you come to admit defeat? Have you come to offer yourself to Princess Plum Blossom in redress of your insulting presence, of your disgusting, fetid nature?”

Said Princess leaned in from her mountainous seat, entertained by this little spat as she watched Shiv's attempts to cook a bowl of kelp soup, a bowl that spanned wider than a city.

A lazy grin clung to Shiv's face as he shook his head. “Nah, not doing anything like that. I want to make a bet with you. I think you'll like this, Princess.” He pointed at the Bread-Knight in front of him. “I'm going to bet that I can heat up this bowl of water in just a few minutes.”

Toasty did a double-take before laughing haughtily. "You bet what? I saw you earlier. You spent almost half an hour throwing little balls of fire against the surface. You are an idiot, a fool, a buffoon. I will take this bet. You have no hope of success.”

Shiv sneered. The Fae’s confidence would be his undoing. “Yeah? You sure? Because if I'm wrong, I'll let you use me as a horse instead of your current one. Until the Princess decides to eat me.”

The Anointed Knight fell into a trance of contemplative silence. “Come on,” Shiv prodded. “You can't say that you aren't offended by everything I put you through. I stuck you in that cage. I left you ignored for days. I used you as a shield. I abused you with my social skills. You were screaming like a battered—”

“Be silent!” Toasty cried, more to spare himself the humiliation of his experiences in the past weeks being recounted to his Princess than genuine rage. He looked around, glaring down the other Bread-Knights, as if daring them to respond. They kept their faces respectfully even, but Shiv could see their emotional cores coming alight with faint amusement. There was a hierarchy among the Bread-Knights, and the Anointed One seemed to rank highly, but that didn't mean the others were without socio-political aspirations of their own.

The Princess herself was openly delighted. She clapped her hands together, and it was like a series of mana bombs going off in the distance. “Oh, that would be quite the sight, wouldn't it, Ser Appetius? Imagine riding on a mortal. A mortal pretending to be a horse. You might even get him to neigh! It'll be a lovely memory for all of us in cycles to come.”

With that carefully planted psychological suggestion, everyone was squeezing down on Toasty, pushing him toward a destination from which there was no retreat—and where the cruelest of traps lay. He chuckled darkly. “Very well, then. I look forward to strapping my harness behind your back, Undying One. But when you are my steed, you will be a silent one. Only neighs and braying are allowed. No words, no complaints, no resistance, and I will ride you thoroughly until you are utterly spent.”

The poor, bread-made bastard didn't know how dirty that sounded. Shiv snorted despite himself. “Yeah, I don't think you have the stamina for that.”

“You dare doubt me? I've ridden hundreds of horses. My thighs and hips are like iron bands! Oh, I’ll not let go until you are utterly ruined!”

Shiv was glad neither Uva nor Adam was here to hear this. The teasing would have bordered on the verge of psychological terrorism. “Alright, those are your terms, but as for mine? Well, Toasty, if I do heat up that bowl in, say, under five minutes, I want you to eat something.”

“Eat something?” The Anointed Knight looked confused, but also a bit wary. “I've tasted your food before. It's uniquely horrible. It's part of the reason why you are still here, instead of being condemned to offer yourself to the Light itself.” Then slowly, his emotional core clouded. He seemed to realize that a most unwholesome meal awaited him. “What do you wish for me to consume?”

“Shit,” Shiv replied with a wide smirk. “A big happy mound of it, from all kinds of animals and me. Fertilizer for the greatest flower of the Summer Court.”

“What? No! Absolutely not! You can't possibly…” Before the Anointed Knight could achieve full outrage, he felt the weight of several stares resting upon him, the heaviest of which belonged to his Princess.

The gazes of the other knights who rode out with him glinted with conspiratorial considerations. Shiv was pretty stupid when it came to certain things, but when it came to matters of the heart and acts of emotional terrorism, he was a savant.

“I think this is a fair and entertaining bargain,” one of the bow-wielding Bread-Knights declared. “I am sure our Anointed Commander, who once held the skill of the Slumbering Uneaten, bestowed upon him by our illustrious and most corpulent Princess Plum Blossom, will be righteous and prevail in the contest against this…” They looked upon Shiv as they considered a proper insult. “...over-braggadocious fool!”

A raucous chorus of Ayes and The Anointed Captain will prevail, followed suit, and now, Toasty was being pressed closer to the cliffside of his own arrogance. If he turned back now, it was humiliation and shame. He would be unable to bear the burdens of his own honor before the eyes of his bored mistress, and that meant losing favor and suffering the loss of status, as it were. Status and favor that could be claimed by another of the Bread-Knights. But if he lost the bet, the end result would be the same, and he would have to eat a massive helping of shit on top of that. For what respecting Princess would let her guard be led by a knight whose legend involved a scat-eating skill?

And that's check and mate, you bread-shaped dumbass. Shiv was openly sneering at his victim. The best part was how the Anointed Knight couldn't do anything about this. Yeah, I really do think I'd make a hell of a politician someday. Like to see Veronica come up with a scheme like this.

Scheming Bastard 14 > 17

“I… I… I… you… you… you…” the Anointed Knight stammered.

Shiv shrugged with all the innocence he could muster, which really wasn't much at all. “Odds are I'll still fail, and you'll get to keep your dignity. Frankly, the chances of you eating a mound of shit are pretty small. However, if I do succeed… I'm going to find all the living animals on this table, coax them into relieving themselves, and then I'm going to be the one who lays the cherry on top. I'll be sure to ruin my own appetite and make things easy to go down for you. I'll have a bad stomach—a real tummyache. Add my thing as a layer of cream rather than a solid hunk. I'm nice that way. No need to thank me.”

The entirety of the Anointed Knight turned to glass.

Sticks and Stones 93 > 96

***

Evanescia had intended to insert herself into Harkness and take charge of the hunt herself. But there was a part of her soul still cracked, an alien urge festering inside her, calling for her to end the narrative loops for good and set all the Fae bound to the Watchtower free.

She ignored it. Her soul damage would heal. She was sure of it. She had characters who were capable of performing such repairs.

In the meantime, she decided she wanted to check in with the Deathless. Surprisingly, he was the least troublesome of the trio.

And sometimes, the most ridiculously entertaining.

The strange thing about Udraal's boy was that he could be an utter idiot one minute, and a diabolical bastard the next—and his little plans always kept her guessing, kept her entranced.

I hurt the Hero pretty good. I’ll just… let Harkness stay herself a while longer while I… Why, Deathless, what even are you trying to do?

Despite the miserable state of her soul, despite their defiant amateurs, the Usurper-Narrator couldn’t help but laugh as she cupped her face in a hand. “What a cast of colorful heroes I have received…”

***

“But again, you're the wise knight, after all. I'm really unlikely to succeed, so what do you got to lose aside from a bit of pride?” Every syllable Shiv spat struck an unseen tinder, and the sparks descended upon the other Bread-Knights, who caught on, pushing Toasty to accept.

“You have the measure of this knave, Lord Commander!”

“He's right where we want him!”

“The outcome of this bet is practically assured!”

“We are almost certainly going to win. What's the worst that can happen?”

The sheer pleasure Shiv experienced from drinking in the betrayal upon the Anointed Knight's face bordered the realm of lust. The final nail came as the Princess let out a giggle. “A little pregame for my pre-appetizer. How fitting. How wonderful. Ser Appetius, honor us with your dignity. Lay your lips and stomach on the line for the Summer Court.”

