We're far enough away to not be affected by the two auras that are about to clash, but as I activate my foresight skill and feel the shifting energies in the air, it's clear we won't be in a safe range for long.

Our Primordial Auras both spread out, and we activate our body doubles to cover even more area.

With no daggers or waves of killing intent chasing us, securing the links of loyalty from hundreds more trees is as easy as taking my next breath.

As hundreds of millions of links pour in, I'm still hit with sound waves pouring out of the center of the domain.

"You've really come back after all these eras? Just to fight me one more time? Do you think the outcome will be any different than the last ten thousand times? This system is ours. We won. Go back to whatever galaxy you came from before I kill you for the final time and your core runs out. The Overseer taught me all about the tricks of the immortals!" comes out in chaotic demonic ripples.

Marcellus charges up both of his daggers, and their glyphs burn through the atmosphere, getting heavier and heavier.

The third dagger that spins around his horns, making them flash with the same intensity, moves so fast it looks like it's turning to liquid. Strands of orange and purple advanced Primordial Aura fall off of this weapon and merge with his horns.

It makes the Demon's entire body vibrate with the same irresistible aura, like he is destined to make every single movement. It looks like he is controlling fate itself.

Ember replies back, "You are surprised I've come back to stop you because you have never flown high enough to see the truth. You speak about eras within this galaxy, or secrets of the Overseers, but stopping this madness has nothing to do with such a small game you've created in your head. The end goal of this system's existence is not for a small few to live forever, it is to provide an opportunity for the many to live again and again."

The confidence and smoothness in Ember's tone pulse outward with his black and white aura. It floods into the chaos and pushes it back. The illusion of this Family Head's fated actions is pushed aside as a force that seems to operate on its own plane of superiority challenges it.

Both of his front claws move forward, and Ember's sharp-toothed hybrid humanoid draconic mouth opens up wide to show bright white flames building up inside. Their core swirls with too much energy for me to comprehend from this distance and perception ability.

Yet, the closer these two figures get, the gravity in the entire central domain becomes heavier and heavier.

The pressure of their auras pushes each other back, making them slower and slower the closer they get.

Maria and I burst around the entire ring of Primordial Forest, blipping to the least paths of resistance, where the violent aura hasn't spread to.

It becomes harder and harder to watch what is going on because it takes more of my mental and physical energy to do so. I begin to use almost all of my energy on this single task and leave nothing more than a blurry outline of the two in the back of my mind.

I see the two daggers collide in the center of both of Ember's clawed hands, and a wave of fire pour out of his mouth. At the same time, a burst of extra chaotic aura seems to be coming out of the Demon's horns. However, I can't see it clearly—I can only feel the initial shockwave and the fact that all of my body doubles are killed instantly.

Maria and my real bodies are pushed down by the thousandfold increase in gravity yet again, and the flickering of the physical world—as even over a hundred quadrillion kilometers away, it feels like we're being forced beneath that veil again that we felt while being stabbed through by daggers.

Our connection with the system flickers, but I watch dozens of domains on the outer settlements connect all at once in this very moment, pushing us right over the edge.

A loud notification rings in the depths of my mind just as it feels like I'm about to lose access entirely.

[Congratulations! Rising Emperor's Domain Milestone Reached!]

[100,001,135,989/100,000,000,000 Worlds Claimed]

[New Perk Unlocked: Galactic Reach]

Info:

The Rising Emperor may now use the [Total Isolation][i] perk.

All links of loyalty may now borrow 1 buff granted by the Rising Emperor. This can be stacked with shared skills, and additional perks. This does not include the [Rising Emperor's Domain] Buff.

The World Wide Connectivity System[i] has been updated!

The Rising Emperor may now borrow an additional 5% of all Base Stat Points and Mana Control efficiency from all subordinates under the allegiance of the Rising Emperor.

Members affected by this perk are not required to be within range of the Rising Emperor's Domain.

This buff stacks with the [Galactic Advance] perk, [Galactic Player] perk, [Galactic Footprint] perk, [A Light in the Darkness] perk, [Path to Domination] perk, [Authority among Worlds] perk, [Ruler of Worlds] perk, [World Collector] perk, [World Domination] perk, [Imperial Reach] perk, [Expansion] perk, [Dominance] perk, [Authority] perk, [Power Holder] perk, and [Ruler's Gaze] perk if used simultaneously.

–

Instantly, I feel that if I were to manually override all of the admins', knights', commanders', and generals' stats in use right now, I could hold 95% of the power from over a hundred billion worlds.

This is not what I do. It's clear that more stats cannot help me right now.

I subconsciously give access to all of my ranked-up buffs to the inner circle of high-ranking system users, only holding back my noble and royal bloodline transformations. I allow Bri to use her admin status to control the allocation of these buffs to the masses in the Lower Realm. Some of my energy forms are far too dangerous and powerful for just anyone to use.

There is a wave of my Primordial Aura that ripples through the World Wide Connectivity System, triggering its update, but I do not have enough mental space to examine what it is right now. I know it can't help me.

All of my focus falls on the single new perk I've been granted, called [Total Isolation].

It does not show up on my normal status, but I can feel it inside my Rising Emperor's Interface.

When I try to activate it, empty slots pop up under it, and I have the ability to drag any system user into the activation with me.

The slots are endless. If I wanted to right now, I could enter every single one of my links of loyalty, but I only choose one.

Maria and I stop teleporting all over the central domain. We stand together.

As the full brunt of the Primordial Aura shockwave hits us, we should completely lose access to the system again.

However, more notifications ring in both of our ears. When the wave hits, I can still see all of the mana-based features clear in my mind, and our Glyph imprints that went dark last time we were under that much pressure... they shine bright red and blue through the chaos and serenity that fills the void.

My eyes open even wider in shock, when all of the noise and blurred visuals blocking my view before are lifted.

I can see Ember and Marcellus clash as clear as day.
