“Dun glint weavers. Not monsters.” Tiffany brushed away a spider that had decided to attack her hand, gently tumbling the spider to the soft grass below. “No biting, please.”

Ezekiel used his lightform tendrils to help dislodge the bodies from their garbage mound, and set aside the glittering brown spiders. They weren’t as pretty as the Nacreous Weaver, but they weren’t monsters, so there was no need to kill them. In minutes, they had seven very dried humanoid corpses laid out on the grass, in the sun, and most of the spiders were trying to remake their colony around the animal bodies that were left behind. The dun glints might not have killed the people they nested around, but they had taken advantage of their larger cousin’s efforts to keep the forest clean. After their disturbance, the spiders began to spread green and brown thread over the remainder of the corpses, to once again hide from the light.

Ezekiel was pretty sure the Radiant Nacreous Weaver was female though, so… where were those eggs? Where was that nest? Or did the entire Nacreous Weaver / Light Weaver line start off as Dun Glints?

Were there any Light Weavers around here? Those would certainly be monsters.

Ezekiel sent his Odin out to look, as he went over the bodies they had found.

The bodies of the people were categorized and checked for identification, and then they were buried in a normal gravesite, with unadorned tombstones to mark their final rests.

There had been four women of various ages, and three men of various ages, all of them between 20 and 40. All human, or barely demi. Three of them had identification for Alaralti, the second main city of the Songli Highlands. The rest had nothing. Ezekiel put those papers into a pocket of his conjured armor; they’d report the deaths and the location later.

Looking down on the graves, Ezekiel wondered how the afterlife worked in Nelboor, since a lot of people were demi. Where were the lines drawn when it came to the Quiet War? Incani souls were more stable than human souls. Did that nuance of souls transfer to demi children? Did all demis go to Hell, automatically? Or was there a choice?

He could ask Phagar—

All somber thoughts fled as Julia walked into the clearing as a four-meter wide, two-meter tall, brilliant green spider. After the initial shock, he sighed. Why did Julia have to like spiders, like this? Why were spiders so useful? And why were there spiders at all?

Whose idea was it to make spiders after the Sundering? Were there spiders in the Old Cosmology?

Whoever made spiders exist on Veird did not need to have done that.

Tiffany stared at Julia. Paul stared at Julia.

Ezekiel frowned a little, but he stared, too.

Julia twisted her body around, displaying herself, asking in a pretty voice, “What do you think?”

Tiffany said, “You’re an unholy abomination of too many different monsters.”

“I agree,” Paul said.

Julia laughed.

“Prettier than the Shadow Spider.” Ezekiel asked, “What are the abilities?”

The giant pale-green spider that was his daughter, popped a blue box into the air, saying, “It’s a lot more than I thought it would be.”

Body:

Spider Mind

Vibration Sense

Radiant Presence

Venom Weaver

Prismatic Thread

All:

Force Weaver

She said, “Throw a [Force Bolt] at me!”

“No.” Ezekiel asked, “Are you using [Radiant Presence]?”

“Innate ability! There’s no need to ‘use’ it at all.” Julia twisted a little bit, showing off her own iridescence. “I have to have this nacreous shell in order to have [Radiant Presence] in the other forms, but I can do that. Watch.”

The green spider vanished into a swarm of light and shadow and came back out smaller, and yet twice as heavy with limbs twice as thick and powerful. Julia had great big green eyes in front and long fangs, with pedipalps ready to grip and tear, and an entire body made of green-black iridescence, in both shell and hair.

Julia said, “Shadow Spider form, Radiant Nacreous Weaver body, [Telekinetic Thread] from the Red Thread Weaver. There’s a lot of different options combined into a chimera, here. Much more than the usual 6 listed in the Familiar Form. A lot of thread options, mainly. And also! This is what the Weaver did to get through our armors. Give me a [Force Wall], dad.”

At Ezekiel’s cast, a wall of clear magenta Force sprung up to the side.

He asked, “Don’t you have that spell yet?”

“I Remade them! But it’s more impressive if it’s someone else’s Force spell.” Julia pressed her forelegs to the wall saying, “Watch.”

With gripping paws, Julia pressed through the Force, deforming it like it was made of gelatin. Then she lifted her paws away, and the Force Wall re-solidified in its deformed shape. She pressed her paws back to the magenta wall, and with a swipe, she yanked the solid wall into something not solid at all; into thread that coiled into the air, and then came down into Julia’s foreleg like a self-coiling garden hose.

With another motion, Julia transformed the collection of Force thread into a condensed ball of jumbled twine. She pointed that ball of magenta twine to the side. The ball rocketed away and spacked against a tree’s trunk, unfolded like strangling goo, enveloping the trunk with dense Force.

And then it turned hard again, wrapping the trunk in solid Force.

“Huh.” Ezekiel said, “One’s own conjured Force is usually extremely resistant to the control of another. I had thought the monster had just pierced through and reflected our conjured items. But… [Force Weaver] is a strong ability.”

“That’s why I wanted to use your [Quick Wall]!” Julia laughed an evil laugh, then spoke in her [Prestidigitation] voice, “Impressive! Isn’t it!”

Once again, Riri’s notes said nothing about [Force Weaver]. The abilities that the Nacreous Weaver were supposed to have were [Deflective Presence], [Light Thread], and [Light Weaver]; not [Radiant Presence], [Prismatic Thread], and [Force Weaver]. This was a Variant, of course. Maybe Riri just didn’t know that?

“Our armaments didn’t break due to reflection. The weaver willed our Force constructs to part.” Julia glanced toward the graves. “I bet the same thing happened to those people.”

Tiffany nodded toward the graves. “Yup.” She asked, “And [Venom Weaver]? The poison on its legs, I guess.”

“Correct.” Julia held up a foreleg. Venom flowed out of her fangs and became a spear-tip. She splashed the venom to the side, away from everyone, saying, “Useful.”

Ezekiel moved on, asking, “What does Healthy Form require?”

The green huntsman spider winced. Julia said, “I need to live as a form for a while and naturally produce some of the diet and life-based products of that form. I’m guessing it would take me a week to make the anti-magic venom of a Shadow Spider. Maybe less to make the fire-proof thread. Not sure about the rest.”

Ezekiel had wondered what the venom of a Shadow Spider was, way back when he first encountered that, and it had almost taken his daughter away from him. Now, though, he guessed, “Could it be an Extreme Light effect? Radiation injected into a victim to destroy while it impeded spellcasting? You’re not actually making antirhine, because normal shadow spiders [Shadowalk] all the time, and they couldn’t do that if they had antirhine in them. Unless the Shades had figured out chelation long before the people here did… I doubt that, though. Severely. That postulation doesn’t stand up at all.” Ezekiel asked, “How do you think your anti-magic venom works?”

Julia did a spider shrug, then said, “No idea. I could eventually find out, but I haven’t had the need to try until now.”

Ezekiel asked, “Do you want to live as a spider for a while? It can’t possibly be comfortable.”

“Sturdier than my human body. More physically comfortable, too.” Julia said, “But socially comfortable? This form has much to be desired.” She became dark blue light which transformed into her human body, already wearing her conjured armor like overlapping dark blue scales. She threw back her helmet, revealing her normal, human face, as she said, “I haven’t succeeded in a drider form, yet, but somehow I don’t think that’d go over well, either.”

“… Drider?” Ezekiel narrowed his eyes, then widened them, as he remembered. “Oh! Those human-spider people!” He instantly said, “That would not go over well.”

Julia waved him off, saying, “Meh!” She asked, “Are you going to make your [Blood Dummy] spell before we tackle the Primal Blood Weaver?”

“Yes.” Ezekiel glanced around at the gravesite, and at his people. “Not here, though. Let’s move closer to the target and take a small break.”
