Here, the Tribulations were beautiful. It reminded Ezekiel of the Appalachian mountains, with rolling green land as far as the eye could see. Birds sang in the forest. Monkeys howled for mates. The trees were normal-sized, and yet larger than most, with a sparse, light-filled canopy only ten meters off the ground. Game trails cut through the underbrush.

Three small deer moseyed down a game trail, toward a watering hole where they drank sparingly, and watched the green all around them.

Nothing was out of order. It was idyllic.

And it was a lie.

Here and there, tiny threads held to the trees, and laid across the ground. But there were no tangled webs in the canopies. There were no overt signs of spider predation. There was light and life aplenty. But that life had been cultivated, for sure.

Ezekiel’s magenta Force boots crushed grass as he stepped forward, following grey-armored Tiffany down the game trail. They passed in sight of the watering hole. The small deer bounded away upon the encroachment, into the thick bushes, effortlessly bounding through webbing that was not meant to stop them.

The sun was high in the bright blue sky. Sunset was hours away.

A cool breeze blew through the forest, wicking away sweat.

Paul stepped behind Ezekiel, following, while Julia took up the rear.

Tiffany led the way, silently, mostly, but she was seeing what Ezekiel was seeing, and she had to comment, “There’s thread absolutely everywhere.”

“I see it, too,” Julia said, her eyes dark as black. She had shifted to her Shadow Spider eyes a little while ago. She pointed at a tree, saying, “Look at those ones. A bird made a nest out of some of the visible threads.”

Ezekiel had seen the brown bird and its spider-thread nest. He glanced up anyway, and said, “Yeah. It’s sitting on eggs. Ah. And there’s the mate coming back with food.”

A bird with bright blue feathering flew past tree branches and alighted on its webby nest. With a quick shove, it fed its mate with a captured bug of some sort. The mate greedily ate the bug. They seemed to be doing okay in this environment made by the Nacreous Weaver. The spider threads on their nest didn’t seem to bother them, probably because the spider probably didn’t bother with them, either.

Nacreous Weavers liked large meals, and birds and small deer didn’t rate. The only one out here who truly rated was Tiffany. The weaver would settle for human-sized meals, too, though.

Tiffany stopped. She gestured forward, saying, “There’s a thread across the trail. Looks strong.”

“It is. Just break it.” Ezekiel said, “The spider isn’t anywhere nearby but maybe it will come.”

With a flick of her conjured mace, she did just that. The thread snapped.

“Ahh. Yep.” Tiffany said, “I don’t like that they break like that for me, and not for you.”

There were more threads just off the game trail. Julia touched one, and it broke like gossamer wind; like it wasn’t even there at all. She said, “That one had just as much magic in it, too.”

Ezekiel said, “You don’t rate as prey. Tiffany does. The thread is cast only to break like that for a big enough meal.”

Tiffany chuckled, both dark and happy, then said, “I’m finally going to be able to tank like I’m supposed to, aren’t I?”

The four of them waited. Moments passed with nothing appearing or any shifts in the surroundings. Maybe the spider was shy. If it wasn’t hungry at the moment, it still would have come; spiders always hunted, for they could wrap their prey and set it aside for later meals.

“Let’s keep walking,” Paul said, eyeing the world around him.

They resumed walking.

They came across another empowered thread across the path. Ezekiel broke that one, and it whispered away like dust motes in an old room.

Julia said, “You don’t rate, either.”

Tiffany the tank resumed the lead.

Ezekiel asked, “Where does that term come from, anyway? ‘Tank’? Anyone know?”

Julia perked up. She smiled. “Tiffany told me the story.”

“That I did!” Tiffany’s grey force boots crunched the dirt and small plant life as she remained in the lead, on the lookout, with her mana sense spread wide. She said, “Paul can tell it, though. He’s not doing much right now.”

Paul scoffed as Tiffany laughed.

Ezekiel and Julia glanced at Paul, then resumed scanning their surroundings.

Paul said, “The term comes from the Tank Anomaly series of monsters that came out of Ar’Kendrithyst however many hundreds of years ago. 800, I think. Some people think they came out of the Fractured Citadels of Quintlan, but we’re pretty sure they came out of the Dead City.

“They were little more than brains and eyes in large [Glassshape]d tanks of [Oozeshape] water-slime. They each had a base spell, [Tank Preservation], which was constructed out of the two previous spells and a monster ability called [Harden]. This single spell made them near-indestructible. There were dozens of varieties with more coming out every week. They got all over the world. Tank Anomalies were one of the greatest threats to civilization because they could not be easily broken.

“Of course, if you broke the tank, they were dead. They were little more than 10 Health monsters. The problem was overcoming the tank.

“Thus, the origin of the word.”

A lightbulb went off. Ezekiel said, “Oh! I was just messing up the Ecks word for ‘tank’ with the English word for ‘tank’, which has multiple meanings in English.” He said, “That clears that up.”

As she looked all around while she walked, Tiffany asked, “What’s a ‘tank’?”

Ezekiel glanced at Julia.

Julia said, “A box of metal on wheels that crushes anything it rolls over, with the primary weapon of a giant cannon on top that can rotate and fire in any direction. They’re really tough. The English word is actually derived from the idea of a ‘water tank’, for the British were trying to feed false information to the enemy, to mixed success.”

“Oh?” Ezekiel said, “So I wasn’t… actually messing up on that translation. Was I?”

“Nope!” Julia said, “Same sort of derivation. Tanks are tanks.”

“We’re all just sacks of red water surrounded by hard shells.” Tiffany tapped her grey chest armor, saying, “Some harder than others!”

“Exactly. So try to be more delicious, Tiffany,” Julia said, “We haven’t got all day to find this thing.”

Tiffany chuckled.

They walked, in silence.

They reached a hunting ground that looked nothing like a hunting ground. Ezekiel involuntarily shivered as his mana sense touched upon a body pile underneath a tree, about fifty meters ahead and to the right.

He whispered, “Do you see that, Tiffany?”

Julia asked, “What?”

“Piles of animal bodies under a tree, surrounded by threads. Up there about forty meters” Tiffany pointed with her mace, clipping three more threads with the movement, shattering the relative calm of the forest with three more loud snaps. “The Weaver stacks the bones and carnage into small disposal spaces to keep the hunting grounds clean, and the prey unwary.”

The carrion pile was desiccated, like the bodies had been dried out and preserved. There was no rot, because there were no liquids left. Even the bones seemed hollowed out. There were lots of furs and scaled hides and spines, though. It seemed that the Weaver’s digestive venom, or maybe its magic, helped it to digest everything but the skin and bones, making juice boxes out of its food. The bodies weren’t wrapped in thread, but the whole dump had been hidden behind thread.

And there were smaller spiders inside that dump.

Ezekiel shivered again.

He checked his active magic, just to be sure he was prepared. [Animadversion] held to his wrist, all magenta and spiky. His [Personal Ward] was topped. He had four Odins, each with their own [Animadversion], ready to hand off their shields to each of his people, and one extra, just because. [Greater Lightwalk] and [Lodestar] hung out on his back, ready to spring up at a moment’s notice. He was prepared. Mostly.

He activated [Hunter’s Instincts]; it was time. He was ready.

His boots made no sound as he walked. His mana sense heightened, along with his sight and his hearing, to focus on his surroundings. He moved quicker, but he maintained formation. With a sniff, he smelled the various scents of the forest, from carrion, to musk, to plants, to water and… something else on the wind. Ah. Ezekiel touched a thread hanging by the trail and it broke like gossamer, leaving behind the scent of the spider. Kind of musky, but with an ozone flavor. That’s where that scent was coming from. Not a terrible smell—

He faltered as he walked, but he caught himself quickly enough. A sudden sadness weighed upon his chest, as he caught sight of yet another trauma in the world. A different sort of body pile.

Tiffany saw him stumble, even though she didn’t visually see him. She said, “Another body pile. This one is people. Looks like they were camping over that way.” She gestured forward, to the left. “Fifty meters away.”

Julia’s jaw clenched. She couldn’t see what he could see, or what Tiffany could see, or even what Paul could see, through sharing Tiffany and Ezekiel’s senses. Julia didn’t like that.

Ezekiel spared a glance at the second body pile.

It was a group of human bodies, without any insides. They had been stuffed into a hole in the base of a tree, just like the previous pile. Their camp was near their graves, but Ezekiel couldn’t see that camp until they got closer. And, yeah, that was a camp. A fire pit. The rubbled remains of a building made through [Stoneshape]. Other broken stone structures.

“Nacreous Weavers don't like oddities in their territory.” Ezekiel said, “It destroyed that hut, for sure.”

Paul grunted his assent. Tiffany said nothing; she was on high alert. Julia silently wished that she had a mana sense, too. But she had plenty of abilities none of the rest of them had. The four of them went dead silent, as they walked into the lair of the beast.

Nacreous Weavers were dangerous. Ezekiel considered the skills of his people, and how easy they had it.

Two people with mana sense, so that they could see the threats well before they approached. Reflective magics, that should negate much of the weaver’s own reflective magics. [Greater Treat Wounds], on their person who was the hardest to kill. Domain magics, if necessary. Paul’s mind magics to mess up the enemy and aid the party. Tiffany, being a great big tank.

For all those defenses, Ezekiel didn’t feel too secure. He sighed, making the loudest noise of the group. The forest was still loud with the sounds of life, of course, but the spiders obviously didn’t care about undersized meals, and the threads around them were thicker, now.

More full of power.

Tiffany swiped through five threads, woven across the path at her head height; three meters up. The first four snapped like breaking metal wires. The last one twanged, bouncing her mace away. She smiled under her solid grey helmet.

Contact.

She smacked the solid thread again. And again.

Twang. Twang.

Ezekiel whispered, “That did it. Movement. Take these shields.”

Odins offloaded their spiked magenta packages to the team. Thorns flashed in the afternoon sun, becoming shields on forearms, then becoming small, hovering discs on 10 minute timers.

The weaver was still forty meters away but closed distance with each second, its many legs weaving it across the land, touching threads as it went, delivering itself to Ezekiel. It was beautiful.

It was also massive.

And it was practically invisible to his mana sense, and also to the Odins hovering high above.

Easily four meters long, it was one and a half times the size of Julia’s Shadow Spider, but whereas Julia’s spider was of huntsman-make, built thick for combat, this spider was not. It was an orb weaver type. With long, thin legs, a body strong enough to hold all those legs, and a bulbous, small abdomen, it might have been larger than the shadow spider, but it had to weigh less.

It was pale green and iridescent violet, with pure white eyes that ringed its head on tiny bumps like a crown.

It was magnificent.

And it needed to die.

Ezekiel cast to the sky, ripping a hole in the air and bringing the sun closer to Veird. Radiant billowing heat blasted out of the [Major Sunlight Rift], cooking the forest, setting fire to magical threads that refused to burn too much, and then, suddenly, caught fire. In a flashing second, 90% of the threads around them vanished. The monster seemed not bothered by the heat, as it raced forward, but the spell wasn’t meant to kill the spider. It would just prevent minor threads from building up as the spider tried to control the battlefield.

And no one in his party was bothered by the heat. [Animadversion] cut this small amount of friendly fire down to nothing.

Branches broke. The spider charged into the game trail, right at Tiffany, its front legs reaching forward like spears as its back legs propelled it faster than an animal that size had any right to move. Tiffany raised her left arm and her magenta shield with it, forming a dense barrier of magenta spikes.

One second passed, and everything changed.

The spider was not charging Tiffany anymore. It was directly above Paul, and spearing down with three legs full of power, with green venom swirling around the tips. Paul caught two spears on his shield. The third struck Julia, who had [Interception]ed the attack.

Decay splashed in every direction except the one it was meant to go, as reflection warred with reflection. Green acid caught on trees, on conjured Force. Ezekiel’s own shield splashed that acid back to the ground, pitting dirt where it fell.

Julia counterattacked with a [Strike] from her long blue blade, barely touching the spider.

Her sword broke in the contact.

The spider moved again, faster than it had any right to move, and struck at Tiffany’s back with three more flashing green limbs. It was moving too fast for her to completely dodge. Tiffany sacrificed a hit to the leg to protect her abdomen and chest. Acid sprayed.

Ezekiel threw a [Slowing Bolt] at the beast. Magenta frost struck, and then reflected, to bounce back at Ezekiel—

He canceled the spell before it reached him, not wanting to take the chance on testing his own reflection against the monster’s. The reflection was too strong. It wasn’t supposed to be that strong!

The weaver also wasn’t supposed to have [Lightwalk] but it had that, too. That’s how it was moving everywhere in the light, faster than it had any right to move.

Tiffany smashed down with her mace, missing the beast because it turned to light—

