Paul put a damper on spider time by saying, “Absolutely not yet.”

“We need to know a few things first.” Julia rattled off, “Where are they? What are their abilities? Are we in a time crunch? And do we need to talk about what happened in that courtyard? Aren’t they going to deliver some books soon?”

“You still got those blood charms, right Boss?” Tiffany said, “I don’t know much about Blood Weavers, and especially not about Primal Blood Weavers, so we probably shouldn’t rush on out yet.”

“All good points.” Ezekiel set down the antirhine research he had gotten from Star Song on a table, saying, “We’ve got at least a day on those spiders, but we do have to tackle both of them as soon as possible.”

“Okay.” Julia asked, “I want to get to the Registrar, first, though.”

“Right! That too.” Ezekiel asked, “So let’s split up some duties. I need to read these books, and then I might need to burn them so no one else sees them.”

“Then Ezekiel and I will stay here.” Paul said, “Julia and Tiffany can go to the Void Temple.”

“Sounds like a plan.” Ezekiel added, “To that effect—” A pair of Odins shimmered into the room with magenta light, then took their tiny perches on Julia and Tiffany’s shoulders. As they set down, Ezekiel said, “Tell them where you want to go and they’ll do it; no need to spend your own mana.”

Tiffany said, “Fine by me.”

Julia eyed the bird on her shoulder, then said, “Hopefully it won’t take that long, but there will likely be a line.”

“There’s going to be a line,” Tiffany said.

Ezekiel said, “Better get going. It seemed to me that Riri had been holding those treasures back from everyone else for a long time, and that if we wait too long, then they’ll be gone by the time we get there.”

Julia frowned. “Did it seem like Riri was tricking you?”

“There was some sort of trick in there, but I’m sure we can weather it. It can’t be that bad of a trick if she wants to remain on good terms with us, and I am sure that she does.” Ezekiel said, “It was not a joke when she spoke about hostile takeovers if we butt into her spider silk market, though.”

“I didn’t think it was.” Julia said, “Okay. See you two, soon. Come on Odin, take us to the Teleport Square nea—”

Both women vanished in a flash of magenta light.

Ezekiel checked through Odin, to make sure that he arrived on target, then came back saying, “Odin is getting pretty smart, isn’t he?”

Paul shrugged. “Hard to tell sometimes.”

Ezekiel smirked, then returned to his bundle of new books and papers. Paul spoke of making tea, then made some, while Ezekiel sat down in a reading chair and began to sort through what he had been given.

- - - -

Ezekiel sat on the floor surrounded by his lightform and spread-out sheets of paper, reading, studying, and thinking. His mind ripped off course when a gentle knocking came from the front door. In a flicker of light, Ezekiel was at the door, opening it.

A runner in white and blue garb offered him a paper-wrapped package containing two journals. Ezekiel accepted the offer and the runner girl went away, back to the blue and white building down next to Darzallia’s Teleport Square.

He could already see what was inside the package. He opened it. One book looked mass-produced, likely because it was. The inside of the front cover had the Seal of the Arcanaeum Consortium. The other book looked handmade and well-worn, but also solid. Two minutes after that delivery, before he had the chance to read the first delivery, another runner arrived with another package. This second shipment contained one mass-produced book titled, ‘Anatomy for the Class: Doctor’, and two small journals, one penned by Arilitilo Star Song, the other by Xue Star Song.

The one by Arilitilo had a personal message written on the inside.

‘Dear Scion Ezekiel Phoenix.

‘In the light of this new sight you have given me I realize that what I have written here is childish, but it has still served me well over the last few decades. If my humble words help to enlighten you a fraction as much as you have enlightened me, then I will count my small words as successful. In either case, we can sort out all questions you might have, together, in the coming days and weeks.

‘Elder Arilitilo Star Song.’

Ezekiel smiled. It was a nice message.

He leafed through the books, looking for one thing in particular, at the moment. He found what he was looking for soon enough. Both Riri’s pair of books and Arilitilo’s selection had information on the raising and harvesting of Blood Weavers and Nacreous Weavers, but they were small sections, as the books mostly dealt with what to do after you gain the various threads of both beasts.

After reading those small sections, Ezekiel didn’t suspect it would be too troublesome to kill either spider, or in the case of the Blood Weavers, to pick out one spider from the whole for his daughter and escape the rest.

Except… It was a Primal Blood Weaver. Not a normal Blood Weaver. Julia would not settle for any but the best monster of the bunch, and Ezekiel didn’t want to have that argument anyway, so while the ‘Primal’ beast shouldn’t be a large problem, it would be some sort of problem, for sure. Riri’s note explained that she did not know what those problems would be, exactly, but they would likely be of the ‘Health Drain’ and ‘[Inflict Wounds]’ sort. [Blood Weaver] was the base ability of the same-named animal and monster, and that would pose problems, but Ezekiel was confident he could overcome that problem.

He had [Minor Anti-Blood Charm]s, but while he could load up his people with dozens of charms each, they would all activate against the first Blood spell, instead of spacing out. [Minor Anti-Blood Charm] was rather terrible in that regard. So. He would need to make a [Blood Dummy] before they go, using the methods Tenebrae told him about.

They’d have to be extra careful with the Nacreous Weaver, too, but in a different way. A better name for such a monster would be ‘Reflection Spider’, or ‘Fragile Spider’. Or, as Riri had noted in a slip of paper in that section of her journal, ‘The only spider capable of murdering a hundred people sent to capture it, and then dying because it had worn itself out; they’re truly motivated little monsters!’.

Calling them ‘little monsters’ was obviously a joke, though. They were not little. Blood Weavers weren’t little, either.

Why were there such big spiders on Veird? Spiders! Ick! Who in their right mind would want to make such horrible things larger than they already wer—

Ah. Right.

Shades.

Duh.

- - - -

Under privacy spells, Ezekiel read of antirhine. Over the course of an hour, he gained quite a few understandings of this anti-magic metal, and more than a few questions. Most of his questions he could answer himself, after he read over his reading a few times and the information therein settled down.

Antirhine was lead, of that there could be no doubt. It was silver-white in its base form and when diluted in certain solutions. But in powdered, ore form, antirhine was anything from white, to black, to red, each color of the antirhine having a different level of antimagic power…

Or maybe not!

There were records of red antirhine taken out of a mine having the same reactivity as white antirhine, which had the second largest antimagic effect, but there were also verified records of red antirhine having a lesser-sized anti-magic field than the white powdered antirhine.

There were contradicting records all over the place.

Except when it came to black antirhine. That lead compound was universally weaker than all the rest. Usually. There were some stranger instances of white antirhine being weaker than black.

Ezekiel understood the problem after reading it over for a little while, after odd thoughts began to emerge from the shadows of his memory.

Lead had a few different natural forms. A lot of the ones he was seeing here had to do with how much oxygen was bonded to the lead. Lead monoxide came in a ton of different forms; which explained the color issues, somewhat. Lead dioxide was black; which explained that.

His memory went off in a few different directions.

He remembered how lead had been used to make various colors of paint back on Earth, when he read of how antirhine had been used as a paint here, on Veird. There were many places that needed perfect, and kinda dangerous, protection. Mostly, those lead paints were applied to plates that were then further sealed behind other paints so that the lead would never come off of the plate. Those ‘antirhine plates’ could then be manually attached to whatever walls needed them.

That reminded Ezekiel…

Most people ‘painted’ with wardlight, but actual, physical paints had a luxury market to them, and that meant money. The problem with this market was that many pigments were deadly, and [Cleanse] stripped those types of paints off the walls. Which was why paints were a luxury good; it was hard to find unobtrusive coloring methods.

But titanium white shouldn’t have that problem.

Titanium dioxide was white and biologically inactive. He mentally marked off ‘titanium white paint’ and promised to tell some people at Candlepoint about that. There were actually a lot of paints that Ezekiel could ‘invent’, and then have Candlepoint manufacture and distribute.

But back to lead:

Lead needed to be in a long chain of particles before it became inert; Ezekiel was sure. But why would this matter for inertness, anyway? Were individual particles of lead as dangerous as a whole lot of lead? What did this mean for casual lead poisoning in the environment? Was there casual lead poisoning in Veird?

… Hmm. That last one.

Probably not widespread poisoning. They’d been using lead on Earth for a long time for it to get everywhere; thousands of years, and even in the pipes, too. People strictly stayed away from the stuff on Veird because it was a great deal more deadly here. Ezekiel hoped lead stayed that way, even after Star Song invented chelation, for the more he read on it all…

The more it seemed like lead was purposefully designated as the ‘antimagic metal’, by forces above and beyond mortal ken.

Ezekiel was pretty sure that Rozeta, or someone else, had designated lead as antimagic in order to fulfill a need, or something. He wasn’t quite sure why this had been done, but he was sure that it had been done.

As far as Ezekiel could tell, nothing made lead special. The density of lead, at atomic number 82, was outclassed twice over by osmium, at atomic number 76. Lead was malleable and ductile, but so was gold. It was organically reactive, but so was mercury, and other metals.

Maybe they needed some sort of antimagic metal in order to protect or attack something? Something that could poison…

… Could poison a god? That had a biological body?

Did…

Did a Wizard do this?

Did the gods do this?

To Melemizargo?

Or… Did Melemizargo do this to Veird?

Ezekiel had to sit back for a minute when he had that thought. And then he got back to the books.

There was nothing in Star Song’s writings about the deep history of antirhine on Veird, except a small passage at the beginning, that said that antirhine was here when the first people started exploring the Underworld after the Sundering. Before that, in the Old Cosmology, there were anti-magic magics. Maybe, at the start of Veird in this New Cosmology, someone had condensed the Old Cosmology anti-magic effects down to lead, because it had to be done. Or… Something...

Or, more reasonably, some god made lead anti-magical. The goddess of Knowledge, when they sacrificed her, perhaps?

But why lead?

There was a weirdness, here, and Ezekiel didn’t like it.

Anyway, the chelation particle everyone might have been working toward was called ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, or EDTA, for short, but that was just the precursor molecule. What was actually needed was calcium disodium EDTA, with an extra calcium particle on one side and two sodium atoms on the other, and four less hydrogen. The extra calcium and sodium (and less hydrogen) atoms were there to protect the body from the reactions of the precursor molecule so that when the CaNa2-EDTA bumped into the Pb in the body (or any heavy metal, actually), it would ‘unlock’, discarding the CaNa2 and picking up the Pb, because the molecule was much more stable with metallic lead in there instead of the other particles. The lead-infused molecule would then be carried out of the body through the normal cleaning actions of the body, through the kidneys, and then discarded through the urine, removing the antirhine from the body in the process.

Ezekiel looked down at the paperwork spread out on the ground around him.

Calcium disodium EDTA was a huge molecule, wasn’t it? How did it go...

What were they—

Oh yeah!

C10H12CaN2Na2O8

… Hmm…

Yup! That was correct. And it looked like a bunch of oxygens hanging out at the ends of a frayed nitrogen-carbon spoked chain, with two frayed ends on one side of the chain circling around into a calcium, while the other frayed ends dangled in four directions with a calcium on two of those ends.

Ezekiel looked down at the paperwork in front of him.

“Ah.” Ezekiel mumbled, “I remembered that I read about this, once, and barely deeply at all. And yet, everything just... came together, it seems. I think 75% of the pieces to this puzzle were missing, so I made up the rest myself.” He looked over to Paul, his voice rising as he said, “Hey I—”

Paul was staring at him.

“… I figured it out?”

Paul blinked a few times, as though clearing cobwebs out of his mind. “That was the deepest thought tunnel I have ever seen anyone go down.”

Ezekiel asked, “Should I go ahead and make it?”

Paul frowned. He thought. He said, “I’m not going to answer that.”

No easy answers, eh?

“Hmm.” Ezekiel looked down to the paperwork all around him. “I think I should… Not make it. And yet. I should, if at least to have for myself. But if I make this then I will want to give it to them, and then they won’t learn on their own. And they have to learn on their own, don’t they?” He said, “And if I make it for myself, it would surely do more harm than good, for all I know is how it works, but not how it works as a medication to a person… Or.” Ezekiel frowned. “Ah. It seems I can fill in those puzzle pieces, too.” Ezekiel’s frown deepened. “I could, theoretically, make this and then treat everyone I wished, but— No. They need other antibiotics and such to fight off infections during treatment, and a whole host of other necessities that are needed to treat the side effects of antirhine poisoning, which are a lot, and I have none of that.

