Ezekiel slashed at it with [Lightshape], the perfect counter to [Lightwalk] users. Rainbows filled the air, but Ezekiel had only clipped the very edge of the spider’s lightform. Reflection still worked when the beast was in lightform, it seemed.

The spider slipped around the battlefield, triple-stabbing at Julia.

Paul did something. The spider froze, briefly, but Paul froze in the action, too.

Ezekiel had a few fully-Physical spells he could use, but the only ones that could work here were [Luminous Beam] and [Vivid Gloom], and he didn’t want to destroy the spider.

He tried [Hermetic Razor], scattering 25, 100 point damaging molecular wires throughout the battlefield, outside of their own area. The spider broke free of Paul’s working and flicked through the razor wires like they were nothing. They might have been Particle Magic, but they were still mostly magic. He had hoped that they would work a little, but no.

The shockwaves of his [Physical Domain] might work, but again, he didn’t want to destroy the thing.

Julia reached over and touched Tiffany with a shadowy tendril, casting [Greater Treat Wounds]. Her leg hadn’t gotten that bad in the seconds since the acid strike, but it was oozing red, and it did not look good. The healing magics helped.

Tiffany Roared.

Ezekiel felt his body tense with power as Tiffany’s buff inundated him.

The weaver reacted, too. It flinched, turned, and attacked Tiffany, all in the same action, flickering through the light to strike at Tiffany again.

Ezekiel cast a large box of [Luminous Trap] in the spider’s way, sized to the monster. It was using lightform, so trapping it might do something.

The weaver crashed into the sudden darkness. Where it touched, the edge of the spell flickered like broken pond water. The weaver got sucked in, anyway. Ezekiel threw a [Merciful Ether Slime] at the black box and then wrapped the whole thing in a force cage of instantaneous, layered [Quick Wall]s, hoping that it would keep the monster inside.

But.

Those Force walls might not keep the spider in there.

When Julia had swiped her Force sword at the weaver, her sword had broken. The weaver punched right through Tiffany’s Force armor like it wasn’t even there. This Nacreous Weaver had abilities far outside of what Riri’s notes had said.

A moment passed, as everyone waited for something else to happen.

… A second moment passed.

With his mana sense Ezekiel saw that the spider was in there. His [Quick Wall]s weren’t supporting the monster's weight, though. The monster was all the way in lightform, and supporting itself in the black box. It was just… Hovering there.

… It wasn’t doing anything.

It was just standing still in the center of the very, very bright box, its eyes alight with white glows. The [Merciful Ether Slime] was spilling thick air into the space, so it was working, but none of the spell actually reached the lightform beast.

The fight slowed down, as nothing continued to happen.

Fifteen seconds passed.

The ether seemed unable to reach the monster, but… Maybe it was doing something?

Julia tentatively sent, ‘Is it dead?’

‘It’s not doing anything,’ Tiffany sent, not moving at all. ‘It really likes the light.’

Paul said, ‘Don’t anyone move, or do anything. It really likes the light. A lot. It doesn’t even notice that it’s dying.’

‘Is that going to kill it?’ Ezekiel asked. ‘Ethyl Ether kills insects back home, but I doubt it would kill spiders here? Right? And it’s in lightform. Is it using its lightform to breathe?’

‘I use shadowform to breathe when I’m a shadow spider,’ Julia said, staring at the black box hanging in the air.

‘It’s definitely dying.’ Paul sent, ‘I was about to suggest we run away, but if this works, it works. And I don’t think it’s dying to the ether. I think it’s dying to the sunlight. The Sun Rift isn’t doing much damage because of the spider’s innate reflection, but inside that box it is doing something.’

Ezekiel glanced upward at the bright Rift. ‘The sun can stay, then, but this other one can go.’

He canceled the ether slime before that ‘Volatile’ tag on the spell exploded the monster in their face. The ether didn’t seem to be doing much of anything, anyway, since the spider was definitely in lightform.

The spider did not react.

… Or maybe it relaxed into the heat and the light a bit more? Hard to say.

Tiffany sent, ‘Is this a deprivation reaction? All monsters are created, but some are created with specific weaknesses in order to control them during creation, but usually those are bred out of them before they’re released into the wild.’

‘The original versions were created, sure.’ Julia sent, ‘But Variants and mutations occur all the time in the wild. This is a Variant. Maybe the weakness came back.’

‘It’s definitely a Variant, for sure.’ Tiffany sent, ‘Destroyed my mace with a touch.’

‘It’s a much stronger Variant than Riri told us about,’ Ezekiel sent.

Did Riri send them into a trap? Or… No. Maybe not. Riri was being spied on, for sure, since she had said ‘even a hint’ would be too much, and there were no hints about this particular monster in her books; just general information. Riri had personally given him this weaver’s location while she was juiced up on Intelligence, so maybe she hadn’t been at her best?

… They were in the middle of a fight. Ezekiel got his head back into the game, even if the ‘game’ seemed to be at a strange standstill.

‘Its reflection is as good as yours, dad,’ Julia sent.

‘I have nothing that works on this monster.’ Ezekiel sent, ‘Nothing that won’t blast it away. I was about to suggest that we run away, too. And then this happened.’

‘I need to get a real weapon,’ Tiffany sent, holding up her empty hand. Her mace was gone. ‘Something that can’t be [Dispel]ed.’

‘It broke my sword, too,’ Julia sent.

‘That wasn’t a [Dispel]. That was something else,’ Ezekiel said. ‘Some Force-specific effect.’

Ezekiel watched through the mana as Julia silently tapped Tiffany with another hit of [Greater Treat Wounds], and the oozing hole in Tiffany’s leg sealed over. Mostly, though, he focused on the spider, inside of its cage. The spider’s eyes flickered with radiance, while the entire monster was awash in brilliant, hot light. It had stepped on that light to secure itself inside the black box, but it could step out at any time it wanted; all it had to do was go physical for a moment. The only thing keeping it in there was itself. The [Quick Wall]s around it were no match for it at all.

What sort of solid spells could he use, here, that wouldn’t obliterate the beast? Riri had warned that it was much more fragile than it looked, and he was inclined to agree. As for his smaller spells... He had [Incandescent] and [Frozen Mist] that would both exude physical heat and cold… But that would disturb the spider.

It was likely best to not disturb the spider while it was killing itself.

If they needed to evacuate and come back, Ezekiel would come back with a [Shadow Wall] spell that he could wrap through the battlefield, to prevent lightforms from escaping and from moving so well. If necessary, he could even vibrate the monster to death with his [Physical Domain], but that would likely obliterate it, too.

Julia sent, ‘You have [Flying Striker], dad. You need to make a true flying sword. Something solid. Something to use in this situation.’

‘I’ll think about making you one if you want it, Julia.’ Ezekiel sent, ‘I don’t want a sword.’

‘I’ll take a sword,’ Paul sent.

Julia wanted to laugh and Tiffany wanted to chuckle; Ezekiel could tell. He wanted to laugh, too. But no one made a single sound or moved a muscle. The situation was tense enough for levity, but not for actually enjoying that levity.

Julia sent, ‘I’ll take a sword made out of some bullshit fantasy metal, please. Something that can cut through solid rock as well as my Force sword can.’

‘Sure,’ Ezekiel sent. ‘We can visit the Adamantine Smiths of Underworld Nelboor. Their head offices are in the Northern Chasm Region of the Tribulation Mountains.’

Silence returned.

Tiffany’s buff ended, and Ezekiel sagged a fraction. He wasn’t the only one.

The spider didn’t care.

Julia added, ‘If you hadn’t turned off damage notifications, you would see that you were killing it.’

‘I’m not watching oceans of blue screens every time I fight, Julia.’

Julia joked, ‘Maybe you could get Rozeta to turn on global notifications. Little numbers appearing above damaged enemies.’

‘… I’m not going to do that, either.’

Tiffany added, ‘Tiny damage numbers and damage done to things you don’t know you’ve damaged isn’t shown anyway.’

Silence returned.

Minutes passed. No one spoke. Small fires started here and there in the forest, and Ezekiel got a few notifications for smaller monster life dying, but mostly, it was just a very hot day. The birds barely cared, the deer ran through the forest, unperturbed. The [Animadversion]s on his people kept the damage off of them, just like the spider’s own reflective carapace, or ability, kept it alive through the magical damage.

But the physical damage caused by Elemental Sun and a very, very bright space, would eventually get through its lightform. It was likely hotter in there than if he had thrown an [Incandescent] inside.

The ‘battle’ continued.

The spider was slowly dying. Its reflective powers were great, and the ability of its lightform to shrug off a great deal of the physical damage of the heat was strong, but slowly, surely, the damage piled up, and because it was such small amounts, the spider didn’t seem to care.

It was enthralled by the brilliance.

Seven minutes. Eight minutes. The Sun Rift would go out, soon. Their magenta shields were about to give out—

Without warning, the spider relaxed.

Its lightform dropped. Its long, iridescent green legs touched upon the walls of Force holding it in the cage. For one last, stretching moment, the weaver stared at the light, and the light burned.

The weaver died, slightly smoking, the light in its eyes going out as the entire monster went dim.

You have slain Radiant Nacreous Weaver!

85% participation!

+90.186e12 exp

It wasn’t enough to move Ezekiel’s Status at all. His own experience meter was ‘e20’. The Radiant Nacreous Weaver was only ‘e12’.

He breathed out, canceling the Sun Rift as he said, “It’s dead.”

At the same time, Tiffany relaxed, exclaiming, “Holy shit! Fucking Variant!” She laughed. “Radiant Nacreous Weaver!”

Paul blinked, breathed, and said, “Can we PLEASE do the Primal Blood Weaver from far away and with extreme power? Please?”

Julia rushed toward the black box, saying, “Let it out, let it out!”

Ezekiel canceled the [Luminous Trap] and the [Quick Wall]s surrounding the beast. Tiffany stepped back as the green spider dropped to the ground. It curled in on itself as it steamed slightly, but not too bad. It was only barely cooked.

It smelled like shrimp. Or maybe lobster.

“It should be okay! Right?” Julia spun into herself, flesh becoming more of a suggestion and less of a reality, as she discarded her clothes and armor, turning into shadows that then morphed into a three-meter-wide Shadow Spider. With a voice like Evil, she said, “Bone apple teeth!”

Tiffany escaped, rapidly rushing down the game trail, saying, “Seeing you eat one spider was enough for me!”

“I hope to never see it,” Paul said, rapidly following Tiffany, getting out from between Julia and her prize. “Let’s go bury those bodies.”

Ezekiel escaped too, saying, “Love you, Julia! Have a good lunch! It’s certainly a pretty spider!”

As the first crunching sounds echoed in the slightly burned forest, Ezekiel caught up to his people who were still shaped like people. The three of them walked through the forest, headed toward the burial mound, breaking spider threads along the way like they weren’t even there. The magic was gone in those threads now. To distract themselves from the crunching sounds echoing from behind, Tiffany asked about burial customs, and why Paul suggested burial, to which Paul spoke of various burial customs the world over.

“We cremate in Spur because—”

Crunch!

“— Because necromancy is outlawed because people use it to—”

Crack!

“—use it to raise demons or angels because of the—”

Snap!

“—Because of the Quiet War—”

Splat!

Paul winced, his eyes closing briefly as they walked on, saying, “She’s doing that on purpose.”

A horrific, shadowy voice called out, “I am!” followed by awful, evil cackling. In a much nicer, [Prestidigitation] voice that was closer to her own, she said, “It’s just monster meat! You guys eat this stuff, too.”

Tiffany called back, “I like my meat on a plate and well seasoned, thank you!”

“This is half-cooked!” With a smaller, no less evil voice, Ezekiel heard a worried mumble, “Too cooked.”

Ezekiel distracted Paul and Tiffany from the crunching and munching, which was now quieter, asking everyone, “They bury in order to dig up later, and to question the people?”

They reached the burial site at the base of a tree, which was more like a garbage pile, and yet not at all. Despite the horror which was apparent only to his mana sense, Ezekiel at least appreciated the weaver’s cleanliness. The weaver had dug down into the roots of a normal enough tree, and then stuffed desiccated bodies and all of the belongings of the people into one location, and then covered it over with layers upon layers of brown and green thread. It almost looked like the tree was simply thick around the base, but anyone with true eyes to see could tell that this was the barest attempt at hiding something.

And that something was a small nest.

Spiders lived amongst the bodies. Small and brown, they nested.

“They bury bodies to maybe raise with necromancy one day, yes,” Paul said. “It’s part of the judicial system, sometimes.”

“Weird,” Tiffany said, as she reached forward into the brown and green threads, and pulled.

Thread snapped, revealing desiccated bodies, bags, rotten food, broken weapons, and more than a few animal corpses, too. Tiffany pulled out the first body from the desiccated pile, dislodging the tiny brown spiders who had hidden deeper when they sensed people tromping around nearby. ‘Tiny’ being relative. They were still the size of Ezekiel’s hand. Maybe they were babies? Or maybe there was something else going on there; Ezekiel wasn’t quite sure. There were no rads in these spiders though; they were not monsters.

