Temperance sat on the floor of their shared bedroom while the girls sat on their bed, rapt attention on Temperance as she told them a story about their journey from Wheatridge to Olytan Lighthouse. The journey, of course, was false, but the story, about staying in the palace of Noble Putnam and his falsely accused wife, of the treacherous chief butler and the midnight raid, was all true.

Idly, Piety wondered if there really was a town called Wheatridge. It seemed plausible. In fact, giving it more thought, it seemed likely there was more than one.

Piety lay on the bed she shared with Temperance, eyes closed, and tried to focus. She was supposed to be using this time to plan what for what came next; should Frederick and his ilk begin feeding on the citizens of Olytan Lighthouse, or should Devorah attack, or the Twilight Intersect, one of the outer orbiting, aetheric realms, one of the realms of light, finally Intersect with the Prime Realm.

Hirrom had told her that while he might be able to predict the Intersection with certainty if he knew all the factors of the realms’ orbits, such knowledge was vast at best and all he could say was he felt it would be soon.

Tobias was supposed to have contacted the Magistrate of Olytan to convey Royal Isabel’s warning of a potential assault on his city by Kempenny forces, not to mention Frederick Vahramp’s interest in the city and the metaphysical intersection with the Twilight Realm. Piety hoped he had been able to convince the magistrate of the imminent danger but wondered what the magistrate could do about it.

Piety tried again to quiet her mind and seek her scattered companions, but though concentration came easily to her, despite the thrilling tale spun by Temperance, finding Tobias or Hirrom didn’t work. Telepathic communication had become difficult, a side effect of the coming Intersection, or so Hirrom claimed. Piety was certain that if she sought the cosmos, she’d be able to overcome the Twilight Realm’s interference, but she wasn’t ready to commit to the cosmos until absolutely necessary.

A quiet knock preceded the entrance of the Abbot. “Time for bed, girls.”

Rose and Summer sighed with reluctant acceptance and let Temperance tuck them into bed. “Tomorrow night, I’ll tell you about the time I met a cleric who could heal with magic, all right?” The girls made excited sounds of ascent, and Temperance hushed them gently.

“Tempy, do you know any stories about the Light Cleric?” asked one of the girls, Rose, Piety thought.

“I know a few. But we’ll have to save them for later.”

There were a few more sleepy noises that were likely meant to be words, and then Piety felt the girls drift to sleep.

“You’re good with them,” noted the Abbot. “Have you ever considered becoming a cleric, Temperance? I think you would be a competent leader of a church or abbey of your own some day.”

“A leader? Me? No, Pi… Sweep is…”

“Piety is a kind-hearted girl, and a fantastic sweeper, but her path, I think, lies elsewhere.”

Temperance coughed uncomfortably. Piety opened her eyes and sat up. The Abbot regarded her with patient eyes and a small smile.

“Piety? Who is that?” Temperance asked, though the lie was stilted.

Piety shook her head. “It’s all right, Temperance. The Abbot has known all along, haven’t you?”

The Abbot shrugged. “I certainly suspected. There aren’t many girls out there with white hair going by the name Churchstep. I assumed you had your reasons.”

Piety and the Abbot regarded each other for a few moments more before the Abbot looked at Temperance. “Think on it, dear. Good night.”

Temperance closed the door after her and climbed into bed with Piety, pulling the covers over them both.

“She’s right,” Piety said. “You’d make a fantastic leader of the church.”

“But, I don’t believe in God.”

Piety nodded. “I think that’s what would make you great.”

• • •

When she awoke, it was to the sound of rain hammering on the slate shingles of the abbey at Olytan Lighthouse, and she knew it had begun. She recognized this storm as its winds swirled around the building, whistling at windows and rattling at shutters; she recognized the dark clouds that made evening out of noon, threatening to collapse the sky with their weight; she recognized the pounding rain and sudden lightning and rolling thunder. This was the storm of her dreams, heralding war.

Piety sat up suddenly.

Temperance sat up next to her, eyes wide and breathing hard. Rose and Summer were startled from their sleep. One of them screamed sharply.

“Temperance, I have to go now.”

“What are you going to do?”

“I don’t know. Stay in the abbey, you’ll be safe here.”

“Wait, what if you need me to pull you from the cosmos?”

“If I need you, you’ll know.”

“How?”

“I don’t know. How have you ever? I have to go. Now.” She opened the small trunk at the foot of their bed and dressed: stout boots, leather pants, a warm, stout dress, all of it white, or a travel-stained version thereof. When she was done, Piety pulled the sunburst amulet out from under the collar of her nightdress by the thin leather cord around her neck.

Rose and Summer stared at them, tears on their cheeks, clutching at each other. Piety looked at them.

“You’re safe here. Stay with Temperance, all right?”

Lightning lit the room through the shuttered windows and cast their small faces in sharp relief. They nodded.

She needed to get outside, to see what was going on. She considered the window, but that would let the storm in, potentially frightening the children. She opened the bedroom door. The hallway was abuzz with concerned voices.

“Piety.” Temperance put a hand on her arm and joined her in the hallway. She looked at Piety, tears already welling. She swallowed hard and took a deep breath. “I love you. You know that, right?”

Piety smiled at her friend. “Yours was the love I could always count on. I love you too, Temperance.”

Temperance hugged her hard and kissed her cheek several times in quick succession before letting her go so suddenly Piety nearly fell. Temperance looked like she wanted to say more, but she bit her lip instead and gave Piety a small push to the stairs. Piety squeezed Temperance’s shoulders and left.

Outside, the chaos of the storm was echoed by soldiers in the street. They hurried down the rain slick cobbles, white tabards marking them out amongst the villagers who crowded the way to look.

Piety cloaked herself in telekinetic power to keep the rain off and warmth in.

Someone screamed. It was high-pitched to carry over the hubbub and brought quiet to the immediate area. People looked around in an attempt to discover who had screamed and why, but Piety was the only one whose gaze was drawn to the lighthouse. Somehow, she’d known it would be at the lighthouse.

The lighthouse was a beacon of light in the storm; a steady flame enhanced by carefully crafted and well-maintained mirrors. Above the lighthouse, almost blending into the grey storm clouds, a fissure opened in the sky spilling grey light onto the lighthouse, turning the light grey and dimming it to the shadows inbetween light and dark.

The Twilight Intersect was one of the Aetheric Realms, a constant, unchangeable. Piety looked into the fissure and saw nothing. There was nothing physical within, only twilight and all the abstract notions such a massive grey area connoted.

Piety cast her mind voice to Hirrom, shouting to be heard over the interference of the Twilight Realm.

“Where are you? The Intersect is happening now.”

But the interference was too great.

Piety touched her mindspace and opened herself to the cosmos. Power flowed into her. Instantly she felt less attached to the situation, less a sense of immediacy. She knew what needed doing, but she felt less concerned with what might go wrong. She took a moment to examine individual raindrops as they streaked to the stones and splattered against them. She listened to the panicked thoughts of the people of Olytan Lighthouse.

“Hirrom.”

“I’m here, Piety. I hear you.”

She could see them, huddled in their cave, hungry, tired, and afraid.

“It’s here, at the top of the lighthouse. You need to come now.

“We can’t. We can feel the fear, smell the blood. If we come now, we may lose control of the bloodlust.”

“But the Twilight Realm is here. This is why we came.”

“We came to defeat the bloodlust. If we give in to it now, all is for naught.”

Piety cursed and looked at the space above the lighthouse. Surely they hadn’t come all this way for nothing. Perhaps she could bring them to the rift, pull them through the air with telekinesis and thus deliver them to the Twilight Realm. All she had to do was get there, which wasn’t so hard.

There was a second scream, and Piety realized the first hadn’t been for the advent of the Intersection, but the arrival of the vhamps. The horrendous wretches skittered along the rain slick streets and rooftops, leaping upon their prey with deadly efficiency. Piety hadn’t felt them coming. Was that because she’d been so focused on getting Hirrom to the Intersect, because of the Twilight Realm’s interference with her metaphysical senses, or something else?

The questions slid away as she pulled power through the cosmos and focused on turning that energy into light. She pinpointed one of the creatures slithering along the street toward her and let loose a powerful beam of light. But when the power loosed from her hands and struck the beast, it was not the blinding white light she had expected. Instead, it was a grayish light, as though filtered through banks of heavy clouds. It was twilight. The vhamp was stunned, but not destroyed.

“So much for the Light Cleric,” Piety muttered. If the influence of the Twilight Realm stifled light, she’d have to find another way to destroy the vhamps. The answer came to her quickly as she remembered that night in the house of the mayor of Sunslance when she had watched Father Vytal wield the power of his mind like a sword, destroying their minds.

She let her mind expand to cover the block, then the neighborhood, pinpointing each vhamp by the sickly ruddy glow of their auras. She concentrated, and the chaos around her slowed as though catching its breath. Many vhamps had victims in hand or jaw. Some victims had been infected by the venom of the vhamp. Piety pulled on the power of the cosmos, like drawing a large, overstuffed quilt off the drying line in summer, all heavy, cumbersome warmth, and did several things in quick succession in several places at once.

First, she severed whatever part of a vhamp had hold of a person: hands and fingertips and jaws. She was precise with her bladed telekinesis, no victim of a vhamp suffered its edge. Then, with a sometimes subtle sometimes heavy shove, depending on what would put the vhamp furthest from any other potential victims, she isolated each vhamp as best she could. Finally, she sharpened her telepathic power to a long thin point made to breach mental shields and thrust while at the same time encasing each in a second shield to contain the mental scream she knew would result.

And reality caught up with her.

All around her the screaming chaos continued even as vhamps slumped to the ground, blood leaking from eyes, ears, and noses. The blood pooled on the west streets to be washed away by pounding rain.

Though she had channeled the power of the cosmos and not her own, so much power so quickly left her feeling raw, as though she’d stayed too long in the sun. Hirrom had said the power of the cosmos was dangerous and she’d thought he meant she might lose herself to it, but now she wondered if he’d meant she might channel so much power that it harmed her. She closed her eyes and took a breath. For a moment she could see the room in her mind, as it had ever been: bookcase, desk, chessboard. There was still no response note from Devorah. With a quick thought, Piety channeled healing energy and instantly felt better though she knew it was a temporary fix.

Around her, the storm continued. There were more vhamps in the city she knew, but from here, on the street, it would be difficult to find them. She needed to be higher.

“Little sister?”

Piety turned to find Devorah Kempenny in close-fitting, black clothes plastered to her body by the rain. She held a rapier, but Piety got the impression the older girl had several other weapons secreted about her.

“Devorah. I was hoping you would respond to my letter. You need to call off this attack.”

“I… They don’t answer to me.”

“Then why are you here?”

“Freddy Vahramp. He survived.”

“I know.”

“The Intersect will make him more powerful. I’m going to kill him before that happens. Will you help me?”

She wanted to help. Slaying Vahramp would make everyone safer. But she had promised Hirrom and his students she would help them. In the distance, the sounds of battle provided a steady droning undertone. Something large pounded irregular rhythm against the walls of Olytan Lighthouse.

“I need to help Hirrom first. The Twilight Realm will remove the bloodlust.”

Realization sparked in Devorah’s expression. “Hirrom Berek? Piety, no. You can’t give him access to the Intersect. Didn’t you hear what I said about it making them more dangerous?”

“Devorah, I have to do this.”

“No, I won’t let you.”

Piety pulled at the cosmos and spread her telepathic awareness as far and wide as she could. Panic, fury, fear—the minds of the people of Olytan Lighthouse and the High Cleric’s army, and the Mountain Kingdom warriors were buffeted by storm and battle and undead. But she could only do so much at once.

“I’m sorry,” she said to everyone and no one.

Devorah cursed and slashed her sword at the storm. “I will stop you if I must.”

Piety felt the raging bloodlust of Frederick Vahramp slithering through the rain toward them and bit her tongue on a warning. Instead she met Devorah’s gaze calmly though it pained her, even through the cosmos.

“I think you’ll have your hands full, big sister.”

Devorah’s eyes narrowed and she looked up as Frederick leapt from a roof top toward her.

While Devorah and Frederick scuffled, Piety leapt through the rain, making for the lighthouse on bursts of telekinesis. But at an intersection near her goal, she was stopped by a cruel voice she knew too well.

“Sweep, my wretched child, how fortunate that I’ve found you.”

