Even through the stifling calm of the cosmos, Piety felt a clutch of fear at that voice. She spun to look down the street. Coming toward her was Willow Vytal. She looked younger than when Piety had last seen her, no hint of grey to her hair. Her face was disturbingly perfect. When she smiled, she showed off a set of elongated canines that almost seemed delicate.

Without hesitation, Piety struck at her with a poniard of telepathy. Willow staggered and her smile was replaced by a snarl. In that moment, she became a thin, sharp thing, a creature designed for predation. Her mental shield was stronger than Piety had expected, but not stronger than the power she could channel from the cosmos.

“Wretch! You dare attack your mother? I will kill you as I should have when I found you on the step of my church!”

Piety was repulsed. Willow thought of herself as her mother? The idea was disgusting, but it gave her pause. She’d given Willow a chance to recant back at Sacred Heart not because of any misguided affection, but because if she could offer a second chance, or a third, without harming others, why shouldn’t she?

Willow hissed and charged, her footing on the wet street certain, her fingers elongating to claws, her eyes glowing with rage and bloodlust.

With a well-practiced downward thrust of telekinetic energy, Piety was airborne. She dragged Willow in her wake with invisible hands under her arms. She streaked to the rent in the sky over the lighthouse where the Twilight Realm intersected with the Prime Realm.

From this vantage, her senses open, she could see the battle spread from the main gate of Olytan Lighthouse. Siege engines of all shapes and sizes pounded the massive wall where white-clad defenders rained death upon the invaders. It was not precisely as it had been in the dream, but the death and destruction was the same.

“Piety! We’re nearly to the walls.” Hirrom’s mind voice sounded far away and distorted, but she recognized his urgency.

Piety clenched her jaw. She couldn’t take Willow to Hirrom, but neither could she ignore his call. She pulled hard at the cosmos and considered the space between. Telekinesis let her move objects through space, perhaps it would let her move space itself. If she could just twist space quickly enough, she might achieve two tasks at once.

“I’ll meet you at the wall.”

She held firm to where she was, the moment stretched, and…

• • •

With a strong twist of telekinesis, she stood with Hirrom on the western wall of Olytan Lighthouse, far from the siege. His students huddled around him.

“Piety!” Hirrom hugged her and she returned the embrace. She could feel his joy, like a warm pair of socks on a rainy day. “You came. We were beginning to think something had happened.”

Piety wasted no time. “Devorah Kempenny battles Frederick, but she also seeks to destroy you. I will take you, one by one, to the rift. We must be quick.” She looked at them, they looked back with awe, and hope, and expectation. None sought the blood of the battlefield, none shied from the twilight, none wavered. She held her hand out to Hirrom, but he shook his head.

“The other’s first. I’ll be last.”

First was Abigail Oats, the farmer’s daughter, the first of the other vhamps to have tasted her blood. Piety held out her hand, and Abigail took it, her fingers trembling, her jaw clenched, but her gaze full of nothing but trust. A thrust of power and they were airborne. Abigail gasped but Piety gave her no time to panic. She twisted the space between here and there and it seemed the Twilight Realm welcomed her, helped pull her to it and it was all she could do to stop below it rather than hurtling into it.

Abigail looked into the Intersect of Twilight, the Place of Eventide, an Aetheric Overlap of Realms, without form, and she sighed. Tears tinged pink leaked down her cheeks and were scattered by rain. Piety swept her arm up and tossed Abigail with her telekinesis. In a moment, the girl was gone.

Second was Rylie Pearce, a glassblower from Kempenny Province. Third was Lloyd Wade, a smith’s apprentice. Fourth was Deanna Hitchlock, a woman from Artio Province, mother of five and grandmother to three. Her eldest daughter-in-law and been expecting her second child when the vhamps attacked. Each of them went to the Twilight Realm with a thrust of power and were gone from the Prime Realm. Just like that, Piety was a third done with the task—not counting Hirrom.

• • •

The moment slowed.

Piety drew Willow up until they were face to face. Willow Vytal was a horrible person, but Piety found herself in a position to offer that second chance. She thought of Hirrom and the vhamps he had saved with her blood, and she wondered if she could have saved the vhamps in the city below rather than attacking. She wondered if she should feed Willow her blood.

“This is your last chance, Willow. The realm beyond has no physical form. If you survive beyond there will be no bloodlust, no greed…”

“Don’t dare to lecture me on greed, wretch. You always wanted what I had, always sought after your betters. You should have stayed in your place.”

Piety shook her head. Perhaps this was a bad idea.

• • •

Between tossing Deanna into the Twilight and returning for the next, her body was pierced by pain she could feel despite the cosmos.

Devorah cursed, her voice a low growl.

Piety looked down at the pain to find a sword point protruding from her stomach. Absently, she grabbed hold of it only to have her left palm slashed as the blade was withdrawn. For the first time, Piety felt the cold rain of the storm.

Piety drew on the cosmos, a warmth to battle the cold of storm and shock, and the wound closed. And she drew on more and wrapped telekinetic force around Devorah, gripping firmly to keep the girl still. Perhaps if she was given a chance to explain, Devorah would see it her way.

But Devorah traveled the omnipresent shadows of Twilight to face Piety from mere inches, balancing on shadow; her aura black against the grey shadows, sparks of blue dancing at the edges.

“Don’t be foolish, Piety.”

She couldn’t go back to the wall, it would lead Devorah straight to the vhamps, but if she twisted space quickly enough…

“Have you killed Frederick yet?” Piety needled.

Devorah sneered. “I’m working on it.”

Piety teleported and Devorah followed.

Piety appeared outside the city walls in war-churned mud. Devorah appeared behind her and immediately had to parry a strike meant for someone else. Piety stood there only a moment before she stood on the wall next to Imogene Avoy, a weaver. When they went to the space just below the Intersect, Devorah was there to meet them. Piety didn’t bother with the toss, she just let go Imogene’s hand and teleported her from the Prime Realm.

Devorah screamed and slashed at Piety’s throat. Piety took the moment to draw more power and healed the wound even as it was made.

“I enjoyed our chess games, big sister. I wish we could have gotten to know each other better.”

Devorah slashed again but Piety was already gone. Unfortunately when she stood among the vhamps, Devorah was already among them. Piety would have to be faster. Devorah had already taken the arm of a man and was about to run him through.

“As did I, little sister. I was always a step or three ahead of you in those games, wasn’t I?”

Piety reached and clenched her hand. Devorah’s rapier disappeared, tossed a hundred miles away into the ocean.

Devorah spun, a blur of shadow, her rapier reclaimed.

Piety teleported behind the man who’d lost his arm and at the same time did not. Almost no blood leaked from the man’s dismemberment. His name was Malcom Wotherspoon; he was a carpenter.

Piety took hold of him while watching Devorah thrust that awful sword at her. At once she teleported skyward and stayed where she was. She grabbed the hand of Treman Maycock, a farmer, and Alice Beale, a printer, as Devorah’s rapier jammed into her shoulder. She both felt it and did not. Again she teleported to the sky. She was tempted to toss those she had and come back for the rest, but she knew it wasn’t time for the endgame, she had to continue setting up the board.

She healed her pierced shoulder, but Devorah was fast, and the next strike took her left knee. She fell to the stone floor of the wall. Somebody screamed.

And she teleported to Sophie Treuwe, a baker’s wife and keeper of his books; and Nicholas Kirk, a carpenter; and Patrick Swan, a fisherman; and Faith, an orphan of Sacred Heart. And she teleported skyward.

“Yes. Until the end you were always one step ahead. But I won that last game.”

Devorah waited for them at the rent in the sky. But she did not expect all of them. Piety floated in a circle of six, four of her holding one, two of her holding two. Devorah hesitated, not knowing who to attack, and in that hesitation, Piety had teleported them to the Twilight Realm.

But she still knelt on the city wall while Devorah thrust at her throat.

Piety’s vision went blurry. She pulled more power through the cosmos and healed her wounds.

Nearby, Hirrom struggled with Devorah, his hands wrapped around her weapon. It wasn’t much of a struggle. Devorah twisted the sword from his grasp and slashed it at him.

Hirrom fell over the side of the wall.

• • •

The moment hesitated.

Willow slashed at her with the speed of a vhamp, and as she had in the chapel of Sacred Heart, Piety let it happen. Willow would not change.

“I’m sorry,” Piety said, and sorrow touched her through the cosmos.

But only for a moment.

In the next, three focused poniards of telepathy pierced the vhamp’s mind. Piety shielded herself against the telepathic scream and closed her eyes against the vision of blood leaking from the eyes, ears, and nose of the woman who had tortured her for years.

• • •

“Devorah! Leave him be and I’ll help you kill Frederick.”

Devorah paused and looked over her shoulder at Piety.

“Please.”

Devorah nodded.

“I’ll wait below the Intersect. Chase him there. Keep his attention on you. I’ll catch hold of him and you can pierce his heart.”

“That’s risky.”

“I know.”

• • •

Piety teleported over the side of the wall where Hirrom clung to the stone, using fingers like claws to climb. She took hold of him and sprang to the sky.

• • •

She stood upon nothing a moment before she got there. Frederick leapt from the peak of the lighthouse to the Intersect but she caught him, grasping him from behind and holding him steady, her telekinesis rigid against the storm.

• • •

And the moment caught up with her.

Piety tossed the body of Willow Vytal into the Twilight Realm.

Piety held Frederick as the bullet destroyed his heart and hers.

Piety stood beneath the point of Intersection, but the rent was gone. Hirrom still in her arms.

And as Frederick’s life poured from his chest, she found she could not heal her own wound. She pulled on the power of the cosmos, but it streamed straight through her into nowhere, like a pump with a broken handle, spewing its contents without restraint.

Her whole body tingled, as it had when she was a child and knelt before the altar of God. Chimes rang faintly, just on the edge of hearing. She blinked and she could see the room in her mind, but she was on the other side of the wall, in the cosmos. In the room, standing at the edge, was an old woman with kind purple eyes.

“Well, I suppose this is the way things start.”

“Minerva, is that you?”

The old woman nodded.

The room beyond faded, as though a cold fog slid in.

“I don’t understand.”

“You were right you know; it is a sort of gift.”

Piety reached to her mindspace but it was as though the wall was still there. Her hand that was not a hand pressed against it but would not pass through. The fog beyond the purple-eyed woman swirled in a cold wind. It began to snow in the mindspace.

“Piety, you must let go of the cosmos.”

Piety pressed harder. “It’s all that’s holding me together.”

Minerva nodded. “I know.”

“Then why?”

“You’re connected to them, the other girls, and if you hang on, you’ll burn them up, just as you did yourself.”

“Piety! Piety if you can hear me, come back!”

Piety sighed and it was as though she expelled the weight of a fortress from her shoulders. She felt relieved and exhausted. Even in the place that was not a place, without form, she felt relief.

“Am I dying?”

Minerva shrugged. “After a fashion. But then again, not really.”

“It feels like I’m dying. I couldn’t heal the wound.”

“Piety, you said I’d know, and you were right. Come back, please come back.”

“What about Temperance?”

The snow became a blizzard. Piety gazed into Minerva’s vivid purple eyes as though from a great distance. Her vision blurred.

“They will die if you persist in the cosmos. Piety, you must let go.”

“Piety, hang on!”

Outside, just beyond the room in her mind, she could sense the passing storm. She could hear Devorah’s screams of sorrow. She could feel…

“But what about Temperance?”

Minerva sighed. “I’m sorry, Piety.”

“Piety?”

Piety took a breath that was not a breath, leaned back in the space that was not a space, and let go the cosmos.
