We are all going to die.

That's our lot in life. We're going to spend our blood here. We're going to burn ourselves down to the wick. And when the end comes, it's not going to be pretty. It's not going to be the thing they talk about in stories or sing about in songs. It's going to be hard and ugly. It's going to be a nightmare. It's going to be the closest thing you'll ever get to hell.

Some of you might believe in an afterlife. I'm not sure what comes after. But I do know there are monsters in this life, and I know those monsters are coming. Coming to our gates, to our home. They're going to visit their cruelty on us. Hells, they already have. All of you know what's coming. I see it in your eyes. I can hear it in your breath, the way the oil pumps through you. I know you're scared.

I'm not scared, though. It's no lie.

My enemy is a monster. My enemy is a drug addict. My enemy can't control his sadism. My enemy has to do this. My enemy has to throw himself against our walls. He has to bleed and batter himself, trying to kill us. He has to. My enemy is a hollow thing. My enemy is less than a slave. My enemy will never know what it's like to have something worth fighting for behind him. My enemy can torture a thousand people, can butcher a hundred million worlds, and never have one experience worth remembering. My enemy has no culture but the one he steals. My enemy has no dreams beyond the next bit of suffering he inflicts, and after that, another, and another, and another. My enemy has intellect and an eternity to perfect any craft. He did not choose this one. My enemy is less than a slave.

I'm not afraid of what they might do to me. I'm not afraid of what's going to come. I told you all: We're all going to die. All of us. Even the ones who don't believe it. Even the Heroes and Legends.

I've got people I spend my time with. People who matter, people who will continue to matter. I've seen the children. I've watched our city grow. I've seen our community stand and flourish, even under constant suffering, even in the face of war unending. We're still here. We're still fighting. Season after season, summer after summer, we're still here.

And it's always godsdamn worth it. It's worth it to fight. It's worth it to defy the bastards. It's worth it to spit in the Challenger's face, because we have a life. Because there is a dream. Because there is something more than war.

I'm not afraid of my enemies. I'm not afraid of them taking my limbs and placing me on one of their torture farms. There'll be nothing left of me then; I'll be long gone. I'm not afraid of my enemy cutting me down, because it will take them blood to do it—more blood than I'm worth. I'm not afraid.

The only thing I am afraid of is if they step over me. If they bring their cruelty to the ones I'm supposed to protect. If they hurt our children. If they try to take our future.

If they try to hurt you.

We're all gonna die, but I'm gonna be dying beside you. I'm gonna be dying for you. And you'll do the same for me. Our enemy doesn't know how to do that. Our enemy cannot understand the idea that others matter. Our enemy only thinks in ‘I’. Our enemy doesn't have children. He doesn't have a legacy. He doesn't have a tomorrow. He has only an eternal now that never grows.

Our enemies live in hell. Our enemies are trapped in their own purgatory, and our enemies are gonna fall today—because we're not going to let them step over our corpses, even if we're gonna have to pile our bodies high into the sky. If the wall falls, we become the wall. We fill that gap, and we make them pay.

Because we are not our enemy. We are Lone Star. But that star don’t stand by itself. That star stands because all of us carry that weight together.

Our enemy has come with the intention of bringing hell to our gates. Well. Since we’re already dead, let’s go show them how hot hell really burns.

—We Burn Together: Speech by Hero-Ranger Morgan Munny during the Miracle at Fortress-City Hu-Stone

324

Paragon [II]

The Broken Watchtower is pleased with its new offerings…

A heart of undying strife burns hot…

A new tale unfolds…

You have now been sacrificed to—

[ERROR - Unable to incorporate Path of the Deathless into the Tapestry of the Fairwoods]

Generic template Tanner ”Shiv” Lowe has been added to the Grand Narrative to conceptualize new Fae

Restarting Narrative Cycle

Commencing Season of Spring

“...Look… look, My Lady! The Undying One stirs. He is brightening. His life force is surging. He wakes! He takes shape! The sharpness he emits—”

A deafening, pig-like squeal interrupted the first voice. “Ser Appetius, dearest, you’re being too loud. Our dear prisoner is only just rousing from his stupor; already you are striking his very eardrums with your pitched declarations. Have some mercy on this poor soul—why, is he already to be punished for his transgressions against the Court of Summer? Let the torments wait until he fully… wakes.”

“Of course, my GREAT AND CORPULENT PRINCESS! Your word is the breeze at my back, the tongue that lifts me in triumph, and the stomach that will give this existence of mine meaning!”

Shiv couldn't recall when he passed out. Actually, he didn't think he passed out at all. It was like a bit of time just went missing—it was the same kind of uncanny absence as suffering the effects of a Chronomancy spell. One moment, he remembered himself falling, diving after Adam, shoving the strip of cooked paper into his friend's mouth. The next, well… There was a lot of nothing between then and now. Shiv strained himself to remember, but all he could think of was fire, that brave and glorious fire that swept through him.

The Watchtower. Evanescia. Adam. Uva. The Fairwoods.

He remembered all that without any difficulty, but there was something missing in between. No, he hadn't been knocked out. He already went through something like that when one of the Red Riding Wolves knocked him on the head. This was different. The amnesia he suffered was too neat and calculated. Either a Chronomancy spell or a Psychomancy spell, but either way, that damn Fae did something to me… Actually, where the hells am I? Why is everything so dark and warm and tight around me?

Shiv found himself embraced by a hot, warm substance. It was not quite mud, though similar in viscousness. Instead, if he had to compare its texture to something, it would be gravy. And it smelled like it too. Shiv's body was protected by a nest of slashing arcs. Each stroke of crimson carved a clean path through the thick mass surrounding him, giving him glimpses into an outside world so bright it speared his very soul with radiance. But the openings he cut didn't last. They closed back together like water filling up an absence.

He tried to shift his consciousness over from his Severed Shadow, only to find his other bodies somehow beyond reach. It wasn't like they didn't exist anymore, but when he tried to pour the bulk of his awareness into them, there was a blockade, a threshold he couldn't pass. The bodies were there, but they were akin to numb limbs: static and dull to his will. The Fairwoods had him trapped in a way he just didn't understand. He recalled swapping his physical body with his Severed Shadow before reaching Adam. His Revenant form didn't burn; his flesh did.

So why was the former here instead of the latter? Actually, why couldn't he feel any hint of the latter? The physical body he'd deployed to the Fairwoods was absent. Probably destroyed…

Confused, he pulled up his notifications, only to be greeted by a wall of text. The sheer amount of levels that jumped into his eyes lent credence to another death.

Phase Frame 90 > 93

Eldritch Physiology 68 > 80

Bifurcated Processing 86 > 89

Inertial Overdrive 271 > 278

Non-Sequitur 179 > 185

Vitality Drain 138 > 150

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 514 > 523

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 202 > 219

However, one notification in particular caught his attention. A notification he had never seen before.

Skill Reclamation Resisted: Lord Commander of the Slumbering Uneaten (Narrative) retained

Someone being able to reclaim a skill at all was news to him. Maybe that was a Fairwoods-specific thing. Or maybe it was an ability the Fae had that no one else did, or had something to do with Narrative Skills being recoverable. The fact that this could happen disturbed him, but his rational mind took hold. I don't see any other Skill Reclamation notifications. It only affected his Narrative Skill, the one he'd figuratively wrung out from Toasty.

If someone could steal all my skills, they likely would have done that already. Makes no sense to just take one if you are going to be a thief anyway.

Deductive Reasoning 23 > 24

Out of nowhere, he felt a sting of inspiration course through him. An irrational urge to do something heroic or virtuous took hold. It was like he wanted to be a better person, that he wanted to be a proper hero, to be all he could be, and rise beyond his baser traits. Shiv had no idea where that feeling came from, but it made him giddy enough that he wasn’t against getting stung again. When another dose came, he let out a grunt of laughter and wondered if the Fairwoods were doing something to him directly.

Might be one of Evanescia’s schemes. She did say something about making me a character in one of her stories. Shit, is that what I am now? Still have no idea where Uva is—or Adam, for that matter. Did he get away? I know she didn’t. I saw her burn. She tried… I remember her trying to reach into my mind and wrap herself around me before the Watchtower…

“Evanescia!” Shiv called out telepathically. His valorous urge amplified the power of his Psychomancy. An eruption of translucent mana bubbled out from his body and went off like a bomb. “Evanescia! Come out! Come out from wherever you are! I know you’re out there, watching me. Don’t make me rip up your storybook some more. You know I can do it. You know you can’t cage me.” He pulled up another three notifications he skimmed over when his senses returned.

[ERROR]

Unable to incorporate Path of the Deathless into the tapestry of the Fairwoods

Generic template Tanner ”Shiv” Lowe has been added to the Grand Narrative to conceptualize new fae

Apparently, she couldn't take my Path or something, but she does have my generic template. She's going to make new Fae from me? Okay, yeah. No idea how this works. Just sounds like a mess to me. The error notification’s good, though. Probably means something went wrong.

“Evanescia!” Shiv called again. “You can keep playing the silent game, but I won’t. I’m going to start ripping through the pages of your stupid fairytale. I’ll carve this place open so deep and wide that you’ll drown in a flood of mana storms. There won’t be any stories to read if that happens.” When the Usurper-Narrator didn’t respond, Shiv just grunted with resigned savagery. “Alright. Violence it is, then.”

He manifested his Severed Shadow and unleashed the full power of his cutting aura. Or at least he tried to. Though his Revenant ignited, causing its Vitae to harden into glorious crimson scabs surrounding a pale, brilliant blade, his aura remained in its baseline state, barely stronger than before.

Warning: Acts of violence are not permitted for guest-prisoners of the Summer Court. To engage in acts of aggression once more, please depart the grounds of the Summer Court or break the Laws of Hospitality.

Warning: BREAKING THE LAWS OF HOSPITALITY WILL MARK YOU AS PERSONA NON GRATA AMONGST ALL BEINGS OF THE FAIRWOODS FOR THIS LOOP.

Now he was looking at more stuff he couldn’t understand. Right. Of course. More fairy bullshit. Well, if I can’t get my way out right now, I might as well see if I can escape.

Shiv activated his Non-Sequitur Skill. His true self shot free from the Vitae husk he shed in his wake. Drifting through the dense mess of gravy surrounding him, the Deathless continued on until he hit the borders of his environment.

Whereupon he found out he was in a cup. A colossal cup that was only suitable for a titan. And that what he was trapped in was literally gravy. He was in a mountain-sized cup filled with gravy.

Alright, I’ve been in a lot of weird places, but this is something else entirely. I’m pretty sure I’ve had dreams like… Oh. Oh, my felling gods. That’s a… big godsdamned pig.

Thoughtlessness claimed Shiv’s mind. The parts of him that were capable of processing and examining the world around him went on strike. The huge cup he was stuck in was one thing, but as he beheld the true form of his captor for the first time, Shiv just didn't have the imagination to accept her for what she was. Even "Titanic" was too small a word for her. She was large enough that Sullain's Tarrasque would only cover a fourth of her colossal bosom, and perhaps a tenth of her weight. She was so wide that she went beyond Shiv's field of view—literally expanding past the reach of the horizon. Her head was a bulbous, pudgy mess, with so many rolls and creases between her chin and neck that Shiv suspected one could build hundreds of towns or cities between those depressions, the stretch marks on her skin appearing like valleys.

