But the most exaggerated feature on her face was the nose. It was a protruding, pig-like snout, pink and enormous. Every few seconds, it would sniffle and snort. The noise would bellow across the land like a war-horn calling an army to draw their steel. It stood apart from the rest of the woman's face, which, despite being rather fat, was mostly homely, even rather pretty. Her eyes glowed bright, her irises like twin droplets of starfire. Her hair was a massive beehive that rained down in long tassels. All of it was the color of bubble gum and cotton candy—and it might literally be bubble gum and cotton candy, judging from just how many bits of detritus were clinging to each strand. Shiv saw hundreds of thousands of organic signatures flickering like gems within her hair. There were enough life forms to make up a large city dwelling upon her scalp.

And those signatures continued raining down, spreading across the rest of her body. Countless more signatures clung around her neck, doing all they could to fasten a city-sized bib in place. Shiv focused on one of the organic signatures, pinged their eyes, and briefly hopped over to their perspective. He found himself inhabiting the body of a feminine Fae. The thin, long-eared kind that looked kindred to elves. The Fae was strapped to the continent-sized woman's flesh by a complicated series of cables. Except the Fae was also dressed like a chef—complete with the hat. She wasn't alone in her attire or duty. Hundreds of other Fae worked to her left and right, trying to move the bib up through an incoherent pulley system.

“Pull! Pull! The Princess needs to wipe her lip!

“Heave! Heave! After she stuffs her mouth with strange delights!”

They sang like an orchestra, worked like laborers, and pretended to be chefs. By the time Shiv snapped back into his own body, his confusion had undergone a Skill Evolution, bringing him from Flabbergasted to Transfixed. Previously, he simply didn’t understand what he was beholding. Now, he was enchanted. Like he was looking upon some kind of great accident waiting to happen.

And happen an accident did. Shiv saw a biological signature plunge from the Mega-Maiden’s crown, bounce off her nose, and keep falling.

As Shiv cut over to the perspective of the plunging Fae, he found himself stealing a glance over the shoulder of a grumbling chef, muttering about how it would take another week to climb up her backside again.

Atlas of the Flesh Scrier 127 > 128

Takes literal cities worth of laborers to keep her happy. I think there are more Fae working on her face and hair than there were Pathbearers in Blackedge. And that's just the ones that aren't weird creatures living between them.

When he laid eyes on her dress, Shiv's mind went dry of thought again. For one, her dress was a beautiful, glorious gown made in the image of a trillion plum blossom petals. Waves of fluffy flower bits covered her skin while pale, thin pistils stuck out between each fold, giving her a willowy aura. There was also a flower-shaped window cut open above her breast, but any hint of skin was hidden first by the bib and then by a literal city thereafter—a city where her laborers lived, hanging from her neck like mountain-sized jewelry. The city was contained within a single structure, a massive crystal that resembled a ten-pointed star. The number of life signatures that dwelled within was too many for Shiv to count.

Weave made him underestimate just how large the Yellowstone Republic was. But this was beyond his ability to conceive. A woman so big that she needed an entire nation to work on her body was… was…

A thing of fantasy. Impractical for reality. Useful for allegory. Exaggerated for effect.

The notification appeared and then faded. Evanescia? Shiv suspected she had a hand in this, but he wasn’t sure. It could be the Watchtower doing something, or just the System trying to provoke him into action again in a roundabout way. Not like that hadn’t happened before.

Breaking out from his stunned state, Shiv looked away from the Mega-Maiden and then gagged as he took in the surrounding geography. His environment was not characterized by mountains, rivers, clouds, or roads. It was not characterized by cities or towns or any other natural phenomena. No. It was characterized by dishes, bowls, plates, pitchers, cups, chopsticks, forks, knives, and spoons. By roast meat, braised vegetables, steaming fluids, and quivering jello. By molten mountains leaking hot chocolate rather than magma; by peaks of frosting rather than frosty peaks.

All around Shiv was food. Enough food to feed a world. Enough food to bury and sink the very continental plates the Yellowstone Republic resided on. Enough food to feed a world, so much that it kept going even further beyond the horizon, further still beyond Shiv's ability to reach. Here was a food-scape he could get lost in, unable to navigate between the narrow valley of the plates. The colossal cup of gravy he was trapped in was merely a small part of a set list beyond his reckoning.

The Tarrasque made him feel small. This place made him almost feel insignificant.

Almost.

But there was something else within his heart that came ablaze with passion and artistry. Everything around him sparkled brightly, and a feeling—no, an unstoppable instinct—took over. The Chef Unwavering began spasming inside Shiv’s soul, like it was about to explode. The Skill was so excited that it hurt. And suddenly, he remembered something that turned his joy exponential—his Cooking Skill was his again, unburdened by Maiden’s Curse.

He was free. Well, not really, but he got what he wanted. He could be a chef again! And all around him was so much food everywhere that… that…

Holy… fucking… shit… I think I’m going to cry… Adam and Uva mattered a lot to him. But for a brief moment, they became a secondary concern.

So enchanted by this culinary wonderland that Shiv emerged from his Non-Sequitur state to take a closer look at everything. A loud hum of surprise made the air tremble, but he ignored it. It felt like a hurricane was washing over him, but Shiv just hovered through it, utterly unburdened by gales strong enough to uproot a forest’s worth of trees. Instead, he resurrected from within his Severed Shadow, and he sent that forth in his stead. He sent the body out nude—and hastily tried to wrap it in his Voidmantid armor.

But it was missing.

In fact, all of his equipment was missing.

“Godsdammit, Evanescia!” Shiv hissed. “The fuck kind of story has the hero getting stripped bare-ass naked! Give me back my frying pan! And cape! And my other shit!”

As he spat his complaints into the air, a breadstick arrow smashed into the back of his head and turned to powdery dust. Shiv looked over his shoulder and saw a small legion of Bread-Knights riding out to greet him. They came from the direction of the Mega-Maiden, and at the front of twelve formations of crust-armored knights riding upon horse-faced baguettes was a familiar face.

“Halt! Halt, Undying Abomination! You were to remain in the gravy dungeon until I descended and gave you permission to rise!”

“Oh, hey, Toasty!” Shiv exclaimed, eyes widening. He triggered his Eldritch Physiology, if only to transform his body and ensure his manhood wasn’t flapping about when he had a conversation. “Didn’t think you survived that last go around. Wait, weren’t you losing a fight to that wolf-horse last time I saw you?”

Twelve formations made up of ten Bread-Knights each came to a halt three hundred meters away from Shiv. He narrowed his eyes as three bread-folk out of each formation nocked their longbows and grew more grain-shaped arrows from their own bodies. Toasty himself broke away from the others, galloping through the air on a gingerbread Pegasus. He circled Shiv with a determined look on his face—but the Fae’s heart was dense with tension. His emotions weighed on him like a stomach full of bricks, and it didn’t take much to decipher why.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: He fears shaming his lady. And he comes to regain his honor the only way he can. He wants the Narrative Skill back. He—or perhaps she—was the one that tried to pluck it from you.

“I—” the Bread-Knight began.

Shiv cut him off. “Yeah, we can talk about me giving you your Skill back. But it was kind of a prick thing to do, performing Animancy on a helpless guy. I hope you didn’t touch me anywhere else while I was out of it.”

“Wha—how did—”

“You’re pretty predictable, Toasty.”

“Stop calling me by that preposterous nickname! I am—”

A loud, booming clap blasted through the air and made all the Bread-Knights practically leap off their mounts. The Mega-Maiden threw her head back and laughed lightly with glee, enjoying the scenes playing out before her. “Oh, you are right, Ser Appetius! Absolutely right! He is a spirited, fiery Patternist, isn’t he! You said he cannot die, yes? That he cooks the worst food imaginable? That you have never encountered a more talentless chef?”

Shiv’s right eye twitched with each subsequent statement from whom he knew to be Princess Plum Blossom. “You said all that about me?” Dark fire rose in columns of rage-infused smoke from Shiv's eyes.

Toasty’s core hardened into a solid sphere of unease. “I… Is it untrue? Are you not uniquely bad at the culinary arts? Does food not turn to blood and cancerous ruin by your very ministrations?”

“Yeah. When I’m Cursed,” Shiv ground out. He slowly pulled himself toward the Bread-Knight, who started actively sliding back through the air, as if he was reversing his earlier motion. A series of arrows smashed into Shiv, but he ignored them. “Listen. No-longer-Anointed-One. Toasty. Have you ever had someone carve their way up your ass?” The Faebread glowed brightly under The Chef Unwavering’s influence. “Ripped through your folds. Smashed your cock in while they’re at it.”

“I… I lack such organs, so your threats won’t work!” Toasty shot back with a quaver in his voice.

“Don’t worry, I can add them to you. Don’t have the cancer anymore, so you can be my first piece! Dedicated to… uh, Princess Plum Blossom here! That is who I’m looking at, isn’t it?”

Suddenly, the Anointed Knight froze as his ENORMOUS LADY clasped her hands together and batted her eyelashes the length of fields. “Oh, you sweetest thing, Ser Appetius! You spoke of me to your host?”

“I… of course, My Lady!” Toasty babble.

“Mostly good things,” Shiv added, throwing a psychological bomb into the mix.

“Mostly?” Princess Plum Blossom’s smile vanished so quickly that Shiv didn't even notice any muscles in her face twitching.

Good godsdamned shit, she’s fast. At least her facial muscles are, anyway.

“Mostly?” the Bread-Knight wailed, his emotional core rattling with terror. “What are you speaking about, you… you abomination, you—I only said good things!”

Shiv grinned at him and sent a telepathic message to the dairy-crusted prick. “Hey, dipshit, I might not be able to do any violence here because I’m your prisoner or guest or whatever, but I can use you to hurt the lady’s feelings.” Shiv eyed Princess Plum Blossom’s emotional core—and it looked big, soft, and very, very brittle. She might’ve been a Titan, but her heart would crack all the same. “Now. Lose the attitude, tell your idiots to stop firing those stupid sticks at me—” Shiv turned and bit down on a bread arrow before it could strike them, and immediately started chewing. “Hmm. On second thought, don’t. That tasted pretty good.”

“That is for Princess Plum Blossom, you—” Shiv sparked the flames in his eyes. Toasty flinched back in panic. “Ah, yes! Yes! Fine! I will bear the decorum and dignity demanded of me as host! There! Now tell her the truth!”

“Mostly good means altogether good among us Patternists,” Shiv explained, aiming a winning smile at the Princess of the Summer Court. She blinked once, and her eyelids slamming together caused the very air to vibrate kilometers away. Looking up, Shiv saw panels of glass shielding them from a wave of intense brightness. Where even am I? Inside a sun?

“I see, I see!” The Princess slammed her hands together. “It is good to know that I inspire so much love in my subjects! Well, then, strange guest-prisoner. I must say that I have not seen the likes of you ever before. I have eaten many things across the ages. I have swallowed everything from a goblin to a Tarrasque and digested them all.”

“You… ate a Tarrasque?” Shiv asked. His Transfixed Skill evolved to the Post-Belief Tier.

“Yes!”

“And… digested it?”

“Quite! Very gamey. Very angry. Like ten trillion Goliath Wasps layered in orichalcum!” She began giggling like a girl talking about her favorite candy.

“Broken Moon,” Shiv whispered.

“Hm? Oh, I’ve eaten a piece of that too. But the taste—BLAH! Terrible!”

Shiv’s double-take became a quadruple swallow. Wh-What?

“Anywho,” the Princess continued, her voice shrill and excited, “I tried to pick you up earlier, and you utterly ruined one of my nails. You even pierced a bit of my skin as I dunked you into the gravy to soften you up. And placing you on my tongue—why—my sensitive taste buds had not felt such a brutal lashing in quite some time!”

“Broken Moon,” Shiv squeaked. “You tried to eat me?”

“Why, yes! I asked for your open declaration of rejection of my request to devour you, and you remained silent. Then, you went transparent and stayed that way until I tried to seize you with my Cibomancy.” She sighed. “You tore into my Food Magic like no other. You are a vexing, stinging little thing.”

“Yeah, uh, cutting aura… But… Isn’t it supposed to be the other way around?”

“Hm? What is?”

