“Aren't you supposed to ask for someone’s permission to eat them?”

The Princess froze, and then she suddenly laughed uproariously, the instantaneous switch in her expression once again taking Shiv aback. She placed the back of her hand under her many chins. “Ohohohohohoh! Not here, my dear little Undying Bad-Chef. Not here! This is the dungeon of the Summer Court! To arrive here means three things: We’re about to have tea, you’re about to serve me, or I am about to be served by you. This is not a place to not be eaten, do you understand?”

Shiv really didn’t. “Yeah, I guess I do. But, uh, well, uh…”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Think about what you’re going to say to her. Do not hurt her feelings. Do not get swallowed by her. It will take us days or weeks to find our way out if we can’t just cut our way out… And she seems…. thick, if not dense.

“You got lots of food here?” he asked, trying to change the subject.

The Princess placed a hand on her cheek and sighed. “Oh, yes, the appetizer table is looking rather bland this cycle, isn’t it?”

A coughing fit took Shiv. “A-appetizer table?”

“Indeed. Why did you think there are so few items here?”

The Deathless looked over his shoulder. Once more, a continent’s worth of dishes and utensils stared back at him. “You know, I was… kind of wondering about exactly that.”

Gardener of Doubt: Please do not stretch me again. That was very painful.

“Now you have your explanation.” The Princess chuckled, and she fixed Shiv with an inquisitive look. “Do you wish to remain uneaten?”

“Uh, uh, yeah? It would be great if you were to allow it, your—uh, My Lady?” Shit, I should have asked Adam about how to tongue-lick a noble’s ass.

“Hm. I do not allow. I still wish to eat you. You look a particular shade of tasty, and the sheer vitality you radiate, why, you’re just such a delightful red morsel!”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Offer her something else.

“How about we, uh, we do something else? Like… Uh, maybe we can talk first,” Shiv said. “And maybe I can… Well, I can try cooking for you.”

“Oh! Oh!” The massive Princess bounced up and down like a massive lump of jelly. There wasn’t a category of earthquake comparable to the way the table—and the world—trembled. Shiv’s recursive biology suffered several internal fractures just by being in the same area. “That would be grand! If you’re truly as bad a cook as Ser Appetius says—”

“Fuck you!” Shiv blasted the Bread Knight telepathically.

“—then I would be more than honored to sample your delights.”

Shiv drew in a long breath. His pride was wounded, but his curiosity was piqued. He was a stranger in a stranger land, but right in front of him was a new chance. To redeem himself. To test his regained cooking. To take things slow and learn things about this new land. And he could do that straight from the mouth of a Princess of the Summer Court. “You know what, Princess? The honor would be all mine. You don’t mind if we talk about a few things while I work, do you? It helps me process my craft.”

“Oh, by all means,” the Princess said, clapping her large hands together. “I love having conversations with my chefs and inevitable meals. So lucky for me that you come as a two-in-one.”

Scheming Bastard 14 > 16
