“I never said I was opposed to the notion. I would have sent it to her via Courier ages ago if I thought that was the best course of action. I should love to make it her problem.”
The first question, once they’d pulled up a table in the middle of the theatre and been served some drinks and snacks, took everyone off-guard.
There they were, the three immortals, Nanette—still silenced—and Lyonette sitting at the table.
Vaulont, Bird, and Elosaith looked on, being caught up to speed by Ser Dalimont, Hethon, and Sammial. Jericha had appeared as well and was watching with narrowed eyes, but that was the group.
Higher up in the stands, Captain Todi was lurking with Earlia. Their job wasn’t to be direct muscle but to run like spit if it got nasty—and bring their teams.
Lyonette was alone against four determined individuals, but she was talking. Rhisveri sat back, lowering his aggressive finger.
“…So why didn’t you send it?”
Lyonette counted on her fingers, voice tired but precise.
“Several reasons. One. Ryoka Griffin’s location was unknown. By the time she reached Elvallian, the circumstances had changed. Two—she’s associated with the Forgotten Wing Company. Anything I send, even via Sea Courier, is in jeopardy of being intercepted by Niers Astoragon’s enemies. Three, from what everyone’s been shouting at me, this is a valuable seed…that I should send to Baleros? Is that where it’s meant to be or will it just have to come back this way? Last, and most importantly, there is a claim on it by a bunch of strangers that involves Nanette, Mrsha, Hethon, and Sammial. If I should send the wand off, what happens to them?”
Viscount Visophecin raised a finger for clarification as Rhisveri sucked on a blue fruit drink he seemed to enjoy. Taletevirion was having a non-alcoholic drink of milk, which he seemed to be regretting. He was shoveling down fries loaded up with relish, though. A glowering Ishkr was refilling the fries basket.
“To make sure we all understand: this would be the group of individuals that Lord Hethon made contact with? That saved your children during the Winter Solstice?”
“Correct.”
“You have not met them?”
Lyonette developed a brief scowl.
“Not unless you count threatening nature spells. Growing wooden hands, grass rearranging itself, sudden blooms of flowers—even nature-monsters. Like Snow Golems, but made out of mud and branches. Bird’s been shooting them down.”
“Shamblers? They’ve got the magic to make shamblers?”
Taletevirion was astonished; Rhisveri was also astounded and spluttered.
“Survivors of the Vale Forest? And you didn’t make contact? Are you mad?”
“They’re apparently dead, and they have been trying to threaten me into giving them the wand. As well as turning my own daughters against me!”
Lyonette snapped. Visophecin lifted a hand for quiet again; he did the intermediary role well.
“As a point of clarity, how dangerous are these shamblers? Has this been going on all month?”
Lyonette shrugged.
“Not very dangerous. I didn’t even know about it until Bird told me she’d been shooting them down all week. Bird, how dangerous are the shamblers?”
Bird looked up from ordering a chicken burger.
“They are very weak. Some of them die in the water before even getting to us. They are not very smart, either. I can kill them in three arrow shots without Skills most of the time.”
“Even so, summoning natural magical allies, remote control over deadwood…I’m forming an image of these beings. I happen to know almost every nature-related being in the world, you know. I knew an actual Dryad. You, girl. Give me a few more details and I can identify this species.”
Rhisveri sat up importantly, and Nanette beamed. She inhaled as he released the magic.
“They looked like—”
Taletevirion cut in, interrupting the two of them.
“Nevermind that. I know what they are. They’re not a species, and they’re dead. Don’t give the wand to them, but Lyonette has a point. They’re stubborn as tree roots, and the only reason they’re part of this is because he can see the Veltras Forest.”
The Unicorn pointed at Hethon, who jumped.
“M-me?”
Visophecin’s ears perked up as Taletevirion explained.
“It’s a Skill that House Veltras shared since…well, since they landed on this damn continent. They struck a deal with the Vale Forest. That stupid glade is all part of it. I thought it was dead. The last time I ran into those talking corpsewood sacs of sap, it was two millennia ago. They’re not going to be helpful. I’d say ignore them, but they’re persistent. And they can be a threat.”
“Precisely. That’s why I refused to let anyone visit them. I suspect they’re going to ask for the oldest thing in the world.”
Lyonette stabbed a fry on her plate like her mother would grind a cigar butt down. The others regarded her.
“What? Ask for you to plant the seed? Save a species? Is that so hard?”
Rhisveri was outraged. Lyonette’s glower overwhelmed his and made him sit back, to Visophecin’s surprise. The [Princess]’ voice was icy.
“No, Duke Rhisveri. The oldest thing. They will ask for help to plant the seed. A mission I am sympathetic with! Do you think I have a heart of stone? Don’t answer that, Nanette, or you, Sammial Veltras! They will beg for help, but they will charge my daughters to do it. They will send children on a dangerous, deadly adventure. That is the stuff of stories, and we have had too much of it in this inn. No more. I have been trying to keep us safe after the Solstice. I cannot allow it.”
The [Princess]’ face flushed with emotion, and she nearly stood. Visophecin was impressed; that did sound like a very fairytale thing to happen, and Taletevirion was giving Lyonette a grudging nod of approval. The [Princess]’ eyes glittered, then she sagged.
“Yet, it seems, despite my best efforts, despite all I tried, at least one of my daughters is in danger. So, here we are. I had hoped Ryoka would return or make her own arrangements. Now, it is your turn to convince me to either turn the wand over to you or meet with these ‘lords and ladies’ of the forest. Tell me why I should endanger this inn more.”
She put her head down, exhausted, and Visophecin replied.
“I can assure you, Miss Marquin, I would only interact with Miss Griffin after bearing the wand to her—”
The red-haired young woman spoke without raising her forehead from the table.
“Don’t lie to me, Viscount. I am well-versed in the consequences. I know my daughters. I know how this kind of story goes, even if Ryoka fancies herself the master of it. Hethon is connected to that forest. I promised Lord Tyrion I would protect his sons while they were in my inn. This will affect us. I will send the wand with you, and in six months, Ryoka Griffin will be fleeing as fifteen [Druid] circles and a Treant chase her out of the sea, and she will come here. Why should I allow it?”
He hesitated, wanting to deny this and finding he could not, in good conscience, do so. Nanette opened her mouth, and Rhisveri spoke grandly.
“I can give you a personal assurance that in light of this favor, I will guarantee the safety of The Wandering Inn and denizens inside from all harm. I do represent the will of Ailendamus, Miss Lyonette.”
He got no further, because Lyonette gave Rhisveri such a scornful look his cheeks went red. He tried to go on, but stuttered into silence.
“Lyonette…it’s the right thing to do. It’s the last member of a species. And we owe them a debt.”
Nanette was next. From the way the [Princess] grimaced, it was the core of an argument the young witch had trotted out many times. Lyonette replied briefly.
“Erin did the right thing, Nanette. You saw what that results in. Whatever gratitude I had towards these strangers is markedly lessened after their repeated attempts to steal from the inn. We’ve been over this before. I allowed you at this table because you were so determined.”
“You allowed? This is crucial business of the inn! I am here because a witch is needed, and here I am.”
Lyonette twitched, but she wasn’t about to argue with Nanette. Not right now in front of the others. Nanette, though, seemed to think this was her finest hour. The girl was drawing breath to argue, fierce, eyes flashing with wonder and conviction, and she was young.
The [Princess] was also young, but she saw the issue more clearly. Rhisveri was invested, even more emotional than Nanette, and Visophecin was not, but cared about this because it would help Ryoka, and thus him.
Each person here had a reason to want the wand—they were all united, actually. Good intentions. But one of them was just weary. And it was all about him.
The last Unicorn in the world rose to his feet, and Taletevirion spoke.
“It will not matter, you know. Even if you do succeed; that’s not what you should say, Nanette. A witch should know better.”
He addressed the girl directly, the first of the people here to really do that. Nanette hesitated, then flushed.
“Lord Taletevirion, I am here to help you in this regard! Lyonette has been slightly unreasonable, but I am here to represent the interests of other beings seeking the wand. And I am a witch.”
Rhisveri and Visophecin stared at her bare head, and Nanette hurriedly covered it with her yellow raincoat.
“A witch is a witch, even without a hat—”
“Of course she is.”
The Unicorn sounded like he’d heard that statement before. He knew witches. Nanette gazed at Taletevirion with shining eyes, filled with excitement and wonder; she knew his nature now. But she had forgotten something.
He knew [Witches]. So, the Unicorn placed his hands at the table. He ducked his head until locks of silver hair hung over his face.
“A witch has decided to interfere with events again. I know better than to question that.”
“Hah. A half-pint witch with less magic in her entire body than I have in one fingernail. I objected to her presence from the start, but this is Miss Lyonette’s place, and I don’t make a habit of harming children.”
Rhisveri objected, voice acidic. Nanette reddened and began to retort, and Taletevirion silenced Rhisveri with a glower. He turned that old, old gaze to Nanette and, again, ducked his head.
“Rhisveri. You must never have met a witch before. A real one.”
“I’ll have you know that I’ve met—”
“A real witch needs no hat. When she intercedes in an event, she does it because it matters. She chooses a side and places her neck on the line. She has a plan. I have known [Witches]. I have faced them. Young and old. Age doesn’t matter with them. When I was a child, my people found themselves against a young witch, for they had done a terrible thing. They chose the wrong side: she pulled the moon down and caused such devastation you couldn’t imagine. They called her the Witch of the Moon after that. Barsoijou. The [Witch] who pulled the tide onto land when she was thirteen years old. Because she took a side.”
Nanette opened her mouth in delight, nodding, as Visophecin and Lyonette exchanged glances. They sensed the other edge of the Unicorn’s words. Taletevirion went on, looking Nanette in her eyes.
“—Which means this young witch understands how unkind waking a Dryad seed is. She is prepared for the cost, to ward and raise that child all her life. She knows whom she serves, those old folk who have given her a charge, and has weighed their sins—and they have so many—against their virtues. So when she tells me to act, I, Taletevirion, will listen. Because when a Witch says it, the authority of her kind is in her actions and words. She knows her own will and has pondered her choice.”
The young witch froze. Sweat had begun to bead on her forehead at some point in the Unicorn’s slow speech. She tried to meet his gaze and failed.
“I’m—I want to be part of—”
She began, voice suddenly hoarse, and Taletevirion straightened. He stood there until she dared to raise her head, and he didn’t admonish her. He didn’t go any further—he just nodded.
“I know. But Miss Nanette would be better. If you are a witch—I expect better. Your mother didn’t always walk around as a witch. She was often just…Califor.”
Nanette’s face drained of color, then Lyonette did interrupt, out of protectiveness.
“Taletevirion. Nanette is part of this.”
“Of course she is.”
He turned away, and Lyonette reached for Nanette’s hand and squeezed it; the girl was white-faced and still. Then tears were in her eyes as she felt the cruel cut that the Unicorn had delivered.
Visophecin had to fight to resist the urge to applaud or smile. He saw now that the Unicorn wielded a subtle, kindly blade, in action and tongue, when he cared to.
As if the altercation had not happened, Taletevirion walked back, shaking his head.
“The beings Nanette is representing are…wrong. They will never achieve their real goal, which is bringing the greatwoods back. Even if they found a way to plant the seed—and I know how hard it is to even grow a great tree, let alone protect it—it will not save Dryads.”
He paced around the table as everyone listened to him. The normally-taciturn Unicorn’s tongue was loosened, and it was not drink that did it. It was probably being hit by a Halfling, the shock of the day, or just—a dam breaking.
That’s why he kept away from Teriarch except now and then, why he stayed away from interesting mortals with lives he cared about. He had not lived this long by being…
Entangled.
The roots were around Taletevirion, and he had evaded them so many times, but they were a good trap this time. Well, maybe he’d walked into it because he was tired. They used to trap Unicorns like that, back in the day. Some virgin woman—or lad, depending on the Unicorn—resting at a creek or under a tree. And sometimes the Unicorns fell for it, because they were stupid or trusting.
Or maybe they just lay down there because they were tired. Did the triumphant hunters ever realize that? At least one, laughing and reaching for a saw, had ended up with a Unicorn’s horn buried in their guts.
He had the floor. Nanette was protesting.
“But Taletevirion, if there really is a last Dryad seed, then—”
“Then what?”
He cut her off, gentle. The Unicorn stepped around the table and put a hand on Nanette’s shoulder.
“Then you’d have the last Dryad wake up? Be born into a world, a single tree, alone, without a forest to sing to her? To wake into a world where her people were burnt to ash and chopped down ages ago? I know you’re young, kid, but you claim to be a witch. Even the cruelest of witches would hesitate to do that.”
At first, Nanette didn’t get what Taletevirion meant. Then, her furious expression changed to one of uncertainty. Her face went pale. She hesitated, and he spoke, slashing into that opening with his gentle sword of words.
