He slid one over, and they watched as she took the shot down in one go. Then again, Visophecin had it on good authority that House Marquin had been born with sponges for livers. Lyonette gestured, and Ishkr poured her one…two…three fingers. Then added some ice.
She let the cup rest in her hand as he departed. Lyonette stared ahead.
“Gentlemen, may I be honest with you?”
“Mm.”
Both nodded, Rhisveri silently, Visophecin with a slight sound of affirmation. Lyonette turned to them.
“I don’t know who you are or what it means for Ailendamus. I can guess, but frankly, I suspect it’s either known or guessed at. Nor do I honestly care. Your…natures might not be the most scandalous thing hidden in Terandrian royal closets.”
That was true. Visophecin inclined his head, though he hadn’t ruled memory-altering spells out. However, Lyonette went on, face straight. She sipped from her cup.
“I am not blind to what’s going on, and frankly, after Taletevirion’s…convincing soliloquy, I feel impelled to act. I would take your help, as it seems we are aligned. I may even welcome you as guests to the inn on a permanent basis. We do need them, and they are called upon.”
Her eyes alighted on each man’s face a second, and it was their turn to shiver before a mortal gaze, a novelty in their lifetimes. Lyonette continued.
“—But the problem is that you are like Demsleth or Teriarch. You are like Taletevirion or many others that have visited the inn, mortal and otherwise. I cannot have you come to my inn and tell me what to do, that you know better, that I should listen and be silent. We must be equals. If we can be equals, then I believe this can all be settled equitably, whatever differences we may have. What say you to that, gentlemen? Can it be done?”
She looked from face to face, seeking the first step in the diplomatic process. Visophecin, a master of it, would have lied in a heartbeat, even if he didn’t believe it. But he was watching the real problem: Duke Rhisveri.
Rhisveri, the Wyrm. Rhisveri, a being of true might and magic, but also, ego. You couldn’t just blame it on him being a Wyrm. He had acknowledged so few mortals, and two of them were dead.
Now came Lyonette, wanting the same respect as Great Knight Eclizza or General Dioname. This was either the best or worst moment for this conversation. Rhisveri took another gulp of his drink, turned, and met Lyonette’s eyes.
Visophecin saw Lyonette’s aura come up like a guard; she wavered, because Rhisveri was not hiding his true nature, and he often did, even as the Duke. Her chair slid back slightly as she resisted the pressure on her. His voice was cold, not overly arrogant, but direct. He spoke the words at her like his acid, not spat, but just spoke, burning holes through any shield of arrogance you might have.
“Lyonette du Marquin. I knew your namesake. I met her after a battle had ended, in the rain, as if it were trying to wash away the poison fouling the entire world. Before they called her ‘the Radiant’, she was just Marquin. A warrior holding a sword standing on top of an Adult Creler. She was fifteen years old.”
Lyonette’s eyes widened fractionally, and Visophecin sat up. He knew Rhisveri was that old. But had he really…?
Rhisveri spoke, relating a memory in rare confidence, as Ishkr listened with one long ear with the other two at the bar.
“No one called her a heroine, much less a [Queen]. She was neither, but when I met her eyes and she asked me and so many others to follow her, I thought she was royalty. And it turned out I was right; she was cut from the same cloth as the Hundred Heroes. I have held every single Marquin to her standard. And your lineage has never matched up to her boots. So. Are we equals?”
He didn’t look away, didn’t blink. Lyonette du Marquin drained her cup down to the dregs and exhaled. She stared into her glass, then dipped two fingers into the liquid and flicked it at Rhisveri.
He blinked and recoiled, actually dodging the droplets by twisting halfway out of his chair. When he sat forwards again, he seemed curious, not offended. Rhisveri waited, and Lyonette spoke with a hint of a smile.
“There, now. Are you finally looking at me?”
The Wyrm opened his mouth, and Lyonette pointed at her face.
“I know we rest in Marquin’s shadow. I know what House Marquin looks like to you, and our Eternal Throne, Rhisveri. I’m not sitting upon my name, nor the throne. Look at me. I can be no Marquin slaying Crelers with my sword and single breast.”
Some of his drink came out of Visophecin’s nose for the first time in his life. He coughed as Ishkr handed him a napkin, and Rhisveri laughed, despite himself. Lyonette went on, grinning.
“But I can be Lyonette. Lyonette du Marquin, whom you lost a fortune to. You can either admit you lost that night to an inferior or an equal. I know which I’d choose to believe. If that’s too much, too humbling for you—and it was for me when I first came to this inn—I can wait.”
Her eyes twinkled, and she smiled at Rhisveri, chin resting in one hand.
“For you’ve met Ryoka Griffin, Duke Rhisveri. You’ve met me. But you have yet to run into Erin Solstice. We can be equals, if you feel it’s possible.”
She held that gaze as Rhisveri’s eyes flickered.
“I have met her, in fact.”
“Oh? And was she impressive, like Marquin the Radiant?”
The Wyrm stared at an image only he could see, which he had never told anyone else of. A smiling ghost, a fleeing Wind Runner, and the Dragonlords of ancient days landing around him. His own mother speaking to him from the great beyond.
“—It wasn’t bad.”
He had to admit. Eventually, Rhisveri drained his cup and stood.
“Very well. A truce. I thought we hashed it out last time quite equitably.”
“So did I, but it’s always good to make sure we’re on the same page. Now, are we ready?”
Lyonette stood up briskly, and Visophecin glanced at Rhisveri; the Duke tossed coins onto the bar, exact change for the drinks, plus a four silver tip. Visophecin rose, and they turned to Lyonette.
“To do…what, exactly?”
The [Princess] came up with a loaded crossbow. The Phoenixfire Bolt was in the trigger, and both of them nearly jumped behind each other. Lyonette raised the crossbow and rolled her eyes.
“Oh, please. It has a magical safety, and the bolt doesn’t even fall out if I do this.”
She shook the hand crossbow upside-down, and Visophecin doubled his magical barriers. Lyonette turned.
“Let’s go pay the Lords and Ladies of the Veltras Forest a visit. Are you coming?”
She jerked her head at them, and the two immortals glanced at each other. Then they saw Vaulont, Bird, Elosaith, Todi, Ishkr, and Ser Dalimont were waiting. Peggy and Rosencrantz were also there; Lyonette walked into line.
“Miss Jericha, if you wish to bring Hethon or Sammial, beware of the consequences. Calescent, you stay with Elia, Ushar, and Colfa. Gemhammer will be security while I’m gone. Captain Todi, you’re with me. Mrsha, I think it’s best if you stay behind. How do you feel about me going?”
The Gnoll girl sat in her chair as Taletevirion waved the two immortals over. She held up a card.
Bring Nanette with you, Mom.
Lyonette pursed her lips, but she nodded.
“If she agrees that I need to be the principal negotiator—agreed.”
“Uh—I’m ready!”
Nanette checked her bag of holding, flustered, then rushed into place. Jericha hesitated, but Hethon Veltras stepped forwards, face grave.
“It’s my debt. Sammy, you stay here.”
Even Sammial Veltras, who was the most likely to object, just sat at a table with Mrsha. When Jericha and Hethon peered at him, the boy explained.
“I’m not going with him.”
He meant the Duke.
“Besides, I don’t like singing. I’m already sad from the first song.”
The small army eyed one another, and Lyonette exhaled.
“Then we go. Come on—”
She jerked her head towards the door, and everyone followed her out of it as she cradled the hand-crossbow in her hands. Ushar clenched her hands together, but Mrsha patted her arm reassuringly. The door swung shut, and then there was silence.
…After a minute, Lyonette came stomping back into the inn with Dalimont.
“I forgot the wand. One second—”
She vanished into the [Garden of Sanctuary], emerging moments later as Apista buzzed lazily over their heads and dropped a wand into Lyonette’s open palm. Then, Mrsha felt the ground shifting outside and gazed out the window.
Despite the rain, despite the Floodplains and the relatively barren High Passes…there was a treeline in the distance, wet by the downpour. Lyonette and her company went striding towards it, not over the bridges, but wet grass that seemed to have always been there.
Away, into a place only the Unicorn remembered. Mrsha sat back and exhaled.
She’d done all she could. She closed her eyes, and then, after a moment, got up.
The Wandering Inn was returning, if not to normal, then to a post-Solstice event condition. The staff were cleaning up, guests were wandering around, asking what had happened, if the singing was over, and why a [Caretaker] was throwing ten kinds of hell in Liscor.
Ishkr sprang into action as Elia and Captain Earlia helped restore order, mostly by speaking in a calm, patient voice and by being armed. However, the person in charge of the inn with Lyonette gone was Dame Ushar.
 
——
 
Ushar had not taken her eyes off Mrsha. In fact, she would not. She would have eyes on Mrsha if she had to stay in the girl’s room and stay awake through the night. She would find out what had caused the girl to waste away and what Mrsha was endangering herself with.
But the key to that was allowing Mrsha to believe Ushar wasn’t constantly dogging her steps. The girl glanced at Ushar, calm, and the Thronebearer glanced towards the door where Ebente’s voice was actually audible from the portal room.
And there was no Dalimont, let alone Sest or Lormel. How was she to do anything? She’d have to rely on Ishkr and the staff and focus on the only thing that mattered—
“Dame Knight, we have marked six Pallassians. Shall we monitor them or do you have dispensations for us?”
Someone whispered to Ushar, and the Thronebearer turned. A young woman stood there in an apron, looking for all the world like a wide-eyed village girl. She had an earnest face and plainish features.
Queen Ielane liked people who could pass as earnest and sincere. Failing that, they should be bluff and simple. Ushar glanced around, and several members of staff were already listening respectfully to Peggy or Rosencrantz.
Oh, they were good. Some seemed visibly terrified of the Goblins or Antinium, but were also just eager enough to want to work here. And the Goblins were trying to be reassuring…Ushar felt a tightness in her chest loosen.
“Levels?”
“Above 30. Three. The rest have passed muster.”
“Put yourself on Mrsha. You are not to let her go nor interfere unless you see her in direct danger. I will get you access to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Mark the infiltrators and report anyone who leaves the common room. I need a list of competencies—”
“In your bag of holding, Dame Knight.”
The Thronebearer slapped a hand to her bag of holding. Oh my, they were good. She’d have to watch for Queen Ielane’s servants, who would do her will and report to her, but for now, Ushar used the reinforcements as pretext to head out to handle Miss Ebente. She knew Mrsha was watching her; this would lower Mrsha’s guard.
They would uncover what was happening, and swiftly.
 
——
 
Mrsha said nothing as she counted how many Calanferian [Spies] were in this reality. She nodded to herself and wrote a note.
Tall dude with the sniffy nose isn’t trustworthy. He reports to Rhir via dead drops every Beithday. Tell Queen Ielane that.
She folded the paper up and handed it to the mousey-haired girl when the girl stood there, stuttering, asking what she should do.
Mrsha was rewarded with just a hint of a blank face before the girl thanked her and rushed off to Ishkr. Her stumbling might have actually been real.
The [Survivor] gave the [Spy] a wan smile. In this moment, in this time…Mrsha knew more than anyone in the inn. She had Erin’s knowledge and more.
Or rather, the real Mrsha did. This Mrsha hadn’t spoken to the [Innkeeper] on the raft. But she had been…in the [Palace of Fates]. What did they think she’d done with her time? All she’d had was time. Time to sit, conserve energy, and look through doors. At what might be. What could be.
If only I could leave. She met the eyes of the mousey-haired girl, and the child’s smile unnerved the Calanferian agent. Then Mrsha turned and got up, weary. She walked across the common room of the inn to join someone at the far end, next to the kitchen.
Sammial Veltras was already at the bar. The boy solemnly put down the menu and regarded Sticks as the Goblin polished a mug.
All of them were on high chairs.
“I want a milkshake. Mint.”
Give me a glass of milk. Hot. Whipped cream on top.
Sticks nodded, hopped off the chair, and sidled off. When they got their drinks, Mrsha and Sammy solemnly clinked glasses. They took a deep gulp, wiped their mouths, and Sammial spoke.
“Unicorns are really depressing.”
Mrsha nodded in agreement. They took another sip, and Sammial spoke, with a sidelong look at Mrsha.
“You look sadder than him right now. Are you doing something bad?”
Root Mrsha sat there, and she closed her eyes. Then she smiled, and raised her glass to her own invisible audience.
I’m doing the only thing that I can. The only thing that’s ever mattered. What I’ve been waiting for. My turn.
Sammial digested that. After a moment, he reached out and clung to Mrsha’s paw.
“Well—don’t go anywhere, okay? I like you. And I don’t have many friends.”
The girl looked into the boy’s eyes. She smiled and nodded. Then she closed her eyes and wondered what came next. For her mother. For them all.
She waited.
