They cut off as the [Princess] glowered at them, eyes flashing. But she was headed to the little Gnoll girl, who got out of her chair and began to fast-walk away.
 
“Come here my daughter
Now don’t run away
I am not angry and couldn’t be
I am your mother
Accept my embrace
Come and let me see what’s wrong.”
 
The girl froze guiltily, and Rhisveri hissed at Visophecin.
“…What in Spriggans was that?”
The Lucifen raised his brow.
“Song Skill. Interesting.”
Mrsha turned, and Lyonette opened her arms and smiled. Mrsha tensed, to run, to confess? She wavered as Ser Dalimont blocked the common room door, and Lyonette stepped forwards. She saw Mrsha’s face, so…weary and pained and sad lift desperately. The girl had to force herself not to run into her mother’s arms.
But she couldn’t resist. She stretched out her arms, tears filling her gaze. Lyonette rushed forwards, and Miss Ebente body-checked Lyonette into a table. She seized Mrsha up in her arms and shouted.
“This child has been abused!”
Huh? Lyonette hit the table with a musical oof and landed on the floor. Dame Ushar leapt forwards, but the [Caretaker] had moved so fast that even the immortals were impressed.
Empowered by Skills, Ebente backed up, and Mrsha was in her arms. The moment she’d seen Mrsha, the [Caretaker] had leapt for her. Now, she shouted.
“This child has been treated horrendously! Neglected! This is horrific! How could you—?”
Her voice choked in her throat as Calla’s song-skill reactivated. Lyonette rose.
“Let her go. Let her go! Why are you lying to me?”
In response, the [Caretaker] backed away as the Thronebearers advanced. Elia and Bird drew arrows, but they didn’t want to hit Mrsha; the [Caretaker] whispered and revealed she did have a melodic bone in her body.
 
“You lied to me (you lied to me)
You lied to me, (you lied to me!)
Abused a child, (abused a child)
Abused a child! (abused a child!)
 
Since you’re not worthy of this Gnoll
(abused a child, abused a child, abused a child)
I will take up the mantle
I name you worthless and a wretch
You are no mother, you’re a worm
I curse your Knights! I curse your Inn!
I’ll tear it down and watch it burn!
 
I see her hunger, see her hurt!
I see her madness, and yet worse—
I see her loss and her despair!
And now her fate will be reversed!
 
I claim this child, I call for help!
[Summon the Watch]!”
 
Her voice began ringing like a bell, and Lyonette cried out in horror. The [Caretaker] turned and, Mrsha struggling in her arms, trying to explain, shoulder-charged Ser Dalimont. He put up a shield and braced.
 
——
 
—The Thronebearer hit the ground in the hallway and rolled three times. He stared at his dented chestplate, and Ebente’s foot stomped on his helmet. The [Caretaker] kept running.
Mrsha was squirming, trying to get out of her grip, and the inn was ringing. Ebente had a death-grip on her! She had given up trying to protest or clarify—the woman yelped as Mrsha exploded out of her arms for a second.
She’d doubled in size! [Fur of the Fortress]! Mrsha waved a wand as Ebente grabbed for her; someone pounded towards the door. It slammed on them.
“[Child’s Lock]. [In My Arms]. Child—”
Ebente pulled, and Mrsha’s leap for the [Garden of Sanctuary] turned into a blur; she blinked in Ebente’s arms.
Stop! St—
“[Sleep, Now].”
Ebente touched Mrsha’s forehead before Mrsha could point her wand at the woman. The [Survivor] resisted the effects, wand wobbling. She squirmed weakly.
Don’t make me. [Thorn Paw].
She slashed at Ebente’s arm, trying not to hurt her too badly—the sharp thorn bounced off Ebente’s dress.
[Caretaker]. Her charges couldn’t hurt her! Ebente stormed towards the portal room, mantling Dalimont’s body. A door opened under her feet; the [Garden]. She leapt over it. That was just good reflexes.
Chaos in the portal room. Alarms were sounding through Liska’s door in Liscor, and the Watch were flooding through the door.
[Caretakers]. With protective Skills. Ielane had chosen Miss Ebente for a reason, though probably not for this. She was almost at the door; Liska tried to close it, and an invisible uppercut knocked her flying out of her sofa.
“[Retribution to the Harmers]! Almost—”
The woman was racing for the door, and even the [Knight] and [Doorgnoll] felt a terrible wrongness as they tried to stop her. It went against their very conscience, but their minds told her she was making a mistake. They saw Mrsha’s wide eyes, her weak attempts to squirm free, but the Watch were helping Ebente on instinct, summoned by her Skill.
Only a monster would stop her, or an enraged mother running out of the common room with a sword. Ebente leapt for the door.
Vaulont the Ash slammed it shut, and she hit it with a sound like a giant’s hammer smacking into the inn. The room shook—the [Caretaker] recoiled, pivoted to run, and Rhisveri poked her in the forehead.
“[Paralysis].”
She went sprawling, and Vaulont snagged Mrsha and leapt away in a blur as the Duke beamed at Lyonette and gave her what he imagined was a saucy wink. She stared at him. One of the [Guards] raised a spear instantly and aimed it at Rhisveri.
“Halt! In the name of Liscor’s W—”
“[Mass Paralysis].”
The [Guards] keeled over, and Rhisveri dusted his hands theatrically. Then he saw Ebente’s desperately darting eyes and straining, helpless limbs, and Rhisveri sighed.
“Oh, fine. [Deep Slumber].”
He followed the [Princess] back into the common room and gave Ser Dalimont a wink.
“That’s for last time, one supposes. Now—onto pressing business.”
He adjusted his tie.
 
——
 
The [Princess] stood in the inn, irate and upset. She was panting, reaching for Mrsha, who was squirming in Vaulont’s hands. The [Princess] strode forwards, arms outstretched, and a trio of men blocked her way.
Or did they block each other? The three immortals had been aware of each other’s presence, but like passing rival sharks in the night, hadn’t gotten in each other’s way.
—Until now, when it became clear the focus of all three’s goals was the [Princess]. Rhisveri’s brows snapped together, and he sneered at Visophecin, mouthing a silent warning. Taletevirion eyed the other two and made a ‘get back, children’ gesture—but said nothing.
Visophecin opened his mouth, closed it, and all three realized they were under a Skill. They swiveled, as Lyonette glared at all three of them, and had a standoff, sizing each other up.
Taletevirion adjusted his stance slightly. Visophecin coughed into one hand, glancing from Rhisveri to Taletevirion, and the Wyrm’s jaw jutted out and his eyes began to flash. What might have happened next was anyone’s guess, except that someone chose that moment to interrupt.
“Excuse me, sirs, this is a musical ground. And, uh, I think this isn’t the moment to bother Miss Lyonette. Please, remove yourselves. You are under my Skill, and until everything calms down a bit, I’m not releasing it.”
Songmistress Calla interrupted the trio, smiling desperately as she eyed the chaos in the inn—which she’d been warned about—and made the mistake of thinking she was in charge.
In the face of the Skill, the three immortals focused on the Drake woman, who felt her heart rate accelerating as the trio of ageless stares found her. She flushed, despite herself, and wondered who they were. But the immortals were on Lyonette next.
Musical ground? Visophecin nodded to himself. Rhisveri rolled his eyes and snorted—musically—and Taletevirion shrugged. They exchanged another glance, but one of calculation this time. Visophecin wrote in the air, his finger a blur so fast that Mrsha, a [Scribbler] herself, was astounded. Rhisveri rolled his eyes around and around, but he gave a grudging nod as Taletevirion shrugged.
The Unicorn held up a finger.
One, two, three, four—?
They nodded, and if you were perspicacious like Calla, you’d notice that Visophecin tapped his foot to the beat and Rhisveri’s knees flexed slightly in time. Her eyes went wide.
“Gentlemen, gentlemen—this really isn’t—um, who are you? My Skill is—”
The three men gave her a look and stepped past her. They approached Lyonette, who glowered at them, warily, but the immortals strolled forwards, passing by Calla as if she were nothing more than an amusing pebble in their path. Their attitudes seemed to suggest, with indignation, amusement, and skepticism, each in their own way:
Even if you were thirty levels higher, do you think that could stop me?
They came before Lyonette and halted in a flanking formation, Rhisveri in the center, Taletevirion and Visophecin on the sides. They nodded at her as her scowl intensified—but a hint of curiosity was in even Lyonette’s gaze. The Skill clearly was working on them, but were they going to…?
Rhisveri smugly adjusted his tie.
Visophecin sighed as he bowed slightly.
Taletevirion raked a hand through his messy hair.
Then, they didn’t count to four. They didn’t look at each other. But they spoke, then sang. Voices overlapping perfectly, one after another.
 
“I greet you humbly, Your Highness.”
“Miss Marquin, I address you again.”
“Hello—”
“Listen—”
“Hey, I’m back to see you.”
 
Syncopation. Even when Taletevirion and Visophecin spoke over each other, they adjusted. Calla’s breath caught. And they were pitch perfect. Who were they?
Lyonette was less impressed. She tried to step back, and Ser Dalimont and Ushar tried to shield her.
“Gentlemen, I’m not interested in—”
The [Princess] began, but Duke Rhisveri offered her a bouquet of roses. Taletevirion and Visophecin stared at it. So did Lyonette.
 
“I hate to bother you, but I—”
“There’s a matter of import—”
“About a friend of ours—”
“Oh, won’t you be quiet!”
 
Lyonette slashed with her hand and had a bad feeling. Calla was peering at the trio with admiration, claws over her mouth. And Lyonette felt the Skill activating harder.
“Absolutely not. If this is about the wand, it is not your business! You don’t know what trouble it’s brought!”
 
A roll of the emerald eyes, a polite courtier’s smile that said she was an idiot, and a huff of weary air. They stepped around her in a trio as Dame Ushar stood there.
 
“Yes we know that you’re afraid,
Of a mistake
You are (rightly) wary of us,
But there are none who are above us.
 
They extended a hand to take her arm, to pull her aside, to kiss her hand. Three different smiles, Wyrm, Lucifen, and Unicorn.
 
“We’re so much older than you know
Just leave everything to us!
Come on~
See now~
Give in~
We beseech and implore you.”
 
Their singing was synchronized, but oddly, each voice was on a different pitch, but the dissonance made it work—they were hitting the same notes at the same time, and when they chose to, their voices overlapped perfectly. Without practice. Calla swooned into Ser Dalimont’s arms.
He handed her to Peggy. Lyonette stood there. She looked at each expression, haughty, falsely genuine, annoyed—
Superior.
The [Princess] saw Vaulont step back with Mrsha in his arms, and she sweetly put her hands behind her back. She shook out her hair and gave the three visitors a level look. They waited for her, expectantly, aware of their presence and charm and powers.
She stepped back, and her aura coalesced around her. She trailed around, her arms moving like a dancer, a pair of [Knights] at her back, a Vampire behind them. Her staff lining up, guests listening.
This was Lyonette’s reply:
 
 
“I’ll make a statement
Here in my inn
I shall be brief as I can
 
You have two kneecaps
Here in my inn
I will let you keep one.
 
Far better monsters, have tried to get their way
The stains from the last are still on the stairway
 
Show some respect or
Time for your goodbye
This is the part where I watch you die.”
 
Three heads exchanged glances, and three voices began.
 
“We just meant—”
“May have a w—”
“I only—”
 
Her eyes twinkled as her aura shone down. They began to blaze like the light of the Eternal Throne, illuminating the room like a flashlight as her aura intensified. And the three immortals realized this was not the right day for this.
Or ever. The [Princess]’ slow, ominous cadence sped up.
 
“So you think you can bully me in this inn?
Without Erin?
How funny.”
 
“Lyonette, I think I was a bit forwards. Actually, this is so funny, Teriarch sent me to—”
 
“Teriarch! Do you think he scares me?
Do you think Ailendamus makes demands of me here?”
 
“I believe this is entirely a misunderstanding, Miss Marquin, I did not coordinate with these two.”
 
“Oh, but you know them so well.
Sit down, Viscount. Sit down, Duke,
You too, Taletevirion. Sit.
Let me tell you what happens to things like you.”
 
“—I have a present.”
 
She drew a sword in her other hand, and an enchantment glowed across it. The [Princess] pointed it at them. Visophecin glanced over to the door. Liska closed it.
Ishkr closed a window. Peggy loaded a crossbow. The [Princess]’ voice picked up, growing faster. And now it was a song.
 
“I’ve seen the inn exploding over and over again!
First a skeleton, then Skinner, and all his friends!
It breaks and then it shatters in pieces and everything ends!
Then we build it higher again and yet again.
 
Moths died in rain, The Witch of Webs was repelled
With jars of acid Skinner melted away
Lord Veltras was defeated, Facestealer fell—”
 
The [Princess] pulled a crossbow out of her bag of holding, and a glowing bolt was loaded. A warning bell rang in all three’s heads.
 
“—Did you think that I wouldn’t prepare for a monster like you?”
 
Major Khorpe’s crossbow swung from face to face, and the [Princess]’ voice rose, her daughters, audience, and staff watching.
 
“Who you are? Who you are? Why do you think it matters?
You’re the ones about to be thrown out of my inn in tatters!
Feel free to try your luck, I’m sure it’ll go fine!
Quietly go away—
Or come and find out!
Pick one and try
Not to whine.
 
Now you think today’s the day the inn is dying again?
So you think that I am afraid of how this ends?
I~ am getting tired of sweeping, ashes and blood off my floors
Watch your tongues here, you little men,
In this inn
In my—
In my inn.”
 
The [Princess] was breathing hard, and her fingers were dangerously tight on the hair-trigger. She took a breath, panting, and every eye was on the crossbow setting off every [Dangersense] in the inn. She paused—and clearly—did not have a final verse. So she closed her eyes, took another breath, hummed.
 
“Mi—mii—miiiiii—
My, my, my, my, we’re
All so polite now
Here we are all polite now and it’s nice
 
I’d like—
—To say—
The Wandering Inn
Wishes to welcome you if you behave!
(Try again do it better.)”
 
