This was a grave failure on her part. The three intruders to the inn were one thing; Mrsha’s situation she fully owned as her and Dalimont’s laxity. However, despite her grave worries as to Mrsha’s condition, she noticed something Lyonette did not, at first.
Mrsha was not being the child she could be, mature and precocious in many ways, but still a child with a child’s vulnerabilities and blind spots. In this moment, as she wrote, her composure was worthy of the Eternal Throne’s scions. If she could see this, Queen Ielane would applaud the girl herself for her poise under fire, and given the number of her agents in the inn—Ushar had to sweep the entire inn for spying spells.
However, Lyonette only saw her daughter, hurt and refusing to tell her what was wrong. She developed that strained, unreasonable expression so hallmark to Terandrian royalty—a product of her war over the last month with Nanette—and snapped.
“Trust you? Trust you? You’re in danger, Mrsha! I can see it! This is worse than the box, isn’t it? Is it Erin? The wand? I am your mother, Mrsha. Yours and Nanette’s, even if she doesn’t think so. I swore I’d protect you. How can I trust you when you’re like—”
Her voice broke. She held Mrsha to her, feeling every fragile inch of her daughter, and the girl clung to Lyonette, her eyes wide and shimmering with tears. Even so, she wrote, her wand tracing delicate curls of light in the air, like she’d seen Visophecin doing. Writing without even drawing the words out.
I know, Mother. I think of you as my mother, the only one I’ve ever wanted or needed. I know I’m a bad girl a lot of the time, and troublesome. I know how much you care for me and what you would do to protect me. I’ve seen it. Believe me, I have seen it. But also believe me that you can’t keep the wand locked up forever. Please trust me.
“To get hurt more? What parent would do that?”
Lyonette’s voice was fierce, and Mrsha patted her on the shoulder gently. She responded—
Sometimes, Mother, and some day, you’ll have to trust that I’ll get hurt. Or I’ll make mistakes. Trust that I’ll do something dangerous, risky, but trust that I have to. Because you would do the same thing if you were me. I must, or I will wake up every single day for the rest of my life and know I was there and I failed. I don’t want more regrets. So please, trust me.
Dame Ushar felt like someone had pierced her armor. She felt like she were bleeding out—not blood, but emotions. Lyonette’s breath caught, and the Thronebearer saw the [Princess]’ face twist with more grief and worry and—concern and raw feeling than she had held in herself all the years Ushar had known her at court.
Here, far from home, was the crucible that baked royalty worthy of that terrible throne. Ushar saw it, and if she did, Her Highness must surely see it too.
“I can’t let you do that, Mrsha. I’m your parent. If there’s something—risky—happening, it’s my job to take on that risk. Let me. Please, tell me.”
Lyonette felt like she were arguing with Nanette and bit back all the things that hadn’t worked. You’re not ready. I won’t allow it. You don’t understand the stakes. However, Mrsha wasn’t Nanette. She looked Lyonette in the eye.
I don’t think I’m in any physical danger.
“You’re so thin—”
That’s different. I swear, I never did anything that put me in real danger. I can’t let you know the truth, Mother, because you’ll make your own choice. I have made mine already. It is selfish and perhaps wrong, but it is mine. Like Erin, you cannot stop me. You can try—but can you just be here? If I need help, can I ask for it?
She sat there, reaching up her arms to be hugged, face earnest and hiding everything, and Dame Ushar considered their options. They could search for clues. Confine Mrsha to her room—somewhere safe outside the inn. They could—
Do what? The girl sat there with such somber, supreme confidence that there was nothing anyone could do to stop her. They could take her away and it wouldn’t matter because they didn’t understand.
The audience watching the silent drama between the mother and child saw the [Princess], who had bested Invrisil’s [Mayor], [Merchants], foreign rulers, undead Revenants, and immortals, rock back on her heels. Outfoxed and outplayed. Shut out.
Someone chuckled. Someone laughed in real humor, surprising even herself with the hilarity of it. At first, Ushar jerked around and tried to find who was interrupting this confrontation. Then she realized—no one was laughing.
No one in this room, rather. The laughter was so alien that Ushar didn’t recognize the low voice, and goosebumps erupted on her flesh as she finally recognized it. She turned and saw one of the new employees for the inn.
Calanferian agents. A mousey-haired young woman holding up a tiny marble in her fingers, angling it to take in the scene.
Scrying orb in miniature. So the voice was then—
Queen Ielane stopped laughing and whispered into the speaking stone hanging from Ushar’s ear.
“What an interesting child.”
What was Lyonette to do? The [Princess] closed her eyes, and when she looked at Dame Ushar, the Thronebearer twitched her chin fractionally. She understood her orders. Lyonette turned back to Mrsha and embraced her hard, feeling how frail her daughter was.
“Can’t I help, at least?”
Lyonette was pleading with her daughter, pleading because she realized that somehow, Mrsha had all the cards. Both she and Ushar had an instinctive feeling that even if they sat with Mrsha, held her, and she never vanished—something would continue happening. The only way to know was to see it or Mrsha to give them access to it. As proof, the girl wrote in the air again.
You can resolve the problem with the wand, Mother. It will put us all in danger. Maybe not today or tomorrow, but it needs to be done. Just remember: if you go to them, don’t go as a warrior with a weapon. Go like a [Princess] of Calanfer.
The warning was so pointed it struck Ushar a second time. Lyonette brushed at her eyes and glanced at Ushar, helpless.
I shall find out what it is, Your Highness. Else, I have failed you utterly. We will protect her, I swear it.
Ushar projected the words at Lyonette, as if the [Princess] could read minds. The [Princess] nodded fractionally, barely even moving her head. If they could not get it from Mrsha, then the entire inn would find out what was wrong themselves.
However, Lyonette had other problems. She looked up and saw the three beings standing there.
Duke Rhisveri, Viscount Visophecin, and Taletevirion, not as haughty as before, but each one watching her. Waiting for her.
Each one not a regular person. Lyonette had no idea what they were. She had ideas, but she had developed that sixth sense that Ryoka and the other Earthers had cultivated. Whomever they were…she took a breath, then nodded.
“Dame Ushar? Make sure Mrsha stays right with you. Don’t let her out of your sight or I will shoot you. With a regular crossbow bolt. Adventurer Arcsinger is under your direct command, as is Peggy and Colfa.”
Elia started, and Peggy and Colfa turned as the Thronebearer bowed again.
“—Yes, Your Highness. And our guests?”
Lyonette stood slowly and exhaled. She bent down, gave Mrsha a fierce hug, and then nodded.
“I suppose I’ll see what they have to say.”
Mrsha du Marquin gravely nodded at her mother. Then she felt her stomach rumble. For reasons unknown to everyone but her, the little girl’s stomach was unused to this much food so fast.
Let’s see…she’d had juice, a burger, a muffin, crackers…and Lyonette had just squeezed her stomach hard.
Dame Ushar looked down just in time for Mrsha to lean over and all her food to expectorate out her mouth. Mrsha wiped at her face, then requested a new drink and a lighter meal.
Dame Ushar requisitioned a mop.
 
——
 
Viscount Visophecin had little idea what was going on here. He had educated guesses as to some of it, but Mrsha du Marquin…? No clue.
Of course, his face and bearing gave none of that away. Looking as if he were in control of the situation was essential to victory, and the Lucifen was the best actor you could ask for.
He was…also desperate in his way, he could well own. Distress was not something Lucifen processed like mortals. He didn’t panic or grieve or weep.
In some ways, that was worse; he had quietly, and coldly, reflected on each one of his kindred he had led to their deaths. Azemith, Igolze…all because he had trusted an [Innkeeper] to be less ruthless than he. He had acted like a youth, and House Shoel had paid the price.
To atone, to prepare for his new mission set upon him by Paxere, Visophecin had spent weeks researching everything he could. Including this inn. He was well aware this was a ‘Solstice event’, though he had to admit arrogance had once again shown its unwelcome head.
He’d thought it was an exaggeration when the event had been described to him in [Informant] reports, in gossip at pubs, or direct conversations with people keen to brag about their association with the inn, like Menolit. However, it appeared Ryoka Griffin was not the only extraordinary…Earther.
—At any rate, he also realized he was in the unwelcome camp of being a hostile presence within the inn and that he’d been lumped in with Duke Rhisveri, never someone you wanted to be associated with when it came to faux pas.
As well as the being known as Taletevirion, who was clearly an immortal of some kind. Allied with the Dragonlord of Flame.
Wonderful. No help for it but to proceed, so Visophecin let Rhisveri whisper to him as they watched the interplay between mother and child.
“Hey, Visophecin, let’s drop the animosity for a moment and focus on what matters.”
Visophecin bit back a retort and murmured.
“Agreed.”
Rhisveri nodded subtly at Taletevirion.
“Who’s white-hair over there? His aura’s strong. Shape changed; he’s clearly emitting magic. A natural producer—what do you reckon? Orichalcum-grade mythical beast?”
That was an old reference to grades of magical creatures, outdated, outmoded—mostly because a lot of the species were dead. Visophecin replied softly.
“Could be Adamantium-grade.”
“That’s my species and Dragons. Don’t be stupid. He’s more magical than Mithril-grades like Lucifen, but less than me.”
Again, the Lucifen swallowed another retort. Lucifen were inherently less magical than giant beings like Wyrms, but that was a poor estimate of deadliness.
“What is his age? Older than you, Rhisveri?”
“I…maybe.”
That grudging admission made both’s spines prickle. The real quality immortals used to estimate the relative deadliness of their opponent was how old the other one was. The longer you lived, the better at continuing to live you became.
Rhisveri was over ten thousand years old. Even Wyrms of old would have respected that, though Rhisveri had spent a lot of his life in hiding. Anything older than him was a threat indeed.
—Not that Taletevirion gave off that immediate impression. He seemed distinctly unwell, sweaty, glancing at the bar. But Visophecin had a definite feeling that Taletevirion knew how to use the blade at his side.
Visophecin had trained with Agelum all his life. He wasn’t a natural like they were, but he could probably take on any Silver-bell [Duelist] in the world fairly equally on technique alone, and with his magic and abilities, he had confidence in his martial abilities against almost any foe.
Taletevirion made Visophecin think of spells, distance, and Rhisveri as a living shield. The Lucifen would rather challenge Menorkel to an arm-wrestling competition than cross blades with the white-haired half-Elf.
Mostly, though, Visophecin was fascinated by the child. Mrsha. Her conversation with Lyonette was beyond mature for her age.
He had no ability to see emotion like some classes, nor was he impressed by it. But Lucifen did admire drive. Visophecin had a flash, a question in his mind.
If she were to sit in that room, the Verum Pactum, and ask for a boon, what would she demand? What would she offer?
…Could I pay her price?
He shivered. But then the [Princess] was rising, and turning and her gaze on her daughter, which Visophecin took to be ‘loving’, hardened to wary dislike as it fell on him.
A bad first impression. He bowed instantly, a proper courtly bow.
“Your Highness of Calanfer. May I apologize for my rash display earlier?”
“You may. I am disinclined to take it. Viscount Visophecin. Duke Rhisveri. Taletevirion. This is not the time for interruptions in my inn, and as I said—in song—you will comport yourselves with respect here or I will throw you out. But it seems I must hear you. So: to business. We shall meet in the [World’s Eye Theatre] in five minutes. Ser Dalimont, please find Village Head Elosaith and meet me there with Vaulont and Bird. Ishkr, get Captain Todi and Captain Earlia. Someone find poor Caretaker Ebente? I need to at least speak to her and the Watch. Oh, and put Songmistress Calla somewhere safe.”
The Drake who’d swooned had passed out fully; probably backlash from using her Skill on so many powerful individuals. The inn burst into movement, and Visophecin stepped back, nodding, as he observed.
What he observed was a lot of people coming at the [Princess] and being intercepted. Ishkr, the Gnoll, Ser Dalimont, and even the woman, Colfa, funneled the others around them. This inn was used to this kind of event. Lyonette went striding past them through the doorway, and he heard her voice.
“Watch Captain Zevara! Hello, how are you? We haven’t talked all week!”
“Lyonette, eight of my [Guards] are paralyzed on the floor, and I just received a Skill-based warning—”
“Solstice event.”
Visophecin was rather amazed that the simple reply stopped the angry Drake’s voice. When Zevara spoke again, it was with genuine resignation.
“…Ancestors damn it, can’t you turn them off with Erin gone? Okay, so…”
The door closed. Someone held out a gauntleted hand, and Visophecin saw Ser Dalimont pointing to a side door.
“This way, sirs. Her Highness will see you shortly.”
The gaze he gave Visophecin was full of so much dislike that the Lucifen had to stop.
“Have we met, Ser Knight?”
Dalimont’s face tensed up even further, if possible, and he uttered one grudging word.
“Noelictus.”
Ah. The Singer of Terandria. The invasion—and the Hunters of Noelictus. Visophecin recalled the 4th Princess of Calanfer, Seraphel, had a bodyguard of Thronebearers.
What an interesting connection. He inclined his head with a slight smile.
“Rest assured, we are all on the same side. I swear on House Shoel I mean no harm to anyone in the inn.”
“Very good, milord. I would hate to have to place a call to the Hunter’s Guild in Noelictus.”
