“If you think that’s kind—find a pair of kids, Rafaema and Cirediel. They visit this inn now and then. Tell them this story and ask them what they’d do. It will change nothing. No Great Forests will return. Even if this Dryad survives ten thousand years, what will she do? Replant the Vale Forest? Grow another World Tree? She cannot. Even if Oteslia’s stunted tree were to bloom tomorrow, the forests are gone. Lost!”
He stood and peered at Lyonette, and then his eyes swept to Rhisveri and Visophecin. Even they were younger, and the Unicorn pointed at them. They flinched.
“These two. They have their secrets, and I’ll keep them. I’ve kept so many, two more don’t matter. But they’re like me. The last of the last. They should know better. Maybe they’re just—young. But they get it, deep down, in the marrow of their souls. None of our peoples are coming back. It doesn’t matter what we try. We are beyond trying. That last struggle of a people on the verge of extinction, reproducing, keeping our old glories alive? That battle was lost before we were born. Never shall our peoples flourish. If you bring that Dryad back, she’ll be alone.”
He turned away, and his hands were in his pockets, back hunched. His voice kept speaking.
“It’s funny you think it could happen. It truly is. It’s because none of you were there. You think we could grow a Great Forest, but you cannot imagine it. The Vale Forest? You call that the ‘last’ magical forest of Izril. All I see are saplings after the land was cleared. A Great Forest? Oh, we had them. In the days when I was a little colt, there was no City of Growth. Oh, there was an Oteslia and they were mining the place that they would later call Salazsar, but neither was a Walled City. Back then, the Walled Cities meant something different. There were so many more, and those were grand and terrible and beautiful and flawed. Even back then.”
The ancient swordsmaster’s eyes opened wide, and he held a hand up, pointing south, where he could still feel the dead lands.
“Irvoryth, The City of the Branch. The lone Drake city allowed to build on the branch of a World Tree. Vaster than Oteslia by ten times. Tall trees? There were times when the mountains were of a height with them. They cast the land into shadow; they called those places the Autumngroves, because they were always out of sunlight. Rocs would nest in canopies so vast they were like chicks, and when leaves fell, they could crush entire towns. Those were the forests of old. They took tens of thousands of years to grow, and when they died, people said the same things you did. They said—‘someday, another World Tree will rise’. It never did. The last hundred Dryads spoke of planting the great forests again, carried seeds and hope. The last ten thought they could do it. The last one knew the truth.”
He’d thought he was the one, once. Tending to dead seeds in the earth, watering them, infusing the soil with magic for hundreds of years. Now, the Unicorn searched around, and they were all wide-eyed children. He nodded, again, to the Wyrm and Lucifen. And he thought of the two Dragon children who had been told they’d repopulate the world. Teriarch understood how monstrous that hope and charge was.
“We are the last. Each one of us. That’s why we came here, Lyonette. That’s why we care. Even me. I tried to ignore it. I tried to pretend I was done, but here I am.”
His braying laugh was self-deprecating. Taletevirion rubbed a hand down his face.
“We know it will never come back, but we can’t just walk into that lonely fog and vanish. None of us can. I have met so many of the last. As they passed into the twilight, they all told the same story I tell, that you two will tell. It’s different, each time, but the same story.”
He touched his chest, and his eyes found the witch, the [Princess], the Antinium, Humans, Vampire, and they flinched, for someday it would be their turn, no matter what they believed.
“The last only tell one tale: how we ended. If you want to add to that, one more verse, after Fithea sor Kerwenas’ long ballad, then just know what you’re doing.”
The Unicorn swore he could hear someone playing on those old strings; a Dryad with a harp only she could play, made out of strands of her own hair. He listened to the long drums made of vast acorns and realized that stupid Drake was awake and using her Skill again. But he didn’t care, so he sang.
 
“I am the last one of them all
I witnessed my species’ sorry fate
I have been waiting for that final fight, to end
My sad, eternal state.
 
I cannot escape this child
I’ll look away and still I see
The wyld halls, my numberless beloved homes
It’s all still, standing right there!”
 
 
He pointed a finger at something only he could see, and his eyes were filled with tears. He brushed at his face and tasted it. Ash on the wind. Glowing skies, like embers. And he still thought there was beauty in that horrific sight.
 
“Burning forests walking into sea
Falling branches, dusty skies
Voices vanish into gray
Still I say: 
I’ll see it again. ‘Someday’.”
 
 
 
When he turned, he saw the [Princess]’ eyes. And he remembered a young woman holding a sword, teeth clenched, a helmet askew on her face. When he regarded the Wyrm, he saw the sneering serpents gathered by the dozens in vainglorious pride.
In the Lucifen’s gaze a smiling coven gathered in dark nobility. He had known them all. He glanced at Vaulont and saw a court of laughing fangs, honorable as the ancient faces of the dead stewards he saw in Elosaith’s. Last of all, he looked at House Veltras and saw a lone man riding a Corusdeer, laughing as he leapt off the saddle. A gathering of [Witches], each with a different hat, meeting Dryads under an eclipse, in Nanette’s eyes.
None of them could hold his gaze. The Unicorn’s breath escaped his lungs, and he sang the last of it.
 
“Wandering the lonely saplings
Listening for that final call
I tell myself I’ve made my peace
And all the while I hear it all.”
 
Then he could go on no longer. It deserved a dozen more verses, a hundred, but that wouldn’t have been enough to encapsulate one millionth of his grief or all he had known.
The Unicorn stopped and rubbed his eyes on his sleeves.
“Damn song Skills.”
No one said a word. After a moment, Rhisveri opened his mouth to say something. He looked around, at Taletevirion, and closed his mouth.
It was little Sammial who broke the silence in the worst, or best, way possible. The boy slowly and deliberately put his hands together. He began to clap. Slowly, at first, then faster and louder. Then he stood on his feet, applauding the Unicorn.
The boy had tears in his eyes. When everyone gaped at him, horrified, perturbed, angry, he kept applauding defiantly.
“It was a good song. It deserves applause!”
Taletevirion smiled at that. Hethon and Jericha were trying to shush Sammial as he applauded, and it was a faint noise in that grand theatre. When the Unicorn looked up, he saw the Goblins and Antinium watching him.
Just like all the rest. Not a single one applauded. They stood there, and of them all, those two mortal species understood his song best. The applause continued, a boy clapping defiantly away, applauding grief without end. No one else said a word, and they listened with pained embarrassment until they heard another sound.
Hiccuping. Taletevirion turned his head again, and Sammial Veltras was now hiccuping. Red-faced as Hethon tried to cover his brother’s mouth. Until the older Veltras boy saw that Sammy was crying.
Tears were running down his cheeks, and his nose was running onto Hethon’s hand. The boy was sobbing, looking at Taletevirion, and clapping his hands until they hurt. Because he didn’t know what else to do.
So, as he had done so many times before, the warrior of the green lands, the swordmaster, and the healer, who ran into war to deliver death and life, did what he had always done. He extended a moment of magic and grace in a single action.
Taletevirion bowed to Sammial, like a performer on a stage. The boy stopped clapping and stood there, hiccuping faintly, and the Unicorn rose, his silver hair shining under the rain drenched skies. When he looked up, he saw no one in the stands. Not other immortals, nor guests of the inn. For a second, he and only he saw a room filled with companions. His kin, friends and enemies, acquaintances of distant years.
The watchers could only guess at what he saw. Taletevirion listened to that applause from an audience only he could see. He took another bow, quietly. Then he came back to reality and saw glistening eyes. Heard a sob from Nanette and sighed.
The Unicorn stood there, cursing himself for being a real bleeding-heart Teriarch, and saw someone else rise after a while.
Lyonette had tears in her eyes. She was wiping them away.
“I think—I think we need a recess. Just for a second. U-um. Taletevirion. Can I get you anything?”
“Nothing. You can’t drink away memories. Well, you can for a while, if you try hard enough. But not today.”
She nodded and then, impulsively, hugged him. Taletevirion let it happen, but hoped he wasn’t establishing a precedent. When Nanette tried to do the same, he groaned.
“No, your nose is running—no—come on. We’re trying to deal with the wand. Not you too, Bird.”
 
——
 
It took a while before all the hugging wound down, and Lyonette felt ashamed. Embarrassed by her long fight with Nanette. Taletevirion had put it in perspective in the way only he could.
Here they were, fighting over a living person. Lyonette had her fears, but oh, it was so much more painful than that. In his way, Hedault had realized it from the start and abandoned the wand at once. And Ryoka, that magnet for suffering, had picked it up.
Now, Lyonette had to make a call, and she saw why Mrsha had given her that advice. The girl was eating some broth in the inn when Lyonette came out of the theatre, blowing her nose.
“Mrsha? Are you okay?”
Yes, Mother. Did you make a decision on the wand?
“Not yet, but I’m a bit—where’s Rhisveri and Visophecin? I saw them come past here. I’m a bit overwhelmed. It was a lot to take in. The wand, the enormity of it. I feel rather foolish, Mrsha.”
Lyonette confessed to her daughter, and Mrsha held up another card, face somber.
I know. Taletevirion is good at singing. Who’d have thought, right?
She turned back to her broth, and Lyonette nodded, strode past Mrsha to where she had spotted the two immortals at the bar, and hesitated.
Wait a second. Mrsha hadn’t been in the theatre, even among the Goblins and Antinium. Had one told her that…? She eyed Ushar, and the Thronebearer gave Lyonette a quizzical shake of the head.
Another mystery. Mrsha’s gaunt expression was all-knowing, like Erin after she’d returned from the lands of the dead. Lyonette shivered—and went to find the two immortals, because they were easier than her daughter. Mrsha’s gaze followed her mother, and she smiled in relief for reasons only she could know.
A tiny bit of salvation for a girl who had seen it all failing.
 
——
 
“A Velrusk Claw, two fangs.”
“Give me a glass of Rxlvn, on the rocks.”
Viscount Visophecin and Duke Rhisveri ordered from the bar. After a few seconds, Ishkr handed Visophecin a double-strong shot of the purple Gnoll’s drink, and Rhisveri a form. The Duke read it, signed the form indicating he was aware of the risks, and was handed a tumbler of black liquid with a ball of ice in the center. They took a sip, and both shuddered.
The Lucifen had seldom drunk for the act of getting intoxicated. It was the appreciation of the taste of wine itself or the social implications that he liked.
Right now, though, he was thinking he needed some Rxlvn too.
No wonder the Unicorn drank. The two immortals had beheld in him the very thing Ailendamus was founded in, but so old and so jaded and—weary that even Fithea would have seemed bright-eyed and green compared to him. In Taletevirion, Visophecin beheld the end of everything, and it was terrifying.
“—You know, Ryoka Griffin told me there’s more Wyrms out there. One of them actually wanted to mate with me. Highly flattering. Distracting.”
After Ishkr had gone, Rhisveri cast a silence spell and spoke. Visophecin hadn’t heard that. He turned.
“Doesn’t that result in…?”
“My death? Of course. So I wasn’t tempted. But it reminded me of how I thought when I was younger. I thought—if there was just one, what if I did it? You know? Wyrms can repopulate massively more than Dragons. There’s a chance. It’s not the same as the one Ryoka introduced me to. But I know they’re out there. There’s a chance for my species beyond this world, at least. That’s something. There’s even other nature spirits, or so she said, I think. It makes you wonder what this is about.”
Visophecin nodded. He spoke quietly.
“You put the geas on her. But aside from that—the fact remains there is a child, unborn, in the seed. In a sense, it is a living being. The only question is when the seed grows or if it is destroyed.”
“A tree, alone. That’s cruel. They do talk to each other, you know, Visophecin. Even the ones who don’t have voices we can hear. They can be lonely. They can feel pain; it’s just not as we do. I don’t know. I’m just—Fithea would do it in a second, but that’s because she’d be there. At least, if there was a child, she’d have us.”
Us. That gathering of immortals in Ailendamus. Visophecin had never felt like they were a family, but he’d been part of House Shoel, which was like its own group. But now, in this moment…he stared into his cup.
“Less of us. I have brought us to war, and this era is changing.”
“It wasn’t your fault. You made the first deal in eras, and you didn’t know the rules.”
“I bear every responsibility.”
Rhisveri tilted his glass back and then slid it over the counter. Ishkr teleported behind the bar, checked the empty cup, and stared at the Duke, but the Wyrm took no notice. He spoke, staring ahead.
“—Then I am sorry for you, Visophecin. Let me say that. I don’t want to imagine how that feels.”
“Thank you. As I am sorry for you.”
The Wyrm’s face was dead blank, and Ishkr cautiously offered him a second glass. He took a deep gulp of it and spoke, voice quivering with emotions he was trying to press flat.
“…I let her down. If she took that trap of an invitation, it was my fault for not giving her something to believe in. Gilaw, Menorkel. Why would she—?”
The two stopped talking as someone pushed against the privacy bubble. Rhisveri lifted a finger, and they turned.
Lyonette sat down, adjusting her outfit. She leaned over the bar.
“Ishkr, a finger of scotch.”
