Style. If anyone looked too closely, they’d assume it was Dragons. They always assumed it was Dragons. He snapped at Sophridel.
“Speak already.”
“We are concerned for your wellbeing, Rhisveri.”
“Psh, why?”
Sophridel produced a mask, and it spoke; his way of being shy and letting someone speak for him. Each mask had its own personality, and this one had an annoying city-girl accent.
“Well, boss! We think yer all broken up about Fithea and stuff. Between that and Ryoka leaving, you’re sort of losing it. Plus, we’re now in debt, so—”
Rhisveri’s Human guise slapped the mask out of Sophridel’s ‘hand’. He spoke fast, feeling his body run cold; his instinctual reaction instead of blushing or heating up like mammals.
“We are not in debt. I explained it to you again and again—”
“You gambled hundreds of thousands of gold pieces of our treasury and lost it all. Yes.”
“It’s not even that much. I could have had it back in the year or paid it out of my own finances—”
Sophridel spoke over Rhisveri, his calm voice as agitated as it got.
“It is a substantive sum, and if it were enforced with a [Loan Shark] Skill of sufficient power, it would impinge our entire nation on a level of such magnitude that—”
“Sophridel, Sophridel, shut up. Listen to me.”
Rhisveri slunk around Sophridel and put his hand on what he reckoned was the Mask Elemental’s shoulder. He purred in Sophridel’s…okay, he had no ears.
“I had it under complete control. It was annulled that very night. Because I charmed that [Princess]. She even gave us a substantive sum of money, or didn’t you see the budget reports? Did you hear Itorin complaining about that?”
“A loan. A [Princess] has given us a substantive sum of money that she can—”
Sophridel found a finger pressed up against one of its masks, and Rhisveri growled.
“Shush. She’s one mortal, and she’s giving us gold. How am I at fault here? Now, listen, I’m going on a short trip. I admit there were mistakes made. It was the Dragonlord’s plan; I see that in hindsight now. This is a battle between him and me, and he got one up on me. I’ll rectify the situation. Now, keep this between yourself and the others, but I’m going to send the good Duke to the inn.”
“Where you lost all the money? If you are gambling again, I will stop you. I will stop—”
Sophridel grew in size, rising until he was two stories tall and still growing. Rhisveri spoke rapidly; getting the Mask Elemental agitated was risky, even for him.
“Nononono! Perish the thought! Remember the Windy Runner episode on gambling?”
“…That was a very good one.”
Sophridel shrank down, and Rhisveri slicked his hair back. Duke Rhisveri was forty-some years old, and Rhisveri was glad of it. His hair was black, his eyes a faint green; he was, of course, good looking as most species reckoned such things. It’d do.
“I have a plan. Miss Lyonette—the woman running the inn—is a more reasonable person than you might think. She also has the wand, and she is the principal holder of any money Ailendamus has received, and she helped annul the loan. Relations with her dictate all of your concerns, Sophridel.”
“Ah. So you’re going to kill her. Very good.”
Sophridel relaxed, and Rhisveri glowered.
“No! That’s so—are you mad? Kill someone for doing nothing…? Dead gods, you’ve been hanging out with the Lucifen too long. I’m going to seduce her, idiot.”
He found some cologne he’d bought from a [Merchant] and puffed it in his mouth, then gagged. Sophridel paused.
“What.”
“Seduce. It shouldn’t be hard. I pop in, out, and I’m back with the wand. The wand, Sophridel. She told me she’d sent it to Ryoka via Courier but clearly she’s forgotten or she can’t even handle that. Plus, I’ll get her to invest another hundred thousand gold coins with us and make the terms of the money lending far more generous. A non-punitive clause in a contract enforced by magic. Don’t tell me it’s impossible.”
“It is not. Let me send one of my most charming masks to do the job. You would be a mist—”
“Hm?”
The Duke and his real body both narrowed their eyes, and Sophridel kept talking because he had no tact unless he was using a mask.
“—take. You have no charming qualities. Visophecin could do it. You cannot.”
“Visophecin? Is that a challenge?”
“It is most emphatically framed as not a challenge. How are you taking it that way? You are not charming, Rhisveri. And you are unskilled in both the areas of romance and intercourse.”
The Wyrm stopped preening and turned his head. His main body loomed his head over Sophridel.
“Sophridel.”
“Yes?”
“Wyrms die the first time they mate. Male Wyrms get eaten by females. Is this part unclear?”
“No.”
“It’s just that you said that like it was a pejorative.”
“I am merely saying you are unskilled in—”
“And I’m not laying with mortals like some horny Dragonlord of old. So why would you be saying this like an insult?”
The Elemental of Masks couldn’t sweat, but his masks rattled a bit.
“I think you are projecting my words—”
“I’m going now. One night, and I’ll be back. Just you see. Where’s my gift?”
“Rhisveri, I am begging you. Please do not—”
The Wyrm ignored him as his copy strode over to a teleportation matrix on the floor. The Wyrm clicked his tongue, and Rhisveri vanished. Sophridel stood there, and a mask with a look of horror fixed itself onto his ‘face’.
Rhisveri snapped.
“Oh, stop that.”
“You are going to interfere with Ryoka Griffin’s plans. You stated you would not. The wand is her business, as is the resurrection of Dryads.”
“Dryads—the seed is—”
Sophridel realized it might have made a mistake, invoking Fithea’s memory. For a moment, Rhisveri’s face turned uncertain, then crumpled.
“The last Dryad seed—has nothing to do with my visit. It was purely for the gold. I just thought I might as well deal with that while I’m there. Good point, Sophridel, I’ll make it a priority. What’s wrong now?”
The Elemental of Masks didn’t respond, because he’d decided not talking was better than continuing to do so.
 
——
 
A bunch of people were visiting the inn as two Gnolls were standing in the [Palace of Fates], hugging each other. Lyonette had emerged from the morning singing practice to receive a surprise.
Not unexpected; Ushar had given her a heads-up, but even so, Lyonette had almost forgotten. Her mother had made her a promise, and Ielane could keep her promises.
About a dozen people were standing in the common room of the inn and not screaming as Ishkr, Peggy, and Rosencrantz stood with them.
That already was a good sign, though at least one of them had her hands in knots in her apron. Lyonette blinked as Ishkr strode over to her.
“Lyonette, we have a bunch of people, uh, applying for jobs at the inn.”
He regarded her with a knowing stare, and she smiled as Colfa walked into the kitchen to request a bloody cut of meat. Lyonette saw a motherly-looking woman, a Drake clearing her throat, and a collection of mostly Humans and two more Gnolls.
“Oh my. What have we here? Are you all together?”
They glanced at each other in a good act of confusion and uncertainty, or they genuinely just had arrived together. Lyonette wouldn’t put it past Ielane, but she was excited. This was the help she’d promised. At least, the first wave.
It was the Drake who cleared her throat, spoke at the same time as the motherly woman, and then took over.
“No, I—that is, I’ve come to inquire about employment, Miss Lyonette. With the Players of Celum and you, if I may. I think everyone else here is for the inn. May I introduce myself? Calla Songscale, [Singing Instructor]. I hear the Players of Celum are putting on musicals, and I was hoping for an introduction—and to avail you of my services, of course! I’m Level 42, and I have quite a number of references, including from Barelle the Bard, who’s an acquaintance.”
Dead gods! She blasted past the others in terms of interest instantly. The woman next to her blanched and bowed to Calla like she were royalty, and Lyonette took an embossed card.
She shot a glower at Ushar, knowing how her mother had heard of her singing, and the Thronebearer didn’t even have the decency to be embarrassed. Colfa raised her brows.
“Oh my, you must be famous—I can certainly introduce you to Temile, and I should be delighted to review your Skills, Miss Calla. And you are, miss?”
“Ebente, Miss Lyonette. I—I was told you had two little ones in need of my charge. I’m a [Caretaker]. O-only Level 32, but I’ve warded Named-rank adventurers’ children!”
The Human woman with the apron spoke up quaveringly, and Lyonette’s brows shot up. Incredible! Her mother had made an effort!
A Level 32 [Caretaker]? She had to be excellent at her job! Lyonette studied the others and guessed, instantly, they were a mix of competent [Server]-types and people who could work under the Thronebearers. Probably a few Calanferian spies with orders to listen to Ushar.
She came to a rapid decision and beamed.
“Oh my, there are so many of you—Ishkr, can we get everyone something to eat and drink, on the house? I may need to interview you all directly, but let me first give you a tour of the inn! And you’re sure you want to work here instead of in Liscor? There are plenty of inns, and I could give you a reference to others. The Drunken Gnoll is run by a friend of mine, for instance…”
She was testing them slightly, to see how her mother had incentivized them. Several of the men and women instantly muttered that they had to work here, citing reasons of loving the inn for this or that reason—
Calla and Ebente were the two genuinely independent strangers, it seemed. Calla frowned.
“If you don’t need me, I’ll be honest that the Players of Celum are my main focus, Miss Lyonette, but I’d be delighted to teach, ah, someone of your repute.”
Royalty. So she knew Lyonette’s class. Lyonette hid her grimace internally, but it helped. Ebente was even more direct. She glanced at the Antinium and Goblins, clearly anxious, but then her eyes fell on Sticks, and her expression softened.
“Miss Lyonette, I’m not one to—go to such a chaotic inn. But someone told me that your two little ones were getting into nonstop trouble, and I can see there’s children of all kinds here. If I can keep them a bit safer, I’d like to discuss my terms, if I may.”
She squared her shoulders, giving Lyonette a gaze of such determination, both mild and stubborn as a wall, that Lyonette nodded. Sticks, meanwhile, pointed at his face in mild outrage.
“I not a child.”
—Both women had Skills. Considerable ones, it seemed; Calla was talking up her resume and abilities, which included the ability to write songs as well as train her students to put out stellar performances.
Ebente, by contrast, refused to talk up her abilities, but demonstrated them almost instantly.
“Oh no, this is just what I feared. There’s a rat of some kind running around in the basement. A magical one. And this entire inn isn’t really safe. There’s ways to get hurt here; not the staff, but the owner of this inn has a…dangerous place. At least those horrifying undead have a safety mechanism on them! And what is this?”
She began pulling crossbows and jars of acid out of hidden compartments around the inn as Lyonette toured them around, and Ebente instantly began slapping pieces of paper on them. Lyonette was fascinated and amazed to see they were pieces of yellow paper that said:
 
No children allowed.
 
“Are you…sealing the weapons?”
“Just from little ones touching them, Miss Lyonette. Dead gods! You let them run around with daggers and—another crossbow?”
The woman was so horrified that Lyonette colored until Dame Ushar hurried to assure Ebente that the inn had been attacked and this was a precaution. The woman just gave Lyonette a longer look.
“I’ve helped Named-ranks ward their young. I understand Thronebearers do a decent job, but if I may say so, I could at least put up a few systems to protect them—you know, teleport them to safety if they’re in danger—even if we don’t work together, Miss Lyonette.”
“I would be delighted by that, Miss Ebente.”
Lyonette replied weakly. Colfa had joined the mini tour, and she leaned over now to whisper in Lyonette’s ear.
“She’s walking over you, Lyonette. Is this from your mother? You don’t have to hire her.”
“Well, she’s very good at her job…”
Lyonette was hesitating until Calla decided to throw her own hat into the ring. The Drake, incidentally, had silver scales around her eyes that were shiny and reflective and contrasted with her regular black scales; Lyonette hadn’t made up her mind if the Drake had dyed her scales or if it was natural.
“I can also provide security of a kind, Miss Lyonette. Not of the same kind, but I am a high-level [Song Instructor].”
“Wh—you can? Can you deafen people or…?”
The Drake’s voice was rich as she chuckled.
“Nothing so prosaic. Mine’s a bit silly, but it’s worked in stopping me from being mugged or attacked by [Bandits] over six times! One time, they took all my money because they could hold a note—er, it’s more like a useful deterrent, really. Let me show you. [Enforce Rule: World of Song and Verse]!”
She spread her arms, and something unfolded from her. Lyonette blinked, and Calla pointed at the [Princess]. She felt a tingling on her skin as something settled over her being, and she could have thrown it off with her aura, but she was so intrigued that she let it happen.
“Your H—”
Dame Ushar reacted by trying to interpose herself between her and the [Song Instructor], but then halted in the air. When she tried to speak, it didn’t work.
“What’s going on?”
Lyonette eyed Ushar, and then the Thronebearer’s face contorted. She reddened, then spoke—
“It appears—it appears—”
She stuttered, almost went silent, and then began to count, and when she spoke next, her voice had a cadence to it. A rhythm.
 
“Your Highness, it appears I’ve gotten got.
It’s pathetic, I’m embarrassed to be caught.
But if all that is required’s to hold to verse—
Then I can handle it,
Though I’m afraid that others might fare worse.”
 
Calla applauded instantly.
“Oh my, that’s splendid, and off-the cuff? You really are as good as I’ve been led to believe, Miss Knight. That’s right, anyone except for me has to speak in verse. Now, that might not work well on someone like Adventurer Deniusth or a [Bard], but most [Thugs] can’t mug you rhythmically.”
She paused and confessed after a moment.
“Some can.”
