Rhisveri eyed the two as Visophecin walked forwards, and he leaned over.
“Not exactly the most tactful display, Visophecin. You should learn some tact.”
Visophecin tried, but he had to grit out a response between his teeth.
“Rhisveri.”
“Yes?”
“Listen to your own words and recall who speaks them.”
The Wyrm’s eyes narrowed, but before he could round on the Lucifen, the two men were surprised by someone else intending to escort them into the theatre.
“Gentlemen. This way, please. We have a lot to discuss.”
Witch Nanette, in her bright yellow raincoat and blue leggings, was self-importantly standing in the impossible hallway. Visophecin knew this hallway could not exist within the bounds of the inn; it should have exited the side of the building. His skin crawled as he felt the oddity.
Dimensional Skill. The famous theatre.
His eyes narrowed as he noticed Nanette.
Witch.
She had a self-assured look. Visophecin didn’t understand the class. But after Noelictus, he had a wary respect for how dangerous they could be. He also knew Nanette was the child of a famous ‘Great Witch’ of Izril. So he nodded to her.
“Miss Weishart. Are you part of the impending negotiations?”
“If this is about the wand, of course I am! And Hethon’s here too. He’s—Hethon? Sammial?”
Nanette looked around. Visophecin glanced about and saw two boys hiding behind Ser Dalimont. Both were visibly scared; Sammial was pointing a shaking finger at Rhisveri.
“It’s h-him!”
“Nanette, what are you doing? That’s a [Viscount] and a [Duke]!”
Hethon was horrified. He understood the relative ranks of the two men, but Nanette folded her arms.
“They understand what’s at stake, and soon, Lyonette will too. Sirs, let’s have a brief chat before—”
She had a sheaf of notes hastily written out and seemed confident, which was fascinating to Visophecin. Rhisveri was less impressed. He snapped his fingers as he passed by Nanette.
“Out of the way, brat. I’m here to speak with people who matter.”
Visophecin heard a pop and winced. He saw Nanette’s eyes go wide, and she vanished—only to land outside the inn in the pouring rain. Through the window in the hallway, he saw her fall and splash into the water. Rhisveri kept walking.
After a moment, so did Visophecin. Smiling.
“So why are you here? The wand?”
Rhisveri snapped at Visophecin as they walked through the theatre, admiring it. Visophecin kept out of the light as best he could; even with the storm clouds out, the glass dome made him a bit uneasy. He replied, candid.
“Naturally. It is instrumental to Ryoka Griffin’s mission, and therefore, mine.”
The Wyrm raised one eyebrow. For all his bluster, arrogance, greed, lack of foresight, and many other flaws, when he was calm, he was cunning and sharp indeed.
“You were charged with providing something of worth to House Shoel that would make up for the deaths of twenty-four Lucifen. Even Ryoka Griffin’s impossible quest feels substandard to that amount.”
Visphecin couldn’t deny that, so he adjusted his tie.
“—I believe assisting her is the most direct road to that end, as well as aiding Ailendamus. Something you concur with, or you would not be here. I believe you stated you were staying out of the matter?”
Rhisveri avoided Visophecin’s gaze as he sat down in a chair.
“Well, that idiot can’t even keep track of the damn wand. I was simply going to toss it at her. Though she’s on the wrong continent. Tell you what, amusing as this has all been, what’s to stop us from just finding the wand and going?”
He was casting a location spell when someone spoke in a flat voice.
“That would be the fact that Lyonette has a debt Skill hanging over you. And that the wand isn’t in the inn. It’s in the garden. Which means that unless you want to blow a hole through the door, you’re not getting access to it.”
Taletevirion stood in the entrance to the theatre. He came down the steps two-at-a-time, and Visophecin eyed him warily. The Unicorn had a wet bundle under his arms—which turned out to be Nanette. She opened her mouth, red-faced.
“I—”
Rhisveri waved a hand as he turned to Taletevirion.
“[Complete Muffle]. As a matter of fact, the debts were annulled. And you think you could stop me?”
The Unicorn tossed Nanette into a chair and continued walking down the steps.
“I’m in a bad mood, kids. You’re within my radius. At least one of you won’t die if I cut you. The wand is my responsibility.”
“Aha. That’s where you’re wrong. It belongs to one Ryoka Griffin, and I’m merely assisting in getting it to her. If someone else had designs on it, well, I’d take that personally.”
Rhisveri’s intensity ratcheted up instantly, and Visophecin realized it was another mistake to have him here. The last Dryad seed was in the wand, and Rhisveri knew it. Fithea was dead; Rhisveri’s mother, or as close as you could approximate to that. He was going to be emotionally compromised.
And this was the wrong person to have it out with. Taletevirion didn’t react as Rhisveri stood up and strode over to him.
“Personally? I saw what Tolveilouka did to you last time. I’ll be gentler.”
Rhisveri went dead white with fury, and his nostrils flared. He raised a finger, and Visophecin interjected.
“Introductions would appear to be in order. I am Viscount Visophecin. This is Duke Rhisveri, of Ailendamus. And you would be…?”
“Taletevirion.”
A name neither one of them recognized, at least, in connection with historical events. But both felt they should know it. Rhisveri stepped back, eyes narrowed to slits.
“And what are you really?”
He was so angry he ignored the girl sitting there, head flicking back and forth. Taletevirion wiped at his mouth.
“Older than you and tired. Like I said, leave the wand to me. You don’t even know what it is.”
Nanette waved her arms wildly, standing up to get everyone’s attention, mouth still silenced. She began to write furiously like Mrsha, and Visophecin spoke.
“A Dryad seed. The last in the world.”
Nanette froze. Taletevirion’s silver eyes found him, and Rhisveri snorted.
“Unplanted, ungrown. From a thousand year-old magical tree. Probably a Millennial Maple. Classic. Entombed in an ironbark wand. Which is just—like putting a seith core inside magicore to channel your spells.”
The other immortal paused, and his face was grudgingly impressed. Though he snorted at Rhisveri.
“Not a Millennial Maple. Those died out first of the greatwoods. Probably just some old aspen. I’m impressed; you can read, at least.”
“Read? Hah! I heard that one first-hand.”
Rhisveri bristled, and Visophecin covered his mouth briefly. Taletevirion rolled his eyes.
“Oh, I’m sure you did. You’re older than Teriarch told me, but you’re not old enough to remember that.”
“As a matter of fact, I knew someone from the old forests.”
“Please. They’re all dead. You’re Terandrian? Everything and everyone is dead. The last Giants walked off the damn continent when they saw the writing on the walls. Say you’re from Chandrar or Baleros and you have more odds of being right. Everyone’s dead. Treants walked into the sea. Every single [Druid] circle from the old days was slaughtered and had their heads piked outside Kaaz’s walls.”
Rhisveri’s face changed as Taletevirion talked. The Unicorn’s face was flat, but the more he spoke, the more a note of anguish and wild fury entered his tone. Visophecin recognized that too. It was the way his own sire had talked, recalling the losses that had taken their people from Rhir.
Who is this? How does he know that?
Rhisveri was just as struck. He narrowed his eyes, and his tone became more conciliatory, a rarity.
“The Day Kaaz’s Honor Died. As a matter of fact, there were survivors.”
“Impossible. I was there. The last survivors either wyldwalked to Izril, Baleros, or died when they petrified the last of the greatwoods. Everything collapsed into stone and dust and died.”
The Unicorn’s eyes were lost, and he shuddered. Visophecin and Nanette’s heads swung back to Rhisveri as the Wyrm’s eyes widened.
“Not all. Just one survived. Buried in the darkness, half-petrified herself. A Dryad. She hid down there for thousands of years. When she emerged, she disguised herself among the mortal peoples, a wanderer.”
Then Taletevirion recoiled as if struck. He peered at Rhisveri, trying to see—his head shook violently.
“No, no. I’d have known it if—no Dryad can survive without her tree for that long.”
“Dryads can survive it. With the will. She persisted across the ages, untethered, but still a master of magic second to none.”
At last, the other immortal’s eyes held a note of uncertainty. Taletevirion looked at Rhisveri for the first time.
“Where is she?”
“Dead. Months ago. The Wind Runner of Reizmelt killed her. In self-defense.”
It was impossible to know who flinched more at that. Rhisveri uttered the words cold, dry-eyed, like a walking corpse bled out, twitching once. Taletevirion recoiled with a grimace and gazed away, like a veteran watching a scar reopen.
“…Fitting. Someone who’d follow Teriarch around and get her heart—and internal organs—broken kills the last Dryad. It’s always them.”
His eyes were like a distant streak of silver clouds vanishing into the horizon. Then he regarded Rhisveri.
“I know you. Do you know me?”
Both men glanced at Nanette, but neither seemed to care, for a moment. Rhisveri’s lips moved, and he took in Taletevirion’s silver hair, sword, and his half-Elven guise. He spoke.
“—Of course. Unicorn.”
Nanette’s mouth fell open, and Visophecin twitched.
A Unicorn? He was incredulous; perhaps it was bias, but Ailendamus had few quadrupedal immortals, Gilaw being one of the notable exceptions, and she was wild, half-tamed.
Taletevirion was utterly composed, a mark of his extreme age. No, that was wrong. He was utterly natural in this form, but he appeared to be a drunken, cynical wreck, at least from how he acted. In short, a worthy addition to Ailendamus, where he could find purpose and, perhaps, community.
Something told Visophecin that now was not the time to offer; they were not exactly on friendly terms. But again, to his surprise, it was Rhisveri who acted out of character. Or perhaps in a character that Visophecin didn’t know.
Slowly, the Wyrm ducked his head slightly, and he made a curious gesture with his hands. Spreading them wide, fingers splayed, as if he were making the symbol of a tree on his chest.
The Unicorn recognized the gesture and almost moved to copy it. Then turned away.
“That’s an old gesture for a dead place. We’re not friends. I don’t care who you knew. She never knew me, and I didn’t know her.”
“But I knew Fithea sor Kerwenas of the Great Forest of Estiphole. Turn and greet me, Unicorn Taletevirion of the Vale Forest, or I’ll melt you where you stand.”
Slowly, Taletevirion turned around. He met those green eyes, which were at their deadliest when Rhisveri didn’t posture or make threats in anger or try to be menacing. Taletevirion made the gesture, briefly, and dropped his hands.
“So Ryoka Griffin killed the last Dryad. And she found a wand with the seed to grow a tree of the greatwoods. Even Teriarch would call that overly poetic.”
His lips twisted into a grimace of pained amusement. Visophecin spoke.
“We are, it appears, aligned in intents after all. It is our goal to take the wand to Ryoka Griffin. Which I volunteer for. I can have it to her in days.”
Overnight, really, but he didn’t say that. It was hard to gate across continents anyways. Taletevirion glanced at Visophecin.
“I know your kind too. Assuming I took you at your word, which I don’t, that’s not my goal. I want to see the wand. Then have a conversation about the problem she’s entangled with. Apparently, there’s some dead people who want the wand just as much as you two do.”
He jerked a head at Nanette, and Visophecin frowned. It was Rhisveri’s turn to be perplexed.
“Wait, she’s actually important? What do you mean—dead people? G-ghosts?”
His voice turned uncertain, hopeful, and Visophecin recalled the phenomena he had personally witnessed. The hair rose on the back of his neck. He glanced from Taletevirion to Nanette.
“Should we then meet with them? Any information would surely be valuable.”
The Unicorn was shaking his head as someone spoke from above them all.
“No. This is precisely why I have refused to do anything. Nor do I care if it’s the last Unicorn in existence petitioning me, or whomever the two of you are. I hold the wand, and until I am satisfied by what will be done with it, no one will have it.”
They turned, and Lyonette du Marquin was there. She must have been listening in for a while; she descended the stairs, flanked by four people.
Ser Dalimont, Elosaith, Bird, and Vaulont the Ash. Visophecin recognized three of them; he didn’t know Vaulont by name, but he could tell an [Assassin] when he saw one. Bird the Hunter was a known quantity, but he detected a lot of death-magic from the humble-looking villager.
A potent amount of levels for an inn. He and Visophecin could clear the room in seconds were it not for Taletevirion. However, Rhisveri gave Lyonette a grudging nod.
“Princess. Are we going to get down to business? I came here peacefully. And I thought we had an understanding.”
“Duke Rhisveri, I would appreciate it if you called ahead first. As for you, Taletevirion, I tolerate your filching of drinks in my inn, but I don’t appreciate you throwing Ishkr out a window.”
“He got a taste of his own medicine.”
The Unicorn replied. Lyonette stopped two stairs above them and met Visophecin’s eyes.
“As for you, Viscount, I would expect the leader of House Shoel to have a bit more tact.”
That stung. The grey-skinned man answered with a low bow.
“I appear to have let down members of The Wandering Inn on numerous occasions, Your Highness. I can only beg your forgiveness.”
Her voice was less thunderously angry than before. Lyonette sighed, and her tone was less acerbic as she gestured to the seats.
“Somehow, I doubt that. Gentlemen, I have been convinced by my daughter to at least hear you out. And you’re here, Nanette. I should have known. Well…”
She stared blankly ahead for a second, rubbing at her face, and even Visophecin felt moved to offer some silent sympathy for her. Lyonette gazed around blankly, then smiled.
“Shall we discuss the issue? Make your case, gentlemen. Politely.”
The hand-crossbow was still hanging at her side, minus the Phoenixfire Bolt. The three immortals studied each other, and Nanette waved her hands furiously, demanding to be unsilenced.
No one paid any attention to her.
 
——
 
“Why don’t you want to let Ryoka Griffin have it?”
