He realized the Viscount wasn’t moving; he was chatting politely with Asgra, who seemed so taken with him she was asking him questions. And he was glancing around the inn with interest, not focusing on any one person…
Waiting to be noticed. It was, as Peggy would have said, classy. An open invitation to be noticed and interacted with. Indeed, Princess Marquin herself broke off from ordering lunch in song and spotted the Viscount. She went still, and when he glanced up, he gave Lyonette a polite smile.
Dalimont slipped into the kitchen to get Elia and Vaulont. He sensed trouble—and that was before the door opened and he heard someone whisper into the speaking stone channel.
“This is Ishkr.”
“Not a good time, Ishkr—”
“That damn drink thief’s back. I’m going to try to get rid of him, so someone watch the employees for me.”
The—Dalimont saw a familiar silver-haired half-Elf stride into the inn and groaned. Wonderful. No wait—he amended that. Perfect. Taletevirion seemed haggard, and he made a beeline for the staircase at once, but he’d be excellent if things came to blows. Dalimont was about to intercept him when the door opened with a bang and the third guest strode inside.
Duke Rhisveri walked in, adjusting his tie and a package wrapped in gold paper under one arm. He gazed around with a sneer, and Dalimont groaned.
“This is Ser Dalimont to all members of staff. Solstice event. Solstice event! All employees not with a job, to the garden!”
On the plus side…
No wait, he was working on that.
 
——
 
The first thing that happened was that Visophecin and Duke Rhisveri caught sight of each other. Visophecin rose abruptly, his calm face going blank, and Rhisveri recoiled, then strode over.
“You!”
“Hey, you two together? You want table?”
Asgra squinted suspiciously at Rhisveri. She’d been asleep for the gambling night, but she didn’t like Rhisveri instantly like Visophecin. Rhisveri eyed the Goblin.
“—Tell your employer I’m here to introduce, no, rekindle our acquaintance. I’m just going to speak with this fellow here for a second.”
“Damn. I hate singing.”
Both Visophecin and Rhisveri stared at Asgra as she stomped across the inn to the [Princess]. They knew the [Princess]. They regarded each other, and Visophecin activated a silence spell with a twitch of the finger. Rhisveri slammed his gift down on the table.
“What in Titan turds are you doing here? You should be with Ryoka Griffin, you imbecile!”
“Rhisveri. Why are you in this inn? I am upon the task set to me by House Shoel. Are you further entangling yourself in this inn?”
The Wyrm’s eyes narrowed, and he yanked a chair over and sat down.
“How did you know about—Sophridel’s been talking behind my back! Does Paxere or whomever rules the Lucifen know about that?”
He gave Visophecin a sinister smirk, realizing he could hold this over the Lucifen, but Visophecin didn’t rise to the bait like normal. He looked—tired, and after a second, Rhisveri relaxed.
“…Where the hell have you been?”
“Reconnoitering. The situation is more complex than I assumed. I have established the locations of several individuals key to the inn and Ryoka Griffin. I entered the inn to negotiate for the object Ryoka Griffin needs.”
“—The wand? You know it’s here?”
Rhisveri saw Visophecin’s eyes narrow slightly.
“Naturally. I request that you depart posthaste, Rhisveri. My understanding is Her Highness of Calanfer will not take kindly to your presence.”
Rhisveri had never been good at taking instructions, even when Fithea gave them, and she was the only being he let talk down to him. He ostentatiously magicked over another chair and put his feet up on it. He gave Visophecin an unctuous smile.
“Don’t worry. Just nab the wand and get it to Ryoka. I’m here to seduce her. Not just for the wand! She’s got lots of money.”
The Lucifen gave Rhisveri an unblinking stare, studying him from his slicked back hair down to his polished leather shoes. Rhisveri’s confident smile wavered as, after a minute of silence, Visophecin slowly put a hand over his mouth.
“Rhisveri. May I offer you frank advice? Most [Princesses] are highly resistant to [Charm] spells if not outright immune due to artifacts.”
“Shut it. I don’t need magic.”
Visophecin coughed, then coughed again, glancing away from Rhisveri. The Wyrm was getting to feel actually insulted. He snarled at Visophecin.
“Get. Lost. I’ll get the wand. You’re fouling my style.”
“I cannot disrupt what does not exist. Rhisveri, I am no longer under your authority.”
“Right. So I can just kick you out myself, then.”
Rhisveri grabbed Visophecin by the collar as Asgra came back. Visophecin seized Rhisveri’s own jacket, and the two tensed—
The Cave Goblin interrupted in a loud voice.
“‘Scuse me!”
They looked at her, and she jerked a thumb over her shoulder. The [Princess] was at a table.
“Chieftain Lyonette says ‘go to Rhir’. You gotta get out of the inn. But you can have burger.”
She put a burger and fries in a paper bag on the table. Visophecin and Rhisveri peered at it and then sat back down.
“We’re not going anywhere. A burger-thing for me too.”
Rhisveri informed Asgra, and she beamed for reasons he didn’t understand.
“Okay, sure. This gonna be funny.”
She hurried off as Visophecin hissed at Rhisveri.
“The wand isn’t in the inn. It’s clearly been secured, likely in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Breaking a garden is notoriously difficult.”
“Damn. Seduction it is. Alright, stand back and leave this to me—”
 
——
 
Fun fact: Nanette Weishart had a skeleton key. She also had Stones of the Elements and a Friendship Whistle. The skeleton key opened doors.
She had Sammial running defense in the hallway and Hethon as lookout. No more games; Nanette was juggling one of the Stones of Elements like a hot potato—because it was on fire.
Lyonette had locked the wand in an enchanted drawer before. And she could tell when Nanette was in her room. But that didn’t stop a simple smash-and-grab. Nanette would burn the wand right out if she had to! She stood in her room for a few seconds, hoping Lyonette wasn’t focused on the inn—then stepped out, jammed the skeleton key into Lyonette’s door, and turned it.
The door clicked. Nanette strode past Hethon, who gave her a thumbs up and winced as she slammed into the door.
It was locked? Nanette recoiled, twisted the skeleton key, and the door unlocked.
…Which meant it had been unlocked already? She swung the door open, rubbing at her chin, and Taletevirion tossed a bunch of underwear over his shoulder. It floated down as the Unicorn pulled the rest of the dresser drawer out and upended it.
“Damn.”
He tossed the drawers to the ground, not even bothering to be quiet. Nanette’s mouth opened. The room was destroyed.
The Unicorn had overturned the bed, ripped all the sheets out, and yanked every drawer out. Including the desk drawers. He glanced over his shoulder as she stood there and Hethon peeked into the room.
“Hey, help yourself to whatever you were going to steal. There’s all the underwear. Have you seen a wand? Grey? I’ll pay you for it. Here.”
He tossed a bunch of gold onto the ground from a bag of holding. Nanette’s mouth began working.
“The wand! You’re after it too?”
“What? No! How do you know about—? I’m just making sure it’s in the right place! It’s not my business. And I bet no one knows what it is, and since that windy idiot forgot to do anything about it, I’m just going to—where the hell is it?”
He picked up the table, and Nanette winced as the sturdy wood cracked. Taletevirion was impossibly strong—the table was not! He hurled it aside, and the crash made Sammy come running.
“What’s going on—hey, it’s the old guy! Are we trashing her room? Yeah!”
He began kicking things around and punching pillows. Hethon grabbed his brother as Taletevirion rubbed at his face.
“It’s…not here? But it was last time. I think.”
“Sir, you want the wand too? We’re after it! We have to deliver it to the people in—in the Vale Forest!”
Nanette spoke rapidly, seeing an ally, and Taletevirion jumped. He twisted around and gaped at them.
“You what? You want to give it to—the who?”
“The Lords and Ladies of the Vale Pact? They’re in this forest realm, around this table of stone, and they need the wand to—”
The Unicorn’s face went slack as he focused on Nanette, then Hethon. He bent forwards.
“Veltras. You’re a Veltras.”
“Y-yes, sir. Hethon Veltras. My father is Tyrion Veltras.”
Hethon answered, and the Unicorn closed his eyes.
“One with old blood or some connection to—no. You poor, unlucky bastard. Those old ghosts talked to you? And they know about the wand—? Of course they do. You must have activated them somehow. Did you hum a song? Hear the wood’s voice?”
He peered at Hethon, and the boy stuttered.
“I—I didn’t do that. One day I just saw a forest—”
“Damn. And they’re mucking about? They told you to get the wand?”
“They saved our lives during the Solstice! And gave us a charge—which Lyonette ignored!”
Nanette felt like the conversation was sliding out of her control and tried to interject. Taletevirion rubbed at his forehead.
“How’d I miss that? Probably dodging…dead gods. And you were going to give it to them?”
His incredulous stare was the point at which the witch faltered and Sammial and Hethon exchanged an uncertain glance.
“Yes? They said it’s the last hope of—”
“Nonono, don’t do that. They’re bastards. They’ll let you die on some hopeless quest to revive the forests in a heartbeat. And they’re as dumb as Earth Elementals. Just—okay, where’s the wand? I need a drink.”
The Unicorn covered his face, and Nanette felt herself going pink with embarrassment. The haranguing from the witches earlier today came back to her, but she stuttered through the gazes Hethon and Sammial were giving her.
“Even if that’s so, we don’t know what—we know it’s important, Taletevirion, sir! If you explain the matter to us, we’ll help you find the wand. But my mother’s hidden it! If it’s not here, it must be in the [Garden of Sanctuary]! She refuses to let anyone have it!”
“Yeah! What she said!”
The Unicorn took in the explanation from Nanette, Hethon, and Sammial. He studied them, the destroyed room, and then exhaled.
“This isn’t my problem. Nope.”
He strode out of the room, and the three children realized that they were now in the scene of the crime—and the room was truly trashed. They hurried out with Taletevirion just in time for a harried half-Elf to come jogging up the stairs.
“Whoever’s in Miss Lyonette’s room, halt! I—oh. It’s you.”
She recognized Taletevirion, then frowned as she saw Nanette, Hethon, and Sammial. The two boys tried to hide behind Nanette. Elia strode past them and took one peek into the [Princess]’ room.
Elia Arcsinger stood there like a statue as Taletevirion kept rubbing at his face.
“…Okay. I’ve got to talk to Lyonette, then. She’s the one with the red hair, right? I’m just going to talk to her.”
He walked past Elia, stumbling down the stairs, as Elia tried to speak into a stone.
“This is, uh, Elia. Miss Marquin’s room is—looted? Destroyed? I, uh—everything has been tossed about. By the white-haired half-Elf. Taletevirion? Right. And—”
Her glance took in Nanette, Hethon, and Sammial. They decided to make themselves scarce.
A storm was brewing in the inn. Nanette felt it starting up below; a very angry aura swirling around like a hurricane. She’d just like to point out that she was the wounded party today! And the room wasn’t her fault.
Then she heard the scream from below, and things got worse. Because Lyonette was now on her feet in the middle of the inn, it also got musical.
 
——
 
Something was wrong with her daughter.
Lyonette was aware of Rhisveri. She had been informed about Duke Visophecin and had grave reservations about his presence. She had just been told about Taletevirion (and Nanette), and she was no longer happy. Colfa was trying to reassure her, but Lyonette’s instincts as a mother and [Mother] told her something was wrong with her daughter.
That came first. But they were—conflicting instincts.
She felt like nothing was wrong, and the longer she studied the girl patting her stomach, staring at Ishkr like he was a stranger or some long-lost friend, the more Lyonette was certain something was terribly wrong.
Mrsha kept glancing at her and giving her a thumbs up, trying to seem innocent, but she was all dressed up. She never dressed up beyond her kilt and a t-shirt. Something was wrong. Normally, Lyonette would have ferreted it out…but this was, as they all understood, an Inn Day.
Lyonette described it to new staff like this: everyone had off days or chaotic days.
An Inn Day was a good event or bad, it was just that destiny came out with steel-toed shoes to kick chance in the stomach, regardless. If something could happen, it did.
“Keep them away, away, Ushar! My daughter, my daughter is the one I need. And turn off this song, please, please!”
—It was now getting in her way, and Lyonette didn’t know if it’d even work on Mrsha. Ushar didn’t move; she was watching the two talking noblemen and the slightly inebriated half-Elf stumbling down the stairs. They caught sight of each other and recognized one another from the gambling night. But they also knew each other, if not their natures, then by that common link between them…
 
——
 
Immortals.
Three men met in The Wandering Inn, all three with a purpose that brought them together.
A dapper man wearing dark disgrace.
A lonely tyrant in mourning.
A cynical and weary champion.
They regarded each other, weighing the others’ presences, and Rhisveri jerked his head in a challenge. Visophecin stood and swept the Unicorn a bow. Taletevirion grunted.
“Greetings. I’m not here to chat.”
“Neither are we. We have business here. If you would care to speak briefly—?”
Visophecin’s careful address was greeted by a roll of the eyes. Rhisveri snarled.
“He’s one of Teriarch’s associates. Out of my way, both of you. I have business here!”
He stood and strode at Lyonette on the basis that Visophecin could talk with the other immortal. Taletevirion was already walking towards Lyonette, and both halted and glared at each other. Visophecin groaned softly.
All three of them tried to take a step forwards and ran into a Skill. They recoiled instinctively, Taletevirion’s hand falling to his sword, Rhisveri snorting, and Visophecin backstepping fast. Rhisveri peered at Visophecin.
“What the hell was that? Some kind of Skill—”
“Hm. What kind of protection is…?”
