She gestured with her crossbow, and Taletevirion, Rhisveri, and Visophecin had their hands up. They backed up towards the door, and Lyonette beamed at them until the door was opened for them by Asgra. The Goblin closed it, then ran for it.
In the silence, Calla finally turned off her song Skill and then desperately began to crib all the lyrics down. Lyonette gave everyone a smile as her eyes stopped glowing…mostly.
“I do love singing. Now, what were we talking about?”
No one said a word, even Nanette. After a minute, one of the immortals gently knocked on the door and waited for her to let them enter.
 
——
 
A [Princess] with a crossbow stood in The Wandering Inn, breathing hard after her musical moment. She had a slightly unhinged look in her eyes, which either made you back away or like her more.
She was hugging her daughter in one arm, a hand-crossbow in the other loaded with a clearly magical bolt glowing like a miniature sun; the tip of it was beyond red-hot. The contained power of the magic in the bolt seemed to writhe like a [Fireball], giving off flares of heat and force.
Everyone relaxed when she took it out of the crossbow, but she tucked the crossbow back into her bag of holding with a look that said she was going to shoot the next person who condescended to her in song.
…The [Infiltrator] for 2nd Army was an expert saboteur, scout, and killer in his own right. He was used to the cross of blades in the middle of a forest at night or strangling an enemy [Sentry] as an entire camp of [Soldiers] were bedded down barely a dozen feet beyond.
He was on his best behavior in the inn. Good manners, he used his napkin, and tipped well. General Shirka herself had briefed him on his role.
No getting your scales shit, whatsoever. No games, no taking chances. He knew there was an [Assassin] in the inn, two Thronebearers, and a Named-rank adventurer as well as Bird the Hunter. Trying to poke around upstairs would get him killed; his job was purely to report back.
Plus, the Grand Strategist often visited the inn. He was even sitting in a corner in a wheelchair, forgotten, that glazed expression on his face. That was hard to see.
Infiltrator Deiss was composing a brief report in his head to General Shirka. He was sure the other [Spies] who still lurked about, the Drowned Man, a few regulars who knew the staff by name, were all preparing their reports.
But Deiss had an insight unique to him as a representative of Pallass and as an [Infiltrator]. He stood up—after paying for his burger—and sidled out of the inn.
“Pallass, please.”
Liska was a bit distracted gawking at the three men currently arguing in whispers in the hallway of the inn. Deiss overheard them, but couldn’t linger; he had already marked Duke Rhisveri and Viscount Visophecin for his report. Ailendamus might be in bed with Liscor or Calanfer. Or just the inn.
“—fouled my entire ground game with her. Now, I want you to get out of here, Visophecin—”
“I fouled your—you are the principal offending party here, Rhisveri.”
“Yeah. They love me here.”
The enraged Viscount and Duke stared at Taletevirion and tried to edge away from him. One of them cast a silence spell, but the Unicorn just walked with them and leaned on both’s shoulders.
“Listen, boys, I appreciate that we all had a moment to do the old a capella song and dance, but now why don’t you shove off? I have work to do. Let the adults work.”
Sadly, Deiss had to go before he heard how that comment went down. He had already figured out how this inn operated, and he was going to come back on break…assuming the inn was still standing and he was welcome after this. He had to wait a second; the [Doorgnoll] hurried to the grumbling line.
“I’m back, I’m back! Sorry, inn event, guys. It was awesome. Hey, where are you going?”
She turned to him, and he coughed.
“Pallass, please.”
Liska slouched into her couch and sighed.
“They don’t let you in without a passport or temporary card and they get all snooty, you know.”
“I know. I’m on the list.”
He wondered if he should bribe her, but the Gnoll was just being grumpy.
“Okay, but if they don’t let you through, it’s a ten minute wait until I check the door. Pallass!”
Deiss got into line and waited as people walked through, into the checkpoint. They’d expanded it twice; he stood in a long hallway, wondering when they’d open a second checkpoint door. Still, it only took six minutes before he walked through.
“Papers? If you’ve come here without them, you’ll have to turn around. Inquire at City Hall in Liscor for temporary visitation papers.”
A bored voice from a [Guard] changed slightly as Deiss handed over his papers.
“That’s not a regular passp—oh—uh—right this way, sir.”
They hurried him forwards, though ironically, double-checking his papers took just as long as he would have coming through regularly. When he was finally clear of all the hubbub, Deiss made two reports instantly to a Garuda standing by the checkpoint.
The Garuda was drinking a milkshake, and Deiss leaned on a railing and spoke rapidly.
“Report to General Shirka—minor inn event. Duke Rhisveri and Viscount Visophecin visiting the inn. No connection with Goblinhome yet. I need a lookup on ‘Taletevirion’.”
The Eye of Pallass had the ability to forward his reports to 2nd Army. But the Garuda just grimaced.
“You’re not getting a report on Taletevirion. Anything you’ve got I have to file.”
“What?”
That half-Elf had to be important, but the Garuda just shrugged, keeping his voice low.
“He’s unknown. Keep going.”
“Er…I’ll have the full report written up. I might need a musical note sheet. Got one of those?”
“…A what?”
Deiss had to explain that it had been a musical inn event, and the Eye of Pallass just stared at him like he was some kind of rookie [Scout] with a brain injury. But he eventually muttered that he’d get Deiss one.
“Anything else? You should be maintaining your watch.”
“I came back for a good reason. I need a query escalated to Salazsar immediately.”
The Eye of Pallass’ brows bobbed upwards. He sucked on the empty cup.
“To whom?”
“Their own intelligence services, but a general query to their High Command wouldn’t go amiss. Can you ask them about the effects of the possessions of the late Major Khorpe?”
The question was so intriguing, as well as the name, that the Eye of Pallass dropped his professional act for a moment.
“Khorpe? What’s this about him?”
Both of them knew Major Khorpe, of course. Among their particular classes and skillsets, Major Khorpe was a legend, if only because he’d survived to retire in a job that took you out within four years on average.
Here was how old he was: he’d come out of retirement to kill Silent Antinium during the Antinium Wars. He belonged to an older generation who’d been cleaning up the mess after Zelkyr vanished. He was pre-Antinium, the age of Chaldion when the Cyclops was at his best, with Wall Lord Eschowar and the other old movers and shakers.
There was just one thing that made Deiss’ scales crawl. When the [Princess] had pulled that crossbow out, he’d felt his [Advanced Dangersense] going insane. That had been a very elegant hand-crossbow, and if he remembered right…
 
——
 
The request from Pallass went to Salazsar at speed and was actually processed quickly. Not just because the inner wheels of Salazsar were moving faster than usual, though they were.
Wall Lord Eschowar’s return had seen him sacking and replacing several officers, not just with older Drakes like he was, but with more competent leadership. The request was noted, shot down through various channels, until it reached a low-ranking Gnoll in charge of memorial services.
She found herself reporting to the old Wall Lord Eschowar and head of Salazsar’s own intelligence agencies, along with Wall Lord Zail and a mix of young and old figures, mostly Drakes.
“I—I did my best, Wall Lords, sirs, and I assure you that—”
“No need to justify yourself, Miss. We can see you’ve petitioned Liscor, Pallass, and the inn over eighteen times. So please, tell us about Major Khorpe’s memorial service.”
Wall Lord Eschowar had activated his Skill, and he was sharp—like crackling lightning, his thoughts and demeanor that of a precise bolt of lightning, juxtaposed by his ancient frame. The Drake’s flaking scales framed bright eyes as the Gnoll gulped.
She was in charge of collecting possessions after an occupant of the retirement collective passed, among her other duties. Generally, the young woman just forwarded everything to a representative in charge of distributing the will, but occasionally, and especially within the elite group of old Drakes and Gnolls, she had to work hard.
…Mostly because now and then, the objects they had in their rooms were highly magical, highly dangerous, or highly sensitive. More than once in her three-year tenure in her position, a bunch of Drake officers had barged in to confiscate files that the deceased owner should not have had.
“Major Khorpe’s possessions were returned to Salazsar after his demise at the Solstice, Wall Lords. But not all his possessions. I know because I quadruple checked that everything arrived. I knew I had to flag a number of his possessions coming in for the army to dispose of…”
“Nothing for his descendants?”
Wall Lord Zail muttered. Eschowar paused and murmured.
“I think he didn’t have any. Proceed, Miss?”
The Gnoll had a knot in her stomach, the same knot she’d had for ages when she’d thought about having to even touch—she coughed, nervous.
“His body was conveyed back to Salazsar, and his armor and effects, personal blade, poisons, and other effects were each logged and, um, disposed of appropriately. But his personal crossbow wasn’t logged, and I have been asking and asking about it.”
“Very conscientious of you. May I ask why it’s so important?”
Zail glanced at Eschowar, and the Wall Lord seemed to recall…the Gnoll’s voice rose a pitch.
“Well, because one of the last items he apparently had was a Phoenixflame crossbow bolt!”
The room went silent, and Wall Lords Zail and Eschowar very clearly remembered Khorpe pulling the crossbow out when they had all met for the last time. Zail bit his tongue; several people in the room clearly didn’t even know what that was and had to lean over and be told before blanching.
“Just…for memory’s sake, how big a hole would that leave if someone were to fire it?”
Zail glanced around, and Eschowar answered for him.
“I think it’d crater the entire inn. Even if it’s got Skills on it. That’s a Tier 6 enchantment. I suggest we answer Pallass—truthfully—and request the crossbow and bolt back posthaste. For everyone’s sake.”
The Drakes nodded slowly, and the Gnoll [Caretaker] almost fainted in relief when Eschowar looked at her.
“We’ll take care of the disposal, Miss. Thank you. Now, why are civilians handling military-grade artifacts?”
He looked around pointedly, and she backed out of the room as Salazsarian officers squirmed.
 
——
 
A report was sent back to Pallass.
Infiltrator Deiss got to read it as he wrote up a quick report, and when he saw the reply, his scales went cold. He glanced back at the inn and then turned to the Eye of Pallass.
She’d been holding that crossbow and had her finger on the damn trigger! He tried to grin at the Garuda staring at the underlined words.
“Uh—you wouldn’t be keen on going to the inn instead of me?”
The Eye of Pallass said nothing, but patted Deiss on the shoulder. The Garuda took one look at the checkpoint, then decided to flap a few hundred feet away to wait for anyone to come out of the door.
Just in case.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin held her daughter and wondered what had happened.
Why was she so thin?
Mrsha was squirming, protesting, trying to explain and lie, and the [Princess] didn’t care about anything. Not Caretaker Ebente, not Songmistress Calla, not the three stooges…she didn’t even look up when Dame Ushar hissed in her ear.
“Your Highness, that crossbow you had—”
“I took it from Khorpe.”
Before she’d returned his remains via Courier. She had been ashamed, but she’d reasoned he’d have probably let her have it. She needed it.
“May I—may I have your bag of holding? I would just like to see that crossbow bolt…”
“No, Ushar, you may not.”
“Your Highness, I suggest that it is a dangerous, a—if you had fired it—”
“Ushar, be silent. I wasn’t going to fire it. I know how dangerous it is.”
Ordinary Bolts of Fire didn’t look that menacing. The Thronebearer was sweating.
“Your Highness, if you had fired it, the blast radius—”
“Ushar. I said I am aware. If I fired it, I’d have a lot more distance between me and anything I want to kill. The crossbow is staying with me. So is the bolt. Be told.”
All of you. Everything. Even her immortal guests had just realized the [Princess] was not joking around. Lyonette was tired.
“Mrsha? Do you have something to tell me?”
Mrsha squirmed in Lyonette’s arms. Something was going on, the [Princess] now knew. But the girl was just sipping at a big drink of juice and munching on some crackers. She held her mother, tightly, and broke Lyonette’s heart.
What had gone on? Why am I failing? But Lyonette just saw Mrsha write and hand a card up.
Mother, I’m fine. Please don’t shoot anyone. Especially in the inn. Please listen to the silly, stupid singing guys. You can’t keep the wand forever.
At first, Lyonette got angry, but the writing wasn’t like Nanette, pushing and pushing. The [Princess] lowered her hand and stroked Mrsha’s head.
“It’s not our problem, Mrsha. I don’t want you mixed up in it. Ryoka can come back herself and get it if it matters—!”
Then give it to them.
“I—it would only come back to bite us, Mrsha.”
So the solution is to lock it up forever? Bird had shot two beings she claimed had been made of wood and moss lurching towards the inn. But Lyonette had tried to ignore it, tried to pretend nothing was going to happen.
“I’m just tired of inn events. I tried to keep it all calm. Even when we had the box and gold—! Mrsha, tell me what’s going on. Please!”
Her daughter just gazed up with an expression of such calm determination it scared Lyonette more than if Mrsha had been waving around the loaded crossbow. Mrsha squeezed Lyonette harder.
Mother. You have to trust me. I have to trust me. When I ask for help, please listen. Until then, you do what you have to do. And I’ll be responsible too.
She looked up, anxious and tired and hurt, trying to win the [Princess] over.
 
——
 
Dame Ushar was watching the interplay. And she had no idea what was going on or how Mrsha had tripped the [Caretaker]’s warning Skills.
