It was the silliest Skill that Lyonette had ever seen, and Calla explained it was more of a broad rule: she could make her pupils only sing replies or hold them to an octave. But she could also use it as a kind of song-defense to ensure you’d only be mugged by someone who could hold a beat.
 
“That’s wonderful, Miss Calla.
Now what about you?
I am happy to
Have you come and stay with us
 
I can’t wait to try—
Practice, you and I
Oh drat, now I’m singing too!”
 
Colfa started laughing as Lyonette realized the Skill was a bit too powerful. The embarrassed [Princess] only had to carry her words in something like a song; if she didn’t, she couldn’t speak. The other staff suddenly went mute, including the self-conscious Ebente, and Colfa managed to reply after a few moments of her mouth working.
 
“Oh my,
Oh my,
Lyonette oh~ my,
Oh my!
 
I think I’m gonna cry
I’ve never laughed harder than–
(I think I’m gonna cry)
Poor Himilt isn’t here to take part in the joy
But I will tell him all about the day
I laughed so hard I cried.”
 
That was less impressive, but got her a pass from Calla. The Drake winked, and Lyonette debated asking her to disable it—but then she needed to see…
“Ishkr, I’ve returned, good morning, hello all of yous! Come on somebody, bring me some good news!”
Lyonette came into the common room singing, cheeks flushed, but it was worth it to see Ishkr skate up to her, open his mouth—and then go cross eyed.
Better yet, Relc, Valeterisa, Calescent, and Elia were all present and having a late breakfast. They were caught up in the Skill, and Lyonette rubbed her hands with a gleeful expression.
“Wriggle, wriggle, little tail. How I wonder…what’s for breakfast. Up above I was asleep. Now I really want to weep. If I have to sing this song, I am going to leave the inn.”
Relc was first to reply and gave Lyonette a look of such pain that she began to laugh and held her stomach. Ishkr turned progressively redder as Calescent threw up his hands. Elia tried one verse—
 
“I just wonder
What there is
I can eat?
(I can eat?)”
 
She hesitated, and then Calescent broke in with an oddly rhythmic, deliberate, spoken verse. Elia provided the backup, echoing each line.
 
“I’m just hungry-
I’ve-been-hungry-for-this-whole-mor-ning (ning, ning)
My-poor-sto-mach-woke-me-up-at-night (night, night)
This-di-et-was-a-big-mis-take (take, take)
Let’s-go-eat-(eat)-some-bur-gers-Elia (Elia, Elia).”
 
He nodded at Elia, and she nodded back, and the two backed out of Lyonette’s radius fast. It didn’t matter; she’d gotten what she wanted. Lyonette was beaming. She turned to Ishkr, but the normally happy-to-participate Gnoll was backing up.
“Oh come now, Ishkr. Sweet Ishkr, sing to me. Don’t be shy! Sing: to me!”
It was easy for Lyonette to put together a vaguely song-like sentence. She had the training and ability to project, but the suddenly-shy Gnoll shook his head. Relc also seemed to be in hell, but the sleepy Archmage of Izril glanced up from her morning coffee and eyed Relc, then opened her mouth.
“Archmage Valeterisa of Izril. Reluctantly forced to sing. Sort of.”
She gave Relc a wink.
 
“I find this Skill—
…Somewhat irksome!
But I suppose—
…It’s not so hard!
So long as you–
…Call and answer!
I’ll wager I could break the grip—
…But it’s an interesting trip
 
And I suppose I need to hit the second verse so here I go!
 
Relc, my dear if—
…You don’t like it
All you have to—
…Do is step out
Skills like this have—
Limited range!
 
Oh this is quite cool to see
But now I think it’s time to eat
 
I want, I want, I want to eat,
I want to nom,
I want to chomp on food!
To nom, to nom, to chomp, to nom,
I want to have some food to nom
Food to nom—”
 
She was so good that she was in the chorus when a grinning Relc offered her a burger, which shut her up. Lyonette was in pure joy; all her pain and the trevails of this morning became delight.
‘We simply must visit Emperor Laken again, Colfa! And Zevara! And—everyone.’
She took a trick out of Mrsha’s book and held up a notecard. Colfa opened her mouth.
 
“We are silly women playing games while livin’
On a morning that has gotten crazy
But I’m down to go on out, so if you give me a shout then
I will get up and stop being lazy
 
Come on and
Let’s go hit the city, you and me
Let’s go hit the city, happily
Now let’s go hit the city, lead the way
Let’s go hit the city, and have ourselves a day!”
 
She dropped the Vampire accent entirely for a farmer’s drawl. Colfa swung Lyonette around by the elbow, and the laughing duo turned to Ishkr. He was flushing, Lyonette realized, under his fur, and she felt bad suddenly about making him sing. But then he grabbed Sticks, and the surprised Goblin blinked up at Ishkr and grinned.
 
“Sticks! Suddenly, unexpectedly,
Out of, nowhere
If you could spare me some help?
I don’t mean to trouble you;
I know you’re with me.
You sing, with me,
And then we will be free
To get back to our jobs and work in peace-ish.”
 
The Goblin did his best, and he sung in an unexpectedly smooth tenor.
 
“This inn, this place, has always been so strange
It’s just like Chieftain said, just like she told me.
This singing day?
Is fun and that okay!
The Goblins say this place bad but that why I like it!
Now we can dance and move, and sing and never lose
This is so fun, it really is crazy!
So I will sing all day, and then we sing the night away
I want to hear boss Peggy try~!”
 
He got a shower of applause, and Ishkr gave Sticks a high-five. Lyonette saw Calla blink at the Goblin and murmur.
“Dead gods, I didn’t know they could sing.”
The Wandering Inn effect. She’d come into the inn with her best Skill, and it was great, but it was already working! That was before the Antinium came in from the front doors, singing.
 
“I am Bird, I am green,
I am finished peeing!
It is a good way of being—
Breakfast I am foreseeing!
 
Chicken nuggets, eggs, and curry
Bring it to me in a hurry—
 
I am Bird, I am green,
Not a lot rhymes with green!”
 
She even had a second verse that she sung with all eyes on her.
 
“I am Bird, I am green
I do not like to eat most beans
And I make ballista bolts careen
 
I am hungry I am needing
Prompt and tasty things for feeding
I am Bird, I am Bird, I am green!
 
I am Bird, I play chess
Niers and Erin must confess
That I beat both of them more or less
 
I am finished with my peeing
It is a good way of being
I am Bird, I am Bird, I play chess!”
 
Lyonette should have known Bird of all people would be unfazed by the requirements of the song. She turned.
‘Bird! Enjoying the new song Skill? This is Calla!’
Bird halted.
“What Skill? I am singing because I want to, not because I have to. Silly Lyonette. You just have to ignore Skills like this. Hrgh!”
She visibly strained, offered Calla two middle fingers, then stomped off. Which left the [Song Instructor] speechless for different reasons.
 
——
 
—And that was how Lyonette found herself rushing around harassing everyone from Liska to Pelt to Laken. It was funny when they refused to sing, but even funnier when they felt the compulsion to accept.
For instance, Pelt had a hammer song, and Laken sung two bars in a German song before swearing and having her thrown back through the door. She and Colfa ran around like giggling children as Himilt speed-walked away from them.
After an hour of causing havoc in various cities, Lyonette came back to the inn and breathlessly sat down at a table; everyone else was avoiding her.
“This is the best Skill I’ve ever had, Colfa Lischelle—let’s just do this all day, you and I.”
They grinned at each other, and were only interrupted by a note from Dame Ushar. Lyonette read it, then frowned at a little Gnoll girl that had just appeared in the inn and was sitting next to Bird, eating a burger.
—That’s when someone knocked on the door of the inn and let himself in.
 
——
 
The inn was bustling, and at first, the man who had knocked was admitted by a little Goblin and ignored. The Goblin was used to visitors and bold; overly bold, one could say.
Asgra was a Cave Goblin who delighted in uttering statements like ‘Velan the Kind did nothing wrong. You want fries with that?’
—And other statements that got a rise out of people. She was, in many senses, as annoying as Gothica, and Peggy had to keep a watchful eye on her.
Peggy was avoiding Lyonette right now, so the little Goblin was alone. She answered the door with a smirk, and opened her mouth to give the visitor a huge shark’s grin. Asgra was about to begin with one of her most radical statements, but she faltered, and then held the door wider and peeked up at the new visitor.
He walked in with a slight bow to her, and she blushed and didn’t know why at first. Perhaps it was his looks. He was the most handsome Human that Asgra had ever seen, and he walked like a dignified shadow, three steps in the inn, until the door closed behind him, and he inhaled.
His posture was perfect, and he stood with one arm pressed to his chest, wearing a black suit, a single sword at his side. His hair was black, and his head slowly took in the entire inn. When he smiled—Asgra jumped as his eyes found her.
“U-um. We have tables. You want one? And food?”
Without a word, the gentleman nodded, and Asgra shyly led him over to a table and pulled the chair out for him. He sat, and she hurried to get him a menu and a cup of water, then rushed into the kitchen to find Peggy.
“What? You not causing trouble, Asgra, is you? Don’t or I hit you! I don’t want to have to sing with Lyonette!”
The [Floor Boss] scowled at Asgra as she peeked at Lyonette. Mrsha was sitting with her burger at a table with Bird, and Nanette had just flounced in and was scowling at, well, everything.
It was ripe for another unpleasant encounter, and if it came in song—well, that’d sort of be funny. And no one wanted to sing to Lyonette if they didn’t have to.
So that was why several Antinium, Vaulont, and Elia Arcsinger were all eating sushi while they were waiting for something to happen. Asgra shyly pointed to the visitor and tugged at Peggy’s hand. The Goblin realized this was different, took one look at the visitor, then did a double-take.
“Oh, he is handsome. Fine, I go take his order.”
Asgra didn’t want that; she wanted Peggy to just stand there for moral support! She and Peggy hurried out, and the visitor turned in his chair.
“Excuse me, I believe I have settled upon my order. I do hope I am not troubling you?”
His smile was—well, classy. Peggy had never understood how you applied that word outside of the books she liked reading in Nanette’s library, but she got it now. Everything about this stranger seemed polished; not like he’d worked obsessively on it, but like it was a default state of being.
She met his eyes, blushed, and got elbowed in the stomach as Asgra produced a notepad to take the stranger’s orders. He was handsome.
For Goblins, that meant he had qualities they liked. Such as sharp teeth, red eyes, and a mouth that could eat at least half a burger in a bite.
Viscount Visophecin ordered a hamburger and blue fruit juice and sat back at the table, seeming to see nothing and everything at once. His eyes flickered over the white Gnoll, lingered just for a moment on the [Princess], and strayed around the inn.
Searching for something. He didn’t hide who he was. And his presence was instantly noticed—not just by Goblins.
 
——
 
Ser Dalimont was having a troublesome day. He missed Seraphel. He couldn’t help but feel that she needed him in Baleros.
It would certainly beat having to look after a moody witch who’d just hit adolescence. Mrsha was better, but he was wondering how long he’d have to stay here.
Then again, Lyonette needed him.
But sometimes you just had to admit that working for Lyonette was hard work. For once, Ushar had just warned him about the singing.
At least the [Princess] was looking happy. But Nanette was on the warpath and—something was wrong with Mrsha. Dalimont couldn’t put his finger on it, but he’d seen that Lyonette noticed it the moment she laid her eyes on Mrsha.
Between that and double-checking the employees, Dalimont had his hands full. Ishkr was helping interview them, but Ebente had already asked if the Antinium were ‘safe’, and she’d expressed that she felt Goblins were monstrous—but she was conflicted about Sticks and Asgra, who she considered to be children.
—And there was the song thing. Dalimont was about to throw Mrsha in Ushar’s lap and beat a retreat before Nanette and Lyonette got into it.
Then he spotted Viscount Visophecin.
Of course, Dalimont had noticed the man entering, but he’d timed his entrance with a gaggle of first-time visitors having a ‘Goblin meal’ on a dare, wanting to see the famous inn. Dalimont had focused on Visophecin after running the others through a brief scan, both magically and against any wanted posters or other marks of identification he had that might suggest they were trouble.
He had over a hundred faces on the list, and he’d be glad when the employees that had come here could pull some of that duty off him. But when Dalimont had finally turned his attention to the quiet man sitting at the table, his heart had nearly stopped.
Viscount Visophecin, ordering a burger. Dalimont spotted him and had a flash of recollection.
The men and women from House Shoel who had helped invade Noelictus. Dalimont had met Visophecin before, oh yes. In the company of Princess Seraphel and Cara.
The Thronebearer almost sounded the alarm right there and then. But held back. Visophecin was alone—seemingly. Dalimont began to sweep the inn, glancing out a window. He murmured into a speaking stone.
“Ushar. Ailendamus. House Shoel! Viscount Visophecin.”
He hesitated as Ushar glanced around casually. Dalimont had another thought, and he grudgingly added.
“…Erin Solstice’s allies?”
That complicated things. Though Dalimont would have loved nothing more than to let Vaulont, Bird, and Elia Arcsinger jump Visophecin, with Captain Todi for good measure…the situation was complicated. Ushar’s voice was smooth, and he knew she understood.
“Acknowledged. Be on guard. I’ll tell Her Highness right away.”
Ushar’s voice had that stupid song cadence, but suddenly Dalimont was grateful for the Skill. He tried to remember everything he knew about Ailendamus aside from their involvement in the war.
Viscount Visophecin. Very high-level spellcaster of House Shoel. If not the [Spymaster], then highly-placed. What is he doing here?
