How was your day𝄞? Lyonette’s was fine, thanks.
Substandard breakfast.
Lyonette du Marquin had a convivial conversation with Emperor Laken Godart. She didn’t relish her adopted daughter, Nanette, being upbraided. And she was Lyonette’s charge, in so many ways that mattered, even if Lyonette would never, could never, and should never replace Califor entirely. But it would be so nice if people could be reasonable.
“—Absolutely.”
The blind [Emperor] leaned away, and Lyonette realized she might be bending over the armrest of his throne too much. Laken brushed a hand on the sheet of parchment, doing a splendid job of appearing impassive and calm. He might not have had the training she did, but he was a natural.
“And you will allow me a moment to sign the contract and discuss this with my advisors, Your Highness.”
“Of course, Emperor Godart. I’d never wish to hurry any decision you made.”
“I would certainly never imply you were doing so.”
Laken handed the quill back to Dame Ushar as Lady Rie burst into the room, flustered. Lyonette innocently rolled up the mutual defense pact.
“I’m sure I wouldn’t like to take up your precious time, Your Majesty.”
“Your unannounced and sudden visit was certainly not an impediment to my day, Miss Marquin!”
Laken Godart looked mostly in Lyonette’s direction and contrived to beam at her. She beamed back and chuckled heartily.
“Well, when your [Witches] take such marvelous, understandable liberties with my inn, I can’t help but feel as close as two peas in a pod, Your Majesty.”
“Two peas in a pod in the backstreets, armed with knives, like Adventurer Typhenous keeps referencing, surely.”
“Your Majesty, you are a charmer. Dame Ushar, it is such a delight with His Majesty—”
Lyonette’s laughter might have been considered indecorous, especially since it was practically an inch from His Majesty’s face, but they were too close for small things like that. Dame Ushar echoed the merriment. The two backed out of the throne room as Laken Godart subtly maneuvered Lady Rie in front of him like a shield. Lyonette sunshined her way out of the room.
“I must be going, but do think of my offer. I have two Named-ranks under my employ to contribute to any emergencies.”
“And I have an army. I will assuredly get back to you. Lady Rie, lock the doors…”
Lyonette du Marquin had a spring in her step, a pep in her feet, and a bee in her bonnet whenever Apista got tired. She was having a splendid day. Just grand.
Couldn’t you tell?
 
——
 
Dame Ushar called in for reinforcements when Lyonette got back to the inn. The [Princess] was in a splendid mood, of course, and eminently charitable. That’s why Ishkr walked towards her with a list of questions about the new inn being built, saw Lyonette beaming at him, and decided to settle the matter with Hexel himself.
Nanette. Splendid girl! Amazing fashion sense too. Wand? What wand? Explain to me why I should be thinking about a wand, Dame Ushar. I’ll wait. 
“—Ah, Lady Lischelle-Drakle! Good morning! You’re just in time!”
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle paused in the common room of the inn as Lyonette sat there, beaming around at everyone. The Vampire swept over, her black wool skirts settling around her like falling midnight. She didn’t have on Lyonette’s culottes—pants in the style of a skirt, double-layered so the plain, sensible beige working dress revealed an inner green—nor the laced white working barmaid’s shirt complemented by a golden hair clip.
Colfa just had on a black skirt, black waterproof cloak, black top, and black gloves, which she tugged off as she came out of the rain. She looked annoyingly marvelous, proving it wasn’t what you had, but how you chose to wear it.
“You look like someone threw a cat in the water out there and wrung it out. What’s wrong, Lyonette. The children?”
The Vampire’s smile had a crook of a fanged tooth in it. She said ‘the children’ like ‘ze children’, and the few droplets of rain that had touched her cloak made her look grand, like someone who’d sojourned a long journey to get here.
Which she had, if she’d walked all the bridges to get here instead of teleport. Lyonette remarked on that, and Colfa laughed.
“Lyonette. Sometimes ve have to suffer a bit of wet. Himilt has been fishing nonstop. He pulled some kind of gigantic fish out of the water just last night, all tentacles and teeth. I made him throw it back. You need a vacation.”
“I need a vacation, but I’m bringing my daughters on any vacations.”
Lyonette grumbled as she pushed herself up. Colfa’s chuckle was like the chocolate Calescent was making in the kitchen. Rich, dark, and sweet.
“Vell, you can’t fault Nanette for being a teenager. Why don’t we cheer ourselves up?”
Lyonette smiled, despite herself, as she headed towards a particular place in the inn reserved only for her and Colfa, and sometimes, Bird. They headed into the [Garden of Sanctuary] as she turned her head.
“Ushar? We’re not to be disturbed. Tell me if Mrsha and Nanette get back, but ah, don’t bother them.”
Everyone needed time to cool down, cool down. Lyonette was looking forwards to how she started her mornings. She and Colfa walked into the [Garden of Sanctuary], and then a second door opened.
She hadn’t told Mrsha and Nanette about it. Sometimes a [Princess] needed secrets, and the two girls never noticed; Lyonette stood in the garden filled with splashing koi fish and inhaled the scents of a garden in perpetual bloom. The smell of the falling blossoms of the sakura trees, pink and vibrant, was only enhanced by the picture-perfect red, wooden bridge, the simple arch of wood leading towards a cleared space that had once been used by an [Innkeeper] and Hobgoblin for their morning dance routine.
There was still a mat there; Lyonette hadn’t the heart to move it. But she’d repurposed this place.
Colfa paused over the bridge and shuddered faintly, as she always did, but then she was striding up to the clearing. Dame Ushar stood at the entrance, bowing, and Lyonette joined the Vampire. Presently—
The two began to do what they did every morning. Lyonette’s little hobby she had in common with Colfa:
She began to sing.
 
——
 
The [Princess] sang with the Vampire almost daily. It was one of the things that they enjoyed. It wasn’t something Lyonette deemed worthy of a [Singer] class, but she had taken a page out of Erin’s book.
She just—liked to sing. Part of the reason was because it was one of the few things that Lyonette was genuinely good at. Her lessons in Calanfer might not have taught her that much in the way of skills like waiting tables, cleaning, strategy—at least battlefield strategy—or even magic.
But she was good at a lot of things that a [Princess] should excel at to look good. And one of those things was, naturally, good oration and the ability to hold a note if you were singing a national anthem, especially your own.
Colfa just liked singing and had decades of practice. They enjoyed singing, and Colfa taught Lyonette songs native to Izril, especially [Farmers]’ songs and pithy bar carols in exchange for Lyonette’s memorized national anthems and songs befitting a ballroom or her royal status.
It wasn’t a big deal; they barely mentioned it, and if other members of the inn knew about the morning singalong, no one except Bird had ever asked to join in. That had been the three of them singing Bird’s made-up songs—of which there were hundreds—and giggling.
No, there was no reason this would ever matter in the course of The Wandering Inn’s history except that Lyonette had been doing this for over a month and really enjoyed it.
Also—Dame Ushar reported to Ielane everything her daughter did.
 
——
 
Other people were having a less salubrious day. Rafaema woke up from being knocked out by a moon Halfling throwing supersonic, magic-breaking stones. She blinked up at the sky, and another piece of her draconic pride flaked off and landed on the ground.
To be fair, it was lying in a pile with the pride of Cirediel and the Dragonlord of Flames. He was lying in a heap of brass scales, so badly wounded that Rafaema forgot her embarrassment as she tried to drag herself over to him.
She nearly crushed the Unicorn, who snapped at her.
“Oh, sure, ignore me. Okay, she’s fine.”
“What? Are you sure? You barely checked her—”
That was from the angry Spearmaster Lulv, who was very concerned about Rafaema’s health and also mostly naked. That was to say, he was healed, but all the fur on his body that had been burnt away from the acid was still gone, exposing pink skin.
He looked like a diseased rat, and Rafaema goggled at him for a second as Taletevirion stomped away. The Unicorn was visibly exhausted, upset, and in no mood to be nice. He reminded her of Manus’ [Medics]: all efficiency. They’d piece you together even if you had a sword wound through the chest, slapping the injury with a bandage if you gave them lip.
“I’m an expert.”
“But—”
“Expert. Her brain’s sending all the right signals, no one’s messed up her aura, her magical circuits are all firing normally, she’s got no damage to her scales aside from a bit of dirt that’s under the scales on her right flank, eighteen scales up from her front claw. She’s fine. I need a drink.”
His glare shut Lulv up for all of one second, which made him one of the most impressive beings that Rafaema had ever met. In a sense, the presence of Teriarch overshadowed Taletevirion. Here was a genuine Unicorn, and Rafaema had barely processed that fact…
“Then if you have the healing power, what about my fur? I know you didn’t heal it on purpose.”
“What? Sorry, I just had to heal myself from being pierced through the lungs, then undo a disintegration spell.”
“But I’m naked—”
“Well, next time, manage to touch that Halfling just once and you get your fur back, ‘spearmaster’. You did less damage to that Halfling than me sneezing on him.”
A second speechless Lulv, and Rafaema croaked.
“Thank you, Lord Taletevirion.”
He gave her a slightly more kindly look and lowered his voice.
“Don’t sweat it. The old goat’s out for a while. Don’t feel bad about how that went down. I didn’t even touch him once, and neither did Teriarch, aside from the Dragonbreath. Do you know how crazy that is? We could have taken out an Elder Creler if it dropped on us, and that fellow wiped the floor with us. And your spearmaster sucks, but you knew that.”
That did make Rafaema feel better, but she still slunk over to Teriarch. Cire was there, nervously nudging Feathi and Mivifa, who both seemed more stunned than injured. Even the Wyvern Lord had appeared, mostly to simultaneously gloat and figure out what the hell had just happened.
Taletevirion stomped after Rafaema as servants tried to clear up some of the destruction around Teriarch’s cave. Ressa was lying on a stretcher, because even with healing she was fragile, and the Unicorn searched around…
 
——
 
No one else wounded. Well, not critically. Lots of wounded prides, damaged psyches, and he counted at least three burgeoning mental traumas.
That was okay. Job done. The Unicorn could sense mental trauma as well as physical; even analyze damage to the ‘soul’, a concept that Teriarch disliked but the Unicorn understood. He was, after all, a healer.
But he was also a lazy healer, and he really, really didn’t want to spend more time on this than he had to. Today had sucked.
Nearly dying always sucked, but getting your horn shoved so far up your rear you could taste it was an extra level of embarrassment in Taletevirion’s books.
If he were a few millenia younger, he’d have gone off and practiced furiously to make up for this resounding defeat. As the old veteran he was, he understood how insane that Halfling was and just wanted a drink, a nap, and to never ask Teriarch about his past ever again.
Part of it was gear. Definitely. You wear armor like that, which blocks any attack, and you can take a few hits. I’d have had him if he didn’t have that sword. He didn’t even have boots on. 
Dead gods damnit, he beat me without enchantments on his boots. And that sling!
No, don’t think about it. Not his fight, not his battle. Even if the implications of a Halfling on the moon meant—wait, weren’t Elves supposed to be forest-lovers? Where the hell had he been during the last War of Green?
Nope! Not thinking of that either! Taletevirion recalled the tang of smoke in his nostrils, memory, not just reality. Wood ash. If he inhaled, he could see a burning forest full of trees a mile high. Screaming Treants, an army of mortals arrayed outside the glen as he and the last thousand Unicorns prepared to sortie—
This was why he hated hanging out with Teriarch. The Unicorn had been in a bad mood about the lung stabbing, as he had truthfully told Lulv. It was worse, now, and he actually overtook Rafaema as she limped over to Teriarch.
The old Dragon was lying on his side, murmuring to Magnolia. In the course of things, Taletevirion was expecting him to be morose and lie on his hoard for a month, pull himself out of it with some kind of platitude about the old days when he’d taken on sixteen Wyrms with one claw tied behind his back, and then go back to exercising, hopefully.
What he didn’t expect was to hear, sixteen minutes after the Halfling had left, was—
“I know this is purely banal, but I have to ask. Writing it down doesn’t work?”
Teriarch shook his head and winced as blood clotted around his ruptured scales.
“No. And mind you, I recall my mother trying. I think it’s not even the Halfling; something erases the words and magically destroys any clever attempt to tell people the you-know-whos exist.”
“Mm. Thought so. Ressga, write this down. No, in a column, please. The way Reynold showed you to take notes.”
Magnolia turned to one of her uninjured servants, and Ressga, the Goblin, noted this down. She rubbed at her chin as Taletevirion’s jaw dropped along with Rafaema.
“So I’m clear, have you ever related the ‘truth’ to anyone without directly telling them, Teriarch? Anyone you’ve ever met?”
He sighed.
“Not directly. I’ve hinted, of course, but even Nirayicel only had a vague understanding of the origin of the world. In her case, of course, her memory had been wiped, and I now understand I was wary of re-invoking the danger to her. If you’re asking if I ever managed to metaphor my way to the truth—no. Subconscious blocking, I suspect.”
“And when it passes to overt—Halfling descends? But Lady Bethal’s lands aren’t destroyed. So it must have been your invocation of them was too specific or knowledgable. What about metaphors?”
“Like…the beard-man was known for being a great leader? I could do that, but I’m on my last chance.”
