“Mm. What if I stated things? Then it would be my head for a second chance—no, I suspect that fellow has no humor. So we can’t just talk about Amaroth-tay and his motley crew?”
Both Dragon and Human paused, and everyone glanced up. Teriarch hmmed.
“Metaphor. That might work. What if I wrote a book series about a completely unrelated group of characters and their wild adventures? Because I do know quite a lot.”
Ressga scribbled frantically as Magnolia raised her brows. Taletevirion was fast-clopping over, aghast.
“You don’t say, old man. Why so many?”
“Well, my mother didn’t pick and choose. She essentially gave me every story her father told her, and I think some of it was just—nostalgic? Potentially useful. Lots of old legends about them and their victories and failures. Magic man loves dressing up as different people, apparently.”
“…Not the most helpful. Though I suppose if he gets a body back—let’s see, magic man is a good nickname. Three-in-one, obvious. Dancer?”
“…I don’t like that. How about ‘dancing man’? Breaks it down by gender, and do note that ‘lost one’ is technically genderless, Ressga. Let’s see. Oh! How would you feel about a ‘video game’ recounting the major events of the origin of everything? I’ve wanted to make one, and I could marry the concepts of the original truth with, say, that game where you make cookies…”
The two were having such a deep discussion they didn’t notice anyone else until a horse with a horn poked his head between them.
“Um. Hello. What are you doing?”
Taletevirion screamed mildly, and Magnolia glanced at him. She was unharmed from the fighting, though she seemed mildly disheveled by all the dirt and dust that had been thrown around. But she was as steely-eyed as Teriarch. Indeed, the Dragonlord barely gave Taletevirion a look.
“Is Rafaema well, Taletevirion?”
“Yes, and you’re going to get her killed! And me too! What are you doing? You were just—”
Magnolia’s voice was precise.
“Logic dictates our man on the moon won’t come back so quickly, Taletevirion. Do stop shouting. Old man, you can’t make a…is that the game that Ressa was addicted to on Kevin’s computer? You can’t make that, and you can’t write a story. You don’t have the time. How about a puppet show?”
“…That could work, but it’s entirely beneath me. No, I think that’s too close to—Taletevirion, you’re panting on me.”
Teriarch slid Taletevirion aside with a claw. The Unicorn popped back into place instantly, phasing through the claw to shout.
“Are you insane?”
The last thing he’d expected was Teriarch of all people to hit the hornet’s nest with a stick, but the Dragonlord of Flames exhaled slowly and coughed.
“We’re testing the limits of what we can discuss, Taletevirion.”
Rafaema’s head perked up; she’d been inspecting Mivifa’s injuries.
“You’re going to keep trying?‘
Teriarch and Magnolia gave Rafaema an insulted look, and Taletevirion halted. For a second, the supercilious glower on the Dragonlord of Flames’ face had been like—
The him of old. Teriarch stabbed the ground and snarled.
“My dear Rafaema, the day I’m forced to hold my tongue by an uppity Halfling on the moon is the day I make peace with Crelers. Which they tried, incidentally. Did I ever tell you about that, Magnolia?”
Her eyes glittered.
“No. You told me about the intelligent ones.”
Mivifa sat up fast, and Feathi spat out through her nose a stamina potion she’d been drinking. She was, incidentally, a cute Pegasus. Totally not interested in him and way too invested in her rider, but—Taletevirion dragged his attention back to the Brass Dragon. Teriarch felt at his side.
“Dead gods this hurts. I can’t remember which stories I’ve told you, Magnolia. Perhaps we should categorize the important ones, though I’m willing to admit that most are merely ‘entertaining’. Crelers, though…I’m quite sure the Adult Crelers can learn to speak, if they want. But the Elder Crelers and the Ancient Crelers were certainly capable of negotiations. Given we trusted them less than a Wyrm, it didn’t avail them much, but they did sue for peace. And they can cast magic despite being so resistant. Heh. They weren’t very good at it, though. Khetieve tricked one of the Elder Crelers into blowing part of its brains out when it tried to copy his spells. Deliberate miscast, you see.”
Ressga was writing so fast her hand cramped up, and Reynold joined in note-taking as Magnolia’s lips twitched.
“That is quite good. You know, you never did tell me what Samal has in its vaults.”
Teriarch rolled his eyes.
“That lot? Either all their original Relics from the days of the Hundred Heroes or a card with a complimentary message. There’s nothing fascinating about them except all the countless key-obsessed maniacs they attracted over the years who decided to hide their goods away in Samal. I hate that place. Ah, Taletevirion. Right.”
He hesitated, mostly because a silently-screaming Unicorn had been putting his head in front of Teriarch’s snout, eyes bulging and mouth open in an endless howl of insanity. Teriarch frowned, coughed, then waved a claw.
“Here.”
Something popped out of the air, and Taletevirion telekinetically caught a dusty wine-bottle with a very promising dark red label over ancient crystal glass. He read it:
 
Dryad’s Reserve, Authentic II3, Pomegranate Nectar. 1412 A.
 
Teriarch glanced at Magnolia as Taletevirion gaped at the ancient wine bottle.
“I don’t have anything more recent. Could you…”
“Of course. Ressga, get the bribes. Eighteen bottles?”
The Hobgoblin rushed over to a Chest of Holding attached to the carriage and lugged back eighteen bottles of various wines, spirits, and even a sealed container of Rxlvn. Teriarch indicated the entire pile, then muttered.
“Hold on—here.”
A bunch of cheese, crackers, vegetarian salami, and even popcorn showered down in containers. Teriarch hesitated, eyed Taletevirion’s expression, and coughed.
“Fine. Here.”
He dropped about two thousand gold coins in a pile on the ground.
“Gold and drinks and snacks. I am entirely sorry, Taletevirion. Thank you for the healing. Can you at least check up on young Rafaema and Cirediel and Miss Ressa and Adventurer Mivifa in one week? I can send you a summoning spell.”
“And me.”
Teriarch waved a claw.
“Spearmaster Lulv is fine. Did you actually mean I should eat some iron and copper tonight, or was that facetious?”
He gave Taletevirion a polite, respectful, but harried look, and the Unicorn spluttered as he sniffed the ancient vintage. In any other time, it would have been a fine bribe for all his hard work, and he wondered how it tasted, but—
“Wh—yeah, I sort of meant it. Eating metal does help your scales heal, but you’re talking about the past? The dead gods? After what happened?”
Teriarch nodded.
“The times are changing, Taletevirion, and that fellow left us with our memories. I think that was the best he could do…or I actually scared him with my threat. Magnolia, did I ever actually mention Harpies—?”
“Empress Sheta, last Empress of the Harpies? Only a thousand times.”
“Ah. Well…write that down, Ressga. Rafaema, come over here. No scars, I hope?”
Taletevirion was left standing there as Teriarch fussed over Rafaema and then had to bat away Cire as the Earth Dragon loudly complained about his missing tooth. The Unicorn glanced around.
“Right. Well, I’ll just be going…”
No one paid attention to him. Mivifa was whispering urgently with Lulv, but Teriarch was still calling out to Magnolia.
“As I recall, Miss Erin Solstice got away scott free with a fairly direct explanation. What if we got one of the Earthers and…?”
“I had the same thought. Which one do you like least?”
“…Leon?”
They nodded at each other, and Ressga grinned evilly. Teriarch looked down as someone nudged him repeatedly on the tail with a foot. He sighed loudly.
“It was all my fault, Taletevirion. I’m an old fool who was both too stubborn to tell a story straight out, and I dragged out the telling and endangered everyone else. And I’m unfit. There.”
He gave the Unicorn a hopeful expression, as if expecting a lot of insults and hassling. Taletevirion worked his jaw.
“Well, yes, but—o-okay, I am going. Because I’m not part of this and—”
“Mhm. I’ll remind you in a week about the checkups. Magnolia?”
She put her hands on her hips.
“I just don’t get it. If this Attack Halfling was so good at hiding the truth from everyone, what about the Gnomes? The Last Elf? You told me she did live for millenia. And the other Dragonlords—if they were all mind-wiped, is the truth that dangerous?
The Dragonlord of Flames shook his head, grimacing.
“My guess is that the Halfling was meant to deter Sprigaena’s voice, as well as the Gnomes themselves, even if they were on the same side. I say, I can talk about her, can’t I?”
Another wary glance up at the skies, but there was no moon. Teriarch went on, and Taletevirion had never heard him talk this directly to anyone but, well, the Unicorn.
“It was…honestly, Magnolia? If I remove all the pride and lens of nostalgia? Few Dragonlords, even of old, ever knew the truth. There were quite a number of individuals that knew. It…never mattered. It doesn’t actually matter, you know.”
He looked around, giving Rafaema, the Wyvern Lord, Cirediel, a despairing look.
“The truth didn’t. Until now, this very moment, it was just…us living. Things we thought mattered dominated our actions, like being Dragonlords, forging nations, protecting this, taking mortal stands.”
His head dipped.
“Nirayicel lived her entire life untroubled by the truth except for when I tried to preserve it in her. This entire world’s history has been influenced by the horrors of Rhir, echoes of that war, but the nations that rose and fell and did terrible things did it without them. That’s the irony. That’s why Gnomes weep. Our finest and best moments are our own fault. So it never mattered. Nirayicel didn’t die for the sins of dead gods. Because it didn’t matter to her. It did not. DO YOU HEAR ME? IT NEVER MATTERED UNTIL NOW, WHEN I NEED TO SPEAK IT!”
He raised his head and roared at the skies, so loudly that rocks crashed down off the cliffs and Carn Wolves fled yipping. Taletevirion was breathless. Thrice, now, Teriarch had spoken his daughter’s name.
He was…trembling. You could see his golden scales shaking, and Rafaema gave Teriarch a look of shock, but Magnolia spoke. She was trembling too, but they were like two roaring hearts, forging ahead nonstop.
“Tell me of Nirayicel, Teriarch.”
His face crumpled up.
“…What is there to say? No—she has a legend, and I should tell it. I preserved it. But I was merely her father. I…she doesn’t shape the pillars of the modern world, Magnolia. Her legacy is not here. Her bones are not part of a Walled City. Nor is her skin worn as armor, her body sullied as treasure.”
His eyes flashed.
“I made sure of that.”
Magnolia Reinhart rested a hand on his side until he gazed down at her. Her voice was then gentle, the softest tone he’d ever heard her speak. Filled with that love she’d had over the decades for him, in all its cruel and beautiful forms.
“Tell me anyways, old man. Because it matters to you.”
After a long second, he nodded, and it had taken Taletevirion a thousand days and nights of drinks, the most alcohol he’d ever had, to drag it out of Teriarch. Today? The Dragonlord of Flames dipped his head and glanced at Rafaema.
“Tonight. I’ll need my own drink for that. What—what else?”
The Unicorn was dreaming. If he kept butting his head against this rock, he’d wake up. No one was paying attention to him. When he cleared his throat, Teriarch handed him a second bottle of ancient wine with a sigh.
“I…”
The Unicorn realized he could just walk off because this wasn’t his business, and he’d stated that so many times everyone was respecting his position. He backed up, regarded Magnolia, Teriarch, the solemn little Goblin—when he went over to mutter to Feathi about all these serious two-legs, she slapped him with a wing without looking at him.
Taletevirion trotted off. He came back twice—then eventually left to have a drink. He stood behind a rock, drinking and staring at a bunch of weirdly magical ants, and eventually poured the rest of the magical wine out of the bottle.
“Tree rot take it—”
He shape changed, then stomped off. Not back towards the gathering, because that was too embarrassing. He’d just have a drink at a proper place for it.
An inn.
 
——
 
Somewhere, a Gnoll girl was opening a door. A Goblin was laying a trap for a horror older than Pallass. A Dragonlord was confronting the memories of his daughter’s demise—
You know who really mattered? Rhisveri Zessoprical.
Fithea was dead. Eclizza was gone. Dionamella had passed away.
He was fine. Really. Just doing what needed to be done. There was always something going in Ailendamus, even in times of peace. They were moving carefully into the New Lands, reconsolidating, going through a full overhaul of their armed forces—
Oh, and had you heard of the Windy Runner show? It had its own television slot, and he was working on a secure television channel not beholden to Wistram. Everything was going great. Splendidly.
“Rhisveri. A point of clarity. I am the one working on the television network.”
“Shut up, Sophridel.”
The Elemental of Masks shut up, because he was a literal type, but his feelings were hurt. You could tell because all the happy masks on his face subsumed into his body to be replaced by ones with exaggerated, gloomy expressions. It took all of Rhisveri’s effort not to spit acid at him.
Sophridel was so touchy. He was a Greater Elemental of Masks technically, one of the most powerful immortals of Ailendamus, but he was a bad team player. That was why his role was Minister of Entertainment; he was a superlative spellcaster, and he could use his mask abilities to create countless proxies and powerful magical effects like the Court of Masks, but he wasn’t a leader.
Normally, he wasn’t the dedicated liaison to Rhisveri, but the two people who used to do that were Fithea and Visophecin.
Both were gone, so Sophridel had been given the task. It was going as well as you could expect.
Rhisveri was adjusting a suit in a mirror. He didn’t truck with ties, but this was the modern fashion in Izril, and at least it wasn’t lace. He hated damn lace. The suit and tie were rather plain, so he’d had a design commissioned with faint lines like snarling serpentine shapes—glossy black on black, and his tie was bright green like his acid.
