.Down in the depth, two other adventurers, who had been separated in the transition from the lake room, sat around a blue bonfire as the hidden base moved with dozens of armored formations."You are anointed! Your soft skins and thumbs are gifts of the goddess. You arrived here by great providence!" a pale white isopod spoke for the menacing emperor above."We paint you in sludge on the ground, we mark you with the rust of the vessels, and we grant you a symbol of power," the little guy chittered as two larger creatures placed a piece of pleon, a segment of their armor, atop of their head like crowns."You are now bottom feeders. You are now squiggly polys of the shadows. You are evolved!" the translator cried and the base was filled with chittering."But we get the chest of gold, right?" one spoke up."The box of metal that tastes bad, yes that is yours," the emperor said and was translated with amusement. After all, the two had rejected the sludge piles, the fetching seaweed togas, the wrecked armor of those who refused to serve, and the massive pile of boots that would only go on their right feet.With excitement, they were given their tasks and sent out to a central platform where they stared in shock at their teammates emerging down a ramp covered in grease and feathers."Uh... the birds had jewels," one said, embarrassed."The bugs have gold," the other side muttered."FIGHT!" The translators cried and threw weapons on the platform. Confused, each adventurer picked up a pole with two rounded ends that was made of a strange padded material. The bird warriors had white clubs and the isopods had black."What are these going to- OW!" one of them said as a black club hit him in the chest and knocked him back a few feet."That's for snoring all night!" the attacker said with a grin. The smile was wiped off as he was hit in the face and landed on his rear."I would hit you for some coin, friend, so a whole bunch of jewels? I could go all night," his teammate beamed."I HAVE NO REASON, I JUST LIKE HITTING PEOPLE!" the second isopod warrior cried and charged.The Para-Mercenaries and Sea Gulf Warriors let out the cries of their people as the battle went under.This was only the first round!Next up with the obstacle course and then the seaweed ball race.---Wyin stared at the haggard adventurers."We've laid offerings at all your groves and humbly ask that you let us pass," they said and Wyin reached out, finding a little bit of desperation and belief in her new groves.It was so nice she could only nod in surprise."It begs belief, but you actually found them all," she said in utter surprise."Will you be soft?" a man asked, looking hopeful if a bit delirious."Does your mini-map look like a hundred hours of pointless markers?" she asked huffily, not even sure why Delta's memories made that image pop up..."No?" someone said."Then scram before I change the genre to soulsborn," she warned and the group rushed past in a panic."She was cute," Wyin heard one of them mutter. She rolled her eyes."You're courting death if you go after her," was the response.Now that made her heart flutter.---The Tale spread.
