After several minutes, I pulled out three blue cores, planting them at different sections of the monolith. As the psionic web and protective barrier came online, the fog dispersed from the city's confines. Tera watched the thick, hexagonal plates materialize.

"Ah. Another miracle."

Chrona let out a sigh as her temporal field dispersed. She laid down her head.

"I-I need rest."

Within seconds, her head flopped against the ground, and she fell asleep. Worry erupted over Krog's face before he bit his lip. Blood dripped from his mouth.

"Here, I thought of this planet as harmless. Its danger is a viper hidden in leaves, unseen until the fangs are in your leg."

He snarled, his blood splattering on the ground.

"I was caught unaware, and I let the fangs pierce deeply. My arrogance robbed me of my vigilance."

He snarled.

"It has happened again. It's a cycle of my own stupidity."

Helios walked up to him.

"No one's denying your stupidity."

Krog took a deep breath.

"You're quite the boost to our morale, especially the constructive criticism."

Helios sighed.

"You should use that augment Daniel gave you."

Krog peered at the slab of dimensional fabric.

"I have tried. It's a difficult thing to wield."

Helios showed his gauntlet.

"I'm sure it's a strange thing to use for a species such as yours. You're primary means of power emerged from evolution and mana assimilation. Your kind evolved on a planet with enormous reserves of magic, and your bodies embody that energy's potential."

Helios formed a void ice shard.

"But you demonstrate evolution's shortcomings as well. Evolution is a slow, tepid process when quick adaptions are required. If you wish to step beyond your bounds, you must incorporate all that you can. The albony rose out of the primordial food chain with tools. Your kind must learn to wield them as well."

Helios shattered the void ice shard, a lavender mist floating down.

"That is your most obvious means to rapid empowerment. Otherwise, you'll continue to stagnate."

Krog nodded his head, his eyes honing in.

"Our kind hasn't embraced tools or the system with good reason. The most prominent member of our species that leaned to outside forces for help was turned into a malevolent force for Elysium. He caused our species' downfall."

Helios gazed at his nails.

"It just so happens he's also the strongest among you, correct?"

Krog smiled, a droplet of blood falling from his lower lip.

"And what did that strength do for him? When you become dependent on the tools of others, you, in turn, become a tool for them."

Helios gazed at Krog's wing.

"Will you survive the wounds gained from your idealogy?"

Krog laughed, his enormous chest making it into a deep rumble.

"Wounds make scars, and scars tell stories. We learn from them, and we become stronger for it."

Helios walked off, waving a hand.

"If that's what you've taken from what I said, then so be it."

Despite his argument, Krog peered at his tail. He laid his head against his paws while letting out a deep breath.

"It may be time we learn from the stories of others, not simply our own."

During their chat, I pulled cipheric words from my grimoire. I installed them onto the dark monolith to finalize the buffs from my city construction. Along the edge of the shield's effect, I constructed a wall of my fabric, and I installed gaps for tunnels in and out of the city.

I stepped outside the city's extend, and a shadow loomed in the fog. I reached out a hand, and mana coursed from me. Crystals hovered around my skin before my architect golem floated out of the mist. It synced with the psionic field, and Diesel sat on the golem's shoulders. The architect golem bowed to me.

"Hello, creator. I formally apologize for my lack of competence in allowing injury to befall those you care for. If we are trees, then I shall attempt to deepen the shade of my branches. Perhaps one day, the shade I have will match your own."

I furrowed my brow.

"Huh. Very metaphoric there."

"I can cease my lack of directness if that is required."

"Not at all. It's fun."

Diesel hopped down.

"Daniel, the life here is insane. I've never seen this kind of virulence in the eldritch. It's absolutely mind-boggling how strong these things are. I haven't left the architect's side since we arrived."

The architect let out a light laugh.

"I would not allow it. Everything can kill you with a breath."

I pointed at him.

"Diesel, would you mind not leaving the city's bounds anymore until I've finished cleaning this mess up?"

He snapped his fingers.

"Ah, man, I can't head into the death pit anymore? Oh no. Whatever shall I do?"

The architect leaned back.

"Ahem, I would imagine it would be to stay in the city and out of the death pit, perhaps?"

Diesel raised his hands.

"The opportunity cost of each choice is just so high. Death, or lounging in relative comfort? It's a tough choice."

The architect fumbled its words.

"I...I don't know what to say."

Diesel laughed.

"I'm staying in the city. I'm not some suicidal explorer that likes standing at the edge of death like these insane people."

Diesel raised a hand to me.

"No offense."

My minds swirled in the ether around them.

"None taken. Any tips on where to start?"

Diesel pointed down the ravine's edge.

"This is a straggling edge of the main chasm, but if you follow the canyon that away, you'll keep going deeper until you find the Red River."

I raised a brow.

"Red River?"

"Oh, you can't miss it. Everything here revolves around that geographical feature."

I nodded, my psyches racing.

"How so?"

Diesel put his hands on his hips.

"Anything that drinks the stuff gets a boost in power, but they kind of, er..." I frowned.

"Lose their mind?"

Deisel nodded.

"Yeah, exactly. It just washes away who they were in some kind of torrent. I haven't drunk the stuff, but the skeptiles, wow, they're creative. They started planting their crops and watering them using water from the spot. They call the variant crops a berserker breed."

I grimaced.

"And they're eating it?"

Diesel weighed his hands back and forth.

"No, not really. A few have tried the stuff, but it's too volatile. The skeptiles don't like to mess around with unpurified eldritch effects. They do sell the food since it doesn't lose its potency as fast as the water itself. The water leeches out like it's hungry."

I put a hand on Diesel's shoulder.

"Do not drink or eat that stuff. Don't let anyone else drink it either."

He gave me a thumbs-up.

"You don't have to tell me twice. We've seen what it does to the locals."

I lowered my hands.

"The locals? Like humans?"

Diesel smiled.

"Yeah. Who else do you think the skeptiles are selling the crops to?"

I shook my head, a panic rising in my chest.

"We need to get this place contained."

Diesel frowned.

"You don't have to tell me that either. That's why we called you after everything went haywire.

As if just remembering our position, Diesel gave me a salute.

"Ahem, good luck, sir. We're going to continue settling people down."

They traversed the cityscape, Diesel leaping from the tops of buildings as the architect floated over everything. After watching them leave, I shot myself upwards before bolting over the city. Using the psionic weave, I announced in the minds of everyone.

"Don't drink or eat the red water. It's toxic and can lead to you losing your mind. Even a small amount could lead to irreversible corruption. You've been warned. As for me, I'll be heading into the deepest part of this chasm and annihilating its source. Good luck with establishing yourselves here, and I'm sorry this place hasn't been the kindest home."

After receiving a psionic cheer, I left the city's shielding. I peered at the misty depths, crackling arcs of crimson lightning omening a violent, cruel territory. I floated towards the coordinates of the Red River, the gray mist washing over me. It was time to uncover who was destroying Earth, though I had a few ideas already.And they filled me with a primal fear.
