“Tell them we want to anchor for the night and maybe the day after,” Vanna replied. “Once Tallheart wakes up, he’s got a lot of work to do. In retrospect, we should have taken another day. Anyway, it would be great if they let us dock while he works on the ship, but I’m not holding my breath. Just a spot in the harbor would be plenty. If they say no to even that, ask if there’s a sheltered cove or something we can use. Oh, and ask if they’re willing to let us send a team ashore to trade.”

“Okay,” Ameliah said, rolling her shoulders. “Anything else I should know?”

Vanna shook her head. “Not that you don’t know already. I’ll have Nails Message you if anything else comes up. Meloni should be back with him any minute now. Message him once you make contact, and we’ll go from there. I doubt they’ll be able to intercept it, but watch what you say. Oh, and grab a jacket. You’re representing Ascension, so you should look the part.”

“Right,” Ameliah said. “Wish me luck, Cloud.”

Cloud woofed softly, wagging his tail.

Leaving the bridge, Ameliah hustled below to the armory. There, she selected one of the three Ascension jackets that had been made so far, choosing the largest and slipping it on over her armor. She thought briefly of bringing a radio as well, but discarded the idea. That would just be borrowing trouble.

By the time she returned to the deck, the mood had completely changed. Most everyone had gathered at the bow, watching the tip of the lighthouse as it rose over the curve of the horizon.

“Coming through,” she called, then vaulted into the air over their heads. As always, the ‘platforms’ Airwalk made were slippery like ice, not helped by the wind and the moving ship. Her heel slipped on the first impact, sliding out from under her. She’d expected it, though, and recovered quickly. Like as not, nobody had even noticed.

After a few more unsteady steps, she found her grip on the wind and was soon charging over the waves at a breakneck pace. She kept herself fairly low, using Mana Sight to look for wards and finding none. Made from tumbled boulders simply dumped into the sea, the harbor wall had no battlement or anything she could easily land on. Instead, she made for the lighthouse, though it could more properly be called a fortress now that she was closer. Again, she saw no sign of wards or magic, but they’d clearly noticed her approach. A bell was ringing frantically, and a pair of ballistae on the fortification’s walls were pivoting to track her as she slowed.

Yes, hello.

Spreading her hands to show she was unarmed—not that she was—she walked the last few meters as if descending an invisible staircase. When she stepped down onto the barnacle-encrusted stone outside the fortress walls, she found herself facing a double line of limit spikers. The weapons were held by soldiers in once-shiny full plate, with faded red plumes rising from their rounded helmets. None of it looked to be enchanted, though it didn’t need to be to be effective. The four in front had dropped to one knee, leaving space for the four behind to take aim at her face over their shoulders. Standing in close formation like that, the combined effect of the metal would easily counter most magic.

This is just excessive.

Ameliah waited, keeping her hands raised and her helmet unsummoned. Finally, a voice called out, muffled by the helmet and making it impossible to attribute it to a particular soldier. “Identify yourself, demon, or be destroyed!”

“My name is Ameliah,” Ameliah said, struggling to quash a sudden flare of anger at the expected insult.

It’s a cultural thing. They don’t have a damn clue what they’re talking about.

Slowly, she lowered one hand to touch the plate dangling from her neck, which she’d deliberatively left in clear view. “I am a silverplate of the Adventurers’ Guild, as well as a member of Ascension.” She shifted her finger to touch the symbol stitched onto the jacket. “This is our charter mark. We’d like to request entry to the harbor and anchorage for our ship.”

More soldiers were rushing out now to encircle her. These wore no armor but heavy sea cloaks of faded olive canvas. Each also wore a dark scarf or kerchief, wound over the mouth and nose to leave only their eyes exposed. They were armed with cruel-looking hook-tipped polearms, while those continuing to gather on the battlements carried a mix of bows and crossbows.

[Vanna, I’ve made contact. The welcoming party is hostile, but they’re just posturing so far, not attacking. They’re more afraid of me than I am of them, I think.]

“How large a ship?” said a new voice, what was clearly an officer stepping forward. Unlike the spiker party’s armor, his shone, though it wasn’t as heavy. His fully enclosed helmet was much more elaborate, however, and he wore a scarf over it for good measure, making it impossible to read his expression.

“Large,” Ameliah said, turning to face him. “I came to warn you we’re coming. Our ship is warded, and we didn’t want to surprise anyone.”

As if on cue, there was a cry from the direction of the lighthouse above the fortress wall. “Ship on the horizon! No sail! Trailing fog!”

[They just spotted you. Assume they can see you scratch your nose. Things are still okay for now.]

“You see?” Ameliah asked, lowering both hands to her sides. “Can you stop pointing spiky objects at me now, please? We don’t mean any harm.”

“Then what is it that you mean, demon?” asked the officer.

Ameliah’s eye twitched.

One of the first soldiers replied before she could. “The demon has requested entry to the harbor, sir!”

“We only need a place to anchor,” Ameliah said, fighting not to grind her teeth. “We’re bound for Bellost and intend to leave in a day or two at most.”

The officer held up a hand, and Ameliah stiffened, seeing a swirl of magic from his helmet. There was no attack, though. The seconds began to stretch, and it took her a few moments more to realize he was communicating with someone. The scarf wrapping the lower half of his helmet made it hard to tell, but the occasional bob of his head spoke to the motion of his jaw.

A Speaking Stone built into his helmet? Muffled? That’s pretty clever. Or he’s a Royal, I suppose, but I can’t feel anything from him.

After a long minute of silence, the officer lowered his hand and addressed her once more. “How many aboard?”

“Multiple hundreds,” Ameliah replied vaguely, triggering intakes of breath and uncertain glances at each other from all but the officer and the spiker party.

“Settle!” the officer barked, and the movement came to a halt. He returned his eyes to her. “And how many are demons?”

Ameliah clenched her jaw. “If you are asking how many of us are awakened, I don’t have permission to reveal that. What I can say is that it isn’t even close to the majority.”

“The highest level among you?” the officer asked.

“Again, not something I can say,” Ameliah replied.

“All who enter Se must be scanned, demon,” the officer replied. “You know this.”

“We’re not asking to enter Se, just the harbor,” Ameliah countered. “If you allow it, we’d like to send a party to the city to trade, and yes, they’ll consent to the scan. If not, a place to anchor is enough.” She reached up and touched the silver plate dangling from her neck. Despite her best effort, her voice came out heated. “Think about this for a second. You know what silver means. If we wanted to attack the city, which side of a little pile of rocks we started from wouldn’t make a damn bit of difference.”

The soldiers tightened their grips on their weapons, and Ameliah grimaced, knowing she’d messed up.

So much for that. I guess we’ll try again in East Nov.

The officer, however, surprised her. “My commander acknowledges your point,” he said with a tired sigh. He raised a hand. “Company, stand down.”

Instantly, the limit spikers were lowered from pointing at her face. Simultaneously, the spear-wielders snapped out of combat stances, planting the butts of their weapons beside them.

“You will be granted entry and anchorage off the eastern pier,” the officer continued, sounding like he’d just taken a bite of an unripe sasu. “You may send a party to the city for trade if you wish, but know that the Prince has already been informed of your presence. Fortunately, he does not trouble himself with demons so long as they obey the law. See that you do.” His voice softened, so much so that she wasn’t sure if he’d intended her to hear. “For all of our sakes.”

“Thank you,” she said, nodding to him. “Don’t worry. We don’t want trouble any more than you do.”

The officer turned his back to her. “You will return to your ship now, demon. Your existence offends, and I no longer wish to be reminded of it.”

Ameliah suppressed a sigh. Just when I was starting to see him as a person, he went and ruined it. Without another word, she leapt. The strength of her legs was more than plenty to clear the encircling ring of spear tips without even activating a skill.

Never thought I’d be looking forward to the Bloodmarsh, but here we are.
