Do I get reputation for every class? But Ali’s skepticism vanished as every single applicant – both the guild combat class hopefuls, and the dwarven crafters – added a little reputation and another point to her Authority total. Oh, my! Azryet never mentioned this!

With mounting curiosity, Ali invited the visiting adventurers – hopefuls to ascend to the second tier. It didn’t take long to explain the shrine and the paths to them, especially considering Ali had spied several copies of Val’korr’s reference manual in their hands – manuals that she had copied and put on display in the guild store for precisely this occasion.

The black-clad assassin went first, triggering a potent surge of ice mana, which had many of the spectators gasping in amazement, but even though Ali invited the rest of them in, they waited patiently for their leader to finish with uncertainty or wariness worn unconcealed upon their faces.

Moments later, the zone notification resounded, and Ali’s chimes went off like a soft mental echo.

[Zone] Assassin of the Frozen Wastes has advanced to the second tier.You have gained Reputation.+2 Authority.

Two this time? Second tier?

“It worked…” the assassin said, her voice hoarse with surprise and relief.

Ali had gotten used to such reactions. At first, the implication that she would offer a fake service annoyed her, but she had seen numerous groups with the same reaction as months or years of accumulated hoaxes, scams, or traps creating calcified distrust were suddenly unwound in the face of their sudden breakthrough.

The assassin nodded at her teammates, and they all approached the shrine, eyes now shining with eagerness.

[Zone] Blazing Spear of Righteousness has advanced to the second tier.You have gained Reputation.+2 Authority.

With each zone message, Ali’s Authority was replenished by two. Is it for the second tier? Or the message? Or both? Ali had no way to be sure, but as soon as she had finished with everyone, she gathered Tol’brekk and her kobold priest. The eyes of the onlookers widened at the sight of powerful minions they no doubt couldn’t identify approaching the shrine. Ali saw their curiosity and allowed them to watch, not that the process itself would reveal any secrets.

It had been Azryet’s opinion that she should evolve her priest herself instead of taking his imprint, especially given how close they were to the third tier. The theory, as he’d articulated it, was that she would likely unlock something unique, and they would be able to trade later, perhaps to mutual benefit. The kobold in her pristine robes placed her claws upon the shrine and unlocked several fantastic path choices centered around the ideas of holy power and spell haste, presumably earned by taking advantage of Ali’s unique abilities. There was even an impressive new instantaneous heal that required the use of a consecrated holy focus; something she was certain Havok could help her with. As usual, Ali let her pick, eagerly awaiting the result and the notification.

[Zone] Priest of Azryet has advanced to the third tier.You have gained Reputation.+3 Authority.

Three? It must be tier-related, then! While she had expected it, the confirmation was no less of a jolt of excitement. Three Authority was nothing short of amazing, and Azryet’s theory had just been proven correct – she now had a spell-haste-based priest that not even Azryet could offer. She couldn’t wait to show him.

“Ok, your turn,” Ali said.

“Power to the worthy,” Tol’brekk said, bowing his massive head over the haft of an axe the size of a small tree.

“You have earned it,” Ali said, inviting him to the shrine. A few moments later, she was staring at a proud Giant Troll who had grown visibly larger and denser.

[Zone] The Rage of Aman Rak has advanced to the third tier.You have gained Reputation.+3 Authority.

Another three! With all this new Authority, she had the means to drastically boost the power of the guardians she had placed to watch over Ciradyl, Lira, and the Well of Divinity in the fractured ruins of Aalion.

“Wield me, Seeker,” Tol’brekk grumbled, his voice coming out even deeper and more resonant than before as if his lungs had been replaced by a vast rocky cavern. “The Rage of Aman Rak is yours to command.”

“Our enemies are coming,” Ali nodded soberly. “You will have your fill.”

“Excellent!” he declared, smashing his two weapons together in a salute. “Time to show that prissy paladin who’s the strongest!”

It took Ali a moment to realize he was talking about her Divine Archon, and then she grinned.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
