You could argue that was the best case scenario with Erin, but she reminded Daly of a shot arrow. Passing by other people on her mission, too fast to leave an impression. Perhaps that was for the best, but those other people included him.
They had a chance to talk when they finally slowed down, and a suffering Aldenon could finally apply water to a bunch of goo plastering his face and mouth.
Erin got off her horse somewhat unsteadily and tried not to massage her thighs too visibly.
“I hate riding.”
“Gets to you, doesn’t it? We have to ride around, but I forgot you might not know how. Chafing?”
Erin, wincing, took a few steps as the horses were led aside; Daly saw an entire army in the distance surrounding a city with smoke and distant, familiar sounds rising from the walls. The hairs on the back of his neck rose. Siri stopped petting her horse, and her head snapped up.
“Is that General Gloriam and his army? They’re sieging a city.”
She turned to the [Scout Lieutenant], and the Lizardman brushed at his neck-frills as he turned his horse. He had green scales that flared to red along his limbs.
“Ramok. I just take you where I’m ordered, Adventurer, Miss Solstice. Don’t worry; if General Gloriam’s present, it’s safe as a bunch of eggs guarded by a Gorgon. You can even see his aura from here, can’t you?”
At first, Daly didn’t get what he meant. The distant city and figures fighting along the walls dominated his view, but he realized the Forgotten Wing army sieging the city had an odd formation.
There were [Soldiers] encircling the city, pressing a very aggressive siege, but the majority of the army was actually sitting in a giant circle near the eastern gate. Which was just bad strategy, really. Ranks of [Archers] and [Mages] were supporting the infantry, but that meant only one side of the city had actual support.
Stupid…until Daly saw someone hurling a [Fireball] from Ramok’s walls at an enticing cluster of [Archers]. As he watched, wincing, the [Fireball] shot towards the unprotected group…and exploded in the air.
Not from any interception fire or a spell. It burst on a huge, bright nimbus of air surrounding the entire army. When Daly squinted and rubbed his eyes, he swore.
“That’s a fucking aura?”
General Gloriam’s aura was so massive it enveloped his forces, who were camped watching the fighting while providing ranged support. The Lizardfolk were predominantly fighting the [Soldiers] trying to overrun the walls; every arrow and spell they fired at Gloriam’s forces just bounced off that barrier in the air.
When the Earthers, Erin, and Fraerlings got closer, they felt more of the aura. It was as if every eye were drawn to a Selphid standing on a chariot, arms folded, as if, from afar, someone were holding up a magnifying glass.
When he turned his head, Daly could see the Selphid’s face; he had the visage of a commanding Dullahan, but his pale skin and the orange lines gave him away as a Selphid. Gloriam’s eyes caught Daly, and the Bushranger froze, but even from a thousand feet away, everyone saw Gloriam smile as if he were right in front of them.
That was presence. And that was General Gloriam the Invincible, another of Forgotten Wing’s foremost leaders.
“Aw, hell. He’s looking at us, Daly. My skin is tingling.”
Tobi whispered, and Daly muttered back.
“Yeah? Well, look good. Remember your Ken-training. Come on! Erin’s not even fazed!”
Indeed, the [Innkeeper] was striding towards Gloriam and his army as a detachment rode towards her. She was smiling as if meeting him were fun, not piss-terrifying. A Human on horseback called out, waving a hand, and Daly was surprised to see a fellow Human in command.
“Good morning, Erin Solstice! And to the Bushrangers and Tallguard of Paeth! I am Strategist Mella in service to General Gloriam! He regrets not riding out to meet you in person, but he decided to speed up the siege of Ramok. I trust General Diomedes left you in good health?”
Cotm and one of the Forgotten Wing people met Mella and confirmed all was well, and Daly raised a hand and tried his most iconic greeting.
“Wotcha, Strategist Mella. We’re the Bushrangers, and I’m Captain Daly Sullivan. Pleased to be here!”
He gave her a wink and a grin, and the [Strategist] cocked her head, and her eyes lit up.
“Hm. Not Izril or Baleros. I’m from Izril; what a fascinating group! Hello, Captain Daly, Miss Solstice.”
She dismounted quickly, and Daly got a glare from some of his team like Tofte, who thought he should be more discreet with his Earther-slang.
However, being charming was one of the things that helped the Bushrangers get around Baleros, and most people didn’t pick up on the greetings as that unusual, just interesting.
Strategists. Marian, Umina, Kissilt, and Cameral had all been that sharp. He shook hands with Mella as Erin glanced at Gloriam.
“Sieging a city sounds casual.”
“You get used to it around General Gloriam. I’m sorry; I’m Mella Hausteil. I used to live far up north in the House Terland lands. It’s a delight to meet someone else from Izril!”
Erin’s eyes lit up, and Daly had to think to even remember that was one of the Five Families. But Erin knew of them.
“Really? I’ve never met anyone from House Terland’s holdings before. Oh, Lord Xitegen and his people, but never someone who lived there. Are you a noblewoman or…? Where are you from?”
Mella laughed in delight.
“Oh, no. Nothing like a noblewoman. My parents were talented [Golem Artificers]; that’s a prestigious job there. I’m from near Cooiland itself.”
Erin’s face screwed up.
“…The Terland’s biggest province?”
“You have it! I’ve been meaning to go back home for nearly a decade now, but the Titan got his hooks in me after the academy, and now I’m a career [Strategist] in the Forgotten Wing. I was a student at his academy—”
The [Innkeeper] gave Mella a dry smile. Daly shook hands with Mella—she had a firm grip—as Siri and a few others gathered up. Mella indicated the waiting Gloriam, and they walked towards him on foot.
“Ah, that explains everything. What’s it like in the Terland lands?”
Mella was eying the Bushrangers’ gear.
“Very…managed. I used to say ‘civilized’ because no one else had Golems to work fields or even sweep streets, but managed is the best word. Golems do a lot of work, and the Terlands are fairly good at being stewards. There are a lot of rules for Golems, and people, but it’s all in contrast. I used to think the House of El were beggars, and the worst thought in the world was being in service to a Reinhart. In hindsight, I suppose it’s just Golem-centric. Nothing like what I see of Liscor on the news. Captain Sullivan! Drath?”
“What? Uh. No.”
Mella snapped her fingers in clear disappointment.
“Damn. Samal? I only ask because General Gloriam’s offered a reward if I can figure out where you’re from. He knows, but everyone below the top brass is guessing, and Gloriam loves to tease us.”
He knows? Daly raised his brows, then realized how patently unfair it was to make this a test. Erin’s face was straight as Dawson snorted; Mella focused on him.
“And you’re Adventurer Dawson! A full [Roughshod Mercenary], or do I not have the class right? You and Centaurs have that class in common.”
“What? How do you—?”
Daly saw Dawson jump, and Mella offered him a hand and a charming smile.
“I have to do my research. I would love to chat if we have time! Gloriam might make me take you north to Elvallian; it’s not like I’m needed here with him handling the siege.”
She sighed, and Daly saw Siri nudge Dawson, but he was already shaking her hand.
Well, they’re ferreting us for information. I guess it’s safer than some since Niers already knows we’re from Earth. 
Then again, that was no excuse to be sloppy. Mella chatted with Erin on the few minutes’ walk to Gloriam.
“You’re one of the most famous Humans I could name right now, Miss Erin. I shouldn’t ask, but…do you think the Antinium would consider moving to Baleros? At least a few of them? The Forgotten Wing might host them, if only to learn.”
“The Antinium? They might, though they hate water. Are you that keen on learning about the Black Tide?”
Mella nodded.
“Oh, of course. A new species, and one overlooked by the world? You have stirred up debates among the [Strategists] and officers I know about your stance on Goblins, Miss Erin. If I had met any, I might have tried communication first—a word of warning, Gloriam doesn’t remember Velan fondly. He survived a battle with the Goblin King before Velan left Baleros.”
Daly whistled, and Erin frowned.
“…You’ll meet Goblins sooner or later. I hope you try to communicate, at least, Mella.”
That seemed mild, given her reputation, but Strategist Mella simply sighed.
“Maybe on Izril that would be true, but Goblins in Baleros are rarer than you think, Miss Solstice. I don’t want to disturb you, but the Goblin King arising from Baleros means that Goblins are killed on sight. Aside from a single tribe that the Professor brought, I can’t name the last time I heard of a Goblin tribe out of the past tense. [Mercenaries] will hunt most down for the bounty on their ears.”
Daly didn’t like hearing that, and Erin’s brows darkened, but before she could ask for more details or mention the two Goblins they’d met as a contradiction to Mella’s claims, every head was drawn to the [General] himself.
“Innkeeper Erin. We meet at last.”
General Gloriam was, like many Selphids, not embodied in any one single body, but his personality. If he could wear any form, what you got to know a Selphid by was their nature, which could be influenced by the form they wore.
And what General Gloriam was defined by seemed to be…
He had chosen an older Dullahan’s form on purpose and either dyed the hair or the Dullahan had been naturally gray. Gloriam stood very straight and didn’t actually move that much. He preferred to emote with perfect posture and actually had a somewhat stilted motion as he rested his hands on the lip of the chariot.
—But his tone suggested that the world’s events and Erin’s life had been building till this very moment. Gloriam stared down at Erin, weighing her up, not with disappointment but with an analysis that found her wanting.
His glance at Daly actually left the Bushrangers’ Captain stumbling, as if he’d been flicked. Aura. The Dullahan felt as big as General Diomedes in his way.
“General Gloriam? A pleasure to meet you.”
Erin smiled. The [General] did not.
“We’ll see if it justified the effort on Niers’ part. For a woman whose very life is sought after by Othius the Fourth and Erribathe, you have no people around you. Guards? Surely. But not people. I wish you had brought them; a leader is defined by their subordinates. Ser Solstice, at the very least, you will introduce to me in time.”
“—Thank you for your warm welcome.”
The [Innkeeper] went on after a beat, and Gloriam stared at her. He did not give Daly or Cotm or Resk an opening to introduce themselves.
Could you use aura in a conversation? It felt like someone was literally blocking Daly from speaking, and the Bushranger worked his jaw—until he saw Mella grimacing at him and shaking her head. So this was apparently normal.
Gloriam went on, eyes looking Erin up and down.
“I met King Raoverles near the end of his life. The Blighted Kings are sometimes fortunate enough to be long-lived, though their family lines die off quickly. He had more of a penchant for soft power; Othius sees a foe in Greydath. Why not? That Goblin Lord has murdered more adventurers and leaders of this world than most Demons.”
He met the last Blighted King? Daly stared until he recalled that Selphids were another long-lived species, even if it was highly variable with their Wasting disease. So it seemed like Forgotten Wing had used even older legends than it, to get to where it was.
Erin Solstice peered at Gloriam, who was dominating the conversation and clearly expecting a response. What did you say to someone who had met two Blighted Kings? Well—
“I’ll pass on any refreshments, General. Thank you for offering them, but I believe I’m expected in Elvallian. I just learned one of my friends is there. Ryoka Griffin. May I introduce you to the Bushrangers and Tallguard of Paeth?”
Gloriam’s eyes narrowed a fraction as Erin gestured sideways. He didn’t look away from her, but barked.
“Your aura is pathetic for someone alleged to have one. If it’s left behind with your inn, you had better reclaim it.”
“General Diomedes sends his regards.”
The two locked gazes. Even Gloriam’s command staff looked slightly impressed at Erin’s refusal to dance with the Selphid. After a second, Gloriam grunted.
“Chess.”
Erin blinked, raised an eyebrow.
“Don’t you have a battle to begin?”
Gloriam’s bark had sent a [Tactician] running with a chessboard on a stand. He gestured to his chariot, and it was clear he was inviting Erin to stand and play with him.
“Beating you in a game of chess would be worth it to hold over the Titan. I hear the levelling issue with [Strategists] has been partially resolved. Come, let’s clash in your setting since it would appear I have no chance of you entering my domain.”
He beckoned, and Erin stood there and raised her brows. Her reply came after a moment of hesitation.
“…If you like, I’ll lose to you on purpose, General Gloriam. Otherwise, I assumed a famous [General] would know better than to take a battle he’s already lost.”
Ooh. Siri smiled and turned away to hide it, and the Selphid’s underlings looked to him. Mella had a look of delight on her face, and General Gloriam eyed Erin.
“Does the [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn have the ability to predict every battle she can win or lose? That’s arrogance in any setting.”
Erin’s eyes glinted.
“I don’t recall you at my chess tournament.”
Oh snap. Daly suppressed a chortle, and after a moment, General Gloriam motioned the chess board aside. He gave Erin a thin-lipped smile.
“Barely passing for someone of your level. Join me; the chariot is warded. Even my aura cannot protect us during a battle fully. I won’t explain to the Titan or Foliana why you were sniped under my aegis.”
Erin climbed up into the chariot as Daly exhaled, and Gloriam glanced down at him.
“United Nations company?”
“Er—yes, sir.”
Gloriam’s eyes fixed on Daly with the knowledge of Earth shining in his eyes. He nodded.
“Intriguing. I’ll wait for that war. My greatest battles are not all behind me.”
Ah. Wonderful. Daly exhaled as the eyes left him. Another war maniac.
 
——
 
