The [Innkeeper] stopped trying to pull free from his grip. The Orangutan was still, but there was a deadly quality to his form. The feeling before explosive violence. Daly half-raised his crossbow, and Siri grabbed his arm.
Erin did not miss the danger. She spoke in clipped tones as, behind them, Daly saw out of the corner of his eye—
Gloriam turning his head.
Erin and Erek ignored the [General]. The [Innkeeper] was panting. The air was hot, and not just from the smoldering flames. The city beyond was embattled. Blood was on the ground. Daly could see dead Selphids and Lizardfolk. Not as many as he thought there should be; Selphids had reused the bodies to keep advancing.
This is crazy. She’s crazy. He knew that, but this wasn’t even a big battle. However, Erin’s voice was low, intense.
“They’re getting slaughtered trying to take this city. Niers has sent them to their deaths because they’re trying to quit. They’ll lose most of their forces trying to take this city.”
So? Erek pulled back his lips, revealing his teeth. Erin winced.
“Let me go. You don’t have to follow me. Daly, stay back. You too, Cotm.”
“Erin, you are to get back from the gates now or—”
Cotm’s shouting through the speaking stone belied his ability to stop her; he was a Fraerling. Crossing the same ground the Bushrangers could run across was harder for him. However, Erek just shook his head.
He pointed at Erin angrily, now. Why you? Why? Why?
His eyes were blazing. Erin’s neck was straining now, but she didn’t look afraid. Just intent. She met his eyes, and her voice was hoarse.
“I have great sympathy for those fighting overwhelming odds. I’m going. No one else has to die.”
She turned, and a voice snapped through the speaking stone. Daly could see him looking at her now, and a leaden weight seemed to push him down.
General Gloriam.
“Erin Solstice, whatever you are planning on doing, desist. The force beyond the walls has chosen their fate. They are doomed to victory or defeat. Your presence is completely irrelevant.”
Mella was racing towards them with her people. Erin lifted a ringed hand to her mouth.
“They’re only your doomed soldiers, Gloriam. I’ve never met them.”
Then she turned back to the ape.
“Let me go.”
Erek pointed down at that word written in the ground. One last time. He gazed at Erin hard, as if trying to understand this woman. And there was a real hatred in his eyes. A good, burning hatred that could only come out of someone who had loved and respected her.
Betrayal. Grief. Incomprehension. The Orangutan was still weeping for Seve. He met Erin’s eyes, and she gave him only one word in reply. Her lips drew back, and she showed him all her teeth and spoke one word as if it were all she needed:
“Salvation.”
The ape stared at Erin, and his orange-furred hand hesitated. He studied her, looking her up and down—and then, suddenly, let go. He scratched his head with two fingers as he stared at Erin. But whatever he understood, or didn’t understand, he let go without a word.
Daly tried to grab Erin instead, but she was too fast. She stepped around the door as she spoke.
“Stay back.”
Daly lunged, but an arm halted him so effortlessly it was unnerving. Erek shoved Daly back a step, and his other arm reached up and drew the longsword from his sheath. Then he took a breath.
“Ook.”
Erin Solstice turned her head, and her eyes glinted. She stood at the gates of the city, and Gloriam’s voice thundered around them. The Bushrangers hesitated, and Daly’s mouth went dry. Then Erin Solstice strode into the city next to Erek.
That—incidentally—was worthy of the news.
 
——
 
“She’s doing what?”
Laken Godart was but one of the many people who heard the news. He couldn’t see, so the image of Erin Solstice heading into the gates of a city at war was something that had to be described to him.
The [Emperor] wasn’t the only person to speak those words, however.
 
——
 
Lyonette came storming out of the [Garden of Sanctuary], demanding answers.
 
——
 
The Titan had been writing a few lines and revising them with a dictionary he’d written himself open before him.
He had been going over a little speech for her over a late breakfast as Ryoka Griffin and both Genevas, rare additions to the usual gathering, glared at him. Foliana had been eating Ryoka’s favorite food: a jumbo hamburger with extra pickles. She’d been realizing that it was not the Wind Runner’s favorite dish.
When Gloriam sent Niers an alert, everyone but Foliana leapt to their feet. Niers swore.
“What are the minders doing?”
“Minding.”
Foliana saw the Titan whirl.
“They should have grabbed her. Are you insane?”
“Mm. Is she?”
He didn’t bother answering. Cursing, Niers began to yell orders at Gloriam, who snapped back at him. Ryoka just grabbed the scrying orb.
Erin could not be doing this. However, her gaze reflected the same thing being picked up on scrying orbs around the world.
 
——
 
“She’s doing what?”
Paxere had been in the middle of half-celebrating, half-recounting her deal with Erin Solstice to the older Lucifen, including Vultapheles. They had been marginally complimentary, which was as good as showering her in champagne, and everyone had been keen to see if she could manifest her powers.
“—Well, we’re now in danger of losing our second contract. Wonderful.”
Vultapheles’ brows darkened, and Paxere spun to the scrying orb. She felt Erin’s connection with her even as she saw the [Innkeeper] entering the city.
Paxere hadn’t even noticed. And that wasn’t due to ignorance—she could feel Erin’s tension, stress, focus—and yes, anger. But it hadn’t changed markedly since they had struck a deal. Sorrow had oozed into the mix along with a fragment of hope, but nothing…
“We will not interfere.”
One of the other Lucifen said instantly, and all nodded. Vultapheles glanced at Paxere.
“There is only one stakeholder here. And even if Paxere were willing to risk exposure, she is not ready for open combat. She must master her Warform, if she can even attain it. What is that [Innkeeper] thinking? You didn’t give her a weapon, did you, Paxere?”
Every eye became suspicious, but Paxere protested.
“No! The deal was completely straightforwards, as I stated! She has a piece of me. Her gear is made by Fraerlings, but—”
“Perhaps she levelled? A new class? Or she’s just foolhardy.”
One of the Lucifen who had gone with Visophecin to war at sea was nursing injuries still. A baleful, red-eyed stare caught Erin Solstice running through the city.
—The [Innkeeper] had cleared the gates. She was running, moving from the gates to the wall of a house half-collapsed. Stepping over bodies. Keeping her eyes lifted, peeking around the corner before sprinting forwards. She was advancing cautiously, and no wonder: arrows were beginning to land around her now, forcing a group of Humans back as they tried to chase her.
She had armor on and doubtless had magical protections, but Paxere’s stomach twisted. If Erin got killed now, what about their pact? No—what happened to the piece of Paxere in Erin? Their souls were to revert in case of death, but Lucifen were different from mortals.
What was she thinking? Then, as the Lucifen watched, Vultapheles narrowed his eyes and asked the real question.
“…Is that an orange monkey?”
 
——
 
The moment they entered the city, Ramok changed.
It ceased to be a city under siege, turning into a warzone. The air was stinging with smoke. The ground around the gates was stone, and pieces had been blown out of it, creating treacherous footing.
A Selphid was trying to crawl forwards; it had to be a Selphid. Only a Selphid could have lost half of their torso and still be moving. Blank eyes stared up at Daly as, panting, heart beating out of his chest, stood with his crossbow drawn, back to a wall.
“Erin! Get back here!”
Even the shouting was drowned out by the thrum—reverberations from explosions in the distance—and the shouting and clash of metal on metal ahead. But the [Innkeeper] kept moving.
She wasn’t running—she was darting from cover to cover, head low, peeking, never in the same direction. Erek was doing the same. He had the longsword that glinted with lightning in one grip and an intent look in his eyes.
“—ahead. I see them. Selphids are pinned down on this street. They have Lizardfolk on the roofs. It’s a killing field, even with the greatshields.”
Erin was speaking into her ring. Someone had cut Gloriam out of the channel; they needed to hear each other. Daly began to run forwards. If they dragged her back and she fought—
A shower of arrows splintered off the ground. His blood froze, and Dawson dragged Daly back.
“They know we’re here, Daly! What’s the plan?”
Dawson was looking for targets, but there were none visible. There was a cracking sound and a curse; Erin had just ducked as a crossbow bolt splintered right above her head. If it had gone down half a foot—
Her voice was disturbingly calm.
“Bushrangers, if you want to do anything, give me some covering fire. It looks like the entire city rises until you get to the center. I’m guessing the Selphids are advancing from all sides, which means they’re being attacked constantly. You hear that, Gloriam? Erek—that roof, there. There’s a Naga with a bow.”
“Ook.”
“On three.”
“Erin!”
Daly called out, and he didn’t even see her look back. The Orangutan tensed as Erin crouched—
The two exploded out of cover, and the Orangutan went straight up in an incredible jump. They had been sheltering behind a collapsed section of a building, but now, the ape grabbed a ledge seven feet above and swung himself up. He pivoted, and his other hand grabbed the lip of a roof. Rather than climb up it, he began to shimmy along the wall, fast.
He swung, and Daly saw that there were lines of laundry, even colorful pieces of fabric, strung from house to house. All of it soot-stained or bloodied; simple dressing for this battle.
Except that the ape seized one line, heaved, and went flying through the air. He landed on the side of a building as if it were sticky, then launched himself out of sight.
“Dead gods! He is a monkey!”
Another quote Aldenon would later add to his list of lines. Erek’s maneuvering was like the Tallguard’s: it ignored the ground and was unpredictable, like someone used to a forest. He was fast and moved with a keen understanding that staying in any one place would get him killed.
The sight of an Orangutan might have given the enemy cause to doubt their eyes. Erin was simpler; she burst from cover in a sprint. Daly saw her round the corner and shouted. He was terrified. He had a flashback to Fezimet. An understanding of what he was doing when he burst from cover, but he still said it.
“Bushrangers! Tallguard! Take that building and that one! Cover Erin!”
Then they were all running.
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] fired a burning ray from her wand across the city, and a group of Lizardfolk [Archers] flinched. They were hunkered down with short bows on the roofs of houses, flanking one of the main streets.
Nearly three hundred Selphids were pinned down in the street, hiding behind buildings or hunkering down, immobile, bearing huge metal shields that were closer to moving barricades than anything else. Those had enabled their advance—but it had stalled out as crossfire began picking them off.
An arrow landed next to some Selphids shielding their faces with smaller shields and exploded; they rocked back, and a group of Lizardfolk with spears charged around the barricades, hurling themselves into close-quarters combat.
“Kill them! Where is Captain Hoisq?”
A Selphid grabbed a screaming Lizardfolk by the head and snapped their neck with a terrible crunch of bones. If they were facing a killing field, the Nagas also weren’t shy about sending the Lizardfolk to take horrific damage to kill the Selphids.
The worst part was the Nagas themselves. They fought like the commanders they were, screening their advances with Lizardfolk. A Gorgon would rear up, sink venomous fangs into a Selphid—a Lamia would cast a bolt of lightning and then slither away—
The Forgotten Wing Company’s [Soldiers] knew how to kill them. The Lizardfolk charge was routed as Selphids leaned around the buildings and picked them off, and the ones behind the tower shields fought, but the skirmish let one of the Naga archers loose another exploding arrow at a group of Selphids.
The screaming, burning Selphids tried to find other bodies to evacuate into, and the [Lieutenant] who’d broken the first Lizardfolk’s neck staggered back, a shortsword buried in her stomach. It cut her real body, but she ruthlessly excised the damaged part and checked her corpse.
Intact. She wished it had been an excuse to fall back.
“Captain Hoisq has taken the western quarter! He’s pushing forward and calling for all forces to continue to advance!”
“Advance? How?”
There were bodies and hastily-made palisades in front of them, some on fire. They’d have to abandon the tower shields to get through, and the Lizardfolk were ready to cut them down.
More shouts, and all the Selphids ducked.
“Incoming!”
The arrows went wide this time. The Selphid [Lieutenant] evacuated her bowels in her body as a rain of arrows passed overhead. What were they aiming at? More reinforcements?
She turned her head, expecting to see more stragglers, about to order them to turn and find another route into the city—when she saw a Human throw herself behind a collapsed battering ram.
A Human? The [Lieutenant] hesitated.
“Vossk, did you see that? That can’t be Gloriam’s troops. The bastard’s left us out to dry.”
One of the other [Vanguards] panted. Vossk glanced at the walls, and another shout went up.
“Volley! Push! Push!”
None of the Selphids moved, even as the air darkened and arrows rained down—from past the walls. Gloriam had unleashed a volley of arrows and even spells like [Magical Arrow], but he had no real targets. Still, it kept the [Archers]’ heads down and gave the Selphids a moment to charge.
No one did. Vossk raised her head and peeked past the sh—
An arrow blew the top of her head off, exposing her body’s brains. Vossk jerked her head back, panting.
“That Naga’s got a bead on us in the tower. There’s another on that roof!”
The second Naga had a cloth awning over their head, and it must have been enchanted or a Skill had been used on it because no arrows had torn a hole through it yet. Their command squads were responsible for a third of the Selphid casualties on the street.
“Push!”
