“The battle would have been won with or without your influence.”
Gloriam snapped at Erin, and she shot back.
“I didn’t speak about the battle, General. I spoke about the people. You have your concerns, I have mine.”
The Selphid couldn’t say anything to that. If he was someone whose class was concerned with the outcome of wars, Erin Solstice had left her mark on who her class cared about.
Vanguard Captain Hoisq couldn’t take his eyes off Erin. And when the [General] had stormed off, he took a knee before her.
“Innkeeper Solstice. Don’t mind what Gloriam said. But for you, hundreds, maybe thousands more of my kindred might have died.”
The [Innkeeper] caught her breath, then offered Hoisq a hand and a crooked smile.
“Don’t you oversell what I did. I knew Gloriam would try to keep me alive. But I’m glad it mattered. So you’re Captain Hoisq. You’re a terror yourself. I heard you killed six Nagas in one battle.”
Hoisq shrugged. He was weary and made little of himself despite the fact that he had literally waded through the enemy to get forwards until even the Lizardfolk refused to get near him.
“It comes with the job. Not that we’re serving Forgotten Wing anymore. We are, in a way, traitors to the Great Company. This was our battle to settle debts.”
“Fucking strange that you have to throw yourself into a grinder like this to not be called traitors.”
Daly Sullivan called out. He looked shaky, even after being healed, but he came forwards to give Hoisq a left-handed shake of the hand.
“What do you call it when your vanguard fighting force up and leaves, Captain? Let’s be realistic: if we went to join Jungle Tails, the Titan should have had us imprisoned or executed. It’s bitter, but it’s real politics. I doubt anyone can just ‘quit the army’ at our level.”
“Fair enough. You’re alright. And you—you’re fucking crazy.”
Daly turned to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] saw him eye her up and down.
“What kind of Level 50 Skill lets you turn into a fucking…what would you even call that? Anyone?”
The Bushrangers were staring at Erin with as much awe as everyone else. Arguably—more.
“Cambion Demon?”
“You fucking D&D nerd, Aldenon. No, she’s a goat…monster…”
“Goat monster. Real imaginative, Kami.”
Siri raised her hand.
“Chupacabra?”
Everyone stared at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] smiled.
“I paid a lot for my ability. Let’s leave it at that. I didn’t know what it’d look like until then—let’s focus on getting out of here. If Gloriam doesn’t want to kill us, the Titan’s not going to be happy.”
Right. Him. It began to dawn on the Bushrangers that they had just interfered with the Forgotten Wing company’s leadership in a battle. Not the best impression?
Well, Erin was the one who’d take the brunt of the blame. And as if she understood that fact, she didn’t seem done pissing off the Forgotten Wing’s leaders.
Because the first thing she did was turn to Hoisq.
“What’re the odds Gloriam is going to have the prisoners executed?”
“High.”
The Bushrangers stirred uneasily. The Lizardfolk were moaning and begging for mercy, but the Selphids whom they’d been clashing against were grim-faced.
“He can’t exactly let the officers run off. He could ransom them—but Jungle Tails is an enemy to the death. No, the officers are definitely dead. All the Naga.”
“But the Lizardfolk are just [Soldiers]. How many are being coerced into doing this?”
Hoisq paused, giving Erin an odd look.
“…It’s not exactly being forced. They like following Nagas, most of ‘em. Being a [Soldier] pays better than most jobs. If you’re asking how many are following Jungle Tails because of the Fraerling stuff or just to kill Forgotten Wing? Probably not many.”
Erin nodded, cupping her chin with her fingers.
“That’s what I thought. How dangerous are a bunch of [Soldiers]? No, wait. I have a better idea. Gloriam!”
There were around eighteen thousand surrendered Lizardfolk; Jungle Tails had fled when the city was lost in full, and the butcher’s bill had added up. Still. A vast number.
 
——
 
General Gloriam was debating waiting for the scrying spells to stop focusing on Erin or having them manually severed before performing the grisly task, unless Niers wanted them ransomed, which was impractical. Maybe Jungle Tails would offer a last-minute gift of gold.
Either way, he was not amused when the [Innkeeper] strode towards him with a demand.
“No.”
“Let them go. Have them swear on a truth stone not to enlist in Jungle Tails. Swear it in blood.”
“Even if they’re honest now, that has no backing. We have no one who can enforce a mass blood contract.”
“Well, killing them all while scrying spells and public attention is on this battle will enrage every Lizardfolk in Baleros.”
“Only to your precious sensibilities. They knew what they were doing when they enlisted!”
The [General]’s aura made Erin wince, but she refused to back down. She was smiling, as if his very ire made her happy.
“Maybe they did. People can be idiots. Let them go. Or I’ll complain to Niers.”
“You think that will…”
Gloriam paused, because the odds were it might actually work. Especially given that the [Scrying] spells were focused on Ramok and this was a bad look. Erin Solstice didn’t even bother rubbing in her probable victory to Gloriam’s face.
Annoyingly, engagingly, she was striding down the lines of the Lizardfolk, speaking to the ones pleading for mercy. When they saw the [Innkeeper], the Lizardfolk might or might not have known who she was; she was a public figure, but she was still Izrilian.
However, they definitely knew of her now, and so did all the Selphids. Vossk was following Erin around like a lost puppy, and Gloriam took small pleasure in that.
The Selphid was angry, but his body was unable to show it; he had a helper-Selphid who performed facial animations and took over, but it was slower, more awkward. They’d had to change out of Gloriam’s iconic Centaur form because the Wasting had devoured too much of his body.
“General, do you want me to scowl at her or do something?”
“No. Pet the dog.”
“Yessir.”
After a whispered exchange, Gloriam scratched a panting puppy sitting on his chariot’s front behind the ears. The injured puppy that Erek had brought was breathing properly, and Gloriam liked its spirit.
Spirit was good. Whatever Erin Solstice was—Gloriam didn’t like it. The Lizardfolk were looking to her, and he had no doubt it would be Erin Solstice who let them all go.
She’s doing this on purpose. Gloriam hoped Niers could see it. Because by the time he got a confirmation from Foliana to let the prisoners go—
Gloriam saw real trouble.
It wasn’t just the Bushrangers, who’d just entered the fray for Erin, even if none had died. Or the Tallguard who’d fought Tallfolk for her. Even Captain Hoisq hesitated before bowing to Erin—but he did bow and step away for his exodus of the Forgotten Wing company with the majority of Selphids.
Lieutenant Vossk did not. Nearly a hundred Selphids, most from the street that Erin had motivated, were standing around awkwardly as Strategist Mella gave them incredulous stares and had to recalculate how to move them. Not by horse; they’d have to catch up.
Her people. Her company? Gloriam gritted his teeth as he fed the puppy some minced veal. They’d volunteered to follow the [Innkeeper]. And she had accepted. The Lizardfolk were running off, and Gloriam’s one consolation was that the Nagas wouldn’t be going anywhere.
“That is not the [Innkeeper] I expected.”
The Selphid [General] acknowledged after a moment. He hoped Niers saw it too. Then Gloriam took a final look at Erin Solstice.
Unpredictable. Certainly uncontrollable. Sympathetic beyond what Baleros allowed of the people who moved and shook it. Not naïve, but certainly…he saw her shaking a Lizardman’s hand as he disbelievingly stared at Gloriam.
“Go. And think about whether or not it’s worth it. We might not get second chances.”
The [Innkeeper] pointed, and the Lizardman began to trot off, staring over his shoulder. Erin met Gloriam’s eyes, and he finished his analysis.
“Certainly kind. In her way. I can see why Niers is smitten.”
General Gloriam exhaled, and he shook his head.
“Let’s hope this goes better than ‘Lady B’. He should have just followed through when he learned it was Lord Belchaus.”
And perhaps, he added silently, perhaps she can help Geneva Scala achieve her goals. That was the only reason Gloriam was still here. Why obey the fallible Minds when the Last Light was here? He turned away from Erin Solstice. Not sure if he was disgusted or unnerved by the truth behind the woman he’d heard about.
Not like he expected.
 
——
 
Blood still clung to his fur, his arms and chest, to the weary Selphids, and to this city. It would linger, Erek knew, for months. Not just the scent of iron, but the smell of fear and urine and the odors that came from the gore of battle and death.
Seve had used to think that you couldn’t smell death. That was because his nose was bad. All the flesh of his city had never made him as much of an animal as his friends. A greater beast, perhaps, but it was not the same.
Erek ran a cloth down his longsword, hoping it wouldn’t shock him as he cleaned blood off the polished, ancient metal. He held it up; the Bushrangers stared at the odd sight, and some of the [Soldiers] laughed to see an Orangutan posing with a magical blade.
No one who had seen Erek swing the sword laughed.
Blood. The blade stank of lightning and charred flesh. Erek had killed fourteen people that he was sure of. He had risked his life; he had a huge gash on his chest that had been healed, poultices on other scratches, and an arrow wound.
He was tired. Alive. Erek wondered why.
Why in general.
Why he had followed Erin Solstice.
Why she had gone.
Even now, he wasn’t sure. Her answer at the gates had been so mysterious—if it was what he thought she meant, it was confusing. No one knew what the [Innkeeper] could do, so Erek had followed her to what might have been his death because Seve had already done it.
But he wanted answers.
Erek’s mind wasn’t organized the same as other people’s. Erek didn’t have the same propensity to think in words or organized thoughts. His understanding of the world could move in words, but that was a very people-thing. He thought in colors, places, and ideas. So while his thoughts could be abstract and complex, the ideas were more—
 
Holding a head as it closed its eyes, rain pelting his fur. Howling to the sky with Seve’s friends, a shriek of a hundred tongues never to be heard again.
Holding a skull in his hands, fury beating at his chest. Younger, fists striking him in the ribs as two ape tribes fought for nothing. Older, holding Erin Solstice’s skull in his hand, the same pounding on his chest, in anger.
A word whispered. The rasp of her voice. A great gathering of apes, heads bowed, hooting, trying to understand each other. A shattered tower falling, barely fifty feet high—
Salvation. A word whispered.
Seve’s empty eyes.
 
That was how Erek thought. That defined him as he stopped in front of a tent that night. Gloriam hadn’t escorted Erin and the company northwards; he had too much to do at Ramok, including preparing to fight another army.
Thus, Strategist Mella and a sizeable escort of [Soldiers]—and the Selphids—had continued towards Elvallian. They had pitched camp since the battle had taken far too much time.
No one stopped him on the way to her tent. Erek knew they were there, but he couldn’t see them; Tallguard and the Forgotten Wing’s agents made his hair stand on end.
He knuckled forwards, an Orangutan with a bandolier of items, but still a monkey, unclothed. An animal to laugh at—until he grabbed an arm and bared his teeth.
Erek only slowed at the door to the tent once when he realized that the person he had to speak to—who had promised him answers—was already busy.
He knew this not because he could hear what was going on inside the tent—it was magically sealed—but from the presence of two Lizardfolk [Guards] standing at the entrance.
They had ornamental-looking spears and shortswords and seemed very nervous; possibly because a bunch of real [Guards] had let them stand outside the tent. Erek sniffed at one as the Lizardfolk stared at him.
“Hey, isn’t that the Orangutan who was the Hundredfriends Courier’s companion?”
“Yeah. Uh—hey, shoo! You want the [Innkeeper]? She’s busy.”
The two [Guards] conferred as Erek approached. When he didn’t slow, one lowered a spear to block his path. Not pointed at Erek; the Orangutan slowed and gently moved the spear down.
“Wh—hey, he’s strong! You can’t come in. Shoo! Hey, help me with—”
The other Lizardman tried to grab the spear and push Erek out of the way; instead, both went skidding to one side.
“Hey! The boss is inside! [Lizal Noble] Loiqe’s—”
No one else stopped Erek. In fact, a Fraerling appeared at the top of the tent to scowl down at the two Lizardfolk. Tallguard Cotm snapped.
“Erin asked for Erek to meet her. Your [Noble] barged in and demanded an audience. Then begged. Let Erek in; she can decide who she wants to talk to.”
“Hey! You can’t—he’s too strong! Stop—”
Erek shoved aside the Lizardfolk and entered the tent. The moment he did, he felt his ears pop and rubbed at them. Then he heard two voices and saw a Lizardman on hands and knees, groveling before Erin Solstice, who stood, reassembling a crossbow with her back to him.
Another moment in Erek’s long memory to commit. Smell; blood and sweat from her. Armor still stained from battle. Exultation and impatience on her features, her eyes lighting up as she turned and saw him.
A Lizardman in finery and too much perfume. Tears running down his face. Voice trembling.
Erin Solstice nodded to Erek. He stared at her.
“Your time’s up, Noble Loiqe. My guest has arrived.”
“Lady Solstice—”
Erin Solstice clicked part of the crossbow into place, and Erek saw she was rebuilding it, cleaning cloth and oil making sure each part was working. She walked around the Lizardman, and he reached for her legs.
“Erin Solstice, you are the only person who can speak to him! I have begged everyone I thought I could trust—he wouldn’t even let me near his students. Strategist Perorn, Three-Color Stalker herself—General Diomedes and General Gloriam!”
She stopped, grimaced, and indicated Loiqe with a jerk of the head.
“Sorry, Erek. People are asking me for favors and thinking I can help them. Can you wait?”
“Ook.”
