On the road to Elvallian, a trade road that passed along the great jungle of Baleros, beneath huge cliff faces, and all the way from beaches on each side of the continent, there was a city. If you took the road from Talenqual past Yoill, you’d get to the city of Ramok.
It was an older city made in the eras of Naga greatness. That meant it was stone, not wood, and the walls were actual walls. Twelve feet of stone. Just enough to make any attacker regret their life choices.
The city itself was actually not one that Lizardfolk loved; the walls and stone buildings within didn’t encourage rampant growth. This was a city meant to remain, not twist and evolve with rapid surges of Lizardfolk migration.
A city for Nagas.
Recently, in its long history, it had been held by the Forgotten Wing company for nearly eleven years before the Jungle Tails company had seized it during their rapid advances on Forgotten Wing territory. They had claimed and reinforced the city with sizable garrisons, and until now, Forgotten Wing had not marched on the city.
It would have been a messy effort to try, even with siege weapons; conscious of War Walkers and the propensity of enemies to flood a gap, Lizardfolk walls were thicker than normal. Sometimes they left gaps in the middle of the walls and filled them with cheaper mud or dirt, but the result was that no War Walker could just burst through a wall and press an advantage.
Thus, Ramok had been one of the foremost cities for Jungle Tails to fight from, literally bordering other Forgotten Wing-held cities.
It hadn’t affected commerce and civilian life as much as you’d think. Oh, [Traders] and [Merchants] made note of the new leaders and took care not to visibly support one side—or if they did, to avoid the other.
But civilians in Baleros were protected by the accords of war; they could travel, and short of a battle happening near them, which company ruled their city could be seen as a matter of politics. So long as you didn’t care about the [Soldiers] who had fought and died to lose or claim this place, of course.
This all held true of Ramok except on one occasion. Then—the Lizardfolk citizens who liked to carve graffiti or art on the walls of Ramok, that city littered with images of Naga, Lizardfolk, Baleros, and sometimes genitalia—
Then they looked up, and a great cry arose, and they fled or hid in their homes. Horns blew, and Naga by the hundreds ordered Lizardfolk to the walls, where they whirled slings and lifted bows and stared at the army come to claim this city.
Huge siege ladders, battering rams, their wet leather exteriors soaked to resist flaming arrows, and Selphids. Marching by the thousand. Led by Vanguard Captain Hoisq—under the command of General Gloriam himself.
One of the legendary Selphids of Baleros serving the Forgotten Wing. The Naga occupying the city were surprised by this attack and ordered their reinforcements to get here on the double. They thought this was a protracted siege…until they realized the Selphids weren’t content to wait for even the encirclement of Ramok.
The first wave advanced as stones and arrows and crossbow bolts rained down around them, fearless of the weapons. Only exploding [Fireballs] made them flinch; Lizardfolk ran frantically to throw down siege ladders; even the Naga looked wary of going hand-to-hand with a Rampaging Selphid.
If the Selphids closed, they had the advantage, especially with the lack of healing potions.
Still. For every Selphid who made it to the base of the walls, three were struck by a projectile or forced to wait in dangerous lines to ascend. Taking the ramparts might take an hour even with every [Soldier] hitting the walls.
Vanguard Captain Hoisq was waiting for a gate to fall as Lizardfolk hammered a battering ram to pieces with spells. Two more were rolling forwards, and Hoisq stood there, grim and armored. He had all his personal gear on; they hadn’t asked him to return his blades or enchanted armor.
He’d need them. He’d seen Gorgons readying themselves—they wouldn’t be on the walls, but in the streets where they could fight with enough room for their huge forms. The Selphids around Hoisq were grim, and it was all Selphids pushing into the city.
“This is our last battle with Forgotten Wing. Make it count, brothers and sisters! Take the walls now! I want them down in twenty minutes!”
 
——
 
Siege ladders slammed against the battlements as the Selphids carrying them raised the rickety, light frames of wood higher. Lizardfolk rushed to the first ones going up on the eastern flank; the encirclement of the city was underway, and the Lizardfolk were shouting, ready to hurl the ladders down and stab any Selphids coming up.
They had the high ground, and any Selphid climbing would be exposed to killing blows from above. Nevertheless, ladders were as quintessential to the mind in siege battles as battering rams.
Experienced commanders knew how hellish ladder battles were; you used them to overrun smaller garrisons who couldn’t defend all of their walls. Ramok could. And even if you had the numbers…Hoisq had seen Reim defeat an entire army of Nerrhavia’s Fallen at their walls.
The first Lizardfolk running to knock down the ladders didn’t see any Selphids climbing, and the leader of a squad went to shove the ladder backwards. Only as he neared did he realize the ladder was a bit…off.
No Selphid was climbing it. They were milling around below. And the ground was…
Rising?
[Earthen Rampart]. A slope of earth slowly lifted the first Selphids upwards, and the Lizardfolk [Captain] blanched.
“It’s a feint! They’re going up ramps! Dispel! Dispel!”
A Lamia holding a staff cast [Soil to Mud], and one of the ramparts collapsed. Selphids struggled out of a pool of mud, but dozens of ramps were rising.
“Get ready to stab them! Hold the gap here and here—fire all the arrows you’ve got, and don’t stop those slings!”
The Lizardfolk squad leader screamed. He was bracing a group of twenty-four Lizardfolk for the Selphid charge when he remembered the siege ladders. The Lizardman looked sideways and blinked.
No one was using the ladders. So why bring…? He saw something glint on the top of a ladder, then saw a small knob on the top. Several knobs; orbs of wood, really. Or rather, something glasslike painted brown. A red, cherry glow was revealing something inside—
“Run! It’s a—”
 
——
 
The first explosion made Hoisq smile grimly. The siege ladders were bait. Some exploded; others cast a powerful light or sonic spell to hinder the defenders. Some were just ordinary ladders so hastily thrown together that they probably couldn’t support anyone’s weight.
The Titan knew how to siege a city. Despite the best efforts of the defenders, the Selphids began to charge up the ramps onto the walls. But they didn’t overwhelm the Lizardfolk; they were still charging into lines of Lizardfolk troops and—worse—magic.
“[Wall of Blades]—back! Back!”
A group of Selphids heading up a ramp had a second’s warning before a line of razors appeared, phantasmal, black blades of magic cutting and hacking. One of the Selphids made it through the wall as the others threw themselves back, and a dozen spears impaled the [Soldier].
Hoisq stopped smiling. The wall spell forced the Selphids back, leaving them exposed as Lizardfolk pelted them with arrows. But only for a few moments.
“[Shieldguard]. Forwards.”
The slower-moving infantry had arrived. A pair of Selphids stormed up the ramp, carrying giant tower-shields. They faced the storm of blades, ignoring the arrows pinging off their shields, and then advanced into the spell, angling their shields sideways as they made contact with it.
The magic flexed, the blades scraping against two enchanted shields, and the Selphids heaved and tore the spell apart, the blades dissolving into shimmering air. The Lamia spellcaster defending this section of the wall only had time for a look of dismay before the two shield-carrying Selphids rammed forwards. When they slammed into the Lizardfolk, it became a contest of strength, and Lizardfolk began falling off the ramparts as the Selphids advanced.
“Faster! Faster!”
Hoisq encouraged the others as he held a shield over his own head. The battering ram was almost at the gates, and he saw it pulling back, readying itself for the first concussive impact. They had no time to do this slowly; reinforcements would arrive at Ramok too fast for a protracted siege.
The only thing that would make the city of Ramok less than a gauntlet of hellish battles would be overrunning the Lizardfolk so fast they couldn’t retrench. Hoisq watched the walls as General Gloriam, observing with non-Selphid forces from afar, calmly gave fire support.
Ramok was no famous city. No Drake city or one built with ancient stone or Mithril or some such. It was just a city. With twelve-foot-high walls.
Dead gods, but even a foot of height mattered. Selphids stormed upwards, and bodies fell, Lizardfolk, Selphid—until Hoisq saw wounded Selphids changing bodies mid-combat. The walls swarmed with activity, but he didn’t see a break after five minutes. So the Vanguard Captain gritted his teeth.
“Blood and sweat it is, then. Roll up the 2nd Selphid Vanguards on the east flank. Get those gates down. Now. We’ll need multiple breaches before we can pierce the city’s headquarters.”
 
——
 
The siege of Ramok had an audience of people watching the fighting. Lizardfolk, watching from a hill, some concerned for their home’s fate.
Others—ghoulish observers watching the war like they were an aspiring Sir Relz or Noass, commentating on it, even holding up scrying mirrors to show people.
—But there were no actual news teams here. Ramok’s fate didn’t ‘matter’. It was Baleros, so it doubly didn’t matter; even the King of Destruction taking most cities was a five-second highlight these days.
New, lemon-zest cookies from a Terandrian bakery? That was what the people needed to hear about. At least, according to a lot of news crews.
War was depressing. Disturbing for a lot of the audience. Why cover it egregiously? Ramok didn’t matter until it did.
Even for a band of Earthers and Fraerlings, riding fast on the road north to Elvallian, Ramok didn’t matter. They had more important questions to answer, like what would happen if you fell off a horse while you had a [Haste] spell and [Fast Travel] Skill on you?
Death, possibly. Or, more saliently—here was your real question that mattered today.
…Could monkeys cry?
 
——
 
Erin Solstice saw the world blurring with each step the horses took. She didn’t know horse speeds, but if you assumed a normal horse could canter at a good pace—not gallop, you weren’t in a race—then you doubled it with [Haste], you went faster.
[Fast Travel] from point to point worked even better when you had an established road, and horses loved the smooth roads worn flat by constant travel. Of course, it wasn’t a straight line, but how fast were you going at that speed?
Fast enough that falling meant something really terrible happened to you. Let alone hitting someone else. So normally, even if you had all those buffs on you, a horse couldn’t get up to proper speed.
…Unless there was a literal column of [Soldiers] forcing foot traffic to either side, giving you a straight shot down the road. Then you felt like a celebrity or, alternatively, the guest of one of the Great Companies of Baleros.
[Soldiers] standing at parade-readiness kept raising their weapons as the Bushrangers, Erin Solstice, and a full complement of [Riders] sped by. Regular people pointed and stared and often shouted at Erin if they recognized her, but the Human passed by so quickly their voices were lost.
They’d reach Elvallian tonight at this rate. It wasn’t like the city was that remote, and a day of good travel with General Diomedes had set a good way already. However, today was a lot less comfortable.
“Pghau! Fuck! God damnit!”
That was the sound of Aldenon, one of the Earthers, getting hit in the face by a bug at speed. Not only did it splatter the bug across his face, but it hurt. He might have actually fallen off the horse, but the [Scout Lieutenant] who’d been assigned to guide them north checked on Aldenon.
Plus, the lieutenant had [Stay in Your Saddle], which meant even when Aldenon reeled, he didn’t fall off the horse’s back.
“Your friend’s bleeding a bit, Captain Daly. Nothing serious.”
“Can we slow down a second?”
The speaking stones were the only way of hearing anything at the speeds they were moving. The [Scout Lieutenant] checked the road as he sped up.
“Give us six minutes and we can stop at General Gloriam’s position. He wants to meet Innkeeper Solstice, and we need to link with his forces for fresh mounts.”
That would be a relief. Erin had encountered a mosquito and a large fly at speed, and while neither had broken skin—she definitely still had some on her face.
It turned out moving at incredible speed wasn’t fun, which was why people like Tyrion Veltras wore armor and why Ryoka Griffin flew high when she could.
The second day of travel was going well, besides that. Daly Sullivan lowered his speaking stone and decided a full helmet wouldn’t be that bad. If you enchanted it with a fresh air supply and did something about the atrocious vision with Fraerling magic…well, that was going into magical armor territory.
Here he was operating like a guerilla while Flynn got to fly around in fucking super armor. Even the Fraerlings thought that was impressive stuff.
I wonder if he’s had to kill anyone with those flame spells. Roasting someone alive…that’s not easy.
Sometimes, Daly hated being the person who knew what it was like to actually fight for his life. He doubted he’d ever watch a movie the same way. Hearing people talk about how brave they’d be or how they could kill a monster if they had an enchanted crossbow…
He looked ahead at Erin Solstice. She hadn’t said who her mysterious visitor was last night or what they’d agreed upon. She just rode, ignoring the bugs slapping against her clothing, having bid farewell to General Diomedes this morning.
She’s a bit off, isn’t she? Privately, Daly thought General Diomedes, the colorful Cyclops—one of the last of his kind, certainly, what he claimed to be one of the last ‘civil’ Cyclopses who’d had an education—had been a bit let down by Erin.
Oh, she’d thanked him profusely, and they’d left an impression on each other, but for an [Innkeeper] of wonders and so much chaos, he’d really just met her, had a decent chat, and seen her on her way.
