A shout came from behind. One of the [Sergeants] was roaring at her, but Vossk didn’t move. Her squad had fought for the last hour and a half into the city. She’d watched her commanding [Major] get bitten and die, flailing, from Gorgon venom. One of her [Captains] had been sliced apart by a Lamia [Rogue] right before Vossk had impaled the Lamia.
Damn the Titan! Damn the Minds, and damn all this!
At this moment, Vossk wasn’t thinking about loyalty to species or a Great Company. None of the Minds were on this street getting picked off or being told to run into a crossbow bolt to the face.
“Who is that?”
Someone was shouting, and Vossk broke off whispering pleas for this to be a dream and for someone else to reinforce her to see the Human behind her moving.
It was a Human! She stood up and fired something from one hand. Then she began running. A beam of orange light flared from her wand, and Vossk’s eyes widened.
That was a powerful spell! She swore she felt the passage of it overhead; something hot and burning. Both shots probably went wide, but a distant boom of sound made Vossk sure that it had been an enchanted bolt. The Human strode forwards, and her crossbow visibly reloaded for her—she put her back to the wall of a house, and fired again.
That’s officer-grade equipment. Who the hell was she? Strategist Mella? She kept moving. In fact, that was the only thing keeping her alive. A second after she sprinted from her building, an arrow exploded and kicked her in the back. The Human stumbled; Vossk checked her Skills, swore—
“[Take Cover], you idiot!”
The Human leapt forwards, and something shattered on the cobblestones next to her. Vossk saw her peeking around the cover, and she heard a distant voice.
“—up! Get up! They have you pinned!”
We know. None of the Selphids moved. Vossk’s eyes swiveled to a group of Selphids crouched down, using a bunch of barrels as further cover instead of lifting the bows they were carrying. Then she heard a command crackling through the speaking stone.
“This is General Gloriam. To all Selphids—priority orders! If you spot a Human, your priority is to keep them alive!”
Orders? Now? Vossk would have shouted an oath back, but then she saw the Human emerging from cover again. Wait—
Erin Solstice emerged from cover, and her wand flared bright. A [Molten Ray] burst across the streets, melting the stones around one of the Lizardfolk positions; this time, she swept it, and a Lizardfolk clipped by the ray shrieked as it swept over them. Erin pointed, and the beam didn’t end; she fired her crossbow as she ran forwards.
The beam of light winked out and then burned out of the wand again. Once. Twice. Three times!
She was burning through the wand’s charges! Vossk saw the young woman’s teeth were bared. Erin kept shooting the wand until even the Naga [Sniper] had stopped firing. There was a shriek—and then a crash of stones. Vossk peeked up and saw a half-melted tower falling, molten stone dripping from one side as it collapsed—
“Dead gods!”
The Human woman finally reached the rearmost Selphid lines. She bellowed now, loud enough for them to hear.
“Get up! Lizardfolk are massing down the street! I saw them shifting position—if they flank you, you’re dead!”
That was true. Vossk’s paralyzed mind told her that if the Lizardfolk flanked them, the Selphids would really be caught by crossfire. But she didn’t move.
“On your feet!”
The Human was bellowing, and now someone shouted in Vossk’s ear.
“That’s—the [Innkeeper]! Erin Solstice! The one Diomedes went to pick up!”
No. Vossk stared back at the woman. Her brown hair was untidy, and she had armor on…Humans looked the same. But it could be? She was grabbing a Selphid’s arm. Someone else cowering, who’d seen their friends dying around them.
Probably some poor [Soldier] who’d followed the order to resign en masse. Then been told they had to pay their way out with a bloodbath. Sieges did not go like this normally. Vossk had survived four, and they were slower, more deliberate—both sides tried to save as many lives as possible.
This was wiping out high-level forces on both Forgotten Wing’s and Jungle Tails’ sides! Only, the Titan knew his Selphids were quitting.
Again, the Human pulled at the Selphid’s arm, and the Selphid, wearing a reclaimed Naga’s body, shoved at Erin, lashing out with his claws. The [Innkeeper] stumbled as more arrows began raining down around them. Then she raised a fist and punched the Naga across the jaw.
“Stand. Up! Your brothers and sisters are dying while you cower here! Fight or leave them to die!”
Something about how she said that struck Vossk in the chest. Where was [Vanguard Captain] Hoisq? He was the highest-level Selphid in the attack. They said he was still pressing in. But she was no Hoisq—
Erin Solstice yanked the Selphid up. She handed them a wand. Her wand.
“Cover me.”
The Selphids at the rear looked at the [Innkeeper]. She slapped another crossbow bolt into her weapon.
She had to be mad! The Lizardfolk could see only one person moving down the street. Vossk croaked.
“Someone stop—”
The Human burst from cover. Her crossbow snapped—something blasted through one leg, and her leg went out from under her. She fell, sprawling, and then pushed with her good leg. An arrow blew a chunk out of the street. Someone grabbed her and yanked her forwards. And all that Erin Solstice shouted as she put a healing potion in her mouth and cracked it with her teeth was—
“Get up!”
 
——
 
She was insane. The Bushrangers saw and heard Erin advancing ahead of them. They had to support her. They weren’t a close-combat group, so they took the roofs. Daly pounded through an empty Lizardfolk house, knocking aside a cradle, passing into a bedroom before finding the stairs. It was narrow, cramped; when he got to the roof, he saw a low ledge of stone.
“Get to cover and get me eyes on—”
An arrow punched through his shoulder as Daly was three steps from the roof. It took him off his feet, and Dawson howled.
“Daly! [Moment of Strength]!”
He grabbed Daly, and hurled Daly forwards. The young man fell onto the roof, shouting agony—his shoulder!
But the throw had saved his life. Most of his body was hidden. He heard shouts, screams.
“They’re shooting at us! Keep your head down!”
Kami. Tobi slid forwards, face white with terror, as Dawson hunkered in the stairwell with Tofte.
“Fuck! They’re all over the place!”
He raised his crossbow, fired wildly, and bent to reload. Daly was panting as Tobi tried to empty the potion into the hole in his shoulder.
“Fuck, it’s not healing properly, Daly!”
“Must—be—enchanted. Bushrangers. We’ve got snipers!”
Siri’s voice came through the speaking stone, calm.
“I saw multiple. One’s in a tower—nope. Erin just took it out. I think they survived, though.”
She what? The Bushrangers heard shouting, and the pain in Daly’s shoulder receded enough for him to fish out his hand crossbow. He checked it with his left hand, cursing; he couldn’t aim with it well! The sight was bloody, and he scrubbed at it.
“We need to cover her!”
Tobi poked his head up and nearly lost it. Something hit his helmet as it rose, and he sprawled, eyes unfocusing—then jerked.
If not for the Fraerling-enchanted armor—Daly heard more voices speaking rapidly.
“This is Tallguard Cotm. Tallguard, with the Bushrangers! Resk, hold back! I am going to advance on some of the [Archers] with a squad. They have the center of the city, and they are shooting everything down on sight.”
“Daly. Erin’s in trouble. I think she just got shot.”
“Is she—?”
Daly turned his head and saw a second roof where Aldenon, Siri, and two other Bushrangers were lying. From his angle, he could see them, but if one so much as raised their heads, they were a target. No arrows were landing around them, but every instinct in Daly’s body said…
“I’m going to try to take out that [Sniper].”
“Siri! Don’t fucking do it!”
Dawson shouted. But their [Sniper] was checking her crossbow. Daly tightened the grip on his hand-crossbow. He tried to wiggle into a position to raise his head, but he was watching her—
Siri had gotten into a position to raise her crossbow in one motion. She had a good idea of at least one target; she spoke, her voice coming through his speaking stone.
“[Pinpoint Shot]. [Wind Resistance: Projectile]. [The Sniper’s Second].”
Then her head rose with her crossbow. And for her—time stopped. For one second—
Siri’s head slammed back down as Aldenon yanked her down. But her crossbow twanged—as an arrow blew a chunk out of the roof. That was a regular arrow—a high-level [Archer] had fired it.
“Fuck!”
Siri was panting as she spoke.
“[Kill Confirmed]. Bushrangers! Reposition! Dawson, get down there with your squad and reposition on another street! Don’t fire—tell us if they’re still looking our way. Resk! Illusion spells.”
“Right!”
Daly croaked. His head hurt, and Tobi cursed as he checked on Daly.
“I think the arrow that got Daly was poisoned! Someone get a Tallguard here!”
The Bushrangers began to exchange fire with the Lizardfolk. Daly’s teeth were chattering. But where was—?
 
——
 
The Human was still alive. A command squad of [Archers] led by an [Overwatch Sniper], one of three in the district, was tasked with killing the Selphids. They’d broken their morale and had been picking them off—but the Human was a problem.
“Overwatch 1. Overwatch 3. Come in.”
The Naga holding a feathered bow, dipping an arrow in a bowl of poison, tried again, but heard nothing from the other two. She stared at the tower still glowing red from the wand’s spell. Damn. Just her?
She drew an arrow, looking for the Human, but only saw a flicker of a shadow from behind the building the Selphids had dragged her behind. The Naga narrowed her eyes.
“Give me a [Distant Mirror] spell right there.”
One of her [Mages] cast the spell, and she saw a young woman, one leg healed but a hole in her leather greaves, shouting at some Selphids. Huh. Healing potions and good armor?
Didn’t matter. The Naga was aiming carefully, trying to figure out how to use [Ricochet Arrow] to tag the Human. Around her, Lizardfolk were loosing more arrows into the air, more to keep the Selphids frightened than anything. But one shouted.
“Naga! Something’s coming over the roofs!”
The Naga spun. She saw it too. A flicker of something…orange? It ducked behind the lip of a roof, and her scales crawled.
What in temples was that? 
“Something climbing?”
It was way too mobile. She swore she saw a shadow flitting near her, barely two roofs away. The Naga craned her neck—then saw something leap forwards, using a length of rope he’d secured to launch himself across the gap between roofs. She raised her bow, but he flew through a window too fast for her.
—An Orangutan?
What? The Naga instantly assumed it was hostile.
“[Precision Overwatch]. [Speed Arrow]. [Eighty-pound Draw]—[Arrows of Steel]! Keep me covered!”
The Lizardfolk around her grabbed arrows and fired them frantically as the Naga scanned the area right in front of her. The Orangutan was in that building there. Even if he came out the ground floor, the moment he peeked his head out, he was dead.
 
——
 
Erek knew that he had only one life now. When Seve had been alive, it was easier. So long as Seve lived—he was invincible.
Now, any moment could be his last. But the [Innkeeper] knew that too. There was a resolve in her eyes. Some things were worth dying for.
This? Erek didn’t know this city. He didn’t know these Selphids. But salvation?
He understood that, and the word meant something specific to him. Could she be thinking of the same thing as him? Impossible. And yet—either way—she’d convinced him.
“Ook. Ook.”
The Orangutan whispered as he held his longsword, fingers on the lip of a window. He was swinging himself back and forth, building up speed.
See you in a second, Seve. Maybe—
Courage wasn’t necessary when you were an immortal piece of tattooed ink on the Hundredfriends Courier’s body. Courage, though, came when you knew Seve. Erek bared his teeth and launched himself out of cover.
 
——
 
She saw fingers. The Naga’s attention was focused on a window on the right side of the house. If she was right, it was bait; he would come out the front window nearest her. That would give him a clear shot at the building she was in; if he came up the ground floor, that might be a problem. But he’d never make it out the window.
She had her arrow centered on the window facing her. The Naga saw the fingers twitching and pulled back slightly—
“Sniper!”
The shout hadn’t even left a Lizardfolk’s mouth when the Naga twisted.
[Automatic Dodge]! She whirled—and the bolt blew a piece of her cheek away, leaving a groove down her face. Even with the dodge—she saw a head dip and snarled.
The same [Sniper] who’d killed her comrade! Wait—
The Naga whirled and saw the ape. She raised her bow, but her overwatch Skill was broken. And she was wrong; Erek had come through the window she’d been aiming at. But she had underestimated how far the ape could get with a single swing. He didn’t land on the street—
He’d tossed himself onto the roof. The Naga recoiled as the Orangutan landed and swung his sword.
He slashed across her chest, cleaved through one of the Lizardfolk; a jolt made the Naga flinch. She tried to raise her bow, arms jerking as her heart palpated and her body screamed.
“Kill it! Kill—”
The sword came back, slashing through her bow, and the bow snapped in her face. The Naga flinched, then opened her fanged mouth and came forwards in a bite. She raised clawed hands and tackled the Orangutan as Lizardfolk shrieked around her. Her teeth bit into fur and flesh, and she realized she had made her final mistake. Too close for a sword to be much good—
His fingers were digging into her neck, and he was strong. The Naga began to flail as Erek twisted her neck around—
Then the last thing she heard was a crack.
 
——
 
The hail of arrows had slowed, but the deaths of some of the [Snipers] hadn’t stopped Jungle Tails. They had the streets—
And the [Innkeeper] had the Selphids’ attention. They were peeking out of cover, loosing arrows, but she was telling them in no uncertain terms to charge.
There was a hole in her leg, but she spat fragments of glass from her mouth.
“Follow me.”
She advanced out of cover, firing her crossbow. A Lizardfolk [Archer] screamed and fell from their perch as an Orangutan swung a Naga’s dead body around, clearing a rooftop.
Vossk was laughing, a touch hysterical. The [Innkeeper] slammed into the metal shield where the front line had stopped.
“What are you doing?”
“What are you doing?”
