He could wait a few more minutes after the long month. Erek knuckled over to some containers of liquid, sniffed a few, and poured himself a cup of wine out of one pitcher. He took a seat at one of the chairs in the opulent tent and stared at the Lizardman begging Erin. Loiqe didn’t seem as comfortable with the audience—but he kept going after a second.
“Ask any Lizardfolk to confirm my story, Miss Solstice. It happened—”
“Yes, I get it, Noble Loiqe. Your son and daughter. Abducted. The Titan didn’t do that.”
Abducted? Erek’s ears perked up. The Lizardman looked older than Erin. Forties, maybe. Erek didn’t judge furless age well. Not too old, but his voice was desperate, and he looked aged with concern. He had two guards; not a full company.
“He has them, Lady Solstice. I thought he’d give them back, release them after—after—he hasn’t. It’s been eight years.”
“Eight years. And how many children?”
“Thousands.”
“Oelnnox. I don’t know that place. It’s not on any map I can find.”
Erek’s head perked up. He thought he knew that name for some reason, but he couldn’t remember why. Erin was studying a map, half-distracted, glancing at Erek, but Loiqe tried to rise.
“I can show you…it doesn’t matter if you go there. He’s got a small army around it. It’s half-buried. Please, Miss Solstice. Just—ask him to let the children go.”
The Titan had children? Erek tilted his head, and an uneasy chill ran up his fur. The Lizardman [Noble] sounded truly desperate. Erin’s impatient gaze found his face and softened a second—then hardened.
“I won’t promise you anything. I’ll look into your claims, Loiqe. If they’re true…I’ll establish that first.”
She promised nothing more. Erek thought this sounded bad—but from the sounds of it, Loiqe had been pleading his case for a long time. He stumbled upright; Erek had to help him up, and the Lizardman stared at Erek.
He didn’t say ‘thank you’ to Erek, but he did to Erin.
“Please. I am at your disposal. Anything I can offer. Anything we can offer. Any questions—”
“Yes. Yes, farewell.”
The Lizardman headed for the door, stopping a few times as if trying to think of anything to say. But Erin just went back to reassembling the crossbow. When the tent flaps closed, Erek made an inquisitive sound.
“Ook?”
She looked up at him, and a smile graced her face. A smile. He had none.
She wouldn’t like it when he smiled. Not right now. But Erin’s voice was softer, gentler, and more friendly.
“…Sounds like a mess. Or a trap. Unfortunately, Mella told me this Lizardman has spoken to Gloriam and not been thrown out on his head.”
“Ook. Ook.”
Erek lowered his hand, and Erin shrugged.
“Are you talking about the children he mentioned?”
Nod.
“The Lizardman said his were kidnapped, and he tracked them down—only for the Titan to rescue them first. But they were never released. They’re at some gigantic building in the jungle. I don’t know. I can ask Niers if it’s true. It’s not like he’s the first person to come asking for a favor with the Forgotten Wing company. He’s just the most persistent. And interesting.”
She checked the reassembled crossbow, watched as it automatically reloaded for her, and looked at Erek. He stood there, inspecting her.
Why did she smile at him? Seve was dead. Erin’s eyes flickered. She saw Erek’s flat line of an expression. His eyes.
Orangutan and [Innkeeper] regarded each other. At last, Erin dipped her head.
“Can I get you anything to eat or drink? More than wine?”
“Ook.”
She went to find some food for him, and Erek stood there before flopping back into a chair. Erin brought some gift baskets over, and both inspected the contents. Erek took some dried fruits and ate some, listless.
He stared at Erin and folded his arms to make his position clear. He wanted answers. She seemed—happy he was here.
“Thank you for giving me the time to explain myself. I wanted to find you, Erek. You and everyone else. I’m…sorry Seve’s dead. I truly am.”
“…”
He saw Erin stand up, pace a few steps, and turn.
“I want—I need you to come with me, Erek. We can find a place for your other friends. Bring them with us to Elvallian. But you…will you come with me and guard me? You might die. There’s good odds I will. No. You’ll come with me, won’t you?”
After all this? Erek stared at Erin. He looked down, and his greatest friend, the man who had given him hope, shown him a wide, vast world, the best person Erek had ever met—
His head lay on the deck, rain pelting it as he whispered his regrets.
The ape raised his eyes, and Erin Solstice’s own eyes were bright. There was a moment when Erek considered plucking one eye out of her head, like a grape. But that word stopped him.
Salvation.
He stared at her, and she saw his rage. But her smile never faded.
“Give me five minutes, Erek. Then you can make any decision you want.”
“Ook?”
He raised one eyebrow. She was so confident. Erin stepped back, tilted her head upwards, and closed her eyes. When she opened them, her voice was low.
“You know, I really am sorry. He was one of the best in the world. Now, listen: you have every reason to hate and despise me. I am going to convince you to die for me. As so many have for The Wandering Inn. And…”
Her eyes flickered and grew sad.
“Before. And after, too. We are all soldiers in a great war, Erek. A skirmish like this morning isn’t even worth talking about. I need you.”
Convince him? The Orangutan was meaningfully silent. He knew her reputation. He had seen it in action. Seve had gone to sea and died for her, and he might have gone a second time, even if he had known how it would end.
But Erek was not Seve. He cracked a walnut in one hand and picked out the nut, waiting as Erin drew her breath to speak.
This had better be good.
 
——
 
Five minutes later, Erek shook Erin’s hand. He looked her up and down, then patted her on the shoulder.
“Ook.”
Time to die for her. Erek scratched his head as he stared at Erin, mystified, gratified, humbled, and…grieving over Seve. But he understood.
“You’ll do it?”
He nodded, dignified, weary, but no longer bitterly angry. Just…tired. Almost as tired as she was. It was inconceivable, Erek had thought, that she could convince him with only a few words to like her again.
Let alone respect and admire her. But there she stood. He saw her, and Erek dipped his head. Erin hugged him awkwardly. Then let go.
“Thank you.”
“Ook.”
He patted her on the head and wearily sat back into a chair. They had more to discuss. Erin sat down, and Erek suddenly had more questions for the future. More concerns. He was still mourning Seve. But now, he had someone to help protect as well as all of Seve’s other friends.
Oh, heavy fate.
Oh, great destiny.
Erek hoped he was strong enough for it. He would try to be.
And then—after the two sat, and spoke, after night had fallen and Ramok with it, and her deeds echoed once more. At last, finally—
Erin Solstice went to Elvallian.
