“I’m sorry.”
Erek didn’t dignify that with a comment. He turned to the Bushrangers, and Daly tried to speak. But the damn dog—Erek scratched the head as the dog tried to whimper-yip at them.
“Oh, come on. Even if it is a giant ball of teeth and fur—has no one helped the creature?”
Someone’s voice broke. One of the Fraerlings standing on Siri’s shoulder jumped onto Daly’s arm, and Alchimagus Resk looked down at the dog with a piteous expression on his face.
He gazed around, and Strategist Mella coughed.
“We did try when we found Erek’s friends; we even called for healing potions and [Healers], sir. But the animals were either wounded or sick from some diseases. Most passed right away. We could do a magical prosthesis, maybe, but the dog’s got damaged lungs. Both of them. There’s not much you can do. A Jar of Air, maybe, but it’s a dog, and…”
Resk looked at the [Strategist] incredulously.
“Nothing else? Haven’t you tried any fleshshaping magic? Or—or at least you could try—[Bountiful Air]? Something for the lungs? Even [Lion’s Strength].”
“On a dog? How many times would you have to recast that per day?”
The [Strategist]’s stare made Resk almost yank his beard off. But he turned to Erek, whose head had snapped to him.
“Put the little fellow somewhere, would you? So long as it won’t hurt him…I can cast those two spells, at least. That’s what you do with lung damage. It sounds like he’s in pain. [Numb Pain]. There.”
He put a hand on the dog’s side, and instantly, the little dog stopped wincing. The reason they might not have applied that spell became obvious, though; it began to wiggle, and Erek had to ook insistently until the dog lay still. He looked around for a spot, and Strategist Mella pointed.
“I have a tent, er—Alchimagus. You can use that.”
She was so fascinated she followed the Orangutan, Resk, and Cotm, who had Paeth on the line as they followed Erek inside. When the Orangutan came out, he looked moderately more hopeful.
That still meant his entire face was sagging, and he sat down, cross-legged, in front of Erin. The [Innkeeper] had been looking at the battle for Ramok. Now, she turned back to Erek.
“I am sorry. I was looking for you. And Ryoka and everyone who came with me.”
“Ook.”
Erek pointed at himself, then spread his hands. Erin paused…
“I haven’t found anyone else. But Ryoka’s at Elvallian. I’m heading there now. The Titan—Niers—wants to meet me.”
He nodded. Erin paused again, looking more awkward than Daly could remember seeing her. But she was carrying on a conversation with the Orangutan as if he were, well, a person.
“I’d like you to come with me. Unless you have somewhere else to be?”
Erek jerked a thumb at the two cats and indicated the birds. He made flapping motions, then pointed at the giant centipede. Then he shook his head.
The centipede seemed to have come to a decision. It had entered the tent, provoking a shout of horror from Resk, but whatever it had seen or sensed, it was apparently satisfied. It came out of the tent, circled Erek twice, and when he lowered a hand, it nipped at his fingers. Once—then began to scuttle away.
It was huge, and it made a beeline away from the camp, past [Soldiers], towards the forest in the distance. Erek waved a hand once, but the centipede didn’t even look back. If it could even see him…the parrot flew over the centipede.
“Goodbye! Awk! Goodbye forever!”
“It’s a fucking centipede. Don’t do this to me.”
Dawson hadn’t been okay since the dog, and even the centipede made him brush at his eyes. Daly couldn’t take his eyes away from Erek. The Orangutan’s head had risen to follow the centipede, and his waving hand had lowered. Now, he sat, and a cat hopped into his lap, and he gently scratched it behind the ears.
When he looked up, it seemed as if a terrible weight had been lifted from his shoulders slightly by Resk’s help and another friend going.
It seemed as though he had lost something forever. No—he had already lost that.
The rest of the pieces were finally falling away. But then the Orangutan stood tall, chest thrust out, and met Erin’s eyes with a terrible dignity.
A monolith of grief. Eyes looking Erin up and down. A long arm pointed at her, and she dipped her head.
“Yes. For me.”
Erek nodded. Then he turned to the side, and Daly saw he had a bandolier of sorts. It had a single potion on it, a bag of holding—
A longsword strapped to Erek’s back. The Orangutan fished in the bag of holding and fed one of the cats some dried meat. Then he offered some seeds to the parrot.
“Sad. Very sad. Seve dead. I’m Rommo!”
The parrot landed on Erek’s shoulder. He had brilliant yellow plumage and let the Bushrangers pet him on the head. When Erin tried, he gave her a nasty peck to her fingers.
“Bitch! You bitch!”
Erin yanked her hand back, and Erek half-grinned at that, showing his teeth. The [Innkeeper] exhaled as General Gloriam, who’d gone back to the battle, called out.
“Mella. If the Orangutan is grieving, I will pass on the introductions. At Innkeeper Solstice’s convenience, she may leave.”
…And that was that. It seemed like the second leader of the Forgotten Wing had more important things to do than meet Erin, and the [Innkeeper] looked at Erek again.
“Come with me, Erek. At the very least, we can find a place for your friends.”
“Not in Elvallian. The Titan won’t like cats.”
Cotm spoke hastily. One of the cats meowed at him, and he hissed back. But Erek just nodded. His eyes hadn’t left Erin since he had spotted her, and he stood still, inspecting her.
Judging her, perhaps.
He unsettled Daly; it was like having a wild animal pull up a seat next to you at a bar. In the end, there was still some aspect about Erek that felt like having a creature in your presence. Or maybe that was just Daly’s biases.
For the Orangutan clearly understood everything Erin said. And she…she stood there and looked burdened for the first time since Daly had met her. Erin’s eyes turned back to Ramok.
To the Selphids. They had taken the walls, and Erin glanced at Mella as the [Strategist] emerged from her tent.
“I think that dog might make it. Your Alchimagus wants us to take it back to Paeth. I’ll arrange that—we won’t be more than ten minutes until we’re off to Elvallian, unless you have anything you need to do, Miss Solstice? Bathroom? Refreshments? We’ll have to get your companions a wagon…”
“How’s the battle for Ramok going, Mella?”
The [Strategist] grimaced and glanced at the city as she put a hand to a glowing earring. She tilted her head, listening, and shook her head.
“They’re stalled out in the streets just past the walls. It’s a butcher’s yard, but Hoisq and his people can pay the bill. Don’t worry; Gloriam is continuing to provide covering fire.”
Indeed, his army was moving forwards to continue bombarding the city, but not a single [Soldier] was moving to reinforce the Selphids. Erin stared at the city as Erek gave her a sideways glance.
“I see.”
 
——
 
Erek the Orangutan could not speak. Even when he lightened up a bit with the Bushrangers, he couldn’t do it.
“Siri. Si-ri.”
“He—heee?”
He did his best, but his lips just didn’t move right, or maybe it was his vocal cords? Erek could show an amazing amount of rather white teeth. And he didn’t smell as bad as you thought.
Even dogs had an intrinsic…animal odor to them. But Erek smelled a bit like sweat, the foreign scent of another species, and shampoo. He was munching on a ration bar as the Bushrangers stood around him.
Fascinated and, since they knew him, not as cautious, but uncertain how much of what they said he was getting. Because that couldn’t be all of it, could it?
“We’re, uh, with Erin. So are the Tallguard. Fraerlings.”
Yup, yup. Erek approximated their height with his hand. Siri was most interested in Erek.
“Have you met Fraerlings before?”
Erek shook his head instantly. Then shrugged. He held up a finger.
One?
“You mean the Titan?”
Nod. Erek was checking out the army now Resk had assured him that his friend was actually going to be fine. He jerked a thumb at Gloriam, then waved his hand in the air.
“That’s General Gloriam.”
I know. The Orangutan gave Daly a patient look. He waved his arm wider, then slapped his chest.
“Oh? His aura? Yep. That’s his aura.”
This time, Erek actually poked Daly in the chest. He covered his brow with one hand, then sighed. He tried again. He indicated the aura—then jerked his thumb at Ramok. Gave a shrug and held his hands up, palms facing the sky.
“Why…aura…Ramok? Why isn’t the aura covering Ramok?”
Nod, nod. Daly stared as Siri explained something about what they understood was going on. A thought occurred to Daly as he stared at Erek.
“Hey, Dawson. Get something to write with, would you?”
Daly remembered meeting Mrsha, who couldn’t speak. What if they got something for Erek? It was a far-fetched idea, but…maybe he could draw? Erek glanced at Daly as Dawson got some paper and a piece of charcoal out. When given to the Orangutan, Erek scribbled, using one hand to write. He looked fairly awkward with his gangly limbs, and Daly realized even writing wasn’t necessarily something Erek was built for in the same way as Humans.
Erek passed a note back as Siri looked around.
“Erin ready yet?”
“She said she had to take a shit.”
“Well, gee, thanks. Don’t announce it for everyone, Dawson.”
“Hey, I’m just repeating what she said. Fuck, today’s weird. That Gloriam guy’s a pissant, but he seems tough. You think Forgotten Wing is making an example of those poor Selphids?”
“I heard from Mella that they’re trying to quit. So they got given this assignment.”
Dawson whistled as the note came back to Daly.
“Damn. And they didn’t just say no?”
Tofte pulled a face.
“Maybe they couldn’t.”
Daly took the note, and the writing was atrocious, probably because of the paper and charcoal. He grimaced as Erek handed the charcoal back as well.
 
I can’t write.
 
“Damn. Worth a shot—”
Daly hesitated, and Kami nearly spat out her drink as she read over his shoulder. Everyone stared at Erek, and he winked as he slung himself onto his feet. But he was walking on his hands and feet, loping forwards and staring around. Erek sniffed the air, and his eyes narrowed. Tobi stared at Erek’s note.
“Holy fuck, Daly! He can write! Did he always know how to do that? I thought he was just Seve’s buddy!”
“He’s way smarter than a regular Orangutan. Maybe it’s a Skill? But Seve’s dead.”
Kami stared at Erek’s back. Siri frowned at her.
“Maybe he’s just smart. Regular monkeys can use tools. Plus, this is a magical world. If he has a bit of magic in him…why not?”
“Yeah, well, that’d make him a person. Which is weird. I mean, don’t people eat monkeys?”
“They eat octopi too, and octopi are smart.”
“Not that smart.”
“They can open jars. Babies can’t open jars.”
“So? Octopuses taste good. Don’t start, Kami—”
The Bushrangers were arguing about the relative intelligence of animals. And one of said animals was currently knuckling his way across the ground. Daly broke off from the Bushrangers.
“Hey. Hey! Erek! Get back here!”
The Bushrangers snapped around as Daly shouted, but Erek was heading away from General Gloriam’s camp, out of the protective aura, towards the only other interesting thing about.
Ramok.
Gloriam had advanced very close to the walls, but his aura was literally like a shield, and no one was attacking his forces anyways. But leave the golden haze of his power and—Erek was angled towards the southern gates. Daly began to run after him to stop him when he saw something else that made him curse.
“Oh shit. What’s she doing?”
Siri looked up and dropped her snack bar. Dawson heaved up incredulously.
“Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] was striding, no, jogging towards the walls of Ramok. She must have given Mella the slip, and they were close enough that she could be mistaken for another [Soldier]. But Erek had noticed her moving, and the Bushrangers turned and began running.
“Erin? Erin!”
At the first shout, she broke into a run. The [Innkeeper] headed straight for the gates, broken ajar with a flaming alchemical substance still burning on the ground around a destroyed battering ram.
And she had a crossbow and wand in her hands. She half-turned as Daly pounded towards her.
“Stay there!”
He faltered a step, and Erin Solstice locked her attention on the city beyond. Selphids were still climbing ramps, though most had already pushed into the city proper. There was screaming from beyond the walls. Explosions.
A battle for a city. As someone who’d fought in Talenqual just this year, Daly knew how hellish it would be. His blood ran cold at the thought of entering the fight.
Erin was someone who’d seen more combat than he, to hear the stories. What was she doing? The [Innkeeper] was against one of the broken pieces of the gate, out of sight from anyone on the other side. She peeked—took a step around the broken gates—and someone stopped her.
Erek.
Behind her, some [Soldiers] had noticed the Bushrangers running and had begun shouting. Strategist Mella looked around from tending to the horses.
Where the hell were the other minders? The Fraerlings had been gathered around Resk and had let their guards down. And the [Stalkers]?
Siri’s head twisted, and she saw something and stared—Daly saw a Lizardwoman, arms folded, vanishing into the air—but no one was stopping Erin. Gloriam had lost interest in her.
That was until Erek grabbed Erin. For an Orangutan, he moved fast. And he did not do something like grab her arm, in a very Human way, and remonstrate with her at the gates.
He grabbed her head. A long arm reached up, seized Erin’s head, and leathery fingers pulled Erin’s head down.
“Argh. Erek. Stop.”
The Orangutan made Daly slow as Erin struggled in his grip. But Erek’s eyes were very serious. He was staring at Erin and turning her head left and right. He met her eyes as, wincing, she raised her crossbow and wand.
But she didn’t aim them at him. The Orangutan shook his head. She nodded.
“Yes.”
No. His grip tightened, and Erin gritted her teeth.
“Let go. Don’t come with me.”
No. The Orangutan regarded Erin, then dragged her backwards a step. He raised his other hand and broke a piece of the sooty door that had been Ramok’s gates. Then he traced something in the ground.
Daly had just caught up, and panting, he stared at Erin. Erek drew on the ground with a jagged piece of wood. He tossed it aside, looked at Erin, and his eyes met hers.
 
Why?
 
