General Gloriam was, for all his haughtiness and poise, not without some graces. The Bushrangers and Fraerlings were provided with food, and Gloriam did let one of their number join him: Alchimagus Resk.
He bowed to Resk stiffly, and Erin had the chance to ask about the battle. Gloriam brushed it off.
“This one will be done within two days at maximum. We’re besieging Ramok, and once we take the walls, my forces will move in and occupy it. They’ll be impossible to dislodge; I will strike from Ramok and push Jungle Tails south. They’ve gained too much ground that the Titan ceded with his little jaunt to your continent. Diomedes and I won’t take more than a month to grind them back into the jungles, though rooting them out entirely might prove impossible.”
Erin eyed the Selphids on the attack and the unique formation of troops.
“Is there a reason your aura isn’t covering the Selphids? Are those all Selphids?”
Gloriam gave Erin a nod.
“My people, yes. This group is separate from the forces I will command. I would cover them, but it’s more practical to hang back. My aura loses effectiveness the closer I get.”
“Bloody battle. Don’t you have siege weapons?”
Resk muttered in dismay, staring at bodies falling from the walls. Selphids had taken several breaches, and the Lizardfolk were retreating into the city, but the sounds of fighting were intensifying. Gloriam shrugged.
“Not enough to cover an entire continent, Alchimagus. If I were in command of one of my principal armies, I would have a catapult group. This force is acceptable.”
Erin glanced at Mella and the general’s underlings.
“Ah, so these aren’t your best people? Isn’t a [General] defined by his underlings?”
Gloriam’s eyes glinted, and he shot back without a pause.
“Mine are capable of performing their tasks even at range. Moreover, I have outlived many of my best followers. Strategist Mella, like many of my current staff, is being trained up.”
“I see. So this is just another day to you, then.”
Erin’s eyes went back to the Selphids fighting. It was obvious, even to the Bushrangers and Tallguard, that this was not a normal battle. How much Erin could tell of the strategy was unclear, but the Selphids were pouring over the walls and now through two breached gates, shouting and urging each other on.
It looked grim. Gloriam saw Erin’s eyes following a group of Selphids pressed into a knot as one of their charges up an earthen ramp failed. The [Soldiers] were attacked from all sides until another group could break through the encirclement to rescue them.
“I wondered how you’d take to Baleros, Erin Solstice. I warn you: this is no place for bleeding hearts. Drake cities and Izril’s north fight genteel wars. Baleros has two Lizardfolk for every Human or Drake of Izril. If I were you, I’d meet with the Titan and go back to the continent where I belonged.”
The [Innkeeper] glanced at Gloriam, and he was unmoved by the edge of her gaze or her tone. But he did listen.
“I met Diomedes yesterday. Are you one of Baleros’ greatest [Generals], Gloriam?”
“Many have said it. Historically, perhaps not. In this day and age? Yes. I have locked horns with every commander you could name as foe and friend, including the Titan.”
The Selphid folded his arms, and Erin gave him a longer look.
“Then I’ll take your advice under consideration. But I’ll hear out the greatest authority on war first, not his underling.”
Gloriam’s eyes narrowed. This time, his aura tossed Erin off his chariot.
“I say! [Featherfall]! Oh shit, she’s too—”
Resk tried his best, but Erin was too big. She sort of slowed—twisted—hit the ground—and Gloriam stared down at Erin. She sat up slowly, and he spoke down to her.
“You may think you have entered the territory Niers, Foliana, Diomedes, and myself belong to. Taking one step into our domain means nothing. [Innkeepers] level faster than [Generals]. You look as weak as an ant to me. I listened to your interview. The words had substance. If you cannot back them up, it would have been better to leave them unsaid.”
Erin panted as she sat up with a wince.
“[Innkeeper]…is somewhat weak at fighting. But catch me in my inn and we’ll have a real showdown, Gloriam.”
“A strong woman in one spot does not scare me. Take a [Warrior] class and come back after you do.”
“I’ll think about it. Do you act like this with everyone?”
The Selphid [General] raised his brows.
“I don’t usually humor them this long, but yes.”
“No wonder you’re so isolated.”
Gloriam and Erin were still going at it. The Selphid [General] looked like he was getting genuinely annoyed, but that might have been Resk sniggering in the background. The Fraerling innocently put his hands behind his back as Gloriam spoke.
“I can see this meeting would have been better served in a diplomatic function. The battle is clearly distressing you. I will have Mella escort you on your way. Give the Titan my regards.”
Erin had gone back to watching the battle for Ramok. She half-turned as Gloriam beckoned, and Mella broke off from talking with the Bushrangers.
“One question, General Gloriam?”
“Ask.”
Erin pointed at the Selphids fighting along Ramok’s walls, and her brows drew together.
“I thought Niers was better at strategy than this. Or does he enjoy tossing his [Soldiers] into the fire?”
She indicated the struggling Selphids and Gloriam’s mostly inactive army aside from the ranged support, and the Selphid [General] paused. He exhaled, and his brows furrowed as he opened his mouth, then discarded what he was about to say.
“Figure it out yourself, Miss Solstice. The Titan’s paramour should be able to do that. Mella. Ready yourself. Oh, and fetch some clothes for our [Innkeeper] or Niers will shout at me, doubtless.”
Erin had dirt on her from the toss. Gloriam turned away from Erin, and she was dismissed. He only recalled something as she was walking away, still eying the battle, and called it after her.
“Ah, that is right. Mella has found one of your associates, and I believe they might reach us before you leave. Tarry until they arrive.”
Erin half-turned, and then Gloriam did look around and crook a finger at the [Strategist].
“I will meet him as well. Of the two, he might be the more fascinating guest.”
“Yes, General.”
Then—as Ramok continued to echo with dying Selphids and Lizardfolk, Erin’s eyes were drawn again to the walls. Until the question was posed to her and to the Bushrangers, who stirred as one of Erin Solstice’s associates was brought forwards:
Can a monkey weep?
 
——
 
It was a strange question that Daly Sullivan had never had to ask before. Could a monkey, or another subspecies under the mammalian umbrella…weep?
“Ape, Daly. That’s an ape. Technically. I think.”
The Bushrangers were arguing as a figure slowly walked across the ground, dismounting from a chariot. Not a horse; he might not have been able to ride a horse properly. Certainly, the other animals, used to Lizardfolk, Human, and various riders, were more skittish around him.
“You sure?”
Tofte hesitated and peered at the figure slowly walking across the ground. His back was hunched; he had orange fur and grey-black, leathery skin around his face and hands. But the rest of him was shaggy; he was short, not least because of his hunched posture, probably only five feet tall at most. But his arms were long, and his feet were closer to second hands themselves.
Erek was actually a fairly large Orangutan and might have been eighty kilograms; he walked slowly, shuffling, as Strategist Mella walked with him, looking fascinated but somber.
Thus, the question.
Could a monkey—no, an ape—weep?
The answer, when Daly thought about it, was obviously…yes? He’d had a dog, and if you went to dogs—then they could cry and definitely howl. But Daly realized he’d never actually seen his dog cry for anything.
In fact, in Earth’s species, Humans were the one creature who actually produced tears when they wept. So if you wanted to get technical, other primates, and other species in general, did not actually have the ability to cry.
…But if you were going to go by liquid extruding from your eyes, then you had to say that crocodiles could weep. They could produce tears as well—hence the term ‘crocodile tears’. Of all the species in the world, Daly wouldn’t have put crocodiles on his list of cryers.
But weep? He’d seen his beloved dog wailing when he got his paw jammed in a door. Weep…primates like apes or monkeys were as close to Human as you got. Even if there weren’t tears, could they mourn?
It was not a question Daly had ever asked in the twenty years of his life. Today, he looked at Erek, and the Orangutan looked—lost.
Seve-Alrelious, the Hundredfriends Courier, was dead. The famous Sea Courier, who had voyaged to countless nations and forged ties with the people he had helped across the world, had perished.
Seve, who had bested a Hag Queen at the battle for Liscor, destroyed Crelers at sea, had killed Bloodtear Pirates, and gone up against Rosech. He had almost won—but even the flesh of Tombhome hadn’t saved him from being beheaded.
He was a single casualty among many. Arguably…one of the ones the world knew better than even Knight Embraim or Halrac the Grim.
Daly had met Seve. He had also met Erek, the ooking, funny Orangutan, one of the more memorable of the magical animals bound to Seve’s body in the form of tattoos.
It surprised Daly that Erek was alive, but he’d forgotten the animals were real; it was just that, with Seve, they couldn’t die and their ‘bodies’ were temporary. If wounded, they’d just go back into stasis on Seve’s body, passengers on his great journey.
With the Hundredfriends Courier’s death, they had been released. And some of them, a handful, were with Erek.
Not the Nelgaunt or many of the various species. They had already begun to fracture, no longer able to even exist in the same place as each other. Only Seve had allowed them to co-exist.
Or…survive.
Erek was holding a limp form in his arms. As the Orangutan walked, he gently carried a small, badly-scarred dog in his arms. A puppy unable to walk; Dawson made a sound.
“Fuck. What happened to that poor bugger?”
Nothing recent. Daly looked at Strategist Mella, and she hesitated, then hurried over to him.
“Are those Seve’s friends? Did someone attack them?”
“No. Not the Bloodtear Pirates. Or anyone afterwards. We found Erek on the Nelgaunt. He left Calanfer’s ship with a bunch of animals and it put them ashore at a harbor. I think the dog’s one of the Hundredfriends Courier’s…friends. He appeared like that.”
Daly stared at the dog. He heard, now, a labored panting. Why would Seve have an animal in such bad condition? It looked like the poor puppy had survived something. A fire, or maybe a monster attack?
Then Daly heard Siri mutter something.
“They were immortal when he was alive.”
Ah. Suddenly, it made sense. Daly heard Dawson swearing under his breath, and the bigger man turned away. That was Seve’s power. So long as they had a bond, so long as they existed as ink on his body, his friends feared neither death nor hunger nor pain.
They could go with Seve, passengers and companions on a great adventure. Now?
Erek shuffled forwards, step after step, gently cradling his friend, as a pair of cats, one of whom had come from Liscor, followed him. Three birds, one a parrot, another a huge albatross, and the third a tiny, bright, little Creona Flashbird, flew from the air and landed on a tent. A final creature, a giant centipede of all things, crawled after Erek, making the hairs raise on Daly’s neck.
The Orangutan’s eyes were huge and brown. They did not glisten; again, Orangutans could only shed liquid to clear dust or lubricate dry eyes.
He had no tears, but, as Erin Solstice turned, Erek’s voice could be heard.
“Ook. Oook.”
It was the quintessential sound they made. A strange hooting coming from his chest. But it was pained and low—a voice breaking. He stopped as Erin Solstice started towards him, and Erek raised his head. He began to lift a hand as he gently cradled his companion in one arm—then it faltered. He covered his face with one hand for a second, shielding his eyes—then waved weakly at Erin.
Tried to lift his lips in a smile, but the smile never came. That—those gestures, Daly understood.
“Bloody hell, man.”
Tobi managed as the Bushrangers, Tallguard, and Erin met one of her lost companions. The [Innkeeper] was silent. Her eyes had lit up when she saw Erek, but now, she advanced slowly as Mella gave introductions.
“We found him at the harbor. A lot of his animal friends were actually adopted or—Erek didn’t want to go to the jungle. He was looking for you, I think, Erin. But two of his companions passed away, and, ah…we did all we could. They were gravely sick.”
She gestured. The Fraerlings had recoiled from the two cats, but neither one seemed inclined to go hunting for the smallfolk.
The puppy made a whining sound as Erek walked forwards, and Dawson had to step away.
“I can’t do this. Let’s go join the fighting over there, okay?”
He pointed at Ramok, and Siri patted him on the shoulder. Some of the others, like Aldenon, were more struck by Erek.
“Wow. I didn’t know Orangutans could cry like that. I mean, I knew they were smart, but—”
The Earther began, and Erin moved. She had been regarding Erek and the little dog with a blank face. Now, she turned her head and snapped her fingers.
“Hey.”
Aldenon stared at Erin blankly. She met his eyes and pointed at him.
“Add that to a list of the stupidest things you’ve ever said in your life.”
Then she turned and walked forwards to Erek. The Orangutan’s head was bowed, but it rose, laboriously now, to look at Erin. The [Innkeeper] slowed as the dog regarded her with one good eye. Now, she saw the reason for his panting: he had only one working lung. Terrible burns had consumed the left half of his body, and the dog was laboring for breath.
“Hello, Erek. You made it. Who’s your friend?”
“Ook.”
Erek indicated the puppy, and a little tail tried to wag. Erin reached down to pat his head and hesitated. Erek gently rubbed a finger along the fur on the dog’s head, and she copied him.
Daly almost didn’t have the nerve to follow her, but he joined Erin and nodded to Erek.
“Uh. Hey. I’m Daly. We’ve met, Erek. At Talenqual?”
He wasn’t sure, but the Orangutan turned that terribly bleak expression to him and nodded. As if to say ‘of course’. He was looking Erin up and down, and the [Innkeeper] gazed down at the puppy with a bleak expression.
“How many didn’t make it?”
Erek held up four fingers, and Erin began to speak—then he shook his hand. Held up three fingers.
“Twelve?”
Nod. Erin’s own head dipped.
