“Saving as many of you as I can. Get up, all of you. Someone has to draw Jungle Tails’ attention. This battle only ends when we overwhelm them.”
And you want to be the first one to charge? Vossk had a sense of the enemy massing down the street. Covering fire or not, one of the Gorgons was hissing, a shriek of rage, as Lizardfolk formed a mass.
“You’re mad. I don’t care if you’re some famous Human from Izril—you’re going to die out there.”
But she was half-getting up, finding her sword, and Vossk saw other Selphids readying themselves. This Human—Erin Solstice—had come all this way to the front for them. Better than Gloriam or the Titan in this moment.
It would be a disservice to let Hoisq down.
In response, the young woman looked down at Vossk and held out a hand. She dragged Vossk up.
“We all die sooner or later. Someone has to go. It might as well be us. Now, on three. Selphids! One! Two—”
It felt like Vossk was waiting to see, out of the corner of her eye, the young woman move first. But the moment Erin had committed, Vossk was first from behind the shields. Another Selphid began Rampaging and lifted up the huge slab of iron; she saw more bodies sprinting out from behind cover.
An arrow caught Vossk in the neck on her third step.
Idiots. You can’t kill a Selphid like that. The [Lieutenant] jerked, almost fell, and saw the Gorgon recoil. It pointed, mouth open, and Erin Solstice shot the Gorgon in the chest with a bolt.
It rocked back; the bolt lodged in the mithril armor of the Gorgon’s breastplate, and then Vossk saw the first Lizardfolk running at them, spears lowered. Vossk leapt, her jump carrying over the spear tips, and she saw their eyes roll up to her, wide and terrified.
It was easier when you were going to die, not in cover. And the [Innkeeper] was right there—she had a crossbow in one hand and was reloading it, firing it at the Lizardfolk, drawing a backup wand from a hidden holster on her back, mouth open in a shout.
A spear stabbed into her armor, and a charge of Lizardfolk knocked her over. They were swinging shortswords everywhere, cutting into Vossk’s body, and she saw the [Innkeeper] go down, wand firing a green blast of energy.
Then? As Selphids fought hand-to-hand with Lizardfolk—
Then there was fire.
 
——
 
Pain. Fear. Rage. All of it Paxere felt, hand on her heart. She saw Erin Solstice go down. Felt the emotions swirling inside her.
Pain. Terror, yes. Adrenaline. Unbearable emotions!
She felt them so intensely! Paxere knew these emotions, but they were like a waterfall compared to the Lucifen’s thimble of feelings that she had thought Agelum and mortals over exaggerated when they spoke of them.
Now, she felt the terror building to a peak. Along with the anger. The fury that had been overwhelming from the moment Paxere had taken the deal, an endless well of it, boiled over. It became the source of everything. Her terror, her determination, her pain—all of it fueled that one emotion.
Until it had no more outlet but one. Paxere saw in the scrying spell a press of Lizardfolk bodies.
—Flailing bodies trying to back away—
Then flame.
A knot of Lizardfolk fell back, shrieking, as orange-red fire sent several flying. It roared up, a sudden gout of hellfire, and the Selphids flinched back as someone fought to their feet, knocking one of the Lizardfolk flying.
A hand rose; a crossbow fired point-blank and went through two enemy [Soldiers]. The Lucifen were frozen, staring at the scrying orb. Then—as the Gorgon officer recoiled, he parried a burst of green magic with crossed blades. He lunged, mouth open—and Erin Solstice kneed him in the jaw, snapping it closed. When the Gorgon backed up, she pivoted and kicked him.
A foot smashed into his armor and sent the Gorgon, hundreds of pounds of him, slamming back into his Lizardfolk. He jerked upright, staring at her—and Paxere made a small sound.
Erin Solstice looked different. Vultapheles whispered.
“A Human can have a Warform?”
She had changed. For one thing—the foot that had just left an imprint on the Gorgon’s armor with the force of impact was not a foot.
It was a hoof. Erin Solstice lowered it and blinked down at her body. Then she raised her wand. Her eyes lit up, and a pair of huge, curling horns on her head—black, like her hair—made the Lizardfolk waver.
Warform.
The [Innkeeper]’s legs had shifted, resembling an animal’s hind legs. They were covered with a thin, black fur, and she had goat’s hooves. Sprouting from her head were two curled ram’s horns, and her hair had changed as well.
She now had long tresses of hair, curled; a veritable mane hanging around her neck. But the most notable thing about her were the slitted eyes. They glowed with a bright, hazel light.
Oh—and she had pointed teeth. When she smiled, the Lizardfolk stared at a creature they had never seen before. Even the Gorgon slithered back a step before pointing at her and roaring.
Every Lucifen in the room had turned to Paxere. One of the youngest of the Lucifen was staring at Erin. She had black fur! She resembled some of the Warforms the other Lucifen had activated during the battle at sea—but each one was different.
“She—she just activated a Warform! Can she do that?”
Shierxun needlessly restated the obvious. Oelvix was more put together.
“She clearly can—it must be what she demanded from Paxere. How strong is it?”
“It is a Warform.”
Vultapheles was trying to sound dry and all-knowing, but the Lucifen was smoothing his pant legs, and his eyes wouldn’t leave Erin. He licked his lips.
“What is her Authority? Does she have one, if she has a Warform?”
Every eye turned to Paxere again, and now, the Lucifen could feel it burning through Erin. She murmured.
“Charisma.”
“Fitting.”
Every eye swung back to the scrying orb. Erin was stepping forwards with the Selphid charge, stumbling a bit, clearly getting used to this new form. But she was smiling. And now—the Gorgon looked truly worried.
He had better be. Paxere was staring at Erin. She had better not die.
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] felt stronger than ever before. Not impossibly strong; when she lowered her head and charged, she felt the impact as she knocked Lizardfolk aside. A sword glanced off her horns, and the Gorgon slammed into her.
Her hand came up, and she fired a crossbow point-blank into a mouth, blowing a hole through the other side. He kept slashing at her, and Erin backed up as Vossk launched herself at the Gorgon from the side, slashing into his armor.
In reply, the officer twisted, and his tail enlarged, throwing everyone—ally, foe—aside. Erin crashed into one of the metal shields hard enough to dent it. When she got up, she barely felt bruised.
“Ha. Hahaha.”
He tried to slither at her, but the Gorgon jerked as an Orangutan leapt down at him with a sword filled with lightning. The Gorgon parried Erek’s blade and got a full charge of electricity for free. Erek dodged back, hooting, as a sword scored across his chest.
Erin shoulder-slammed the Gorgon, and he bit at her. In reply, she raised the crossbow and began slamming it into his face; it was unloaded. The Gorgon reeled back, dazed, then headbutted the crossbow into Erin’s face. She gritted her teeth; the crossbow snapped as she cracked it across his face, and it exploded.
Then she raised the wand and fired three [Spectral Orbs] point-blank. The green blobs detonated, sending the Gorgon onto his back. When he tried to get up, Vossk drove a sword straight down through the Gorgon’s face.
“What—what is that?”
Vossk turned to Erin Solstice as the [Innkeeper] got up. For answer, the [Innkeeper] only pulled a second crossbow, a bigger one, from her bag of holding and stowed the almost-spent wand. She was not invincible in whatever form this was.
“My Level 50 Skill. Follow me!”
 
——
 
The Lizardfolk were in full retreat after seeing the Gorgon die. But the Selphids who’d begun cheering when they saw Vossk finish off the Gorgon spotted Erin Solstice and felt it.
Momentum was on their side. More than that? Look at her. She might die in the next second.
But dead gods, Erin Solstice didn’t look like it. She pointed, and then the entire company of Selphids was pushing into the city. An Orangutan, the strangest [Innkeeper] in the world. Jungle Tails saw them overrunning the street as the Selphid [Vanguards] kept advancing.
They tried to shift and counter both pushes. Then the northern gates reported that the Forgotten Wing’s [General] was coming.
General Gloriam stood in his chariot, irate. His entire army had reformed and were pushing into the city. His aura had also changed.
“That woman. With me! [Arrogant Charge]. [Aura: Battering Ram].”
His chariot shot forwards. It didn’t even touch the gates on the north wall; something punched through the gates of Ramok, as well as the walls, leaving a huge hole behind him. The Selphid kept charging  as Lizardfolk and Nagas saw a battering ram smashing forwards. [Soldiers] poured through the breach, now vulnerable to incoming fire. Taking casualties—but the [General] had orders.
Don’t let that [Innkeeper] die. When he saw her fighting down one street, General Gloriam almost didn’t recognize her until he saw her face. But he had to admit—
“That’s a bit more like what I was expecting.”
 
——
 
[Vanguard Captain] Hoisq had been fighting for two hours since the gates had gone down, and the stamina potions were failing. He’d switched bodies twice and killed three Nagas.
When he’d heard the cheering and shouting, he’d feared it was Jungle Tails gaining ground or reinforcements. As far as he’d understood from his vantage, pushing further and further into the city, the other Selphid groups had been stalemated. He’d expected to have to claim the enemy command himself.
What he did not expect was to hear the southern front had gotten to the heart of the city. Or that General Gloriam had just smashed through the northern defenses.
It was still a bitter battle for the heart of the city—for thirteen minutes. Selphids went down, killing Nagas who shrieked and fought with fang and claw till the end. But the final push ended how he knew it would.
“Surrender! We surrender!”
The Lizardfolk had finally had enough. Covered in gore, seeing enemies coming from multiple angles, and unnerved, they began to throw down their weapons. Several Nagas screamed at them to keep fighting, trying to retreat, but one went down with a crossbow bolt in the head, and even the Nagas’ will began to break.
“We have the city! Announce they’re surrendering!”
Hoisq howled into a speaking stone. The rest of the city had to know or the fighting would continue. He lowered a mace, potion-sick, covered in blood, wondering how many of his kin had died.
We’re quits, the Titan and I. What a harsh payment. Hoisq stood there, panting, as more Lizardfolk tossed down their blades and crowded together, begging for mercy.
Gloriam might have us execute the lot. Hoisq didn’t care; he just wanted an end to the fighting. He only looked up when he heard cheering.
Cheering in this bloody offensive? It could only come from people cheering Gloriam’s charge—not likely given how late it had come—or whatever had happened on the south front.
Hoisq was prepared to see a Selphid who’d turned the tides. What he was not prepared for was…
Erin Solstice.
The [Vanguard Captain] came to a halt as he sought out the source of the cheering. Then he saw her and actually rubbed one eyeball, but just got blood all over it.
Horns? The woman’s face was similar, but she had black, curled hair. Hooves! And—well, this part sort of fit with his understanding of her.
She was dancing.
Sort of. It wasn’t a dance like you saw on the floor of a bar or even one you’d see on a stage. But it was a dance.
It had a deliberate, ceremonial quality. She was stomping her hooves, shaking out her hair, and raising a fist as she traced a pattern across the ground. Step. Stomp—step—
Selphids were cheering her, and there was an Orangutan wearily leaning on a sword and watching Erin with a look of confusion. Hoisq was a hundred times more confused, and gratified.
“Vanguard Captain! You made it!”
That was Strategist Mella. She was riding through the city, and Hoisq half-turned his head to her.
“Strategist. Am I poisoned?”
He felt like he was or he’d been knocked out in the earlier part of the battle and this was all some…dream. More pleasant than reality, perhaps, but—the [Strategist] tilted her head and spoke.
“One second. You seem fine to my [Monitor Vitals] Skill. Tallguard Captain Cotm, are we at your position?”
In response, a tiny figure flitted out from a window, and Mella blinked, then held out an arm so Cotm and a dozen Tallguard could land on her shoulder. Hoisq rubbed at his face. He stared at the Tallguard. At a very angry General Gloriam.
Then he went to greet the [Innkeeper]. The Titan’s secret chess partner and his romantic interest?
That made the most sense of anything.
 
——
 
“Captain Hoisq. Lieutenant Vossk, I congratulate you on your victory. Erin Solstice, I retract my statement about bleeding hearts. I replace it with a claim to your idiocy.”
General Gloriam was not pleased in the aftermath of the battle, even if it was a far more merciful victory than the Selphids could have hoped for. The Bushrangers and Fraerling Tallguard wiping out some of the archers harassing the Selphids had done their part, as had the Orangutan and Erin Solstice unnerving Jungle Tails.
But the main thrust had come from General Gloriam entering the city, and his army had bled for it.
A fraction of what the Selphids had paid, but that had not been the plan.
Erin Solstice refused to back down. She tossed her hair, but her mysterious transformation had worn off. The horns had vanished; her hooves had changed to bare feet, and someone was finding the boots she’d lost.
She looked exhausted, which checked out for such a dramatic ability. But her voice was steady as she nodded to Hoisq, who gave her a bow of the head.
“As you said, Gloriam. I’m from Izril. The Titan might be content to let the Selphids die here. I am not.”
“They are leaving the Forgotten Wing company.”
“So? I’m not the Forgotten Wing company. I am the [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn. The Iron Vanguard, Howling Maelstrom? The Bodies of Fellden—I have no enemies among them. Terandrian nations and the Blighted Kingdom, perhaps. But they chose me.”
Erin Solstice faced Gloriam down, and the Selphid’s lips twisted.
“You have one in Jungle Tails, now.”
He indicated lines of kneeling Lizardfolk outside of Ramok as weary [Soldiers] tended to their wounds, hauled bodies out—two hours later and it was still cleanup.
“Perhaps. But I like to think I helped save lives here.”
