A small wail escapes the lips a slave and my heart wrenches inside my chest. “But fear not,” I say, skipping a few lines ahead, “For I, Falling Rain of the People, am here to free you from His clutches. Kneel and accept the Mother's forgiveness.” Obedience ingrained into their bones, they follow my orders without protest, their frightened mewls and silent sobs painful to hear and look upon. Moving to the first slave, I place my hands on his quaking shoulders and force him to look into my eyes. “Be cleansed of His Taint and returned to the Mother.”

Quickly switching places with Baledagh, my little brother unceremoniously dunks the slave’s head underwater before devouring the Spectres. After a silent count of three for the sake of emphasis, Baledagh pulls the gasping slave out of the water and follows the script. “Welcome back into the Mother’s light, child.”

Baledagh's performance could use some more umph, but the slave’s transformation is obvious at a glance. His formerly dead and empty eyes fill with surprise and hope as he clutches our hand. “Thank you Great One,” he stutters, voice pious and reverent. “Thank you for my redemption!” Weeping with joy, the man kowtows before us despite his obvious exhaustion. As my guards bring him away to eat and rest, Baledagh glances at the watching crowd. The look in their eyes slowly transform to match Dastan’s, with BoShui’s excitement plain to see. Kneeling with his retinue, they watch the proceedings in silence, with more than one person’s lips moving in prayer.

Hmm... Too far? Even Jester Wang and his cutthroats are looking at me like I’m the Pope. If only I lacked morals, I could start my own religion and exploit devout Mother-lovers for all they’ve got. I’d probably get some pretty sweet titles too. I can see it now: Falling Rain, Blessed be his name, Divine son of the Mother, Vessel of Blobby, Wielder of Peace, Shield of Tranquility, Guardian of All Things Cute and Fluffy.

I actually really like that last one. I think I'll keep it.

Chapter Meme
