Eradin and Moran bowed to each other, showing respect for each other. The old lizard wasn't joking about honor. Their tails whipped behind them, the air squealing at the speed. They clashed, slapping against each other.

Each tail ripped through the air at stupendous speeds. They clashed several times a second, sending out pounding booms of sound. Each gialgathen kept their necks tucked, ready to lunge out at a moment's notice.

Eradin deflected one of Moran's strikes, sending his son's tail off to the side. The old beast snapped out, his teeth tearing into Moran's neck. Moran shot out his tail, but Eradin cocked his neck back before it landed. Another fierce volley of lashing shot out, the crowd unable to see them.

I saw them in detail, however. They both hit each other with the hardened tips of their tails, forged through years of training. Each attack was done with an angle, never head-on. They weaved each attack into the next, creating no opening for a snap of each other's jaws.

Eradin times another pristine deflection, sending Moran's tail out from in front of him. Just as before Eradin snapped out. Moran countered, snapping his jaws against his father's own. The older gialgathen punished that attempt, snapping his tail onto the side of Morna's head.

The younger gialgathen lost his balance, stumbling sideways. With a brutal flurry of his tail, Eradin tore chunks of flesh fell off Moran. Moran launched a heavy tail whip at Eradin. The old gialgathen snapped his jaws further down his son's tail. This stopped the momentum of Moran's attack.

With one final, blinding snap of his tail, Eradin knocked his son out cold. Kiki caught Moran from falling with the flick of his fingers. Kiki pointed towards Eradin,

"And the father wins!"

Another set of boos roared out. By now, I hated the crowd. Those two gialgathens just laid their hearts out in that battle. It was was a stunning display from both adversaries. No one gave a shit. The crowd just played favorites without any rhyme or reason.

It left a bad taste in my mouth as Eradin flew back to his spot. He turned towards me, breathing heavy, "My son has improved so much since last year. I nearly lost my bout!"

I scoffed, "Yeah right."

Beads of sweat poured from Eradin, "You jest. Look at me. Fatigue almost claimed me. If he hadn't grown overeager, he'd have worn me out with that pace. It's a good battle for him to learn from. He will defeat me next year. Of this, I have no doubt."

He stuck his chest out, his head held high, "He's a good boy, no, a good warrior. He will give my family honor in the days to come. Once he's healed, I'll let him know this."

I grinned at the old guy. He was a great father even if he was a little harsh with his lessons. Just I smiled, the pre-fight hype started up again. Two big names were coming up again. I raised my head up and wheezed out,

"No, not this shit again."

Clips from the last fight popped up along with some I'd already seen before.  At least it didn't last as long this time. With the hype over, Kiki pointed towards one side of the arena,

"And here we have yet another big fight! Here, on the one hand, we have the returning veteran, Jilian Krokov!"

Jilian walked out in her black power armor, stone cold and badass. The booing of the crowd commenced in full force. People poured into the arena once more, wanting to watch the next fight. Seconds later, new clips played on the teleprompter. These videos drew my attention, however.

They showed a guy in gray power armor keeping up with a gialgathen's tail whips. He deflected each attack, pressuring the monster back. As he encroached on his prey, he unleashed a furious assault. The gialgathen didn't stand a chance, and he was launched out of the arena. I frowned.

It was me.

A light beamed onto me from above as Kiki Mosk pointed at me, "And here we have the popular newcomer, Daniel, the Gray Giant!"

The crowd roared as I looked around. I stood up, wondering why the fuck they didn't just give me a list of who fought who. As I pushed my ass off my seat, the entire stadium exploded with praise. I raised my hands and portions of the crowd began a standing ovation.

It was pure madness.

I pumped my fists up and down. The people standing up did the same. I grabbed one leg behind me before hopping on one foot. To my utter disbelief, some people did the same. Kessiah smacked my back from behind me. I laughed before pulling myself up with gravity, floating towards the arena.

Once onto the stone arena, Kiki Mosk pointed at the both of us, "Are you all ready to see the third high profile bout in a row?"

The crowd went crazy again. It was bizarre, out of body experience. Everybody had an expectation of me, and that expectation was who I was. I didn't like it, and I intended on fixing it when I was able to get a speech in. All that would come later.

I rolled my shoulders while cracking my knuckles. I twisted my neck, the crowd stomping. My mana charged, building to obscene levels in seconds. An aura leaked from my armor, whipping wind nearby. Jilian Krokov took a step back, the energy causing her cold persona to crack.

Kiki Mosk raised a hand, "Are both combatants ready?"

I nodded as Jilian sighed. She pulled out her rifle, aiming it at me before the fight started. She nodded.

Kiki Mosk pulled down his hand, "Then lets fight!"
