Staring down at these creatures, hissed and screamed underwater at my armor's defenses. If I had to sum up these monster's overall feel, it was one of hunger. They existed in such a desolate place that every animal here starved for eternity. This seemed like an ancient world, and after leaving that vent, I swam up to verify my assumptions. Miles of water later, and I eventually crashed through to the surface.

That was the strangest part; ice formed along the crust of the world, oceans forming beneath that. I didn't know why ice was at the surface instead of the bottom of the world, but I crashed onto a frozen wasteland either way. As I reached up my hand, this place still had air yet no wind. I stared up, and the stars beamed down. It might've been hard to notice with a normal eye, but I found them all the same.

These stars, they were dim. It was as if they were close to dying. This lack of light continued despite the thin, lifeless atmosphere here. In the distance, what was once this planet's sun only twinkled as the brightest star here. It was a terrifying prospect, as if this was the eventual fate of my own world. Pondering those thoughts, I walked along with the wastes, finding nothing of note here outside miles of ice.

After getting my fill of this horrifying hellscape, I dashed through the ice, using my system assisted waypoint as a way back. It was strange. I'd rather be trapped in a silver infested world than this place. At least things moved when in those metal forests. Here, everything was very still, as if the planet itself died long ago.

Those thoughts loomed over me as I darted back onto Blegara. Those lifeforms on that world were no doubt eldritch, but they carried a different vibe to them. Most eldritch were monsters of the highest order and a byproduct of hunger. If anything, those animals were the same, but they lacked any choice in the matter.

Hunger was interwoven with their very DNA. It was like normal creatures drenched themselves in starvation for so long that those things emerged from that trial. It gave me sympathy for the animals. They no doubt needed exterminating as they were simply too virulent. At the same time, I doubted humans would be so different if we were forced into that kind of environment and for so long.

In a way, the eldritch were sad, like a story told for too long, and eventually left a mangled mess that shambled forward as a corpse.

Those thoughts swirled in my head as I arrived at a now secured warp at the center of Blegara. We established it today, the added supplies and communication assisting the war effort. The Albony I passed gave me salutes as did other soldiers, and once I got to the center of the teleporter, the smell of ionized air filled my lungs as I stepped out onto the rolling hills of Mt. Verner.

I relished in the feeling of life here. It was a strange feeling compared to the dead world. The places here on Earth, they changed and shifted with the tides of time. Compared to the dreary stillness from before, it left me filled with hope. After giving it some thought, what unsettled me about that old world wasn't pain.

It was deprivation.

In many ways, it was worse than pain. To sit still and be bored wouldn't kill me quickly, but it could rot away my soul given time. Eventually, Earth might mirror that world or be burned away in the sun. I didn't know enough to say. I did know that life had a time limit here and that it would eventually run out. I would remain forever.

I didn't think I could die at this point, honestly. It wasn't like I wanted to, but I lacked any real frailty anymore. In most ways, that was a boon. In other ways, it scared me. Imagining myself stuck in a dying universe, struggling to find anything amidst dying stars...something about that filled me with dread.

I silenced those fears, reminding myself of my potential. If I was a living universe, maybe I could save this one from that same stillness. Time would tell, and it was so far in the future that it might as well be lifetimes away. Maybe I could craft lifelike golems by then, so I wouldn't be completely alone.

I shook off those dark thoughts, lifting my head up. After getting towards Mt. Verner, I spent another night studying with Ophelia and Chrona. While I focused on my efforts near them, the smell of pine and a cool breeze passed over me. I heard cicadas buzzing in the background, and crickets chirped in the night.

Something about that life carried warmth. I'd fight to keep it this way. With that in mind, I spurred forward with continued fervor towards my studying. The night eventually ended as they all did, and I found myself looking forward to seeing the team pulled together after their artificially induced comas by Torix.

I met up with said lich a while after, and I found him hovering the aforementioned members above the ground. As they slumbered, Torix handled a few logistics of our invasion by sending messages through his status. Alpha watched over his shoulder, the golem crouched over as to not tear the roof down.

I did the same, and as I reached Torix, I whispered,

"Are they sleeping well?"

Torix didn't whisper at all, "Indeed, they are. I'm using a sleeping spell I once cast on myself to ensure excellent rest each and every time I succumbed to the urge to do so. Despite their lack of continuous rest, this should put them in an excellent spot to retain the engaged focus I put them through...Mostly."

"Hm, I wouldn't know anymore. I haven't slept in so long, I barely remember what it was like at this point."

Torix shrugged, "I'm of the opinion it's not worth remembering. At best, it was simply wasted time. At worst, it hampered progress more so than helped it. I remember struggling with insomnia when I was younger, in fact. I actually held a myriad of medical issues. It made becoming a lich far easier as I left those mortal woes behind."

Torix waved a hand, "Either way, these three needed this slumber tremendously after that gauntlet I put them through. They are as ready as I was able to make them. They'll be waking up in a few minutes."

"So, you had medical issues?" I said while cupping a chin.

Torix sighed, "Indeed, I did. Many, to be more precise. I suffered from some sort of muscle wasting disease during my lifetime. I escaped my body before my mind and soul rotted underground, however. I remember watching my body be eaten by native wildlife in my world."

Torix raised a hand and squeezed his skeletal fingers, "I was glad to be rid of that meat puppet. This body suits me far better. Perhaps that and the desire to live spurred my necromantic tendencies forward. Who is to say?"

I scoffed, "I think you didn't need anything to mess you up. If I had to guess, you came out like this."

Torix beamed with pride, "Naturally."

I turned to Alpha, "What are you doing here?"

"Watching the master continue his work. I now understand why my creation occurred so quickly. He assisted in organizing it once involved. He improved much of what made me as well. For that, I am eternally thankful."

He gave the lich a bow, and Torix gave him a nod of acknowledgment before returning to his work. I pointed behind me, "It's good to see you two are getting along. I was wondering if you'd like to come with me to Blegara. I just wanted to see if you could fight hand in hand with these guys we're fighting."

Alpha nodded, knowledge of the Hybrids already imbued within his mind,

"I will do so, as my creator commands."

"Eh, I'd like to think it's a request."

"A request from one can be a command to others."

I raised an eyebrow, Alpha coming across as pretty mystic,

"Alright, if that's how you see it."

We paced through Mt. Verner, many watching us as we did. As we paced up towards the upper floors and reached the suites Helios and Florence called home, I found both of them congregating with Kessiah. Florence asked questions, leaning in and focusing on what she had to say,

"And you're telling me that's the norm where you came from?"

Kessiah looked uncomfortable under Florence's scrutiny,

"I...I think so. Remnants come in a few different kinds of upbringings. Mine was, uh, cozy, for the most part. It wasn't until after my mistake with blood magic that my situation turned ugly. And, yeah, that was my fault."

Her hand squeezed tight to her side, and Florence took notice,

"Ah...I'm sorry to hear that. I'm simply curious about what kind of life remnants lead. They're fascinating in that regard since your culture is quite unlike any I've ever heard of. It's also sporadic to find a remnant in imperial space."

Kessiah raised her eyebrows, "Yeah, I think your kind would just kill us for experience the moment they could. You all seem backstabby to me like that." Kessiah turned to Helios,

"Especially you."

Helios shrugged, "And the fact that such a motivation is known showcases our honesty. I do not lie about what I am, though you don't seem to follow the same prerogative, do you?"

Kessiah's eyes narrowed, "Oh, so mister prince man thinks he's so upright and civil because he doesn't lie about what a piece of shit he is, huh? That's just great."

Helios raised his hand and stared down at his claws, "I don't lie about my strength or weaknesses at the very least, unlike others worth mentioning." Without turning to me, Helios murmured, "Oh, it's the Harbinger. He's here at last."

I raised a brow, "Is everything ok here?"

Florence put his hands on his hips, "They're just having a disagreement. It happens, and we'll be civilized adults about it."

Helios scoffed, "Of course."

Kessiah frowned, "Yup."

Florence walked past them both and up to Alpha, who trailed behind me,

"You must be the super golem I've heard so much about." Florence offered the golem a hand, "It's good to meet you, Alpha. I'm Florence Novas."

Alpha gave him a bow, "I am Alpha, as my creators decided is my name. I am here to assist in your mission."

"That sounds excellent. Kessiah and I could always use another bodyguard. That's even more true since Hod and Althea have to assist with some kind of mission for Torix."

Helios glared at the golem, "Will it be able enough to handle the rigors of battle?"

I rolled my eyes before raising a hand, "Can you even identify it?"

Helios turned towards it before trying to do so. Under his mask, his blind eyes widened,

"I...I cannot."

I did it for him and unveiled the synopsis for them all to read.

Alpha(lvl 12,000 | Guild: Harbinger's Legion) - Alpha is a golem crafted from a team of specialists using a robust, mana porous material. It uses three different minds tethered together to create one of the first super golems ever crafted. Typically, such mana hungry creation methods are impossible, but the material from which this golem is made generates mana naturally. Drawing from that mana, this golem holds tremendous power. Those powers are detailed below.

Its first abilities are primarily physical in nature. It stands twelve feet in height and weighs more than most houses. Being harder than steel, the golem retains tremendous flexibility through a floating joint model, and Alpha can easily overpower all but the most physically robust Breakers and Fringe Walkers. Its regenerative abilities ensure its power will last through a battle as well.

Though not as potent, its magic isn't to be underestimated. This golem commands over a dozen common, useful spells that are inherently ingrained in the material from which it was made. It uses these spells as it fights, making it harder to pin down than expected. Given free will, the golem may learn new magic in the future as well. Whether that was wise, time shall tell.

Finally, the golem carries rudimentary mind magic capacities. Being a rarer form of magic, this relatively benign being can crush the consciousness of those untrained in mental warfare. The sheer size of its mind guarantees that several combatants will be required to restrain it quickly as well.

For these reasons, this golem is a fierce force to be reckoned with, and it should not be underestimated.

Helios tilted his head back, "Well then, I look forward to seeing it in action."

Alpha bowed to Helios, "I will aim to not disappoint you as though you lack sight, you see more than most."

Helios stared down at him, "That is a disconcertingly intelligent golem. I pray you made the correct decision in enabling it those mental abilities."

I gave Alpha a pat on the back, "Oh, don't worry, you'll be seeing him in action today."

Helios pointed down the hallway, "Then let us be off. As a warp has finally been established, I no longer need to be your valet."

We all met up and warped towards Blegara, this time directly under the seabed instead of in a coral home. The albony established a barrier to allow for machine setups and the like. We rested under this magically rendered barrier, letting us breathe easily for now. That respite ended in seconds as several guards sprinted towards an exit of the border.

They shot outward, intersecting with a group of Hybrids who came here to attack. I gestured to Alpha,

"How about you show them how it's done?"

Alpha stepped past our team and up to the barrier's exit,

"I shall do so, and in your name."

The runes across his body glowed white,

"Long live the legion."
