Saliss cursed. Ryoka felt the ring Hedault had given her glowing, burning her finger as it fought them off. There were [Mages] throwing their own clouds of darkness, trying to slow them. And the arrows!
“Forwards! My Skill! I have to use it! [S—”
Maviola cried out. So did her mare. More arrows were falling. Ryoka cried out. A cloud of black fog was flying towards them.
“Maviola!”
“I’ll stop that cloud! Grab her! Potion of Dispel! No? Damn! Get the cloud, Ryoka!”
Saliss lobbed more vials as Ryoka went for Maviola. She looked up as another volley was called. No—
“[Volley: Blacksteel Rain]! [Instantaneous Reload]! Kill them!”
Everyone got Skills. Ryoka raised her hand. The arrows and the fog were coming. And one was death. She blew the fog away. And two clouds of bolts and arrows, loosed so fast they were one storm, fell towards them.
Her ears popped. The pressure on her head—Maviola’s head was turning.
“Not the hex—”
Ryoka’s ring had stopped burning. Yet she still felt like something—someone was grasping her. Her—shoulder?
“Well, we can’t have this, can we?”
Someone spoke in her ear. Ryoka felt the pressure intensify. The poisoned arrows flew downwards—and the voice spoke again.
“[Greater Blessing of Armor].”
The arrows—bounced off Ryoka’s skin. Maviola straightened. Ryoka felt something—she looked around.
“Who was that?”
 
—-
 
Venith Crusland stared at the King of Destruction. Flos Reimarch had a sheen of sweat on his face. He’d struggled for the last ten minutes. But at last—
“Your Majesty? How did you…?”
“I’m tired of watching such entertaining events unfolding. I thought I could do it and went for it. You may have to adjust your battle plans, Venith.”
The [King] grinned. His eyes sparked as he saw the three moving through the arrows, past the confused [Assassins].
“Confirmed, [Blessing of Armor]. But who could have used—”
The King of Destruction laughed. He straightened. “I am the King of Destruction. If I want to bless them, I will. [Rapid March]. [Induction: The King’s S—”
He hesitated, lowered his hand. Flos scratched at the back of his head and chuckled.
“Well, not yet. I got carried away there. Hah! But wouldn’t it be funny if—Venith? Don’t look at me like that.”
 
—-
 
The King of Destruction. Pandemonium. Chaos. Just the kind of thing that Flos Reimarch lived for.
The Archmage of Terandria ignored the screaming Drakes in the scrying orb with gritted teeth as best he could.
“Silence them! I need to concentrate!”
He ordered the others. The linked group of [Mages] agreed. Archmage Viltach focused the magic in Wistram to his will.
His eyes were on the three, fleeing the [Assassins] still. They had switched to spells while the blessing was in effect.
One of them was from Earth. For that alone—Viltach inhaled, exhaled. He was no [Archmage]. Not yet. But he was not one of the greatest [Mages] of Wistram for nothing.
“[Greater Far Cast]. [Concentrate Mana]. I need to overload this spell. Someone use the [Indirect Hex] Skill! [Area of Diffusion]—”
The [Mages] were murmuring Skills, using their magic to target a spot so far out of range of Wistram—it took fourteen of them of Viltach’s circle, linked with him. But still—
“[Greater Lightning Bolt].”
The orb was on a five second delay. But Viltach hadn’t been using it as anything more than an aid. The bolt targeted the nearest warm bodies. Blew apart one of the oncoming coaches. The [Assassins] once again scattered. You could almost hear them screaming ‘where had that come from?’
 
—-
 
“Someone’s boosting them!”
The Ranks were trying to get the three. But everything in existence was getting in their way! Spells out of nowhere, Skills activated—
They didn’t belong to the King of Destruction. But still—Saliss split into three, and two doppelgangers took arrows and thrown daggers meant for him. The Drake screamed at the sky.
“Stop using your damn Skills! I feel like I’m going to hurl!”
The pressure on Ryoka relaxed a bit. It was like—multiple people fighting to lean on her. If she didn’t will it—
But they were trying to help. Ryoka heard the [Popstar] singing, more voices—
 
—-
 
A certain [King of Archers] rose to his feet, incensed. The Terandrian [King] looked at Flos Reimarch, who was giving an interview as the [Assassins] broke off to regroup. Too many Skills, activating too fast. He bellowed, incensed, as surely other rulers were doing upon seeing that smug bastard.
“If he’s going to interfere, so shall I! Bring me my bow and the Arrow of a Thousand Leagues!”
He tried to shoot from his throne. His people held him back, frantic.
“Still out of range, your Majesty. Please, do not—someone hold his Majesty back!”
They tried to stop him from using one of the relics of his kingdom. And succeeded, thank Avel.
 
—-
 
So many people, trying to help. Getting in each other’s way. Doing it for so many reasons. Attention. The righteousness of it. For fun.
How must it feel to be on the other side of so much ire? So much hatred?
It felt—the Guild was panicking. Well, the administrators. The Ranks, perhaps. The Circle of Thorns, certainly.
This…this was falling apart. The members of the Guild’s best lay dead, countless Ranks—even if they were expendable—killed and their gear lost! This was a disaster!
“Heard they killed Art.”
“Who?”
“The Art of Daggers.”
“Oh.”
A voice amid the silent shapes. That had been the self-styled nickname of one of the best Faces in the Guild. The bearer of the [Hundredfold Stab] Skill. Of all the Faces in Invrisil—and there had been a few—he was the best by far.
“Who got him?”
“The Small Queen.”
“Ah. Well, that’s just too bad. I thought he’d have had a chance on paper. He owed me money.”
“Mhm.”
Ferin made a note in the book. He looked up.
The Faces of the Guild sat in the Unmarked Coach. Not all of them. But the ones coming from other parts on the continent. The Djinni’s vehicle had adjusted its direction, picking them up, moving after…
Her. Them. The Guild was worried. The Faces sat silently.
No one here had suggested giving up, or surrendering, or changing tactics. Opinion was turned against them. Multiple leaders from outside of Izril were helping the three.
So they had to kill them. Let the world back the Wind Runner, Saliss of Lights, the Lady of House El. The Guild just had to prove they could kill their targets even with the King of Destruction’s aid.
They had gone far too far to turn back, anyways.
“Looks like they moved past the archer groups. Stupid idea, anyways. That [Alchemist] is blowing them to bits.”
“One less potion for us.”
Laughter. Ferin turned. There—was Mire. One-armed. Still adjusting to the change. Still furious.
[Blademaster]. [High Mage]. The [Trapmaster] saw all the same faces who had been with him for Magnolia Reinhart’s ambush. And more.
“How much longer? We can move faster than this damned coach. Some of us, at any rate.”
The Djinni driver didn’t respond to that. The other [Assassins] murmured. Ferin saw one of them check the map.
“We’ll make it. They’re nearly halfway, though. We lost them for too long in the night.”
“So? They’re about to run into the reserves.”
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin was waiting for the sun. But it had yet to rise, for hours, perhaps. Less?
The Skills were wearing off. She had been under the effects of nearly a dozen and Saliss had been right—so many with overlapping effects had made her nauseous.
They were headed down the road. They could have gone off road—but they were passing by some foothills. Rocks, outcroppings—perfect ambush areas.
Ryoka remembered the [Assassin] with wires. The road was dangerous—but had less chokepoints.
“I see something ahead of us, I think.”
Maviola frowned. There was a rise up the road. She kept seeing something peeking over the edge.
“Turn into the hills? Another way?”
“We’re…not going to be able to turn back.”
Shadows at their rear. Keeping far, far out of range. But their pursuers were still behind them. The [Hasted] trio were outrunning them. Once they’d fought free of the ambush, Saliss’ superior potions and their speed were keeping them safe.
But they could not find another path or slow or they’d lose that lead. Foothills, something ahead, behind their pursuers—
“We could go east?”
“…The exact opposite direction of House Veltras?”
Ryoka said nothing. Saliss shook his head.
“Let’s see what it is. Get behind me.”
The Wind Runner nodded. She and Maviola kept pace, one on horseback, the other pedaling the magic bike; Ryoka felt like there was something wrong. The blasts from the magic, perhaps. The spells? It felt more…like a normal bike. The enchantments damaged, perhaps?
She could still race along a lot faster than on foot. Saliss jogged over the ridge, a beat before Maviola’s mare clattered over the slight incline. Ryoka was next. She felt confident. The [Popstar] had stopped singing, probably having used up her Skills for the moment, but there were people helping. They could do it! She raised her head—
“…Oh.”
The Guild of Assassins was waiting for them by the river. The foothills to the west, a natural barricade. The bridge ahead blocked. It was one of the natural chokepoints. A good place to try and stop some annoying Runners.
Run into the hills. Run over the river. Turn, and find another route. All these were valid options. But what stopped the three, made even Maviola’s blazing confidence flicker—were the numbers.
“Ah.”
Saliss breathed out. He turned to Maviola and Ryoka in the sudden silence. He nodded ahead.
“The flaw with Plan: Horse? It gave them time to prepare for us.”
An army of figures waited for them at the crossing. Ryoka saw…ranks of the Ranks. Actual formations. Set up, entrenched.
Towers conjured by Skills or magic. Fortified ground. And…thousands of [Assassins].
“That has to be…three thousand of them. At least.”
Maviola El faltered. Ryoka breathed.
“Bullshit. There can’t be this many. Not after how many we killed.”
Saliss of Lights was counting too. He looked over his shoulder. Ryoka twisted and saw the pursuers—suddenly a speck compared to the force waiting to turn them into paste.
He shrugged at her.
“The Guild for an entire continent? I’d bet they had at least ten thousand members. So—a third of them? Here’s a tip, Ryoka. Never underestimate how much you can piss off your enemies.”
The Drake squinted. The scrying orb had gone silent. The commentators quiet. Or he’d turned off the orb. Ryoka only heard the Named Adventurer’s voice. He was studying the group, looking over his shoulders.
“Yep. They’re coming from behind. Bet you they trapped the foothills once they planned our route. Here’s some good news: that’s not three thousand. I think.”
“It’s not?”
The other two looked at him. The [Alchemist] squinted, shading his eyes with his claws. He drank a vial, his gaze sharpening.
“Not all of them are real. I see illusions—and probably more I can’t detect. And some are using [Invisibility]. So—run at the illusions, not the invisible ones or the ones who’re really there.”
Ryoka laughed. It had a note of despair in it. Maviola shook her head.
“My Skill…I—I don’t think it’s enough for this. If we were being pursued? But we would have to break through.”
“The east?”
Ryoka looked towards flatter land, descending downwards, back towards the forest and lake. Saliss stared ahead.
The [Assassins] were just waiting. Their friends were catching up from behind. They weren’t going to budge. Try to get past us. If they ran—the army would just pivot and hem them in again.
Ryoka was breathing fast. Even if half of them were fake. Even if—she counted prowling figures mixed with the [Assassins] and realized—not all of them were Human.
“Monsters. Some are leashed, others summoned. Typical.”
Maviola seemed resigned. She had seen armies before. Saliss nodded.
“They’ll be as fast as the [Assassins]…teleport? Just throwing it out there.”
“How much do you want to bet they’ll force the spell to teleport us into their ranks? We aren’t [Mages]…”
Ringing in her ears. Ryoka was panting. It was time. But they’d fill her with arrows before she could—
Saliss clapped his claws together, briskly. Bringing Ryoka out of the trance. The Named Adventurer stretched, nude, flexing, in front of the Guild. The figures stirred at a distance. Saliss sprang to his feet, clapped his claws again.
“Alright! Here’s the plan. We go through them. Maviola, you take a thousand on the left, I’ll take two thousand on the right, Ryoka, you take that one over there.”
He pointed at an [Assassin] with a sword just off-center. Ryoka and Maviola looked at Saliss.
The Drake was smiling. Ryoka started.
“Are y—Saliss. We have to, to—”
He clapped her on the shoulder, cheerfully. Ryoka’s eyes widened. She felt a claw—and something in her hand.
The vial. She nearly looked down, but Saliss’ grip tightened on her arm. Maviola was looking at them. She pointed and a [Fireball] flashed past them, slowing their pursuers. But they were ambling too. They knew the three had nowhere to go.
Saliss though—the Drake whispered to Ryoka and Maviola.
“Take it. Don’t drink it, obviously. Glass is reinforced, but put it in the bag of holding. One vial cures ten kids. You just need a spoonful. It should blast the toxin out of them. Get them out of the room where they’re sick, though. It was a gas. Pretty sure.”
Ryoka felt her stomach lurch as she looked at him. The Named Adventurer was just smiling. And he was…
“Saliss. No.”
“Someone’s got to get you two through that mess. And that someone is me. You two suck at fighting. Really—you’ve been slowing me down the entire time. But you’re probably faster. My thighs are chafed.”
The Drake grinned at Ryoka. She heard a hum underneath his tone. Saliss looked ahead.
“We’ll go around. Don’t—”
“They’re expecting us to try. But look ahead. Look at that. Thousands of [Assassins]. Summoned monsters. All…so close together. When I hit you two—run. You’ll have ten minutes.”
“You won’t—”
Ryoka tried to say something. Saliss ignored her. He was looking at Maviola. She said nothing. Nothing—for a long moment she looked at Saliss. Then nodded.
“Don’t die, Saliss. Ryoka—put away your bike. I think it will complicate matters.”
“Good point! Bike away. Brush yourself off—aren’t you glad we weren’t horses up till here? You’d be naked. On television.”
Saliss laughed lightly, brushing at Ryoka’s shoulders. He saw her looking at him.
“You—”
