She drew the little figurine from her belt pouch. For a moment, the wind seemed to calm. Ryoka clutched at it.
And her fingers, wet with rain, slipped. The icy figurine vanished from her fingers. Ryoka cried out. No!
The tiny statuette fell, glittering. She reached for it, as the blackness creeping around her vision made everything but that statuette a void.
Not that. Please! She saw—
The statuette stopped in the air. It came back to her, borne by a gentle breeze amid the storm. Ryoka grabbed at it. How…?
The cold burned her skin. And she realized—the wind had heard her. Her desperation. She looked around, and her eyes cleared.
She felt them still. Like distant lighthouses amid the sea in the sky. Wistram, Fissival, this Circle, countless more. Wrestling with each other, trying to tame the magical typhoon. Grand [Mages] and fools with weather scrolls. And the wind was fighting them.
Fighting—fighting magic, fighting the mortals that tried to control it. No wonder it was so mad. Even Ryoka. You couldn’t demand things, even if you said please.
“I see.”
She thought she said it. Ryoka held onto the figurine. Then she put it away. She stopped trying to force the wind. She trusted to it—
And the gales stopped. The wind that buffeted her, resisting her commands saying, ‘go here, go there, slow me, send me up, send me down’, relaxed.
She had no right to be up here, flying, and expect it to treat her like a mortal who needed not to be sent at the speed the wind always travelled. She did not know these winds, which blew at speeds unseen faster than anything else.
She was the breeze of the ground. So—if you would kindly forgive my mistake—
The wind was a capricious, gracious host. Its fury relented. And like that—the typhoon slowed. The magic caught in it evaporated. Ryoka felt the rains stop. The charge in the air dissipated.
Gently—she fell to earth. She thought—
 
—-
 
“Ivol…?”
I thought I heard her voice, up there. In between slipping in and out of the world. Perhaps it was all in my mind. Or the truth lies between faith and magic.
My feet are bloody as the ground comes towards me. My body too tired for me to feel it. It doesn’t matter. The run has to be completed.
The delivery. I hold the figurine for a moment. Wondering if she’ll speak to me again.
Ivolethe?
“I will see you soon.”
Then I touch the ground. I stumble, as I land. The wrecked glider lands around me and I let it lie. I feel like a stranger, rooted to the earth as I stumble forwards.
I don’t know where I am. I could have been blown all the way to the east of Izril. I could be in Drake lands. I could be on Earth.
The grass pricks my feet. Unpleasant, painful. I ignore it, the blood. The bike…
I’m setting it up as they find me. So fast. I turn, raising my hands. Not fair! Not…
A sheep stares at me. It goes ‘bah’. I sit down.
“Five Families.”
A voice speaks. I look around as the sun edges out more. And I realize—
I’m in a pasture. A gate’s open. And a man, a [Shepherd], is staring at me with wide eyes. I try to speak, and croak.
“Where—where am I?”
The stunned man and his herd of curious sheep surround me. The fellow scratches at his head. Then he looks at me. Clears his throat.
“Six miles outside of House Veltras’ lands, Miss. The Forest of Vail lies ahead. If you go around it—you’ll reach your destination.”
“My…how do you know that?”
I’m afraid, for one second, that I’m being toyed with by some sinister [Sheep Assassin]. But the [Shepherd] just shakes his head.
“All of Izril knows of you, Miss Wind Runner. Hurry. Do you need—”
He reached for a potion, but I’m already on the bike. The end of my journey waits for me. Just a bit longer, Ivolethe.
 
—-
 
“They don’t know where the Runner is, milord.”
A voice pierced the boy’s mind. Coming from far away. He heard the sounds of despair in a voice that had never held it for him.
His father’s. Hethon Veltras lay in a bed far too hot. He was…dying. It was not slow, or silent.
He was coughing so hard he couldn’t inhale. A [Healer] was desperately trying to get him to breathe. Sammy—Sammial was worse.
“They have no time. Lord Veltras—”
“It’s—”
The [Lord] was turning, trying to do something. But the typhoon had obscured hope once more. Hethon struggled to say it, through his swollen throat. Just for a moment, he’d felt it. The burning that had consumed him—had been relieved.
“It’s cool.”
No one heard him. But Sammy—Hethon’s closed eyes roamed, searching. He tried to tell them, but he was too tired.
The wind was coming. They babbled, and Ullim buried his head in his hands, in despair. He didn’t understand. Hethon closed his eyes. He had heard it, felt it for a second, on his cheek.
The wind was blowing his way. He begged it to come quicker.
 
—-
 
At the end of her run, Ryoka Griffin was tired. Just tired.
Glory had come and gone, fleeting.
Tragedy had struck. She would weep more for it later.
She had seen bravery, grand deeds. Endings and continuations and magnificent trickery.
Now—she was exhausted. Let it be over. For better or worse, give her rest.
Surely they felt the same, her hunters. On either side—let us make an end to this.
But the trick to the run was that you didn’t get to quit when you felt like it. A mile cared nothing for how you felt. You ran the mile, and then the next.
She left the glorious, magical bike behind, stumbling on. Something had damaged it; it had grown harder to pedal. Then, perhaps from the landing, all the fighting—
The chain had snapped. Ironically, she had no replacement. No magically forged links easy-at-hand, and no way to repair the enchanted metal.
She would have gone back, taken the few seconds to put it in her bag of holding. But she had no more time. Not a single second, anymore.
Her fate had led her across Izril, defying death with help and luck. Perhaps as some vengeance, it had led them here. A bit of fairness the other way.
Three [Assassins] followed her. One was a [Trapmaster], withdrawing an enchanted crossbow. The second, a [Blademaster]. The last, an [Alchemist] with one arm who had caught up after escaping the [Knights].
They had no idea where the others were. Luck had seen them spot the distant figure, landing. It didn’t matter. The world could be nothing more than this road, with the Runner on it. With no more contracts, no Guild, no future. And they would still hunt her down for bringing their Guild to ruin.
For pride of the job. All they had in this world.
The Wind Runner looked back one last time. Ferin fired the crossbow. The first bolt went wide; he was no [Marksman]. It hit the dirt a dozen feet to her left. He reloaded as he ran after her. The quarry was exhausted.
But too close. Far too close to her destination.
No more speeches. This was the end of the run.
It ended with the most fitting of things. A footrace to the finish line. A delivery. [Assassins]. A Runner.
And a Courier.
 
—-
 
Salamani the Mage Runner stopped as he saw the three ahead of him. He was panting, at the end of his own endurance.
He had run from Invrisil to this point. A Courier’s speed. Ryoka and her friends had run fast—but they had been dogged the entire way by the Guild. He had clashed with them twice.
“Ah.”
The Courier drew his wand. The Faces turned, sensing him behind them. The Courier fell into step. He had been searching so hard for Ryoka.
Not just for her cure. He could have broken past them, perhaps, grabbed the cure—and she surely would have given it to him—and finished the run.
But then she would die. A harder package to deliver safely. The hardest delivery he had run yet.
Just a minute. That was all he needed. Salamani saluted the distant City Runner. Then the Courier looked around.
“Impossible.”
Someone else was coming their way. A figure. No—two.
The Moonlight Rider stopped next to Salamani. He was panting.
“How they hell are you here?”
“How are you two…?”
“We were doing the delivery from the port. You were at Invrisil.”
“I ran. She’s not exactly faster than we are.”
Tritel shook his head. He drew a crossbow slowly.
“Three of ‘em. They’re not the ones we got past, are they?”
“No. You can always ride away, Tritel.”
“I have a booth with my name on it. I don’t think I’ll get to use it if…and besides. What kind of Courier lets a City Runner do their run for them?”
Ci snorted. Salamani looked at Tritel.
“You softhearted liar.”
“Shut up, Salamani. Besides—if you think I’m the stupid one, you’re not going to believe what’s going to happen next.”
The Mage Runner looked around.
“No way. He wouldn’t ever—”
A pair of bunny ears. A third Courier slowed. Salamani stared at Hawk. It was impossible. Hawk the Hare? Hawk the Coward?
The Courier’s eyes were still red. Coward indeed, the Drake had named him. Coward, too afraid to do the right thing.
Heartbreak was a terrible curse. It made fools out of everyone.
“Hawk—”
The Courier walked past them.
Ferin looked back, then ahead at Ryoka. Why now? Why…
Justice for the first run they’d done. The Couriers said nothing more. They moved forwards. So before, now.
The [Assassins] turned towards them.
“Bastards. Kill them. We’re the Guild. They’re—”
Couriers. The Moonlight Rider urged his mare into a gallop. His crossbow sang at the same time as Ferin’s. The Mage Runner of Wistram drew his magic out of the sky, arrows of light.
Hawk the Hare of Liscor ran forwards. He attacked Mire with a shout.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin looked back and saw the battle. Tritel was riding, firing his crossbow and slashing with a sword. Salamani was fighting the [Alchemist] as Hawk dodged the [Blademaster].
“No.”
But they were buying her—she pumped her legs. Her head rose. Her body moved, and Ryoka ignored whatever was telling her she had to stop.
Behind her, the Couriers fell back. No easy Ranks falling to their Skills. Hawk blurred around the [Blademaster]. He kicked and the man cried out, his sword wavering.
“[Valmira’s Comet].”
Salamani shot one at near point-blank range. Somehow, the [Blademaster] cut it in half. Mire knocked him a dozen feet onto the ground. Stunned—he saw Hawk deal the [Alchemist] a blow that sent her sprawling. The [Blademaster] stabbed Hawk in the back. The Courier screamed once.
Before the [Blademaster] could twist the blade and take the Beastkin’s life, Tritel abandoned his duel with the [Trapmaster].
“Ci, fly!”
She leapt. Up, upwards. The Moonlight Rider abandoned sword. He drew his crossbow, aimed straight down.
Thunk. The [Blademaster] fell. Mire stared at the bolt protruding from the peerless swordsman’s right eye socket. Her nerve broke. She ran.
Tritel landed. The [Blademaster], who had never given Ferin his name, who had been just a class—staggered. He had let go of his sword. He drew a dagger—threw it.
It was the act of a [Warrior] who refused to die even when dealt a death-blow. Hawk lay on the ground, bleeding. Salamani screamed as the dagger went through his shoulder and nailed him to the earth. He struggled to get up, but the blade was burning him, setting his robes alight.
“Tritel!”
The Moonlight Rider turned as the [Blademaster] collapsed at last, his last effort gone. He looked around.
Snap. The wires clashed together. Salamani saw them go through Tritel and Ci. He made a sound.
The [Trapmaster]. Ferin was running after Ryoka, abandoning his wires, his comrades, dead and fleeing. He had a crossbow in hand. He never even looked back.
Tritel and Ci. The Moonlight Rider actually stayed…together…for a heartbeat. Blood—his body had been severed in countless places, in countless ways. So had Ci.
A period of space shorter than a second in time. A moment. As immortal as the death coming for both of them. Tritel, short, stocky, a [Hostler] who had become a Courier, looked down at his mare, his friend.
Ci, the Moonlight Horse. Sinking. As perfect as he was not. The Moonlight Rider—spoke. One last Skill.
“[One Dies Before The Other]. I’m sorry, Ci.”
Salamani, trying to rise, heard the Courier’s voice. He looked up.
Blood on the ground. Someone rose on shaky legs.
Ci. The horse snorted, amazed. Then looked around for her friend. He was lying there. A smile on his face. The kind of Skill you saved for the end.
 
—-
 
So she ran. And they both had that thought.
They might have been friends. For a moment, they had liked each other. Now? They hated each other more than anything else.
“Stop.”
Ryoka did not. Ferin took aim. This time, he did not miss.
The first bolt went through her shoulder and out the other side. She stumbled, but kept going. The armor-piercing bolt was too powerful. Ryoka’s body didn’t even slow it. Cursing, the [Trapmaster] reloaded.
She was running faster than she ever had. Without magic. Without the wind. But still faster, her form perfect. But she was just Human.
He shot her through the lower back, just missing the spine. This time she fell. But she got back up.
“Stop.”
As if there were any point for either of them? He reloaded. Fired again.
Artery. Her leg was pinned. She kept moving.
Even if I crawl. The [Assassin] reached for the final bolt. He aimed at her from afar. Then, he adjusted his aim.
Fired. The bolt flew through the air, a deadly missile. But of course—the [Lord] knocked it out of the air.
How far were they from their destination? It didn’t matter anymore. The Couriers, the wind—
Salamani the [Mage] Runner had finished his delivery first. And it was just words. Coordinates.
Lord Tyrion Veltras rode towards the [Assassin]. Ryoka Griffin didn’t even see him. She was crawling, thinking the last bolt was coming for her.
Ferin could have shot her. But for a moment, he’d been flawed. An imperfect weapon.
He’d wanted to live. What a blunder.
He had left his wires behind. The [Assassin] drew a long dagger, slowly. The lance—he called out as the [Lord] rode at him.
 
—-
 
The Banner of House Veltras flew in the winds. Jericha held it aloft as she surged behind Lord Tyrion. Behind her lay chaos and bloodshed. But only on one side.
 
—-
 
“The House of Veltras has mobilized its army. They’ve killed every agent around the manor! All of them in a hundred miles!”
The Circle of Thorns listened. They felt the winds shift.
 
—-
 
Ullim stood with a sword bared, over the two young [Lords]. He looked towards the window, watchful.
“Hurry, my lord.”
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin was trying to run. Then crawl. She didn’t stop. She pulled herself forwards—until she met a foot.
A metal boot, rather. Since it was an aberration, she stopped.
“Take—take it to House Veltras. Lord Tyrion.”
She mumbled. Someone knelt.
“I am Lord Tyrion Veltras.”
