Ryoka tried to raise her head. She saw the outline of a stern face. Felt cold liquid on her back, amid the void of emptiness. She feared…the man’s face changed.
“Delivery. Delivery for Lord Veltras. Do you have a seal?”
The Wind Runner giggled. The [Lord] knelt. Beyond him, a figure wrapped in dark clothing waited. An army was coming down the road. But for a moment, he spoke and listened.
“What is your name, Courier?”
“Just Runner. City Runner.”
“Then—what is it?”
He knew. But she gasped it anyways.
“Ryoka Griffin.”
The [Lord] nodded. He looked down at her. The wound refusing to quite heal despite the magical liquid. He spoke, slowly, memorizing her face.
“I will remember it forever. Do you have it?”
It was covered in her blood. The vial shook as she tried to lift it.
“Here. A spoonful…”
“[Healer]! Lord Veltras, she’s lost too much blood—surround the killer!”
Jericha leapt from her saddle with a second healing potion. Tyrion held up a hand.
“I will deal with that one myself. Take the cure, Jericha.”
“Yes, my lord!”
Galloping hooves. Ryoka lay there, relaxing. Was it done? Yet, the [Lord] remained a moment.
“Ryoka Griffin. Why did you take the cure to me against all these odds? For money? Fame?”
He sounded…baffled. Curious. Ryoka tried to speak. It was all…hazy.
“I need you to come to…help me. Party…”
It was really hard to explain. Tyrion’s face shifted. Grew more distant.
“Of course. Whatever it is…”
He began to rise. Ryoka murmured into the dust as people surrounded her.
“And—”
The Lord of House Veltras paused. He leaned back down. Ryoka spoke that singular truth about her. Maddening. Yet—her.
“—It was the right thing to do. Please. Take it. Save them.”
Tyrion looked at her. Then he knelt and bowed his head. He took her hand a moment.
“…Thank you. I will repay this debt.”
He rose as Ryoka Griffin closed her eyes and sighed.
It was done.
 
—-
 
The last Face of the Guild stood with arms spread. His white hair, a mark of pride, ruffled in the wind. The [Lord] had stopped to see to the Runner lying on the ground.
His soldiers waited behind him, cutting off the [Assassin]’s escape. But he had not tried to. There would be no point. Not with the [Lord] standing in front of him.
Lord Tyrion Veltras did not mount his horse. He slowly drew his sword as the limp City Runner was taken away. Or perhaps only her body?
It mattered not. The old [Assassin] called out, as the [Lord] advanced, slowly.
“I—am Ferin the Threadbearer. [Assassin] of Izril! A Face of the Guild of Assassins!”
He met the [Lord] with the lone dagger in hand. Tyrion Veltras walked forwards, lifting sword and shield. Too late, the [Assassin] realized. It was not a mark of respect. The [Lord] walked forwards.
“I have no intention of remembering your name.”
He swung his sword once. Someone handed him a bit of cloth and he tossed it down. When he turned, a nameless body lay on the ground. Blood soaking a book until the ink and parchment were useless.
 
—-
 
It took them longer to know what happened. And when it did—it was just Drassi. She stood there, as the connection cleared.
“The run is over. The Wind Runner of Reizmelt has delivered the cure to House Veltras. The Circle of Thorns and Guild of Assassins have been declared the enemy of the Five Families and all of Izril. North and south. The Moonlight Rider, Tritel, is dead. His horse, Ci, has survived. At the end of it…three Couriers stood against the Guild of Assassins to allow the Wind Runner to reach her destination. Salamani the Mage Runner, Tritel the Moonlight Rider, and Hawk the Hare.”
Selys stared at Drassi’s face. The Drake went on, soberly.
“Salamani and Hawk are alive. But injured. As for Miss Ryoka—we do not know. House Veltras reports she is in a [Healer]’s care, but she lost an…an egregious amount of blood. She has not woken up. Many people’s fates are unknown. Maviola El. Saliss of Lights…there are confirmed deaths from the fighting. The Harbormistress of First Landing, Gresaria Wellfar. The [Lord] and sole heir of House Everight, Lord Toldos…”
On the cast went. No more action. Just Drassi, listing names. The cost.
Erin sat there. How many of her friends had fallen? Ryoka? Mrsha was crying and being hugged. The others were murmuring as they finally counted the costs.
But the delivery was done. And—not all of them had fallen. Not all. Born of the wind that had rushed from Invrisil to House Veltras were deaths, tragedy, brave acts. They died and some continued.
 
—-
 
Ser Kerrig raised his head as he stood over Dame Truvia. The [Knights] of Izril had borne a bloody cost from this one battle.
“There should have been ten times our number. A hundred.”
He spoke to a silent [Knight] of the Clairei Fields, the only one to survive of her Order. The woman nodded silently.
There would be. Knight-Commander Calirn looked at Izril, at the brave souls. For the first time, he removed the tome in his Order’s hallowed library. To consult their laws on the establishing of a new branch, a new headquarters of his order. Or perhaps—another?
 
—-
 
“She replaced me. Bethal. Pryde. All of them moved for her. She left a trail of blood to do it.”
“Not what you would have done?”
Magnolia Reinhart shook her head.
“I would have let one man suffer. Two children die if it came to that. The Flowers of Izril—at least two dozen lie dead. The Guild is in ruins. And the Circle…”
She turned away.
“Perhaps I lacked her courage for such things. I…”
She trailed off. What else could be said? She disagreed. She disagreed with Erin. But she had left. So she turned back.
“I cede it to Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin. Let us go to Oteslia, Ressa.”
She looked at a stranger, who sat there in the mirror. A girl with a white flag—Magnolia had never been that. But the person upon whom Izril had once turned? Magnolia Reinhart looked away.
 
—-
 
Life. Damned life. Flourishing like a weed, despite the vines and shadows trying to choke it. To what end? Why, when so many had died and they had tried to be the ones to pay the price that had to be paid?
Why, fate? She stood amid the ashes, howling upwards at the sky. A burned landscape of ash around her.
Maviola El.
“Not here? Not yet? Where am I supposed to die?”
The [Lady] wept. For her friend. For uncertainty and the future. For power—how was she supposed to spend it, if not here? Was there a plan?
 
—-
 
Rain fell in other places. Born up by completely natural cycles. Evaporating, condensing, emitting drops from the heavens. Not made of magic; no more tampering with the heavens today.
The river had been diverted by the massive explosion that had consumed the area. Already—a lake was forming. A trench, carved of the forces wrought here.
It had changed the world in no small way. In later days, they would go on to call it ‘Saliss’ Wake’. After the Named Adventurer who had created it.
A Drake’s touch in Human lands. But for now, the waters rushed into the gap in the ground as most of the alchemical elements dispersed—or, troublingly—sunk to the bottom of the new body of water. Then moved on, streaming downriver.
The rain fell. Drizzling, rather than pouring. It carried debris, bodies downriver, another hazard. Casualty of war.
A body floated in the water. After a while, it spat out some of the water. Saliss of Lights floated downstream.
“…Water is wet.”
He made no effort to swim. Just floated downriver until someone found him. He felt sort of relaxed after all that.
 
—-
 
Some lived, some died. But the run of it, ah. Mihaela Godfrey was short of breath. She had dragged herself out of her bed, despite her broken legs. The Runner’s Guild of First Landing had reclaimed a fraction of its pride in the fight for the city.
…But the Couriers at the end had done almost all of it. Still, she looked at the Couriers and Runners in her Guild. Her voice rasped.
“You all saw it. You saw them. Her. No City Runner could have made that run. Not even a Courier alone. And no City Runner made that run. Did she?”
“No!”
The Couriers answered her. Mihaela nodded. You poor girl. Too much like Valceif for your own good. But it was done.
 
—-
 
Courier was just a word. It was an artificial ranking. It had meant more and less in other times. Just call them ‘Runner’. It could be a word, like Todi opined, for a profession. Or it could mean bravery, selflessness, something more than a job description.
A City Runner could do what a Courier could not. Deliver Izril’s pride unto itself. Yes, a City Runner, unseen, but brave and swift…
She jogged towards the distant manor. Hero? Well, if you wanted to call her that. The City Runner moved swiftly, confident, but watchful.
She could have arrived two hours earlier, but she’d stopped for a nap and to make herself properly presentable. Change of clothes, a wash, some subtle makeup…
It had rained like hell so she’d gotten out of that. No sense risking your neck to being impaled by a branch. The City Runner was tired, but triumphant. She had done it.
She hadn’t been near a scrying orb or civilization for the last two days since beginning her run. Even so, she’d dodged two [Assassins], had to actually fight to escape one. And a monster!
Still, it was wise to be humble. Legends grew in the retelling. The truth was she’d done her run properly.
In secret. After all, what kind of fool would have done an open run, especially with how much time it would take? She had made it fast, and the cure was secure in her bag of holding.
Persua knew this last stretch would be the most deadly. She…paused as she saw House Veltras was surrounded by an army of [Soldiers].
What was happening? Perhaps Lord Tyrion’s patience had snapped. Urgently, she ran for the keep—
“Halt! What is your business with House Veltras?”
Five squads converged on her. Persua threw up her arms, but with confidence as she halted.
“Let me through! And please—guard me to the keep! I have the cure for Lord Tyrion!”
The [Soldiers] stared at her. Persua reached for the vial, a dagger in her other hand. She waited for the Guild to make its attempt. But she’d fight through! She—
She looked at their incredulous faces. Which was…what you expected. Incredulity at the bravery of…but something was wrong. Persua faltered.
“The—the cure? I have it? Hello?”
 
—-
 
Events both insignificant and important. Too many to count. Fallout.
Erin Solstice sat in her inn at the end of it. No, not the end. She spoke to Mrsha, softly.
“She’ll be okay.”
Mrsha looked up at the [Innkeeper]. She hadn’t stopped crying. But Erin did what the others couldn’t. She clarified her words.
“Maybe not fine. But Ryoka won’t die. She’s too Ryoka for that. You know her.”
The Gnoll child hesitated. Something about that reassured her. Or gave her enough to stop crying. Erin Solstice rose, patting Mrsha.
“You need to sleep.”
Mrsha protested, but Lyonette gathered her into her arms. Erin herself yawned. She had not really rested. And oh, but it was over. Yet there would be more after this. There always was.
The Wandering Inn. The Wind Runner. Maviola El. Saliss of Lights.
Burn them into your memory.
“They won’t forget what you did here.”
For a moment, Erin thought it was Maviola speaking. But it was Olesm. The [Strategist] looked at her. He was waiting for news of Maviola. So was Erin. He feared the worst. To distract himself, he looked at Erin.
“You need to take precautions. No one will forget…this.”
He waved at the scrying mirror, recapping events again and again, getting perspectives. Like Menolit, speaking to Noass on the streets of Liscor.
I was there. I fought! Erin smiled briefly. Newsworthy. She looked back at Olesm and smiled a bit. Not with happiness. But resolve.
“That’s fine. Because I’ll do it again. Again, and again. Only next time—I’ll do it better. I’ll build a bigger inn. Find more people. Get stronger. Make sure no one has to die next time.”
He nodded slowly. Olesm looked at Erin, as so many tended to do now and then. Now and then.
“No one could have done that alone. Not Saliss, or Maviola, or Ryoka or…”
He gestured at her. Erin sighed. Why did everyone give her so much credit?
“And I didn’t do all of it. Not by a long shot! Who were those [Witches]? I didn’t ask the Couriers—The Wandering Inn isn’t capable of making miracles.”
He clearly didn’t agree with that. Erin paused. The [Innkeeper] went on, after a moment.
“…Alone. What I mean is…that wasn’t my run. I wasn’t Ryoka. But here—”
She looked around. At her guests, towards the future, and then back at Olesm. The [Innkeeper] pointed down at her feet.
“Here. The adventure begins here.”
