“I work better alone. I’ve been holding back because I didn’t want to harm you two. Keep going. I might not get their best. Okay? Good.”
He turned. Ryoka reached for him. Maviola rode between them. Saliss of Lights checked his belt. He looked over his shoulders—spun. Threw, like a baseball pitcher.
A glass orb blew apart some [Assassins] creeping up the road. They stopped again. The Named Adventurer nodded to the other two.
“Ladies. Shall we go?”
 
—-
 
The Drake walked forwards alone. The other two were behind him. Giving him distance. But they weren’t breaking right or left, or turning. The ranks of [Assassins] stirred.
Both of them had a trick left. But one would not save the three. And the other—wouldn’t have been enough.
An army. So the Named Adventurer walked onwards.
Naked. Grinning like a madman. His arms spread wide, as if they were at a party and he had just seen them and was going to make himself a nuisance.
The Mad Drake of Pallass. Saliss the Naked. That Insane [Alchemist]. Pallass’ Number One Nuisance.
Oh, they had many names for him. Some of them even hurtful.
Turnscale. One they did not know, but spoke. And it still hurt him more than his other titles. Hurt her.
Saliss beamed. He was relaxed, ready to move. Calculating velocities—preparing his order of potions. His mind was calm.
What had he told Klbkch the Slayer?
This body is a vessel. A cocoon, perhaps. And one day, I will be set free. 
Why do you hide your true form, girl?
You couldn’t go back after that. Some things changed the world forever. Saliss walked forwards. The [Alchemist] saw the Guild of Assassins, their imposing army, begin to shift.
Was he just going to walk at them? They had their weapons ready. An arrow of death from Rhir was nocked on her string. She stood in the back, amid the Ranks.
Yet the Drake just walked. Ryoka and Maviola were waiting. Saliss stopped. He looked at the army and raised one claw.
“Hi. Thanks for coming all the way out here. But the Runners you were actually seeking are on the other bridge.”
The [Assassins] stared at him silently. One actually looked the way Saliss was pointing. The Drake sighed. It was worth a shot.
He raised his voice as he resumed his walk. Arrows were drawn back. Crossbows leveled. But they were waiting. Listening, spellbound by audacity.
“You know, my old man once told me that the Humans were our enemies. But I’ve never fought them since coming back from Chandrar. I lost an uncle in battles with them. Yet Pallass never asked me to join in. And you know why? Because everyone was afraid I’d start the real war by killing them all at your cute little Bloodfields skirmish. Once, I even thought he was right. Imagine that.”
Saliss waited for laughter. But it was a tough crowd. He looked over his shoulder. That cute little Runner was staring at him. He smiled at her, marking her position. A vial slipped into his claw. Damn. Three for all of them. He nearly forgot the horse. His entire stock. One less weapon, then.
Okay. It was okay. The Drake looked at the [Assassins].
“I know you don’t know why I came north. Or made the cure. I cared and didn’t about those Human kids. I could say I wanted to win a victory. Do something right. But the truth is…I just really want to kill something. I have to be honest.”
The Drake flicked his wrists. The [Assassins] stirred—but the three vials hit Maviola, Ryoka, and the horse. They vanished.
[Invisibility]? Hah! The [Assassins] turned to their experts with [See Invisibility], [Heatsense], and…the senior Faces hesitated.
They were gone. Saliss of Lights bared his teeth.
[Greater Invisibility]. You low-level idiots. His only doses. A Named-Rank’s equipment. He really did need to shave Xif when he got back. It would have been so easy.
But here they were. The Drake spread his arms. And he had a potion in both claws. The [Assassins] were milling. Some barking orders.
“Find them! Comb each spot by hand if you have t—”
The first group of horses and riders vanished. The army wavered as Saliss advanced. The Drake was suddenly growing taller. Changing. He looked down on them all and they stared at a better, more experienced killer than any of them.
“I’m not going anywhere. And neither are you. I told you: I wanted to kill something. Now, tell me. Are you those things?”
For just a second, their morale looked like it might break. Then—the first hail of arrows flew. The first rank charged. Saliss threw vials. Not one from each claw, but a spray. Eight, clutched between both his claw’s fingers. Then eight again. Scattering them like a [Farmer] sowed seeds.
People vanished. Monsters died. Spells collided with bound magic and warped. The Drake spun.
Faster. He tracked where the other three were fleeing, running forwards. His scales were like iron. Chaldion was trying to protect him. The Drake felt something break the scales on his back.
No Minotaur-Drake hybrid this time. No Grimalkin-proxy. The [Assassins] looked up as a figure rose. From his back, one of the [Alchemist]’s tentacles, like an octopus, hurled a vial which bloomed into deadly gas.
“More hands.”
The Named Adventurer felt the first arrows bounce off his amphibian skin. Someone lanced his leg with a glowing blade. He aimed at nothing and no one. He just scattered his potions to the winds and destroyed everything around him. Couldn’t do that with the two Humans, could you?
They came for his life. Attacking the figure made of flesh and bone as if it mattered. They drew blood, cut and burned and stabbed. But so what?
It was just Saliss.
 
—-
 
The Drake was fighting. Ryoka ran, deafened by the explosions. Invisible, thanks to his gift.
Maviola rode ahead, but Ryoka kept looking back.
They were killing him. Too many arrows, too many Skills and spells. For every potion he threw, there were a dozen counterattacks.
He stood in the center of their army and destroyed them. But he had overplayed his power from the start. Killed too many.
They were prepared.
“[Resist Element: Acid]. [Flame Salamander’s Skin]! Potion of Lightning’s Bane! Go, go!”
One of the [Assassin] groups was protecting themselves as Ryoka ran past them. The wind was howling, but the [Alchemist] was changing both the landscape and weather, unleashing bound lightning and fire. Yet the figures leapt through the blaze.
Acid, lightning, fire—some were tangled in webs. Others ran into poison. But too many fought past it, even if they would die soon, to plant a blade on him. Mark him.
A hundred feet. Two hundred. Ryoka was running underwater, held down by chains. If they made it far enough, Saliss could run. But with every step, the Drake bled.
An [Archer] was taking slow aim. Saliss’ head turned. He had to see it.
The glowing relic of the Blighted Kingdom, stolen or bought. A weapon meant to kill the Deathless of the Demon King. Ryoka felt her body weakening around it. Maviola clutched at her heart.
The Face saw them. Perhaps with the arrow, even the potion weakened. For a moment the bow swung—but then she looked back towards the Drake.
Saliss. The [Alchemist] was advancing. A soldier of Pallass. Their greatest adventurer.
“Well? Come on! Show me what Izril fears! Show me, Humans!”
His voice was distorted by the shape changing potions. His body twisted again—into the Scaled Minotaur’s form, healing some of the wounds. He stumbled.
Saliss! But she could not scream it out loud. Maviola was racing ahead. Ryoka looked back as the Drake was borne down by a mass of bodies.
A bloom of fire that scorched himself. The [Alchemist] screamed as even his scales were set alight by the liquid fire that refused to go out. He blew acid that scorched his own scales as one of the Faces reflected the liquid with a Skill.
But he was laughing. The [Archer] lifted her bow, and Saliss looked past her. At Ryoka, perhaps. His lips moved. He was speaking to her.
“So slow. Finally. Finally—what took you?”
That was what he seemed to be saying to her. The Wind Runner saw Saliss’ claw moving, slowly. The [Archer] took aim at his chest. She looked back as she kept running and realized what he meant.
At last, you slow little Runner. You brave kid. At last—
You’re out of range.
Six hundred feet, past the army. Over the bridge, now. Ryoka saw the [Alchemist] turn out the precious belt from which he’d drawn his arsenal. Spent now, so much gold.
But look what I had left. The first rank of [Assassins] stared at the pile of bottles, vials, tinctures, draughts, in every shape and size. Glass orbs, long tubes, jars like the ones Erin used, metal containers or enchanted materials to contain what lay within.
Everything. The [Archer] with the Deathslayer Arrow hesitated. She looked at the Named Adventurer. Then she lowered the relic and turned.
“No—”
The Ranks saw the Faces backing up. Too slow. They turned to flee, and the army of [Assassins] looked at the laughing Drake. Their courage left them.
He was as mad as they were. 
Shadowed figures leapt away. Running. Too late. Ryoka and Maviola looked back. The [Lady] was dragging at Ryoka as the Wind Runner screamed, ignoring the invisibility spell. The Drake was looking at Ryoka, shaking his head.
He spread his arms wide, posing for a moment. A thousand feet away now—more—Saliss of Lights opened one vial. It sparked. He poured the substance out. One second. The liquid tumbled through the air. Towards the ground.
Reaction. Alchemy was all about reactions. Science now—that was different. What would happen when the explosive liquid ignited all his potions? Potions meant to heal, to harm—hundreds, all at once?
Even he didn’t know.
Saliss looked up at Ryoka. She saw him relax. In the moment as the crimson-gold liquid splashed downwards, she saw him smile. Wave.
She tried to hang on, turn and run. But she had no [Immortal Moment]. Saliss closed his eyes.
“I never told you, did I? My real name…”
The liquid struck the ground. The Drake’s eyes opened. There he stood, as the Guild of Assassins fled his ire.
Saliss of Lights.
A whisper floated to Ryoka on the breeze. The Drake’s voice, borne somehow, just for her.
“…I’ll tell you some other time. [Disable Friendly Fire].”
Ryoka’s eyes went round. She saw the Drake wink. He’d said it, hadn’t he?
A Level 50 Sk—
 
—-
 
The world behind me—vanishes. I see a thousand explosions joining into one wall of sound and light. Amid it all is a laughing Drake, tearing the sky apart. Maviola is laughing wildly too; I can see her. And…so am I?
The army vanishes. The impact kicks me into the air. Maviola too. And the horse. Even at this range—
“Saliss!”
They’re all screaming. Through the scrying orb. Erin, everyone else. I just know it. I land—and I’m still laughing, even without breath.
The cloud of alchemical explosions is going off even as I rise.
“Ride! Ride!”
Maviola El is laughing. Somehow—she heard it too. That mad Drake. That cunning—
We run. And I know he’s alive. Until he’s not. He’ll live. And so will I. Right up until the moment…
And then there were two of us left.
 
—-
 
The Guild of Assassins was broken. Ferin dismounted from the Unmarked Coach. He stared in shock.
The geography had changed. He dared not even get close to the place where the [Alchemist]’s detonation had gone off.
“…They’re dead. Not one got out.”
Mire stared back the way they’d come.
“The [Alchemist]?”
“Has to be dead. No sign. We can’t even investigate.”
“Kill the other two, then. One of them has the cure. Summon the last of the Ranks.”
The Faces looked at each other. Their confidence was gone. Shaken beyond belief. And yet—they still did not say anything else.
All or nothing. They’d invested too much into this gambit. For the first time though—Ferin did not know if there would be a future after this, either way.
So, then. All the more reason. He drew a loop of wire out, grimly. No longer for pride. Not just for their reputation. Now—they went for vengeance.
Death, death, death.
 
—-
 
Saliss of Lights was gone. Possibly dead. The silence that had descended on Pallass’ broadcast was a mortal thing. Fragile, uncertain.
Perhaps he lived. Either way—his part in the delivery now consuming the world’s oft-fleeting attention was over.
He had broken the back of the Guild. But they were a multi-headed thing. They had long served Izril as tools.
Tools…of the nobility, frankly. Clandestine operatives a [Lord] or [Lady] could pay to threaten a [Merchant]. Sometimes equalizers the other way, but the shameful truth was that before Magnolia Reinhart had tried to take their teeth, they had been a way for the Flowers of Izril to cull dissent whilst denying what they were doing.
Now—the Guild had been ravaged as they overstretched. But they were made of their killers.
The Faces remained.
They killed Maviola’s horse.
The enchanted dagger flew like the arrow of death from Rhir that had never been used, borne by Skills and magic despite the distance between Ryoka and Maviola and the Faces. It sang through the air, death for the Lady of House El.
It missed. The flying dagger had curved and taken the brave mare down.
After all it had raced through, after so long—dead. The mare fell without a scream, and Maviola cried out for it, falling. She was on her feet in a moment. Running. She looked back only once, for the brave creature.
How? The answer lay on the mare’s back.
Gresaria Wellfar murmured as she watched her old nemesis, her friend.
“It had a Companion’s Saddle. Lady Ieka’s. That damned horse thief must have chosen it for that. She’s stolen more horses over her life…mine included.”
Horse before rider. Another cruelty born out of necessity. Like a [Captain] that sacrificed his ship at sea. It should not happen except for when there was no other choice.
Onwards, then, on foot. Maviola ran, Ryoka urging her on. But they were slowing. Saliss had given them his Potions of Haste so they could use them by themselves and they had stamina potions of their own.
But the Faces were fresh and fast. The lead was shrinking. Even as unseen rulers and leaders swatted down some of the longest-range attacks. Another bolt of magic appeared, but an [Assassin] cut it in half with his sword, weathering the detonation and arcing electricity with no more than a wince.
It burned Gresaria to see that, like one of Maviola’s flames of memory. The world was shaming the Humans of Izril! Even now, the Five Families and Izril cowered while the King of Destruction and fools from afar had more bravery!
Some had been brave, like Gralton Radivaek. But Invrisil had been filled with few Humans and more outsiders. Drakes had fought to do the right thing.
“A disgrace.”
