[Riders]. People in those unmarked carriages. Erin’s hands tightened. The Guild was coming after the three. [Assassins] were firing crossbows, shooting spells back, but Saliss was keeping them all back by the sheer firepower the Drake was laying out. Anything that tried to get closer than four hundred feet was almost instantly blown apart.
But he didn’t have unlimited potions. Erin’s hands clenched.
“Can nothing be done?”
Pawn was standing with Lyonette. He was praying, but he was looking around. Lyonette was mumbling.
“I tried to give her my—”
Erin stepped forwards. She put her hand on the mirror.
“Hey! Stop blocking the screen!”
Someone shouted. Mrsha ran over to punch whoever it was. Erin ignored them. She looked at Ryoka, tossing the spent wand and grabbing another one.
“[Boon of the Guest].”
The other guests turned. Montressa jerked upright. Lyonette swung around.
“Erin…?”
Ryoka kept running. Erin saw her stumble, point—an [Assassin] was blown off her horse by a sudden jet of wind. Ryoka ran ahead, pumping her arms and legs—
Erin didn’t see anything different. She shook her head. She hadn’t felt the sense she got with Skills, either, like when she threw a [Minotaur Punch].
“I must be too far away. Or there’s something—”
“That’s a new Skill.”
“Yeah.”
The [Innkeeper] didn’t even look at Lyonette. She clenched her fists. She felt helpless. And everyone here—she looked around.
Palt, Montressa, Bezale, Ulinde and Jelaqua, who had changed bodies—Fierre, who had reappeared after being buried by rubble, staring at her friend, leaving only Salamani missing—Menolit, Pawn, Yellow Splatters, Xrn, Olesm, Grimalkin—
“If they were in the south, the Walled Cities could do more. Long-range casting—Fissival is out of range. Spells have their limits. So do Skills—unless there’s a connection.”
The [Sinew Magus] was conferring with the others. Erin saw, with a slight shock, he was talking with a man she knew. A new guest of the inn. But a friend, almost certainly.
Earl Altestiel nodded.
“My storm skill only extends to, well, a hundred miles around me at the furthest I could ‘throw it’. And they would have to be in my army for my Skills or those of my [Strategists]. A hundred miles. I never thought that would be too short range.”
“What about the door? Could we overcharge the enchantment? We have more mana—”
“You cannot simply overcharge a spell. You are talking about the limitation of the bindings, not a lack of mana.”
Hedault interrupted Selys. The Drake looked around helplessly.
“Well, we have to do something! Let’s go raid Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion—see if she has a spare carriage!”
“She took it. Even if someone could shapeshift into a bird—they wouldn’t catch up in time to help. Hope they run into Vail Forest, little land friend, Mrsha. There is a Circle there.”
Nalthaliarstrelous. Even he was here. Erin saw a Gold-rank team talking with Todi’s Elites. Jewel, a Gold-rank Captain who had joined the fighting in Invrisil—
People had helped fight the [Assassins] that even Erin hadn’t seen. People she hadn’t asked. The [Druid] had crushed an entire part of the city by himself. So many, here for the same reason.
Watching. Lord Alman Sanito and his wife stared at Numbtongue, who was whispering with Badarrow. They had come to bury Lord Toldos.
“…how many? Big? Can they fly…?”
“Too slow. Fat, heavy. Good for carrying—not good catching.”
The [Bard] looked up. Erin’s head turned. So many people here. All feeling what she was feeling.
What Izril was feeling. Look at her. Maviola’s banner was aflame again. Kaalblade in her hand, banner in the other.
“That’s a lightsaber, isn’t it? Not as cool, but—she never told us. Think I can buy one?”
Kevin muttered to Rose. She made no reply. She, like the rest, was watching. Helpless. But they wanted to help. Erin tightened her grip.
It was enough. She had not called an army to Izril unbidden. Lord Toldos had not died alone. Poor Redit, Teor—
They had not fought for her alone. It was too much.
This could not continue any longer. That was what Izril felt, surely. Erin only wished—she looked up as the luck began to run out.
 
—-
 
It was inevitable. Saliss was a Named Adventurer. But he had a limit on his potions. They were moving fast, high-level, burning artifacts. But you couldn’t expect to run through a gunfight without being shot. Let alone so many encounters.
The first arrow struck Maviola in the shoulder. She cried out. And a second one hit her in the back.
Long-range shots. They didn’t go through. She yanked them out, grabbing for a potion.
“Poison.”
“Damn. Drink this!”
Saliss flipped a potion at her. A glowing cure-all. Maviola drank it, coughed—Ryoka saw some of the color return. Then a healing potion.
“[Volley: Venom Flight]!”
“Get out of range!”
Saliss threw a potion up. It blew most of the arrows apart, but more were landing. The [Assassins] had mobilized and they were using Skills.
They weren’t idiots. They were attacking further than Saliss or the other two could easily hit them. Crossbows, bows—Ryoka saw a flicker.
A [Longbow Assassin] forced the coach to stop as he drew an arrow. He was aiming at her. She blew at him and the wind rocked the coach. But too far away for her to control. He checked himself—loosed—
“[Forceshield]—”
The scroll in her hand glowed. Ryoka saw the barrier appear. The arrow blew through it. [Piercing Arrow], [Longrange Shot], and—
Someone tossed a vial on her. Ryoka jerked—
The arrow struck her in the chest. The spinning tip dug into her flesh, lodged—Ryoka yanked the arrow out. Stared at it. Then she whirled.
Saliss lowered the vial as Maviola pulled herself upright.
“[Alchemy: Shortened Span] for [Doubled Efficacy]. I’m out of defensive toughening potions. No more [Ironscales], [Barkskin]—I knew I should have kept some instead of selling them all at once.”
“Ride.”
Maviola gasped. The [Longbow Assassin] was reloading. Ryoka ran.
“I’m sorry.”
He’d wasted his supply of potions on her and Maviola. Alone, the Drake wouldn’t have burned through his stash.
“Nah. I was already low. Just don’t get hit. The potion’s already worn off.”
It was true. And the [Archers]…Ryoka gritted her teeth.
“Blow, wind! Please!”
She emptied her bag of holding. The group of archers looked ahead and saw the three vanish for a second. A cloud of dirt and sand and caltrops shot at them. Horses and the unguarded figures screamed as the whirlwind engulfed them.
“Let’s go!”
Ryoka pointed ahead. All of her tricks, all of the other’s…this wasn’t a sprint, or a covert run.
It was a marathon. And the trouble with marathons was that you got tired. You had to manage your strength for the entire run. If they stumbled at any point in this run—
Maviola El looked at the cloud of dust. She snapped her fingers. Ryoka saw a jet of red fire, bright red, unnaturally—
Thump. The detonation was a dust-cloud explosion. It didn’t kill all the [Assassins], but—Ryoka looked at Maviola as they ran.
Together, they were stronger than the parts. Well—perhaps Saliss was better on his own. But she wasn’t useless!
“Lake! Around or over? Saliss?”
Maviola pointed ahead. Past the open grassland by the forest was a lake. They were avoiding the road which the [Assassins] were flooding down. The [Alchemist] didn’t hesitate.
“Around! You idiots don’t know how to [Waterwalk] even if I splash you!”
“That’s something you have to practice too?”
Ryoka shouted. The milling archery group was stymied behind them and she had a moment of relief. Another encounter down. How many more to go?
“Of course! You think you can just walk on water? It’s slippery when wet! And it’s always—”
“To the right. They’ve flanked us.”
Maviola’s voice stopped Saliss and Ryoka. They turned. A group had emerged from the lake they were moving around.
They hadn’t walked on water. They had disguised themselves, hiding under the surface to bait the three into passing close by. Now—they shook water from themselves, took aim.
“Ah. Get behind m—”
Saliss was reaching for a tonic. Ryoka heard the twang.
 
—-
 
The second flight of bolts hit the Drake for the first time. He’d thrown himself in front of the young woman.
“He’s immune to poisons! Saliss of Lights is not downed—he’s on his feet! Running—but—”
Sir Relz’s voice faltered. Cara saw the young Human woman yanking him up, onto the back of the [Lady]’s horse as the Drake yanked the arrows out of his scales. The horse slowed, and the Wind Runner pointed back. The wind blew the second volley off-target. She rode—the metal-and-wood vehicle’s wheels flashing.
“That’s a bike.”
The Singer of Terandria looked at Ryoka Griffin from her trailer in distant Terandria. She felt like she hadn’t blinked or looked away from the orb since being roused by an urgent [Message] from Wistram.
She hadn’t said that. One of the others in the room, the silent audience of Earthers, had muttered that. Cara didn’t need to say ‘that was a bike’. She had eyes. But she thought—
That’s ‘batman’?
She had never talked to the person that Aaron, Blackmage, had referenced in their chats. Like Cara—the other had learned to distrust Wistram’s involvement. But there she was, apparently. There was some trust, something between her and Aaron. The Singer of Terandria saw her fighting.
Brave. Stupid. Some mix of the two, or something else.
“They’re in trouble. They’re out of buffs.”
“Shut up, Greg. This isn’t a game.”
Thien rounded on the guitarist. Cara said nothing. So—this was the Wind Runner of Reizmelt? It was a good post for someone from Earth. And this was where she was.
“Add her to the list, Abebi.”
“Is she going to make it? They’re being attacked—”
Rae looked worriedly at the image. Cara had a moment’s thought. Any Earther who saw this—would know Ryoka Griffin’s name. Even more than they knew the Singer. A bike. She had to be desperate.
Well. Cara had thought that Ryoka—‘batman’—was a secretive, even paranoid sort. But then, it fit the description of a crazy person who ran around in a bat-costume punching people.
“Turn that off, Abebi. The rest of you—with me.”
Cara sighed. The others looked at her.
“Cara! You’re not going to watch?”
“Watching does nothing. Thien, get your drums. Greg, guitar. Everyone, get set up.”
The band looked at Cara. It was night! Not that they couldn’t conjure an audience; the crowds followed them everywhere. But…Abebi looked at Cara.
“What’s up, Cara?”
The [Popstar] walked outside.
“Hey! Set up the stage! Hurry!”
She bellowed, and the caravan woke up. The [Singer] looked around. Makeup, dress—
“What are you going to do, Cara?”
Some of them were uncomprehending. But some of them who’d been with her looked up sharply. Cara focused on the orb in Abebi’s hands. She let one of the [Clothiers] present her with a selection of outfits.
“That one. Hurry up. Just cover any mistakes. And—let me think.”
“Song?”
Thien looked at her sharply. Rae was still uncomprehending. Cara bit her lip.
“Something action-packed. Just find one. It’s not the song that matters. I’m trying to…if I were closer, I could summon aid. But…”
“You’re going to sing? But Cara, they’re a continent away! Even the [Strategists] were saying—”
Cara looked at Rae. She snorted.
“There’s nowhere my voice can’t reach. Tell Aaron I need a favor.”
 
—-
 
Someone started playing a song out of the scrying orb. Ryoka saw Saliss twist.
“Ancestor’s tails, what—”
 
—-
 
The Singer of Terandria appeared on the screen, in a corner of the broadcast. Erin nearly broke the glass.
“What? What? This isn’t the time for—”
“This one goes out to the Wind Runner of Reizmelt, the [Alchemist] of Pallass, Lady El and whoever believes in doing the right thing!”
The Popstar of Terandria began to sing. Erin’s jaw dropped. She saw Drassi and Sir Relz reacting, asking furious questions—no one had told them either! But then—
 
—-
 
Ryoka sped up. She felt her body, shaking with nervous adrenaline and the potions, relax. Something like actual rest replaced the magic and alchemy. Maviola’s flagging mare perked her head up and snorted.
“What the—”
“That’s a [Singer]’s Skills.”
Saliss looked at the orb. Then he grinned. The [Assassins] behind them were covering their ears. Ryoka heard a pop song—was it that loud and objectionable?
 
—-
 
[Banshee’s Voice]. [Melody of Speed]. [Song of Rejuvenation]—
Cara sang.
 
—-
 
“Let’s go!”
Saliss leapt off Maviola’s back. They were coming down the road, the three forced back. He raised a potion and lobbed it ahead of him.
“Damn, I need to ration these—”
The Potion of Firespark Blast flew through the air. Ryoka saw it flying ahead as the group of oncoming [Riders] split into two. They knew how to dodge the [Alchemist] by now. The potion curved, trying to tag the left group—but too slowly.
Then it split in midair. Two potions landed. Ryoka flinched as two fiery explosions laced with sparks obliterated the leftmost group. The other group of [Assassins] instantly peeled back.
“What the—”
She stared at Saliss. He could duplicate his potions? The Drake was staring at his own throw with wide eyes. Then he looked up.
“The Old Man.”
She didn’t know what he meant at first. Saliss strode forwards. Suddenly—he was lobbing potions fast. They split in midair, curving with unnatural speed. And he was moving like—
 
—-
 
“[Army: Duplicate Projectiles]. [Path to Victory]. [Battalion: Arcs of the Swallow].”
Chaldion of Pallass’ eye glowed. He sat in the war room, alone. He had dismissed the lesser [Strategists], the [Generals].
His Skill did not affect the other two. One was a [Lady]. The other…an entry on Grimalkin’s lists. But the last was his family.
Saliss. And he would not die here. The [Strategist] was watching the projection. The [Singer]’s voice, which was like a shriek to the [Assassins], was aiding the three. Her voice could reach around the world so long as there was Wistram to send it.
Clever. Was it enough? Chaldion was using an hourglass, managing his Skills. Saliss had taken advantage of the increase in his already nigh-unstoppable firepower. The [Assassins] had backed off.
But those arrows. Chaldion had a few Skills that would protect Saliss, but the Named Adventurer had dodged almost everything. The ones who needed it were—
 
—-
 
Arrows. They were landing around her. Ryoka felt a pressure on her head! No—it was squeezing her. Maviola was suffering from the same.
“Long-range hexes!”
