House Terland’s golem upon the lighthouse flashed. A beam of light vaporized one of the figures from miles away.
“Summon the armies. Root them out of every city!”
Five Houses were demanding the same thing. And they died.
They did die. [Sailors], [Captains], some of the nobility, going down in the street with arrows or spells tearing at them. [Assassins] leaping into noble houses, trying to reassert the terror.
Too late. Gresaria had tipped the scales already set swaying by Maviola.
No more. The Guild unleashed their spells, tearing apart their foes. They had prepared for this kind of day for centuries. They would not fall to the soft Flowers of Izril. Not without reaping—
A humming sound broke even the battle’s sounds. Men and women looked up, back towards the harbor.
Regein Wellfar stood on the Pride of the Wellfar, the greatest ship of Izril. His rheumy eyes were clear. His body shook, but he had left the bed where he had been confined, lost in memory and time.
“Obliterate them.”
He had a keyspell in his hands. The old [Lord] twisted it. He saw arrows twisting towards him, seeking his life. Too late, though.
The great ship of House Wellfar unleashed its stored magic. The Guild of Assassins, a building concealed by spells and Skills—appeared for the first time.
Ancient, dark stone shuddered. [Assassins] hunkered inside the killing zones looked up.
For a second—the Guild held.
The first spell was blocked. But they were falling out of the sky. Meteors of light. And then—the great capital ship launched a volley of light. Ten thousand magical arrows and a spell that split the skies. A beam of light pierced the defenses of the Guild of Assassins.
It exploded into a shower of debris, raining down. The figures on the ground looked back—and then ahead. The harbor swarmed with [Sailors] and crew. They gave no quarter.
A dozen of the Flowers of Izril lay dead as the Guild in First Landing was obliterated. Among them, Gresaria and Regein Wellfar. Say it again, as the Five Families’ wrath finally, finally came to bear.
Enough.
 
—-
 
Maviola El’s head turned blindly as they ran. For a moment, stumbling, running, she whispered.
“Gresaria?”
Her heart. Her pulse, thudding in her veins. Blood, iron in her mouth. Her heart—
Breaking. Who had ever said miracles were easy to make possible? Ryoka ran ahead of Maviola. She turned.
“Hurry! Maviola—”
The [Lady] just wasn’t as fast as her, potions or not. Maviola forced herself to run faster, trying to copy Ryoka’s stride. Behind them—Saliss’ detonation still hung in the air. A cloud visible, alchemical fumes creating something no one could predict as it settled upon the land and creatures.
Of such things new species might be born, or naught but desolation. But right now—
A carriage thundered after them. Another damned one! How many were there? This one looked—stolen. Not the Guild’s signature color. Just some poor traveller—killed so the [Assassins] could catch up.
An arrow flew; Ryoka called the wind and it snapped in the air. She tried to blow the coach off-target, but it was too heavy. Maviola turned.
Kaalblade. She was aiming for the wheels. The driver was trying to run her over.
“Maviola, dodge!”
Ryoka grabbed for a wand. She saw a flash from behind her and threw herself sideways. Another carriage! No, no—and the Faces were closing—
“Stay low! [Impact Reflection]!”
The [Driver] bellowed. Ryoka saw Maviola’s eyes widen as the [Assassin]’s carriage turned, desperately.
Too late. The second carriage smashed into the first, but all the force of the impact was thrown back—Ryoka saw the [Assassin]’s vehicle crumple, figures, wood—pulped and thrown like toys.
“Lords of Flame!”
Maviola El shouted. She whirled, glowing weapon in hand. But the carriage was turning.
“Wind Runner, Lady El! Heard you needed a ride!”
The [Driver] bellowed. Ryoka looked up.
Termin?
No. She had no idea who the woman was. She stared for a second, aiming her wand uncertainly.
“Who are—?”
“Overnight Carriages, Miss! You getting in or what?”
Ryoka looked at Maviola. The [Lady] was laughing. And weeping for her friend. She grabbed the opened doors, swung herself up.
“Go! To House Veltras!”
The Wind Runner leapt as the [Driver] urged the carriage into motion. She climbed on.
“But why?”
 
—-
 
Because they were watching. Because Gresaria Wellfar had helped light the spark. Because—they were tired too.
Any reason you wanted. They all counted. The Faces saw the carriage departing, moving with frantic speed.
“[Shatterbolt]!”
Frustrated, the [Mage] among them loosed a spell at the carriage’s back. The spell blasted through the wood, but only ripped the back open of the carriage. Ferin saw a familiar face.
“Who is that? The overnight carriage service? We’ll kill every damn one of them!”
“And who’ll take us to our jobs? They’re all turning against us!”
Mire looked around. No one answered. A [Fireball] came shooting out of the carriage’s back. The Faces dodged it, and pursued.
Falling apart. They felt helpless, and they were the Faces of the Guild of Assassins! They could not stop the fire engulfing Izril, even as desperate [Messages] told them to come back, guard the Guild’s assets—
The headquarters in First Landing was gone. Their gold, gone! Artifacts, new recruits—
All they could do was kill. So they tried to do just that, with impotent rage. If they wanted to be heroes—
“[Seeking Arrow]. [Blink Shaft].”
An [Archer] loosed an arrow. It curved up and then down—flickered through the roof of the carriage. The [Driver] died.
“No!”
The Runner cried out. The [Lady] just seized the reigns, severed them, and leapt onto one of the horse’s backs.
“Shoot the horses you idiot! On them!”
The [Blademaster] surged forwards in a charge. Ferin felt someone trying to slow him from a great distance. He snarled, fighting off the hand of some distant figure. Mire was gasping for air.
“What—what—”
She fell to her knees. Two more Faces slowed. One was shouting, insects suddenly swarming over him. The other for no apparent reason.
“…Shitblood.”
They were target-practice for long-ranged Skills and spells! This wasn’t how the Guild fought! Damn the Circle! Damn this contract!
The [Blademaster]’s sword was angling, prepared to slash the air as Ryoka and Maviola fled.
 
—-
 
Wind cutting! Ryoka felt the blade of air slashing towards them. She whirled.
“Stop!”
The scythe of air exploded as the wind obeyed. The [Blademaster Assassin] stared at her. Then he growled and slashed again.
“They’re Faces.”
“I know. I’ll—”
Maviola was turning as she rode the second stallion. Ryoka raced after her, ducking—the deadly arc of air flashed over her head and then dissipated fifty paces ahead of her. The wrong Skill to use on her.
But the others—
“Kill these [Assassins]!”
A howl. The Faces reacted at the same time as Maviola and Ryoka. Where—not from behind, or ahead.
Above? Ryoka saw someone drop out of the skies.
A figure on a flying carpet. Ryoka’s eyes went wide. Fear seized her. No, not them! Not—
A [Lord] flung down an object which detonated, and then a second which conjured a furious Manticore. The Faces cursed as the rider—Ryoka saw his sharp beard, flashing, imperious eyes, darker skin—
She blinked. She saw him. Then—the second carpet. And third. Guards, and a second [Lord], assailing the [Assassins] from above.
Reinforcements. The Houses of Izril. She heard a voice.
“Brother, wait—”
The first [Lord] ignored the younger man. He raised his blade, hacking at an [Assassin].
“The House of Zolde stands with the House of El and Veltras! With me, Siroi!”
The Lord of House Zolde, who had recently benefitted from a Courier himself, attacked the [Assassins] with more courage than sense, followed by the small band of his house’s guards into battle. They nearly killed him in the first moment—but his brother swooped down and deflected a blade meant for his older sibling. He actually cut the [Assassin] in a whirl of blades and the Faces split.
“Ignore them! Get those two!”
One of them ordered. White-haired behind his mask…he met Ryoka’s eyes.
A rider on a carpet. Ryoka spared one more look. The older [Lord] fought, flying upwards as the Faces redirected their wrath on him and his escort.
His younger brother was the better fighter. He looked at Ryoka—then spun, scimitar flashing. Another moment. Minutes paid for in blood. Ryoka and Maviola ran onwards.
 
—-
 
House Zolde was forced to retreat after only three minutes. But that widened the lead between the two desperate people and the Faces too much. Ferin cursed as he saw the older brother spirited away, face white as one of his household guards steered the carpet.
Mire had poisoned him. He might live—but the younger brother had prevented the Faces from wiping the entire group out.
“Madness. Move on. Strike them. How many Ranks have we left?”
“They’re coming from ahead. The last of them…damned worthless bodies.”
One of the Faces spat. He was nursing a cut, healing it. They were going to level; these fights were taxing them, unlike Magnolia Reinhart’s ambush.
“Move out! Use a movement Skill—[Haste] us again—”
Ferin pointed at one of the [Assassins]. Only for one of the Faces to step out of the formation.
“I’m out.”
The other Faces turned to him. Half raised their blades at once.
“Treachery.”
He wasn’t one of the…non-recruits. A volunteer, if a Face. The [Assassin] adjusted his hood. He wore no mask. His eyes were red and he looked straight at Ferin, then ahead.
“I can’t do it. I have a favor to fulfill.”
“This is betrayal. The Guild—”
“Try and kill me, then. But you’ll lose your prey.”
The [Assassin] snapped. The others looked at each other. With a curse, they abandoned their comrade. They‘d settle it later. But they were being shaken.
 
—-
 
They caught up again. Ryoka looked back, in despair. Less than an hour and she was running at top speed.
Layering Skills and spells. Fourteen of them. Dead gods.
“Ahead.”
Maviola mumbled. She looked ahead—and Ryoka saw more shapes waiting on horseback.
Ranks. How many more? Probably every one they could spare. Less than eighty, though. The Guild was running out. Yet each one had a horse. And they were blocking the way.
“This…”
Maviola El slowed. She lifted the Kaalblade and met Ryoka’s eyes. The Wind Runner shook her head.
“No. Not—”
“Before the end. You have a way to escape, don’t you?”
“Maybe. But not—”
Not this. The Faces, Maviola—Ryoka saw the [Lady] steel herself.
“I wish I had a Potion of Invisibility to give you. Just run.”
“Take the Wind Runner first.”
A shout from behind. Ryoka saw Maviola curse. Ryoka saw the riders galloping at her. She reached for a scroll.
“Not y—”
[Lesser Teleport]. They winked out of existence. The [Assassins] whirled—Ryoka and Maviola landed past their lines. They began to run, disoriented. The riders turned their horses.
“Have you more?”
No more scrolls! Ryoka reached for potions, a wand—any of the gear she’d had in such profusion. She was almost out of everything. Except her secret weapon, and Maviola could not come with her. She looked over her shoulder.
Someone blew a horn. Ryoka’s head snapped up.
“Another group?”
Maviola El’s eyes flashed with exasperated horror. Ryoka looked ahead.
“No. No! Run!”
She urged Maviola onwards. The [Lady] was uncomprehending, but Ryoka had spied something she hadn’t. The [Lady] looked forwards. And then she saw it.
A flash of…pink. Riding towards them. The [Assassins] slowed. What was this now? They saw dozens upon dozens of figures. All mounted, like them. But not reinforcements for their side. They were—
 
—-
 
“[Knights]. Which Order is that?”
Calirn did not know the almost egregiously pink mail and armor. The Fall’s Sentinel murmured.
“The Knights of the Petal.”
Lady Bethal Walchaís’ personal, elite Order. But not just hers. Calirn saw a Knight of the Clairei Fields. Their coat of arms, wheat like swords, their chest plates bright green and sapphire blue.
He saw two [Knights] bearing colors and sigils unique to them. [Knights], advancing in a long line. Calirn drew his sword as the Order of Seasons cheered their brethren on.
 
—-
 
They had ridden far from Walchaís’ lands. And they were here at their [Lady]’s bidding. The Rose Knights of Izril halted. One of them rode forwards. She nodded as Ryoka and Maviola ran past them. The [Assassins] were slowing; only the Faces continued onwards, joining their ranks and cursing the lesser [Assassins] to move forwards.
Dame Truvia would have sent some with the others, but there was no time. She lifted her sword. Calling to the ranks of Izril’s warriors.
“Advance at a trot.”
They did. Lances lowered. [Knights] secured visors, lifted shields. The Guild of Assassins once again wavered. This was an open field. This was not how they fought.
“Canter!”
The bellow made the horses pick up speed. Truvia felt her heartbeat roaring in her ears.
“Gallop! [Knights] of Izril! Honor your vows this day!”
The Faces snarled. The [Assassins] began to break up, trying to circle, draw the [Knights] into terrain that favored them. Their quarry was getting away.
“Charge! Charge, for the Five Families and the honor of Izril!”
What a glorious sight. The rank of steel met shadows. The first [Assassins] were obliterated by the charge. Taken to pieces by lances, blades—their weapons and poison failing on armor. Truvia laughed. She spun her sword up.
 
—-
 
Ferin beheaded her. The mithril loop took off the [Knight]’s head. It snapped—and cut through enchanted armor. Three other [Knights] went down. A Knight of the Clairei Fields ran into his wires at full tilt and the Skill-enhanced threads tore him to pieces.
“Kill them all!”
The [Trapmaster Assassin] had lost his temper. He threw the deadly wires, dragging another [Knight] off the horse.
Minotaur-form. Mire brought one down, ignoring the blow to her chest. The [Blademaster] had brought down two in combat. Lightning boomed.
The Faces punched through the line of [Knights]. Enough. They had nearly slain Magnolia Reinhart! They had humbled Tyrion Veltras. The Ranks died.
“Secure our backs.”
The throwing expert unleashed a barrage of projectiles that fouled the [Knights] as they tried to return the charge. Sir Kerrig, bellowing, restored order.
Eight Faces and thirty Ranks burst past the [Knights]. The rest were dead or fighting, holding off the armored warriors.
 
—-
 
Still, they ran. They were approaching the two thirds mark of their journey. But look how much they had sacrificed to get there. And—a third left?
