The Harbormistress of First Landing would have jumped on her chariot and ridden herself with her guards to battle. But—she was in First Landing. Even if she had a week, she might miss the desperate chase.
She felt old, watching Maviola run, as young as she had been a lifetime ago. Gresaria also understood why Izril had lain silent for so long, why they still teetered on the edge. Let the King of Destruction weigh in, other, distant rulers.
…They were not in danger. Gresaria understood that well enough. Bravery from a distant armchair was not bravery at all. Those who stood up here would fight the Guild at their most desperate.
Death. Maviola had stirred the will of the Five Families. But like always, she was a flighty rush, all hot air, sometimes lacking substance. The [Harbormistress] leaned on her desk, in her office in the harbor of the greatest city of the north.
“All fire and no dignity. That’s Maviola. You need to give them a push along with the speech. Idiot.”
She spoke almost fondly to Maviola. Slowly, Gresaria rose. She used the spear she carried like a walking staff. She left the office, and stepped into the light.
The harbor of First Landing was a grand place. Hundreds of ships could dock at once. The city was more fortified than any but a Walled City, especially after the Goblin King’s ravages.
The ancient seat of power for the Five Families. Even now—most of their people lived to the north, where they had first settled. Invrisil was a newer bed of power for those like Magnolia.
Gresaria blinked in the light. How long had she been [Harbormistress]? After winning Regein from Maviola—after settling down from being a young [Lady], always galloping around, causing trouble, her position as a member of House Wellfar—however distant—had meant she obtained the job.
True, she had Skills to match. But no [Harbormistress] was chosen of common stock. It was a prestigious job. When she talked—the touchy [Captains] from around the world, on ships glorious and humble, listened. She controlled who came in and out. She made sure illicit cargo was not let into her home, or taken out.
When criminals tried to flee at sea, it was the [Harbormistress] who locked the gates to the harbor. When siege came by sea—enemy armies from other continents, she stood against them.
“What a boring job.”
Compared to her youth? Gresaria laughed. But she had children. She had a husband, and that was more than Maviola had ever settled for. Alas. And yet Maviola had been happy.
Sometimes, these days, Gresaria forgot herself. She forgot a ship coming in, and that was an unforgivable mistake. Her aides were well-trained and pointed out the error. But Gresaria had known it was time to retire, perhaps years ago.
Stubbornness had let her cling on. Like Regein—take away her post, and what would she have? Children, but she had raised them to take care of themselves. She feared losing part of herself, growing confused as he.
In her heart, she knew why Maviola had decided to deliver a cure. It was grandiose, attention-seeking. But it was also worthy.
A fitting end to it all. Gresaria walked along the docks, slowly. [Captains] looked up, fearing, perhaps, an inspection. But the harbor was quiet. They too were probably watching scrying orbs.
“Harbormistress. Any words we should be listening to?”
“In a bit, man. Not for you specifically! Sit down and let me walk in peace!”
She pointed at a [Captain] from far north. He laughed and saluted her in a complex gesture from his homeland. She grinned. You had to be salt and steel to deal with this lot.
Ah, well. To the south, Maviola El burned. Gresaria’s head turned. Her white hair, only bearing traces of the green of her youth, her tanned skin, and thicker clothing against the sea’s sometimes merciless breeze, even in summer—that was Gresaria Wellfar.
She walked for only a minute more. Then turned.
One of her aides had been sneaking up behind her. An assistant. Always fretting.
“Girl.”
The assistant jumped. She flinched, fearing Gresaria’s infamous tongue. But the [Harbormistress] only leaned on her spear.
“Fetch me my chariot. And ring the Bell of First Landing.”
The girl’s eyes went round. ‘Girl’, and she was older than Maviola’s body was.
“Harbormistress?”
“Did I misplace my tongue, port-rat?”
The [Harbormistress]’ roar cut the silence on the docks. The silence holding First Landing captive, indeed. The [Assistant] went round-eyed and ran.
Soon—the Bell of First Landing rang. A peal you could not ignore, even in sleep. The [Captains] at the docks, their crew, dropped whatever they were doing. Even watching the events on television. Even preparing to sail.
When the [Harbormistress] called—everyone listened. And yes—even the Five Families, perhaps. The bell rang for attack, for great visitations, and little else.
Her chariot awaited. A Chandrarian war vehicle, lauded by some as a relic, no longer useful. Those who liked to say that had never seen an enchanted chariot bearing down on them with scything blades, or sowing magical spells in the midst of the enemy.
Gresaria had bought it on a whim a long time ago. She ran a hand fondly down the worn, battered sides, lovingly maintained. Then she mounted it.
Two stallions tossed their heads, waiting for her to take the reins. She did so now, in one hand. A practiced [Charioteer] in her own right.
“Harbormistress? Why does the bell ring?”
Again, they called out to her. Warily, standing on their ships. Gresaria saw some noble families, looking up at her.
She rode down the docks, now. And her voice became the bellow you could hear over storms, over the clash of arms. Gresaria had no potion. But she had memory and will.
The Harbormistress of First Landing shouted to the ships. To Houses Veltras, Wellfar, Reinhart, El, and Terland, some of whose nobility lived here. To Ulva Terland, who hid in her estates even now.
“You ask why the bell rings? Are you blind, man? Are your ears filled with foam and seaweed? A damned pig stuck in a barrel at sea would know why they ring!”
Laughter from the docks. [Sailors] guffawing in mirth. Offended looks from some of the nobility. Gresaria smiled. She rode past them.
“The bell rings for attack! For war! For treachery and cowardice in our midst! It should have been rung the moment House Veltras’ sons were poisoned. It should have rung when the House of El called for aid! But it did not, and damn me for cowardice. Damn the Five Families for the same!”
Only they and she could ring that bell. The watchers stirred. [Captains] looked past Gresaria, tracing her slow route. The nobility shifted uneasily.
She was moving towards a part of the city where no noble would ever make their homes. One of the poorer sections, true. But it had a charmed fear of its own. A mythos.
The Guild of Assassins. They were here. They were always here. You couldn’t just walk in. But everyone knew that they had a base in First Landing.
When had that been normal? For as long as Gresaria had lived, they’d been there, unspoken. A [Lord] and his friends might dare to ride there, seeking them. And he would live because he was ignored.
Never before in Gresaria’s memory had [Assassins] warred with the Flowers of Izril. They had been tools, the dog you fed to hunt your enemies until someone had taken them. This Circle, using it against their old masters.
It was a disgrace, either way.
“Lady Wellfar—”
“Mother. Stop!”
Gresaria ignored one of the others behind her. Voices. One of her assistants. A [Lord]. She lifted her spear, and it was harder these days. But kept it steady as an arrow. Pointing down those plain streets towards their land. Even now—fear like a spell hung over the city.
“I am Gresaria Wellfar! Harbormistress of First Landing! And I say there is a rot in our city! By the Five Families, it has been here too long! Cowards and traitors all! Enough. I say enough. Who will stand with me and root this infection out of our homes?”
She raised the spear. Looking around. The [Captains] were silent. Their crews watchful.
The Flowers of Izril stirred in the breeze. Salt and steel! They looked at each other, waiting for the other to move. House Wellfar, ship-builders, owners of navies, her people were represented most strongly here.
Gresaria’s gaze swept across them like thunder at sea and they flinched and looked away. They felt it too.
“Harbormistress. The Guild will not allow your actions. Enough.”
A voice in the air, like the shadows he materialized from. A figure on a rooftop. The nobles flinched. Gresaria looked up. Her eyes narrowed.
“Am I supposed to fear your threats, shadow? I am of House Wellfar. One of the Five Families! Does the Harbormistress flinch before steel or poison?”
“No.”
It came from the ships. The [Assassin] the Guild had sent looked down at her.
“Flinch or not, Harbormistress. But do not do this. The Guild does not wish to spill more of the Five Families’ blood.”
The nobility turned pale. They backed away. As if they had not guards! As if they had not armies! But Gresaria understood why. She saw mothers and fathers grabbing at children. Looking up at the brazen display.
The first one to stand was killed. The first [Soldier] to charge ever met his end.
Yet—enough. Enough! Maviola El, her companion, her old foe, held a banner and called the North to war. Gresaria raised her spear higher.
“Do you see anyone behind me, assassin? It seems the Five Families’ blood runs thin of late. Alone, then. And alone I would defy you to the last! I bow to no petty blades in the dark.”
“You have been warned.”
He vanished. Grimly, Gresaria set herself. The streets were clearing. Someone was calling her name. Trying to get her to stop.
“Mother—”
She swatted him back. Pointed her spear.
“Stay back. Unless you want to ride with me, Etril.”
Like he had as a boy. The [Lord] struggled. He reached for the reins, the chariot. But too late. Gresaria snapped the reins and the stallions broke into a trot. And then a gallop. He ran after her. Gresaria listened, but kept her eyes ahead.
Courage. And fury. The [Captains] aboard their vessels stirred. The Harbormistress was riding her chariot down the streets. Alone. Towards the place where the Guild of Assassins made their lair.
“Children of Wellfar. Let me show you what courage you’ve forgotten—”
Gresaria’s shout cut off. She tried to turn. But the first arrow struck true.
One of her horses screamed and collapsed. The other a second later, destroyed by the ray of gray-brown light. The chariot skidded; Gresaria leapt clear before it could overturn.
The nobility of Izril stared in horror. The [Harbormistress] landed. She whirled her spear up, blocked an arrow.
“Harbormistress—”
A cry from the docks. The [Captains] were shouting at her now, with the crews. Retreat!
Gresaria refused. She advanced. A second arrow landed—striking her in the shoulder. Her skin, tough as armor, caught the arrow. She blocked the spell instead. Her spear’s magic screamed as the enchantment resisted the spell.
“Wellfar! Wellfar and Iz—”
He appeared like a sigh. The same figure who had warned her, for all his face and body were covered by shadowy armor. She knew it.
A shortsword in his hand. Gresaria lanced out with her spear.
“[Tempest T—”
She stopped. A shortsword in his hand. It lodged in her heart. The old [Harbormistress] felt it stop.
What a beautiful blow. What Skill. She could almost admire—
The moan rose from the docks. From the streets. A cry of loss. Gresaria did not reach for the blade. She felt the cold steel in her chest. Felt her body freezing.
Not yet. She had fought too long to die. Not before—
Gresaria raised her spear, trying to bring it down. The [Assassin] moved. He twisted the blade and withdrew it from her chest.
The spear was frozen in her grip. The Harbormistress tried to bring it down.
And the [Assassin] walked away. Out of range. She staggered, trying to advance. Blood ran down her front. Then stopped.
Gresaria Wellfar halted. She forced the words out.
“Maviola. My Regein. My children. My House. I wanted…”
The spear fell from fingers that could not hold them. Bitterly, without a blow struck, the woman sagged. But her eyes still blazed defiance as she sank to the ground.
“Another day.”
She fell.
“She’s dead.”
The whisper ran through First Landing. They had all seen it. Gresaria, old Gresaria, the—
Frozen in horror, looking at the [Assassin]. The shadows appearing on rooftops. Look at us, they seemed to say. Try it.
A voice broke the silence. Eyes locked on the fallen woman turned upwards. Quivering words.
“The [Harbormistress] of First Landing is dead.”
A man standing on a ship lined with hides moved. Like someone waking from a terrible dream. He looked around. Then, slowly, bent down.
He was a [Captain] of a distant Kingdom of Terandria, the cold land of Cenidau. His helmet was a particular, simple design. A spangenhelm. His armor was thick hide, worn even in these warm lands.
This was not his home. But he had seen Gresaria fall. Now—he seized an enchanted javelin and hurled it.
The spear flashed across the distance. At the [Assassin] who had slain the [Lady] of House Wellfar. The figure deflected it, sacrificing his blade as the javelin exploded. But the second one struck his leg and ploughed through, earthing itself in the street.
The enraged [Captain] lifted another spear and a buckler. He ran down the ship. His words a bellow.
“The Harbormistress is dead!”
Someone else took up the cry. A Balerosian [Captain] swung herself off the decks, a Dullahan reaching for her blades.
[Sailors] leapt from their berths. They left the taverns and bars. The [Assassins] turned, seeing an unexpected threat. Sailors? But now another [Captain] from distant Drath had landed. He drew his swords.
Arrows flew from one ship. The first [Captain] to move bellowed at the others.
“To arms! For the pride of the Harbormistress! Every hand, to the blades! To death and the end of the world!”
His crew leapt off the decks, screaming. The [Assassins] looked up, aghast. But then every ship was moving.
They flooded off the ships. [Sailors] and [Pirates]. The Undersea Crews, [Storm Sailors]—for the [Harbormistress].
The pride of the sea. But before they reached the [Assassins]—someone else cried out.
“House Terland, to arms! To arms! Summon the war golems! Eradicate them! Enough!”
A [Lady] cried. Enough! She was as young as Gresaria had been, an age ago. She twisted a ring upon her finger. And her guard-Golems surged forwards.
It was like a breaking wave. The Guild saw nobles turning in the streets. Ordering their guards forwards. Some with blades drew them.
The first Golem of House Terland died, blown apart by dozens of defensive spells. But more were coming. And a distant light flashed.
“The Watcher of First Landing! Kill them!”
