Ryoka’s scream answered them. Hedault’s ring had saved her from being pulped—barely. She scrambled up and the [Blademaster] charged at her. Just in time, the wind snapped her aloft again.
“Before she gets out of range! Icoln! Kill her!”
The Wind Runner was rising, half-stunned by the blow. Hedault’s ring was dead. Another one—but the wind was obeying her request, carrying her up at dizzying speed. All she had to do was get out of range, ask the wind to land her close to House Veltras.
The flaws in her plan, and they had always been there, were spells to control the wind. Arrows from below. Ryoka’s own lack of skill in manipulating the wind when she could hit the ground at a hundred miles per hour with a single mistake.
Flight was not invulnerability. If it was—every Oldblood Drake and Garuda would have been a Courier. And one more thing.
The fourth [Assassin] stared up at Ryoka Griffin as she flew upwards. The [Mage] was still trying to tag her with spells. But he was trying to hit a rapidly-moving target. She was going to—
The Garuda shed his disguise. He leapt into the air after her. Ryoka looked back.
Did you really think we had no fliers in our Guild? We kill everything. The Garuda danced upwards, daggers in both wing-talons.
Nimbler than she was. Faster, as the capricious wind ignored Ryoka and obeyed at times.
“No. No—get him—”
The Garuda was buffeted by a gale. But he caught himself. He tore through the wind in a cone of his own, defying the winds. Ryoka looked at him.
Then she gritted her teeth and reached for a knife. Something—not after all this! The Garuda saw her draw a dagger.
He snorted, highly amused. It wasn’t even enchanted! He swooped around Ryoka with ease. The Garuda took aim.
The crossbow bolt punched through one of his wings. Ryoka heard a scream of pain. The [Assassin] twisted in midair. What? What? Neither one knew. Where had that bolt come from? But wait—it had come from—above—
Alevica the Witch Runner hurtled out of the skies and loosed a second crossbow bolt. She clung to her broom as it brought her down in a spiral. She drew a blade and cut at the [Assassin] Garuda before moving away.
“Alevica!”
The Witch Runner cried out like the Garuda as he broke off. Ferin, on the ground, lost his last scraps of patience.
“Where did that [Witch] come from?”
“She won’t be there for long! [Homing Spell]. [Hundred Arrows of—]”
The [Mage] was drawing breath. Then—someone picked him up. He screamed. A huge beak descended, and tore off his head. Ferin whirled. Wings flapped around him. Black feathers.
Mavika the Crow launched herself up into the air. She screamed as the Garuda turned.
“Vengeance a thousand times for my coven’s lives!”
“Alevica! What are you doing?”
Ryoka screamed as the wind bore her higher. The Witch Runner was fighting the Face. She was outclassed—the Garuda was dangerous. But she refused to let him attack Ryoka. She screamed back as she lobbed a vial which nearly caught the [Assassin].
“I hate owing debts!”
 
—-
 
Four figures in the sky. The [Emperor] listened. He could sense none of it. Far from Ryoka—and his senses were limited upwards as downwards.
“Mavika made it?”
“She did, your Majesty—”
“Is Ryoka alright?”
Gamel relayed the moment to the [Emperor] as he leaned forwards.
 
—-
 
The Garuda was being fought by two [Witches] in the air. [Witches]! The enemy the Circle of Thorns had so carelessly made! Ryoka felt the wind carrying her up as the [Assassin] came after her.
He was single-minded. Using explosive spells to down the crows trying to peck at him, avoiding the huge primordial avian that was Mavika fused with her raven familiar. Alevica shot upwards, clinging to her broom—but she was burning magic.
“Get higher, Ryoka! Go!”
“I—”
Ryoka could barely talk as the wind passed her. She saw the Garuda lancing up—the wind blew them both left.
More wind! Help me, please! Ryoka called to the air. Below them, the Faces were launching more spells, using scrolls. And she felt malign magic in the air.
“They are summoning spells to kill you. Alevica, eat the hexes!”
Mavika dropped away from a grappling blow with the Garuda. He had stabbed her a dozen times in the chest. She bled—but the giant bird screamed and resumed the attack. She had taken his left leg in vengeance.
Still upwards. The Circle was—casting something. Ryoka felt them trying to drag her down. She fought them.
The wind! Come to me, please! After all that has happened! All that has been sacrificed! 
Other [Mages] were warring for the wind. Magic from Wistram, even Fissival! Fighting for control as the Wind Runner beseeched the wind in a way magic could not. She saw a bolt of lightning arc towards her out of the skies—then away.
They were twisting nature against itself. And nature abhorred it. Ryoka felt the pressure building. The Garuda flew up towards her. The Wind Runner felt the pressure—like when the King of Destruction had been giving her the blessing.
Only a thousand times stronger. Even than a mortal [King]. The wind—the atmosphere—was furious. Too much magic. Bottled up as more mana was pumped into this place.
She just had to—Ryoka unleashed the building storm.
 
—-
 
A cyclone of air blew Mavika and Alevica to earth. Alevica was in free fall—she poured every bit of mana she had into her broom. Every bit of power.
Her broom—snapped. But it stopped her fall. Enough that when she hit the ground—she was bruised instead of splattered. The [Witch] cursed as she got up.
“Ryoka—”
Mavika hit the ground with a crunch. But she too lived. The [Witch] stared at a broken leg, hissing with pain. Her ribs too—her flock was fleeing the unnatural storm.
“That fool! She just unleashed every bit of w—”
Whumph. Both [Witches] turned as something hit the ground ten times harder than they had.
The Garuda. Alevica stared at…what was left. She stared upwards.
“Ryoka did that?”
No, she hadn’t. She’d just unleashed…the Wind Runner was going higher. So high she was a speck.
“She’s lost control. Alevica, we must flee.”
“The [Assassins]?”
Alevica whirled. But they weren’t interested in the [Witches]. They still wanted Ryoka dead. And that wasn’t what Mavika meant. She looked at Alevica.
“You feel it.”
“My hat—”
At last, she did. The Witch Runner paled. And above her—the morning sky turned into something like a glimpse of armageddon. The rains began to fall. The wind picked up.
 
—-
 
“Report! Something’s happening at sea!”
A [Weather Mage] burst into the room full of [Mages] fighting for control of the sky in Wistram. He shoved past the others, ignoring their outrage as he ran for the Archmages. Feor turned. He’d felt it too.
“What is it?”
“Magical Typhoon Erandus is dissipating! No, it’s reforming—”
Feor’s head slowly turned to the orb. It suddenly went dark.
 
—-
 
“You idiots.”
Grand Magus Eldavin felt his ship rock as the magical typhoon which had been blocking Baleros off—teleported. He had sensed the magical war in the skies, even if he hadn’t been interested in why.
Up till now. Had they no idea? So much magic in the air with a magical event like that—he looked up. Suddenly, gale-force winds were blowing off Izril’s shores and he’d just gotten in this boat!
“I’ll have to reinforce the hull. I’d hate to swim. Damn idiots and weather magic…”
He left his bunk, walking calmly onto the deck. Even [Storm Sailors] were panicking. The [Captain] stared as the Grand Mage began casting magic.
Eldavin, Teriarch, paused for a second as the hull glowed, ignoring the wind suddenly, if not the choppy waves. He looked around. And then up.
“It can’t be. Is that—”
 
—-
 
“Ryoka?”
The scrying spell was dead. The wind—Erin ran outside. She looked far north. Beyond even the High Passes. Suddenly—she didn’t know what was happening.
No one did.
 
—-
“We’re losing track of her. She’s too high up, moving too fast.”
The Circle waited. The world waited. But no one knew where Ryoka Griffin was. The Thorns of Death—they looked at each other.
“Then cover the ground! If she doesn’t die—that typhoon won’t last. Teleporting used up most of its magic. It will dissipate within hours. I have seen it before.”
One of the Circle’s members spoke. The others stirred. How did they—? They ordered every agent they had. Not just [Assassins]. As they had decided. All or nothing.
But they had not prepared for the [Innkeeper] of Liscor. The Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Maviola of House El. Saliss of Lights. Their agents raced into place. And—
 
—-
 
The adventurers were fighting a running battle with [Assassins]. They’d been headed for the Wind Runner, in pursuit. But they were caught.
“Get them!”
It was a Silver-rank team, who’d ambushed the group of three carriages of the Ranks. Not just them—a chariot raced ahead, with a second team in the center of the fight. The Silver-ranks loosed arrows, trying to catch up to the running battle.
Adventurers across the continent were fighting [Assassins]. This group had been racing north and west since the moment they had seen their friend.
The Horns of Hammerad. Pisces adjusted their course as Ceria blasted one of the coaches with ice magic.
“Dodge them, Pisces!”
“Do you think a chariot can turn that fast?”
The undead horses galloped without rest, but they couldn’t exceed themselves either. The [Assassins] were speeding up.
“Drop me!”
“Yvlon—”
The [Armsmistress] launched herself from the chariot. She hit the ground, caught herself, and brought up the sword.
“[Sword Art: Curve of the Moon]!”
The [Assassins] in the coach ahead of her were too slow—the arc of her blade smashed through the front of the coach. The coach stopped as the horses were knocked free of the vehicle. The Ranks, stunned, tried to exit the vehicle.
They ran into Yvlon. She blocked a sword thrust with one arm and her hand became spikes that pierced the [Assassin]’s arm. He screamed.
Ceria shouted at Pisces.
“Yvlon’s back there!”
“She jumped! I’ll animate the bodies! Keep—”
The crossbows thumped. Pisces and Ceria took cover. She raised an ice barrier around them, but it slowed the chariot. Two more coaches left. [Assassins] with crossbows leaned out of the doors as they drew alongside the three Horns of Hammerad. Aiming—
Ksmvr stood up. The [Assassins] had crossbows.
He had three. Each arm held one and the Ranks saw the Antinium open up his mandibles.
“[Threefold Shot].”
Instantly, one threw himself out of the carriage with a scream.
“[Greater Dodge]!”
What a great Skill. He might have been Level 20 if he was super lucky, or Level 30? Ksmvr saw the [Assassin] catch himself on the ground.
Huh? There had been no bolt—
Ksmvr shot him in the chest. The [Assassin] went down. Ksmvr sighed.
“Deficient.”
Everyone could say a Skill. He took aim.
“[Power Shot].”
The other [Assassins] had taken cover. Now—they hesitated. Was he bl—
Two crossbows fired. Ksmvr missed one [Assassin], tagged the other in the thigh. He sat back down and pulled more crossbows out of his bag of holding. Then happily stood up and fired again. Crossbow Stan’s tactics. Ceria popped up.
“Pisces!”
“[Shatterbolt].”
“[Ice Wall]!”
Another carriage down. The Horns circled back for Yvlon. The last coach turned to flee—Pisces pointed.
“[Acid Orb].”
He hit the wheels. The Horns regrouped and turned. They were too far away. But they were coming.
“Hold on, Ryoka.”
Ceria muttered. She looked up. In the distance—
The typhoon was creating a vortex in the skies.
 
—-
 
The world dropped away below her. Ryoka gasped.
They were gone. Maviola, Saliss. The Guild of Assassins, Alevica, Mavika—
Everything. At the end of it all, just as she’d told Lyonette and Erin…it did end this way. How would she deliver the cure to Tyrion Veltras?
Fly. She had known from the start that it wouldn’t be this easy. But neither had she expected the magical typhoon to unleash itself here.
Lightning was striking the ground for countless miles around. Illuminating the world in moments of light. Everything else was dark. Rain soaked Ryoka in an instant, freezing her. The wind wasn’t smashing her against the glider—yet.
She refused to let go. Her harness creaked. Ryoka searched for some landmark to steer towards. But the world was a howling oblivion.
“The ground…oh no.”
The rain intensified. And Ryoka—suddenly—lost track of the ground. It became a dark, rainy abyss below her. She had no idea where she was. And the wind refused to let her down.
“Closer to the ground? Please? Pl—”
Up. Everything she had ever feared. She had done shorter glides—but anything over fifty feet and the wind changed. It grew wilder. And—
Suddenly, a gust hit the fragile glider and Human. The wind slammed into her. It was fierce, unrestricted. Not kind, up here. She felt her grip slipping and held on for her life.
“No, no, put me down, put me—”
She flew higher. Above the magic trying to strike her far below. The wind carried her up, delighting in her, toying with the little craft in its skies.
There was both malice and innocence there. But it did not see her as—a fragile mortal. She had called it as the fae did. And it bore her upwards.
—too high too fast—
A mile in a second. Too fast. Too—her ears popped again. Ryoka left her mind thousands of feet behind her. The wind was pulling at her. What a strange intruder in its skies! It listened to her will—ignored it.
She couldn’t breathe. Frost was chilling the glider and her—hands—the grip loosened and it was only the belt and straps keeping her attached—
She woke up when she dropped. Down again. Following some current. Now—she was afraid. Ryoka tried to push at the wind, then persuade.
“Listen to me. Please—”
The typhoon wrapped around her, blowing her at speeds that strained her vessel’s ability to move. Ryoka couldn’t even inhale the rushing wind.
Suddenly—the air was angry. She felt its wrath, like a voice thundering in the void.
How dare you order me around? The wind is not your toy or thing to be commanded. How dare you, insignificant speck. I could splatter you—
Or was it even listening? Had she any command over it? She could speak to the wind. Not give it orders. Why had she ever—
Another snap of the winds that hurled her through the air. Limply, Ryoka clung to the glider with one hand. She was reaching for something. She had to—
She thought she heard laughter. Not hers. Something in the storm?
Lightning flashed.
What was that shape? Larger than clouds.
Were they laughing at her?
Something around her. Ryoka gasped for air. Was that snow? No—
“Ivolethe?”
