Too far. Too far. The [Knights] of Izril had failed to slow the Faces. Forgetting, perhaps, that unlike lesser monsters, [Assassins] had tools that went through their vaunted plate armor.
Forget them. Look at them.
The Wind Runner, desperate, her feet in shreds but for the healing potion she was forced to apply.
Lady Maviola El, galloping, burning at the end of a century of time.
He…tried to stop it. He was caught off-guard by the emotions. The sudden welling of feeling. But he couldn’t help it.
They were being aided by everyone who could raise their hand. Everyone who cared.
Pryde Ulta stopped one of the Faces. Seven left. She had barely caught up to them, running a horse to death with her house’s guard. She—like Bethal Walchaís—had begun to intervene the instant they had heard Maviola’s cry.
Magnolia Reinhart’s circle. The [Lady] pointed and squashed an [Assassin] over a thousand feet away.
“[Extended Aura: Gravity Well]. A powerful [Lady].”
He identified the Skill. Pryde was too slow to catch the others. Her guard pursued the immobilized [Assassin]. Made short work of them.
They were all trying. Once again, the feelings welled up.
The [Stitch Witch] watched as Az’kerash, the Necromancer of Terandria, watched Ryoka Griffin and Maviola El’s flight. There was passion there. She was old, but he was barely more than twice Maviola’s age.
He remembered. He—had been cut of the same cloth as they. Had he not defied armies to become the Undying Shield of Calanfer? Had he not—?
“Master? Is something wrong?”
His Chosen looked upon their master. Uncomprehending of his emotions, but they felt them. Az’kerash whispered.
“My Chosen. Do you see anything of value in this moment? In these—two? In what is happening?”
The Chosen stirred. Kerash—who in life would have known what was meant—shook his head and looked at Venitra. The armored woman made of bone—like a [Knight]—had none of the sentiments she had been modeled after.
The two new Chosen? Nothing.
“Superior agility, Master?”
One of them ventured. A skeleton slapped his face from where he was peeking in. Not Ijvani. She was blank. The [Skeleton Mage] saw Bea’s lips moving.
“I think…”
But she had nothing. Az’kerash looked at his Chosen with a kind of despair that was terrible for them to behold.
“This is one of the most important things you must learn, my children. Have you nothing?”
A flaw in their creation. Belavierr looked at the Necromancer. She was interested in how he had framed that. It spoke to his…desires. A different Necromancer than the one of a decade ago, even.
How were they so blind? Even Belavierr could give the answer, and she was an immortal monster. But it was that immortality, perhaps, that made the undead blind.
In that room, three people knew the answer. Hah. Even the Healing Slime could have given it, if it had lips. Az’kerash, Belavierr.
And Toren. He looked at the Runner with objectionable bone structure. And despite that—he felt it.
Glorious. His eyes locked on the [Lady] who called flame. Made of the same moments as he had once seen in a place far from here.
He understood. It was so obvious the skeleton wanted to shout it. But he had no voice. Nor any desire to attract the evil [Witch]’s attention, much less the others. Seeing the Chosen, though, looking like guilty students trying to crib the answer off each other and realizing no one knew what it was—he was still shouting in his soul.
“Bravery, Master?”
Ijvani. Az’kerash’s head snapped around. The skeleton flinched. She looked past him. She had heard, of course. And like any cheating student, glancing at someone else’s test—
She feared she was wrong, but Az’kerash’s disappointment had made her desperate. She was rewarded with the Necromancer’s smile.
“Yes, Ijvani! Come here. You understand?”
“Y-yes?”
She lied. Az’kerash was too preoccupied to notice. But she advanced and stood there, the Necromancer’s favorite. The Chosen looked upon Ijvani with envy unmatched. Then—slowly—their heads turned.
The skeleton was already fleeing, arms waving. But an idea was circulating among the Chosen. They had no idea what their Master wanted. What emotions he craved.
But someone did.
Belavierr was highly interested. Yet—her eyes were caught again by the scrying orb. An end was coming. She felt it, threads of fate. Her eyes narrowed.
Maviola El slowed. She was pointing ahead.
 
—-
 
This was how they ended it. Seven Faces and thirty [Assassins] were still following. Catching up again. Ryoka saw no [Knights], no [Lords] on carpet. No brave carriage drivers.
“I’m slowing you down, aren’t I?”
Maviola El slowed her horse. It was no champion like Ieka’s steed. A carriage-horse, not used to this level of galloping. And they were out of Potions of Haste. Out of scrolls.
She looked at Ryoka. The Wind Runner gulped for air. Her hands shook as she reached for a stamina potion.
“Maviola—”
“You can make it. But they will cut you out of the air. Look at them.”
The [Assassins]. Maviola shook her head.
“This is where I stop. One of us must go onwards. And I see a glorious end waiting for me.”
“Maviola, don’t do this.”
Ryoka reached for her. The [Lady] laughed. She looked at Ryoka. What a cute thing. Then she shook her head.
“Oh, brave girl, you are too kind for this. Ryoka. Carry us with you forever. I hope you meet your friend. Now—run.”
She pushed Ryoka, a burning hand touching the Wind Runner’s arm. They locked eyes and Maviola turned.
“Run, Ryoka Griffin! Deliver Izril’s honor back to it! Deliver life! Run, and don’t look back!”
 
—-
 
But of course, I do.
 
—-
 
Maviola El wheeled her horse. There was no time left for goodbyes. Ryoka ran with a sound like a scream of frustration and grief.
The [Lady] reached for her side. A burned staff of wood, nothing like the white flag she had borrowed. Well, stolen. She would give it back, but Erin might as well make a new one.
The wood burst into flame. Her horse reared, but the banner of fire did not burn it. It burned with gold. Maviola urged her horse to take a path nearly perpendicular to Ryoka.
Glory. The [Assassins] slowed. It was not a light they enjoyed. They looked past Maviola, at Ryoka. Which one had the cure?
“This is my death! You come for me, shadows of Izril! Yet I am Izril’s fire, today! You cannot put me out.”
Maviola cried out. She lifted her banner higher and rode. The [Assassins] looked between her and Ryoka as they raced forwards. Still time yet to choose one path or the other.
She would make sure they followed her. The [Lady]’s teeth bared. Saliss had given them war. She would show them—
“[Path of Flames]. I am Izril’s fire.”
Her horse’s hoofmarks caught fire. In every color imaginable and some that had no name. The [Assassins] saw memory, like fire, burning in Maviola’s wake.
Glory! Sorrow! Rage! Hope! It was a lifetime of flames. And they spread, eating the grass, consuming stone and dirt and magic itself.
The fire raced after her. A sea of glowing flames of every color. It was not like the fires that had tried to consume Riverfarm. A mindless, raging destructive thing.
A sea of fire, stymying the [Assassins]. But honestly—if that had been all her Skills were at Level 50—
She would have been so sorely disappointed.
This was only half of it. Maviola raised the standard higher. For Gresaria! The House of El! She cried out.
“Ride for the House of El! Wake, stones! Fight, children of Izril, for your honor! For your dignity! For the land where we die!”
She pointed. And the flames came together. Rising. No longer a mindless, burning thing. Maviola whispered.
“[Summon Flame Elemental].”
A figure moved in the flames. It snatched at an [Assassin] and the figure turned in horror. Maviola El laughed. An army of fire stirred.
[Bannerlady of Memory’s Flame], Maviola El. She looked and saw Ryoka disappearing amid the trees. What a wonderful forest. Not the Vail Forest, but large enough. She bared her teeth.
“Carry our pride onwards, Runner. Bring hope to those children. Restore our honor. Now, follow me, you shadows.”
She charged, the beings born of flame coming into existence, fighting for her will. For Izril! And the [Assassins] came after her.
They followed her like moths to the brightest light in the world. Unable to even look away. Let alone believe she didn’t hold the cure, the answer, the hope blazing bright across her form.
Maviola El raced into the forest. Her horse fell. She tumbled from the saddle, as the fire engulfed the land around her. Only then did she plant the standard, draw her weapon. Too late—the [Assassins] realized they were trapped by the flames. She smiled as it engulfed them all.
 
—-
 
One left. One remained. The [Lady] of House El made her last stand amid glorious flame. Ryoka Griffin was crying.
Four Faces left. Three had rushed into the flames, unable to stop themselves. The Ranks perished, fighting beings made of fire.
Elementals.
The last four had struggled with all their will not to rush after Maviola El. At last, though, they’d caught up.
Ryoka Griffin had stopped. Her feet were a ragged mess. And Ferin realized—
She was out of healing potions. She was panting. Had she given up?
No. The [Trapmaster] knew it. But why had she slowed? He looked at his companions.
Four of them. Ferin, the [Mage], the [Blademaster], and one last one. Mire and the others had stayed behind to fight the [Knights]. Others had died.
The Guild…would not recover from this. They would have to be remade, if they lived at all. Perhaps another Guild. Another continent.
Roshal—Ferin shook his head and looked up. Never there. He would rather…
“Stop, Ryoka Griffin. You can still stop.”
She flinched. The [Assassins] were spreading out. The [Blademaster] moved forwards—hesitated.
His nerves had been broken by watching so many of his companions die. The invincible Guild’s mythos—gone. Ferin motioned him forwards, but the [Mage] and fourth were circling. Ensnaring Ryoka before the end from all sides if she tried to make a break for it.
“…Is that you, [Trapmaster]?”
Ryoka looked up. She was preoccupied with something in her bag of holding. The air was still. Ferin nodded.
“It will not end with your death, Miss Griffin. Everyone you love will die. That is the Guild’s promise to you. Unless you stop.”
He looked at the [Blademaster] again. The idiot was afraid. Afraid of a death like Saliss of Lights or Maviola El’s burning fury. He would never be an [Assassin] again.
“You can’t escape us, Ryoka. You’re not that quick.”
It was true. Ryoka exhaled. It had always been true.
If she were a Courier like Mihaela. If she had levels. If she had been smarter. If Xif hadn’t had such a big fucking mouth.
If, if, if. But this was where she was. She had made so many decisions to get here. Some good, some bad.
…Yet that was the beauty of this world. Of any world. Ryoka looked up. She had not come here unchanged.
“I have one last thing.”
“The wind? It’s not yours alone, Runner.”
The [Mage]-[Assassin] sneered. Ryoka nodded. She could feel magic keeping the wind still. But—it was just a spell. The wind was surely more powerful than one [Mage]. She just had to ask it.
The Wind Runner looked back at Ferin. The old [Assassin] she had met just once on a ride to another delivery that might have been her death. There was something of her in him. But they were—different. She shook her head. He drew the loop of wire. Ryoka sighed.
“Tell me, stranger. Do you know how to fly?”
The [Assassins] looked at each other. One lifted his wand. And the [Blademaster] hesitated again. Too late. Ferin threw as Ryoka’s words reached him.
“It’s easy. I’ve been so afraid to try. But all you have to do is step into—”
Something unfolded. His wire struck it, bounced off instead of looping around her. Ferin cursed. He saw wings unfolding. Then the wind howled. The [Mage] cried out. Ferin lunged forwards with the others. And saw Ryoka lift upwards Into—
The sky.
“H-how?”
The other [Assassins]—even the fourth—stared in dumbfounded shock for a second. A Scroll of Flying? But those were wings.
Yet not Ryoka’s. It was…a contraption like the bicycle. Something she had asked to be made in Reizmelt before meeting the Archmage of Izril, even.
It was simple. Simple and hard. You needed some good fabric for it. An expert [Seamstress]. Wood—even enchanted, especially to withstand the strain. But Ryoka had tested it, paid in gold.
The hang glider’s wings spread outwards. Wood locked into place. She clung to the bars as the wind grabbed thick sails of fabric and dragged it up.
After all—it was on her side. Ferin stared up in awe for a moment. It was neither magic nor a Skill. It was just…physics. Wood and fabric.
The achievements of a world apart, where no magic or levels existed, yet Humans had dreamed of it. Flight.
 
—-
 
“Ryoka?”
The wind blew. Erin saw—she had to rub at her eyes. The Wind Runner of Reizmelt had left the ground. The first, almost explosive gust had snapped the glider, sent her up so fast she nearly let go.
A hundred feet in a moment. Erin’s jaw dropped.
“That’s not a flying carpet.”
Palt murmured. There wasn’t as much awe as you might expect. After all—there were spells that allowed you to fly. Flying Carpets. Garuda did it for free.
But look at her. The inn was silent. The audience of the world watched.
The Wind Runner was flying.
She was struggling to clip herself to the glider. She had been putting on a belt, harness—she could not hold on with hands alone! The [Assassins] looked up after her. Erin heard Mrsha howling. Somewhere, the Flying Gnoll of Pallass was screaming.
Bird had fainted again. Erin’s heart soared. Then—she saw the [Assassin] with the wires point up.
 
—-
 
“Strike the skies. [Arrows of Lightning].”
Ferin drew a scroll and unfurled it. Ryoka jerked as arrows made of lightning shot up after her. The others broke from their reverie.
“[Grand Tempest]! You can’t escape!”
The [Mage] howled after her. It was true. So what if she could fly? They were [Assassins]! They had arrows, spells—Ryoka was struggling. The wind threw her and the glider through the air to avoid the spells. She crashed against the frame of her glider.
She couldn’t control it! It was just as she’d feared. In her experiments—the wind was far less easy to control in the air! She had been practicing in secret—but she had no mastery and she needed mastery.
“Down—”
The [Grand Tempest] spell turned the air into lightning and wind. The glider’s wings snapped—the wood held, but the impact sent Ryoka into a nosedive.
She hit the ground ahead of the [Assassins], so hard they actually stopped loosing spells. Had she just killed herself?
“Gah! Aaaah—”
