They had four hours, in the night, before they were found again. Two precious hours, snatched by the transformation, and then two more after that.
They had made slower progress as horses, ironically. They had to act like…horses. And they were slow because Ryoka threw up about fifty times over the course of the first hour before her mind adjusted to four hooves and an equine’s perspective. And horses couldn’t vomit so it was fifty miserable failed attempts.
Shapeshifting was not easy. Oh, Ryoka would have a lot to think of after this. About being a horse, about the possibilities of such potions and spells. If she lived. If Saliss lived.
Two more hours before the [Scrying] spells located them. It was, Ryoka learned from Saliss and Maviola, a very annoying type of spell to manage. Scrying spells in Ryoka’s mind were as simple as panning an aerial shot to follow something.
In reality, the problem with a [Scrying] spell not bound to a person—and no one could scry the three directly—was that you had to move it in every axis. Up, down, left, right—even managing the coordinate system meant an entire class of [Diviner], [Seer], [Scrier], had to manage one spell.
And they had lost the three. So—for four hours, under darkness, they ran. They did not stop to rest. They did not sleep. But nor did they sprint.
They were husbanding their strength for when they were found. Odd word. Husbanding. Why not wifeing? Aside from how stupid that sounded.
Ryoka knew she should have been thinking of the run. The long ways yet to go, even as Saliss’ potions sped them and kept them moving fast. She pedaled, stowing the bike for uphill climbs and places where the terrain didn’t fit. Running alongside the Drake and the horse carrying Maviola El.
But all that filled her mind were silly questions like the etymology of the word ‘husbanding’. Anything, it seemed, to distract her from reality.
The sun would rise before they reached House Veltras. It was inevitable at the speed they were moving. A Potion of Haste practically doubled their speed. Tripled it, in some ways. They needed neither to rest nor eat with potions.
…But it was a long run. And when the sun rose, they’d be easier to spot. The Guild of Assassins and Circle of Thorns was after them.
They had the cure.
They found the three after four hours. But between then. The end of her run, what happened next, and the time she had left Invrisil—that brief span when they had been able to relax just a hair and talk instead of watch for Belavierr’s hexes, enemy [Assassins]—
She would not forget or trade that time away.
 
—-
 
“Oh. I leveled up.”
Ryoka heard a slight gasp as she rode ahead, scanning for potholes or rocks in the dark. She jerked up. She had trailed off from their last conversation. Saliss twisted as he ran. The two saw Maviola El open her eyes. They looked at each other, the three with the cure.
Then Saliss threw an empty potion bottle at Maviola. Ryoka swore and tossed some sand at the [Lady]. She very nearly moved her bike over to try and swat at Maviola El.
“I knew it! You were dozing on that horse! While we were running all damn night—”
“I was just napping for a second! Respect your elders and betters, brat!”
Maviola swatted back with her inactive Kaalblade. Saliss beaned her with an empty vial and Maviola loosed a stream of curses.
“I’ve been running…for hours. I don’t run! I make potions! Get off the horse! It’s my turn!”
It had been almost four hours since they’d lost Wistram’s eyes and the Guild after Belavierr’s needle attack. The three had been on the alert, but Saliss had the scrying orb tuned to the Wistram News Network—a secured line so they couldn’t reverse-hack his artifact—and they hadn’t found the three. Yet.
“…the search continues. But I feel strongly that if they had been found, we would know. Isn’t that right, Sir Relz?”
“Exactly, Drassi. Let’s replay the dramatic footage from this evening. Again—we are receiving countless impressions, first-hand accounts from people who were there. The Black Tide, invading Invrisil—”
“I don’t know if invading is the right word. They were clearly helping fight the Guild.”
“Drassi—the Antinium? Really?”
“I don’t think you know what you’re talking about, Sir Relz. One of us lives in Liscor. And let me tell you—”
The orb shut off. They still had time. Ryoka looked up at Maviola. The [Lady Firestarter]’s eyes were shining. Or…was she still a [Lady Firestarter]?
“Your class changed.”
It wasn’t a question. Maviola El’s eyes sparkled.
“I have reached my Time of Grandeur. I did not think I would. And now? How this world likes to play tricks! But I have never been more a [Lady] than now.”
“Time of…?”
“A name the nobility of Izril and Terandria came up with. It just means Level 50. They like to call everything stupid names.”
Saliss whispered to Ryoka. The City Runner nodded. Maviola scowled at them.
“It is the level at which everything changes. Beyond here—few living trod this path.”
The two looked up at her. Saliss nodded. Ryoka looked at Maviola and felt a tinge of envy.
Power. And at the end of her life, too. On this run? She nodded.
The three knew each other, now. It was the fastest of bonds, like that of the Horns with Ryoka, but even stronger. Three people, with the same mission. How could they not feel a connection?
“Was it a good Skill?”
Saliss looked up at Maviola. Her eyes burned.
“Yes. I think so, at least.”
“Good.”
He laughed. She looked at him with a nod that was almost deferential. He had reached Level 50 before her. The [Alchemist] looked at Ryoka. The teasing had turned to respect in the Drake’s gaze, as it had for Ryoka. But quick as a flash, he grinned again.
“So that’s two Level 50 Skills. Where’s yours, huh? Huh? Someone’s the Creler-fodder here. And it’s not the horse.”
He pointed at Lady Ieka’s mare, who had indeed bore Maviola through the storm of attacks.
Ryoka was almost tempted to blow Saliss into a tree. They were using the outskirts of a forest as cover; it slowed them, but it made them a lot harder to spot from overhead. Then, she knew he was right. Her head lowered. Ryoka looked at the other two.
“…You’re right. I’m the weakest one here. If anything happens—you two go ahead. That’ll be the plan.”
Saliss’ smile faded. Maviola looked at Ryoka. The Wind Runner took a gulp of air.
“I’ll pretend to have the cure and leave you two behind. You have the best chance. I’ll lure them off. So—”
Her throat closed at the thought. She had barely made it out of Invrisil. Her silly plan had only worked because Erin had called an army in to fight the others. Saliss—Maviola—both of them had laid better plans. They had a better shot.
The Named Adventurer and the [Lady] of House El looked at each other gravely. They exchanged something unspoken. Then they nodded at each other.
“She is so cute.”
“She is. I see it now. I thought she was aggravating, but how adorable.”
Ryoka’s head jerked around. Saliss jogged over. Maviola laughed, as did Saliss.
“Look at you, being so brave!”
Saliss pinched Ryoka’s cheek gently. She punched at him as they ran, but he just stepped away. Ryoka turned beet red.
“I mean it!”
“I know you do. Which makes it all the more precious.”
Maviola drawled as she leaned on her horse’s saddle, resting despite the fast-moving mare. Saliss was chortling.
“Doesn’t it remind you of—‘no, keep going! I’ll hold them off! Don’t worry about me!’”
He looked at Maviola. This time the [Lady] nearly fell off her horse, she was laughing so hard. Ryoka opened and shut her mouth, turning from beet to lobster to tomato in order of embarrassment.
They weren’t taking her seriously! No—no, the problem was, they were. But they were like her. Saliss rolled his eyes at Ryoka.
“I said something like that the first time I was in a situation like this, oh—twenty years ago. I was just a kid and there I was, potion in my claw—”
He laughed. Maviola nodded.
“A battalion of Drakes, for me. Gresaria and I were arguing about who’d stay back to hold the lines.”
They laughed. Ryoka stared at them. They’d done it before. That was why they laughed. Saliss’ head turned and he grinned at her with all his teeth.
“We’re not mocking you, Ryoka. Not too much. We’re going to live. Or die. But you’re the kid who thinks the world revolves around her. Who thinks she’s the only hero. And the truth is, it’s actually me.”
He spread his arms wide, raising them, running like a marathon runner finishing first. Self-absorbed—Maviola was guffawing. Arrogant.
They had done this kind of thing before. Ryoka was the junior. They were teasing her. And it was a terrible combination.
One was a grandmother, a great grandmother, the worst of all when she was affectionate. The other was Saliss.
“A delightful child.”
Maviola El was chortling. Ryoka would have given anything for a [Witch] to appear and attack them right now. Then she looked at Ryoka, the mirth fading.
“I called you many names, Ryoka. You were a silly girl for how you did it. But the why? The courage to do so?”
She dipped her head, straining. And then she was the [Lady] who had conjured fire, called the Five Houses to arms. The banner she had carried lay spent, the cloth long burned away. But it would ignite before the end.
“I understand everything about why you ran.”
That was all she said. But it was so much more. She looked at Ryoka, the Wind Runner. I know you, Maviola’s eyes told the younger woman. I know your fears, why you had to do it.
We are alike.
Ryoka could barely meet the gaze. This was a different Maviola El. Not the young woman of Ryoka’s age. But neither the woman at the end of her life. Some blend of the two.
Saliss nodded. He looked at Ryoka and shook his head.
“Don’t talk about who’s dying first, Ryoka. That means it’s you. Think on how to live. Believe it—or you’ll be too slow when the moment comes. I’ve been in this kind of situation more than once. Until the moment when you die—believe you’re going to make it.”
He looked ahead, embarrassed himself to be that genuine. Ryoka saw Maviola El gazing ahead as Saliss checked the orb. Speculating on their next route.
“Vail Forest is how we should cut to House Veltras. Scrying spells will fail if we can make it into the deeper areas where the magic is still strong.”
“Never been. Think we can stop for ingredients?”
“On the way back. Try not to burn it down.”
“Look who’s talking.”
“I tried, once—I misspeak. Not tried—”
Ryoka saw them looking ahead, pointing. Talking with a mix of bravado and hope. Not fearless, but…
In that moment, Ryoka realized something. She looked after them as she let herself slow, just a tiny bit so she could see them running ahead.
They were what she wanted to be. Her admiration for them in this moment, at this time—Ryoka wanted to turn into someone like them.
…A pyromaniac old woman who had sex with Drakes way younger than her and an annoying exhibitionist streaker. Yes! No, wait.
What they really were, and revealed only when they were needed. When the chips were down and the world was ending.
Glorious.
 
—-
 
A moment. The wind blew across Ryoka, and she felt not the exhaustion in her body, or fear. She looked ahead as they broke from the forest.
Then the first arrow thunked into the ground two dozen paces ahead. The three looked up.
“Sell me to Salazsar! Break’s over! They’ve found us!”
Saliss threw a potion before Ryoka had even processed the figures ahead of her. They hadn’t expected his reaction. Nor the speed at which the potion travelled, as fast as the bolts. And the range—
[Remote Detonation]. The flask bloomed ahead of Ryoka and Maviola as they turned left. Then saw—there was no need.
The group of six had been stationed as a sort of checkpoint on the road ahead, a vantage point, sighting for the three. Saliss’ explosion of yellow covered the group of [Assassins] in the tower of stone. Ryoka saw them tumbling off the fortification.
“What did you hit them with?”
“Spores! Don’t run that way! Blow the wind the other way!”
Ryoka raised her hand. The wind blew the yellow cloud away as Maviola ignited her Kaalblade again, pointing a finger to use her [Fast Fireball] spell—
None of the figures got up. They lay, twitching. Ryoka stared at Saliss. He was looking around, upwards, as if trying to find scrying spells.
“That’s torn it. They’ll notice the dead [Assassins] fast—especially if they had lifestones on them. Let’s move. Ryoka?”
“On it. Maviola—”
She tossed the scroll from her belt. The [Lady] caught it, unfurled it.
“[Minute of Speed]—”
The wind blew at their backs, changing from the ordinary weather patterns and the gentle breeze. The three accelerated, under the effects of potions and Skills. They had to beat the closing net as the Circle reacted.
The scrying orb in Saliss’ claw lit up.
 
—-
 
“Magic detected! They’ve found them!”
Lyonette’s head jerked up from dozing. Palt was shouting. The [Princess] heard the common room come alive. The vigil broken.
Someone tumbled out of her room and clashed down the stairs. A Gnoll, who’d fallen asleep with the help of a [Sleep] spell, woke, and raced after Erin.
The broadcast by Wistram revealed the three again. Saliss, Maviola, Ryoka—Drassi and Sir Relz weren’t even talking. They were just watching with everyone else.
“They found them!”
The [Scrying] spell was watching from above. Wistram must have decided that they weren’t endangering the three. And it was easy to see why—
Another bloom of light, from a [Fireball]. Maviola El pointed and blew some [Riders] away. More flashes—
Saliss’ potions. He was scattering them at the distant figures, who were reluctant to approach. You couldn’t have missed it. The Guild was homing in on them again.
“Oh no. They found them!”
Erin saw Ryoka running, aiming a wand and shooting arrows of magic at the [Assassins].
“How’d they find them?”
“They must have run into them by accident. Can they get away?”
“—sorry, everyone. We’re watching the Guild of Assassins and the three—Runners—they’ve just been intercepted!”
Drassi’s voice broke through the silence. She looked around and Sir Relz sat up.
“Y-yes. They appear to have been caught out after nearly four hours of silence. We didn’t reveal them—it looks like the Guild is deploying every [Assassin] they have. That’s…a lot of them.”
