“...drift freely and float on the breath of the world.” Ren responded, and she smiled and walked away. The other pixies waved or nodded and turned and followed her. Rainie on the other hand, was dragged away by Shanna.

“HMMM!” Rainie waved enthusiastically, and Ren held in his laugh and waved back.

Isle stopped walking and ran back to Ren. “Okay. Tell me how you cheated and made me weightless.”

Ren smiled and leaned in close, then whispered. “I used my Wind Manipulation ability to negate the last 20% and push the Anti-dark from it's limit of 80% to 100%.”

“Oh, that's so sneaky.” Isle said. “Now I have to talk to Breeze about a collaboration.”

Ren chuckled. “I hope you both can have fun together, since you have complimentary abilities.”

“Me, too.” Isle said and turned to the last pixie. “Suniva? Are you coming?”

Suniva looked at her and then at Ren, and he felt her indecision.

“I'm staying here all day to work and then I'm going back to Aurora.” Ren said. “If you want to keep spending time with me, you'll have all day to do what you want, then you can come stay with me tonight.”

Suniva smiled and darted forward, kissed his cheek and covered it in Fire, then flew after the pixies.

“All right.” Ren clapped his hands and rubbed them together as he absorbed the Fire Suniva had given him. “Teepo, you're the layout expert. Keep me on the right path.”

“On it, Ren!” Teepo said and flew up into the air to an appropriate spot. “Okay, take out the first length of track!”

Ren took out the large section of flat track that was actually full size, and placed it where Teepo directed. The next piece was attached with molten metal, then the next piece curved up into the air on a sharp angle onto metal scaffolding. Ren continued to add pieces and the track rose up into the air to a huge drop-off.

“People are going to love this.” Ren said and added the magical lift to the track to pull the carts to the top of the incline, then with Teepo's help continued to add pieces to the solid metal roller coaster.
