Cast Distance: Within 100 feet (Medium). Area of Effect: 10 foot radius.

Time Limit: 2 minutes (Level 1)

Wand Of Distraction

A Ghost Sound spell allows you to create a volume of sound that rises, recedes, approaches, or remains at a fixed place. You choose what type of sound Ghost Sound creates when casting it and cannot thereafter change the sound’s basic character.

The volume of sound created depends on your level. You can produce as much noise as four normal humans per Wand level (maximum twenty five humans). Thus, talking, singing, shouting, walking, marching, or running sounds can be created. The noise a ghost sound spell produces can be virtually any type of sound within the volume limit.

Ghost Sound can enhance the effectiveness of a Silent Image (Level 1) spell.

Ghost Sound can be made permanent with a Permanency (Level 5) spell.

Warning: Multiple Ghost Sound spells do not stack on the same object / item. The first must expire before another will work.

Cast Distance: Within 100 feet (Medium). Area of Effect: Varies, depending on the sound being produced.

Time Limit: 2 minutes (Level 1)

Wand Of Entanglement

A Web spell creates a many-layered mass of strong, sticky strands. These strands trap those caught in them. The strands are similar to spider webs, but far larger and tougher. These masses must be anchored to two or more solid and diametrically opposed points or else the web collapses upon itself and disappears. Creatures caught within a web become entangled among the gluey fibers. Attacking a creature in a web won’t cause you to become entangled.

If you have at least 5 feet of web between you and an opponent, it provides cover. If you have at least 20 feet of web between you, it provides total cover and you cannot be seen.

Web can be made permanent with a Permanency (Level 5) spell. A permanent web that is damaged (but not destroyed) regrows in 10 minutes.

Warning: The strands of a Web spell are flammable. A magic flaming sword can slash them away as easily as a hand brushes away cobwebs. Any fire can set the webs alight and burn away 5 square feet in 1 minute. All creatures within flaming webs take 4 to 8 points of Fire damage from the flames.

Cast Distance: Within 100 feet (Medium). Area of Effect: 20 foot circle.

Time Limit: 10 minutes (Level 1)

Wand Of Shrinkage

A Reduce Person spell causes instant diminution of a humanoid creature, halving its height, length, and width and dividing its weight by 8. This decrease changes the creature’s size category to the next smaller one. (Large becomes Normal, Normal becomes Small, etc.) The target gains a bonus to Dexterity (as it is now smaller and can move faster), a penalty to Strength (it is now weaker and unused to it's new muscle mass), and gains a bonus on attacks and armor due to its reduced size (it is much harder to hit).

All equipment worn or carried by a creature is similarly reduced by the spell. A Small humanoid creature whose size decreases to Tiny takes up a space of 2 feet, and a natural reach of 0 feet (None).

Reduce Person can be made permanent with a Permanency (Level 5) spell.

Warning: Multiple Reduce Person spells do not stack. The first must expire before another will work.

Cast Distance: Within 25 feet (Short). Area of Effect: One humanoid within cast distance.

Time Limit: 2 minutes (Level 1)

Wand Of Slickness

A Grease spell covers a solid surface with a layer of slippery grease. Any creature in the area of effect when the spell is cast must be careful or they will slip and fall. Movement is automatically reduced to half of normal for the duration of the spell.

Warning: Multiple Grease spells do not stack. The first must expire before another will work in the same area.

Cast Distance: Within 25 feet (Short). Area of Effect: One object, or a 10 foot square.

Time Limit: 2 minutes (Level 1)

Ren kept out the Sleep, Grease, and Web wands, and stored the other two wands in the top two slots of his inventory. He looked at Croggart; who was staring at Ren like he had three heads and had never seen such a thing before.

“You've missed a lot while you've been gone.” Ren whispered to him, then handed him the Grease wand. “Grease, to make her arms slick.” He said softly, then lifted one of the wands he held. “Sleep, to keep her unconscious.” He lifted the other. “Web, to tie her down.”

Croggart looked at the wand in his hand. “No offensive spells?”

“I can give you a fireball wand if you want; but if it comes down to that, we're screwed unless I reduce her in size.” He whispered. “Giants have spell resistance, if I remember correctly.”

Croggart nodded slightly. “Let's go.” He whispered, and they crept forward.
