Ling Qi grimaced, getting the real meaning. Her chicken scratch was readable now, but her writing was not at the level expected of a noble. “Thank you. Am I going to be out of a job then?” she asked lightly.

Cai Renxiang glanced up from the notes. “No. The disciples have been instructed to limit their aid,” she answered.

Of course. Ling Qi wanted to sigh. The Duchess would not make anything easy for them.

“That is not to say we are without benefits,” Cai Renxiang continued crisply, setting the papers down. “My allowance has been expanded significantly. I also have a package containing spirit stones and medicines for your use. I will give it to you when you take your leave.”

“I did not expect any less,” Ling Qi said with some relief.

“I promised benefits, and I will not break my word,” the other girl said . “I have also instructed the head of the Cai family’s archive to search out arts which may suit your inclinations. That may take some time to complete, and the results will be limited. I may only take so much of the Head Archivist’s time and resources.”

Now, Ling Qi felt almost embarrassed. “You are too generous,” she said awkwardly. “I… Ah, did you have any tasks in mind for me then, Lady Cai?”

Cai Renxiang leaned back in her seat, the light playing around her shoulders shimmering on the silk of her gown. “I will be holding monthly gatherings to build my influence in the Inner Sect. I will expect you to attend.”

“Of course,” Ling Qi replied. What fun, she thought glumly, but at least she could…

“You will be providing the entertainment,” her liege said bluntly, shattering her fantasies of hiding in a corner. “There is little point in wasting your talents. Your musical ability is a superior tool in the Inner Sect environment. I do expect you to keep your ears open, however, and to continue improving your other abilities.”

<Hmph. She can at least see what good taste looks like,> Sixiang murmured in Ling Qi’s head, almost startling her.

“I will do my best not to disappoint your expectations,” Ling Qi replied.

“I trust you will not,” Cai Renxiang said confidently. “Other than that, do as you do. Make personal connections, and of course, should you overhear anything of interest…”

“So make friends and eavesdrop,” Ling Qi said wryly. “You give me the most difficult tasks.”

Her liege gave her a flat look over her steepled fingers. “You jest, but stripped of its pomp, is that not the task of the spymaster?”

Ling Qi was glad that Cai Renxiang had recovered from dealing with her Mother. She had not liked seeing the other girl shaken and uncertain, and a return to Cai Renxiang’s dry humor was welcome. “I suppose it is,” she agreed lightly. “Is there anyone in particular I should be on the lookout for?”

“Extend a hand to Xuan Shi,” Cai Renxiang said. “He and his clan are both amenable to connection, even if he himself has fallen from my circle.”

Ling Qi’s eyebrows rose. She hadn’t even been aware of that happening. “Was there some dispute?”

“No, not as such.” The light the other girl gave off rippled, sending the shadows in the room dancing as she frowned. “Our paths simply diverged.”

Ling Qi hummed but didn’t press the issue. If Cai Renxiang thought it would impact her task, she would say something. “What do you think of Shen Hu?”

“Your opponent from the preliminaries?” Cai Renxiang asked. “He is a scion of a small baronial clan in Meng territory. No one of great importance, but I suppose his personal skill makes for a useful connection.”

“I’ll follow up on that chat I had with him then,” Ling Qi said. “I don’t really know anyone else though.” She could search out her prior tutors, she supposed. She wondered what rank Ruan Shen or Liao Zhu held.

“That will be your task then. Discern those who you feel you might connect with,” Cai Renxiang ordered.

“Consider it done. When will your first gathering be?” Ling Qi asked.

“I am uncertain,” the other girl admitted. “There are too many factors yet. I shall inform you once a date is set.”

She would just have to learn a few more songs in her free time so that she would actually have a variety of songs to play as entertainment. “I will leave you to it then,” she decided. “Do you think you will have time for a cup of tea soon?” she asked innocently.

Cai Renxiang raised an eyebrow. “Shall I ask now what devilry you have in mind?”

Ling Qi huffed. It had come out mechanically, but that had definitely been a joke. Some niggling part of her sometimes wondered if the other girl was just getting better at imitating the behavior Ling Qi thought of as friendly. “I thought it would be relaxing. Besides, did you not say that you would teach me about tea blends? You made it seem very important.”

“And you expect that I shall serve you tea? How arrogant,” Cai Renxiang said imperiously. For a moment, Ling Qi felt concerned, looking at the girl’s affronted expression, but then, the corner of the stiff girl’s lips quirked up. “I suppose there is only one individual capable of not burning the leaves present. Tasks should be divided by merit.”

Ling Qi narrowed her eyes at the other girl. She wasn’t sure how pleased she was to see Cai Renxiang able to fool her like that. She bowed her head deeply. “This humble vassal apologizes for her inability,” she said aloud, allowing a sarcastic edge to touch her voice.

The shorter girl made a brief sound of amusement before turning her eyes back to her desk. “I shall be sure to remove that inability. You will have to entertain yourself until I have completed these last forms. Confine yourself to this room.”

“That makes me wonder what my Lady is hiding,” Ling Qi mused, but her liege ignored the minor jibe. Sighing, Ling Qi stood and drifted over to one of the bookshelves, flipping through one of the less weighty tomes there as she waited for her liege.
