Swapping out my house slippers for my outdoor shoes, I leave the house and stretch under the morning sun. Of course, it was fall, so it was a little chilly out, but at least it wasn't raining yet, and as long as I stayed in the sun, the cold air wouldn't bother me.

I already knew the spot I was going to use. A dozen feet from our front door was a decent-sized boulder. During the summer months, I loved to sit atop it and let the breeze wash over me.

I was lucky to be born when I was; Dad told me children born during winter must go to the village's stables when they first distribute their status points. I wasn't sure if he was joking, and I didn't want to find out.

Crawling atop the boulder, I let my legs dangle comfortably as I meditate for a minute before distributing my points. Contrary to what Mom said, there was no rush, and it was better to have a clear head.

After taking a few calming breaths, I feel my shoulders relax, and only then do I pull up my status page and distribute my points as planned.

LV: 36 Experience: 6,699/38,335

Health: 1000/1000 Stamina: 659/666 Mana: 338/500

Vitality: 100

Endurance: 50

Strength: 50

Dexterity: 50

Senses: 50

Mind: 50

Magic: 50

Clarity: 50

Status Points: 86

Skills: Sense Mana (LV41), Acting (LV23), Meditation (LV39), Expel mana (LV19), Charm (LV30), Running (LV21), Cleaning (LV12), Mathematics (LV26), Writing (LV12), Mana Manipulation (LV2), Wood Carving (LV6), Drawing (LV3)

As a gamer in my past life, I knew spreading my points out like this wasn't the most productive use of them, but I had a good reason for doing so. Mainly because no matter what this world was like, it wasn't a game, and min-maxing myself could lead to a whole host of problems.

But that doesn't mean I'm going to distribute all my points evenly; in fact, depending on what future path I decide to take, I'll probably never put points in some of these categories again.

Having 50 in each stat just meant I had a solid foundation for whatever I chose later. Besides, I still had a lot of points left that I was planning on holding off distributing until I found a job I liked. And when I do I'llll.......

Holy shit! I close my eyes as I start trembling. I need to grit my teeth to keep myself from moaning.

I felt absolutely amazing!

My whole body feels like it's on fire, but in a good way.

Slowly opening my eyes, I'm greeted by a new world. The colors were brighter, the air tasted fresher, and I could hear the wind against the houses better. It was like all my senses went from one to ten instantaneously.

My heart was pounding in excitement; I wanted to see this new world and experience all it had.

I go to push myself off the boulder, but I immediately hate myself for getting caught up in my emotions. Because as soon as I push off the rock, I'm flailing my arms as I rocket myself six feet forward.

I land on the ground face-first. Groaning, I wonder if I accidentally broke something, only to realize I barely felt any pain from the fall. It must be the Endurance I raised.

Okay, time to get up, I tell myself, but my limbs refuse to listen to me. Every movement I make is exaggerated. When I try to get my hands underneath me to push myself up, I end up hitting myself in the sides.

Just then, I hear some giggling not that far away from me. Without moving my head, I search my surroundings with my eyes and see a group of village ladies laughing at me.

"Tough, isn't it?" A familiar voice says from my blind spot. My whole body jerks as I try to face my brother, and it takes me a while to overcome my spasms. And when I do, I find Richard perched on my favorite boulder, looking down on me.

"Remember back when it was me on the ground, and you spent the whole day teasing me while I couldn't move?" Richard reminds me with a grin.

I had no response, well, more like I couldn't respond. Trying to say something snappy in return only causes a weird screech to come out of my mouth.

"You sound like an injured rabbit!" Richard almost doubles over in laughter.

Now he's starting to piss me off; fueled by anger and red with embarrassment, I force my body into a crouched position. And while he's still laughing at me, I launch myself like a rocket at him.

Brother's eyes turn the size of dinner plates as I turn myself into a human missile. I wanted to catch him off guard, but Richard reacts surprisingly well. He actually braces himself on top of the rock and catches me mid-flight. Despite myself, I can't help but congratulate him. "Nice catch."

While in his arms, Richard looks down at me with a severe look. "Aaliyah, you need to be more careful. Even if you feel invincible right now, you can still get hurt," he lectures me.

In hindsight, I might have overacted, but at least he wasn't laughing at me anymore.

Hopping down from the boulder, Richard gently sits me back down on the ground. "Take it slow; feel your toes, your feet, then your legs. Once you think you have a handle on those, try to move them, but as little as possible. Get used to how much you need to hold back," he advises me.

Following his words, I slowly flex my toes in my shoes, then my leg muscles.

"Good, keep that up, and you'll be up and running again in no time. I wish I could stay and watch you struggle a bit longer, but I'm supposed to meet Salus across the village for work," Brother then reaches out and pats me on the head like a dog.

I want to knock his hand away, but I'm afraid I might use too much strength and hurt him. So I let him torment me until he's satisfied as payment for making fun of him when he had to go through this.

Brother doesn't stay long, and soon he leaves for work, and I'm left by myself again. The giggling ladies were also gone, and I couldn't see anyone else, so I was able to suffer in solitude.

Unable to move properly, I do the only thing I can and meditate again.

While trying to get used to my body, I noticed how much it's changed over the years. I was a young woman now; I was 5' 3'' and growing taller daily. Without proper mirrors, I've only ever seen my reflection in Dad's polished axe, so inspecting my face is hard.

I know I was slowly losing the chubby cheeks I had as a baby, but I was okay with that. I wasn't a model by any standards, but I was happy with my appearance. I especially like the green eyes that I inherited from my father.

Village life has kept me fit, and thanks to my stretching and running each day, I've kept a skinny figure. Puberty has already started, so keeping my body clean is a must, but I'm hoping higher stats keep pimples away.

My chest has started to grow, giving me mixed feelings. I know a lot of confidence can come with size, but I'm hoping they end up the same size as Mother; not too big, not too small.

I'm still growing and curious to see how my stats affect my body over the next few years.

After focusing on my body for so long, I can slowly move my limbs. To get up, I imitate a sloth; you would think learning to walk for the third time would be easy.

One slow step after another, I slowly became more accustomed to my enhanced body. I had to thank Richard later; without his advice, I would still be lying face down in the dirt right now.

I was forced to pause initially, but as I walked around the outskirts of the village, I regained control of my legs.

After my first lap around the village, I feel comfortable trying jogging.

Jogging slowly morphs into running, and soon I'm back at normal speed. But I wasn't stopping there.

With every step I take, I push a little harder. As a result, I was going faster, and it was much easier to maintain my speed without feeling winded.

While making my fourth lap around the village, still not feeling tired, I'm comfortable enough to turn my attention partially toward the village.

I was so caught up in my runner's high that I missed the people shouting and waving at me. They were over forty feet away from me, and the wind rushing past me was muffling their voices, but I knew what they were shouting.

"Little Rabbit."

"Little Rabbit."

"Little Rabbit."

I sigh in resignation; over five years later, I still can't escape that nickname.

As I pass by our house again, I decide to stop. Slowing down almost sees me tripping, but I catch myself before I fall.

I had tested my physical stats enough; it was time to see what boosting the others did.

Once again, climbing up onto my favorite rock, I activate Meditation. The skill was getting a lot of use today, and I barely had to focus to sense a noticeable difference in my mana network.

My overall mana had increased by almost 40%, and with the boost to Senses, Mind, and Clarity, it was much easier to track its movements throughout my body.

It would take a lot of experimentation to see what new bonuses my stats afforded me; good thing I loved doing just that.

Look out, world, because there was a new superpowered Aaliyah to deal with!
