"Why did I have to suck at art in both my lifetimes?" I frown up at the ceiling.

I had successfully convinced Mom to buy me some paint from the merchant who visits our village every month to spruce up my room, only to waste it all essentially.

Was it so wrong of me to want to bring some color to my drab and dreary room? I didn't think so.

Sighing and cocking my head to the side, I stare at the Rorschach spots dotting my ceiling. They were supposed to be soothing clouds, but now I questioned my sanity every time I looked up at them.

When Brother stopped by shortly after I painted them, he had laughed at me for destroying his old room and very sarcastically suggested I take up art as a hobby.

I had kicked him out of my room for the offense, but I had to admit, he had a point. If I had more paint, I would cover the splotches, but I had already wasted too much money on them in the first place, so I just had to deal with it.

And despite him laughing at me, a part of me missed Richard living with us. Of course, only a tiny part.

I loved having my own room, both as a growing girl and because it allowed me to meditate and practice my magic skills in peace. And it wasn't like Richard wasn't still eating dinner with us every night; he just had his own place to return to afterward. His house was mostly empty, but as a carpenter, he was slowly changing that.

A lot has changed since he accessed his status page five-odd years ago.

It took Richard a year and a half to find his calling, but he's achieved a lot since he did. Initially, Richard had trouble deciding what he wanted to do, but one day he saw Salus, our village's architect, fixing someone's wall and offered assistance. The rest was history.

It was a good thing for the village that Richard decided to become Salus' apprentice. He wasn't old, but Salus was getting up there in age, and many had suggested he start looking for someone to take over his mantle.

Especially with all the random goblin attacks we've been having lately, it was simply too hard for Salus to fix everything himself.

It was actually back when the goblin activity first started to pick up that Richard ran into Salus and offered his help, so you might even call it destiny that the two of them met.

Much to Dad's disappointment, Brother loved being a carpenter and learning from Salus. And Salus genuinely enjoyed having Richard as his apprentice. It was common for people with apprentices to saddle them with all the undesirable work, but not Salus. According to Brother, he takes his time showing him everything.

And that's how a year and a half ago, Brother did the unthinkable and told us he would build his own house with his own two hands. And six months ago, he finished it.

Salus had helped Brother in his free time, but that just went to show how much they appreciated one another.

Brother had found his passion, and soon I would need to too.

My status page would unlock early tomorrow morning, and I'd finally be allowed to distribute the hundreds of status points I've earned for working hard over the last ten years.

Tonight Mother was making a celebratory feast, which was good because it was technically Richard's turn to cook. Since he moved out, Mom demanded that he starts practicing his Cooking skill, so now we all had to suffer through his meals twice a week.

Mother planned to get Richard to cook passable meals by the end of this year, but now that it was my birthday, half the year was gone, and Richard was still torturing us with his cooking.

I actually miss the casual soups and stews Mom prefers to make. Unfortunately, my brother is still under the impression there's no such thing as too much seasoning, so everything he cooks comes out under an inch of pepper. And the sad thing was, I wasn't even exaggerating that much!

Thank the imaginary gods that Mother wasn't making him cook my celebratory dinner. He was in the kitchen helping, but that should be fine.

Normally, I'd be happy to have him over with us, but he's been quite loud the last few hours. That’s why I came here for some peace and quiet.

"Why are you not scolding her about proper stat distribution as you did with me?" Case in point, I hear Richard grumble in the kitchen, the house's thin walls doing nothing to stop it from reaching me. If staying in here isn’t going to help, I might as well go be in the thick of it.

Getting out of bed and exiting my room, I make it to the kitchen in time to hear Mother's response.

"Honey, you never asked us any questions about your Status Page. Always running around shouting how strong you were going to be. We worried you'd dump everything into your Strength stat if we didn't sit you down and spell it out for you," Mother looks at Richard with pitying eyes.

"Aaliyah has been asking us questions about stats and skills for years. She even asked me to teach her the Mathematics and Writing skills to take notes." As Mom further laid into him, I met Richard's gaze and cockily grinned at him.

Richard's cheeks brighten under Mother's scrutiny, and I have the urge to brag about my level but catch myself at the last minute. I still had yet to decide if I wanted to tell my family about my level, mainly because: status page.

LV: 36 Experience: 6,699/38,335

Health: 160/160 Stamina: 117/160 Mana: 187/360

Vitality: 16

Endurance: 17

Strength: 15

Dexterity: 19

Senses: 21

Mind: 30

Magic: 36

Clarity: 32

Status Points: 350

Skills: Sense Mana (LV41), Acting (LV23), Meditation (LV39), Expel Mana (LV19), Charm (LV30), Running (LV21), Cleaning (LV12), Mathematics (LV26), Writing (LV12), Mana Manipulation (LV2), Wood Carving (LV6), Drawing (LV3)

It was crazy to think that I was only a few levels off from Mother's level. Of course, she probably leveled a few times in the last five years, but even then, I was still incredibly close for someone turning ten.

I didn't need to see other kids' status pages to know; I was incredibly over-leveled for my age. It would've been nice to know for Acting purposes; sadly, Richard had always remained tight-lipped about his status page, only ever alluding to how amazing he was.

But considering the parents told us the average villager was level 35, and I was past that already, it would be quite a shock if my level was revealed to people.

All of my original skills have seen decent growth, but Sense Mana gave me the most experience and was by far my most valuable skill. I thought it would eventually hit some roadblock as I leveled it, and I especially worried when it hit level 40, but my fears never came true. Sense Mana hit level 41 not long ago and was, in my opinion, super overpowered.

Using it, I could see the different hues of mana around me. Sense Mana also allowed me to gauge my internal mana supply and others vaguely.

But in doing so, I had to be extremely careful. My skill had a twenty-seven-foot radius, meaning I could quite easily see what went on in the parent's bedroom. And I'll just say my parents really love each other, and nothing is worse than seeing a Picasso painting of mana depicting what they do at night. It takes much more than meditating to get that picture out of my head. Yuck.

While Mom and Richard are cooking, I sit at the table with Dad. He starts talking about how proud he is of me and how work is going. I try to listen as long as possible, but when Dad starts going over every tree he decided to chop down today, my mind naturally wanders back to my status page.

While Sense Mana gave me a lot of experience points, it's been slow to level as of late. And it's actually been Mathematics and Writing that has been providing me the most experience as of late.

Learning to read in a village as small as this was hard, as there were few books on hand, and the ones that were were usually boring, like crop yield reports. Still, Mother did an excellent job teaching with what she had.

But by comparison, Mathematics was much easier to level. Once Mom taught me the symbols used for numbers in this world, it was literal child's play to do the math as I had a high school degree in my past life.

At first, I thought I wouldn't gain anything from the skill once I leveled it up, but it had the surprising effect of helping me remember the math equations I was forced to memorize in school. Those equations, in turn, helped me level my skill further. It almost made me wish I had taken more than up to geometry in school.

Each skill was a success in its own right, but some got more attention than others. For example, the levels in Wood Carving were from dad teaching me, but I wasn't focusing on it. The same could be said for Drawing; while I would love to level it up and finally advance from drawing stick figures, it wasn't my number one priority. They just weren't as crucial as my growing number of mana skills.

Along with Sense Mana, Meditation, and Expel Mana, I now had Mana Manipulation to keep me busy. The only problem was that I'd had the skill for over a year and could only get it to level 2.

I had only unlocked it by slowing down the mana flow inside my body. I've tried slowing it down further, but that has seen little progress, while speeding it up didn't work at all. But I didn't want to focus on the negative during my big day, so I cleared those thoughts before they could bring down my mood.

I would eventually figure it out, and one day I'd be able to cast fireballs like I've always wanted to.

After making that promise to myself, it is only a short time before Dad gets up to help the rest of the family bring the food to the table.

We all recite the dinner prayer together, and I get served first, as it's my big day.

The rest of the night goes as usual in our house. Richard and I trade a few good-natured barbs until Mom tells us to stop. Dad talks more about the surrounding forest and how the village's hunters are trying to combat the pesky goblins—typical family talk.

Mother and Father take a minute to discuss how I need to be careful about distributing my points tomorrow, despite telling Richard earlier they wouldn't, but I don't mind. I've been thinking about tomorrow for ten years, and any advice they offer me, I'll take it.

The three of us eventually have to say goodbye to Richard, but he doesn't leave without giving me a spine-cracking hug and whispering, "Good luck tomorrow," in my ear.

After that, I move on autopilot. I change into my nightgown, brush my teeth and yell goodnight through the walls, subtly hinting to the parents that I would appreciate a quiet night for a change.

Tomorrow couldn't come any sooner!

**********

I hear the creaking noise of our front door opening.

Grabbing my blanket, I pull it tighter around me and curl into a ball wishing the sun would go back down. Unfortunately, I had not slept as well as I had planned. My parents were quiet, which was nice, and I even dumped most of my mana pool, thinking it would help me sleep, but nope.

I was too excited for my own good, only managing to swing a few hours of rest before the sun started to leak in through the shuttered window.

Rolling over, I face the door to my bedroom and wait. It isn't long after I hear the front door close shut that there's a knock on my bedroom door. Mom doesn't wait for me to respond before opening it, as she usually has to come in to wake me up.

"This is a surprise," she says, seeing me already awake. "Now that you're an adult, do I still need to wake you up in the morning?" She jokingly smiles at me.

"Please do," I groan.

"Couldn't sleep?" Mom hits the nail on the head first try.

"I was too excited," I tiredly tell her.

Gliding over to my bed, Mom leans down and kisses my forehead. "Don't worry; you'll feel more awake once you distribute your status points."

"Because they will energize me or because I'll be flopping all over the place?" I give Mom a dubious look.

"Both," Mother lightheartedly chuckles.

What I was referring to is that once I start distributing my stats, I'll temporarily be unable to control my body. Usually, a person levels up and distributes their points immediately, and doing so, has little effect on the body, even if you put all ten in a single category.

However, when a child turns ten, they gain access to multiple levels' worth of status points, and distributing them can have some funny consequences.

When Brother distributed his points all those years ago, he flopped around on the ground like a fish for hours before he regained control of his body.

"Mom, can I please distribute my points inside?" I activate Charm and plead with my eyes, not wanting to be embarrassed in front of whoever walks by during the day.

"Sorry, but it's too dangerous for you to be indoors. We can't have you breaking everything inside just because you don't want to be embarrassed." Mom wickedly smiles at me; "Now go outside and start. The longer you put it off, the longer you must stay outside."

Mom gives me one last kiss on the forehead before leaving, but this one feels more aggressive than the first.

After she's gone, I finally throw back my covers and slowly crawl out of bed. Of course, I procrastinate by taking longer to get ready, but even then, I'm out of my bedroom in thirty minutes with my red hair brushed out and tied up in a ponytail. I've tried styling it several ways, but I prefer it like this, as I can keep it long without it getting in my eyes as I run.

As for my clothes, I chose my worst pair of pants and an old shirt, as they are likely to get dirty. I could wear one of the only two dresses I have to get back at Mom for not letting me stay inside, but she'll probably make me wash it myself if I get that dirty.

Even though I'm annoyed at Mother, I still hug her goodbye when I snag a piece of jerky from the kitchen, and she, in turn, wishes me luck.

