Time passed quickly. Soon, Poi and Kiri were asleep in beds, in a private room.

Erick watched over them from his own wheelchair, worrying, gently petting a tiny Ophiel in his lap.

Rats stood next to Erick, saying, “Big experiment.”

“It wasn’t supposed to be. I told them it would be loud, but...” Erick said, “I had no idea this would happen.” He added, “I thought it might. But… I didn’t really think, I think.”

“They’ll be fine.” Teressa stood on Erick’s other side. “They’ve both been through worse.”

Rats smiled. “I’ll have to poke fun at Poi for this, though. You told him it would be loud?”

“I did.” Erick said, “I told them to cover their ears.” He said, “I covered my own ears, too!”

Rats nodded, knowingly. “They got a brain rattle, but they should be okay.” He asked, “You did this inside a [Crystalline Air], too?”

“Inside three of them!” Erick said, “I removed ‘Air’ from the permissions, too. [Solid Ward]s don’t flex— Shit. The concussive force came through the ground.” Erick mentally added ‘Air’ back to [Crystalline Air]’s permissions.

Teressa said, “It shouldn’t have. You wrap that spell through the ground, too, don’t you?”

“… Yeah. … I… I always do that, don’t I? Sorry. Not thinking… well.” Erick looked over Kiri and Poi. He asked, “So what happened?”

Teressa said, “Force enough to break two [Crystalline Air]s and damage a third, is what.” She added, “All the Health in the world won’t save you from a mountain falling on you or an uncontrolled fall from the sky.” She glanced to Erick, saying, “Usually. Luck plays a bigger part in those kind of scenarios.” She continued, “Physical effects hurt a lot more than Health can negate. This explosion was a physical effect. Therefore: actual damage. Professor Rue talked about this once. Some people like to call it ‘True Damage’.”

Rats said, “Best that you denied ‘Air’, sir. If that explosion did this much through a few [Solid Ward]s then it would have absolutely ripped a normal [Absorption Ward] apart.”

“...I could have prepared more.” Erick said, “They were only 4000 point [Wards].”

Teressa asked, “How’d the actual experiment go?”

Erick thought for a moment. He said, “Including the Headmaster’s [Exsanguination] spell as a starter, I have all the parts I need to make a Particle version of [Death Spiral Fire] or something similar.” He paused. He added, “Maybe. If you look at it from a certain way.” He said, “But I don’t know if it’s going to happen that way or not.”

“What’s stopping you?” Rats said, “Besides tiered Particle magic evading literally everyone.”

Erick looked down at Poi and Kiri, both of them sleeping soundly in their beds.

Rats said, “Besides that, too.”

“… I have to level the spells I made today.” Erick added, “And I need to talk to the Headmaster. I need to talk to him about Jane, too.”

Rats asked, “Is there something we should know? I had a pair of cute nurses ask me if the story of the Unusually Large Ancient Unicorn was true. Jane’s story is making the rounds.”

“There’s nothing to know right now.” Erick said, “She might be coming here but she’s got to work out some mess first. She wouldn’t tell me what.”

Rats’s eyes went wide. He whispered, “Did she get her hands on some Dragon Essence fighting the big unicorn?”

Erick looked to Rats. “If she has, she hasn’t told me. Is there a problem?” Erick quickly realized what dragon essence meant. He didn’t need Poi to answer. Jane had told him about it months ago, about how taking in any dragon essence at all meant that person was now a part of the hidden dragon societies of the world. “If she has some, would that make the Headmaster target her?”

For a moment, the only sounds in the room were the sounds of Kiri and Poi gently breathing.

Rats said, “Tell her she can’t come here.” He added, “The Headmaster welcomes all people with unexpected dragon essence in them, but they have to openly prostrate and kowtow to him, at all times, and follow him around Oceanside as the world’s most docile servant. This kills their dragon essence very, very fast, but it still takes a week, and if they fuck up, he eats them.”

Teressa quietly said, “I don’t see Jane kowtowing to anyone.”

Erick felt a rushing cold settle into his core.
