“Yes, dear.” Aimus said and rolled his eyes.

Ren stiffled a laugh and Teepo chittered in delight. Ren helped himself to a big slice of homemade bread and covered it in strawberry jelly. The bread was still warm from the oven and the jelly was just sweet enough to make Ren's mouth water.

“It's a minimal breakfast today.” Aimus said. “I'll have to visit the local farms later to pick up some supplies.”

Ren nodded, finished the piece of bread, and put several gold coins on the table. Ren thanked Abigail for breakfast and left the kitchen.

*

Aimus turned to Abigail. “You see? He didn't even ask for another piece of bread.”

Abigail shook her head. “Is he intentionally starving himself?”

“I don't know. He's been doing things like that ever since I've known him. Even on the road traveling here he only ate a single fried egg.” Amus stood and looked out the window as Ren entered the barn. “I noticed he'd taken some of your rolls when he gave me one at the lookout.”

“He did that again yesterday.” Abigail said. “It made me wonder if he was poor and starving.”

Aimus shook his head. “No, you've seen that he has plenty of money. I don't know what he thinks he's doing.”

*

Ren went into the barn to clean out the cart. The two duffle like bags were still in it. One was significantly empty, and Ren assumed that it was the one that held the traps that Aimus had ordered from the genral store. The other one was still quite full. Ren grabbed both bags and lifted them out of the cart. Ren looked around to see where he could put them, and Aimus came in the barn.

“I'll take them.” Aimus said and went to the hidden hatch in the middle of the barn. “I can't leave these things just lying around for anyone to find.” Aimus opened the hatch and gently placed both bags inside. He closed the hatch and kicked dirt over it again to hide it.

“Those hides should be good and dry now.” Aimus said and went around the barn to the shed out back.

The hides were good and dry, considering they'd been hung there for most of the day yesterday and then overnight. Aimus took them down and went into the shed and the small work table there. Aimus put the pelts down on the nearby rack, took the top pelt and put it on the bench. Aimus grabbed a small thin brush and stroked the pelt on the fur side. The hair became fluffy and soft after a few passes. Ren picked up the pelt and felt it.

“Wow. Nice.” Ren said in admiration.

Aimus nodded and did the same thing to the other pelts.

“Now, if you wanted to remove the hair, you use this one.” Aimus said and grabbed another tool. It looked like a wide razor blade on the end of a handle. Aimus picked up a scrap piece of pelt that was uncombed.

“You scrape the hair off the skin, just like shaving.” Aimus said and shaved the pelt. The hair just slid off and Ren was amazed.

“It's that easy?” Ren asked.

“Ha!” Aimus laughed. “Easy? It takes years of practice to get this good at it.”

Aimus stood and handed the piece of pelt and the tool to Ren. Ren smiled and slid the razor across the skin in another line, making sure to take his time and follow the line Aimus made.

Notice!

You have learned a new sub skill.

Scudding Level 1 (Beginner 0%)

This sub skill of Leatherworking allows you to remove hair from a pelt.

Higher skill levels will increase the speed of scudding, and reduce damage to the main skin.

Ren smiled and skinned the rest of the scrap piece of pelt. Aimus shook his head and took the tool.

“I have got to stop being surprised by you.” Aimus said and hung the tool back above the workbench. “We'll have lots of that to do tomorrow.”

Ren nodded and Aimus left the shed. Ren followed and helped Aimus hook up the horse to the cart.

“I'll be back after lunch.” Aimus said and then flipped the reins. The horse took the command and trotted off with the empty cart.

Ren waved as Aimus left and wondered what he was going to do with himself while Aimus was gone.

“Now would be a good time to look for the Sage of Ages.” Teepo said.

“You're right, Teepo. It is a good time.” Ren said and opened up the system menu. It didn't take long for him to not find what he was looking for, though. “I can't find her. I don't know what her name is.”

“Sage of Ages didn't work?” Teepo asked.

“No. I have to know what her actual name is if I want to contact her.”

“Oh... well, I guess you can wait...” Teepo said.

“No, you're right. I do have to contact her somehow.” Ren said. “Hm... if I do it that way...”

Teepo wondered what Ren meant. “What other way is there?”

Ren thought for a moment. “The adventurer's way.” Ren said and smiled. “Teepo, I'm going to be... immobile for a little while. No one will be able to wake me.”

“Like before?” Teepo said.

“Yes. Only this time I'll only be gone for a short time. Maybe an hour or so.”

“You can choose how long you'll be like that?!?” Teepo said, surprised.

Ren smiled again. “Yes, I can choose. The last time I actually missed the time when I was supposed to wake up... and that's why I slept all day.”

Ren looked around for somewhere to log out safely, and remembered the hay loft. That would be the best spot to hide away so no one would know that his body would be in the same state that it was in before. Ren climbed up there and hid behind the fresh timber planks that were there.

“I'll be back as soon as I can, Teepo.” Ren said and laid down in some hay.

“I'll keep a lookout!” Teepo said.

Ren nodded and closed his eyes. “Thanks, Teepo.”

“Logout.”

********
