After a day of experimentation, Jake was well and truly spent, and he knew that using Invocation much more wouldn’t turn out well for them. He also felt like the instability kicked in earlier than usual during his last few uses, only further cementing that he needed some rest.

Still, as he stared at the bottle of Heartrot Poison he’d crafted as an experiment, he felt more than satisfied. Empowering Malefic Viper’s Poison alone led to a roughly twenty percent increase, and coupled with Blood and Sagacity, Jake was confident in pushing it toward making all of his crafted poisons a third more potent than they had been just a couple of days ago.

To recover and perhaps even do a bit more experimenting before he had to check in on Jasper again, Jake started meditating down in his alchemy lab. While he was done reading the tome of the First Sage for now, he still had a lot of content to review as he properly digested everything and fully formulated his Meditate skill upgrade.

Jake ended up spending about four hours in meditation before he felt a new presence lock in on his location. He couldn’t help but smile as he opened his eyes right as a familiar wood elf goddess appeared in front of him.

“You know, some people would find it disturbing when you seemingly always know they’re about to arrive,” Artemis said in a teasing voice. “I would also be a bit careful showing it off. It’s neat for sure, but also something that will raise some eyebrows. A mortal detecting a Godqueen is not normal, especially not when they did it in the middle of meditating.”

“I knew it was you who was coming, so I didn’t see the need for caution,” Jake shrugged as he quickly stood up from the pillow he had been sitting on.

“See, you saying that would also prove disturbing to many,” Artemis reiterated.

“I don’t really care what this ambiguous group of many thinks about me,” Jake smiled as he walked over to Artemis and put his hands around her waist. “And I don’t see you acting very disturbed.”

“Oh, me?” Artemis said, looking him in the eyes. “Perhaps I’m the disturbed one for finding it attractive. Shows you’re not the type to get snuck up on. Always the hunter, never the prey and all that.”

“Should be careful around someone that dangerous, shouldn’t you?” Jake chuckled.

“It’s too late, it seems. I’ve already been caught,” Artemis smiled as she leaned in and whispered into his ear. “Now what shall the hunter do with the defenseless prey he holds in his clutches?”

“Well,” Jake responded, moving his head closer to hers. “I’m not the type to catch and release.”

Jake took the initiative this time around and didn’t give her time to answer before he covered her mouth with his, having decided that the experimentation could wait a little longer.

Besides, meditation wasn’t the only way to heal one’s soul.
