Ren repaired the body with his glowing blacksmith's hammer, much to the surprise of the onlookers; but, there was still no response from it or from Teepo.

I hope this works. Ren thought, with hope in his mind and heart. Summon Teepo!

Teepo appeared at Ren's feet, and Ren picked him up with a huge smile on his face. Everyone was a little concerned that he had picking up something that wasn't there, except for Railyse. She knew all about Teepo.

Teepo? Ren asked. Are you okay?

“Ugh.” Teepo said. “Ren? Why do I have a splitting headache?”

You just took a sharp piece of metal to the head. Ren thought to his friend. Actually, we both did.

“We really should stop doing stuff like this.” Teepo said, then crawled up Ren's arm to the the shoulder, rather than fly like he could have. “I don't know how much more we can take.”

Ren smiled and pat his friend, then looked at Railyse. “He's a little shaken, but he seems fine.”

“I'm glad.” Railyse said and put a hand on Ren's other shoulder, and Ren looked at King Alamast.

“Have you closed the meeting room to keep all of the witnesses contained? We need to start the investigation right away.” Ren asked.

“What?”

“Someone wanted the Ambassador dead.” Ren said and stood up. “You will turn this room upside down to find out who did it.”

“You don't give the orders around here.” King Alamast said.

“Then hurry up and do it yourself!” Ren said, a little excitedly. “I couldn't see this whole time, and my scout was out of action! I don't know if anyone has already left the room or not!”

“Everyone is accounted for.” The king said.

Ren looked around and quickly counted the number of people. “Where's the messenger?”

“A healer healed him and he left.” The head healer said.

“Get him back here right now!” Ren said. “He's the star witness!”

“Why is that?”

“He delivered the package, that's why!” Ren said and looked at the people around him. “What is wrong with you?”

“What do you mean?” Diana asked.

“Someone just bombed a room inside your home, seriously hurt several people, and you're not doing anything about it!”

“I'm sure the court investigator will find something in a few days.” King Alamast said.

Ren reached out and grabbed the king by his well-made clothing and pulled him down close. “Your daughter and Railyse almost died! I almost died! Stop being lazy and get to work!”

“Let go of me.” The king commanded in a deep voice.

“Not until you smarten up!” Ren said and shook the king a little. “Protect your family!” He said. “Protect this realm like you're supposed to!”

“Guards!” King Alamast said, and 4 guards came into the room immediately. They carried swords and wore heavy leather armor.

“Ren! Let him go!” Railyse pleaded.

“Please, let him go.” Diana said. “If you're going to take a hostage, take me instead.”

“Take a hostage?!?” Ren asked, surprised; then looked at the king. “I'm not taking anyone anywhere.”

“Then let me go!” King Alamast said.

“Are you really such a fool that you'll let the attempted murder of your own daughter go unpunished?” Ren asked him, and Diana gasped. The king looked at his daughter, then back at Ren.

“She wasn't the target.”

“She'd be just as dead, you fool!” Ren spat at him, gave him another shake, and let the king go. King Alamast stumbled slightly when he wasn't being held steady, and stood up straight.

“Take this man to the dungeon.” King Alamast said to the guards, and Diana watched Ren to see his reaction. She didn't see shock, fear, revulsion, indignation, or anything else even close to what she had expected. She was surprised to see what Ren actually had on his face. Contempt.

“I don't think so.” Ren said. “I won't waste my time sitting in prison while people who have plotted against my friend run free.”

“You don't have any choice in the matter.” King Alamast said.

*

This is turning out wonderfully! Lord Eddlemere thought. He had been healed quickly, but remained on the floor where he had fallen, and watched the events unfold. I had planned on framing the king for the Ambassador's murder, but this might be much, much better!

Lord Eddlemere thought about Talon and how much that boy had screwed up.

Well, I guess it wasn't his fault the Ambassador didn't leave the meeting room for the break. Lord Eddlemere sighed. I'll have to punish him for not warning me it was coming here, though.
