And that was it. No ‘I missed you’, no ‘I still love you’, not even a joke about becoming his fourth wife. Just, ‘good to see you’ while being all lovey-lovey with Mila. When did they become so intimate? Uptight Mila seemed perfectly fine with this public show of affection despite her parents standing only a few metres away. It wasn’t anything overtly salacious or indecent, merely one hand resting on her hip, but their actions were so casual and practised it spoke of a deep level of trust and affection, far more than they’d shared when Yan parted ways. To make matters worse, Rain’s new concubine towered over them nearby, a gorgeous goddess with long legs and huge tits whose every action exuded sex appeal as she clung to her ‘Lord Husband’s’ sleeve and studied Yan with a wary gaze. With Lin’s undeniable charisma thrown into the mix, was there even still room for Yan in Rain’s cluttered love life?

Fucking hell. What a difference a year makes...

Summoning a phony smile, Yan swallowed her disappointment and replied, “Good to see you too.” Turning aside, she wave Da’in over and said, “Let me introduce you to my new... What would I call you anyways? My God-Sister?”

The willowy woman’s smile had a seductive cast to it, her eyes half-lidded and head held at a slight tilt, giving her the illusion of vulnerability despite being one of the most dangerous young women Yan knew. “Actually,” she drawled, linking arms with Yan as she spoke, “We’ve met, and since you call Godfather ‘Grandpa’, I would technically be your God-Aunt. Be a good little girl Yan-Yan, and greet your God-Aunt nicely.” With a petulant smile, Da’in switched to Sending and said, “You naughty, deceitful seductress. To think, I spent an entire morning raving about how bold and daring Falling Rain was yet you didn’t see fit to tell me he’s smitten with you.”

“Smitten?”

“Yes, utterly smitten and ready to heel at your command. Have you seen the way he looks at you? Like a starving predator lying in wait. I’ve already forced you to share your beloved Grandpa, so your God-Aunt won’t fight you for your little lover, even after such a spectacular and seductive display of arrogance and power.” Pursing her lips, Da’in added, “That said, he seems like a man of voracious appetite, so if he’s looking to add to his harem, be sure to think of your dear God-Aunt first, okay? I won’t settle for being his concubine, but neither will I insist on the position of primary wife. Mother and Father have been nagging me to marry for years now, and I fear they’re contemplating having me drugged, chained, and sold off to my prospective husband-to-be.”

Starving predator huh? Brimming with confidence thanks to Da’in’s perspective, Yan completed the introductions and stepped aside to greet Li Song, even though the two of them weren’t that close. In fact, the surly wildcat seemed overtly antagonistic and Yan had no idea why, but she couldn’t be bothered to puzzle out why. Knowing Rain was still interested filled Yan with both joy and trepidation, her heart pounding and nerves aflutter as she struggled for control. He still cares, so don’t screw it up, but you’re not orphan Adujan anymore. You’re Du Min Yan and you can’t afford to be seen throwing yourself at men. You must be ladylike and demure lest you bring shame upon the Du family name, even though no one blinks twice when the men of Central whore about with reckless abandon. Thus, she had to be sneaky about throwing herself at Rain and wait until after nightfall to seduce him.

Only a few hours more, and then...

Chapter Meme
