“I smell hot dogs.” Gretchen said and looked at her friend. “Where the hell did he get hot dogs?”

“I smell something sweet.” Teela said from Dana's shoulder. “I've never smelled anything like it before.”

“We have to go see what's going on.” Dana said and stood up, and she didn't wobble. “Let's go.”

As they approached the food section of the park, they quickly discovered what the sweet smell was.

“Cotton Candy!” Dana and Gretchen said at the same time, and went to the booth.

“How is that possible?” Dana asked, and saw one of the cooks add colored sugar to a large metal bowl, and then used a long thin piece of wood to roll around inside the bowl. Little bolts of Lightning crisscrossed and shocked the sugar, just as a real cotton candy machine would, and after several swirls around, the cook produced a big bundle of cotton candy on a stick.

“It's food magic!” The female cook exclaimed and handed Dana the stick and quickly did another and gave it to Gretchen. “Quick! Quick! Try it!”

Dana looked at Gretchen for a moment, and then they both took a bite. They felt the instant sugar rush and gained +1 to their Endurance for the next minute. They dismissed the popup at the same time and looked at each other again.

“It's an energy booster.” Dana said, and Gretchen nodded. “I wonder how much...”

“It's +5 Endurance for half an hour when you finish it.” A man said from nearby, and tossed his empty stick into the trashcan beside the stall. “I don't know how he did it, but it's amazing.”

Dana and Gretchen nodded, and the man turned to the next stall to try one of the hot dogs.

“Oh!” Gretchen said and turned back to the cook making the cotton candy. “How much do we owe for these?”

“Everyone gets one for free while I'm practising.” The female cook said happily. “My King is a great man!”

Dana and Gretchen ate their delicious and beneficial cotton candy as they looked around at the biggest and most elaborate amusement park that ever existed anywhere, and had to agree with the cook. Ren had definitely done some great things.
