The healer laughed for a moment, then caught her breath as Princess poured on the speed. “Good god.” She said as they went faster and faster across the sky, and they couldn't even see the countryside as it blurred past. Princess started to slow down less than a minute later, and the healer thought something must have gone wrong for them to stop so soon... and then she saw King Alamast's castle in the center of the capital city.

She couldn't believe it.

Ren directed Princess to one of the lesser used streets near the back of the castle, and came in for a landing. He hopped off and unhooked her from the horses and carriage.

“There you go.” Ren said. “I'll be back in 3 hours to check on your progress.”

“I... I...” The healer tried to speak.

“Travelling so fast takes a bit of getting used to.” Ren said. “You adjust quickly, believe me.”

“I'll meet you here at the back gate to let you know what's going on.” The healer's assistant said. She hadn't been fazed at all by the trip, and had even enjoyed it.

“Thank you.” Ren said. “Good luck, and I hope whoever you treat makes a full recovery.”

The healer finally gathered her wits about her. “As do we.” She said. “Driver, to the front of the castle.”

The driver flicked the reins and the carriage drove up the street and around the corner.

“Let's get back to Elerlyth and Zetaya.” Ren said. “We've got a lot of work to do.”

“Yes, My Lord.” Princess said and ran up into the sky and disappeared.

*

Diana, Princess of the Human Kingdom, had been at her perch in her upstairs window at the back of the castle, when she saw a horse drawn carriage fly in and around behind the castle. She rubbed her eyes and blinked them several times, then looked again. She watched in wonder as it landed, and then a short figure jumped off the lead horse and detached it.

“What in the world?” Diana asked herself out loud as she tried to figure out who it could be. She couldn't hear what was being said; but, she watched the short interaction between the short man and the passengers with interest. It was then that she noticed the carriage was the Royal one she had dispatched for the special healers, and she recognized the guard uniforms.

It's not possible for it to be here so soon. Diana thought as the short man stepped back and carriage pulled away to drive around the castle. She watched the short man climb up onto his steed, and it ran up into the air fairly close to her window. In the instant she recognized who it was, both he and the giant ram he rode disappeared.

“REN!” Diana yelled. He didn't hear her, mainly because her window was closed. She banged her fist against it, then got up from her perch and ran from the room to meet with the healers. She had to know what was going on.
