Even he looked on at the multiverse and quaked in fear. So what was wrong with being afraid? There was nothing bad about being scared— it just meant I knew how to choose my battles wisely. And, maybe, if a battle was too hard for me to overcome, I would flee and return later when I was stronger.

Sal waited for my answer, pressing me with the question.

“Do you still believe you are special now?”

I closed my eyes and thought about it. I had my answer now. It came to me as simply as any other thought. I exhaled deeply, before raising my head. I met the Devil’s gaze and answered.

“Yep.”

That made Sal pause. He blinked at me a few times, and I just looked past him towards the Beast in the distance.

“You say I’m not special because I don’t matter in the multiverse, right? I don’t even matter in my own world, so why would I mean anything in the worlds beyond?”

“...correct.”

The Devil nodded, eyeing me suspiciously. He spoke slowly.

“You are nothing, Salvos. That is why you do not matter. That is why you are not special.”

I shook my head with a scoff.

“But I am something— I believe I am something. And if I want to be something, I just have to prove it, don’t I?”

“Prove it… how?”

Sal stared at me, both a confused and amused look worn on his face. He had stopped trembling— the fear from before was gone. Now, he was merely curious about what I had to say. I just waved a hand off and smiled.

“Well, I guess I can start with becoming the strongest in the Nexeus. That means something, right?”

And that made the Devil’s jaw drop.

“What?”

He briskly walked up towards me, gesturing towards the Beast in the distance.

“Do you really think you can defeat the—”

But I cut my dad off, rolling my eyes.

“I’m not gonna become the strongest immediately, of course.”

He paused, watching me as I shook my head. I stared at the Beast, then at the hordes of fleeing Demons.

“I’ll work my way up there slowly. It’ll take time. But I can get there eventually.”

The Devil furrowed his brows at me. He tilted his head as I crossed my arms.

“It will not be easy, Salvos.”

“I am aware.”

“It will be incredibly dangerous.”

“Yep. That’s about what I thought.”

I replied as soon as my dad spoke. He cocked his head back, rubbing his goatee as I grinned back at him.

“And if you die?”

I shrugged in response.

“Then I die.”

There was a moment where neither my dad nor I said anything. And I paused. I thought about his question for a second longer, before looking down at the palm of my clawed hand.

“But I will die as Salvos. Your daughter. A Demon. A companion to Haec, Daniel, Edithe, Saffron, Willy, and Orgaf. And I am the mother of Novis, Bellum, and Oriur.”

Sal’s eyes grew wide as I spoke, listing out the names of those dearest to me. I placed my hand on my chest and finished.

“I will die as me. And that’s all that matters to me.”

My gaze bore into the Devil. He looked at me, utterly speechless. I lowered my head, looking down at myself as I whispered.

“But I won’t die. So that doesn’t really matter.”

“I…”

Sal trailed off. He just stared at me, befuddled and bewildered. He frowned, placing a hand on his chin. He raised a finger, before throwing his head back and chortling.

“That audacity— that arrogance. You will become the strongest in all of the Nexeus?”

Sal laughed and laughed and laughed as I snorted.

“I am being serious.”

“I know.”

He wiped the tears from his eyes before waving a hand in the air. His pocket space moved, soaring far past the Beast. We continued flying through the Netherworld as the Devil chuckled.

“Very well, my dear daughter. I hear you. I will not belittle your dreams.”

He continued spinning pocket space around, rapidly crossing over vast swathes of the white landscape. I raised a brow as we came to a halt right before a dark sea. He took a step back and smiled at me.

“As your caring father, I will help you fulfill your dream. Come, and let us see you become the strongest in all of the Nexeus!”

He clapped his hands together, and I raised a hand.

“Wait, I need to [Rest]—”

I started, but the glass-like floor beneath my feet vanished. I fell from the Devil’s pocket space, tumbling down away from him.

“Good luck, my dear daughter.”

I could hear my dad’s words echoing in my head, even as his pocket space began to fade away. Like it had never been there. But as I looked up at the crimson sky, and fell into a familiar black ocean, I heard something else echoing in the distance.

Now Entering [Nexeus: Netherworld].

And with those words, I was finally back in the Netherworld.
