The blood never came off his armor, never washed off his swords. He struck, grim-faced, as Redscar met every single attack, dodging, parrying, dancing between the six swords, and Zeter snarled with incredulity—
And fear. But then he grew calmer, and Redscar felt a beast at his back.
Lulv’s aura was a wolf. Not a team of two, not a pack of animals, but a single, deadly creature who bounded forwards and caught Redscar from behind. His spear reached out, too fast, and nipped through Redscar’s side before trying to gut upwards.
Redscar’s dodge carried him out of range of the spear, and he had to deflect Zeter’s two-handed slash; he let the strike knock him away, out of range of both of the two warriors.
This time—the Goblin bled before he touched his opponents.
He left the image of a dead Goblin behind as the [Fangs of the Dire Wolf] closed, but there was only a single slice through his side. Lulv followed it up with a [Scythe of the Field] that actually struck Zeter; the Swordsman of Six staggered and slid sideways. Zeter snarled at Lulv and charged Redscar.
“[Quake Blade]!”
He brought his sword down in a simple strike that shook the ground. Lulv bounded around in a circle, opening up with a flurry of spearthrusts.
[Hurricane Stabs].
Redscar dodged the [Quake Blade] and hopped across the trembling ground. He parried Lulv’s stabs as fast as he could, gritting his teeth, then lurched back as the ground stopped shaking. Five stabs, each one shallow, on his legs and arms.
The teamwork of the two soldiers was too good. Zeter and Lulv pushed Redscar backwards, Zeter’s swords too deadly to ignore, Lulv attacking in the gaps, too many blows to block or parry.
Redscar retreated up a hill, taking a stab to the shoulder; he twisted, and one of Zeter’s floating blades cut his side open. But he did stab the Drake through the knee.
Zeter slowed, and Lulv snarled.
“Advance! Before he can recover!”
The Named-rank adventurer crunched a vial of healing potion between his teeth and spat out the shards. Now they were pressing Redscar downhill.
A trail of dead Goblins, Redscar’s aura. They were unsettling Lulv and Zeter; each version of Redscar grinned up at the two warriors. Then Lulv, advancing with his spear raised high, saw a Wyvern Lord swinging his tail around—
Lulv thrust his spear down and pushed up. He leapt over the wide slash that took Zeter off-guard.
Zeter blocked the cut with his greatsword—or tried to. He went stumbling backwards and clutched at his right shoulder. It was cut down to the bone. Rattled, the Drake lifted his sword, and Redscar stumbled. The heavy strike had upset his balance.
The Goblin stumbled, and Lulv aimed his third spear art down at Redscar as he fell from above. 
Got you. [Spear Art: The Wyvern Dives].
Redscar was retreating downhill when the last part of his aura finally manifested. The plunging Lulv saw someone standing behind Redscar.
A little, white Gnoll girl.
Mrsha? It was just an illusion of Redscar’s mind, and Lulv didn’t hesitate. But Lulv also saw a Goblin [Chieftain] garbed in Wyvern armor and Carn Wolf fur staring up at him, fearless.
Leapwolf was leaning over the saddle of his Carn Wolf. Fightipilota stood next to Snapjaw and Icecube, and Rianchi and Dyeda were behind their wings.
Goblins. And a Gnoll girl. They stood behind Redscar, cheering, waving, or just watching.
His tribe. The vision flickered across the ground in the moments between Lulv plunging earthwards. Zeter leapt with a wild roar.
“[The Hammer of Manus]!”
Drake and Gnoll. Lulv missed his thrust downwards, but his [Spear Art] let him redirect his blow upwards, as he landed like a hunting Wyvern rising from its dive.
The Goblin could have kept moving back. But his tribe was right behind him. Just his tribe. No Garen. None of his comrades of old. His aura only held the living.
He had failed all his ghosts. 
Lulv moved forwards into that image of Mrsha, and she wavered. Then the [Blademaster]’s eyes opened wide. His sword came up, and he swung it once.
Lulv’s [Spear Art] met Redscar’s sword, and the Gnoll’s spear nearly tore out of his hands. The [Spearmaster]’s eyes went round. That was a [Spear Art]. The [Blademaster] hadn’t even used a Skill—
The [Blademaster] leapt off the ground, a jumping Goblin meeting the falling Drake. And again—he thrust his sword forwards and met Zeter’s Skill in midair.
Lulv heard a scream and cursed. He saw two figures falling; one landed on the ground, nimbly moving back—the other slammed down, armor rattling. The overconfident Swordsman of Six lay there, clutching at something in his stomach.
Redscar’s blade was buried in it, pinning Zeter to the ground. That overconfident idiot. Lulv rushed the opening, attacking while Redscar was without a sword. He stabbed towards the Goblin’s chest—
[Elemental Quick-Draw].
Redscar unsheathed his other sword. He raised one arm and blocked Lulv’s spear-thrust. The Goblin’s left arm covered his chest, and the spear penetrated his flesh and bones—and got stuck on his ribs. Lulv tried to twist away—the lightning shortsword impaled him through the side. Lulv was electrocuted and frozen at the same time.
The Goblin twisted the blade and ripped it out of the Gnoll’s flesh. He kept moving, rolling as Lulv tried to spin.
Redscar’s backswing took one of the Gnoll’s legs off by the knee.
Lulv fell. The [Blademaster] rose, panting, the hole in his chest oozing blood. He reached for a healing potion and then dodged one of Zeter’s enchanted swords. Redscar walked over and stabbed downwards a second time, through the Drake’s chest. He gazed down at Zeter as the Swordsman of Six gaped at the blade’s tip, which had halted just above his heart. Lulv raised his spear to throw and saw Redscar glance at him.
Both warriors of Manus lay still.
 
——
 
Imperfect.
He was imperfect, he knew it. He had to use his Skills, he had to use every dirty trick and his observation of these other warriors to win.
That was the point. They were allowed to cheat. There was no such thing as honorable battle, and he knew…some of them were better than him.
The Archmage appeared after the Maestro. Redscar felt like the healing potions were starting to not work as well. He swore he saw the Unicorn healing some of the people he’d cut.
I could use some of that. Redscar’s body came alive as the half-Elf saluted him.
“Interesting. You appear to be a self-taught expert. In this era? I am Eldavin, the Archmage of Memory. In honor of the [Blademistress of Ancients], I challenge you.”
The [Blademaster] kept panting as he drew both blades, and Eldavin noticed. He flicked something into his hand after a moment’s hesitation.
“Need you a chance to rest?”
He was all courtesy, ancient skill—Redscar recognized him now. He was the Dragon, but not. The Goblin saw it now, in the eyes, the knowing way the half-Elf stood. His mastery of the blade.
But he wasn’t quite the Dragonlord. An echo, a shade too slow, too uncertain, someone going off memory rather than the certainty of experience. That was still more than enough. Redscar’s blood pulsed faster, and the [Blademaster] mumbled.
“She’ll hate you. But I…I can beat you. So long as you’re not complete.”
Eldavin’s eyes flickered uncertainly, and he glanced at Ryoka accusatorily. But Redscar didn’t need to be told.
He wondered how the Dragonlord of Flames would fight. This…copy of him knew the moves, but he hadn’t lived those battles. He was still—Eldavin blurred, and Redscar’s mind turned white—
Fast.
A spiral-stab like the King of Duels, which turned into a flick at Redscar’s eyes and then a diagonal parry and fiery cuts that left trails of actual flame in the air.
Blade-arts without the Skills. The Goblin survived the first clash, and it was Eldavin who raised a sleeve of his robes, blinking.
“How…did you do that?”
He should have had the [Blademaster], and both of them knew it. But it was Redscar’s blade that had nearly taken the Archmage’s hand off. The Goblin grinned.
“I saw you last time.”
The Archmage of Memory’s face grew slack, then uncertain. The Goblin jumped at him, grinning with all his teeth. Cheating. He had to reach the end. Eldavin moved back, feet tracing a pattern worthy of the finest Terandrian dances. Redscar’s eyes flickered, and the half-Elf vanished—and ran onto Redscar’s sword.
“No!”
Archmage Viltach howled in horror as he saw Eldavin impaled through the heart. The old half-Elf blinked—then grabbed Redscar’s arm. He yanked the blade out of his chest.
“Well, that will be hard to explain.”
“Aspat.”
The [Blademaster] agreed. He tried to break free; the Archmage of Memory calmly stabbed Redscar through the stomach and rammed him into the ground. He grimaced as he picked up his sword with his other hand.
“That was a bad trade. I see you, boy. Let’s try again.”
He lifted his left hand, flicking his sword up as Redscar coughed.
“Sure.”
The Goblin stood up, and Eldavin’s confidence wavered. Redscar had a hole in his stomach, but his spine and the nerves weren’t completely severed. He’d dodged at point-blank range. No, not just that…
“Ah. Galas muscle.”
“I feel stronger than I used to be.”
The air was pulsing around the [Blademaster]. He lifted his swords and set himself; the blood rushing from his stomach had stopped, because he had no time to bleed out.
The Archmage of Memory hesitated. His body was made of magic. He was as fast as Redscar, strong—if not stronger, and he could neither bleed nor die normally.
He was armed with the knowledge of the Dragonlord of Flames, who had earned the right to call himself blademaster countless times in any body. This was his battle to win, and the Goblin knew it. Yet the half-Elf made a mistake as he whispered a spell.
“[Greater Appraisal].”
Eldavin beheld his foe, and his confidence faded. He read the class above Redscar’s head and wilted.
Level 49 [Blademaster of the Crimson Battlefield].
The half-Elf backed up, breathing coming faster, sweat beading on his forehead. The Goblin’s lips moved as his eyes blazed brighter, turning the world red.
“Do you see me?”
 
——
 
—No one could take on this many masters and not bleed. He was losing his edge, but they were so…fascinating.
The—Slayer—met him harder than even the Archmage, who had lost his nerve. He was a curious insect. Redscar couldn’t even see his real body; it was all hidden behind the broken, ruined body. An ancient legend swinging its blades at him, frustrated by its every ineptitude.
Soft. The Slayer had gotten soft. 
Relc was stronger, in his way. Like Redscar, his aura was conflicted. Redscar’s opponents saw his many deaths, his greatest foes—and when they pushed him—the reasons he had to swing his sword. A trifecta of who he was.
Relc was the same way. When the Gecko of Liscor lowered his spear, he charged forwards like the headman’s axe, a straightforwards javelin tossed to kill its foes. Soldier—the [Sergeant] was the easier foe to best. He and Redscar traded strikes that were economical, honed to kill. Then, Relc seemed to realize he would lose after the third time he and Redscar touched blades.
The Drake drew back, brushed at a cut on his cheek, and that headhunting officer vanished. A gentler, subtler figure held the spear then.
A spearmaster who loved the weapon he wielded and held it like a child’s toy, light as a feather. He made his spear dance—and Redscar whirled away, stabbed through the kneecap. But grinning in delight.
Unlike Zeter, Relc Grasstongue was transforming, and that Relc with the gentle thrust of his spear was the more beautiful of the two, past and present.
Even so—Relc faced Redscar and saw the [Blademaster] was upon his own journey. But unlike Relc, there was no time to walk forwards slowly for Redscar. Only urgency. Need. The souls he was striving to protect driving every cut of his blade forwards.
The Gecko of Liscor exchanged four more blows with Redscar, then raised his hands and backed away. The first of Redscar’s foes to quit without bleeding ichor across the grass.
Redscar respected Relc the most for that. Then came his next opponents: Tekshia and Embria—a faded flower content to only show her thorns when needed, and a young, uncertain sprout following her father’s steps—
 
——
 
Redscar was on his hands and knees when someone poured another healing potion over him. Not all of his foes wanted to kill him—and he had help. Help?
“Come on. The Drakes are getting ready. Keep showing me more.”
Redscar, the younger Redscar, poured the rest of the potion on Redscar’s head as the Flooded Waters tribe surrounded him, keeping the Drake offensive back. Typhenous and Riz were also brandishing their blades at the [Soldiers], ignoring the cries of ‘cheating’ from the spectators. Redscar pushed himself up.
“Don’t worry. I have to meet her. I—we—failed her last time. She seemed so disappointed. This time…I’ll disappoint her twice. But I need her help.”
“Who?”
The [Blademaster] laughed at his younger self. Why, the most beautiful woman in the world. The most beautiful; nevermind what other Goblins said about Rags or Erin or Lady Wuvren or anyone else.
The most beautiful…lonely woman.
One of the most dangerous fighters stepped towards Redscar as he lifted his weary arms, panting for air. The Goblin knew he had to focus. This enemy was deadly. Not because the fighter was the best with the blade here. No.
It was because the [Lieutenant of Perfection], Comois, had no mercy. And he had the best Skills. There was no respect in the Drake’s eyes. No appreciation for his foes.
“[Perfect Slash].”
The [Lieutenant] raised his sword and brought it down in a diagonal cut that swept out horizontally at the last moment. Nigh-impossible to predict; he could have cut vertically with the same gesture. So fast his sword wasn’t even a steel blur; it seemed to vanish and appear at the end of his cut.
Comois nearly took Redscar’s head off there and then. His strike was beautiful—but the [Blademaster] parried it, barely. The sword glanced off the edge of Redscar’s blade, and the Goblin stepped back. His arm was shaking.
The Drake gave him no time to breathe. Instead, Comois instantly sheathed his sword as he advanced.
“[Perfect Draw].”
He laid open Redscar’s nearly-healed leg, stabbing into bone. The Drake wrenched his sword free, and his [Perfect Parry] turned Redscar’s blade, which had been going for his right arm.
Too fast! The simultaneous attack and defense left Redscar faltering, only for Comois to unleash another [Perfect Cut]. Redscar jerked his head sideways. He felt at the tip of his right ear, and there was only a line of pain.
