Again, the Goblin’s bleeding stopped. He knelt on the grass, closing his eyes, and wept tears. Not blood. This enraged Zeladona, and she snapped.
“I have answered your call, warrior! Though thou art Goblin. You have disgraced my festival, but you are the greatest here. Now, you kneel and weep before me for what? Draw your blade! Show me the sharpness of your soul and claim what I offer, or fall upon your sword and begone! How dare you sully this festival twice with your tears?”
Her wrath at his killing of Comois the Goblin accepted as his due. But her next words made his head rise slowly.
“Am I not allowed to cry?”
This was not how he’d envisioned meeting her. He’d seen himself striding towards her and begging for a lesson, a rematch.
Zeladona was caught off-guard by the question. She floundered, visibly, and replied with irritation.
“Those who follow our path may weep over a blade that meets its end or battle done that leaves this world emptier. When we sing together, yes, weep for that, but only in your heart! Only after!”
Then she drew her sword, and the snow around the Floodplains and the arena flew into the air. It began to snow again as Redscar saw the slumbering grass beyond. All the snow of the Floodplains flurried into the sky, then rained down—blotting out the sun in a blizzard of white darkness.
He rose to his feet, unable to stay kneeling as she inspected him.
“Goblin. I cannot believe a Goblin sings, but I hear it in your blades. How is it that this is so? Then again—you are but a [Blademaster]. I had hoped for a worthy challenger, but you are first of these children and pretenders. Save perhaps the old master…but he will not draw his sword.”
Her eyes flitted regretfully to the white-haired Unicorn, who avoided her gaze. For an answer, the [Blademaster] wiped his eyes. He smiled.
Halrac. I have a duty as well. Watch me, brother in arms. 
His voice rose, and the [Blademaster] pointed his sword at Zeladona’s chest.
“You said the same thing last time. But you found me worthy of a piece of your lesson. I am Redscar, and I have been here before. I failed. This time, I need to grow stronger. My tribe, my people, everything that matters to me is in danger.”
She tossed her head, dismissive, and turned away, sauntering back as she sheathed her sword.
“Ach. I see it over you. Your admiration behooves you. That I witness. But those you ‘must’ defend…I came for your will and your blade. Not to serve a purpose. If I must, I must, for it was promised. But if you claim to impress me once, I believe it not.”
The Goblin grinned; she could read every fiber of his being, but she did not see him. Just like last time. He had provided a fit offering, too, though.
“I come from the future. I have faced you once, Zeladona. I have come from a place even you cannot cut. In my time, you have been bested, even when called from death itself.”
She stopped as snow fell around her, too afraid to touch the woman’s hair, and Redscar felt her bored eyes open wide. Like someone had lifted the blinds on a window and all the light of her attention was upon him.
The grass began to rustle across the Floodplains of Izril, and the million tiny blades that were her irises focused on Redscar.
“You speak the truth? You do. I…have been defeated? I knew it, that I had, but ‘twas not a fair fight. I remember that much. Yet I was bested in any manner?”
Ryoka Griffin, Tyrion Veltras, the Immortal Tyrant, Rhisveri, Silvenia, Czautha—Redscar had heard the tale. His eyes opened wider.
“Yes.”
Zeladona blinked, then she threw back her head and laughed in pure delight. Her sheathed sword came up, and she took hold of the handle of the katana. Then she knelt before him.
“Oh, strange warrior. Thank you. For I thought none could best me fairly in this or any other time. And you say—you jest so well. You say there are things I cannot cut?”
Her head rose, and her challenging look told him that if he pointed at the moons overhead—they would be cut.
For answer, the Goblin just pointed.
“It’s inside the inn. You walked past it. Can’t you sense it?”
Zeladona’s brows crossed together, and she swung around.
“No! Please don’t!”
Lyonette screamed, then cowered as the [Blademistress] put her hand on her katana’s hilt. Everyone waited and ducked, expecting the inn to be bisected or maybe to turn into fragments from countless cuts and just dissolve away.
But Zeladona didn’t do that, because she didn’t have to. Redscar sensed her swinging her sword, gently, like someone probing every inch and section of the inn. She could have cut a cup inside the bar without destroying any part of it.
True mastery over space as well as the ability to cut anything within it. But her brows crossed as she came to something—a root and an object she could not name.
“What is this?”
Abruptly, she turned back to Redscar. Almost shamefaced, she nodded.
“I sensed it not. Neither root nor…I could not cut it, then. And I doubt mine own understanding of that little root. What is it? Should I try, nonetheless?”
He drew his swords.
“I’ll tell you afterwards. We have a duty to fulfill. Both you and I. Teach me—please. I have never had a teacher except my father, myself, and my foes. You are the only one I wanted.”
He would not be worthy of her this time, he feared. He had already failed. But at least one…
At least that.
The [Blademistress of Ancients] studied the strangest being to ever come before her and ask to learn from her, and she had taught Dragons and Jinn, Selphids and cats. She drew her sword, and the world flurried around them as a song began, quietly at first, then all-encompassing.
“Your father taught you well, child.”
That was her remark, her highest praise, the words of the greatest of heroines and legends, for the world to hear.
Redscar shook his head. He chuckled at her puzzled expression.
“No. He wasn’t perfect.”
Then the Goblin stepped forwards and showed her everything he was. And he was laughing, cursing, striving, sweating, weeping—
[He Walked and Shadows Split]. The Goblin sauntered forwards through the falling snow, and the shadows each one cast vanished—the world turned bright, and a thousand drifting flakes of snow were blades of darkness that flurried around Zeladona.
She walked through the cloud of shadows, a beaming, laughing sword cleaving out of reality, true to only herself. Zeladona walked across this world as she had passed through time, leaving a wake of her deeds in her path. A trailing sword drawn across the ground, like a child holding a stick and walking across the sand.
A worthless trail to be washed away when the waters rose or the wind blew. But that was not all she had been. When she laid eyes on him, her careless walk faltered—and then she took a step forwards, hesitantly, as if she had forgotten how it was done.
Slowly, then she adjusted how she came, and he saw it at last. A reflection of his own visions. A thousand, nay, a hundred thousand lives she had changed with the swing of the blade.
Enemies. Friends. Those she had saved and damned lining her long road. No matter how much she had forgotten, no matter how much she gave to the blade—it was part of her. The Goblin saw the [Blademistress of Ancients] pick up her pace, trotting, then running. Then—she raced into the tide of time and left a trail across the sea, eyes shining as she followed the path her soul had carved.
He ran to meet her, a child taking his first steps into the water, unsure of how to keep going.
She came down the path of stories and led him forwards.
 
——
 
It felt like he had spent a long, long afternoon playing in the water with someone else. A…teacher. A mentor, someone whom he’d never had, except in his father, Garen.
Not all of it had been fun. He’d floundered, tried to swim, struggled—but he’d been happy, and the narrow world he’d known had opened up; he’d finally seen the sea, not the puddle he splashed around in.
This was, of course, a metaphor. The Goblin hurt. He couldn’t remember how much he’d bled, but she had closed each cut by swinging her sword back, as if that made sense. Most of what she said made no sense. But she showed him, and like a child trying to copy an adult, he just watched and tried to remember it all.
He was closing his eyes, lying on the cold grass, at peace, when a voice spoke and a foot nudged him in the side.
“Hey, you. Finally awake, are you? Or is it you did not sleep yet?”
Redscar opened his eyes as he lay on the ground. He blinked, and the [Blademistress] offered him a hand.
“Not…yet. I didn’t sleep yet.”
“The voice will come for you. Or I come for it. Now tell me your promise, warrior.”
So he did as she paced around him excitedly. The ground was scarred and devoid of snow. They sat on an island, a cliff of dirt, and in places, smoke rose despite the winter’s chill. In others, it was cut flat with such precision that some children were deciding that this was the best football pitch ever.
But mostly, people just watched the two of them. Zeladona seemed pleased.
“Goblins. I would have learned another piece of my song if only your kind had met me. I might have reached the next stage of my levels had I met but one like you while I lived. You are my redemption, brave boy. Even in death, I have experienced that which the true Zeladona might envy. If you ever meet her, show her this.”
She gestured at him. Redscar was still feeling pleasant. He was beyond pain. He sat up—then decided he wasn’t actually beyond pain.
“I have to go soon. Thank you.”
She tilted her head playfully.
“Thank me not. I care only for the sword.”
It was a lie—partly, but it was the one she told herself, so Redscar levered himself up on one arm. He had seen who she had been, and he half-shook his head.
“Yeah, I’m understanding that. But you weren’t always like this. Everything else that mattered—vanished. Was it lonely at the end?”
Zeladona’s face grew troubled, and she felt at her long hair, thinking.
“Perhaps. But those who were worthy of the causes to which I raised my blade ceased to be—or changed until the reasons sickened me. Perhaps I knew them not, but when I was alone, it was because there was naught else to keep me. Not apprentices nor foes nor comrades.”
“I see. I think…mine are better than yours.”
The [Blademistress of Ancients] hesitated, then sat next to him. She drew her knees up to her chest as more of the island of dirt crumbled away beneath them. But for a moment, they sat there and talked.
She didn’t deny his claims. That was the saddest part. Zeladona brushed at her hair wistfully and gazed into her own memories.
“Mayhap. I wish it so, little warrior. Walk the road that I could not. Then we might meet when you are grown! Oh, swear that it will be so! If the [Innkeeper] can do this, surely!”
Her morose gaze faded, and she grew excited at the notion. Like a child herself. The Goblin exhaled.
“Perhaps. Perhaps not. Beyond that door, there are all the battles you could crave.”
He’d told her about the [Palace of Fates] while she let him rest. Zeladona sprang to her feet, excited as a little girl.
“And myself. I have dreamt of how I might meet myself, and our battles shake the world. Take me to it, show me how to leave. Then I shall go and claim the last levels between me and the ending. Then…hah! I hope but greater tests lie beyond!”
He could almost see it. If Zeladona reached Level 100, she’d just find something else to cut. She might cut her way out of reality itself to find the Green King that Halrac had meant. Or start with the dead gods and find live ones.
Redscar almost wanted to see it. But he coughed and stood with great effort, leaning on his swords, arms shaking.
“I have to go first. My battle.”
Zeladona nodded, sombering.
“I would offer to end whatever foes you have with a swing of a sword, but ‘twould take from your journey, brave boy. I offer you one thing, though. Nay, two! You have walked with me. You are not the greatest apprentice I took, nor the most talented.”
“Thanks.”
She really wasn’t a people person after all. Erin was right. Zeladona went on, eyes dancing.
“Yet you have fought me twice. I see it on you. You…I deem worthy. Redscar. ‘Tis a simple, curious name. I know it not, but have you another?”
“Hm? No. Goblins don’t. Redscar of the Flooded Waters tribe is my name.”
The [Blademistress] liked that. She drew the katana and struck his shoulders, once on each side. Redscar sat back down.
“Then I grant you the privilege! Call yourself not merely ‘Redscar’, but Redscar Ischen! It is the name that I pass onto you. And this—a student of mine should have a better blade.”
Redscar glanced down, and the worn, beautiful Redfang blade had notches in it. It had always had damage, building up since Garen had first commissioned it from Enchanter Hedault, but now it was cracked, damaged from the final battle. His head came up, not about to refuse, but…
She plucked the blade from his hands and ran her own palm along it. Before Redscar’s eyes, the metal straightened. The red alloy, which was just a clever alchemist alloy to ordinary steel, took on a darker hue. The blade didn’t alter in symmetry, but it shifted—adjusting for the new material, balancing out until she held it on one finger.
“There. ‘Tis but Adamantite. A fitting material to hold up to the swing of your sword. Bear it until you find aught better.”
Redscar accepted the blade back, and Zeladona had no ceremony nor true tact or grace. She was just the warrior and gave him all of five seconds to hold the sword before she clapped her hands together, impatient.
“Now, show me this palace! That I might challenge every warrior under every heaven!”
She drew her katana and laughed—and yes, if you wanted to be picky about it, it might sound a touch diabolical.
He loved her for it anyways and wondered if she would have made another strange mother if he and she had met in another lifetime.
…No, she’d probably be worse than Garen. Redscar nodded, and they began to walk up the hill, he limping, she pacing forwards and coming back to hurry him along.
“Zeladona Ischen. Thank you. You have given me all I needed. This Trial of Blades…I hope it pleased you this time.”
He turned at the door to the inn. The [Blademistress of Ancients] paused and gave him a beaming smile.
“It is not what I wanted, at first, but then I was satisfied. Now? I am delighted.”
She strode for the root, and Redscar called out.
“You beat me, and I admit my defeat. No one can best you.”
Zeladona half-spun, confused.
“That was never in doubt. Why…ach! You—!”
