Funny. For all the drama and dismay of that day, it truly did feel like better times. The funniest part was watching Typhenous and Facecarver Riz edging towards the [Assassins]. Because no one besides him had realized that the Trial of Blades had already begun.
The old man was clearing his throat to get everyone’s attention when something unexpected occurred:
Someone kicked him. It was a damn hard kick; Typhenous saw it coming and twisted. The former Face was fast with a blade, but not fast enough. He went down with a shout as someone slammed into him.
“Typhenous!”
Facecarver Riz leapt back from the ambush, and her blades were already out. She danced forwards, stabbing, then recoiled. The Gold-rank adventurer slid sideways, and her eyes were locked in shock on her left cheek—a line of red opened up, and she backflipped away, daggers crossed.
“Who—Typhenous!”
Halrac shouted, leaping to his feet, and the waiting contestants and observers who’d been staring at The Wandering Inn swivelled.
“Some idiot’s fighting! It’s not time for the Trials of Blades! Foul! F—wait, is it foul to start early?”
Ceria was cupping her hands together and shouting from the side. Everyone was on their feet now, craning their heads to see. A single figure was taking on what seemed to be Typhenous and Riz.
“Whoa! Riz is fast!”
The teammates of the deadly Face had never known her capabilities. Seeing her unleash her full potential in lightning-fast lunges that left afterimages and sweeping forwards in precise cuts and stabs opened their eyes.
“That’s not a Gold-ranker. She’s closer to Named-rank—who are they fighting?”
A single warrior was dancing between the two knife-experts, taking on both at once. It was incredible; Typhenous, for all his age, could fight in tandem with Riz, and they were flanking their opponent.
But he was deflecting their knife-stabs, despite the disparity between their smaller, faster weapons and his two blades.
Two…blades?
The Goblins of the Flooded Waters tribe had been waiting for their entry into the battle. They’d been more realistic about what this might turn into, but some of them had deemed it worth the risk, like Rags.
The [Chieftain] raised her head with a frown as every single Goblin turned.
“Who that?”
Redscar had been polishing his own swords, and he sat up suddenly as a weirdly familiar presence appeared. Rags’ mouth went dry.
“Greydath. That bastard—no. Wait. That’s not…Redscar?”
She glanced at him, then poked the [War Leader], and Redscar leapt to his feet. He gazed down the hill they’d positioned themselves on as Typhenous went sprawling, clutching at one leg, and Riz leapt away, cursing.
Redscar, of this time, peered down at a warrior holding two familiar blades. One was crimson red; the other was crackling with lightning, a gift from Erin Solstice’s [Garden of Sanctuary]. The Goblin’s eyes went round as everyone turned to him, then back to the figure.
They were identical, dressed in light leather armor for maximum mobility, which had a patchwork appearance except for the slashes of red paint adorning the sides and chestplate. Sitting on the sidelines in the background, Thunderfur sniffed the air and whined uncertainly.
“Who—?”
“I yield, I yield!”
Typhenous shouted as the red blade pointed down towards him. The figure turned to Riz, but she was beating a retreat towards the adventurers.
“Foul! Foul! Someone disqualify that lot!”
General Edellein and his forces were bellowing, but the smart people on the field, like Tyrion, had realized the truth. They were pivoting, suddenly tensed—yet every eye kept drifting back to that warrior.
He was not instantly recognizable as a Goblin. You see—he had a wooden box on his head.
He’d cut two eye holes to see through, but the box-man with two swords was anonymous. A mystery challenger! He turned from Typhenous, standing in the center of the battleground.
A new challenger had arrived.
 
——
 
—The disguise lasted as long as it took for Redscar to reach up and rip the stupid damn box off his head.
He’d thought it was a good idea when he’d heard of how, in another timeline, Shorthilt had worn a box on his head to join Ser Solstice abroad. But it turned out wearing a box on your head was not only hot and uncomfortable, but ruined your peripheral vision.
“Not doing that. How’d he even do it?”
Maybe Shorthilt just had better boxes. Redscar tossed the box down and kicked it into the distance. He rubbed at his hair.
Well, there went his disguise. The Goblins were screaming at him in confusion, and he saw another Redscar on his feet.
Huh, that is confusing. Redscar glanced around and wondered how much he was messing up. He shrugged.
“I’m a bad person. Here I go.”
“Redscar? What on earth are you doing?”
Typhenous was still close by. The old man was dusting off his robes and picking up his dagger; he seemed rather embarrassed by his sudden defeat. Redscar favored him with a grin.
“Fighting. Sorry, old guy. You stab people from the side when they don’t look.”
The old man’s tone was light, but his eyes were bewildered as he turned to Redscar.
“It is true, I am a dedicated side-stabber, backstabber, and I only go for front-stabbing when I have no choice. But…you just fought off Facecarver Riz. She’s a Face. Not to toot my own proverbial horn, but so was I.”
Redscar sheathed his lightning blade. It was nice and sharp, but the enchantment had to recharge after using the lightning attack, and he knew Garen’s sword better. He wasn’t bad with a single sword either.
“I know you two are good. Some of the best.”
He pointed his blade at Typhenous and wished he could have seen the old man when he’d been called Typhenous the Plague Knife. Or not—it didn’t sound like he’d fought fair.
Respect. Redscar bowed his head slightly, but he didn’t move. His body was relaxed, all his weight on the heel of his back foot, ready to move.
“Well, that’s that. I was going to give Orchestra a taste of their own healing potions, but I think that’s been ruined. Are you going to let me go?”
Typhenous was edging away from Redscar, and the Goblin laughed. He loved this old man. He brushed at the iconic scar on his face with one hand; it ran semi-diagonally down one cheek and across his nose. Garen had accidentally given it to him. Everyone had thought it was from his first battle. He beamed at Typhenous, who had his caestus glove on one hand and his dagger loosely held in the other.
“Cunning old guy. You’re only done when you quit. Come on. I came back just for this. I challenge you. I challenge everyone. This time—I’ll win.”
He lifted his sword, and Typhenous’ eyes went innocently round, then he threw his dagger and drew another with a curse as he charged.
 
——
 
It was fast. The second time Typhenous went down, there was real blood. His ageing body had failed him, but it wasn’t just that.
The [Blademaster] was too good. He stood over Typhenous and pivoted, casual. Someone had come back for a rematch.
Facecarver Riz. She’d decided she couldn’t live with the embarrassment of running. Not on television.
Not a Face. Not a [Knifemistress].
He called to her. The ‘cute’ rookie Gold-rank adventurer cut the neat little ponytail loose, and her hair fell around her as she put a dagger between her teeth. She had five, two held in each hand, and she lowered her stance.
Face! Face! Ser Relz had belatedly put two-and-two together and was screaming.
“Someone arrest that woman! That’s no Gold-rank rookie—that’s Facecarver Riz! She’s killed over two hundred people in Invrisil! She’s—who is that Goblin?”
He had sheathed his red blade and was walking towards Riz down the hill, grinning fit to bursting. She stared up at him, her manic grin between the dagger clenched in her teeth turning to uncertainty.
Her daggers were enchanted with something nasty. He couldn’t tell what, and she had on leather armor, but hers was flexible, and blended with the environment when she moved at high speeds. Enchanted armor and weapons made this a harder duel than if they were without their gear.
Good. Though if he remembered right…hadn’t the Trial of Blades been without armor or magical weapons in his world? The change was for him. The Goblin grinned, then felt Riz’s presence.
Redscar felt the [Knifemistress]’ aura pressing at him, like sharp knives seeking a weak point, a way past his defenses. It was almost a weapon in of itself; if he didn’t separate the real from the fake, he might react to a dagger-thrust that wasn’t there.
Neat trick.
Redscar knew he had an aura-thing. It was like his swords: an extension of his blades and sixth sense in battle.
High-level warriors who used weapons had a style. A…theme. They all felt different. For instance, Yvlon was like a metal beast leaping at your throat, snarling and roaring, trying to rip and tear you apart.
Typhenous was a kind, innocuously feeble old man until you saw the weathered blade hiding in its scabbard. Garen had been a fearless warrior rushing into battle, a heroic adventurer.
Redscar didn’t know what Riz saw. He saw daggers, a storm of them stabbing from every direction, the promise he would bleed. Fear and menace.
She was circling left, trying to maneuver him towards a depression in the hill that would interfere with his footwork slightly. They could have sized each other up for a while, analyzed each other’s footwork, stances, but he had no time.
“Sorry. I’m in a hurry.”
“You—you’ve got the gall to say that to me.”
Riz spoke around the blade in her mouth, and he jumped. The Goblin drew his blade from his scabbard and saw her blur away, leaving an afterimage. She lunged from spot to spot, and if you only fought her with your eyes, you’d be chasing fake images of her. When she came at him, it was with all five blades, cutting and tossing them into blind spots. An overwhelming offensive.
Dead gods but she would have made a beautiful Goblin. 
 
——
 
“Forty-one seconds.”
“Milord?”
Tyrion Veltras glanced to the side at Jericha.
“That Goblin bested a [Knifemistress] in forty-one seconds. High-level battles are quick, but not that quick. She had plenty of repositioning Skills left.”
“She’s still able to fight, Lord Veltras.”
Jericha wasn’t discounting what Tyrion was saying, but the [Lord] shook his head. Redscar, or whatever the Goblin’s name was, was walking back. He pulled the sword out of Riz’s leg where he’d pinned her to the ground.
“She lost. I don’t know if this trial lets her continue, but that was conclusive. Watch him. It’s beginning.”
—But for the moment, everyone just kept studying Redscar. Tyrion had noticed the Goblin had a doppelganger among the Flooded Waters tribe. This didn’t bother him; he just assumed they were twins or brothers or something.
…But the Redscar in the middle of the field unsettled Tyrion. The [Lord] was trying to estimate his level.
“That’s impossible.”
“Lord?”
The young man wished he had all his levels right now.
“It’s impossible. Did we run into a Chieftain…Redscar during the battle at Liscor? Or is he from somewhere else? He should be a Goblin Lord. He’s over Level 40.”
Every person within earshot tensed. Jericha spoke through a suddenly dry mouth.
“You must be jesting, Lord Veltras. The Goblin Lord was Level 40, but no one else…”
“That Goblin is over Level 40. He’s not…someone find out his class.”
Tyrion was sweating. The Goblin was gazing his way. Grinning. Redscar pointed a sword, and Tyrion Veltras felt a shock as the tip pointed at him. Then Redscar was pointing again.
You. You. You. 
 
——
 
Different members of the competing factions saw the Goblin lock onto them. He knew them. He remembered them.
Tyrion Veltras. The Maestro. The [Lieutenant of Perfection] Comois. Pisces. The other Redscar, Relc, Klbkch, Spearmaster Lulv, the Swordsman of Six, Colth, and Wall Lord Aldonss.
Redscar was waiting for Archmage Eldavin to appear as well. All of them.
He drank a healing potion; he was bleeding. Thankfully, the blades weren’t poisoned due to the Trial of Blades.
Wait, there was also Calruz, the Spring’s Warden, and that one-armed woman, Pekona. He felt like he were surrounded by the most attractive, interesting people in the world, each one someone he was dying to talk to.
This was the greatest day of his life—and yet he was focused. He could not lose once.
This was a blessing of the [Palace of Fates]. I may die. But—Redscar gazed across the field and realized the palace, or the unseen controller of it, had blessed him.
The Minotaur and [Blade Dancer], Calruz and Pekona, stood with the adventurers. And both of them had their arms. Two arms each.
“Hah. Hahahaha. This is everything I need. Thank you.”
Redscar raised his sword towards the [Palace of Fates] itself and inhaled the frozen air. He blew a stream of steam skywards, and someone croaked.
“You damn monster.”
Facecarver Riz lay on her back, her own stab-wound in her leg healed. She hadn’t taken another; when she’d been pinned, they’d both known it was done. She gazed up at Redscar, and his smile flickered.
“Aw. I thought we liked each other. I like you.”
He supposed it was because he was a Goblin, like always. Riz jerked her head, coughing as she sat up; he’d kicked her once as well.
“Not that. You think I haven’t met Goblins in the gangs? Even a Goblin Chieftain, that sadistic bastard. You’re the monster.”
Oh, monster in a cool way. Redscar pointed at his face with a pleased smile. He gestured at the other Redscar, who was staring down the hill towards him.
“That’s also me. You should say hi to him later.”
Riz’s face wrinkled up at the other Goblin as she inspected him, then she shook her head. She was laughing, incredulous, as she lay on the hard ground.
“Him? He could be a Face. But you? Who are you? Do you even know…what you look like?”
The [Blademaster] shook his head.
“I don’t have a mirror. Excuse me. I have to hurry.”
He began walking towards his younger self. They were not so far apart in age—barely a few months. But in levels? Riz started guffawing hysterically, but then her eyes were open wide.
Redscar didn’t understand why the other Goblin halted on top of the hill, and his eyes grew round. Why the younger Redscar wore such a disbelieving, astonished expression on his face, then gritted his teeth.
The [Blademaster] thought they’d be a good match. His counterpart even had the high ground, which was very useful.
He didn’t see what they saw.
 
——
 
The Redscar of younger days leapt with a howl of delight, swords slashing, teeth bared, a whirlwind of red-rust fur and savage, surprising grace. He bounded down, attacking, circling—snarling.
Like a wolf.
