She put a hand on her sword hilt, shocked, betrayed, and annoyed. She could have drawn on him, even as the Grand Design reached down to complete the <Heroic Quest>. Her eyes narrowed, and Redscar had one chance in the world. So the [Blademaster] spread his hands wide and grinned.
“Cut your way free first. Or what right do you have to the palace?”
Her eyes widened, and then, ruefully, Zeladona chuckled. She pivoted and drew her sword slowly. Slowly, swinging it uncertainly, like the newest [Swordswoman]. Trying to cut…
Zeladona Ischen gave Redscar a rueful smile, and vanished with a sigh, mid-swing. Then, someone staggered, and then Erin Solstice was standing there, holding a katana and appearing rather silly. She blinked—then collapsed.
“My back! My legs! My spleen! Everything hurts! What the heck happened?”
Redscar laughed in relief as he hobbled over to her. He held out a hand to help her up as she writhed on the floor. She just continued wiggling, so Redscar took hold of the root.
“Thanks, Erin.”
“Thanks? What the heck—Redscar? Redscar?”
 
——
 
The Goblin pulled himself through the door. Then he closed the door behind him. He stumbled, and Asgra and Apista were there.
Since they were both tiny, he had to catch himself, and they circled him, eyes wide. They had seen it all. Redscar wiped at his face, then spoke.
“I’m going…”
He took one step forwards and fell flat on his face. Asgra cried out.
“Don’t die!”
“Get me a Frost Wyvern. Hurry. How long…”
How long had he taken?
He knew it not. Apista buzzed around Redscar as he clutched his sword. Presently, Asgra came back with Chickenruler, and with the Hob’s help, they wrestled him up.
Up, out of the palace and the garden, in the inn, rushing him past confused Calanferians, Drakes, all the chaos, and outside, onto the Wyvern’s back. Redscar was lashed into place, and he only said:
“The tribe. Take me to them.”
If he was too late, he would be too late. But he hoped he was not. The Goblin closed his eyes as the Wyvern flew, and the voice was waiting for him as he slept.
Well done. That’s what he thought it said. The voice who was no warrior but had given him all these levels and Skills. He had been so harsh to it at the beginning, because it was hard. But it had helped make him, a parent as much as the others he’d had.
It was waiting for him, even with everything happening, with what he deserved. But it had a question, and Redscar knew it. It was the same question he’d received, oh, months ago.
Are you not a Goblin Lord? 
No. For so many reasons, no. He was no leader, and while that did not matter as much, the truth was…Redscar murmured.
“Not yet. Not yet. Not until she is.”
<Very well.>
He swore he heard it. Then he was sleeping, and it spoke. His voice, without commentary or notes. The Goblin was smiling as he slept for a little bit.
Until he was needed.
 
 
[Conditions Met: Blademaster of the Crimson Field → Blademaster, the Path of Legends Class]
[Blademaster, the Path of Legends Level 52!]
[Skill – Walk of the Blademaster, Path of Legends Learned!]
[Skill – I Cut the World Unseen Obtained!]
[Sword Art – The Floodplains Vanished Created!]
[Condition – Body: Slashing Resistance Obtained!]
 
[Title – The Student of Zeladona and Garen Obtained!]
[Title Skill – Combination Blade Art: The Lonely Swords Sing Granted!]
