Damn it, he’d liked the top of his right ear. He bared his teeth and sheathed his sword. The Drake [Lieutenant] had paused to inspect Redscar.
Contempt was scrawled over Comois’ face. He sheathed his sword as well. I’m better than you are. Faster. The Drake’s aura was perfect arrogance, superiority made manifest. He glowed, and the rest of the world stood in the shadow of his light.
The two advanced forwards at a walk, contempt radiating between them. Redscar had longed for this too, selfishly, when he had seen Comois reaping his bloody harvest on the battlefield the first time. Of all those here—he hated this Drake and this Drake alone.
You’re over Level 40 too, aren’t you? One of the best. Maybe the best in your entire army. You are. Everything you do is…perfect.
Small wonder he could beat Yvlon, Typhenous, and so many others with such ease. Comois struck faster, more precisely, than they did. It was a literal battle against perfection, and so many, Redscar included, were imperfect. The [Blademaster] was the exact opposite of perfection, in fact.
Nevertheless, the Goblin held nothing but disrespect for the [Lieutenant] who had reached his level by his utter obsession with the blade. Redscar was sure the lady he longed to meet again would have felt the same.
All you are is perfection. Every strike, every block, every move you make is the best one…but it is always the same. A Golem’s motions. No originality, nothing else to it but what you were taught was the best.
The Drakes’ finest warrior tensed, and the [Blademaster] drew his sword almost lazily. Comois’ sword was so fast it vanished.
[Perfect Draw]—an angled, vertical quick-draw meant to bisect Redscar, so quick and precise even the [Blademaster] couldn’t dodge it.
Redscar used his other Skill taken from the Titan’s battle.
[Title Skill: Bane of the Titan – My Blade is Faster].
“Argh!”
Comois screamed. He jerked and backed away as his sword-arm spurted blood, slashing wildly. His eyes were huge, and he clapped a hand to his arm as one of the [Soldiers] surrounding them threw a potion over him.
“Lieutenant! Reset! You have him!”
General Edellein was roaring encouragement, and the [Lieutenant of Perfection] stopped stumbling back. Redscar shook blood off the tip of his blade and beckoned with it.
Come on, show me again.
This time, there was a crack in Comois’ confidence. He approached slowly, trying to bait an attack out. Then—
[Perfect Slice]—
Both swung their swords while trying to dodge at the same time. Redscar bled again as the two exchanged blows. The Goblin came away with a cut that ran down one arm, exposing bone. Comois felt at the place where Redscar’s sword had left a mark on his teeth, slashing open his entire right cheek. And the Drake’s confidence, like the Archmage of Memory’s—broke.
Redscar had lost that exchange. But he was faster. His Skill trumped Comois’ perfect speed. It didn’t even beat the Drake’s Skill, but the single chink in the Drake’s poise was enough.
Perfection broke so easily. The single, tiniest flaw and you fell apart. That glow of confidence around the [Lieutenant] was suddenly—cracked.
Comois’ eyes rolled right and left, now seeking a way out, and Redscar sheathed his sword.
“This time, without the Skill. Come on. Show me you’re worthy of her.”
All his teeth were bared, and the Drake didn’t understand, but he grasped onto that straw of hope. He was afraid, now, thinking this was a trick.
It wasn’t. Comois was at the end of the path he had chosen. Skills. All he had were Skills. Redscar had seen Skills were just a way of giving you what you shouldn’t have—early. Encouragement.
All you had to do was swing your sword without Skills, without magic. Just so and—
Ah—
They traded one final blow. Redscar staggered and peered down at the cut in his shoulder that had nearly taken off his arm. He still couldn’t do it right. But it was enough.
Twice, as before, so again, a headless Drake toppled to the ground, and Edellein howled as the Drakes cried out. Redscar shook blood off his blade as he gazed at Comois’ corpse. Then he wondered why everyone was screaming in horror at him. The Goblin thought about it, and then his eyes widened.
“Uh oh. I forgot. No killing—”
A ray of light that was brighter than sunlight, more magic than magic, touched Redscar, and he vanished.
Oops.
 
——
 
The rules were simple. The <Heroic Quest> was offered; conditions set. As the first <Quest> to have penalties for breaking the rules, enforcement hadn’t actually been implemented by the Grand Design at the time, but it had been clear.
 
<Limits: Must use a blade of any kind. No magic. No killing.>
 
This version of the [Palace of Fates] had even lifted the original restrictions about no enchantments and no armor to allow Redscar the greatest challenges he needed. But it had left that one bit intact.
No killing.
So, just as last time, the Grand Design copied what it had done in the original timeline and vanished Redscar. Whisked him away to a place until the Trial of Blades was over, to await judgement by the [Blademistress of Ancients].
Here was a question a few people had wondered last time as well as this time:
Where did you go?
At last, Redscar found the answer he hadn’t actually really wondered about because he hadn’t been paying attention.
 
——
 
It was…neither bright nor dark, but lit. There was no sun. There was a ceiling, oddly, but it had no material that Redscar could name. The ‘walls’ were like beige stone, but not stone. It was as if you took an idea, ‘wall’, and put it there.
The room was circular and had no exits or entrances. It was vast; it had to be to hold all the weird constructions in it. And all the writing.
So much writing. Lines and lines of golden text running down the walls, the words so vivid and powerful that they were beyond anything, even a Tier 9 spell.
The very heart of the world, a place that no mortal had been meant to glimpse. But Redscar had been taken here because he needed to be held, because this was an unprecedented event.
Well, the second unprecedented event in the Grand Design’s inception. It hadn’t corrected its enforcement mechanism for the Trial of Blades; why would it have? It had happened once, and that was that.
That was how Redscar found himself in the middle of a little circle in the ground, inscribed with neat, glowing words that contained him perfectly. Like the [Palace of Fates], there was no breaching the invisible barrier between him and the outside. He was stuck, trapped, a fool and a rule breaker and really uncomfortable because he was jammed up against the second rule breaker of the Trials of Blades. And this cage had not been meant to fit two people inside.
“Argh! Get off of my shoulder—”
“Your knee is in my balls.”
“Who the hell is—Redscar? You killed someone too?”
The Goblin was pressed nearly cheek-to-cheek with someone. A familiar, gravelly voice was in his ears, and he froze.
No. It couldn’t be. He’d seen him in the Trial of Blades. But when he turned his head and saw the flaxen hair, the stubble on the Gold-rank adventurer’s chin—
He smelled like frost, dried sweat, and the road itself, as if it had worked itself into his very bones. His skin was roughened from the weathering of the outdoors, and that, combined with his short-cropped hair and naturally pessimistic expression, made him look older than he actually was.
An old man in a younger body, cynical and crabby, masking the quiet champion who would raise his bow to help anyone he found worthy—which were so many people. A man who had not left his name in a trail of small deeds across a lifetime that had etched him, just like the one his boots had left over the wilds and distant lands.
A bowman, a ranger, and a hunter combined into one. Soldier. Adventurer. Captain.
There he was, suddenly, unexpectedly, smushed up against the invisible barrier in the air, wide-eyed with surprise.
Captain Halrac Everam. Redscar croaked.
“Halrac?”
The [Bowman of Loss] was very uncomfortable and didn’t have that speechless quality Redscar had. He growled, trying to shift, and they swivelled until they were almost scissoring each other, nose-to-nose. They were squeezed into this tube so close together that they were rubbing together.
Since this was not the intimate contact he wanted, Halrac swiveled around until he was back to back. With a sigh, Redscar did the same. He found this situation acceptable in that sense. The being squished in a tiny capsule instead of meeting the [Blademistress]…less so.
Now back-to-back, they spoke, voices strained.
“Dead gods, who did you kill? Are the Drakes massacring everyone? I had to stop that [Lieutenant]; he was too dangerous, and he wasn’t willing to quit.”
“Huh? No…how’d you get here? I saw you on the sidelines! I killed Comois!”
“You? You must have missed me. I took his head off. Was it another Drake?”
“No, Comois. That arrogant, stupid…wait, waitwaitwait…this isn’t right.”
Redscar’s back was crawling. He tried to jerk his head around and realized Halrac was doing the same. The adventurer, who was tetchy at the best of times, growled at him.
“You’re not making any sense! This was unpleasant enough before you got here—you killed someone else!”
“Did not. I killed Comois. In…that door. Wait. No. No, you’re dead.”
“I’m not dead. Do they think I am? I’ve been here—why are you staring at me?”
Halrac.
Not the Halrac from the world that Redscar had just been in; that was impossible. That Halrac had never drawn his blade. Never had to; Typhenous had never fought Comois. But then—
This could not be. For they were here in this holding place in the center of everything and nothing, a place out of any world, where they could wait to be judged.
A place out of time. So this Halrac was—no, it was impossible. Redscar’s breath came quicker.
It shouldn’t be happening. You weren’t supposed to ever see the dead. That was what Redscar believed. He hadn’t put as much of his emotions into the [Palace of Fates] because the dead stayed dead. All the people in the future had just been—copies. But he felt it, now.
Halrac was getting madder, purely confused by this situation and Redscar’s seeming lies. Because he had no idea what to do, Redscar stuck his lips out and kissed Halrac on the cheek.
“Mwah. Heh.”
It was too real, and he regretted it. Halrac exploded in fury.
“Stop that!”
The two struggled around as Halrac tried to hit Redscar, but the [Blademaster] was actually far, far more shaken than the [Bowman of Loss]. Because if what he suspected was true…
“Okay, no more fun. No one handsome ever likes other men. Except maybe Lord of the Dance. I killed Comois.”
Halrac rested his head against the [Blademaster]’s neck.
“Redscar, I am telling you, I killed him. I was teleported here before you. Logically…”
“Nuh. Shut up. You don’t get it. I killed Comois just now. In another…world. Dimension-thing. Timeline? I don’t actually know. But he was another Comois, another Trial of Blades. I’m the same Redscar, but that’s how we’re here. Yet you already escaped this place. So why are you still here?”
“…What?”
It took a long time for Redscar to explain, and he knew he did a bad job because Halrac kept interrupting him at higher volumes. But the [Bowman of Loss] got the gist of it in the end.
Hours might have passed. Frankly, and this wasn’t a good thing, days. They’d talked so long both were aware of how long it had been, but neither one had grown tired. Or needed to pee. And Redscar knew he was cut pretty badly, but he didn’t see any blood.
Halrac grunted.
“We’re not going to need to eat or drink or anything else. I don’t even sleep. I know it’s been a while, but I gave up counting after reaching…a big million.”
“What’s that?”
“It’s what you get after nine hundred and ninety-nine million, nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand, nine hundred and ninety-nine. I’m sure there’s an actual number for it.”
“I didn’t even know million existed, so that’s pretty good.”
The [Bowman] shook his head stiffly.
“Anyways. I’ve been here a while, and you’re telling me that you’re from this [Palace of Fates] thing?”
“Yah.”
“Which is a Skill that Erin Solstice doesn’t have yet, but might, and you got in here with the Faerie Flowers, which have magical roots?”
“Mhm.”
“—Which allow you to cheat and enter these worlds, so you decided you needed to hit Level 50 because there’s an Old One Titan running about, and so you took on the Trial of Blades again and killed Comois?”
“Right.”
“—And ended up here, just like me.”
“Yep. How crazy is all that, eh?”
Halrac tried to rub his face, tired, but just elbowed Redscar in the side.
“I wish I could say this is ridiculous, but it sounds halfway plausible. I know Erin, and I know those damn Faerie Flowers. What I don’t get is how you apparently saw me return and yet I’m here.”
“That’s a puzzling thing, eh? Probably time-weirdness. Because I went into the past, and you can go into the future.”
“Wh—lead with that? The future?”
“Yep. Rags and Mrsha, our Rags and Mrsha—there are more now—went into the future, and it sucked. [Heroes] everywhere, and Erin’s still dead in that timeline. Everyone uses stupid rings and teleports everywhere.”
“I need a second.”
They took six thousand seven hundred and eighty-eight. Then Halrac felt better and continued asking questions.
“Well, I’ve been here. If I get out at some point, that would be great. And it’s not the most unpleasant. You lose track of time—I imagine you would too, except that this is not comfortable.”
“Yah. What we gonna do about it?”
“Well, I have some magical cards in my bag of holding that I played with until I got tired. Then I just stood here. But if we’re stuck—and believe me, there is no way out, there’s no Skills or magic, and these invisible walls are impenetrable to everything I’ve got—then we’ll just have to talk. And try not to squish each other. Maybe if we took off our gear?”
Let’s see. Squished together for all of eternity in a too-tight box. Redscar thought about it.
“Well, if we’re stuck here forever, we can have mad sex.”
“Absolutely not.”
“I’m real good at it. You’ll get bored and want to try. It lots of fun once you give it a shot. I know tons of Goblins who try it once and decide it’s worth it. I think it’s way more fun than the ladies, but they get mad when I say that.”
Halrac refused to reply, and Redscar was mostly joking. Mostly. He had no desire to stay here when he had to help his Chieftain and said so. Plus…there was something he’d been omitting.
“Halrac. I have something to tell you. Something…difficult.”
