It was ugly as could be, and the cool-looking, logical tower felt like…Halrac pointed to something at the base, and Redscar squinted, then came over.
Amidst the mismatch of half-collapsed walls and rubble making up the foundations of the rebuilt tower was an odd object. Something that didn’t quite fit the rest of the stone, but wasn’t visible from where you’d stand in the cage. Halrac walked around the bottom of the tower, and Redscar stopped.
“Okay. This is the Golem tower.”
After all—he and Halrac gazed at the raised arms of a Golem made out of stone, eyes dark and empty. One arm was broken away, but the Golem just stood there, half-crumbled. Holding the tower up.
“Its Golem Heart is shattered.”
Halrac pointed to an empty groove in its chest. Redscar stood there, suddenly terribly uneasy. He turned away abruptly.
“—Now this is sad. So—one of them just stood there? And died because otherwise the tower would be…”
Halrac’s manic energy had drained away completely. He stood, reevaluating his conclusions.
“Or maybe it was falling. I was wrong. It—it must have been under attack. By Wyverns or something else. This Golem held it up, and when it passed, they built on his—their back.”
“It’s so…clumsy.”
They gazed up at this ramshackle tower, held up with luck and, Redscar realized, spells. The frozen ice—he could imagine an Ice Golem desperately freezing the structure, using magic to keep it upright.
“But Golems are smart. Some of them. Everyone talks about Cognita.”
“Maybe this was before Cognita. Before Truestone Golems. Think. You’ve met Golems, Redscar, haven’t you? What if…”
What if they were the first Golems? Cruder, meant to be laboring giants. Or Golems with that spark of sentience who had to figure it all out. Build…build a damn tower in the middle of nowhere with no tools. Only desperation.
That was what stood out, suddenly. Redscar turned, and he began analyzing the towers through another lens.
Desperation. A few towers had been built deliberately, to be grandiose edifices, like the tower that he still thought Dragons had probably made. But the rest…there was a sense each builder had poured all they knew into the towers.
But it was also all they had. The materials around them. And sometimes—clearly—whatever could be scavenged.
There was a tower that had belonged to some seafaring species, and neither Halrac nor Redscar were sure it was Drowned Folk. But it had barnacles on the sides of ship hulls, pieces of rusted metal, wood and clay, and you saw how hard it was.
Nine hundred feet of materials. What a hellish task. What a cruel task. Each tower suddenly seemed horrible to Redscar. They reeked of…of…hope. Uncertainty. Desperation. Sacrifice.
Who had made them build it? Abruptly, Redscar wanted to punch something. Halrac’s smile had vanished, but he did have thoughts here. He rested a hand against the barrier in the air, leading to the Golem tower.
“Now you see all these towers, what do you think, Redscar?”
The [Blademaster] gave it a really good think this time. He searched his brain, trying to come up with answers, and because he had, well, forever, he finally came up with something.
“Wait…wait…each species is intelligent. Smart enough to build a tower. Even if this one wasn’t made by Wyverns…Wyverns might have made that one? Or that one? The Wyvern Lord wants to get with my Chieftain, I think. And Golems are smart, some of them.”
“What? Yes, this is definitely deliberate. Each species has a kind of civilization, even at a tribal level. It took me longer to think of Wyverns like that, but after Antinium—and speaking of them, look at one of the last towers. There.”
This one was sleek and tall, and Redscar scratched his side. With all due deference to not making a mistake again, he came to a swift conclusion.
“Antinium.”
He wouldn’t have gotten it from the tower; it was not distinctly chitinous or ‘buggy’. What decided Redscar was just one feature that made up support struts along the tower’s base.
The silverish, impressively hard material looked exactly like Klbkch’s swords. Halrac nodded; it was the obvious conclusion. The [Marksman] strode over to the writing on the walls.
“Now—I’m going to point this out to you, but do you see the writing around each one? Don’t bother trying to read it; it takes forever, and I can’t work out what it says, even after all this time. But there’s a line—here. And on Selphids and a few other species.”
When he pointed it out, Redscar could identify the same line on the others. After that, the writing grew far more complex and varied, and he noted the towers without this line had less writing.
“Oh. Oh…they passed a test.”
“Exactly. And the test was—I think it was—to gain the ability to level.”
Halrac breathed the words, and Redscar had no idea if he should gasp or scream. So he just nodded.
“But why did the others fail?”
That was the tricky question, and the [Bowman] walked over and confessed he had no idea. He sat down, and Redscar broke out his food. They sipped water and drank food. Then Redscar got up to pee and realized there was a problem.
“Uh oh. I just peed.”
“…On the Creler tower?”
Redscar leapt back from one of the last towers built. He stared upwards, then whirled to Halrac.
“Crelers built a tower?”
Halrac’s face was grim. He nodded to the tower before which Redscar stood. Again, it didn’t look like a Creler tower. It was made of neat frames of ivory, hides, and had a quality that Redscar might have associated with Gnolls. Then he thought about it again.
Ivory. What did you use if you had nothing to make something with?
The things you killed. The prickling on his back grew worse. Halrac’s proof it might have been Crelers were, again, pieces of mangled chitin ripped off in huge sections and which formed the base.
“That’s Adult Creler armor. Or bigger. I hope they cannibalized some of their own to make that. They made a tower too. And failed. You’re right there’s some decisions I don’t understand; I’m positive that the writing here explains it. It’s not the same for those who pass. My guess is there’s other requirements, and this is the…reasoning. Negotiations?”
Again, he was guessing, but when the two stared up at the delicate writing that was too complex for their minds to handle, they couldn’t read the words. But the intention was almost vividly clear.
Negotiations. A back-and-forth that conjured two sides in Redscar’s mind. A desperate flurry of voices and one implaccable one. Bargaining. Threats? Refusal. Pleas—
He tore his eyes away from the Creler tower, disturbed. Because if he hadn’t known better, he would have felt almost bad for the negotiations that took place over this failed tower. He gazed around and saw similar writing over each one.
So you had to build the tower and then…speak to someone.
Something.
That idea was fascinating to Redscar. You had to build a tower and do other stuff and then you’d get classes? The idea of Wyverns with classes was scary—and cool—and he wondered aloud.
“What tower did my people build, then, or yours, Halrac?”
He couldn’t see anything inherently Goblin, but he could bet some of the towers were theirs! Halrac shook his head.
“I…don’t think we had to build any. It’s just a hunch, but I don’t see towers for Dwarves, half-Elves, or a lot of species. That first tower could be half-Elves, but I have a theory that this is for new applicants.”
“Like Selphids? I thought they were around forever?”
“Forever, Redscar? Or did they appear as a species some day? Were they created? Because if that is a tower for Golems, I think this is for species who appeared. There’s a Stitch-folk one over there.”
Wait, so every species—the [Blademaster]’s head was exploding, but he informed Halrac of the problem he had discovered.
“I peed.”
“And?”
Halrac was licking his lips as he finished his food. Redscar pointed at the slight puddle over by the Creler tower.
“That means I needed to. That means I lost water. You’re hungry, and so am I.”
The Gold-rank adventurer froze, and his eyes flicked down to the food he’d devoured. He pinched himself, grunted, and pulled a hair from his head.
“Fuck.”
“Can’t do that, we’re going to get thirsty. We’re going to die now.”
Redscar happily informed Halrac. Well, sort of happily. When the Gold-rank [Bowman] shot to his feet in alarm, Redscar waved a finger.
“Don’t worry, we’ll survive. I know because you reappeared. Right? So we’re not going to die.”
“I used to hear stories of [Chronomancers] who did stupid things with time. You can change things, or so I understand. What happens if things happen—different?”
“Oh. Shit.”
Suddenly, they were on a time crunch and things got less fun. The two wandered around, speculating like mad.
“We could try to use pieces of the tower—”
“But we have no roots, and they’re all protected. How did I return?”
“Uh—uh—just hungry! As if you’d been without food or water.”
“Shit—and anything else?”
Redscar snapped his fingers.
“You had an arrow! The arrow.”
Halrac blinked at him, and then his eyes lit up as Redscar told him about the arrow that had changed so much, including Elia Arcsinger’s Skill.
“Dead gods. And I used it…?”
“You had to. It was the only thing that almost hurt the Three-in-one. Here, scrape some off the cell we were in. Hey! Maybe if we break this thing, it’ll piss off the system or something! And we can go home!”
Redscar was grinning until he realized the catch with that idea. But Halrac just knelt down and critically inspected the seal around their prison.
“No…I think there’s more to it than that. I might not know how to read this, but I thought of this like an Archmage’s trap. Similar to the one Ryoka told me about. Think on it. I’m trapped here—until I am judged and sent back. This probably is meant to hold me in place, right? If I break this, perhaps we’ll both get sent back.”
That was an idea. Redscar liked it, except for one part…Halrac gazed up and nodded, face blank.
“Then I’ll go back and die.”
“—You don’t have to. I’ll do it. I need to go back, but you…could stay here maybe? Or—or—”
The [Blademaster] was searching for an answer, like Halrac growing plants or finding a way out of this, but he wasn’t smart enough. And then he saw Mrsha’s despair right here. He thought he was so clever using the [Palace of Fates] just to level. He thought it couldn’t hurt him.
I am stupid. The Goblin had no answer beyond the one in Halrac’s eyes. The [Marksman] exhaled.
“I don’t like being trapped here. If it means I can leave…there’s no choice, just me talking myself into it and you reassuring me.”
So saying, he drew an arrow and began scratching at the golden runes before Redscar could stop him. In that way, Halrac was the realest person that the Goblin had ever known; even other Goblins would have respected him.
If I get back, I’ll tell them all about you. Silently, the [Blademaster] sat down and watched. He pulled a knife from its sheath and played with it, staring at the golden runes. Redscar knew how dangerous that arrow had been. And now he was watching Halrac collect it.
There wasn’t actually that much dust on the ground. Redscar had assumed Halrac had gotten it on the arrow easily, but, in fact, the runes were so delicately drawn that he had to scrape to get them onto the arrow. There was the barest sliver of gold by the time he erased an entire section of flooring, but it did come off.
Both Halrac and Redscar felt like this was sacrilegious in some way, dangerous, but they didn’t understand what was happening until Halrac leapt back and pointed at the floor.
“What the hell is that?”
Redscar leaned cautiously over the place where the golden writing had vanished. Then his eyes went wide, and he covered them.
“…Everything.”
Silly them. This room was just one part of the heart of levelling and the system, wasn’t it? What happened if you rubbed out the writing that made everything work?
You saw down into the core of…Halrac bent down and peered through the gap in the floor at—
Everything.
Literally all of it. Not other worlds, not glimpses into one fragment of reality or another. Everything, all at once, visible from a perspective that no one, not mortals or even immortals, should have. The view that belonged only to the divine, and the system of levels itself.
He jerked his eyes away, covering them, because this was true madness, and the two men backed up. Halrac returned to the spot and, averting his gaze, began to chisel at the ground again.
“That’s our way out. I’m going to pull the runes off the ground.”
He was removing the entire circle of space. If he did that…Redscar saw the floor begin to vanish as the reality around it literally came away, and the gold began to resemble that faint edge on his arrow.
Then there was a hole in the ground leading down…down…into the rest of the world. Redscar saw a line coming up through the floor that became invisible, but the line belonged to him.
“Hey, that’s the other world I came from. And there’s…your world. Right there. Right where you vanished.”
Glimpses ‘down’ into the hole revealed things to them, if they looked long enough, but they had to avoid staring lest they lose themselves. Redscar backed away; this frightened him. He felt like it was beyond any levels he could hope to achieve, and yet, his first thought was—
Could I cut what lies below, those threads? And if he could—he feared himself.
But Halrac leaned over the hole longer until Redscar touched his shoulder.
“Halrac? We have to jump. You don’t have to…”
“I’m looking. Give me a second, Redscar, I’m searching for something.”
The Goblin peeked over Halrac’s shoulder, squinting, and saw the older man’s head rise. Halrac Everam sometimes seemed white-haired, but it was only because he had flaxy blonde hair. His beard did have hints of white in it, but he was mostly lined by his experiences.
A veteran [Soldier] who had become a Gold-rank adventurer. A boy from a farming village named Windrest who had achieved the dream of all boys his age…but never found the other things.
Never married, never found a family. He had companions who had come and gone, and a host of regrets and failures. What he mostly had, across Izril, were the graves of his comrades. He wore his enchanted leather armor, and he carried that invisible bow on his back; he could kill…but dead gods, he seemed tired.
Was this the man that Redscar was going to tell to jump down and hopefully go to his death.
No. Never.
