If he was selfish, he could get his heart’s desire. But if he did the harder thing and risked his life, he might be able to save what could be saved.
“I am Garen Redfang’s first son. He always taught me to do what was hardest first. Thank you, Apista. Asgra, I need you to watch. If I die, take this and tell Rags to get another Redscar. A better one.”
He plucked the speaking stone off his wrist and handed it to Asgra. She followed, babbling questions, afraid, and Apista buzzed after Redscar as he walked back to the [Palace of Fates].
 
——
 
Asgra made one change to Redscar’s plans, and it was this: she sent Apista back for another root.
“Two.”
She insisted, and Redscar pointed out he only needed one, but the Goblin put the other one in his bag of holding.
“Just in case! Mrsha didn’t have two. Just in case.”
Her eyes were big as she looked up at him, and Redscar relented and patted her on the head. Just in case. Then they went into the [Palace of Fates].
Apista followed, buzzing after the two Goblins as if to say, ‘yeah, I’m coming, I’m definitely part of whatever’s going on, don’t forget about me!’
…Or so Redscar assumed. He said nothing for a while, as they walked through the [Palace of Fates], and something occurred to both the Ashfire bee and Asgra.
Redscar didn’t chat. As in, at all. Neither one could ever remember Redscar, in all his visits to the inn, ever really, uh, saying things. It was always just him in the background with Rags or doing something sword-related. Come to think of it…had even Erin Solstice, the legendary pokemaster, talker of peoples, ever gotten Redscar to really open up and socialize?
Some people just weren’t talkative, but Asgra had to believe Redscar had a personality. He hung around the Redfangs. She, as a junior Cave Goblin, hadn’t really been around him much. So she wondered the same thing as Apista: what was Redscar like?
They were passing through Mrsha’s hallways, the corridors of her doors, and then out into the palace beyond.
Redscar said nothing.
After six minutes, Asgra broke the awkward silence.
“So, uh, how things?”
“Titan not entirely dead. One Seith Core left. Dragonlord wounded. 2nd Army’s vanguard stood down, but the rest might try to kill Goblinhome. Kraken Eaters also about. They fight well. Magnolia Reinhart and Lord Xitegen seem good.”
Wow. What a great summary of events. Asgra and Apista exchanged a glance, and the bee flew up. She was still smoking a blunt and seemed to say, ‘come on Redscar, old chap. Give us something to work with’.
He grunted, irritable.
“I don’t chat. I don’t know you, either. Rags is the good one at talking.”
Asgra opened her mouth, and Apista did a lazy barrel roll across Redscar’s vision. She waggled her antennae as she made her prosthetic limbs click together, like Mrsha poking two fingers together when she was trying to look cute and beg for food.
Please, buddy? Here we are, on an adventure of derring do, and we could all die, and we haven’t had one bonding moment! Have a cigar. 
Redscar bared his teeth, not in a grimace of anger, but just a concentrated expression.
“No. This isn’t the time. I’m not interesting, and I don’t like being friendly and chummy. Notice how I don’t hug children or backslap with Erin? I am the warrior who fights battles. Thanks for the roots, but we’re not going to be best friends.”
He put so much venom into the statement that even the Ashfire Bee buzzed back.
Hey, pal, I was just trying to be part of the team. Don’t harsh my buzz. With an attitude like that, no wonder no one likes you.
“Plenty of people like me. My Redfangs. I don’t need to be your friend—”
“Um, Redscar?”
Asgra raised a tentative hand as Redscar and the bee bickered. The [Blademaster] glared at her.
“What?”
The Cave Goblin glanced between Apista and Redscar, hesitating and pinching her side. But someone had to say it. Asgra licked her lips.
“…Why you talking to Apista? She not saying anything.”
Redscar opened his mouth, glancing at Apista.
She buzzed at him winsomely, and if she could have spoken, Apista would have probably said that Redscar was doing a bang-up job at interpreting her.
What an interesting fellow.
 
——
 
What kind of a person could read a bee’s mind? Redscar. He stomped along as the [Palace of Fates]…changed around him.
Showing the Cave Goblin and Ashfire Bee who he was as much as his words. Redscar was highly embarrassed after the bee-revelations. He snapped.
“Warriors die. We don’t make friends except with other Redfangs because we die. Do you know how many Redfangs died even taking the mountains?”
“So that why you all tough?”
Asgra nudged Apista, who nudged her back. The two beamed at Redscar…then saw the hallway they were walking past and lost their merriment.
Redscar’s [Palace of Fates] echoed Mrsha’s in places, because he didn’t know what a palace should look like. But in other parts, it resembled the places he knew. Cave walls. Mountain passes.
And like those wilder moments of the Redfangs, the two saw something on the rock walls, daubed in red paint, the only thing the Redfang Tribe had ever really had. Images, neolithic paintings, some done clumsily, then with more skill, that depicted images in stylized, simple brushes of the fingers.
What the two saw were…Carn Wolves. Bounding Carn Wolves and little red figures on their backs. Redfang markings on the walls, depicting kills and honorable wounds in battle.
Symbols only Redscar knew. He passed by doors that were more like hides hanging on the walls. His eyes found one door and jerked away.
That door had two Carn Wolves circling it. Two Carn Wolves…and Asgra remembered who had died at the Winter Solstice.
Thunderfur. She lost her smile, and Apista clung to Asgra’s hair. They said nothing, and Redscar broke off looking at the doors. Saw their expressions.
“He’s dead. Thunderfur, my friend. So is my father, Garen. My friends. I haven’t drawn him on the walls yet. I don’t even know if the caves are still there. This is just my heart. Silly palace. No wonder it hurts people so.”
He stepped over to the wall, and his fingers traced the leftmost wolf, larger than the other one, howling at the sky. Redscar spoke to himself.
“I don’t like talking. You’re like Chieftain Rags. But she leaves me alone. What should I say? ‘It hurts?’ She’s bleeding. I’ll see them sooner or later. I just wish Erin had known Thunderfur well. For the garden.”
Embarrassed, he lowered his hands and turned away. He glared over at Asgra and Apista and saw water streaming from Asgra’s eyes. Redscar gazed at the sobbing Cave Goblin and Ashfire Bee.
He stomped off.
“This is why I don’t talk to children.”
 
——
 
Handsome fellows were more fun to talk to. Fellow warriors—though Redscar preferred to meet them on the battlefield. When Asgra and Apista caught up, they got annoying.
“W-why don’t you say anything? You talk good! Better than me!”
“Apista talks better than you.”
True, I am eloquent in my quietude. Apista sagely fanned her wings, and Asgra’s voice rose in a screech.
“What that mean? I can’t hear her voice! You making her up. What she say?”
Redscar repeated what Apista said, and Asgra grabbed the bee and stared at Apista. The bee nodded eagerly. The Cave Goblin glared accusingly at Redscar.
“She not say that. You making up this.”
“I can hear the voice of her heart.”
Redscar was straight-faced. Apista nodded.
“I am a 56-year old Naga woman with the heart of a champion and the scars of a [Warrior]. I would do poetry, but I enjoy smoking too much. You and I should talk, Asgra.”
The Cave Goblin’s mouth opened, and she gazed at Apista. She spluttered.
“Wh—y—Naga?”
Apista shook her body from left to right and buzzed accusatorily after Redscar, headbutting him in the back. He grinned and strode on. Asgra blinked, then began screaming.
“You tricked me!”
“Yeah, you’re easy to trick.”
“You making all this up!”
“Nope, just that last part. Apista actually said that you’re not the brightest Goblin around, but that’s okay. Neither was Headscratcher, and he did fine.”
Redscar felt better now. And Asgra was learning one of the reasons the [Blademaster] didn’t actually socialize that often.
He, uh…
He got on people’s nerves. He could be incredibly witty at times and fun to be around, unless you were the person that Redscar decided to harass. Asgra punched his butt several times; she was too short to get the back of his head. Redscar let her get four punches in, then threw Apista into her face.
When she and Apista had stopped screaming, he said the only thing that mattered.
“I don’t have friends here, Asgra. Apista is like the only person I like the most in the inn. Erin’s okay. I liked Halrac because he was quiet. Maybe…”
He scratched at his head, trying to figure out who he’d liked.
“…The Orangutan gave me a banana. I liked him. And Pekona was good with the sword. We talked.”
“You talked with her? She not talk to anyone!”
“Huh. That’s because she’s like me. Anyways…I think we’re here.”
He cut short the conversation because he didn’t want to hear how Asgra felt about all this. He didn’t want to like this Goblin.
He didn’t want her to be sad when he vanished. His father was, in many ways, the person that Redscar emulated. Garen Redfang. He had been a great warrior. A poorer teammate.
Redscar had seen what became of the Halfseekers after Garen’s betrayal. Fair was fair: Redscar had listened to the accounts from Jelaqua, Moore, and Seborn about what had happened. Garen’s team had great flaws too, but what became of the traitor? He formed a tribe, and in the end, that tribe left him.
The [Blademaster] was, perhaps, afraid of copying his father.
That was what Redscar didn’t say, you see. Because he was a stoic individual who didn’t need to share his feelings and blab his heart out. But he had made a mistake, and it was this:
If he could read Apista’s mind, she could read his. And the Ashfire Bee and Asgra were forming a telepathic link. The [Waitress] paused to blow her nose on the hem of her outfit.
“That so sad. We’ll be your friends!”
Whereupon she and Apista tried to hug Redscar. He tossed them down the hallway. But it made his spirit lighter.
Things should be silly. Garen had always taken himself so seriously. As if he was the main protagonist in his sorry story. Redscar was the side-character. Rags…Rags, Rabbiteater…he was waiting for them.
He just had to do this to help them. So, at last, the Goblin found what he was searching for.
There was no set door that Redscar wanted. He just asked and it appeared, and it, fittingly, looked right. When he saw it, he knew it was the one.
The door was appropriate.
It was made out of swords. Not ‘the metal of swords recycled into a door’, but literal swords joined together to make a door comprised purely of blades of every shape and kind. From the frame to the handle—blades.
“Whoa. What this?”
“The place I need. Don’t go through. Just watch, okay? If anything comes out…well, run. It can’t make things that much worse.”
Redscar hesitated.
“I think. It actually probably can. But it might be useful…whatever.”
His audience of two eyed each other, and Redscar realized he hadn’t explained anything. Dead gods, all of it was hard. You had a plan, you had to execute on it, but he’d forgotten the roots and to explain it—this is why he needed Rags. He was too much like his father in many ways. Redscar turned.
“I figured this out when I was in the future. I was weak. I barely survived against a [Hero], and he wasn’t even trying hard to kill me. I only lived because Pawn is insanely powerful.”
“Uh. A [Hero]? What future?”
Asgra had no idea, and Redscar did not want to waste time explaining. So he went on.
“I lost. I failed. I was useless—but I levelled up. Then I thought, if I can level up in these doors, I should. It’s hard to find battles that level you up. I levelled from the Titan—once. At my level, it’s very hard, let alone to reach the capstone.”
“Wh—what level are you?”
Asgra had huge eyes, and Apista was buzzing around excitedly. Redscar jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“Not high enough. There’s only one way to reach Level 50 before Goblinhome is destroyed or the Kraken Eaters or someone attack. I asked for the door that could level me the most. I know where it goes. I may die, but that’s the risk I need.”
It was always what you required; Redscar understood the system of levels very well. He turned, with that said, and opened the door, wincing as the little doorknob of swords cut his hand.
Dead gods, there was such a thing as too many swords. He knew he was risking it all. He knew he was not the greatest planner, but in a sense—Redscar had confidence this would work.
Mrsha was trying to steal lives from the [Palace of Fates], to build a happier tomorrow. He admired her. He didn’t know how it could be done. But all Redscar wanted was to do what Goblins did best. He grinned as the door opened and he took hold of that root.
I will take everything I can as well. I will steal the moments I need, but earn them fairly. So Redscar pulled himself forwards—
 
——
 
The air was so beautifully calm. It was no raging war with rampaging legends of might and magic. It was not forty thousand years in the past, when the Dragonlords dueled in the shadows of Giants.
Even if Redscar could have reached those places, how were those fit places for him, a lowly Goblin, to level? He knew what he thought the best place to level was in his heart. The most fitting.
It seemed the [Palace of Fates] agreed.
Calm air. No longer tense. No longer frenzied with worry, excitement, or anticipation. For a single moment, as the combined contestants of Zeladona’s Trial of Blades stood there, everything was still.
Winter. The crisp crunch of snow on the ground not cleared for the <Heroic Quest> came from the onlookers. The Wandering Inn was virtually empty save for the waiting [Innkeeper] inside.
An army of people with blades were paused for the first strike, the start of this contest. Pallass’ finest, the Swordsman of Six, the Champions of the Coast, the adventurers such as the Horns of Hammerad, Griffon Hunt, House Veltras, Liscor’s Watch—travellers from far and wide had arrived.
It would soon be a bloodbath. For the injunction against killing said nothing about the loss of limb or even blood. The unwary Archmages of Wistram would suffer. The [Assassins] of Orchestra would certainly suffer. They were all standing together, a band of black-clad Drakes and Gnolls led by the Maestro, Linvios Reiscale.
