He levelled up again.
This time, the voice spoke to him and said in bright, cheerful, lime-green words that he was better than Garen Redfang. Higher-level, certainly.
Redscar appreciated the vote of confidence, but he didn’t believe it. The voice was just a voice. It was no warrior, or so he felt.
Warriors should not boast of such things. That was the purview of children and those who had never seen true battle.
‘I can beat him’, ‘I can take this bigger foe’, ‘I am the stronger one’—those were careless words that made you seem younger, even though you intended the opposite. Redscar remembered all his old boasts of that kind, and they were embarrassing.
‘I shall win’.
That was a different kind of statement. It was often a lie, but you spoke and put your life on the line to make it happen. He respected those words, even from enemies, and again, it was the difference between youth and maturity to understand why the similar-sounding statements were so far apart. Or even how you said the same words, but one was bravado, the other bravery.
A true warrior had taught him that. His father.
He would stand in Garen Redfang’s shadow forever. Garen was not his birth-father, but second one, the Goblin who had taken in a starving child and taught him how to use the sword.
The voice said Redscar had surpassed him, but in the [Blademaster]’s heart, Garen would always be stronger. Greater.
For all his failures. Garen Redfang had been a traitor, a murderer of his own tribe, a liar—to himself and his people—and a fool. These things Redscar also had come to understand by thought and reflection.
Garen would always be his beloved Chieftain and father. But these things could be—must also be—true. If he lied to himself, then he did not know his father and idolized a fake image. Garen had been so flawed.
Redscar thought of that too. Almost daily. His father’s victories and failures. His first son could not make the same mistakes.
 
——
 
The [Blademaster] opened his eyes as the Wyvern began to descend. Rags, [Student] Rags, was speaking in the speaking stone attached to his wrist.
“Redscar, Redscar, come in! Where the hell are you!?”
The Goblin flying his Frost Wyvern, Chickenruler, glanced over his shoulder, and Redscar lifted the speaking stone to his mouth.
“Hey, Chieftain. I took a Wyvern. Sorry.”
“Sorry!? I’m with General Shirka and—a Wyvern where? We need you! 2nd Army isn’t under Shirka’s control! They might assault Goblinhome, and the Kraken Eaters are still out there! We need you. Get back here!”
She was panicked, but she wasn’t lesser than his Rags, for all she felt like it. He had seen her take command of the battle, and she was, in her way, braver than his Rags. She believed in good things happening.
They needed a Goblin like that. Redscar knew there was a battle brewing behind him in the High Passes. It called to him.
Naumel, the Great Chieftain of the Kraken Eaters, was a terrible enemy. The [Goblin Slayers] poised to assault Goblinhome would kill everyone.
He should be there, cutting them down from the front. The [Blademaster] snarled, and the Wyvern he was flying whimpered. But the Goblin stopped reaching for his blades and replied, voice controlled.
“Can’t. I’ll be back if I survive. I have something I must do, Chieftain.”
“You—what—you’re our highest-level [Warrior] by far! We need you!”
“Leapwolf can slow down Naumel if he stays out of reach. You don’t need me for a siege. Fighting 2nd Army is impossible. You know it.”
“We have to stop them. No matter what.”
Her voice was so bleak. So determined. Redscar gazed down over the rainy Floodplains of Liscor as the Frost Wyvern broke through the cloud cover. It began to rain. He could still see it—a muddy ground where Goblins were dying.
Again and again. Redscar fancied himself a realist. He knew what was coming.
“I know. I can’t help you, Chieftain.”
“You’re…”
“I can’t stop them. I can only kill a few of them before I die. You saw the future. You know this. I could not stop Pawn. I cannot defeat Naumel without dying.”
If he even could. Shirka was right. Regenerating opponents sucked. The rain began to bathe the Frost Wyvern’s side, turning to ice on the cold beast’s scales. It didn’t touch Redscar, though Chickenruler pulled his hood up. Then the [Wyvern Rider] twisted around.
The water was slanting to two sides above the [Blademaster], as if there was an invisible, triangle-shaped umbrella over his head. Redscar grunted.
“I can only cut four feet high. She cut the sky in two.”
“Wh—Redscar? Where are you now?”
Then she sensed it. The [Blademaster] glanced down again, and the place he had told Chickenruler to take him, despite the urgency, despite the danger, despite his duties, was right below him.
The Wandering Inn.
“I’ll be back when I can. Or I won’t return. Wish me luck.”
The Wyvern passed over The Wandering Inn as he leapt. Now, Rags was demanding answers, shouting questions in his ears, but another voice broke into the line.
“Redscar—”
Leapwolf sounded afraid. He was too timid, except in battle. Redscar fell. He struck Bird’s tower and caught the wooden support shafts, redirecting his momentum. Then he was sliding down the tiles of the roof, and he leapt off the ledge and landed in front of the inn.
It was cooler than the Wyvern landing. He’d always wanted to do that once. Redscar raised the speaking stone to his mouth.
“Your turn, Leapwolf. Chieftain?”
Chieftain? [Student] Rags was quiet. Then all the other voices cut off, and she breathed.
“Good luck, Redscar. I’ll be waiting for you.”
He grinned and felt himself growing stronger.
“I’ll be back as soon as I can.”
Redscar turned to the door and strode through it. Someone had seen him coming down; a young woman in a [Waitress]’ outfit was staring at him with an open mouth. She was dangerous; she pivoted as he passed, and Redscar spoke.
“Hi. I’m going into the [Garden].”
“Her Highness isn’t here, uh—uh—”
“Okay.”
The [Blademaster] saw the common room was a flurry of chaos. A fight had broken out and been quashed; Drakes, some in armor, were having a standoff with the Calanferians.
No Ishkr, no Goblins, no Antinium. All the important people were gone. The two groups seemed ready to go at it again—then they looked at him.
“There’s one! Grab—”
The [Blademaster] walked, and the shadows in the room split into wavy threads and vanished. All the darkness, the natural shadows, disappeared, and the room was bright.
He didn’t draw the swords hanging at his side. The Goblin strolled forwards towards the open garden door the Calanferians were protecting.
Some of the Drake [Soldiers] wore Pallass’ armor. They backed away from him, flinching. Redscar grinned at them.
“In the name of Pallass, I need answers—”
One of the leaders of the Drakes croaked. He had a hand on his sword hilt, and Redscar slowed. The officer’s eyes slid sideways to his group.
“I am 1st Army’s [Major], Reidet! This is a matter of war!”
Redscar walked past him, and the [Major] recoiled. The Goblin didn’t react, though, he just kept walking. He poked his head out of the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door.
“Sorry. I have no idea what’s going on. I never do.”
 
——
 
The [Palace of Fates] was shaking. Redscar hopped down from the hole that led from the [Garden of Sanctuary] and listened.
“Sounds like bad stuff.”
Another fight. He longed to know who was fighting what; he was sure he’d see something amazing, but once more, that was not why he must be here.
The [Blademaster] had an idea. He had them so seldom that he’d decided to act on it. He walked through the [Palace of Fates], then cursed.
“Wait. Roots.”
There were none at the opening when he doubled back, and he vaguely recalled Mrsha hiding them. This was no good. He needed a root-thing. Redscar snapped his fingers, impatient.
“I need someone smart. Get me…a Goblin. Please.”
That was how it worked, right? He waited, hopefully, and then blinked. The [Palace of Fates] shifted around him as his eyes closed; he felt it, like a vast serpent faster than he was.
Everything in this place was stronger than him. Rhisveri, Visophecin, probably, even the woman in the mirrors…
Certainly, Pawn was, and his Painted Antinium were higher-level than Redscar—some of them. It hurt Redscar’s pride, because he was higher-level than Garen. He was the highest-level Goblin in the entire Flooded Waters tribe, even now.
He had survived it all. The war against the Goblin Lord. The Winter Solstice. He had fought the Titan in the darkness and been rewarded for it.
In his short lifespan of eight years, Redscar had reached a level that few people had. And it was not enough. He was still weak.
That [Hero] had proven it. Yes, Redscar could go back and help Student Rags, but he, the [Blademaster], could estimate his chances well.
At best, he guessed he’d be able to kill fifty, maybe even a hundred [Goblin Slayers] in the battle, if he was careful, if he had support and luck—that would not stop Shirka’s army, who would come by the tens of thousands to destroy Goblinhome.
He might kill Naumel, if he was lucky, but Redscar wasn’t sure, and he knew he’d be so wounded from the battle he’d lose his ability to shape things after that.
They needed more. That was the calculus he had made, and Redscar had found a solution—of a kind. Not an easy one. A risky one, a stupid gamble. But that was the only one he saw: neither Rags would order this of him. They were too kind.
When Redscar opened his eyes, someone was rooting around the [Palace of Fates], aimlessly opening doors.
Asgra. The Cave Goblin jumped and squeaked when she saw him. Redscar blinked, glanced around, and shrugged.
“That’ll do. You. I need your help.”
“What? Me? Where Rags? What happening? I mean, help! Everything bad is happening! Unicorn man won’t help, and there’s undead rats and Pawn and—two angry Dragons and—”
Huh. Teriarch must have beaten him here. The Dragon was certainly faster. Redscar longed to know what that was about, but he put a hand on Asgra’s head.
“No.”
“No!?”
“No. I need your help, Asgra. Do you have one of those…roots? I need to go through a door.”
The Cave Goblin blinked and studied Redscar. She knew him; she might not have been part of the Flooded Waters tribe as long as some, but the Redfangs’ nature as warriors and Redscar’s own prowess with the blade were common knowledge.
“I…Mrsha hid the roots.”
“Yeah. Do you know where they are? I need only one.”
Redscar wasn’t clear on how many were left, and he didn’t care. He had to have one; Asgra’s eyes grew shifty.
“Maybe…but what it for?”
“Help me and you can watch. I need someone to check on me anyways. Is Fightipilota here?”
“I haven’t seen her. You want me to go get—?”
“No. Just asking. The roots?”
Asgra was fidgeting. She didn’t know, but Redscar realized she was the person to ask. The Cave Goblin was, after all, used to skulking around and not being noticed. All these important people like Pawn and so on couldn’t figure out where the roots were unless they intimidated Mrsha into telling them.
And she’d vanished, so good luck with that. Unless she’s back yet? I hope so.
No clue. But Asgra glanced around surreptitiously and whispered.
“I think Roots Mrsha knows where roots are. She Mrsha too, so they think the same way. I think I maybe know where they is.”
“Okay. Where?”
The Cave Goblin beckoned and took Redscar out of the [Palace of Fates]. She explained her logic, which was actually very astute.
“Mrsha smart. Like me! This [Palace of Fates] is too easy to ask for things. You hide the roots and then someone say ‘where roots?’ And roots appear!”
“Right. So where would she hide them? Her room?”
That was where Redscar assumed they would be, but Asgra pshed.
“That stupid.”
“Thanks.”
“No, Mrsha smarty. Her room too easy. There only one place in the inn where you can hide things from everyone.”
“…The basement.”
“No, dummy!”
Asgra swung around and realized who she was lecturing and quailed a bit.
“—The [Garden of Sanctuary]! But not this one. Any of them. Get it?”
She was opening doors in the [Garden of Sanctuary], each one leading to more gardens. Redscar recognized one of them; the lightning room with the tree. The [Blademaster]’s heart sank. All of these were [Gardens of Sanctuary]?
He could search for days and not find the roots. Asgra was of the same opinion.
“Even with nose, you probably can’t track Mrsha.”
“So we need to find Roots Mrsha.”
“Nope! There one way to find the roots. Maybe. Here. We talk to the real guardian of this place, who sees all, knows all. You have bribe?”
“I have gold.”
“Eh…maybe we ask nicely. Here. Apista!”
Then they were strolling through the jungle of Erin’s garden. Asgra clapped her hands, and a sleepy Ashfire Bee crawled out of her nest and flew down. She circled them a few times, staring, then landed on Asgra’s hands as the Cave Goblin explained.
“There bad-bad things happening in the [Palace of Fates], Apista. I know you is knowing because you’re smart, so please—where are the roots Mrsha hid? We need them. Just one! Redcar needs it.”
Apista was smoking a tiny blunt, and she gave Redscar a suspicious look as if to say, ‘well, well, well. I’ll be the judge of this.’ She buzzed around Redscar, antennae waving.
He had long gotten over the ridiculousness of most things, but Redscar felt like having to justify himself to a bee on his life-or-death mission was silly. Garen Redfang would never have done it.
And that’s why I guess I’m here and not him.
“I need only one. Please. I need to get stronger to protect everyone. Give it to me and I will die or return as they need me to be.”
“Yeah! Wait, what?”
Asgra hadn’t known about the conditional aspect of Redscar’s quest. Apista, though, seemed to glance at her prosthetic, miniature legs and wings. She floated forwards, then landed on Redscar’s arm. She nodded her head up and down.
I’ve got you, friend. Go get ‘em, tiger.
…He assumed that was what she was thinking. Redscar had no clue; he just copied things Kevin liked to say. He missed Kevin. He hoped that if they saved anyone…
He could save his father.
The Goblin knew that, and when Apista flew into a door and came back a minute later with a single root, he held it in his hand and knew he could walk through one of those doors and come out with Garen Redfang.
Redscar stared at the root in his hand, and the curse and temptation of the [Palace of Fates] was upon him. He got why Mrsha and Rags wept for it. He hated the burden.
