“There’s a way for you to survive. Maybe you jump a bit right? Maybe it messes up everything, or maybe there’s two Halracs. Or you reappear and…”
Redscar was brainstorming now, desperate, but Halrac shook his head. They both had a sense that the lines connecting them with their reality were the only way down. If they missed, if they floated into that void—that would be far worse.
“No, Redscar. I’m searching for…will you help me? See, down there? All those different fates being made. Millions of them. That must be your [Palace of Fates].”
“Wow. Yeah. Someone’s working hard.”
The glittering network of lives and possibilities spun out, and yes, it might be worth less than their reality, but Halrac gazed down. He whispered.
“Help me. Show me a world in which Halrac Everam…lives. I can find so few.”
“What? That’s silly. There are tons of…”
The Goblin [Blademaster] strode over to the edge and peered down. Then he stopped, because it was true.
There were almost none. Even in the [Palace of Fates], if you looked for a world where Halrac Everam, as he was, with no crazy twists of fate just for him, lived to a long life, to retirement—there just weren’t many.
“I meet someone—here. I marry Briganda and help raise Cade. Hah. There’s one with me and Erin Solstice. I make her so miserable. And even one with you and me.”
Halrac the Grim was smiling as the light of infinite possibilities bathed his weathered face. He appeared almost relieved, despite how bitter so many futures were. Redscar jerked his eyes away from the countless mistakes Halrac could make, the people he could hurt.
“But in some, you’re a hero. In the future…you killed the Mother of Graves. Stop looking, Halrac. It’s too much.”
Goblin Lord Rags had told him of one future where Halrac had died saving Liscor. Redscar had to avert his gaze; he felt like he was vanishing the more he stared. But Halrac refused to gaze away. Why would he? He could see his fate. The Human man sat and rested his legs in that hole.
“Perhaps that’s the best I can do. Go out doing something that saves people. Is…is that what I tried to do? At the Winter Solstice? We don’t get to choose how we go, Redscar. I’ve known that all my life. Ulrien didn’t. And you know it.”
The [Blademaster] sat down as well, head bowed.
“That’s true. But you’re not dead. You’re the Halrac, the real Halrac that Mrsha wants. Take my hand. I’ll pull you with me.”
“No.”
“Don’t be stupid! Just try—”
Halrac caught Redscar’s hand, and his eyes were following the shining threads of what-if below. When he looked up, Redscar jerked away, because that universe was contained in Halrac’s own gaze. This was madness. No—it was the truth. Too much of it for a mortal mind to handle.
“If I’m not there, who dies, Redscar? My entire team was there, weren’t they? Erin was there, and Mrsha…did I make a difference?”
The Goblin wanted to lie and say that Halrac hadn’t mattered in that battle at all, but he didn’t know. Halrac peered down and breathed.
“I have a choice. I have always had a choice. I can back away from the monster. Or I can go down there. Maybe we’ll forget either way, but if I play my part perfectly—at least I know Mrsha will make it, and Erin.”
“Don’t do it.”
Redscar was shaking, and he had feared nothing, not the Titan, like this. Halrac’s eyes glinted as the Gold-rank adventurer stood.
“Just tell me one thing, Redscar. When I die, when the final moment comes—I can see him calling to me. That Green King. I’m needed, aren’t I? That’s nice. It’s not an easy part to play, but someone has to. I see. So—at the end, when I face this woman, this Three-In-One—how do I die? Does she come at me from the right or left?”
That was the only question he asked. The [Blademaster] was wiping at his eyes. He answered with a laugh.
“I—don’t remember! You were reaching for the arrow, and she touched you. Don’t let her touch you, stupid! But you’ll know that.”
Halrac the Grim smiled faintly, and he shrugged.
“I’ll try. If we don’t meet again, let one of our futures be happy.”
“Don’t do it. Don’t—”
There was no stopping him. Halrac crouched over the hole in the world, a dead man heading towards his fate. The Goblin reached for him, but the [Marksman] looked so quietly proud of himself.
An expression he never let anyone else see. The smile he wore only after the battle was done, and no one was watching. The triumph of a lonely man who had kept the world from shrinking. Halrac’s hand tightened on the arrow, and he pointed downwards.
“She’s waiting for you down there, Redscar. I can see your meeting with fate…and beyond. It’s not even written yet. What a wondrous view.”
The [Bowman of Loss]’ eyes were shining with things no mortal should be allowed to see—he had looked too long down there, and it didn’t matter.
So that was why he didn’t remember. Redscar turned away. Halrac knew his death was coming, and he was running towards it. Poised to leap at death itself. In this moment, Redscar realized he was no true adventurer. Not like this man. Even now, Halrac Everam was waiting to dance with death again, despite knowing the ending.
Redscar closed his eyes, then felt at his belt and shook his head.
“I don’t have anything left to drink. I should send a warrior to battle with a drink and a cheer.”
They were thirsty, hungry, and Redscar knew things were replaying. Time sucked. This palace sucked. But he glanced back once, hungrily, memorizing that man’s face. Halrac Everam bent down over the hole in the ground. He crouched there, then glanced up.
“We don’t have customs like Goblins do. Sometimes I think your people show that they care more. Let’s do it like adventurers.”
“How’s that?”
For an answer, Halrac Everam held out a hand. Slowly, in a dream, Redscar rose, and he shook it, matching the man’s grip. They looked into each other’s eyes, then Halrac turned with a sigh.
“Tell Mrsha…tell them all I was here. And tell them yes. I, too, was happy.”
The [Bowman] raised a hand. Then he took a breath and leapt downwards. Redscar followed him with a shout, reaching for his leg—
And missed.
They hurtled downwards, and he swore he could hear Halrac laughing, the terrifying laughter of a man who wasn’t good at it. The Gold-rank adventurer waved—
Then Redscar was plunging through reality, unravelling, following the trail of his destiny back. Falling through the void where the universe lay around him. Falling—carrying his own reality and fate downwards after him, like a waterfall of destiny.
They passed by worlds and endless trillions of lives in a blur, each one separated, a glowing network of what-ifs and other worlds. Searching for their own. They fell past a white and green speck in the infinite cosmos that contained every color in creation. Redscar wondered if he would fall forever, or vanish into everything at all. Halrac.
Where was Halrac?
There was no fighting this. It was overwhelming, so Redscar closed his eyes, but it didn’t stop the visions. Then he realized someone was following him. Two beings—one following Halrac down, catching him, and the other for him.
The Grand Design.
It spoke with a voice louder than anything in his ears, but gently as well.
 
<ERROR. <REDSCAR> OUT OF BOUNDS. RESETTING COORDINATES. INITIATING JUDGEMENT.>
 
The Goblin twisted, shouting Halrac’s name. He cried out, reaching across reality—and saw the [Bowman] offering him one last grin.
And then they vanished. One version of the Grand Design went with Halrac, and the other took Redscar. It asked its version of Zeladona what should be done with him. And he heard the reply as he was held in that all-encompassing grip.
Kill him? Keep him locked away?
No. The response came from that edged soul. And the Grand Design lifted Redscar up in its mighty grasp.
She wanted to meet him.
 
——
 
Time continued. In one place, Halrac Everam appeared, just as he’d been meant to, dishevelled, hungry, and clutching a mysterious arrow. Time didn’t break, splinter, and need fixing, because he was right where he’d chosen to be.
Chosen.
In another place, at the same time, but a different world, a Goblin reappeared, holding his hand out. Tears were in his eyes, and he stood over the corpse of Comois, the [Lieutenant], a moment after he had vanished.
“HALRAC!”
Redscar bellowed, and the Drakes drew back from him. A [Bowman] rose to his feet, confused, and everyone turned to him.
 
——
 
Halrac Everam would have shouted something in reply, like ‘what?’ Or perhaps asked if Redscar had the wrong person.
He didn’t know Redscar well. He didn’t get along with the Goblins, really. Everyone knew that.
But when the Goblin turned to him, the man hesitated.
Halrac Everam had no knowledge of what Redscar had seen. This Halrac had never vanished. Yet…perhaps it was that journey through reality itself. Perhaps it was the machinations of the fae or the Grand Design, but Halrac’s eyes widened.
The adventurer met Redscar’s eyes. Then he bowed. He bowed as his teammates and everyone looked at him, a graceful, dignified bow.
When he straightened, he couldn’t have said why he did that. Only that it fit.
The [Blademaster] tore his blades from their sheaths and raised them into the air. Saluting the [Bowman], and he wept.
No one knew why. No one could say what was going on, but when Redscar turned around, he had no more enemies left.
No one with the heart to stand against him. No one who saw victory when they met his eyes. Whatever he had seen—
Onieva stowed her blade and ignored Chaldion’s hissing at her. She walked on back as Ksmvr did the same thing, and in the distance, the World-Pact Adventurer Gadiekh tossed down his weapons.
Not him. Not today. Then, an [Innkeeper] cried out in her inn. She clutched at her chest.
“Wait. Nononono. It’s so soon? What’s going on? Wh—”
And she came, just like last time.
 
——
 
Redscar was weeping when the door to The Wandering Inn opened. He knelt on the ground, forgetting how excited he was to see her.
Only this time—she didn’t come as she had. A woman emerged from the inn, green-haired, eyes like blades in and of themselves. A fearless smile on her lips and a single sword by her side, taken from Pekona’s arsenal.
She still split the sky when she looked up casually. He saw her will breach the sky; she needed no blade. She was a living blade, the most beautiful thing in the entire world—or so he’d thought.
Zeladona. [Blademistress of Ancients]. A Level 84 heroine of ages long past. She who had bested Dragons, who knew more sword techniques than any being. One of the closest beings to the gods themselves there had ever been.
He didn’t look at her—but she gazed at him as she walked down the hill. Walked, not leapt. She could have soared through the air and split the ground all the way down to the Free Hive of the Antinium.
She could have killed everyone and everything before her with a sweep of her sword, but her eyes were only on him.
Only him. When Zeladona Ischen spoke, he glanced up and saw her.
It was Erin’s body she wore, but Zeladona’s turquoise hair, her worn, brown cotton skin and golden stitching, and her grey, sharp eyes were reality. Her aura, her presence, transformed Erin into this being of old.
She did not make the earth tremble as she walked. She could have. She did not cut every blade of grass upon the Floodplains when she touched her sword.
She could have.
Zeladona Ischen should have set off every [Dangersense] in the world. She should have made the mighty tremble in their castles of magic and stone, for she could cleave their empires apart. But she cared not for them, and so she walked this world like what she was: a ghost. Only what merited her attention would bleed.
—Right now, the being who drew Zeladona’s attention felt the intensity of her focus on him, and he felt like she cut his soul. Her curiosity was warring with another force in her light, melodic tones.
Anger. The [Blademistress] halted, and her eyes were bared blades of her ire. This is what she said:
“I can tell that I am not real. I care it not; the [Innkeeper] has provided me with a fine festival to whet my appetite. It matters not who I am, only that I am. But I am curious, for you woke me with your raging soul, sharpest among them. I didst wake and anticipate our meeting and what you might teach me, Strange Goblin Who Sings. Then thou disappointed me. Thou killed and dishonored my festival. Yet you stand before me, which is curious. No force, even mine, could escape that ruling. How is it done? Tell me before my wrath overtakes me.”
Her eyes narrowed further, and Redscar felt his wounds reopening, as if she were slowly re-cutting him with a blade. Blood ran down his arms, from his legs, down his cheek, trickling across his ribs, until he focused.
The bleeding stopped. Redscar took a shuddering breath.
“I forgot about no killing. You…you don’t care about that rule.”
The [Blademistress] tossed her green hair back, and blood filled the air in a mist as every wound Redscar had healed bled. The Goblin fell to his knees, and she snapped.
“‘Tis the rule that was set! It is true, I care it not; it was the [Innkeeper]’s will, and so it was mine. You have no right to stand before me.”
He was bleeding as she snapped at him. Still…beautiful as he remembered. But something was different. Redscar tried to figure out what it was as he bled onto the grass.
Zeladona spoke in an older accent, and slowly, as if words came to her with effort and she were not used to speaking them at all. A lonely sword.
That was all he saw. Oh, he saw her song, a melody of a big million voices and styles, all her experiences blended into one being, exquisite beyond any piece of art. She was like him, a product of her foes, her own experiences, her determination. If she drew her blade, he would hear that song that could cut the world in twain.
But he saw her differently as well. He saw…a coastline of dry earth above that beautiful sea on Chandrar’s soils. Behind was the great desert beyond the tantalizing land.
In the middle of this endless desert, there was a sword. An entire world might lie beyond those sands, filled with kingdoms and adventure, monsters and glory. Yet there was only that sword.
A sword planted in the ground. Alone, the sharpest thing in the world, able to cut anything and anyone.
…That was all. That was how she’d died. Zeladona Ischen had become what she aspired to be and lain down without anything else to cut.
She was still beautiful, wondrous, and his eyes stung as he met her displeased gaze, but he had just witnessed something far more important.
