“If you’re attracted to me, keep it inside. And keep your pants on.”
Redscar laughed. Then he grew quiet. This was hard. It was harder than losing someone, in a way, because he had never had to tell someone they were dead.
“Halrac, in my time, you came out of the Trial of Blades. We had some fun times. Eh, there was the beach…even I liked it. Then the Winter Solstice.”
“I think Erin was worried about that. What…happened then?”
Halrac knew. He knew from how Redscar spoke, and he glanced at the Goblin’s eyes. The [Blademaster] refused to look away. The grey eyes of the [Bowman of Loss] never flinched, even in the face of it. Redscar remembered that very well.
“There was some…dead god. A woman who controls death. She sent Draugr at the inn. Thousands of them. A hundred thousand. Drakes fought. The Five Families fought. We all did, and we were fighting to our deaths. Then…she came for Erin. And we tried to stop her. You died. So did a lot of people.”
Redscar’s words brought with them the fate-touched truth, and it sank into Halrac’s bones, and he shivered.
That was all. He didn’t deny what Redscar said, or weep. The [Bowman] took the blow and stood still, as if trying to see how bad it was, before realizing it was his end.
Halrac said nothing for a long time, too long to count. He seemed about to deny it, ask questions, or say something filled with casual bravado. At last, he murmured.
“Who else?”
“Thunderfur, Kevin, Moore, Ulinde, Gershal…”
Then Halrac flinched. His eyes opened wide, and anguish appeared.
“Moore? Kevin? Not them. They shouldn’t die.”
They shouldn’t die. Halrac’s voice was hoarse. His hands clenched, and his body grew still, head swivelling, looking for death itself to object. Then he sagged; a man who had always known he would die and only hoped it would not come for those he loved.
“Mrsha? Revi, Typhenous, Briganda. Erin? Did anyone else…?”
“No. No one else I know.”
A third time the man’s posture changed. His own death had not surprised him; his comrades and friends had wounded him. He took a long, shuddering breath, and the knowledge that no one else had died made the adventurer grow calm.
Almost proudly, he stood, bleeding from the heart. His next words were fitting of the greatest warriors that Redscar had known.
“Better us than anyone else. But Kevin…how? Explain it to me. And—I don’t know some of those names. Thunderfur?”
“Oh, Thunderfur is my Carn Wolf. He died. I didn’t.”
“I’m sorry.”
Redscar swallowed hard.
“Thanks. Lots…let me tell you the full story.”
He was getting better at it, even if he was still poor, and he recounted what he remembered of Erin Solstice, from her kidnapping to the battle at sea to what had happened afterwards, from his perspective. When Halrac heard about what Erin had suffered, he was silent, tensed. Then, when the story was over, he exhaled.
“So I died. And that’s…that’s part of the reason Mrsha did all this? That girl—this is too much for her. Why didn’t you stop her?”
Redscar gave Halrac a shrug.
“Rags wanted to, but I’m not smart enough to. Mrsha saw the [Palace of Fates] and saw what you could do. Why would I stop her? Would you?”
“Yes! I’d do it for her! It sounds like a disaster!”
“Yah.”
“She’s too young, you idiot! Lyonette could do it or Erin or someone else! Anyone!”
“True.”
Halrac wanted to punch Redscar; the [Blademaster] knew he got on people’s nerves. Rags punched him all the time, or tried to.
“So—doesn’t it feel wrong? She’s a child!”
He finally got an arm around and hit Redscar clumsily. In reply, Redscar moved his head forward a fraction and gave Halrac a headbutt that hurt both of them.
“She’s older than me. Let her do something that matters, idiot. No, wait, sorry, you’re dead. I should be nicer to you.”
They fell silent as they nursed their injuries a second, and after a moment, Redscar murmured.
“I was sad when you died. I never really knew you or liked you, but it was very sad. Moore…was very sad. The last half-Giant of Izril, they said.”
Halrac’s voice was hoarse.
“He might have very well been. Moore. Kevin. Dead gods. And here we are, and—now I want to get out. I wish you hadn’t told me. Think! If you got trapped here—is there nothing we can do? What happens if someone else makes your mistake?”
Redscar gloomily shrugged.
“We get really uncomfortable. It might be Asgra, if anything. At least she’s small.”
He felt Halrac’s shoulders shaking and worried the man was having a nervous breakdown until he figured out the grim archer was laughing silently. It surprised Redscar, and then he laughed too.
It was so ridiculous. But this was Erin’s inn. At last, Halrac calmed down.
“Let’s at least see what we have to pass the time with or…well, you’ll get bored soon enough, and your mind just starts to wander. We might last longer together. Let’s hatch a plan if we can do anything. Check your bag of holding. I know mine by heart. Do you have anything to eat? I’ve missed that. Then I’ll tell you what I think this place is.”
“Oh, good idea. I have no idea what those tall, stupid buildings are.”
“Towers. They’re towers. I recalled a story about Wyverns building one once. That one, perhaps. And the writing…oh. Food.”
Halrac’s fingers closed around a sandwich. It had blue mold on it; Redscar had forgotten he had it, but the [Bowman of Loss] wolfed it down so fast that Redscar got the feeling he’d been here a very, very long time. The Goblin was more cautious about pulling more food out of his bag of holding, and he felt around.
“Let’s see. I’ve got…toothpaste. Blade oil. Lots of blade oil. Can you eat that?”
“Give it to me and I’ll try it.”
“No. It’s good oil. Hm, hm…wait, I have—oh yeah, a root.”
“What kind? Tree root? I’ll take that too.”
Halrac felt Redscar rummaging around his bag of holding, and then the Goblin produced a long, rope-like root. The Goblin stared at it.
“Asgra gave it to me in case I got stuck in the doors like Mrsha and Rags. Probably not great eating.”
He began to nibble on it experimentally and was fishing for a dagger to cut a bit off when Halrac stiffened.
“Wait, you have a Faerie Flower root here? The ones you used to breach into the [Palace of Fates]?”
“Yep. Tastes terrible.”
“A root that can pierce Skills and you had it in your bag of holding all along?”
“Mhm. Forgot. You want—”
“Try to free us from here, you idiot!”
“Oh.”
There was a moment of silence, then…the two men popped out of the containment cell so fast they hit the ground. Redscar rolled to his feet and saw the root hanging out of the air, just like the doors.
“Hah! It worked! Hm.”
He put his head in his hand and thought as Halrac leapt to his feet with a wild yell of relief, patting himself down. The Human man stretched with such joy, but Redscar was concerned.
Maybe I am stupid. He decided he needed to work on that. Then Halrac grabbed him and kissed Redscar on the cheek.
“We’re free. We did it! We’re free and—thank you!”
The Goblin was very receptive to the thank-you, but Halrac let go and began stretching his legs and exclaiming. The Goblin sighed.
“It could have been Saliss or Wailant or…”
“What was that?”
“Nothing. So what is this place?”
He sat cross-legged as Halrac caught himself and began explaining the room. The [Bowman] jogged around the vast dome.
“I’ve thought for ages about what this place is. I think it’s the heart of the system of levels. The actual system that controls everything. This writing isn’t magical, but it’s powerful. Now, the only thing in these rooms are these constructions. What do they look like to you?”
Since Halrac had given the answer away, Redscar craned his neck back.
“Towers. Big towers.”
Each one was massive, truly. In his containment cell, Redscar hadn’t gotten a chance to really crane his neck back and appreciate how vast each one was, but he realized, by comparing them to his memories of Pallass, that these were, in fact, the tallest structures he had ever seen in his entire life.
They were not all of the same height; in fact, they marched around the room in a clockwise direction by ascending height. Redscar tried to estimate the heights, and Halrac called out.
“It ranges from just over three hundred feet, in one tower, to eight hundred feet exactly to just under nine hundred.”
“Whoa. You sure?”
“Absolutely. I had nothing to do than guess the height. It was a great…day…when I realized that second tower is 800 feet perfectly. I used that to measure the rest of the room. For fun.”
So you had a bunch of towers, and the last one was near nine hundred feet tall. Right. Okay.
…The towers made no sense. Redscar focused on the second one from the start and saw it was made of precious metals. If he wasn’t an idiot twice…
“Are those Dragon scales?”
Halrac ran over to it and touched the scales. He drew his hand back from a red pattern around the base.
“It’s still warm. Yes! They’re definitely real, not just clever carvings.”
The entire damn tower was covered in Dragon scales. Having seen Teriarch’s, Redscar appreciated the magnificence of the magical armor of Dragons, and his brows shot up. A fortune to beggar any nation was embedded in this tower—and that was apart from the fortune in other materials!
Gold, truegold, silver, jade, nigh on every precious metal ever dreamt of was worked into this tower in ways that somehow passed beyond gaudy and excessive and looped around to actually impressive. The edifice was beautiful and written with words Redscar didn’t recognize.
“Some language…it’s not Goblin.”
“I think it’s Draconic. It looks slightly similar to Drake writing.”
“And that’s this tower. That one…”
There were dozens of towers! Not an infinite number by far, but Redscar gave up on counting because he had a feeling Halrac had counted everything. Instead, he focused on the other towers.
Curiously, the first tower Halrac had bypassed was far humbler than the magnificent Dragon one. It was a hair over three hundred feet tall and made of twisting vines and wood, flowering with blooms. Still impressive, but not the same. Only three hundred feet—then you jumped to eight hundred feet.
Why? The other towers were minutely taller than the last tower by a foot, a dozen feet at most, creeping up in height until the final one. Redscar observed another tower further around the room and frowned at it.
This tower was the exact opposite of the first one. It was…shit. Redscar knew shit construction; Redfangs were terrible builders. But this was bad, even by that low standard.
Pieces of wood and stone had been lashed together in a massive, crude base, then piled up to form a tower that was held together with rope, ice, other materials, and what looked like mud stuck together to form primitive glue. Each layer had been painstakingly built upwards, and you could see where the tower had clearly fallen or snapped; the builders had just rebuilt it higher.
Looking at it, Redscar saw damage in places; deep grooves on the walls of the tower, gash marks he recognized. That was what fascinated him, because unless he missed his guess…
“Those claw marks. Big monsters.”
“Yes! It could have been Wyverns. It’s too big for even Griffins. You noticed it too.”
Halrac was coming off his exuberant high at being free. He stomped over and pointed to the base.
“If they made it, it explains why it’s so badly done. There are other towers clearly designed by creatures without hands. Some are genius. Others desperate. See how wide they had to make the base?”
Redscar did. The entire construction began to list a third of the way up, and the frantic builders had gotten this final version to the requisite height by luck and speed. It appeared ready to topple over, but he suspected that like he and Halrac had been, the glowing magic was preserving it.
“So, maybe Wyverns made a tower, and so did Dragons. Why?”
It mystified him. A few people could have told him the answer, of course, but he wasn’t supposed to know. Mind you, Halrac had gotten close.
“I think it’s some kind of a test. Each species…no, look at these towers first.”
One of the towers was the most beautifully-designed piece of symmetry that Redscar had ever seen. It was so vertical, so perfect, the Goblin rubbed at his eyes.
“Who did this?”
“Golems. I think. Can you imagine anyone else…? And that magical tower? Djinni. Or perhaps Jinn. You can tell some species from their handprints or other features. See that tower over there?”
Redscar turned, shaded his eyes, and then shuddered.
“Yuck. Who’s that.”
“Selphids.”
There was an eerie quality to the tower that Redscar didn’t like. If he had been trapped here with Geneva Scala, the [Doctor] could have told him this bore resemblances to the Gathering Citadel she had been imprisoned in. Nor did the Goblin know the word trypophobia—the fear of tiny holes in a structure.
The design was simply and utterly alien to him. None of the shapes were logical to him—they very well could have come from the minds of Selphids, who saw the world in ways so dissimilar to other species that it gave rise to their unsettling architecture.
However—Redscar felt like Halrac’s conclusions were, well, inconclusive. He raised a hand as the [Bowman] wanted to hurry him on.
“How do you know it’s Selphid? Sure, it looks weird, but anyone could do that. Even the Dragon tower and Wyvern one might not be them. The Golem tower could be just…smart people.”
True, the Wyvern tower had a lot of supporting evidence, but for peoples with hands and minds, any tower could belong to any people. Halrac’s somewhat manic demeanor faded. He strode back over and nodded.
“It’s not purely based on the architecture. Though I think…these towers are defined by each species, because they were built when each and every one was young. Out of desperation.”
“Again, you say that, but how do you know?”
Redscar was getting mildly frustrated, and he realized it was Rags’ influence, her desire for logical conclusions and complex thinking. For answer, Halrac walked back to the other towers.
“I think they’re old, Redscar. So old you can see when each species found their moment or first appeared. Look. Here’s a proof I thought I saw for…ages. But I wasn’t certain because I couldn’t get a good angle to see. That isn’t the Golem tower after all; this one is.”
What he pointed out to Redscar made no sense from where the Goblin stood. The [Marksman] was, in fact, pointing towards the Wyvern tower.
“Okay, now you’re messing with me. That’s the Golem tower? How?”
