“What are the power levels of the skills looking like? Are they comparable to Tier 8 skills?”

Kees indicated his uncertainty with a gesture. “So far, no, they start out about half as strong. But all of the early reports indicate that even if that can’t be solved through some iteration, the skills should be fairly easy to build off of to at least reach a Tier 8 standard by Tier 5 or 6, given some mild diligence. Do note that is when Ra’thala says most of his people would have encountered their second major cultivation stage, and would have access to more advanced-level spells designed to build off the common spells he’s sharing. We actually believe that the skill distribution of his Realm is different from our Tier 8 breakpoint, and every six thereafter for skills to start appearing. We have no real way to prove it, but the relevant thing is his people usually built off their initial skills by Tier 5.

“Guild Leader, this is where our largest problem lies. It takes more effort, and most delving Tier 5s can buy a common skill like [Fireball] given some savings, but this is something they can theoretically build off forever. It may take some time, but most of our projections show people will start specializing their skills as they advance instead of forgoing them. It gives experience with general skill modification that they will find useful for all other skills, and as people pave the path for dedicated designs, they can self-direct said skill to the methods they want to take their cultivation. This will possibly have lasting repercussions to the lower Tier economies as a whole if not handled carefully.”

Matt leaned back and thought as he filled in the unsaid ‘this is where we earn enemies’.

He wasn’t considering keeping the information to himself, but he was considering how they needed to play it, and his initial answer was the one he liked the most.

Help the little people.

Higher Tiers could take care of themselves, and while he didn’t want them to be taken advantage of, they had more recourse to solve issues they ran into.

If they released the low-level steps, say Tier 1 and another at Tier 5, to bring the skills up to a typical Tier 8 level, they would certainly step on some toes. But if they left the higher-level specializations alone, allowing various guilds and interests to create, and most importantly, sell specializations similar to how skill modifications were already done, they could probably avoid the worst of the issues.

A lot of people would still be mad and lower-Tier businesses would take a hit with some undoubtedly shuttering, but they would be proving they weren’t trying to take everyone's lunch and that might mollify the biggest threats.

After explaining his idea, his vice guild leader shook his head. “That is the situation we have already considered. Because of your position and funding, I think you underestimate the lower Tiers. The value extracted out of those economies are small, but every world has low Tiers, they make up the majority of the Empire’s population, and they also are born often and die just as fast. If you sell a technique like this to an immortal, they only buy one or two, but a mortal needs to buy it every generation. Let's take enchanted equipment as an example. It's good, but it wears out and needs to be repaired and then replaced every few years. Being on the Path, you advanced quickly enough that I’d speculate you replaced your equipment once or twice as you Tiered up through Tier 1 through Tier 5. But most teams spend decades in those Tiers, and they replace their gear every three to five years. The cost of doing so isn't much, but that money is spent often and predictably, whereas this is a permanent solution. Even if it only catches on for a percentage of lower-income cultivators, there is always the chance it goes way beyond our eight percent estimation.”

Kees shuffled through some files on his [AI] before flicking a finger at Matt. “Speaking of, we have a request for creating non-combat variations of spells with this same method once the combat methods are solved enough to be published. Two of the team members are very interested in creating quality-of-life skills average people would find helpful. Mostly cleaning spells and the like, but I doubt you will say no, and that is a market we expect to see at least a fifteen percent interest in at a minimum. Enchantments are expensive, and a lot of people would rather spend an hour a day for a year or three to reduce cleaning for the rest of their life. At least those who are buying enchanted items instead of mundane ones for such activities.”

Reviewing the request, Matt winced at the expected costs for the research, they weren’t just simplifying and iterating on already known skills that had long since been ‘perfected’ like Ra’thala’s had been. No, they wanted to create entirely new skills from scratch. According to the report, Ra’thala had known of some spells, but they were all in the Tier 10 range, and few people ever really bothered to use them, as everyone over Tier 5 had a Concept. It could easily be used to deal with things like cleaning or other minor daily chores.

Which came back to a general problem of the guild. Matt may have unlimited mana, but even then, there were practical limits. He wasn’t going to go sit in a Tier 45 rift with a hundred times time acceleration just to produce a hundred times more mana. He wasn’t afraid to share his mana, but he wouldn’t lock himself in a box to do so either, which meant his only way to increase his output was through Tiering up.

That did work; however, there was a limit of how much mana they could reasonably launder through the Empire. Too much mana given to the guild would raise even more flags than their already massive budget did.

All of which meant Matt couldn’t just accept every single proposal for research that came before him. Far too often, at least for his tastes, he needed to make the hard decision and push some projects down in priority.

Currently, the guild worked on short-, mid-, and long-term cycles for funding. Short-term projects were ones that just needed a lump sum of mana or other resources to do, like direct charity work by hiring construction companies to build orphanages. Few research requests were of such nature, but their guild was still a charity guild, and they had people dedicated to directly helping those in need. Not even just in their duchy, but all across the Empire.

The mid-term funding projects were usually research teams requesting to look into whatever it was that caught their interest. Whether that be created quality-of-life skills simple enough for people to create on their own, a better way to vary mana output of enchantments without the typical additives, or creating a new cutting rune, most of them were funded for a decade before they would be put up for review to see if it was worth funding longer.

Part of the guild’s reward system for successful projects was funding personal projects, and they also fell under the same decade-long block.

Finally, there were the long-term projects, the ones that were expected to take centuries or even millennia. The entire aperology department was in that category, and therefore fully funded, because of how long such things were expected to take before they showed any appreciable results. Rune creation was in a similar boat as well as their general alchemy department.

All of that boiled down to the fact they only had funding for three more mid-term projects for the next five years, until other projects were expected to end. But even then, that funding might not be freed up if they showed appreciable progress, which had happened to otherwise stagnant projects before.

Their review process had taken some refinement, but currently few had complaints because of how impartial it was.

First and foremost, all of the relevant work was fed into an AI buried deep inside the guild moon’s molten core, which was free from subtle tampering. Said AI ran dozens of analyses on the project to see just how much progress they had covered, and to see if they had run into a seemingly insurmountable wall.

Then before that information was released, that same information was sent to a review team who did the same analyses.

When the team had their own result, both were compared, and if both groups agreed the project warranted more funding, the decision was finalized.

If only one party agreed the project needed funding, it was kicked up to guild management for further review, just as if both groups decided the project didn’t warrant further funding, so that the teams in question could plead their case to guild leadership in a sort of automatic appeal process.

It sounded like a lot of work because it was, but so far, most of his team who had hit a wall were the first ones to throw in the towel, as their willingness to step back and free up funding earned them goodwill with both their fellow researchers and guild management, who didn’t need to go through the process of denying an extension.

Not that everyone or every project was treated equally.

Matt had his own preferences and biases that he didn’t bother to hide or disguise. It was his guild, and he was funding everything after all, which is why aperology had the largest budget at almost a quarter of the guild's funds. And people he knew, like Erwin, were given pretty much automatic approval for any projects they wanted to create. Within reason, as Erwin wasn’t always reasonable, but even then, Matt was more likely to say yes than no.

The latter was funded through his own accounts directly, but that just meant skipping the obvious laundering of funds more than anything else.

Amusingly enough, according to Kees, those more typical things had done more to soothe ruffled feathers than Matt trying to be nice and equal to everyone else, as they were so used to leadership prioritizing their own designs that anything else felt alien and strange.

While they did have some time before a decision needed to be made, it would take at least a few years, probably a decade or so, before the team members’ current project of simplifying and iterating on Ra’thala’s basic combat skills were done. If Matt said yes to this, he was potentially saying ‘no’ or ‘not yet’ to another potentially worthy project that hadn’t been submitted yet.

To him, non-combat spells felt less important as a whole, but he was aware of his biases enough to know that he had them. He also remembered not loving having to scrub away dirty caked-on food from plates or hard stains that didn’t come out in a normal wash, and wishing he could magic them away.

And if his own life wasn’t enough, he was able to open up his Minkalla Folded Reflection lives memories and see hundreds of times where he parents, himself, or Aster complained about the woes of daily chores.

It might seem insignificant, but there was a reason Tier 8 non-combat skills could sell for as much as combat spells, and why household enchantments always went for a premium.

He even remembered when he was at his Pather’s Tournament and people asking him for runes that would make living on more hostile low Tier worlds for free, and this would be a step in that direction.

But was it worth it?

He didn’t know, but he provisionally approved the request.

If nothing else, it would be good to test the viability of such self-created skills and more data points could help the combat variants make either more specific or generalized skills. Both had their use cases, but given the time needed to create even a single skill, Matt doubted few people would ever make more than one skill this way before reaching immortality. So, having a wide range of useful starting skills was a must. And after that, they would have the funds to just buy better skills, so unless there were exceptional variations that appeared, it was unlikely.

It also depended on if the skills started showing up in rifts, how rare they were, and if they were easy to modify.

He had speculated that they might have just ‘invented’ an entirely new Tier of skills, but that was unlikely, all things considered. Skills’ complexity and power weren’t hard requirements for skill Tier, even if they didn’t fully understand the categorization. If it were possible for skills to drop lower, they would have seen it before.

That just brought his thoughts back to what Kees had said earlier. This would undoubtedly cause a number of people to get very upset with him, enough so they added their efforts to the people already playing games in the shadows.

It just came down to how Matt wanted to handle it.

Was he willing to fight for the things he believed in?

Or rather, was he willing to fight in a new way for the things he believed in?

This might become a physical altercation, but it was more likely to remain a clandestine shadow affair fought on corporate battlefields, and those were not his specialty.

His answer didn’t change, however.

“Let’s go ahead. We can try to placate people by stating our intention to only release Tier 1 and Tier 5 variants of the skills for free, but I refuse to shy away from doing the right thing because of threats. As for the interference with our various business partners, let’s—”

Matt paused as he got a message from Liz: “I need you down here. Someone hit a dozen of our aura potion shipments.”
