Shiv tried to recall if he'd noticed a vitality signature coming down from that direction, and remembered nothing. “He might have actually formed out of thin air. Or…” A darker thought followed. “Or the spores…”

Shiv's instincts screamed that they were in terrible danger, that he needed to attack right now. But he couldn't. Not with so many others around him, and not until he understood what was actually happening.

"Sir?" Javelina called out. "Sir, are you a patient from oncology? How did you get beyond the wards?”

The cancer-ridden man let out a sob and held his arms to his sides. For the first time, Shiv saw a bare torso, and a feeling of revulsion crawled through him. Nearby, a few students lost their dinners immediately. The ground grew slick with vomit, and a foul stench filled the air. He couldn't blame them.

The man's torso had been utterly colonized by tumors. But there was something about the tumors, something about them, that looked wrong to Shiv. They pressed against each other, they slid, they opened, they gave glimpses of the organs inside; also cancerous, also consumed with shifting bits of diseased tissue.

But more than that, every tumor glowed with vitality. Every tumor radiated a life force of its own. What the hells am I even looking at? Shiv thought to himself.

"Sir!" Javelina called out again. This time, the man looked in her direction, and instead of sobbing, he let out a delirious laugh.

"You can’t… save them!"

Without warning, the patient's chest detonated outward, and from within his flesh spilled an ocean of lashing tumors that cascaded along the walls and ground to come crashing down toward Javelina and her army of Biomancers.

The cancerous flood came, and Shiv struck back in kind.

His temporal shell flared around him like the dawning of a new sun. Clad in gold, time-halting armor, he launched himself forward, jumping past the other students around him.

Yet he wasn't the one that struck first.

Hero-Biomancer Javelina’s gauntlet unleashed a spell of its own the moment time was held still. It wasn't an attack. It was a layered aegis that spread out along the ground. The wards resembled a hexagon that rose from the ground, its sides ridged with jutting pyramids. It stretched out, and, rather than simply shrouding only the Hero-Biomancer herself, it wrapped the entire Biomancy company tasked with retaking the hospital.

Shiv launched himself past the protective threshold, and he observed how that Chronomantic shield functioned. The currents of time accelerated along the many-ridged shield, and it basically functioned as a fraying mechanism against any oncoming time magic spells. It warded those within from everything happening outside and gave them more time to prepare. If he had to guess, it was a Master-Tier piece of Chronomancy, at least. But the Hero Biomancer herself lacked any Chronomancy mana.

And that was Shiv's saving grace. That allowed him to slam down upon the ruined carcass that once was the cancerous patient and use his Shapeless Tides to close shut the breach that spewed wave after wave of tumors into existence.

The massive chasm at the man's heart continued pumping out slithering strands of tumorous material, and Shiv saw with growing suspicion how they all glinted deep red. It wasn't just the color of Biomancy. No—vitality shone brighter than the magic of blood and flesh. Vitality was like a flaming gem in a forest of midnight. And he tasted the vitality within this man, knew the warmth, and separated it.

Every tumor—no, every cell that made up every tumor within that man—was an organism unto itself. They were alive, individual units. They glowed, giving off life energy, and they came together to deform the man, to disfigure him in ways Shiv couldn't comprehend.

He reached deeper. His focus narrowed to a needle-point. Inside the man, there was another place, and another presence. A presence that radiated so much warmth that the Deathless thought he was standing at the heart of a small star.

He'd tasted warmth like this only a few times before.

Sucking in a sharp breath, Shiv sank his fingers into the misshapen flesh-hive, and his Shapeless Tides rushed to pinch the cancerous opening shut. They clashed against the ruined chasm running through man, and the tumors within shuddered before Shiv's overwhelming might.

And yet, the Magical Resistance infused within his Legendary Skill shuddered. Blasts of turbulent red spilled over him. It was like he was wrestling with an ocean, and Shiv snarled as he found himself struggling.

Through the shifting chasm, he saw the man's inner organs once more, but there was more than that. There was an entire realm past the organs. It was like the man was merely foliage, hiding a different place within his flesh.

And then Shiv saw it. A shape in the depths. A shape that seemed to stare back at him.

Within the realm, staring up at him like a creature at the bottom of a deep-dark well, was a figure of glowing gold, a veil of shifting translucence glowing behind their head like a halo.

The figure’s hair flowed around their body like black ink, while their face was cast in shadow. But despite this, Shiv knew it was the visage of a man, his face a pale canvas imprinted upon a backdrop of red and darkness.

His eyes were dotted with specks of gold and rimmed with translucence, but at their core, they were crimson.

Shiv knew those eyes. He knew the scent in the air, the taste of blood on his tongue.

A vampire. And one that shone with a blinding radiance of vitality, and radiated with a collection of magical lores Shiv was more than familiar with.

This wasn't the vitality of a Hero. This was a Legend. A Legend possessed of Chronomancy, Psychomancy, and Biomancy at once.

The vampire's eyes glowed as he gazed upon the Deathless. Shiv's temporal shell rattled, and, for a moment, neither of the two moved. Then, their mutual surprise popped like a bubble, and they both struck at once.
