“Oh, no you don’t! Someone curtail my students. Then put them in a room and give them a lecture about the difference between being forthright young leaders learning to push their luck and getting in my way.”
He pointed, and a group of excited students were captured as they tried to sneak towards Erin. Niers caught Erin’s eyes.
“What a shambles of a welcoming.”
He seemed…well, not embarrassed, but harried. That stage you got to after you’d had one too many awkward moments and it was just—‘oh well, here we are again’.
Ryoka envied his aplomb. So she began walking forwards and tried to enter the conversation. Niers’ eyes slid to Ryoka, and she halted mid-step.
Okay. Not the moment to enter. Ryoka stepped back, and Erin glanced at Ryoka.
“Hey, Ryoka. I’m glad you’re alive.”
She turned back to Niers.
“Thank you for interceding with Gloriam, Niers. And for everything up till now. I was—”
“—What the fuck?”
Ryoka’s aggrieved shout interrupted Erin and Niers. She stared at Erin incredulously, and it was Erin! Taller! She was Ryoka’s height, and—but it was Erin! Totally Erin. She didn’t look like she was on fire or dying, and they’d washed the blood off, and she didn’t have scars—
But that was her. Her features, her hazel eyes. She half-sighed and looked at Ryoka with a glower, and Niers rolled his eyes skywards.
That was it? She had last seen Erin Solstice literally sailing off to her death before her ship exploded, and the [Innkeeper] just nodded to her like someone in an action movie.
“Erin, as you can see, we’ve found a few of your friends. Most, I gather, were on Calanfer’s ship, Throne’s Will, when you were separated. As I understand it, they landed south of here and began to explore the jungles. They’re far from my ports. Ryoka arrived yesterday.”
Ryoka turned beet red as she found herself in the conversation. She shuffled forwards, and Erin stared down at Ryoka’s feet.
“…Are you barefoot? Here?”
Daly, the Bushrangers, and even the Tallguard had turned to stare at the Wind Runner. Now, everyone looked at Ryoka’s bare feet. The Wind Runner turned even redder, but Niers came to her defense.
“I let the Centaurs clop around in here, and Beastkin go barefoot. Don’t mind it one bit.”
He nodded sideways, and everyone glanced at Seneschal Atmodeca; she had crocodile feet, big, stubby, and webbed. She waggled finned talon-toes…in sandals. Several Centaurs picked up a hoof to indicate they were shod.
“Erin. You’re okay! Are you okay? You’re alive!”
Ryoka felt like she had to re-establish the stakes, which were absolute tears of joy of seeing Erin again. However, Erin wasn’t shedding them, and Ryoka was so off-kilter she wasn’t crying. She did go in for a hug.
Erin let it happen. By which, she stood stock still, and Ryoka awkwardly hugged her. Niers saw the Wind Runner clasp Erin in a big bearhug. Hesitate. Stare at Erin as the [Innkeeper] met her eyes. Let go. Back up slowly…
Dawson was gnawing on a fist trying not to die laughing. Aldenon looked like he wanted to sink into the ground. Daly was just giving Ryoka a second look, as if he had expected something other than—than this.
“It’s great to see you’re okay, Ryoka. Erek’s somewhere back there. I think he’s shy.”
The Orangutan had actually hung back at the procession. Ryoka stared at Erin and mumbled, red-faced.
“Great. Have you met Geneva? Here’s Geneva!”
She pointed, and the [Doctor] strode forwards. She offered a hand, and Erin took it.
“Geneva Scala, [Doctor] in class.”
“Hello. Erin Solstice. [Innkeeper].”
The Last Light of Baleros nodded as Beth covered her face with much the same expression of Niers, like someone watching the wagon rolling towards the proverbial City Runner’s leg. Geneva checked Erin’s arm. Then gestured.
“Erin, I understand Niers wants to speak, but if you have fifteen minutes, I’d like to look at you for injuries. Paeth sent me their evaluation of your condition, but I’d really like to see it myself—”
Then someone put her in a headlock.
“Geneva! We talked about this!”
Ryoka was to Erin as Beth was to Geneva. The Selphid glared as Geneva stumbled and reflexively grabbed Beth’s hands. Daly was staring at Geneva, hesitating, relief and uncertainty holding his tongue—but Beth completely threw the Bushrangers.
Any semblance of propriety was already gone, and the Titan of Baleros exhaled as the two medical practitioners struggled. He turned to Erin and raised his brows.
“I expected this might happen.”
“It usually does. Chaos.”
Erin waved her hands vaguely and sardonically. Ryoka was still just eying her up and down. She was definitely Erin. She looked like Erin. Totally. But who was this woman?
“Take five? I would love to speak with you, but not with interruptions, and I can sense at least one or two more.”
Niers glanced at Venaz, then at the Fraerlings, and gave Erin another studying look.
“A conversation later? In private?”
“With Commander Foliana?”
“Hopefully not. A game of chess as soon as you get your bearings?”
“We’ll see.”
Erin smiled, and Niers nodded. He glanced at Atmodeca, and the seneschal bowed.
“I am Seneschal Atmodeca, Erin Solstice. I will have a meeting arranged tonight. After dinner. I have rooms to show you.”
She glanced at Niers, and he gave her a nod. Atmodeca looked very pleased with herself. Ryoka took Erin’s arm.
“And I’d love to get a word in between now and then. Erin! I’ve been worried sick! Glad you’re alive!”
Erin half-glanced at Ryoka and gave her a smile that was definitely genuine.
“Me too. Buddy.”
Both Genevas stopped fighting and glanced at Ryoka. The Wind Runner looked so hurt Erin relented and patted her on the arm. Which just made it worse.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon and Erin Solstice once again did not have the chance to speak. And yes, it was Ryoka Griffin’s fault in no small principle. Ryoka Griffin was…a stressed-out woman.
Young woman didn’t really apply. The eponymous Wind Runner had a gravitas to her that reflected suffering. Both mental and physical. Guilt was implicit in a lot of her descriptions of herself or her deeds. She didn’t brag about, well, anything.
She didn’t excuse any actions either, like beheading Archmage Eldavin. When pressed, she acknowledged that any given action might have been a mistake at the time.
Ryoka was in need of serious therapy in Geneva Scala’s unqualified medical opinion. It wasn’t her field of expertise; she hadn’t exactly been planning on becoming a general practitioner, but speaking as an informed layperson, Ryoka Griffin was in need of serious antidepressants.
Geneva Scala actually wanted to give Ryoka Griffin a bit of a hug. But the timing had never come up when they got to talking, and she’d felt like it would freak the Courier out. Certainly, that hug had not gone well between Ryoka and Erin.
It was in the candidacy for top three worst hugs Geneva had ever seen in her life, and that included a funeral hug where with her mother and aunt. The two hated each other, and the hug had not mended those bridges. Still, she was glad Ryoka Griffin was sticking to Erin Solstice like glue and inserting herself in whatever conversations Erin was going to have in the foreseeable future.
Because frankly—
“(Okasha? Can you hear me?)”
Geneva subvocalized, which was a trick she had learned where she formed the words but didn’t let them come out. Okasha could read her intentions more or less.
“(Yep, Geneva? What is it?)”
The Selphid helping pilot Geneva’s body and the [Doctor] herself had a strange relationship. One of mutual broken trust, loss, torture—she felt both could claim that—and a second chance born out of necessity and loss.
They got along better now. Enough so that Geneva was comfortable talking to Okasha when even Beth was hard to confide in. Now, Geneva said what she was thinking.
“(I think I quite dislike Erin.)”
“(Whoa. Seriously? You don’t even hate Niers that much, and he’s the Titan.)”
Geneva stared at Erin as Ryoka half-dragged her ahead, following Atmodeca. The [Innkeeper]’s head was constantly swiveling, and Geneva saw her look back twice. She recognized Geneva, and the [Doctor] tried to smile.
“(…I’m evaluating.)”
But the image of Erin Solstice raising a fist in triumph or striding into Ramok—or just her words from the interview—wouldn’t leave Geneva’s head. She tried to replace it with other images, but she’d seen the [Innkeeper] dancing with the blood of her enemies in the streets. It wasn’t just the very diabolic transformation that Erin had made. Geneva liked to think her Catholic upbringing didn’t predispose her that badly to…that.
It was everything else.
“Geneva? Geneva!”
The [Doctor] was so focused on Erin that she almost forgot the Bushrangers were there until someone grabbed her arm. She turned—and when she saw Daly looking at her, scarred but the same and completely different—Geneva stared down at his leg.
She knew he’d lost it. Asked to see pictures. But seeing him favoring his other leg, dressed like the mercenary he was, eyes wide—
Her arms rose, and it was Geneva who hugged him. Okasha made a sound.
“(Oooh!)”
“(Shut up, Okasha.)”
Daly hugged Geneva hard. A proper squeeze—then he let go, or tried to, but Dawson grabbed them, then Kami and several Bushrangers joined in.
“Geneva! You’re alive! You’re fucking alive and palling around with the Titan! It’s so good to see you!”
“You too, Daly! Is anyone else from the United Nations company here? Luan? Ken? I didn’t see any—”
“They didn’t want to go on procession. Especially with Erin getting potshots taken at her—look at you! You look—good. How’s the back?”
Daly stood back, beaming, then remembered the salient fact. Geneva blinked, noticed Erin and Ryoka looking back, and spoke.
“Same old. My stay with the Minds didn’t change that, but everything’s—better? Same situation, better. It was quite—difficult, but Niers saved my life.”
“Holy fuck. So it was the Minds? Geneva, I’m so sorry. If I’d been keeping lookout—”
Aldenon burst out, and Geneva didn’t know if he was guilty in general or had been supposed to guard the clinic the day she vanished. She realized some of them had tears in their eyes. Geneva looked around and realized her eyes were stinging a bit.
“(Okasha, stop that.) Everyone, it’s none of your faults. The Bodies of Fellden spirited me away; I doubt you could have stopped them even if they hadn’t meticulously planned it out. No one short of a Great Company could have extracted me from the Gathering Citadel.”
“That’s no excuse.”
Siri spoke up, and Geneva gave her a stare of disbelief. However, the [Sniper] just grabbed Geneva’s arm.
“I’m so glad you’re alive. Kirana is too—oh, she sent food.”
“Of course she did. …Is it my favorite?”
Beth perked up as Siri fumbled for her bag of holding. Meanwhile, Tofte was pulling something out.
“We’ve got letters from everyone. You don’t have to write back, but tons of people wrote. Sorry—”
They were all around her, and Geneva looked around, breathing harder than normal.
“(Seriously, Okasha, cut it out.)”
A smug Selphid’s voice replied.
“(I’m not doing anything. Want me to stop it?)”
Geneva didn’t dignify that with a response. However, conscious of the Selphid to her right, she half-turned.
“Everyone, I’m glad you’re well, and we have to catch up so I can explain as much as there is to explain. But first, I’d like to introduce you to someone. This…is Beth.”
She turned, and the Selphid waved a hand.
“Hey, guys. Daly, how’s Captain Eldima doing?”
Daly Sullivan turned with a polite, if cautious, look to the Selphid wearing a Human’s body. But the question—threw him. He stared at her, and Geneva took a breath.
Oh boy. They’d debated this, but how else could they justify Beth? They’d already told Ryoka and hoped the Bushrangers would have a better reaction than the Wind Runner.
“Beth is okay to talk in front of. She’s one of us.”
“Wh—”
Tobi’s eyes swung from Geneva to Beth’s clearly Selphid form. Siri had gone still; her head swiveled, and Geneva said the rest in a rush.
“She’s not just one of us. She’s—me.”
For a second, no one said anything. Dawson began to chuckle—then fell silent. Geneva saw Daly’s eyes opening wider, and then the penny dropped. Tofte looked at Beth. He stared at Geneva.
“No. They cloned you?”
“…Yes.”
“What!?”
The scream made Seneschal Atmodeca, Ryoka, and Erin turn back. Geneva looked behind her and remembered they were supposed to keep the Minds’ crimes secret. She began to push urgently.
“We’ll talk about it in private.”
“They did—what kind of fucking sci-fi twist is—what the fuck? What. The. Fuck!?”
Beth joined in pushing, and the two Earthers shoved their friends towards their rooms. Some of the Bushrangers recoiled from her, but Beth was giving them, Geneva realized, a terrified smile.
“Everyone okay? I’d like to visit. I would have, but—”
I’m her too. I’m also Geneva. It was just that Beth had become, well, Elizabeth. Geneva who’d begun to develop her own personality and certainly had her own body and species, now. They were alike, but already, the two had stopped being able to finish the other’s…
Thoughts. It put paid to the idea that identity was something that depended solely on personality and memory. Or at least, that minute changes of a few months could diverge what had been a literal clone.
Beth was a [Telekinetic] and a [Healer]—she seemed to be leaning more on the abilities of a Selphid than even Geneva, and she was pushy. Literally. And in a Selphid’s body, she could shove even the Bushrangers forwards.
“We have a lot to talk about. Is Paeth still alright? Are they…how many Fraerlings were hurt? I was told all was well.”
Geneva hadn’t actually met the Fraerlings, unlike the others, but the plight of the small folk had struck a chord with her, and the United Nation’s defense of the city had been their finest moment to her, even if she hadn’t been able to tell it to them at the time.
A loud voice clearing itself made Geneva jump, and a tiny man poked his head up from Siri’s head.
“Paeth is quite well, Doctor Scala. And we know about everything except Beth. Whoof! Now there’s one for the history books. That’s a breach of the Minacien Wall. I know it when I see it.”
Alchimagus Resk fanned at himself as Geneva’s mouth fell open. She stared at the pink-bearded Fraerling, then at Siri. The [Sniper] shrugged.
“(They’re so cute!)”
Okasha whispered. Geneva had to agree.
 
——
 
