“The Fraerlings aren’t getting much out of it. They’re quite upset. Half of it’s that; the other half is the [Enchanters] trying to one-up whomever did the temporary enchantments on the Faeblade and not really being able to, aside from improving quality minutely.”
She snorted.
“Fraerlings have huge egos.”
“They have to. The same for every species. Most people just think we don’t deserve ours.”
He hoped he didn’t sound too snappish there, but Erin waved a lazy hand.
“No, I quite agree. Here I am, Niers. Am I what you expected? Or wanted?”
The Titan was about to ask that question of her, damn. He shrugged, trying not to always stare at her, but also not look away all the time. He sat up a bit. Sank down.
“Honestly? No. But what I hoped for was just an image of someone. I suppose my great fear is that you’ll head straight back to Liscor. I…would help as soon as that’s practical. You’re not well-loved, and a sea voyage or even Ryoka flying you over is risky, as you could guess.”
I could induct you into my company and teleport you with my Skill…he didn’t say that as a first option. Erin Solstice shook her head.
“I’m not dying to go back to Izril right away.”
“Oh?”
He tried not to sound hopeful at that. Erin Solstice exhaled.
“You heard my interview. Thoughts?”
“I quite liked it. Powerful speaking. But if I can be frank—I thought you didn’t really mean it. You were speaking to an audience. They’ll be set on you. Your inn? Safe, I hope. Lyonette isn’t without means.”
Erin nodded at Niers, then lifted a hand.
“Rabbiteater. Ksmvr.”
“Finding them. Then, after that?”
“Maybe I’ll see. This is the part where you tell me there’s conditions for your help, by the way.”
In response to that pointed comment, Niers just snorted.
“Perhaps if I wasn’t in charge of a Great Company. I can do all that, Erin. It might not be easy, but I’d be happy to.”
“Okay. So you don’t have any requests of me?”
He wasn’t annoyed, he was—exasperated? Of course she knew that he knew that…Niers exhaled.
“I suppose I’d like to talk to you more.”
“Just talk? Or something else for an army to rescue my friends if I need—”
He couldn’t help it. Niers splashed Erin with some water with genuine irritation. She blinked, wiped water out of her face, and his heart sank, but the Titan growled at Erin.
“What do you think of me? No! And if getting into this hot tub is what you think I ‘want’ as a condition for your help, you can leave, and I’ll grab your friends even if we never speak words again. I don’t want that, Erin. I don’t want—”
Roshal. He looked for a sign of it on her. Not a physical trace…damn them. His heart sank, but Erin just wiped at her face.
“…That was unworthy of me. I’m sorry, Niers. I didn’t mean that. It’s just—you quite like me. You will be disappointed by me. I’m regretting that.”
She lifted an arm, and Niers watched water sliding down her skin. No scars, really. He remembered seeing her raising that white flag—the moment he fell in love—standing with knife in hand, speaking defiance to the world, and standing in the streets of Ramok, fist raised.
Oh, disappointed? Niers swallowed and took a long sip from his fruit drink.
“I…am an adult. Or I should be, at my age, Erin. Yes, I quite like you. I know Earl Altestiel did too. We make our choices.”
There. He put it out there as smoothly as anyone could ask for, and Erin Solstice looked Niers in the eyes.
“If I tell you now that you’ll be unhappy—no.”
She looked past him.
“I can use that too. I will. I have my own goals, Niers. You have yours. The Forgotten Wing company is fighting Jungle Tails. The Dyed Lands too.”
“Not just to kill monsters; we’re looking for Fraerlings lost to it. There’s a city Jungle Tails is holding hostage.”
They were back to business, but this time, the two spheres were conflating. And Erin Solstice cursed.
“They took Fraerlings hostage? Paeth never said.”
“Paeth keeps secrets. Even from allies like you.”
“Damn them. No wonder the Fraerlings are here. So that’s why you’re fighting.”
Niers lifted a finger.
“Part of it is just that Jungle Tails are old rivals and we’re keen to stay on top. You’ve talked to Geneva; she’s working with us and we with her because she can make a difference. I am still the Titan of Baleros. Foliana—don’t be fooled by her, Erin. We want to keep winning.”
Now he was pushing at her, trying to get her to acknowledge that, but Erin refused to rise to the bait. Or if she did, it was in her own way. She dipped her head down, blowing a few bubbles before rising.
I could probably bottle this bathwater and sell it. I hope no part of me wants to save it. Then again, that’s probably how you get a second Yellow Rivers. 
Sometimes, Niers regretted being able to think laterally about everything. Everyone had horrifically stupid or intrusive thoughts. His sometimes felt original. The [Strategist] listened as Erin turned to him.
“Impasse. With Geneva, she’s unlike me. She doesn’t like me. But we’re willing to work together.”
“Because you’re from Earth.”
Erin paused.
“You say it so naturally.”
The Titan half-shrugged.
“It still boggles my mind, even though I’ve talked to Geneva for months. Seeing the genuine thing will be more impactful. Earth would be a completely different can of Crelers if we opened it; I’m going to use what I can get. I assure you, other nations are. Roshal has been buying sulfur.”
Erin’s face was blank a second too long, and he clarified.
“For gunpowder.”
“Ah. Damn.”
Damn indeed. Niers hadn’t missed that some [Slavers] not busy trying to excuse their kidnapping had been trying to insert themselves into discussions of arms trading. He didn’t like what his mind told him, but he steered the conversation back to safer waters.
“—If you stay around Elvallian, it might be the most practical use of your time.”
Erin tilted her face upwards, soaking her hair.
“Do you really think I’ll stay put if I know where Rabbiteater or my friends are?”
“…Probably not. So how do I help you without keeping you from running off? Or without running after you and compromising my entire company? I did that once. Now is not the time.”
Erin Solstice opened one urbanely amused eye.
“You know something, Niers? It’s funny that you ask. It’s so…direct. So let me be direct: I don’t care about Baleros.”
“Ah. Fair? It’s only a continent.”
The [Innkeeper] laughed as the Titan kept his voice level. Her voice pitched lower, and she rasped. Then the woman from the interview was in the tub with him.
“You know what I mean. I don’t care about the Forgotten Wing company either. Or you. I like you; that’s different. Did you know I actually admired the Titan?”
“Really?”
He tried not to sound pleased, and Erin nodded her head slightly. Then Niers felt despondent. Oh, because—
She had heard of the legend before knowing the joke. Either that or she admired the Titan, and Niers was just the man behind the legend. Having a reputation had destroyed too many relationships, platonic and otherwise, before they could even form.
The Titan grew morose, but Erin went on, and her next words made his head rise slightly, bobbing ever-upwards on that silly tide of hope.
“When I found out about him. Of course. A Fraerling who created a Great Company. Not because you were small, you understand. But because you did it from nothing. I thought it was amazing. Inspiring. But you know—you did it. You made a Great Company, but until recently, it was empty of Fraerlings. You were the one Fraerling everyone knew, but your people still stayed in hiding. What a waste, I thought.”
She sounded like him. Niers sank down and muttered.
“They never came.”
“You should have dragged them out of their cities! Make this a Great Company for them. How long will your Great Company endure after you die, Niers?”
“I’d like to think for a while.”
Not long, perhaps. And Erin knew it. She splashed some water at him, and it went over the side.
“You define it. And even if it does—what does it matter? What was the point? To replace Jungle Tails? Now—if it was a company for Fraerlings or did something else? That matters. Look what happens when they let their guards down. Paeth.”
He shivered despite the hot water toasting him.
“Oierdressql. That’s the thing about free will, Erin. You have to give it to people or what’s the point?”
The [Innkeeper] and the Titan were arguing, actually fairly passionately, and Niers was suddenly invested in this conversation for more reasons than just her. She looked at him, eyes alight, and his closed as he listened to her rasping voice.
“…You can lead them, though. Or else they’ll be damned forever. Same with allies. I don’t care about you. I don’t care about the Forgotten Wing company. I only want to protect my friends. Niers, I am drawing a target on my chest. I am marked to die. And if I do? That’s fine. I’ve already won enough battles just by getting this far. Don’t mistake me: I don’t want to die, but if I do, it will be fine. The world will be fine. So I don’t care about anything other than protecting those who need it and standing right here.”
When he opened his eyes: he searched her for any sign of bravado. Any tell of weakness or doubt. Niers had seen many people who had spoken lines even more fiery. People who thought this was the moment when they took a stand.
—But he couldn’t find the false front. The lie within the words. And that shook him more than anything else.
She’s real. She thinks she’ll die.
She reminded him of Foliana when they had first met. And Niers…
“I would like to avoid that. So what do I do? No…my answer is that I have to make you care, of course. Obvious. We barely need to say it. So then you have me…”
His mind moved ahead to the answer. And Erin’s eyes lit up as she saw him doing the work before she could even speak it.
“Make me care. You are the leader of the Forgotten Wing company. In a way, the greatest ally I could ever ask for aside from Fetohep, perhaps.”
“I have more troops in a single city than his entire damn nation. Living ones, at least.”
Niers muttered, and Erin laughed.
“And you give and give and expect me to keep caring? Or that I’ll swoon into your arms?”
“Sit in the hot tub long enough and we’ll both be belly up.”
He was actually getting sort of hot, but the fruit drinks were good—and there were three of them for each. Of course, then you’d have to pee, but that was a separate issue. Erin Solstice eyed Niers, and he thought to himself.
Was this conversation invariably inevitable? He wished he could have met her in a time of peace last year. Relative peace…where Daquin was all that mattered, not two wars.
But if he had—would she even have stayed? Or if she did, for months, would it just be as a vaguely interested person who liked many people? At last, Niers sighed.
“…Who are the Winter Sprites?”
“Fae. From another world.”
“Another one? What do they want?”
Erin tilted her head, getting some water out of her ear.
“According to Ryoka, there are weapons left around the world to fight Kaligma and the like. The kind that can actually kill them for good.”
“…What? Like some game of treasure hunting for the Adamantium sword? Well, that’s just adventuring.”
Niers snorted. But part of him tensed up, and when Erin spoke next—he slipped and went underwater.
“Yes, well, I know it’s crazy, but they say there are artifacts left by the Elves. Not half-Elves, the Elves. Buried deep in—Niers? Niers?”
He came out of the water like a drowned rat. No, like a rising Krakenbane Destroyer staring at her.
“…No.”
“Yes?”
Niers sat down hard.
“No. Weapons left by Elves?”
He covered his face, and Erin Solstice looked at him.
“—You know where one is.”
The Titan refused to reply. He spoke, covering his face.
“Your turn. Vetn, the Thief of Clouds. Guest at your inn. He left; he went to a Drake harbor, I forget the name, and was in the company of Bviora, a lesser-known [Thief], and Tesy, the [Magical Painter] I assume to be Sellme. Tesy and Bviora were killed in a clash with Klbkch the Slayer and multiple Walled City secret agencies, including Symphony. Coincidences that tie to your inn. Did you know about it?”
“…No. Tesy’s dead? I liked him.”
Erin sat there, head bowed, and Niers went on, ruthless.
“I don’t care. Truly. Same as you; they’re allies, individuals of note, but I wouldn’t care even about the Slayer except in a geopolitical sense aside from one thing: Vetn might have an Eye of Baleros. And if he brings it to Baleros, if Jungle Tails snatches the other one from where it’s hiding—they will resurrect their Great Company. And everything I labored for since I was a Silver-rank adventurer will go up in flames. And perhaps your ambitions and chunks of the damn world too, Erin.”
She looked at him, and Niers sighed.
“Ever read the tales of The Lightning Thief? Thivian Stormless?”
She snorted.
“Everyone’s heard of him. I never read his books.”
“They’re not bad. I met the man. Just like Velan. His life’s work was siring too many children, stealing countless treasures—and stealing the Eyes of Baleros from Jungle Tails. Every time they get them, the Nagas put them in their temples and create Nagas at a rate unheard of. The Eyes are beyond Relic-class artifacts. If they get one—they’ll find the other and start the old empires up. Remember how Selphids once took over the world? Lizardfolk have the record for the most world-spanning empires. And those damn eyes are the reason.”
Niers snapped, and he clenched a fist. Erin stared at him.
“…That’s bigger than I thought. I’m now invested.”
“Thank you. I got rid of the Eyes with Thivian—okay, I played a small role in one book and was mischaracterized greatly. He’s not that smart. Clever. Not smart. At any rate, we hid one away—I daren’t even tell you. The other we thought was lost in the damn ocean, and the Drowned Folk would have hidden it if they found it.”
“…Why didn’t you destroy them? Or toss them over the edge of the world?”
Niers pointed a finger at Erin.
“Ah! One reason is they’re a tremendous source of power. You can fuel magical nations off of them. But I’d chuck one off the side of the ocean…if you didn’t get a magically empowered Seamwalker rising from the depths a hundred years later.”
“I see. Destroying it?”
“We have five continents left. I like that number.”
Erin lay back, exhaling as she fiddled with her top. She spoke.
“The Dyed Lands?”
“Just monsters. I want to know what the hell they’re like.”
