“We fucking got lost! Then we had to get directions, and then we got lost again, figuring out where ye were, you stupid bint! You didn’t leave directions or nuffin! We had to fight these damn shrimps underwater! They gave me this! Tasted alright, though.”
 
She showed Ryoka a tear in her wings. Daly was having a sit down. Shaestrel coughed.
 
“Eh, pipe down, Osewixthe. We got here. Took a bit, but she’s alive…is, eh, is Erin here? I think we’re on time. Are we on time?”
 
She turned to the other faeries, worried, and the other four shrugged or shook their heads.
 
“Fucked if I know.”
“Reckon we’re on time if anyone is.”
“I don’t see no rot between the worlds eating people, so I reckon this is the good outcome.”
“Those hazelnuts? Give ‘em here, you great, tall shit. Hey! You! What’re you looking at, you midgets?”
 
That was directed at the Fraerlings, who had just encountered beings as small as them. If even more magical. Then Ryoka placed what was so off about the fae…because only she knew them so well.
“Shaestrel, you slammed into the window.”
 
“It looked open. What were ye doing, singing? That’s daft. Are we in the future where everyone sings what they’re doing instead of talking? Someone kill me if that’s the case.”
 
Shaestrel grumbled, and Ryoka’s hands began to tremble. She didn’t want to hurt Shaestrel, who was still dazed, but of course, she couldn’t. If she attacked Shaestrel with a punch or anything else, the faerie would, annoyingly, dodge.
She never got hurt. None of them did. The most Ivolethe had ever done was sacrifice herself. And Shaestrel was confused. Uncertain. As if…
“Shaestrel. You don’t know what’s going on? You can’t see the future anymore?”
The Spring Faerie’s head slowly rose, and her eyes glinted with approval. She sat there, cross-legged, as the other faeries rubbed their noses, scratched behind their heads, or shrugged.
 
“Like I said, Ryoka. Fate’s awhirl after the battle at sea, and the [Pirates] made a mess of it. No one’ll see anything for a while. Not the King himself; well, maybe scraps for him. But not yer foes, and not us. The greatest advantage they had is dashed to the winds. ‘Tis hard beating the fates in any world. Easiest way is to burn their damn tapestry. Unhook the wheel and let the pieces fly free.”
“They get awful stroppy about it, too! Can’t figure out a thing to do! Hah! Wish I’d seen Emmer…hoon’s face when it happened!”
 
Another faerie piped up, and Ryoka stared at Shaestrel’s triumphant face. So that was what they’d done.
“You helped beat Ka…ligma.”
 
“Aye. She was always the most dangerous for that. And we stoppered up the rest of the plans. Eh…but as you can see, it’s left us a bit out of sorts. Don’t worry, we’re still here. Till the very end.”
 
Shaestrel smiled, but the Wind Runner looked so horrified Shaestrel sprang into the air and tweaked Ryoka’s ear with a small hand.
 
“Argh, stop worrying! It’s all going according to plan! Mostly! Is Erin here or what?”
 
She looked around, and Erin Solstice stood there. Shaestrel gave Erin a once-over.
 
“Eh, pretty good, don’t yeh say?”
“Aye.”
“Whatever. I don’t care for that one.”
“I’m hungry.”
 
And that was that. The faeries settled on Ryoka Griffin like a cloud of faerie midges and stared at Resk, who sat on Siri’s head. The Alchimagus blinked at the faeries, then smoothed back his hair, checked his beard, and gave them a smile.
“Alchimagus Resk of Paeth. Good to meet you, er, Winter Sprites?”
One of them stared at the Fraerling and sighed.
 
“Great. The walking toadstools are talkin’ to us. Or is that later?”
 
She waved a hand, and a gust of snow blew Resk off Siri’s head. The faeries stared at the Fraerlings, and one of them whispered to Ryoka.
 
“Ye should probably keep us safer, Ryoka Griffin. We’re on your side, so steal as much food from the banquet as you can. Also, dessert. I’m hungry to pishing myself for a good drink, and I wouldn’t say no to some brains or whatnot either. In return, we give you wisdom, guidance, or something, and we’ll throw hands with these tiny folk if ye want. We can take them. How many is there?”
 
“Um. Thousands?”
The Frost Faerie counted how many faeries there were. Five.
 
“Eh, we can probably do it.”
 
The sudden rivalry of fae and Fraerlings. The realization of the fae’s weakness. Shaestrel was patting Ryoka on the arm, regarding Ryoka, a staring Geneva, who had more questions than answers so far—then she whirled and swore.
 
“What the feck is that giant thing? Nama? No, wait—I recognize ye!”
 
She pointed, and a patch of air rippled, sighed, and Ryoka nearly had a heart-attack as Foliana stopped leaning on Ryoka’s shoulder. Three-Color Stalker looked exceptionally displeased.
“I have to work even harder. Mm. What’s your favorite food? And where did you see me? I’ve never met a green Winter Sprite.”
She and Shaestrel traded stares, and Shaestrel folded her arms.
 
“At the inn, of course! In a when that never was. Better and worse for yer presence, I daresay. As to my favorite food—”
 
Ryoka tried to shush her, but Shaestrel had no foresight.
 
“That’d be Phoenix breast braised in the ambrosia of stolen deities! With a pinch of pepper. Just a smidge, aye. Peppercorn’d do.”
 
Foliana paused.
“…Is just Phoenix breast with another braising okay?”
 
“Nope! The real thing’s better than anything ye mortals can do. Also, it’s when a Phoenix dies of natural causes other than you. I know their flesh is very tough, but that’s what the ambrosia is for, and then you don’t feel bad about eating them. Why d’you ask?”
 
“Damn. No reason.”
Foliana stowed a notepad, then looked around.
“Well, well, well. You’re interesting. And you’re more than mm…even we thought.”
She poked Ryoka with each ‘well’, and the Wind Runner flinched. Shaestrel slapped the furry finger down on the last poke, and Foliana peered at her. The Spring Faerie and Three-Color Stalker stared each other down until Foliana turned.
“But you’re the most interesting of all. Don’t keep Niers waiting.”
She met Erin Solstice’s gaze, and the [Innkeeper] exhaled. She had not said a word since the faeries appeared, perhaps caught as off-guard by them as everyone else.
Chaos and too many conversations to be had. Too many little meetings, clarifications, and establishing of lines.
It didn’t matter. There was never enough time. But for once, nothing could wait. No more delays.
It was time to meet the Titan of Baleros.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon had chosen the venue for their meeting and prepared for this extensively and, at the same time, less than everyone expected.
Oh, he’d put work into the little sheaf of papers next to one cup of water, waited until after a rambunctious dinner mostly filled with people talking to Erin while he and she occasionally mentioned perspectives of their shared events like the Meeting of Tribes battle, or listened to Ryoka’s amusing lies about the fae or one of them challenging Rozcal to a drinking contest and losing—
But by mutual consent, they had waited like two competitors preparing for a showdown. Erin Solstice had been untalkative in general, preferring to let other people speak to her of events she had lived.
She was not what he had expected. This situation was not what he had anticipated. But the broad strokes of his plan were the same.
She had a chair. He had a chair. They sat in a seldom-used sitting room, which was not so small as to be intimate; it had furnishings of books he’d written, or that he’d read, maps on the wall—all personal, you see.
Nothing like the rooms filled with conversation pieces. Everything here was him. He’d decorated it, and he seldom used anything within, but if you asked, he could tell you where that sword had gotten too damaged for use or why that book mattered.
He seldom brought anyone in here, because the room was tiny. Not the size of a matchbox, but truly small, even so.
It was Fraerling-sized, you see. Adjoining his regular rooms, set not in the Fraerways, but in his actual rooms. Erin Solstice was arriving as a Fraerling-sized person.
A simple potion enabled the transformation. She could drink it, wait for about a minute, and put on some smaller clothes and come meet him, Fraerling-sized, or grow. Power beyond any Signim. A reason to ally with the Death of Magic in itself…or oppose her.
Ludicrous power of the highest-level spellcaster of this world. Niers envied it. He wanted it. But right now, he was just grateful that she could use it to come here.
Oh, he could have let her remain as a Tallfolk. If she asked, he probably would have. But for once, Niers didn’t want to look up at someone or fiddle with the difference between heights. Fate had given him a chance to see this person, this [Innkeeper], on the same height.
So. Niers sat, counting down the seconds until Atmodeca knocked on the tiny door with a knuckle, opened it—and she walked in.
Erin Solstice had on Fraerling-wear from Paeth. She didn’t know that the cities had styles unique to their culture, but she had worn the blue coat lined with aphid fur, spidersilk green tunic, neat boots, and comfortable trousers. She paused, removed the coat at the door as she sensed the room was plenty warm enough, and nodded to him.
What did she see? They were both half a foot tall, but for Fraerlings, Niers realized they were both taller than average. He didn’t know if Paeth had messed around with Erin’s height, but he hoped she saw a taller man sitting in a comfortable, relatively spacious parlor.
Long legs resting on the floor, dressed for war, a parade, and politics all in one, his cardinal coat a splash of color that stood out with his fading hair color. War hadn’t left him with that many visible scars, and he liked to think you couldn’t even tell where he’d broken bones. Sharp features of a man who sat up slightly.
He almost resembled the image that some writers liked to use in books; the wily old fox in stories, the cunning statesman who’d outlasted his rivals. But the Titan never quite fit that image; he was old, but he wasn’t a fox among wolves. He was the fox who hunted bears down in their dens and brought the soft word or wrath across the battlefield.
And won. He tried to keep his aura suppressed, tried to sit there like a normal person. But at some point, he had forgotten how that looked, so when the Titan was caught off-guard, sometimes he didn’t look as though he fit in any room, or merely afraid or startled or uncertain, but focused, like someone watching a bunch of daggers he was juggling fall through the air and wondering which one to grab.
Titan. Erin Solstice, boots clacking over the rosy hue of floorboards illuminated by a fake fire, heating spells warming the room. Eyes surveying a room full of trophies, and then drawn ever-back to his violet eyes. A storm contained in two irises in this gentle, auspicious, grandly disused room.
“Niers. Sorry for all the chaos today. I bring it with me it seems. Even here.”
“I’ve known worse. Chaos suits Elvallian. When I get bored, I stir some up just for the fun of it. Or Foliana does. Welcome. Come in—ah—have a seat. Can I get you anything?”
He fumbled from the start. Which was fine; being too polished was stupid. Niers stood up, indicating a chair facing him across a coffee table. Not too far, not too close. Erin walked over and smiled briefly. She sat down, folded one leg, and he sat himself down as well, keeping his breathing calm.
She was close enough to touch. Now that she was here, he didn’t think she was real. It was like a dream…but he was rapidly coming down to earth. And the words slipped from his mouth before he could even reach for the piece of paper he’d prepared.
“O he Elame-Mirake—er, do you want to play a game of chess?”
You fool! But it burst out of him. Erin Solstice stopped. She stared at him, and Niers indicated something. A table and two chairs set up, coincidentally, wouldn’t you happen to know it, with their shared chessboard.
His version. The spectral pieces were waiting for someone to play, and the white side was closest to him. Niers smiled as he sat forwards, about to rise. And then Erin did bring him to earth.
Like a comet. Her brows snapped together, and heat entered her tone.
“Chess. Is now the time for chess, Niers?”
The question threw Niers. He stopped, half-rising, and the [Strategist] in him replied first. You’re off-balance. Is she doing it on purpose or—maybe now wasn’t the time for chess.
“I just assumed you would want to play a game. We don’t have to. It’s a good conversation opener.”
“Gloriam asked me to play. I had Fraerlings ask in Paeth. Chess. It’s a fun game for me. But do I deserve to play it? Chess is a pastime. I am the Goblinfriend of Izril. Wanted dead. We’re meeting for the first time, you and I, and we have important things to ask each other. Is chess the distraction?”
She met his eyes. Niers wavered, then sat back, schooling his face to impassiveness.
“—No, I understand. Chess might occupy us mentally. Especially at our level. But I want to emphasize—you’re a guest. I know you don’t usually drink. But I’d like to meet as friends first.”
This wasn’t going well. At least, for his hopes. But Erin cocked her head, as if considering.
“I’ll take wine.”
“Really? Ah, very well then.”
Flustered, Niers got up and perused his mostly ornamental display cabinet. He pulled out a wine bottle, checked it, and realized he didn’t have a damn bottle opener. He ended up drawing a belt knife and lopping the top off.
Erin smiled at that as he brought it back and drained a cup of water. He splashed the wine into both cups in a way that would make people who knew the bottle’s contents cry or try to murder him.
“—To your recovery. And to surviving great journeys.”
“To your hospitality and that of Fraerlings. And to important conversations.”
She took a sip and made an appreciative face. So did Niers. Dead gods, he’d actually cracked this one. He wondered if Eirnos would give him a look of horror if he told her…
No, focus. She was right there. Now the coffee table seemed like a great divide, and Erin sensed it.
“I’m sorry. I came in here, and the first thing I did was shoot down a friendly game of chess. I just…I can’t. Not right now. You saw me.”
I did indeed. The image of her horns and hooves sprang to mind, and Niers took another sip, then put his cup down.
