“So, you’re really doing it for the public good? No ulterior motives besides rescuing Fraerling cities and stopping the monster invasion?”
The wood-lined walls of the room where the hot tub was steaming were running with condensation; a glass window gave them a view of the rest of Niers’ room, lit by only a single lantern on his desk. A shadow stood there; Seneschal Atmodeca, waiting for them to ask for towels or a refill of their drink.
Niers chuckled.
“Hard as it is to believe, I like doing things that are genuinely good. They’re rarer opportunities than I’d like, but I don’t lose sleep over them.”
Erin smiled as sweat ran down both of them, mixing with the scented hot tub water. Her eyes flicked to Niers’ face as he stretched out more.
“What about the children in Oelnnox? A [Noble] called Loiqe asked me to petition you to free them—”
Niers froze, and a colder sweat ran down his back. That fool, Loiqe. I should have shut him up…
Why? He wasn’t powerful in many ways, but he was notable and innocent. But he was also uncontrollable. Even so—Niers tried to ease himself back into his seat, but he had tensed up.
“Ah.”
“No denials?”
She was staring at him like a lighthouse suddenly. He’d walked into it. But Niers Astoragon just reached for a drink, took a long draft, and exhaled.
“I’m glad you asked rather than letting it stew.”
He was more relaxed than she expected, perhaps; her eyes narrowed.
“It sounded like a straightforwards problem when it was described to me. I don’t really like kids as much as people might think, but if what Loiqe said is true…”
“It’s not. He’s only got pieces of the puzzle, and the problem is a knot that you can’t untangle with the swipe of a sword. Or rather—”
Niers grimaced and took another drink from a tray.
“—It’s not one that I’d solve with the swing of a sword. Jungle Tails tried to cover up their mess like that. Atmodeca? Get me something stronger. Still refreshing. This might be a conversation for after the big stuff, Erin.”
“So it’s not big?”
Niers had to stop prevaricating. He marshaled his thoughts, looked up, met her eyes, and didn’t look away.
“Not in the grand scheme of things. Loiqe’s children are alive. They are at Oelnnox. If you would like, I can arrange for you to be let in. It’s south of here, partly buried in the jungles bordering the Gazers’ territory. The children are in good health…more or less. Not from a lack of effort on our parts. I’m not releasing them. I’d sooner unleash two Creler nests on Baleros.”
Her mouth had begun to open when he said that. Erin paused, and her own body didn’t untense, but she wavered.
“Explain?”
“I will. The briefest summary? Jungle Tails initiated the kidnappings nearly a decade back; no, that was when I got word of them. They began the project before even that. An attempt to recover lost footing. My company’s rise might have pushed them to it.”
An unpleasant thought he’d had many times. Niers stared at his cup.
“—Suffice it to say that if the Minacien Wall exists for Selphids, well, we don’t have the same terms for other species. You’d call these simply…war crimes? That’s too banal a word. The most unethical deeds. I found their facility. The children stay. They’re too dangerous to let loose. And Loiqe is better off not meeting them.”
“Their families—”
“—Will talk. Loiqe’s not powerful, but he would be noticed if he vanished. I could use a contract to ensure his silence. Better that I don’t and hope that, someday, in ten more years, he can meet his children and hold it all over me. But I’ll swear on whatever you like I’m not mistreating them.”
Erin Solstice eyed Niers and took a long drink at last as Atmodeca used a tiny dumbwaiter to deliver more drinks.
“—I may insist on a visit. And clarity. But that sounds…genuine. Experiments?”
“Oh, absolutely. And yes. Experiments.”
He relaxed. Niers waited for Erin to demand more answers, but instead, she reached for something alcoholic and downed half of it.
“I can picture that. I have some idea of what that means. Did you kill the people responsible?”
“…I didn’t have to. The children did it for me.”
The conversation fell silent, and after a moment, Niers turned up the heat in the hot tub for both of them. Erin looked at him, but they were too sober for this conversation, so she let Niers guide them back to more pleasant topics.
“The Dyed Lands aren’t as easy to crack as I’d like to admit, either. Between them and Jungle Tails, my company is very widely engaged, Erin. You’d think monsters wouldn’t stand a chance against multiple Great Companies, but they tore up an entire division of the Iron Vanguard. Named-rank monsters, all. Stopping them from breeding and multiplying is actually a continent-wide concern.”
“I get that. But there’s no…mysterious treasure buried there? Is that where the Elves’ secret dungeon is?”
Niers’ heart felt dangerously fragile, and he took a longer drink to steady himself. He was telling secrets, but it felt good. Too good.
Damn it. Maybe she can help those children. No one else could—and even Gloriam had visited and been routed in his way. Niers exhaled. And that was nothing compared to this. He wished it didn’t feel so good to speak.
“No…the secret of Elves, and their faces, are buried in the Labyrinth of Souls, the dungeon which Foliana, myself, and the Forgotten Wing company emerged from. Everyone knows where it is. We have it under lock and key. It began to activate when you came back to life. And I thought we’d lose that entire chunk of Baleros. Because that dungeon was never conquered. We just survived long enough to see what was down there and then left. If you want to explore it—my Great Company might get you down there in good order. But I don’t think we can take it.”
Erin Solstice twisted around in the tub.
“Not with General Gloriam and Diomedes backing you, Foliana, Perorn, and…”
“Not with a hundred thousand Venazes. No. My team was Named-rank, and the first Old One I ever slew was in that dungeon. Writhing through the passageways, whispering profane secrets. It never got to the heart. It grew to that—without even getting to the heart of it all. My team reached one of the innermost parts of the dungeon. We looked up, and a damn Hydra killed half of us before murdering two leaders of Jungle Tails and every [Soldier] trying to hunt us down. I hit Level 50; Foliana and I led our company out of the dungeon, and we became a Great Company of Baleros. And I never went back.”
Someday. It was one of those things Niers contemplated, then took a good hard look at the odds and knew he couldn’t do.
If…if he had a suicidal King of Destruction with nothing left to lose and the remnants of his Seven? Or Cognita Truestone? Or a few more legends—he would dare it. But when Niers looked at the [Innkeeper] who might be Level 50 sitting across from him and thought of her cute Winter Sprites and the Wind Runner and all the Fraerlings?
He saw no chance.
But she was smiling. And she lifted an arm out of the steaming water.
“I have goosebumps.”
“I have nightmares. You’re not ready.”
“I understand. But Niers? You have something I want.”
She reached out and grabbed his arm, and the Titan eyed Erin, then began laughing. Out of sheer, exasperated delight with how little she knew. With cynical amusement.
Oh, fate. You are too kind to me.
So I’m waiting for the trick, you bastard.
 
——
 
That night, a lot of people who wanted to talk to Erin Solstice did not get their chance.
Iuncuta Eirnos, Commander Rozcal, Wil, Umina, Lyonette, Ryoka Griffin…and many more. Not everyone was so lucky.
She did not have time for any of them. But Seneschal Atmodeca reported to a disbelieving number of Forgotten Wing officers that things were going ‘well’. Negotiations were good.
She based that on splashing and laughing, the Titan striding out to demand she fetch a cabinet of maps for him, and Niers and Erin even going to tour his personal armory of real weapons.
A lack of chess. A surfeit of talking.
Ryoka Griffin surreptitiously stared at Erin as the young woman headed back to her rooms late that night. She stared and stared, but all she saw was Erin Solstice. The [Innkeeper] greeted a figure who gave her a salute outside her rooms.
Not the [Guard], but an Orangutan. She said something only he could hear, patted him on the shoulder, and he ooked.
“The fuck.”
 
“I know, right? If they were swiving each other, it’d be hilarious. ‘Tis a mystery what she sees in the Titan fellow. What he sees in her…eh, any tall person would do.”
“It’s her character.”
“Ryoka’s got more character than Erin.”
“Some men don’t like character. They like a real lack of it. I see that, myself.”
 
Four Frost Faeries argued around Ryoka, and she tried to shoo them away, but accidentally hit one in the eye. However, the Wind Runner just stared at Erin’s door. Then at Erek.
The Orangutan gave Ryoka a strange look as he sauntered over to his rooms. He met her eyes.
“Ook. Ok. Ooook.”
“Is it…what I think it is?”
“Ook?”
He had no idea what he meant. But he gave Ryoka Griffin a long look, and she floundered.
“I’m sorry about Seve—”
Click.
The door shutting was loud. Ryoka Griffin was left standing in the hallway with only her thoughts and the frost faeries.
And Commander Foliana of the Forgotten Wing. The Wind Runner tried to take a step, and the footwraps that Foliana had retied around her ankles made her fall flat. She yelped, cursed, looked up at Foliana—
“Boo.”
Ryoka fled, tumbling, crawling, then hopping until she got one foot loose and just ran for it down the hallway. That was pretty amusing, even now. Foliana hopped about in triumph; even the Frost Faeries had fled, cursing, which suggested she’d actually spooked them.
Then, since the corridor was empty of people to impress, Foliana stopped hopping around like a child and sighed.
She walked down the corridor, wondering if her back was hurting, and then noticed some of the Fraerlings, including Eirnos, having a poker game in the Fraerways in a room glowing with light high up along one of the corridor intersections.
Funny thing about the Fraerways. You could see into them unless they lowered shutters. Fraerlings liked to peek at Tallfolk and forgot the same held true.
Small people liked to think they were hard to notice because they were small. For instance, Tallguard loved to think they were stealthy and shadow Foliana.
[Walking Shadow]. Foliana activated that Skill, then a few good Skills and let some Tallguard pass behind her as a shadow of her slid down the palace. She told it to head to the gates of the city.
Now, the Earthers were interesting. They were unguarded, but they kept the real secrets of Earth hidden. They’d tell you about nuclear weapons all day, like Geneva, but never mention the real things she considered immediately deadly.
Ryoka? Ryoka was a book that shouted ‘I have secrets!’ then put a lock on the cover. Foliana knew how to pick locks. All kinds of locks, any which way.
She also knew how to swing a hammer, which often opened locks too. But she was Commander Foliana. Usually, she just let Niers sort out the locks.
He did strategy. He did troop disbursements, hiring, firing, supplies, the students, politics, and almost everything. Seriously—anything Foliana did, Niers would do.
Except that Foliana sometimes did all the things Niers did. Like hire Seneschal Atmodeca. Or train [Stalkers]. Or open locks.
The Titan was a busy man. Foliana was not; they complemented each other. So, Foliana had the time not to interview Erin Solstice. She had the time to watch, sit around, and eventually walk up to a little, green faerie sitting on one of the outdoor balconies.
A Fraerling had put some chairs out, and the palace was warded against bugs; no Fraerling wanted a mosquito sucking their blood. Mind you, Foliana had the suspicion that Shaestrel was bug-like herself.
She materialized, but had the suspicion the faerie had seen her already.
“…Hello.”
 
“Hey.”
 
Foliana sat down on the edge of the balcony, feet dangling over the sheer drop. They were facing the jungle, dark, where the sounds of Baleros could still reach the city. Foliana’s ribs hurt as she remembered nearly dying there, fighting Lizardfolk and that stupid new weapon.
Shaestrel was scratching at a cut on one arm; it was bloodless, but it looked like it annoyed her. Foliana was fishing around in a pouch, but she offered something to Shaestrel.
It was…a tiny cup with a straw in it that Foliana had pilfered from the Fraerlings. The beverage was definitely alcoholic; it was probably fermented ant honey.
“Mm?”
Shaestrel hesitated.
 
“I probably shouldn’t, but eh—”
 
She took the cup and grimaced as she extended her shoulder.
 
“Everything hurts. Hey, why are you here?”
 
“That’s my question.”
The Squirrel Woman sat there, bushy tail blowing in the faint breeze, and produced her own drink and snack. She nibbled at it as Shaestrel took a long draft of her drink and sighed.
 
“Not a bad thing for mortals. You first.”
 
It was an odd question, but Foliana decided to be as truthful as she got. She waved a paw at the jungle, the city. Everything. Her company.
“…I enjoy it. This is my place. I’m doing a job someone gave me that I used to think mattered. And doing what I think matters. Someone has to give Niers things to do.”
 
“Heh. Sounds good. He’s the tiny one, aye? The one who’d slay the sky if he could only find a ladder tall enough?”
 
“That’s him.”
Shaestrel chuckled.
 
“The right sort, you two are. Fit right into the stories we like to tell back home, you two do.”
 
Foliana liked that, but she assumed it was a false compliment. She sat next to the most dangerous thing she’d encountered for a long time and bet she could kill Shaestrel with one paw before the faerie could even react. But she wondered…
What the consequences would be. If the answer was ‘nothing’, perhaps that was scariest of all. Foliana nibbled, sipped, and spoke.
“Why are you here?”
Shaestrel stared out across the jungle as if it were a patch of moss she’d found growing on her windowsill. Her eyes captured sights unseen—then focused on this world, as if, like Foliana, she had learned to appreciate small things for what they were. But her perspective mattered.
Foliana understood that too. They were older. If Erin, Ryoka, were young women for all they were women…when Shaestrel spoke, it was as someone who had done it more than once, to Foliana.
 
“When I was younger, I swore an oath. I promised I’d kill this cunt, ye know? The kind of promise you make that won’t fade. That sort of thing.” 
 
“Mm.”
