That drew both Beth and Geneva up short. The Selphid had actually bent over Erin and had put a hand to the leg.
“No splinters that I can sense, Geneva. She’s fine. We have mind powers, by the way.”
“Okay.”
Even Ryoka seemed too tired to explode at that. But Geneva sat back and gave Erin a very strange look.
“By…immunity…do you mean crossbows don’t harm you? At all?”
Erin paused and glanced at Ryoka. She gave the Wind Runner a smile that made Ryoka flinch.
“Well, since Ryoka’s revealing my best Skills—”
“Come on, Erin. Give me a break.”
The [Innkeeper] shrugged.
“I’m immune to crossbows. That’s right. It happened after I was shot and killed.”
“I…remember that.”
Geneva spoke dryly, and Erin paused.
“Ah. Right. I guess you do.”
“As someone who helped bring you back, I hope you’ll be nicer to her—and to Niers for protecting Mrsha and the inn, Erin. Sorry, she’s not normally like this.”
Ryoka gestured at Erin. Geneva sat back, trying to be friendly and cordial. Since it wasn’t her field, she stared at Beth, then did her best.
“No, I quite understand. It’s been a traumatizing few months. Your battle at sea, your kidnapping by Roshal…”
Hairs ran up her neck. Niers had given more clarity to that situation and spelled out her worst fears in detail. She had hoped human trafficking wasn’t as prevalent in this world as on Earth. However, Erin barely reacted to the mention of the kidnapping.
“A lot’s happened. I’m alive—that’s the most I can ask for. I was just catching up with Ryoka before I had my talk with the Titan. We have to get on the same page before I talk with him.”
“Dead gods, Erin. Just be nice. Don’t strategize.”
Ryoka began to raise her voice, but Erin just shot her a cool look, and Geneva fidgeted until something burst out of her.
“I’m happy to talk about home or what’s been going on with you, Erin. I have countless questions about the Winter Solstice. Or what you saw when you were dead.”
Erin paused, and there were some untouched cups and a pitcher of water on the table. She began pouring drinks for everyone and took a sip of water. It was lemon-flavored, and Erin went on after a second.
“I can share as much as I remember. I’ve forgotten a lot, but I’ll try. As for the situation with the dead gods…you know as much as I do. Or rather, Ryoka claims she has the full picture.”
“I, um, have friends. Who have told me a lot, yes.”
Geneva looked from Erin to Ryoka, and it felt like they were pulling a Niers and Foliana. They had so many pieces of the puzzle it was making Geneva realize how much of this world’s machinations, and the entire reason for their presence here, she didn’t understand.
How had either woman gained so much knowledge? She was keen to learn, but still, there was a remove from Erin that made it hard for Geneva to even sip from her drink. Let alone the destroyed room, the sense of being able to talk intimately was not here, and the Bushrangers, hectic as they were, had been easier.
Perhaps she just had to say it. Geneva put down her cup, picked it back up, took a sip, and then coughed.
“I—just hope that regardless of what we discuss, after you speak to Niers, you’ll steer him away from further bloodshed, Erin. He is the leader of a Great Company fighting monsters from the Dyed Lands and at war with the Jungle Tails company. I can understand the former, if not reconcile the latter. But the last thing we need, I hope we can agree, is more meaningless slaughter. Like you’ve participated in yesterday and recently.”
Beth covered her face with one hand. Ryoka sat up a bit—and Geneva met Erin Solstice’s eyes. The [Innkeeper] had paused in taking a sip of water, and now…
Geneva Scala really didn’t like Erin Solstice.
It was instinctual. Immediate. Not just what Erin had done. Geneva Scala got the sense that if she left the room, right now, and it was time to sleep, Erin would roll over and go straight to slumberland without a problem.
There was no apology, no guilt in her eyes that even Daly wore around him like a painful badge. Nor even in her tone as she replied.
“Ah. I can see you have something to say, Geneva. Go ahead. It’s good to get that sort of thing out in the open. Ryoka already said her piece.”
Geneva gave the Wind Runner a quick glance, but she squared her shoulders.
“I don’t have anything else to say. I hope I don’t sound…preachy.”
“You do.”
Beth’s mutter earned her a glower. Geneva went on.
“I understand fighting monsters. It seems—necessary. Everything else? That bloody slaughter at Ramok? I have sworn an oath to try and do no harm, Erin. I cannot support anything you or Niers do if it endangers lives.”
Even being here was a conflict, but Geneva had taken the principle that no one could just exist in a bubble of altruistic deeds. Better to push Niers away from some of the things she was sure he was capable of than to wash her hands of it. Beth quite agreed, but Erin seemed to rankle at Geneva’s suggestion.
“Can you explain just what you found so objectionable about Ramok? I went in there to stop the Selphids from being ground into pieces.”
This was the trouble. Geneva knew that. She could even, in a sense, admire that. But her mouth kept moving.
“I won’t argue about any part of that. It was incredibly brave, risky, even. You may have stopped a bloodbath—but you still let Gloriam execute the officers.”
She’d heard Niers talking about that. Erin’s eyes narrowed.
“I convinced him to let eighteen thousand Lizardfolk go.”
“And I respect that. Greatly. But you—murdered a [Prince] on live television, Erin. I know it was to protect your friend. Your actions still drew the Iron Vanguard into a battle and have led to an ongoing war between multiple nations. I am simply stating that I understand you have influence. And I fear how you might use it.”
“I see.”
Erin Solstice and Geneva had locked eyes and proverbial horns, and neither one was backing down. Geneva’s gaze hurt, but she didn’t need to blink with Okasha’s help…and Erin blinked first. The [Doctor] tried to clarify. Be nice. 
“If I’m honest, Erin—I—I quite admired you. When I looked at your history. When you were waving a white flag in front of an army at Liscor? I read an account of that, and I found myself taken. The Solstice. The battle at sea. Ramok. These might have been necessary things, but at least at Ramok, I feel as though you could have petitioned Gloriam. Stopped the slaughter altogether.”
She knew it was her worst trait, and Beth was noisily grinding her teeth together. Erin had saved probably twenty thousand lives. But it was the way she’d done it that Geneva disliked.
That raised fist and smile. Geneva was ready to actually throw herself the other way, but Erin Solstice’s reply put paid to her apology.
“Maybe the Jungle Tails company needed to lose that city. Maybe Roshal—Erribathe’s [Prince]—and the people I’ve killed, like Kaligma—needed to die.”
Ryoka drew in a breath, and both Genevas stirred. Geneva Scala’s throat felt scratchy, so she took a sip of water.
“You…that’s exactly what I feared you’d say. We need less bloodshed in all parts of the world, Erin, not more. There’s no need for it.”
The [Innkeeper] sat back, folding her arms, and her eyes lit up as if she’d uncovered something fascinating. She did a double-take, inspected Geneva again, and then laughed.
“Ah. A pacifist. Of course. That’s what you are.”
Geneva would have assumed that was implicit. She almost flushed, not because the term offended her, but because of how Erin said it.
“You have a problem with that?”
Erin waved a quick hand.
“Oh, no, not at all. I quite respect you, Geneva. Even more so because you are a [Doctor]. The world needs people like you. It also needs people like me. So I will happily keep our differences of opinion.”
Our differences of opinion? Geneva felt a spark of ire in her breast.
“(Okasha, shut me up.)”
“(Nope. Let her have it, [Princess].)”
Damned empowering Selphids. Geneva Scala held her own tongue, but Beth sat forwards. Another problem was having two of you; even if one thought better, the other decided to go for it.
“Hey, Erin. Sorry, I know Geneva’s been talking this entire time, and she’s sort of…pushy with her ideals. But I’m like her. Neither she nor I wants anyone to get hurt. We get monsters and Crelers and—the Forgotten Wing company is at war, and they were attacked first, if that’s worth anything.”
She shrugged and even indicated Ryoka.
“We saw Ryoka cut off someone’s head, even if he apparently got better, and I’m completely willing to be friends with her. But you’re sounding a bit—bloodthirsty there.”
“Realistic. I can’t believe either of you survived on Baleros this long like this. Did you not see people trying to kill me? They’ve been trying to assassinate me nonstop since I woke up. I am a target. I’m being a target, Beth, Geneva, Ryoka. That’s my job. They can kill me. They can try. My job is to take as many out as possible. To do what I can. Then die. If I leave them filled with rage or fear—even better.”
Erin Solstice sat back on the coach, spreading her arms, looking…relaxed. Ryoka choked.
“Erin. Fuck!”
Now, Geneva felt like the storm that had preceded their arrival was justified. Her own face felt frozen as she looked at Erin.
Ryoka needs trauma counseling. This woman…she wasn’t sure what Erin needed, but not meeting the Titan sounded like a good first step. Geneva whispered.
“Refraining from murder is not a weakness, Erin. Reconciling with people might end the bloodshed. You could at least attempt it.”
“I’m not going to bother trying.”
The words were like a slap in the face. Geneva jerked, and Erin went on, studying the [Doctor].
“I get what you’re trying, Geneva. It’s great. Wonderful. It misses the point. I’m not a…a [Negotiator] trying to make peace between two warring tribes. I’m a [Warrior] right now, and all I see are Crelers. You are necessary. Probably a better person than me, who will leave behind more living people. Don’t tell me to stop what I’m doing.”
“If you’re prepared to make an enemy of half the world, I won’t, then. You’re choosing the most painful existence, Erin.”
Geneva Scala snapped back, angrier with Erin than she remembered being with Niers or Foliana! For a response, Erin laughed.
“I’m the one making enemies and choosing pain? You know, Geneva, they talk about you in Talenqual. I didn’t stay with the United Nations company long, but every Earther there brought you up, even the ones who’d never met you. Geneva Scala, the Last Light. The inspiring [Doctor]. Founder of the United Nations company.”
They do? Geneva hesitated, and Erin went on.
“They speak of you in the past tense. No one is dying to have you back. Maybe they accept you’ve moved on to bigger and better things, but I think they understood just what a problem it was to have you around. Now, if Daly vanished and went to join the Iron Vanguard? I think they’d miss him more.”
That one hurt. Geneva Scala rocked back a bit and thought Erin had made a mistake. Because Geneva really did mean she didn’t want to hurt anyone. Even monsters. But Erin had just provoked an argument, and the [Doctor] didn’t avoid that kind of strife.
“Perhaps that’s true, Erin. But where does your line end? I’m willing to acknowledge monsters are a threat. If people have to fight them, that’s fine. You murdered a man in cold blood from behind. Perhaps there was no choice in that situation. Would you have executed those officers in Gloriam’s stead? How many enemies are you going to kill? All of them?”
Erin studied her fingernails.
“I let the Lizardfolk go. As for the officers? I was there. Why do you think I only let the [Soldiers] go? When someone has a knife to your friend’s throat—Beth, there—will you wait for me or Daly to kill them or will you only hurt them to save Beth?”
Beth interrupted before Geneva could fire back.
“In that circumstance, Erin—who’s holding the knife? Some random killer? A monster? Or is it because someone executed their father or mother in cold blood? You said it yourself: Geneva is fine to keep doing what she’s doing. She grapples with what she does every day. Do you?”
The [Innkeeper] took a breath, eyes set in her face, and Geneva braced for something, anything—until she heard a voice.
“Whoa~♪”
It was a musical ‘whoa’. It came from Ryoka Griffin. The Wind Runner had stood up and left the couch, ignored by the contentious argument. She had set her back to the others, and the sound made Erin, Geneva, and Beth turn.
What?
Ryoka Griffin turned, and her face was beet red. She looked at Erin, who had her mouth slightly open, at Beth, who was checking her ears, and at Geneva’s blank face. She coughed.
“That’s the opening to a song. You all join in. A capella.”
“What?”
Geneva stared at Ryoka, and the Wind Runner spread her hands.
“I dunno. I was just thinking—here we are, Earthers. All four of us. And you were about to get into a fight with Erin, which is a bad idea, Geneva, Beth, because she’s really, really good at brawling. And I thought—what the hell are we doing?”
She strode back, tossed herself over the couch, and lay there, feet propped up on a pillow. Giving them a thousand-yard stare.
“Can we stop? I get it. Erin, I’m sorry for shouting and being upset. Beth, Geneva? Hear me out. We’re not going to resolve this, are we? Erin’s said her piece. You’ve said yours. I know how this goes. At some point, someone hurls a chair through the window, and we have a blowout fight. No hair pulling; gut shots and knees to the face.”
“I…wouldn’t do that.”
Geneva muttered faintly. Okasha was giggling in her mind.
“(I would.)”
Ryoka sat up a bit, spreading her hands.
“How about no, guys? Girls? Come on. Truce. We’re Earthers, and the first thing we do is judge each other? Here we are. Two of us from another continent, even if how we got here sucked. Why don’t we take a chill pill, break, have something to eat, and, like, sing a stupid song? Be friends or at least make peace before we start murdering each other? Can we do that? Or are we gonna leave here fighting when we’re the only people from the same world, on the same side?”
She was not the best speaker. She sounded nervous; Ryoka was still red-faced, and when she looked at Erin, she was genuinely hurt. However, she had a compelling directness and, more than that…experience. It was as if Ryoka had not only had said fight before, but gone down the bad road so many times that she was sick of repeating herself.
