It took Erin Solstice a full day and a bit to get to Elvallian, but she made it without further incident. The Selphids who had split from Hoisq’s force needed patching up and reclassifying as ‘her’ [Soldiers]. Lizardfolk had to be dispersed away from Forgotten Wing territory, their oath or not.
Gloriam had to have a shouting match with Niers and then try the same with Foliana, and of course, the television crews did their best to get to anyone important in Elvallian. Niers had them funneled at the students, who had a lovely time realizing everything they said could and would be broadcast on the news for all to see and to define their personality in the eyes of…everyone.
—But largely, things were uneventful. Forgotten Wing was capable of dealing with these things, and Strategist Mella conducted her duty of escorting Erin to the city without further incident quite satisfactorily.
Erin Solstice still entered the gates of the city like a storm. In deference to his perceived understanding of her personality, Niers had not arranged for a full parade. But he didn’t restrict the citizens, and the moment her band of strange folk—Earthers, Selphids, Fraerlings, and Erin Solstice herself—slowed, he could hear cheering at the gates.
For once, the Titan didn’t want to see Erin Solstice on a scrying orb as he stood just inside the palace’s reception hall. It was a lovely place for visitors, new students, and enemies to arrive; it had this courtyard-like feeling. Plush, fireproof carpets. Balconies on either side where you could wave down to intruders trying to take the entryway.
Foliana and Niers stood on the far end of the walkway as the floor raised two feet, ending in a left and right hallway behind them. Niers had dressed himself in what he’d call battle-finery: red coat, polished black boots, feather in his cap, blue undershirt; like a colorful cardinal perched on a pedestal.
Foliana had her armor on. When Niers had snapped at her, she’d put a yellow flower behind one ear. She was still nibbling at some, by now, moldy mac and cheese. People kept trying to take it from her. In the end, Niers had Beth dragged to one side.
He was watching the image of Erin Solstice getting closer out of the corner of his eye. She was riding with the Bushrangers, who were waving awkwardly or trying to look cool as personalities dictated. But Erin Solstice? She had a raised fist and had a half-smile on her face.
The Selphids are cheering her. Elvallian had a large contingent, but Niers swore it just wasn’t them.
“Tallguard Commanders. Find out who broke the restrictions on leaving the palace and censure them. No objections.”
Iuncuta Eirnos was in a bad mood. However, the Fraerlings who were lining the roofs and gutters were shouting gustily, and Niers happened to know Commander Rozcal and his entire Crelerbane Armor unit had snuck out this morning.
To them, the Tallguard of Feiland were real heroes who had gone down to the wire against a Tallfolk company in defense of their city. Niers swore he could hear Rozcal bellowing, a catch in his voice. He couldn’t see Tallguard Cotm or Enchanter Resk, but he reminded himself to shake their hands.
But Erin? Ryoka Griffin was staring at the orb, as pale-faced as she had been yesterday. She didn’t look like she’d slept. Wil, Merrik, Venaz, and Peki were all pushing among the students standing behind the columns of soldiers at attention, looking just as surprised as everyone else.
No one knew what had come over her. It was like her and not. But all Niers thought was—
Time to finally meet her.
He had a dreadful feeling of anticipation as he always had had when two sides of an army were running at each other. Watching a full squadron of Centaurs dipping their lances. Hearing the screams give way to silence as bodies accelerated, straining for every bit of momentum before the clash.
Ryoka Griffin sneezed. Everyone stared at her. She turned red as Geneva fished for a handkerchief, and the Wind Runner brushed at the feather tickling her nose. Then she took the handkerchief from Foliana, saw the Squirrel Beastkin staring at her, and screamed.
“Aaah!”
“Foliana. Behave.”
Seneschal Atmodeca spoke, and Foliana hopped away from Ryoka with a pleased look on her face. The illusion of her standing next to Niers wavered, and the Titan didn’t quite glare at Foliana as the audience tittered.
She’d been doing this all of yesterday, and the hand Ryoka put over her heart indicated the Wind Runner was regretting embarrassing Foliana. The [Rogue] had ambushed Ryoka multiple times, despite whatever trick Ryoka had. She’d hidden under Ryoka’s bed, in a cupboard, snuck up on Ryoka over twelve times—even tied a Fraerling into the Wind Runner’s hair without either noticing.
…The cupboard was pretty funny. Ryoka hadn’t had anything to eat like Foliana expected, so Geneva ended up opening the cupboard six minutes later and seeing a very sad, squished Squirrel Beastkin staring at her.
—He was waiting so long with the urbane amusement of the distracted, unable to sit in any moment, because the one he was waiting for was here at last. Never as he expected. Niers kept thinking of Erin’s strange transformation. It fit exactly zero Skills on record. Some elements, maybe. Transformation Skills were a thing. But for an [Innkeeper]? Why horns, and how did it square with her class?
Why Ramok? No, seriously. She did not know the Selphids. Now she did, and now they owed her a favor, but she had run in there like she really was a heroine who saved anyone who caught her eye. And she wasn’t. Was it guilt? Trauma? A plan he couldn’t see? Gloriam being a shitass annoyance? Why Erek?
“—Erin Solstice, the Innkeeper of Liscor!”
Then he almost missed the moment she walked in. Niers jerked upright. His head rose, and he saw a group of twelve Humans, the Bushrangers, walking in a loose circle around a young woman who slowed a step as she saw the procession.
The cheering had fallen silent, and in this place, no one said a word.
Veteran [Soldiers], students, Fraerlings, and distant leaders like Gloriam, Diomedes, and even Perorn looked at the young woman who stood there. A vast mirror showed Diomedes’ eye; Perorn’s face reflected the moving terrain behind her.
Erin Solstice was taller than he remembered. Right. Paeth had made her taller. Niers saw she had travelling clothing on: leather armor that clashed with the lighter cloth she wore. Sensible. She had a crossbow hanging conspicuously at her side, a holster for a wand at her hip, and two more wands hidden on her back.
“Dagger on a necklace. Six magical rings. Unknown-grade enchantment defying all [Appraisal] and other analysis—”
Niers slapped his earpiece, and the appraisal coming from one of their top [Mages] cut off. Everything was going wrong.
Including the fact that absolutely no one was applauding as Atmodeca announced Erin Solstice in. Niers shot a glare at Perorn, and Commander Fleethoof gave him a steady stare. Had she dropped the ball on applause?
Erin Solstice slowly walked forwards on the gentle, royal Terandrian red carpet, eyes taking in the vast entryway, the ranks of [Soldiers], the Fraerlings gathered on pedestals or watching from high above.
She paused at the scrying mirrors reflecting Gloriam’s and Diomedes’ stares. Her eyes followed the course of the room to Niers. She almost tripped; Siri had to catch her.
No one laughed. The [Innkeeper] regained her posture, and Niers studied her face. Erin Solstice wasn’t smiling. She wasn’t glaring either, but her lips were a faint line on her face. The precursor to a frown. Her eyes were flinty hazel, set, determined.
Yet he felt like something shone from those depths. A kind of wonder and excitement. She took a few more steps forwards, breathing in and out, then—stopped.
Not a sound came from the [Soldiers] on her right and left. They stared at her in perfect military straightness, bearing the Forgotten Wing’s sigil—a stylized face of Foliana and a tiny Fraerling resting on a wing—on their chests.
Erin Solstice looked into the eyes of a Gorgon. Then at a Dullahan holding his head under one arm, staring through the air just past her navel. She walked forwards, and a Centauress looked down at her as a Selphid held a spear upright, chin raised, smiling slightly.
Erin half turned, and Daly Sullivan jerked his head towards Niers as if to indicate she was keeping him waiting. But the [Innkeeper] continued a slow rotation of the hall for a second. Looking at the students, the people there.
Then—her eyes came back to Niers, Foliana, and spotted Ryoka in the crowd. Erin Solstice took a slow breath and began to walk forwards again.
This time—her chin rose. Her shoulders relaxed, and she walked forwards proudly. As if her deeds escorted her forwards, her triumphs and failures were on display for all to see.
She walked into Elvallian as the best foes and allies had. As, once, Niers Astoragon and Foliana had passed into the shattered palace after a victory. Her eyes drinking in every moment, her ears straining to record it all, for no recording would ever be enough.
Then—halfway towards him, the first Fraerlings began to applaud. It was quiet at first, barely audible, but Commander Rozcal joined in, panting, and his armored gauntlets made a terrible clacking sound. Then hundreds of Fraerlings were applauding, and the Tallfolk took it up.
A wave of applause without a single voice. Niers Astoragon’s eyes never left Erin’s. Her gaze flicked between him, Foliana—she noticed Atmodeca, Iuncuta Eirnos, and some of the other leaders of the Fraerlings. Studied the officers behind Niers. Glanced at Ryoka Griffin and Geneva Scala.
And she wasn’t real, still. She was still someone in a scrying orb. Too far to touch, even when she was barely six feet from him. Still—not real. Because after coming so far, after so long of having stupid ideas of what she would be like, expectations he knew she would dash—
She still seemed to glow. She was still a grand adventure, a mystery, someone he wanted to talk to—even when he met her.
He hadn’t felt that since he was a young man. Niers Astoragon realized everyone was looking at him. What had his face been like? Erin was hesitating, mouth the faintest fraction open. Niers spoke for her.
“Welcome to Elvallian, Erin. You’ve come a long way from home.”
He had completely forgotten his speech, of course. The notes crinkled in his pocket as he bowed at the waist. A real bow. Beside him, Foliana nodded her head.
“Mm. I’m Foliana. You knew that.”
“Hello, Niers. Commander Foliana. It’s nice to finally meet you two at last.”
Erin Solstice paused a second, then bowed towards Niers and Foliana. When she straightened, Niers Astoragon exhaled. He glanced at Ryoka, Geneva, Beth—all the officers dressed up around him, then chuckled.
“Stuffy atmosphere, isn’t it? Look at all these people I made dress up just to greet you.”
A titter ran around the room, and Eirnos, waiting to be introduced, glared at Niers. The [Innkeeper]’s lips quirked.
“I appreciate it. And everything you’ve done for me and my friends.”
“Well. The Forgotten Wing company has a soft spot for the insane, so long as insanity is backed up by something real. You are our guest; the Bushrangers of the United Nations company and the Tallguard of Feiland and Paeth likewise. For these two groups, we should offer nothing less. Captain Sullivan, Tallguard Cotm, welcome.”
Niers raised his voice, and the two, Daly and Cotm, standing on Siri’s shoulder, bowed.
“Paeth sends its regards, Lord Astoragon.”
“The United Nations company, uh, likewise. Honored to be here.”
Daly was red-faced; Cotm was giving Niers that look most Fraerlings did when they met him. Disbelieving, almost disappointed, fascinated. Children re-hearing stories.
Niers was about to say something else, but Foliana hopped forwards. So it was really her there? Niers fell silent, and Daly swallowed as Foliana’s gaze of three colors, yellow, green, and pink, found his.
The glowing eyes of bleeding colors blinked, and Foliana spoke without projecting her voice for all to hear.
“I greet your company, Daly Sullivan. Do your United Nations come as friends or foes to my domain?”
Niers’ fingers twitched at his side; aside from that, he didn’t react. Gloriam smiled, the damn idiot; and Geneva, Beth, and Ryoka all reacted to his left.
Daly Sullivan froze. He inhaled as the Bushrangers around him stared at Foliana. She stared down at Daly.
“…We come as friends, Commander Foliana. The United Nations…company comes as friends too, I’d like to think. I can only speak for us, but we’re damn sick of war. Sorry for my language.”
Behind Niers, he heard a chuckle from his officer core, and the [Soldiers] grinned. Foliana looked down at Daly, unsmiling.
“Then we shall see. Welcome. Meaningless pleasantries. Mm. You are my guests.”
Foliana paused, glanced at Cotm, and nodded.
“Tallguard.”
Then her eyes slid to Erin Solstice.
“Hello. You. You’re my guest too. I am Foliana, Three-Color Stalker. Legend of Baleros. We’ll find out who you are.”
She turned, her bushy tail wagging, and hopped off. Not back to where she was standing next to Niers. She just left. Daly, Cotm, and Erin’s eyes found Niers Astoragon, and he exhaled.
“She has ignored literal monarchs. However, they were just [Kings] and [Queens] with classes and birthrights. You belong here. Be welcome. Now, let’s finally talk.”
The applause began again, and Niers nodded to Erin. Her eyes found his, and he half-smiled. She looked nervous and set, and Niers sighed as he saw Atmodeca checking her notes of what she was supposed to say next.
Almost…
They could almost meet like people.
 
——
 
The applause was still going as Niers finished talking and half-turned and waved a hand, and Ryoka Griffin had no idea what to do.
She was vibrating, wondering when she could speak, and she thought the ceremony was over, but this was not the moment to jump forwards and grab Erin and shake her and hug her. The [Innkeeper] glanced at the giant Crocodile woman that walked over.
“Atmodeca, prepare a sitting room for me to speak with Miss Solstice. It might not be used right away. See if Foliana wants anything. You can show the guests to their rooms at a due moment.”
“Prepare a sitting room. It might not be used right away. See if Commander Foliana wants anything. Show the guests to their rooms at a due moment. When is that?”
Niers had turned off the spell amplifying his voice, but his sigh was audible even above the applause.
“Use your judgment.”
Atmodeca said nothing as Niers half-spun, looking exasperated.
