“You had your first war. A proper war, not to sound condescending to the others. I…have been there. I suppose I’m the insensitive one, treating this like a fun meeting while your friends are in danger. Let’s be more direct. Is this the right venue for you?”
Erin peered at him.
“We’re a bit far away.”
“True. This is a sort of ‘snack as you talk’ situation. I thought a chess board would be closer.”
“What about that close without the board?”
That took a few seconds of moving their chairs and the table to the side. Then they were close enough, now, that they filled each other’s vision. Niers stared at Erin from about what Tallfolk would have called three feet between their legs. She paused and inspected him up and down.
She could see all his grey hairs and perhaps the lines that had appeared without him noticing. They were often invisible to him, but sometimes he would check his appearance and wonder when he had stopped being thirty or forty or only fifty and gotten so damn old.
After a moment, Niers jerked his eyes from doing a full body sweep of Erin, but she didn’t seem to mind.
“So. I realize this is overplaying my hand a bit, but I prepared something for you. I hope it’s not too embarrassing for either of us. If you’d let me read it?”
“Go ahead.”
Niers smoothed the crinkling paper out and read, enunciating as best he could, though he knew his diction was largely intelligible.
“O he Elame-Mirake. Uro Kinita-shónu. Funu Erin Solstice! Va he Tilhatan. Kótómehie va o…faira o kava?”
He looked up at Erin sheepishly. But he hoped she’d crack a smile or…the [Innkeeper] gave him a long stare.
“Goblin.”
“Ah. You didn’t get any of that?”
“—No.”
His heart sank. He was sure she knew Goblin. But Erin was giving him a studious look.
“You didn’t hear about the Goblins, then? Surprising. I thought Paeth would have told you.”
Niers almost spilled his drink.
“The what? Goblins? Chieftain Shaik? Ulvama?”
“No, I haven’t seen either of them. The Goblins. Two of them found me just outside of Talenqual the first day I was outside. They said something to me, but I didn’t catch them.”
“What?”
He was genuinely shocked. Niers hadn’t seen Goblins, an actual tribe in Baleros, since the day Velan had left Baleros’ shores. He wiped wine off his coat’s sleeve.
“That’s…not impossible, but unprecedented. No, Paeth doesn’t tell me everything. Two found you? Deliberately. Due to your Skill? You have a Skill about Goblins, don’t you? I think you mentioned you were a [Natural Ally].”
Erin shrugged.
“Maybe. But I doubt it. I didn’t know either one, and I haven’t seen Ulvama or…Shaik.”
He recalled she probably didn’t know the Goblin of the Ghostly Hand tribe. Niers leaned forward.
“What did they say? What did they look like? Where did they come from? No, pardon me. Tell me in your time.”
Erin thought about how to explain it as he tried not to look worried.
“At first, we thought one was a Lizardfolk. She appeared in the forest. She was fast. High-level enough to bypass the Tallguard. She had on a costume.”
“…What?”
The hairs began to rise on Niers’ neck with familiarity. Erin gestured at her face.
“A skin. It made her look—”
“Like a Lizardfolk?”
Erin nodded. Then she described the other one. Niers pictured him. Tall. Huge. A War Walker in size. He whispered.
“Fomirelin. That would be massive, even for one of the Great Goblins. Two of them found you? And they were speaking in Goblin?”
“Yes…”
“And you don’t speak Goblin? Not a word?”
Erin hesitated.
“I didn’t catch what these ones said.”
That, at least, checked out. Niers grunted.
“Velan told me he had trouble talking with other Goblins. Something about the dialect in Baleros being more complex. Okay. Go over the conversation fully, please.”
He wished she had notes of what they’d said exactly, but Erin only had a few phrases from Cotm. But when she described their failed attempts at communication, Niers covered his face.
“He didn’t use my book. That was the stupidest thing…oh no.”
“What did he say? I caught one word…”
Niers spoke.
“Cotm probably said…damn, I’ve said it thousands of times. ‘Van he elame zelmalaile Velan an.’ The worst thing to say to a Goblin these days.”
“That sounds dead on. What does it mean?”
Niers wearily translated.
“It means—and Goblin is difficult, believe me, but we got this from native speakers—‘we are friends of Velan’s tribe’.”
“…Ah.”
The [Innkeeper] sat back and actually smiled a second. She at least had a sense of humor about it. Niers did not and poured himself a slow cup. He could almost see that Goblin sitting in front of him, now, drinking from a cup…sane.
Not like the images of him. Not like the figure on a ship, the last sight Niers had of him before that of the raging monster charging to his death.
Velan the Kind.
“I knew him.”
That was all Niers said. He took a long drink of wine as Erin sat there, just studying him, inhumanly calm…but she had not. For all she was the Goblinfriend…
He was the original. Niers passed a hand over his face.
“When Velan the Kind had the only Goblin company of Baleros, that was what we said to the other Goblins. It sometimes worked. Sometimes didn’t. After he became Goblin King, every tribe went with him or was hunted to oblivion. Goblins don’t exist on Baleros. Or so I thought. These were either reinforcements from his isle or something else. Either way—you just told her…”
“…That we were friends with the Goblin King’s tribe. A lie. She said something else. Velan Fasna? King Velan is dead, I think.”
“No. Fasna is ‘kind’.”
Niers corrected Erin. She twitched and studied his face.
“So you do know the language.”
“I can’t exactly converse fluently, but I am good enough. So’s Foliana. Not that we advertise it.”
“—I see. I can’t tell you what else they said because I missed it. I heard ‘Naga’ and Greydath.”
“Probably asking about the whereabouts of them. As for Nagas…damn. Maybe it’s the Eyes of Baleros. Goblins aren’t stupid. Did you hear anything else?”
Niers drummed his fingers on the armrest of his chair and then caught himself. Here they were splitting into serious talk when…he supposed he couldn’t help it.
And to his surprise, Erin gestured at Niers’ paper.
“Actually, the same thing you called me. Elame…”
“Elame-Mirake? Oh. Goblin-friend. Mirak means ‘Goblin’.”
Her not knowing that was surprising. Had she never learned? Then again, would a Goblin trust a Human after Velan? Erin blinked at Niers, then smiled at the paper.
“I suppose you know what you said. Will you translate for me?”
He was calming down a bit. He’d added that bit to the things to discuss, but Niers was only too happy to, which was why he’d prepared the paper in the first place. He read out his words slower.
“Don’t repeat it to the [Bard] you have; my grammar is doubtless atrocious. I did my best. O he Elame-Mirake. That means, ah, ‘you are the Goblinfriend’.”
“That’s…not similar to how we speak at all. What’s ‘you?’”
“Just ‘o’. ‘He’ is a kind of thing you add in to designate ‘is’, or how things are. I quite understand. So then I said, ‘you are not an ‘Earth-girl’.”
Erin snorted at that, and Niers gave her a smile.
“You are only—funu—Erin Solstice. Then, uh, ‘I’ is ‘va’, but Tilhatan is the name they called me. I am Titan. I appreciate…you. Do you want to speak?”
Most Goblins would probably laugh at him for the way he’d said it, but Erin Solstice’s eyes lit up. She chuckled to herself and sat back. Her cheeks were faintly flushed from the wine and she seemed to be enjoying herself. The Titan spread his hands, smiling.
“You can laugh harder. I know it’s rather silly.”
“No. I have a piece of paper for you, too. Though it’s less well said. Here. I suppose if we’re being…direct and silly—”
She handed something to him. Niers took it, and their hands touched just for a second, and he felt a thrill run up his arm.
She was real. He took the paper and made a show of unfolding it—but it was no flowery missive or another language. It was a list.
 
Badarrow
Ulvama
Ksmvr
Vofea…
 
The list went on. Niers looked up after checking all the names, and Erin Solstice indicated the piece of paper.
“I’m sure you know most of them, but I thought I’d write it down. That’s everyone I don’t know the whereabouts of. If you can help me find them—I will be in your debt. It’s…why there’s no time for chess.”
Ah. They were back to business, and yet, more intimate now. Niers exhaled and tucked the list into his breast pocket after scanning it.
“We are looking for everyone on the list. Frankly—Ulvama and Nerry are in the most danger as Goblin and Sariant Lamb. I regret to tell you that Sariants are not a popular pet in Baleros. Some keep them, but many Lizardfolk would, ah—eat her.”
Erin’s eyes crinkled into a grimace, but she just exhaled.
“Nerry’s tough. If she’s alive, I’ll find her. If not—it’s my fault.”
Simply said and accurate. Niers studied Erin, then nodded.
“I suppose I can’t fault you for snapping about the chess thing. There’s no time to relax, is there? Or even hang up your hat?”
He stared above her head, but there was no flicker of flames even when he tried to see it, like an aura. Erin’s eyes rose, and she paused.
“…No. There’s no hat to hang up at the moment.”
“Did you lose your class? Did it consolidate?”
Niers was concerned. Erin shook her head after a second. She spread her hands.
“No. No. I’m just…not using my [Witch] powers. You know my craft?”
“Wonder?”
Erin nodded.
“I can’t harvest any. No wonder, no hat. I think I’ve—broken my ability to feel it for a while.”
That sounded like a [Witch] problem. Nor did he disagree that was likely. Niers exhaled.
“Understandable. No wonder you were keeping your powers under wraps. So the, ah, change of forms…?”
“Level 50 Skill. Among others.”
He raised his brows, but she didn’t elaborate. Erin opened her mouth, staring at Niers.
“Thank you for speaking to me in Goblin, or trying to. I remember, now, you were Velan’s friend.”
“Yes.”
Erin studied Niers, looking him up and down strangely, with a sympathy that embarrassed him and hurt, and he tried to say something.
I don’t regret it? A lie. That Velan was a good man? In doubt. That he had questions about Goblins, but too much mistrust to continue? Needless.
—The two studied each other, meeting each other’s eyes, glancing away, inspecting the other’s dress, posture—Erin with arms on knees, leaning forward, Niers with crossed legs, holding a cup of wine in hand, wine on his soaked cuff—and they said it about the same time.
“This is uncomfortable. It was a stupid idea.”
“Oh, thank the Gnomes. I was about to say the exact same thing.”
Sitting with knees practically touching, staring each other in the face, was a horrible idea. Niers stood up, and Erin laughed.
“We have to at least talk to each other!”
“Not like that. I’d say a ‘walk’, but every Fraerling will come up to us. Damn. We could sit out where I work? It’s a mess.”
“Do you have anything else around here?”
Niers stared at the chess board, but waved a hand around.
“Oh, I have suites of rooms I don’t use. Anything you want in a king’s palace? Go ahead. Bathrooms, bedrooms, a ballroom for some damn reason—the idiot who built this all for me fancied I wanted to be a monarch in my rooms. Half of it’s dusty. Where would you like to go?”
He looked at Erin, expecting maybe to sit in a garden if the terrarium wasn’t fully overgrown, maybe somewhere like his table, or just…Erin Solstice eyed Niers, and this time, he was sure she deliberately disarmed him.
“Do you have…a bath?”
 
——
 
The Titan had never, ever been more uncomfortable or more titillated in his life. A fascinating word that he couldn’t help but feel had been constructed on purpose.
He sat in a bubbling tub of water that magically heated itself. The Fraerling was bare to his chest with some shorts on, as Erin Solstice sat down with a Fraerling two-piece swimsuit that was mostly underwear.
Dead gods.
And he’d thought the song and dance or the Winter Sprites was the most unbelievable thing that would happen today.
Niers took another sip of his drink—then put it aside. It was hot—and frankly, he wanted his senses unmuddled.
“…This might have been a bad idea.”
“We can get out!”
Niers was about to leave, but Erin just sat down as the bubbling water obscured her. The tub was big enough that they weren’t about to bump into each other, and she exhaled.
“Dead gods, this is nice.”
“Isn’t it? I should do this every night.”
Niers was surprised; he hadn’t had the old tub filled, but he’d forgotten how damn fun it was. He stretched out, and a foot touched hers—he jerked it back, but then relaxed as she snorted.
“I guess it’s not something you can do with anyone bigger, right? And the Fraerlings weren’t really in Elvallian until now.”
“Hah. You underestimate Fraerling stupidity and bravado. I have gotten in a tub with my fellow friends and adventurers. If you think that’s risky, sometimes I’d sit in this floating cup…other times, I’d just get in. Or fall in. I nearly died one time being blown around by scalding bubbles underwater.”
Erin began laughing, and Niers went on with a huge grin.
“So, of course, to harass my officers, I had a huge tub commissioned that Diomedes could fit in. Gives the others a taste of my medicine.”
“Is…is that what you do for fun? Play pranks on the rest of the Great Company or your students only you can get away with?”
The question made Niers exhale, and he let himself float a second. Was this happening?
Yes. So he gave her a real answer.
“Sometimes, it’s the only thing that keeps me sane. Other times? It’s just the fun between battles. When you can do almost anything, you have to go back to having rules and propriety and be a normal person. Or you forget yourself.”
Erin sat back in the tub, copying Niers, closing her eyes and seeming to relish the heat herself. They had fruit drinks now, courtesy of Atmodeca, who had reminded them, as a Crocodile would, about not boiling themselves and proper hydration.
“So…I realize this is gauche, Erin. But you’re here. I’m here. Did Ryoka tell you about her sword?”
Erin cracked one eye open and looked at Niers.
“Are you going to give it back?”
He nodded.
