And frankly, it struck a chord with all of them. Both Genevas and Erin looked at each other, and Beth was the first person to snort.
“Wait, and your first go-to was a song?”
“Hey! It worked. I thought—no one’s going to punch me if I burst into song. If I shouted, you might.”
Ryoka grinned at Beth, and the Selphid clapped her hands together. Geneva relaxed slowly, and when she looked up, she saw Erin giving her a speculative glance.
Neither one liked each other, but Geneva manually blinked her eyes, and Okasha moved her lips up in a smile. Erin gave her a crooked one.
“True. Niers is waiting for a talk, and if you think this one’s contentious, that one will be. I need to find my friends, and Geneva’s on the list of people I owe and, therefore, will help.”
“Me?”
Geneva sat up, genuinely surprised. Erin gave her a studious once-over.
“Yep. Logic says that the Titan won’t give up an Earther, much less the Last Light of Baleros, no matter how many there are. If you want a way out…well, that’s tricky since I’ll bet Forgotten Wing is listening to us.”
“Maybe not. The Fraerlings swept your room, Erin, and he wants to be an ally.”
“Allies spy on each other, Ryoka. Either way, it’d be hard to spirit Geneva off. But if she wants help or anything, that’s why I’m here.”
Erin jerked a thumb at her chest, and Geneva blinked.
“I—don’t need to leave. I’m here of my own free will. That might not mean I am able to leave. But my interest is in the Dyed Lands, actually.”
“Because of the monster attacks?”
Ryoka sat forwards, and Beth gave Geneva a quick glance.
“No, actually, both our interests align there. Geneva and I are tackling the Wasting sickness that affects Selphids.”
…The what? Erin frowned as if she sort of knew what that was, but Geneva wasn’t surprised Ryoka had a blank look on her face. They had to explain, and Ryoka whistled.
“Damn! Every species has a problem! That’s serious. Wait, does Jelaqua have…?”
“Not everyone does, but it strikes all Selphids in time. It is vital we go to the Dyed Lands; something there may be a cure. Or at least, an answer. I, myself, wanted to know if your friends were alright, Erin. I am a [Doctor]. It may be trite, but anyone in need is someone I’d like to help.”
Erin Solstice gave Geneva a cautious nod.
“Rabbiteater, Ulvama, Ksmvr…there are a lot of them around Baleros.”
“Don’t forget Nerry, Erin.”
Ryoka muttered, and Erin rolled her eyes.
“I won’t. If Niers can help me get to them—that’s my priority. We’re not headed to the Dyed Lands; that’s westwards, right?”
“You have it right. Still, if we can align in any way…”
The two were nodding at each other reasonably. Beth glanced at Erin and slapped her knees.
“Well, I can go with Erin and make sure her friends aren’t dying of dysentery or something.”
“What? Beth!”
Geneva jerked, and Erin’s brows actually rose. But the Selphid was running a hand through her hair.
“Don’t scream, Geneva. I told you I was sick of sitting around. You’re the [Doctor]. I’m the medic. Plus, it makes no sense for both of us to look into the Dyed Lands. You need someone to make sure people are in good health, Erin? I’m not that much better than a healing potion, but those are in short supply.”
“I…could use that. Thank you, Beth. I won’t endanger the Bushrangers or anyone else if I can help it. Niers is the one giving me aid, at least, I think so. But I’ll take any help I get. Erek’s with us.”
Ryoka started at this, and Geneva remembered the Orangutan, and her stomach twisted. Ryoka peered at Erin.
“Erek? But Seve’s…dead.”
Erin didn’t blink.
“Because of me. Yes. Erek’s got no one else, Ryoka. No support…what is he going to do? Go back into the jungles and find his tribe, if he has one? I asked him to go with me, and I convinced him.”
“Just like that? When?”
“Last night. It didn’t take long. He’s smarter than he looks.”
So Erin had an Orangutan and a Geneva clone on her side. And presumably the Wind Runner as well. Geneva Scala could see why people like Niers described Erin as a woman who could alter the course of large events. She still didn’t like Erin, but she could see why other people did.
Well. They could keep going back to the arguments or take this as forwards momentum. Geneva scratched at her head.
“I don’t suppose I need to talk about what we’re sharing with Niers?”
“No guns?”
“No guns.”
Beth and Geneva chorused, and Erin looked sardonic.
“No fear.”
“Actually, yes fear, Erin. He stole my Faeblade! I forgot to even bring it up—he just yanked it! And Foliana’s been scaring the shit out of me all day!”
Ryoka burst out, and Erin frowned at her.
“You mean your super-advanced blade you won’t shut up about? I’d yank it too. Wait, I did. Remember? Didn’t I show it to Teriarch or something?”
Ryoka slapped a hand over Erin’s mouth so hard the [Innkeeper] actually went over the couch and came up swearing. Ryoka gave Geneva and Beth a terrified look—and a guilty one, and the two doctors exchanged looks. Okay. They’d been feeling bad about not mentioning the Duck, but secrets went both ways.
“Uh—uh—sorry. That’s complicated. Damn, I didn’t even mention the fae—”
The what now? Geneva saw Ryoka hyperventilate, then calm down. Even when Erin got up and gave her a punch to the kidney, the Wind Runner actually stopped—smiled with a wince—and gestured.
“Let’s try again. From the top.”
“Okay.”
Everyone sat down and inched a bit closer together. At this point, Geneva wasn’t sure if she should introduce Okasha, but she felt like it mattered.
“Um…actually, there’s something I should say. Okasha, do you want to say hello?”
When Okasha introduced herself, Erin leapt off the sofa.
“You have a Selphid in you?”
She was horrified. Ryoka? Merely unnerved. Okasha grew shy at Erin’s response, but Ryoka just shook Okasha’s hand.
“Okay, five of us ladies. Chill, Erin. Let’s take it from the top. No questions off the table. Let’s get to know each other. Like…favorite foods.”
“Nope!”
Another chorus from three voices. When Ryoka gave them a blank look, Beth explained.
“Not around Commander Foliana. She eats your favorite food so she can figure out how to assassinate you. Everyone knows that.”
Ryoka covered her face with her hands.
“I knew that! And I still told her! Well, at least she can’t make Reese’s Pieces.”
That was a silver lining, and Ryoka’s face rose with a slight smile of satisfaction at that. Everyone chuckled, and Ryoka looked around awkwardly. Geneva had to admire that.
She’s as good at defusing a situation as Ken. In her unique way. Geneva still thought she needed to get Ryoka alone and give her that hug. But Beth, chuckling, raised a hand.
“Okay, okay. Let’s actually ask any questions? Everything on the table?”
“Lay it on us. I’m an open book.”
Ryoka spread her hands, smiling, and Geneva tried not to instantly ask how she’d lost her fingers. Erin raised her brows.
“I’m not, but I’ll do my best.”
Beth’s eyes twinkled.
“Okay…then what song was Ryoka going to have us all sing?”
The Wind Runner turned crimson, and Geneva snorted. Ryoka wavered, then muttered.
“Okay—I know it’s stupid, but what about…”
She named a song that had Geneva and Beth laughing—Erin raised her brows.
“I don’t know that one. From home?”
“Erin! It’s a classic. How do you not—? We could totally sing it.”
“Yes!”
“We have to do it!”
“No.”
“Nope.”
They voted. The ‘yes’s came from Beth and Okasha. Geneva and Erin refused. Unfortunately, they were outvoted.
 
——
 
Niers wasn’t spying on Erin. He was anticipating what she was talking about with the other three Earthers. He wasn’t spying on Erin because that predisposed him for a conversation, and it was frankly not foolproof and because spying was a breach of trust.
He did have surveillance spells in the corridor outside her rooms. But come on. Everyone did that. He wasn’t watching them.
He just happened to notice Daly and Siri were coming to join the meeting, which checked out because obviously they were leaders of the United Nations company, even if they weren’t publicly their version of High Command.
I mean, that was obvious. Anyone with a single [Informant] would pick that up. Niers had half a mind to let Lyonette into the palace, but he didn’t want to relax the anti-surveillance spells.
She was actually pacing back and forth in front of the palace. A spectral [Princess], arguing with Mrsha as a bunch of students and off-duty [Soldiers] stared at her.
“No, I can’t get to Erin, Mrsha. I just know she’s in Elvallian. I told you; no one can find Erin, not even her stupid theatre! And the Titan’s palace is warded too! Stupid Fraerlings.”
…That was pretty amusing, and Niers bent over his writing task for tonight. He wasn’t impatient; he was savoring the wait. Definitely.
When the door to Erin’s rooms opened, Niers sat up, ready to tell Atmodeca to get the sitting room ready and do a private dinner.
But what he saw next was not what he expected. Nor what Daly, Siri, or the [Guards] outside the rooms expected.
“Whoa~♪”
That was the sound four—well, five if you counted Okasha—women made as they exited the doorway.
Singing.
They were snapping their fingers, but the performance was almost completely a capella.
Daly Sullivan stopped in the corridor as Ryoka, beet-red, exited first, followed by Beth, then Geneva, and lastly Erin. Geneva looked like she wanted to die, but she and Okasha did their part, and at least one of them was having a lot of fun.
Beth looked delighted. And Erin?
Erin was singing, not looking amused—but she was on pitch along with the two Selphids. In fact, Ryoka was the weakest voice. They might not have had time to practice long, but—
“Dead gods. She can sing?”
Wait, he knew that. But she was a…good singer? Niers had no idea what song it was, only that it was definitely from Earth.
The sight of four of the unlikeliest members of an impromptu music group slowly strolling down the corridor, singing a tune from Earth, had potentially stopped Daly’s brain. Siri took one look at them and turned red with giggles.
Erin, Ryoka, Geneva, and Beth were performing The Longest Time by Billy Joel with backup by Okasha.
It killed the Bushrangers. Just wiped them out. A single skirmish and Dawson was on the ground. Dying. Tofte was bleeding out, clutching his chest as Tobi and Kami fell. Even if they didn’t know the song as non-Americans—and it was a famous song—the sight of Geneva awkwardly trying to perform next to a tall Erin, or Ryoka going ‘oooh~’, was threatening to break ribs.
Worse or better—they were definitely filming it. Aldenon was holding his smartphone steady. And they had arguably too much talent to make this a train-wreck.
Erin’s rhythm and vocals were on point, as were Beth’s. Niers realized his quill was dripping ink onto his piece of paper. Absently, he put the quill back in the inkpot.
The premise of the song, which did have a kind of lingering presence in Ryoka Griffin’s mind, as well as Earthers like Geneva’s, if not Erin’s, was that you were also supposed to be singing it while moving, albeit at a musically slow pace.
That was how the group ended up heading down the stairs of Elvallian as students emerged from classes. The Bushrangers and both Genevas, Erin, and Ryoka strolled down the steps.
Strategist Mella, giving an impromptu lecture on her experiences since graduation—poked her head out of the classroom. Venaz stopped as Erin sang-walked past him, pointing a finger at him, and the Minotaur backed up, as if terrified he was going to be caught in another Solstice Moment™.
Of course, he already was. And the Earthers kept singing, walking through the palace, trying not to burst out laughing with every colorful expression they passed by.
The song, incidentally, also referenced relationships and romance in a way that Niers felt might be aimed at him. He tried not to tap his foot and realized he was going to be hearing this all day.
Because the first thing Fraerlings like Resk or Rozcal did when they saw this was decide to put on the same performance, but better, in the Fraerways.
And they kept singing…The Longest Time. Right up until the green faerie slammed into a window on the second floor as Ryoka was passing by it. The Wind Runner whirled and stared at the green blob that made Niers sit up. Then four blue faeries hit the window, one after another. The last two managed to avoid hitting the window and started pelting it with snowballs.
Niers just wanted a word with Erin.
 
——
 
“Found ye.”
 
Shaestrel looked terrible. Ryoka Griffin held her as the dazed and battered-looking Spring Faerie lay in her hands. The song was over; the Earthers were all staring down at Shaestrel in awe, mistrust if they knew faerie stories like Tofte and Siri—or pure confusion, like Kami.
“What are you all staring at? It’s just a blob of green.”
Someone hadn’t eaten enough preservatives in her healthy, organic-food diet life. Ryoka Griffin couldn’t believe it.
“Shaestrel! You’re alive!”
 
“Course I am, you daft…eh. I can’t do it. Shite glass windows. I’ve been looking for ye ever since the damn Solstice.”
 
Shaestrel was sitting up, holding her head; some of the other concussed faeries were groaning. They all looked terrible. Their icy forms were bedraggled, dirty, and a few had tears in their wings!
“What? Since the Solstice? I was at sea—then getting my bearings in Baleros. Doing deliveries, searching for people—I found the Nelgaunt with Erek and directed them to shore!”
“Ook!”
Erek nodded, and Shaestrel sat upright. Her voice was audibly weary, and Ryoka had thought…they were gone for good.
Like Theillige. But only three of the Winter Fae had vanished; no, wait. What about that Satyr that Ryoka had seen? Shaestrel answered for Ryoka.
 
“There are six of us left. Three damned she of death with Theillige. One’s gone to her destiny. So that leaves six.”
“Five. Shaestrel, that’s five.”
“Fuck, five, whatever. I forgot Theillige was in disguise.”
 
Four Frost Faeries, one Shaestrel. Something was off about them that Ryoka didn’t get. But she realized what it was while Shaestrel explained why it had taken so long to find Ryoka.
 
“We were searching around Liscor first. Then, when we realized ye’d gone off thanks to Lord Stoneface, Tyrion, we tried to cross the sea.”
 
“And?”
One of the Frost Faeries snapped.
 
