“—at least six? Some of them have revealed themselves; a Dullahan is actually taking my moniker of ‘The Last Light’ and giving medical lessons on television. I know the Lamia went with Jungle Tails, and another Geneva’s gone to The Last Tide. But I suspect more are around, if they’re alive.”
“This is fucking crazy.”
Daly had his head between his legs, mostly so he wouldn’t pass out. He raised it now, and Siri snapped her fingers.
“That Dullahan? I’ve seen her giving advice. Everyone thought she was copying you—or that she was a [Nurse] you’d taught.”
“Nope. She’s me. They all are. Only…the body changes them, I think. Or, simply, our personalities might have been altered. Or we just all chose to be something different, if that makes sense.”
“Specialize. Geneva’s the main Geneva. No one can take it from her. No one wants to, frankly. That lets us do our own thing. Like medical practitioners in general.”
Beth cut in helpfully, and all the Bushrangers turned to her. They were sitting in the rooms they’d been given, and Resk was nibbling on a huge, peeled and roasted hazelnut. Everyone else was eating them from a bowl.
“That’s insane. And the Minds were just floating brains?”
Geneva nodded.
“Gestalts of thousands of Selphids. Yes.”
Everyone looked at each other, and Daly’s mouth worked for an appropriate question. It was Dawson who leaned forwards.
“How fucked was it, Geneva? Horror-movie?”
Geneva thought about it, and the frank question actually helped.
“Horror movie with special effects. When they went insane…that was the most terrifying thing I’d ever seen in my life.”
The other Earthers fell silent. After a second, Daly gestured at his leg.
“All we did was fight a fucking war. Sort of…boring compared to what you went through.”
Everyone started laughing at that. Geneva got to her feet, seeing the sun receding through the magnificent view of the city on the fourth floor. The forest beyond was catching sunlight as if it were autumn, not the end of winter, a faint orange haze on the treetops.
Beautiful. Bloody.
Baleros. She was glad the Bushrangers were doing well, and they had described a far better Talenqual. A far more hopeful one, with opportunity, that Geneva wished she could have been part of.
But she was with the Forgotten Wing company, and the most opportunity was here.
“We need to keep talking. I can call Talenqual as well. I was going to—but I didn’t know how to begin. After dinner. However, I need to speak to Erin Solstice.”
“The Fraerlings are actually pretty good at medicine, Geneva. They’re the best damn doctors in this world.”
Geneva shook her head at Daly.
“I know that. But I want to speak to her. I do owe her a debt of gratitude for the Yellow Rivers penicillin proxy, and I need to talk to her and Ryoka. Is she…”
Geneva trailed off, and Beth interrupted, more cheerful.
“What’s she like? As nutso crazy as we just saw?”
The Bushrangers fell silent and looked at each other. Tofte shook his head.
“That was insane. She just charged into Ramok. She’s really, really intense. Like—she visited us, and she was in Paeth, but she was out of Talenqual as soon as they cleared her to walk. She’s sort of friendly, but man, she’s the scariest [Innkeeper] I’ve met. She’s sort of like you, Geneva.”
Me? An image of Erin Solstice firing both crossbow and wand as she strode down the street was fixed in Geneva’s mind. She looked like an action hero—or, if Geneva remembered the battle at sea—a force of nature herself, ready to carve a path through anything in her way.
“Me?”
They looked at her as if it were obvious, and Geneva turned to Beth. Beth, the traitor, gave Geneva a nod.
“I can totally see it.”
“Beth!”
“What? We’re a bit intense too.”
“Thank you! My god! She’s so hard to talk to!”
Kami jumped to her feet and gave Beth a high-five. Beth chortled.
“I didn’t get it, but it’s like looking into a mirror. Geneva’s still intense; I’ve cheered up a bit. She’s like the Terminator, if the Terminator were a doctor. Have you had a medical exam?”
She actually deepened her voice, and Aldenon choked on a hazelnut. The laughter was the cue for Geneva to exit. She turned at the door.
“Beth, are you coming? Daly, you could join us—”
He looked so rattled by the revelation about Geneva and Beth that he didn’t immediately stand.
“Uh—give me five, Geneva? I’ll come by in a sec with Siri if it’s okay. We don’t need a crowd. Can we—process things?”
Beth’s smile faded, and she got up. She saw all the Bushrangers regarding her and Geneva, and even Resk was staring at the Selphid.
“Of course. It’s good to see you all.”
The two smiled with more or less the same expression until the door closed. Then they looked at each other. Geneva and Beth began walking; they still had similar enough reactions to anticipate each other. Geneva spoke first.
“I think Daly was freaking out.”
“You think? Tobi was shivering every time he looked at me. I know it’s crazy.”
“Are you okay, Beth?”
The Selphid gave Geneva a wan smile.
“Always looking out for me?”
“I’m not the—the clone.”
“Well, I’m not a clone, so that helps.”
“I apologize. I just meant—”
“I know, Geneva. Don’t worry. I need to show them I’m my own person. My own Beth. I don’t want them feeling sorry for me. Too much. You alright?”
Geneva glanced at Beth.
“I’m fine. I’m relieved to see they’re all alive. Why would I be in trouble?”
Beth slowed, faced Geneva.
“Okay, so I’m the only person who wants to cry and eat all the hazelnuts with ice cream until I puke?”
The problem with having someone who knew you…the Last Light avoided Beth’s gaze until her mouth moved and a hand rose.
“Okasha here. I hate hazelnuts. Can we do another légume?”
All three of them laughed at that. Then sombered. Beth exhaled.
“Okay, one hard part down. Erin?”
“Erin. Let’s catch her before Niers. Ryoka seemed—off put.”
“No kidding? I think Erin’s scaring everyone, including her friends. Don’t psychoanalyze her, Geneva. You don’t actually know how. You can do the medical checkup later.”
“It just popped out.”
The two began arguing again as they headed up a corridor, then stopped. Geneva turned to Beth, who’d been following her.
“…Do you know where her rooms are?”
“No clue.”
The problem was solved as a coincidental duck waddled across the floor behind them. Or rather…a tiny ball of Selphids floated past both Genevas. They stared at the Duck, the Mind assigned to guard them.
“Quack. Quack. (Hey, I was just following you two. Erin? One floor up, hallway next to one of those mini-complexes the Fraerlings are building. Two [Stalkers] on the ceiling. Two ordinary [Guards] on the door.)”
“Ah. Thanks. Did you have anything to add, Duck?”
Beth was more at home with the Duck than Geneva was. The Duck quacked softly.
“(Eh…no? Thank her for saving those Selphids, I guess, but don’t tell her about me, maybe? The Minds think she’s dangerous.)”
“What do you think?”
The Duck’s mental tone was amused.
“(I’m a Mind, aren’t I? The old ones say they recognize that transformation. Be careful. She’s got dangerous allies.)”
The Duck paused, floated, and then dumped some hazelnuts on its body so its component parts could eat. Then its tone grew sulky.
“(I’m not lying or acting cool, by the way. They didn’t tell me who those allies were or what the transformation was. Because I’m ‘compromisable’. Big Minds are all ego. Anyways. Let me know if we’re going on an adventure or something. I’m getting fat with all the snacks people keep feeding me.)”
The Duck floated off, and the Genevas looked at each other. They hurried upstairs.
Neither one spotted the [Stalkers] on the ceiling when they looked up, but the [Guards] did recognize them. A Lizardwoman rang a bell on the door.
“Innkeeper Solstice? Will you take Geneva Scala and Beth as visitors?”
The rooms were soundproofed, so the only way to hear Erin was after she either pressed a corresponding sigil on the inside or opened the door.
She opened the door.
“Let them in. Thanks.”
When she pulled the door open wider, both Genevas entered and saw Ryoka Griffin, hair a mess, standing in the middle of Erin’s guest rooms. She had a suite, and Ryoka stood before a couch that surrounded a round table, much like the one the Bushrangers had been using, with a fireplace against one wall, bookshelves, a rack of board games and curios on other shelves, a veranda and porch that you could walk out onto…pillows, cushions, and objects littering the room…
It looked like a storm had blown in here. And in fact, one had. Ryoka was breathing hard, and Erin gestured.
“Come on in, Geneva…Beth. I assume you two are together?”
Geneva waited until the door was closed to respond.
“We’re both on the same side. We know about Earth, and Beth and I…can be trusted. Daly and Siri might show up, if it’s alright?”
“Go ahead. Sorry about the mess. Ryoka was just having a tantrum.”
“I’m the one having a tantrum? I didn’t just walk into a city and murder dozens of people! And turn into a fucking L—a goat woman!”
Ryoka’s voice was slightly hoarse. She gave the two Genevas a longer look and stared at Beth a fraction longer than Geneva. Beth sat down next to Ryoka; Geneva wavered, then took a seat across from her. Erin sat slightly away from both so she could face Geneva, Beth, and Ryoka in a rough triangle.
Beth patted Ryoka’s shoulder, smiling.
“So those are your wind powers? Are they spontaneous with your feelings?”
Ryoka reddened, and Erin crossed her arms and legs as Ryoka exhaled. There was a breeze in the rooms, faint but blowing; it died down as Ryoka calmed herself.
“Bit of both. It’s not power so much as speaking to the wind and getting it to do things. I’m a bit on edge. Sorry, guys. Erin, this is Geneva Scala. And this is Beth—also Geneva Scala. The Minds cloned her.”
She did the introductions fast and with, Geneva thought, a bit of a vindictive tone. But if she was hoping for a reaction from Erin, the [Innkeeper] didn’t give any. She just sat there, eyes flicking from Geneva to Beth.
So did Ryoka; she clearly recognized Beth from the scrying call, but the leap of logic that it took to understand Beth completely…that rocked her. Erin too, who shook her head as she found her voice.
“So they did breach the Minacien Wall. Hello, Geneva. It’s good to meet you at last. And you, Beth.”
“Hey! We’re not really clones. I’m more like just—a copy of Geneva who’s gone her own way. A Geneva if she were a Selphid.”
Beth waved a hand, and Ryoka flushed guiltily. That made Erin twitch.
“…I can see why it was prohibited by other species. How do you feel? Geneva? Beth? Let me see if I have it straight. You were kidnapped…the Minds held you captive. Niers rescued you, Geneva, and destroyed the Gathering Citadel with the help of other nations. While you were there, you were—made into a clone in Beth?”
“Clones. There are maybe up to a dozen copies of me running around. All different species.”
“Fuck.”
That exploded out of Ryoka, and Geneva realized they hadn’t gotten that far with Ryoka when they’d talked yesterday. The Wind Runner and Erin Solstice, at least as they were now, were studies in contrast.
Ryoka had a reasonable reaction. Even a sympathetic, earnest one. Erin? Calm as ice. Cool as glass in a snowstorm.
Oh, yes. Geneva liked Ryoka more than Erin. There was something almost unfeeling about the way Erin regarded Beth.
“Well, I can understand why the Minds did it. Nasty, but it seems like an advantage.”
The other three women stared at Erin, and Beth nodded slowly.
“Yes…it is. Very nasty, though. The Minds were exceptionally dangerous.”
“You’ll have to tell me the whole story. This is the first time we’ve met face-to-face, Geneva. As I said, I greatly respect your work.”
The [Doctor] nodded to Erin, and they shook hands again. She noted Erin’s hands were smooth, uncalloused; she seemed exceptionally hearty for someone who’d been suffering from exposure at sea for a month. Paeth and Silvenia’s magic must have restored Erin’s condition quite well.
“Thank you, Erin. I’m in your debt for supplying the penicillin mold—I apologize, the Octavium mold—to combat the Yellow Rivers disease. But for that, countless people might have died. It’s also just good to meet an Earther who’s not from Baleros.”
Erin’s lips actually twitched at the reference to the mold.
“Octavium. Sorry, I completely forgot…the United Nations company in Talenqual, and you and Beth seem well set up. You’ve done well. You’re the first Earthers I’ve met as well, outside of Izril. What about you, Ryoka?”
“Oh—I met Cara. The Singer of Terandria. And there’s Laken and the guys at the inn. But Baleros is put together better than all of us.”
Ryoka muttered, still coming down off her emotions. Beth swivelled around.
“So Cara’s definitely an Earther?”
“Yup. Ireland. She’s a character. And we have an [Emperor] and a handful of people with us. Only a few compared to you guys.”
An [Emperor]? Laken Godart…was he the blind man from Erin’s call? Remembering that, Geneva recalled the image of the young woman standing in the center of her theatre, not as poised, but desperate, earnest. And brave.
She looked at the Erin sitting across from her and got a jolt as she saw Erin’s eyes were locked on her face.
“(Hey, Daly wasn’t joking. She really is scary, Geneva.)”
“(She’s not worse than Sergeant Thriss or Honorguard Calectus, Okasha.)”
“(Um. No. She is. Especially if she’s Level 50.)”
That drew Geneva up short. And it felt like they had finished doing the introductions. What else was there to say? Erin was an [Innkeeper]? Geneva knew of both her and Ryoka Griffin by reputation if nothing else. Their major deeds were in front of them.
So…Geneva took a breath.
“How are you, Erin? I know I’m harping on it and don’t growl at me, Beth, but are you fine from the…battle yesterday?”
Erin shrugged and raised an arm.
“I feel fine. The—transformation protected me from most injuries, and I had a healing potion.”
“No problems with your legs? No pain in your right leg? That crossbow bolt might have left fragments or been enchanted.”
Geneva peered down at Erin’s leg, and the young woman shrugged.
“You can check if you want. Resk gave me a clean bill of health.”
Geneva did feel at the leg just in case, and Ryoka clarified for some reason as she sat there, not quite glaring at Erin.
“Arrow.”
“Hm?”
“It was an arrow, Geneva. Erin’s immune to crossbows.”
