They sipped again, and Shaestrel exhaled with a burp.
 
“Technically, I didn’t have to. Sorta, technically, it happened, and I didn’t have to come back. But I did. There’s all sorts of other bullshit in it, too, you know. Hopes, dreams, prophecy—but that’s why I’m here. Settling things.”
 
“I understand that.”
After a bit longer, they watched as some bats flew around, skirting the protections of Elvallian. Shaestrel finished her drink, so Foliana handed her another—and some of her snack. The faerie took the drink, but balked at the food.
 
“Feck’s this?”
 
“Mac and cheese.”
The Spring Faerie stared at the slightly stale bite that Foliana was nibbling on. Then she took some and chewed. Naturally, it gave Shaestrel nothing but a gag reflex and, possibly, nutrition. But Foliana saw something else when she ate the food.
She always did, if the circumstances were right. Distance…mattered a great deal, of course. Sometimes it was just a flicker. She saw Shaestrel chomping away and wondered what the fae saw. Shaestrel muttered to herself.
 
“Like a decayed maggot. Hey, I didn’t say I wasn’t hungry. So. What do you think of our [Innkeeper]?”
 
“Seen it before.”
 
“Me too.”
 
The two lapsed into silence. What they saw was always hard to reconcile with what other people saw. Three-Color Stalker. Think of that. Foliana was one of the world’s most famous [Rogues]. Arguably the most famous. She was a giant Squirrel Woman…and they called her by that.
Her eye-color, not her deeds or other abilities. And yet people only talked about how she killed or ate food. As if the name meant nothing. Names often meant something in Foliana’s experience.
In the end, Foliana murmured, eyes shifting to Shaestrel.
“Do you want me to tell you what I see?”
Shaestrel passed a weary hand over her face, but glanced up and nodded slowly. Acknowledging a being other than herself had an insight she lacked. And that uncertainty—made Shaestrel lick her lips.
 
“Might be nice. My eyes aren’t what they used to be.”
 
The Squirrel woman nodded. She took another bite of the mac and cheese. Her power was to see through the eyes of those whose favorite food she ate. Of course, she often just did that to scare the living daylights out of people. When she took a bite—she did not see a dark room in the palace of Elvallian or a young woman undressing before bed.
The Squirrel Woman, commander of Forgotten Wing—she liked people forgetting that—spoke, her voice quiet. Not without emotion, just holding it back.
“That’s not Erin Solstice. The real one went to sea. Not by her own will, but she went. She never came back.”
Shaestrel had closed her eyes to lean back in the chair. She fanned one translucent gossamer wing.
 
“Aye. The one before us has her spite and spit. Courage enough to spit in the eyes of gods twice. But not the [Innkeeper].”
 
Foliana paused and tilted her head. She took another bite of her food.
“No, not the [Innkeeper]. Good disguise. Does she know she’s an imposter?”
Shaestrel’s voice was amused. Then it grew worried, like a dark stain of fear oozing out of the weary triumph in her body.
 
“Aye, of course. It’s a good act. And to a point this one came. But where’s the one who went to sea? Dead?”
 
Her anxiety was born of what she could not see. So Foliana took another bite. She stared at something else, and her lips quirked.
“No. Lost, maybe. Not dead at all. She’ll be back. Until then, this one’s tough enough. Whomever she is.”
That last part was unknown to her. However, the Spring Faerie had all the answers here, and she lay back with a huge exhalation of relief. Of course, what she feared and Foliana did…perhaps the Squirrel Beastkin could relax? Foliana didn’t as Shaestrel shook her head and jerked a thumb over her shoulder.
 
“Poor girl. Both of them. This Erin Solstice…she plays her part well. All the qualities ye mortals love of her—there is too much passion in her deed and words. She is real enough to fool most. Makes ye think about her, doesn’t it?”
 
She stared up at the sky, and Foliana shot a glance at her—but whatever the Spring Faerie saw was also something beyond Foliana.
“Mm. Maybe. Not you?”
 
“I have seen it before, as I said.”
 
The two sat there for a while longer as the night deepened, and eventually, Foliana finished eating. They sat there in good silence until Shaestrel sat up. She glanced at Foliana and seemed to search for something to say, then gave up.
 
“So, eh…you like pranks?”
 
Foliana’s tail twitched.
“Mm. Yep.”
 
“Good, good. ‘Tis always time to make a friend. Or so I like to think.”
 
Shaestrel lay back, sighing, and Foliana twitched her head towards Ryoka, who had gone to sleep.
“Aren’t you hers?”
Shaestrel’s chuckle was sad.
 
“Nah. Maybe a bit. But they won’t tell stories of her friendship and mine. Prophecy’s a right bitch. I should know; she’s my best friend.”
 
“Hah.”
They sat together as the night dragged out, and around them, smallfolk slept. Foliana stared into the world beyond—and at some point, she blinked.
 
——
 
The night was interrupted for only one more person, once. Niers Astoragon paced around his rooms for hours until he was dragged into bed and hopped out of it to pee, to plan, to pace—until leaden limbs carried him back, and his slumber was dreamless, a smile on his face.
A thought surfaced below his conscious mind, replaying the events of the day. A deep suspicion rising ever upwards, waking him in the night. A conclusion melded together from fragments and clues into a single inescapable insight of reason.
The Fraerling started out of his bed. Not in terror, nor shock, and not even anger. But—the [Strategist]’s eyes snapped open.
In the silence of Elvallian, slumbering beneath the lives of thousands, buried under the groaning nation he had built, which weighed down on him, his duty and treasure, bearing down heavy on him…
The Titan woke up. He spoke.
“…Who was that?”
