I’ve never been shy about admitting I have paranoid tendencies, but after taking our history into account, I feel as if my cynical reluctance to accept Shen ZhenWu’s offer would be more accurately labelled as ‘heightened situational awareness’.

When something sounds too good to be true, it usually is, which means something is rotten in the Azure Empire. I didn’t even have time to teabag Zhen Shi’s corpse before discovering ZhenWu has me by the figurative balls out here, yet he’s willing to make too many concessions just to win me over to his side. Granted, a ‘generous’ offer to allow me to swear an Oath of honesty instead of a generic Oath of service seems benevolent and magnanimous at first glance, but it means absolutely nothing if he already knows I can free myself of Oaths. The question is, was this offer made in good faith, or did he already know no Oath could constrain me, so he might as well ‘loosen’ the restrictions he’ll demand of me?

Another thing to note is how eager he appears to make me his son-in-law, even against the wishes of his daughter who he seemingly dotes upon. How else to explain her willful behaviour? Not only did she try to kill me, but she refuses to give her father face in front of the Emperor himself, which I’ve been told is kinda a big deal. Despite her obvious reluctance, ZhenWu is still pushing ahead with this marriage and even offering to settle me and my loved ones back to the Eastern Province. Probably because he knows I’ll balk at living in the East if I can’t bring my family with me, but this is an unprecedented offer. Overly generous considering the circumstances, which I could write off as an olive branch meant to take away the sting of entering into his service, though I noticed he made no effort to show me what Taddy was up to and mentioned nothing about offering protection to the only Ancestral Cloud Chaser Hares in existence. It doesn’t matter though, because ZhenWu knows I have no choice, so why not appear magnanimous and win me over with more favourable terms?

If that was the case though, he’d start praising me right now and saying I’m well worth the cost, but he merely stands there with a smug smile etched across his all-too handsome face. “Is it answers you desire?” he asks, speaking with a deliberate lack of haste, “Or do you wish to save your loved ones instead. Make no mistake, I have pledged to save them, but I cannot be held responsible if they should die before you’ve made your decision.”

The fact that he refuses to engage speaks volumes to his intentions. He believes I have no choice in the matter, that I will concede and accept defeat, but he’s also trying to rush things along before I find reason to refuse. Again, I have to ask why? “You didn’t want me to go forward with this crusade at first,” I begin, thinking out loud and praying my family can hold on for a few minutes longer while I sort this shit out. “That’s why you tried to set me up during that meeting between Shuai Jiao and Jeong Hyo-Lynn. One where they were supposedly discussing Seoyoon’s marriage to Yong-Jin, but if that was the case, why were you in attendance? You needed a reasonable excuse to strip me of my titles and offices so that the north wouldn’t rebel, but I didn’t give you one.”

The giveaway is subtle, a minor tightening around the eyes, so insignificant I even wonder if I’d imagined it, but luckily for me, Beardy Yang chimes in with a chuckle to confirm my suspicions. Head still bowed before the Emperor, the Yang representative’s tone is as arrogant as before, even when speaking to my Patron. “Played like a fool by a tribal child, and what does the unrivalled Shen ZhenWu do? Offer up his most precious daughter in marriage. Liang Wu Di, you have really lost face for the Liang Family.”

Huh. So ZhenWu’s real name is Wu Di. Invincible. How pretentious. I’ll stick with ZhenWu, because even though ‘True Warrior’ is equally grandiose, at least it’s a title he earned. That being said, his reaction to the Yang representative is far more telling, a piercing glare that speaks volumes to the enmity between them. Rather than speak out however, it’s ZhenWu’s uncle who responds, who I now know is Liang Bao Zheng, Grand Marshal of the Empire and the man who consigned Kuang Biao to a life of slavery. “Yang Pang Ji,” the stately Grand Marshal begins, somehow appearing bold and confident with his head bowed towards the Emperor, “This marks the second time you have spoken without invitation. Best keep quiet before you are reprimanded again, or worse, make even more of a fool of yourself. Just because your son was unable to see value in Falling Rain does not mean there is none to be had.”

Son. The only Yang I’ve interacted with is Jixing, who literally lost his head in the Central Citadel. Judging by Pang Ji’s ugly expression, my gut is right on the money, which makes him the Prime Minister of the Empire, assuming Jixing wasn’t lying about being the Prime Minister’s son. Well fuck-a-doodle-doo. I’m deep in it now. Or I supposed I’ve always been deep in it, and I’m only just realizing it. No matter though, because this political infighting is above my paygrade, so I should stick to the relevant bits. Now that I have confirmation that ZhenWu was present at Shuai Jiao’s meeting with Jeong Hyo-Lynn, I also know he was working against me at the time, except I neatly sidestepped his little trap and didn’t give him a good reason to strip me of my title as Legate or Minister of Finance. That wouldn’t have been enough to stop him from acting against me, but I must’ve said or done something during the meeting to change his mind, because once all was said and done, ZhenWu had Shuai Jiao stop obstructing my forces from gathering in Sui Hua and even lend a hand in the preparations. That’s not all either, since Miss Rou tried to murder me soon after, which tells me that this marriage between us wasn’t something her father recently came up with on a whim, but rather a decision he made before I set out to re-take the West. That doesn’t make any sense though. Why would he want me as a son-in-law before seeing my current level of strength?

…Because during the meeting, Jorani convinced me to trust Shuai Jiao and tell him about my ability to Devour and Cleanse Spectres, and ZhenWu was sitting right there and heard it all. Knowing what I know now, that was a huge mistake, because I thought I’d learned how to Cleanse on my own and thus could keep Blobby’s existence a secret, except Blobby was linked with me all along and simply Cleansing from afar. Thus, ZhenWu probably put two and two together and figured out I have an Elemental Spirit, information I doubt he shared with anyone present, save maybe his uncle the Grand Marshal. That’s why this offer seems too good to be true, because he values my ability to Devour and Cleanse and is worried that a slave Oath, even an unenforceable one, might well drive me to the brink of despair and result in my soul being Devoured by Blobby.

Being the open book that I am, everyone present notices that I’ve arrived at an answer, and ZhenWu ever so subtly nods to confirm my suspicions and keep me from saying anything more. He wants my ability to Devour and Cleanse kept secret, but would I benefit more from making it known? Again, ZhenWu is able to read my intentions, but he responds in a manner I was not expecting, an all-too-obvious widening of his eyes in what I can only describe as panic. After cautioning me to keep silent with the harshest of glares, he unknowingly glances towards the source of his concern, the Emperor himself.

Interesting. Did the peanut gallery not see Buddy Devour a whole host of Spectres? I always just assumed Imperial Scions would be able to see them, on account of how they followed a different Path, but maybe I was wrong. Maybe they can’t sense Spectres and no one understands why Zhen Shi started chasing Buddy around. This begs the question though, why would ZhenWu want my ability to Devour kept secret from the Emperor? Because ZhenWu wants Blobby for himself and the Emperor would claim him? Makes sense I guess, though I’m sure there’s more to it, as I’m reminded of an exchange between ZhenWu and his uncle just before I was appointed as Minister of Finance. “You always were a clever boy,” the Grand Marshal began with a heavy sigh, one which made his praise sound more like a condemnation. “Too clever for your own good. Better if you never learned...”

“But I did, Uncle,” Zhen Wu replied, his soft, brown eyes burning with intensity as he crushes a coin within his clenched fist. “And I will not go quietly without a fight. This will work. Giving Falling Rain a title seals him to our side, and leaves his allies poised to take over their respective factions or in commanding position over their rivals. Through him, we unite North and Central and bind them to our cause, which in turn puts an end to the political infighting and reassures the Southern Marshal enough to stop threatening to withdraw. With three provinces united behind us, he will have no choice but to agree, or...”

That’s about as far as ZhenWu got before he remembered I was still listening, but it is only now that I have enough context to piece it all together. I almost feel stupid for not seeing it soon, because how many individuals are powerful enough to compel ZhenWu to unite the outer provinces behind him? I never gave it much thought because again, I considered these matters way above my paygrade, but now that I think about it, the list of suspects is woefully short; one which starts and ends with the Emperor himself.

So here’s what I’ve got so far. ZhenWu and the Liang Family have been planning to overthrow the Emperor. ZhenWu secures the job of Legate in order to seek an alliance with the outer provinces, and eventually sets me up as Minister of Finance. This is not just to win me and my allies over, but also to enable the Liang Family to sell the highly lucrative War Bonds, except the other Supreme Families must have seen the power of War Bonds and intervened. That’s why ZhenWu suggested a system of checks and balances to prevent fraud, but in reality was merely the Yang Family making a move to ensure the Liang’s weren’t in sole control of this lucrative economic tool. That being said, ZhenWu made these concessions knowing that War Bonds were merely a stepping stone, an investment tool and more palatable form of notarized debt to pave the way for the true prize, paper currency, or Treasure Notes. The problem was, how would the Liang Family make the transition from War Bonds to Treasure Notes without those same checks and balances coming into play?

Quite the dilemma, but ZhenWu is nothing if not determined. He reaches out to Zhen Shi, or maybe was working with him all along. Maybe it goes even deeper, and the Emperor was in on it as well, which could explain why he wanted Zhen Shi captured alive. Whether it was to save an ally, get the names of his co-conspirators, or some other reason I’ve overlooked, I fucked everything up by killing Zhen Shi, which in hindsight, was probably not the best move. Either way, ZhenWu and Zhen Shi joined hands at one point in history to put on a show, faking a botched assassination attempt so the former can withdraw from the outer provinces, one I was ‘fortunate’ enough to witness and escape from unscathed, a streak of luck which really should’ve set off all sorts of alarms in my head. At the same time, ZhenWu sets up his Imperial Dharma Protector, the bald Yang Divinity who was called away to defend the border where he was subsequently ambushed and killed. With no ZhenWu around, I became next in line to take up the office of Legate, which Jixing contests by taking on the role himself. Why, I have no idea, but this move is akin to slipping the noose around his own neck, because in the chaos that follows, the Liang Divinity protecting him looks the other way while a Wraith separates his head from his shoulders, leaving the outer provinces in the hands of a crippled boy who is firmly in ZhenWu’s hands.

Textbook Imperial machinations, using your cat’s-paws to take out your rivals to keep your own hands clean of blood.

From here, my patron cut off all contact with the outer provinces, leaving me free to act as I please without any oversight whatsoever save for the incompetent Administrator Liang Yin Hang, the person sent to oversee my actions as Minister of Finance who was drunk more often than not and spent more time in the brothels than the office. Thus, I predictably introduced Treasure Notes to pay for all the shit that I could no longer afford, since the Eastern Province stopped sending shipments of coin every week, Treasure Notes which bore no seal from the Minister of Coin, Grand Marshal, and Chief Justicar of Fraud to legitimize their value. No, I made it so that my Turtle Seal was the only stamp required, setting the precedent of the Minister of Finance being the sole authority in matters of printing Treasure Notes, an office which sat well within the purview of the Grand Marshal, and the Grand Marshal alone.

Thereby giving the Liang Family the ability to print money to use in their conflict against the Emperor.

