My role fulfilled, I suspect ZhenWu was eager to be rid of me and make his way back into the limelight, which is why Zhen Shi went hard on Castle JiangHu when he did. Had I died as planned, ZhenWu could then reappear at the opportune moment and claim credit for all my work without damaging his relationship with the North. Here’s where shit went wrong though, because I didn’t die, which was bad for ZhenWu because he knew I was unwilling to bend the knee and he couldn’t directly act against me without alienating my allies, supporters, and admirers amongst the people of the Empire. Instead of a martyr, he had a still-breathing cripple to contend with, which was why he had Shuai Jiao step up and declare himself Commander General of the Empire while simultaneously convincing Zhen Shi to send some sixty-odd Wraiths to assassinate me after I came back from the monastery. Without Commander General Shuai Jiao to hold things together, the outer provinces might well have fallen apart in the wake of my death, but I ruined ZhenWu’s plans once more by surviving and making a full recovery soon after.

Man, talking about failing upwards. I guess there must be someone looking out for me up there after all, though they’re kinda shit at their job, if I’m being honest. Probably stupid to tempt fate like that, but what are the Heavens gonna do? Kill me? Psh. As if they haven’t already been trying.

Anyway, where was I? So I survive the assassination attempt, which leaves ZhenWu no choice but to break things off publicly by setting me up with Shuai Jiao and Jeong Hyo-Lynn. Except then I ruin those plans and change his mind by sharing my ability to Devour, which he keeps to himself as he settles in to watch the show. Though I find more success in the West than he anticipated, the end result is still the same. Soon enough, my strongest supporters will fall in Shi Bei alongside what remains of almost a million-strong army of Imperial Warriors. Once word of my failure returns home, I will then become infamous as the interim Legate who cost the outer provinces dearly, setting the stage for ZhenWu to swoop in and save the day. Easy enough now that Zhen Shi is dead, as there’s no longer any threat of the United Defiled to save the outer provinces from, but I don’t think ZhenWu planned for that, meaning I made his job much easier than he expected. No good deed goes unpunished however, and now I have no choice but to accept his gracious offer and become his son-in-law in order to save what few people I can, binding me firmly to his side, and more importantly, the Liang Family as well.

A part of me wants to blow this whole scheme up and tell everyone present that the Liang Family intends to rebel, but I have no reason to do so except spite. There’s no guarantee that my testimony is enough to turn the Emperor against one of his Supreme Families, especially in light of how scheming seems to be the favoured past-time of the Eastern Province, and I doubt anyone present would care to shelter me from the Liang Family’s wrath once all is said and done. Or offer to save my loved ones in Shi Bei, to say nothing of how Mom is still being held captive by Shuai Jiao and the Royal Guardians.

Which means no matter how you slice it, my options are limited to one; to accept these offered chains of silk which might as well be steel.

Raising my head to stare up at the skies, I hold Buddy close and heave a long sigh. Sensitive to my misery as always, my doggo nuzzles me close while Mama Bun stretches over from her raft to shower my cheek with kisses, but even this much is not enough to raise my spirits. My failure weighs heavily upon me, but what hurts more is that I will survive where so many others will die. Others would think me fortunate, to fail so horrendously and receive a wife and powerful backer in return, but I place no value on face, honour, reputation, or titles. I have always valued my freedom and independence highly, not just because of my time in the mines, but because for as long as I can remember, I have always been restricted by circumstances and fate. A long-forgotten memory returns to me, of a time when I stared up at this same sky, but from a vastly different vantage point. There I lay, upon the cold, frozen ground of the desolate northern wastes, but back then, I only knew it as home. The dark skies were so vast and far-reaching, yet seemed so close all the same. If I climbed the tallest mountains, would I be able to reach out and touch one of those shimmering jewels dotted through the night sky? Could I pluck them all out and plunge the world into true darkness? If only, because then I could better hide my shame and disgrace, hide the tears streaming down my face and pain etched across my face as I ran from my latest defeat.

A shadow appears to block out the stars, but I’d sensed his presence long ago. I simply didn’t care to react, because if he meant to kill me, then there was nothing I could do to stop him even if I tried. His amber eyes settle upon me, so bright yet also dull at the same time, so utterly lacking in emotion that I wonder if he has ever known hateful doubt or bitter regret before. Unlikely, for he is the Warrior, Blessed by the Heavens, whereas I am the Lifeless, unwanted by all.

“Eat,” Baledagh whispers, his voice breaking from lack of use as he throws what feels and smells like a bundle of meat wrapped in skin upon my chest. The smell sets my mouth to watering and stomach to growling, but I make no move and simply watch him instead. Not because I don’t want to eat, but because I don’t see a point in doing so. It won’t make any difference, because I am too weak and stupid to fend for myself, and this pittance of a meal won’t change a thing. It’ll only weaken him, and he is not so blessed and strong that he can afford to waste his prize, not with the Slayer, the Glutton, the Dagger, and so many others nipping at his heels. From the looks of things, his victory did not come easily, so it’d be better for him if he finishes the rest of his prize and waits until he can make a meal of me too. The rules forbid him from killing me, but the punishment would be well worth the prize, or he could just wait since I will die soon enough, and then I will be lifeless in name and in truth.

And free from this life to move on to the next. Such a sweet, wonderful word, freedom, one I would rather taste instead of the tantalizing morsel resting upon my chest. It wouldn’t be long, because I could feel death calling to me, the empty night and endless darkness promising an end to all my suffering.

Unlike his eyes, mine betray my every thought, but Baledagh will not let me go in peace. Seeing I will not eat on my own, he settles down beside me and brings the bundle of meat to my lips, which open on their own without prompting. There isn’t much, but I am weak and unable to eat quickly, yet Baledagh says nothing as he slowly feeds me bite after bite after bite. When the meal is finally finished, he pats me on the chest and stands before offering a hand to help me up. Rather than take it, I look at him and ask, “Why?”

In response, Baledagh merely shrugs and says, “Because you are Amigui.” Not lifeless, even though that is what my name means, but because I am me, meaning my brother will not stand idly by to watch me die. A foolish act, since we are all in competition, and even though I am no threat, I am also of no value to him. Reaching out to take his hand, I force myself to my feet, and follow him back to camp without any other thought. Freedom will have to wait, but it will come in time, so I might as well be patient and wait.

That was how I lived my life in those early years, not just ready to accept death at a moment’s notice, but yearning for it, except when it truly came time to die, I balked and killed Baledagh instead. I don’t know why I didn’t just give up and let him kill me, but I still remember the look in his eyes as he died, so relieved that I finally found it in me to fight even though my choice had cost him his life. I shouldn’t have won, survived only due to dumb luck, would’ve died years ago without Baledagh’s mercy, and yet, I lived. From that moment on, even though I desired death, I knew I could no longer willingly accept it, because I had to cherish the gift of life my brother bestowed upon me. I was unwanted by the Heavens, unwanted by my parents, but my little brother wanted me to live, so live I must.

And yet, throughout it all, I still yearn for the freedom I once dreamt of, the freedom of death and oblivion, a freedom which has forever sat outside of my reach, and will remain out of reach a while longer.

That is why I pursue strength, so that I might remain free. Free from conflict, free from strife, free from worry, just... free. That’s what I told ZhenWu when he wanted to know why I cared nothing for Imperial secrets, because what he had to offer was not worth the asking price. It still isn’t, but now, I have no choice but to accept and sell myself into service so that my loved ones may live. Even knowing this, I cannot bring myself to accept it as I reflect upon all the trials and tribulations I endured to get here, and for what? To be an unwitting and unwilling pawn in Imperial games of intrigue and deception, games in which blood is spilled like water and the only constant is suffering without end. Is this my inescapable fate, one decided for me by the Heavens Above?

Well, if so, then fuck fate, fuck the Heavens, and fuck Liang Wu Di too.

“No.”

The refusal slips out before I can think better of it, and I continue to stare up at the Heavens above, but why, I cannot say. Perhaps I am hoping for a miracle, or maybe I’m looking for a sign to point me in the right direction, but as things stand, I can only go with my gut and play it all by ear. Wu Di is obviously not expecting this, as it takes him a good three seconds to formulate his response, an incredulous utterance of, “What?”

It's nice to see I can still surprise him, but that’s cold comfort in light of what comes next. “I said no, Liang Wu Di. I refuse. I will not marry your daughter and become your son-in-law. I will not swear any Oaths and become your puppet. I will not meekly accept that all is lost and the soldiers of Shi Bei are doomed, for where there is life, there is hope, and from what you showed me, I see that they all still have hope yet.” As per usual, the Heavens have no miracles for me, but I was expecting as much, so I am only mildly disappointed as I lower my gaze to meet Wu Di’s eyes. “That is my answer, one which will not change, no matter how many times you ask, for I have seen the value of your favour and know that it shifts more often than the sands around us.” Materializing my Natal Sea once more, I set Buddy aside to float in its currents and take up Unity once more, but not to point it at my former patron or at anyone else. I simply stand there with glaive in hand like the warrior I have become, the warrior I always envisioned my brother would be, and say, “I have no more time to waste with your political double dealings. I care not for the games of the Imperial Clan, only for the struggles of my fellow man, so I am leaving to join the battle in Shi Bei, and I ask that you do not bar my way.”

That’s all that I say, but even then, I know it won’t change a thing, as Xing Ao Tian makes his move and charges forward with spear in hand. This time, I’m ready and waiting however, and the currents of my Natal Sea sweep him off of his feet as he approaches. Only for the briefest of moments before his boots sink down into the sand once more, giving him the purchase needed to continue charging headlong towards me. Rather than resist his efforts to close in, I instead help him along, using my Natal Sea to dig a channel beneath his boots and smile as he disappears into the sands below.

There’s no time to appreciate my handiwork however as Wu Di makes a move himself, and immediately I understand why he was given the title of Divine True Warrior. His opening Movement is simple and unhurried, an almost lazy overhand slash of the sword, yet as I work my way through all the possible responses, I realize he’s sealed off all my paths of retreat. If I make a move to get away, then I will leave myself open to grievous injury or death. My only choice then is to advance into a range wherein my glaive will be useless, but the Emperor still has my sword and my shield is too far away, except I remember that I am the Sword and Shield both. Unity drops from my grasp, and Peace and Tranquility appear in hand as I charge in to execute Pierce the Horizon from point-blank range.

A superlative attack that would have injured even Gerel, one delivered from inside the range of my foe’s longsword, yet Wu Di avoids with effortless ease by sliding back a half-step out of range.

Kill or not to kill, that is the question, one which I do not ponder for long. My Domain Materializes and bursts forth from Peace, extending its reach far enough to hammer home against his Runic Plate, but having made the conscious choice to not empower the blow with Sword Force, Wu Di’s armour holds firm. The shriek of metal sounds out as he retreats once more, the engraved dragons and phoenixes of his breastplate scarred by the touch of my Honed Domain, even if his body remains wholly unharmed. The anger in his expression is palpable to behold, for he has long since seen me as someone far beneath him, a lowly bug he could crush at any time he so pleased, but now I have divested him of that notion.

