It matters not if he is the Divine True Warrior, because I would fight on even if he were a god given flesh, and as far as I can tell, he’s not even a Divinity. It appears his title is more about his potential than his actual strength, but I have strength and potential enough to bleed him. “I don’t want to fight,” I say, which I immediately realize is a mistake, because you never back down before a bully. “No one here is my enemy. My enemies are in Shi Bei, so once again, I ask that you step aside.”

Before my former boss has a chance to respond, Xing Ao Tian makes his return in spectacular fashion as he explodes out of the sands, but I sensed him coming almost a tenth of a second in advance, which is more than enough time to prepare for his arrival. The moment he emerges, a powerful rip-tide of Water Chi surges forth in combination with his momentum to send him flying away, while simultaneously scattering his efforts to Manifest his Domain and Cloud-Step away. A trick I picked up from Taddy, who used it to keep Vyakhya’s Demonic Divinity on the back foot, one comprised of Honed Deflections and some other skills that just fall into place. Though I am no match for Ao Tian in a direct fight, so long as I utilize my advantage of a Blessing of Water, then I can at least keep him at arm’s length, or at least I hope so considering the alternative is learning what his spear tastes like. That sounded dirtier than I intended, but it’s clear that Wu Di is not yet striking to kill, yet Xing Ao Tian has no such qualms about keeping me alive.

“Buddy?” I Send, even as I retreat from Wu Di’s dizzying array of thrusts aimed at keeping me contained, and I suddenly find myself bleeding from thirteen fresh wounds, though only two are life threatening. “I could really use some help now, so if you could… I dunno? Do something? Like pass along all the Heavenly Energy you Cleansed after gobbling up Zhen Shi’s Spectres? That would be great. Or better yet, use it to do something and get us out of this mess. Anything at all Buddy.” Despite continued pleas, one look at my doggo’s sweet, stupid face is enough to tell me I’m barking up the wrong tree, because much like me he has no idea what he’s doing, but he’s also happy in his ignorance.

God damnit Buddy, you are so fucking cute, but would it kill you to at least paddle a little harder so you actually look like you’re swimming? Floating through the gentle waters of my Natal Sea, Buddy’s helpless expression is almost enough to give me diabetes, but the momentary distraction is all it takes for Wu Di to disarm me, and I mean that quite literally. Both arms fall to the sands almost simultaneously as his sword slaps me across the face multiple times before stopping to rest against my throat, highlighting just how easily he could’ve killed me. Still not ready to give up, I Will Peace and Tranquility out of my hands, but Xing Ao Tian returns and stomps them both flat before looming over me in barely restrained threat. Thankfully, he spares my arms the same fate and leaves them both intact, which is nice since I’m fresh out of usable Heavenly Energy to regrow them. Heaving a sigh of regret, I wisely discard the first three responses that come to mind and simply shake my head instead. “Congratulations,” I deadpan, picking my arms up with my Natal Sea so I can reattach them once more, but Wu Di slaps them away with the flat of his blade so quickly it’s as if his sword never left my skin. “You win,” I continue, rolling my eyes and giving up on my arms for now. “Whoop de do. Come collect your prize. Hardly seems worth the price of admission, but what do I know?”

For a moment, the rage behind Wu Di’s eyes reaches murderous heights, but then a voice rife with boredom sounds out. “Is it done, then?” The Emperor asks, and everyone turns to bow and greet him, even Wu Di and Xing Ao Tian who have to turn their backs to me to do so. I suppose it’s a respect thing, to always face the Emperor when he speaks, but seems kind of silly to be honest. Humiliating too, given how little they see me as an actual threat, but in light of what I just went through, it’s difficult to fault them for it. With everyone distracted, I utilize my Natal Sea to sweep up my arms once more, only to have them plucked out of my grasp by the young Tian representative standing half a step behind me with waist bent and head bowed.

…

Now when in the flying fuck did he get there? As if I needed more proof of how outmatched I truly am.

“This Sovereign told you, did he not?” Slowly making his way over towards us with hands clasped behind his back, the Emperor leaves Zhen Shi’s corpse behind while regarding us all with a bored expression. “This one would sooner break than bend.” Meaning me, though I’m not sure how I feel about having the Emperor’s understanding. That implies I once had his attention, and I don’t like that much, because I would much rather fly under his radar for as long as we both should live. That ship has long since sailed however, meaning I need to make peace with my current situation, but despite knowing there is nothing I can do to get away from this mess, I’m still hoping there’s a way to make my way back to Shi Bei and lend a hand to the war effort. Not that I expect there’s much I can do, but if I can save my loved ones and even one person more, then it will be a net gain in the end, right?

Ah fuck me. I’ve made a huge mistake, haven’t I?

As the Emperor comes to a halt before me, I can’t help but resent the staggering difference in our heights. It’s not that he’s particularly tall either, as Xing Ao Tian is taller, but the Emperor has this gravitas about him that makes him seem larger than life. He doesn’t look too much older than Wu Di, like a healthy man in his late thirties, or maybe early forties at most, but there is a staggering difference in presence between them. It’s subtle, yet evident all the same, not overbearing like the Demonic Divinity or Zhen Shi, but weighty and substantial in a more palpable sense. It’s difficult to describe, but if I had to put it in terms of weight, Zhen Shi was a mountain with all the weight that went with it, while the Emperor is merely a man with the weight of a thousand mountains hidden within.

That being said, Wu Di and the Emperor look very much alike, but if I’m being honest, Xing Ao Tian and the representatives from the Tian and Di families also kinda look similar to the Emperor as well. Like they’re all brothers or something, but I suppose with a harem large enough to fill a city, the Emperor would have plenty of sons to go around. Unlike the amicable good humour of Wu Di, the barely restrained violence of Xing Ao Tian, the neutral indifference of the Di representative, or the empty nothingness of the Tian representative, the Emperor emanates a sense of perfection, and not merely in form or function. His movements seem in tune with the world around him, as if the sands were shifting beneath our feet to bring us closer to him, rather than he drawing closer to us. The air comes alive around him and the heat gives way before his presence, and there’s an impression of completion all around him, a oneness that I cannot wholly perceive much less describe, yet can sense under the surface all the same.

Without so much as a word, the Emperor retrieves my arms from the Tian representative behind me, but not with his hands. No, the Emperor’s Domain is all that he needs to line my severed limbs up next to my shoulders with a deft and delicate touch that is every bit as precise and adept as a master surgeon’s fingers. The Healing is instant, carried out with such gentle skill that it takes me several moments to realize it’s already finished, all without ever laying a finger on my flesh. This is a mastery which might even exceed Taddy’s, which I would’ve thought was impossible, but from this one act alone, I can see that the Emperor is on a whole other level from anyone I’ve ever seen before.

Which is just not even remotely fair. Like, come on!

“So stubborn and intractable,” the Emperor declares, his full attention weighing heavily upon me and making me feel underdressed in my newly sleeveless shirt, “But such is your Dao. Were you any less determined, domineering, steadfast, and obstinate, then you would never have reached the heights you arrived at today.” Turning ever so slightly to address Wu Di behind him, he asks, “Do you remember the story our Imperial Father told us, as he laid upon his death bed?”

Wait what? I thought the Emperor was Wu Di’s father? Or is ‘Imperial Prince’ just a title, one only the heir apparent is allowed to use? It would appear Wu Di and this Emperor are both sons of the former Emperor, but why would the current Emperor appoint Wu Di as his successor instead of one of his own sons? Shit’s confusing, but surprised as I am by this glimpse into the Royal family’s complexities, I am even more surprised by Wu Di’s answer. “The tale of Akanai’s rise to prominence and the bloodshed she wrought in Central.”

“Indeed. What do you think was the lesson he intended us to learn?”

“That the Empire is rotten to the core, and we, his sons, must fix it.”

“Incorrect.” Shaking his head with a sigh, the Emperor continues, “If you are to succeed this Sovereign’s throne, then you must learn to see beyond the surface. Our Imperial Father should have known better than to grant an audience to a half-beast woman, for in doing so, he set into motion a conflict between this powerful heroine and the conservative elements of Central. Any fool could have seen that they would feel threatened by so accomplished a woman and half-beast, so the Empire would have been better served if our Imperial Father rewarded her in private and avoided all the unnecessary bloodshed, bloodshed which ultimately benefitted neither side and made the Empire weaker for it.” Meeting my eyes and peering deep into my soul, the Emperor explains, “Even an Emperor cannot change the hearts of man, that is the lesson our Imperial Father hoped to teach, one you have failed to discern.”

“This Prince understands.”

“Do you? This Sovereign thinks not, for even he has yet to wholly understand the complexities of the human heart.” Moving aside so Wu Di can see me, the Emperor sets his subjects to scrambling so none are standing directly behind him, which would be amusing if I wasn’t the centre of attention again. “This boy here is a promising young seedling the likes of which this Empire has not seen since before it was founded, a Warrior whose future holds no limits. He is a dragon, yet you sought to break him like one would break a wild horse, truly a foolish endeavour.” Even though everything the Emperor says is pleasing to my ears, there’s no sense of approval or support, because dragon though I might be, I wholeheartedly believe that the Emperor intends to break me all the same.

“You could have won him over to your side with sincerity and nothing else, yet you were unable to do even this. Such is your scheming nature, Liang Wu Di, but your schemes have borne some fruit today. A lesson to keep in mind however, to temper your ambition, lest you overreach and suffer for it.” Moving his gaze to take in every representative one at a time, none of them meet his eyes, and the Emperor shakes his head at this sorry sight before settling on my former patron. “Liang Wu Di, you have united our brothers against this Sovereign, won over the Prime Minister and Grand Marshal both, a feat most worthy of consideration. Should this Sovereign choose to fight, then victory is all but assured, yet there is no benefit to be gained from our conflict, for our clash would destroy the very prize we seek to contest.”

…Excuse me? What in the flying fuck is going on? Is this a rebellion?

A question asked and answered by the Emperor’s next statement, as he turns his full attention back to me once more. “Very well then,” he continues, without any reluctance or remorse to be seen, as if declaring how he would like his eggs while tossing over a rectangular jade seal which I assume is probably important. “Long has this Sovereign safeguarded the Empire, yet now your actions would see me destroy it, so better to abandon it in full. For the sake of stability, this Sovereign will officially cede the throne to Liang Wu Di once this term is complete, but from this moment forth, you are Emperor in all but name. No longer will this Sovereign meddle in the affairs of the Supreme Families, so long as they pay no mind to him and his. Agreed?”

“Agreed.”

Every Imperial Scion present voices their compliance, and I can feel the Energy of the Heavens settle around them, like some sort of group Oath made without blood or effort. Weird, but I don’t really care so long as I can leave to save Shi Bei, except life has never been so kind to me before, and sees no reason why it should start now. A manifested Domain wraps around me and all but drives my Natal Sea away, though it leaves enough for Mama Bun and Buddy to continue floating alongside me. “Make any effort to escape, and this Sovereign will teach you the true meaning of regret,” the Emperor declares, leaving no uncertain terms regarding the sincerity of his threat, and in spite of his distant, almost indifferent tone, I whole-heartedly believe him. Rather than Cloud-Step away however, we stand and wait while the others depart, with Wu Di being the last to leave. Not with a smug smile or pompous sneer, nor is there any regret or enmity in his eyes, only a knowing look as my former patron holds my gaze for a long second with an ineffable expression before deliberately glancing at Buddy as he turns to leave.

