When Seborn turned his head, though, it wasn’t who he expected. A Selphid was standing there, a dead man smiling down at him, and a tall half-Elf was waving at a [Barmaid]. A Drake woman with ash instead of scales folded her arms, wary. But what drew the eye was the half-Giant who stooped to come in. He seemed as though a passing sneeze could chase him away for all he was so tall that Seborn half-started from his chair.
“Don’t be like that, friend. We came all this way to say hello—Jelaqua Ivirith, Captain of the Halfseekers. I heard you got into a scrap with the Fist of Midlin. Mind talking to us about it? These are my teammates.”
The Selphid hooked a chair over to the table. Seborn saw some of the other clients staring at the odd batch. The half-Elf was the most normal one amongst them. A Drake in the north? 
What was wrong with her scales? The Drake grunted as she stood warily, arms folded.
“He’s got a dagger under the table, Jelaqua.”
“Yeah, I know. C’mon, adventurer. A drink? Salt’s honor, I just want to talk to a fellow traveller far from home.”
The Selphid annoyed Seborn with his direct stare and easy smile. Seborn growled.
“Piss off. I’m not here to reminisce and cry about being alone. I don’t need company either. Let alone from the Half Freaks.”
The half-Elf and Drake stiffened at this. Jelaqua’s eyes glinted. It might have been a fight, next, as he traced a finger on the table, searching for the right words. Seborn was ready—until a gentle hand fell on Jelaqua’s shoulder and pulled the Selphid back with ease, despite that.
“Jelaqua, come away. If he doesn’t wish to talk, we should respect that. Excuse us for interrupting your drinks, sir.”
The half-Giant said that. He bowed his head towards Seborn, awkward, and the Selphid hesitated.
“Hey, Moore—we came all this way just to—argh, fine. Don’t yank my arm out of its socket! The body’s fragile as it is.”
He rose, sighing, and Seborn saw the half-Giant glance at him curiously. The Drowned Man blinked as the adventurers turned to go. Just like that?
He kept waiting for this to be some artifice, a feint. But the half-Giant appeared genuinely disappointed and trooped to the door, and Seborn thought—
I doubt he can lie.
So he growled as Moore pushed the door open.
“If you’ve got a proposal and you’re buying, sit down. What the hell is a half-Giant doing on Izril’s shores?”
He’d never seen one in his life. There was a tale, at least. Moore perked up slightly, and Jelaqua turned. The Selphid grinned, and Seborn scowled harder as the Halfseekers came back to his table. He made room for Moore as the half-Giant searched for a seat that could fit him.
“I can sit on the floor. I know there’s little my size.”
He joked with the nervous [Barmaid], and Seborn kicked over a second chair to him.
“Just use two.”
That grateful look from the half-Giant as he sat was joined by the Selphid’s wide smile. Pleased and proud for a simple courtesy. Seborn scowled harder at them.
Determinedly, he took a long drink from his mug, ready to send these people on their way with politeness, at least. He didn’t know when he began swapping tales of Baleros with the Selphid, or talking of the places he’d visited to people who knew more than these local idiots who’d never ventured thirty miles past their city. Or why he agreed to more than a few missions with them. 
Seborn kept meaning to get back to the sea, to keep putting pressure on his father. But it was always ‘after this mission’, or he was too far inland and it could wait.
The truth was, he stopped remembering after a while. The call of his ship and his promise grew less and less, and then he was just adventuring with a Gold-rank team who’d finally gotten their due credit, and they had a surly Hobgoblin who beat even him for being rude and problematic. 
And they might hit Named-rank as a team soon…in truth, the Drowned Man had stopped remembering his ship at all, even when he saw the sea. Because he was dreaming.
A long, strange dream of ten years. Filled with triumph and betrayal. Then vengeance, loss, and relief. Of an inn, at the end, and the glory he knew they deserved. A bit of the gold he thought they were owed. 
A new teammate, perhaps, a new start. A dead [Innkeeper]. A village…
Up, down, and back again. An adventurer’s life. But such a fine dream.
And then…
 
——
 
He woke up.
The Drowned Man rolled out of his cheap inn’s bed, and his mouth was dry as it always was. He stumbled over to the washbasin and bucket of water he’d filled that night and scooped up a ladle of water. Washed his face. Then drank. He was always too dry on land.
When he lowered the ladle, he stared into the cracked mirror in the bathroom. The stinking bucket he emptied out the window instead of a bathroom buzzed with a few flies. Seborn gazed at his reflection in the mirror.
He felt like the King of Destruction. Napping for twenty years and awakening to reality. His team was gone. Disbanded forever. Jelaqua Ivirith was married and retired, and he was gone. There was no reforging the Halfseekers. No more adventurers. They had fought their last at the gates of Liscor. Paid the dues against the tab none of them had racked up, and it was done. He was done with the land.
His ship awaited.
The Drowned Man gazed at his reflection for a while. He wasn’t grey—yet—but it wouldn’t be that much longer now. Silently, he found a toothbrush and brushed at his teeth. Then glanced at his crab-side of his body. There was a growth of shell he didn’t like, so he found a file and removed it, scattering pieces of hard shell into the basin. Took a few more gulps of water.
Dressed himself. New mail armor made by Maughin under Wyvern leather coat. His enchanted daggers of frost and flame…belt of a [Rogue]’s tricks. No healing potions. Gold enough—not worth stealing. Most of it was at the Merchant’s Guild. A small fortune earned from adventuring. Enough, perhaps, to buy a ship and find his father to collect on his debts.
That done, the [Rogue] took the key from the lock where it was turned and walked downstairs. He placed the key on the counter; he’d already paid for his rooms. It was too early; the [Innkeeper] was abed, and a single candle and the smells of cooking told him the [Cook] was making breakfast.
A weary [Barmaid] nodded to Seborn as she hauled down buckets of water to wash out the privy and for cleaning. Warily, but no one had objected to his presence in the inn or charged him more than anyone else, for all he was a lone Drowned Man.
There was a time when he might have slept with an ear to the door for trouble, or walked out of any inn where a glower or spit was his first greeting. Instead, folk walked more warily around him.
They remembered what happened if his kind died. Other cities inland might not, but the coastal settlements remembered that lesson.
Better to be feared and hated than merely hated.
It didn’t change his isolation, but there wasn’t a brick heaved at his head to go with it.
The [Rogue] debated waiting for a meal, but he wasn’t hungry. The Drowned Man pulled a hood over his head; the sea’s spray was washing over the foggy harbortown. He opened the door, inhaled the sea breeze, familiar, unfamiliar, and left.
A waking man wishing to go back to sleep.
 
——
 
Ship #14 — The Prideful Swell
 
Staying in the harbortown of Litgren’s Bay wasn’t a bad move. Ships came in all the time, and Seborn had decided to linger in each harbor he came to at least a day or two.
The problem was…buying a ship was inherently hard. Few [Captains] wanted to just part with any ship for however much gold. And finding a good crew would be difficult.
Any crew could be bought for gold, but Seborn didn’t want to trust that sort of sailor. Yet he needed one if he wanted to actually leave Izril as anything but a passenger, and he’d have this problem at any major port.
It was actually easier, here, to buy a smaller ship than a bustling port like First Landing or Zeres. Once he had a ship, Seborn could get out to the open ocean. Finally earn his [Captain] class, maybe dig up his treasure, even do some business. Whether that was raiding other ships or more honest trade, he didn’t know. But at some point, he’d find his father and demand his due.
Nombernaught was where he’d heard Therrium was most often. It wouldn’t be hard to get down there. It had already occurred to Seborn he might make the journey, but by land would be treacherous and deadly alone.
And by sea? Non-Drowned Folk were wary of a Drowned City. More importantly, if he turned up without allies or crew to demand his due, his father might well just throw him into the sea. He needed his class first.
In truth, the Drowned Man felt like he was wasting his time. Months had passed since the Winter Solstice, and this was the fourteenth ship he’d tried to buy—fourteen out of many more where the [Captains] had waved him off without even hearing him out.
“She’s a good schooner. Not likely to carry more than a dozen, but her topsail is good. She’ll run faster’n most vessels—see the hand-stitching on the sail there? Bit of magic woven into it. Catches the wind well.”
The schooner, Prideful Swell, was smaller than the Half Mast by a good bit; it was a small ship that had a short foremast and narrow frame. It’d catch the wind well; a classic ship to run blockades and carry packages. Not a warship by any means, but the nimbleness was decent. Seborn could imagine he’d be able to run it well with smuggling work, or even stealing from other ships and making a getaway.
The moment I start stealing, my Gold-rank will be in jeopardy. What do I care? I won’t be back on land. I’ll have a bounty again, if it’s not still active…
What am I stealing? Gold from a [Captain]’s quarters? Trade goods from a [Merchant]? What if it’s just a cargo of toilet paper? What in the hells do I do with that?
Well, he knew what you did with that—you found a buyer and sold it off. Everything could be sold. But the idea of robbing a [Captain] for their hundreds of gold at most wasn’t appealing to Seborn as a Gold-rank adventurer. It made fiscal sense as a [Captain] of a [Pirate] ship, of course.
You were always paying the bills if you had a crew. They were one payday away from mutiny at best, so robbing a ship would keep you solvent while you earned more gold. And you’d put the gold towards investments. Repairs on your ship, enchantments, upgrades…
Dead gods, it sounded like a lot of work. Adventurers had the same, but a [Captain]’s job accounted for far more than a single team. A ship was a huge property. It was like being an [Innkeeper], actually. And who’d want that job?
Seborn tried to feel excited about it as he paced up and down the schooner, testing it for bad floorboards or other signs of rot or pests. Ten years ago, he’d be all over the opportunity. Ten years ago, he’d been twenty-seven and chafing at the bit.
He eventually had to stop pacing and turn to the seller of the ship.
“Is there a reason you’re willing to part with her?”
The [Merchant] gave Seborn an odd look.
“Gold? I just had her deck resurfaced, and I’ve put in less gold than I’ve got out of her, but I’ll be the first to admit, Adventurer Sailwinds, owning a ship isn’t simple. Every [Merchant] talks about ‘investing’ in things. Another caravan, a shop, a ship—it turns out ships have costs. Crew, hiring a good [Captain] and replacing them, managing trade routes—I’m not fed up with it, but if you want to buy…”
He was a paunchy man with a colorful vest and didn’t move with the deck—a landman, it was clear. Seborn folded his arms.
“I’ll…have to think on it.”
This was one of the best ships he’d seen, and he could afford to buy it outright. The [Merchant] nodded.
“She’ll be here until I find a [Captain] and cargo. Fair warning: I won’t be able to sell it unless you want to buy out cargo and contract. I’d give you a day or two at best before I have everything in order.”
“I’ll get word to you before then. Thank you.”
“Not at all. And I am, ah, sorry about your team.”
“…Thanks.”
They shook hands. Seborn turned away, feeling the eyes on his back. He disliked this part of the ship-buying process the most. Few people saw anything in him other than a Drowned Man, who was common enough in harbors even if he was a minority in a Human city like this.
But when he told them his name…more than not knew who he was. Either his father’s son or a Halfseeker. That was part of the reason he wanted to get out to sea. There, he’d just be Seborn Sailwinds. Son of the famous Captain Therrium, not the last member of the Halfseekers. Was that better?
No. Sort of.
 
——
 
He felt like he was chasing his shadow. Seborn knew he was pursuing a younger man’s dreams, which weren’t thought out. He could hear voices.
“Right, Seborn. So you’ve got yourself a ship. Presumably after your dad gives it to you, and he’s definitely going to give it up without a fight from everything you say about him. What then?”
Jelaqua Ivirith. Seborn growled at her as he prowled past [Fishmongers], [Sailors] stumbling out of bars drunk and wondering why the sun was out, [Fishers] already bringing in their first hauls.
“Then I have a ship. That’s freedom. I can go anywhere, do anything.”
“Don’t you have to watch your crew and pay them? That seems pretty hard. Not that I’m an expert!”
Ulinde. He remembered not to scowl because it’d make her too upset, then remembered she was dead. The Drowned Man muttered.
“It’s been my dream since I was a boy.”
“Is it still your dream? You don’t look happy, Seborn.”
“Shut up, Moore. You’re dead. Should I be smiling?”
I thought it was a nice ship. Do you want to talk today, Seborn?
For a moment, he thought it was another voice in his head, but the golden words…he turned his head.
“Are you going to do this every day? I told you—I don’t want to see you.”
The girl backed up a few steps. She looked…guilty, but she held up a card.
I’m checking in on everyone. I can do it less. Once a week?
He almost snapped at her, then turned.
“Fine. I’ll buy it if I can find a good crew. Anything else?”
No. It’s calm at the inn right now. The rains have begun so everyone’s indoors. Jelaqua…I think she’s good. I haven’t seen her.
“Did I ask about Jelaqua?”
No, I’m sorry. I’ll go now. Good luck on your ship!
Vanished again. Seborn turned his head. He was plagued by ghosts. Living and the dead. He had come all this way to escape the inn. Just as he had…a certain girl had kept showing up. Checking on him.
