This was a pleasure ship, a little sailing ship for some rich lady who’d passed on and had been, like Magnolia Reinhart, obsessed with the color.
It could work. He could tear out the cabin’s pink walls and carpet—a sure sign this wasn’t meant to be a seaworthy vessel since carpets got moldy fast—and the hull was a hull. Paintable.
The fact the ship was actually seaworthy showed that it had been loved and just not used that much. The [Clerk] letting him tour it kept glancing at the position of the sun in the sky.
“We have a few more bidders on this vessel, sir…?”
“Give me five more minutes. Why is your town in charge of this boat and not her heirs?”
“She was a widow, sir. No heirs. Passed on very suddenly after prolonged sickness. Yellow Rivers. Poor woman. She got cured, but she’d had it months.”
Seborn grunted.
And disinfect everything. He sighed.
“It’s not worth two thousand gold. But I can get you a direct payment from the Merchant’s Guild if you haggle on the price.”
“This is an enchanted ship, sir! It’s worth far more than that.”
Seborn half-smiled. He was just about to start haggling when he saw the Watch coming up the gangplank.
No. I’m way too far away for this. The [Clerk] turned.
“Officers? Everything well?”
The Watch Captain in this town was a piece of work. Instead of answering, he spun and flipped open a journal. A glowing quill began taking down his words; some kind of Skill.
“Watch Captain’s Log. Entry #4424. I approached the ship where this Drowned Man was sighted. A fellow matching the description sent via [Message] spell from Litgren’s Bay. He looked like a rough customer, half crab and all scowl. As I strode up the gangplank, I had a feeling we had our man.”
The rest of the [Guards] behind the Watch Captain were clearing their throats, peering at the ground, and doing everything but meeting Seborn’s eyes. The Drowned Man just looked at the [Clerk]. The nervous pencilpusher leaned over.
“That’s, uh, Watch Captain Remdish. He’s a bit of a character. I’m sure this isn’t more than a misunderstanding, Watch Captain?”
The Watch Captain stowed his journal with a flourish then came up the gangplank, as if nothing had happened. He had a truth stone hanging from a pendant.
“Not at all! Hello, Mister…?”
“Adventurer.”
“Adventurer…?”
Damn it. Seborn kept his face straight.
“Seborn Sailwinds.”
Now they had his name. The Watch Captain glanced as the truth stone shone white.
“Excellent. Could we ask you just a few questions?”
“Off the ship, sir? I do have another buyer—”
The [Clerk] protested, and the Watch Captain nodded. He walked Seborn down, very friendly.
“If you’d care to confirm you weren’t at Litgren’s Bay, we can let you go, sir.”
“I was at Litgren’s Bay, sadly.”
The rest of the [Guards] slightly tensed—then groaned as Captain Remdish whipped his journal out.
“He was from Litgren’s Bay! I pursued my line of questioning with all care and tact. My officers and I were surrounding the fellow in a classic diamond formation. This next moment might mean action and death—or nothing at all.”
They were standing in the street. Seborn looked right and left and saw the [Guards] around him giving him the side-eye. He raised a finger.
“Er, there’s a wagon coming our way.”
Remdish laughed and glanced at Seborn.
“He was trying to pull the oldest trick in the book on me! I was far too canny to fall for that. So I—hubwagh!”
The wagon hit him, and he went half under it. It was too tall to really squash him but the sound his intestines made as they were compressed by the impact didn’t sound great. The horrified wagon-owner stared down at the Watch Captain, who’d been the only person who didn’t step out of the way.
Seborn just backed away as everyone ran to the Watch Captain. Amazingly…he was still monologuing.
 
——
 
Ship #16 — The Windcleaver
 
It had black mold. All over the interior hull and beams.
Seborn was in his rooms in the inn, staring at a wall, when there was a flash of light. A pair of girls popped into existence.
“Hello, Seborn!”
Nanette Weishart and Mrsha du Marquin were dressed up and holding flowers. Seborn glanced at them.
“What?”
The two girls faltered, but put on their cutest smiles. Nanette waved her flowers.
“We’re doing a happy-day delivery! Bringing you cuteness and good cheer! How are you doing today?”
“I’m trying to buy a ship.”
Nanette posed with a cute smile. Seborn kept staring at the wall. After a moment, she glanced at Mrsha.
“You tell him. I don’t want to—okay, fine! Mister Seborn? What if we helped with the ship? The Wandering Inn has come into some money lately, and we owe you—”
Owe him. Seborn twitched slightly. He saw Moore’s empty eyes staring up at the skies. What remained of Ulinde’s body as Jelaqua knelt there.
“I don’t need gold. I have enough. Go away.”
The two girls eyed each other. Mrsha was writing and pulling at Nanette’s sleeve. The witch peered at Seborn.
“We have…lots of gold though, Seborn. If we could help or—”
He stopped listening. He just stared at the ceiling until she and Mrsha vanished.
Gold. As if he needed it.
As if he needed it. Then why was he going to sea…?
All the gold in the world wouldn’t do anything for him. Why did they even think there was a debt to be paid like that? He rolled over.
Couldn’t sleep.
Not for ages.
 
——
 
Ship #19 — Omens of You’re Under Arrest!
 
He never saw it coming. One second he was approaching the ship, the next, something hit him. Seborn dodged, reflexively, but the flash of magic still caught him, and the next thing he knew, someone was shouting.
“We’ve got another one! There, he’s running! How is he still…?”
Move. All his reflexes and levels meant that Seborn was already leaping into the furthest shadow he could find. Reposition—he used [Shadowstep] to burst out of a [Sailor]’s back and roll to the ground. His body was tingling, and his entire left side wasn’t working.
He still staggered up, cursing. Seborn began to run and saw a [Guard] pointing at him. But he seemed surprised by Seborn’s movements. What the hell—?
Something flew at him. Seborn thought it was the eyes of some gigantic beast until the red glow pulsed.
[Blur Leap]—he got out of range of the first pulse, but the second orb flew after him, and they were orbs, not eyes. He saw a burning red sphere halt in the air, pulse again, and the wave of magic hit him. Then a voice emanated from the brass orb that hung there, perfectly still.
“{[PARALYSIS SHOCKWAVE] SUCCESSFUL. LAWBREAKER ORB HAS APPREHENDED (87) CRIMINALS. ANOTHER STUNNING CREATION OF WISTRAM ACADEMY!}”
Seborn tried to raise his head as the [Guardsman] sauntered over. His entire body was tingling like it was asleep, and he could barely move, although that alone alarmed the [Guard]. Seborn wheezed as he tried to roll over and reach for a stamina potion.
“Oh, come on.”
 
——
 
It turned out that Archmage Eldavin was sending magic to whomever had the money for it. The port city of Treant’s Farewell was one of the major ones on the western coast, and they had money enough. And the fact that [Message] spells were now dirt cheap meant that all the cities were communicating criminals—the Lawbreaker Orbs apparently cast some kind of identification spell, then hit you if you matched their files. Even if you had anti-[Appraisal] rings, it’d suss out your name at the very least, disguises or not!
Seborn wasn’t told this himself, of course. He was sitting in the jail cell, fumbling with his manacles, and glaring daggers through the cell bars. The Watch Captain was, in fact, talking to a little Gnoll girl about all this.
“We’re ordering two more. They’re not good against seasoned criminals, but petty theft? Even a Gold-rank adventurer gets caught! Now, it appears this man is suspected of mugging some poor [Sailor] up north. Terrible for a Gold-ranker.”
He tsked, looking at Seborn with a huge frown, then brightened up.
“But it proves the orbs work! To tell the truth, I wasn’t sure about ‘em, but Wistram’s been pushing them hard, so Lady Reinwa Veltras thought it was worth trying. All this network-stuff with the criminals is their doing. Smart stuff, though I miss the old days…”
He seemed ready to wax nostalgic, and his audience was very attentive to his wisdom, insight, and positive qualities she clearly admired in him. The girl wrote energetically on a placard.
I would love to hear about your methods, Watch Captain Joffrey, and I deeply appreciate your forbearance! However, Adventurer Seborn is a very good friend of my inn, and we are very effulgent at the moment! Could we perhaps pay his fine?
She was smiling hugely at Seborn. He just waved her off, but she was determined. Joffrey hesitated.
“What a smart little child you are! Er, what does eff-ul-gent mean? It slips my mind at the moment.”
She provided an explanation, and he frowned.
“A fine is one thing, but the crime is still quite bad for a Gold-rank adventurer.”
Mrsha nodded rapidly.
Very true, Watch Captain! You are a man of probity—that means integrity—that means decency—that means you’re a good guy—but I did a bit of research when your [Guardswoman] told me of the incident! It would appear that Seborn might have beaten up a [Sailor]—who was trying to date someone very young. Less than twice my age. I’m eight.
The Watch Captain’s brows shot together as he did a bit of math, then shuddered.
“That wasn’t in his record! Are you sure?”
I interviewed the guy himself, which was gross, and some eyewitnesses on his crew. They don’t have [Message] spells, but I can swear to it!
Joffrey pulled at his lip.
“Well…that changes things. Let me just confirm this with the man himself, but I can drop those charges if that’s so. Thank you, Miss Mrsha, isn’t it? Also, is it true your inn sells ice cream covered with flies?”
Yep. Want some? I could maybe arrange some regular ice cream delivered specially to the brave officers of this city! Why don’t we just sort this little matter out first?
They were all smiles as they turned to Seborn’s cell. Mrsha was beaming at being able to help the Drowned Man…right up until she saw a pair of handcuffs hanging from the open door of the cell. The Watch Captain’s jaw dropped open in horror as Mrsha sagged.
Aw, come on.
 
——
 
They stopped trying to arrest him, at any rate. True, they tried the Tracking Orbs on him—twice—but he just blinded them with a cloth bag and a jar of black paint. Once he knew they were a threat, he evaded them then checked how hard they’d be to foil: not very for his level. His Level 30 [Shadowstep] Skill was one of his defining abilities, and they had trouble with that.
Still, the Watch gave up the chase too easily, and Seborn received a notification via [Message] scroll telling him his bounty was now cleared with the Watch in northern Izril.
The culprit wasn’t hard to guess. Seborn just glared at the girl when she found him stalking down the harbor.
“I don’t need your help. Leave me alone.”
She vanished, and Seborn glared at the passersby who stared at him until they looked elsewhere. Here, at least, there were more Drowned Folk. Plenty, in fact; Treant’s Farewell was a major harbor he thought he’d been to in his youth.
Fantastically large. Huge, long docks of wood cut from the Vale Forest that could let hundreds of ships berth here, big and small. This was a good place to check for ships, but it was too busy by half, even for the spring.
There was a snarl in the harbor, and crews were fighting on a pair of ships that had collided; an overworked [Harbormaster] was shouting expletives, and the cause was obvious as Seborn glanced down the heaving docks.
Ships stranded by the changing currents or headed to the New Lands, seeking ports of entry. Not only that; too many crews were also stranded and grumpy without Admiral Seagrass’ fleet. Too much unpredictability, which you would think would impoverish such cities, but not so.
There was opportunity to be had, like a crate of silk bolts that a pair of [Merchants] were haggling over.
“It’s a direct route from the Empire of Sands! There’s a way that runs across Chandrar now—I swear! I have another ship doing the return journey, but this is our first cargo. Think on it, silk you don’t get by way of the south! You could sell it for four times what I’m offering. It’s worth its weight in gold in Chandrar already with all the Stitch-folk…”
A [Cargo Captain] was haggling with the [Merchants], one of whom was wincing at the price. She held up a stern finger.
“Listen, my good man. I didn’t graduate from the Golden Gnoll’s training seminars by being a fool! You’re asking too much even if it is lower-price than the Zeresian route. Sell to me at a quarter off and you’ll make a profit.”
The [Captain] opened his mouth, and she waved a finger in his nose.
“Sell to me and I’ll give you a supply of coffee beans! That’s worth just as much to Chandrar, I’ll be bound. Nor will you be getting any save from Oteslia itself!”
“You’ve got a supply of it? Are you growing it?”
Both men turned to the woman, and the [Merchant] smiled.
“Nevermind my sources. Now, have we a deal? Or shall we talk over a cup of the stuff?”
Opportunity and strange ships not normal to the harbor; past them, a crew of Minotaurs was inspecting the [Shipwrights] bidding on their ship. It wasn’t hard to see why they needed repairs: a mast was cracked and they had huge dents in their ship. It was a miracle they’d made it to land, but their leader wasn’t happy.
“I need a [Shipwright] over Level 30 with accreditation. Anything to patch us until we get to the House of Minos. This isn’t regular battle-damage. We survived a Kraken attack. Small, but I suspect the structure of the ship is badly damaged. I—Maweil’s bones, is that a white Gnoll child? The white Gnoll child?”
Seborn stopped dreaming about buying a ship made by the famous House of Minos and whirled. A little figure hid behind one of the crates of silk, and the trio jumped. He pointed.
“Get lost, Mrsha!”
His shout drew every eye to him. Waylaid passengers, crew, [Captains] and buyers all stared as the girl’s ears drooped. She wrote glittering letters in the air.
Sorry. I was just curious about the harbor.
Then she vanished. Seborn Sailwinds gazed around and realized that any hope of him getting a ship was out for the moment; it was probably five kinds of bad luck to shout at a child Doombearer who vanished into thin air.
Or it just made you look like a bastard; the Minotaurs had all folded their arms, and one snorted at him.
“Shouting at children is poor form, Drowned Man.”
“You haven’t had to deal with her.”
