“It is if that’s the only thing you’ve got left as a dream.”
“Seems like a bad dream to me.”
“Yes. It is. Shut up. Did you even bring a shovel in all your packing?”
Tissl glared at him.
“Yes I did, Mister Adventurer So-and-so! I’ve a shovel and provisions—it’s only money I never had since I ran off!”
Seborn grunted.
“Good. Well…you might want to bring it over. I have one too, but I think we might be doing this a while.”
She blinked, then came over. He pointed and just over the sandbar, for about three hundred feet, was a swathe of bright yellow clay that almost camouflaged itself against the regular sand. Water lapped around it, and Seborn couldn’t guess how deep the deposit ran. Deep, if eight hundred years hadn’t seemed to leave a mark.
Tissl took one look at the clay and sighed.
“Tree rot or whatever the heck they say.”
 
——
 
No clue how deep, and no clue where to dig. Neither one was exactly happy as Seborn tested the clay with his shovel, which was enchanted.
“Good news. The clay’s hard as shit.”
Tissl eyed him balefully.
“We could get help or, I dunno, magic? Do you know any good [Geomancers]?”
“I knew a [Green Mage]. A teammate.”
“Oh, could you ask for h—”
“He’s dead.”
“I’m sorry.”
“You didn’t know him. It’s fine. How were you supposed to know?”
Seborn was embarrassed as he muttered a faint prayer, then began to dig, stepping on the shovel, levering the clay out, stepping on the shovel…Tissl gazed at him.
“You’re a Halfseeker, right? Someone was saying your team used to be famous.”
“We were.”
“And you had a Goblin in your team. The first…ever.”
“Not the first. Just the first in a long, long time. Look how it turned out.”
The statement bothered Seborn so much he had to stop and add after a moment.
“—It wasn’t all his fault.”
Why had they tried to take it from him without asking him, Jelaqua, and Moore?
Because they knew we might take his side, that’s why.
They were supposed to be a team. Garen had always been defensive, always lived as a hunted Goblin. What did they think would happen? If he had walked in and seen them over Garen’s corpse and they’d told him the Goblin had gone mad over the key, would he have believed it?
Damn it, Garen.
Here he was digging up treasure like some [Pirate], buried by an ancient ghost like all the stories. And all Seborn could think of was whether he should be on the road to the inn.
“After this, you should visit…The Wandering Inn. Maybe. It might kill you. Or they could hire you as a [Barmaid]. You’ll probably hit Level 30 in a year.”
Tissl was digging too, next to him.
“Really? No joking? I heard about that inn. I’m barely Level 11 as-is.”
“What class?”
“Eh…[Hedge Mage]. I can de-bug a field if you want. Or make your torch not go out for two days.”
“Useful on a ship, I suppose. There’s always vermin. And fuel is expensive. Not that you should be a [Pirate].”
“What? The ghost made it sound fun.”
Seborn snorted.
“All [Pirates] say it’s fun. It’s just work of a different kind. You think you can just roam around looking for adventure? Only Rasea Zecrew can do that, and only because her ship is the fastest in the world. Everyone else is picking up work between raiding ships. You do a bit of fishing here, you disassemble monster parts and sell them in this quadrant, and when you get your loot, you do a trading run to see where prices are best—assuming you know the markets.”
And you stayed in your area or risked confrontations with other ships, which could be too costly. Pick the wrong fight and you were losing coin, not gaining it.
Tissl sighed.
“You know how when you get older, all the things you thought were fun that adults did are actually boring and hard?”
“Yep.”
“I don’t think it’s true. Ma likes her life. I think you’re just a downer.”
He scowled at her. Seborn shoved the shovel deeper as they stood nearly shoulder-deep in the hole. Tissl was impressed but wary.
“You dig real fast with that shovel! And the bag of holding. Neat trick pouring all the clay out in one go.”
“My bag of holding is going to be filthy.”
“I appreciate it! But we’re this deep and the clay’s so wide…shouldn’t we try another spot? Then again, I dunno how we’ll find anything.”
She seemed so daunted by the scope of this last hurdle despite it all being like predicted. Seborn Sailwinds just grunted. He thrust the shovel down again, and the tink made Tissl glance up.
“Funny thing about being a dour adventurer. Sometimes you surprise people.”
Her eyes went round. Seborn hauled up another piece of dirt, and then he saw it. The treasure chest was…green.
Green like a plant still blooming, and the filigree was pale white-pink and shaped like a flower. It was big, too, larger than his torso. He levered it up with Tissl’s shaking hands, and she stared up at him.
“But how’d you know? Was it a Skill or…?”
“I prayed on it.”
He didn’t elaborate. Tissl was running her hands over the chest.
“He said that all you had to do was twist one of the pieces here and it’d open.”
“No locks? What was he, an idiot? It’s a neat trick, but I’d have it open in a second.”
“Well, he also said it’d explode in thorns and kill anyone in ten feet if you open it wrong.”
Seborn suddenly had a burning desire to stand away from the girl as she felt at the box. But he just tensed. Ten feet [Shadowleap] with someone else was hard, but…
Click. Seborn grabbed Tissl, teleported into the shadow of the boat—she flailed, then started laughing.
“It’s open, we’re not dead! Wait—”
She sat up.
“It’s open.”
Both she and Seborn peeked over the edge of the fishing boat. They exchanged a look, and then she ran over to the hole in the ground. Seborn walked over slower.
The hand of fate has never picked me. Sometimes, you have to reach up and grab it. But be careful because you can pull down everything with it.
He wasn’t sure if he was relieved or disappointed when he saw Tissl holding up a bundle of seaweed. Seborn squatted down and eyed the sticks and a clam’s shell piled up with the detritus in the chest. He tried to be gentle.
“Look, [Treasure Seeker]’s a class. Don’t take it too hard—something like this might have attracted anyone with the class for a thousand miles. And if he had enemies…one of his foes must have dug it back up and loaded it with this. What, did he die before he dug up his great fortune?”
She gazed up at him wordlessly and then lifted the seaweed in her arms. Tissl hesitated, then threw it around her shoulders. And the…cloak of seaweed swept around her arms and her tunic and shimmered. Seborn’s eyes widened as the ordinary seaweed flashed—
A doublet as green as leaves of Oteslia’s tree covered Tissl’s shoulders. The jacket was flowing with blooming plants, which glowed with magic, and she gasped as the coat fluttered in the sea breeze. Then she reached down.
The stick was a sword. It was always a sword—the sheathed longsword rose, and the dancing golden bell sang in the open air as the hilt, patterned in a floral basket hilt as well, caught the sun.
The Orichalcum blade sang in the air as she unsheathed it. It had that prismatic glow of magic, but the purple metal shone underneath the glow of its enchantments. Seborn sat down with a sigh.
He watched as another of fate’s children lifted the rest of the half-Elven [Captain]’s gear with trembling hands. She gaped up at him, and he spoke to her, not unkindly.
“Congratulations. Your life will never be the same.”
 
——
 
A fortune beyond a man’s dreams lay in a small fishing ship with only a half-Elven girl and a tired Drowned Man to protect them. Weapons to make a hero or villain out of whomever had the daring and ruthlessness to steal them.
Gilam Quellae, son of Pellmia Quellae and secret member of the Bloodfeast Raiders, that deadly group that could match any foe and who had provided him with the funds and training to achieve his ambitions, sat in the pub up the village.
He burped and thumped his chest a few times. Then belched.
“Damn, this is pigswill. Get me another tankard!”
He turned to wave for more service. His back was itching. He glanced at his chair, hoping it wasn’t giving him a rash or something.
The [Lord] continued drinking, oblivious.
 
——
 
“The Half Mast is a terrible name for a ship. Ill-fated. Sailors are a superstitious lot, it’s true, but even as a man of reason, I tend to believe in the same. If not for reasons of luck, then because such names almost make one want to do…this.”
The hefty, wooden mast of the rigger collapsed with a thunderous cracking of wood. The mainsail fell, dragging lines of rope and more of the sails down with it, but the crew never said a word as they watched their ship breaking.
Nor did the [Captain]. He stood like a man at attention, breathing in and out in shallow bursts. Not deep—if he did, the needle-claws might pierce through his stomach, and the cloaked figure who held him might then get…hungry.
He could see something moving beneath the hood. Layers of…mouth-pieces were all he could describe it as. A segmented mouth peeling back. The claws? Shaped like no beast on land or sea he had ever seen.
The speaker appeared more normal. Which made him all the more terrifying. The air was buzzing around the half-Elf as he nodded in satisfaction at the ship.
“There. Let that be a lesson to you, [Captain]. Now, to business.”
Captain Irurx of Shifthold smiled as his ship groaned around him. The decks scuttled. Insects were all over the crew. Running over them as they trembled. Feeling at their shut mouths, inspecting their ears…the taller figures were worse. They all had cloaks on.
Irurx was the only person aboard his ship. At least, the only…person…among his crew who still had levels. Or perhaps some of his crew still remembered being something, someone else.
Jord hoped not. The [Sailor] stood with the others, wondering if he had the courage or speed to go for his dagger. For himself. And if he failed, would he attract the half-Elf’s attention?
But he waited like they all did. Hoping…and the Mad Alchemist savored it. He tapped the [Captain]’s chest.
“Now, I am a reasonable half-Elf. I shall make you a deal, [Captain]. Misfortune has found your ill-named ship. We will not deny this. Will we?”
“No, sir.”
The [Captain]’s eyes flinched away as a centipede crawled down his chest. Irurx nodded.
“Some of your crew are, sadly, casualties of your encounter with a [Pirate]. But you and the others may go free, unharmed, if physically. If you can give me what I’m searching for. The way it works is simple. You drink this, and then you answer me.”
He produced a vial from his sleeves.
“A proper truth tonic. I don’t trust the spells. If you give me one, one of you goes free. If you can manage more, up to half your crew goes free. Very generous. The Bloodtear Pirates I sailed with left no survivors save for children and the pregnant.”
He turned, and the [Captain] was not looking at his crew. They were standing there as Irurx drew back, and now the whites of his eyes were showing.
“But that does depend on your memory. It has to be within my reach, Captain. I know you know what I’m seeking. Now tell me—how many half-Elves can you name? No one in a city counts. Something smaller. Where they’re going. If they’re only a few miles inland. I’m in a hurry. Drink up, [Captain].”
The [Alchemist] waited. He listened to the babbling, checked a watch he’d fashioned for himself. Nodded at his favorite crewmate, who extended what looked to a fool like claws. Just a bit. Then things grew clear. He nodded to himself.
“One will do. Set sail. Toss the good [Captain] onto his ship.”
The screaming began as the [Alchemist] set sail towards where a girl had been asking about. A very likely destination, wasn’t it?
Not far at all.
