Hey Seborn.
“I’m not in the mood for this. Get lost.”
Oh, okay. Have a nice day.
The dirt street of the port town was muddy from the sea breeze blowing in. And it always blew in until only the tiled walkways and the wharf had any steady traction. [Sailors] swaying on land walked past [Traders] waiting for their ships to come in, and locals eyed the sails on the horizons like a [Farmer] watched clouds. But with wariness, for these clouds brought both gold and ill sorts.
A glowing Gnoll girl, semi-transparent, vanished as a Drowned Man stalked down the street. Half his face was a crab’s, a yellow eye glinting under the hood he’d pulled down over his head, and his jacket hid most of his features. But his huge, clawed hand he couldn’t fit in his pocket marked him as one of the seafolk. A regular sight in ports like these.
The girl—not so much. She vanished. Heads turned. A [Storm Sailor] about to spit in the gutters swallowed and glanced around.
The [Rogue] walked on, heedless of the eyes that followed him, the voices which rose, then fell to wariness as they noted the danger he carried. A Drowned Man, alone? Did he have a crew? Was he a scout of some kind? A straggler who’d been ousted from his crew, marooned?
“Hoi, sailor!”
At last, someone called to him, and he stopped. His head turned, and his blank face nearly made the regular [Deckhand] flinch. But the friendly young woman waved again and looked to her crew.
“Was that our imaginations or was there a little Gnoll girl with fur white as toilet paper following you?”
“Toilet paper ‘fore it’s used. Like so!”
Someone added with a laugh. The Drowned Man saw the crew hoisting more bales onto their ship from a waiting cart. It was indeed…toilet paper. A luxury at sea, and probably bound for somewhere that had no trees aplenty. Chandrar or even Rhir. No Drowned City could or would accept a landfolk’s ship like the two-masted trade ship.
It was wide-bellied, fat. The crew probably would say it was a good ship, but they were suckers for any seaworthy lady who’d let them aboard. They’d praise her until the moment she sank, and this one would sink the moment it breathed combat. No way to maneuver her, no oars nor tricks—just plain wood without any marks of a [Shipbuilder]’s seal.
It could crew maybe a hundred and some? It looked to hold half that—a fat little ship sailing the trade routes and never deviating, doing her runs from port to port. Not even old, but sagging already.
He said nothing as he gazed at the ship. The crew shifted, wondering if he’d heard. Seborn stared at the ship he’d never have gotten on for gold. Still…a ship.
“Sailor? Dija hear the quest?”
The [Deckhand] called again. Seborn turned his gaze to her, and his one eye was yellow, without pupil or iris, just a glow in the crab portion of his face. The other was dark blue. Unsmiling, he looked like the two daggers on his waist. Short of temper, if not height, and deadly. His tanned skin visible along the carapace on his face finally moved with his lips.
“White Gnoll? Around four feet tall? Wearing a kilt?”
“Yes, sailor, that one!”
The Drowned Man glanced over his shoulder.
He was a Drowned [Pirate] of the Undersea Crews, son of Therrium Sailwinds, and owed a ship.
He was a [Depth Rogue], Level 38, a Gold-rank adventurer of Izril who had journeyed on land for near a decade.
He was a Level 8 [Faith Seeker], a guest of that strange inn.
…No.
He had been these things. Once, the Drowned Man had been Seborn of the Halfseekers of Izril. The grumpy [Rogue] on a long adventure with his friends. Until it had been just a shy half-Giant, their bold and brash Selphid captain, and a rookie [Mage] from Wistram.
No longer. As he had always done, the Drowned Man had left.
He had left two graves behind in the Floodplains of Izril. He carried all that he could carry and his name with him. Now he stood in a city on Izril’s shores. And his eyes found that ship again.
Seborn turned back to the crew and [Deckhand]. He nodded over his shoulder at the place the little Gnoll girl had been following him.
“Didn’t see her. Must have been your imagination.”
He kept walking as the [Deckhand] wavered and opened her mouth, confused.
 
——
 
Ship #13 — The Half Mast
 
It was an ill-luck number, so it was just as well it was an ill-luck ship. Two months after the Winter Solstice had passed, spring was underway, and with it, the port town was bustling.
The Half Mast was a pun. A single-sail rigger with a [Captain] who probably hadn’t passed Level 20. Everyone had to start somewhere, but this fellow didn’t know the rules.
Seborn tried anyways. Hitchhiking rides and walking all the way to this city on Izril’s western coast wasn’t easy. This was the sixth port he’d visited. Not the biggest by far, but he knew he couldn’t be picky. And the [Captain] did hear him out rather than turn him away with laughter or a curse.
The introduction helped.
“Gold-rank adventurer? And you want to buy my ship? He’s a bit of a funny fellow, but I’d hear out a decent price.”
“She.”
The [Captain] laughed jovially; he was a Human who ran seafood deliveries mostly up and down the coastline, even sailing it up the rivers.
“No, he! I’ve heard the old tradition that all ships are female. Well I thought, why not make my fellow a ‘him’? Like the name and figurehead?”
The Half Mast had a rather crude figurehead that was just a scarecrow, mildewed, with a piece of wood sticking out prominently between his legs. Seborn got the joke. He didn’t laugh.
“How’s the condition of the ship?”
The [Captain] hesitated. He didn’t quite take to Seborn, but he was willing to bring the Drowned Man up the deck. He had a bright red coat, and he was in his thirties and had a swagger, like how he thought a real [Captain] acted. Seborn, in his dark, worn attire with his patched leather armor, appeared quite poor. He’d had to get a certificate from the Adventurer’s Guild to prove he was Gold-rank.
One of them would be shot first if they ever came to a sea battle. The [Captain] slapped the central mast of the rigger.
“This one’s not half-anything! How’s he look? Er—watch your feet there. He sags a bit.”
Seborn was springing up and down on a part of the deck that creaked alarmingly. The [Captain] was trying to talk up his ship, but the Drowned Man had already spotted a piece of the deck bowing inwards. One look belowdecks confirmed the same.
“The caulking isn’t up to code. One big storm and your ship will spring leaks.”
“Code? What code?”
The [Captain] began to get offended as some of the [Sailors], all probably local, glanced up. A few of them seemed like seasoned hands, probably paid to keep this ship running. One of them held up the last two fingers of their hands, pinkie and ring finger. Seborn nodded to them as he passed.
“You should get it redone. Sails look fine. Ditch the name and figurehead. I can’t imagine any [Storm Sailors] hire onto this ship, ever. Even if it’s a rigger, it deserves better than this.”
“A what? He’s a Joust-class ship, not a—are you interested or not?”
“What do you think? Oh, and you’ve got rats.”
The Drowned Man glanced over his shoulder and jerked a thumb at a bundle of ropes. The incredulous [Captain] opened his mouth, and Seborn took two steps towards the railing and leapt it.
He landed on the docks below lightly and strode off. The [Captain] rushed to the railing.
“Some adventurer! Who the hell are you? I invite you into my ship and that’s what I get? Bastard didn’t even share a drink!”
He turned to the crew, furious. Most avoided his gaze. An unlucky [Sailor] caught his eye, and the [Captain] edged over.
“Jord, you’ve sailed the open seas. What the hell was he on about?”
The [Sailor] was no veteran, but he was an expert compared to the local ones. He whispered back.
“He’s a proper seadog, that one, Captain. Did he tell you his name?”
“No, only that he was a Gold-ranker. I think his name was on the paper. Didn’t catch it. S…Sea something? What was he doing? He’s right about the damn caulking; it leaked like hell last storm. But he was off the moment he heard about the Half Mast being a ‘he’. And a code?”
Jord had to explain.
“Real sailors like him are superstitious as they get, Captain. I told you, no one likes anyone breaking the rules, even if the Half Mast was built locally. It’s bad luck. A figurehead should be important. As for the name—”
He eyed the mast. It was bad luck to have a name like that, even if they had never lost their ship’s mast. The [Captain] gritted his teeth; he’d heard the same before.
“And the code?”
Another [Sailor] piped in here.
“Probably [Shipbuilders]’ codes? Drowned Folk have ‘em. Really fancy ships are all built to some standards or other. I met a fellow who could read every ship coming in and tell you what kind of wood it was made of and how it was constructed. That’s why he called the Half Mast a ‘rigger’. It’s short for ‘jury-rigged’, Captain. Not made to any standard. Drowned Folk hate ‘em. Because they have to sink their ships in the ocean, see?”
“Bah. If he’s so smart, why’s he buying ships from me?”
That was a really good question. The [Captain] went over to kick the bundle of ropes Seborn had pointed in. Three rats leapt out, and he swore.
“They don’t got those on Drowned Ships neither. Tight crews. Think he was a [Pirate]?”
Jord commented to his buddies. One of them muttered back.
“Which of them isn’t? Scary fellow. I’d not serve with him if he bought the ship and was looking for a crew. Piracy’s a fun dream, but I saw a fellow with no arms or legs in Masevon. Former [Pirate]. Poor bastard.”
Someone spat onto the decks then swabbed a mop over it.
“True that. After the Bloodtear Pirates? Wellfar’s been sailing a storm up and down the coast. Even saw the Pride herself. Who’d risk it now?”
Everyone nodded sagely as Jord rolled his eyes. None of the others had gone more than ten miles off the coast. Nor would he in this ship. That Drowned Man had known his work to abandon the Half Mast after one look; it’d never survive a true ocean’s journey. He turned.
“Hey, Captain, what was that fellow’s name? Sea-something?”
“I don’t remember! Something…Sailwinds, that’s right! Common enough name.”
Everyone agreed except for one man. Jord had frozen up with his hands on a bundle of ropes he was tying to a post on the ship. He croaked as he looked back across the harbor, searching for the Drowned Man.
“Sailwinds? A Drowned Man with the last name of Sailwinds, Captain?”
“What about it? That’s the name you give to any bastard born on the sea, isn’t it? Even I know that.”
The [Captain] grumbled. But Jord was trying to remember…he craned his neck, searching for the man.
“True enough. But there’s only one Gold-rank Adventurer with the name on Izril’s shores. If that was him—then we all dodged an enchanted arrow. That might’ve been Therrium Sailwinds’ son. Therrium Sailwinds of The Passing Shadow. One’ve the deadliest [Depth Captains] living.”
Everyone went silent. A shiver ran through the crew, and the [Captain] halted, mouth open. Even he’d heard of the Drowned Man who’d been on the television and the reputation of the Underseas Crews.
One of the sailors muttered into his fist, then made a tossing gesture over the side of the ship for luck. Several more copied him. Jord tore his eyes from the harbor.
“Famous, is he?”
“Not the most. But it’s a story. His brothers are bastards who’ve shed more blood than piss over their lives. His father’s sunk more than a hundred ships.”
“So what’s someone like that doing trying to buy a ship and working as a Gold-ranker?”
Jord was trying to remember.
“Let’s see if anyone knows at the tavern tonight. I think it was something about a blood debt or something? And he joined some kind of team. Think I’ve heard of it too. The…the…”
He snapped his fingers, but the name eluded him. Only later did someone remember it.
Seborn of the Halfseekers. A name long forgotten by the seafolk save for that last name.
Seborn, Therrium’s second son.
 
——
 
He was owed a ship. That was the root of it. He was owed a ship, and it wasn’t being given to him, not one he wanted.
Half-rate cruisers. Aging warships long past their primes. Even noble’s pleasure ships—nothing like what he was owed. What he deserved.
The deal had been simple. He risked his neck, he got his ship. A proper ship and command. Only, Therrium hadn’t ever seemed to have the right ship he could afford to give to his second-eldest son. There was always some other [Captain] or his brothers to appease, nevermind that the [Depth Captain] had an entire damn fleet at his disposal.
The breaking point had been his elder brother getting the ship he wanted. So, Seborn had walked off. With all the treasure from the latest raid. 
That was…rash. He’d been in three knife-fights already and had to move inland to avoid his father’s wrath. He could have the damn treasure back when Seborn got his ship. Only the Drowned Man knew where it was buried.
He just wanted a damn ship. He’d served his time working his way up from a [Deckhand], just like his two brothers. But being the second-son wasn’t easy. 
You’d think the eldest son would get all the pressure, but instead, the first ship and chance went to him. Drelef Sailwinds had a crew and a reputation.
And the third son, the runt, Buenec, should have been the weakest one, the junior. Seborn used to mentor his younger brother while Drelef harassed the boy—until Buenec became a prodigy. The Gold-belled [Captain] of his own ship, because who wouldn’t give one to the best [Swordmaster] in Therrium’s fleet?
So. Seborn. He’d known he wasn’t thought of as a leader like Drelef, for all his brother’s temper, but he had been respected as a [Rogue] who’d brought more than his fair share of the treasure. If he had a chance…he just wanted a proper ship to start with. Not a clunker.
Instead, here he was, working as a Silver-rank adventurer on Izril’s shores. The Drowned Man was drinking in the bar, trying to ignore his healing bruises. Throwing down with a team of [Warriors] hadn’t gone well for him. They’d taken both credit and the loot—five Nelrusk tusks. A fortune for the petty bastards.
He was so angry he was hoping someone would make a comment about him. When someone did speak, Seborn’s hand already held a dagger under the table as he took hold of his cup to throw it.
“Parent’s tits, a Drowned Man this far inland? Mind if we sit and buy you a drink, friend?”
“Yes. Get lost.”
