Something about the Silver Swords being in trouble. Seborn knew the Horns of Hammerad were in Chandrar. He hadn’t seen Ksmvr on that broadcast where they’d fought Roshal. He’d left before they’d been found. Was he not with them?
It was a mistake to leave the Antinium alone; you never let your team get split up. They probably knew that.
He and the inn were done. If he came back, it’d be in twenty years to pay his respects. Erin Solstice had fought in the Floodplains, then gone to sea and done the dumbest thing imaginable: fight the entire Bloodtear Pirates’ armada. Two damn armadas and change. She’d gone down on her ship while the Halfseekers’ bodies were still unburied.
Roshal kidnapped her. She did it for Rabbiteater. That old woman had come for her, and Halrac had stood in her way. So, Seborn supposed that Griffon Hunt was also quits with her.
She owed them. But he wasn’t going to collect from a child, so he just…walked the harbortown. Not really thinking about the ship. He’d probably buy it. He had old friends at sea; he could scrape together a crew and find trustworthy people. Though getting to a Drowned City with a ship that couldn’t dive would be a trick…once you had a ship, you could get a second one more easily. Steal it, kill the crew, or just find one abandoned or hit by monsters or ill luck.
Provisions. Seborn snapped his fingers. He’d better check about those. Starving at sea was a bad way to go.
 
——
 
…Fish. Salted but slimy and packed into barrels mostly. Combine that with some hardtack bread that wouldn’t spoil and you’d be able to survive a while. When Seborn asked about the other vital component—fruits—the [Fishmonger] frowned.
“I reckon the best you’ll get is some forestfruit given we’re along the Vale Forest.”
“What the hell is a ‘forestfruit’? Never had one.”
“Oh, that’s whatever they can forage. Getting a bushel of that is all sorts of stuff. Berries, some bigger fruits—you’d be able to get it dried, and it’ll keep a while.”
“Noted, thanks. Got anything dried?”
Seborn bought a bit of fish on a stick he ate for breakfast as thanks for the information. He chewed it down, gulping more water from his flask. It wasn’t a fun meal, but it’d keep him going. Fruits would keep him and his crew from scurvy.
Buy the ship. Stock it up. Get a crew…right, he should ask about the drinking pubs. Look for recommendations, though no [Captain] would want to part with their good people. Seborn leaned against a wall as he stared blankly across the harbor.
He didn’t exactly see more Drowned Folk around. They kept to their own crews. You’d find the odd one who’d become a Drowned Person by chance in some sailing crews, but they weren’t always trusted. Often, a Drowned Person had odd qualities, and they were just a reminder of the oddities that lurked in the deep.
Humans and more Humans. It beat Centaurs. Or Selphids. Seborn remembered a Selphid crewmate who’d stunk to Rhir’s hells and begun to develop maggots on one voyage. Maybe [Storm Sailors]? But they’d have a real problem with [Pirates].
Wailant and he had gotten along, hadn’t they?
“You idiot. That’s because we were the only two of us on land. At sea, he and his mates would brawl with any Drowned Folk in a moment.”
He had to shake these landfolk instincts. Seborn shook his head, and then he saw someone new striding into the port. Someone just as out-of-place as he was, but far more obvious about it.
A half-Elf.
Seborn took note of her because she was truly a kid. She looked young, probably fourteen or fifteen? By the rules of half-Elves, that meant she was probably around…twenty-some years old. They were close enough to Humans until they reached adulthood, whereupon they slowed. Ceria looked to be in her early twenties, and she was sixty plus years old.
Seborn knew this because he’d had a teammate in the Halfseekers, Thornst. An [Archer] who’d died when Garen Redfang had turned on his team. Or they’d pushed him to it.
A dead half-Elf’s hand reaching across the ground for his bow, dried blood spilled across the floor. His guts hanging from his belly where one long slash had ended his life. 
Seborn blinked the image of Thornst away, and the rage. It had kept him going for years, kept him from sleeping or quitting. Drop it. Garen was dead. And…they’d gone for him first, or backed him into a wall. Three-on-one. Who had drawn their blades first? He would never know that. They were dead.
Drop it.
The point was, he knew more about half-Elves than most; other species just saw them as the long-lived magical beings most common to Terandria.
He watched the newcomer out of the corner of his eyes. Definitely new to a port. She cast around, staring, until a crew of [Loaders] cursed at her for being in the way. Then she leapt aside and hurried to the nearest ship to talk to the [Captain].
It was the [Captain] of the Half Mast. He turned, blinking at her, and heard her out for half a second before shaking his head. He pointed her to the other ships coming from the actual open sea, and off the girl went.
She had brown hair and a travelling tunic and britches. Not rich at all; half-Elves always got the mystique of being both magical and rich when in practice they were generally like everyone else. Everyone was more ordinary than you thought they were, even if they appeared strange. Seborn kept his eyes more on the crews of the ships than the girl, but her approaching each one in turn meant he saw her more than once.
He was earmarking a few likely candidates to poach when uproarious laughter came from one of the [Captains] the girl was approaching. The woman was patting the half-Elf on the head gently.
“You’d best turn around and go back home, lass! For that amount of coin, I’d think about taking you to the next port over at best! To charter a ship? Just hire a tugboat to get you there!”
She turned away dismissively, and the half-Elf sagged. Seborn’s eye caught her hand, and the [Rogue]’s Skill activated instantly.
[Estimate Wealth]. It looked like she had about sixteen silver coins and some coppers. By the weight of her purse, she was unlikely to have more than a few gold pieces—getting a ship to take you anywhere was indeed laughable at that price.
Moreover, it seemed like whatever she wanted wasn’t reasonable. Every [Captain] shook their heads at her.
“A sandbar? We’ll run aground! Look, buy passage south or go overland. Then hire a local craft. A rowboat or fishing ship. And before you ask, no, we’re bound north. Now clear the docks! We have business to be about!”
None of them were exactly friendly to an idiot asking stupid questions. The girl scurried away, and Seborn scratched at his chin.
“Right. I’ll need a rowboat too. Something small I can use if I want to move around unseen at night. One of those and some paint…”
He felt like he was almost ready to march with the [Merchant] over to the guild and start signing over all the gold when he saw someone detach themselves from the bored [Sailors] gossiping and waiting to get back to sea and follow the half-Elf.
Which, of course, Seborn hadn’t been waiting for because he hadn’t been paying attention to the idiot kid. It was just unsurprising, because…he’d had a thought.
“Heyo, lass! Aren’t you a fresh little thing? Need a ride on a ship? I reckon I could help with that if you fancied us getting acquainted!”
A [Sailor] with too much interest came over and tried to put an arm around the girl. Seborn watched, ordering another piece of fish from the [Fishmonger], who scowled as he saw the same thing.
“I’m not—”
Their conversation wasn’t quite audible, but Seborn saw her twist away. The [Sailor] kept offering until someone shouted.
“Leave off, Conrey! She’s no more’n a kid!”
He called back as a few jeers rose.
“She’s a half-Elf! Probably older’n me!”
That worked, because the other [Sailors] didn’t know how old she was. But she looked quite young. Seborn asked for a drink of water from the bucket the [Fishmonger] kept. He saw the young woman backing off, denying the advances of the [Sailor].
“You see that, Drowned Man? How old d’you reckon she is actually?”
The [Fishmonger] muttered, and Seborn glanced up.
“Twenty some. Still young. Best not to get involved. That fellow has friends.”
He nodded at the group of [Sailors] cheering their friend on. The [Fishmonger] eyed them and spat on the docks again. Seborn said nothing as the half-Elf, flustered, abandoned the harbor. The [Sailor] followed after. After a moment, the [Fishmonger] turned.
“She looks too young, though. Right?”
He blinked. The Drowned Man had vanished.
 
——
 
The [Sailor], whose name was probably Conrey, was strolling after the girl and still calling after her when he entered the main streets of the harbortown. She kept glancing over her shoulder as he picked up the pace, but you know, he should have been on the lookout.
It was a bad part of the city. Not that there was any definitive statistic on crime in this part of the harbortown of Litgren’s Bay, but, anecdotally, someone grabbing the [Sailor] and running his head into a wall seemed like it confirmed that bias.
He tried to swing a fist and kick at whomever had him, but two more meetings with the wall and his forehead and he was lying on his face. Seborn checked the [Sailor]’s skull wasn’t broken as he glanced around—no one had seen them yet.
He debated taking the man’s purse, and he was a [Rogue]; a common robbery made more sense. Plus…it meant this idiot was poorer. Killing him was out of the question, sadly.
Seborn kicked the fellow in the stomach and saw the body jerk into a ball, then slipped from the alleyway’s mouth into a shadow across the street. He popped out of a shadow of another street corner, pouring the coins into his moneybag. He tossed the empty purse over his shoulder and hit the half-Elf in the face.
She screamed and leapt away. Seborn whirled; she’d been hiding in the mouth of this street behind a bin filled with fishbones from a [Grocer].
“Sorry. I was just—using a Skill.”
She was flailing a wand around, and he ducked in case a spell came out, but the girl realized he wasn’t the [Sailor] following her and stared at him. Seborn glanced at the alley he’d come from. Then at her.
Damn.
He began striding away without a second word as a few more [Sailors] came up the street fast.
“Oi, Conrey! Conrey, where’d you go? Leave off the—where is the bastard?”
Not good. Seborn walked into the crowd and strode off. Time to find that [Merchant]. He was just at the Merchant’s Guild when the law caught up with him.
 
——
 
“Drowned Man! The Watch Captain wants a word!”
The [Merchant] turned from Seborn in faint alarm. The [Rogue] just sighed. He turned around and came face to face with a bored [Guardsman] in an ill-fitting uniform.
Right, the Watch. In the north, there were no Zevaras or Relcs. He eyed the Watch Captain who came sauntering up to him in a gleaming metal breastplate.
“What’s the matter?”
“Oh, nothing, nothing. You have a good day, Merchant, sir. I just need to speak with this fellow a second. Y’see, someone got mugged in an alleyway just an hour ago. Nasty business. Poor guy claims he never saw who did it.”
“And you want to talk to me because…?”
Everyone was staring at him. The Watch Captain eyed Seborn up and down. He noticed the blades Seborn was carrying.
“Adventurer, are you?”
“That’s right. Gold-rank.”
The Watch Captain hadn’t actually expected that. He hesitated, and a few of the [Guards] with him stirred. A touch uneasily? The Watch Captain licked his lips, suddenly smiling less wide.
“Right, well…someone said you were at the harbor right before this fellow got hurt. And some half-Elf. We’re looking for her too. You run into a [Sailor] back there? What’s your class?”
Seborn folded his arms.
“I can’t count how many [Sailors] I’ve run into today. I don’t recall any particular one. Why am I under suspicion?”
He hoped they didn’t have truth stones. The Watch Captain eyed Seborn’s face and then his clawed hand.
“In my professional experience, Drowned Man, it’s always good to investigate strangers when there’s trouble. I know everyone in this town, and they’re good folk mostly. So…what’s that class again?”
“[Faith Seeker].”
“What now?”
Seborn just sighed as the Watch Captain gave him a supercilious gaze. Of course. He was an idiot—in a bigger city, this probably wouldn’t have even been a blip on the radar. Muggings and fights were so common. But here? You wouldn’t get that many genuinely overseas ships, so everyone knew everyone, and all the crews were local…
“Look, if you’re going to accuse me of a crime, you’d better have evidence.”
“We’ve got a [Mage] who casts truth spells at the Mage’s Guild. C’mon over. She’ll just ask you if you did anything illegal in the last little bit.”
“You mean if I assaulted that [Sailor]. Because asking if I committed a crime in general isn’t allowed.”
The Watch Captain’s eyes narrowed as the [Merchant] glanced from Seborn to him.
“What’re you, some kind of law expert? If you didn’t do anything wrong, it doesn’t matter, right? I’m starting to think you did do something wrong. Right, lads?”
He cast around. The [Guards] nodded, but they were still eying Seborn, hands on their swords. Gold-rank scared them. Seborn really wished at this point he wasn’t guilty, because he’d probably enjoy getting marched over to the [Mage] just to see this idiot’s face.
Since he was actually guilty, he just gave up. Exaggeratedly slowly, Seborn raised his hands.
“I’m a Gold-rank adventurer, not some [Mugger]. Ask your stupid questions. [Merchant] Blemith, we’ll have to do this later. Apologies. Though if you wanted to ask that half-Elf questions, be my guest.”
He pointed, and the Watch Captain and everyone else spun. They saw an old woman walking by with a dog’s leash in hand.
“Halt! We have a question for—wait, she’s too old. It’s a young half-Elf, right?”
The Watch Captain turned to one of his men. The [Guard] squinted.
“That’s what they said. She’s ancient!”
The old woman stared at them. Then someone else pointed.
“Wait, she’s got no pointed ears. That’s old Rilenma!”
The Watch Captain rolled his eyes.
“You idiot. Come on with—”
He turned and growled at Seborn, or the place where Seborn had been. The Watch stared at the empty spot where the [Rogue] had been standing.
 
——
 
Seborn Sailwinds sighed as he jogged out of the town’s gates at speed.
Well, there went that ship.
 
——
 
Ship #15 — The Furious Rose
 
Five days later, Seborn was debating whether he could live with a pink hull. Red heartwood and pink cedar.
Pink.
