One winked at him. The [Captain] threw up his hands. He turned to Seborn with a growl.
“And who the hell are you? The Gold-rank adventurer who cleared that village? Or the son of a living legend?”
“He’s not that great. Am I on a ship?”
Seborn’s head lulled. The [Captain] paused, then spoke in that slow voice you used with drunk idiots.
“Yes, you’re on a ship.”
“It for sale?”
“…No!”
“Damn.”
Seborn passed out again.
 
——
 
Seborn was in a horrible mood the next day, beat up and bitten as he was—and with a killer hangover and no Hangover Potion in sight.
Even so, he put a good face on it, because he’d found a crew. Namely, the [Storm Sailors] from last night. They’d let him and the half-Elf kid slumber on the deck of their ship, and while she was gone before he woke up, he got to talking with them.
“Us hire on with you?”
It seemed ridiculous to them, and Seborn owned that it sounded like a joke. A Drowned Man [Pirate] hires a bunch of [Storm Sailors] and…
But he meant it.
“I’ve had stranger allies. How about it? I don’t need to go far. Nombernaught’s where I’m bound. I have a date with destiny.”
They gave each other surprised looks, and the female [Storm Sailor] who’d recognized his name leaned over.
“This wouldn’t happen to lead to us meeting Therrium Sailwinds himself? That’s more trouble than you could pay for.”
Seborn gave her a short smile.
“I wouldn’t be so stupid as to buy all that for a crew of eight. If you crewed with me to there, we’d find a second crew for a conversation or part ways. Either way, you’d see Nombernaught, and [Storm Sailors] can find a ship, Drowned Folk city or not.”
They eyed each other and murmured.
“We’ve got a ship already, but the [Captain] won’t pitch that many fits if we shove off, not in a big port. Say we do that—where’s the ship? Old Captain Tomerig won’t part with his ship for love or money.”
Well, that was a problem, but Seborn just glanced around.
“We’re at a harbor. Think you could help me find a ship that could take a crew of around a dozen or less?”
It’d be a small vessel, but if they got a good sailing one and just swung around the coast, they’d make it. The [Storm Sailors] seemed impressed by his daring too.
“You’re either mad to go that near the Hivelands or you actually do know them Antinium. Normally, you stay twenty miles offshore at least! I’ve heard of Wrymvr the Deathless striking ships even further.”
Seborn grinned.
“I think I’d be able to talk my way out if I had a chance.”
Now he was cooking with fire magicore. The Drowned Man had a ship within the hour.
 
Ship #22 — Shallowskipper
 
Nothing fancy, nothing crazy—just a sailing ship with good lines from an old [Fisherman] who sighed as Seborn paid for it. Maybe he was still drunk, but Seborn paid eight hundred and fifty gold pieces for it after barely a once-over with his new crew.
Gold-rank money. That alone convinced them to shift to his ship, and he watched them pull up the anchor and adjust the sails with the ease of professionals.
“You sure you want to sail out now, Captain? What about paperwork with the Merchant’s Guild and Captain’s Guild?”
Seborn snorted.
“Captain’s Guild? The Merchant’s Guild doesn’t need paperwork if I pay in gold, anyways. I’ll just take her out of the bay, see how she handles and how we work. If I like it, I’ll load up some goods, and we’ll be on our trip. Fruits. Got to have them.”
The [Storm Sailors] hesitated, but they had that to-the-winds caution of their kind, and they were also still probably drunk. So they were cheering as he led the ship out the bay.
Of course, the [Harbormaster] started shouting at him the moment he did that.
“Who the hell are you? You’re not Fisher Drilten!”
“He’s retired! I bought his ship!”
“You did? I don’t see your paperwork on my desk! Get back to harbor; we have ships coming in!”
“We’ll be out of your way in seconds!”
Landfolk. The [Harbormaster] was worried, rightly, about collisions, but Seborn could sail a ship with his eyes closed. He was taking them well away from the other ships, avoiding the ground—it’d be a foolish thing to run aground. He was grinning and waving at the [Harbormaster] when one of the [Storm Sailors] gulped.
“Uh, new Captain? You might want to haul to. Rhir’s hells. Is that what I think it is?”
He pointed, and Seborn glanced ahead. A ship coming into port was getting nearer, but…he squinted.
It was pretty big despite only being a blip on the horizon. And it was getting larger…fast. He swore under his breath as the other [Storm Sailors] stopped working and turned.
“Dead gods. That’s the Pride herself! Speak of legends!”
The Pride of the Wellfar was coming into harbor. And she was massive, one of the largest ships still sailing on the ocean today. Seborn relaxed.
“You idiots, for a second you had me thinking it was you-know-what. She’s probably here to investigate the village.”
It stood to reason. The [Storm Sailors] nodded soberly, but then stood to attention as they did before Treants or ships they loved. Even Seborn nodded at the ship; as a [Pirate], it scared him if it was against him, but they would keep this area safe from Irurx and his lot.
The Pride came towards the port so fast it made his ship look like it was standing still. He swore as he saw it turning.
“It’s too big to even fit in the docks! They’ll have to anchor up the harbor. Jelaqua’s mother’s tits, what a sight.”
Tens of thousands of tons of gleaming wood and attack-spells drawn into the frame of the ancient vessel like art. Hull-mounted magical artillery from eras of legends and, he’d heard, even interior gardens and wonders of the opulence and wealth of House Wellfar. This ship, along with their other naval craft, made one of the Five Families the force of the north.
In fact, he rather fancied he knew the current [Captain], if only by proxy. Wasn’t Gresaria Wellfar’s son, Etril Wellfar, the one who sailed it despite his youth? And she had come to The Wandering Inn and known Maviola El…
By proxy of their connection to Erin. Strange how he could do that to even famous people like the King of Destruction. Seborn had the craziest urge to wave at the ship and shout to see if Etril Wellfar recognized him. That’d be the way to impress his superstitious crew…but he didn’t want to look like an idiot.
So he sailed on as the Pride turned…and came right up alongside them. Too close, actually; their swell made Seborn swear and rock the smaller ship.
“Idiots can’t see us!”
He commented to one of the [Storm Sailors] whose name he hadn’t gotten yet. But the woman didn’t smile back.
“Er, Captain Sailwinds, she’s too close. And it seems like she’s cutting us off, not—”
Seborn saw the nose of the Pride turn and do just that and felt the first moment of trepidation. Then he saw a glowing beam of light shoot from one of the colored panels on the ship and focus on the hull of his sailing ship.
Attack spell. A very polite voice rang from above in the sudden, terrifying silence.
“House of Wellfar! We claim sovereignty over this area in joint protection with House Veltras! Shallowskipper, haul to! Captain and crew, please prepare for boarding!”
Everyone was frozen. Seborn raised his hands slowly, then lowered them; what could he do? There were over a hundred [Sailors] on the railings just eying him, and most had crossbows or wands.
Let alone the spells. The gleaming ship halted as a pair of anchors shot down and lashed themselves to his ship’s railing. A [Lightbridge] spell followed, and Seborn shouted up at the herald on the decks.
“What is this, some kind of cargo inspection? We’ve got none!”
Or were they that peeved he’d come out of the harbors when they were coming in? Then he heard the herald shout back.
“Merely a formality, Captain! Lord Etril Wellfar would like to see your paperwork for ownership of this vessel and your registration in the Captain’s Guild!”
Seborn was drunker than he thought. Because he knew better, but he still said it.
“My what?”
All the [Storm Sailors] turned to him, and in the sudden, long silence that ensued, Seborn remembered.
Right. He might be a veteran seadog of the Undersea Crews, but he’d never, actually, de-facto, been a [Captain] of his own and had to navigate landfolk ports. Therrium’s crews weren’t welcome there, so they’d send landing crafts at best.
Registration…his head began to pound before he saw the [Captain] come striding down the [Lightbridge], flanked by [Storm Sailors].
That was when he began to have a bad day again.
 
——
 
Lord Etril Wellfar was apologetic, and he did know Seborn Sailwinds. That was the one consolation, but it didn’t stop the [Rogue] from glaring so hard he might have left singe marks on Etril’s face.
“If it’s a vessel that sails in our waters, you must be a registered [Captain], Adventurer Seborn. There are no exceptions.”
“Not even for a sailing vessel that holds less than ten crew?”
Seborn was enraged as they came into port. Etril sighed.
“It’s not what House Wellfar normally cares about, but this is a new age, Seborn. If I may call you that. I know you’re friends with the inn that my mother liked—I’ve always meant to go.”
“The door’s open. Just go to Invrisil.”
Seborn refused to use it as leverage, and worse, he felt like it wouldn’t have changed things. Etril gave him a short smile.
“No time. We insist on this because former Bloodtear Pirates, Lord Seagrass’ ships, and a lot of colony-ships bound for the New Lands keep passing by our shores. The smallest vessels we search—and sink if we must. We’ve captured over five hundred of the Bloodtear Pirates already.”
“Really?”
For a second, Seborn was surprised. Etril shrugged.
“Every navy is patrolling the waters. We’ve put most of the ones we capture to the sword if they show any fight—the rest are conscripted.”
“Conscripted. Not murdered on sight?”
“It’s not the Wellfar way. In Chandrar, they’re [Slaves]. I hear Terandria’s executing every [Pirate] they find. Baleros does much the same. Conscription on our ships under blood oath until they serve their sentences. It’s one for life…but I feel like some might pay it off.”
He grimaced and shrugged. Seborn was surprised anyone would show mercy to the Bloodtear Pirates and said so. Etril just stared past him.
“It’s hard for any ship to want to turn down crew over Level 30, let alone Level 40. Or maybe it’s what they stole. I was surprised when my family voted that way. Some of the [Pirates] are touched by luck. Though whether they’re happier…you won’t find them on my ship. The Pride is too important for non-Wellfar to crew. In Chandrar, the stories are even more outlandish. Enchanted chains fell off some, and the [Pirates] just vanished.”
That sounded like more than magic to Seborn. Etril shivered, but the Drowned Man had more experience with this kind of thing. He clasped his hands together. Thought a prayer.
“So about my ship…”
Etril gave him an apologetic smile.
“You’ll have to register with the Captain’s Guild and secure papers before I can let you out of port. Your Gold-rank status might alleviate your ties with the Undersea Crews. But it could, ah, take some time to process.”
“This is ridiculous!”
Seborn snapped. He got to his feet to argue, and the [Lord] of House Wellfar stood. He was barefoot, tanned, and had an earring in one ear. He also had a short spear on his back. His mother’s son.
“I’d love to argue, Adventurer Seborn, but I can’t. We’re hunting Shifthold, and unless you had any insights to add from clearing the village, which I do respect, we must see if we can catch her. He’s hit more than one coastal village. That madman is the last great threat from the battle at sea aside from Maxy and some of the other [Pirate Captains]. I intend to end his legend for good.”
His eyes glinted, and Seborn Sailwinds stood there. Helpless to argue with that. And he was reminded of something he had known. He was not the main character of this story. Not among Therrium’s sons. Not as an adventurer.
Nor now.
 
——
 
The Drowned Man got his money back for the ship, at least. The old [Fisher] had had a change of heart when he’d seen Seborn sailing off with his vessel and had only been too glad to trade him.
The [Storm Sailors]…no. They’d have to rehire with their ships, and even if they got their old posts, it wasn’t a guarantee. Seborn let them have the gold he’d paid them, anyways.
“If you get your papers in order, say the word and we’ll be ready for that adventure, Captain! We, uh, wrote our names down and the ships we frequent for you.”
“Thank you.”
He managed that at least. But a black mood had overtaken the [Rogue]. He just sat on the docks and remembered something.
“There are those that the hand of fate catches. And there are those who have to jump and grab it. And there are those it lands on.”
For one moment, just for one moment, he’d felt like it had been lining up for him. Just like he’d seen it do for Erin, who was chosen, or Ryoka or the Horns…but it had ended like he should have known it would.
Fate did not choose him. Not Seborn, who had had to fight for everything. Who’d found his team and lost it. Lost it…when other teams had gone into worse moments and come out with nary a scratch.
Destiny did not love him. It shat on his dreams, and perhaps he deserved it for thinking it would change.
The Drowned Man got up and went to the Captain’s Guild. The [Receptionist] took down his details after charging a five-gold fee and then got to his affiliations. When she looked up the fact that he was Therrium Sailwinds’ son, she covered a laugh and pushed the coins back over the desk towards him.
He rented a room in an apartment and drank water, trying to get his hangover to vanish. Seborn sat down in his bed and realized he’d have to get to a harbor where Wellfar law didn’t apply. But Drake law had to be just as bad.
So I have to get a ship and buy it somewhere that’s not a big city. Once I do, any ship of the local law will think of mine like a true [Pirate]’s. I’m one regardless. I just thought I could change.
He lay down in his bed and curled up. After a moment, Seborn put his hands together.
The Free Antinium had taught him prayer. They said they believed in an idea: Heaven. And their prayers were in hope of it. In need of it—they believed in what might not be real. The impossible. But because it was what defined them, the hope and certainty and desire, their faith had worked miracles.
He…did not pray to their Heaven. Though he believed it could be real. A shining thing they deserved. Seborn prayed to something else.
