If there was justice for those who did not belong, the lonely, those who needed help and had no one to turn to…he prayed to the feeling in his chest that he had felt when his team had ever mattered. That mattered more than the rush of glory or the thrill of gold.
Righteousness, perhaps, but not so petty a word. There was no dead god who could answer his prayers.
Not on the silly statue that Erin had commissioned. Not the woman of death, because she had nothing but the end. Nor the bearded man because there was no leader for the half-people. Nor even the God of the Lost; they wanted to be found. There was a people for them.
Nor dance or magic. The only one that might fit was the Goddess of Last Stands, but Seborn’s prayers did not belong to her either.
Because she was the Goddess of Last Stands. And the Halfseekers had never…dreamed of stopping.
Seborn’s faith was not a thing of great levels. It had only ever provided a few miracles, but it had led him where he was needed. To Nokha when Mrsha was in danger. Perhaps to the Village of the Dead where they were needed.
It had not saved his team. His prayer was to no one and nothing.
Certainly not the force that gave everyone levels and classes. Because even that did not give the lost children what they deserved. It just counted their suffering and rewarded that.
The Drowned Man closed his eyes. His lips moved. Then stopped. He turned his head.
“Bah.”
He went to sleep.
 
——
 
Six days later, Seborn Sailwinds was walking down the road towards a southern hamlet where he’d heard ships bigger than fishing vessels docked.
He was angry still. No one wanted to pick up a Drowned Man hitchhiker. He should have rented a horse, but hadn’t wanted to bother with the fuss. And he was sick to death of talking to people.
No [Captains] wanted to take him to Nombernaught. If any were headed to the New Lands, they were only bound for the northernmost tips where they’d let passengers off. Or Drake lands, even—he hadn’t accepted. He didn’t want to appear in Nombernaught like a pauper hitching a ride.
He didn’t want to go to that city and confront his father.
He didn’t know what he wanted.
He was just…unhappy.
As if his team had died or something. As if he had watched them die as a hundred thousand Draugr poured over the Floodplains and they had done the only thing they could do, would ever do, and the world had rewarded them with death when they deserved—those two deserved—to live.
A couple. A half-Giant re-learning to smile and a young Selphid who’d grown up on stories of them. Why not those two? Jelaqua was married. Why not the last half-Giant of Izril with a heart too big for his profession? Why a washed-up Drowned Man and not…
A dream. The [Sailors] in the inn had talked of legends, and Seborn had seen a hundred thousand Draugr conjured by a dead goddess and fought the Hag Queens in the snow as Drakes and Humans battled side-by-side.
A tale wilder than they would have believed. It felt like a dream. The Drowned Man shaded his eyes as he stared upwards at the blue sky.
Wondering if he’d wake up in the snow, covered with roses of his teammate’s blood.
The Drowned Man walking his lonely road passed by a white-furred girl who sat in the shade of some trees. He walked past her, but when she didn’t rise or follow him, he came back.
“I’m fine.”
Good.
Mrsha du Marquin didn’t raise her head. She appeared…small. She was sitting cross-legged, staring at her paws. As if the weight of the world were upon her shoulders. He scowled at her.
“Are you done?”
Yes, thank you. Sorry, I’m distracted.
She roused herself, looking around blankly. She followed him absently—fell off the dais. He almost laughed at that, but Mrsha just sat there, rubbing her nose. As if she were pondering something great and terrible.
“See you next week. Just so you know, you couldn’t buy me a ship anyways. I can’t get the paperwork, and I won’t. It’s impossible for someone like me.”
He snapped after the silence grew too long. The girl peered up at him. She said nothing. Just…gazed at him. For some reason, it bothered the [Rogue], so he turned his head.
“So thanks—for nothing.”
She nodded, and he felt more angry. He stomped along, and the girl halted. Then she wrote in the air.
I’m sorry, Seborn. I’ll do the right thing, I promise.
When he turned to ask what that meant—she was gone. The Drowned Man stood in the middle of the road, gazing at the place where she had been. Then he swore and stomped on.
 
——
 
The village was called Moodfut. Presumably ‘Mudfoot’ had been intended, but the apocryphal legend was that the founder had been so drunk he’d gotten it backwards.
Moodfut fit. Seborn was in a pet. He sat in the only pub they had in the entire damn mudhole. He’d been told that ships would come here to restock on the plentiful catches of the [Fishers], and it was bigger than most fishing villages, but he was just…annoyed.
Everyone was avoiding him. A Drowned Man with that kind of scowl didn’t exactly attract goodwill. Seborn was checking a map he carried around, glaring.
If he could get a fishing ship or something, it’d be probably two weeks of hard sailing—around the High Passes especially—to get to Nombernaught. Assuming his craft would even survive the places where Izril’s shores receded and the High Passes rose. It was not a riskless voyage.
And that was assuming he got a craft at all. Gold would buy a lot, but it was a suspicious thing to want to buy a ship like that. Plus, he’d heard that people were talking about some new damn coins—just his luck!
Worse…this area was remote, so there were no overnight carriages who stopped here unless he paid for one via a [Message] scroll. So if he found no ships here—Seborn’s fingers traced a route. It’d be two damn days to Riverfarm if they didn’t stop, and he knew they would unless he paid for a premium service.
All to go back to a stupid inn. Then at least he could go to Zeres.
“A damn circle of pointlessness.”
The Drowned Man threw down his map with disgust.
 
——
 
He wasn’t the only person in a bad mood in this village. Moodfut had a lot of [Fishers], and one of the [Fishmongers] who sold the stuff began screaming at someone with a huge basket.
“No, no! Not here! Put it around back and you’ll be paid—later! Shoo!”
She waved a fist and actually threw a fish’s head at a hunched figure covered in a cloak, who scurried around the back of her hut. Seborn eyed the figure. A few passersby seemed confused, but those in the know grimaced.
“Keep that out of sight. Milord’s likely to throw a fit if he sees it.”
Someone advised the [Fishmonger], and she shot back sourly.
“As soon as my husband’s leg is healed up, I intend to!”
What [Lord]? Seborn stopped following the cloaked figure who retreated towards the beach when he saw the ship.
“Huh. That’s no pleasure ship. That’s beautiful.”
A ship had come into harbor, properly made to boot. Sleek lines of a sailing ship told him this was closer to a passenger-ship than anything else, but the vessel seemed prepared for a fight as well as a speedy trip.
He was admiring the dark wood on the sides, trying to guess what it was.
“Balerosian hardwood maybe…?”
“Chandrarian, actually. Made in Medain. It seems someone in this little hamlet understands what they’re staring at.”
And who should stride up than a [Lord] in the flesh. He appeared very pleased with his ship, and he stood…with more wherewithal than Seborn expected. The Drowned Man had expected a spoiled brat with more money than sense, and he was certainly 90% right—but the [Lord] seemed more capable than Seborn expected.
With a sword, at least. He cast a dismissive glance over Seborn before fixing on his daggers.
“Sailor?”
“Adventurer. That’s your ship?”
“Lord. I am [Lord] Gilam Quellae.”
The young man informed Seborn, and the Halfseeker sighed. It was going to be one of those conversations.
“You must have a rich father.”
He stated it as a matter of fact, and Gilam’s eyes flashed. He put his hand on his sword’s hilt, and Seborn felt a brief warning.
But why? He chose his words more carefully as Gilam retorted.
“My father is indeed Lord Pellmia Quellae, the famous [Lord of Love and Wine].”
He grimaced as if his lips had soured on the class alone, then hurried on.
“But this ship is mine. I bought it all with my own gold. Not a scrap of it is my father’s money nor my family’s. In fact, they don’t even know I have it.”
His smug smile said he was telling the truth about it. Gilam pointed towards the ship—it wouldn’t hold more than a crew of thirty, and some fed-up looking [Sailors] were loading it full of provisions.
“She’s on her maiden voyage, though I intend to put her through her paces! Like most who enter my bed.”
Aaaaand Seborn was done with the conversation. However, Gilam seemed to think he wanted to know more after that.
“The wood comes from Medain, which got cuttings from the Claiven Earth. Chimicen Hardwood—and it was made by a [Shipbuilder] trained in the Pheislant docks. See the lines?”
“They’re good.”
Seborn hated saying that, but he bet the ship could take a ballista shot and at least remain intact. Lord Gilam scoffed.
“Beyond good. I have half a mind to visit the New Lands with some of my peers. With the right Jar of Wind spells…well, this is just the beginning. Now, is there anywhere to drink in this pisspot of a village?”
“Right there.”
Seborn jerked a thumb over his shoulder, and Gilam nodded.
“A shame I don’t practice my swordplay or I’d be interested in seeing how good you are, Drowned Man. Take care if you know any Undersea Crews—they’d best steer clear of my ship, especially with my friends on it!”
He laughed as he walked away, and Seborn grunted. Any Undersea Crew would be hanging his guts out in ten seconds.
He really wanted to steal that ship. He bet he could too, though sailing a ship that big alone wouldn’t be feasible. But that intuition Skill was warning him…
Seborn strode off. Mrsha hadn’t checked on him, and it had been two days. Of course, she only came by once a week, but every now and then, he saw her just appear and vanish when he glared at her.
He might as well just head out; it wasn’t like he’d ever have a chance to buy a fishing ship with that [Lord] around. If he didn’t scare off honest people, he might decide to take Wellfar law into his own hands.
At least Lord Gilam’s crew hated him. Seborn saw them coming up towards the pub as well, grousing.
It was two dozen [Sailors]. Not [Storm Sailors]; Seborn would have bet his friends and their like wouldn’t want to crew some [Lord]’s thrill-seeking vessel for all the gold. They looked like harbor trash, actually. Rough and ready and usually drunk.
“Bastard. If I have to bow and scrape just because he’s the son of House Quellae—”
“Shut up, he’s in the pub. If he hears you, he’ll backhand you too. You saw what he did to Moust when he went for his blade. Just shut it, and we’ll get a keg for his precious ship…then fill it with spit and rotgut tonight. Oi, watch it piss stains! Landfolk.”
They were taking their bad mood out on the villagers, so it was like a cascade of ill feeling. One kicked at the cloaked figure then recoiled.
“Eugh. What the hell is that—?”
Seborn was making tracks out of the village. He’d head up the road and see if he could hitchhike to a town. However, a commotion from the beach made him turn.
An angry [Fisher] was pursuing someone and having a rampaging argument as they came through the village. He was shouting.
“I’m not rowing you for three hours, three hours straight only to be asked to do another three for barely any coins! You already owe me the day’s profits—I’ll have the rest or I’ll have you run out of town as a [Thief]!”
“I don’t have any more—I paid you what you asked for! Leave me alone!”
A [Fisher] past his prime was chasing after a young woman. A familiar young woman. Seborn sighed. When he squeezed his eyes shut and opened them, she still had pointed ears.
The half-Elf with brown hair stopped running in the village as more people appeared, ready to block a [Thief] from getting away. Villages like these always had solidarity with their own. She whirled.
“I paid you a fair price!”
“You didn’t tell me you’d have me row across the shallows! Not upwind until my hands blistered! Then you tell me it’s the wrong one?”
“I only knew it vaguely! I’ve given you all the coin I have! Don’t try to make this more’n you think it is—you made a mistake, and so did I. We’re quits!”
She had an Izrilian accent, not like Ceria’s at all. The [Fisher] pointed a finger at her.
“Three more silver on what you paid me.”
“No! I’ve got none to give, and if you’re the sort who changes his prices after a deal, you’re the [Cheat]!”
She had a good point. Some of the villagers hesitated.
“Leave off Enlock. Just let the child go.”
“She’s a half-Elf, not some child! Look at her ears! She’s all tricks—for all I know, she was laughing at me the entire time!”
He pointed at her, and she reddened and almost covered her ears. But then she raised a finger.
“I’m warning ye. Don’t come near or I’ll—I’ll fight back!”
She waved a finger around vaguely. But she had no wand and only a belt dagger, and fool the man might be in many ways, yet he knew enough about magic not to be scared.
“Hah! I’ll have my coins—just what I’m owed—fairly as the Five Families are my witness. Hand them over!”
He advanced, and Seborn glanced around. What could he throw? Fishheads there…he wandered over to a basket and saw the hunched figure standing with the crowd. He made Seborn hesitate as he approached. A hooded head swung over, and a voice muttered so faintly only Seborn heard it.
“Dangerous. Don’t.”
Was that to Seborn or…? The Drowned Man saw the [Fisher] reach the half-Elf. She panicked like the amateur she was. Then she put her fingers together, aimed all of them at him, and shouted—
“[Stars of Menethyll]!”
Seborn’s head turned, and he saw a glittering diamond of light that shone like the celestial bodies above had come down to materialize before him. One shimmered into focus, shot forwards, and dissipated before it had gone even an inch.
The dust was fading into sparkling particles. Said particles hit [Fisher] Enlock in the chest. Said [Fisher] hit one of the [Fishmonger]’s stands. Then crashed down onto the ground.
Then there was silence. The panting girl was pouring with sweat as the villagers recoiled. Someone whispered.
“Dead gods. Half-Elven magic?”
Seborn knew it wasn’t that. The girl shook with overloaded mana circuits as the [Fisher] stirred. He wheezed.
“She spelled me. She—help!”
