Seborn snapped and whirled on his heel. There were other places he could buy ships. He’d head south and only come back if he couldn’t find one a day’s journey away. After a moment, one of the Minotaurs leaned over.
“Captain. Are disappearing spectral children normal in Izril? I’m astounded.”
The [Captain] whispered back.
“I as well. But it is important not to show we’re unblooded fools.”
He nodded at his crew, and that was probably why most of the seadogs and [Captains] tried to carry on like that was normal. Ghost girls? Seen ‘em all the time. Can’t swing a stick without hitting one. So you want us to take your cargo, where? Say, do I look feverish?
After a while, someone noticed a little white seagull scaring the shit out of all the other seagulls, sitting on the mast of one of the ships. The little girl gazed down at the busy harbor for a while, then waved and vanished.
Such things became stories for sailors at sea. But who was that Drowned Man? A rumor began floating around the harbor. That name…long forgotten on the tides. Returning.
 
——
 
Ship #20 — Grinning Paw
 
At least, that’s what he thought it read. Seborn didn’t know. He didn’t get any closer to the ship’s hull. It wasn’t so much moored at the docks as much as floating there, half-grounded by the waves.
A free ship. A big one too. Trading class. He stood on the hilltop, fiddling with his spyglass, and his skin crawled as he saw the ship…writhing. Seborn swept his spyglass down, across the village, or what remained of it.
“Insects.”
It wasn’t a huge settlement, barely more than a village with a bay. But nothing was alive down there that wasn’t an insect. At least…he thought so.
He’d been here for two hours, watching. The moment he’d felt an uneasy sensation in the back of his mind, he’d listened.
Seborn had no [Dangersense], but the feeling had been uncanny.
[Divine Intuition]. His [Faith Seeker] class at work. He’d have guessed something was wrong anyways the moment he saw the harbor.
Four ships unmoored, one out in the bay and half-sunk? Fishing ships, aside from the big one. All abandoned. The insects were harder to spot, but he could hear them when the wind died down.
Monsters? Or…he couldn’t tell, and he wasn’t getting closer to find out. Fighting swarms was hard work you had to be specialized for. They’d crawl all over you, and you couldn’t swing a sword through them; they’d drown you in bodies, crawl through your open mouth, bite you to pieces—
Seborn had his trustworthy daggers. They’d do spit against a swarm. But he did have other objects. A Potion of Blast would clear them out a tiny bit, but it wasn’t what he needed.
The cloak he wore was warded hard against projectiles and even blades. It had belonged to the late Wall Lord Dragial until his team had killed the Drake. If he pulled it over his body and covered his mouth, only his eyes would be vulnerable. Decent…but he’d need a weapon.
He had weapons besides his daggers. A metal staff that had belonged to the Wall Lord, then to Moore. And two wands.
Ulinde’s wands.
He’d taken them with him. An adventurer left none of their teammates’ gear. [Graverobbers] would just steal them. All three magical artifacts were meant for [Mages], but Seborn knew the staff could conjure a wall spell once a day and spray elements.
Use it to wall them off and blast with fire. Ulinde’s wands can shoot a [Fireball]. Not sure how much magic is left.
If he went in. There was no point. A ship filled with those insects was probably infested if they’d dug into the wood. Even without, it’d be a horror to clean or even use. No, there was no point going into that village.
No one could be alive in there. Unless they’d gotten into a cellar or basement and blockaded themselves in. If they had…he wasn’t sure how long the bugs had been here. How long could they live before they’d need to disperse for food? This was a disaster.
“Can’t be more than a few days. The ships would have been beached by now, even with anchors.”
He sat there. After a moment, his [Message] scroll buzzed. Seborn read it. Wrote.
 
Seborn Sailwinds: There is no estimating their numbers. Cleansing this many will require multiple teams with [Mages]. This is a Gold-rank threat.
Adventurer’s Guild, Invrisil: Confirmed. Are there any survivors?
Seborn Sailwinds: Can’t tell. Observing.
 
He sat there for a long while, writing back and forth. He was no madman. Going in there was suicide, and [Rogue] he might be, but he couldn’t evade the eyes and senses of that many bugs.
Besides, the Adventurer’s Guild had a Gold-rank team en-route already. And another moving to assist. They’d be here by nightfall. Five days…if you survived four days, you’d survive five.
He might have stayed awhile anyways, watching, but for movement down the road. Seborn glanced down from his ledge and leapt downwards, cursing.
“Bandit!”
The cry came from the [Driver] the moment Seborn appeared out of the carriage’s shadow. He flung himself out of the way as the horses began to gallop forwards.
“Halt, you idiots! I’m an adventurer! That settlement has been overrun! You’ll kill yourself if you go any further!”
The [Coachwoman] hesitated. She pulled her horses up and pointed a wand at him. It was an overnight carriage—Seborn held up his hands and the certificate he’d gotten from the Adventurer’s Guild.
“I am Gold-rank adventurer Seborn of the—Halfseekers. That village is destroyed. If you don’t believe me, you can see it from that hill. Insects have swarmed the place.”
The [Driver] was no fool. She wrote a [Message] into an emergency scroll on her belt and gazed around for signs of an ambush…but if he’d wanted to get her, he’d have hit her the moment she slowed. She clambered out as nervous faces poked against the windows. Passengers.
“I have to see it myself. Where’d you say…?”
A short scramble later and she turned dead white as she saw the swarms moving over the village.
“But we’re nowhere near a monster den like that! What is it? Antinium? Some roving nest?”
He shook his head. Most people would think it was Antinium.
“I think…it might be a sea-based attack.”
She gave him a look like he was crazy. He clarified.
“The Alchemist, Irurx. Shifthold. I’ve heard of him wiping out places like this. And he’s still alive to my knowledge. Did this village have any half-Elves in it?”
The [Driver] turned even paler and glanced down at her carriage. She licked her lips.
“I don’t—I don’t know. It’s just one of my routes, but it was mostly Human!”
“All it takes is one. Come on, your carriage isn’t safe. If they can smell or start roaming, they’ll go for us.”
He had concealment Skills like [Reduced Presence] and [Softfoot], but even Seborn felt uneasy. He rode on the side of the wagon, watching the road to the village as the [Driver] turned the horses around and took them—slowly—away, then galloped them until they were miles down the road.
“I’ve told the Adventurer’s Guild. Gold-rank teams are on the way. Keep moving and tell everyone on the road!”
He was relieved to see the [Coachwoman] nodding and that she hadn’t lost her cool. She was still pale, but she tapped the scroll at her belt.
“The Driver’s Guild is already aware and putting the word out. What about you? I can take you with me.”
He shook his head.
“I’m staying until the teams get here. Do you need anything else?”
She was telling him no, and he checked in the carriage. A family on a holiday trip, holding each other, a [Trader] with a briefcase babbling questions, and—he felt his heart lurch—
A young half-Elf with brown hair. She met his gaze, her jade-green eyes wide and scared. A kid.
“If you see another half-Elf at sea, don’t go near him. Go home.”
He looked her in the eyes, not really expecting a response from someone in shock. Seborn was thus surprised when she replied.
“I can’t.”
What did that mean? Seborn hesitated, but the coach was moving, so he leapt off.
It was a long, silent night as he sat there. Midway through, someone appeared, panting, rubbing sleep from her eyes.
Seborn, are you okay? I heard—
He gazed at Mrsha.
“Mrsha, go—”
No! I heard you were here!
He spoke very softly.
“Mrsha, go and get me Ishkr. Or if he’s not there…Calescent or someone. I need someone to walk down there and scout the village. I can’t.”
She stood there, confused, until she realized what he meant.
I can do it.
“No. Go get me Ishkr.”
She wavered, then ran off. Seborn Sailwinds waited until a bleary older Gnoll stumbled into frame.
“Seborn. What am I searching for? Survivors?”
He nodded.
“Don’t just check basements. Can you walk through walls…?”
“It’s limited. I’ve seen Erin do it. I’ll try.”
“Try cupboards. Closets. Anything you can seal. If you call out, you might hear something, but don’t get near them and make a sound, especially if they react to you.”
Ishkr nodded. He walked into the village, and Seborn trained his spyglass on the glowing Gnoll until he saw a wave of blackness rise and swirl around him. They separated after a while, and the Gnoll walked out of the cloud. Seborn kept his spyglass on the Gnoll as he moved slowly through the village.
Only when Ishkr reappeared did Seborn go to sleep. Briefly. Then he rose to meet the adventurers.
 
——
 
The first bar in Treant’s Farewell that Seborn came to was filled to the brim. [Sailors] drinking hard and whispering. Fights—but quick scraps.
Everyone had heard the news. There were more ships at the harbor than normal; they’d come ashore rather than sail the night.
Seborn was brushing at the bites slathered with a poultice that one of the Gold-rankers swore worked. It still itched, but it beat nothing.
“Velrusk Claw and a private seat.”
The [Innkeeper] barely blinked at Seborn. He seemed overworked as he jerked his head across the inn.
“You can have the first. For the other, it’s standing if you can’t find a seat. Hey, what’s that on your face? Sickness?”
“Bug bites. I’m an adventurer.”
Seborn thought about saying…then he just paid for his drink, a meal, and sat while he waited for it to be delivered. He didn’t like attention.
Jelaqua had always done it better. She’d make a scene. Confront that bastard in public. Sometimes, it went ill, but usually it didn’t. Her way was better—he was just the backup. Moore…Moore wouldn’t give up. He’d fret all day and make sure things were good. Or get angry, and then, well, that was pretty conclusive too.
Seborn couldn’t do that. He hated being the center of attention. He liked being the one with the drop on people because he was forgotten.
So how the hell are you going to be roaring commands over the deck? 
“There’s all kinds of [Captains].”
He muttered as he cast around for a place to sit. His legs hurt. He would have sat on the floor, but people were seated already. Seborn passed by a group of [Sailors] talking loudly and would have given up and found a corner when someone waved.
“Excuse me! Do you need a seat?”
Someone had gotten up, and before anyone could slide in, the young woman covered it and waved at him. Seborn sighed.
Pointed ears again.
He sat down, glowering at the young woman who flinched a bit, then determinedly smiled at him.
“I reckon I owe you for the warning back there. And maybe other things! Hello!”
“Thanks for the seat.”
The [Barmaid] found him and tossed a plate down—it was slightly undercooked fish with a sprinkling of beans on the side and some bread.
Poor fare given what he’d paid, but the inn was slammed and possibly running out of food. Seborn ate and saw the half-Elf chewing on much the same.
He was so hungry he didn’t say anything—until someone rose from the table opposite his.
“Hey there, I thought I smelled something fishy. Looks like a Drowned Man’s wandered into our drinking spot.”
Seborn sighed. There was a certain cadence to the talker’s voice, and not a friendly one at that. But traditional.
“[Storm Sailors].”
When a Drowned Pirate and a Storm Sailor met, they fought. It was tradition. Also tradition not to go to blood instantly—you gave each other lumps and no more. Seborn counted.
Eight of them, fuck. He doubted they’d be very polite once he took the first of them down. He half-rose and grimaced as he felt more bites under his armor.
“I’m not in the mood for a brawl, and the inn’s stuffed. Care to not follow tradition for once?”
He wasn’t very hopeful. The [Storm Sailor] who’d spotted him had a manticore on one bicep. He laughed as he eyed Seborn up and down.
“Afraid, are you, Drowned Man?”
“Bug-bitten. And I’m a landfolk adventurer. I haven’t crewed a ship in ten years, so I’m not really in the mood to crack heads tonight.”
Seborn snapped back. The [Storm Sailors] frowned at him, wondering if he was lying, but then the annoying girl piped up.
“He is an adventurer! He was on the road to the village that got eaten and stopped our carriage!”
All the voices in the room went silent, and Seborn glowered. He saw the [Innkeeper] glance up from the bar he was manning as his eyes focused on the Drowned Man’s bites. The [Storm Sailors] looked at each other. Instantly, the fight went out of them, and the first one sat. He took a huge drink from the tankard and wiped his mouth, then studied Seborn.
“Clinth? Give it to me straight, Drowned Man or adventurer or whoever th’ hell you are. What was it? Monsters or bugs? We heard a swarm…”
Conscious of every eye on him, Seborn spoke.
“I saw thousands of bugs. Most of them beetles of some kind. Fliers. There wasn’t anyone alive in there. I can’t say for sure what it was, but none of the local Gold-rank teams had heard of something like that. We think there might have been a half-Elf living in the village.”
A dead silence fell over all those from the sea and whispers from those who needed telling. The [Storm Sailors] all made the gesture where they spoke a word into their hands and threw it over their shoulders.
Irurx. The Mad Alchemist.
“Krakens take him. The entire Bloodtear Armada died at sea and the world’s cleaner for it, but they couldn’t take that thing with them?”
A female [Storm Sailor] groused. Seborn just stabbed at his fish, breaking up the bones. He saw the half-Elf glancing at him—then someone took his plate.
“Hey!”
“Here. Try this’n.”
The [Barmaid] was back, and she presented him with a lot more fish and a lot less bone. Seborn blinked at the fatter fillet and far more generous bread slathered with honey. It looked like the meal the [Innkeeper] might save for himself.
“I didn’t pay for this.”
“It’s on the house.”
“Hey, where’s ours?”
