The [Storm Sailors] protested, staring at Seborn’s plate and their own empty ones. Seborn saw, out of the corner of his eye, the [Barmaid] gesturing at her face. They glanced at him.
He took a long sip from his mug.
 
——
 
The Drowned Man said nothing as the night wore on, but the drinks kept coming, and in time, the crowd did what they always did after great or terrible moments. They gossiped.
“He’s not the worst bastard on the seas.”
“Oh yeah? Name one worse living! Bloodyhands Rosech went down with his crew. Did you see him tearing [Knights] apart?”
“There’s Maxy—”
“Pah. The worst that happens is she skins you. On Shifthold, you might not die. Who’s worse than that?”
“Fisher Mary?”
Laughter from people sitting around the [Storm Sailors]’ table, but a sudden silence from them. That was the dichotomy tonight. Those that knew the sea and those that didn’t, who’d laugh at what they thought were tall tales.
Of course, the young half-Elf was a novice to anything sea related, but she was drinking with the rest, clearly rattled from her brush with death, however far removed. One of the [Barmaids] paused as she served more drinks, collecting coins from everyone but Seborn.
“Who’s that? She doesn’t sound so bad.”
One of the [Storm Sailors] made the gesture again.
“I’d slit my own throat before being taken alive by her. It’s ill luck to speak of them.”
He punched one of his friends, and she protested.
“At sea! We’re on land, and the worst has happened. The Fisher’s underseas, anyways. She preys on Drowned Folk. She’s one of them. Half…what’s the fish?”
“Angler. But not like Captain Rasea of the Illuminary. She catches you and melts you into her ship. But if she’s living or dead—that’s something he’d know.”
They glanced at Seborn, and the Drowned Man looked up. This felt like home, for all it was ill talk. Legends.
Seborn knew legends. Therrium had been obsessed with them. Sailwinds…Therrium had been a bastard’s son who’d worked his way up from nothing. He wanted to be a [Pirate Lord] of old, and his sons had been raised on such stories. Good and ill. They’d fancied themselves as being worthy of the tales. After nearly forty years of life, Seborn knew better.
“Mary’s alive. But she haunts the waters around Terandria’s coast, not these. She’s got a taste for Terandrian blueblood. You’re not going to beat Irurx with the living for nastiness.”
“Nor for being more dangerous. Was there anyone more deadly than Rosech? Half the crews I talk to say this is the age of [Pirates] now, but we just saw an entire group die hard. So are they back or not? Then again, with Seagrass gone, all the old trade routes are suddenly easy pickings.”
The [Storm Sailors] were speaking his language. Seborn found himself turning in his chair to talk to them as the young woman listened. She piped up.
“Um—! Everyone talks about [Pirate Lords], but [Pirates] don’t have [Lords], do they?”
The [Storm Sailors] laughed at her with the crowd, and she blushed, but one of them sat back expansively, adopting that knowing pose.
“Ah, that’s an old tale, girl. If you heard tell of it, well, there used to be [Pirate Kings] just like Goblin Kings.”
Someone splashed him with their drink.
“Hush your mouth with that talk, idiot! There’s such a thing as respect even for [Pirates]!”
The [Storm Sailor] swung a fist back, cursing.
“I’m just saying—now and then, you get [Pirate Lords], kid. Nasty ones, the likes of Rasea Zecrew or Admiral Rosech, but with the class. If there are enough, they fight it out, and then a [Pirate King] shows up. The last one was…”
He snapped his fingers, and Seborn spoke.
“Pirate King Thiete Stochlegre. Ruler of the 5 Tides. Almost seven, but Zeres got him.”
The [Storm Sailors] nodded, giving him longer looks. The half-Elf blinked.
“How dangerous was he?”
“Enough to sweep entire nations with his armies. Hah! That’s true! If you want to compare the worst ships today, then who else is feared at sea? Remember them [Strategists]? There was the House of Minos, but they don’t count…Zecrew everyone knows. She’s fit with the legends. She ran over the King of Destruction himself!”
Another [Storm Sailor] counted on her fingers.
“Seagrass was there, but now he’s the Empire of Sand’s dog. And he never was legendary, even with his giant Sea Serpents, was he? His crews were sharp, but they didn’t go up against Bloodtear for fun. No…wait, what about the Undersea Crews? There was Captain…Therrium?”
“Hah! That’s just a [Depth Captain]. Not like a real legend of tides.”
That got broad agreement from the seafolk, and Seborn grinned into his mug even as part of him protested. They began debating old stories, and once more, Seborn was sucked into it.
“Admiral Seagrass wasn’t good enough!? Right, then! Who in the last thousand years was worthy of the title? C’mon, you cocky bastard, cough up them names!”
“Shut it, Shanti. Just because you liked him—okay, fine. Uh—uh—”
“How about Captain Ghoulstrad?”
Everyone thought about it, and one of the [Storm Sailors] grinned and slapped poor Shanti on the shoulder.
“There’s a tale! Anyone know it? Captain Ghoulstrad—whatever he was named before, it’s lost to the tides. But there was a [Pirate Captain] deadlier’n most! He sank fifty ships a’fore he decided to make his mark. He tried to board a ship containing none other than the Archmage of Death himself. Archmage Chandler before he was called Az’kerash.”
The Izrilians shuddered, but all the seafolk grinned. They knew this one. The [Storm Sailor] drew a line across his throat.
“They fought an hour-long duel until his crew was dead around him, and the Archmage cut off his head. But—and they don’t say if this was intention or not—he wasn’t lying but a day before his corpse got up and walked away! Then sailed Captain Ghoulstrad himself, terror of the waters! He killed [Pirates] and [Storm Sailors] alike before they burned him and his ship to ash. Twenty-three years of terror alive and thirty more dead!”
“Legends of the tides! Top that!”
One of the [Storm Sailors] had one.
“How about Fingerbeard? [Pirate Lady], oh, four hundred years back? Made herself a beard of exactly what it sounds like.”
He waggled his fingers, and everyone winced. Someone else raised a hand.
“Was it just for her reputation or was she mad as the others?”
“Who can say? I heard it was ‘cause she heard all the famous [Pirates] of her day had ‘beard’ in their name. Goldbeard, Flamebeard, ‘n so on? So she decided to make her own.”
“Couldn’t she have used wool or something?”
Laughter. That was how they talked, though. ‘I heard’ about a woman four centuries dead. If they remembered you at sea, you were never truly that far gone.
“Who else? Who else?”
Seborn thought of recent history, and the name came from his mouth.
“Garlen the Explorer.”
“Ah.”
The [Storm Sailors] sighed like a chorus of children, eyes shining. The landfolk, the fools, were oblivious. They had to know, so Seborn told them.
“Didn’t you hear the Gnolls singing his name? He sailed the entire world on his ship. But so many can claim that. And like those before him, madness claims such [Captains]. Those that think they rule both the sea above and below eventually go to the last place of countless crews. The Last Tide. They sail over the edge of the world into the depths below. But Garlen the Explorer…he came back.”
“No.”
The girl was leaning over the table like everyone else. The [Innkeeper] demanded from his seat.
“What did he find? Did anyone say?”
Seborn waited a beat, then took a drink from his mug.
“He never said all of it. Only Gnolls would know, if he told even them. But his crew said that before he pulled them back up they fell for an hour into the depths, and the seas poured down with them until it was as if they were riding a wave into the darkness. And not once did they see the bottom.”
Everyone fell silent with that awed half-belief, half incredulity. Seborn himself wondered…was that a true story? The boy had believed it all, much like the young half-Elf sitting across from him.
They had to tell more stories after that. Landfolk knew their own legends and put their Named-ranks against the tales of sea, stories growing taller with each passing moment.
Even the young half-Elf tried her hand at it, though she didn’t have the technique down yet. You had to wait for a lull in the voices and have the knowing tone just right or you’d get laughed at. And the boldness—she stuttered, red-face.
“I, um, I have one! There was a half-Elf [Captain] named Inerrook! He once rescued a [Queen] of Desonis on his ship, and he dueled a [Pirate Lord] and won! They say he was never beaten in battle!”
There was laughter, and one of the [Storm Sailors] snorted.
“That’s it? M’girl, you need to give us a better yarn than that! Never beaten—probably because he never ran up against a real bastard! I’ve never been beaten in battle. Mark me down in the history books!”
“But—”
She was laughed down and sat, blushing from eartip to eartip. One of the [Storm Sailors] eyed her dourly.
“Half-Elves. Having the Mad Alchemist on your people’s bad enough, I’ll grant. But I’ve seen more than one of the special grown ships your folk sail. Too rich for anyone else’s blood. You can’t even trade in Gaiil-Drome without being an ‘Elfriend’. Must be nice to have your own city in the New Lands, eh?”
Every eye turned to her, and the half-Elf stiffened, then protested.
“I wouldn’t know. I grew up in a village.”
“Ah, a half-Elven village.”
“No, just a village. We don’t have any special magics or treasure.”
She sounded honestly offended, and the [Storm Sailor] hesitated but was unwilling to back down, so she muttered.
“Well…you have an in with them that do. Phaw, who’s got a better story? C’mon!”
Silence as everyone racked their brains for someone who hadn’t been mentioned. Seborn was fairly drunk, and words were escaping him. But he saw one of the landfolk raise her voice. A wobbling woman in her mid-fifties smiled with sudden insight.
“I’ve one. There’s a [Captain] who, they say, deals with Demons. A real monster of the sea. They say she married a Wall Lord, then divorced him. And that she can breathe blood ‘n fire. She did for an [Admiral] and a [Prince] and killed her way through everything that so much as looked at her. Friends with a Goblin Lord no less.”
Seborn was trying to think of who this was at first. Then it clicked with the ‘[Prince]’, and he put down his tankard. Everyone turned to the [Storm Sailors] and him, and one of the offended seafolk shouted back.
“You can’t claim her! That’s just tall tales—”
“Not the [Admiral] nor the [Prince]. What’s this about a Wall Lord?”
One of the other [Storm Sailors] was looking thoughtful. The others weren’t having it. But the Izrilians were all too ready to claim Dread Pirate Erin Solstice as their legend. Seborn wasn’t sure if he was going to clarify or object to the tales himself when one of the other guests spat.
“Weren’t there more bugs with her? Antinium? I wish the entire lot of them had drowned! Both that [Alchemist] and the damned bugs!”
Murmurs of agreement. The first speaker glared at the woman who’d brought Erin up.
“As for the Goblins, why can’t Wistram blow them to pieces? Just rain down spells on ‘em and rid the world of the rest of the lot!”
Typical sentiments. Seborn was used to hearing the same claptrap about Drowned Folk, but he hadn’t heard much of that since the incident in the Drake ports with the hangings.
Turns out the old man can make a point.
The speakers soured Seborn’s mood, but he was waving for a refill anyways. His hand had slipped and tossed his entire drink all over the poor man.
In the sudden silence, Seborn stood up. He snatched a tankard from the [Barmaid]’s tray as she fled backwards, and he spoke.
“Antinium aren’t the same as bugs. They’ve got more courage in one of their antennae than you loudmouths put together.”
“You’re defending Antinium, Drowned Man? On Izril’s shores?”
There was an ominous rumble in the too-quiet inn. The [Innkeeper] spoke loudly.
“Gold-rank adventurer! And he was at the village and cleared the bugs out—”
No one cared. They were drunk, upset, and Seborn calmly kicked his chair over.
“That’s right. You want to make something of it?”
A dozen men got up, probably friends of the fellow he’d splashed. Seborn just rolled his shoulders.
“I’m Seborn Sailwinds—”
He saw one of the [Storm Sailors] jerk in recognition.
“—a Halfseeker. Gold-rank. If you want to say nonsense to my face, go and try. Hundreds have tried, all at once. C’mon. Say it.”
This happened now and then. He was stumbling, looking at the fifty or so people pushing their chairs back. Or was it…twelve? No fear. Moore wouldn’t throw the first punch, but he’d clear them all out if Seborn started swinging, and Jelaqua was the best fistfighter he knew. He was surprised Garen hadn’t already thrown something at the idiot talking about Goblins.
“Stay there, Ulinde. Just keep behind…”
Seborn searched for the Selphid, but all he saw was some half-Elf staring at him wide-eyed. Then he realized he wasn’t with his team.
For a moment, it seemed as though the drunk confidence of the Drowned Man drained out of him. He lowered his head as the angry patrons stepped towards him. Then raised his head, and his crab eye shone bright.
“Come on, then. Come on until the last one falls—”
He made fists and beckoned. Took a step towards them, breathing like it was his last. Seborn took a step at the first idiot as his fist drew back and he reared back. Drunk. Idiot.
Seborn smirked, tripped over the chair, and hit the floor head-first.
 
——
 
Ship #21 — You Idiots, I Ought to Lash You to the Mainsail Oh Wait He’s Coming Around
 
Seborn’s head was aching, but amazingly, he wasn’t stomped to a pulp. He came around, dead drunk, as someone continued shouting.
They were definitely on a ship. More than that? The swinging lantern showed a bunch of [Storm Sailors] who looked roughed up but were pleased with themselves.
A man with a hat was pointing at the docks, where it looked like a brawl was going on. Sailors vs landfolk. Classic. He swung his head towards Seborn.
“Drowned, no less!”
“We couldn’t just abandon him, Capt’n! ‘Sides, the little lady got caught up in it.”
They pointed, and Seborn saw a familiar half-Elf getting her head bandaged up by one of the other [Storm Sailors]. He realized they’d carried them here.
“Thanks.”
“Classic night on the town, Drowned Man. Shame you didn’t get a few swings in.”
