The girl turned to run, then puked all over herself. She fell to her hands and knees. Definitely mana-overloaded. An unnerved man raised a broom he was holding, and a Drowned Man caught the handle before it could hit her.
“Enough.”
The last Halfseeker of Izril said calmly.
 
——
 
It was never so easy to stop a forming lynch mob as at the start. Seborn was in luck; the [Fisher] hadn’t exactly made himself look good, and the girl seemed young. But he still had to pay for it.
He tossed down silver coins on the broken stall, then three down in front of the man.
“That should cover the injuries. He’s bruised, but nothing looks broken. Let’s get you to the beach so you can wash that off.”
He nodded at her soiled front. Some of the people protested.
“But she hit Enlock—”
“It’s a Tier 3 spell, and she barely cast it. I’m sure you’ve punched him harder. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer; it looks flashy, but it’s no [Valmira’s Comet].”
Lean on his rank. That always impressed them. Seborn flashed his daggers, unsheathed, in an unthreatening way and let Maughin’s mail armor shine under his Wyvern leather coat. He also thought to turn Dragial’s cloak inside out so they could see the finery.
Speak fast but deliberately, pay enough but not so much they thought there was gold to be had and get out of there. He was an old hand at this. So, Seborn hustled the girl down to the beach, and she was splashing seawater on her clothes before anyone could raise a larger fuss.
Ironically, the [Lord] helped by demanding service from the owner of the pub who’d gone outside. Which focused the ire of the village on him…and left Seborn time to talk to her.
He did not. He stood there, glaring at the sea, which remained so tantalizing close and so far. The half-Elf girl kept glancing at him.
“Ah owe you an apology. And thank you, sir. More than once, I think.”
Definitely an Izrilian accent. Seborn grunted.
“It’s fine. Just don’t cast flashy magic in public. He probably wouldn’t have hit you. Better to get them on your side than not.”
He kept staring. After a moment, the young woman cleared her throat.
“I suppose, after you and me meeting like this, it’s funny to see me again. Seems you and I are going the same way.”
“There’s only two ways up the coast. You see a lot of the same faces.”
This time, her eyes narrowed slightly, and her ears drooped. She wasn’t getting anything from him.
“I’m from Rhogit, all the way inland. Just south of Invrisil. You’re a Gold-rank adventurer…Seborn?”
“That might be my name. Well, see you.”
He turned on his heel. She called after his back.
“You helped me with that [Sailor] up north. Don’t ya want to know about the magic? That’s no Tier 3 spell. ‘Least, not one you’d know. If you help me, I’ll give you a bit of the treasure I’m searching for. I think you’re the most honest sort I’ve met, and I’m out of coin. But almost there!”
He would have been able to walk off just fine but for the ‘treasure’ comment. Seborn turned and strode over and poked her in the chest.
“Never say treasure in front of anyone unless you can keep it. Least of all seafolk. What’s to stop me from mugging you once you find it?”
She gave him a grin, revealing she had a missing tooth.
“Well, because I think you’re an honest man concerned with my wellbeing. My mom always said Gold-rankers were either gold-hungry bastards, killers-for-hire, or saints. One outta three is pretty good given what you’ve done already.”
He tried not to smile at that.
“You should have taken your mother’s advice. What about Named-rankers?”
“Eh, she says they’re either good crazy or sad crazy. ‘Sides, she isn’t that smart. She’s been divorced twice. My name’s Tissl Venleather.”
Not exactly a half-Elven name either. Seborn squinted at her.
“You’re too young to be on your own, even if you’re twenty.”
“Twenty-one, and I’ve got to be out here. I couldn’t stay.”
“It sounds to me as if your mother would be searching for you. Why isn’t she helping you with this important event?”
Too late, he wondered if she was dead. But Tissl just stuck out her chin. Her voice quavered dangerously.
“Because she didn’t want me to go. But I did that to her house and ran off.”
She nodded back where she’d cast the spell. Then she gave Seborn a pleading expression.
“Can you at least help me get to where I’m searching? It’s supposed to be just a mile offshore at most, and I know I’ve adjusted the maps right. Then at least I’ll know if I’m crazy.”
Seborn sighed. Dead gods damn it. The inn would have to wait. He’d known from the start when he saw her running up the village…once a Halfseeker, always a Halfseeker. The Drowned Man pointed grumpily.
“Let me rent a boat.”
 
——
 
Renting a boat was easy. Gold did wonders, especially if you paid probably more than the boat was worth. Seborn would get half of it back if he brought the boat back…after two hours of rowing, he was tempted to burn it when they were done.
“I’m starting to think the [Fisher] had a point.”
“I helped rowing! Want me to take over?”
“No. I’m Gold-rank. You’re a child.”
“I’m twenty-one! And that’s proper years lived. I’ve never seen a half-Elven village my entire life. I lived in Rhogit all my life—until recently. Plus, being Gold-ranked doesn’t mean you’re invincible. I bet your arms are hurting.”
They were, but Seborn was too stubborn to stop rowing. The problem was they were moving across a sandbar along the coast where the winds and tide meant that a sail wouldn’t really do the work. Tissl was using a map to figure out where they were—it was clear she didn’t have an exact idea, but she swore she’d ‘know it when she saw it’.
This was the stupidity that his team would have loved. For that, and that alone, Seborn did it. And because his arms hurt, he made conversation for once.
“You don’t know adventurers. Name another Gold-ranker you’ve ever talked to besides me.”
“The Horns of Hammerad. They quested in our village, you know, before they got famous.”
Seborn’s oars missed the water, and he slammed backwards.
“What? You didn’t meet them.”
They were the easiest team to lie about given their fame. Tissl looked indignant, as if this was an old argument.
“I did! They came to our village and smashed a bunch of Golems in our mines!”
“What kind of Golems? Earth?”
“Uh…no. More like cheap limestone. They were so crumbly half the lads thought they could take them on, but there were near thirty, so Ma told them not to. She paid the Horns and everything.”
That sounded like something Seborn had heard Pisces complaining about one time, but he wasn’t convinced.
“Anyone could claim that.”
“Oh yeah? Well, I know Captain Ceria has a magic scrying mirror. Hand-sized, made like a seashell. It flips open, and it’s got my mother’s name in it. She paid Captain Ceria with it.”
Seborn had seen that mirror. That convinced him; he lowered the oars for a second, panting.
“Your mother’s a half-Elf in some random village south of Invrisil?”
“Yep. She runs it. Her name’s Disabella. Well, it is right now. She said she changed it twice. Did Captain Ceria…mention her?”
“No, never.”
“Oh.”
Tissl looked disappointed, as if she’d hoped some random half-Elf Ceria had once met had become a defining part of Ceria’s life. After a moment, Seborn let her take the oars.
“So why did you run away from home?”
“I had to! She…didn’t want to let me go. Said I’d get killed or become famous. But I had to because I was chosen! Not really, but I was there, and someone has to fight. That’s what he said.”
“Who said?”
“The half-Elf who sent me here.”
“What’s his name?”
“Captain Etroc d’Anametis of The Bow of History.”
Seborn grunted.
“Pretentious name. Why’s he not here, then, and sending a child on this mission?”
“He’s dead.”
“When did he die after giving you your quest? Five seconds later?”
She shook her head.
“No, he said he died ‘round eight hundred years back. He was already dead when he met me.”
Silence. Seborn rubbed at his forehead.
“Dead gods damn it, Erin.”
“I’m not crazy!”
“I didn’t say that. Explain.”
 
——
 
Seborn knew this story. He’d heard it told, but he hadn’t…believed it. Funny, him not believing a tale like this when he believed in her despite it all. But he hadn’t seen it. Heard a few odd tales, but most people, including him, had put it from their minds.
Ghosts walking amongst the living. Delivering tales of a terrible war and leaving their legacy to whomever could find it.
In between trading off on the oars and consulting her maps, Tissl explained.
“He said he’d searched all over for a half-Elf who could inherit his will. He went to Ma, but she told him to stuff it. She’s tough. Then he went to my older brother, but he was married and had kids, so Captain Etroc said I’d have to do.”
“Flattering.”
“I know! He was really upset I wasn’t from a half-Elven settlement and it was just Mom and her kids. She’s the only half-Elf, aside from us. He said that if I failed, I should tell Gaiil-Drome. I asked him why he couldn’t just find some Gold-rank adventurer. And d’you know what he said? ‘My treasure should only be passed on to the worthy.’”
“So, his kind.”
“Yep! I called him racist. And he said—”
Her face fell.
“He said he was going to fight and die, now, and that whatever I did, he hoped it’d stop the wave coming to drown the continents. Then he vanished.”
Seborn shivered and said not a word. The war of the deadlands. Tissl went on after a moment.
“It took me ages to find this place on a map. I thought his descriptions made sense, but I looked and I looked, and there’s only a few places where the river runs to the sea and the cliffs border them like this.”
Seborn cast around.
“I don’t see any cliffs.”
She sighed loudly.
“That’s ‘cause I was using maps from now, not eight hundred years ago. These ones fell into the sea when the Nagas invaded during some Nagatine Empire. He gave me lots of other signs, and I had to ask everyone about what used to be here and then account for the land falling into the sea or getting built up. But I’m sure it’s here!”
She stabbed a finger as they moved in the shelter of a sandbar along the coast. Seborn craned his head around. The bay was running green and blue towards the fishing village, where it became a bit marshy, and he had to admit that was beautiful. In the distance, the Vale Forest began, trees that were taller than almost all he’d seen on land. Around them, ‘waves’ of sand poked out of the water, signs of curious tidal action. Pools of water contained creatures who survived until a tidal phase brought the oceans over them.
Nothing, in short, that made this place any more special than the rest. Maybe there were signs of collapsed cliffs to the north where he could see rocks overgrown with moss, but nothing…
Then Seborn Sailwinds cocked his head and gazed down into the water. Always a landman’s mistake to ignore. He glanced down, then up.
“Ah. Volcanic glass.”
“Obsidian.”
She smiled happily. The half-Elf girl closed her eyes.
“Where the Vale Forest meets the sea and fragments of molten stone glint as black as night’s shard by the ocean green.”
“He told it to you in a poem?”
“Yup. Sucks to memorize, so I wrote it down. He said that’s where he buried it. Should be close!”
The shards of obsidian were all over the sand, washed up over hundreds of years but still gleaming—signs of volcanic activity, though the actual volcano must have gone dormant long ago. Seborn stared about.
“What’s the sign of the actual treasure?”
“Well…he said that he buried it so deep even if the ground shook and stuff it wouldn’t matter, and no one would just wash it up by chance. Then he stabilized it with some fancy Chest of Holding—but to find the buggering thing, all you gotta do is find a bunch of clay!”
“Clay.”
She nodded energetically.
“Doesn’t show up on beaches much. He transmuted a huge amount of it, and so even if centuries pass, um…”
“It’d be there. Unless it was dug up by someone who was, I dunno, a potter.”
Tissl stared down at her hands, which did have blisters.
“He said there was a lot of it. Sometimes, I think I imagined him, but the spell he taught me still works. He said it was a legacy of Drakes. He said he was a hero.”
Seborn had a lot of opinions about heroes and people who thought of themselves as such, but he held his tongue. This girl had come far to fulfill a ghost’s promise. If it saved her more run-ins with people who’d do her ill…Moore would be wading around here all day.
“Alright, if we’re close, let’s hop out and look. You said you messed up earlier?”
“Yep. I confused starboard and port so we didn’t find the obsidian. Then he put up such a fuss…let’s check!”
They jumped onto the sandbars and searched. Seborn wandered about, hopping from shadow to shadow to avoid having to leap from sandbar to sandbar—Tissl just splashed about with all the energy of youth.
“I’m mostly Human on the inside. I dunno a thing about my culture or species…Mom told me I’d probably be welcomed if I went to Terandria, but I never wanted that! I didn’t even want to be an adventurer—well, until I met Captain Ceria. But she wasn’t that cool. All she and her team did was cough up dust and argue. They were fun, but not like later.”
She smiled at the memory. Seborn kicked around the ground, moving sand with his feet.
“Yep. Sounds like them. Adventuring isn’t glamorous. What will you do when you get the treasure?”
“Dunno. Sell it? Use it? I don’t know…give it to Gaiil-Drome? First I gotta know it’s real. Ma says my life might never be the same if I do this. I might die, or worse—”
“Become famous. She’s right, you know. It’s not pleasant.”
If she found one artifact above the grade of regular ones, she’d be set for life if she sold it. A dead [Captain]’s treasure? Seborn thought about the story she’d tried to tell.
If he had been that good…a half-Elven [Pirate] from back in the day, with real [Archmages] around, would have had treasure far beyond what you’d expect from even the likes of Therrium—and he had the best artifacts money could buy.
If I were an unscrupulous sort…damn. He was too old for this. Seborn sat down abruptly in the sand and bowed his head.
“I can’t go back to sea. I’m not cut out for a [Pirate]’s life. I’ve lost my edge. If I can’t mug you, I’m not going to hold an entire ship at knifepoint.”
Tissl peered at him.
“…Doesn’t seem like a problem to me.”
