“Absolutely, Noass. We’re switching back to our live coverage of 2nd Army—from a distance as it appears we’ve been barred from the actual battleground. [Historian] Horiman, don’t let me cut you off! You were saying this might be a Draconic Titan based on your historical research?”
Sir Relz was sitting at the desk, chatting with a [Historian] via a scrying spell. A Terandrian man from the nation of Samal, actually, and very excited to be on television. He’d spent the first five minutes thanking his peers, family, kingdom—
This was the news as people who weren’t around the High Passes experienced it. All a show. To the Dragon, flying in a vast circle high overhead and tapping into the television network spell, to the soldiers, and to the people of the cities nearby, this was a painful kind of dread, watching the pageantry on the television.
—But you still had to laugh as the [Historian] gobbled like a turkey.
“Wh—I—is that a pink carriage? A flying…?”
He had the reaction that normal people had when they saw Magnolia Reinhart’s famous ride. The two Izrilians started, and then Sir Relz turned, as if only processing it now.
“Ah, that’s right. To my non-Izrilian viewers, you may not be familiar with Lady Magnolia Reinhart’s rather infamous mode of transportation. The Pink Carriage of…well, I’m not certain it has a name. Do you know, Noass?”
The two were [Reporters] with arguable ethics and a heated rivalry with Channel 2, led by Drassi. Channel 2 arguably had more personable and grounded opinions mirroring the public at times. But you should never forget that the reason Noass and Sir Relz had gained their popularity in the first place was because of their ability to banter off each other. They had been [Commentators], and Noass shaded his eyes as he instantly replied.
“If it has a name, I don’t know it, Sir Relz. But it is a vehicle seen across the north of Izril, and the south these days. It’s killed more [Bandits] than any Gold-rank adventurer, I dare say. Pulped the heads of countless criminals under its wheels. How many would you say? A hundred?”
“It must be thousands, Noass. I’ve heard of the ‘Banditslaying Carriage’ for decades. No, I don’t like that name. Historian Horiman, are you quite well?”
The [Historian]’s mouth was open.
“The—how can a carriage kill bandits?”
He spluttered, and Sir Relz snapped his clawed fingers.
“Oh, of course. Context. It runs them over.”
“But—”
“At high speed. Have you ever seen it move? I say, I saw it pass by one time, and that was the first moment I wondered if we should have some kind of laws around how fast a vehicle can move. Do you know the driver, Noass?”
“I do indeed, Sir Relz. A [Butler]. Former [Cavalry Lieutenant], in fact. A man by the name of Reynold. Now, it stuck in my memory because he has two magical legs. I believe he lost his original limbs, ah, when the Circle of Thorns attempted to murder Lady Reinhart. For our non-Izrilian viewers, this may well be the most important woman of the north, though she hasn’t brought much of an army. Historian! Don’t you know Lady Magnolia Reinhart?”
“From the—the Antinium Wars? Yes, of course. The heroine who rallied the north to save Liscor. That Magnolia Reinhart?”
Here Horiman had been so eager to tell the stories of legendary Drake war weapons he had dug up. But his eyes were fixed on the carriage as it slowed, curving around the army and coming to rest on the ground. Sir Relz sat up slightly, as if hearing Horiman repeat what he already knew made it fresh.
“—Well yes, that Lady Magnolia Reinhart. She visited Oteslia and Pallass, you know. The first Reinhart to set foot in Pallass for centuries. Thousands of years, perhaps. I’ve met her, of course.”
That skirted around whether Magnolia Reinhart had been invited to Pallass and how much Relz had actually talked to Magnolia Reinhart, but it set the stage.
If you didn’t know her, if you hadn’t kept up with the news, or even if you did know history, Magnolia Reinhart was just a name.
Erin Solstice was far more famous than Magnolia by the standards of television, which was the only fame that mattered, of course. And here the [Lady] was trying to fight an Old One.
—The general public wasn’t the only group observing Magnolia Reinhart, of course. As the carriage slid to a stop, everyone became aware of a sound.
“I’m going to try and get an interview with her, Sir Relz. Wish me luck—what is that?”
Noass was hurrying towards the carriage at the same time as two squads of Drakes levelled their spears and advanced, shouting orders, as [Soldiers] liked to do. But all of them were out-shouted by a voice already going full tilt.
Someone had amazing, operatic lungs. She had the benefit of a [Communication] spell turned up to max volume, of course, but you didn’t get that volume and fullness of sound by just using a [Loudness] spell. She wasn’t quite screaming, but her voice was loud enough to echo through the air for thousands of feet and even make the distant [Soldiers] turn.
“—estates! Kindly return yourself to the north, Magnolia dear, so I can have an [Assassin] stab you to death. I hope you quite enjoy your little monster-killing show. Don’t look for an army from the family; none is coming. You arrogant little whore—oh my, am I on television? How delightful! You inbred thief, Magnolia—”
The voice cut off abruptly, and Noass’ stride forwards slowed uncertainly.
“Who was that?”
“Uh—a relative by the sounds of it, Noass. Not exactly the spirited sendoff you’d hope for from family.”
“No indeed. Er—”
A second voice cut through the air as a [Maid] kicked the door open. She was glaring and unrolling a scroll as a man’s voice, polished, each word enunciated, dripped venom.
“Magnolia. It’s Gorthes. I’ve lit a candle for you dying. Do try to do it live.”
The scroll flashed as the [Maid] slapped it open, and the voice vanished. Sir Relz eyed Noass and Historian Horiman, and the three men all had that look of people witnessing serious family drama. And the same hushed tones.
“Er—that was a Scroll of [Dispel Magic]. It would appear Lady Reinhart has some, ah, familial strife. Famously, you know. Reinharts are like snakes in a bag.”
“I say, Sir Relz. Isn’t that harsh?”
Horiman jumped in.
“Oh, no. The House of Vipers has often been used to describe the Reinharts. They welcome the comparison. Visiting a Reinhart was often equated to sticking your hand in a snake’s burrow.”
“Fascinating. I, uh, oh dear.”
A dozen more spells were opening to harangue Magnolia, young and old. The [Maid] reached for another scroll, and then the voices slammed off.
Someone had just mass-dispelled all of them and placed a warding spell in the air. That worked; the [Maid] relaxed and nodded to the [Butler], who swung himself out of the seat. He did indeed have magical legs; glowing wood animated by magic, and he stood to the side with a third [Maid] that made the audience gasp.
“A Goblin?”
A Goblin hurried to stand at the other side of the open door, unrolling a little pink carpet. She stood nervously to attention, ignoring the two spluttering Drakes. Ressa stepped forwards, offering a hand to the occupant inside.
Lady Magnolia Reinhart. And if you didn’t have opinions about her before—you probably did now, from the Goblin, from how people talked about her. Sir Relz was trying to add more coverage.
“Lady Reinhart has long been a controversial figure in Izril, viewers. She is indeed credited with being one of the pivotal figures in the First Antinium War—how much is up to debate—and she was one of the nobles who resisted the Goblin King’s armies during the Second Antinium War. However, many of her detractors have credited her with being rather typical of Reinharts despite her actions—many of her rivals have, ah, mysteriously suffered accidents, and she has been the undisputed leader of House Reinhart for…I want to say thirty years. She took the position at age sixteen from her father, who died that very same year of a heart attack.”
“You aren’t insinuating she was the cause of that, are you, Sir Relz?”
“What? No! That would be journalistically irresponsible. I’m just saying…and she’s made overtures of peace to the south. Famously, she refused to join the Siege of Liscor, and she joined with the late General Shivertail to attempt to stop the Goblin Lord at Invrisil. What can we say of the woman besides that? Good and ill, wouldn’t you say, Noass?”
Historian Horiman was being ignored as the two Drakes focused on the moment. The Human cast around and seemed to feel like he needed to justify his presence, so he leapt into the fray with remarkable aplomb, even if his voice was shaky.
“Th-that seems like a harsh characterization for the woman who’s often credited as being the least bloodthirsty Reinhart in, well, the history of House Reinhart, Sir Relz. Historically, many scions of House Reinhart murdered both their parents.”
Sir Relz turned, having completely forgotten Horiman was still on the call.
“…That sounds like an exaggeration, Historian.”
“Thirty-six percent of all leaders of House Reinhart have committed fratricide or patricide prior to taking power.”
“Ancestors. Is that a fact?”
Horiman nodded a few times and tapped the side of his head.
“I, uh, remembered that even before I got a Skill. It stays with one, doesn’t it? House Reinhart is one of the oldest noble houses outside the Hundred Families themselves. Lady Magnolia Reinhart participated in the Sacrifice of Roses, the single bloodiest day for nobility in modern records. Not even the Creler Wars exceeded that number of deaths in a single day, though of course, the overall cost was far greater. Lady Reinhart also participated in the Winter Solstice event, though any clear records of what happened are sparse…”
“The what? Oh the…thing around Liscor. Yes. No one told us.”
They were chattering as the first pink shoe and the bottom of a dress emerged from the carriage. It was safe to say a percentage of the world was watching.
Magnolia Reinhart. Her enemies, her allies, the people who were getting to know her only now—and her family.
Oh, her family.
Her. Family.
Did you think they could be stopped with a single spell? Did you imagine they were not so petty or vengeful as to let her risk her life fighting an Old One? Oh, no.
They began casting more magic, and above, the old Dragon, distracted with the image of the inn in his head, was too slow to catch the spells coming at Magnolia. He was focused on finding his enemy, casting spells, setting up a battlefield—they passed under his radar, because they weren’t hostile. Then he peeked down, cursed—and saw a teleportation spell activate.
Just a simple static teleporter spell. The Reinharts shouldn’t have had access to them, but the Mage’s Guilds from Wistram all had new magic. The Reinharts didn’t send an exploding vial of alchemy or a [Fireball], though. They were too clever for that.
An army like 2nd Army would treat that like an attack, if it even got there. And this was public. They were still the nobility, and they liked to act like it, even if their idea of what that meant was different from the average person’s.
So—what would you send that was lightweight because they weren’t going to waste gold, pointed, and decorous to some extent?
No. Not poop. There was only one thing to send, and as Lady Reinhart emerged with that pink sunhat, pink dress, and a weary smile, everyone saw her blonde hair shift as she tilted her head back.
Her [Maid] was swift and opened an umbrella in seconds, probably anticipating a fecal or pointed rain of something nasty. But what floated down was neither heavy nor dangerous.
The first black petals floated softly down out of those misty skies as the [Lady] held out a gloved hand. Then there were dozens. Hundreds.
Black flower petals twirling in a gentle shower down to earth. A blizzard of them for the spring.
The [Soldiers] had halted, confused, as the [General] turned her head. Noass was standing stock still, perplexed. The [Historian]’s face had gone blank, because he didn’t get it.
But Sir Relz, that social Drake, slowly turned pale. As the cascade of petals came down, he removed his spectacles. With a shaking claw, he fanned himself with his papers.
“Oh my. That’s, ah—um—we’re seeing a rather strong message from Lady Magnolia Reinhart’s family, I suspect. Do we have any way of knowing…?”
“What am I looking at, Sir Relz? Black petals?”
Noass frowned, and Sir Relz shook his head.
“Black roses. It’s a message, a very—personal message from the nobility of Izril. You don’t know it, Historian Horiman? Noass?”
He received blank expressions from everyone, and Sir Relz exhaled.
“Perhaps not surprising. Izrilian nobility use flower language, much like some Terandrian courts still do. But the black rose only appeared after the Sacrifice of Roses when hundreds of noble families marched against the Goblin King at the final battle for First Landing. It is a symbol that was sent to those who fled the battle rather than stay and fight. The ultimate insult. A gift for a coward. A traitor.”
From her own house. To the woman waiting for an Old One. Horiman’s mouth had formed an ‘o’, and Noass turned back to the woman, who had frozen just outside her carriage.
The upper part of her face was obscured from view by the pink umbrella, but everyone could see her lips and chin, turned slightly upwards. One gloved hand was extended, as if to catch one of the countless petals drifting downwards. They landed on her fingertips and palm, blowing away to the ground as the rain of flowers continued.
For some time, the [Lady] did nothing. She stood there, watching the petals showering down, and the audience expected them to stop. But they did not.
When she finally moved, the [Maid], her face tight and her mouth shut in a grim line, walked with her. Ressa’s eyes flashed as she held the umbrella up, and Lady Magnolia Reinhart’s skirts swished as she raised one hand. She motioned once, and Ressa hesitated before slowly lifting the umbrella and handing it to Reynold.
The [Butler] accepted it and walked, one hand on his sword hilt, the other holding the umbrella over Ressga’s head as the little Goblin maid hurried to keep up, holding her skirts high.
Then Lady Magnolia Reinhart appeared. She was adjusting her hat as she surveyed the army, staring across the cloudy skies full of fog as light filtered down from high above.
