Even that one he’d just met! However, the handwriting tracing itself in his head was wobbly, but determined, and he assigned it a youthful voice from his memories for auto-dictation. He realized it was the fourth Quarass’ voice. The first Quarass he had met. Appropriate? That poor girl.
“I—we had to. If you went in the mountain, you might die.”
His stomach lurched.
“…I might well have. So you are seeing, what? Fate? Chance?”
“Something like that. What-ifs.”
What might he do with that? No, why was Rhisveri that desperate? To want to see, ah, that was a familiar pain every person felt. To actually view what might have been, or touch or witness an illusion as real as life—that was a trap, an agony the Wyrm might fall for. But that older Mrsha… The Dragon would have flown there right away, would have run on the pretense he could save them all. But for that image of Magnolia Reinhart.
“—I see. And the information you gave me is doubtless what I would have wanted distilled.”
Not a list of its abilities in great detail. Nor had it come with aforementioned weeks or months of preparations. You see…it didn’t matter. Teriarch knew it, and the speaker knew it too.
“You—a hypothetical you—said it wouldn’t matter. Only its nature, what it was doing, how many Seith Cores it has…if there was anything else to tell you, it would be how it fought. But no one except you would be able to find that out.”
“Yes. Oh, yes. So entirely accurate.”
Teriarch was getting shivers. It didn’t matter what powers anyone else could find it had. The ability to, what, speak magic? A heart which sucked life from around it?
I know it can do that. It doesn’t matter if it can do that. That’s not the true danger of each Titan. The true danger was…
“Tell me. What is its capstone? What kind of fighter is it?”
A miserable voice replied.
“I don’t know. I can only see some of it. The bigger the mystery is, the less I’m allowed to see. It turns black. You’re a big mystery. When you tell someone a big truth, the world goes black. Then everything shakes.”
That damn Halfling. Teriarch grunted.
“I’ll bet it does. Then, to clarify, you cannot witness the battle. And I assume if I lose, there is little valid information beyond the damage to my foe? If I win? Is there any clue you have? Any?”
A long pause as he waited for something. Please. The most hesitant of scribbles. Then…
“I think—I’ll go down and check right now. I’m in my room. I’ll write back fast as I can, if I find out more, but I think you told Magnolia, once, that it was very fast and nimble. But it had bad eyes. I mean, it couldn’t see well.”
Fast? Nimble? Teriarch had an idea of what that meant. But poor vision…?
A thought ran through his mind, and he smiled as something lit up in his head.
“I see. I may know what that means. Is there anything, anything else you can tell me?”
He hoped for a shred of information, and what he got was…more than enough. Distressing.
“It’s not much. It always goes to black. [Emergency Healing]. [Spoils of the Dead: Fit for My Hand], [Spew Minion], [Graceful Dodge], [Ray of Oblivion]…that’s all I have. Sorry.”
The Dragonlord shivered. One of those Skills told him all he needed to know and influenced his plans. Best practices had already meant adjusting the equipment he brought to the battle, but he replied steadily.
“More than enough. A—full Draconic Warrior, then. Doubtless, his capstone Skills are hidden for that reason. This paints a picture.”
One I suspected, but it’s good to know. Teriarch didn’t hear a response, so he tried to keep his voice confident.
“If you find out anything, anything else, tell me as soon as you can.”
“I will! I’ll write back if I get any more clues, within fifteen minutes at most!”
Teriarch thanked the girl, again. Then he kept flying and talking, adjusting his plans, waiting. Trying to eke out any advantage for the coming conflict, while not trusting all his hopes to that.
Which was wise, because fifteen, thirty minutes later—hours—
She never responded.
Then he knew something was wrong. But he could not turn nor run nor look away. It was a tremble in the ground at first, a stillness over his scales. Then he sensed all the life—insect, bird, monster—begin to flee in every direction.
By the time the mortals heard it, it was a rhythmic sound through the ground. A slow, methodic thum. Footsteps?
No. The beating of a heart.
It was coming. The Dragonlord of Flames waited, surrounded by mortals, spells glittering in his mind like blades.
When it first pulled itself out of the mountain, squeezing its head through the crack in the stone, as the rotten flesh expanded, as it smiled a carrion grin and the first spells and bolts began to explode around it—when he saw that malformed head rise and twist, the Dragonlord of Flames stood back in time.
He spread his wings and called out to the being who had also walked the world when Giants and Dragons lived.
When Giants and Dragons had died.
