“Do you see it? This is our chance. Our moment to reclaim victory from the lightless depths. To claw our way out of the black hole once more. We shall win. We always triumph in the end.”
The Crone was speaking as two dead goddesses observed the chaos in the [Palace of Fates]. The eyes of the transmundane had fixed upon this conflagration of destiny’s threads. To them, it was an endless knot of possibilities twisting and intersecting in ways that they should not. A puzzle; a vortex beyond which no one could see.
It was the realm of the divine to see the future of mortals, to influence and pluck the weave by choosing beings to act as their agents. Much like players on a chess board, to reduce what they did to a lesser analogy. Chess was unto mortals the difficulty of playing with fate for gods.
Some were masters of it. Others preferred checkers, but anyone could try.
However—this. This madness was beyond even what had stymied Kasigna, the Two-in-One, at the Winter Solstice. The inflection point then had been the sundering of countless fates, the theft via Skills of the Bloodtear Pirates. That had already been an event horizon that had stymied even the Goddess of Death’s ability to see past.
But this? Not even the King of Faeries knew what came next. You could, perhaps, follow a few threads into the future, but even then it was a gamble.
It was unprecedented. Mad. His fingers were in this. Oberon’s. Again, to go back to analogies, it was as if he’d stood up from the chess game and upended the board for everyone playing.
“The King of Promised Lands. The Lord of the Summer Court. The Eternal Trickster. The Champion of Hunts. The Sovereign of Causes.”
The Maiden whispered, and a harsh voice cut her off as the Crone snarled.
“The Monarch of Annoying Butterflies. The First of the Obnoxious Insect Folk Who Live in Mushroom Circles. If you name him, why dignify like that? He is our foe.”
Her recital of the…less-dignified titles awarded to the Faerie King, Oberon, was still laced with nerves. One did well not to even think his name.
The Maiden knew that well, but she could not help but shake her head and dissent with her other self.
“He is a worthy foe, my older self. If you cannot see that, admit it even now, then we truly are blind. Look at how he has brought us to this end.”
“He is weak. Sundered of his other half in Titania. She is dead. His realm is nothing more than an emptying haven for fools. I—we—warned him ages ago that his commitments to the many realms his feckless subjects meddle with would lead to this. The Fae of Avalon are doomed.”
Strangely, neither Kasigna was happy about that. It was a bitter thing to say, even for the being who had fought so long against the King of Faeries. The Maiden went back to watching, silent, and the Crone joined her.
Kasigna peered over the edge of nothingness, watching as a little girl—Mrsha?—and a Goblin [Tattooist] ran into a door of the future. To her eyes, the gap between realities splintered into a nebulous, half-formed reality literally created days ago.
It wasn’t ‘complete’. The world existed only around Liscor at the moment, but the more beings that entered the world, the more it had to be spun out, literally created wholecloth. A being was doing that—the Grand Design of Isthekenous. The second one.
The strain. The effort and the masterful creation in real-time by Isthekenous’ servant was beyond incredible, even to Kasigna. Most gods had to work off templates when creating something as fundamental as reality. Many cribbed notes from each other or just copied outright. The average time for a divine being to create a reality was about ten Earth days, and that was a basic world.
The Grand Design (Second Edition) was beyond a master. As it had been made. It was twice-bitter, then, to see it executing the very ideas that Isthekenous had proposed. It could duplicate itself, literally shape and guide multiple realms. The Crone’s lips twisted with both desperate hope and regrets.
“Look. You surely see it, my younger self. An opening.”
Oh yes, the Maiden saw the thing they could exploit, but her gaze was faraway. Her mind was with…
“Oberon.”
The whisper made the Crone jerk away in fear. It provoked a rustle among even some of the watchers, those strangers who stood in observation. A few of them, the…lesser ones—though that was such a relative term—reacted to the name. Then they glanced over at the impassive few and subsided.
There was a pecking order, even there. There were eight right now; five of them wearing robes.
Did you know them? Yes, you did. That was who stood there, watching.
Two Kasignas.
Eight strangers from other realms, observing for reasons of their own.
One Grand Design of Isthekenous.
Clearly, they frightened the Grand Design. It did not know what they were, which both Kasignas found rather ironic. Of all the beings in all the realities, these were eight of a kind that not even gods would trifle with.
In time, they would come to you. In time, you would meet them, be you deity or insect. They had not reacted to the explosion the Grand Design had hurled at them. For what could you do?
Cheat them? Raise a magical sword to slay one? Imprison them? Perhaps some of them would fall for it or allow it to be done. But always, and ever, they won. Immortals only met them later than mortals.
When the Goddesses of Death looked over their shoulders, they met eight impassive gazes, and the two shuddered. They nodded, respectfully, at the beings they nominally liked to imagine they commanded. But in truth, a Goddess of Death ruled her world and appointed her own agents. She was a sub-administrator, someone who had essentially claimed a plot of real estate and appointed herself as the head honcho of the area.
The beings who stood there were…everything.
Do you understand? Did you see it? The Grand Design feared them instinctively, because they existed outside of its influence, utterly and completely. One day—they would take it gently as everything else in the world.
When you closed your eyes for the final time—
When the world stopped for you and you found out what came next—
When you heard the beating of great wings—
You would meet them.
Death.
Or, depending on which one it was, Dᴇᴀᴛʜ.
Oɴᴇ ᴏғ ᴛʜᴇᴍ ᴡᴀs ᴡᴀᴛᴄʜɪɴɢ Kᴀsɪɢɴᴀ. Wɪᴛʜᴏᴜᴛ ɢʀᴇᴀᴛ ᴍᴀʟɪᴄᴇ, ʏᴏᴜ sᴇᴇ; ɪᴛ ᴡᴀs ᴊᴜsᴛ ᴛʜᴀᴛ sᴏᴍᴇᴛɪᴍᴇs ᴏɴᴇ ᴡᴀs ᴏᴍɪɴᴏᴜs ʙʏ ᴛʜᴇɪʀ ᴠᴇʀʏ ɴᴀᴛᴜʀᴇ. Tʜɪs ᴘᴀʀᴛɪᴄᴜʟᴀʀ Dᴇᴀᴛʜ ᴡᴀs ᴏ̨ᴜɪᴛᴇ ɪᴄᴏɴɪᴄ: ᴀ ᴄʟᴀssɪᴄ sᴋᴜʟʟ ғʀᴀᴍᴇᴅ ʙʏ ᴘɪᴛᴄʜ-ʙʟᴀᴄᴋ ʀᴏʙᴇs ᴀɴᴅ ᴀ sᴄʏᴛʜᴇ.
Only the eyes were different. They were twin blue stars in the void of space, so vastly distant one could imagine they were cruel and impartial. It made her shiver. That gaze had judged beings even greater than she. That skeletal hand had ushered entire worlds somewhere even she did not understand.
And—he—was one of eight. Not even the greatest by far. A vast authority watched through this Death’s gaze. A force that governed all realities. And that was…one. His stare pierced Kasigna, and she shivered, bowing to him, wondering if all her deeds and her aeons of struggle were weighed well in his eyes.
Iɴ ᴛʜᴇ ᴠɪᴇᴡ ᴏғ ᴛʜɪs ᴘᴀʀᴛɪᴄᴜʟᴀʀ Dᴇᴀᴛʜ, ʜᴏʟᴅɪɴɢ ʜɪs sᴄʏᴛʜᴇ ʜɪɢʜ, Kᴀsɪɢɴᴀ’s ᴠᴇʀʏ ᴇxɪsᴛᴇɴᴄᴇ ᴡᴀs ᴊᴜᴅɢᴇᴅ ғᴀɪʀʟʏ. Iᴍᴘᴀʀᴛɪᴀʟʟʏ. Hᴇʀ ᴀᴄʜɪᴇᴠᴇᴍᴇɴᴛs ᴡᴇɪɢʜᴇᴅ ᴀɢᴀɪɴsᴛ ʜᴇʀ ғᴀɪʟᴜʀᴇs ᴏɴ ᴀ sᴄᴀʟᴇ ᴇᴠᴇɴ sʜᴇ ᴅɪᴅ ɴᴏᴛ ᴋɴᴏᴡ. Iғ ᴛʜɪs Dᴇᴀᴛʜ ʜᴀᴅ ᴀɴ ᴏᴘɪɴɪᴏɴ, ɪᴛ ᴡᴀs, ᴘᴇʀʜᴀᴘs, ᴛʜᴀᴛ Kᴀsɪɢɴᴀ’s ʟᴏɴɢ ʟɪғᴇ ᴍɪɢʜᴛ ʜᴀᴠᴇ ʙᴇᴇɴ ᴇɴʜᴀɴᴄᴇᴅ ʙʏ ᴍᴏʀᴇ ᴄᴀᴛs.
The Maiden met another Death’s gaze. One of…the Deaths. One of the ones that probably scared the other psychopomps. For they were all some version of the idea, but even Death might die.
And who came for them? Well. It might be one of the others. Or the young woman with black hair who sat there. Resting her chin on her cupped hands.
Waiting.
That’s why it was terrifying. This did not happen, normally. The Maiden blinked, unable to meet that gentle stare. And then there were more.
One of them vanished; five more appeared. They didn’t teleport in, they didn’t move. They were just—there. As if they’d always been there. Now, there were twelve. More of varying kinds.
Most had classic instruments of their trade. The reaping scythe, iconic. Many resembled mortals’ notions of what death was, figures associated with their ideas of death. Often a skeleton or corpse of some kind.
A hunting figure of pursuit, for instance, a wolf, a skeleton, or just an ordinary person, depending on the culture. Someone you’d see walking around and not pay attention to often.
There was even a mouse.
A tiny figure shifted slightly, and the younger Kasigna corrected her thoughts hurriedly. A rat. The Death of Rats stopped moving, and Kasigna decided to turn around.
Death stood behind Kasigna. It was a thing they tended to do, but it was a uniquely unsettling experience for the goddess. They stood there, each one in a different image that mortals tended to love. Each one was a different story.
A different point of view. They were terrifying to gods and great beings, because no matter how powerful you grew, they were right there. Waiting. You could fancy you’d beaten them, escaped causality itself, and Death wouldn’t hold a grudge.
It was just a matter of time. You didn’t delay your appointment, you see. It only looked like that from your perspective.
They always arrived when they were due. And yes, they could be terrifying. But each one that stood here was an image that mortals understood. They were kinder, you see, than the roaring oblivion of nothingness.
Death waited. For what, only they knew.
 
——
 
The Goddess of Death tried to collect her thoughts. She searched her memory for what she’d been saying. Her other self was just as rattled. The Crone licked the memory of lips and rasped.
“—The Faerie King. That fool.”
The Maiden started. Blinked.
“Yes. Him. I respect him. Don’t you? He was, like his people, the greatest of allies once.”
“Once. Then he turned against us. In time, he shall pay for—”
“Yes, yes. Shut up. Do you—I am tired of hearing myself talk like that.”
Affronted, the Crone closed her mouth and narrowed her eyes at the Maiden. They were—diverging. And without the Mother to break this impasse, neither one was sure who was correct. The Maiden continued, her eyes on the world below.
“He was always constant. When he was friend, he was the greatest of allies and begrudged us nothing. He helped us peer across the many worlds. Isthekenous counted many in the Court of the Fae to be his friend. When he became our foe, he did not cease no matter the cost. We marked him for his end, and he never flinched.”
The Crone was sulking; it came out in her voice, which grew even more spiteful—and that was her default setting. She folded the memory of clothing around herself, as if cold. And they were cold. They were always cold and in pain. They were dead; without flesh to sustain them, even ideas hurt.
They’d been like this for tens of thousands of years. Rotting. In an agony, slowly dissolving, fighting to even remember what they were. Begging for scraps to restore their shattered selves, let alone bodies. Many of their number had quietly let themselves pass rather than continue this torment.
But she was Kasigna. She had refused to die. Now, see what it had gotten her. The Maiden thought about that and wondered if the Crone did. The Crone was ranting.
“We did it all to aid him and the countless realities battling the Rot Between Worlds. Had he not made war, we would have brought armies to his cause. Grown a seed from which would sprout a vast network of worlds with the might to challenge any realm! Even—”
She glanced over her shoulder at the Deaths and hesitated. But they didn’t react, even at the grand dreams of the Goddess of Death. Perhaps they were silently laughing. You thought to equal us; see how low you’ve fallen. Perhaps they didn’t even care. Kasigna wasn’t sure which was more dispiriting.
The Maiden shook her head.
“Or we might have invaded.”
“Do not argue those old discussions with me. They are done. Choices were made.”
Yes. Everyone had taken a side, even if that side was to try to abstain or flee. Here they were. Dead and rotting, sundered of one of their selves. On the edge of reality with over a dozen psychopomps breathing down the back of their necks. The Maiden turned to the Crone.
“Do you ever regret any choices you made?”
“Seldom.”
The Crone glowered at the Maiden, and the younger Kasigna nodded to herself, as if confirming something she had just realized.
“Clearly.”
They went back to watching. After a while, the Crone spoke again.
“The opportunity is nigh. We shall use it. We shall triumph and—”
“Silence.”
The soft comment from the other Kasigna shocked her elder self. The Crone opened her mouth and saw how the Maiden knelt. Eyes fiercely watching what should not be. Mortal lives resurrected. She was not looking at the opportunity for herself. She was watching as—the Goddess of Death.
The principled, ancient being who had once been the most loved of all the gods by Zineryr.
Two Kasignas stood there, then.
Two.
At least one of them was changing. The Goddesses of Death watched. Death waited. And the Grand Design of Isthekenous (First Edition) wavered as it tried to analyze what it couldn’t. It wavered in the face of Death.
Then at last—it occurred to it to check on what everyone was staring at.
 
——
 
Death was watching the [Palace of Fates] play out its events. Realities were slamming together, and the knowledge of it was spreading. Even if those inside were not aware of all of what was going on—the observers—there were some that knew they were inside of the box of reality.
There were beings who had…been here before. Who had escaped Death and sensed it on their shoulders. Who paid attention. And now, the knowledge was leaking everywhere. The more who found out, the more inevitable some events became.
 
The Winter Solstice, morning. In the world where the Redfang Five had lived, the almost-ideal world where Erin Solstice had never died.
 
It should have been a day of pure celebrations. Certainly, Erin Solstice began it with a bang.
“Happy Winter Solstice!”
