“My, uh—cousin is Archmage Eldavin. Let me just call him, and he’ll be over later today. In fact, I’ll just send him a [Message] now…”
He pretended to [Message] Eldavin while instead he was sending a communication to various [Mages] in Wistram about the idea they should definitely do. Then Teriarch sat back, smiling. There was a pause—and then a dozen [Messages] came back.
 
“Magus Teura here. Archmage, you’ve been out of contact for two weeks! We need to replace Archmage Nailihuaile—”
“Archmage Feor to Archmage Eldavin. If you could clarify this event, Archmage? Are we endorsing an Earth-related event? What purpose?”
“Viltach to Eldavin. I like this. Can we expand it to Terandria? I can get a few nations behind it if you give me a day to reach out—”
 
Oh, the buzzing of flies. Teriarch sighed hugely as he replied, rather annoyed with everyone but Viltach, who had his heart in the right place. He spoke to Garry, reassuring him that Eldavin would be on-board, and made a note to come back as ‘Eldavin’ instead of ‘Demsleth’ in an hour or so.
—Strange. The Dragon’s mind was now being bombarded with [Messages] from Wistram who naturally wanted Archmage Eldavin to do everything, all the time, at once.
They hadn’t bothered him all month.
Wistram, who’d just lost Archmage Nailihuaile to the breakout of Archmage Amerys. And who were all greedy [Mages] dealing with the being they thought was the Archmage of Memories.
Why hadn’t he received a single [Message]…?
 
——
 
What the Brass Dragon did not sense was the strain. And the strain was increasing.
Both Grand Designs felt it. The horrified Grand Design (First Edition) had just been observing everything. Much like a slack-jawed manager comes back to find half their building on fire with a swarm of rats fighting an army of roaches around a sinkhole that has opened up in the kitchen.
The [Palace of Fates] active. Multiple realities breached.
And worse—its thoughts were at a crawl. It was reacting so slowly, thinking slower, because all of its power and attention was devoted to the upkeep of this—this mess.
The Grand Design had been created to oversee an entire world’s worth of people. It could handle billions of individuals acting at once and process their levels and deeds in real-time without issue.
You know what strained it? Creating a subreality of Kasigna’s past and cataloging every single thing that had ever occurred there. Hence the creation of the Grand Design (Second Edition). But even that was nothing compared to creating multiple realities and populating them.
The problem was Teriarch. The Grand Design (First Edition)—was firing off queries to the second version of itself, demanding to know what was happening. But even this internal communication was slowing.
Teriarch. Dragonlord of Flames. A being with over fifty thousand years of history and connections, his entire life detailed, literally storied, and having influenced countless souls. Every single interaction was logged, meticulously noted—and had to be copied out for him.
And all the people he’d ever met. Not just that—when the Brass Dragon sent a [Message] to Wistram, that entire area was suddenly now populated. Reality had to be expanded, and everywhere Wistram might conceivably touch was at least accounted for, if not outright created.
The—strain—
That was one reality. In another door, the Blighted Empire had just run into the Flooded Waters tribe and the Painted Antinium. In a future…?
What was going on? The Grand Design (First Edition)—couldn’t even think. Because the Blighted Empire was being created and now moving into action. An entire continent’s worth of people being—
Madness. The Grand Design tried to stop it. It tried to shout at its other self. How had this happened?
It couldn’t tell. It was moving in slow motion. This was a nightmare. And it realized—events were connecting faster and faster. So it was listening, along with Demsleth, as someone passed by the table.
Kevin.
 
——
 
Kevin’s stomach hurt. He felt like puking. He was nauseous, dizzy, lightheaded, feverish, and clammy all at once. It felt like the mother of all flus, but worse.
It was, he felt, what ‘walking over your grave’ meant. He’d always thought it would be some kind of ethereal shivering, that chill down the back of your spine. This—felt like the grave getting up and trying to drag him down.
It was frightening because it was real. It wasn’t like a ghost story or even that real sense of unease you got when your idiot friend began messing with a Ouija Board at midnight. That was your hindbrain warning you that maybe something would happen. There was a big difference between that and reality, and Kevin knew reality.
He’d laughed and thought this was a game before he’d had to hold a sword and feel the weight of it and swing it at a monster. Before he’d seen Imani, shaking and covered in blood, or witnessed an adventurer emerging from a battle elbows deep in viscera and guts and realized that wasn’t him.
In the same vein, impossible as the news of multiple realities and that he was in fact dead in what might be the ‘real’ world—it wasn’t the first time Kevin had been here. If he could survive coming to another world with his sanity intact, he could comprehend what he had been told and take it seriously.
Hence the feeling of death. Hence his shivering and stumbling around on what should have been a fun day. When Erin had woken him with that firecracker, he’d been dozing. Dreaming of…of…
Ceria Springwalker. Kevin stumbled past Demsleth and Garry and glanced at them. Demsleth. Some random old guy with the same eyes as Eldavin—probably some mystic Elf from the old days or a living legend. That was obvious. That was normal.
He’d figured that out. Kevin wasn’t stupid. Erin’s inn was crazy, but if you watched, it made sense. Goblins were people that no one respected. That was logical; Demsleth was logical in Erin’s world.
Future Mrsha with her haunted eyes was not.
Are they dead in the future, too? No, she said Moore and Halrac and Pyrite and Ulinde and Headscratcher and Shorthilt and—me.
Me.
Why him? In that list above, he was the only non-warrior. He was an Earther. He was supposed to be…off-limits. Safe.
Roshal. Kevin vaguely knew of them. [Slavers]. Bad fucking people. But distant. He’d done some research on them last night. He hadn’t liked anything he’d found out.
‘Research’, by the way, was calling Fetohep of Khelt and letting the old guy lecture you about how things were. You could just sit and work on a bicycle with him in the background like the world’s best podcast. That was fun. That was Kevin-style.
—Hearing the King of Khelt talk about Roshal was not something Kevin ever wanted to do again. In fact, as he stumbled across the inn for breakfast, a speaking stone chimed.
“His Majesty of Khelt.”
“Fuck me with a wrench—hello, Your Majesty? I’m, uh, sort of busy.”
Kevin didn’t have the energy to be polite. But the King of Khelt was understanding for him.
“Kevin Hall. I am merely inquiring as to your wellbeing this morning. It occurs to me that I have done you a disservice, burdening you with the details of Roshal’s…excesses. Nothing I spoke was incorrect or untrue. Nevertheless, it is a weight upon the soul. How do you fare?”
“I’m—not great, Your Majesty? But I had to know. Thank you.”
Asgra was serving people food this morning. Kevin hadn’t eaten in over twelve hours. If someone put the inviting food in front of him and he took a bite, he might puke it out. Fetohep’s voice was stern, but kindly.
“I advise you to make merry on this day. Enjoy the eclipse. Forget—if you need discuss it, I shall be here. Remember the truth, but do not let it overwhelm you.”
“I shall, Your Majesty. Thank you. And, um, happy Solstice.”
“…Yes. A ‘happy Solstice’ to thou as well. Farewell.”
The Revenant hung up, and Kevin hoped he’d covered well enough. But then he asked the question: what was the point? They were all fake. Apparently, Fetohep was a friend in Mrsha’s world. And Kevin had to know.
Roshal took Erin. Roshal killed me. Kevin wasn’t one for hyperbole most of the time, but if he had a nuke and a way to ship it to that place, he would have probably hit the big red button instantly. Fetohep had described…something beyond foul, and he had refused to outline some of it, which told Kevin how bad it was.
He felt like ice water had been poured over his head as he sat down at a table. Roshal was out there, in his world as well as future-Mrsha’s. They were doing horrific things, and no one was looking at them as the threat. That was a mistake. Someone should be making war on the bastards.
The King of Destruction. Or Headscratcher’s tribe. Or Niers or…Kevin was doing that thing again. Sitting, like when bad news came back home on Earth. He’d see a war or something terrible and say, ‘someone should stop that’ or ‘someone has to arrest that guy’.
Then he’d go surfing because he wasn’t the one to do it. He was just a citizen of the United States, no soldier. His vote was one of, what, three hundred million? And everyone knew the system was rigged.
In some ways, Kevin was a cynical person. People thought he was happy-go-lucky, but he was just relaxed about a lot of things. When it came to his life, he tried to do things that he thought mattered, like having fun or enjoying himself or not being a dick to people. But he believed he couldn’t affect big things.
His brother was in prison for years because of a drug offense. Illegal at the time, sure. But he hadn’t been a dealer, even though that was the charge. Every damn thing younger Kevin had tried to do back then had resulted in nothing. That’s what being a person was. Helpless when something bigger than you decided to roll over something or someone you loved.
This world, that world, it was the same. Kevin was powerless, but in this world, at least, people could matter. Erin could matter. Ceria could matter. Headscratcher could stare down a Drake city and get them to back off. Niers was the size of your hand and could make nations quake. That was power, and Kevin had none.
So why me? Or more importantly, if he was dead—Kevin put his head on the table. He didn’t move as several people noticed his condition.
“[Remove Hangover]. Hm. Ah, well.”
Demsleth waved a hand at him from the next table over, and when Kevin raised his bloodshot eyes, the man hesitated.
“Pardon me, young man. I thought—well, I advise you to drink fluids and get more sleep. Your face is sagging a bit. Mind it doesn’t fall off.”
“…Thanks.”
Kevin put his head down for half a second before someone else came over.
“Hey, Kevin. I didn’t see you last night.”
Ceria. Kevin groaned as he realized they’d made plans together.
“Ceria! I am so sorry—”
The half-Elf was visibly upset. She flashed him with a smile as frost almost radiated off her.
“It’s fine. It’s cool. That’s a pun. Looks like you had a busy night. With someone?”
“No, I was thinking. Ceria, I—”
“Just don’t forget anything else. I’ll see you at the eclipse, if you remember it’s going on. You missed a fun party last night. So did I.”
She stomped past him into the snowy outdoors. Kevin almost got up to chase after her, then he slumped over the table. What was the point? She was fake, and this was just a casual thing between them. Or it was supposed to be. She was the amazing adventurer, and he—
Asgra put a cup of water on Kevin’s head and balanced it there. When he didn’t react, she put a plate of food in front of him, took the water glass off his head, and shoved it into his cheek.
“You drink this. You look like my poo.”
“Thanks.”
He gulped the water, then put his head down again. The problem with being at the inn was—
“Hey, Kevin! What’s up, pal? You’re looking like Asgra’s poo. Ew. Gross. Sorry.”
“Erin, not now. Please?”
He raised his head as the [Innkeeper] came over and gave him a worried smile. She hesitated as she took a seat at the table.
“You good, pal?”
“Not really. But I’m fine. Just—thinking.”
He tried to smile at her and remembered other-Mrsha’s words. In her world, Erin had died. Then they’d put her on a ship with Roshal—he tried not to imagine what that meant. He clenched his nails into one palm. The [Innkeeper] was unconvinced. The entire room lurched slightly, and Kevin’s stomach dropped. Erin apologized.
“Whoops, sorry. I’m moving the inn back to next to Liscor. Big eclipse-watching party. Are you sure you don’t want to talk? About anything?”
This time, the [Mechanic]’s hesitation was longer. As far as he knew, Pyrite and the other ‘dead’ people were the only ones who knew about the truth and other-Mrsha’s identity. But the [Innkeeper] was the owner of the inn. She was still a [Witch] in this timeline. He avoided her gaze.
“I—I don’t want to talk. You could ask Pyrite.”
“Mm. Maybe. I was worried that you looked bad, buddy. If you want to chat about…well, anything, give me a shout, okay?”
“Sure. Thanks, Erin.”
He met her eyes, and she gave him a big smile and hopped up.
“Speaking of Pyrite, I wonder where he is? I’ll just go see—”
She left, and Kevin wondered if this was a bad thing. Again, did it matter?
We’re not real. We’re not real, and I could go with Mrsha, but who the fuck wants to go to the world she’s from? It sounds like hell. If I’m not real, then—
I’ m dead. I’m dead already. I’mdeadsowhatdoesitmatterI’mdeadI’mdeadI’mdeadI’mdead—
His thoughts blurred together in that haze of sleeplessness and fear until a voice interrupted him.
“Kevin. Mind if I sit?”
Kevin Hall was about to throw his breakfast plate at the fourth person to interrupt him when he raised his head, fingers on the plate, and saw the speaker.
Halrac Everam was already lowering himself, and Kevin sat back, suddenly more awake and less wrathful.
“Halrac. Yeah, man. Sit down and…how’re you?”
The [Bowman] didn’t look as bad as Kevin, but he had a certain haggardness and rings under his eyes that told Kevin he’d had a bad night too. The [Bowman] sat there, staring out the windows at the falling snow.
The fireplaces were roaring with merry orange light. Around Kevin, people were still wearing Christmas regalia. Mrsha in a Santa hat galloped past Kevin on all fours, chasing Apista, who was smoking a tiny cigar while wearing a hat of her own. Antinium were filing past Kevin to sit with Pawn, each one holding a custom-made gingerbread Antinium courtesy of Calescent. The inn smelled like baked food and warmth, and though the snowy windows were dark—that beach garden shone with bright, beautiful light.
A wonderful world.
