How fake it now seemed. All the events of the Meeting of Tribes now felt like an illusion to Kevin. Multiple Walled Cities attack the Gnolls and it ends with only a few tribes wiped out? Get real. Goblins allowed to live?
He was Kevin, the Kevin who had knowledge of this world’s harshness, who’d survive [Assassins] trying to murder Magnolia Reinhart. Who had a realistic understanding of world powers and consequences. So the events of this winter felt distinctly off to him. This grand old time in the inn suddenly felt forced, contrived, wrong.
When he peered at Halrac, he saw the [Bowman] felt it too. Halrac’s arms were folded. He sat there, as stern and grumpy as ever, but there was a tone of genuine distress in his voice. He began to speak, halted as Asgra put some water and breakfast in front of him, thanked her, and then said—
“I’m a [Bowman of Loss]. I don’t know if I ever shared my class.”
“No. I don’t think I’ve heard it. Cool class, man.”
Kevin sort of meant it. Halrac’s lips twisted.
“It’s…powerful. Fitting, in some ways. It comes from Erin, from my past. But I wondered, today, why I have it.”
Kevin tilted his head.
“Well, you fought hard and levelled, man. You’re a Gold-rank adventurer.”
“I did nothing this winter that would have put me at Level 40.”
“You spanked Elia Arcsinger—”
“I got the class before we fought her, Kevin.”
“Huh.”
They both felt it. The incongruity. Halrac poked a fork into a waffle and left it there.
“That’s when I believed. That’s when I realized something was wrong. I already felt it. The moment Mrsha told me I was dead—but I didn’t want to believe. Now, I want to speak to her. Has she shown back up yet?”
“Nope. Pyrite said he’d get me the moment…I want to talk to her too. Dude, how are you feeling?”
Kevin and Halrac sat in the inn as an embarrassed Relc entered the common room with Valeterisa and cheering broke out instantly. Valeterisa tried to hide behind him as Menolit applauded loudly with several other members of the inn. Kevin and Halrac turned, then went back to speaking.
Everyone else was engrossed in this day. Kevin remembered Mrsha saying Relc and Valeterisa got together. What had been unbelievable was now happening before his eyes. He felt sick.
Garry got up from the table behind them to help get more gingerpeople out of the kitchen, and Demsleth sat back, sighing as he ordered another plate of food. The disguised Dragon lit a smoking pipe and took a long puff from it. His eyes lingered on Kevin’s back. Neither Halrac nor Kevin noticed.
“What will you ask her?”
“I—that’s private, man. I mean, I’ll just—there’s something I want to know. That’s all. I’m not going to go with her right away. That’s crazy. Are you?”
Kevin was at once defensive and guilty because Halrac was in the same boat. The [Bowman]’s reply was flat.
“I still don’t believe it. I want to see, if I can without interfering with whatever this is. I…do you think it’s real?”
The [Mechanic] pointed at his face.
“Look at me. Dude, I believe. I’ve never felt like this. But that means we’re fake.”
“Fake? How do you mean?”
“Like simulations in the Matrix, man! I—argh—you didn’t see that movie. How do I put it in this world? We’re like Golems, then. Perfect Golems that act like the real thing, but we’re definitely not real. If that’s the case, I’m not Kevin, and you’re not Halrac.”
The [Bowman] half-nodded.
“But I feel like Halrac. Aside from the inconsistencies, how should I act?”
“I dunno. Just like you feel like. It’s not like I’m gonna throw myself off a bridge or kill people because I think I’m crazy. But doesn’t that mean anything? This is real philosophical stuff. ‘I think, therefore I am’? I can’t just—deal with that.”
Halrac had no idea what Kevin was talking about, but he nodded.
“I sort of understand. I don’t have an opinion on what ‘real’ means, Kevin. I just know there’s a choice. Survival or staying here. Leaving this world for another. That’s the hard part everyone is struggling with.”
Sometimes, Kevin hated how pragmatic adventurers were. Halrac was perfect like that. Man sees a problem, man deals with it or doesn’t agonize. Kevin raked a hand through his hair and asked a question spitefully.
“So you’re chill about this. Great. How’s Moore taking it? Pyrite? Headscratcher?”
“Moore’s been sick all day. He can’t even get up. Neither of us told Ulinde yet. I can’t speak for Pyrite. Headscratcher’s conflicted. Shorthilt doesn’t seem to care.”
Kevin felt bad again, but then confused.
“Shorthilt? Why not?”
Halrac’s lips twisted, and he gave Kevin an expression much like the one Kevin was giving him.
“He’s a warrior to his heart, it seems. He only wants to know exactly how he died.”
Fucking hells, that was either cool or really stupid. Kevin pushed his chair back.
“I can’t sit here, man. Let’s find the others. Erin noticed something was wrong with me. I tried not to tell her anything, but should we tell her? Should we tell everyone?”
“Tell them what? Tell Jelaqua or Seborn that Moore and Ulinde die? Burden them with that?”
“We can’t just vanish, man!”
Halrac’s gaze fixed Kevin like an arrow pinning the young man to the floor.
“I’m not going anywhere suddenly.”
He relented as Kevin flinched and stood, pushing himself back from the table.
“I’m sorry. Let’s…find the others. Mrsha promised she’d be back soon. It’s been a while. I wonder if something’s kept her.”
“She said there’s an Old One in her world. I—maybe she’s trying to fight it?”
The [Bowman of Loss] turned and saw the little white Gnoll girl running between the tables, now chasing a giggling Nanette.
“She’s a child.”
He put a hand on the invisible bow on his back, and Kevin could almost read his mind. What if he just went to help out? Then it was like multiverses of people moving back and forth. How long could that continue? Those stories in comics only ended one way. Kevin feared that as well. He wondered, suddenly, if he were just a character in a video game or part of a story.
But if he thought like that, he’d go mad. All he could do was—continue. The false Kevin rubbed at his face. He didn’t know what he’d do, though he suspected he had not the bravery to cross worlds. He didn’t know what the right thing was or what this all meant.
He just had a single question in his heart, for Mrsha. The question he felt, he hoped, the real Kevin Hall would ask. If he knew that, the rest of the world could continue.
The two men walked out of the inn into the beach garden, leaving behind a merry inn who paid little attention to them. Oh, and a very shaken Dragon who didn’t respond when Magnolia Reinhart stuck her head out of the private dining room.
“Old man, are we going to discuss the gifting proposal or what? Old man—what has gotten into you?”
Magnolia Reinhart noticed Demsleth’s complexion, and her eyes grew sharp. He said nothing as he sat there, and his breath was suddenly quick. The Dragon half-rose.
Kevin and Halrac hadn’t used privacy spells. Not that it would have worked on him. Either that was a trick or…but to what end? His mind was suddenly buzzing. Demsleth hesitated, then strode, without a word, after the two men. And he was now casting spells.
[Scrying] spells all over the world. Responding with careful messages to the Wistram [Mages]. Running analyses of the world around him and just—thinking. And it was making the problem worse, though he didn’t know that.
An immortal had just sensed his fake prison cell shake. And he was doing exactly what came naturally to a highly intelligent being who had survived every manner of trap and danger over his life. That was one problem.
The second, forgotten even by Teriarch at this moment, was a little rat with glowing green eyes in the basement. It had halted as it scurried around the basement, following the romantic adventures of Pisces and the Horns of Hammerad, as a conversation had percolated to the distant intellect controlling it.
 
——
 
The Necromancer of Izril stopped making action figurines of the Horns of Hammerad to mass-produce and sell. He eyed the gifts he’d sent a very confused Ksmvr for Christmas. And wondered why he’d done that.
Then he replayed the conversation he’d just overheard. Abruptly, his content, idling thoughts were filled with icy concentration.
“Ijvani. To me. Prepare a long-ranged teleport spell now. I will provide the coordinates. I must focus on something.”
The Necromancer spoke, then began casting magic. Fast as he could.
And that was…
One reality.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn, present-day. Raindrops thunder down on the roof; a Wyrm is having breakfast while watching television.
 
Rhisveri hadn’t had breakfast in…months? Not a sit-down breakfast, even at an inn. He was a Wyrm; he didn’t need to eat anything, and besides, no one exactly made food for a being his size.
He only ate when he was with peers or people he respected. Rhisveri liked to say he could count that number of people on his claws. But it did actually happen.
The immortals of Ailendamus had an eclectic taste; the Lucifen were the normal ones because they could eat and enjoy regular food. The last time Rhisveri had eaten, he’d been at one of those gatherings sampling some hors d’oeuvres created by Sophridel, arguing over policy.
Before that, he’d had some tea and biscuits with Fithea as she asked for more trees for the forests, and he had grudgingly agreed while complaining about the cost. And before that…?
He’d been quizzing Dame Eclizza about the Order of the Thirsting Veil’s activities as she reported in. And that same week, General Dioname had drifted on by to harass him for a few books on magic and ask about the Dawn Concordat…
No breakfasts since then. Those meals flashed before Rhisveri’s eyes as someone put a plate of eggs with bacon arranged in a smiley-face in front of him.
Rhisveri stared at the eggs, glistening with yellow yolks, the fat bacon, the slices of toast with blue fruit jam in a little bowl on the side and creamy goat’s butter in another saucer, and then at Asgra.
The Cave Goblin [Waitress] stared back at Rhisveri. She glanced at Lyonette, who gave her an encouraging nod as the [Princess] sat, awkwardly, next to a tall Gnoll woman eying her with as much reserve. Asgra stared at Rhisveri again as he didn’t touch the silverware.
Slowly, the Cave Goblin reached out, grabbed a fork, and then adjusted the bacon. Rhisveri peered as the smiley-face on his plate turned into a sad face. His expression didn’t so much as twitch. Asgra slowly added two bacon eyebrows until the smiley-face became a glower.
He snorted. He couldn’t help himself. Asgra grinned and fled as Lyonette scowled.
“Don’t mind her. She’s rather—impious.”
“A Goblin serving food. Insanity.”
Rhisveri replied as he reached for some coffee and took a gulp. Then he glanced sideways at Adult Mrsha and Visophecin, who was also staring at his smiley-face breakfast. Rhisveri coughed.
“—Relatively speaking.”
It was breakfast, though a closer approximation would be to say it was food after a very sleepless night. Not only had Rhisveri’s company gotten back from that damn forest past midnight, they’d then been confronted with the knowledge that Mrsha had vanished—an alarming development.
The adult Mrsha taking her place had been, well, inconceivable, and the last three hours had been explanations. Rhisveri’s head was still whirling, and he was casting spells with his main body to see if this was all some kind of ruse.
But who would even do this? The Dragonlord of Flames? What point was there?
Lyonette du Marquin seemed similarly unsettled, but she, at least, was all business.
“Mrsha is down in the [Palace of Fates], correct? One of the Mrshas. The other one is still above, isn’t she, Ushar?”
She turned her head, and Dame Ushar flinched, then bowed deeply.
“Yes, Your Highness. Still asleep. She was exhausted after the Brunkr ordeal. She’s in her room. Dalimont has eyes on her.”
“And the other is…?”
“She’s likely asleep in the palace as well; they have a bedroll set up in the [Palace] and alternate which one is in the inn, I understand.”
“So which one is…? No. No, we’ll settle that later. We’ll go below and carefully, gently, confront Mrsha about this. This—entire event. I want the inn locked down, and no guests enter today, Ushar. Not until this is resolved.”
Lyonette’s voice was a mixture of steel and softness. Weakness and resolve. Rhisveri could actually sympathize with her a bit. She was a mother of some kind, he had to admit; her desire to protect her child wasn’t actually as manufactured as he thought. Only, now she realized there were two of them and they were mucking about with reality with magical roots.
Oh, and her older daughter had come from the future and was sitting with her.
Madness. Rhisveri still didn’t believe ‘future Mrsha’ was real. He had to admit her spellcasting appeared more refined than most [Mages] of this era. But it was just…
She clearly dyed her fur. He could tell that with his Wyrm’s eyes. The brown-furred young woman was eating with rather good manners. She hadn’t said much and jumped when Lyonette looked at her. Adult Mrsha’s mouth opened, and she cast around, visibly at a loss for anything to say. So she said—
“You’re, uh, pretty bossy in this world, Mom.”
Lyonette’s mouth opened and shut a few times. Future Mrsha stared at her and amended her statement.
“Lyonette. That was weird. Sorry.”
“Not at all…Mrsha. May I call you—Future Mrsha? No, Arrema?”
“Arrema’s fine.”
The [Princess] patted her mouth with a napkin, and ‘Arrema’ did likewise. They were identical copies of good manners, and the rest of the sleep-deprived people eating breakfast with them kept glancing between the two.
Said people were, in no particular order, Montressa, Bezale, Valeterisa, Relc, Vaulont the Ash, Captain Todi—who kept hitting himself in the head with the butt of his hand—Nanette, Hethon, Jericha, and the general staff.
Blissfully asleep were the Knights of Solstice, Elia Arcsinger, and one of the three Mrshas, who had emerged from the ‘Brunkr timeline’ empty-handed and thought no one had caught on. Right now, Rhisveri had the strong desire to go upstairs and kick the little Gnoll out of bed just so she could experience sleep-deprivation and the same level of uncertainty he’d experienced these last few hours.
Not that he was nervous—unsettled—at all. Of course not! He could understand what was going on and account for this being real, impossible as it was! Assuming he believed it was going on.
