That’s the indulgence of the old man. He gets to walk about on the stage of other people’s lives, say his piece, and vanish. He doesn’t have to know them. He’s the mysterious figure who halts a battlefield.
The kindly [Wizard] who happens to have a magical sword. In his way, he is the selfish storyteller that just tells his own tale at people and does what he thinks is right, regardless of how the people he champions feel. It is easier, you see, than having known them.
Far easier than having to regret his choices and see whom he enfolds within his glittering wings. No one is ever perfect, and they will all one day die. Easy to be the storybook hero and leave it at that.
Liscor is easy. So is Esthelm; anything he might have remembered is gone. He is free of those attachments, those regrets. He doesn’t even know the woman, Magnolia Reinhart, well. He admires aspects he sees in her and almost thinks he knows her at times, but right now it is all merciful.
He can prepare for this with less grief and trepidation in his hearts than he would have otherwise.
Draconic Titan. The sins of old Drakes admiring their Ancestors, coveting that power—and worse, creating these vastly powerful beings to defend themselves from the tyranny of their beloved Ancestors. They were not made wholly out of evil nor good.
—He knows whomever it is is mad. They descended into the dark to slaughter the kingdoms of the deep. Even if it was some noble champion, twenty thousand years has surely driven it insane. He would like to think he is better than it, but the Dragonlord of Flames knows better.
He is old, and they made them so well. Each one was made of Dragon bones and Seith Cores, the largest ever created for use by living beings. Each core has an [Archmage]’s might. The process of transmutation—horrifically painful.
The Drakes who volunteered or were chosen had every single bone in their body replaced by the new bones. Forced full of alchemy to avoid rejection. Mana circuits woven into far larger ones, healing and rehealed, until they melted into the new body. Grafted in piece by piece to a Titan’s frame.
The agony of it drove many mad. But they survived it—and then they were beings of levels wearing bodies of immortal flesh and bone. Dragonkillers. Giantslayers. Heroes and horrors—and the oldest of them has come.
Four Seith Cores? It does not matter. Even with one—the Dragonlord does his rounds dutifully. For he does not know if he can win. His armor is torn. He has looked death in the eye once already.
It is at Goblinhome where he pauses, because here all his tried-and-true methods do not work. It has been long since he warned Goblins. And when he appears at the foot of the great fortress, unable to find a [Chieftain]—he realizes he is too late.
Do you have anywhere to regroup at? A clever question because it implies it is not forever you flee. A tactical question that plays to hope. And the answer is yes.
Yes. One people is already here, slowly filing into the fortress.
Trolls. When they notice him, the Trolls back away in surprise. Fear—for many have never seen a Human before.
Many have never seen the sun. It is apparent in their squinting eyes, the way they flinch at the unbounded sky. He sees Trolls, most of them young. Clutching crude packs and filling the ground outside the fortress.
He can tell, with a single spell, how many are already inside. And more are coming. Or heading deeper into the High Passes with Goblins.
They are already fleeing.
“Ah.”
Then the gates open, and a Goblin shouts down at him. Her name is…Snapjaw. She is alone, the Chieftain in this moment, and she has thrown open Goblinhome’s doors to the Trolls. He raises a hand as she races down and tries to remember that tune.
“I bear a warning. Do you have anywhere to…go?”
The panting Goblin stands there in front of him and looks him in the eye. And she says—
“Yes. Of course.”
“Oh. Very good. It may come to this. I trust you know what to do if—I will fight it. I promise you that. Where is your Chieftain?”
The young Goblin—she is so very young, for all the age in her bearing—grins with all her teeth. With hope and desolation.
“Searching for a way to win. If she fails—we run. But this is a good place. I’m tired of running. Maybe if we keep running…”
Her voice falters, and she looks at the only home she’s ever truly known that was permanent.
“Maybe we’ll never have home again. I don’t know.”
Then she looks at him and laughs.
“But there’s no choice, eh?”
A Goblin’s bitter laughter. He doesn’t know how they can laugh. The old man bows his head.
“I’m sorry. Guide them well.”
He turns away, because this is hard—but the Goblin shakes her head. The [Chieftain of the Maw] taps her chest proudly.
“I will not. I will fight with the Queen of Trolls. With my Chieftain. Wish us luck, eh?”
She winks one eye at him, and he staggers. So easily. Then her face grows concerned, and she asks if he’s alright. The old man tries to apologize. He used to be so wrong about them.
Oceans of flame. Burning the scourge beneath his wings again and again in vicious retaliation, biting and crushing them—he draws away from her harshly and is relieved by the scream.
It comes from above. Then the great beating of wings makes Goblins and Troll scatter, and the Wyvern Lord drops on Demsleth.
Just a child. A big child, smarter than he looks, howling fury. Demsleth understands why he deserves it now.
He is knocked from his feet, sprawling, as the Wyvern Lord lands, spitting frost and ice, and the old Dragon looks up. In the furious young Wyvern, he sees righteous indignation, affection, and anger. Even honor.
The very beings he once shared a Dragonthrone with. Monsters he put a bounty on. The Dragonlord gazed up as frost gathers, and the enraged Wyvern Lord spits ice at the being who made the Chieftain cry. Who is so arrogant, so distant to everyone—
“Stop. Don’t. Enough.”
Then there is fire. Just a word, but it cuts through the frost and leaves steam and enough heat to make the Wyvern Lord flinch.
Demsleth picks himself off the ground slowly, and the Wyvern Lord backs away. Suddenly aware that he is and ever was outmatched. But the old Dragon does not scold him ignorantly this time. He realizes he has forgotten someone else. Another people.
“Take your Weyr off this mountain. They will die.”
They are already dying. We have fled from above. They will die to adventurers. To the travel. To cities of magic. They have already died.
Demsleth sees it in the Wyvern Lord’s slumped posture, hears it in the language he half-understands, even with all his age. He knows it is true; Wyverns need so much space. A Weyr of this size will never survive a transit to a new home without massive casualties. Even the New Lands…and they have lost so much already.
He murdered the Wyvern Queen. And it was murder, for all he came to the High Passes requesting peace and non-aggression. He knew the nature of Wyverns and how she would challenge him.
Of course she would. A being of flames and metal entering her domain? He must have terrified her so. Then he had murdered her when she ‘gave him no option’.
Murdered, like an adult kills a child, because he had fought a hundred thousand wars and had weapons meant to slay nations, and she was self-taught, the lone leader of her remote tribe of Wyverns. A girl, a baby compared to his age.
All this flashes in Demsleth’s eyes, and he turns away from the Wyvern Lord.
“I am sorry. For everything. Leave.”
The Wyvern spreads his wings in front of Goblinhome, and the old Dragon whirls.
“Leave! You will die here, and for what? Them? They are not your people! You are the last of us all! Your species lived while mine and Rhisveri’s died. At least you—live.”
He shouts at the Wyvern Lord, and the great beast, the leader of his people, the man staring out of those familiar eyes, flinches. The Wyvern glances at the sky, where his diminished people fly, afraid and nervous. At the Goblins. In his eyes is the same weight Demsleth knows.
He does not move. It is the Dragonlord who stumbles away. Lost, as the Goblins call luck to him. Goblins, sharing what they already lack.
 
——
 
The inn is worst of all. For when he comes there, he finds a way out. He does not mean to, but it is obvious.
The moment he sets foot in the inn, Rhisveri leaps towards him. Snarling, spitting froth, eggs on his shirt.
“How dare you come here? Begone!”
Demsleth recoils, grows furious in a second. He snarls back.
“This is my place, Wyrm. I warned you—”
The two circle each other, spitting venom and fire—metaphorically—until the [Princess] shoves between them.
“Stop it! This is not the time—I said stop! This is my place, and you will obey!”
Her voice is the same as the brave men and women who once claimed their first kingdoms from the myths and legends who inhabited the continent of Terandria. It works. Demsleth recoils, and Rhisveri turns.
“I’m talking, woman. Shut—”
She slaps him. The Wyrm recoils, catches himself.
“…I suppose I deserve that. Your Highness. This interloper is—well, I’m sure you know what he is.”
Lyonette du Marquin faces Demsleth, and they know each other. He remembers kindly days spent in her inn. Moments of cherished warmth. Would that those days could come again. Now he sees the worry in her eyes, the fear and desperation.
She studies his mismatched eyes and nods simply.
“I know who he is. And I know why he’s here. How bad is it?”
The Wyrm is making faces behind the [Princess]’ back. He stops when the Dragonlord answers simply:
“I do not know if I can win. You have the door. Use it. Take as many people as you can, if you see it coming. If that Titan crosses the mountains, I am dead. If the Giant of bones moves…”
His heart hurts so badly.
“…Then you will know how the battle is going. Scrying spells may fail.”
A simple warning. She has a way out. Just as the [Innkeeper] would want. Lyonette nods, pale-faced. The Wyrm scoffs with all the arrogance of his kind, but also a hint of uncertainty.
“Don’t pad your ego, old fool. If that is a Draconic Titan, what of it? You killed scores of them back in the day.”
“Yes. I did.”
“So…enough with the pageantry. Deal with the matter. You have a damn army backing you up.”
A Lucifen stands behind the Wyrm, trying to hide his nature, as if Demsleth has not known his kind. The Dragonlord is too tired to judge. Too tired to tell Viscount Visophecin that he knew brave and courageous and righteous Lucifen, and they were sometimes the same as the most foul his species could be.
Doubtless, the man knows it. For the same could be said of any species. The Dragonlord replies to Rhisveri simply.
“My scales are torn, Rhisveri Zessoprical. Far worse than when we did battle. My scales are torn. I am bleeding already from a foe I could not best even if I were at my greatest. A foe I have been bested by twice now. That Titan is older than you. It could kill me even if I were hale. They were made to slay the likes of you and I. I will try to live. But I have come here because I fear it.”
Honesty, bare and true. It draws the Wyrm’s venom, and he is guardless for a moment.
“I—you really are serious, aren’t you? Dead gods. Why don’t you ever ask for help? Fool.”
The Dragonlord’s temper sparks, and he spits back.
“From who? You? Would you even come if I begged? Take the gift I offered you, boy. Let us make peace.”
Once more, the Wyrm shakes his head. This time warily, eyes shadowed. With…guilt? He glances at the [Princess] and thinks she misses it, but she does not. Neither does Demsleth.
“…I am open to the idea. Later. At this moment, I insist you remove yourself. I have this situation under control.”
It does not look like it. What warrants Rhisveri’s presence? Demsleth is concerned, but he knows he cannot spend time here. The [Princess] regards him, and her eyes flicker. She is standing next to two beings of incomparable power, and she knows it. So is what comes next intentional or a slip up?
“So you didn’t come here for…the…”
She hesitates. She’s tired and distressed and off her guard, and Demsleth puts the clues together in a moment. He notes Rhisveri’s possessive defensiveness, the tell of the Lucifen—his blank face and the way his shadow twitches.
The what? Demsleth casts a spell, and a dozen voices echo from within the inn at him at once.
 
“…is that? I don’t know him—?”
“Demsleth. Some guy Magnolia knows. In your time is she…? Eldavin?”
“Eldavin? Oh—no, in the future, he’s dead—”
“—Whether 2nd Army wins or loses in the [Palace of Fates]?”
“The future is uncertain, apprentice. Even if we see an outcome, replicating it is…”
 
The…what?
The Wyrm seizes Demsleth in one hand, a grip of iron. Before the Dragon can react, he casts a spell.
“[Hydrabane Venom Volley]!”
Corrosive, purple magic rips a hole in Demsleth’s chest. He convulses as the [Princess] screams, but it doesn’t hurt. It’s just an image, and the Wyrm knows it. Panting, he kicks Demsleth back.
“Don’t approach this inn. Or it will be war. Do you understand me, Dragonlord?”
His eyes are wide and frantic. Behind him, Demsleth sees a young Gnoll recoil. A Gnoll with dyed brown fur, wearing a magic collar. So…familiar…in aura, but still different. He stares at the older Mrsha, and his mind puts an idea together.
Chronomancy? But there are no Level 80 [Chronomancers] anym—
Then Demsleth collapses into a pile of sizzling mana and venom, and he sees no more. But the Dragonlord knows.
A way out.
There is always a way out.
Head bowed, a Dragon in flight wavers and almost crashes as his wounded wings falter. There might be certain help there. If he has time—
He knows this trap, but it is always different. He wavers as he passes over an army of Drakes; some shiver and look up as a shadow with no caster passes over them. The Dragonlord hesitates.
He does not land as a pink carriage opens and reveals a figure he does not know, yet knows. Magnolia Reinhart.
It is not true, what she believes, what is said of him.
The Dragonlord of Flames will always fly.
Sometimes he flees. Those who believe the best of him forget.
How do they think he lived this long?
 
——
 
A pink carriage emerged from the swirling mists rising above the Floodplains of Liscor like something out of the faerie tales. That’s right—a pink carriage pulled by ghostly horses. Bright pink.
It said something that Noass didn’t even bring it up as the camera panned upwards to get it in frame.
“Ah, Lady Magnolia Reinhart appears to have visited this impending battlefield herself. Are you seeing this, Sir Relz?”
