She activated a little scroll that Palt had worked up for her, and it exploded with a bang and a shower of illusionary confetti. The sound nearly gave several people having breakfast in her inn a heart-attack.
“Dead gods, Erin! Did you have to do that?”
A very upset Ceria wearing half her continental breakfast picked herself—and her food—off the floor. Erin winced.
“Oops! Uh, sorry, Ceria. Good thing you’re not in the beach garden.”
“Why? What’s—”
The open door to the beach was currently flashing a concerning number of colors. The half-Elf heard shouts of alarm over the din of about a hundred fireworks exploding over the heads of the slumbering guests there.
Erin Solstice hesitated. She listened to the first screams of alarm, the cursing, and then hurried over and shut the door to the beach garden. She dusted her hands innocently.
“Oops?”
The door slammed open on the other side of the common room, and the first angry person came striding through it. A mostly naked Jelaqua holding a towel around her body.
“Erin! Did you have to scare everyone to death? Maughin dropped his head he was so alarmed, and you nearly blew out an eardrum!”
“Sorry! I thought it would be fun—”
“On a hangover?”
“Hey, it’s not my fault you drank—”
More irate guests were emerging, though some of them looked a bit more satisfied than others, despite the din. For instance, a very sleepy Relc emerged with the biggest grin in creation on his face.
“We’re not under attack then? Good—I, uh—I’ll be out for breakfast shortly. Just—”
What appeared to be a floating ball of blankets followed him; Erin’s jaw dropped, and Jelaqua stopped threatening to dunk her in the water headfirst as they saw Valeterisa blearily staring at them. Valeterisa and Relc. He hurried her back through the door, but the realization was so startling that both Erin and Jelaqua gaped at each other and forgot why they were fighting.
Yes, The Wandering Inn was full of surprises, merriment, the occasional heart attack, but generally good things. Especially today. Erin pinched her cheek.
“Relc and Valeterisa. Wh—well, good for him. Hey, Calescent! We need a super breakfast for everyone! To apologize for the, um, explosions. Do we have one?”
He gave her a big thumbs up from the kitchen through the open window, and Erin wiped her brow in relief. She beamed around, completely forgetting to feel bad as Pisces, with bloodshot eyes, gave her a death-stare as he tromped into the inn. Erin sat down on a block of ice, shot to her feet, and shouted.
“Aw, come on, Ceria!”
Rather uncharacteristically, Ceria flipped her off and went back to eating her salvaged breakfast. Okay, it was characteristic of Ceria, but not towards Erin. The grumpy Pisces took a seat at the table, eying Ceria.
“Ah. You didn’t stay at our beach house, Ceria? It saved you from that unpleasant racket.”
“Not by much. Erin set off a mini-explosion before that.”
Ceria gestured to the messy floor as Silveran appeared with a mop, and Pisces rolled his eyes.
“One needn’t have guessed that if a bad idea could be had, Erin Solstice would do it twice.”
He ducked a breadroll hucked at him and slammed his head into the table. This didn’t even make Ceria laugh, which was so out-of-the-ordinary that Pisces hesitated, even as he clutched his skull.
“…Is something wrong, Ceria? I thought you were just, ah, disinclined to share space with all the rather active pairings last night.”
He meant Jelaqua and Maughin, Lasica and Rufelt, and even Relc and Valeterisa; the beach garden plus drinks and a sociable time had led to a number of romances starting or engaging in noisome ways last night. He hadn’t cared; [Silence] spells were invented for a reason, but he’d been in his rooms, studying some of Az’kerash’s spells. Pisces tried to smile and lighten the mood.
“Yvlon and Ksmvr didn’t, ah, have any magical help, and at least one of the rooms in our shared villa was not soundproofed. I gather the two of them decided to sit and watch the stars. Far away from the villa.”
“At least someone had company last night.”
Pisces nearly spat out his first sip of eggnog.
“Yvlon and Ksmvr—no!”
“I meant you, idiot. Weren’t you out flirting last night? I saw you at one of the parties. Or did the sniffing charm master strike out?”
The [Cryomancer] was definitely in a bad mood. Pisces hesitated, averted a sniff, and coughed into one sleeve instead.
“I did not ‘strike out’, exactly. Rather, I feel as though I laid the foundations of a—do you know that female Drake with the unique scales?”
“Pink and blue?”
Pisces heaved a huge sigh as he stared into his cup.
“I would have said rosary and cobalt. An [Alchemist], too. She’s quite, ah, eye-catching—”
“Yeah, she seems like she could deck you. High-level. Saliss’ cousin. So you put yourself out? How’d it go?”
The [Necromancer] was adjusting his robes, and Ceria noticed he’d tried to comb his hair and make himself magically more presentable today.
“Well, I daresay we chatted quite amicably. I had a bit of—let us just say Ishkr was there, despite having his job to tend to, and he and I were vying for Miss Onieva’s consideration.”
Ceria glanced up from her eggs and translated all this.
“—So you’re fighting with Ishkr over who can impress her more, and she’s playing hard-to-get?”
Pisces stabbed at a breakfast waffle as it was brought over by Asgra.
“I dislike how you framed that. I might see her later this evening. You wouldn’t, uh, happen to have any things I should improve on?”
Ceria eyed Pisces with a bit of grudging fondness and reached out. She ruffled his hair up.
“Uncomb that hair. Just try to be charming and not a show-off. I’ll wish you luck. Better luck than me.”
She went back to glowering at her mug, which was frosting over. Pisces hesitated.
“I thought you were…well, wait. Are you seeing someone…?”
He hadn’t been aware of that, though now he thought of it, she had been taking some time off now and then. Ceria’s reply was short as she savagely bit into a sausage.
“I thought I’d see Kevin tonight. But apparently he found someone or just ‘forgot’. Lucky me. I was sitting out waiting for him for two hours.”
Pisces’ mouth opened.
“K—perhaps he was in the wrong place?”
“I’d love that to be the case. Don’t worry, it’s nothing serious.”
The moody half-Elf made Pisces seriously worry for Kevin. If the [Mechanic] had found someone else’s company for the night, he might have more than a cold seat to worry about.
This was the morning’s drama, such as it was. Minor affairs like that. Lasica and Rufelt threw sandballs at Erin as they walked in, and she got a heckling from other people who’d woken to a heart attack from the explosions. But by and large, it was a great Winter Solstice.
—Kevin hadn’t slept, and neither had several others, like Moore, Halrac, Pyrite, or Headscratcher. They appeared slowly and didn’t interact with everyone else. Kevin didn’t even seem to notice Ceria’s glower, but when she realized his appearance wasn’t due to a hangover or company, she grew concerned.
The only person who actually noticed, in fact, was Erin Solstice, who glanced at some of her guests for a long moment as they appeared. Something was off in The Wandering Inn.
But on this day of days, what could go wrong?
 
——
 
You know who was in a good mood today? Teriarch. Or Demsleth or whatever his name was. Eldavin, perhaps; he was alternating between all three disguises.
The Dragonlord of Flame, in the flesh, intact and whole. He’d almost lost himself on Terandria, during the Ailendamus war. Near-run thing. He’d forgotten how dangerous simulacrums could be, and he’d had amnesia after being clocked in the face by Cognita. Then almost died in battle against Dioname, the Great General of Ailendamus.
Foolish stuff, really. Thankfully, both Ailendamus and the Dawn Concordat had drawn up a peace treaty when both sides had realized how close they had come to mutual annihilation. The war wasn’t ‘over’, but with Ryoka Griffin somehow mixed up with Duke Rhisveri, they had achieved a tentative peace.
If you asked Teriarch how to explain that one, he would have had to launch into a complicated explanation about Ryoka Griffin’s Courier status taking her to Ailendamus, whereupon her unique viewpoint—and perhaps attraction to the immortals—had led her to making a mess of the Court of Masks and identifying numerous immortals in Ailendamus’ ranks before coming to the attention of Duke Rhisveri. Who’d taken her captive.
So many things were the same, but for different reasons. Yet in this better time, one crucial change had occurred—Teriarch as Eldavin had never lost his memories battling Cognita in Wistram. Ryoka had gone to Ailendamus, but the being who had gone to rescue her had always been the Dragon she trusted.
Cue the Archmage of Memories entering the war, as well as Tyrion Veltras, and the entire mess was settled with the help of The Wandering Inn. Mostly. Sort of. A peace treaty had been signed for four months. Tyrion Veltras had committed three of the Five Families to help the Dawn Concordat. And Ryoka Griffin was currently fleeing engagement offers from Tyrion Veltras and Duke Rhisveri of Ailendamus…
Well, the Wind Runner seemed to be quite amicable with Tyrion Veltras. Which wasn’t to say that Duke Rhisveri didn’t have a chance…especially with what Teriarch suspected the ‘Duke’s’ true nature was.
The point was that Teriarch had come to The Wandering Inn to relax after all that entanglement. He’d adopted the guise of Demsleth to eat, drink, make merry, and he’d been living it up the last, well, month.
Only Magnolia Reinhart had spoiled his mood; she kept nagging him about obligations and being out of shape—rather hurtful comments about his true form’s weight. When Demsleth had pointed out that nothing he ate in his fake form would go back to his true form, she had pointed out that also went for fake muscles and his rather toned physique as Eldavin.
…He’d been having his true body do a few laps around the Floodplains. Well, one. Running in the snow was quite tiring. He’d do two tomorrow. One had to build up to it, you see.
“Ah, more eggnog. Where’s Taletevirion? Still drunk from last night? Nevermind, this is excellent. No, eggscellent. Heh.”
Demsleth was in fine form today over breakfast. He smirked to himself as he stroked his grey-and-white beard and cast around for approval.
Magnolia Reinhart stood up at the table where she’d been having a morning sugar with a dash of tea.
“Ressa? I believe I’ll breakfast in private. Please tell me when he stops punning.”
“Very good, Mistress Reinhart. Will you be having your breakfast extra snooty or with it on the side?”
Ressa followed Magnolia as Demsleth looked around indignantly. Magnolia was just put out because he’d spent so much time at Wistram and with Ryoka Griffin. Events had forced his hand! He admitted he’d been a bit more…interactive with the world of late. More than he’d ever done in the decades he’d known her.
That hurt her feelings a bit, he understood. In truth, Teriarch couldn’t quite account for what had motivated him to do all that. He’d gone to Wistram to shake it up before Ryoka Griffin had gotten into trouble. Because, of course, he’d been disgusted with the state of things. But he’d been generally disgusted with Wistram for millennia. Why now?
…He didn’t know, and the Brass Dragon wondered why he’d thought of it today.
Strange, that.
He rather felt like a sleepwalker who had emerged from their slumber only to recall all the things they’d done while unconscious. But he was still occupied with enjoying himself, so he turned to the second person at the table.
“Do excuse Magnolia. She’s quite irritable before her morning cup of sucrose. Low blood sugar, one expects. I’m sure she’ll be quite willing to hear you out after she’s had her repast. As you were saying, Baker Garry?”
The [Baker] was sitting nervously at the table, scrunching a red hat between his hands as he delicately ate some Antinium-approved bread he’d made. He jumped, then dipped his head.
“T-thank you, Mister Demsleth. I was just speaking of my project?”
“Ah yes. Project Extra Santa.”
Demsleth focused and conjured a pair of spectacles onto his brows more for the look of things than anything. He shook out the papers in front of him. Doubtless, Magnolia was reviewing the same. She just didn’t want Garry to note her reactions. Cautious, that woman.
“The funding is, hmm…well, shall we go over it?”
“Yes, Mister Demsleth. I have calculated how much it would cost per child to receive some toys. You see, this is for children who did not receive a full Christmas supply of toys.”
Christmas. Such an odd concept. Not foreign, but…Demsleth tapped his fingers on the table.
“Yes, quite a low number.”
“I can certainly budget it if there is not enough f—low?”
Garry broke off, and the [Baker] sat up a bit as Demsleth eyed the underlined sum.
“Gold-wise. I realize you are trying to save costs given the scope of this project, young man, but a gift for children, especially in terms of food or other necessities, is not to be put to a low sum.”
He wagged an admonishing finger at Garry, and the Antinium’s mandibles opened. He caught a meaningful stare from Ressa as the [Maid] paused in the hallway with Magnolia’s breakfast and slowly nodded his head.
“Yes. Low. Well, I was offering the, um, bare minimum amount for you to review. I can provide a larger figure if you were willing to foot it.”
Demsleth lifted his spectacles up and gave Garry a grandfatherly smile.
“In my experience, young man, it is best to ask for all you dare to set expectations. Just a word of advice. We could also reduce costs even further magically. Transportation, even creation of some of this—not food. But all that’s required is someone with a white beard and a red hat?”
He rather liked the idea. It was past Christmas, but this ‘delayed Santa’ initiative sounded rather…good. Not just fun. He imagined flying around and leaving gifts for children. And he liked the idea. Garry was trembling with nerves and hope as Demsleth pondered it.
“Yes indeed, this is the kind of thing that should be done. It’s not grand interference—er, from me, you understand—but I can back it. You know, wasn’t there that [Knight] belonging to the Order of Haegris? They would go for this kind of thing. Put that together with Wistram and you could expand the reach of this program.”
“W-Wistram? How?”
Demsleth remembered his form and coughed.
