“Well, someone knows how to lead an army, at least. Though I’ll have to…there’s no help for it. They’ll know I’m alive if Manus and Oteslia haven’t blabbed about it already. If I’m lucky, they’ll keep it to High Command.”
That was a sense of how dire things were. The Dragonlord of Flame, notorious for mind-wiping anyone who saw him, was willing to let his identity come out if it meant backup in battle. True, he’d revealed himself to Terandrians, but that had been a showy affair, if Magnolia’s aunt had relayed it right. Classic Teriarch.
This—was what he did when his back was against the wall. The Dragonlord jerked his head, and his main form vanished in a flash of light. A man walked out of that illusion. Demsleth, the weary traveller.
“Shall we? I’ll take the carriage.”
Magnolia knew his real body was probably flying or climbing after him, but Demsleth was as good as any Named-rank by himself. She nodded, and a pink carriage was waiting for them as Ressga scrambled to hold open the door for the duo, then climb into the driver’s seat for Reynold.
Ressa was already in the carriage, nodding at Demsleth as he sat with a sigh.
“Lord Xitegen is on the way. He was already messaging us and asking if the 7th Hive is coming.”
Magnolia pursed her lips, vexed.
“I would put them with us, but Centenium Xrn deemed her contract to clear the High Passes complete. She took her entire Hive south and is heading for the New Lands.”
“She won’t turn around? She seemed intent on levelling those…[Crusaders]. Regardless of casualties. This appears to be a battle she’d relish.”
Demsleth frowned, and Magnolia tapped her lips and responded as Ressa shrugged.
“It must be that Halfling. The Small Queen is no fool; if she thinks something that magical can outmatch her, she won’t engage it without a damn good reason. There’s a difference between counterlevelling and obliterating your army.”
“True. Damn. Well, I wouldn’t be comfortable with her at my tail anyways. She’ll definitely remember me from destroying her army during the last war. Which you assure me I did.”
Magnolia nodded without comment. She could have pointed out Teriarch had also slain Devrkr the Glowing, but she didn’t think she needed to add more reasons why Xrn would happily let the Dragonlord of Flames die.
We can do this. We must. Oh, she was tired of this. It felt like it was just yesterday she was trying to save the world from the Goblin King and, before that, the Antinium.
How many more times must I do this? I led Lord Linter Veltras to his death against the Antinium. So many died at the Sacrifice of Roses. I failed at the Goblin Lord. Zel Shivertail is dead. How many more times must it be me?
She knew how ironic it was to think that while sitting next to that weary Dragon who had said the same, but Magnolia finally got it. She murmured.
“I don’t believe I’m ready this time, old man. I have done this before. Desperately. But truly, I don’t have many cards left up my sleeves.”
She held up her delicate fingernails and inspected the glossy finish on them. So unsuited for war. Demsleth turned and, awkwardly, smiled at her and rested an aged hand on her knee.
“So few are ever ready, Magnolia. But what separates those who deserve to be remembered from those that do not…is who stands or turns despite it all. Again and ever again.”
He met her eyes with such a kindly smile that her heart ached for the him she knew—and she could not help but speak pettily to break the genuine emotion in her heart.
“Oh, so very easy for someone with Dragonbreath, talons, and Adamantium-grade scales to say.”
Ressa snorted, and Demsleth spluttered and growled. Then they fell silent. Serious, now, Magnolia leaned back as the carriage inclined, and she felt them go up.
“—Are 2nd Army and Lord Xitegen’s forces enough? He’ll only have a few hundred soldiers. He relies on his Golems.”
Demsleth drummed his fingers on one pant leg.
“I do not know. It must be. The Titan will emerge. That I am certain of. You are correct, though. I should take—precautions. Just in case. Allow me some time. Thirty minutes—if you meet with General Shirka and explain matters, I will be there in person shortly. Demsleth will warn various groups.”
“Liscor? Esthelm?”
“And Goblinhome. And—the inn.”
Of course. He was thinking of the innocents. And it meant they truly might fail. Magnolia Reinhart nodded, and Demsleth turned and vanished. She sat there for a while, and Ressa said nothing.
There was nothing to say.
“Did you ever think we’d end up like this, Ress? Backed into a corner without our house to draw on, trying to fix things this badly broken?”
The [Maid] looked up, and then they were two young women again. Ressa flicked her hair back and removed her fake spectacles. She tucked them away and cracked her knuckles.
“What? Cornered like starving sewer rats by a hound of jackals? I didn’t hope it’d happen a second time. It was always like this back in the old days.”
Before she’d taken control of House Reinhart from her family. Magnolia smiled, and Ressa reached out and gripped her shoulder.
“How things change and stay the same, for all our efforts. For over twenty years—”
And they hadn’t saved anything. She closed her eyes, so endlessly weary, to avoid Ressa’s expression of genuine concern. The carriage flew on, the wind whistling from an improperly closed gap in the windows, high into the air. A flying carriage…Magnolia wished it was still special to her.
Then Magnolia heard something. It was coming from the front of the carriage, past the sliding window Reynold could speak through. She could hear the driver’s seat, just like he could listen into conversations in the carriage.
It was handy to have a [Butler] who could spy on anyone she offered a ride to, and handier because he needed to listen to most conversations she partook in. Of course, Reynold never openly admitted he eavesdropped; that was why he was a trusted servant. She knew, and he knew.
So he had heard this rather dispiriting conversation, and perhaps he too thought of the first time she had met a fierce, dispirited [Cavalry Lieutenant] frustrated with the narrow-sighted army he fought in and offered him something more. If so, he had nothing to say—but someone else did.
It was a high, rasping voice, raised in song. The words made no sense to Magnolia as she sat up a bit, then opened the hatch. Wind rushed in with more sound, but the words still made no sense. They were rhythmic, almost eerie, but still sounded optimistic, and it took her a second to realize what it was.
“Goblin.”
Ressga was sitting next to Reynold, watching the spectral horses pull them into the air. She was dressed up in her maid’s outfit, a bit taller than the little Goblin who had appeared before Magnolia and begging for a job. Becoming a Hob, perhaps?
She was singing. Singing in the Goblins’ tongue. Swaying back and forth, that haunting melody caught by the frigid winds so high up. Magnolia listened as Ressa glanced up from the scrying orb.
It was not a pleasant song. It was whimsical, ethereal, some chant meant to be sung alone. Therefore, it was loud and had weariness and pride in it. Magnolia listened to Ressga singing until she had to ask.
“Reynold? What is Ressga singing? Don’t make her stop.”
The singing faltered as Reynold bent over, and Magnolia saw the back of his head bend low to the little Goblin beside him. Then it half-turned.
“She says it’s a song for Goblin women to sing when they’re about to do something difficult or dangerous, Lady Reinhart. ‘A song you sing for yourself, because no one else will, that makes you happier even when you’re sad’.”
It was such a literal description that it made Magnolia smile. She shivered as the wind blew into the carriage, and she closed the little sliding hatch. Ressga began singing again after a moment, and Magnolia listened to the song.
“I quite like that, you know.”
That was something. Some very small thing—but it also occurred to Magnolia that for all she was back here again, this was the first battle where she and Teriarch would fight for their lives. Truly fight together, side-by-side. Not even the Winter Solstice had seen that; he had merely been that distant figure. Now, they were closer to equals.
Magnolia leaned against Ressa, and the [Head Maid] muttered.
“She’s singing it for you.”
“Quite an honor.”
Magnolia decided to take a nap before they got to their destination. Duty and obligation, desire and hope. When she opened her eyes, she would be the Lady of House Reinhart. These fragile days of peace…had almost made her forget how it was done. Maviola El had been a true lesson in that.
Soon, she would remind herself, and all who watched, what it was to be a [Lady].
 
——
 
An old man did the rounds. Like a familiar tune you might hear from the oldest man you’d ever meet.
Imagine, if you would, the tender of a lighthouse. A lonely hermit-like fellow, lined and white-haired, but still active, arguably far beyond what he should be. Someone tending to mechanisms as old as he is; so old that no one but he really knows how they work.
Oh, someone could replace him, and someone might, be it a well-meaning official appointing someone to take the role over or a stroke of a pen by someone who has never met him. But those who take his place will find they don’t understand the mechanisms in their neat handbooks.
They’ll look at the lighthouse array and focusing lens—no part of which is in their manual—and be lost, even if he tries to explain why you angle it like this to catch the light, or how to act when the power from the city surges every other Tuesday—he is one of a kind.
That kind of man. He would prefer, perhaps, to retire, but there is a part of him that is this job, and if he passes away in the course of it, it is all he knows. That kind of old man moves so slow, but he will get his job done each day. Sometimes lives rely on the steady glow of that lighthouse.
Like that man, the Dragonlord hums. Not out loud, for that would be crass; it is the tune in his soul. That familiar mechanism moving between his fingers? The feel of a rudder in his hands or the hiss of naphtha in the lantern he lights?
So too is it in what he hears as he appears, first in the city of Esthelm, then Liscor. He does not take long; nor does he shout why he comes.
He strides towards the leaders of the city. The real leaders; a Dwarf hammering metal in his forge, glaring at a scrying orb he half-watches out of the corner of his eye. A busy [Mayor]. The head of the city militia, nervously walking the repaired walls and having a word with his men.
In Liscor, it is a Watch Captain who jumps when he comes up the stairs and opens the door. Then the Watch Commander, who demands to know who he is. The Council of Liscor, who leap to their feet as he enters their room.
All of them simultaneously. Six Demsleths stride forwards and speak. They say different things each time, and it is a strain to control six different bodies at once, but this—
This the Dragonlord knows by heart.
He does not say ‘doom’ or ‘beware’ or anything so trite and ominous. He watches the people’s faces, answering their questions, speaking over them, mostly, but not really taking in the angry Oldblood Drake or the various faces of the Councilmembers. Even the Dwarf does not give him great pause, though they know each other.
It does not matter, you see. Demsleth is just reading their expressions, their postures, seeing if they are listening, if they have the will to do what must be done. If they do not, he will find others. If he must, he will walk through the streets as a [Soothsayer], a caller of omens, and shout to the people and all who will hear.
—But these are good people. Intelligent, and they listen. It does not take much to convince them, and if he needed to, he could conjure parlor tricks to make himself seem the part. It is not needed. When he has their attention, the old man asks them a simple question he finds works best.
“Do you have a place to regroup at? Supplies for a week? Do you know how to evacuate your city—should it come to that?”
Not ‘here is what to do’ or ‘you must flee’. He just poses a logical question. One they may have never pondered. Today is the day to ponder it.
A Drake with purple scales screws up his face. He leans over the table.
“See here, Mister—Demsleth? Liscor is a city of over a hundred and seventy thousand. We’ve almost doubled the population…! Do you know how impossible it is to evacuate that many people? Let alone find a place to put them all or feed them! Where would we go? The Bloodfields would be suicide, and we’re at war with Hectval. If we went north—? If this city is lost, the livelihoods of all those people are gone.”
Demsleth engages with the Drake as the [Mayor] of Esthelm says much the same thing. The Watch Commander argues the casualties of such an evacuation would be in the thousands.
The Watch Captain is silent. So is the Dwarf, his hammer grasped tightly in his hand. But Demsleth says the same thing to them all.
“I know it is inconceivable. I know how many will die. It is your choice, you who hold these people’s lives in your hands. Some would stay and fight. I cannot make that choice for you. But I warn you: when this disaster comes, it will take the lives of everyone in this city. A monster is coming, and it will take everything if it breaches your walls. I will try to stop it. If you see it, I am dead. If you see it, do what you must.”
Then he smiles, and the voice is gone from the Drake, the [Mayor]. Then—the Watch Captain pushes herself up from her desk. The Dwarf lays his hammer on the anvil. And they ask the next question they always do.
“Who are you?”
Demsleth meets Watch Captain Zevara’s eyes. He gazes into the lined face of Pelt, the [Hammer of a Hundred Metals], and sees, for a second, the mark of the Grandfathers upon him.
Gently, he takes the Watch Captain’s hand off his arm. He nods to the [Smith]. He walks out of the Council’s rooms.
“Does it matter? I have not always been here. I have been that thing which destroys homes. I am here, and I tell you the illusion is ended. Trying times await. The days you read of in stories have arrived. They shall not always be loud or that different from the next until they are upon you. Prepare for it.”
Then he turns at the doorway, and his eyes ignite with golden flames, just for a second, because he loves the drama and show of it.
“—No matter if it wins, I will give you a day. If you believe in luck, wish it to me.”
Then he turns back and is gone.
 
——
 
