She didn’t seem angry, nor even that upset. The [Lady] had a rueful expression on her face, tinged with regret and weariness, but she walked with her back straight, her shoulders relaxed, her chin held high. Over the rocky ground and the bed of black petals, towards the waiting Drake [General].
Only then did the petals stop drifting down. Perhaps, because some of them realized how they were making Magnolia look. The [Lady] turned her head as more earthbound carriages slowly rolled up the mountain, using less fancy enchantments.
Servants were clinging to the sides of the burdened carriages, sitting on top. They were all armed for war with far more significant weaponry than you’d expect. [Maids] with battleaxes, manservants with longbows. Even nasty, magical artifacts; long tubes of engraved runes.
One of them, a Drake with a frilly headdress and that classic black-and-white outfit, was smoking a cigarette. She glanced down, then guiltily stubbed it out and leapt from the roof of the wagon, joining the column of servants moving to flank the [Lady] of House Reinhart.
The woman said nothing. She just halted there as General Shirka came striding towards her, and she shaded her eyes, staring skywards. Watching and waiting for something.
Someone. Black petals clung to her dress, and she stood there, a lone, pink figure in a sea of armor. Faintly smiling into the sun.
That image stayed with you, if you saw it. Even if you were a continent away, if you had never known her before that, if you were family—for a second, you knew the Magnolia Reinhart they had once called the Deadly Flower of the North.
And, no matter how hard he tried, the Dragon flying invisibly through the sky couldn’t look away. His eyes stung. He closed them and shed one blurry tear for someone he knew, though he could not remember her.
Now, he knew her, and he saw in her image his shadow. For a second, the Dragonlord of Flames wondered what Archmage Eldavin saw, and he did not envy that man’s pain. Then he dove and descended.
“Not today. So many times have I bravely run away. Dancer, Quarass, Daughter, brave little Mage. Archmage…”
Images flashed before his eyes as he closed his wings and his torn scales pulled at the wind. His stomach dropped as he accelerated, and the Dragonlord struck the ground. Noass stumbled, and [Soldiers] shouted in alarm as the [General] turned.
“…Sheta. Lady Reinhart.”
Invisible, the Dragon rose from the cracked earth and saw her smiling. He took a breath, exhaled, and every naked torch and magical flame within ten thousand feet bloomed into life, flames bursting upwards. The Dragonlord shook his head.
“Not today.”
Then, as was never easy, as it had ever terrified him, like that old man humming the tune of the final song, he set himself for war. The Drake [Reporter] was running his way, and the Dragonlord clicked his claws.
Noass and his news team vanished. The scrying spell showcased a flailing Drake falling out of the air and landing with an oof on the ground.
Rain pattering the camera as it stared at the skies over the Floodplains of Liscor. Frantic questions from Sir Relz. That’s what the world got to see.
2nd Army training their weapons at what they knew was there, even if they couldn’t see, even with magic, tensed as General Shirka held up a hand, broadcasting a mental ‘wait’ order across her army. The Drakes, Gnolls, Garuda, and Dullahans kept their hands tight on sword hilts, around the hafts of spears, on the triggers of crossbows—or the corks of alchemy flasks and slings.
They watched the rippling gap in the air as dust shifted around it, clouds vanishing and coming into being. Then there was a golden glow. The flash of scales and a gasp—from Lady Reinhart.
He took one step into the light, and the mists had left his scales wet and gleaming. His metallic mane shone as the Dragonlord shed his illusion spells. The light stunned the army. Each soldier suddenly remembered their first storybook of Dragons, as if they were a child again, whether it be of wrathful beasts or cunning, wise heroes, guardians of fabled treasure, or anything in between.
Teriarch was exactly like that image, his scales glowing golden. After all—sufficiently polished brass looked better than real gold. Under the right light. He took one step forwards, his four taloned claws digging into the ground, as he folded his wings behind his back, and the nearest Drakes sat down or fell to their knees.
The General of 2nd Army said nothing, but she was made of sterner stuff than her soldiers. She had seen a legend before, an immortal monster of chitinous wings and buzzing voices, and she had met her own hero, the wily, slim trickster with a bag full of miracles. But that was Shirka’s story.
Shirka glanced sideways at Magnolia Reinhart’s smile, relieved and worried and terrified, and the Drake exhaled and nodded to herself.
“So that’s the Lady of House Reinhart. Not for Pallass nor Manus nor any other Drake city or bastion. Only her.”
No one understood her comment in the moment. Strategist Ulhouse’s stupefied eyes slid sideways, and his brow furrowed, but Shirka just began walking forwards. For the Dragon of stories and the only person on the continent who could summon him to battle.
…Shirka wished Saliss were here to see this.
 
——
 
“I am Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flames. Your cities know my name. Long have I slumbered and refused to involve myself in the affairs of this world, save for the gravest threats. The last time I revealed myself, it was for the Creler Wars when the ground and skies were black with their numbers. Now, I have come to battle the Draconic Titan who emerges from the Kingdom of Trolls’ shattered halls. I ask for your support. I request that you keep my secret. However, the truth of this moment is that the future, all our futures, hang in flux. We must reach it, by flame and sword, or else countless souls will perish. That is why I am here.”
The thing about being a Dragon was that people let you say your piece. Most of the time. The Dragonlord delivered his address to General Shirka, and the Drake stood there, eyes flickering from him to Magnolia to her officers.
Shirka took several seconds to respond, and he judged her poise as immaculate. She was still thinking, even when face-to-face with a myth.
“You have my word I shall keep your secret as best I am able, Dragonlord. 2nd Army will cooperate fully with Lady Reinhart’s forces and adapt to any battleplans you have. May I request a complete briefing of the enemy and scenario? Will there be other reinforcements?”
Taletevirion. Teriarch dipped his head.
“I do not know. Lord Xitegen’s force is the only other I have sensed in this region, aside from Goblins and Wyverns. I shall reconnoiter this area subsequent to our conversation. We have the benefit of time. I calculate the Titan shall emerge within one hour and thirty minutes to four hours, depending on its speed, if it intends to give battle immediately. Based on its movements and the accounts of Troll survivors, it is aiming for the surface. For your army.”
The [General] nodded slowly.
“Is it aware of…your presence?”
The Dragonlord bared his fangs, rueful.
“It is impossible for it not to be, even were I inclined to hide. It senses me, much like I would sense another Dragon. Come. Have you a war table or tent? I can transform myself to better address you in private, General Shirka.”
Her name made the Drake react for the first time. She stepped back as a red-scaled Drake appeared in front of the Dragon, tall and imperious and still old, garbed in battle armor. She hesitated, addressing her words to the Drake and the Dragon.
“You know me?”
The Drake flashed her a grin as his cerulean eye gleamed in humor.
“It would behoove me to know my allies, would it not? I have been in seclusion, not ignorance, 2nd General. Strategist Ulhouse.”
He was showing off. The Dragon most eminently was, but because he deserved it, a bit, and because they did need to impress the Pallassians, Magnolia Reinhart bit back her usual trite replies. Shirka just nodded, but Ulhouse, the [Strategist], finally found his tongue.
“G-General, High Command wants an immediate update! What should I say? And this is—”
He bit back the ‘is this real?’ comment and tried to say something intelligent.
“Dragonlord, have you made no contact with any Walled City? The—the respect our cities have for your kind is—”
“Well known. Prone to sour. Undesirable, [Strategist]. I would have left Pallass to its own devices another six thousand years if I could have. Even the few remaining Dragons in this world do not contact the Walled Cities.”
“But, sir! Why not?”
Teriarch turned his head as he headed for Shirka’s tent.
“Because you call us ‘Ancestors’, but the truth is, the moments when Dragon rules Drake or Drakes command Dragons have been terrible times for the world. And that balance where both exist in equal, mutual respect is so rare. I am not the Dragon of Pallass. I did not grow up in its walls. I do not love the City of Inventions. When I was a hatchling, it was not even a dream or a little Drake village making cute clockwork creations. Nevertheless, I have bled in Pallass’ defense, watched companions die to both assail and save it, and seen the city through all its ages. I am…rather tired of doing the same things.”
That rather effectively shut down an entire range of questions and also kept Ulhouse so silent that General Shirka was impressed. She opened the tent as the Dragon folded his claws and rested there.
“Can I offer your…main body refreshments, sir? Do you need anything pending our briefing?”
Teriarch’s Drake form almost shook his head, then paused.
“Hm. Do your [Armorers] have any pure iron lying around? I have been chewing on some copper, but I don’t have any raw iron in my possession. I do also request your army spread out its formation by about fifty percent; any strategic decisions are your purview after our discussion, but that may simplify our tasks later.”
Shirka nodded.
“Ulhouse, get on both. I’ll bring in everyone above a [Captain] in rank, with your permission, sir. How do I address you? This is Spearmaster Gaellis, one of our highest-level combatants. Level 46.”
They were both speaking on multiple premises at once, and anyone still sitting on ‘there’s a Dragon here’ was going to be left behind. Which was intentional. If you couldn’t keep up, you shouldn’t be there. Teriarch nodded at the [Spearmaster].
“Dragonlord is somewhat excessive. Sir or Lord or my name will do. May I present Lady Magnolia Reinhart and her staff? Her [Maid], Ressa, would be the champion of House Reinhart’s forces. The higher level one.”
Shirka might be playing it cool, but she was still rattled and swivelled around and threw Magnolia Reinhart the first salute a Reinhart had ever received from a Drake [General] in probably over ten thousand years. (Zel Shivertail didn’t salute.)
Magnolia offered her hand for Shirka to shake, and Ressa half-glowered at Teriarch as Gaellis’ eyes swung to her. Shirka entered the tent and swept a claw. Officers were hesitantly approaching. One coughed, and Shirka’s head swung to him. He looked at her silently, and she glowered.
“Out loud, [Major] Tonsec.”
The Dullahan held his head under one arm and blushed as he nodded it.
“General. The troops are—uncertain.”
“What’s there to say? They don’t get their tails in a knot when a Named-rank adventurer or Magus Grimalkin shows up. Tell them to talk it out, get digging trenches, and if anyone thinks about sending a [Message] spell to someone, I’ll throw them off the nearest mountain. We have a war to win. Gossip later.”
The Dullahan flushed, but he appeared relieved, and the Dragonlord nodded as the [Major] marched out of the tent to shout. He leaned over to the Human woman, who was surveying the map of the mountain.
“A rather competent army, as you said, Magnolia.”
“Oh, General Shirka is renowned as a leader who can get things done, Teriarch. She even uses Antinium tactics—her army thinks as one.”
Shirka’s head came up as the Dragon nodded.
“So I noticed. That may be invaluable. General, do you have any signature style or weaknesses I should be aware of?”
“I like fast adaptation in battles. 2nd Army moves in and hits the enemy. We don’t focus on ranged battles. We have battlemages and alchemists, but they’re a close-ranged punch as opposed to fire support. We have two ballistae here; two more set up in another camp. Two-thirds of my army are elsewhere. This is a dedicated vanguard.”
“Appropriate. Larger numbers will not work on this Draconic Titan. They were meant to destroy armies. This particular one I strongly suspect to be a Mortemdefieir Titan. I have received a curious briefing as to its powers I am not sure I can fully trust…but if it’s accurate, then we are facing a death-magic specialist from the ancient City of Graves. One with four remaining Seith Cores in its body. I do not fully know its nature, however. And I suspect that will only come out in actual battle.”
The Dragonlord was beginning the briefing without all the officers present. It was a sign of how much they needed to get on. Shirka spread her claws out on the table as Ulhouse returned at a run.
“The, uh, iron is—”
“I am eating it. I can control both bodies mostly seamlessly. Do not be alarmed if my ‘real’ body departs or vanishes. We have much to do.”
Shirka nodded again.
“So…what are our odds for this battle? I need a list of the enemy’s capabilities, yours, sir, how we can best multiply our assets and reduce the enemy’s, and then a battleplan.”
She leaned forwards, and the Dragonlord exhaled hard, concentrating. Now he was in it, his nerves were fading. But never gone. They had so little time.
And simultaneously…there wasn’t much to do.
Hurry up.
Hurry up and wait.
 
——
 
The Dragonlord flew as his main body did all the explaining and informing of what the threat was to the [General]. She was solid, competent; he couldn’t ask for more. He’d tell her what she needed to know, get her army deployed right, but in truth, he didn’t have much to do.
Now, you might think that a Dragonlord with his vast resources and abilities would want all the time he could. That Teriarch would pull a Scroll of Time Slow or Time Stop out and fortify this area until he had all the advantages.
There were two problems with that.
One—he had no such scrolls. If you had one of those damn precious items, you used it the first time your back was against the wall. There were items even Teriarch didn’t have—anything that actually worked on a Dragon of his level, like a healing spell, he’d already used.
