Second, even if he was inclined to run a hundred enchantments, it was pointless. He was up against a real foe, a fellow immortal, even if this one had spent much of its time trapped underground in pieces. If his foe sensed too much preparation, it would retreat, force the battle elsewhere. It’s what he would do.
He understood this game; this was not a regular battle between nations or armies. In those, you degraded the strength of the foe. Victory could be a battle where you simply lost less soldiers, even if you gave up the terrain. Or where you took a city; the objectives were different.
This was a battle to the death. It only ended when the Titan or Teriarch died. Everything besides that was pointless, futile. Both combatants knew their real objective: end the other. Teriarch had several plans to kill the Titan.
He’d done this before. But he didn’t know its true nature; oh, he knew basics like what kind of Draconic Titan it was and its general capabilities, but each Titan had been made of a person. They all had quirks, like each Dragon.
I must uncover its own personal tricks, as surely as it will try to remember anything it knows of me and counter mine.
Mind-games. Cat and mouse. Then pure violence and desperation till the end.
Lovely.
In the interim, Teriarch did what he could. With Demsleth having delivered his warnings, he flew over the High Passes, scouting for other groups. To his surprise, he actually found two.
Goblinhome was one factor, and Teriarch did not miss the Frost Wyverns flying from the inn and Goblinhome as well as that damn stubborn Wyvern Lord. He hoped they would stay out of this.
This battle would be beyond them. The help he was willing to even accept was the army of a Walled City. Lady Magnolia and her servants. And…
He landed, grimacing as his legs bore the shock of the fall. At least he wasn’t gasping for air from flying, but he was not in good condition. His body was healing. Hence the sight of over two dozen decent Golems and a [Lord] jogging in front of a small column of soldiers was welcome.
Lord Xitegen Terland took one look at the giant Brass Dragon who had just appeared and landed in front of him and held up a hand.
“Hold! Primera, pinch me. Seconda, stand in front of me. Take aim—tell me ‘Old One’ isn’t code for ‘Dragon’ in Goblin or Drake parlance.”
What a brave man. His soldiers flinched back, and a woman in a Golemshell levelled one of her spell-arms at him, but Xitegen Terland only winced as one of his Golem bodyguards pinched him in the stomach flab. Hard. He held still as Teriarch spoke politely.
“As far as I am aware, it is not. We are on the same side, Xitegen Terland. You are forty minutes away from 2nd Army’s camp. Lady Magnolia Reinhart and General Shirka await you there. I am the foe of this horror from the mountains. Will you stand with me as Terlands have done time and again? I have been Magnolia Reinhart’s confidant for decades and bear Izril no ill will.”
Lord Xitegen absorbed all of this, and his face screwed up. Someone gasped, and his soldiers rustled, but the [Lord]’s reply was direct.
“Magnolia had a Dragon in her back pocket? Typical of the woman. Just as well that I kept out of her business. Did you participate in the Antinium Wars?”
“The first one.”
“Not the second?”
Lord Xitegen’s eyes glittered dangerously, and the Dragonlord of Flames recalled Magnolia giving him some advice on the subject. He replied carefully.
“I have stayed out of every major conflict with known entities for the last ten thousand years, Lord Xitegen. The Antinium were new. So were the Crelers. Goblins…are merely another people to me.”
All of Lord Xitegen’s forces tensed up as heads swivelled back to the [Lord]. But the Golem Lord’s face just tightened, and he sighed.
“That explains The Wandering Inn. Wonderful. Well, I’m not stupid enough to quibble with a Dragon with the Golems I have here. Forwards march! I’ll have a word with Magnolia later.”
He waved a hand, and his soldiers didn’t move until the striding Golems made them race to catch up. Xitegen glanced at Teriarch, resting one muscled leg on a stone.
“And you, Dragonlord, I invite to a cordial drink over the corpses of our foes once this is over.”
Teriarch grinned despite himself.
“This particular corpse would be virulently unpleasant. I shall accept, pending our victory, Lord Xitegen. Allow me a spell?”
The Golem Lord nodded, and Teriarch fanned his wings.
“[Mass Haste].”
He leapt into the sky as Xitegen and his entourage sped up. The [Lord] blinked down at himself, then tested his legs. He stretched, a smile on his lips.
“Ah, now that is delightful. For the chance to run to First Landing and back—! Oh well.”
He began to run, passing by his soldiers and the Golems as he beelined up the hill. He’d settle for this.
 
——
 
There was another force on the mountain, though. Well, not this mountain. He’d missed them, but as he widened his detection nets while dodging all the damn scrying spells, Teriarch spotted another group sixty miles away.
They were the only force he could see reaching this area short of teleporting in, so Teriarch flew towards them. On the way, he received an encrypted, familiar spell.
“What are you doing?”
Eldavin. The Dragonlord felt it was particularly unpleasant to receive one of his own specialty spells and resolved to double-check all his security measures when he finished this battle. If he survived.
“Fighting a Draconic Titan set on wiping out everything it sees. Ah, but you might not remember what those are. Bad news.”
He snapped back as he flew. Eldavin wasn’t sending visuals, but the man—the man’s voice was clipped.
“And you’re fighting it out of, what, charity? Don’t make me laugh. Are you going to reveal yourself to those Drakes or snipe it with spells behind a mountain? I may assist them, but not with our battle between us.”
How much does he remember? Does he understand how afraid I am? This Eldavin assumed Teriarch would never show his face.
Well, more fool him. Teriarch’s reply was calm.
“Your ‘long-ranged support’ is going to be as useful as Pallass sending any spells. I would accept it if I thought it would make one whit of difference, mind you. Prepare to help Liscor and Esthelm evacuate. That’s what you can do.”
He heard Eldavin draw breath for a sharp reply, then the Archmage of Memories hesitated.
“—You’re serious, aren’t you? That’s why you’re there in person?”
He doesn’t remember Draconic Titans. Lucky bastard. Teriarch would have loved to trick Eldavin into coming to save the day and hopefully being destroyed, but the idea of an undead Eldavin—and you could corrupt even simulacra—was not pleasant.
“Stay away, Archmage of Memories. You may fancy yourself equal to me with your new rulers. But you forget we are not invincible. Come, if you want to die.”
Teriarch cut the connection. He wished he did have backup, but again—
Not much of it was good.
If you gave him a month, he could do things. But they were largely like the things he was doing now. The blunt truth of this was that even if he had Magnolia muster every Human from here to First Landing she could lay her arms on—Teriarch would just march that army as far north as possible.
A hundred thousand soldiers would do no good. A million would do no good—and only play into a Mortemdefieir Titan’s hands with its death magic. High level people were…well, what was ‘high level’?
If I could, I’d call the Deaths of Demons over. It might work? The Death of Magic might well fly over, but…no. 
That would just scare the Mortemdefieir Titan away. Then you were hunting in the mountain. Teriarch could just imagine how hellish that would be.
Oh, if he could have hunted the Titan in pieces, he would have. But it would have been a problem in a confined space like that, even facing the separate parts.
Other people were obviously desirous of his attention if they knew he existed; Teriarch was cutting off a swathe of spells to Shirka’s camp aimed at everyone there. Only one spell caught his attention, and he grabbed it as he descended out of a cloudbank.
First this.
 
——
 
The Dragon landed amidst the Goblin tribe, hearing their shrill war cries of alarm. The first thing he saw were—Great Goblins. Giants filled with muscle, weapons raised.
One charged him with a roar, and the Dragon spoke.
“Fomirelin? Well met. I am the Dragonlord of F—”
Naumel’s second-in-command, Cazmaw, hit Teriarch with his enchanted club with all his strength. The haft of wood with bits of other broken artifacts embedded in it as ‘teeth’ snapped over Teriarch’s snout.
The Dragon kept speaking.
“—Flames. Your tribe is in danger. An Old One has awoken.”
Cazmaw backed up a step, and an even larger Goblin pulled him aside.
“What? You speak?”
Chieftain Naumel of the Kraken Eaters stared at Teriarch. The Dragonlord stared back at him. Teriarch opened his mouth.
“Yes. I am warning you of danger, Chieftain. Do not advance further. An Old One has appeared. It will slaughter your tribe.”
Naumel’s eyes narrowed as he pulled at his lower lip. He half-turned to one of his [Shamans], then raised his voice.
“—What’s an ‘Old One’?”
The Dragonlord of Flames was flummoxed for the first time today. He hesitated, tried a few words, then shrugged his wings.
“A particularly nasty monster. One that can destroy your tribe. Ah…keep back. Go the other way. Goodbye.”
He leapt into the skies and banked, vanishing as he circled. Several Goblins tried to shoot arrows after him, but they went wide.
Startled, confused, and in the [Shaman]’s case, exceptionally dismayed, everyone turned to Chieftain Naumel for guidance. First Rags was on the scrying orb, now this!
They were tired, vaguely lost because Naumel kept pointing in the direction of Rags—but she kept moving or vanishing, and now there were two of her, apparently—and now they’d just met a giant…what?
Naumel scratched at his chest where some of the wounds he’d taken from Rags itched. He nodded slowly.
“Gold Wyverns can talk apparently. I could beat it.”
Goblin expressions cleared at once, and there was a whoop of support as they regained confidence. Naumel nodded.
“Keep going!”
He pointed ahead, and Cazmaw spoke.
“That where Chieftain Rags is?”
Naumel paused and squinted. He narrowed his eyes, glanced right, left, up, down, and then behind himself. He grunted sourly.
“No. She’s gone again. Just go that way!”
He pointed at where he felt like he remembered she’d been last. The Kraken Eaters’ jubilation became a long-suffering sigh. They stared at the mountain and began to descend the one they had just climbed.
On the plus side—they’d killed a lot of monsters. They’d just run across a megaherd of a thousand Eater Goats.
It had been a good breakfast.
 
——
 
Sometimes you just ran across independent parties like that. It happened. Teriarch would have dearly loved to know how a Goblin tribe like that generated so many Fomirelin.
Possibly a Goblin Lord, or at least, one in the making. It would have been good to have him on my side, but then again, a mega-Draugr isn’t a tool I’d want to hand this Titan.
That was the thing. Death-aligned enemies were so damn inconvenient because you could feed them bodies. When was the last time Teriarch had run across a nice, chill, frozen enemy, hm?
Oh, right. I don’t run across those anymore because most were quite easy to burn to death. The number of immortal foes he’d had over the years—and coincidentally the world population of ancient powers—tended to go down proportional to how flammable they were. Or meltable.
Back to work. Xitegen had just arrived in Shirka’s war tent, and all the involved sides were now introducing themselves and whatnot. Teriarch was flying back, and he just had one last thing to do before, well, he was ready.
And that was open one particularly odd [Message] spell. Teriarch tended to screen all spells before reading them; there were Skills that could activate merely with words. Actually, here was one now.
A trapped [Message] designed to activate a communication or other kind of Skill upon reading. Even if you only received it, the very act of ‘receiving’ it activated the trap. Like the old ‘explosive runes’ in a [Message] spell trick. Very popular among some [Archmages] back in the day.
The trick was to copy the spell without looking at it. Then you could even ‘rewrite’ it to contain substantively the same message, just with different words. How did you look at or receive a message without processing it mentally?
Easy! You just created a sub-personality, intelligent-ish spell, or if you wanted to be cheap, an expendable worker and had them do it. In Teriarch’s case, he just used an advanced familiar spell and had the Book Familiar do it. He read the spell in his head.
“…Very interested…blah blah…my regards…oh, how mysterious. No clue as to who sent it.”
Just someone who knew the old tricks and had some kind of power-negotiation type Skills. Wonderful. At least it wasn’t Belavierr. She used threads, not words.
That wasn’t the interesting message. Teriarch read the other one as he flew, and his wings faltered a bit. It wasn’t encrypted, and it was sent to him by what he suspected was a cheap [Message] scroll. But it was…
Rather alarming. Though it started off weirdly.
 
I just woke up. Is it happening? I know what you’re doing, Teriarch. I sent you a letter. This is dangerous. You could die. There’s a one-in-five chance of it, even with Magnolia’s help and with you at full strength. What can I do? No one can fight for you.
 
The writing. Was this…? No. It couldn’t be. But then, Teriarch’s mind flashed to Rhisveri’s panic, and he hesitated.
Reply to sender, encrypt spell—he attached a recharging spell to his [Message] and another one to alter the [Message] scroll to only write encrypted messages in his personal style. He could have made the girl’s scroll explode, but why would he do that?
Are you the one who informed Chieftain Rags about the Titan? How do you know so much?
He knew how she knew. He had a…supposition. Though it was incredible.
[Palace of Fates]. He’d heard of that Skill, murmured in the inn. Could it really be a Skill that was that powerful? [Soothsayers] had amazing abilities, but that sounded like…and who would have it? Erin Solstice? It felt even too powerful for her, but if Rhisveri believed—
It took a few seconds before Teriarch sensed her writing, and she replied.
Yes. I—we tried to stop it. Rags nearly did.
“Vocal dictation. Familiar, transcribe and constant-send. Ahem. Stopping it? That is madness. Even in pieces, no Goblin tribe would stand a chance!”
