The Drake tentatively stuck a painted microphone into the face of an impassive Drake watching the proceedings, arms folded. Strategist Ulhouse stood with wings folded behind General Shirka, and both were at military parade rest. The Drake observed her army for a long moment, then turned and barked at Noass.
“I refuse to comment on military operations by Pallass’ armies! Moreover, I point out that the High Passes are neutral ground not claimed by any power. 2nd Army will not comment on any movements or operations save for the one currently underway!”
Noass reeled back slightly like a drunk Drake, which he very well might have been. They’d bundled him up on a Wyvern after hauling him out of bed in the middle of the night to fly here and do this interview. He rubbed at one earhole.
“I—uh—very commendable, General Shirka! But you are here, aren’t you? Is this in reply to that Goblin’s appearance on Channel 2? Which is not endorsed by Channel 1, by the way!”
He added spitefully. Noass was hoping this would eclipse their numbers from last night entirely. But General Shirka wasn’t exactly giving him much to work with, so he was hoping for a juicy soundbite. Her reply was just as sharp.
“2nd Army is preparing a battlefield to engage the enemy, as you see, Reporter.”
“Uh? Good! Yes! Which enemy would that be…?”
Her brows drew together, and she stepped forwards, somehow managing to tower over Noass despite not having much height over him.
“The threat of an Old One of the Titan class, of course! The Walled City of Inventions has maintained a position of absolute destruction for such threats whenever they arise! My [Scouts] with [Advanced Dangersense] reported their Skills activating and numerous quakes within the High Passes these last few days. We have intelligence suggesting the enemy may be a weapon of war from the age of the Ancestors’ War!”
Noass’ mouth opened as the camera cut back to Sir Relz as he leaned forwards over the desk.
“What was that? Is that credible, Noass? That can’t have come from a Goblin, can it?”
“Sir Relz is asking—is this intelligence from the Flooded Waters tribe, General?”
Shirka took another step forwards and bellowed so loudly in Noass’ ear someone had to turn the volume down to avoid deafening the watching audience.
“Intelligence from a Goblin? Are you suggesting 2nd Army receives credible information from Goblins?”
“No! Er—please modulate your volume, General! So you are saying an Old One is present in the High Passes?”
Noass cast around as if afraid one would spring from under his feet. But General Shirka stepped back and unfolded her arms. She saluted the camera and stared into it, face blank.
“I cannot confirm or deny the presence of an Old One Titan at this time, Reporter Noass.”
“But you just said 2nd Army was here because of…”
“We are deploying against the threat of an Old One Titan.”
Shirka’s face didn’t move. Noass’ mouth worked as he looked around, then gave Sir Relz a helpless gesture. The other [Reporter] didn’t know what to say and shuffled his paper. Noass tried again.
“So there is one?”
“I cannot confirm or deny the presence of any monsters in this area save for local varieties, sir. And I must ask you to remove yourself and this broadcast before you compromise our position.”
A pair of [Soldiers] appeared at Noass’ side. He jumped, then began to protest.
“Wait, but this isn’t—I have questions. I have questions! I’m a reporter, don’t touch me—”
The camera jostled as [Strategist] Ulhouse strode for the person holding it and then it turned off. Relz closed his mouth and then looked into the camera. He was actually having a makeup person put on some scale cream and powder and hurriedly brushed them away before straightening his vest.
“I—uh—well, that was 2nd Army’s General, everyone. Stay with us as we try to get more information. I’ve asked General Edellein of 1st Army for a statement—he would be the commander of all Pallassian forces at the moment, a personal friend—and we’ll have more coverage live. For now…”
 
——
 
General Shirka watched her own face on the scrying orb until it went to Sir Relz, then relaxed. Perfect. Only then did she answer the furiously buzzing speaking stone.
“General Shirka, 2nd Army.”
“General, what is going on—”
She let Edellein shout for a few minutes as she held the speaking stone away from her earhole and watched her army setting up. It wasn’t actually all of her army. Only a vanguard. An entire damn army was cumbersome to wield against one foe, even a massive one. This was a handpicked group for the threat as she understood it.
The bulk of her forces were higher up in the mountains, too far to actually reinforce this vanguard if it came to a battle. It was a strategic risk that Shirka had decided was best, given all her plans.
Plus, not all of her army fit this task. The [Goblin Slayers] and other dedicated [Slayer] forces in her armies were high-level specialists. But they were also old-guard; every time a new [General] changed armies or came into power, they brought their people in, and old [Soldiers] were either rotated into new armies or adapted.
Shirka had won the respect of all of 2nd Army, or so she liked to believe, but she could not count on all her people to follow every order she might give…especially where Goblins were concerned.
Smaller her vanguard might be, but their fortifications were solid as she could ask for. Scrying spells were already coming in hot and making her scales itch; she’d told the [Mages] not to bother blocking them. There were too many, and it didn’t matter.
When Edellein paused to draw breath, she spoke crisply.
“General, please inform me whether we are entering into any truce or alliance with Lord Xitegen Terland or Lady Magnolia Reinhart. My intelligence suggests that the 7th Hive of the Antinium may be in the region as well, but they appear to have pulled further back along the High Passes, possibly to avoid conflict.”
“The—what?”
Shirka responded smoothly as Edellein choked.
“Both nobles have forces and appear to be digging in for battle as well. Lord Xitegen’s Golems have us in range. In light of this and our army’s position being compromised by the broadcast, I elected to confront the Old One Titan head on.”
“Your orders were to take out the Goblin fortress as well!”
“Yessir. I am bearing them in mind, but I would prefer a truce or alliance, or at the very least, neutrality while facing what I consider to be the greatest threat. That is eminently preferable to assaulting Goblinhome while under the effects of Lord Xitegen’s rain of arrows or Lady Reinhart’s servant-assassins.”
That gave Edellein pause. Blowhard or not, he was no idiot. He could imagine how a siege would go when the enemy knew you were there—and he’d gotten a good look at how Goblinhome was tougher to crack than most forts. Add that onto one of the nobles of the north taking a swing at 2nd Army and the battle could go ugly.
Lord Xitegen never participated in the north-south Bloodfields battles. If he did, they’d have to snipe him or counter with their own best forces, and it would escalate matters severely. His ability to literally rain down arrows nonstop was a mundane army killer. Whereas, if they could ally against an Old One Titan…
“Approve your next actions through High Command, General!”
He snapped, and Shirka sighed, but just answered in the affirmative.
“Of course, sir.”
That would restrict her actions unless she was reacting to something, but it didn’t matter. She had made her move before he could interfere, and now she was placed. Like a chess piece who had found the best spot to make her stand on the board. Shirka was relaxed as she stood there. Her heart was pumping, and she heard thunder in her head.
Her [Dangersense].
The Titan was coming. That she knew. The General of 2nd Army let politics play around her and just waited. She hoped Magnolia Reinhart was more than a reputation. Because right now…Shirka took a swig of water and cleared her throat.
“Ulhouse. Put the scrying orb on and tell me if we’re getting reinforcements. And dig in. Tell the lads they’re earning their pay today. The enemy is going to strike around midday is my guess.”
She pitched her voice loud enough that [Soldiers] heard her. They didn’t react, but she could hear them thinking, communicating. Her dander was up; Shirka felt her blood flowing faster, which Saliss claimed meant more air was entering her muscles and limbs. Regardless, she waited and hoped she wouldn’t be doing this alone.
The General of 2nd Army cast her eyes to the mountains and wondered if that Goblin Chieftain could see her and the offer.
Here I am. Here we are. The Old One is coming. Are you?
Either way, Shirka would fight it. Together—or alone.
 
——
 
When Magnolia Reinhart saw the Drake’s broadcast, her estimations of General Shirka rose. The Drake was rather unsubtle, but a sword did as much damage as a concealed dagger when used right.
She was brave to publicly do this. It was perhaps not the move Magnolia would have made, but now it was her turn to react, the [Lady] of House Reinhart made her decision.
“We are moving to her location. Reynold, strike our camp or whatever we call it. And inform Teriarch; he will wish to speak with General Shirka, I think.”
There were protests, of course. Reynold had one, as did Ressa. The [Combat Butler] bowed.
“Lady Reinhart, with respect, your presence—”
“Is eminently required, Reynold! If only so that I can reap the publicity of standing with Pallass’ glorious 2nd Army against an Old One for all to see! It may improve my credibility in the north and south!”
Magnolia kept her voice light, and Reynold hesitated—it was Ressa who turned her attention from the servants striking their own fortified ground.
Servants—wearing armor. Magnolia had drawn on the more militant-minded of her staff. People who had the [Maid] or [Butler] classes, yes, because that levelled…and also who had been former [Soldiers]. Adventurers.
She didn’t have many. Magnolia relied on her allies for this kind of thing, not her own standing army. She had cause to regret that of late, but it was just not her specialty. However, if Teriarch was going to battle, she would be there.
But as Ressa said…
“You don’t have to be there, Magnolia. There is no Skill you can’t throw. Even your chains. And if you use them—”
The giant undead might come to life and attack Liscor. Would it be better or worse when it was underwater? Magnolia kept her voice light as she levelled a glance at Ressa.
“I do have other objects. Such as my ring—”
“Give it to me. Don’t do this. Don’t put yourself in danger.”
Magnolia saw Ressa hold out her hand, and she stepped forwards so the two could whisper. The [Lady] hissed.
“If Teriarch is going to battle, I shall as well, Ressa. Don’t argue with me and support me!”
They had to lead their people, not publicly strive! But Ressa just met that gaze, as stubborn as a mule.
“He’s wounded, and you’re afraid he’s going to die.”
“—and that deters me how?”
“You’re not a warrior. In this battle, everything counts. He might waver because of you. I can’t fight and abandon you either. Just leave this to us, Mags. Please.”
Ressa used Magnolia’s childhood name, which she didn’t do when they were in public. Lady Magnolia Reinhart hesitated, then lifted her chin.
“…You heard me, Ressa. I will be there and level.”
Or we shall all die. The [Maid] clenched her gloved fists, as if debating knocking Magnolia out, but then she lowered her head.
“Think your grandfather would give us the Crown of Flowers for this?”
Magnolia laughed bitterly. Of all the times to want Regis Reinhart’s help—she shrugged as the servants began packing the only artifacts she had left suitable for an engagement of this size.
“I could petition my family for help. But let’s get on the scrying orb first. It sounds like Xitegen is coming with some sort of aid. If they see us, our families will help.”
That was how it was supposed to work. However, Magnolia suspected she knew what the response from her family would be. She wondered if you could teleport explosives directly onto someone’s position with modern magic.
Well, Teriarch would hopefully prevent that.
 
——
 
The Dragonlord of Flame was panting when Magnolia found him just outside his cave. They’d chosen this spot to do battle on the premise he could lure the Titan here. It wouldn’t be hard to get to 2nd Army; they were several mountains over, true, but Reynold could run the carriage almost anywhere even if it burned mana crystals.
Besides, when you had a Dragon, you tended to get anywhere you wanted fast. Though in this case…they had one Dragon where they’d had three.
And he was wounded. So, soon, Magnolia might have no Dragon at all. That thought terrified her.
Cire was gone. Rafaema was gone. They had been dragged back to their cities by their handlers, and both had put up less of a fight than one might expect. They understood how grave this was, and after that damn Halfling…
That damn Halfling may well have killed them all. Magnolia could still see rends in Teriarch’s side, like a [Knight]’s armor that had been pierced open. Scales were torn off or peeled upwards in curls of metal. His skin beneath had mostly healed, it seemed, but each one was a gaping wound in his protections.
He was panting for air. She knew he was breathing, refining his Dragonbreath, but it sounded—wrong. It sounded like what she’d always known he was, in the back of her head.
Old. Unready for war. She knew he was one of the most fearsome beings in this world, but when she saw him crouched there, head bowed, mane glowing in the light, she thought she saw the end of a story. And she wanted to tell him to run, to run and hide away. But she couldn’t.
She loved him like a child loved a teacher, a girl’s first infatuation, and with the deep, abiding love of someone who had known someone else forever, because the Dragonlord of Flame would never run when he saw injustice right before his eyes.
He would always fly.
“Old man, change of venue. 2nd Army of Pallass has appeared, and they seem to be challenging that Old One. I thought you could use backup. You’ll have to convince General Shirka to follow your instructions, though.”
Magnolia kept her voice casual, and the Dragonlord started when she approached, as if he hadn’t noticed her. He turned his head and growled.
“2nd Army? That—could work. Where?”
For answer, she pointed to a scrying orb her Goblin Maid, the adorable Ressga, was holding up. Teriarch’s eyes focused on it, and he snorted.
