Assuming he did—the Wyrm could see a thousand benefits, intelligence to be gained, let alone using these ‘roots’ to see into the future. He could predict wars and trends! Learn magic from the future. And indeed, there would be strife when the child, Mrsha, realized everyone had found out her plans and had opinions about what she was doing.
Trying to revive dead friends. Admirable, really. Rhisveri meant it. It was childish, foolish, and naïve to expect to replace anyone. Cruel, abundantly cruel, and more evil than even Visophecin could be if she succeeded. He would have put that down to childish idiocy, but a part of him believed she understood what she was doing.
And if this is all real…that means there are futures where Eclizza lived. Where Fithea and Dioname are alive. 
Rhisveri kept that thought tucked so far back in his mind he didn’t dare engage with it. Especially because when he glanced at Visophecin, who returned the look—the two immortals both knew they’d had the same thought. And then they were calculating as well.
How many roots were there? And who will try to stop me?
Rhisveri had sworn a promise, in full honesty, to Lyonette du Marquin to aid her. He meant it. He still meant it. He had sworn with the integrity of a Wyrm, and it had meaning to him.
—He would take those roots and do what he vowed necessary with them and damn everything and everyone. But he would honor his promise too.
That paradox was currently simply unresolved in Rhisveri’s chest. There was no need to confront it. It existed, two conflicting truths, until the moment breakfast ended and he found out what he would do. And that was his calculation.
The Wyrm didn’t notice he was eating some of the delicious bacon until he swallowed. He blinked, then took another bite. It was…
Good bacon. Huh. He was sort of hungry after all.
Fancy that.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin was no fool. She understood just what Mrsha had gotten herself, and now the entire inn, into. Rhisveri was eating his breakfast with every sign of relish, but it didn’t fool her.
I have invoked his aid, but I didn’t understand the field. I should have sent him away, but the moment he heard this older Mrsha—my daughter?—call me ‘mother’, it was too late. How can I stop him? What can I do?
She didn’t know. But she did know she would protect her daughter. All three of them.
Lyonette’s head hurt. She wished to believe she was dreaming. Experience with Solstice events told her she was not. She poked at some toast and turned to Arrema.
“Am I not this…forwards in your world, Arrema?”
“You don’t have a Thronebearer. And the inn’s pretty quiet these days. You gave up running it two years in. No one wanted to visit, and besides—you were running for Councilmember. You’re head of Liscor’s Council right now, actually.”
“Me?”
Lyonette laughed despite herself, incredulous. Why would she want to be a [Councilmember]? It was such a reduction in status…you might as well just not have a position if that was all the authority you had.
The laughter seemed to irk Older Mrsha. She frowned.
“It’s not a bad position. Liscor’s the City of Charms in the future. It has the same net revenue as Invrisil does in this time.”
“What?”
That was shocking. Even so—Lyonette shrugged delicately.
“But it’s still a deferred position of authority. I might as well run for office now—but I am a [Princess].”
Future Mrsha grunted and snapped her fingers together in realization.
“Right, you’re still one in this time, aren’t you? You abdicate your throne. You still have the class and put on airs, but you don’t level as a [Princess] anymore.”
Lyonette choked on her toast. Dame Ushar made a faint sound and swayed; Future Mrsha grinned. A painful grin as she gazed down at Lyonette.
She was so tall! She was strong, fit, and she had poise, excellent diction—even if it was magical—and aside from her odd clothing, she was so…wonderful.
At the same time, how lonely she appeared. How—how—
Ryoka-like. Lyonette hated to use that term, but there was something familiar about that desperate, driven unhappiness that was quintessentially Wind Runner. Future Mrsha couldn’t sit still, and she babbled, again, like Ryoka.
“Yeah, you’re always wearing business outfits, not dresses or aprons. You go out, wine and dine with other foreign bigshots, or go on trips to other cities via the Portal Stations.”
“The what?”
That came from Visophecin, the first thing he’d said in over an hour. Future Mrsha waved a paw.
“Portal network across Izril. Across the world, in most civilized places. You can get to Baleros for, like, twenty-nine gold pieces. Most places on the continent for under a gold coin. I’ve been to Chandrar and Terandria; not long, but we went on a few trips.”
Lyonette frowned, imagining a world where everyone had access to Erin’s door.
“Do armies move around with them?”
“Nah. They get teleported with other spells or just [Mass Hasted] instead. Using the Portal Stations is strictly off-limits. Sometimes people try, but mostly they get attacked to shut down traffic. When the war in Rhir was happening, Demons would blow them up. Lots of terrorist attacks.”
That made one of the listeners twitch. Everyone else wore a blank look.
“Terrorist? What’s that?”
Lyonette glanced over at the twitcher, and Rose licked her lips. She tried to explain.
“Th-that’s—someone who blows themselves up in public. Or attacks in the middle of a city. You’ve got those?”
Future Mrsha gave her a thumbs up.
“Hey…you. Rose, right?”
Arrema leaned over to Lyonette.
“What the heck is she doing here? I don’t remember her being at the inn! She leaves, doesn’t she? For the Players of Celum?”
“No, she was at the Meeting of Tribes.”
“What? Weird.”
That was Future Mrsha’s comment about everything different. Despite this being the real reality. Or so Lyonette thought—she tried to refocus the narrative and instantly regretted it.
“So—so I’m content to be a leader of Liscor, am I? I gave up the [Princess] class to raise you. That’s very commendable of me. If Erin’s dead in the future…I can see it. But surely I have other things to do with my time.”
She couldn’t imagine being content just to do that, no offense to Mrsha. Especially if it was only one daughter. Mrsha took a gulp of coffee.
“Well, you’re mostly either being a bigshot in Liscor, trying to get me not to go and revive Erin, or trying to make babies with Pawn nonstop. No one’s made a potion that allows Antinium to interbreed, and I’m pretty sure he’s infertile even though he’s been revived and had his body remade twice, but wow, you keep trying hard.”
The eruption of liquid out of Rhisveri’s mouth and nose was like a geyser. Amazingly, none of it got on Lyonette; Dame Ushar blocked it with her shoulder and arm. Lyonette felt like someone had dunked her with water.
“I—excuse me, Miss Mrsha!”
She flushed and snapped at the older Mrsha and received the most unrepentant of stares in reply.
“Don’t lecture me about being proper, old woman. I’m a Gnoll. I can hear and smell what happens. Which sucks, by the way. You know you’re going to make younger Mrsha deal with that?”
She gave Lyonette such an aggrieved glower that the [Princess], now beet red, gazed around the inn of people staring at her. Which ranged from Vaulont to Peggy to Relc and Valeterisa—
“We broke up last year! That period is well behind me, and I am not seeing anyone!”
Future Mrsha’s mouth opened. She hesitated, eyed Lyonette up and down, and weakly said—
“Oh. Uh. Well, good. I don’t like Pawn.”
Silence filled only with Rhisveri coughing and wheezing. And the sounds of Asgra and a bunch of Goblins in the kitchen slowly dying of laughter. The Antinium led by Rosencrantz seemed horrified and fascinated.
No one knew what to say until a tentative hand rose.
“A-and me, Miss Mrsha? You said I wasn’t at the inn. And that I was doing poorly. Um, what does that entail?”
Nanette. When Future Mrsha eyed her, she visibly leaned back in her chair as if intimidated by the thirteen-year old girl. She caught herself and grinned, nervous. Lyonette saw her activate a barrier spell, or what the [Princess] assumed to be one.
“You’re…this is crazy. I’m supposed to be sisters with you?”
Nanette nodded.
“Lyonette is acting as my foster-mother. I—am I that much different in your world?”
“Ye-es. You could say that. You’re, uh—well, I don’t think I should say everything that happens. In case of future stuff messing up. Y’know?”
The fact that Adult Mrsha said that now fooled no one. Nanette sat up in alarm.
“Am I dead? I can handle it!”
“Nanette! Don’t speak like that!”
“I can! I have to know! What am I?”
Future Mrsha played with her food as Lyonette shot her a warning look. She shrugged, rubbing at something on her neck.
“Er—you’re not that fun. You and me are sort of enemies. And you’re a wanted [Witch]. What are you like? Uh—well, you do water magic. And you pretty much weigh what you do now. Though you’re, like, at least a foot taller.”
Everyone gazed at Nanette. Lyonette’s mouth opened as she tried to imagine someone a foot or more higher with the same weight…she glanced at the stairs, almost hoping Mrsha would come down. Then half-rose.
“We should go to the [Palace of Fates]. Dalimont can let us know when Mrsha wakes. The other Mrsha—did no one look for her? If she’s entering these other worlds, it’s not safe! I cannot believe you let her fight the Raskghar, Ushar!”
She rounded on the Thronebearer, taking out some of her fury on the woman, but Ushar held her ground.
“Your Highness, with the utmost respect, I had to know. I was prepared to forcibly escort your daughter to safety, but I judged the situation to be well in hand. Ser Normen could have taken out all the Raskghar himself.”
They’d apparently gone to a timeline where Brunkr was alive and defeated the Raskghar attack on the inn. That sentence was incredible to think about, but Lyonette saw the need.
Brunkr. She touched her chest as she wrestled with what Mrsha was doing. All the hurt about not being told aside, the anxiety, the anger, the nervousness about what would happen with Rhisveri and Visophecin and others made aware of the [Palace of Fates], Lyonette got it.
Oh, she got it.
Mrsha, you are trying to do what Erin would do. But it’s not for you, my dear, my child. Let me. I’ll grasp this thorny vine no matter how much it hurts. I should have protected you. I should have…
You’re doing what you see us do. My heart is bleeding. I’m so proud of you. I’m so worried. 
I have to stop this.
—But the world was never so kind. It was one thing to want to proscribe this [Palace of Fates] from everyone, to lock it and its possibilities away. But they couldn’t. It was Ser Dalimont, watching over Mrsha, who spoke into Lyonette’s earring.
“Your Highness. One of the staff informs me there is an event relevant to our issues going on on the news right now. Channel 1, Wistram News Network.”
By that he meant the Calanferian staff, who, incidentally, had been barred from the inn for the duration of this event. Lyonette did not trust them. If Ielane knew about the [Palace of Fates]—dead gods. She’d come here herself and stop at nothing to steal it.
“The television?”
Lyonette turned to the mirror on the far wall. Rhisveri pulled himself upright.
“The news? What th—”
He snapped his fingers, and the image appeared on the scrying mirror, then expanded to fill the entire wall. Several people gasped, and Magus Grimalkin eyed Rhisveri and jotted something down in his notepad. He was very quiet and withdrawn with these incredible revelations, but Lyonette was glad to have him here. If she could have snuck a message out, she would have gotten Saliss as well. But she would make do with what they had…
Captain Earlia’s mouth had stayed open as she tried to figure out what was going on. She and her Silver-rank team were sitting there, acutely aware of how much trouble they were in as the lowest-ranking and most expendable members of the inn if another Solstice Event occurred. But she hadn’t run.
Adult Mrsha nodded to Rhisveri.
“Nice magic. I didn’t realize anyone in the past could expand a foreign spellcaster’s spell. What kind of hacking spell are you using to get into the magic? [Madrinel’s Intrusion]? That’s standard in the future.”
Rhisveri jumped, and the Wyrm gave Adult Mrsha a disturbed look. She didn’t know he was a Wyrm.
“What? I—none of your business! I am a spellcaster supreme of Ailendamus, not a gossiping apprentice mage sharing my techniques like a child!”
Future Mrsha rolled her eyes.
“Okay, buddy. Keep thinking like that. I know you; Ailendamus joined the war in Rhir, and your forces got obliterated just like everyone else’s in the first push. I heard you got taken out, though you apparently got better.”
“I—what? When is this—?”
Before he could seek clarification, the newscast blared over Rhisveri, and everyone turned. A very sleepy Sir Relz was speaking as a familiar, and unsettling, sight played itself over the scrying orb. The instant Lyonette saw it, she recalled what the real issue of the day was. Funny how you forgot.
Old One Titan in the mountains. And on screen?
2nd Army of Pallass.
 
——
 
Thousands of Drakes were digging trenches or setting up metal-and-wood barricades. Archers ranged behind formations of Drake spears, and a pair of ballistae were being assembled in the foreground of a truly massive army. The camera panned across them, working in the still-breaking dawn light. And behind them rose walls of stone. Not the distant High Passes, that tallest mountain range in the world, oh no.
They were on the mountain. If you looked down, down, you could see, shrouded by rainclouds, the Floodplains of Liscor. No city could be glimpsed in that downpour, but the mists rising from the basin had drifted up even here.
It gave the entire scene an oddly ethereal look. Drake armor was polished by the wet mists and then rendered gleaming when the sun struck their breastplates. Soldiers marched past the camera and the lone Drake who didn’t fit in.
Noass, the [Reporter] on the ground, was shivering like crazy as 2nd Army’s squad stomped past him. The air was filled with voices, calling out orders, the clank of metal on metal, and that sound.
Thudthudthudthud.
“—That’s right, Sir Relz, as you can see, there is a Drake army in the High Passes! Ours! I’m here with General Shirka of 2nd Army, who appears to be setting up for battle! General! Can you confirm reports of, uh, 2nd Army moving around the High Passes? Ostensibly to do battle with this Flooded Waters tribe?”
