His signature spell surged across the open ground in a single line of pure heat charged with the meaning of burning. The powerful and deceptively fast attack speared through the gray mage’s shield, hollowing his torso in the same moment. He fell with a cry.

“You people are forgetting who…”

Archers crested the wall, led by a woman with black hair held in a long tail. Agile fighters followed. Arrows turned to soot before they could reach him, the iron in their tip melting into reddening blobs.

“... you are dealing with. [Azalis’ death wall.]”

Before Tallit had started casting, the meadow had been a carefully maintained garden designed to give the students a relaxing environment. By the time the wave of devouring fire launched towards the walls, it was a desolate inferno, the air warped by the high temperatures. Most of the soldiers were smart enough to fall back but a few made the mistake of trying to cut a path through the flames. It worked, then Tallit closed his hand. The splitting curtain closed again over the blademasters and they died a fiery end. One of them managed to jump over the working.

[Idran’s fly catcher]

A sphere of fire appeared around him as he had no way to change trajectory. The vanguard still managed to punch a hole through the quickly closing trap. Oleander certainly had some semi-competent underlings.

[Fireball]

Sometimes, simple was best. A torrent of small projectiles smacked into the opening, intercepting the man and killing him instantly. There were more archers and agile fighters bypassing the walls now, with heavier fighters probably climbing them. Once six or seven, the fastest, were past, Tallit lifted the Academy’s orb again.

“Activate wall defenses, section three.”

The next vanguard to try and cross had his fingers liquify though he managed to escape. Cries of pain and dismay emerged from the other side. Now only fliers could reach him until the spell arrays exhausted themselves. He turned his attention towards those he’d allowed to cross.

“Now where were we?”

The wiser agile fighters ran away from him as fast as they could. He let those who went towards the cupola leave while he speared two on their way towards the main dormitory, at the center of the park. Couldn’t have that. The teachers would handle the stragglers.

Powerful skills turned the arrows of his opponents into streaks of mana. One of them damaged the basalt armor. Tallit was finally getting warmed up, now that everything in a ten pace circle was on fire. Even the stone. Red and brown mana merged together.

[Pyroclastic flow.]

Tallit cleared most of the archers but the head woman was teleported out by some strange skill as the billowing cloud of superheated ash approached her. She reappeared on a nearby tower, then farther when a ward-powered spell almost hit her. A portal appeared close to Tallit, by the wall. He had it in a trap but something pierced through. The heavily armored soldier coming immediately after wasn’t so lucky.

[Crucible.]

The man tried to stop the fire converging on him with twin heavy shields. A vortex of power surrounded him and when it stopped, the armor was fused, the man thoroughly cooked.

“Stop coming,” the portal archmage screamed. “Stop! Wait for him!”

The archer told him something but Tallit didn’t follow. His most recent spell had been intercepted by a portal that redirected the [Idran’s Firetongue] towards him. Tallit seized and canceled the spell before it could test his defenses, then he struck the space mage’s new location just as he appeared.

“Gah!”

“You’re not the first teleporter I’ve faced,” Tallit mocked.

But inside, he wasn’t feeling so confident. It was the knife wound. He needed a priest, and quickly, but he could still go on for now. Outside of the walls, the shield shivered. It was already lucky Oleander hadn’t thought of trying another spot yet.

The pain flared again. At the same time, Tallit felt something in his blind spot. Decades of experience made him cast another [Glastian Delouser] in that general direction.

The assassin who’d wounded him turned aside with a laugh, his arm on fire. Tallit felt vertigo just as a powerful blue spell destroyed the defensive ‘teeth’. That was impossible. The assassin was dead. He’d seen his corpse. He was dead.

But here he was standing again?

“Perhaps introductions are overdue? My name is Jar’ko the Undying.”

An arrow finally pierced his defenses. A pauldron crumbled while the undying carved another hole in his armor. Tallit was on the backfoot, and Crest was casting. He had an ace, however. While his armor still held, Tallit cast his next spell.

***

Celerin Crest watched the Undying and Vanguard Eika the Elusive corner Tallit. The old fucker was resilient but he had no mobility, a weakness shared by red mana specialists with a brown secondary. If they could just keep it going… yes, the armor was getting chipped. Jar’ko was staying one step ahead despite a missing arm. Whatever skill kept him going must be struggling to heal him by now. Crest redoubled his efforts, casting gray and brown spells but giving up on blue ones. The ground of the Academy was now a bubbling cauldron not unlike a volcano. The forest was gone for over fifty paces, replaced by lava dripping from crooked rocks. More vanguard mages were going over the wall by flying, but the rest of them were blocked. He didn’t want to open another portal — the sight and smell of Durgan the Gate cooking alive would feed his nightmares for the next season.

“We need more people,” Eika screamed.

“We need Nero,” Crest realistically replied. The dean was a fucking monster. Oleander’s triumphant march was not going to plan. He swore and teleported another volley of fireballs coming from the beleaguered archmage. They exploded around only to add their heat to the hellish battlefield. Even with a bubble enchantment, it was getting hard to breathe.

“Shit. Focus on him!”

“Sir Crest,” someone screamed.

“What?”

A vanguard raced back towards the battlefield. He was wounded.

“Sir, the students, they’re leaving!”

“The army is deployed to block the roads out.”

“By portal, sir!”

Crest paled despite the heat. This was all to get control of the Academy. Without the students, this place was just a particularly expensive dormitory. He needed to get to the students.

“Can you stop them?”

The man looked at him like he was stupid. To be fair, Celerin had just asked him to face hundreds of mages, some of them trained in combat alongside the teachers supervising them.

They needed more people, and for that, they needed to take Tallit down. Dammit.

“More, more!” he ordered.

Crest went all out, redirecting spells left and right while pouring as much blue mana as he could, this time helped by reinforcement. They were no longer trying to extinguish the fire, they were merely trying to keep it under control. But it was working. The teeth-like defenses were rumbling, and the basalt armor was mangled. They just needed a little more… and then it happened. Eika the Elusive landed a skill-backed piercing shock that took Tallit’s head off. The armor fell, revealing… nothing.

It was empty.

“What the…”

He turned his attention to Eika. She had a way to track…

“Watch out!” he screamed.

A short-haired woman in Academy dress emerged from the shadows behind Eika. A mage? Using that meaning? Before Eika could truly turn, a black flower bloomed on her chest.

Eika had a unique path skill that teleported her away when she was getting hurt whether she wanted to or not. Singed, slightly cut, too hot, the skill activated without flaw. Even a fast spell would touch her skin and she would be gone… but the flower bloomed without harm to her horrified eyes. And then there was a pop. Eika’s head and legs successfully escaped to safety. The rest didn’t.

Crest decided that was it.

“Fall back. Fall back!”

It was pointless to sacrifice more elites. Without Nero or a siege, they wouldn’t win this. As he teleported away, Tallit emerged from the ground, his defenses renewed.

[False Dawn,] he announced.

A white ball lifted from his extended hand. It was quiet yet it drowned all sounds and even a hundred paces away, Crest could feel heat that could singe his brows. There was no moisture left around. He managed to escape, and so did most of the mages. As for Jar’ko, he had gone back to hiding.

***

“Ashra, you’re with child,” Tallit scolded. “This is not a safe place.”

“And I don’t want my descent to grow without a father so you will retreat to the portal right this instant or Nero will be the least of your worries.”

Well she was rather convincing.

“We need to fall back anyway. They have a particularly aggressive assassin who can, apparently, return from the dead.”

“One more reason to leave,” she told him as black armor rose around her, just in case.

The Academy’s shield cracked ominously. It was meant to resist a long siege. This wasn’t good. Tallit moved and winced, his leg not improving at all.

“You’re wounded?” Ashra exclaimed. “How could you?”

“I’m sorry. I was careless.”

“Tallit!”

“Not now, woman.”

They quickly approached the central dormitory. Tallit had made sure it would remain blessedly intact. Dirge was here standing above the body of a Shadowlander. The impeccably dressed Dueling Teacher barely glanced at them before returning to his vigil, soft brown eyes hardened by the circumstances.

“How are things?” Tallit demanded.

“Only the last years are left.”

“Then get inside.”

Dirge didn’t protest. Past heavy doors, the three entered a packed lobby that even now smelled heavily of sweat. Tallit loved his students, but they were young adults and he certainly preferred them with the windows open. He took pride in the fact the war class had set up an improvised defensive array without prompting. It was surprisingly good and would have stopped him for a while.

“You make me proud,” he told them.

“Almost done sir,” a short, swarthy student said with calm.

Tallit smiled warmly even though he was in pain. At least the armor was pushing on the wound so he wouldn’t bleed out any time soon. The Academy’s shield failed immediately afterward.

The sheer soul pressure that came next was so overwhelming, Tallit wasn’t sure if he should feel annoyed the defenses had failed, or grateful they’d held for so long. A new light turned the park outside of the building red, as if blood drenched. Screams rang at the edge of his hearing. Many of the students gasped and collapsed, the powerful aura too much for them. He turned to his paramour and slapped her out of her stupor.

“You dare!”

“Wake the others up. Go. Go!”

She didn’t protest. The tenured enchanter, Okile, was already snapping out of it by himself. Others were recovering. Still too slow.

The roof of the room was peeled open by a perfectly controlled sword strike, like removing the skin off a fish. Tallit hijacked the student’s shield as they retreated, herded, pushed, coaxed, and sometimes carried through the portal. A figure had appeared mid-air. A flying figure. Tallit didn’t even dare inspect it,

Red wings, not like fire but darker and more vibrant, the blood of the countless sacrifices required to sustain a state. Armor, white at the top and as immaculate as the temples of the ministries, a shining lie to mystify and hypnotize those who are meant to see the dream, the notion, not the puppeteer behind their artifice. At the bottom, it was muddy and dark and stained with old blood. Those greaves were enforcement and compliance at any cost. He carried a simple sword. No shield. The helmet depicted a serene face that nothing could touch. This wasn’t an avatar of Maranor. It was her order, her vision, incarnate. He was facing a nation.

[Breath of the One Name]

Tallit’s master spell surged up against the man, its power so strong even the shields struggled to hold back the heat. Most of the students were out now. A single sword strike cut it, and the blast split in half around the figure. Tallit followed with his signature scorcher with the same result.

With contemptuous ease, the figure landed in front of him as the last of the students moved on.

“Tallit,” Ashra screamed.

But he couldn’t move. The moment he did, the State would crash through the portal and all would be lost. He wasn’t even sure he could slow it down.

“Stand aside,” the state demanded.

The pressure was impossible. Could the girl even face him? She had been so… flat by comparison. So human.

“No,” Tallit forced between his teeth.

“If you will not submit, then you must perish. I cannot allow a third elemental archmage to oppose me.”

Tallit didn’t reply. Ashra was going through the portal dragged by Dirge, the last to depart. That was it. He’d done it.

“Your answer?” the State demanded.

Tallit clicked his fingers. The portal was incinerated. Every last glyph of it. The aperture closed like a soap bubble.

He died with few regrets.

***

Jar’ko crossed the portal in a wave of shadows just as it closed, hoping the weird aperture wouldn’t affect his skill. Crest’s portals didn’t and as expected, he reappeared in a meadow still invisible to all. There were hundreds of worried teenagers milling around, herded by the surviving staff. All of this, Jar’ko took in as he finished moving, readjusting his trajectory towards his next victim. He had two options. One of them was the dead man’s girl. She had a bump under her dress. Ending bloodline was always fun.

