The other was the head bitch herself. He had less than an instant to decide. Less than a breath after he crossed, that decision was ripped from his fingers. His shadow jump failed, the mana ripped from his being like a spider web torn by the hand of a child. He landed on the ground. The familiar pain of dismemberment flooded his mind, dragging a hoarse scream from his throat. The pain was a flash, sharp and deep. Exquisite. His attention focused on the empress. She was looking at him with impassive emerald eyes.

“Tallit?”

Tallit’s woman replied in a coarse tongue the man didn’t recognize. Not imperial for sure. The empress didn’t flinch, but sadness deflated her expression. Good. Let her suffer too. Let her suffer deep. He snarled.

His reserve of life was almost exhausted. It would take him a long time to reassemble, but… the temptation was too strong. He wanted to at least wound her. With a roar, flesh erupted from his stumps to grab the fallen limbs. He jumped through the shadow to the woman’s blind spot. Only his upper body reached it.

His trunk fell on the ground at her back. She had already turned, and those orbs watched him with detached disdain. Like he was nothing. He hated it, hated it, hated it. And the pain was renewed. But he had one last tool. Biting his false teeth, he spat a blob of poison at her face.

He knew it wouldn’t reach just as it left his lips. The bitch had already pivoted. His projectile landed on a strange, physical shield, an overwrought affair of overlapping symbols. She had started to move before he could ever finish his attack. It had to be a skill.

Assassins surrounded him. Hadals. He wondered why he wasn’t killed yet.

A wing blade pierced his tongue. The black appendage nailed him to the ground like an insect. Arrogant, insufferable upstart. He was going to kill her kill her KILL HER. He was undying. Even her annihilation would only belay his return. He always won in the end. Always.

“Oh, Enttiku. Hear my plea. This one seems to have some sort of escape mechanism.”

For the first time today, Jar’ko felt upset. Pain didn’t scare him. Having his body destroyed was but an inconvenience, yet there was something in that voice that spoke of certainty.

“Oh, Enttiku. Please grant me access to the forbidden repertoire.”

Jar’ko was bleeding out. He was going to die fast and there would be his salvation. It couldn’t come quickly enough. There was something very wrong in the eager way she was looking at him.

“I don’t think Irao can reach here before he resets, or whatever it is he does when his body fails,” the woman continued.

Was she having a casual conversation with the Goddess of Death?

“I beg to differ. He just killed Tallit. That makes him dangerous. Consider this an experiment?”

She rolled her eyes.

“Oh, very well. You’re no fun.”

The circles turnt back to him and relief surged through his ravaged body. She had been refused whatever she was considering using to kill him. He was going to end her for this.

“Guess I’ll be seeing you later,” the woman said, then all his eyes could see was black.

***

Viv sighed. It was… less than she’d hoped. Tallit’s loss was a disaster for the Academy and mankind in general. He’d been so close to becoming an elemental archmage…

Her eyes turned to a sobbing Ashra. She was being an ass. Tallit had been a good man, and he would have made a great father. One more bereaved family because of the human urge to impose their way of life on people who want their own. Tallit had died protecting students. She thought back on all those times they’d interacted, some of them tense… but the last time they’d talked as student and dean, it was in Helock’s Town Hall. He had come to tell her he would fight for her release, but also urged her to escape if at all possible. He had gone against his city for this, at a dire political cost for himself, but he had never hesitated. She knew he had also been very rude to the council about the entire affair. At least the students were safe, and her training had borne fruit. She spared a glance at the last notification.

[Acuity reflex specialization: Perfect Duelist.]

Countless hours of practice against weapon masters have turned you into a peerless duelist. In close quarter combat or at a distance, your ability to anticipate and react to enemy attacks has no equal.

The assassin had been fast but Viv didn’t even have to use a magical shield to stop him. It was encouraging. She only hoped that it would hold against a Sixth Step arcane blademaster.

Well, if anything could, this was it. She didn’t have the centuries required to increase that skill to master level anyway.

“What next?” Dirge asked her.

With a gesture, Viv sabotaged the portal. She pointed at another one in the distance. Enterprising teachers were already activating it which was risky and irresponsible but whatever. They were right this time.

“This will lead you west of Sidel, to a small town. Sidel is currently under the control of Princess Rosea’s faction, and they will let you through per our agreement. You are free to go.”

“I’m not going,” Ashra vociferated. “I’m fighting. I will kill that fucker.”

A student approached Viv. He was short and stocky with a perfect haircut and a presence that made other students line up behind him. He had the paler skin of southern Baranese.

“I am Eran Metirus, of the Eikart Metirus.”

Eikart was familiar to Viv as the south east Baranese duchy. Also one of the poorest and the most often at war.

“I believe I had the distinct honor of fighting alongside your Duke,” she said.

“My father led his mages when you crushed the Nemeti. He spoke very highly of you. It appears we are in your debt once more. My family will defend your cause.”

“As will mine,” a dark-skinned girl with haughty features added.

Claims of support echoed throughout the clearing. Viv waved them aside.

“I will accept all the support freely given. If you do wish to help, tell your clans to use the portal network leading to Kazar. All fees will be waived, of course, but I suggest you hurry. There will be a battle. The alliance can use all the mages we can get, even the non-combatant ones.”

There were more than a few enthusiastic nods. Viv knew that there was a large gap between a teenager’s excitement and actual soldiers on her side months later, but that was fine. Her primary purpose had been to prevent Oleander from getting hostages. Everything besides was just a bonus.

It was just such a shame Tallit had to die for it.

“You ask us to use the normal network?” young Eran asked.

She raised an eyebrow.

“You happen to have secret portals in the woods and you don’t expect me to deduce there is some sort of secondary network you have in place to escape scrutiny?”

Viv didn’t reply, but she did smile.

The enemy would guess the existence of the Ghost Network soon anyway. It wouldn’t help them.

***

Viv surveyed the clearing. The yries were a race prone to rituals as they preferred to take things slow and methodical. Well, the sane ones did anyway. As such, the presence of three yries tribe leaders just standing there showed that she wouldn’t be receiving proper respect. She didn’t think it was a deliberate insult. Rather, those tribe chiefs didn’t see her as an yries, and so they didn’t treat her like one.

From Lak-Tak’s reaction, he didn’t agree. The normally stoic commander of Viv’s weapon development and imple— oh who was she kidding? Her contraption maker and warcrime concocter, showed signs of annoyance. Those were mirrored in the composure of the chiefs, specifically the way their long ears twitched.

The three all shared the barrel chest, long arms, and coarse hair of the yries. It was in their garb that the difference was telling. The leftmost one wore a sort of jumpsuit upon which moss and flowers grew. It was very much a living garment. He had a sling on his belt, and a small bag of round polished stone next to it from what she could see through the thin leather. The central one looked like a cave in had come to life since he was covered in various slabs of stone. He bore the usual crossbow. The last one wore a beige, sandy-colored garb with short spears held at his back. Before Viv could even begin to talk, Lak-Tak went off on the trio in that clicking tongue of theirs. She’d never learnt it, mostly because it was impossibly difficult to master but partly also because she was in the process of mastering kark, and that was time-consuming. When Lak-Tak took a step forward, she patted him on the shoulder.

“Lak-Tak dear, perhaps we should get the meeting under way?”

“No greetings! No tea! No food! No rug to sit on. No respect! They come. They ask. Manners of a human bandit!”

He spat a few more imprecations. Viv was now familiar with yries body language to understand the insults were landing well.

“I will not forget, but time is of the essence, Lak-Tak.”

Ser Warcrime shut up. He took a step back, his large chest heaving with anger. The yries large eyes followed him with a mix of fear and shame.

“They want asylum,” he said. “They fear the killer conqueror. The one who returns from a land of ash.”

“Yeah yeah. Oleander. Ok, so question: is it for the duration of the conflict or are they here to stay?”

Lak-Tak translated after a brief glance her way. They replied.

“The Arid Wind tribe wishes… only until he dies. The Deadshield Tribe says… they will leave clans here. Make forests. If you agree.”

“We do need a lot more forests. We just don’t have the water right now.”

Lak-Tak translated, causing the moss-covered yries to twitch with, as far as Viv could tell, excitement.

“The Deeps tribe wants to stay. They want… other mine. Copper one, they say. They want to trade for food. Like us, they say.”

Viv’s mind immediately went to copper wires.

“We can offer them citizenship and access to the teleportation portals, like we offered yours. But they don’t get tax-free years like you did. We have food for all three tribes but we ask for warriors in return. No hiding until Oleander is dead. They fight alongside us, bleed alongside us, or they try their luck elsewhere.”

The clicks were brief this time.

“They say the blood of their families is the most precious good they have.”

“And the blood of mine is to me, that’s why each drop will be dearly paid for. Tell them how I’ve treated you. Tell them I will not budge. Fight with us or depart.”

There were a few moments of back and forth.

“They agree,” Lak-Tak reported. “Fifteen hundred hunters. Shaman will help with the wounded. They refuse to give the drills. The mining drills we transformed into tanks.”

“It’s ok we’re going to provide the drills,” Viv said with a ghastly smile.

“This… does not translate.”

“No matter. Just tell them that we need those warriors immediately so we can train them to fight as part of an army. Old Ban is going to have a field day handling those fuckers. Oh, obviously the chiefs will lead their own people as officers.”

“I outrank them,” Lak-Tak demanded.

“That’s not even a question. You’re one of my elites.”

Suddenly, Lak-Tak was in a much better mood.
