“One.” Xuunah smiled at him. “Two.” She yanked the sword out, and Nathalia gasped.

I knew she wasn't going to wait until three. Ren thought as he grit his teeth, and Nathalia tried to get off of him.

“I said don't move!” Xuunah exclaimed. “Your hearts have been cut. Let me heal you first.” She said, and the sword she held evaporated. She put a hand on Ren's chest, and one on Nathalia's back; then the hands started to glow and enveloped the two of them. Ren could actually feel his body healing from the inside out, and his eyes widened as he felt the same thing from Nathalia.

“Nathalia? Are you concentrating on the House Neram pendant?” Ren asked her.

Nathalia shook her head, then froze as she felt his surprise. “You aren't either, are you?”

“No.” He said.

“That's because you're a part of a collective now.” Xuunah said and removed her hands from them. “You won't need that crude method to feel what the other feels.”

“Crude?” Ren tilted his head to the side. “I thought it was quite a breakthrough.”

Xuunah smiled sadly. “I suppose with your limited intelligence, it would be.”

“Mother!” Nathalia said, and turned her head to look at the woman.

“I guess that explains why you look like her.” Ren said to Xuunah. “But I've seen similar things before.” He smiled. “Asking you for proof that you're her real mother would be pointless, wouldn't it?”

Xuunah nodded. “I thought she had died when her father did.” She said. “Nathalia was only 4 years old at the time. She wouldn't remember much from that long ago.”

“Did you kill them?” Nathalia asked, as she slid off of Ren's lap to sit beside him.

“Who?”

“The men that kidnapped you and killed my father.”

Xuunah's eyes widened because of her words, then she smiled. “Yes, I did.”

“Good.” Nathalia said. “You're right. I don't remember much of anything... except for that day.” She made a fist. “That any being could just throw lives away like that.” She shook her head. “It took me years to understand what had happened.”

Xuunah sighed. “I wish I could have spared you that experience, my daughter.”

“I don't.” Nathalia said, and Xuunah took in a sharp breath. “If it didn't happen, it would have changed all of the other things that happened after that...” She looked at Ren. “...and I wouldn't be where I am today.”

“That is an enlightened philosophy.” Xuunah said, proud of her daughter.

“Ren told me that.” Nathalia said, and Xuunah looked at him with surprise clearly on her face. “He also made me believe it.”

Xuunah didn't say anything in response.

“Now what?” Ren asked her.

“Nathalia has to stop using her ability.” Xuunah said. “No matter what, you must not use it again.”

“I'd ask you why, but you aren't going to tell me.” Nathalia said, and Xuunah shook her head.

“I would like to, but I'd be in breach one of the tenets of the faith.” She said. “But that doesn't matter.” She looked intently at her daughter. “You must never... ever... use your ability.”

Nathalia looked at Ren, then back at her mother. “I don't know if I can promise that I won't.”

“She won't.” Ren said. “I'll make sure that she doesn't.”

“How will you do that?” Xuunah asked him. “You can't watch her every moment of every day.”

“I'd like to.” Ren said, and took Nathalia's hand. “But, I'm an Adventurer. I literally can't be here all the time.” He turned to Nathalia. “All I can do, is ask the woman that I love to not interfere like she has. Not anymore.”

Nathalia looked at him, and sighed. “Is that what you really want?”

“Of course not.” Ren said, and he felt her surprise at his answer. “I'd rather have you watching my back as much as you can.” He said, and lifted her hand and kissed the inside of her wrist. “If your ability is going to put you at risk for something we don't know about...” He smiled. “...I'd want you safe before you concerned yourself with my welfare.”

“My daughter...” Xuunah said. “You have chosen... wisely.”

Nathalia lifted Ren's hand and kissed the inside of his wrist. “I know I have.”

Xuunah sighed, then smiled. “I must leave.”

“What?!?” Nathalia exclaimed. “You just got here!”

“It's been several weeks since I haven't been in my own realm. If I do not return, the questions I have to answer will be harder to respond to.”

“But... but...” Nathalia thought about arguing, but knew it was pointless.

“Do not worry, little one.” Xuunah said. “Now that I know you still exist, I will watch over you.”

Nathalia looked at her mother longingly. “We'll never speak again, will we?”

Xuunah turned to Ren. “If the man you love finishes the Church, you can come and speak to me.”

Ren nodded, and Nathalia gripped his hand tightly.

“Who... who do I ask for?” Nathalia asked. Tears flowed from her eyes and she dropped her head, because she didn't remember her own mother's name.

“Do not be sad, little one.” Xuunah said. “You've never heard my name.”

Nathalia looked up at her with a tear stained face, and her mother cupped it with both hands.

“My name is Xuunah, and you can make an offering in the appropriate place to speak to me.”

Nathalia let go of Ren's hand, and hugged her mother. Xuunah held her daughter tightly for several moments, then let her go.

“Goodbye, little one.” Xuunah said, and a portal opened behind her. The room was flooded with light, and Ren stared at the other side. He saw the perfect scene to recreate for the stained glass window, then looked at Xuunah.

“You're one of the Light.” Ren said to her, and she smiled at him. Xuunah put a finger to her lips, as if telling him to shush, then stepped through the portal. Ren watched in awe as her mortal body vanished and an oval light shape was left in it's place. The portal closed behind her, and it left the room that much darker from it's absence.
