Eventually, his feet touched the sandy ground at the base of the coliseum. He’d been diverted slightly by all of the magic thrown at him, and was a hundred feet or so from the Seal. Ages of exposure to death mana had stained the sand and sharpened it to razors that prickled the bottoms of Nathan's feet. The blightmind had given up on elaborate wizardry and sought to crush him with the towering weight of its magic.

Nathan trudged inside a bubble of darkness, his feet sinking into the sand as the blightmind bore down on him and his aura struggled to hold it up. It was torturous, with every sense blinded except for the overwhelming roar and weight of death mana pressing down upon him. But Nathan found it almost meditative. He closed his eyes and found it made no difference, so he took another step. There was nothing but him and the pressure. It was a feature of the world, sensory input that he could tolerate.

Nathan reached his destination and opened his eyes to see faint light leaking upwards from the Seal. The irising vault-like door was partially open, and faint purple light leaked through the gaps between the massive tendrils of death mana that plunged into the depths of the magical construct. With a sinking feeling, Nathan reached a tendril of his antimagic forward to flip the wizardry switch that would set the Seal to purify magic instead of corrupt it.

Nothing happened. The switch was disconnected from the system, and Nathan could feel the tendrils of death mana laced through the entire construct, maintaining a stranglehold on the corruptive magic deep below. He heard laughter in the roar of the magic above him, and wasn’t entirely sure he was imagining it.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 10

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 763

Limitless Focus: 5703/7730

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 7

Inspiration 9

Impulse 6

Mystical Discernment 10

Forewarning 7

Arcane Insight 10

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 9

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Control 10
