Thinking of the calm, easy smile and bright eyes that Rain always had, Adujan shuddered. His face was like that after killing the snake, so at odds with the terrible wounds he sported as he lay coiled in the snake's corpse. They'd pulled him out, his legs broken and bent at odd angles, a fist sized hole in his chest and belly, so large you could look through it, and still he smiled, eyes close and face relaxed, like he was sleeping peacefully. He was a monster in human form. Ten days he slept and then waking as if the entire bloody scene had never happened. There he was laughing like a jackal, a more jovial and cheerful person Adujan could not name. A fucking madman. One who seemed to have interests in Adujan, if his actions were anything to go by, continually trying to make conversation, asking personal questions, trying to find shared interests, and the damn touching. Nothing overt, just a hand on the shoulder, a pat on the lower back, sitting too closely. Shivering at the thought, Adujan prayed it was not the case. His attentions could mean nothing good. A well-known lecher, his visits to the brothels were the talk of the village.

It didn't help that he was so pivotal in killing the snake. Big Huu couldn't dent the snake with his massive sword, unable to Hone his spiritual weapon in the chaos. He might as well have been waving a giant flaccid dick for all the good he did. Sumila could injure it, but it's hard to kill a snake with a spear, you would need to get the head or heart for an instant kill. Adujan only had the bow, useless in the fight, but Rain? He carved the snake apart as easily as carving a damn roast pig, moving faster than should be possible with a hole in your chest. He was even able to Hone the blade without touching it, throwing it for the kill. Too skilled, too much improvement in such a short time, Adujan was dejected by how far away her goal seemed.

Blowing out a long breath, Adujan sought to regain Balance. Every advantage would be needed for the competition, and winning would mean wealth and recognition, things Adujan had craved for years. Returning home, victorious and celebrated, Adujan would show all those adults in the village that they were wrong. She wasn't a worthless child, unworthy of love or family. She had grown strong, and upon proving so she would truly belong to the People. She tried to concentrate, but her mood was turbulent, unable to settle. She stood and stretched, taking a short jaunt around the camp.

A pittance of protection, the camps were only there to soothe the scared masses. Walls barely 6 meters high, easily jumped by most monstrous creatures, the tower built only to view the surroundings and send fire signals. Only a fool would feel safe in here. She wandered about, no destination or purpose in mind, until she spied Mei Lin and Sumila, sitting together against the wall. Mei Lin waved her over, and she approached, taking a seat.

“Hiya, Yan-Yan. It's rare to see you not training in your spare time.” Mei Lin flashed her a smile, looking adorable in her leathers. A true little lady, Adujan wished she could be more like her, so feminine and soft. That was a luxury she couldn't afford though. Strength was needed, so she could stand on her own. No time or money for the lotions or skin treatments, makeup or dresses. She was coarse and rough, lanky and dirty. She had even cropped her hair short, not allowing the vanity of longer hair, a weapon that could be used against her. “You're just like Rainy, ya? You both have a lot in common, you know.”

Frowning, she shook her head. “I don't want to speak about Rain.” She was nothing like him. “I couldn't concentrate, and thought I would stretch my legs. I'm eager for us to reach the Society. I'm ready to win.”

Sumila smiled, a sweet, humble girl despite her strength and accomplishments. “I believe you will bring pride to the People, Yan.” Not if Adujan was matched against her. Or any of their group. Adujan was the weakest one present, which was difficult for her to admit. Mei Lin was not worth speaking of, but Sumila was simply too skilled, a true prodigy. Big Huu was too strong and tough to beat, an endurance match Adujan had lost time and time again, lacking the power to put him down. And Rain? Rain was even tougher than Huu, almost as skilled as Sumila, and fucking insane to boot. She smiled a grim smile, saying nothing in reply, listening to them continue their conversation.

It didn't matter that they were stronger than her. The contest was her last chance, her only chance, and she would return to the village victorious, or she would never return at all.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Vivek Daatai rode silently through the gloom, his tribesmen behind him, 30,000 strong. Rallied to the cause of the All Father, kneeling before the Uniter, riding to war under his command, all was done for his tribe, his people. The Uniter had promised victory to those who joined him and brought death to those who opposed. What was a man to do, faced with a man in command of such a horde? He had no choice but to bend the knee for a promise. It grated on him, to serve another, but for the tribe there was nothing he would not do.

So he played his part, followed his orders, joining his people to the horde, the promise of succor and plunder ringing in his ears. He marched south with all his people, fed well with the flesh of their enemies, given gifts of steel and slaves. Many joined his tribe, filling the ranks, warriors one and all, and here on the orders of the Uniter, he was finally able to take the first step out of the frozen wastes, into paradise. The bones of seven children he had given to the ice, dying so that others may live, robbed of the death of a warrior. A ruthless, cold, uncaring land they had been birthed in, but it had made him strong, determined, and fierce, unlike these weak southerners.

Even here, at the fringes of their territory, the land was alive and vibrant. What would it be like beyond, in the heart of their lands? No longer would his people need consume the dead, no longer would he hear their cries of hunger as they slaughtered one another. Instead, in this land of plenty, his people would thrive, children growing happy and fat, basking in the warmth of the sun, living in nirvana. They only needed to take what lay beyond these walls, and it would all be theirs.

The horns sounded, the drums beat, the order given, and his tribesmen charged. Vivek rode at the head, leading them forward towards their future, following the Uniter's devils, none two alike, but each was death incarnate. The devils charged straight through the stone and brick walls of the enemy, collapsing them as they passed, a fortress no more as the battlements crumbled to ruins. There was little for Vivek's tribesmen to do, trampling the dead left in the wake of the devils, savoring the screams of the broken, anticipating the slaughter to come. It was a good decision to bend the knee, for the devils were fearsome indeed, creatures of power and nightmares. Vivek could sweep the enemies from the land, from the entire world, with these devils at his side.

He followed through the newly made opening and his blade tasted blood, tearing through armor and flesh. Howling in glee, he slashed and he cut, carving apart all who crossed his path. The southerners died easily, too weak to do anything else. His tribesmen fell upon them, the Garos delighting in fresh meat, tearing them limb from limb, devouring them as they screamed. The ground soft beneath their claws, muddied from the pooling of blood, covering him in its cold embrace, Vivek reveled in the bloodshed. This was his purpose, to lead his people to glory and the promised land.

The battle over too soon, his tribesmen raised the bodies of the still living, nailing them to what remained of the walls, cheering as they screamed, laughing at their pitiful cries. They poured jars of oil over them, soaking them in pitch, an enemy too weak to even eat. A torch was thrown, and the screams intensified, the warmth suffusing him. The fight was done, but the fun was only beginning. The devils would be enough to finish here. Soft flesh and great wealth awaited them in the large village below, hidden inside their wooden huts. His tribesmen eager for more bloodshed and pleasure, and the first taste was always the best. Leading them down into the undefended town, he smiled as some tried to run, his tribesmen encircling them easily, dragging their newfound toys away to play with, men and women alike. Some may escape, but only to spread word of his prowess, of the devils of the Uniter. Perhaps the southerners would flee, but Vivek prayed to the All Father that they would stand and fight. A man was measured by the strength of his enemies, and so far, his measure was lacking.

This was his calling, his destiny. With him at the head, his people would rise, stronger than ever, and they would take everything from these lands, leaving nothing behind. The Uniter had promised this, and more, and Vivek was, for the first time, sure that he would deliver. Grasping a treat in each arm as they squirmed and screamed, Vivek stepped into a wooden hut, the amber glow of the burning fortress lighting up the morning gloom, as if the sun were rising on the dawn of his new era.

An era of bloodshed and prosperity.
