Listen to me, son. Before you take on a challenge—and I'm talking about a real bloody challenge—you need to prime yourself. Now, what I mean by priming yourself is getting yourself in the right mindset. If you just throw yourself at something, you're going to fail, because you're not ready. Even before you pick up your knife, you're not ready. You're going to grind yourself down; it's going to wear you the fuck out; you're going to be stressed. That stress can't be stress; it needs to be excitement. You got to ride that excitement all the way through.

It's going to be exhausting, so you can't start tired. Otherwise, you'll end with nothing left. Remember this: when you do something, you gotta get in the fightin' mood. You got to get ready to ball your fists and face it down. How do you prepare to do something that demands all of your attention, that you can't fuck up, not even once? It's simple: you do a lot of smaller things, and you build and you build and you build until you finally hit the point where you're ready to take on the actual challenge. Before then, you walk the stairs; you climb all the little steps; the appetizers become your training ground.

So, guess what you're doing today, Shiv? That's right. All the fucking appetizers. Get started, get it done, good luck, don't fuck it up.

Do all of that right, and maybe I'll let you take a swing at one of the main courses.

—Georges Archambault to Shiv

VII-63

Balance (I)

There was a sublime pleasure that came with cooking things using magic. The way Pyromancy worked was like an extension of yourself. You felt the flame; you could control the flame; you could compel the flame to burn harder or weaker. The flame was an expression of yourself, shaped by lore, extended forth from your person. And that flame was better than any mechanical apparatus, any mana-derived mechanism that worked on enchantments and imbuements harvested from another.

Nothing was better than the feeling of making something with your own hands. Commanding someone else, trying to operate using a second-hand entity—none of that could compare, even when one was cooking something as simple as a spread of eggs.

Sunny-side up, hard-boiled, deep-fried, filled with cheese, or simply dosed with the hottest of sauces—there were so many ways to prepare something so simple, and Shiv was doing all of them. The kitchen aboard the Sky-Swallowing Carp was drenched in heat and flavor, but it was more than the flavor of fried eggs. It was the flavor of relief, the flavor of euphoria, the flavor of someone who was no longer Cursed, free to cook again at his own volition, free to pursue art using a single body while the rest of him continued down the path of necessary violence. It was the flavor of harmony and balance.

And all that flavor was being distilled into his eggs.

He didn't work alone. The kitchen was filled with flailing toads, each of them clumsy and incompetent, tumbling over each other, smashing and crashing against every surface in exaggerated, comical moments of stupidity. But they were getting better. Shiv's new armor was gaining levels, and at some point, these toads—created to mimic the name of his establishment—would prove themselves as competent commis, or so he hoped.

For now, he was more than happy to let them bumble away, to let them serve their own purpose as they learned, suffered, and gained knowledge through said suffering.

A bolt of golden lightning cleaved into the room and split his scintillating flames. The Nihilist called out first, notifying Shiv of a new presence, a new philosophy to kindle, but the Deathless sensed her coming long before her arrival.

Gone deposited a stack of clean plates, layering them high one after another until she was constructing porcelain towers. At present, she was the only attendant aboard the Sky-Swallowing Carp, but she was also all the Carp needed. The insides of the restaurant were filled by patrons of all races, from all factions. Most of them had boarded out of a sense of novelty and curiosity, not holding high expectations for the cooking. However, that changed quickly when the first dishes arrived. Shiv couldn't claim that they truly enjoyed his meals yet, but they had tasted nothing like his philosophy-smoked eggs and sausages; his nihilistic flame provided an easy means of Pyromancy, but also demanded an adaptation on his part.

The flames he kindled used his worldview and the perspectives of those around him as fuel, so he needed to be careful and distill the healthiest mindsets to be used for his kitchen. And that meant ensuring his clientele were treated properly and motivated to think highly of his establishment as much as it meant associating himself with Pathbearers who had higher forms of thought and well-developed philosophies when it came to viewing themselves and the world.

But Shiv considered this to be more of a boon and a means of practice rather than a detriment. After all, conscientiousness was something he had been sorely lacking before, and developing it further would serve him beyond the kitchen and see his personal character enhanced.

“We're out of seats again,” Gone said, speaking so quickly Shiv almost had trouble following despite all his Skills. “Lot of lines forming outside. Might be a little worse than that, though. Some of the camps are getting up into each other's faces. We got small battle lines forming.”

“Battle lines?” Shiv frowned. “So, the different nations and factions are squaring up with each other, fighting over who gets to come to my kitchen next?” There was a point in his life where he would have been flattered. Now he was just disappointed. What was the point of having all that power, to be blessed with all that skill, if you couldn't manage a bit of self-control? How pathetic, how sad, how deprived of virtue.

“Alright.” Shiv sighed as he directed a spare body to go speak with them. “I'll get them to calm down and shape up. But if they can't, I'll just settle things here. You gotta behave yourself to be let into Gate Piety.”

And that was the single and most fundamental rule that all guests had to abide by. Gate Piety didn't have a Charter of Laws or any constitution set in stone or agreement. What it did have were Legendary Pathbearers, and Unique ones at that. Shiv had placed his Sky-Swallowing Carp down in front of the now-replaced Immigration Building, repurposed into an Orientation Center. The restaurant aboard the Court Leviathan now served as the first point of contact between the incoming guests from the surface and the denizens of Gate Piety.

More importantly, though, it exposed them to the Deathless—the one that a great many of them sought. There had been a few attempts on Shiv's life already, all of which had proven disappointing and feeble. Someone tried to set off a mana bomb in his kitchen—a bomb that was promptly spotted by Roland, who fired a single arrow and nothing more. Then came a few monsters who wished to take a more direct approach. They were Skyfolk, with bodies clad in crystalline armor shaped from hardened lightning, bearing weapons that leaked the substance of clouds.

They tried to strike Shiv down using brute force alone, but did nothing aside from smudge his Scarforged Shell. He didn't strike them down with violence in turn, for they were too weak to offer any levels for his physical attributes or Combat Proficiency Skills. Instead, he exercised his power as a Harbinger and dug into their emotional and psychological weaknesses, of which there were many.

The greatest fault line in most pure Martial Pathbearers was that they were defined by the violence they committed, shaped only by their use on the battlefield. And since they couldn't do anything to the Deathless—falling short in weapon, enchantment, skill, and preparation—they were functionally pointless in this life, for he didn't even deign them worthy of striking down in return.

The words he used on them were simple: it was a question of their purpose, a question of their utility, a question of what else they had to offer, and why they presented themselves at all if they were going to try and fulfill the hidden World Quest to slay the Deathless with such meager means. Ashamed more in themselves than the fact that they behaved amorally against the rules of hospitality, the Skyfolk’s morale shattered. And Shiv let them crumble in his kitchen, ignoring them as they wept, as they raged, as they eventually fled in shame.

Uva offered to strike them down using her Dreaming Storm to rip potentially useful knowledge from their minds, but he implored her to stay her hand. They were more useful as carriers of shame. Their humiliation would spread. Their defeat would prove contagious, and from that knowledge, the others would learn the risks of facing the Deathless.

In many ways, a physical death was far more merciful than spiritual ruin. When one was mutilated of their self-perception, then they had to live with that mutilation and the crippling of oneself. The ruin of how you imagined yourself to be would often leave you a prisoner inside your own flesh, unable to be spared, trapped by behavior. Trapped by the fact that someone else, who could peer so deeply into you, could flay your latent wounds open while you did nothing to defend yourself.

It was a special kind of hell, being taught to view yourself as a mortal enemy.

Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin 360 > 366

Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet 135 > 137

Legion of Self 181 > 185

While and after he prepared breakfast, he took in the orders and gained a measure of insight into his guests. Their dietary habits betrayed more than their nutritional needs. It told him of commonly shared tastes among cultures, and irreconcilable points of axiomatic opposition between different civilizations. The Skyfolk and those of the Republics or other pure surface nations would never be able to coexist in full. This wasn't so much a cultural problem as it was an inevitable outcome where a nation of awakened monsters was forced to share space with natural-born individuals.

Even granted substantial intellect, monsters didn't abide by the rule of law and human agreements. They weren't driven by the same tribalistic impulses. No, most monsters fought based on the first law: the strongest should reign, the fittest should decide. Their intelligence only allowed them to exemplify and exploit that law to the fullest. Such was why the ruling monsters were always the oldest, the biggest, the strongest, and the wisest.

But such was also why monsters proved prey for humanity for so long—because that viciousness was not unknown to man and machine. That viciousness was exploitable, and the strongest, the fittest for a specific situation in a specific environment, would merely be victims in another.

The smartest of the monsters knew of this fact and learned to adapt. The ones who were too stubborn, who refused to change, found themselves filtered, ironically, under the basis of their first law, as they wasted themselves trying to face empires risen from individuals, the same way they would attempt to dominate their own kindred beasts.

But it went further than that. The Skyfolk and those of the Pacific and Atlantic were at odds as well. Their opposition was not quite the same as the difference between a monster and a man. No, they were simply unknowns to each other, with their environments so vastly different and their natures so divergent, they couldn't help but see each other as alien and had to fight to settle natural understandings of who they needed to avoid and who they could consume.

“Uva,” Shiv called aloud, knowing that she could hear him. “I don't think we're going to be able to stop them from fighting each other all the time. I suggest bumping up that mental arena you're going to make—it'll give them some place to blow off steam and settle things the simple way instead of having them rip through my restaurant over and over again.”

“I'm already working on it,” she replied. “And it's not just your kitchen. If you think what's happening on the surface is messy, you won't believe the amount of Psychomantic attacks I've had to break up. I swear, it's like we're herding a group of violent children.”

“Yeah, I found so too, but—” Shiv flipped an egg and shouldered one of his toads aside before the incompetent fairy could slam face-first down onto the frying pan. “I think they're trying to test us too.”

“Test us?”

“Yeah, because outside, the Prismatic Guard are watching. If they start an actual fight, Veronica and the Republic will clamp down, and no one's gonna be able to walk away from that. Here, though? They don't know how strong Gate Piety is, so they're going to continue—”

Shiv cringed as someone dove across time to ram an adamantine spear straight into his back. Again, he couldn't muster up any anger. Adamantium was a Master-Tier problem. The paltry enchantments that spilled forth from the spear-tip, blasting Shiv with a dense beam of Pyromancy and Dimensionality, broke apart against his shapeless tides—barely forcing him to spend a single vector.

A surprised gasp broke out from Shiv's supposed assassin, and he looked over his shoulder to gauge the opposition. This one looked to be something of a male version of Kura, who should be returning from her Chronomantic exile with Merrielmel’s friend Concelhaunt any moment these days, now that he thought about it. The ritualistic scars lining the elf’s face painted trails down his eyes, connected to the edges of his cheeks, and looped around his neck. Rather than being purely aesthetic, they were further inlaid with veins of mithril to serve as mana conduits.

