The armor the assassin bore was strange and obscene, looking as if a collection of hardened scabs that still allowed blood to flow free. It reminded Shiv of armor worn by certain vampires, yet the assassin lacked a Biomancy field of any kind.

“Are you literate?” Shiv asked, offering the elf a raised eyebrow.

The assassin blinked and stabbed three more times in rapid succession—each thrust stronger than the one before, a chain of magical enchantments lighting up the shaft of the spear. None of it did anything. Gone was on the assassin the next moment, depriving him of legs and arms in a blur of golden violence. As he collapsed on the ground, screaming and wailing as blood poured out of the stumps of his severed limbs, Shiv rolled his eyes. “Toads! Mop. Another one.”

“We're on it, boss-man!” the toads cried, but several of them went for the same mop, and one of them slipped on the growing pool of blood before gliding across the room and slamming hard into the far wall.

Shiv ignored their antics and frowned over the downed assassin. “Listen, if this is about your order, you need to send a proper complaint up the line. You talk to my server, and then they'll come and talk to me. If you try to cut the line, my server will cut you. Capiche? You should know the rules by now. This has happened... How many times has this happened, Gone?”

“Two hundred and forty-five,” she answered immediately.

“Oh, Wolf of No Suns, please! Please return my flesh to wholeness! Please shield my lifeblood! Please come and save me from the Deathless, I beg of you!” The assassin was sobbing; it was hard not to hate him for that. If you were going to kill someone and then they struck you down in return, it was best to hold a measure of quiet dignity if you could.

As such, Shiv kept his flames away from the downed assassin, for this one was drenched deep in the philosophy of hypocrisy, and the flavors of hypocrisy tasted like vomit and slime.

“Look, if you're not here for food, if you're just here to assassinate me, I got something else to tell you, right? Why are you using an adamantium spear?” Shiv put his frying pan down and picked up the discarded weapon in turn. With a casual twist of his wrist, the spear groaned, bent, and then burst apart. A blast of mana escaped it, but Shiv burned it away with his scintillating fires, frying the magic until it became edible slices that he then threw upon his egg as further flavoring and an apology for the meal being delayed. “It's hard to take you guys seriously when you keep coming in with adamantium weapons. Like, seriously, Master-Tier? A little Chronomancy's not enough to make up for a two-Tier difference, my guy, even if I didn't have that at Legendary-Tier myself. Not that that toothpick would've been enough to kill me when I was a Master anyway.”

A scoff of derision escaped Shiv, and he swiped his mana whips through the downed assassin, not to shred his flesh apart, but to see him healed. He returned the assassin's severed limbs and then literally booted him out of the kitchen with a final warning: “If you come back again, I'm going to crush your heart. Like, metaphysically. Do you understand? I'm not gonna kill you. I'm gonna hold you in place, I'm gonna talk to you until I figure out everything that bothers you emotionally, and then I'm going to bury all that in your skull. You're going to want to kill yourself after that, but I'm not gonna let you. I'm going to tie you up on a pole and put you on top of Courtney while you're screaming for everyone to end your misery, like the other three guys outside. You don't want this. Trust me, you don't want this. Now, get back out there, tell everyone you're sorry, and remind them that the kitchen is off-limits to guests. Toad. Door.”

And as two toads fought with each other, driving the mop across the ground to swipe away the pool of leftover blood, another slammed into the door, driving it shut and giving Shiv a final glimpse of the assassin—his face alight with shock and surprise as he sat frozen on his ass in the hallway.

“So many rude assholes,” Shiv mused, before going back to his cooking as if nothing happened. “Also, I really expected more Heroes. So far I just got a stream of Masters wasting themselves. This would have felt insulting a few weeks ago; now, it's just disappointing.”

“Makes sense,” Gone said, sniffling disdainfully at the blood on the floor with her nose slits. “Masters think they're powerful, are more powerful than most people. They usually don't get to learn the lesson until it's too late.”

“The lesson?”

“Lesson of averages and medians,” the goblin explained. “Just because you're stronger than most doesn't mean that you're stronger than all. It's a mistake most people learn one time, but don’t survive learning it.”

“Yeah, can’t say I’m not guilty of making that mistake myself.” Shiv chuckled as fond memories came to him. “But things worked a bit different for me.”

“Other things different too,” Gone muttered quietly. “Not much choice with us.” He noted her use of the word us as she continued speaking. “World’s always going to keep coming for us. They made a mistake. We have to survive. There was never a choice on our end. Not until we survived long enough.”

“The lessons were flipped,” Shiv answered.

“Yes.”

It was then that the profound sadness within Gone began spilling over into the Nihilist’s flames once more.

“That man, the Realmrunner, hurt this one deep,” the Nihilist said. “But she ended up hurt in the right way; her experiences have rooted her internal locus of control so deep that she only views the world in relation to what she can do to it or how she can survive against it. An ideal development.”

But the Harbinger disagreed. “There is no ideal way to be hurt. Trauma shapes you, but it also narrows you. Your scars tighten your skin; they guide you down set patterns and reactions. The paradoxical predictability and erratic emotions resulting from surviving devastation come with their own crippling, the kind that might be circumstantially advantageous at processing and avoiding the wounds of the past, but leaves you less malleable and adaptive when it comes to novel threats. The grief and quiet depression she suffers is no true power—at least, not one we should mimic. At most, it is a second-order means of reactionary processing, and not the truest pursuit of virtuous self-determination.”

For the first time, the Nihilist crackled with anger toward the Harbinger. “Your virtues are more privileges than promises at times,” the Unique Skill spat. “You know this. We weren’t virtuous at first. We had to be vulgar. We had to survive. We fought and bled and defied. You evolved from trauma out of necessity—as prideful and useful as it was, we stumbled into our inverted resentment because what should have victimized us simply didn’t. You of all Skills should understand that about us.”

“You are right,” the Harbinger agreed without hesitation. “But I speak toward the use and mastery of our burgeoning virtue. Even if it is fortune that placed us on this path, we must take full advantage of where this road leads. There are far too many Pathbearers who are powerful externally, but worthless internally. We should always keep the memory of Sullain close to heart for where trauma leads. In that, he is not so different from Havel Van Stormhalt.”

And he really wasn't. Back in the capital, Stormhalt had been bent to Shiv’s will. Beyond the scorn for all the wrongs and misery the City Lord had caused, Shiv felt a vague pity for the man as well. He had such high opinions of himself, such an urge to present himself as a proper Martial Pathbearer. Honor, pride, loyalty, or at least his own warped view of it, all those concepts were near and dear to his heart. The thing was, he was so devoted to the aesthetic that he didn't have the capacity to muster up substance. Originally devoid of allies and without strength of his own, the Deathless—supposedly a great enemy of his Republic—had secured more political power in what might as well be a blink of an eye than Stormhalt could build up over a near century of preparation.

But the most disturbing thing about Havel was his misunderstanding of the situation: He wasn't pathetic because he was weaker than Shiv, unable to defend himself before the Deathless. He was pathetic because all the powers he was supposed to have beyond the personal, the community that was meant to protect him, the resources he was supposed to wield, the gods whom he served with all his heart... all amounted to nothing.

The idealized form of the Republic he believed in didn't exist. The Ascendants didn't intercede on his behalf. Not the Songbringer. Not the Genius. Not even the Endbreaker.

In the end, Stormhalt was offered to Shiv on a whim by Veronica. Because of course he was; because of course she would. The Councilwoman had done the same thing before when Jessica went on her nobility-cleansing rampage. There wasn't even any deliberation about the matter—the political, material, and martial worth of an entire house of nobles or ten was nothing before a promising Legend. Veronica regarded Shiv the same way, and thus his worth outweighed Stormhalt.

The poor fool thought his loyalty and the worth of his blood were currencies in his favor. What a terrible mistake to make in a reality defined by domination and blood.

There might’ve been a world where Havel Van Stormhalt could have thrived, one where justice would have been given unto Sullain for all he'd suffered for no fault of his own, but that world didn’t exist under the System.

And so, the worst sin made itself known time and again.

One could lie as much as they wanted, deceive their lessers and superiors alike, perform acts of supreme debauchery, and inflict every vile and violent deed upon their victims of choice without remorse or repentance—if they but understood a simple fact: You couldn't lie to yourself. You needed to know your true worth at all times.

“But how many people consumed by monstrous desires find themselves spared the flaw of hypocrisy?” the Harbinger asked.

Too few. All too few.

“Shiv? Are you okay?” Gone’s question cut through the Deathless’s contemplative silence, and he grunted in accord.

”Yeah. More than okay, actually. I’m just enjoying the peace and getting some cooking done; got me thinking about stuff at length too. Having a bunch of different bodies at the same time’s pretty good. You really should try getting a skill that lets you do this.”

“Keep that in mind,” Gone said, shooting another withering look at the puddle of blood, which might take a few lifetimes to be cleaned up at the rate the toads were working. “Still think you should’ve killed some of them.”

“I’m waiting,” Shiv said, flipping the eggs a final time—and striking them with a final, refined burst of flame-derived nihilism to give it a crispy finish along the edges. “Waiting for someone who’s actually a threat to come find me. I’m not going to take a life and feed the System for nothing. Besides, it's not like I’m sparing them willy-nilly.” Shiv tilted the frying pan and let the finished egg slide off—it was caked in a layer of gold as a sprinkle of Chronomancy, and raw mana had been cooked into it via the broken spear. “The ones I broke will help the others sober up about what they’re dealing with—especially after a few of the poor shits kill themselves.” He adjusted the egg so that it perfectly occupied the central position on the plate. “And most of them are going to do that.”

“Why?” Gone asked. “How are you sure?”

“Because pure, dumb warriors got brittle identities, Gone,” Shiv answered, holding up a finger. “No art. No use. Nothing beyond the fight. And if you make them face that for a little, it hurts them too bad. No one wants to be nothing; no one wants to face the fact that the story they told themselves about themselves is false. And when they send someone who’s actually a threat—who’s actually got a measure of virtue inside them—we’ll give them our compliments by killing them properly. Anyway. Hands. To table A25; give them my apologies too.”

“Got it, Head Chef,” Gone said. And then she was gone in a flash—taking with her not only the plate he'd just filled, but all the other ones he'd finished prepping moments before. He didn’t know if she understood all his rambling just now—or if he fully got the words his Harbinger inspired himself—but Gone was an ideal Pathbearer in some ways.

She didn’t think so much about philosophy or complicated things. But that also meant that she didn’t give too much identity to her own trauma either. Her memories hurt her; she reacted and dealt with it.

Gone kept moving. And so she lived up to the legend that had shaped her skills.

Funny how things worked.

Match philosophy to behavior, Shiv mused to himself, nodding as he kept cooking—and kept struggling elsewhere. This body was his sanctuary of peace; this body would cook and cook and cook some more without stopping to make up for all the time he should have spent in the kitchen while his other vessels stayed buried in blood and strife.

Both aspects of his nature could be real at the same time. He could have his art, he could be at peace, and he could also be a monster against other monsters, and bring his calamity to break rival disasters waiting to happen.

Balance, or at least as close to it as he could get. For now.

***

Magical Theory 12 > 13

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 160 > 161

Memorization 37 > 39

Inertial Overdrive 375 > 381

Return to Sender 165 > 166

Continuity Error 234 > 237

