“No. Because even an incompetent warrior can plan, think, and adapt. He can get better. It’s like being an incompetent chef at first. You know all about that, right?” Shiv nodded. He got the analogy. “Good. So, basics in mind, always remember: Striking is simple. It’s distance and timing with everything else stripped out. How close you need to be to hit me against how close I need to get to hit you, and when we expose ourselves. That’s the foundation of everything. You have to get my rhythm down if you want to press; it can’t just be attack, attack, attack for nothing when there’s no opening. If my guard’s ready and I know you’re coming, I’ll cut you down eleven times out of ten.”

“So, patience?” Shiv guessed.

“Yeah. But not hesitation. Patience isn’t dodging around while staring at me like a hamster whose brain fell out. There’s gotta be a way to stop me from just overwhelming your block-with-your-head-and-neck fighting style and ‘killing’ you in minutes. You’re a Legend now, even if you’re untrained, so use those attributes. Be smart. Let the incompetent warrior ride the monster. Okay?”

“Okay,” Shiv muttered, nodding repeatedly. Aggravating as suffering repeated defeats were, it was part of his enlightenment as well. He didn’t know if he would ever be as good with a sword or any kind of Combat Proficiency Skill as Jessica, but he could be a hells of a lot better than he was right now.

Again, processing that was made infinitely easier by one of his bodies constantly cooking.

Balance. Peace. Ahhh.

“Ten minutes,” Jessica said. “Spend that time moving in stance and blocking.”

“Got it, Giantsbane—oh, shit.” Shiv couldn't help but laugh as the door to the room opened, and someone who seemed very out of place came forth. Havel Van Stormhalt still had that bleak expression on his bearded face, with bloodshot eyes and a despairing heart to complete the look. But there was something else compelling him forward now: capitulation. His will had been bent; he was at the Deathless’s mercy and abandoned by the Republic. But his heart was not yet dust. Even if he was a pawn again, he was back in the game, and he wanted to know what kind.

And so, after spending some time sulking alone before finally signing the writ, he became the first of the expendable Avatars to join in on Shiv's and Jessica's one-on-one training.

Well, there was also Valor, who was present somewhere as well—unknown to anyone but Shiv, Jessica, and maybe Veronica.

“Holy shit,” Jessica muttered with disbelief. “I can’t believe it. You called it. How the hells did you know he was going to fold and join in?”

“Because even though Havel’s a sack of shit, he’s not a sack of shit that rolls over and dies. He’ll die hopeless, but he’ll do it with weapon in hand and honor in his heart.” Shiv smirked as he walked past Jessica to greet the incoming Master Pathbearer.

“You could tell all that just by looking at his heart a few times?” Jessica asked, incredulous.

“Yep. That, and from how he acts.”

“What the fuck is up with you Chandlers…”

Stormhalt tensed as Shiv approached, but the latter kept a leisurely pace as he ignored the worried stares of the present Inquisitors and the wilting glare of the City Lord himself. “Hey, Havel,” Shiv said, keeping his tone light and friendly. “Took you a bit. How you feeling?”

The older man didn’t reply to that. He looked up at Shiv with unbridled hatred, but wrestled his ill feelings under control. “I have come… to understand your ways.”

Shiv paused. “My ways?”

“If we are to fight as one against an apocalyptic enemy, it is best that we understand each other's skills and experiences—as well as develop a measure of cohesion—is it not?” Stormhalt’s loathing was true, but so too was his professionalism and dedication as a Martial Pathbearer.

If nothing else, Isabelle’s father wasn’t entirely devoid of virtue. Which irked Shiv just a bit.

“It is,” Shiv agreed. “It is. And you know what? Since you’re my senior when it comes to matters of actual warfare and time spent in combat, I’ll let you lead on this. Tell me what you want to learn and how you want to do this, and I’ll see if I can satisfy. But if it’s power you’re trying to match...”

“It is not,” Stormhalt said, his voice hard. “I know my limitations and weaknesses. The Endbreaker has always been my bridge to greater worth. Legend Hawgrave is the one that might test you directly, but I want to see who you are under fire. I want to know if you are the kind to stand and fight, or break and run; if you will heed and cooperate or ignore and act of your own volition.”

“And how should we go about that?” Shiv wondered.

“By facing a hopelessly greater foe together,” Stormhalt ground out—almost gagging at the end.

Shiv grasped what he meant, and turned to grin at Jessica. “You hear that, Jess? Havel here wants to be my buddy after all. Two on one. Bad odds, Giantsbane.”

“Yeah. For the both of you.” Jessica gulped down the rest of her drink and rolled her bare shoulders. “Alright. Someone bring me my extra gentle practice sword. Let’s not put City Lord Stormhalt on the casualties list before we even find the damn Tarrasque."
