Back at Phoenix Academy, Shiv found himself learning a lesson beyond the texts he devoured with ravenous determination. This lesson didn't come with a flood of levels or grand epiphanies. It was a slow lesson, burying seeds inside Shiv's mind as he struggled and strained, but didn't explode in terms of progress or power. No, this was a lesson that brought him closer to other people of his age, his supposed peers if his parents and Udraal had chosen differently.

It was a lesson of steady advancement—the understanding that he couldn't rush the accumulation of knowledge and enlightenment like he did with raw power.

Though Shiv was absolutely driven, spending all his time at the library, reading through book after book, trying to build up his understanding of magic, biology, and more, a few days of absolute concentration didn't make up for a lifetime of ignorance. The same lesson applied when he reported in as an assistant healer at the Academy Hospital. His medic course remained the only one still active on his syllabus due to the constant infighting still ongoing between the noble houses and the numerous crises suffered by the Republic, even with Hymn’s general suspension of classes lifted.

The Deathless found himself more competent at hands-on tasks. He learned fast when he had something to test and experiment on; tactile situations for him to gauge successes and failures. But despite being competent, he couldn’t call himself gifted either. Not as a healer, a Biomancer, or a mage.

His weaknesses here went beyond missing information—he was too rigid and blunt in the way he applied his thoughts. There was a level of creative thinking and pattern-comprehension needed to be a proper intellectual, but Shiv was conditioned by simple, brutal grinds. He didn’t lack cunning, but his methods were too crude and direct. And how could they not be? He was rewarded by the System for throwing himself head-first at a problem until it broke, or he did. Then, if the obstacle was still there, he would do it again.

Curing specific diseases and shaping complicated spells required a higher order of thinking than he was used to, and there was something humbling in assuming the life of someone who was less than special to experience these struggles.

“You can’t just ‘go for it,’ Marcus,” Maxime Van Stormhalt chided after stopping Shiv from pushing a dislodged spinal column back in place for a patient in the emergency ward. “It’s not just the surface-level damage you have to think about. Maybe you can slide the C6 back in place, but we don’t know the exact condition of his column or if there is leftover shrapnel in place.”

The wounded engineer let out a desperate wheeze as he whimpered that he felt cold. His pleas went ignored as Maxime studied and listed his many wounds instead of rushing to close them. The poor guy was a bag of rattling, battered meat. He didn’t even get injured in a fight; he was just working near an unstable mana construct that overloaded, and ended up in a storm of metal. The only reason he was alive at all was thanks to his Adept-Tier Stoneskin Toughness.

A shame his brother wasn’t so durable. Instead of being filled with shrapnel, he was just pulped into a mess of disfigured flesh.

Being able to keep cooking in another body while surrounded by scenes of carnage and suffering as Marcus was at once uncanny but also peaceful. The balance felt right, and it lent itself toward his development. It also let him focus and listen, finally giving him a chance to slow down and learn.

Yes, his Aegis of Assimilation could rip away most of these injuries in a blink—but that was just relying on brute force again, an ability handed to him by the System with little to no effort on his part. But brute force wasn’t going to be his advantage against the Tarrasque. Not even remotely. He needed to be technical, he needed to be clever, and he needed to be creative against the Endhound, even if he had a lot of the same skills.

Just because he could throw himself at a problem over and over didn’t mean it was wise or effective. And choosing to commit to bad habits just because he didn’t suffer the consequences went against the Harbinger’s need for virtue.

And so Shiv took his time when it came to his education. He learned not only from books, but other people. While he prepared to select new courses to replace his now-cancelled Scouting-Stealth class, he attended open lectures and listened to arguments between rival theorists on campus; enjoyed demonstrations of new prototypical spells for student magi seeking to procure apprenticeships or make their own fortunes in battle or business. More than that, though, Shiv found himself drawn to philosophical and political debates in the academy’s many forums.

If Magical Theory and general education were pursued out of necessity, then displays of rhetoric and argumentative artistry appealed to Shiv in the same way cooking did. There was something uniquely human about those endeavors—the formulations and clashes between structured ideas. The disagreements, treatises, and proposals put forth by clashing sides. The way people perceived the world and how one person’s vision of utopia could seem like a literal hellscape to another was intellectually satiating.

From that came a dull pang of older hatred.

This was who he was as well. And he could have discovered this version of himself from a young age, if only Roland had allowed him to be a person. If only he'd been allowed to learn and flourish like everyone else at Blackedge. Like Adam was. If he had been allowed to get to this point sooner, who might he be by now? How much had he missed out on? How much could he have achieved if only—

“It’s not real,” both the Nihilist and the Harbinger said as one, before the former continued. “There is no parallel life. This is the only truth. And if you didn’t live this one, then you would have been someone else entirely. These understandings might have eluded you entirely. Maybe you would have been consumed by a vice or some other trauma. Never withhold credit from yourself for all you have achieved, but never forget that luck has been a big reason for our continued survival and evolution as well. Don’t be trapped by resentment—that identity of eternal trauma. You can feel your feelings without gifting it your thoughts or beliefs.”

This was another measure of balance. Old wounds didn’t need to be anything more than that. Roland’s misdeeds could just be history. Everything before could remain prologue, and from now unto eternity, Shiv would think, consider, and then commit to a desired trajectory of growth. Mistakes might follow still, but they needn’t be reactionary acts driven by an obsession with an original pain.

The present was the result of the past, but it was to be spent in service of a desired future.

A future that Shiv was headed for, that he enjoyed and looked forward to despite all the trials and tribulations surrounding him.

Beyond the campus but in the same city, another version of Shiv found himself rooted in place as his Scarforged Shell grew dense beyond his expended strength’s ability to contend. His body was awash in deep cuts. Each platinum-hued scar weighed upon his Onus and lit his body brightly, and beneath that indestructible exoskeleton, Shiv let out a slight hiss of annoyance. In his right hand, a dagger was clutched tight—so tight the hilt was now less than dust from the pressure of Shiv’s grip; he couldn’t let go even if he wanted to. “Yeah,” he grumbled using a Psychomancy link, unable to even lift his lips. “Out of tides. Can’t move. You win. Again.”

“Because you keep making the same mistake,” Jessica replied, running a slim finger up and down the side of her practice axe.

She had been training Shiv in anticipation of their mission to intercept and secure the Tarrasque. Her training, however, more closely resembled beatings at times, made less so only by Shiv’s Legendary-Unique Toughness. Even so, he remained trapped within a husk of damage while her skin remained unblemished by even a single bead of sweat. She'd forgone armor entirely for this match, likely intending to get back at Shiv's jab at her Toughness by wearing a white tank top and shorts, and simply not getting hit.

Attending Inquisitors looking on by the wayside gawked with open jaws and horrified eyes. Jessica’s skill with the blade made her a nightmare of steel and skill, but Shiv proved to be a horror in his own right as not a single one of her strikes scored blood.

In contrast, the adamantine arena they were fighting in was so shredded by her cuts that the ground at their feet resembled mangled petals of furled metal. That wasn’t even getting to the chasm-sized gashes she left in the orichalcum walls surrounding the training facility.

Normally, her cuts would have carried on for a few dozen kilometers further, shredding through anything in their path and causing mass devastation from the sheer seriousness behind her hits. But this facility was also veiled within a semi-dimensional boundary, and so the rest of Yellowstone was spared a catastrophic event at the hands of Jessica Hawgrave.

But there was a reason why the specially selected Inquisitors Veronica had assigned as supporting operatives to the Tarrasque mission were huddled tight together behind the last orichalcum barricade still standing. The other training grounds were all but obliterated as well from secondhand pressure damage alone—a fact that Shiv just noticed as he assuaged his wounded pride as a duelist with the pleasure of possessing such a potent Toughness Evolution.

“Hey, Integrated Earth to Shiv.” Jessica snapped her fingers repeatedly to get his attention. “This is what I’m talking about. Too much breaks in your concentration. You need to bring more of your mind here. Right now. For this duel.” Jessica flicked her wrist and planted her curved axe tip-first against Shiv’s right eye. A resounding note of ringing steel filled the kilometer-wide chamber, and Shiv knew that even his Pillar of Orichalcum would have failed to save him from being blinded.

But Onus of the Scarforged Unbreakable was beyond the reach of physical harm. At least while the shell was still active. Since Shiv was unable to move though, he decided to shed his current Onus to grant himself a measure of motion again—but he didn’t just discharge his damage-debt directly. What he lacked as a duelist, he made up for in the sheer number of esoteric and powerful skills he had.

And as he was coming to learn, the Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin was a skill with a great many synergies indeed.

As Shiv released his Onus, all the devastating slashes, stabs, bashes, and breaks he'd endured burst free of his body—and promptly anchored to his Harbinger’s Chronomancy field. The damage was caught in the orbit of the Harbinger. The burden placed upon his time magic spiked dramatically, bringing a cost of dramatically increased mana strain that Shiv paid for in doses of frustration and rage.

But he wasn’t done with the Harbinger yet. Instead, he flung that body ten seconds into the future, vanishing across time as he used time as a secondary barrier to protect his now exposed flesh as his Scarforged Shell slowly came back together. Ultimately, the greater the damage debt he accrued, the longer it took for him to regenerate his Toughness. Such was another penalty—that, and he had to discharge the wounds he suffered onto a material object or person to fully offset what he suffered.

The beautiful thing about that cost, though, was he could treat his damage like ammunition. Nothing stopped him from flinging present wounds into the future by anchoring them to his bound field like he just did. When the next bout started, he would try unleashing them on Jessica. She was a bit too good at parrying, but maybe he could force her into a grapple next time and hit her with his overdue wound-tax then.

Won’t know till I try.

He reappeared in place ten seconds later as his Harbinger vanished—taking the anchored damages with it. Shiv’s Scarforged Shell was pristine and unharmed again as well, signaling to Jessica that she could give this another go. “Okay, let’s—”

“Break,” she called, a water bottle appearing in her hand with a flash of static.

“What?” Shiv groaned. “Why? It’s barely been a day of this! You’re not tired.”

“Yeah, but you’re not picking things up as fast anymore,” she shot back. “Your focus is spent. Cool off and think about how to stop yourself from flailing and stumbling into my attacks. You can’t be taking those hits from me when I’m pulling my swings by that much. Too much offense, dogshit defense. I don’t care that you’re indestructible physically; if you’re pinned in place, you’re mission-killed. And you won’t always be able to pull that Chronomancy trick every time.” She paused. “Even if it’s a good trick.”

“I’ll get you with my debt next time,” Shiv threatened.

She snorted. “No, you’ll probably blast too early, miss me, and almost get it all over our unfortunate friends back there.”

One of the Inquisitors poked her head out behind the orichalcum barrier separating the twelve sparring arenas within the space.

“We’ll see,” Shiv said.

“Only after you get the basics down,” Jessica chided. “Look, you gotta bury this deep into your instincts, alright? You do good at the start when you’re still thinking, but when you let your intuition take you… turn to shit. You go from being an incompetent warrior to just a monster.”

“Sounds better to be a monster if that’s what I am,” Shiv replied dryly.

