“A few times.” Barbara said. “He didn't listen, and said he was a physical therapist and had to be physical.”

“Dammit.” Denise said. “I was worried the things we told him were going right over his head.”

“I think it was more like 'in one ear, and out the other'.” Barbara commented, and Denise nodded.

“Do you feel up to a shower or a bath today?” Denise asked Ren.

“I... I don't know.” Ren said. “I feel really weak. I know I can't stand up long enough for a shower, though.” He shook his head. “Not after that.” He trembled again.

“I'll run a bath.” Denise said, and went to the bathroom. Water started running, and she came back out. “It will only be a few minutes to get enough water to sit in.”

Ren looked at Barbara. “Um... it's not that I'm complaining or anything.” He said. “But, why are you still here?”

Barbara chuckled. “We scheduled overlapping shifts, just in case you needed an extra hand or two.”

Ren reached out a hand, and she took it. “Thanks.”

“It's no trouble.” Barbara said, and Ren shook his head.

“It has to be.” Ren said. “When do you sleep? Are you super-woman or something?”

Barbara laughed. “No, I'm not super-woman. An extra hour here and there isn't much.”

“It is when it's every day.” Ren said. “I don't know how you do it.” He looked at Denise. “I don't know how any of you do it.”

*

Elise Stanford, the secretary at Sid Tec, sat at her kitchen table and ate breakfast while she reviewed the footage of Ren's activity after she had left the evening before. She used the time lapse option, and sped forward until now.

He stayed in the game the whole time, until this morning. Elise thought. I can't wait to see what he's been up to!

Her tablet beeped and she looked at the size of the files from the download of game footage.

He was awake the whole time? She thought in surprise. What in the world was he doing?

Elise hit play, and even on 8x the speed, her eyes widened as she watched Ren rescue someone from a giant. He did not just... She stopped it, put it to normal speed, then played the giant rescue scene again. Oh, my god!

*

Ren sat in the bathtub, covered in bubbles. “Oh, come on!” He said, as Denise passed him a rubber ducky.

“Go ahead and squeeze it! It quacks!” Denise said, and laughed at his petulant expression.

“You know, if someone is supposed to be having fun in the bath, it should be me.” Ren said.

“I have half a mind to take your picture.” Denise teased.

“Don't you dare!”

“Too late!” Barbara said from the doorway, with a digital camera in her hand.

“Barbara, no!” Ren said, with a shocked look on his face.

“That's perfect!” She said and took the picture. “Denise, come and look at this.”

Denise walked over to the doorway, and Barbara showed her the couple of pictures. “You're right, Barbara. That last one was perfect. You even got the rubber ducky!”

“You are horrible, horrible people.” Ren said indignantly, and the two women laughed. Barbara came over to him and gave him a kiss on the forehead.

“We love you, too.” Barbara said, and Ren blushed a little. “I have to go, though. My shift is over, so I'll see you tonight.”

“Bye, Barbara.” Ren said, and she turned to leave. “You better delete those pictures, or I'll never forgive you!”

Barbara laughed and said goodbye to Denise, then left the bathroom. Ren heard his room's door shut a moment later, and looked at Denise.

“I think Stella is a bad influence on the two of you.” Ren said, and Denise smiled.

“I think that would depend on what you think is 'bad'.” Denise said, and walked over to the tub.

“Taking compromising photos of me, definitely counts as bad.”

Denise laughed and unzipped her top. She took it off and laid it on the towel rack. Ren's eyes widened as he got the full view of her bra, and the magic that it was performing quite well.

“Wh-what are you doing?” Ren asked her as she came over to the tub.

“You saw what a few wet tears did to the fabric.” Denise said. “Can you imagine what soap suds and bubbles would do to it?”

“But... but...”

Denise half-bent over and knelt by the tub, giving Ren an unobstructed view. “But what?”

“You're... ah...”

“Exposed?”

“Yeah.”

“They're just breasts.” Denise said as she picked up a sponge and lathered it up. “Every woman has them.”

“That's true; but, not every woman is in the bathroom with me.” Ren countered.

“It's okay if you see them.” Denise responded, and blushed a little as she started to scrub his back.

“Now I know that's not true.” Ren said, as he leaned forward to let her scrub his lower back.

“Why's that?” Denise asked, motioned for him to lean back, and gently scrubbed his arms.

Ren felt a little bold with his next statement. “You wouldn't be wearing the bra, otherwise.” He said. “It's going to get wet. What are you going to wear under your top afterwards?”

Denise stopped scrubbing his arms, and he looked at her.

“Are you asking me to take off my bra?” Denise asked him, surprised he would be so bold. I thought he was clueless.

“No, I'm just arguing what you said; that it was okay for me to see your chest.” Ren said as he dipped his arms into the water to rinse them off. “If it was actually okay, you wouldn't need the bra.” He said, and took the sponge from her hand. He lathered it up and tried to scrub his legs, but his arms were still too weak to do a good job. “Dammit, I hate feeling so helpless.”

“Let me do that.” Denise said, and took the sponge from him. When he looked back at her, he saw that she wasn't wearing the bra anymore.

“Whoa.” Ren said, and looked at her. There were red marks beside the tips of her breasts, where she'd had several pieces of double-sided tape to keep her secured in the bra. “Doesn't that hurt?”

“Yes, it does.” Denise said. Ren dipped his hand into the warm water, and scooped up some of the bubbles. He gently applied those bubbles to her breasts, and concentrated on not hurting her further. He slowly traced the rectangular red marks on each side of the tips of her breasts, then spread the bubbles across them. Denise closed her eyes as he gave her breasts a soft caress with his bubble-covered hands.

“You hurt yourself for me, didn't you?” Ren asked her.

Denise nodded with her eyes still closed. “I had hoped your blood work would come clean, and wanted to give you a little show to distract you.”

“Little?” Ren smiled as he cupped one of her breasts with both of his hands. He had been right. They were just over two handfuls in size. “I always thought you had a small chest, until I saw you today.” He said and cupped the other breast, just to say that he had touched both; then he let her go. “My first thought was, where have you been hiding them?”

Denise opened her eyes and laughed, and her breasts jiggled. “It's a clothing issue.” She explained. “My rib cage is bigger than normal, which makes my actual bust size that much larger. Either I have to buy the next larger size of top, or I have to strap the girls down.” She smiled. “Both options make it look like I have almost no chest.”

Ren looked at her with concern on his face. “I'm sorry you have to do that.”

“It's okay.” Denise said, and started to scrub his legs. “I've gotten used to it.”

Ren shook his head. “You shouldn't have to get used to something like that.” He said. “I've made stuff in the game for women, and they're beyond relieved when they get something that actually fits them.”

“It's a great feeling.” Denise said. “I haven't had anything fit properly in years.”

“Then that's going to change.” Ren said, as Denise scrubbed his chest.

“What do you mean?” She asked.

“I've got all this money now. Money I'm actually earning, and not just given to me because I'm like this.” Ren said, and motioned to himself. “I know a great clothing store. They do alterations right there.”

“Wh-what?”

“It's where I bought all my nice pajama sets. The least I can do is have them make you a few things.”

“Ren, I...” Denise lathered up the sponge, handed it to him, and motioned to his lower area. “Can you finish yourself?”

“Sure.” Ren said, and scrubbed himself. It didn't take much effort, and since it was under the water already, it would rinse off when he stood up. “All done.”

Denise grabbed one of the big towels and laid it on the tub's edge. Ren eased into a standing position with her help, then sat down on the towel. She grabbed another towel and dried his upper body off, then he turned around and took his feet out of the water and put them on the floor.

“Ooo, that's cold!” Ren said, as his bare feet touched the tiled floor. He lifted his feet up, but he started to shiver anyways. Denise wrapped the towel around him, and held him so he wouldn't fall. “Thanks.”

“You're welcome.” Denise said, then finished drying him off. She grabbed his socks and slipped them on his feet, and he put his feet on the floor.

“I am definitely going to miss the heated floor in my old bathroom.” Ren said, and shivered again. “I hope they can do it again in the new place.”

“In the WHAT?” Denise asked in surprise.

“I guess Stella didn't tell you yet.” Ren said, and explained about wanting to buy a place of his own. Denise stared at him as he went on about wanting to hire the same crew that had renovated the room in the hospital.

*

Elise showed up at work right on time, even though she'd watched a lot of what Ren had done during the last couple of game days. Once at her desk, her daily routine kicked in and she did everything automatically. She couldn't wait until her lunch break, so she could keep watching.

He's so brave! Elise thought as she sorted emails and took calls. Fighting giants 5 times his size like that! She shivered in pleasure as she thought about how strong and brave he had become in the game. He's come so far in so short a time. She thought proudly.

*

Denise helped him finish getting dressed in the red pajama set, and Ren got back into bed. He looked at the VR headset and sighed.

“I can't even log in to get extra sleep.” Ren said, disappointed.

“I can't believe you want to go back in after getting stepped on.” Denise said and smiled.

“I was fighting giants.” Ren said and smiled back at her. “It was always a possibility.”

“I don't know how you can be so nonchalant about that.” Denise shook her head. “At least you're going to leave that area soon.”

“Yeah, in three weeks.” Ren said. “Real time, that is.”

“Well, you'll just have to sleep in real time for today.” Denise said, and fluffed his hair a little. “Go ahead and take a nap. I'll wake you for lunch.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, then yawned. “I'm exhausted.”

Denise smiled, and started singing in a soft voice, barely above a whisper. “Then close your eyes... and go to sleep... sweeeet little angel...”

Ren closed his eyes, and listened to her voice.

“Never fear... I'm always near... love is neeeeever accidental...”

Ren smiled at that, then drifted off to sleep.

*

Gloria loved her new pet. It didn't need to be walked, or need a litter box, or have to go outside to pee. It just crawled around inside the large aquarium. She enjoyed picking up little things to put in the makeshift habitat, just so the tarantula would have something new to explore. It didn't take long for her to figure out the things it liked best to eat.

Gloria had been a little worried at first that she was spoiling the thing; but after a lot of research online and at the exotic pet stores she could find, she honestly didn't think it was possible to spoil a spider.

It was really horrible what happened after it came to be in Ren's possession. Gloria thought. But at least it wasn't destroyed like everyone thought it was going to be.

It was lunchtime, and her cell phone beeped at her. She checked it, and smiled because it was a message from Stella; who apologized for not messaging sooner, but knew Gloria's schedule and had waited for the right time.

Ren's awake! Gloria thought, happily. He'll be just as happy to hear the spider is doing fine, too!

Since today was Wednesday, there was only 2 more days before her second official day as student researcher.

I can't wait! She thought and hopped in her car to head to the garage. It's just as fun as working on cars!

*

Elise put the phone on hold, picked up her tablet, and headed to the cafeteria. She didn't have time to make her own lunch today, because she had been so busy watching Ren's footage in the game. Once in the food line, she grabbed a small salad and a bowl of jello, and went to the corner of the room. She sat down and picked at the food as she started the footage where she'd left off. She shook her head as she watched Ren tackle yet another giant.

The more I watch, the more amazing he gets!

*

Denise woke Ren up about an hour late for lunch; but he had looked so peaceful, and she didn't want to disturb him until it was absolutely necessary. He ate at a normal pace, and when he was done, he went back to sleep.

He's more tired than I thought he'd be. Denise leaned in close and straightened his hair that had gotten slightly messed up from the pillow. She placed a gentle kiss on his cheek, just as gentle as he had been when he had touched the sore spots on her chest during the bath. Sleep well, little angel.
