Rain hissed, jerking his hand away as Everiss’s next hit struck his fingers—specifically, his rings. Thanks to the Metallic Unity enchantment, the damage was spread across his armor as a whole, and the hit hadn’t hurt any more than the others so far, but still.

That crossed a line.

Rain’s retaliation was interrupted by the tip of Everiss’s spear shattering his potion-glass visor insert. Not technically part of his helmet, it didn’t benefit from any Hardness enchantment but its own. Force Ward intervened—too late to save the glass, but not too late to stop the spear point from digging into his eyeball.

dmgnum.sh version 0.5.2

Physical Damage Detected

Mana: -884

Force Ward: 200%, 0.6 tick

0.353778 mp/dmg mitigated

Hardness + Force Resist: 7,500 (capped)

Original Damage: ~9999 (capped)

Already having been about to do so, Rain let loose.

Immolate

focusboost.sh: 550 points shifted to Focus from secondary stats

focusboost.sh: Focus: 970

modmon.sh: ['aura compression', 'channel mastery']

autocompress.sh: Target: 10 meters

autocompress.sh: Compression Applied: 77 meters

autopower.sh: Target: 9999 dps

autopower.sh: Target not met

autopower.sh: CM Setting: 200% 0.2s tick

Immolate (15/15)

4716.95-5390.80 heat (fcs) damage per second to foes and environment

2358.47-2695.40 heat (fcs) mitigation per second to friends

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 10 meters

Cost: 150 mp/s

The striving spear point vanished from his helmet with a ‘Tch’, Everiss appearing a moment later and skidding to a stop just outside the tightly controlled aura radius. Red interference clung to her mail, already dissipating.

Rain let the magic fall, curling his fingers around to inspect them in the heated air. “Going for my rings? Really?”

“You’re worried about your rings?” Everiss asked, incredulous. “What, are they more expensive than your eyes?” She laughed. “What was that skill? Not the weak-as-shit fire blast. I didn’t even feel that. The other one. That was Force Ward, wasn’t it?”

“You’ve been doing your research,” Rain said, tilting his head down to shake the shattered glass free of his visor. His mana was back at full, so with nothing else to do with it for the moment, he started recharging his armor. His eyes would be visibly shining through the gap, but he found he didn’t care.

She’s no more threat to me than Thrast. Not on the surface, at any rate.

He smiled, struck by a memory.

I’m not trapped in here with her. She’s trapped in here with me.

Everiss twirled her spear and beckoned. “Guess it’s time to get serious, then.”

“Guess so,” Rain said, widening his range to encompass the entire ring and bringing Ethereal Aura online. He crossed his arms. “Let me know when your armor saturates.”

Fulminate

“I still can’t believe you did that to her!” Val said through his tears, still struggling to suppress his laughter even though it had been a full ten minutes since they’d left the arena. “You didn’t even MOVE! That is so much worse than that spinning bullshit you pulled on me back when you were running around in chainmail. You just crossed your arms, like—” He paused to demonstrate, stumbling as he tripped on a loose cobble.

“Careful,” Ameliah said.

Recovering, Val covered his face with a hand, still laughing. “And you did it to a branch leader! I’ve never seen such disrespect!”

“She didn’t seem to take offense,” Ameliah said, smiling as she walked on Rain’s other shoulder with her hands behind her back. “If anything, I think his nonchalance got her more fired up. No, what shocks me is that she challenged him to a rematch.” She shook her head. “It’s a bad matchup. Without a piercing skill, it’s just not happening. I’m sure her build’s fine against anyone who has to actually, you know—”

“Aim?” Val interrupted.

Ameliah pointed a finger at him. “Yes, aim. Against Rain, it doesn’t matter how good you are at dodging.” She inhaled sharply, as if realizing something. “I’ve got it!” She cleared her throat. “You can’t dodge Rain!”

“That’s great!” Val burst out into another laughing fit, slapping Rain’s armored back, which was otherwise bare, yet another cloak having perished. “Can’t dodge Rain, ha! Because his name means—”

“Yes, yes,” Rain interrupted. “If that becomes a catchphrase, I’ll tie you both to Kettel, then dump all three of you in the ocean.”

Ameliah controlled herself after a moment, then reached out to touch his arm. “I hope you don’t actually mind how things went today,” she said, her tone earnest. “I had fun, even if it wasn’t quite what we had planned. Didn’t you? Can’t you admit it was a little satisfying? Taking Everiss down a peg?”

Rain smiled. “Okay, maybe a little. Dueling is just...not for me.” He shrugged. “Not with my magic being the way it is. I don’t see the point.”

“You just need to try a less lopsided format,” Val said. “Maybe a chasm duel or a scored contact spar or something. Something with strict rules. Something about skills, not Skills.”

“If I had the time for it, and it wasn’t quite so public, I’d be fine with that,” Rain said, thinking fondly of his occasional sparring sessions with Ameliah—if you counted having his ass handed to him as ‘sparring.’

“Hey, it’s people,” Val said suddenly. “Oh, it’s the away team. Did we come to see them off?”

“Don’t you say a damn word about the duel,” Rain hissed. “I don’t want them distracted.”

“Captain!” Samson called, waving to them, standing with a full party of white-cloaked Ascension members beside the arch to the teleportation complex. Mlem and Ava were there, plus Lyn, Mahria, Belson, Corrin, Lago, and Stint—the last sitting atop Dust. Temerity had originally had a sort-of cargo lift on its top deck, but the mechanism had been smashed in the attack on Three Cliffs. Rain didn’t actually know how Stint had managed to get the horse below after the fact, let alone back out again.

“Is this everyone?” Rain asked Samson as he reached them, nodding to the group in greeting.

Samson nodded. “You said a full party, so I brought eight fighters, including myself.”

“Hey!” Ava shouted. “There are nine of us! I count as nine!”

“You’re too short to count, dear daughter,” Mlem said, stroking his mustache.

Ava tried to kick him in the shin, but Mlem dodged, clearly having anticipated her reaction.

“I wasn’t about to ask him to leave her behind,” Samson said to Rain, resting his hand on the pommel of his sword.

“It’s fine,” Rain said, watching the girl chase her father in circles. “Ava can handle herself.”

Ava came to an abrupt stop to stare at him, her face lighting up like he’d just given her a pony. He nodded at her, then returned his gaze to Samson. “Besides, it’s not like there should be any trouble finding a good bay and a lead on some ore. If all goes well, you’ll only be on your own for a few days.”

“You really think the ship will catch up to us that fast?” Stint asked, idly ruffling Dust’s mane.

“I know it will,” Rain said, smiling. “I’m actually wondering how the system will deal with the sudden change in longitude. Will it adjust the time at dawn like it did each day on the way to Three Cliffs, or is there a threshold where it will do it instantly?”

Mlem, Mahria, and Ameliah all opened their mouths, but Rain raised a hand. “Nobody tell me. You’ll spoil the surprise.”

“What the depths are you on about, Rain?” Belson asked. “Adjust the time? You can’t adjust time. Time is time.”

“You’ll see,” Rain said, not faulting him for not knowing. He knew for a fact that the former barber had never left Fel Sadanis before joining Ascension, and though he was awakened now, not everyone’s interface gave time down to the minute.

Down to the minute...

Rain’s smile became strained. He’d realized a while ago that the system’s high-resolution time zones meant the durations listed on his progress reports were subtly off.

And without GPS coordinates to fix them...

UGH! The only word is UGH!

With effort, he unclenched his jaw.

IT’S FINE. It’s not like anyone is reading them but me. Heck, even if they did, what kind of person would check the math on the DATES? A lunatic, that’s who.

“You’re thinking about something weird, aren’t you?” Ameliah asked.

“No comment,” Rain replied, turning to face her. He jerked his thumb over his shoulder toward the archway. “Anyway, you’d better get going before I ask you to stay. Also, Luna is coming toward us from the south. Atyl and I are getting close to a deal with him, but seriously, he’s so thirsty. You’d think that would make him willing to give a little, but no. You’d also think a Bank president would be better at negotiating, and I’m not one to talk, but again, no. Anyway, I’ll deal with that noise. You just go before he gets here. Be safe, and oh, I almost forgot.”

Quickly, Rain fished out a Detection anchor from his armor and handed it to Ameliah. She laughed, taking it and slipping it into a pouch at her waist. “I’ll be fine,” she said, embracing him.

“Hang on,” Val said, sounding confused. “You’re going with them, Ameliah?”

“Yes and no,” Samson said, Ameliah’s lips being too busy for her to reply. “Once we get to Yelfenn, she’ll help us find a spot to set up, then she’s going south on foot.”

“Why?” Val asked.

“Recruiting,” Ameliah said as she and Rain reluctantly pulled away from each other. “I won’t be gone long.”

“If it’s more than a week or so, I’m coming after you,” Rain said, ignoring the confused looks Ameliah’s response had gotten her. “Seriously, be careful. I’d feel better if Tallheart went with you. It will probably go smoother, too, but he’s still worried about the ship breaking, and you’ll move faster on your own. Also, there’s...” He glanced at Val, hesitated, then decided to say it anyway. “We still don’t know where Lightbreaker and his army are, and Tallheart’s a target for the Empire. North Harbor’s not far from Yelfenn, so there’ll probably be refugees and—” He stopped himself, looking back at Ameliah. “Just watch yourself, alright? Sleep with one eye open.”

“I promise I’ll be careful,” Ameliah said with a laugh. “Now, how about you promise me something? Promise me you won’t do anything stupid.”

“Done,” Rain said instantly. “I promise.”

Ameliah grinned at him. “You say that, but—”

“Ah, Captain Rain!” Luna’s voice said, floating over Rain’s shoulder. “I can see that you are busy briefing your team. However, as you are leaving tomorrow, I had hoped you would be available to continue yesterday’s discussion. Have you had time to consider my latest...”

Rain ignored Luna’s blathering, meeting Ameliah’s eyes and mouthing the word ‘run’. She laughed, then nodded, motioning to the others to grab their things. Only once they were moving did Rain turn to face the Bank President, fixing him with a blatantly fake smile. “Why, President Luna! Fancy seeing you here! It’s almost like you’re following me!”
