Reinforcements had arrived, but not enough, two Majors and their divisions, a mere 10,000 cavalry lancers, their officers mostly untested. It took too much time for infantry to reach him, the roads having suffered various attacks in the past days, harassed by the enemy and their fierce beasts, several camps torched and burned. Brigadier Chang stood atop the battlements, within the command tower, a steady stream of reports and messengers moving in and out of the area. 50,000 soldiers, and whatever guards and militia he could scrounge up, against 120,000, without adding in the strength of the enemies monstrous hordes and demons. Things did not bode well for Shen Huo, but they would endure behind their walls. The lives of millions depended on it.

A lone rider approached the walls, a large Defiled tribesman, wearing armor of bone and scales, mounted atop his nightmarish Garo. Two legged and long snouted, with fearsome teeth, giant horns, and thick armored hides, they were fast and difficult to kill, as his scouts and the surrounding camps had learned. Hai could only pray that a messenger would make it past them, able to reach someone for aid. The rider shouted in his incomprehensible language, guttural and harsh, his horned helmet swaying as he rode across the front of his horde, battle-axe raised as he whipped his soldiers into a killing frenzy. Their commander, their mouthpiece, he would stand at the back, his cavalry arrayed around him, watching the battle unfold. The horns sounded and they marched forward, following slowly behind the demons, a steady, rhythmic beating of their feet upon the ground, the behemoth demons rumbling forward while the more lithe ones walked almost leisurely.

The order was given and arrows loosed, a scattered rain of arrows falling upon his Enemies. Hai smiled to himself, fondly remembering the sight of the Herald, leading her people to his defense. They would not be coming today, however, and it was left to him and his city guards to defend his city. The rumbling grew more frantic as the enemy began their charge, the vibrations felt even through the thick, reinforced walls, their screams of rage and violence reaching their ears, as his soldiers continued to discharge arrow after arrow.

Too soon the demons reached the walls, some crashing into the gates, trying to bring them down, others leaping up to climb, while the Defiled attempted to scale the walls with ropes and ladders, while soldiers fought them off, pouring boiling water over the battlements, the smell of cooked flesh filling the morning air. He stood back and out of the way, awaiting the approach of the enemy.

Before long, a demon rose from the battlements, scattering the guards before him, a mockery of the human form, dark, willowy, and deadly, oblong blade-hands tearing the throats out of his soldiers as it cleared a space upon the wall. Hai stepped forward, the Divine Flames igniting, striking the creature upon the chest, sending it back over the battlements. Returning to his post, Hai centered his chi, awaiting the next demon to arrive. He could only delay them, injure them enough to make them retreat, as a full on combat would cost him the walls, the soldiers unable to throw back the Defiled whilst he did battle.

Too soon, the demon returned, this time charging directly at him, blades elongating to pierce his body. Detestable. Clapping his hands, Hai sent a lance of white-hot flame towards the creature, enveloping it in the liquid flames, again sending it stumbling back, burning its blades, melting to drip upon the stone. A second strike erupted from him, destroying the Demon's arm, the resulting ichor unable to even spray as it crumbled to ashes once meeting the super-heated air. Sensing a chance, he focused the flame upon his index finger, and closing the distance in a single bound, he thrust his finger forward, piercing the demon's chest. It erupted in intense heat as its innards were broiled, the body blackening into ash, staining the battlements. A cheer erupted as his soldiers fought with renewed vigor, the first demon defeated raising their morale to new heights.

Hai stepped back once more, again finding Balance, drawing all that the Mother could give him. Too wasteful, killing the creature had cost him too much. He drank deeply from the proffered glass, the cool liquid soothing his dry throat as an attendant slathered cream upon his hands, cracked and bleeding from the intense heat. He cursed his impetuous actions, foolhardy and reckless. He was no longer a young man desperate for glory, he was the Magistrate now. There would be many more demons to deal with as his officers and Exarchs fell and his zone of defense grew wider. Clearing his mind of doubts, he resolved himself to the plan set forth by Xue Chang. Defend the walls, delay the enemy, await reinforcement. The large walls worked against them at times, but it was the only way to protect so many people, always more civilians than warriors.

A second Demon arrived, metallic and warped, undulating shrieks issuing forth from its throat. Hai step forward once again, the Divine Flame rising at his call as he met the creature in battle.

Delay, and victory would be theirs.

Fall, and millions would die.

Tong Da Hai fought, defending his people, the weight of his city upon his shoulders.
