The spider’s hostility almost vanished as the curiosity became its primary emotion, and beneath that, a subtle sense of longing.

“We could be friends,” she said, sending it the feeling of being together with a friend.

She could feel the spider wavering. Its curiosity was overwhelming, and she heard its legs shift against the stones as if hesitating to descend.

“Friends,” sent Elise one final time, with an even stronger {Suggest} than before.

Finally, the monster emerged, first one leg, then a second, then its fangs and eyes, then the rest of its body. It was the size of a car, and it slowly lowered itself to the ground, hanging from a thread that looked far too thin to support its weight. When it landed on the ground, it stared at her, tilting its head to the side. Despite its size, its enormous fangs, and the acid dripping from its maw, the way it curiously looked to her was almost cute.

[ Solitary Acid Weaver, lvl ??? ]

“Hello,” Elise said.

It tilted its head the other way, still confused. Elise summoned her wings and floated to the ground in front of her Mithril Crawler, just to make sure that the spider would not confuse who it was supposed to be friends with, then used {Suggest} again.

“Let’s be friends.”

The spider was still confused, not quite understanding what she meant, but it remained non-hostile. Mostly. After it descended, however, Elise sensed a new emotion. When it saw the Mithril Crawler, she sensed the unmistakable feeling of hunger, and the desire to kill that all monsters had. Sensing that, Elise had an idea. She floated to the side, and commanded the Mithril Crawler to step forward. The spider flinched, and drew itself back upward toward its hidden cave, but Elise called out to it.

“It’s alright!” she said. “It’s a gift!”

With those words, she sent the feeling of receiving a gift once again, and the spider slowed and came to a halt. The crawler stopped right beneath it on Elise’s command and remained their unmoving.

“A gift,” Elise repeated, sending the same emotion.

Slowly, the spider came back down until it was hovering just a few feet above the crawler. It was confused and suspicious, but it did not take long for its hunger to overcome those emotions, and in a single, ferocious motion, it dropped the rest of the way, sinking its acid-soaked fangs into the Mithril Crawler’s neck. Elise tried to keep control over the crawler, but the pain was too much for her {Royal Decree} to overcome. Fortunately, she didn’t actually need to do anything. Keeping it still in the beginning was more than enough for the spider to deal a critical blow, and just a few seconds later, the giant metal insect was dead, its head severed and half-melted.

As the spider stood proudly on the corpse of its prey, Elise made sure to use {Suggest} one more time, making sure that it understood what she had done. Then, it did something that she didn’t expect. With a swift motion, it attached a web to the Mithril Crawler’s head, grabbed the web in its jaws, and carried it over to Elise, dropping it at her feet. As it approached, Elise tensed, ready to use {Move} if it tried to attack, but instead, it simply left the head and retreated before tilting its head again.

“Th– thank you,” Elise said, picking the head up, and sending it a sense of gratitude.

The spider was pleased with that reaction, and then turned back to the rest of the corpse and began attaching webs all around it so it could lift it up to its lair. Elise watched in awe as it turned its back to her, having evidently fully accepted Elise as its friend, or whatever the primitive equivalent was. Elise herself stowed the Mithril Crawler’s head away in her storage bag. Crawlers were valuable, and even if it was just a head, she would be able to sell it for a good price if she brought it back.

When the spider got done bringing the rest of the body up to its lair, it descended back down, landing silently in front of Elise and pausing again. It no longer held any sense of hostility or hunger toward her, but it still seemed a bit confused, as if it wasn’t sure what to do with a friend. Elise, on the other hand, knew exactly what to do with it.

When talking to the tamer, she had learned that the process for unlocking the most basic of tamer Skills, and starting along the path toward being a full-fledged tamer, was actually quite simple. She just had to take a hostile monster, and convince it that she was not an enemy, then give it a name. Until that moment, she had had no luck with the first step. It was generally a prolonged process that involved feeding the monster and conditioning it to understand that she was not its enemy, but rather, a source of good things. But in the Dungeon, monsters didn’t tend to survive long enough for her to complete that process, and though she had a few targets in mind in the deeper areas where students seldom went, it was still an ongoing process.

Now, though, she had found a monster intelligent enough that she managed to complete the process in a day. All she had to do was come up with a good name. She thought about the other monsters she knew, and her mind immediately went to Jag. For a split second, she was tempted to name the spider “Spy” or “Weavy,” but she rejected that temptation as soon as it appeared. She was not going to give it a stupid name like that.

Eventually, she settled on something she thought worked. It was not the most creative name, but she thought it was quite fitting for a friendly spider. She just hoped that the giant, acid-spitting version wouldn’t share its namesake’s ultimate fate. At least, not anytime soon.

“Charlotte,” said Elise. “Your name is Charlotte.”

[ You have discovered a hidden Skill Quest: {Tame} ]

[ {Tame} (Skill Quest): Convince a monster that you are not hostile, and bestow a name upon it ]

[ Progress: 2/2 ]

[ You have completed the Skill Quest {Tame}! You have unlocked the skill {Tame}! ]

[ Tame: When a creature reaches a certain level of affinity toward you, you may tame them. Tamed creatures can understand the intent behind the tamer’s words, and carry out the tamer’s commands. ]

Elise smiled, but only for a moment, as she felt the spider’s emotions suddenly shift. From the general pleasantness of friendship, she felt something else seeping in. Discomfort. Restlessness. And a tiny seed of hatred.

She was confused, but only for a moment. Then, she understood what was going on. How could she not? After all, as it turned out, the spider was a kindred spirit. All it wanted was freedom. Being tamed and obeying Elise’s commands was not freedom.

She used {Suggest} once more, this time thinking back to the memory of when she had finally gotten out of her adoptive parents’ house. The feeling of being free of their thumbs, able to do whatever she pleased. When the spider received this emotion, it responded with a sense of longing so strong that it made Elise feel melancholy.

“I’m sorry,” she said. “I’ll free you. Then we can go back to being friends.”

It didn’t take long for her to figure out how to do exactly that. Undoing the taming was as simple as a thought, and Elise confirmed that it had been done when she sensed a bit of the aetheric bond between them fade away, and with it, the subtle negative emotions the spider was feeling.

“There, all better,” she said with a smile.

The spitter made an odd chittering sound with its mouth that made Elise’s smile widen.

“Actually, I have an idea,” she said. “Hold still.”

She flew up above the spider, which watched her with curiosity, then she started raining {Fairy Dust} down upon it. She had no idea if what she was trying would work, but as the dust fell, she tried to fill it with an evolutionary blessing. A blessing of luck that the spider would unlock some kind of sapient evolution option. She doubted such a thing would work, but there was no point in not trying it. And if it somehow did work, then she and the spider might be able to truly become friends.

“I have to go now,” she said, flying back down in front of it. “I can’t stay down here for too long. But it was nice to meet you, Charlotte. I’ll come visit again.”

The spider did not understand her words, but when Elise started to fly away, it did not chase after her. Elise floated backward, waving her arm at it, and just as she was about to turn around so she could see the tunnel she was about to enter, the spider raised one of its own legs and waved back. With a chuckle, Elise called out to it one more time, then disappeared back up the tunnel.

While she would not have minded staying for longer, Elise actually did need to return. She had probably already been gone a bit too long, and was about to turn around and head back when she first encountered the spider. Technically, she did not have a bedtime, and on a normal Friday night, she probably would have stayed out later.

This time, that was not an option. The next day was the start of the school’s fall break, meaning she had a week off, and she had already told the dwarves that she would be arriving in the morning. Given the fact that Titania deemed it important enough to personally tell Elise to go, Elise knew that the trip would not be simple, and the last thing she wanted was to be sleep deprived when she went.

When she returned to the Gray’s house, she double checked both her spatial storage artifacts, making sure she had everything she could possibly need. Then, she fell into a deep, peaceful sleep.

Back in the Dungeon, deep in the crawlers’ domain, Charlotte wrapped up her latest prey in an airtight cocoon of webbing. This would keep the Dungeon from reclaiming the body for at least half a year, and would also keep the body relatively preserved, and free of any form of rot or decay. Charlotte did not know if she would need it to last that long, but it was better to be safe than sorry. After all, evolving always made her hungry.
