During the second day, Sidjin realized the frigate could widen the gap between both ships by accelerating while the flagship was down for repairs, and their hook inactive. Although it was a drain on the ship’s core, a momentary boost of speed could provide hours of advance when used at the right time. With this, they could space the volleys a bit more.

On the third day, the Nemeti came up with localized shields near the waterline. They didn’t work very well against the powerful yries shells, but they still cut down on repair time. The yries adapted by enchanting their shells for piercing effects, then aiming either higher or lower. Now the Nemeti had to fight water breaches all around which slowed them down again. It didn’t stop the spells though. Viv and Sidjin were forced to sleep by two-hours increment. Even [a light that never dims] could only achieve so much for Viv, especially since the title reset when she was resting.

On the fourth day, the captain had all non-essential supplies tossed overboard: ropes, planks, nails, dry food, they lightened the Sword of Neriad as much as they could to cut down even more travel time.

On the fifth day, the yries ran out of shells.

“It’s the last one,” the head gunner clicked. “Then we are out.”

“I still have exactly one trick up my sleeve and then it’s the maximum effort approach. How are the preparations going?”

“Metal-shaping is done. The powder is loaded. According to specifications.”

“Good. Launch the first one,” Viv said with a vicious grin.

“How can you be sure it will go where it is meant to be?” the yries asked.

He didn’t like random stuff. Most yries hated leaving things to chance when it came to weaponry. Viv patted his broad shoulder.

“Because it’s destiny.”

Oh he didn’t like that at all. Viv returned to the ship’s butt, which was also called the stern apparently. The archpriest was still his same monolithic, unflinching self. He’d been quiet since the gun incident.

“Hello hello! It is I, the living blasphemy. Are you ready for my next trick?”

Your doom is inevitable.

“What’s short, spiky, and has a shit personality?”

She sent the mental image of a porcupine. It would have been more fun if the Nemeti had anything resembling a sense of humor but unfortunately, it was a bit like trying to provoke a door knob. Viv did it anyway for the sake of her mental sanity.

“Nope!”

The flagship’s hull shook. Water crested on its flank, rising above the main deck to wet the vessel’s sails.

“It’s a naval mine!”

That one and the next five bought them the rest of the fifth day. Bes confirmed the captain’s calculations shortly after.

“Milady, thanks to our much reduced weight and the occasional use of the ship’s core for speed, we have determined that we will land near Zazas tomorrow night.”

“Then one day, one day is all we need to buy.”

It was easier said than done. It was a long night and a really, really grueling morning stopping artillery spells every damn twenty minutes or so. Sidjin came up with a new variation on the twister he called the battering ram.

“I originally designed it to breach an enchanted gate during a siege, but the range was supposed to be much shorter. Do you think you can translate it into witch magic?”

He looked feverish. Many of his additions looked like last-minutes annotations designed to bypass or adapt sigils rather than building the spell from the ground up. It wasn’t easy for Viv to alter it to suit her style, but with the two of them working at it into the early morning, she managed. The first cast of the spell, at full power, cracked the entire front side of the hull. It failed to slow down the flagship though. Sidjin sighed, haggard, features drawn and eyes sunken by the constant exertion. Viv knew she wasn’t doing much better. Even pulling mana from her monstrous core felt more and more like drawing water from an ever deeper well.

“Again,” she said.

“I’ll handle the bombardment. You can do it,” Sidjin said.

The third of the Nemeti spell engines came online shortly after. It was all Sidjin could do to slow them down. A few embers made it to the ship, starting fires that Sin put out by, as far as Viv could tell, slicing the fire apart.

“Any time now would be great!” Sidjin screamed from up high.

“I got it.”

She switched to her [Aspect of the Destroyer] again, her soul raw from constant use. She hadn’t felt so dog tired since hauling her ass through the desert carrying Solfis on a sled.

[Battering ram]

The spell pierced through to shields before landing at the exact same spot. Something cracked again. With exhausted eyes, Viv watched the flagship close in like a floating wall. She could see cracks spread over the repaired hull.

For a second, nothing happened. Then the cracks stopped.

Like a scab over a healed wound, five days of Nemeti repairs came crashing down into the sea, peeling off to reveal entire compartments where water flooded with ravenous appetite. Now the Nemeti’s speed was working against them. The damage was so bad that the flagship started to list.

“Thank the fucking gods,” Viv breathed out.

“Emeric’s beard, we did it,” the captain added.

This was the breathing room they needed. Viv managed to catch four hours of uninterrupted sleep and even a warm meal before her chest ached from the tracking spell. It was going to take time for the Nemeti to catch up. As the sun set, a cry of immense relief spread over the crew.

“Land! Land!”

By some miracle, the Sword of Neriad had sailed true. Nyil’s twin moons shone clearly over beige cliffs covered in creeping ice: Zazas’ Grand Beach. They were back. There wasn’t a single soul to be seen though. Viv activated her long view spell to inspect the place, then she found something waiting for her.

“Right. Beach us over there,” she told the captain.

“Milady, the Nemeti are right behind us again. I fear they will overtake us as we disembark.”

“They’ll do no such thing. Beach us. That’s an order.”

“Aye, ma’am.”

Viv smiled, for two items had been left near a boulder halfway up the pale sand. One was the Crown. The other was her old shield.

Harrak was waiting.
