“Isn’t that a quote from an evil man?” Sidjin asked by her side.

“You’re an evil man, Mr. Sexy Fallen Prince.”

“That’s Lord Sexy Fallen Prince, thank you very much. Now that we have this clarified, oh empress, how are we going to defeat or at least delay something that can obliterate a warship in one spell.”

“First, I can do that too. Second, I want to test that weird effect of theirs. You remember how the bolts fired at the flagship somehow failed to connect?”“I do. I hated it.”

“Ok so I was thinking, we need to see if powerful spells are stopped too.”

He nodded with enthusiasm.

“I’ll start with a Glastian twister.”

“Ok. I’ll pay attention to how the defenses work.”

Sidjin cast his signature blender while the flagship drew closer. Soon, the nemeti artillery thing gave sign it was going to fire again.

“I’ll handle it,” she told the rest of the crew of the Sword of Neriad, and at least it looked like she was believed this time.

Viv was an old hand at stopping this spell by now. It was larger than most she’d faced before. She could hear the promise woven into its fiery payload.

You will burn.

“The fuck I will.”

She flew up, casting Durandal to explode the projectile mid-air, then a good aegis stopped the falling fragments heading for the ship. Maybe there was a better way to handle those. She had a feeling she was going to get a lot of practice over the next week. When she returned to the deck, she realized the ship was moving faster again.

“The Azure lady has granted us her blessing,” the captain said, voice heavy with emotion.

Viv had never expected to receive the help of the recluse at all, so getting it for a long period of time was an unexpected boon. She had a feeling it was an immense privilege, especially considering the withdrawn nature of the old woman. It was nice getting some help once in a while instead of the usual serving of shit luck. It almost made up for the fact the watery hag could probably just sink the entire Nemeti fleet in ten minutes tops but would rather sit on her ass at the bottom of some trench. Just as Viv landed mulling dark thoughts, Sidjin finished casting one of his most powerful spells. He’d gotten noticeably faster at it.

The vortex of colorless blades jumped hundreds of meters towards the flagship like an angry jellyfish. The way the individual parts kept together at that distance was a thing of beauty to Viv’s mana sight. Truly, Sidjin was a fucking artist when it came to complex constructs. It was always nice seeing a master at work.

She felt something going wrong right before impact, but that was expected. She focused on the feeling as she kept her eyes on the place where the archpriest always stood. There, reality twisted under the creature’s will. Strands gathered, denying the spell. It didn’t fizzle, it simply failed to connect, and then, it was gone, as if it had never existed. There was something there in the way the spell was countered, a meaning. She had to understand it.

Will of the Black Witch: Beginner 2

Yes, the more she thought about it and the more it made sense. Fate weaving was not just complex, it was also wildly unpredictable because of how intertwined all things were. The Nemeti would have had to keep the warding spell simple for it to remain stable. A sentence at most. Even then, it must have cost them dearly. Maybe they’d been building the ship for fifteen years?

“I am thoroughly insulted,” Sidjin said after all his efforts failed to achieve anything.

“Could you do it again?” Viv asked. “I think I’m on the verge of understanding how their main defense works.”

“Yes because I enjoy watching the pinnacle of my works disappear like a harrien’s fart in a brisk wind.”

“It is for science,” Viv replied, grabbing his shoulder with a serious air.

The light banter was working on the nearby sailors. They were forgetting the imminent danger with their two strongest keeping a sense of calm. Those who were off shift and not currently resting also gathered on the deck, including Bes, Sin, and Mar, who had preferred to stay with her rather than to return with the Ravinport group. Staying belowdeck during a running battle was probably an exotic form of torture. Viv ignored them for now.

“Don’t you always say that science and experiments are an integral part of —”

“Stop turning my values against me like weapons in a court of law. Yes, very well. I will single-handedly cast another tactical spell doomed to fail for your entertainment.”

Viv liked that Sidjin was playing her game. He looked a little tired, but the twinkle in his eyes revealed a fire and a will to win she shared with him. This was a magical enigma and there was little more Sidjin loved than to solve those. It took another ten minutes for another twister to form, and the mothership had been slowly gaining on them. Viv wasn’t sure, but she thought the magical nature of the Azure Lady’s help was giving her an edge.

With her undivided attention on the archpriest, Viv felt the Nemeti ‘speak’, for lack of a better word.

Will of the Black Witch: Beginner 3

No human may hamper this ship.

“I think he warded the ship against humans,” Viv said after that spell fizzled again. “Unlucky for him, I’m only half human so I think I can get through.”

“You see yourself as half human? How would that work?” Sidjin asked, curious.

“There’s an easy way to find out.”

Viv rose above the Sword of Neriad.

[True aspect of the Destroyer.]

[High sequence: triple hyperbeams]

Concentrated rays of nothingness pierced the sky, absorbing the light on their way. They were almost as wide as a person by now. Viv realized that she might be correct after all. She could perhaps raze a mountain.

The spell wasn’t fully stopped by the fate obstruction, but as the deadly ray reached the deck, a secondary shield sprung up. This one was an actual mage spell, the first such display she’d ever seen the Nemeti do. To her complete surprise, the main element used was life. It was a life shield. It was specifically designed to stop black mana, and it did.

“Core-fed as well,” she said, returning to the deck. “They built this entire thing specifically to counter me. Very rude.”

Two artillery spells rose from the mothership at the same time.

“You get one, I get the other?” Sidjin offered.

“No, I wanted to try something first. Stay down here and block them if it fails.”

Her Durandal spell exploded the first projectile, as always, but instead of simply blocking the shrapnel, she cast another, improvised spell immediately after.

“Disruption net.”

It was a colorless and change area spell that ate at the mass of fiery death. It didn’t work immediately, but as the fragments passed through it and got eaten at, they fizzled until only embers reached the ship where they were easily stopped. Viv handled the second spell in the same way. Back down, Sidjin was already writing down the sigils he would use to follow the same strategy. Before she could return, however, fate mana hit her again. It wasn’t the tug this time, it was more… personal.

The archpriest was communicating again. She felt his seething hatred like a wall without seams, a mass that nothing except death could ever hope to break. The Nemeti were single-minded to a level that bordered on madness, but there was a method to their rage and she was at the receiving end of it.

Your escape is futile.

Your spells are futile.

Your people will fail.

Its manipulation took hold of her soul, encasing it in icy fingers. She could see the archpriest in her mind: a towering, cloaked figure the color of a setting sun. His unblinking eyes were fixed on her and they would never waver until one of them perished. She fumbled the thread of destiny to stop it. Her instincts guided her while she gathered them strand by strand. This wasn’t the story. Her destiny was different, and she poured all of her conviction in her reply.

You have failed to catch me.

I have defeated you once, blooding you for the first time.

I have lured my enemies to you, wounding you again.

Your spells have failed to reach me.

The ocean itself has blessed me.

You have failed to catch me.

And now, I will hurt you once more.

Viv focused. She brought all her might to bear in her own, witch version of the Glastian twister. Sidjin and the crew watched her work in silence, circle upon circle of interlocking sigils bound together by her will. The spell formed with speed and grace, like a master assembling their tool.

[Aspect of the Destroyer]

[Witch’s Twister.]

The spell triggered without a single droplet of black mana. It roared just over the wave, not the beastling slayer Sidjin had designed but a piercing bolt created to mangle a single target. It crossed the fate barrier almost unimpeded. The life shield barely weakened it. It landed on the deck with a deadly crack, sending planks and Nemeti limbs flying: just a chip from a really large boulder but it was enough. The archpriest’s attack failed. The divine construct could bleed, and so it could die, and the roles of hunter and prey became fluid again. The flagship suddenly slowed down. A handful of smaller vessels crashed against the hull with ghastly cracks. For a moment, Viv hoped she had won, but of course, the Nemeti were prepared. The hook planted itself in her soul again, and the flagship picked up speed. An army of crewmen — or maybe crew Nemeti — busied themselves on repairs. Viv had bought herself an hour or so.

“Bes? Bes?” she said.

The man practically appeared at her side like the smooth vizir to her evil empress persona.

“Yes, Your Majesty?”

“At this current speed, how fast do you reckon it would take to reach the beach?”

“Milady, as your advisor I would suggest asking someone with navigational skills.”

“Oh, right. Captain!”

The Remnants veteran glowered at being ignored before. He passed a hand over his well-groomed beard, perhaps doing math. Poor thing.

“I would say six more days. It would also set a new record. A shame it won’t change anything if they use their vile sorceries to keep up with us.”

“No, no… it will change everything. This is a race. I need to reach the shore and the Nemeti need to kill me before it happens. Yes, I can make this work. Bes, I know we have repair supplies below deck. Please find me a complete list and an yries engineer.”

“It will be done.”

Another Nemeti spell reddened the sky behind them.

“I got this one,” Sidjin said.

Viv considered her options. If this was a battle of fate, there had to be some sort of story to it. She had to remain one step ahead through tricks and underhanded tactics like she’d just done. The more she delayed, the easier it would be to delay. The Nemeti had opted for the direct, overwhelming approach but they lacked flexibility. They thought they had her cornered. They didn’t. She would be the hare to their wolf and then, she would turn the tables.

Hours passed as the flagship closed the distance, still firing at the Sword of Neriad. By now, both Viv and Sidjin had perfected the net countermeasure but it was still delicate work that forced them to fly up. Viv’s next twister was also blocked by a group of priests casting a special shield. The Nemeti were learning as well. When the flagship was only about two hundred meters away, she revealed her next ‘trick’.

“Are the yries ready?”

“Yes, milady,” the captain replied, brimming with excitement.

It was a historical occasion, after all.

“Alright. Do the maneuver while I address our foes.”

The Sword of Neriad turned abruptly. Ports opened, revealing shiny maws brimming with enchantments. As the deck stabilized, Viv sent her mind at the archpriest in the same way she did when addressing a dragon. It was easy. He’d done it first, after all.

“You think you were smart warding against humans, but guess what? I lead a diverse bunch of ultra-violent maniacs. Behold my yries-made, yries-operated contraptions. For my next trick…”

The barrels glowed with the promise of an imminent revolution: the very first gunpowder-based ship-to-ship battle, and just like most technological revolutions, one side was going to be left behind.

“For my next trick, I cast gun.”

With deliberate slowness since they were not in a particular hurry, the frigate’s twelve guns opened on the flagship. Explosive shells landed in the hull, at the waterline, with devilish precision. The crew cheered at the wounded giant and the fleet huddling behind it, one against an army and yet still, they had the upper hand. Fire erupted on board the Nemeti vessel though it was swiftly suppressed. It still forced them to slow down.

Again, Viv had bloodied the foe and again, their crew repaired the damage with zealous speed. Their roles had coalesced: Viv, the trickster, always one step ahead. The Nemeti: the predator, relentless. The question was now if Viv would run out of tricks before she reached the shore or not.

“It’s about stamina from here on. Sidjin, you should rest up while you can. I’m going to need some help.”

“What about us?” Sin asked from the railing. “What must we prepare?”

“Make no mistake, I appreciate your service and it will prove decisive, but if we are boarded, it is already too late. Just help the captain if he asks for it.”

“Understood.”

And so it began. The first day was survived with just another volley, but the battle didn’t end at sunset. Brasiers lit up on the Nemeti ship. The spells kept firing with clockwork regularity. Viv and Sidjin took turns to protect their frigate from the attacks while the Harrakan crew worked with fearless discipline to keep the frigate running at full speed.

