After the initial shock passed, Yang discovered he was quite pleased with this unexpected turn of events, because he only ever wanted to be Patriarch for the fame, fortune, honour, and glory, as well as fulfilling his grandfather and father’s ambitions. Now that his sister had accomplished everything in his stead, Yang still had everything his heart desired while also retaining his freedom to do whatever he pleased. The only difference was that he relied on his sister’s backing to throw his weight around and look down on his peers, so matters really couldn’t have gone better. He was the Matriarch’s brother, an Elder on the Council, uncle to a genius young talent, grand-uncle to two screaming little babies who were somehow even more vocal than their father, and a blissful bachelor to boot. When he met his fellow Clansmen and Society adherents now, he was reminded of the time when he was six years old and got to hold his head up high for an entire week after his sister pummelled their cousins for daring to bully him during their games. Others whispered of how Situ Jia Yang was a failure riding on the coat-tails of a woman, but they were just jealous they couldn’t do the same, for their sisters were nowhere near as impressive as his. Most importantly of all, now that Yang’s dream of becoming Patriarch could no longer be fulfilled, he felt like a giant weight had been lifted from his shoulders and he was free to be himself again, rather than the person his grandfather and parents had always wanted him to be. Who that was, Yang wasn’t entirely sure just yet, but he found that he enjoyed military service far more when he wasn’t endlessly chasing advancement for the sake of clout and reputation. Now, he served because it was what he’d been born to do, to fight the Enemy and drive them back from the Empire’s borders once and for all.

Which was why he found it so irksome to sit around doing nothing while citizens and Warriors fought and died in the streets of Pan Si Xing.

Matters were all going according to plan, a fact he had to remind himself every time he saw an Imperial citizen fall before the blades of the Enemy. It wasn’t that he wasn’t willing to fight, but rather that his strength would be needed in the conflict to come, so others would have to shoulder the burden of battle for now. No one above the rank of Lieutenant Colonel had taken the field just yet, for aside from Brigadier Hongji giving orders from the safety of the mines, the rest of the Field and General Officers were lurking in wait for the true target of this attack. That was the important thing to focus on, not the liberation of the city and the people inhabiting it, but rather their goal to take Bai Qi’s head and deny the Enemy a pivotal piece on the board. A bold move, but a necessary one, for as fearsome as the Enemy might be, they were far more dangerous with a man like Bai Qi in command. Since the fall of the Western province, Yang had watched as the Enemy tactics improved with each passing day, going from disjointed waves of tribal aggressors rushing headlong towards their death, to whole armies of Defiled marching in cohesive fashion and engaging in strategic warfare.

To lay this all at Bai Qi’s footsteps would be overestimating his value, but to say he had no part in it would be disingenuous at best. What’s more, if the Enemy were truly to come together as a disciplined fighting force comparable to the Imperial Army, then the Empire was doomed. Killing Bai Qi, Mataram YuGan, and Mao Jianghong would hopefully buy the Empire some time, but they still had to deal with the mysterious Uniter who brought this plague to their doorstep in the first place. A matter for another day however, and for craftier minds than his, as Yang focused his efforts on ignoring the death and suffering taking place all around him.

The good news was that the battle was thus far going better than expected, which was a testament to the strength and grit of the soldiers Baatar hand-picked for this mission. A hundred-thousand soldiers against an entire City of Defiled, and not only were the Imperial forces holding firm, they did so while scattered haphazardly about the city. Well, not exactly scattered so much as strategically divided, but it was a bold gambit to split into smaller groups when they were already readily outnumbered. After seeing this tactic in action however, he wholeheartedly believed it was the right move and wholeheartedly acknowledged Baatar and Hongji’s superior tactical qualifications. Out in the sandy desert where there were no defences to speak of, their paltry, hundred-thousand strong army would have been engulfed and overrun within the hour, but the fighting in Pan Si Xing played out far differently. Yang still wasn’t used to treating the Defiled as a logical and rational foe, for it was difficult to overcome a long lifetime of bias. Five years ago, anyone who brought up the possibility of a disciplined force of Defiled would be laughed out of the streets, for ‘disciplined Defiled’ was quite possibly the most easily recognized oxymoron in existence. One would have more success selling ‘dry water’ or ‘hard air’ than convincing anyone the Enemy could exhibit any semblance of control or restraint, for it was a well-known fact that the Defiled were all gibbering madmen driven by hatred and lies.

Which turns out wasn’t a fact at all, just a common misconception Warriors told the world because the truth was far more frightening. The Defiled were a crazed and demented bunch, but they were far from stupid, or at least the Chieftains that led them were. They lived lives embroiled in bitter conflict, with the Imperials and other Defiled both, so not a single one of them ever made it to adulthood without first surviving through countless bloody conflicts. That was the most important lesson Yang learned during his time at the Northern Wall, to respect the Enemy as a cunning and capable foe rather than the mindless slaves of the Father common knowledge took them to be.

The second most important lesson he learned up North was that he’d been a fool to seek advancement in Central. Granted, the decision hadn’t been his to make, but he’d gone along with his father’s arrangements because he believed it was the right choice at the time. Serving in Central meant rubbing elbows with the ‘true’ nobles of the Empire, who were only considered the ‘true nobility’ because they lived in the safest and most prosperous province of them all, and therefore were the wealthiest and most influential. Now that the war had come to their doorstep however, they were mostly useless save for a few stand out Officers, and Yang was almost equally as bad. Had he served in the North however, he would have come into contact with the Defiled that much sooner and been better equipped to fight them now, instead of bumbling about like a fool and learning as he went. Of course, serving in the North was only the ‘better’ decision in hindsight, for Father had other reasons for sending Yang to Central, namely to keep him away from Nian Zu and Rang Min both. Back then, everyone knew that the new Clan Patriarch would not tolerate any threats to his position, as evidenced by the great lengths he went to in order to have Nian Zu killed. Alas, the black sheep of the Situ Clan survived time and time again, winning the admiration of an entire generation of youths in the process, Yang included. It wasn’t surprising, as youths were rebellious by nature and who better to idolize than a rebel who repeatedly spat in the eye of the Clan’s greatest authority figure? It didn’t help that Rang Min was never one to endear himself to anyone unwilling to lick his boots first, as if he were entitled to their love and admiration by sheer virtue of his position alone. In his mind, you were either with him or against him, which made for tense times among clansmen, all of which Yang neatly avoided by focusing on his career in Central.

A shame that, for if he’d served up North, perhaps he would have come under Nian Zu’s wing and become close friends with Baatar, though that seemed unlikely. Even now, they weren’t on the friendliest of terms, but mostly because the half-wolf was a notoriously difficult person to get along with. There was an unnerving quality about him that had nothing to do with his exotic appearance or dangerous mannerisms, one that Yang only identified after working alongside the man for the better part of a year. Baatar possessed an inhuman amount of focus, able to fixate on a person or problem in a manner that was unsettling to behold, like... well, a wolf fixating on prey. He had this piercing gaze that made it seem as if he could read your every thought and uncover all your deepest, darkest secrets and was quietly judging the weight of sin staining your soul. It was all in Yang’s imagination of course, because Baatar could no more read thoughts than a bird could understand the written word. That didn’t make his gaze any less unnerving however, and most responded to his focused attention poorly, for reasons that should be obvious. No one liked to feel exposed or judged, but it would be easier to teach a stone to sprout wings and fly than teach Baatar to ease back and relax.

Even drunk, the man was more intense than most, a naturally brooding and pensive looking soul, so Yang accepted they would never be the best of friends and settled for mutually respected comrades. Here they stood with three other Peak Experts, Gao Liang and the wedded Exarches Bralton and Erienne. All five of them stood cloaked in Concealment atop a granary silo while watching the battle for Pan Si Xing unfold, but while the rest of them sweated, squirmed, and otherwise showed signs of fraying nerves, Baatar stood at full attention with shoulders loose and weapons at the ready, wholly prepared to leap into the fray at a moment’s notice. This was a part of in the inhuman focus Yang noted earlier, an almost superhuman ability to concentrate on the task at hand, and though Baatar’s head turned this way and that to take in the entire city, he never tightened his grip around the shaft of his pole-axe or reached for the hilt of his sword, never shifted his weight from one foot to the other or reached up to wipe the sweat from his brow. It was uncanny really, and made Yang uncomfortable just to see it in action, for there were times when Baatar seemed less than human and not in a half-beast sort of way. It was almost like he was carved from stone and given life by the Mother above, a Warrior in the likeness of a human but wasn’t entirely one just yet.

As such, his inhuman focus made it even more difficult for the other four Peak Experts with him to relax. Well, maybe not the wedded Exarches, who stood arm in arm taking turns fanning one another in an effort to beat the heat, and Gao Liang seemed almost as focused, for the obviously Western native was ready to fight and die for his province, so really, it was only Yang squirming in the face of Baatar’s actions, which irked him to no end. If the others could ignore it, then so could he, though he had no earthly idea how they could stand so still whilst baking in the Western sun. Nothing short of Runic armour would help Warriors of their calibre, which was why Yang was out here in light silk robes to help beat the heat, alongside a wide-brimmed hat with a silk veil to keep the sand out of his eyes and mouth. In contrast, Baatar had only added a simple hat to his regular Bekhai leathers, while the wedded Exarches didn’t even bother with that much because they refused to remove their feathered tribal headdresses. As for Gao Liang, he was covered from head to toe in loose western garb, having made the transformation sometime after they set out since there was no longer any need to hide his origins, and he looked more comfortable now than ever.

Physically at least. Mentally and emotionally, the man was a wreck, though Yang could hardly blame him considering the circumstances. Some fool of a Warrior had gone ahead and spurred the people of the West to action and doomed them in the process. Even if they were hale and healthy enough to march through the desert, which they most assuredly weren’t, there was no way for the army to evacuate so many of them to safety. Most of these poor people had survived this long, but now they would either die in battle here today or suffer a long and excruciating death at the hands of the Enemy. It would be a mercy to put every Western citizen to the sword before leaving Pan Si Xing, but Baatar would not order it and Gao Liang would not stand for it. Hell, Yang himself would hesitate to give such an order, and he had no idea what he would do if commanded to kill so many innocents. The purge was one thing, but wanton slaughter another, and truth be told, he no longer believed that extended contact with the Enemy was enough to doom one’s soul.

Because if that were true, then these fine men and women of the West would not be so eager to spill Defiled blood. If they were truly tainted by the Father’s lies, then they would happily inflict pain and suffering on anyone in their path, but despite the chaos and pandemonium breaking out all across the city, the people of the West only attacked the Enemy, and in a few rare instances, other prisoners. Sympathizers most likely, or traitors who turned on their own people to support the Enemy without turning Defiled, a scenario which offended Yang’s sensibilities. At least those who succumbed to the Father’s wiles at least had the excuse of being gullible and weak-willed, but someone who willingly worked with the Enemy without believing their lies was a black-hearted scoundrel who deserved death.

