The people of the West fought with enthusiasm, but they were sorely lacking in strength, stamina, and effectiveness. By the time the battle was truly underway, they were mostly a spent force who could only delay the Defiled for all the time it took to swing their weapons before clogging the streets with their bodies, a wholly predictable outcome anyone could have seen coming, except for the fool who spurred them to action. Everywhere he looked, he saw Westerners dying in droves, and though he had no love for this province, it pained him to see them throw their lives away without cause. Better if they’d kept their heads down and away from the fighting, because at least then they would have a chance to see tomorrow, but now, they were all dead men walking and nothing short of direct intervention from the Mother Above would save them.

Heavens knows Hongji tried, dispatching soldiers this way and that to guide the citizens to safety, but to no avail. Even if they all listened to orders without question, there was simply no place to hide so many slaves at once. There were whole crowds making their way to the market district and out the tunnels running underneath, but they were merely a drop in the bucket compared to those dying in the streets. The biggest problem was that most citizens didn’t care to escape or even try to survive. Instead, whenever they saw Imperial soldiers, they’d cheer and charge the Enemy in hopes of holding them in place for their heroes to strike down. It didn’t matter if they died in the process, and in fact, most seemed happy to do so, for more than one westerner had gone into the arms of the Mother with a smile etched across their sunken cheeks.

Strength of spirit and conviction aplenty, but Yang’s conscience would have much preferred if they’d lived. These commoners were weak and insignificant, yet foolish enough to try and make a difference, while he stood here watching and waiting in complete silence.

“How much longer?” The question slipped out before he even realized he’d spoken, barely more than a whisper but the words echoed in the silence atop the silo. Four sets of eyes turned towards him, but Yang rose up to meet Baatar’s icy-blue orbs and did away with caution. “How much longer will we stand idle and wait?”

Baatar showed no anger over being questioned or frustration at current events, his stony expression as cold and unreadable as ever. “And what,” he began, speaking slowly and enunciating every word with the utmost care, “Would you have me do?”

Yang was wrong. The man was furious, enraged even, but he held fast to Balance to keep it from showing. Not always the best solution, because sometimes the best way to find Balance was to let yourself feel your emotions in full before centring yourself once again. “Send us to fight,” Yang replied, waving about the city at the Peak Experts hidden all about. “We’ve set the trap, but it’s clear he won’t take the bait.” Having seen the full extent of their forces, Bai Qi had to know the Imperials had no intention of taking the city, else they would have sent more soldiers. Their plan to lure him out failed the second he dispatched his Peak Experts and Demons instead of revealing himself to take control, so there was a good chance he knew they were here for his head. If so, what was the point of lying in wait any longer? Better to strike now and kill as many Defiled as they could before retreating to fight again another day.

Another day the people of the Pan Si Xing wouldn’t have, but there was nothing Yang or Baatar could do for them.

“He has yet to take the bait,” Baatar replied, “Not because he fears our trap, but because he sees the bait is not worth it. The man is prideful to the extreme, and he feels it beneath him to take direct action himself. A mistake, I admit, not bringing someone worthy of his attention, for even if I reveal myself now, he might not think me deserving of his personal attention and send someone else to deal with me in his stead.”

“Then what are we still waiting for?” Yang asked, and he could tell the others were equally curious.

“For the tides to turn.” Turning to point out into the city, he gestured at a group of cavalry fighting in the distance. “Yaruq and Major Chu XinYue have almost completed the slaughter of the Half-Demons sent to fight them, largely thanks to my younger sister’s ability to block their Dread Aura.” Shifting to point further south, he continued, “Your Elder Chi Gan is slaughtering Demons like chickens, a formidable hidden dragon if I have ever seen one. In the meantime, Siyar and your nephew have fortified the forging district with help from the miners, and even as we speak are slaughtering the Enemy forces in droves by leading them into bloody killing grounds. As for the Enemy cavalry, my Khishigs have brought them out on a merry chase, luring them to a dead end square where the bows and crossbows of my son’s retinue rain death down upon them.”

After listing out no less than five more examples, Baatar turned back to Yang and said, “Surprising as it might seem, I believe we are winning, but more importantly, so too does Hongji. The Enemy forces are too disjointed in their response, but more importantly, they are too eager to do battle with the people of the West who they believed were broken and defeated. They think themselves wolves, but they are mere lambs being led to the slaughter, all because they think so little of the slaves they’ve lorded over and abused for so long.”

“...So you think Bai Qi will be forced to come out?”

Baatar nodded. “It is the only way he can regain control of the situation, by showing himself to assume direct control. Giving orders through Sending does not have the same effect, and doubly so when commanding Defiled, I imagine.” Huffing a small sigh of regret, Baatar added, “Whoever spurred the people of Pan Si Xing to action was right to do so, for without them, we might well have long since been overrun by a more cautious and coordinated foe. Imperial forces in the city must be respected, but rebel slaves? They see no reason to fear the people they’ve whipped and terrorized for two years, and now, the Enemy is paying a steep price for their hubris.” Glancing at Yang, Baatar stopped to consider something before nodding sagely as if someone had said something brilliant. “But perhaps you are right. Perhaps we should add fuel to the fire and give our quarry more reason to come out. Signal the first group to action. Hongji will know what to do.”

Even as he said it, Gao Liang was delivering a message using a polished silver hand mirror, a Western trick similar to the smoke signals used up North. Glancing to the east, Yang spotted four former Society Adherents step out of Concealment and Cloud-Step their way over to join the conflict. Sang Hyoon, First Elder of the Seven Star Sect, Enforcer Teng Hong Chuan of the Baiji Sect, and Ng Yue Fei, Head Nun of the White Lotus Sect, all following in the wake of their defacto leader, former Patriarch of the Situ Clan, Rang Min. Even without the Clan’s support, those three factions followed Rang Min into exile, which meant he either had some devastating blackmail forcing them to obey, or he had more charisma than Yang gave him credit. Likely the former, which meant Ying was hard at work trying to uncover what Rang Min had on those three faction leaders of the Society, because then she could use it against them as well. For now, Yang had a chance to watch his lifelong foe in action, for few had ever seen Rang Min fight. Not many people even know he was a Peak Expert, but while most assumed as much, that wasn’t the same as knowing.

And as soon as Rang Min drew his longsword, Yang could tell his foe was not just a mere Peak Expert, but one standing head and shoulders above his peers.

Though his movements did not appear fast at first, Rang Min’s sword carved through an armoured Half-Demon before it even noticed his arrival. Yang didn’t even see how it died, only that it collapsed as Rang Min glided past with his sword in hand. He wasn’t even swinging the weapon, merely holding it out like a child dragging his stick through the sand, yet the results spoke for themselves. Defiled died with his every step as he glided towards his next target, his stride light and easy as if prancing on stage to the sound of a slow and steady beat. A Defiled Chieftain roared in challenge, only to die as easily as his kin, and Rang Min hardly seemed to notice the dead Peak Expert as he dispatched a second Half-Demon as easily as the first.

All this happened in the blink of an eye, and despite watching it from start to finish, Yang never once saw Rang Min swing his sword. Defiled attacked him from all sides, yet they died without even touching the corner of his robes, seemingly carved apart by an invisible barrier of blades that cut down anyone who approached him. There was a time when Yang thought himself the match of anyone in the Clan save for Nian Zu and Chi Gan, but Rang Min was showing how he held onto the role of Patriarch for so long despite so many Clansmen expressing their discontent.

Much as it pained him to admit it, Rang Min was far more dangerous than Yang ever gave him credit for. Even after watching for several minutes longer, he still could not figure out Rang Min’s trick, though the former Patriarch resorted to fighting normally soon after. His conventional sword skills were far less impressive, but still at a level where Yang was not entirely confident he could overcome. Without that ineffable skill of killing without swinging, Rang Min would have difficulty winning against Yang, but he wasn’t so naive as to believe the snake had shown everything he could do. Right now, it appeared as if they were evenly matched, but that might well be because Rang Min wanted him to believe as much and was still hiding the true depths of his skill.

At Baatar’s urging, two more groups of Peak Experts revealed themselves, one group of Bekhai and one comprised of Central Warriors including Won Gwang, the Lawgiver. Now that Yang knew what to look for, he saw the scales of balance tipping in favour of the Imperials as the Enemy came at them piecemeal only to die a dog’s death, and he felt a glimmer of hope for the people of Pan Si Xing. Perhaps a miracle would happen here today, and the Imperials could snatch victory -

One moment Yang stood atop the silo watching the battle unfold, and the next he found himself hurtling through the air to safety as the stone granary exploded in a cloud of stone, sand, and dust. There was no wheat in the granary, since the West had no ability to grow grain themselves, but even empty, for a Warrior to destroy it in one blow was no simple feat. Not so difficult for the Lord of Martial Peace however, who stood high in the sky with his nine-ringed Green Dragon Crescent Blade in hand like a living god standing in judgment over a group of ants. “It be good to see a familiar face after all this time,” Bai Qi drawled, speaking in that slow, lyrical intonation that he was well known for. “Gao Changgong. How many years has it been since we last spoke like this?”

“Not long enough, traitor.” Ripping the headscarf covering his face, Gao Liang – no, Siegebreaker Gao Changgong, Major General of the West, threw himself at Bai Qi and traded blows with the man in mid-air, but it was clear Changgong was outmatched. Though no blood had been drawn, the Siegebreaker’s attacks were wild and erratic as he flung himself this way and that in an attempt to strike the traitor down, but Bai Qi never moved from his perch in the air. A frightening display of control and precision, to Cloud-Step without moving, and to do so while fighting another Peak Expert was almost unheard of.

It was so easy for Bai Qi to defend himself, he even had time to spare to study the rest. “You two must be the Wedded Exarches of the North.” Turning to eye Yang, he continued, “And you... of no consequence.” That burned something fierce, but Yang knew he was sorely outmatched and could only swallow the insult as Bai Qi turned to study Baatar, all the while fending off Gao Changgong’s wild attacks. “You however... Be you Major General Baatar, son of Lieutenant General Akanai?”

“Lieutenant General Baatar now,” the half wolf replied, his icy focus burning red hot as he grinned in what could only be described as bloody anticipation. “Here to claim your head.”

“I thought as much.” Nodding sagely as he locked eyes with Baatar, he countered Gao Changgong with an almost casual sweep of his glaive and sent the Siegebreaker crashing to the ground, beaten but not bloodied as he regained his footing. “Though I suspected I be mistaken, since you stood idle for so long.”

With no longer a need for stealth, Yang contacted his aide in Hongji’s command cadre for an update on the situation, and as far as he could tell, Bai Qi had fended off Gao Changgong and carried out this conversation while simultaneously taking control of his forces in the city and creating an impromptu lull in the fighting as both sides separated to sort themselves out. Not a good sign for the Imperials, as now their momentum was stalled and their advantage of surprise lost, meaning the fighting would be bloody once hostilities resumed. Hongji was using this time to get as many slaves into the tunnels as possible, but even if they had an entire day, there was no way to evacuate everyone.

Which meant that if they wanted any chance of success, they had to kill Bai Qi here and now.

