Fame, fortune, honour, and glory.

For as long as he could remember, those were Jia Yang’s motives for seeking strength. The Martial Peak was merely a stepping stone on the way to his real goal, to stand at the pinnacle of high society where he truly belonged. While no one would ever accuse him of being a bleeding heart saint, no one could denounce him for not doing his fair part either, for he was a career soldier who never shied from battle over the course of his career, a Warrior who led from the front and took on every challenge that presented itself.

Not out of love of duty or the people, nor was his enthusiasm solely for the sake of advancement in his career or Martial Path. This was simply how he was raised, to do his part as a Warrior of Heaven and a Noble of the Empire. Other families with power and influence looked the other way when their spoiled, silk-pants scions threw their weight around using their family name, but Yang’s grandfather on his father’s side would’ve had him publicly flogged if he tried to do the same. Grandfather’s own grandfather had been Clan Patriarch and was largely responsible for their branch family’s rise to prominence in Clan and Society. Thanks to his efforts, five generations now, the Situ Clan held the reins of the Society, and while other leading parties had come and gone, Yang’s grandfather was unwilling to see the Situ Clan fall from grace in his time, to say nothing of his dream of seeing another Patriarch emerge from the family.

Because even though they all shared the family name Situ, not all Situ’s were equal, and Situ Jia Yang’s pedigree was unmatched, making him a true dragon among men.

Or at least that’s what Grandfather said when he told Yang about his dream, a dream that young boy took to heart and dedicated his life in pursuit of. The possibility of failure never entered Yang’s mind over the years as he made steady progress in his career and Martial Path both, but his sister was another story. While he was groomed as a Warrior and Officer, she was taught how to dance and recite poetry. When their parents dispatched him to join the Army and chase down bandits and rebels in Central, they sent her out into the Northern province to hunt for a husband who could help raise their family’s status. When he became a Major, his parents spared no expense celebrating the occasion, yet when Ying became Magistrate of Shen Yun, they’d already died believing they’d raised an unfilial failure of a daughter who brought home a largely useless son-in-law for them to support, rather than the other way around.

All his life, Yang had stood by his sister’s side, because in truth, he himself thought it was unfair how much his parents focused on him at her expense. He lived a blessed life in which he was given anything he ever asked for, while she had to kick and scream before their parents would even consider one of her requests. It never seemed fair really, because she was older, wiser, and always there to help him whenever he needed it, but Grandfather was a ‘traditional’ man who believed Ying’s greatest asset was her womb. That’s why Yang tried his best to stand up for her in whatever way he could, but as much as he loved her, he loved his parents and Grandparents too, so he could never bring himself to take a stand and defend her to the last. Instead, he became the mediator who repeatedly convinced his big sister to take a step back and surrender just a bit more of the limited freedom she had, a role he wholeheartedly regretted once he realized the part he played in his sister’s misery.

She never blamed him for it, never resented him for how their parents favoured him, and even did everything she could to help him along. The only time he ever stood firmly on her side was regarding her marriage to Lu An Jing, and only because he’d thought the rice was cooked so he might as well secure a little happiness for her. He never liked Lu An Jing, because he was a pompous, arrogant ass who lacked social grace and tact, but he made Ying laugh like no one else ever could, so he defended her actions to their parents and tolerated the man as best he could even after Ying’s lie became apparent. Then the idiot went and died, right after actually getting his wife pregnant to boot, a truly unfortunate turn of events, for their parents had passed away less than a year prior, meaning Ying never even had a chance to really enjoy her free and happy married life.

Oh how surprised Yang had been when he showed up for An Jing’s funeral and saw his sister’s bulging belly for the first time, something she failed to mention it in any of her letters. Truly an unfortunate woman, Situ Jia Ying, for she’d sacrificed so much and burned so many bridges in pursuit of her happiness, and all she had to show for it was a widow’s veil and a child yet to be born. There were even rumours abound of how she was a black star that cursed anyone and everyone she came in contact with, with whispers of how she’d driven her parents to death with her ‘intolerable’ actions. Not true at all since Mother died of an aneurysm that could have happened to anyone, while Father fell into a depression and followed her to the grave soon after, as if his spirit had just given up and his body took a few months to catch on. When he first heard of these rumours, Yang flew into a rage and fought no less than seven duels to uphold his sister’s honour, because he knew that in spite of all their arguments and differences, his parents loved their daughter, and the same was true in reverse.

So, in order to prove the rumours wrong and look after his sister, Yang put his career on hold and stayed with her to ensure she was safe and well cared for. It wasn’t all that difficult considering he’d inherited almost everything from his parents, not because they loved him more than her, but because they were worried Ying would give everything to her husband’s ‘greedy merchant family’, their words, not his. In fact, father had spoken very sternly to Yang about ensuring his sister did not want for anything, mostly because she was still a Situ princess and could not be left to wallow in poverty, as they assumed she would without his aide. Of course, Yang always knew that his sister was far more clever than their parents believed, which was why he’d given her complete control of his finances the day after he inherited everything, because he trusted her more than anyone else. It didn’t matter how much coin he spent on fine wine, rich foods, priceless art, or pleasurable company, for he would always find more in his purse the next day thanks to Ying’s brilliant investments, so him sticking around to ensure she was well cared for really only meant guarding her from any assassination attempts.

Of which there were none, since back then, there was really no reason to fear Situ Jia Ying just yet.

For the better part of two years, Yang played the part of a domestic, and much as he loved his sister and nephew both, those long, arduous months had been enough to convince him to remain unmarried and childless for life. Ying had always been temperamental, but pregnancy made it so much worse, as one minute she would be all laughter and smiles, and the next, a seething mess of anger and tears. As for Zian, he was quite possibly the most beautiful baby ever born to the Empire, but only when his mother held him in her arms. The rest of the time, he was a screaming terror of snot and tears with a wail that could wake the dead and a stubborn will to keep it up for hours without end. No one else could keep baby Zian calm, not his wet-nurse, nanny, or beloved uncle who was trying so hard to be fatherly but just didn’t know what he was doing wrong. A nightmare to be sure, so as soon as he felt they’d weathered the storm and emerged unscathed, Yang ran back to Central to resume his career and continue on his quest to become Clan Patriarch.

The years passed quickly, and though it took longer and more work than he ever imagined, Yang eventually became a Peak Expert and Lieutenant General. This meant he was the highest ranking Situ Clansman aside from Nian Zu, an accomplishment he took great pride in. While he never admitted it out loud, he always assumed his nephew’s appointment as young Patriarch was done to appease him. It only made sense after all, for Yang was now a close contender for the title of Patriarch, so Rang Min wanted to bind their families together by making Zian his successor. It was clear now that this wasn’t the case, for Ying was far more of a threat than he ever was, for she used the family fortune to buy herself a Magisterial Office, an investment that paid out hand over fist. Even having heard the entire story from start to finish, Yang still wasn’t entirely sure how his sister managed to depose Rang Min and take his place. Somehow, she won over the elders, including the fearsome Elder Chi Gan who’d served as the enforcer and executioner for Patriarch Shi Min and transferred his loyalty over to young Rang Min, and with their support, became Matriarch. Ying made it sound so simple, claiming she didn’t even want the title and tried to give it to him, but the Elders refused because of his recent fall from grace and newfangled ties to the Bekhai.

Truth be told, he might have resented his sister’s talents if he didn’t admire her so much. Even though he was the only son of the family and given all the resources and assistance his parents could spare, in the end, all of that effort would have been better spent on Ying, because then she might have become Matriarch a few decades earlier. Grandfather would’ve been proud of Ying, because despite their differences in opinion, he trained her to fight all the same and was often heard praising her skills and lamenting over how she hadn’t been born a man. As for Yang, even though he’d suddenly had his lifelong dream stolen away, he wasn’t even the slightest bit upset about his circumstances because his talented older sister was finally recognized for the dragon she truly was.

Such an odd turn of events, especially considering the sinking sensation Yang had experienced when he thought his career was over and done with in the wake of his disastrous actions during the defence of the Northern Wall. He’d countermanded his Commanding Officer’s orders in the midst of battle, a grave offence he could easily be court-martialed for, then foolishly called for a full retreat from the Wall mere seconds before the Enemy fled. If that wasn’t a blunder, then Yang didn’t know what was, and at the time, he had no idea what to do with himself now that his dreams of becoming Patriarch were over and done with. For days, he sat in his office waiting for the hammer to drop, for all his years of meritorious service would amount to nothing once the higher-ups of Central read the Bekhai reports. They’d strip his rank for sure, and order him to pay a fortune in fines, at which point all the enemies he’d made would come for his head. To ensure his sister and nephew weren’t caught in the fighting, he intended to be well away from them when he died, but even though he’d come to terms with his inevitable death, the knowledge that he, Situ Jia Yang, had failed so convincingly had eaten away at him until there was almost nothing left.

Nothing came of his blunder in the end because the Bekhai reports made no mention of it. They even commended him for his service, which was a strange stance to take considering their adversarial relationship thus far, but it won them his gratitude and more. Though there was still a price to be paid since his actions didn’t go entirely unnoticed, Yang was still the second highest ranking Officer of the Clan and on track to become Patriarch one day, so it was all more or less swept under the rug. Now that Ying was Matriarch, Yang had still failed to live up to expectations, but it didn’t matter because his failure was not really through any fault of his own, but rather because his older sister fulfilled his obligations first. How could he be blamed for being born too late? The true talent of the family had been his sister all along, and no one was less surprised than he, for he’d sparred with her far too many times and seen how much she loved the Martial Path to ever believe she would ever stop pursuing the Peak. Though others might think differently, he was not ashamed to admit he was inferior to his sister, and in truth, was rather happy to scream and shout it for the world to hear. It was high time she was afforded the respect she deserved, the respect she should have been given from the start. Their parents, grandparents, Elders, and friends, everyone overlooked Ying’s prospects simply because she was a woman destined to be married out, but now, they would know the error of their ways.

