"Fuck you," Jessica replied dryly. But the orc's words landed. She took a step back, but kept her blade high.

Behind the Culturist, through the rising curtain of smoke and dust, Shiv saw Merriemel stumbling over blocks, staring at the gathered group with wide eyes. Behind him, the other orcs loomed, and Shiv glared at them with barely restrained hatred.

Of the group, only Helix had the decency to look slightly embarrassed, but even then, the Deathless knew it was because the orc Biomancer was afraid of his Master-Apprentice relationship with Shiv going down the drain. The others looked nonchalant, amused, and even proud. Mortar made a heart-shaped gesture at Shiv.

The Deathless promised himself that he would beat the shit out of every single orc he could get his hands on at some point. But for now, he used the fire of his anger to focus himself.

The first thing he did was take in every detail he could about the Culturist, now that the Legendary orc was standing beneath the light. His body and legs were coated in a layer of gleaming bone, and that gem encrusted in his sternum still shone bright; every few moments, the ghost of Valor would appear and then vanish, taunting Shiv.

His rifle was missing, however. Shiv could detect no hint of Chronomancy within the orc. Most strangely, he felt no hint of any kind of magic either. The orc was barren, devoid of any fields. And that's how the Deathless guessed that they were all compact, things the Culturist could summon and manifest at a moment's notice.

But that led to other questions as well, such as how the orc could use Strider of the Unbending Path. It was too specific a skill for him to possess, and it was also a Master-Tier skill, the exact same kind as Shiv's. So, that meant that the orc likely had Skill copying capabilities, a piece of equipment that mimicked Shiv's skills, or he'd specifically leveled his Chronomancy to become what Shiv currently possessed. The last option was most unlikely, considering how many skills the orc had at Legendary-Tier.

And that's why the Deathless moved beyond the orc's personal skills. He considered the feather-eared hood. The Culturist had managed to use Adam's skills as well. That was likely because their souls were connected, or maybe because he could store certain skills within his equipment. That Phoenix Riposte had to have come from somewhere.

"Now that we are all gathered, allow me to make my formal greetings." The Culturist placed a hand on his chest and bowed slightly. "I call myself the Culturist. The number of deaths I have experienced is no longer relevant. I stopped counting after ten thousand. I am pleased and ashamed to be here. Ashamed that I can resist no more."

He turned to stare at Shiv and Adam. The Gate Lord wheezed, but slowly forced himself to stand to face the orc that had colonized a part of his soul.

"I have come here at the behest of my god, and to stand witness to my greatest enemy's newest disciples. Thereafter, my motivations are contradictory. I intend to aid you in saving Blackedge. I intend to escort you across the Tutorial to make sure no other orc lays a finger upon you. I intend to deliver you to Gate Piety and free you from the Ascendants’ oppression. I also intend to break you at every turn, to unleash harm and ruin and bloodshed and torment when I can no longer hold myself back. And, if I am capable of doing so, I intend to fashion you into a twisted offering to Valor, for the sake of my hubris and as a partial taunt to my great adversary, to give him additional cause for retribution when I return his torso to him."

Jessica did a double-take. "Wait, what? You've been stalking those two kids for two days. You steal a skill from one of them. You shove yourself inside his soul. You beat the shit out of both of them. And now you're talking about returning that thing you're wearing? And that's Valor Thann's torso?" Jessica was being thrown from one loop into another. "I'm sorry, but what's the point of all this shit? You could have just shown up and said, 'Hey, guys, I'm coming by to help.'"

"But that wouldn't be sufficient to test the quality of our newest Insul’s character." The Culturist looked down thereafter, almost ashamed. He seemed more a sheepish child than a nearly three-meter-tall orc. "And the itch overcame me. I simply had to scratch."

"And this is why you damn things belong in the dirt." Jessica hefted her blade high, but the Culturist remained still, as if daring her to strike. "You show up out of nowhere. You say you're here to help us. But you also can't stop yourself from mutilating a godsdamn kid. And we're supposed to work together? You expect us to trust you?"

"No, and you would be a fool to trust me," the Culturist retorted. "I would not even trust myself. I do not trust myself." The orc held up his hands and stared at them. "These things, these limbs, these digits, they are not even truly mine. They have betrayed me more times than I can remember. I have tried to resist so many times. But eventually I—it is like I drown in myself. And when I return, these hands are bloodied or wrapped around a throat or folding a head backward or piercing someone's eyes as they writhe and scream."

The orc's monologue fell silent as he lowered both hands. "You cannot trust me. You should keep that blade ready. You should be prepared. But also, I'm here to provide these two things that they will not be able to find elsewhere. Not even from you, for you are unwilling, for you do not have the cruelty."

"And what the felling fuck is that?" Jessica asked.

The answer came from the Educator. "Strife. His presence will be able to quench the System's endless desire. Somewhat. And he is capable of keeping Arrow alive." Maia was looking at the wounds lining the Gate Lord's body.

"We are bound," the Culturist said simply. "We are bound in both ways. For as long as I remain attached to his soul, he will be connected to mine. And with my Biomancy, I will keep him here. I will return him to wholeness from disfigurement, from dismemberment, from beheadings, from mutilation." And then he turned, facing Adam, looming over him like a shadow of a distant monster, a nightmare made manifest. "But I will do nothing to protect your mind, for that is where you are most brittle, O son of Roland. That is where you must become unbreakable."

Adam quivered and swallowed, but he didn't back away. The Gate Lord rose as his wings flared out by his side. "When did I call out for you? When did I demand your aid? When did I ask you for training?"

"When did you have a choice?" the Culturist retorted. "It is not up to you, no more than it is up to me, to resist the urge to hurt you sometimes. And that is how life is, that is how the System is, until one of us grows strong enough to prevail over the other. Or at least until I grow strong enough to prevail over myself. So far, that is a losing battle. And so, the greater likelihood is that either you or the Deathless will grow strong enough to repel a lesser monster like me. Your mind will likely break, young Lord Arrow. Over and over. You will face insanity. You will face mental illness. You will face many things. Trauma you didn't think you could survive. But you will not be alone. I understand there is a third among your company."

Shiv realized who the orc was talking about immediately. "You are not going to touch her," he said, voice ice-cold.

The Culturist ignored him. "I am likely going to train her in mind and flesh. That is, if she survives the metamorphosis. She will need more assistance than what both of you can provide for what she is about to become." The orc tilted his head as he realized Shiv didn't fully understand his implications. "Ah, I see. Metamorphosis is a taxing thing. But it changes more than the flesh. It twists the mind, or more like it evolves one's cognition. She will not fully be the same. And neither will either of you by the time I am done."

The Culturist turned and glared upward, where he likely saw the Challenger, or perhaps the System itself. And then, the orc snarled. "And if I assert my control right, if I maintain a hold over myself, aided by your other mentors, by Valor restored... Perhaps then I might be able to forge the shape of my vengeance if I cannot triumph over my own shadows."

Jessica stared at the orc for a long moment. "The hells! This is how you plan to become a mentor? I mean, I've had some pretty bad masters, but this really takes the shit cake. No one jumped me, shoved themselves into my soul, then promised to beat on me and my friends until we went insane."

"But that has happened, hasn't it?" the orc said. "Hasn't the System already done all these things to you? Hasn't it already pushed you to the brink? Hasn't it already taken far, far too much?" The Culturist's questions were like whipcracks. "We live in a world where nothing is granted and everything is taken. From us, by us. Don't you hate it? Don't you despise it? Don’t you wish to control it, somehow…”

The Culturist turned away from Jessica and Maia, leaving himself open to the other threats. Instead, he fell to one knee, kneeling down to greet Adam face-to-face. "I hate that I couldn't watch you, that I simply had to take hold of you. I hate the fact that you didn't notice me. I hate the fact that the Deathless didn't notice me. I hate the fact that I couldn't avoid this course of action. That I am no more a master of my own impulses than I am the System's whims. I hate it all."

The orc's words were honest in their entirety, with not a hint of lies. The Gardener of Doubt was starved inside Shiv, and as the Culturist turned to speak with him, the Deathless found himself borderline sympathetic.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: It's part of his Charm skill too. Focus, don't be distracted.

"If not me, then something else, then someone else, then another monster, then another threat, then another crisis." A hint of fatalism entered the Culturist’s recital. "I can see the fire of the System's favor clinging to both of you like burning tar. Everywhere you go, there is death. It is like you are larger than you are, that you cast waves that amplify the calamities befalling people around you. Don't you hate that? Because I do. Aside from the unavoidable miseries of being in my company, I think I am in the unique position to help you."

"Because the clashes between us will slake the System's need for conflict?" Shiv asked.

"And also, because you need someone to resolve a few other threats that you might not be able to see. It is your urge to protect the people of the Capital, to guard the innocents from death, yes?"

"And you plan to help with that," Adam deadpanned, rubbing at his chest. The Gate Lord had recovered somewhat, but he was still unbalanced, still terrified of the thing standing before him.

The Culturist simply nodded. "Yes. I will see my itch scratched, but I will see that you are unburdened by other distractions. You wish for peace? Very well, you will have peace. From everything but me. For I desire to be a greedy conflict. For all our sakes. I desire to be a selfish mentor, a selfish problem, one you can focus on and solve."

And slowly, the orc began to smile broadly. "And I desire to see Phoenix Academy, and to meet a certain someone on campus, an old friend, an old enemy. I understand there was a class you were supposed to attend before my interruption, yes? Let us go. We shouldn't waste any time."
