Fifty thousand gold pieces. Let’s just focus on that. Yesterday I made a claim to the Gnolls that I would pay Erin’s debts. There’s multiple reasons why I did that.
First, it’s pretty clear the Gnolls have power. Erin’s been helped by them in the past, and they might be an ally. If there are any groups she and I can trust, that is. But Krshia seems intelligent, and it’s better to have someone on our side than against us. Which leads me to the second point.
We need the Gnolls to cancel the debt, or else Erin and Lyonette are in danger, and so is Mrsha if she’s staying with them. Is this even a place for a young Gnoll? How can Erin raise her? I can’t…I can’t stay with her. But she needs a home. A family. If Krshia could—
Third point. Krshia might be able to mitigate the stigma associated with Mrsha’s fur, but not with her authority contested. The debt of Lyonette’s is sapping her influence as long as it remains unresolved. That Brunkr idiot seems to be trying to usurp her position, and he would be a danger if he took control. All in all, that means resolving the debt is really damn important.
The only question is…how? I have some ideas. I could give the Gnolls a technology—that was what I claimed, but now that I think of it…
Fuck. I am so screwed.
Let’s put this in perspective. I need to give the Gnolls a technology worth 50,000 gold pieces. At the same time, I can’t destabilize the world by giving them gunpowder.
No.
All flesh is grass.
No.
So what do I do? It seems simple, right? But what can I physically give the Gnolls besides weapons? The industrial revolution? What the hell would a nomadic society need that kind of infrastructure for? And they wouldn’t be able to make use of it, anyways.
No, think. It has to be something simpler. A practical technology or revolution. Think, Ryoka.
Hm. Trebuchets. But damn it, that’s a siege weapon—not something roaming tribes need! First off, wouldn’t trebuchets exist in this world? They were a medieval invention, and this world has renaissance-era technology at times.
For instance, they’ve got glass. Hmm. Lenses? But that technology is dependent on glass grinding to focus the lenses properly, and I don’t know how they’re made.
Damn. So telescopes are out. What else?
Radios…? Hah. Even if I had the ability to work with wires and metal to that extent, who needs radios when you have mage spells and the ability to howl? Long-distance communication isn’t a problem for them.
Bows. Gnolls use bows. I’ve seen them use composite bows and short bows so…fuck. They don’t have compound bows, though. But could I make one? Nope. I’d need industrial-era technology.
Fuck, fuck, fuck. Okay…steel. But this world has steel. On the other hand, I never saw steel in the Gnoll tribes which means only a high-level [Blacksmith] can probably make it. It’s no revolutionary technology, though.
I wish I knew how to make Damascus steel. There’s the Bessemer Process of course, but that requires industrial era technology, again…
A printing press? This world still has handwritten books in many cases, but…
Two reasons why I can’t give the Gnolls that. No, three. One, I don’t know how to make a printing press. With screw-based technology, of course, adapting from the wine press…but hell, I’d need months to figure out the exact way to set one up. Second, the cost in resources and space isn’t practical for Gnolls again, and third…
You can’t copy magical spell books with a printing press. That’s obvious. I’ve seen spells, and if they exist on paper, it’s not just in the two-dimensional sense. My guess is that it would be impossible to copy one with any kind of printer, so that already makes one of the greatest revolutions of our world fairly useless to the Gnolls.
What they need is something immediately useful, but the more I think, the more I don’t have any good idea. None except for weapons, and I won’t give that to anyone.
“Fuck.”
I hold my head in my hands as I sit at the table. Then I hear someone clear his throat delicately.
“You appear to be in a state of distress. May I inquire as to your predicament?”
I look at him. Trust no one.
“I’m fine, thanks.”
Klbkch pauses.
“Does your issue relate to the Gnoll debt towards Lyonette du Marquin?”
What the hell? Klbkch is just staring at me. My heart rate picks up, but I keep my face straight.
“How do you know about that?”
“The Antinium know much of what occurs within Liscor.”
“…Were you listening to our conversation yesterday?”
The Antinium shakes his head.
“No, but there are a finite amount of topics which would necessitate such discussion. And the Gnoll’s issue with Erin and Lyonette is a pressing concern.”
“To you? Why the hell would the Antinium care about something like that?”
“Erin Solstice is…important to the Hive. And to me.”
What an odd thing for an Antinium to say. I stare at Klbkch.
“What do you want?”
His multifaceted eyes are fixed on mine.
“I wish to speak with you, Ryoka Griffin. I have desired to speak with you for some time. My observations of your behavior lead me to believe I can trust you.”
He’s been…waiting? To speak with me? And watching me? I’m naturally paranoid, but this makes every instinct I have scream out warning signals. I shrug, carefully.
“I’m free to talk. What…did you want to talk about?”
“I would like to speak candidly, Ryoka Griffin. You are wary of me; that is understandable. But I do not wish to cause you or Erin Solstice any harm. I would like to assist you, and I hope you will regard me as an ally, not a potential foe.”
I…fuck. This is coming out of left field. I thought I was in left field already, but this is catching me totally off guard. I scramble for a response. Test him.
“Are you trying to say we’re on the same side?”
Klbkch tilts his head slightly.
“Are there sides, Ryoka Griffin? The Antinium are not your enemy.”
“I disagree.”
“As do I. If the Antinium were your enemy, Ryoka Griffin, you would be dead. You do not matter to the Hive or my Queen. Erin Solstice is only a tool to be used. So long as that is the case, any interaction with either of you falls under my purview of responsibilities.”
I pause. Klbkch is speaking carefully, and if I read between the lines…
“You’re offering to help. Why?”
“Because Erin Solstice must survive. She must live to help the Antinium. And you are attempting to protect her because you both come from the same world.”
He knows. My heart stops dead in my chest for a second. He knows.
I glance around, but the inn is empty. Where has everyone gone? And why is it daytime all of a sudden?
Klbkch says nothing. He just looks at me. Watching. He’s seeing how I react.
Can I take him? He’s got two swords and classes. So…no. My right hand is still injured and I’ve got no weapons.
“I would prefer this discussion remain civil. Rest assured, I will not harm you or Erin. That is the last thing I desire.”
Fuck. But at least I might not die this instant. I try to keep my voice level as I reply. Focus. This is…the Antinium are as bad as Magnolia. If they know…
“Why bother with the niceties? Are you trying to get us on your side so we can help your Hive?”
Klbkch’s gaze doesn’t waver.
“So long as Erin lives, she will help my Hive. But to answer your question: my Queen is not aware that you and Erin come from another world, Ryoka Griffin. If she was, you would be captured and quickly interrogated.”
I feel a chill. But, wait a second. Klbkch is saying—he’s saying he’s lying to his Queen? For us? No. For Erin?
“Aren’t you supposed to be the right-hand of the Antinium Queens, or something? I thought Prognugators were loyal.”
“I am. But loyalty takes many shapes, and I have grown to question the direction the Antinium are taking. I believe leaving you alive is preferable to your deaths. No—I know this is the case.”
My god. Is this…is this Erin’s effect? She created individual Antinium, but affecting the allegiances of a Prognugator? Or is this something already occurring? I reach for a mug to take a drink. My hand is shaking. Klbkch nods, seeing my reaction.
“I have not informed Erin of this because of the dangers involved.”
“But you’re telling me? Why?”
“Because you can keep a secret. Let me be clear, Ryoka Griffin. Your status as a traveler between worlds is not important to me. If my Queen knew of this, she would interrogate you mercilessly. But I only care about Erin Solstice. She is the valuable one.”
“The Individual Antinium.”
“Just so.”
Klbkch nods.
“Erin Solstice must not die. She must live, and help my Queen change the Antinium from within.”
“But—you want to help us. Help her.”
“I will assist you to the best of my capabilities and inform you of the dangers of which you are not aware. I will reveal secrets of my Hive. I will use my command over Soldiers and Workers to defend this inn and your persons, if need be. I will even lie to my Queen for you.”
“Because Erin is important.”
“She is everything, Ryoka Griffin.”
“Why haven’t you told her this? Why haven’t you offered to tell her…all of this?”
For the first time Klbkch looks uncomfortable. He pauses and clicks his mandibles together delicately.
“I had considered that option to begin with, but it grew apparent that Erin Solstice cannot keep a secret. Anything I tell her will inevitably be repeated to all our costs. You are more discreet.”
So because Erin has a big mouth and doesn’t think, he can’t trust her. But he trusts me?
Or does he? Is this all some ploy? I have to test him? Hah, as if I’ve got a choice. Here’s an Antinium Prognugator or—Revalantor or whatever the hell he is now, offering to tell me all about his Hive. I can’t turn my back on this.
Take a breath, Ryoka, and plunge in. I don’t know how far these murky waters go, but if this is the case—I look at Klbkch.
“Fine. Tell me what you know. About the Gnolls and their debt, for instance. You said you know something?”
He nods.
“The Gnolls in Liscor are led by Krshia Silverfang. Ostensibly, they arrived nearly a decade ago to facilitate trade, but their true purpose was to acquire information or objects of value to improve their tribe’s standing. The decennial gathering of Gnoll tribes involves bringing a gift to be shared with all Gnolls, and the Silverfang tribe hoped to gain something of true value to improve their standing and influence at this event.”
Holy fuck. I stare at Klbkch.
“You were planning this all along, weren’t you? You wanted to tell me this.”
He pauses.
“My goal is to keep Erin Solstice alive. It is only fitting that I inform you of all dangers to her, and the Gnoll situation has been studied closely by my Hive.”
“Okay, okay, go on.”
I listen with rapt attention as Klbkch continues.
“Under Krshia’s influence, the Gnolls began pooling their profits and purchasing magical tomes from every shop they could find. They gathered many spell books together—most containing Tier 1 to Tier 3 spells—in the hopes that they might offer them as a gift to the tribes.”
Gnolls learning magic? I’ve never heard of a Gnoll [Mage], just [Shamans]. But wait—didn’t Erin mention the Gnolls had a feud with Wistram?
“So the Gnolls wanted to train their own [Mages].”
“Correct. The spell books were hidden in Krshia Silverfang’s shop, to avoid detection, and, I suspect, to enable them to transfer them easily. A few weeks ago, Krshia Silverfang sent word to her tribe requesting warriors to transport the books out of the city. I believe they were also arriving to help guard Erin Solstice, whom the Gnolls had identified as potentially valuable. However, Gazi the Omniscient slew the first party sent.”
The Gnolls on the road. I remember.
“The next group sent arrived too late. Before the spell books could be transported, Lyonette du Marquin destroyed Krshia Silverfang’s shop using a powerful magical artifact which bypassed the normal magical protections on the books.”
“…Shit.”
That’s even worse than I thought. Klbkch nods.
“It is an unfortunate circumstance, but without any gifts for the Gnoll tribes, the Silverfang tribe will lose much of its standing.”
“And that’s why the debt is around fifty thousand gold coins, isn’t it?”
“A considerable sum was spent accumulating the spell books over the years. I believe the Gnolls were ignorant of the dangers a powerful spell could pose to such books. Most spell books are immune to conventional harm, but sufficiently powerful magic will destroy them.”
I close my eyes.
“Damn it.”
“I surmise that you have accepted the responsibility for this debt along with Erin Solstice. She is aware of the issue, if not the cost, but she will be unable to resolve it herself.”
“And I suppose the Antinium won’t help?”
Klbkch shakes his head.
“Erin Solstice is certainly important to the Hive, but my Queen would never authorize such an expenditure of resources for any individual. At the moment. She does not understand how important Erin is.”
“Which is extremely. You think different from your Queen. Are you rebelling against her?”
“No.”
The word comes out fast and flat. Klbkch stares at me and I’m suddenly aware that he’s armed and I’m not. Then he seems to relax, and I’m able to as well.
“I would never betray my Hive, or my Queen. But I believe she makes mistakes. One of them is not trusting others. My Hive, my Queen, we need allies if we are to change the Antinium.”
“Change the Antinium? How?”
Klbkch hesitates. He holds up one finger.
“Allow me to reconfirm that we are alone.”
I twist in my chair, but that’s an idiotic move. Klbkch is clearly doing something. He looks up after a minute and nods.
“The inn is vacated, and there is no one within two hundred meters of our location. I have reconfirmed that the [Assassins] and [Scouts] sent by Lady Magnolia are hidden several miles to the east of our position and possess no listening artifacts or spells. Selys Shivertail is with Mrsha in Liscor—”
Wait a second, what did he say?
“What? She’s with Mrsha? Where’s Erin?”
“She is exploring the wilderness with Toren and Lyonette. I believe she informed you of this.”
I…vaguely recall something like that? I was thinking about the Gnolls and remember Erin saying something. I should pay more attention to my surroundings.
…Was Klbkch sitting there the entire time? Watching me? Then another thought strikes me. I pause and stare hard at Klbkch.
“You…know where she is? Both Erin and Selys? At any given moment? Are you having them watched?”
I can’t believe Soldiers and Workers are that good at hiding. Unless…is the Hive that spread out underground? Klbkch shakes his head.
