Because she woke up early, Erin decided to make gravy. Everyone else was still asleep, anyways.
Ryoka and Mrsha were upstairs, but Erin had had too much trouble trying to drag Klbkch and Selys up the narrow staircase, so she’d left them in the common room with a blanket and pillows instead.
It was easy to make gravy. Erin got a pot out and fished around in her cupboard for supplies. She got out some flour, and found some of the bacon fat she’d chilled thanks to some snow she’d packed into a cauldron. It was mostly melted, but it kept the food she put in nice and cold, if a bit wet.
By the time Ryoka stumbled downstairs with Mrsha in tow, they found Erin putting out gravy on the table in a huge bowl next to steaming biscuits and mashed potatoes. That coincided nicely with Selys and Klbkch waking up on the floor. Erin beamed at all of them as her guests rubbed their heads and moaned.
“Morning!”
Selys clutched at her forehead.
“How much did I drink last night?”
“Um…four mugs? No, wait…six? Eight?”
Erin had lost count. She’d kept serving everyone the faerie flower alcohol until they’d started to pass out. It had been a long, anxious night for her. Everyone would just take a drink, stare off into the distance for ten minutes, and then keep drinking. In the end, they’d all just gone to sleep—except for Halrac. He’d left for the city, staggering slightly. Erin had been worried, but he was a Gold-rank adventurer.
“Ancestors.”
Selys groaned and clutched at her head. She tried to stand up and sat back down hard.
“My mouth tastes like…dead gods, that was some awful ale, Erin.”
“Hey!”
Erin opened her mouth, and then closed it.
“Well…I’ll buy some better stuff next time, okay?”
“There shouldn’t be a next time.”
Ryoka lurched over to the table as Klbkch dragged himself upwards. Mrsha yelped and scurried away at the sight of the Antinium. He looked worse for wear. Even though his appearance was mostly unchanged—the Antinium not really having skin or clothing that could get rumpled—he looked…disheveled.
“Good morning, Klbkch!”
Erin smiled at Klbkch. He looked around at her, somewhat slowly.
“I have failed to return to my Hive. That has never happened before.”
“Oh no. Is that bad?”
Klbkch nodded slowly.
“I must…excuse me.”
He put a hand to his head and paused. He had no eyelids, but Erin sensed that he was concentrating. After a moment, he nodded.
“I have informed my Queen. She has recalled the search parties.”
“Search parties?”
Klbkch shook his head. He stared at the food on the table as Mrsha tried to grab a biscuit with her hand. Silently, Ryoka grabbed a plate and spooned potatoes and biscuits onto it, and slathered everything with the thick gravy. She put it on the table and handed Mrsha a spoon. Clumsily, the small Gnoll tried to inhale the entire thing.
“So. Um.”
Everyone looked at her. Erin smiled nervously.
“How was it last night? Was the faerie flower drink really that good?”
Erin didn’t really understand Halrac’s fascination with it. When she’d tried some, she just remembered happy moments, but that was all. And yet, between the four people in her inn (not counting Mrsha), they’d downed an entire keg’s worth of her ale.
Ryoka, Selys, and Klbkch exchanged a long look. As one, they shook their heads.
“That was a terrible drink.”
“Awful.”
“Please do not serve it again.”
Erin’s jaw dropped.
“What? Why?”
Selys was still rubbing at her forehead as she nibbled at a biscuit. She drank deeply from a glass of water and grimaced.
“At first, I thought it was wonderful. I was remembering having fun with my uncle when he used to visit. And I was so happy—but then the memory kept going and going, and I felt the need to keep drinking. Every time I woke up from the…dream, I just drank more and went back.”
“So? What’s the problem?”
“Remembering a bit is fine. But after a while—there’s such a thing as too much nostalgia, you know?”
“You can get lost in the memories.”
Ryoka nodded. She stared at her gravy, ignoring the smacking sounds Mrsha was making next to her.
“It’s like an addiction. You keep wanting to go back. Put another drink in front of me and I’ll keep drinking it, again and again.”
“To remember.”
Klbkch was silent. He hadn’t even put anything on his plate. Ryoka looked up at Erin.
“Dilute the drink. Maybe offer the full-strength version once in a while, but don’t keep serving it to us, damn it!”
Erin shrank under the strength of Ryoka’s glare.
“Oops. Sorry.”
The three diners turned back to their breakfast in silence. Mrsha ate happily, scarfing down the rich gravy until she had a round belly. She at least, had had no ill effects from last night, having only imbibed a few mouthfuls of the magical ale.
Erin scratched her head. She’d wondered about the drink, but then of course the faeries had come in and she’d given them several pints before chasing them out. She remembered them flying into walls and laughing before she’d managed to get them out the door.
“So…can I get you guys anything else?”
Klbkch shook his head. Selys put her head on the table and moaned softly. Ryoka was rubbing her eyes.
“I’m uh, oh! Lyonette!”
The possible princess walked down the stairs and paused when she saw Selys and Klbkch. She sniffed.
“I am awake. What is for breakfast?”
“Mashed potatoes and gravy. And biscuits!”
Ryoka eyed Lyonette silently as the other girl helped herself to food. Silently, Erin’s guests ate until Selys looked out the window.
“I’m really glad I don’t have work today.”
Klbkch nodded slowly.
“I believe I shall…abstain from my duties as well. It is necessary.”
“Oh, uh, well, that’s good, isn’t it?”
Both Drake and Antinium stared silently at Erin. They looked melancholy. And so did Ryoka. She was just staring at her food.
It was like…it was like everyone had depression suddenly. Erin’s eyes darted around until she saw Mrsha was fidgeting on her chair.
“Hey Mrsha, what’s wrong?”
The Gnoll child was squirming, in a very familiar fashion. Erin realized what the problem was.
“We have a bathroom right outside. Come on, let me show you.”
She took Mrsha’s hand and the Gnoll eagerly leapt off her chair to follow Erin. They’d made it to the door when Erin felt a familiar sensation, that of someone approaching the inn. She stopped, and then the door opened.
The early morning sky was gray, but light still flooded into the inn. It flowed around the figure that entered, and despite the bright sky, the gaping sockets of Toren’s skull were still dark, illuminated only by the two burning purple flames that stared at Erin and Mrsha.
The skeleton was wearing the battered bronze armor he’d found, only it seemed even more battered and torn up than before. In his hands he held a notched sword and shield, and faint streaks of blood covered his blade.
“Toren! There you are! Where have you been!?”
Erin scolded the skeleton as he stood silently in the doorway. He stared at her, silent as always as Erin frowned at him. Then she felt a tugging at her hand. She looked down.
Mrsha was trying to pull away from Erin. All her fur was on end, and she was scrabbling at the floorboards as she tried to run.
“What’s wrong, Mrsha? Oh, is it Toren? You’ve never really met him, have you? Well, he’s really nice—”
Erin broke off. She sniffed. Something was smelling. That’s when she noticed the puddle around Mrsha. It seemed the skeleton’s arrival had affected Mrsha’s bladder control.
“Aw, Mrsha!”
She let go, and the Gnoll scampered back towards Ryoka, whimpering in fright. Ryoka slapped her forehead as Erin stared at the puddle. She looked around and smiled sheepishly at Toren.
“Hey Toren. I’ve got a job for you.”
 
—-
 
Some days I just want to punch Erin. I’d probably get my ass kicked, but I’m still tempted*. It takes me nearly half an hour to calm Mrsha down after Toren appears, and even then, she won’t go anywhere near the skeleton.
 
*How strong is Erin, anyways? I know she has [Minotaur Punch] as a skill, but is there a set limit on how strong the Skill is? And if it depends on her hitting her target, that’s not too reliable in a battle. Plus, if she hits armor wouldn’t she break her hand?
 
Not that I blame her. Toren freaks me the hell out too, and I don’t understand how Erin’s so cavalier about having him around. She’s busy ordering him around even as I finally finish breakfast.
“Thanks for the food, Erin.”
“Oh, no problem! How did it taste?”
“Good. Was that roux you made?”
“What?”
“Roux.”
“No…it was gravy.”
“But—Erin, do you know what roux is?”
“…No.”
I rub at my face.
“Never mind. I guess your skill told you what to do, right?”
“Yup! I’ve got [Advanced Cooking] now. Isn’t it great?”
Erin puffs out her chest and looks proud. Selys looks impressed and Klbkch nods. I shrug.
“I guess. It’s an important skill, right?”
“For an [Innkeeper], it’s great! Most [Cooks] and [Innkeepers] in the city have [Basic Cooking], but [Advanced Cooking] is rarer.”
Selys explains as she finishes her plate. I rub at my head. It still aches, but it looks like it’s time for me to get to work. Time to think, and plan. Selys is a native here, and she knows a lot of common-sense things. So I ask her the obvious questions.
“If that’s the case, there’s presumably an [Expert Cooking] skill, right? How many people would have that?”
“[Expert Cooking]? Well…no one in this city has it. You’d have to be a really high-level [Chef] to have that. I’ve heard some of the Walled Cities have people with that skill. They’re always hired by the nobility.”
So. You can rate skills by their rarity, which generally corresponds to a level. Makes sense. And I guess it’s still a parallel to our world.
“What level would you say that skill appears at?”
“Um…Level 40? Maybe Level 30, if you got lucky. There are better skills—or so I’ve heard, but it’s still rare.”
“Right. Because most people don’t usually get to Level 30?”
“That is correct.”
Klbkch nods as he delicately slurps up some gravy. I try not to look at him eat—I try to be open minded, but the Antinium creep me out in a way the Gnolls and Drakes don’t. Hell, even Selys is still sort of disturbing to me. I don’t know how Erin is so natural around all of them.
But here I am, sitting with Klbkch the Slayer and a Drake [Receptionist] of all people, talking as if I’ve known them for a long time. They’re so friendly.
“I still can’t believe you don’t know all this. Is it because you don’t have levels?”
Selys stares at me, and I tense slightly. She doesn’t know I’m from another world. But hell, I have to know how levels and classes work. I might not use them—and possibly can’t anymore—but not knowing how this world functions is only inviting trouble. So Ryoka, lie your ass off.
“That’s right. I’ve never paid attention, I guess.”
“Erin was like that too, you know. Are you both from the same nation? You seemed to know each other.”
“Something like that.”
Klbkch nods.
“I am familiar with the country they originate from, Selys Shivertail. Their people have customs unlike ours.”
That makes me stare hard at Klbkch, even though Selys accepts his statement at face-value. He just covered for me, didn’t he? Erin did say Klbkch knew she was from another world. And now Erin’s coming over. I try to signal her with my eyes to play along, but she’s oblivious.
“Oh yeah, this is a lot like…uh, where we come from. I mean, there are some big differences, but there’s actually a lot of stuff in common, right Ryoka? Like, this is totally like Dungeons and Dr—”
“It’s sort of similar, but I wanted to be sure about all the details.”
I cut Erin off and glare at her. She returns my look blankly.
“What? I’m not a gamer, but you told me you understood something about the system, right? It’s like Diablo, you said.”
“Diablo?”
Selys looks between us. I shake my head.
“It’s just…nothing. It’s a game from where we come from.”
“Oh, I see.”
I am going to kick Erin’s ass. As Selys and Erin start talking about Mrsha, I cover my face for a second. Then I look up and see Klbkch is staring at me.
Oh shit. Did he…how much did he get from that? Erin says he knows she’s from another world. What about me?
Kill Erin. But watch him. Klbkch the Slayer. I read the history of the Antinium Wars—damn it, I wish I’d read more than the first section now. They didn’t mention much about the Prognugators, but this guy was around decades ago. He dueled General Sserys—he’s dangerous.
But the Antinium in front of me is sitting in Erin’s inn, eating gravy. And he was killed by Goblins, or so Erin said. Weakening Prognugators. Hmm. And Erin’s involvement with the Antinium is also special. She can make unique Individuals, which could mean…
Gah. My head hurts already, and not just from the alcohol. I thought my life was complex, but Erin’s is ten times more convoluted. Not only is she involved with the Antinium, she’s attracted Lady Magnolia’s eyes, and she’s on the receiving end of a Gnoll debt so massive it can only be settled with death—unless one of us has fifty thousand gold pieces lying around.
Holy fuck. I close my eyes for a second. What should I do? What can I do? Normally I’d be running off to collect my payment from Teriarch, but—
No. I look over and see Mrsha, crowding around that Lyonette girl for some reason. She’s feeding Mrsha scraps from her plate and scratching her behind the ears.
Oh yeah, and Erin’s got a princess or some high-ranking noble’s daughter in her inn. God damn it.
I massage my temples. Selys looks at me sympathetically.
“Head still hurting? A healing potion will get rid of that. I know a shopkeeper who sells cheap ones.”
“No—thanks. I’m just really busy. There’s a lot of shi—a lot of stuff I need to deal with.”
“Like what? I’m free today, if you need some help, let me know. A friend of Erin’s is a friend of mine.”
Selys smiles at me. I hesitate.
“Nothing too important. I wouldn’t want to bother you.”
“As you like. I’m going to see if Erin wants to relax in the bath house. You’re welcome to join us.”
“…Thanks.”
Selys gets up to chat with Erin. I stay at the table, thinking. People move around me. Klbkch is still sitting—he’s not eating, but I suppose the Antinium have to sit to digest? I put him out of my mind and think.
I’ve really got to think, because there is a lot of crap for me to deal with at the moment. I won’t say that this is a terrible situation but—no, aside from moments where I’m actually in danger of being killed, this is probably one of the worst.
