“You have more than Soldiers and Workers?”
“They are known as Listeners. A few were allocated to our Hive. Their existence is not a secret; they were revealed during the Second Antinium War along with a few other types. However, only Soldiers and Workers are allowed within the Hive in Liscor.”
“Why is that?”
“Because my Queen stands lowest among the six Queens under the Grand Queen. Her work here is experimental, as are her ideals. And so she is restricted from utilizing the Hive’s full potential, denied certain resources and equipment.”
A power struggle between the Antinium? No way. But that means—
“Are the Queens competing with one another? Are you at odds? Do the Hives fight each other?”
Klbkch shakes his head.
“Competition is strictly based on achievement. The Queens and the Antinium have one goal, but viewpoints differ between Queens as to best achieve that goal.”
Like having multiple CEO’s working towards one end. I nod, slowly.
“And you want your Queen to succeed.”
“I believe in her mission.”
“Which is to create Individual Antinium capable of leveling which will make the Antinium stronger.”
And deadlier. They would overrun the continent. Klbkch simply nods.
“Astute. My faith in you was not misplaced.”
“But if Erin helps you, we all die. We make the Antinium stronger, and you’ll still kill us all in the end.”
Klbkch shakes his head.
“My Queen is alone in seeking to gather allies and forge relations. Yet even she is limited in…vision. She treats other species as pawns; I would have her see them as people.”
So the Queen in Liscor is more progressive than the other Queens, and her Prognugator is even more so. I think I understand.
“You think you can talk your Queen around. But either way, she has to have more influence.”
“Just so. And the proof of her labors rests in the Individual Antinium.”
“Which is why Erin Solstice is essential.”
“Correct.”
My pulse is racing. I have to calm myself and drink more water before I can speak.
“Okay. Okay, let’s say what you’ve said is all true. What happens when your Queen proves herself? She gets special Antinium?”
“She will gain access to the…tools to create such Antinium if she desires.”
“So the other Hives have special Antinium already.”
The ones who killed General Sserys during the First Antinium War. Klbkch nods.
“Each Hive’s Queen has special dispensation to create their own unique type of Antinium. The Grand Queen is privy to every Hive’s secrets, but besides her, each Queen hoards her own unique type of Antinium and method for improving our species.”
Bombshells. That’s what this day is filled with.
“So what you’ve told me is that the Antinium aren’t united. Or rather, there’s a power struggle in the Hives and factions for how the Antinium should evolve.”
Klbkch glances at me.
“If any of the Queens—or other Prognugators—learn that knowledge has come from either you or I, we will both die.”
A moment of silence. I read the unspoken words.
“Does that mean you want me to tell someone? Lady Magnolia?”
“I would prefer my Queen to rise in status. She has worked long without permission to create her own types or deviate from the normal Soldiers and Workers.”
“Because she’s a renegade? Because she’s in disgrace?”
“Because she wants to create Individuals, yes.”
“What happens now that she’s succeeded? Or rather, Erin has? Does she need to prove this to the other Queens, somehow?”
Klbkch’s sits very still. He barely moves, even when speaking or gesturing. He’s an entirely different kind of person, more like a robot than a human being. Yes, a robot. One made from chitin rather than metal. A tin man, a bug man. With a heart.
“A delegation of Antinium will arrive shortly. They will assess whether or not Pawn and the other Individuals are truly Individual. Then the Queens will debate and the Grand Queen will decide what to do with the information.”
“And then?”
Klbkch shrugs.
“It will change everything. Or nothing. The Grand Queen will decide whether Individuals will make the Antinium stronger and move from there.”
“And why do the Antinium need to be strong? To conquer the continent?”
“If necessary.”
The cold-blooded response ties my tongue. Klbkch looks at me and shakes his head.
“The Grand Queen is more minded to pursue peace at the moment, at least until she is certain victory would not weaken the Antinium. Moreover, I believe I can convince my Queen to speak against such an action. This continent is not what the Antinium seek. We require strength to take back our home.”
“Your home? Someone chased you out?”
My god, the book—I need to read the second part. What he’s saying changes everything. Klbkch nods.
“It is why we fled Rhir. And why we continue to attempt to build our forces. We left because we were losing, Ryoka Griffin. And now that we are gone, the enemy will soon emerge above-ground again. This Blighted King is strong, but he is unprepared.”
“Unprepared for what?”
“We must be stronger. I must be stronger.”
Klbkch looks at me. I’m transfixed. For a second, he seems huge. Ancient. I’m like a bug—in his eyes.
“That is why you must help me. Why I know you and Erin must be protected. The Antinium must change. Or the Antinium will be wiped from the earth.”
“What. Happened?”
Klbkch pauses. He stares into his cup. And then he looks at me.
“The Antinium Wars? What Drakes and Humans and Gnolls fear so? They were setbacks. Dust. The true disaster occurred on the oceans when we lost our entire people. Even now, we are a fraction of what we were.”
I take a breath. Heart. I can hear my heart and his voice. Nothing else.
“If that’s the case, why did you run? What was so terrifying that you had to flee rather than fight?”
Klbkch pauses. He sits in Erin’s inn quietly, but his eyes reveal what he is. There’s something timeless there, something akin to Ceria’s gaze. Or Teriarch’s. Don’t look at Klbkch and see a bug. See him for what he is. A creature from centuries ago. An old hero of the Antinium, maybe. Something ancient. Only now do I realize how terrifying what he’s saying is.
The Antinium. Creatures numbering in the hundreds of thousands. Millions, even. Why did they ever run from Rhir? What could have caused them to flee?
Klbkch’s voice is the only thing in the world. Soft. Yet the words he speaks are so loud I can feel them shake my soul.
“We fled from a God, Ryoka Griffin. There is a God buried in Rhir. And it is trying to wake up.”
 
—-
 
It—it’s almost funny. I feel like puking, or screaming, or asking a thousand and one questions. But that issue with the Gnolls and the fifty thousand gold coins’ worth of debt? Not a problem right now.
“Again, I regret that I cannot assist directly with the issue of the Gnoll’s debt. But I agree that their aid would be invaluable to both you and Erin Solstice. The Gnolls possess a wide degree of skills and knowledge the Antinium have not, and they are steadfast allies to those who have assisted them.”
Klbkch and I sit in Erin’s inn and talk. Calmly. He’s calm. I—well, I’m still trying to calm down.
I had a…freak out after his revelation about the God. Just a little one*. But now we’re all calm. Klbkch is speaking about the future, and frankly, I’m inclined to listen to him.
 
*It was something. I may have become hysterical, for the first time in my life.
 
The Antinium. I had no idea—what he’s told me is hopeful, strangely enough. True, there are five other Queens who want to kill all other species, but there’s dissent among the Antinium. Hope for change and peace. But do I share that information? Do I help Klbkch overtly or just keep Erin safe?
“May I ask what you intend to do to settle the debt?”
I blink, and refocus on our conversation. I need to think. I can’t be useless, not now. Too much is at stake, although again, Gnoll debt? Small potatoes.
“I’m not sure yet. I’m weighing my options, but I don’t have that many things I can really offer the Gnolls at this moment.”
“From what you have said, there are many technologies available to you, but few or none that you are able to reproduce at the moment. My Hive could assist with the collection of resources, but the Antinium do not shape metal—at least, most Hives do not.”
“One does?”
“I believe so.”
There’s an information lockdown between Hives? Hm. That’s more rivalry than competition. Good to know.
“Yeah, there’s not much I can really make. Hell, I know all kinds of useful technologies and advancements in metallurgy, medicine, construction…but you need an existing framework to build all of it. Titanium, for instance is a metal harder than steel, but it’s impossible to smelt without…well, damn, I guess a Tier 6 spell might do it or something…”
“Impractical for the Gnolls, in short.”
“Yeah. And things like mathematics—well, it would change the world, but it’s not immediately useful.”
“Indeed.”
I sigh.
“Fuck. I think it has to be an artifact. A magical one. I’ll have to ask Lady Magnolia—or Teriarch.”
I told Klbkch a lot. Not everything, but quite a lot of what I’ve seen and done. And what I know. The Antinium nods.
“A dangerous choice. Both individuals are quite powerful and you may risk much by approaching either one. Despite Teriarch’s abilities, I would encourage you to view Magnolia Reinhart with the same amount of caution.”
Another surprise. No—I really shouldn’t be surprised, should I?
“You know him? Teriarch?”
“We know he is a Dragon. He incinerated two armies sent against him in the Second Antinium War. It was a mistake to attack him. I advised against it, but the Queens did not listen.”
Get the book. Read the book. Unless that’s the part of history that no one knows about. Yeah, I think people would know if a Dragon lived on the continent. Another secret to keep.
“If you are able to convince him to part with one of his treasures…yes. That would no doubt satisfy the Gnolls.”
“If. Any tips?”
“Do not attack him.”
“Thanks.”
I eye Klbkch. He sits calmly in his seat, watching me. If only I could read Antinium and tell what he’s thinking. Is he really that calm? He must be nervous. But his face is an insect’s face; impossible for me to read.
“I’m surprised you don’t want me to tell you how to create weapons from my world. Not that I would.”
“Despite the advantage it would bring, I fear it would work at cross purposes to my goal. A superior type of weaponry would only impel my Queen to abandon her current plan and use such arms to begin a third war. I would not wish such bloodshed to occur. I…do not wish to see the inhabitants of Liscor die.”
A tin man with a heart. Part of me actually wants to hug him. The other half wants to sit in a corner and gibber for an hour.
“So. What’s the plan?”
Klbkch tilts his head.
“I will provide you with information, resources, protection. You must assist Erin Solstice in your own way. And if you have a means to help my Hive—”
“Right. I get it.”
I stand up. I start to pace. I have to move.
“But there are so many questions I want to ask. All the things the Antinium know—”
“I will share what is necessary. But some secrets must remain so. If you are caught and tortured or charmed—”
“Right. Right.”
He’s no idiot. I eye Klbkch. No, he’s no idiot at all. He’s a Prognugator, one of the Antinium Generals. He’s probably smarter than I am. But then what can I ask?
“If you can’t give me something to give the Gnolls, all we can exchange is information.”
“Just so. I believe that is extremely valuable in itself.”
He’s not wrong there. I spread my hands.
“Is there anything you want to know about my world?”
“Many things intrigue me. But if I may—earlier today, Erin mentioned to you that our system of leveling is similar to your world?”
“Ah.”
I make a face. Erin and her big mouth. How can I even explain that to him?
“We…don’t level up in our world. Not at all. We can become better at things through practice, but we don’t level.”
“Not at all? Erin mentioned a game in conjunction with this fact. ‘Diablo’.”
It feels completely strange for an Antinium to start mentioning video games. I shake my head.
“That’s…it’s just a video game. A thing people play for fun, like chess. It’s not…”
I hesitate. Hold on, now.
“It has parallels to this world. Erin and I have both noticed it. The way this world operates with people leveling up—it has parallels to a game. But many things are different.”
“I see. But are the mechanics similar?”
“They are. I know the game—”
Hell, I lived Diablo III for a while. I was addicted until my damn parents made me quit.
“—But I couldn’t compare it to this world. I don’t know how the class system works or how leveling works.”
“It is considered a mystical element of our world as well. Most people understand the mechanics, but there is no consensus on the reason behind our leveling or advancement.”
Really? I frown.
“Can you explain some of the mechanics to me? From your perspective—a native’s perspective, that is.”
Klbkch nods. He taps a finger on his arm a few times, a dry, clicking noise. Then he speaks.
“Leveling is a means by which we grow stronger. As we take interest in certain activities, we gain classes. By pursuing these activities we gain more levels in a class. However, gaining levels grows exponentially more difficult as time goes on.”
I nod. That all squares with what I understand.
“Most people will end up around Level 20 in one class over the course of their life. Few individuals reach Level 30. A handful in each town; a few dozen in a city. Few will ever reach Level 40; those who do are considered famous in their own right. Those who pass Level 50 in their class are generally known throughout the world.”
Again, more information I know, but Klbkch saying it is still useful.
“Is there anyone who’s ever hit a…maximum level? Level 100, for instance?”
Klbkch seems to frown. He has no eyebrows but—is it just my imagination? That’s the sense I get from him.
“I know of no individual with a level approaching one hundred. Legends speak of individuals with levels above eighty and ninety, but why would there be a limit of one hundred levels?”
“Because…”
I pause. Well, because it’s a round number? No; there’s a reason for it.
“Hold on. This is a concept from my world. Where I come from—video games usually have a level limit. Level 100 or 99 is usually that limit.”
Diablo III didn’t have that system. The level limit there was Level 70 with Paragon levels, but in this case it sounds like Level 100 would be the closest match. Klbkch shakes his head.
