“That is odd, but intriguing. I have never known any individual with such a high level in any case. Most grow too old to continue leveling in time to pass Level 60 in any case.”
“Hold on. Old? What does age have to do with levels?”
I frown. Is leveling…age gated? That doesn’t sound quite right.
“Age is a known factor in leveling. Those who grow older level far more slowly, independently of their actual class level.”
“That doesn’t sound like any game I’ve played. Are you sure that’s what happens?”
Klbkch nods.
“I am one example of this occurrence. I have…declined in ability much over the many years I have been alive. I have lost levels, which is an occurrence that only occurs among the Antinium.”
“You lost your levels? Because you died, right?”
“Correct. During the First and Second Antinium Wars—and even before that—I have experienced death many times. I am able to be resurrected thanks to my Queen, but each time I lose ten levels from my classes.”
That sounds exactly like a video game. Resurrecting and losing levels? I scratch at the table with a fingernail.
“And you’re saying you’ve having a tougher time regaining your levels because you’re…older?”
Klbkch nods again. He seems to hesitate, and then he speaks.
“This is secret information. At the moment, I am a Level 21 [Swordslayer], a Level 18 [Commander], a Level 11 [Diplomat], and a Level 14 [Assassin]. However, at my peak I was a Level 44 [Swordslayer], and a Level 26 [Assassin].”
My jaw drops. If you add up the levels, Klbkch is saying he once had seventy levels altogether! Isn’t that on par with a legendary hero? No—a Named Adventurer is only around Level 40. He was stronger than that? Wait a second, if you add up the levels he has now…
“That’s…incredible.”
Klbkch nods. It’s not arrogance.
“My abilities were quite useful. However, you will note that my current self is far weaker than I was. Recently, I have struggled to regain even the levels I have lost, and I find it increasingly difficult to level up my [Swordslayer] class.”
“Right, but you still have over sixty levels total, don’t you?”
“Correct. But that is only cumulatively. As I have said, I am leveling slower due to my advanced age. I am quite old, and it is an established fact that older individuals gain levels slowly.”
Wait, but what Klbkch is saying doesn’t make sense to me. I tap the table as I speak.
“What about your cumulative levels? I mean, you were Level 70 in total, and now you’re Level 64 in total. Wouldn’t that explain the slower growth you’re experiencing?”
Klbkch pauses. Again, I get the impression he’s frowning at me.
“Why would cumulative levels affect my growth?”
“Because you’re nearing the level cap of one hundred. If it exists in this world. Look, in a video game leveling up requires more experience the higher level you are, right? Just like this world. But that cost is also based on your total number of levels, not just a single class’s level.”
Do they really not know this in this world? Does that explain lower levels? Gods, it might. The Antinium stares at me across the table skeptically.
“That conclusion requires a number of suppositions that cannot be substantiated. I am not sure your belief that there is a maximum level in this world is correct. Moreover, why would each class count towards this total?”
“Why does age count towards leveling?”
I shoot a question back at Klbkch. Okay, it’s a cheap debate trick, but I feel like I’m on to something.
“The problem I’m hearing with your world is that everyone assumes you slow down in leveling due to age. But what if that was just because older people have a lot of other classes?”
The Antinium is silent for a long moment.
“Most individuals do not level past Level 20 to begin with. Few attain a cumulative level past fifty, even with other classes.”
“Because it gets harder to level up! And people think it’s age, but—okay, let’s say you’re a Level 20 [Butcher], but you have ten other levels in…I don’t know, [Dancer]. That means that the system would treat you as a Level 30 person when it comes to leveling up, slowing your growth. And that also means that adventurers, generals…everyone is stunting their growth and maximum level by taking on needless classes!”
I point at Klbkch. My heart is racing with excitement.
“You aren’t leveling up because you have needless classes. You were stronger when you were younger because you only had two classes, and you focused on one more than the other. Think, Klbkch. Can you name any other individuals who only had a few classes?”
He’s silent for a long time. Then Klbkch looks up.
“The first Grand Queen. She…she was Level 79. She was a [Supreme Matriarch] – a special class gained from advancing in the [Queen] class for centuries. She…she was extraordinary among my people because she continued to level even in her later years.”
“My god.”
I have so many questions. But I have to continue.
“Okay. Then—damn, we need more information. Do you know if your Grand Queen had stopped leveling? Or was she continuing to gain levels? Did she have any other classes?”
Klbkch pauses. He lowers his head, as if he’s in…pain? As if the memory hurts him.
“She was focused. She only truly desired one class, and never took any other. She was so dedicated to leading us that…yes; she had only one other class, although I barely recall it.”
“That’s why she got to such a high level. The exponential difficulty of leveling was working against her of course, but she would never have gotten to that level if she didn’t focus on one class.”
I think I’m smiling. I don’t have levels—I might not ever have them anymore—but we’ve figured out something huge. This information—could I give it to the Gnolls? Hold on, it’s not that useful unless you have people who can actually get to a high level, but…no, it’s still frickin’ big.
All at once Klbkch stands up. I flinch, but he’s not looking at me. He stares out a window.
“I…we must confirm this. This information—if it is true, it changes much. That it was not discovered—”
“I guess if most people never level up as much, it wouldn’t be an issue. And someone who’s high-level might not realize they’re nearing their level cap. Plus, it might be a softcap.”
“Softcap?”
“It’s another idea from my world’s games. It means that there’s no hard stop when you get to a certain point, like Level 100, but afterwards continuing becomes impractical. So let’s say there’s a softcap on Level 100. It means that after that point you can continue leveling, but advancement will be even slower.”
Klbkch begins to walk back and forth, like I was doing. I watch him move—he’s got to be agitated.
“That adds credence to your statement. In advanced years, leveling is often cause for celebration.”
“Is there any way we can corroborate this information? Prove it, somehow?”
“My situation is unique to my nature, and I do not have access to information about other Prognugators and Queens.”
“Why not ask a local, then? You said Selys was in Liscor?”
Klbkch nods.
“She is in the park with Mrsha.”
“The park? Well, can we talk to her?”
“Let us go at once.”
 
—-
 
When Klbkch opens the door for me, I blink at the snowy landscape. The snow is knee deep outside.
“What the hell happened out here?”
The Antinium walks out with me, striding through the snow as I shut the door to Erin’s inn.
“I believe the effects of alcohol on the Frost Faeries led them to increase the amount of snow that fell overnight.”
“Goddamn it, Erin.”
“I would appreciate it if you did not use that expression.”
I hesitate, and look at Klbkch.
“Oh, right.”
Gods are real. When I think of that—it makes the revelation of leveling seem pale in comparison. I still can’t believe no one in this world realizes there’s a level cap. But if most people never level that high up, and the few who do just think they’re ceasing to level due to age…
“What can you tell me about the God?”
“Very little. I only know what my people know. And I would prefer not to speak of it in any case.”
“Why?”
Klbkch looks at me.
“Because even speaking of Gods gives them power.”
American Gods. Neil Gaiman. Or—alternatively, Small Gods, Terry Pratchett. My mind races. I—I close my mouth and walk with Klbkch in the snow, thinking.
It’s only a few minutes before we reach Liscor’s gates, despite the heavy snow. The guards recognize Klbkch in sight and call out to him. He waves. We walk on. Klbkch leads me down the streets of Liscor, and I look around at the bustling city.
You’d never imagine it was just attacked a few weeks ago. While this place isn’t New York, it’s hardly a small town either. The city feels…well, it feels big. Populated. Liscor is bigger than Celum or Esthelm, despite being enclosed on all four sides by those massive walls*.
 
*Talk about fortifications. Apparently, all Drake cities have these gigantic walls, although Liscor’s are second only to the famous Walled Cities. If the gates hadn’t been left open during the undead attack, I can’t imagine even a hundred thousand of them would have been able to break into Liscor. Not without siege weapons. Undead siege weapons…? A giant?
 
It’s either because he’s an Antinium or because he’s a Senior Guardsman—probably both—but Klbkch and I walk in a circle of space even on the most crowded of streets. Surprisingly, not all the looks he gets are unfriendly, either. Some Drakes and Gnolls nod to the Antinium, and Klbkch exchanges greetings with several people he knows by name. It’s actually me that gets more dirty looks.
The Antinium turns down another street.
“Where are we going?”
“To a playground, I believe. In the park. Selys has taken Mrsha there.”
Sure enough, the street widens and then I find myself staring at the oddest of sights. In the center of the city is…a park. A big one, at least, for an enclosed city like this. And there’s a playground occupying a part of it as well.
“What the hell?”
It’s a playground. And those are…trees. And grass, growing right next to the cobblestones that line the circular perimeter of the park. That’s normal. Yeah, parks, trees in a city with walls. I can see that.
But the playground catches my eye. Because it is not like a Human playground. Human playgrounds aren’t this cool.
It’s a…jungle gym. At least, that was what it was. But some mad architect took one look at the plans and decided to make a playground for children that would give any anxious parent a heart attack.
Long tunnels of smooth, polished wood connect towers that spiral upwards like a miniature castle. Monkey bars are set twenty feet in the air, above a floor that you have to climb up a long rope just to get to. Even as I watch, a Gnoll cub slides down a slide that curves downwards over thirty feet, dropping the kid down towards the ground in a long, spiraling journey.
The towering construction of wood and stone goes up four stories high. It has separate rooms with glass windows for children to occupy and play in—walls with grips that any climbing gym in my world would envy—even a huge rope bridge which sways and wobbles high over my head.
I know my mouth is gaping. I stare at the giant tower and I want to climb it. But while the child in me dreams of swinging and jumping around high up there, the practical part of me wonders what the hell happens if someone falls? There are so many ways to topple off—that damn rope bridge has huge gaps in it! A fall from that high ends up in death no matter how soft the grass is.
And then, just as I’m imagining that scenario—a kid slips. I see a Drake child overbalance and tumble off the side. I open my mouth to shout and I dash forwards, but I’ll be too slow, I know it.
But then—the young Drake’s body pauses as he falls through the air. I watch in incredulity as the air around the kid seems to freeze, and he slows down to a crawl. He softly lands on the ground and laughs.
I stare, and then hear laughter. Some Drakes are laughing at me, not the kid. I guess the look on my face must be hilarious.
“Please do not be alarmed. The magical spells on this playing area are cast by a Wistram mage and checked upon each year.”
Klbkch walks over to me and I stare at him. He nods at the playground and the Drakes and Gnolls walking around and enjoying this natural retreat in the center of their city.
“It is an expensive construction, but one the city council devoted funds to as a matter of public benefit. I am told the Walled Cities have similar constructions with an even greater degree of magical enchantments.”
“Why the hell do you need something like this?”
I point at the playground. One of the Drake parents gives me a dirty look, and I watch my mouth.
“Due to the unique geography of this landscape, the residents require a place to relax and enjoy themselves when confined to the city during the spring months.”
“Right, I read about that. But…huh. It’s just like my world. We have parks in our cities as well. If not so…close to other buildings.”
“Indeed? That is interesting. Ah, there is Selys.”
Klbkch points to a familiar Drake and a bundle of white fur. Mrsha is swinging on some bars way too high for me to feel comfortable about, laughing with a bunch of other Gnoll kids. Two groups of parents are watching their offspring play with Mrsha without any worries—I see the Gnoll parents eying her fur, but they make no comment.
“Ryoka! Klbkch?”
Selys greets the two of us with some surprise.
“Did you come to check up on Mrsha? I told you I’d take her out for the day. Unless…Erin’s done with her exploration?”
“No, not yet. Actually Selys, we wanted to talk to you.”
“To me?”
Selys looks at me, surprised. I nod.
“Can we sit somewhere?”
“Oh, of course. There are some benches over there. Mrsha? We’re going over there?”
High above us, Mrsha lets go of one of the bars and waves a paw. She looks so happy up there, just like one of the kids, immersed in the adventure of a life time. Like any other Gnoll cub—except for the fur.
I leave her behind and sit with Selys and Klbkch. It’s a cold day, but at least there’s a bit of sun coming through the clouds at the moment. Funny, it seems warmer in this park. Must be all the kids running about or…an enchantment over the entire place? Maybe it’s just my imagination.
“So, what can I help you with?”
Klbkch looks at me. I guess he wants me to explain. All of this makes sense to me, but to a native of this world, this must be like finding out the earth is round, or…or that the planets revolve around the sun.
Hell, I didn’t know I was going be pulling a Galileo today.
