Slowly, I explain my theory about leveling to Selys. She stares at me with increasing incredulity until she guffaws as I get to the part about cumulative leveling.
“What? Are you serious, Ryoka? Levels don’t work like that! Everyone knows you level slower as you age—it’s because we’re running out of energy, not some weird limit!”
She waves a claw at me, still chuckling. I frown at her.
“How do you know? What makes you so sure?”
“I know because—well, look, just because people don’t level when they’re older doesn’t mean there’s some limit!”
Selys frowns as she tries to explain. She frowns, and then brightens.
“Take old Peslas, for example. He’s an [Innkeeper], like Erin. Have you heard of him?”
A bit of memory flares inside my head.
“He’s the one who runs another inn, isn’t he? The one the Gold-rank adventurers are staying at?”
“That’s right. Well, he’s above Level 30 in the [Innkeeper] class, so his inn is one of the best in the city. But he hasn’t stopped leveling because he can’t! He’s old, and he just doesn’t want to work harder.”
“What do you mean?”
Selys rolls her eyes and wraps her tail around one leg of the bench.
“Not everyone wants to work their tail off until they can get to a higher level, Ryoka. Some people decide they’re at a good level and stop. For instance, Peslas has a nice inn and lots of guests, but he doesn’t work that hard. And he’s old. So he levels once every couple of years. He leveled up six years ago and threw a huge party. My grandmother and I were invited to it.”
“But he could be leveling slower because of his total level as well, not just because he’s taking it easy and he’s old.”
“Yeah, but…well, he doesn’t have that many levels in other classes.”
Selys looks uncertain. I shake my head.
“But every level counts, Selys, don’t you see? Someone who has only one class that she levels like Erin will level up fast. She told me she only has a few levels in [Singer] and [Warrior], but how many do you have? How many does Peslas have?”
Now the [Receptionist] frowns to herself. She mutters as Klbkch and I watch Mrsha running around with another Gnoll kid.
“Well, I know he was bragging—he talks a lot about his classes—I know he said he was a [Warrior] when he was younger. He got to Level 16 while serving in the army, so there’s that. And he has levels in [Cook] and [Bartender] because he used to do that before he became an [Innkeeper]…but he doesn’t have many in each. Just a few levels.”
“Does he have any other classes?”
“Oh! I remember! He’s got a few levels in [Singer] and [Dancer] too! He was so happy about that—he got a good Skill that helps him sing…”
Selys’ face turns pale. I nod, and Klbkch nods too.
“One or two levels here and there. In this world, it’s not that much. In fact, people like to level, don’t they?”
“It’s so useful. And we get Skills even if it’s one or two levels.”
Selys mumbles the words. I nod.
“But that slows you down. It takes away from the maximum level you can achieve. It hurts you, but no one realizes it because everyone thinks it’s due to age.”
“And few people have the desire to reach higher levels in any case. So the issue is never noticed. In any case, why would anyone assume there is an artificial limit?”
Only someone from another world would assume that, and only because older video games like Pokemon had hardcoded limits to their system that prevented them from going past Level 100. Why would a system in this world have that kind of limit? It would only make sense if someone created the system…
Klbkch looks at me. I nod. My heart is racing.
Selys shakes her head repeatedly, as if dazed.
“This is huge. This is…do you know what this means if this is true?”
“It will affect all in small ways, and affect few in huge ways.”
Klbkch said the words softly as Mrsha nipped at a Drake’s tail and elicited a shout from the Drake and her parents. I consider what he’s saying.
For many, I guess this information wouldn’t be too useful. Not if they don’t have the ambition to level up faster. But maybe it would allow everyone to reach Level 30, rather than waste their early levels on useless classes. It would lead to specialization—but most importantly, it would allow the people who reach the high levels in their classes to become even stronger.
“This information could change the world.”
I look at Klbkch. He looks at me.
“Fifty thousand gold pieces?”
“Perhaps.”
“What are you talking about?”
Selys looks between us. She’s trembling. Her world must be shaking. I feel sort of bad for her, but this information helps her as well.
Klbkch nods. And then he nods again.
“What Ryoka Griffin describes is exactly what I am experiencing. I had feared it was due to my age—or that I was becoming weaker—but I have ceased to level in my main class because I have too many other classes. It may be age, but Ryoka’s theory is equally sound, perhaps more so given…certain factors. I believe she is correct.”
“Dead gods.”
Selys breathes the words like a prayer, only no one prays in this world because the gods are dead. Except there is one.
Klbkch nods one last time. He’s like a creepy bobblehead.
“I must confirm this. There is information in my Hive which I am able to sort through. Data on warriors, people in positions of note, unusual classes, and so forth. I will review several hundred individuals and see if the results match your conclusions, Ryoka Griffin. If it is correct, this secret you have uncovered will be valuable beyond belief.”
I nod. My heart is pounding. Information that could change the world. Klbkch glances at Selys.
“This knowledge must not spread until it is certain, and even then, should be kept quiet. For now. Are we in agreement?”
Selys nods vigorously.
“Lips sealed. Completely.”
But then her face falls.
“Ah! But I’ve got so many classes! I thought—everyone gets a few levels in one or two classes but no one cares about that! No one—does that mean I’ll never reach a high level?”
Her face is stricken. Klbkch nods slowly.
“It will be…difficult for me as well. If I am unable to reach the same heights, it would be best for me to rectify the situation.”
I eye Klbkch. He’s the only one who can lose levels, but if he’s suggesting what I think he is, that’s insane.
“For now, just don’t level up if you don’t want to. You can refuse to level up or take a class.”
Selys shakes her head distractedly.
“I never understood why that was possible. I thought you’d have to be crazy to turn down a level or not gain a new class.”
I nod. It’s not a conclusion anyone would make if they didn’t understand games. Is it a trap for the people in this world? Or just an oversight? Does anyone know this secret? Some people must, but they would hide it because it’s so valuable, wouldn’t they?
“I think—yeah, I think if my suspicions are true, it’s for this exact reason that you can refuse to level up.”
A system based on a game, except no one knows the rules. My spine tingles. Gods. One is still alive.
We don’t say much after that. Selys and Klbkch just stare at each other and she mutters about classes while he…goes through his Hive’s information. I’m not sure how he does it. Is it stored in some location, or are the Antinium all carrying bits of the data?
For now, I don’t ask. But after half an hour Klbkch looks towards one of the walls.
“Something is happening.”
People—Drakes and Gnolls, and even some of the Humans—are pointing and walking in one direction. I stare at Selys and Klbkch.
“What do you think it is?”
“I don’t know. Do you want to see?”
Klbkch and I look at each other. We’re thinking the same thing without saying it out loud. If there’s a crowd and something going on which attracts attention, there’s probably one person—one girl at the heart of it.
People are clustering around the southern gate, and I hear people exclaiming and laughing. Klbkch, Selys, and I make our way through the crowd, Selys holding Mrsha so the small Gnoll doesn’t get lost. We get close to the southern walls—close enough to hear the laughter and exclamations—but the people are packed so densely around the gates that there’s no way through.
“Up there.”
Klbkch points towards the battlements. The citizenry aren’t allowed up there, but his position as a Senior Guardsman gets us up there. And that’s when we see it.
“Oh my god.”
At first, it’s just an odd shape moving around in the snow. You can see from a long distance on the battlements, and that’s how I see Erin. And Toren. And then, when you look closer, you see it.
The [Guardsmen] on the wall are laughing so hard they can barely stand up straight. I stare down at Erin and Toren as they…traverse the snow. Yup. Just when I think she can’t get any stranger, Erin does something like this.
I look at Selys. She’s covering her mouth as she tries not to guffaw. Klbkch is just staring. I think he’s in shock.
Someone has to say it. I stare down at Erin and shake my head.
“That is the stupidest thing I’ve ever seen in my life.”
