Ali gritted her teeth against the pain as she wielded the crystalline gold of her arcane mana and the vibrant green of her nature mana against the twisted corruption before her, staring in frustration and no small anxiety at the rage of the undead hornets’ nest she had just provoked. Sure, it was all according to plan. Her plan. However, the reality of facing this horde down staggered her mind and made self-doubt spear deep. Could she have miscalculated somehow? Her instinct was to withdraw her mana and flee, but she already knew that, once roused, the rage-induced dungeon break could only be defeated by destroying every last monster.

“Form up! Tanks to the front! Healers get ready, mages and archers target the banshees.” Lyeneru’s commands came quick and fast, but her voice carried a calmness that belied the magnitude of the undead wave that bore down upon them. Except for the bosses and the corporeal monsters blocked by the barriers, the ire of the entire dungeon had suddenly been raised against their group, an instantaneous reaction to her domain mana’s attack.

Ali bit her lip, forcing herself to concentrate. Consider them provoked! Let’s go!

“Defensive positions! Group one, back up,” Lyeneru shouted, but Seth ignored her, searching frantically through the crowd for the small, sparkly figure.

The wail from countless banshees blurred into a continuous droning howl that filled the air, kicking up dust and small pebbles from the sheer power of the sonic magic, but the potions Morwynne Fizzlebang had crafted and the wards cast by their defensive mages were holding fast against the onslaught against his mind. Besides, the wails of the dead hardly worked on him anymore.

There she is! he thought, as his eyes picked out the small figure of Aliandra staring at the impending wall of undead bearing down upon them with a look of stunned helplessness, her minions formed up around her, looking pitifully small against such a tide. Within the dungeon, gaps began to appear in the purple barrier domes, spilling hordes of corporeal undead forward. It had been a risky plan, all told, but a risk they had chosen to take. However, according to his assessment, they had badly miscalculated the sheer magnitude of the undead horde lurking within the bowels of this dungeon.

Even with all the raid teams fully prepared, he feared they wouldn’t be enough. He knew exactly what he needed to do, and he was the only one who could stave off an impending rout, but he needed her help.

Against orders, he sprinted forward, heading toward the dungeon and the destruction it promised.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
