Niala managed to craft her hybrid potion on the third attempt the next morning.

She jumped, and she wiggled, and she danced, and she threw herself into David's arms, who lifted and twirled her around as she giggled.

The kiss she gave him after that tasted very sweet.

Now, it was only a mix of very basic and simple potions, but all of her sampling indicated that it worked! The effects seemed stable, with no immediate signs of meddling with each other. All of this, done without weaving or magic of any kind!

She would still need to run multiple tests; the most important one being long-term stability. It was no good if the hybrid potion's compounds ended up reacting with each other and creating new effects, maybe even toxic ones.

But, for now, success!

All that was left before her, now, was the long and exciting road of experimentation. She could hardly contain her glee and desire to start right now.

But, as she and David began cleaning up the work table, there was one thing that kept nagging at her: more precise compound measurements. More specifically, how to achieve this.

She knew that trying to extract a compound from its herb was not feasible. Being magical in nature, as soon as they were removed from an “anchoring factor”, the compounds would rapidly subsume back into the aetheric sea.

She could reduce the plant itself to a powder, but apart from making manipulation a bit more convenient, it also tended to reduce the purity of the compounds.

One process that compound alchemists had been attempting was to create “base solutions”, or potions that contained a single active compound. Some success had been had there, but the main issue was that having a single active compound did not mean it was the only present compound.

The process simply had the undesired compounds bind with neutralizing agents, which rendered them inert. The resulting base solution could still be used to brew more powerful potions, but their shelf life was painfully short, as the neutralized compounds would begin reacting with each other.

No, what she needed was a way to separate the compounds within an anchoring factor.

She looked at her ramshackle apparatus. Maybe there was something to do with temperature control? Could she somehow stratify the compounds within a potion, and then skim the desired layers?

Sighing as her mind spun in unending circles, she looked down at Lychee, who was “licking” clean the various tools she had used. The bumblemoss looked like she was having the time of her life as her antennas flagellated all over the instruments David was presenting her.

As she did, Lychee's moss took on various pastel hues, her antennas, and then her “head”, turning a colourful, subdued rainbow.

From her testing, the colours depended on which kind of potions she was fed, and the results were very consistent. She had even begun creating a colour chart, which she could use to have Lychee test an unknown potion and figure out what it was.

She'd run a few blind tests with Linzy and David, and even their untrained eyes were very accurate with her chart in hand.

The exact process was unknown to her, but her best guess was that Lychee's body naturally reacted to the compounds present in the potion. Potions heavy with Ignis, or fire, turned her red, for example. The higher the concentration, the more pronounced the hue.

She watched as pretty patterns began appearing over her pet. It was a bit like watching for shapes in the clouds; the colours danced and swirled slowly, mixing, separating, over and over, until they eventually settled.

The colour patterns made her question if Lychee could somehow separate or combine the compounds at will within her body. When she'd first learned that her pet could imbibe potions, this was the trait that had most intrigued her. Now that she was hunting for specific compounds, she was wondering if Lychee was creating these patterns at random or if she was doing it on purpose.

Her eyes unfocused as she let her thoughts drift.

Her mind idly noticed that Lychee seemed to be blurring away, fading into the background.

Huh...

Wait...

She squinted and angled her head somewhat.

Lychee's colour pattern...

It wasn't... random.

Moving with sudden purpose, she walked up to her ingredient cabinet and retrieved some appropriately-named fireleaf.

David watched her with curiosity as she set a beaker filled with water over a burner and stuffed in the fireleaf, infusing the water with fire essence and the other compounds present within the herb.

She reduced the liquid as much as she could before cooling it down, and finally spoke. “David, take this, and offer it to Lychee when I tell you to.”

He took the beaker while quirking an eyebrow, but said nothing, simply nodding. His wife had that hyper-focused look where he knew she'd barely hear him if he even spoke. He approached Lychee and waited as Niala left the room and soon returned with a bright red scarf.

She crouched near Lychee, setting the scarf around one of her six legs, and looked up at David. “Now, please.”

He did as asked and offered the liquid to the bumblemoss, who jumped at the chance to slurp up more of her favourite food.

Niala observed with rapt attention, ears focused forward, as the moss around the area she was using to absorb the potion turned the red of an autumn leaf.

And then, the colours began to separate, mix, and slowly migrate over her body.

Her heartbeat jumped when she saw the red hue slowly descend down to Lychee's leg, where the red scarf was.

Once it had settled, she made a few clean cuts, pruning the reddest parts.

Thankfully, getting her moss cut had never seemed to bother Lychee. They'd had to start doing it to keep her at a manageable size. Niala had agonized over the need for it at first, fearful of hurting her pet, but the bumblemoss hadn't even seemed to notice.

In fact, Niala wondered if this was how bumblemosses reproduced in nature; they would brush up against jagged surfaces to lap at moisture and leave behind a few scraps of themselves. Another bumblemoss would come around and do the same, and the leftovers would pollinate and grow into a new baby bumblemoss.

She soon had a handful of red moss and moved on to the second part of her test. She boiled up Lychee's cuttings, cooled the resulting potion off, and fed it to Lychee once more.

This time, the red was even more pronounced.

She repeated the process a third time, ending up with fiery-red moss. If she had guessed right, this was the highest concentration of Ignis that she had ever held.

To test it, she used the Ignis-infused moss to brew a potion that demanded a high concentration of it; a warming potion.

It was perfect for her test, as it was one of the rare potions where adding more of one element didn't create side effects or imbalances. More ignis simply made the potion more powerful.

The potion was soon completed. She just needed someone to test it. She turned her head and squinted at David, who was staring back at her.

No. She couldn't use her husband as a test subject...

She thought furiously for a moment before sighing in defeat.

David approached. “What's wrong? You looked like you were on a roll.”

She looked up at him, her ears flattened. “I need to test this potion, but I don't want to use anyone as a test subject.”

He eyed the phial. “What does it do?”

“It's a warming potion. Makes you feel warm.”

He tilted his head. “That's it?”

“Yeah, but the effect is probably very pot-” David snagged the phial and downed it before she could finish her sentence.

She looked at him wide-eyed.

He brought his head back down and smirked at her. “What? You weren't going to ask anyone. Might as well be me.”

She spoke slowly. “David. If my guess is correct, that potion is going to be at least three times as potent as any warming potion I've ever brewed.”

His grin dropped away. “...three times what you ever brewed?”

She slowly nodded.

“And... every potion you brew is already much more potent than anything else.” He confirmed.

She nodded once more.

He swallowed and pulled at his collar. “Hum... It's getting kind of warm in here, isn't it?”

She shook her head slowly.

Beads of sweat pearled on his forehead. “I'm, uh, going to go draw a cold bath.”

She nodded. “I'll go get ice from the cold box.”

By the time the upstairs tub had been filled with cold water, he was drenched in sweat.

Niala dumped another bucket of ice cubes that she had weaved into existence, having told the heat present in the water to escape as vapour.

David lay sprawled in the bathtub, naked and as submerged as he could, soaking in the near-freezing water. He'd been in there for close to two bells by now.

She would have found the situation funny if she hadn't been so concerned for him. He was boiling hot when she'd taken his temperature. They'd managed to keep him just under the threshold of what was dangerous, but only just.

By now, however, the potion's effect was wearing off, and his body heat was slowly returning to normal.

She knelt beside the tub, glaring at him, while her ears were folded back. “Seriously. Don't even do that again. I know you wanted to help, but I was hesitating for a reason.”

He weakly smiled as he turned his sweat-coated head toward her. “Yeah... sorry. That was really stupid of me. I'll never underestimate your brewing again, kitten.”

“You'd better not! This was really dangerous. If we haven't been able to keep your temperature down, you could have...”

She couldn't finish the thought.

He kept smiling at her, and then a chuckle escaped his lips.

She squinted. “What's so funny about this?”

“Oh, nothing, it's just... you're probably the only alchemist alive that could turn a warming potion into an actual life-threatening poison. I wonder if you could make a healing potion so good that it could kill?”

Her ears twitched as she let her gaze drop toward the floating ice cubes. “I... a healing potion returns the body to what it remembers being, to a feeling of correctness. I guess if a potion was strong enough to go past the body's physical limit to pursue that feeling...”

She angled her head. “I think... your body would deplete its reserves and eat itself as it tried to create a perfect version of you.” She said, looking up, and blinking when she found his round eyes staring back at her.

Her ears lop-sided. “What?”

“Wait... you could really turn a healing potion into a poison?”

She dipped her head. “If I made it too potent... yes, I think so.”

He kept staring for a second. “Out of context, if I told anyone that I knew someone who could brew every known poison and turn any other potion lethal, they'd think you a master assassin.”

Her ears shot up. “But I'm not! I do this to help!”

He sighed. “Actions speak louder than words, kitten.”

She squinted at him. “I think your water needs more ice.”

He looked at the water in the tub. “Actually, no, I'm starting to feel fine, the warming potion's effect is go-”

“Definitely more ice.” She declared, clamping her hands over the tub's edge and releasing the mana story she had just prepared of how all the water in the tub wanted to turn freezing cold right now.

Linzy, downstairs at the shop's desk, heard a distant yelp.

BELLHARBOUR

Luke looked at his operating report once more, but the numbers didn't change.

He had to accept the inevitable.

He was rich.

Or, rather, he was riding the airship for the golden hills. The sales of the Old Woman kept increasing, and he fully expected them to keep growing as long as he expanded his distribution network.

He'd already purchased a cargocar to run tandem with David's, just to keep up with the demand in Bellharbour alone.

He sighed. His import/export business was a fraction of his revenue now, but he found himself unable to let go of it. He had hired a general manager, a young man who was looking to gain experience to pass the Merchant's guild exam in a few years, and dropped by now and then to oversee his old store.

But even now, he knew he was being sentimental about it. When he calculated the hours he spent at the shop against the revenue it got him, and compared it to the Old Woman business, it wasn't even close.

And yet, that shop had been his life so far. Probably, after he grew old and passed on the Old Woman business to his son or grandson, he'd retire to his import/export shop.

He shook off his thoughts and returned to the present.

Putting aside the report in his hands, he picked up the market survey. The Old Woman remained incredibly popular, but it wasn't universal. For one, the younger a person was, the less they cared about the drink. Anyone below the age of fifteen or so had a sharp decline in interest. It was too early yet to know if this would reverse with time, as they grew up. For now, it just meant he aimed the Old Woman at people sixteen and older.

There was also a small percentage of people, maybe one in twelve, who simply did not acquire the taste. The drink's bitter taste kept them away from it, even if they did report some of the effects that others had when consuming the drink, namely increased alertness, focus and energy.

To be frank, these adoption numbers were the kind that had merchants go into shock and froth at the mouth, so he absolutely had nothing to complain about.

Especially with his, or rather Martha's, newest venture.

His genius of a wife, on her mission to spread the good Old Woman around, found herself in several groups who wanted to gather and imbibe the drink together, as a sort of social activity, mirroring tea receptions.

Between the various groups, she had found and tasted many versions of the drink. Some were more potent than others, some tasted better, or lasted longer in the mouth, or had any other slight variances in attributes.

She soon found out that the causes were the minute differences in heat, seeping times, and even the way the herbs were prepared.

A vision came to her, then: a salon-like shop, with semi-private booths and tables, where a staff of highly-trained Old Woman brewers could prepare the drinks to the liking of the patrons.

After conferring with Luke and receiving his approval and support, the Waymans went on to open the first such shop. In a nod to the name of the drink, they called it The Boudoir.

It was an overnight success. Within the week, lines were forming outside.

So they began offering to-go drinks.

The lines got longer.

So they hurried and opened a second shop.

Which filled up within the first day.

Now, they were opening their fifth, and final, for now, shop in Bellharbour. If they were to open any more, they would need to increase the herb shipments, and David had told him that he couldn't just yet, but he would quadruple it as soon as he could.

Luke had replied and told his adopted brother to multiply it by a factor of twenty.

Over the past half-season, all he and Martha had done was manage the Boudoirs and widen their offerings. They had commissioned pastry shops to offer custom-made pastries, with a taste that harmonized with the Old Woman's bitterness, and sold them in their stores. They had even begun offering a few sandwiches, as the Boudoirs were soon becoming lunch break havens for nearby businesses. A bite and an old woman's touch, the regulars had started saying.

Nowadays, you could hardly walk around town without seeing someone walking home with a cup of Boudoir's Old Woman.

Luke looked out the window, across the street, and to the initial Boudoir they had set up. The Old Woman logo was proudly displayed, just above the name.

He wondered if Niala was even aware that her husband had used her aged likeness to brand his drink.