“Rookie mistake,” Vatreece said. “Never call out. Lets them know you’re coming.”

A crackling whip wrapped around her waist, lightning surging through her with enough power to free her hair from its bun and make the Carten Actor scream.

“Better,” Vatreece said, looking down, then following the whip to Jamus, the appearance of a third Actor fully expected at this point. This one didn’t have power armor, instead sporting a fluorescent mohawk that perfectly matched his eye-searing orange biker leathers. She yanked hard on the whip with a sniff, sending him flying after Ameliah. She wasn’t concerned about breaking him. Actors weren’t actual memories, able to be damaged permanently. That was the whole point of a Dream.

Enough playing around.

Shoving the Carten Actor away, Vatreece shot into the sky, ignoring the Narrative’s protests about flight as her passage shattered hundreds of windows. Outpacing the breaking glass, she rocketed up the side of the megacorp monolith, her ever-increasing speed soon carrying her above the steam and neon of the city behind her.

And still, she climbed, the tower rising up and up and up in defiance of physics and common sense. The air began to thin, but she merely removed her need for it, focusing on a shining star that swiftly grew into a massive station above the spire’s peak.

There’s always a fortress.

Against a real opponent, she wouldn’t have slowed. As she didn’t actually want to kill the world’s best hope of stability, she instead blunted her assault, and so when she slammed hard into the invisible barrier that formed in front of her, it merely deformed from the force. She was sent screaming off into space, feeling actual pain.

What?!

The explosions that buffeted her in the moments that followed were mere annoyances by comparison, explosive shells lobbed by the station’s turrets no more threat to her than the Actors had been. She ignored the fire and the heat, sending herself zipping through the maelstrom, right up to the energy barrier. Clamping onto it, she pushed with her will, only for a blue box to appear before her eyes.

Access Denied

Defenses Engaged

The Warden ground her teeth, snarling at the co-opted system dialog. It was obvious, now, what the Custodian had done. This shield was a reflection of his paling. Nothing else explained the strength of the barrier, reinforced by the structures he’d built in his soul.

How thick did he make that damn thing!?

Wait…

This being here means everything so far has just been his domain, which is impossible. He couldn’t have that much control. Unless…

Unless he went to the Delving and spied on the Illuminators. Okay. Okay, it’s possible, just EXCEEDINGLY unlikely. Even as a Dynamo, he shouldn’t have had enough time to do all this. He didn’t actually get them to TEACH him, did he?

Mad at the failure of her modeling more than anything, Vatreece released a primal scream, her will overriding the Narrative’s insistence that there should be no sound in space. She plunged her hands through the barrier, then began to tear. She couldn’t worry about conserving power now. If she couldn’t get through, she wouldn’t be able to guide the Custodian through what came next. He’d passed her test and then some, but she refused to leave him to navigate global politics without at least some direction. A simple warning to stay away from Kev wasn’t enough. She had to get through.

Access GrantedProceed to Dock 1

Excuse me, what?

“This is wild,” Rain said, his voice crackling from an earpiece as a helmet shimmered into being around Vatreece’s head. “I’m dreaming, aren’t I? Are you real? Wait, am I real? Filth! Don’t wake up! Don’t wake up!”

“No way! NO WAY!” Vatreece yelled, tumbling through the now-open barrier in her brand-new spacesuit.

“Damn. Okay. I can’t get in there, and I can feel myself slipping, but I’ve got a plan. I’ll have Tallheart bring you through.”

“I have her,” a deep voice rumbled through the earpiece, and Vatreece spun to see an enormous metal hand close around her. Before the fingers blocked her view, she got a good look at the antlered face of the literal mech the Actor was piloting. Or perhaps it was a Gundam, what with them being in space. She wasn’t clear on the difference. Regardless, it didn’t matter at that moment, as she could already feel what Rain was trying to do.

“Stop! You can’t bring me in like that! I’m mana! MANA! You can’t bring mana into your soul! Give me half a second, and I’ll project—”

“Sorry…can’t…hear…” Rain’s voice warbled in and out, the Dream beginning to fray around her. “…losing it again. Hang on...”

“Stop, you imbecile!” Vatreece railed, finding that, despite her dissolution having never been in question as a construct, she didn’t want to die.

“Shit, system’s mad at me,” Rain’s voice crackled through the speaker. “Yeah, yeah, call your admin. See how far that gets you.”

Desperate, Vatreece drank deeply from her dwindling mana reserves, knowing she was only buying time. She’d spent too much on the barrier, and he was too strong. Her original hadn’t planned for this—hadn’t left her enough power to fight a rank-thirty idiot who’d made his soul as solid as his skull. In her last moments, she decided she would take vindictive pleasure in knowing the Custodian had ruined his own chances of getting her to answer so much as a single one of his endless questions.

But her last moments didn’t come.

Instead, the immense pressure she was under found an outlet, and she felt herself move. The feeling was disturbing, like her mana-built mind was being sucked through a straw.

And then her mind was made from soul.

The construct in which she’d been anchored was shaped to resemble her old, withered body, floating in a tank of refined potential. The inefficiency of its design and the clash between the Custodian’s imagery and her own saw it trembling under the weight of her mind, swallowing potential in a flood just to hold itself together.

With all her might, she reached out to the foreign will that had captured her and gave it a little nudge in the right direction. The Custodian responded to her guidance, reacting to her touch in real time, correcting his errors, plugging the leaks as potential poured into her at a rate that would have drained any reasonable silver dry in seconds. Slowly, she began to stabilize. The flood of essence dropped to a trickle, forming an internal reservoir of power from which she could fuel herself.

“I’m not…finished with you…yet,” Rain panted, dissolving the glass tube of her pod and freeing the excess potential to splash across the floor and a plume of chaos to spill into the air. “Can you hear me? Did it work?”

Vatreece coughed weakly, blinking him into focus. This wasn’t possible. Clearly, her mind had been damaged. “How?” she gasped.

Rain grinned, though he looked exhausted. “A little guesswork, a little help from Ameliah’s dad, some reverse-engineering, long hours watching an Essence Slime do Essence Slime things. You know, normal stuff. Also, practice. A whole lot of practice.”

“Bullshit…” Vatreece said, her eyes flickering closed. She could feel herself fading toward an unconsciousness from which she wasn’t sure she’d wake. “No way…you did this. If you did…it was…luck.”

Rain snorted. “Well—and trust me, I’ve been waiting to say this—fuck you too.”

With the last of her strength, Vatreece managed a single, wheezing laugh.

And then there was darkness.
