Liora grabbed one of the blue orchids from the royal garden while none of the guards were watching and flew back to the anthill. Admittedly, she would have loved to sleep, but there were many things to be done and an impatient sultan to please. Who knew how long the old man would remain calm, especially when people were literally dying?

"I don't like this…" Liora said, as she flew over the desert. Stars were shining from above, but the night was quite chilly, making her shiver occasionally.

"Don't like what?" Renir asked.

"All this conflict between ants and humans. In the end, it was caused by those Night Order pricks. Why are they everywhere? Like they have literally been everywhere we've gone, and we've travelled a lot of places. What is their goal? To destroy the world like some cartoon villain?"

Renir was silent for a moment, then said. "I believe they are rushing to reach their goal while I am gone. While I was a Pillar, whenever there was strange magic going on somewhere, I would instantly detect it and go there. I've dealt with many cases of corrupted monsters, however…"

"What?"

"They always were individual monsters. They never attempted anything large-scale while I was Pillar. They likely believed that I would ruin all their plans. But with me trapped like this… There's nobody strong enough to stop them. I'm sure my Elites are doing the best they can. That is clear by the fact that they are choosing rather difficult-to-access locations for their plans, but I fear that they may grow bold because I'm slowly breaking my seal. They are rushing to complete whatever it is they want to accomplish."

"What do you think that is? What is the point of all this corruption and destruction?"

"I wish I knew… But it certainly isn't something as silly as "destroy the world". They undoubtedly have a goal of some sort, and for some reason it requires all these corrupted creatures…"

Liora hated all of this. Why was it that there were always assholes eager to ruin the lives of everyone around them just to get what they want? What gave them the right to ignore everybody else around them?

It was the same as on Earth. People fought over resources all the time and destroyed nature for their own gain. This wasn't any different, although their true motivation was still unknown.

"I'm going to kick all of their butts!" Liora announced.

"Easy there, Liora. You need to rest for the time being. Titanspike Mountains are no joke. I wish we had the time to train you, Cee, and Smokey up until your next evolution before heading there, but we don't have the time. I hope my magic will be enough to offset the difference in strength."

The rest of the flight was silent, as Liora struggled to remain awake. She was so tired. When they finally reached the anthill with the blue orchid in tow, she collapsed almost instantly. The last thing Liora remembered was being carried away by Lau'fi.

When Liora woke up, she found herself next to Smokey and Cee. The wyvern was curled up in the corner of the mage chamber, with Liora placed in the nook of his front leg. Cee was sleeping in that weird spidery position of hers right next to the wyvern's belly.

It was so incredibly warm and pleasant that Liora almost fell asleep right away. But then she noticed Renir shining on the table with Caspian crouched down next to him. They were looking at a glass vial filled with a purple sludgy liquid inside.

"I think it's done," Caspian said with a crooked smile, deep bags underneath his eyes. Had the merman even slept?

Several mage ants were clapping their hands in amazement, looking carefully at the liquid.

"It is indeed. I never expected you to be so adept at potions," Renir praised.

However, Caspian was so tired that he placed the vial on the table and then promptly collapsed under it.

"This one has worked too hard," one of the antkin said.

"Mandatory rest required," the other added.

One of them scurried away, returning after several minutes with two of the bulky soldier ants in tow. They picked up the passed-out merman who at some point had reverted back to his merman form and took him away, likely to the basin within his chambers.

"It's done?" Liora asked sleepily, forcing herself away from the comfort of Smokey's warmth.

"Liora? Are you awake? Excellent! You're just in time," Renir said, basically dancing on the table with his little legs. It was the most adorable sight—a shiny gem just dancing on a table.

"So what do we do now? You can't exactly drink it, can you?" She asked, flying her way to the table. Smokey stirred a little in his sleep.

"No, this is not for drinking. You'll have to pour this potion on me at the right time. It has to be done in the desert during zenith," Renir explained.

"What? But that's when it's the hottest!" Liora protested.

Renir gave her the look. Even on his rather limited gem face, she could tell what he was thinking. "Are you really going to complain about something so mundane as heat?"

Liora sighed. "Should I wake up, Cee?"

"Yes. She has a complex ritual circle to prepare. We must get it done today."

"We shall observe the process," one of the mage ants said.

"We wish to learn more of this ancient magic," the other said.

"Of course. It is what we agreed to. But my companion requires food first," Renir said.

"Of course. We shall inform the worker ants at once."

Liora woke up Cee and Smokey, both of whom seemed reluctant to move. Apparently they had stayed up late last night together with Caspian, so they hadn't gotten much sleep either. But food did perk them up a little.

Smokey got a bunch of some kind of monster meat, while Liora and Cee were offered mushrooms grown within the colony. They weren't all that great raw, but beggars couldn't be choosers. Perhaps Liora could suggest that the antkin colony delegate a few chef ants.

After that, they headed outside the colony, followed by five members of the ant council: two mage ants, one digger ant, Lau'fi and El'akari. They also had a bunch of soldier ants with them, likely for protection.

Liora was tempted to speak to the ants, to try and talk them out of invading the humans, but apparently, Renir had already explained the situation to them while she had slept.

The anthill was in as big a frenzy as it had been yesterday, but they were still restless. Apparently, they had agreed not to invade the humans unless provoked. But they were still preparing for war.

"Are you ready, Cee?" Renir called. Liora could feel him vibrating from excitement around her neck. He truly was eager to break the seal.

Liora felt nervous. For several reasons. She was still afraid of what would happen once Renir regained human form. The presence of antkin also made her feel on edge. There was also the feeling that everything was going smoothly.

They'd been struggling with these rituals for so long. It almost felt silly that one of the seals could be broken just like that.

But Liora quelled these feelings. Perhaps she just felt a little useless. Cee was hard at work weaving the ritual circle out of her thread. Smokey had previously cleared out a large spot in sand, making it nice and level. The sun was rising higher and higher, making everything unbearably hot for everyone except the wyvern.

Liora had the potion in her inventory and was ready to pour it on Renir whenever he demanded it.

"Liora, I'm going to chant the incantation necessary for the ritual. Please pay attention and commit it to memory," Renir said.

"Why? Can't you chant it yourself?" She asked, not trusting herself to remember some magical mambo jumbo in ancient language.

"It is merely a precaution. Now please listen," Renir said, and recited the incantation.

Liora listened to it. She really did. She tried to commit it to her memory. But holy shit, what the hell was he even saying? Liora couldn't even understand where one word started and another began. It was like he was reciting something in Latin but backwards while he had a hot potato in his mouth.

"Did you get that?" He asked once he was done.

"Uh…"

"Liora!"

"I tried! I really tried, but you can't expect me to remember such gibberish."

"Just use your bird memory and mimicry. As a magpie, you should be able to do this. Just let your instincts guide you. I'll recite it again."

Liora nodded and listened to the incantation. It seemed to make even less sense than before, but this time she didn't concentrate on individual words. Her human brain couldn't remember that. Instead she concentrated on the sounds themselves, something a magpie should have no problem mimicking.

"I think I got it now," Liora said.

"Okay, good. I'm frankly hoping you won't need to recite it, but it never hurts to be cautious," Renir said.

It was strange. It was almost as if he was expecting something to happen. Was there something he wasn't telling them? The antkin also seemed on edge, the soldier ants clutching their spears tightly, as if they were expecting something bad to happen.

"Renir, is there something you're not telling me?" Liora asked nervously.

The gem was silent for a long moment. "It might get a bit hectic. You only need to focus on one thing. Pour the potion on me when I flash twice. Recite the incantation if I flash three times in a row."

"Why would you need to flash? Why can't you just say it?" Liora asked. "Seriously, what are you not telling me? What does this ritual entail?"

Renir's gaze was downcast as he muttered. "Well, I might be opening a gate to the underworld."

"A WHAT?!" Liora gasped. Looking around, it didn't look like anyone else was surprised. "And you didn't tell me?"

"I told everyone the moment I deciphered that part of the ritual. You weren't here at the time. Besides, you tend to worry too much."

"I still think this is a bad idea!" Cee called while weaving the ritual circle.

"The gate will be open only as long as the ritual lasts, which is the length of the incantation. If done right, it shouldn't be for more than half a minute," Renir said.

"Wow, hold up. A gate to the underworld? Is that like the hell equivalent of this world? With demons, souls of the dead, and evil gods?" Liora asked.

"There are demons, yes. Not sure about the souls of the dead. Definitely no evil gods, but there might be a few divine living down there. If we're lucky, the gate will open an uninhabited part of the underworld. Which is most of the underworld, really. Our chances are good."

"Did you forget the fact that our luck is abysmal?" Liora said.

"I know," Renir said solemnly. "But this must be done to break this particular seal. Maybe we could find an alternative if given time. But that could take years. Without breaking the seal, I won't regain my magic, and without it you cannot go into Titanspike Mountains."

"Aren't you underestimating me? I'm half dragon now. I'm strong. We beat the shark matriarch and the gateclaw guardian. We can beat whatever is up that mountain!"

"No, Liora! You cannot. If we want to go and purify the river, to stop this war between ants and humans and renew the flow of the river, I have to regain as much of my magic as possible. We're going to have to fight dirty up there. We'll need every little trick available. Trust me, Liora, if there was a better, faster way to do this, I would never risk opening a gate to the underworld."

El'akari stepped towards them, looking at Liora. "We will aid you in any way possible. While we do not like humans, we also do not wish to go to war with them. We do not wish for any member of our colony to die. If renewing the river flow means avoiding war, then we will aid in any way possible."

The soldier ants all clicked their mandibles in agreement.

Liora looked at them and nodded. What other choice did she have but to trust Renir? She knew that despite his outward selfishness, he always tried to help people. He even stood up for the antkin against his brother.

She had to believe that this was the best thing they could do in the delicate situation they were in.

"Okay… I'll help however I can," Liora said, looking up at the sky. The sun was almost at its zenith.

"Very well. Let's begin!" Renir announced.