I wasn’t sure how the rewards would be given out,, but I didn’t need to be left in the dark for long. One small spirit stone, one medium spirit stone, and one pill fell right in front of me. I tried to catch them, but my wings weren’t exactly made to hold things, so they fell on the ground.

What is this… spatial storage? What sort of existence is System…

Of course, I wasn’t expecting any sort of response, so I didn’t wait for one. Before enjoying my rewards, I had the other Spirit Beasts to worry about. However, when I turned around, I only saw the birds. The other ones must have fled after seeing my strength.

That worked fine for me, but what could I do about the birds?

I walked toward them, and they held their heads low. There were two of them, both small and frail looking. I was about four to five times their size currently, and probably much stronger, too. However, I had to admit they were pretty.

Their bodies were entirely black— their ebony feathers shining under the light of the sun— but their heads were bright red.

“Lord, we beg of you. Let us eat a little of your game. We haven’t been able to eat anything good in days.” One of them said with a male sounding voice.

“Lord, ever since that monkey got into the forest, we had no choice but to follow him and his lackeys. We were here hoping to catch some scraps, but they didn't even leave us their bones. However, seeing as this corpse was so big, we had hoped we could catch something.” The other one sounded female, so I assumed the two of them must have been a couple.

I thought over the matter, and decided that it would be good to get some intel on the forest and the monkeys.

After assuring them that the monkeys wouldn’t wake up for a while, they begrudgingly nodded, and began explaining some things to me.

We began eating once they told me everything I wanted to know. I gave them a large chunk, and thought it would be enough for them, considering their size.

As it turned out, Giant Monkey wasn’t the boss of the monkeys, but the boss of Small Fist’s group of monkeys. The actual boss of the monkeys was someone much more mysterious, someone that didn’t show themselves often, but were apparently really strong and smart.

They entered the forest a few weeks ago and kicked out many Spirit Beasts from their territories, causing a bit of a dissonance in that small part of the forest. That didn’t concern me though, and if we were to ever meet, we could probably come to some sort of understanding.

Finally being able to eat after so much time felt good. There was nothing better in life than eating, that much was for sure. The water serpent tasted funny. Its flesh was tender, but a little watery. It had clearly been cooked, though, even if just a little.

I sort of felt bad for the guy, but I had to eat and gain more water affinity.

Speaking of— I’d finally gotten to the best part, the core. It looked like a blue sphere, and it was about as big as one of the tiny birds. I didn’t hesitate to absorb it, and the notification made me happy.

[Water Serpent Core absorbed with 50% efficiency.]

[+2 Strength; +5 Dexterity; +5 Charisma]

[Water Affinity +20%]

Finally, after such a long time, I increased my water affinity! Now it was only negative one hundred and thirty percent, only that much to go before I could start actually using it!

Yay…?

By the time I finished eating the entire serpent, my Overeater reserves had filled up to about fifty percent, which wasn’t bad. However, I wasn’t sure how long that would last. I definitely felt a little fatter…

Well, a lot more fatter, but those are just details. Details!

The two tiny birds had also finished their part, though not in its entirety. They ate about twenty five percent of what I gave them.

“Thank you Lord. Thank you! With this much food she can lay our eggs without any worries.” The male one bowed his head again and again, but I waved my wings and shoo’d them away.

The two understood and each grabbed one end of the meat, disappearing into the forest.

I walked toward the spirit stones and pills, and decided to try absorbing the small one.

[You have absorbed one small spirit stone]

[Qi + 25]

I then waited to see if the Demonic Qi would fight back. Much to my delight, the Demonic Qi didn’t spread further. Well, not further than it was already doing. My lake had gotten a drop of Qi larger, too, so I was definitely absorbing it!

That meant that I could still cultivate as long as I had spirit stones!

[You have absorbed one medium spirit stone]

[Qi + 250]

Wow! ten times as much Qi, that was amazing! Did that mean those spirit stones were better than the spirit stones I absorbed before, or did something change between now and then? Either way, I was quite happy that I could cultivate.

The only issue was that I needed spirit stones… and I had no way of making spirit stones… And I had no more spirit stones in the bag of holding either…

What a pain, even as a Spirit Beast I needed spirit stones… It almost reminded me of my past life.

Past life…

I shook my head and put that depressing thought aside, then grabbed the pill. I didn’t need a Meridian Opening pill, but it was quite valuable. However, the only issue was that I had nothing to do with it.

As a Spirit Beast, I had no meridians to open, the meridians I created were artificial. Spirit Beasts aren’t born with dormant or any sort of meridians for that matter. I could not sell it either, as only humans and humanoids had a need for it.

Even a good sword was useless in the hands of a child, after all.

I tucked it under my wing and headed toward the girl with a full stomach. I didn’t know if she’d woken up or not, but I was sure she was fine based on her vitals. After all, she only fainted from a heatstroke.

When I got to the spot where I’d left, she was nowhere to be found. I waddled over, careful not to drop the pill and looked around, but only her trampled basket remained. I frowned, then turned my head as I heard chuckling.

Sneaking through the bushes, I saw the figures of two men dressed in black carrying the girl away. They were quite far away, at least a mile or so, but I could hear and see them perfectly.

“She’s quite pretty, isn’t she, Brother He?”

“Definetely, she’ll definitely fetch a good price. Let’s go to the Bai village, she seems to be a Hu clanswoman. We just need to roughen her face a bit, so she looks like a proper slave.”

My blood boiled in that instant. Slave?
