“Those are my scissors,” said Lute. “I just play with them sometimes.”

He had one of his socked feet pressed hard to a spot on the rug. It looked like an awkward way for him to position that leg…

“Mr. Velra, what have you done?” Alden demanded.

“Don’t use my crime name when you don’t have any proof of—”

Alden reached for his foot.

“No!” Haoyu said, laughing. “Hold firm, Lute!”

“I’m not using any wordchains right now. I’m weak. Kill him! It’s the only—”

Alden knocked the foot aside to see a huge chocolate stain with a few snips taken out of it.

“Kill him,” Lute said again, falling over, clutching his chest like Alden had speared him through the heart instead of moving his foot. “Avenge me.”

“Did you two pour chocolate out of the pot onto the floor?” Alden asked, ignoring the bamboo skewer Haoyu was brandishing at him. “And why are you snipping the rug instead of cleaning it?”

“You have no proof of snipping,” said Haoyu.

“There’s a sink right over there. Just soap and water… ” He snorted at Lute’s death throes and Haoyu’s weapon. “I mean, I don’t care. But I do wonder if you two know that chopping up a rug isn’t the first choice for most people.”

“This rug is so fluffy you can’t even see the cut spots,” Haoyu assured him.

“Then how did I know you were doing it?” Alden retorted, leaving the stain and sitting down beside Lute with his back to the sofa.

“We’re sorry,” said Haoyu.

“We are,” said Lute. “None of the other stains were nearly this big. Of course this is the one you walk in to see before we fixed it.”

Alden took a strawberry. “Fixing would involve washing. Scissors are a second injury. Two wrongs don’t make a rug.”

“I’ll wash it next time.” Haoyu crossed his heart.

“I’m really not worried. Or mad. It’s just a rug. I’ll buy another one when this one gets ruined. Let’s be comfortable with all the living room stuff.”

There was a thought in his head a bit too sappy to share, especially when he was snickering at Lute who was complaining that he couldn’t be comfortable because he’d just rolled over on a skewer.

They can chop up every rug I ever buy.

He knew they’d put up the Bromelimas tree half for him. Maybe more than half for him. Because he’d been sorry he couldn’t go back to Chicago for Christmas.

“It was mostly Lexi,” Haoyu whispered.

“What?”

“Yes. Lexi is the main offender,” Lute said brightly. “We could wash a stain, but can he wash away the burn marks left by his weapon?”

“He can’t,” Haoyu said. “So he has to snip. He’s the reason the fluff is getting thin.”

“I don’t believe you guys,” Alden decided after thinking about it while he ate the strawberry. “Not because Lexi doesn’t occasionally scorch things a little, but because he’s honest. He’d just tell me. And Kon is also his brother, so he could call him downstairs to fix it.”

“Alden, you poor innocent soul,” said Haoyu.

“You dumb bunny,” said Lute.

“You’re so wrong.”

“I feel sorry for you.”

“You need to believe us about this.”

“Lexi has betrayed your faith in him.”

“He doesn’t deserve trust.”

“Lexi has all the same letters as the word ‘lie,’ so it’s right in his name.”

“Where is Lexi?” Alden asked. “I’m going to tell him you guys are talking shit about him.”

“He’s hogging the tub because he’s evil,” said Lute. “He can probably hear us.”

Alden raised his voice. “Lexi! I know these bastards are lying about you and the rug!”

There was no response from the bathroom for several seconds.

“Alden, you’re a good roommate!” Lexi called back.

Alden gasped. “Thank you!”

Lute groaned and threw his hands up into the air. Rug clippings fell down like snow.

******
