“I wanted to be an instructor who prepared future superheroes better than my generation was prepared. As Mona said, I can’t save the world, so I’ve planted myself where I can teach my students about that world. And occasionally I beat them up so that they won’t ever let anyone else do it.”

He received the room’s laughter calmly after that and let one of the others take the next question about what salaries were like for different kinds of instructors.

Dammit, thought Alden, writing notes on his tablet. How dare he turn out to be cool on a personal level as well as on a combat level?

******

Alden didn’t run when the meeting was over, but he did exit promptly. Klein was busy putting his desk back in position and telling the girl with the marbles that he’d started teaching uni gym classes while he earned an education degree. He’d switched to primarily teaching high school a few years ago.

Downstairs, the coffee shop was closed, and outside, there were only a few people moving along the walkway.

I’m glad I went, thought Alden. I’m glad I heard Klein’s story and the others. It was worth it.

He still wished it had been something he could do anonymously.

They said people were always much less interested in your business than you imagined. So maybe Klein wouldn’t have more than a passing thought or two about why Alden was here tonight.

But those passing thoughts could be, “Alden Thorn is wasting my time just like I said he would when I told him not to attend CNH. I should be training future superheroes, but I’m stuck with that selfish Rabbit who seems to be doing his own thing.”

The instructor obviously cared a lot about preparing his students for the rigors of his former career.

I shouldn’t have presented myself as shiny, certain Alden in my interview and application. And the school shouldn’t have been deceptive about what they want from me either.

Klein didn’t seem to be onboard with the school’s plan.

He didn’t care that I could open Triplanetary pocketbooks, like Colibrí does. He cared that the dreams I talked about don’t match the reality it looks like I’m dealing with.

That’s my bad, but I couldn’t exactly lay all my cards on the table.

And they would have known more about me if they’d actually asked me the questions they should have about Thegund. I was ready for that, and it never came.

At least Klein wasn’t disappointed with his in-class performance. He had seen Alden was serious about doing well in gym. And continuing to exceed expectations in his MPE classes for at least a couple more years was part of almost every future Alden had imagined for himself today.

He’d started the ‘What could I be?’ project in earnest this morning by waking up early and heading straight over to Central Crescent to volunteer. He hadn’t gotten to do anything as exciting as helping out with the artificial heart, but whenever a staff member who didn’t seem busy had spoken to him, he’d asked them about their job.

It turned out that most people were happy to talk to him for a few minutes, and some were willing to go deep into advice-giving mode as soon as he expressed interest.

The biggest revelation he’d had today was that he fit into the environment at the healing hospital so differently from everywhere else he’d been hanging out lately. There, he was a young person who admired nurses because his mom had been one, and he had spent more time than the average person being patched up from major injuries. He was someone who had a great skill and quite a nice rank, and nobody cared much about Rabbit.

If anything, the impression of his class was positive. There were helpful talents for him to choose if he wanted, and the System teleporting someone away from work to do different work happened frequently within the hospitals here. They were used to being managed that way, so whether their Rabbit volunteer vanished on short notice or not was unconcerning. He wouldn’t vanish in the middle of helping with something important unless he was needed for something even more important, and the System would pop someone in to replace him if it could. If it couldn’t, they had bigger problems.

That was how they saw it.

And with his background, his questions, and his blue polo shirt, he looked like a potential future colleague to them. Most of them didn’t even turn up their noses at his academic choices. High school pre-med track was nothing to get excited about, according to one nurse. It was just learning things they were going to make you relearn in uni, so he might as well be studying something else to be more well-rounded.

Then there was the Healer who’d said, “That’s right, kid! It’s called Talent Development. Make them give you what it says on the tin, and then bring those extra levels over here to join us!”

A similar sentiment had been shared by the Brute surgeon who Alden had first met at Matadero when the helicopter dropped him and Zeridee off. They’d encountered each other today when Alden walked by one of the staff break rooms, and the doctor had invited him to have lunch with him and a couple of others and hear their opinions on whatever Alden felt like asking.

Inspired by a grandfather who’d been a medic, the surgeon had wanted to be a battlefield-ready doctor since he was Alden’s age. He’d gone through Li Jean’s university level talent development program before attending med school. But he felt like they wouldn’t welcome an applicant like him these days.

“Or not enough applicants like me. You preserve people, but you have to hold them….how’s your Strength?”

Alden had met so many new people today, and he’d learned so much. His head was swimming with other lives, and now he had the four instructors he’d just heard from to add to the catalog.

He didn’t completely understand what he was going to do with it all, but he was getting more into it as he went.

Shaking off the dust on some internal structure I haven’t used in a while, he thought. Trying to reactivate my capacity for daydreaming, I think.

A strange thing to have misplaced. A strange thing to want back.

He was wondering whether he was onto something real with that thought or if he was just tired after a long day, when a figure approached from behind him. The person was moving so swiftly and soundlessly that Alden only realized after the fact that he must have come from behind because that was logical.

In the moment, according to his senses, Torsten Klein came out of nowhere to walk beside him and greet him with a clipped, “Alden.”

“Waaahahaha! Hi!” Alden let out a screech, tried to turn the screech into a laugh, and greeted his instructor by jumping away from him.

Like people did.

“Instructor Klein.” He cleared his throat and straightened his face. “Hello.”

“I’m sorry I startled you.”

“I wasn’t startled.”

Why is my tongue doing stupid faster than my brain can do smart?

“It was good to hear your story,” Alden said. “Thank you for sharing it tonight.”

There. Two whole appropriate sentences. I’ve recovered.

“Stealth and Deception is an elective course for high school students,” Klein said. “You might like it.”

He was telling a joke. That was sweet. Alden wondered if the instructor had ever killed a man with a joke before.

“To be clear,” he said, wrapping himself in the shreds of his dignity, “I didn’t think I was invisible wearing sunglasses indoors. I thought there would be fifty people in the room, and I’d look like a surly loner in the back so nobody would pay much attention to me. And I thought nobody from hero track would be there.”

Klein’s lips twitched. “I see.”

“That I’m an idiot?”

Klein shook his head. “Do you mind if I ask why you were trying to hide your identity? A career exploration talk hosted by the school isn’t something most students would attend in disguise.”

What to say?

Just curious. Don’t like attention. Rather not talk about it. You heard that girl mention my garage job, right? Winston spreads rumors online, so I don’t want him to get his hands on something real.

Something real.

“I want to be here in this program,” he said. “There was no way to get into this program without describing a detailed vision for my future in writing and in person to lots of people. That’s how it is unless you’re a special case. And I didn’t realize I was that kind of special case. I thought…the commendation would boost my application, not be my application…so I took everything seriously and tried to write the right kind of essay and say the right things to all the questions.”

He shrugged like that would lessen the weight of Klein’s attention.

It didn’t.

“Being a dedicated support hero was what I used to want. Not that long ago. So I went with that. And I did think maybe that old goal would come back to me when I felt better. But now I think it won’t. At least not in exactly the way I described it to you when I was trying to be the ideal applicant. I want to practice my skill here and learn. And I’ll do my best. Maybe I become a rescuer like Fragment. Or…maybe I teach school and train on the side just in case something bad happens.”

He almost added a couple of other maybes in there, but they might sound even more unreasonable to Klein at this point than support hero had.

“The truth is that I don’t know. Sorry I acted like I did.”

The instructor sighed.

Alden winced. Okay. I guess I’m being disappointing.

“I’m really glad I came to Celena North,” he said. “I’ve learned so much in the gym, and I want to use what I’m learning for good. But the specifics… ”

“You’re sixteen,” said Klein. “You’re not supposed to know everything.”

“I know.” He might not be mad? Klein was looking at Alden hard, but his hard looks could be much worse than this one. “But the application did stress that this was a program for students with clear goals and Apex-worthy ambitions, so I thought you all probably meant that.”

“It’s a way of weeding out thousands of candidates by making them jump through narrow hoops, Alden. Not a binding contract.”

“I get that, too. But I still don’t want to be the guy who beats his classmates in MPE and then conspicuously goes to a talk on what it’s like to do a job that has nothing to do with what we’re all training for. They…wouldn’t like that much.”

“I imagine that’s true. At your age. By university, the news that a strong or popular student is changing their career plans tends to come as a relief to classmates who’ve started to worry more about competition for jobs than duels. I hope worry about that isn’t stopping you from exploring what you need to.”

“It won’t.”

“Are you sure?” Klein asked. “You looked like you were thinking of making a run for it earlier.”

“I don’t want to offend my instructors either and make them think I don’t appreciate their time. You’d just finished teaching me how to fight supervillains. Making plans to do something else right in front of you seemed rude.”

“I was there because I believe being a teacher is important work. Were you really worried I’d be offended that you think you might want to do what I currently do myself?”

Yes, I was, but I can’t say so when you’re asking in that tone.

“Was there anything you wanted to ask during the talk that you forgot? You were quieter than you usually are in gym.”

“The others asked most of the questions I had.”

Klein waited.

“I wanted to know how schools deal with teachers being summoned,” Alden said finally.

“Substitutes,” said Klein. “Or co-teaching. It wouldn’t be a problem for most Rabbits at most schools.”

“Really?”

“Really.”

Is this conversation actually going all right? Alden thought as Klein offered to introduce him to a Rabbit who taught in the cultural studies department. I told him I lied my way through my interview, and more or less that I’ve realized the school was lying their way through it, too. And he’s not saying, ‘Get out of my class, time waster.’ So yeah…this is good.

“I volunteered at the hospital for hours today,” said Alden. “I like it there, too.”

Instructor Klein frowned at him. “Did you come to MPE with your skill partially exhausted?”

“No! I quit early enough, and I recover fast. I swear. Did you know the medical outreach missions Anesidora sends to disaster areas and places without Houses of Healing usually have a guard with them? To keep the Healers safe. That’s something a hero program graduate might end up doing, isn’t it?”

“It is,” said Klein. “Those jobs require some training that usually only gets brushed over. But for people who know they want to do it, the university offers specific courses. Lexi from your class… ”

After they finished talking, Alden was shocked to realize it had been half an hour.

That was practically a whole guidance counseling session, he thought as he made it back to his apartment. Klein really doesn’t ever go home and relax.

Tonight, Haoyu had filled his slow cooker with chocolate fondue. He and Lute were eating it with fruit while they sat on the floor in the living room. When Alden stepped in, he saw Lute flick a pair of scissors under the sofa.

Caught them in the act!

He walked over to look down at their shameless faces.

“Don’t block the television, Cottontail,” said Lute.

“Want a strawberry?” asked Haoyu.

Alden leaned over them and narrowed his eyes. “Do you two cut chunks out of my fluffy rug when I’m not around?”

Haoyu looked confused. “Why would we do that, Alden?”

“You do!”

“He’s crazy, Haoyu.”

“I am not! I knew it was getting random thin patches. There are scissors under the sofa! You had scissors when I walked in!”

