260

******

In the Forthright building, after classes were over for the day, the lights dimmed and mopper bots roamed the floors. The coffee shop hadn’t closed, but the guys working the final shift were wiping tables and clearing stale food out of the pastry case. The last scenes of Miracle on 34th Street played on the big screen in the lecture theater.

Nobody was looking when the teen in the sunglasses and brown hoodie arrived, his head turning from side to side as he headed swiftly for the stairs. He climbed a single flight, then entered a hall lined with classrooms. All of them were dark except for one, and he paused in the middle of the hall when he spotted it, tucking his hands into the hoodie’s pockets, staring at the rectangle of brighter light on the floor by the open door.

“See! It’s not shut!” A pair of girls bounded out of the elevator and past him, one of them talking loudly. “I told you we wouldn’t be late.”

The boy followed them.

“Take a seat anywhere,” one of the adults in the room said when he entered. “There’s plenty of space. If you need proof of attendance, we won’t give that out until the end.”

Fourteen teenagers were present, a couple of them still wearing their school uniforms. Three women sat at the front in desks they’d turned around to face the students. Behind them, the smart board said:

Career Explorations Session

“Life as an Instructor: A Candid Talk with Teachers”

We’re here to answer your questions, so ask!

Good, thought Alden. There’s nobody here I recognize, so they’re not going to recognize me with my hood up.

He took a seat in the back, telling himself there was no reason to be anxious. He’d been in MPE a short while ago, getting his femoral artery sliced by another student’s sword. That was the kind of thing that was supposed to make a person nervous. Attending a meeting for high schoolers who were trying to decide if they wanted to be teachers when they grew up should be a mild experience.

The three instructors seemed to be waiting for someone else to arrive. They had five minutes left to go before the official start, but they were already talking to a couple of eager types who wanted to discuss which Anesidoran university had the best offerings for education majors.

The consensus was that it wasn’t any of the Apex schools. There was a stellar program in F-city.

A girl in a red shirt raised her hand and asked how often the different teachers had sabbaticals and what they liked to do during them.

Alden was just getting interested and relaxing into his seat when a familiar voice said, “It looks like I’m the last one here. Good evening, everybody.”

Shit. Why is it him? Doesn’t he ever go home and rest?

Torsten Klein was wearing a button-up shirt and a smile as he headed to the front. People would never guess he’d recently been humiliating hero program students ten at a time. That sword had been aimed, or rather misaimed, at him; but he’d slipped away and let Alden enjoy getting hit with it instead. The Catch Klein game had gone up in difficulty since their class’s one magnificent victory over him.

While Klein’s back was still turned, Alden yanked the drawstrings on his hood so that it covered even more of his face.

Oh look, what an interesting window over there. I’ll just stare at it so that he doesn’t recognize me and think I’m someone who took a rare B spot in the ultra-competitive hero program only to start thinking about new careers ten seconds later.

He heard Klein chuckle and wondered what humorous thing was happening. Nothing much was going on with Alden’s new best friend, the window.

This is supposed to last an hour. Staring away from everyone else for an hour and not speaking isn’t a real option. Should I make a run for it?

There were so few people here. Running out of a large impersonal gathering was one thing, but leaving this sort of meeting without saying a word to excuse himself?

And if I say words, Klein will definitely recognize my voice.

That was a shame. Alden had come up with a small list of questions this afternoon because he wanted to do this thing right.

I’m trapped. I’ve trapped myself.

For the first time in what felt like ages, Dave Banyu’s warning—that a B-rank Rabbit applying to the hero program needed to want it and not come across as wishy-washy—bobbed to the surface of his thoughts. Alden remembered writing that shiny, purposeful essay about why he wanted to be in the program…or, rather, why he had wanted it before, back when he was living in Chicago and his reasons were more in line with what an interview committee expected.

Klein read that essay. He heard me answer all those softball interview questions about dreams and future plans. And he still told me directly not to join.

He must’ve read applications from twenty B’s he liked better. And I got in because of politics. Maybe he thinks I’m smug about that.

Now I’m here, which is an unexpected place for the person who wrote that essay to be. He’s going to think I’m an asshole who stole a spot I didn’t seriously want using my Artonan connections.

But I’m not! I want training. I want my spot. I’m making the most of my time in gym and learning things I need to learn.

“Before we get too far along in our conversation here,” said a merry voice, “let’s all turn on our name tags so we know what to call you. And come sit closer to the front, everyone! There aren’t many of you here, and we won’t bite.”

Alden inched his head around to look upon the face of his destroyer. She was a short lady with a dimpled smile. Her name tag said she taught second grade at Little Caterpillar Primary. She was nodding encouragingly at him.

You monster.

He slid his eyes over to find Torsten Klein’s cold blue ones.

He’s looking at me. Does he know it’s me? Only my nose is sticking out. God, why do I have freckles on my nose? That makes it so much more identifiable.

Instructor Klein clasped his hands on the desktop in front of him.

He looks like he’s about to interview me again.

“Actually, Mona,” Klein said to the second grade teacher, “one of the students here just came from a combat class with me, so he might not believe you when you promise that instructors don’t attack.”

The other teachers laughed. Several of the students did. A couple of heads turned to look at Alden. He tried to spontaneously develop Principal Saleh’s powers so that he could fall through the floor and escape, but no such luck.

With no way out, he took off his sunglasses. They wouldn’t have been an embarrassing accessory if nobody here knew who he was.

Now Klein thinks I’m copying Winston’s style.

He smiled like he wasn’t in pain as he stood and headed closer to the front.

“Hey, you’re that Rabbit boy who works at Matadero!” said the loud girl who’d passed him in the hall. “My friend said she heard you had a job on the Triplanets, too, taking care of a garage full of magic vehicles. What are you doing here?”

“Just curious,” Alden said. “I don’t work with magic vehicles.”

He sat in the desk behind her. He turned on his name tag.

******

It took Alden twenty minutes to stop imagining what Klein must be thinking and get back to the purpose that had brought him here.

Look through this door, he reminded himself. Picture yourself on the other side of it.

Many of the questions the others were asking were about the daily lives of the instructors. And the instructors were being candid with their answers as far as he could tell. That made it easier for him to put together visions of different futures that seemed like they could be real.

Little Caterpillar was a public school. Tomorrow, the second grade teacher would wake up early to lead one of the groups of students who walked to school together every morning. She said some of her hardest days had been recently, with her apartment full of displaced relatives and her classroom full of students who were scared and asking questions about the disaster that she didn’t know how to answer.

“But it’s also made me appreciate my job more than ever. Our school had an emergency meeting as soon as the System allowed communication again, and even though some of the staff had lost their homes or they had spouses who had been red haloed, they were still calling in. None of us had gotten any sleep, but we were all so focused on how to do what was best for the kids and their families. What we decided was that we were going to be normal for them.

“The school bell rings in the morning at the same time as usual. When you get into the classroom, your teacher acts the same way they did the last time you saw them. We’ll talk a little about how we’re all doing because something scary just happened, but this is still school and your job when you’re here is still to learn. Let’s all practice together for our spelling test.

“It sounds boring maybe?” She looked at her fellow instructors. “It’s not like we’re saving the world. But we’re trying to make a safe place for all the students we teach, no matter what the world looks like. That’s how I feel about it.”

Alden was sorry he’d called her a monster in his head.

And then there was the woman who’d spoken to him when he first entered the room. She taught history here at CNH, but she’d previously worked as a tutor for teenage Avowed who’d committed serious crimes.

“It’s a job that forces you to look at all the ugliness that still exists in our world and confront what it does to people. I’ve never met someone who wanted to be evil, and when I sat with those people—around your age—who had done things that were evil, I sometimes felt like I was trying to heal bullet wounds with a finger bandage.

“How much of a difference could I really make in a couple of hours a day when most of my students had been abused, neglected, or taught to view society in a warped way for sixteen or seventeen years? How could I give them tools and hope for a decent life when whatever they’ve done will hang over their futures like a dark cloud? Many of them were in the process of becoming healthier people thanks to treatment, but it’s a very different kind of teaching than what I’m doing now.

“I think I helped some of them. I think all of them deserved to have a good teacher in their lives even if I wasn’t the perfect one for the job. I had a hard time leaving that work behind when I went home in the afternoons, so I’m working here for a few years. I’d like to go back to it one day.”

The third instructor was a university professor who talked more about work-life balance. She worked half the year and took half off to spend more time with her family and to train her powers, which was something the other two hadn’t mentioned at all.

“I’m a B-rank Agi, so that’s nothing special compared to Instructor Klein here. But I should be offered Bounce Repeater the next time I level up. I’m looking forward to playing around with it. Going to embarrass my kids so much by saying ‘Ba-Boing!’ every time I use it.”

Bounce Repeater was offered to multiple Brute types. The professor would be able to hop and use the skill to go higher and higher as long as she kept activating it without touching the ground.

As for Instructor Klein…Alden was learning a lot more about him.

He didn’t tell everyone here that he was a terrifying, untouchable presence who brought despair to the hearts of hero program students who thought they knew how to use their talents. But he did end up answering questions about his motivations for becoming an instructor when he had previously been an active superhero.

“I’ll be the first to admit that I wasn’t popular as a hero,” he said. “And popularity became a prerequisite for being allowed to do anything useful in my final year on the job.

“So I was feeling underutilized, and at the same time, I was worried about heroes I knew in other places who were being overused. And badly used. Every time I talked to my friends I seemed to hear another story about them or someone we knew ending up in a situation they weren’t expecting and that they didn’t know how to handle.” He looked at Alden, who sat straighter in his desk. “The marriage of superhuman crime fighting and entertainment should end in divorce, in my opinion.”

“I agree,” Alden said, speaking for the first time since he’d clarified that he didn’t work in an Artonan garage.

“Unfortunately, not enough people share that opinion,” Klein continued. “Celebrity heroes are lucrative. For Anesidora, celebrity Avowed of any kind are an opportunity to gain a firmer foothold with the rest of Earth, and our government tries to use that to control the narrative about our people…. What is an Avowed?”

He nodded pointedly at a girl who’d been playing with a pouch of spell delivery marbles this whole time.

“Magic,” she said.

“Yes,” Klein replied. “And also— ”

“You ditz,” said one of the girl’s friends. “He wanted you to say we’re weapons. Or warriors. You’ve had your weapon out ever since we sat down.”

“Magic is a good answer, too,” Klein said. “Because it’s inescapable that a person using magic is going to be an entertaining sight on a planet where very few of us can do that. We Avowed are fun to watch, and we’re also weapons, and there is an opportunity to use the first to manage how the second is perceived.

“That arrangement suits many people, both here and abroad, but it places superheroes in extremely challenging roles. I wasn’t ready for that. Almost nobody I went to school with was either. I decided to come back home and work as a teacher because I believed there were lessons young Avowed needed to learn before we sent them out to face those challenges.

