“Very well.” Irogh tapped the air, as he said, “If you change your mind before you complete this quest, then getting a different class is an easy task. All you have to do is come in here and talk to me again.” He finished tapping the air. “But if you complete this quest, you get the class. Changing classes after you already have one is among the most difficult things anyone can do in their entire life.”

Class Quest!

Abandon your initial Familiar Form 0/1

OR

Acquire an aquatic Form 0/1

Acquire an aerial Form 0/1

Acquire a fiery Form 1/1

Acquire a grounded Form 0/1

Acquire a hidden Form 1/1

Acquire a mesmerizing Form 0/1

Reward: Polymage Class

Irogh added, “There is no way for me to help you get back your original body, if you chose to abandon it, though that information does exist out there in the world.”

“I won’t be doing that.” Jane asked, “What is a mesmerizing form? I assume the unicorn counts. This quest looks patterned for one of each Essence.” Jane asked, “Except dragon?”

“Dragon counts as hidden form, but I would caution against trying to acquire [Dragon Body]. Consuming a dragon essence means that you’ve entered into their cannibalistic society, and are thus a target for consumption. This is why acquiring a draconic form is not a part of this quest.” Irogh said, “You are correct about the pattern, though. Anything with a naturally occurring light essence would count for the mesmerizing category. Couatls are a popular target, but unicorns or sirens would also qualify.”

Jane sat back in her chair, taking it all in.

This was much better than the horrors of Ar’Kendrithyst. She liked the idea of setting off on an exploratory quest around the world. She liked that idea a whole lot, actually. But Jane would never abandon her duty to the Army.

"Also..." Jane asked, “I have my one heal in [Rejuvenation], but I would like [Greater Treat Wounds] as well.”

Irogh nodded, then read the air. “You’ve been approved for the easy version of this Spell Quest.”

Jane felt her heart lift —something today would be easy!— as a blue box appeared.

Spell Quest!

Provide great aid to the terribly wounded 41/50

OR

Buy [Greater Treat Wounds 1] for 5 points.

Reward: [Greater Treat Wounds 1]

Irogh said, “[Teleport]ing the terribly wounded directly to people who can help them, counts for this quest.”

Jane smiled softly, saying, “Thank you.”

Irogh suddenly said, “You’re doing a lot of good work out there, Jane.”

Jane nodded, standing up, repeating, “Thank you.”

- - - -

The air shifted, a blip of blue in the twilight, as Jane reappeared on a ledge in the upper-middle reaches of Ar’Kendrithyst. She glanced up, taking in all of her surroundings with all of her senses, and [Hunter’s Instincts]. A navy blue sky glittered with tiny stars, high above, in the narrow spaces between barely glowing red-purple-shadow crystal. True night was minutes away; the nightly glow of the Dead City was still ramping up to full strength.

It was easy to see threats in the Dead City at night, even without [Eyes of Magic]. The shadows in the crystal nearby were wispy, airy things, dancing in the rising light of the crystals; none of the shadows around Jane were thick enough to hide a monster.

Yetta’s party was currently fighting a Twilight Giant, about a kilometer away. Jane would have to wait for Yetta to come to her, so she sat down on the stone, and called her father while she waited.

Erick responded right away. Jane succeeded in keeping her emotions out of the line, as they talked about easy subjects. Erick talked of his first day hunting for wyrms; they’d found none, of course. Jane asked after his defenses and sleeping arrangements. Poi had set up all of that. Jane smiled, secure in the fact that her father was okay, for tonight.

Erick sent, ‘And oh yeah! I made this really nice spell. [Pure Force Beam Bolt]. Here’. An image came down the line, a snapshot sight of [Pure Force Beam Bolt] and another of normal [Force Beam Bolt].

Her father’s version of the spell, was, of course, twice as good as the original.

Jane laughed.

‘I thought it might help you to know that there’s a resonance between [Force Beam] and [Force Bolt]. They’re already so close, you just have to feel that resonance and match the spells together. Imagine constructive interference. I would have never felt it if I didn’t know about enchanting.’

Jane smiled. ‘I’ll have to try that later.’ She added, ‘I made a new spell today, too.’ Jane sent him an image of [Shadoward], sending, ‘Lets me escape any situation with [Shadowalk].’

Erick’s happiness flowed through the line, as he said, ‘That’s really good, Jane.’

Yetta and her people appeared at the end of the road. Jane stood up, making herself obviously visible to anyone with eyes to see. Yetta's entire adventuring party froze for a brief moment.

A telepathic connection from Yetta touched Jane’s mind, ‘Jane?’

‘Yup! Sorry about the delay.’

Yetta’s party walked across the glowing bridge toward Jane. Dorthy waved. Yetta cut her connection to Jane.

Jane sent to Erick, ‘I’ll talk to you later, Dad. I gotta go. I love you.’

‘Love you too. Good night.’

‘Good night.'

Jane [Shadowalk]ed to ten meters away from Yetta. [Scry] eyes filled the air around the Champion, but at Jane’s entrance some of them transferred to her. Night had fully seized the sky while Jane was communicating with her father. Ar’Kendrithyst glowed from within, illuminating everyone and everything in brilliant reds and bright violets, while shadows relaxed inside the crystal.

Yetta asked, “Rutile is dead?”

Jane nodded, choosing her words very carefully, and with great help from Killzone, “I took him by surprise, but I did not kill him. His downfall was his own arrogance. A dungeon of antirhine? What sort of idiot does that?”

The laughter of every single Shade around Jane and Yetta echoed across the glowing kendrithyst towers of the Dead City; an orchestra of schadenfreude.

Yetta simply nodded, as she pointed forward, past Jane. “The next Daydropper is over there, twenty kilometers. We have ten dungeons left until Planter. There will be no rest until he’s dead.”

Jane had slept in till noon for exactly this reason. She was ready for a full night of work, and rescues.

She nodded, saying, “That would be Skyhook. Expect monsters made of air.”

Basil asked, “Spider form?”

Jane obliged, dispelling her armor, transforming, and remaking her armor, practically all at once.

Yetta and her team fell in behind Jane, as Jane led the way, her spider legs tapping across the glowing red and purple roads of Ar’Kendrithyst, far under a starry sky.
