Tania argued, “No! She passed your stupid trial! You failed! Your golems failed! You would have failed even worse against the Champion!”

The screaming hostage stopped screaming, suddenly. He was foaming at the mouth, now. Jane touched a [Rejuvenation] at him, but it didn’t help. She would have to leave him behind; [Teleport] required the teleportee to have a conscious connection with the teleporter—

A hand of one of the hostages gripped Jane’s leg, hard as they could, but not hard at all. A voice struggled to whisper, “We have antirhine in— in our bones. We can’t [Teleport].”

Jane steeled herself. She would have to [Shadowalk] them first.

“We’re going again!” Rutile shouted. The golem began to move—

Jane [Shadowalk]ed, pulling six people along with her, leaving so much of each of them behind.

She raced away as fast as she could, through the shadoward—

The shadoward broke, dumping her onto the kendrithyst room of the mid boss; the putrifying corpse of the lead lizard still dissolving in Jane’s Decay venom, leaving dull, powdery plates of untouched lead in a pile. Jane held the living remains of six people in her spider claws. Frantically, she cast more shadowards, then raced along through the darkness.

Up the tunnels. Casting more shadowards as she went—

The shadowards broke; dumping Jane and her precious living cargo into antirhine tunnels. Someone was actively breaking her shadowards; she was not accidentally casting a shadoward at lead.

Her eight eyes revealed the culprit. Porter was breaking her shadowards. The smaller than average orcol smiled at her, floating in the air in the middle of the antirhine tunnel, four yards away.

Jane escaped through a seven-part [Shadoward] that led in every direction at once.

A notification appeared; Jane read it with one of her eight eyes.

Shadoward, long range, 75 mana

A path of scattered shadows leads in every possible direction.

Porter broke Jane out of her [Shadoward] three feet out of the dungeon entrance, right beside the shard pit golem; she was only carrying two living bodies. Porter laughed, playing with her like he was preparing to rip off her legs.

[Shadoward].

A brilliant spark detonated, casting light and darkness in every direction, all at once.

Jane and her cargo escaped—

She came right back, picked up the antirhine mace, and whipped around, catching Porter across the jaw, sending him into the shard pit full of lead shrapnel. Jane dropped the dead bodies of the people she could not save, and leapt into the pit after Porter, smashing him with her lead mace, smashing, smashing. Pulping Porter’s body into little bits.

He tried to turn to shadows, to escape, but he made the mistake of directly retreating, directly into the shard pit.

The air filled with a scream as Porter dove into lead. He came right back up, directly under Jane. Jane smashed some more. She bore down on him with all her might, smashing the monster in humanoid clothing. Black blood scattered.

The [Teleport Lock] died.

Porter died, too.

There was a notification, and Jane read it. She touched Porter's unmoving body and cast the lead mace aside. She raced to grab the remains of the two hostages; maybe they were still alive, somehow.

[Teleport].

Jane landed in a clean room Killzone had cleared for her. She instantly [Polymorph]ed back into a person, and put her [Conjure Armor] back on.

Killzone was there, waiting with a blanket.

Other people took Porter’s body.

Doctors and priests raced to heal the two hostages, but they were dead; even [Greater Treat Wounds] was useless.

At that, Jane couldn’t hold it in any longer. Tears flowed, but there were no heaving, racking sobs. The tears just came, like water, falling down Jane’s emotionless face. Killzone wrapped her in the blanket, then began guiding her out of the room, down the hallway, to another room. He didn’t say anything. He didn’t have to.

Jane knew she fucked up.

Not only did she fail to get anyone out —and fuck did that make Jane’s heart hurt to think about— but she killed Porter. You don’t kill a Shade without repercussions. But she had to kill him to get away, didn’t she? The [Teleport Lock] ended when Porter died. She couldn’t even rescue the hostages without killing him first. How badly, exactly, did she fuck up?

So it was a surprise, when over a fresh pot of tea in a pillow-filled break room, Killzone set her down, and said, “This is a good thing you have done. Not short term, but long term, for sure. Porter was the only one who ever used [Force Teleport]; if any of the rest of them know the spell, they have not used it.”

Tears still rolled down Jane’s face.

And then she blinked, breathed, and sighed. She tried to banish her tears away; they still came. But softer, now. Manageable. She wiped her face with the edge of her blanket. She redid her [Conjure Armor] to something more presentable. She discarded the blanket to the back of her chair.

Killzone glanced to the air, then said, “Rutile is dead. Gora is claiming responsibility.” He looked to the air again. “Fallopolis and Tania are standing over the place where Porter was ended.”

A small sob fluttered through Jane; there and gone.

Killzone looked to Jane. “We’re telling people that I killed him, because he was taunting your escape, and he killed your rightfully freed hostages. Fallopolis is laughing at this. Tania is smiling.” His words took sudden weight, as he asked, “Are you good to go back in?”

Jane breathed. She did not answer right away. But she answered quick enough, “Yes. I’m… I just need to regenerate… and re-[Ward]… And walk around for a while.” She shook her head. “I’m sorry. I can do this. I can do this.”

“I know you can.”

Jane nodded.

Killzone remained sitting with Jane, but lines of intent filled the air around his head like a plasma ball; he was talking to a lot of people right now.

He asked, "Are you going to be okay, for now?"

"Yes, sir." Jane breathed. She said, "I will. I am."

Killzone nodded, but he stayed seated across from Jane. He was worried about her.

Jane deflected, “What level are Shades, usually?”

Killzone smiled, ever so faintly. “Some of them don’t become Shades till much later in life. Fallopolis is expected to be level 85, or so. Others, like Bulgan, make it to their Class, or a bit beyond 50, and then become Shades. We know this because Shades don’t gain experience; they’re barred from growing with the power of the Script. But they’re not cut off. They can’t be, for whatever unknown, arcane reason, but we assume it has something to do with how the Script encompass all of magic, all at once.” Killzone asked, “What level was Porter, do you think?”

Jane went over her notifications.

You have slain Shade A!

95% participation!

+5,617,223,933,850 exp

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 52, Class: None

Exp: 35,773,866,027/5,331,629,117,300

Class: -/-

Points: 10

HP

1500/1500

1500 per day

MP

3000/3000

1500 per day

Strength

25

+0

25

Vitality

25

+0

25

Willpower

50

+0

30

Focus

25

+0

25

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Congratulations, Jane Flatt!

You have reached at least level 50!

You are eligible for a Class!

Please speak to a registrar in order to start on this amazing journey of self discovery.

“Five-point-six trillion experience... so...” Jane said, “Level fifty... I'm not sure.”

“Fifty six.” Killzone said, “That should put you well over 50. If you want to go to Irogh, you can.”

Jane nodded, saying, “I’m going to talk to Irogh about the Class quest, while I cool down.” She asked, “If I may, sir.”

Killzone nodded. “As you wish, Team Leader.” He looked to the air. “Yetta and her people are ripping through the door guardians. They’re on dungeon #11, now, but they’re not going inside any of them. We’ve rescued a hundred people, so far. Mostly the Shades are just pushing their hostages out of the dungeon, like with Treant, and Fallopolis. The ones like Rutile, are part of a darker scenario. We think that the Shades are cleaning house and using this Champion business as an excuse to kill their own, though we're not a hundred percent sure about that. We’ll let you know if anything changes.”

Jane nodded, taking it all in.

Killzone remained seated for a moment longer. Then he got up, and left Jane to herself.

Jane teleported directly out of the break room, back into her bedroom at home. She put up a silence ward, and was about to scream at the world, but nothing came up. Nothing came out. She just breathed.

When she was ready to continue, five or ten minutes later, she went to the kitchen and made herself some of the good platinum coffee. Coffee was so much better than tea. This coftea wasn’t real coffee, though. Roasted beans were better than roasted leaves. Maybe Erick would make real coffee soon enough.

Jane sat for a while, thinking about nothing in particular; zoning out.

- - - -

Irogh’s office was open.

Jane knocked on the Script-blue door.

“Come in!” Irogh said.

Jane walked in, and Irogh nodded, indicating for her to take a seat. She did. He waved his hand through the air; the door to the room shut with a magical click.

“How may I assist you today, Jane?”

Jane had words she wanted to say, so she forced herself to say some of them. “I am here with regards to my class. I would like Polymage.”

Irogh said, “Of course. Are you sure you want that one? There’s a vast list—”

“Do you have a Class for killing Shades?” The words came out before Jane could think, but she approved of what she said, so she continued, “I want to kill… I want to kill all of them. And Melemizargo, too.” A tide of wants poured out of her. “I want to nullify that fucking [Teleport Lock]. I want to separate them from their powers. I want to dive into their skulls and rip out whatever makes them so wrong. I want to murder them before they can turn yet another person into yet another victim!” Jane breathed hard. After a moment, she said, “I want to be immune to all of their power, so that I might cast them down into the darkness, and have them stay there.”

Irogh waited while Jane spoke. When she was done, Irogh said, “Magehunter does a lot of that. There’s also Mind Mage, though you do not qualify for that one; you could though, if you learned five mind magics. You only know [Telepathy], right now. As for animals, and continuing with your original Polymage idea, there are several animals and monsters in the world that you might consider finding, which will also do a lot of what you want.”

Jane listened.

Irogh talked, and Jane listened, and it was all about min-maxing and personal growth and it was such a nice thing to talk about, after all of Jane's recent experiences.

He talked for a while, and it was nice.

Irogh continued, “You’ve started to collect Flame Essences, in addition to your Shadow Essences, but if you also went after Air Essences and developed up to [Air Body], then you could travel anywhere you wanted inside 99 percent of Ar’Kendrithyst, without worry. Essence Hunter is one class that is great at this, as it allows you to consume Essences without having to actually eat them, like you did with the flame slime’s flame core, or...” Irogh said, “Quite frankly, the incredible number of shadowolves you ate.”

Jane laughed. She couldn’t help it; a chortle bubbled out. But the laughter soon turned to sobbing, and tears, and that would not do, so she locked that emotion away. She dried her face. She blinked.

She nodded for Irogh to continue, saying, "Sorry about that. As you were saying?"

“But as a Polymage, and if you were to eat a unicorn, you could use their [Aura of Freedom] to make yourself and a small area around yourself immune to the controlling effects of others. This would negate hostile [Telekinesis] and the [Teleport Lock] you have mentioned, among other, lesser effects.”

“What! How did I not know...” Jane almost laughed again, this time for real, to say, “Unicorns exist! Of course they do. But they aren't in the Adventurer’s Armory? Nothing about them was.” Jane asked, “How would I get one of those? Where are they? Is [Aura of Freedom] innate, or can I use that without Polymage? They’re not… They’re not another people, are they?”

Irogh said, “Unicorns are not a people; you don’t have to worry about that. They are responsible for the deaths of many children in the forests across the mountains further west of the Wasteland Kingdoms. It’s rather unincorporated over there; but there are some large cities that would give you a starting place. Unicorns walk into the rural towns and villages, entrancing people into worshiping them, whereupon they eat a few children before they vanish for another year. You need to be immune to mind effects to hunt a unicorn, which would come from any of several kinds of animals; anything without a brain. Slimes work, and you already have one of those. If you worked on your slime form by consuming more Flame Essences, then you could hunt a unicorn as a slime of uncommon ability. Your spider form is already as good as it could ever be.”

Jane smiled softly. “I was not imagining something like that when you said, ‘unicorn’.” She said, “I’ll take the quest for Polymage, please.”

“I only spoke for half an hour about all your options...” Irogh said, “There’s a lot more than half an hour of material. Would you like to hear more?”

Jane shook her head, saying, “Thank you; I’ve done a lot of research on my own. I was just angry and sad and… I want Polymage. I didn’t know about unicorns, though. That just… That just makes this whole thing much easier. Polymage: Yes.”

