The ribbons of light changed, “If Jane wants to rescue the hostages on her own, she can! I’ll even tone down the difficulty, Shade’s Honor!”

Yetta floated in the center of the room, speaking to Jane, “We will not enter this antirhine dungeon, if we don't have to. We will take the weapon. If you want to risk your life in there, go ahead.” A thin pulse of intent flashed out of Yetta. “The Daydropper here has been killed. We have no reason to venture into certain death. Neither do you, Jane.” She pointed up, at the hole in the ceiling. “We’re going to the next dungeon.”

‘What about us? Are we sending anyone inside?’ Jane asked Command.

Killzone sent, 'We’re having an argument about. If you want to go, you can. Your choice; make it fast.’

Jane decided. She said, “I’m going in. I’ll meet up with you later, Yetta.” She pointed toward the hole in the ceiling that Yetta had indicated. “That’s a dark zone; people don’t come out when they go in there. You want the road over there.” She pointed a long, spidery leg toward the wide, relatively bright road that dumped onto the upper platform of the room. “That is an open path to the Lake. There will be krakens. They appear from the crystal, and from the water.” She asked, “How far away is the next Daydropper nest?”

Yetta looked where Jane had pointed, saying, “About thirty kilometers directly above us.”

Jane quickly said, “That’s likely the Toymaker. Once you reach the Lake, you can head directly for that Daydropper. Expect disguised monsters once you get close to him.”

Yetta stared at Jane, slightly frowning. She said, “Be careful.”

“You too.”

One of the larger spikes of crystal in front of the road out of the room shivered, as lights spelled out, ‘Here’s your prize!’ A compartment in the crystal opened with a ding, revealing a long mace, completely dead to Jane’s [Eyes of Magic]; it was fully antirhine. Jane felt her spidery stomach roil with embarrassment, as the air filled with tiny laughter.

“Antirhine,” said Cyril. “Completely.”

“We’re not taking that.” Yetta decided. “Leave it there.”

Owl-Basil cawed, “Guide fail!”

Dorthy said, “Leave off it, Basil.” She looked to Allan. “Let’s go.”

And just like that, they left.

Jane hung on the wall of the cavern, alone with the dead golem, alone with the antirhine mace, alone with several Shady [Scry] eyes. About a hundred expletives flowed through her mind, but there was work to do. The offical call came down from Killzone; there would be no rescue in this antirhine dungeon unless Jane wanted to do it all by herself. She very much did.

Jane [Shadowalk]ed to the tunnel’s illuminated entrance, stopping just short of where the crystal had been layered with silver-white lead.

And then she looked up, toward the second floor of the room. A short [Shadowalk] brought her in front of the crystal spike that held the mace. The mace was a long rod of some lead compound, maybe three feet long, topped with a spiked ball of more lead, attached to a conveyor belt inside the hollow crystal spike.

She muttered, “Well fuck you guys, I’m going to use it.”

Jane pulled the mace out of its container with one strong spider grip, and felt the world dim a little.

This was not Jane’s first experience handling lead weapons, either as a human, or as a spider. She knew what would happen, and it would happen like this: her [Personal Absorption Ward] would unravel at the point of contacting the lead, and would eventually unravel completely. Jane relied on her [Ward] for a great deal of her defenses, but she was going into a lead dungeon; her [Ward] was as good as gone, anyway. Her [Conjure Armor] would be okay, as long as it didn’t directly touch the lead, but even that was likely to be stripped from her, if the shard golem was any indication of what sorts of traps waited in the dungeon.

Casting external spells would be more difficult; auras were just plain impossible when actually touching lead. Magic, at its base, was mana given form and intent by a mage. Lead removed that intent. Without that intent, magic was just mana, aimlessly floating around, ambient, and nothing more.

Jane shivered a bit, imagining what lead poisoning would look like on Veird, but she had never heard of antirhine-poisoning, so maybe there was some biological thing happening in the background to remove lead from people.

Her imagination took a turn south as she envisioned how bad Rutile’s dungeon could actually be. He probably just dumped buckets of powdered lead on invaders, and then proceeded to smash people between two lead walls. That's what she would do, if she were him.

The good news was that lead didn’t stop internal magic, like [Hunter’s Instincts], and it didn’t rip away HP and MP, though Jane suspected it really should have, if this anti-magic nature of lead was actually natural. [Telepathy] took a small hit to functionality; speaking to Command Center was like talking through static. If there were a lead-shower in this dungeon, [Telepathy] would go away completely.

Jane sighed out. Then she swung the mace around, experimentally.

She looked over the upper ledge of the room, down to the shard pit. An idea began to form.

Jane scurried down the wall, holding the mace in her two front legs, the claws of her back legs latching into the rough crystal. She stopped in front of the dungeon.

The ribbons of light swirling out of the antirhine tunnel, adjusted. Words retracted, leaving ribbons of white to hang just above the antirhine, illuminating the grey walls that led down into danger. The dungeon had absolutely no shadows; but there was no [Shadowalk]ing on lead, anyway.

Hmm.

There were lots of pulped kendrithyst shards and lead pieces, down in that pit. Jane set the mace down beside the dungeon’s entrance. She needed to experiment a bit more with lead, just to make sure her plan was going to work. First, she asked Command Center if what she was about to do would kill her; they responded that it was going to hurt like hell, but it shouldn’t kill her.

Free of the lead mace, Jane [Shadowalk]ed into the pile of kendrithyst shards and shattered lead, and fuck did that hurt! She instantly, almost automatically, retreated right back out of the pile, a bit bloody, but intact. Lead ripped away some of her self, but she could do this. A few [Rejuvenation]s solved her HP issue. To solve the issue of exploring this dungeon, Jane walked out a little ways into the remains of the golem, and started selecting the broken pieces with the least amount of lead on them. To make even less of an issue, she picked the pieces up using [Shadowalk], leaving behind rims of kendrithyst-crusted lead, and leaving her with pure kendrithyst shards.

[Stoneshape] didn’t work well with regard to kendrithyst crystal, but [Shadowalk] allowed Jane to pry off plenty of big-enough pieces from the pile, which she tossed behind her, near to the dungeon entrance. When she had enough, a few hundred pieces or so of clean kendrithyst, she went to the clean pile, and began wrapping them up with spider silk, into groups large enough to make an easy [Shadowalk] target. With a bit of careful engineering, Jane attached four silk sacs to her torso.

She tossed a fifth sac of crystal down into the tunnel. Nothing happened.

For the next part, Jane picked up the lead mace, then began setting up kendrithyst at the dungeon entrance, like she was setting up golf balls. With a hop onto her back four legs, and standing somewhat upright, Jane used the lead mace like a golf club. She began knocking kendrithyst shards down into the dungeon entrance.

Spack! Crack! Ting!

Shards bounced around, making it maybe ten meters down into the tunnel, though a few chipped and hopped far down the way, into the dungeon and out of sight.

Five Shade [Scry] eyes watched Jane the whole time; the majority had moved on to Yetta.

Jane kept clubbing crystal shards down the—

Quick as a thought, Jane threw a [Scry] eye down the tunnel, zipping through the turns, finding out everything she could before—

Someone popped the eye.

That was okay. Jane saw where she had to go. She cast a black and white [Special Ward] down the tunnel, around the bend, past the swinging scythes and over the pit of spikes, above the molten lead, her shadowy light ward breaking down a bit due to the airborne lead, through half of the dungeon, ending directly at the midboss. The [Special Ward] was a twisted, easy-to-[Shadowalk] path through the air.

Which is exactly what Jane did.

She abandoned the mace, abandoned every misdirection she was creating, even the sacs of kendrithyst shards, and leapt right into the middle of a solid kendrithyst room —not a room of lead— right above the mid-boss. Shadows played in the glowing purple walls, but Jane would not test them with a [Shadowalk]; that seemed like a royally bad idea, because the shadows in these walls were definitely monsters waiting to strike. White lights blinked alive around the room. And the mid-boss woke up, right below Jane.

At one point in time, the monster might have been a giant lizard, or maybe an alligator; some kind of threat. It was the size of an elephant but it was skinny. It might have been fast at one point in time, too, but now it was covered in lead scales and its own red blood. It was a creature of antirhine; a mutant, a mistake. Wild hissing came out of the beast as Jane landed upon the monster, but she grabbed on with eight strong legs and jammed her fangs in between the scales covering the monster’s spine. The lizard tried to throw her, it tried to run, but Jane held strong, pumping corrosive venom into the creature.

Jane leapt up and away from the lead on the beast. She cast another black and white lightward into the air and [Shadowalk]ed inside; ripping away a few dozen HP as she went. The lead upon the lizard was soft; some of it had stuck to Jane, but that all went away when she retreated into the shadows. She cast seven more such shadowy [Special Ward]s, dropping from one to the next, hopefully keeping her actual position somewhat unknown.

The monster died, hissing and bleeding. It took thirty seconds to die. That was more than enough time for a few Shade [Scry] eyes to rejoin Jane inside the mid-boss's room.

A tunnel opposite of the entrance broke open, the kendrithyst wall shattering to reveal another tunnel, through an archway that was not there before. Jane’s [Eyes of Magic] saw someone working the kendrithyst in front of her, actively moving the dungeon at their whim; probably Rutile.

Jane did not wait, she did not pause, she threw another two shadowy lightwards down the way, not knowing where to go exactly, but having enough control over the [Special Ward] to make it bounce around down the air-filled space. The shadowards were mainly there to distract from Jane’s [Scry] eye, hiding among the shadows.

There were no lead traps between this room and the boss’s room. It was just a straight-shot crystal hallway, about two hundred meters long through the kendrithyst. The tunnel opened up into an arena, where a pillar of light fell upon several people, each strapped onto a ten meter tall humanoid golem, like they were armor. Blood flowed; the people screamed as the golem moved, recognizing an enemy was approaching.

Jane’s arachnid heart beat hard. She could not help but hiss. She was PISSED.

[Shadowalk] brought her instantly into the room. She quickly took stock of her surroundings as she hung in the air, gravity yet to assert itself, [Hunter’s Instincts] flaring hard, each hair on the exposed parts of her legs telling her everything about the room that her eyes could not.

The large room was an arena carved out of deep-red kendrithyst; wide and sandy in the center, with raised seating all around. As she entered the room, the arena filled with a bright red-orange light. There was no visible way out of the arena except the way Jane came in, but she could leave by diving through the kendrithyst down here, if absolutely necessary. She’d escaped bad situations by diving through the crystal before, instead of staying to the surface like she usually did, but there were monsters in the deep redness of the crystal here, for sure. Maybe even umbral wyrms; they looked long and sinewy enough to be wyrms. The shadows in these red walls looked almost exactly like the wyrm Fallopolis had killed.

Jane didn’t have time to worry about that right now, though; if she had to, she would escape that way, because the entrance to the room had already silently shut behind her. Jane was trapped, and everyone knew it. Some Shady voices cheered her on, while other voices demanded a show. They wanted blood on the sands.

The arena itself was a coliseum-type sandpit, but it was not filled with normal sand; it was filled with magic-dead lead shavings. The humanoid golem standing upon the lead didn’t seem to care about its footing. It wasn’t made of lead itself, but it was fully covered in chainmail that was likely lead-based, because Jane couldn’t see through the chainmail. She couldn’t see through the golem’s weapons, either; one two meter long lead sword, and one lead shield to match.

And the worst part of all, were the people strapped to the golem. Humans, incani, orcol, and dragonkin, each of them still alive, each very naked, they had all been broken and secured to every vulnerable part of the golem; one person wrapped around the head, one person for each upper arm, one person each for the front and back of the torso, two people again for the legs. Seven people in total had been crafted into armor, their bones broken to fit a design created by an enemy of the world.

