Jane was livid. Venom sacs filled to dripping, hair stood on ends, as Jane took in every little bit of movement all around her. Jane wanted to kill Rutile in the worst possible way. But she couldn’t. Not today, maybe not ever.

What she could do was maybe, somehow, kill this golem.

Without killing the people.

Two seconds had passed since Jane [Shadowalk]ed into the brightly-lit arena. Gravity finally regained control of her body. She flashed out another shadowy lightward well around the golem, aiming for the other side, to see what else she was working with, if anything. She dipped inside of the floating shadows, flowing around the golem—

The golem kicked lead sand into the air, directly at the shadoward.

Jane came tumbling out of the shadoward, lead sand disintegrating her [Absorption Ward] to nothing, dispersing her [Conjure Armor] into ambient mana. She landed on the lead sands of the arena, naked as a normal shadowspider, defenseless and covered in lead dust. One final sputter of static filled Jane’s telepathic connection to Command Center, and then that was gone. She was on her own.

Jane stood upon sands of anti-magic, facing a ten meter tall golem, with legs and arms like telephone poles and a sword and shield to match. The sword, and likely the shield too, though she couldn’t see that from her perspective, were a part of the golem, jointed to the contraption like all the rest of its joints; in a ball socket joint, under a protective layer of accordion rubber, and draped over with lead chainmail. Jane saw magic sparking under the rubber, under the chain, but could she destroy that covering somehow, and let the lead of the arena destroy the golem from the inside out?

The joints were an obvious weak point to the creation, so they probably weren’t a weakness at all.

But sometimes, weaknesses were exactly what they appeared to be.

The golem took a step back, to stand tall on its half of the arena.

Jane almost attacked, but [Hunter’s Instincts] was still working; that was an internal process, aided by the thousands of sensing hairs on Jane’s spider body, aided even further after her [Conjure Armor] had been dispelled, revealing all of Jane's spider body to the world. Lead sand had gotten in her eyes; she was half blind, but four eyes was still more than enough to gauge her surroundings. [Eyes of Magic] was an internal process, too, and with that, Jane witnessed as the seating of the arena began to fill.

Shades appeared.

Jane watched the new arrivals as she retreated to her side of the arena, rapidly grooming herself, her palps picking out pieces of lead from her always-open eyes. She managed to clear all eight of them by the time the red lights of the arena began to alternately dim and brighten, like the show was going to start soon.

And still, Shades kept appearing.

Jane was drawing a crowd.

[Telepathy] reconnected Jane to the Command center; she rapidly sent them images of what she was seeing. She was seeing a lot, but voices in her head informed her of who she was seeing.

That one was Tania Webwalker, behind and to the left of Jane’s side of the arena; Jane knew Tania already, though. The Spider Shade was a human woman dressed in white gossamer spider silk; something between lingerie and a queenly dress, with her hair wrapped up in white webbing. Two black shadowspiders, both smaller than Jane, flanked Tania. Tania noticed Jane noticing them, and waved, reserved and with a smirk, like she and her were part of some great conspiracy.

Several meters away from Tania, appeared Fallopolis, eating from a bag of candy.

Jane recognized the Shade known as Porter on the golem’s side of the arena; he was a nondescript orcol of smaller than normal proportions. A meter from Porter sat Gora, the Shade of the Arena; he was an incani dressed in the gold and green motley of a jester.

Four other Shades appeared, and Command Center knew all eighteen of them, along with the one who put on this horror show: Rutile.

Rutile appeared in a flash of black on the stadium seating to Jane’s right, as the red-orange lights of the arena began to brighten to white, fully illuminating the grey-white lead sand, the arena seating, and the bloody golem Jane would have to dismantle. Rutile was a large orcol man with pale, almost-white skin, faintly green, with white hair and holding a large hammer in his right hand. He was decked out in plate armor, black and spiked, that doubled his already large size.

Jane was still frantically cleaning herself, rubbing lead out of her ever-open eyes with her palps, but she knew she was going to get lead sand kicked at her again; probably even as an opening move.

A spotlight appeared on Rutile as he spoke, “A consolation fight! But first, a vote. Unfair, of course, but all the more entertaining for it. Should we decrease the challenge, as it is presented?”

“No,” Jane said.

Murmurs of ‘no?’ filled the room.

More Shade [Scry] eyes started to appear among the stands.

“No!” Tania said, smiling wide.

Fallopolis grinned, adding, “No.”

A few more ‘No’s filled the air.

Rutile asked, “Should we increase the challenge?”

Jane remained silent.

Porter yelled, “Just show us your damn golem already!”

Gora, the Shade of the Arena, joined in, “Golems are shit monsters! They don’t even grant experience!”

“Shut the fuck up, Gora!” Rutile scowled, saying, “Shouldn’t you be entertaining the Champion with your own stupid no-experience challenges?”

“My arena gives life experience! Much more valuable than actual experience. Besides!” Gora looked to the air, saying, “They’re still at Toymaker’s pavili—” The gold and green motley Shade paused, then said, “Whoops!” as he vanished in a shattering of shadows.

Rutile announced, “No increases or decreases! Live and die tackling the challenge you chose.”

The audience lighting vanished, leaving Jane alone on the grey sands of an antirhine arena.

The golem began to move, slowly. One step forward, shield pointed at Jane, sword held back; ready to strike. Jane moved to the right, the hairs on her legs and her eight bright eyes taking in everything around her. The Shades were watching, silently, and they might even stay that wa—

The golem burst into movement, scattering lead sand, sword swinging forward, whistling the air as people screamed on the golem’s body.

Jane dashed, a spider trying not to be squished, kicking up grey sands, the internal activation of [Hunter’s Instincts] alerting her well before the golem kicked sand at her. Jane tried to [Blink] away, but the spell didn’t work; the lead was too close. Jane would have kicked herself for trying to cast [Blink] if she had a millisecond to spare.

Grey sands cascaded over Jane, but she raised her palps over her eyes fast enough to block most of the lead sand. She raced left with enough speed to avoid the swinging sword. Her [Telepathy] cut out; she was on her own. The golem did not retract its sword to ready another strike, but instead swung left, while the sword was still in the sands. Lead cascaded into the air.

Jane realized something she should have already guessed: It was a golem, it didn’t move like a normal person with normal bone structure.

She leapt straight up. The golem’s sword followed her, the sharp edge aiming at her body.

She caught the edge of the sword, her spider feet digging into the metal, her Strength giving her purchase as the golem adjusted to the new weight on its weapon. Jane did not hang on to the sword for long; the golem was trying to smash her between its sword and its shield. Jane dipped down, almost casually rolling away from the attack, attaching strong silk to the sword as she fell.

The golem transferred into a downward stroke, right on top of Jane, but she was already moving. Swiftly, she ran behind the golem. Just as quick, the golem spun on its torso. It didn’t need to move its legs to twist its entire upper body backwards. It pulled its sword in close, spinning hard at Jane.

Air moved well before the golem did, though, and Jane felt every movement all around her, from the pained breathing of the people strapped to the golem, to the Shades watching, to the golem’s line of attack.

There was a simplicity to the construction. The golem moved in straight lines, only altering course a little in order to maximize the power of its impacts. It wasn’t much to go on, but it was a start. She backed up, shedding lead dust from her body as she moved; kicking up just as much as she left behind.

The golem’s sword followed, the chainmail of the creation jangling, the people attached to it crying in pain. Jane leapt; the golem followed her trajectory. She grabbed the sword again, then prepared to move as only a spider could. The golem’s shield crashed down. Jane grabbed the shield, quickly transferring to the space behind the shield.

The golem's sword went through the shield, destroying the shield, trying to get to her—

“What the hell, Rutile!” Porter yelled, “What—”

They bickered, while Jane moved faster. The sword cleaved through the shield, cutting the forearm that held the great lead barrier. The golem tossed its sword wide, fully removing the broken shield from itself. The lead shield crashed to the sands as Jane left behind threads on the arm formerly holding the shield, jumping to the ground, moving around the golem. The golem tried to cut her as she dodged around its legs, scurrying fast. Whatever mistake of programming made the golem attack its own shield, was not present to make the golem attack its own legs.

Jane threaded the air with spider silk, racing around the golem. It didn’t work. The golem noticed. It stood wide, breaking the threads attached to its arms and half wrapped around its legs.

A tiny plan formed in Jane’s mind. She leapt into the air, grabbing the sword as it swept low then up to meet her. She set down thread, her strongest kind, as the golem tried to smash her between the sword and its nonexistent shield. Jane moved a little bit, still holding on to the sword, letting the severed forearm strike the sword, right beside her. She quickly wrapped her thickest thread around the forearm, and around the sword.

She was burning through a lot of HP, but [Invisible Rejuvenation] and constant Meditation helped to alleviate some of that burn. [Invisible Rejuvenation] was thankfully internal, exactly like [Hunter’s Instincts].

The golem must have had a seizure, or something, because it stopped moving, it stopped trying to attack. Jane didn’t stop, though. She wrapped more thread, thicker, joining the sword and the forearm together—

“You win!” Rutile called out, as the lights in the arena came all the way back on. “Leave the failure alone.”

Jane instantly leapt away from what she was doing and furiously began grooming herself, in preparation for whatever might come next. [Telepathy] came back, full of angry and then suddenly hopeful voices.

Tania was laughing, loud and full. Fallopolis was smiling.

Gora reappeared beside Porter. He instantly cursed about missed fights and obvious outcomes.

Rutile spoke, “Choose: Hostages, or the actual weapon to use against Planter.”

“Hostages,” Jane instantly said.

Rutile huffed.

Tania laughed louder, but tried to speak through her mirth, “That’s— ha hA! RUTILE, you dumbass! Ha ha! Of course she’s going to pick the hostages! That’s WHAT SHE DOES!”

Fallopolis smiled, asking, “You’re not really this far gone? Are you? Rutile?”

The atmosphere of the entire arena changed; Jane felt it in her [Hunter’s Instincts]. In one small statement from Fallopolis, metaphorical blood filled the air. Fallopolis had cut deep. She kept cutting.

“This was your golem to use against Atunir’s Champion?” Fallopolis asked.

The room was silent, except for Jane still furiously cleaning herself and the pained breathing of the hostages. If she needed to, she would cut them away from the golem with [Shadowalk], dragging them with her into the shadows, doing a lot of damage, but they might still survive.

Rutile said, “This whole room is primed with exploding antirhine. If you attack me, you’re going to die first, Fallopolis.”

Tania glared. “Jane here performed perfectly! Honor your agreement!”

“Tania is right.” Fallopolis said, “Let her take the hostages away. She doesn’t need to see what happens next.” The grandmotherly Shade looked to Jane, and said, “Detach as many as yoOOu caAAn, sweEEty! The groOOwn ups neeEEd to talk. AloOOne.”

Jane cast a shadoward into the air, and, prepared for pain, [Shadowalk]ed up to the hostages. Half her HP and at least two legs ripped away, splashing black blood onto the lead-white sands. She dropped into the air above the golem. With a quick re[Polymorph], Jane was human for a moment, then a spider again, with all eight legs intact. She precisely positioned herself onto the front of the golem, directly onto one of the hostages, who suddenly started screaming again.

Jane tried to be as calm as possible, as she said, “I’m here to take you back to Spur. Please— Please be quiet and focus on the legs I’m putting on you.” The frontal hostage wouldn’t stop screaming as Jane positioned herself as quickly as she could, stretching around the unmoving lead golem like a nightmare game of three dimensional twister. “Please, if you can, just accept the link I am giving to you, for [Teleport].”

An argument grew in volume all around Jane; she needed to get gone.

But the itch of a [Teleport Lock] still tickled the base of Jane’s arachnid skull.

Jane tried, “Please release your [Teleport Lock], whoever you are.”

‘Be very careful, Jane.’ Killzone sent, ‘Watch what you say.’

Rutile erupted, “No! You know what? We’re going again. I have another—”

