Jorus passed the note to the other priests and quickly led me off.

"So, what do you know about the current situation?" he asked.

"Lots of refugees, ongoing fighting outside the district, anything else specific?"

"That about covers it. We of The Vine have been given the task of trying to keep the people fed for now while this all settles down. Something which has been a bit of a task, that little letter from Rosk explained that you would likely be of great help. You've done something like this before?"

"I made bread during the famine a few years back. We have enough food right?" His words chilled me. I'd seen starvation, the slow hollowing of cheeks and creeping gauntness that swallowed whole families.

He apparently heard the fear in my voice. "Oh don't worry my dear, we've enough for quite some time. The issue is getting it all prepared and out to those who need it. People are coming in so fast that we've not yet managed to get the system fully up and running to handle it yet. The districts store of grain may be large, owing to the fact that we knew this army was coming, but making grain into bread or porridge or the like takes cooks, and stoves."

"So the bottleneck is in preparation, not supply?"

"Never heard it put like that, but I suppose the neck of a bottle is a good way to explain it. Yes, we have enough for everyone, but can't get it too them fast enough. It takes weeks to starve, but being hungry will lead to things like violence, theft, and all kinds of other problems we don't want."

"Okay... why is The Vine in charge of this?"

"Hmm? Well, we specialize in magic involving plants. Though force growing fruits and vegetables is rather bad for the plant and soil."

Finding volunteers to sing with me so I could utilize the gestalt effect was easy enough. People was the one thing that we had in spades right now. With them in place I'd sing up several loads of bread and then take a short break to recharge.

It was notable that my capacity in this had increased dramatically since I was little. Back then a basket or two of bread would be around my limit; now I was managing five with gestalt before I needed a break, and that was a short breather compared to what I needed before. I frowned a bit when I realized that at my current state I may well have been able to feed my entire village. If I'd been as good back then as I was now, perhaps it would still be standing, and with my weather ability I may have been able to stop the drought too.

"You look bothered." Jorus had approached without me noticing as I was finishing up this load.

"I was thinking about the past." It wasn't a subject I often broached, particularly with strangers.

"Well, you look like you might need a short rest, and I think you'll find me a good listener. Would you tell me the story?" He plopped down next to me. The whole of The Vine's compound was covered in grass and short plants like moss and clover, so sitting anywhere was quite possible.

"Not much to tell. Back during the last war with the empire our crops failed." I joined him, finding a nice section of moss that was surprisingly comfy. "I could make bread even then and did as much as I could to try and feed the people living in our village."

"That was very noble of you. Most children would struggle under that burden."

"It wasn't really effective. I tried, but it was never enough, and with the situation how it was... Starvation is a horrible thing to watch. I was thinking that if I'd been then as I am now, then perhaps I could have done a lot more."

"I see. We all wish we could have done more. Everyone who's been through something like that thinks about what could have been if only they were a bit stronger, or faster, or smarter. Sadly we cannot go back and do those things we might have. I myself saw some of the horrors you speak of in that same time, and often think similar things." He looked out at the distance, considering the past as well.

"You were there too?" I asked, quirking an eyebrow.

"Yes, my order generally deals with issues involving the wilds. Managing areas so that they do not overtake civilization, and are not overtaken. We try to maintain the balance there, since so many magical plants and animals are greatly effected by both cities and forests. In times of need though we do what we can to aid our fellow man. I did all I could to help fields and orchards during that time, though it was seldom enough." Jorus seemed happy to explain what he and his did, giving me a light smile.

"Well, Rosk, the priest who wrote to you, was with us at the time, and I never saw him do anything like that.

Jorus nodded. "The magics to effect plants are subtly different from those that effect animals and humans. It takes time to learn, and can be detrimental to them is you aren't trained in the art. It's a careful thing, though potent if used well."

Our break ended and I began to sing up the next batch. Jorus elected to stay. There were several apple trees nearby and while he sang along with us he wove his magic onto them, causing them to first bloom, then fruit. The fruits looked a bit small, but they were there nonetheless.

As we stopped and a few of our gathered assistants went to retrieve the bounty of fruit we retook our places on the ground.

"Mind if I ask you about something else?" The priest did seem to be a good listener, and I needed advice from someone as uninvolved as possible.

"Not at all." He smiled through his beard, leaning back a bit.

I told him about the situation between Kala and I. How she'd tricked me into coming to the temple district and how I was monumentally mad that she hadn't even asked me about it. I also told him how I felt about hitting her in response, an action which still gnawed at my conscience a bit.

"So, any advice?" I asked once I'd finished.

"Hmm. Think about if you want this to end your relationship, about how bad you view this. Then act in accordance. As for your actions, I think you already know what to do there." His advice was the sort of non-advice that you sometimes needed to hear. I already knew what I wanted, and I certainly didn't need someone else to tell me that.

I smiled. "Thank you."

The two of us worked together off and on until sunset. At that point he walked me back towards The Lovers' temple. We carried our baskets for them as we went, chatting lightly about what wild plants made the best seasonings. Nobody bothered us a bit, probably because of the obvious priest robes.

"Well, I'll leave you here for the night. The Shield may think you should stay with them, but as an unaccompanied young woman The Lovers is the right place." He winked at me. "I'll come by in the morning to retrieve you. If you're willing to continue helping?"

I nodded my agreement and went in. I knew where Kala's room was and could practically walk there by habit at this point. At my knock she opened the door and I entered.

The two of us looked at each other for a few moments in awkward silence, before we both began speaking.

"I'm sorry, I..." I tried.

"I shouldn't have..." she began. When I stopped she laughed, nodding with a "You first."

"I'm sorry I lost control like that. It was wrong. Please forgive me." There wasn't much more to say as I bowed my head. I'd been completely out of line, regardless of how angry I'd been.

"Of course. I will insist you not strike me ever again, but I know I betrayed your trust here. Will you forgive me for tricking you into coming"

"I won't, and I already have. Please don't do that again though. I've had a lot of people trying to trick or force me into doing what they want my whole life, it's terrible."

"Promise I won't. Now, come sit down and tell me how your day went." Kala plopped onto her bed and patted a spot beside her.

We talked for some time about how everything had gone, and how we felt about all of it, before finally falling asleep in each other's arms. It was the best way I'd yet found to enter the land of dreams, and I was happy to do so every chance I got.

On the other side of the city a general walked into the tent housing one of the special operations forces. This group was set up and trained specifically in the capture of priority targets, and had been sent against several noble households to secure their members with no casualties.

General Verren was tired. He'd had to spend the whole day dealing with several enemy knights and was both physically and mentally exhausted. That said, some things were important enough to keep going for.

"Report." Verren said as he came in. The tent itself was warded against eavesdropping, so he had few concerns on that front.

"Mission failed sir. We had to retreat to keep from coming into conflict with the academy's staff." It was the unit's leader who answered for them, standing straight as he gave the bad news.

"Damn, was there anything gained?"

"We made contact with the primary General, unfortunately she displayed abilities beyond what we were prepared for and managed to escape us."

"What? Explain." The aging man gave them all a hard look, seeming to think that they may have made some foolish mistake.

"Well sir. We were attacked with some kind of weather and lightning magic. The latter of which was a great distraction. We were also unprepared for the target to be able to cast without sound. It's not unheard of in bards, but a rather niche ability. Finally sir, we're not sure what happened to Roland, but he still can't quite walk right."

Verren began to laugh hysterically. "The little spitfire. Well, I'm glad to at least confirm her presence and safety. Any chance we can make another assault?"

The team leader blinked at the sudden change. "I'd advise against it for the time being. They've got their guard up fully now and any attempt is likely to be met with the whole staff descending upon us. That's a mixed lot, some are very dangerous, particularly their dean."

"Hmm, you're right there. We'll have to wait until the city is captured properly. Well men, we've got plenty of missions for you lot now anyways. There are a number of noble estates that are in need of a visit from those with your particular skills."

Verren left both happy and frustrated. He now had confirmation from a source close to him that his daughter was alive and well, and able to meet one of their more skilled teams and escape apparently. It would have been best if she'd been captured of course, but it was hard not to feel a great swelling of pride at his little girl's skill. He at least took solace in the fact that very soon she'd be with him again.
