JustinI walked through the halls I had so long ago built. It wasn't too often that I got up here anymore, but having lived in this place for so long there I could navigate it with my eyes closed. This had been a right mess, not even including the disaster in the basement, and all the bodies of those poor children that would have to be buried, but also the intrusion.I had always been a bit lax on security sure, anticipating that we'd have visitors in the form of others like me. What I hadn't counted on was a group of monsters making its way into my home while I wasn't looking and setting up shop. There would have to be some changes made, additional levels of security to make sure something like that never happened again.I tried to take stock as I pondered and walked, seeing where things had gone awry. Most of it was fixing itself now, but there were still markings. How long had it been since I'd come up to the surface I wondered, a century? Two? As I got to the old cafeteria I tried to picture it in its prime, with friends and companions at all the seats. I felt so very old, time seemed to go faster and faster as I aged, slipping through my fingers like grains of sand.I looked in the mirror sheen of one of the little windows and saw my face, the illusion I was using not bothering my eyes a bit. We pure-blooded elves didn't get old much as such, being effectively ageless. My hair had changed to a pure silver-white, the only real change from my youth. That had been a rarity back then, and a sign of one who should be respected for their many experiences, now I might be alone in it.I understood the lad, his anger at my leaving and frustration that I had no plan on ever returning. That said, there was still so much he didn't understand. I would have to pull him aside and talk to him a bit, tell him a few stories. Perhaps I could make him see my reasoning, if not I would need to convince him to keep his silence.I didn't really have too much more to say to the girl, she seemed nice, but about average. I'd mark her arrival, like I had the others. I didn't know if there was some rhyme or reason to the arrivals, but I'd found none yet. Perhaps I was missing a number of them, that seemed likely, but even with a limited number of data points I might be able to figure something out.They were near to the portal room that lad awhile ago had been so interested in. It was useful magic, if a bit primitive. We'd never really used it, but he'd seemed quite keen on the idea. Perhaps I could bribe them to keep my secret with one of my own.As my feet carried me to the entry hall I sighed. Even with the automated repair and cleaning functions this would take years to fix. I waved a hand, moving the largest pieces back into place and sealing them there for a bit so the wards could do their work.There was silence outside. I took a look about until I saw it. There was the barest bit of aura leaking out, sitting up in a tree some ways away. I moved to the bottom of the tree, warping space around me until I was at its base and looking up."Come down here," I said, not bothering to look up."What!?" Came an alarmed cry, as the little spy nearly fell from his perch."Do I need to repeat myself?" I asked, looking up.He hopped down and it seemed I didn't. I gave him a once over, standard dark mottled camouflage gear, knives and a shortsword. Nothing particularly of interest."What are you doing here?" I asked."What am I doing here? That's funny friend, since you're decidedly not from that village or the little expedition. Whoever you are, you're far out of your depth though," he snarkily said, trying to intimidate with some power he thought he had. "I'm from Lady Mistan's house by the way, whom do you serve?""You're quite mistaken child. I am indeed from that village, and you would do well to respect your elders." As I spoke I let my illusion move a bit, exposing my long ears and white hair, if only for a second.The action had the intended effect in that he froze, breath hitching for a few moments in alarm. It was good to remind people sometimes that they needed to not pick fights. As for his 'Lady' I knew her, and she me, and she knew I was alive. She also knew how displeased I would be if that became public, so while she might know who had come to put her little tool in his place there shouldn't be any blow-back.Unauthorized use: this story is on Amazon without permission from the author. Report any sightings."Apologies sir," the man said as he bowed. "I didn't know that the village here had such an esteemed protector." My little show was, to those who knew, enough to tell him I could crush him like an ant and cause all manner of trouble for his mistress."Nor do they, as is my wish. Go now, and return from whence you came.""Ah, but I was ordered..." I didn't let him finish, reaching out my will and teleporting him back to the capital, or at least where the capital was last I checked."How troublesome. Now, what to tell that little group of humans... I could say that I was sent by the capital to clean up those monsters... No, that's stupid, nobody would believe that." I groaned as I turned to head back inside.

Alana"So he was sent by the capital to clean up those, what did you call them? Umbral Wolves?" Robert asked, quirking his brow."Yup, we met him down in the basement, nice guy." I nodded, hoping they'd buy it."Well, the village elder did say they sent messengers, but why didn't he tell them he was here?" Glen said."No idea, but he did in fact help us clean them up." I'd forgotten the elder had tried to call for help, but it would only bolster my story.I was hoping Ulanion wouldn't say anything. He stood back a bit, looking the slightest bit peeved. Whatever was going through his head, it would be best if he could stick around, I rather liked him. As my eyes flicked back to him I saw Selene behind me, still losing her mind over the golem that was still following me around like a slightly murderous puppy dog."It's so cute!" she declared, leaning in to look even closer at it. "And the design, most golems are super basic, only being able to do a few things, but look at how it moves. It's not even following a route or taking voice commands, do you know how cool that is!""Didn't that thing call you 'your Highness' too?" Dras asked, illiciting a snort from a certain elf."A glitch in its system. It seems to think I'm some sort of elven royalty or something. Clearly I'm not, but if it is willing to keep protecting us, and me, I don't see a reason to question it.""We should take it with us," Selene said as she examined the legs and their movement."Maybe. Golem, can you leave this place?" I asked."This unit is able to move about the grounds or in event of an emergency protocol just outside of them, your Highness.""And if you are removed?" I continued."There are fail-safe devices to destroy this unit if it is removed beyond its operating zone without administrator approval, your Highness.""Okay, I can see how the responses could get old fast," Leah said from a chair near the portal."On another note, you guys found another gate. Any information on how to make them here?" I wanted to get off this subject before it became a running joke to Dras, or I'd never hear the end of it."We were a bit busy, so there's still a good bit to go through. If this is here though, maybe we can use it to return home."That seemed improbable, but possible. I knew there were several of the gates at Emperor Durin's home that seemed to not be connected. With the dozens in total that he did have. This might be one of those, and we might be able to connect it, but that remained to be seen. I also knew that most of those were kept sealed with portcullises just in case, issues for later.Around the time our break finished the masked and hooded figure of the elven king returned. He briefly scanned over us before settling his eyes on Ulanion."Mind if I have a word with your guide for a few moments?" He asked.Our archer gave us all a nod and headed out into the hall with him. While we did our thing they were out in the hall. I was curious, and some of the others were giving looks as time stretched on, but nobody interrupted. Soon enough Ulanion returned, but he looked... sad, like something was desperately wrong.I was the next to be called. He rattled off some lie about wanting to speak with me about the dead downstairs. I don't know that my team really believed him, but they didn't say anything when I went to go join him.As I stepped out into the hall he threw up a small dome to give us privacy and sighed. "Let's have a chat."
