The morning of the wedding was... hectic. There were few maids overall in this place in comparison to the number of guests. Normally every important person would have a servant, but since this fortress was secret, that wasn't really feasible. Instead there were a few who were helping based on a number of criteria. Age was considered quite important, as with many layers and hair and the like being old was a detriment, similarly young girls hoping to find a husband really wanted the help too. The other was status, it wasn't as all consuming as it had been back when there had been an actual nobility, but there was no denying that there was still a status divide.Mom and I broke this mold by not taking the offered help and instead sending them elsewhere. With a bit of effort and mana I could do all of my own clothing and hair, and easily enough help her with hers. She on the other hand had been living among far fancier people than I normally associated with and had learned more about the cosmetics that were popular right now. I knew how to do most of that too, but she'd eclipsed me in skill in that area.I wanted to shake a metaphorical fist at the boys when we finally met to head into the hall proper. With short hair and significantly simpler outfits they looked like they'd spent a fraction of the time getting ready that we had. That said I did have to admit that they all looked stellar with pressed semi-uniforms, shined buttons, and polished sword hilts. My male family members had acquired new cloaks as well, father's had an inner lining which was sort of brindle-looking, whereas John's grey one had some kind of feather's around his shoulders, and absolutely looked great with his aura accompanying it.Even Charles, though his clothing might have been a few steps below that of my dad or brother, looked good in it. His clothes were a deep black with subtle purple highlights, which matched my own formal dress perfectly. To go with it he carried one blade, slightly longer than my brother's and with a shining silver and black handle."Did you have clothes made to match mine?" I asked after looking him over."Um... yes, it was suggested that I do so." He looked over towards my dad as he said so."And when did that happen?" I asked, narrowing my eyes at the two slightly."Lad knew you were inviting him to a major event and came to talk to me Alana, and be glad he did. It saw to it that there were no misunderstandings anywhere. Anyway, with the two of you matching as you do most will assume that you're courting and not bother you, or me, with such intentions." I hadn't thought of that, and while it didn't please me that Charles had gone to my father without speaking to me about it, it was decidedly the socially appropriate thing that they speak.My face must have shown my conflict, which elicited a sigh from my father. Regardless though I took Charles' offered arm and tried to smile as we walked towards the hall. I really didn't want to deal with suitors and if this was the best way to keep them away from me, then I could fake it like a champ.The seating was nice, and I had a wonderful view of the ceremony, which was conducted by a priestess of The Lovers. She wore what I could only guess was a formal version of their normal robe, which was far fancier than what I'd seen before. She even had a large medallion with their symbol on it.After a short speech she called in the couple, who entered together. There was no tradition of couples not seeing each other, nor any of the many different entry ceremonies that weddings on Earth had. There were a number of traditions of course, but those had to do with other things like the lighting, which was supposed to be blue for good luck, and decorations, of which flowers in certain arrangements were heavily preferred.Since this was an event for everyone to put on their best it was interesting to see that while The Lord of Shadows was in his customary black everything with silver accents, his bride was certainly not. Her gown was velvet and a deep blue, reminiscent of the Kingdom of Bergond's colors, her waist was surrounded by a thin chain of silver decorated with a frankly absurd quantity of gems.As they entered everything quieted to silence. Their path to the front decorated with thick carpets and smiling onlookers they nodded to the priestess when they got there. She gave a short speech on love, and marriage, and all that stuff, standard for any wedding anywhere it seemed, before she invited them to kiss three times, first for the husband, who would bring strength, then for the wife, who would provide stability, thirdly for the family they would make together, and a hope for the future. At that point they were by all rights married, and the cheering began.After a few moments of whoops and applause Lord Durin motioned with his hand. "Thank you my friends, but there are other things to which I must attend now, firstly." With another motion a man stepped forward.The newcomer was a bit portly, and seemed slightly nervous. "After the death of the previous emperor the Imperial Senate of Ermath convened one last time. It is our honor to bestow upon Lord Durin the title of Emperor of Ermath. Long may he rule!"There was a slight break, a pin could have been heard dropping as Lord Durin nodded and summoned forth another man with a wave. He looked rather like Lord Fallon, if a bit younger, and with a more tired face."Greetings. After a gathering of the remaining families of old we have determined that with the disappearance and apparent abdication of Prince Lief, and the deaths of the former king and queen that there was only one potential candidate for ascension to the throne of Bergond. As Crown Princess Sophia has been named such, and married we do recognize her as Queen Sophia of Bergond. May her rule be fruitful!"It was clear that he'd been instructed not to mention nobility at all. That didn't mean that others wouldn't think of it as such though and as Queen Sophia dismissed him with a nod I tried to recover from my shock.If you stumble upon this narrative on Amazon, be aware that it has been stolen from Royal Road. Please report it.In the space of a few moments Lord Durin had made a declaration to all present, and I imagine it would shortly be spread to all corners of his lands. He was not only the ruler, he was the good and legitimate one, and all would need to acknowledge that. The former nobles had undoubtedly been coerced into agreement, as had the senate or whatever, but that didn't matter. He intended to rule without opposition."Thank you, both of you, and all of you who came to join us. With our marriage these two lands shall now be joined forevermore into The Shadow Empire. May it stand forever!" At the new emperor's words the crowd burst into cheers.Everyone cheered, most from excitement. I myself did because not only did it seem appropriate to do for someone my dad liked, but I didn't want to attract attention while having a moment of alarm to said alarm.With another motion the crowd quieted again for Emperor Durin to speak. "Thank you everyone, in celebration of this momentous occasion I have taken the liberty of having new crowns crafted. They have been made of the purest sky-metal, and enchanted such that they shall allow us, and our successors, to rule well and properly." There was a collective gasp at his declaration, something which reminded me that many of my contemporaries considered aluminum to be mythicalFrom an inlaid box the crowns were brought forth, and even I had to admit that they were works of art. They were constructed to have bands that waved and flowed around each other, inlaid with jewels and runes that shined brightly even in the full light. First Durin placed his queen's crown upon her head, then she upon his. They each carefully laid the metal bands in place before clasping hands once more.It did occur to me as I watched this that I was almost literally watching a man put on a tinfoil hat after declaring himself emperor. Had someone told me that when I was on Earth I'd have likely fallen over laughing. This did not have any humor to it though, and I couldn't even manage a smile."Now everyone, to the feast!" This final declaration drew a great number of cheers. Everyone liked a good meal, even if they were stunned just moments before.The feasting hall we were led to was the same as the previous night, but the decorations... Flowers of every color and shape lined the walls, some glowed, giving gentle light to add to the fixtures. The ceiling was a night sky the likes of which I'd only seen in Lucien's cave, enough to draw the eyes of everyone to it. Even the tables and settings were decked out today, each piece unique but with all sharing the same motifs as the rest of the room. It looked like an evening garden, held in a place devoid of light pollution and adorned with plants only able to be described as fanciful.It was fortunate that the seats were the same as the previous night because we were all a bit shell-shocked. I found mine and very shortly the meal began in earnest. Whispers abounded of the declarations, the new empire, the new crowns, all of it excited and thrilled."Where did he find sky-metal? And that much? Amazing. Can you believe we got to see the birth of the new empire too!? Excellent!" A nearby girl asked in a hushed voice, a series of questions that was being repeated again and again.I looked about to see how everything was going, and found my father sitting and chatting like this was all normal, a roasted rabbit on his plate. John and Charles also dug into their food like there was no big deal, that it wasn't even something to be excited about."Are you all right dear?" Mom asked."Fine, just a bit surprised.""Well, it is surprising isn't it. That said, you shouldn't let your pheasant get cold."She was right, and the small bird that I'd chosen as my meal was delicious. After a brief bit of thinking I came to a simple conclusion. That this was all way above my pay grade and the best thing I could do was enjoy the party to it's fullest. So I gossiped a bit, noting who was looking at what and how wonderful the decor was. I ate the food and loved the taste, and I drank the watered down wine that was served while laughing at the jokes told by those near me.Once we were all nicely full it was time to dance. Charles again appeared and led me through several before we traded off and I had a new partner. The new guy was not bad, but he lacked the irritating skill of my escort, who was now leading another girl around the floor. I even saw John and his date, taking part. I didn't know her name, but she looked like she was enjoying herself thoroughly.During one of the short breaks that everyone needed I made my way over to a small bar where drinks were being served, only to find my former guardian there. We looked at each other as he made me a cocktail, some painfully sweet amalgamation of cherry and orange juices and what was effectively two-hundred proof vodka."It occurs to me that I've never seen you dressed up Alana. You do it well." He said as he put my drink before me. It was very small, and with far less alcohol than any bartender on Earth would have used, but that was for the best."Thank you, is the sky yours?" I pointed up towards the ceiling, which even I would consider an impressive use of illusion.He chuckled as I finished my drink. "Don't have too much now, the running to the chamber will be soon.""The what now?""The running to the chamber." At my blank look I saw his jaw drop. "You don't know?""Don't know what?""It's a tradition in the west, near Lithere and the like, seriously?"I heard a laugh from behind me, and turned to see Mystien there, with... was that Veska on his arm? After I got over the pure outrage that I couldn't bring my girlfriend but it was fine if he brought a literal prostitute she began talking."Don't tell her, it'll ruin the fun. I'll explain the rules just before we start." She said with a mischievous smile."No, seriously, the what?"
