The walk down the tunnel was good, if a bit boring. It was wide, quiet, and an easy trek, probably because this was where all the panicked students would be going if things went tits up at the school. I also had no need to use any mana for it, so got time to charge up what I'd lost. I briefly considered tossing some things up around us, but it seemed rather unlikely that we'd run into anyone else for the duration, so I held off.Kala and I silently agreed that talking for now was off the table. Both of us had our ears pricked for anything major going on, of which there was mercifully nothing. It eventually got a bit eerie, with only the sounds of footsteps and echoes, and the pale glow of my lamp, but there was nothing for it. After a few minutes Kala did take my hand, though if that was because of the spookiness or just because she was Kala was anyone's guess. The warmth was comforting though, so there was no reason to complain.The whole walk probably took well over twenty minutes, not that there was any way to tell the time down here. It seemed that we'd gone a good long way, crossing most of the city. I'd expected as much from an escape route. It hadn't occurred to me that it might take us out of the walls, something that began to worry me slightly just as we got to the end.The end of the tunnel was much like the beginning of it, with a simple stone arch and the familiar one-way barrier. The stones were plain, much like you'd find in any part of the undercity, each fitting perfectly into their neighbor. The other side actually looked like part of the undercity, with walls that were slightly misshapen and only one clear path leading outwards. Rather than a magical light though there were some small glowing mushrooms illuminating the room, a good way to hide that a mage would use this.If this exit did go out into part of the undercity itself that could be a problem, we didn't have a guide, and I certainly didn't know it well enough to guess too much. Though it would serve as a good way to obfuscate the location of the exit. A blocked off doorway, even one with a magic lock probably wouldn't arouse much suspicion in the locals.Kala gave my hand a squeeze and we looked at each other before stepping through. Making our way out and into what we hoped was a clean getaway.Someone had been clever and placed mushrooms along a winding path that avoided a few turn offs here and there, along with some arrows pointing and labeled "exit". I was sure that nobody who frequented the tunnels would mess with any of those, as such things would be absolutely vital to anyone lost down there. Among those who had to work in unpleasant jobs like rat-catching there seemed to be some sense of camaraderie. This path also had the advantage of being fairly easy to walk, tall and wider than average for an undercity way.Our exit, like many exits from the undercity was a thick wooden door. We approached cautiously, looking at it for a few moments. There were sounds on the other side, faint, but very odd for this time of night. After a brief consult I cloaked us up as best I could and we opened the door from a distance.It was now clear that we could hear into the night. The sounds were fighting, not too far off if I had to guess, punctuated with the odd explosion. That was a most unwelcome finding, but there was nothing for it, nor for the fact that wherever we did go, we needed to leave through here. Preferably before dawn came and made life that much harder."I don't like it" Kala offered."Me either, any other ideas?""Sadly, no."We moved fast into an alley, then out into a larger street. I was unsure of our exact location, but the shops on either side seemed to give away that we were somewhere in the more mercantile part of town. If I had to guess we were well away from the main street, though that didn't really narrow us down too much.What was odd that I could see once we got into that street was the second light in the sky. The moon was there, as normal. Joining it though was a pale yellow glow, pulsing slightly in the distance over the city. It looked almost like something was pushing there, trying to slam against the glow.I squinted for a few moments and felt the lightest of drops on my face. It seemed to be drizzling, even though there was not a cloud in the sky... I looked over at where Kala would be, were she not invisible."I... I think someone's firing a water cannon at the city...""That's... a lot of water."A few seconds passed and the glow from what I guessed were the city wards got brighter and brighter until they seemed to burst. A stream flew over us, screaming towards the center of the city, towards the castle. I could see another burst of light as whatever protections they had there went off, blocking the attack. It soon faded though, the stream seeming to trickle down and away."But, why?" Kala asked, we still stood by the alley, watching."To drain the city's wards. Hitting the castle was a bonus, but our normal protections...""Alana, we need to get off the streets, now.""Totally agree." With that said I picked a direction.I could sort of see the center of the city, and supposing that we were somewhere in the mercantile district we had only a few choices. I was fine with either until we got somewhere that we knew, so set off in the way that seemed quietest.Unauthorized tale usage: if you spot this story on Amazon, report the violation.It was only a few streets, plodding along and keeping an eye out for anything until a group of armed men came trudging along. There were about twenty in total, all in dark colored civilian clothes, each with a spear, or axe, or some other weapon. They filed along at a fast clip, while Kala and I slid well from their path. The man in front had a torch and sword, and seemed to be ushering the group along."Come on, hurry it up lads. Last runner said the fighting was worst around the main street." He motioned to grunts of approval.As they made their way past we looked on after them. My guess was rebels, but there was honestly no way to tell. Frankly, it didn't matter either, we neither wanted the risk, or to waste the mana on fighting them here if they were. If they were city defenders I'd be even more hesitant to go after them. Men defending their home can be scarily dangerous, even without magic to aid them.Knowing which way the main concourse was helped though. With that and knowing where the city center was I could sort of guess the general direction to the temple and entertainment districts. Looked like we'd be heading towards Lucien's after all, as it was just barely closer.I silently began to move in the direction that should lead us to more familiar parts of town when far behind us there was a murderous sound, one I was all to familiar with. The lightning bomb was well and far away, but as the bright blue glow flashed across the sky I froze for a moment, every hair standing up. My breath hitched for a second and I felt my hands begin to tremble ever so slightly.Kala's other hand rested on my arm as she leaned in, bringing her face close to where my ear was. "Alana, it's okay. You'll keep us safe, but we need to keep going," she whispered.That was enough. I did add my lightning shield to our current protections, a large strain, but an important one, and we made our way forwards. There were a few more explosions from the monstrous magic items, but thankfully the area we were in seemed fairly quiet, for now.After about five or so minutes we came upon the site of what must have been a rather nasty skirmish. Men were dead on the street, their blood pooling in the moonlight around them. A cart that had been in the street was pin-cushioned with arrows and crossbow bolts. A few weapons had even been discarded on the street, mostly broken, or poor quality and caked in gore.I wanted to vomit as we made our way through the site, carefully avoiding the wet spots on the ground. It was then that I noticed him, a man laying against a lamppost, barely awake. His breathing was labored and he had a nasty wound in his side, slowly leaking his lifeblood out and onto the cobbles.I also recognized his face. The thick beard of Sorn the cobbler was matted and his eyes stared blankly forward, but there was no mistaking who it was. He tried to call out for help, then to rise, but it seemed futile. I could feel my eyes widen a bit as I looked upon him, once so kindly as we rode in a cart to the city, him jabbing me about working for him, and now fading as I looked on."I know him," I said, "Can you...?""No." Kala sounded almost pained, her voice straining a bit."What?" I turned towards where she stood instinctively, flabbergasted."He's... obviously a combatant, and the battle is still going. It would violate the rules of all of the orders to aid him at this moment." I could hear the sadness, but acceptance. This was how things were, how they had to be to maintain neutrality."Hello? Is someone there? Please..." He must have heard us and called out, his pained voice begging for aid he knew would probably be wasted."If I do?""I won't stop you, but be careful. We don't know what repercussions that will have."I began to hum. I wouldn't do much, but the least I could do was seal up his wounds enough for him to survive. As the magic flowed forward I could feel it latching on, stitching and pulling shredded bits of flesh into place, carefully reconnecting them. Sorn sighed in relief as some of the pain must have faded a bit."Who's there? I can't see you," he asked as I finished. "Are you one of ours?"I wasn't sure how to answer the latter question, but as for the former, that one was easy. "I'm a friend.""Truly, my shop is only a couple of streets from here. Can you help me, or let someone know where I am?"Kala and I both sighed in stereo. It was hard to say no to that, but saying yes... saying yes would get us caught up in this mess."I'm afraid not, but..." I kicked a broken spear over to him, close enough that he could reach it to use as a crutch, "Good luck Sorn.""No, no, it was too much of me to ask. Thank you." He picked up the spear and began to help himself up as we carried on. Now knowing roughly where his shop was I could easily guide us. I nearly missed him looking up and asking "Wait? Lad is that you!?" as we turned the corner. Something which brought a much needed smile to my face.The rest of our way was free and clear, and as I turned onto the street where my onetime home lay I was in exceedingly high spirits. The two crowds of men funneling into the streets from nearby alleys killed that good mood. Clearly the next fight would be here.
