The door slammed shut and Zian was left alone with mouth agape, struggling to comprehend this stunning revelation. No wonder a man of his skills and rank was willing to serve under a mere Warrant Officer, Jukai was looking after his Martial Nephew. Collecting his wits, Zian strode out of the foyer in search of his Mentor, mentally going over everything Uncle Yang had said.

Father wanted to withdraw from Society affairs. Strange considering there was no Lu Clan and Zian had no ties to any of the various sects. What position did Father hold? Did this decision lead to his death? Is that why Mother left the Clan estate to make her own way in life? Or why she never told him about Father, to keep him from seeking retribution? Was it vengeance driving her to gather personal power, enough to rival the Society?

Whatever the answer, Zian was determined to have them. If Father’s death was due to treachery or political maneuvering, then as the only son and heir it was Zian’s duty to avenge him. For that, he would need power and allies, both in short supply if his enemy turned out to be the Society. Oh Mother Above, did this mean he’d have to ally himself with the Bekhai?

Clutching the scroll containing the Emperor’s orders, Zian shook his head and smiled. Like Uncle said, these orders represented a Heaven sent opportunity, a chance to make new friends and allies. Though no longer the number one talent of the North, he was still a highly qualified bachelor and Mother always said marriage was a powerful tool. If necessary, Zian would charm the fattest, ugliest, smelliest woman in the Empire so long as she came from a faction with sufficient power.

Anything was better than going to Rain for help.

Anything.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Pressed against the vertical cliffside, Huushal fought the ever-present urge to look down at the vast void beneath him. The howling winter winds pummelled him from all sides as the bitter cold pierced him to the bone. Numb and exhausted, he closed his eyes and steadied his breathing, knowing this tiny, fist-sized perch was his last chance to rest before the final stretch. Directly above him was a steep overhang, which meant climbing almost parallel to the void below before reaching the top, easily the most perilous stretch of his deadly, two kilometre climb. It was madness to do this without a net to catch him or rope to arrest his fall, with only a burden sitting in a rucksack slung over his shoulder to ‘aid’ him.

As if hearing his thoughts, the burden shifted in his rucksack and almost caused Huushal to lose his grip. “Hmph,” the burden snorted, poking Huushal through the rucksack. “Still not there yet? Worthless! Is this what Ghurda calls talented? Wasted months tryin’ to teach you and you still ain’t worth shit. Enough dallying, you’ve a visitor waiting. Up, up, up!”

Quashing the compulsion to unfasten his rucksack and let the wizened old bastard drop to his death, Huushal grit his teeth and resumed climbing. Polished smooth by years of buffeting winds, the overhang’s underside offered precious few finger or toe holds, but neither retreat nor surrender was an option. Sanshu and Uncle Kalil's death showed Huushal just how little strength he truly possessed, and he was determined to rectify this. No risk ventured, no reward gained, and if this was to be his death, then at least he’d take the wrinkled burden with him, the world a better place for his absence.

No no, that’s no way to treat your great, great... whatever great grand mentor. Even if he’s a crotchety old geezer who reeks of alcohol and spits when he speaks.

Huushal’s foot slipped and his heart leaped into his throat. His legs dropped away from the cliff side and he Lightened and Reinforced for all he was worth, clinging to the stone by his fingertips as he screamed with exertion, both feet flailing about in futile search of purchase. Muscles burning and lungs emptied, Huushal fought a losing battle against gravity and fatigue, his arms trembling as he desperately tried to keep his grip, but it was not to be. For a brief, eternal moment, his entire body felt weightless, as if suspended in the air against all logic. Then, time resumed and the cliff side sped off into the distance as he plummeted to his doom.

Then he jerked to a halt and fell to his hands and knees, face planted in the snow with sturdy earth beneath him.

What?

How?

Is this the afterlife? Why’s it still so cold?

“Worthless.” Even in the afterlife, the old bastard was still here to pester him. “Can’t even climb a simple cliff. How am I supposed to teach this fool? He’s nothing compared to you.”

Ma’s gruff voice sounded and Huushal idly wondered what she was doing here. “All due respect but it’s been decades since I made the climb. Open your blind eyes and have a gander, the cliff’s smoother than a baby’s behind. I’m surprised he made it far as he did.”

“Bah. Excuses.” A boot prodded Huushal in the ribs and he scrambled to his feet. “Quit lying around boy, and go greet the Imperial Messenger. I’m too old fer kneelin’. Damned girl, always finding more work fer me to do. Now I suppose you want me to find a new cliff...”

His mind in disarray, Huushal followed Ma’s Sendings and stumbled down the path before kowtowing in the dirt, unable to lift his head even if he wanted to. After saying all that was required, he collapsed with a scroll in hand, too exhausted to care what the Emperor wanted from him. Whatever it was, it could wait.

A short nap, a quick meal, then back to the bottom to try again.

Such was life.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Dropping the Imperial Missive to the table, Fung clicked his tongue in annoyance. Knowing Fu Zhu Li had read it from over his shoulder, Fung turned to the man and raised a single eyebrow in question. “So... what now?”

Instead of answering out loud, the ever cautious ‘manservant’ Sent his reply. “The Emperor walks upon the razor’s edge. There will be difficult times ahead.”

“Indeed,” Fung Sent, cupping his warm teacup with both hands. “Our hand is forced. Either we obey and risk losing everything, or we openly rebel and do the same. The Emperor has left us no third option.” Sending without physical contact was incredibly draining, but being able to do something better than Rain gave Fung a massive sense of accomplishment. The animal obsessed maniac was too talented for words. “So the question remains: What now?”

Fu Zhu Li gave a tiny, almost imperceptible shrug, the first time the half-weasel advisor had failed to offer an answer or guide Fung towards one. “I’ll send word to your father. Whatever his decision, we shall abide by it.” With those simple words, Fu Zhu Li left the room.

Still cradling his teacup, Fung sank into his chair and pondered over what the future held in store. Where would father stand? With the Emperor, or with the North? As he moved to sip his tea, Fung found himself trembling from head to toe. Scoffing at his meek apprehension, he swallowed his fear stilled his body. So shameful. So his peaceful days here at the Wall were at and end. What of it? So he might be at odds with the Emperor. Big deal. Any warrior who aspired to the pinnacle of strength would be lying if they said they’d never dreamt of overthrowing the Emperor.

Placing his empty teacup aside, Fung flicked his sleeves and headed towards the sparring grounds, eager to see what his friends thought of their orders. Rain was likely beside himself with joy, feigning objection and reluctance as he prepared to run roughshod over anyone who dared bar his path. A good friend to have and a fearsome enemy to cross, such was Falling Rain.

Who knows? Perhaps in a few weeks time, Falling Rain would no longer be known as the number one talent in the North, but number one talent beneath the heavens!

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With a sigh of relief, I stand up and stretch my back, annoyed by the need for all this bowing and scraping. It’s a messenger, why do I have to treat him like the Emperor himself? Besides, fuck that guy, what’s he done lately besides abandon the Western Province? Turning to Dastan, I grin and say, “Thank the Mother you were here or else they’d be dragging me off for execution right about now.” Don't look at the messenger, don't address the messenger, don't turn your back on the messenger, so many unspoken rules, how am I supposed to remember them all?

Overzealous subordinate that he is, Dastan takes my words as a personal affront. “Not while I still live and breathe, boss.”

The man has zero chill. “Some day, we’ll sit down and you’ll teach me everything you know about courtly manners and protocol and stuff.” Unfurling the scroll, I’m greeted by a wall of beautifully flowing script. ‘On the twenty-seventh day of the first month of the thirty-fifth year...’ Is that how they write the date? So complicated and inefficient. ‘His Majesty, the Son of Heaven, Emperor of the...’ Good god it keeps going on and on like this. How long can one man’s name be? More inane preamble and greetings... Ah, here we go. ‘... invites Warrant Officer Second Grade, Falling Rain of the Bekhai and his retinue to take part in the First Imperial Grand Conference, where decorated heroes and promising youths from all around the Empire will gather to discuss measures to combat the growing Defiled threat, with contests and prizes to be awarded to our Empire’s most valiant warriors and able generals. Hosted by the city of Nan Ping in the Central Province on the Spring Equinox, attendance is mandatory and absence will be taken as mutiny, punishable by...’

Welp, so much for my hermit plans. No problem, I can do this. I’ll just stay out of trouble and not offended anyone while surrounded by the Empire’s most arrogant warriors and spoiled noble brats. Easy peasy.

...

......

.........

Maybe I should fake my death...

Nah. I'm overreacting. Things'll be fine, plus I might even get to see Yan again.

Besides, what's the worst that could happen?

Chapter Meme

– End of Volume 15 –
