“I’m fine!” Shiv shouted, projecting his voice at both Marikos and Roland. “I’m not burning: I’m temporarily immune to being tainted right now. I’m going to see if I can burn some more corruption away. Maybe swim up to the mana core and try to help there with my Severed Shadow. Moving my other in-Gate bodies up to deal with any Outsiders around the administrative buildings. Marikos! Need you to start smashing Outsiders instead of trying to block an ocean right now! Roland—come up with a better plan, because I’m just making shit up right now.”

He didn’t wait for the others to respond. Instead, he pointed his Tides upward and flung himself at the mana core. It was as Roland said: the amount of mana coming his way was too much. He didn’t have nearly enough tides to hold all that back, so he was going to swim with it instead and see what he could do from the inside.

For a half-second he tore through the air like an artillery shell, his inertial sheath thundering with building momentum. Then, his speed went exponential as the pillar of Eldritch mana blasted through him—and injected him straight into the mana core before he could react.

***

Roland would have commanded any other Pathbearer to fall back, would have fired a dimensional arrow and wrenched them off the field forcibly to save their life. The upswell of Outsider energy was an active anomaly. No one really knew what it did aside from Hymn, and even the Phoenix Academy Headmaster was scrambling to complete an emergency gambit rather than providing a certain solution.

But Shiv wasn’t any other Pathbearer. Acts of suicidal fearlessness came with a reward of levels and evolutions rather than a final end or permanent injuries.

Roland looked on, speechless, as Shiv's Severed Shadow vanished with a rising wave of colorful mana. Without Uva actively holding the dimensional energies back, the column erupting out of her grew to be a kilometer wide and traveled through the sky at dizzying speeds. Its increase in size ground into the platform holding up the surface district, bending and breaking structural supports.

An entire city-grid began to tilt. Hundreds of voices rose in pitched screams. Roland gritted his teeth as he shifted his spare levels into his magical skills to fuse Dynamancy.

“No! You focus on the Outsiders! I’ll hold the district up!” One of Shiv’s physical vessels blasted past Roland, lurching toward the horizon as a corona of wind and shimmering mana folded around him. He didn’t fly so much as he forced himself to fall faster along a certain vector via his Shapeless Tides—and such was the reason why Roland entrusted the task to him.

A skill that offered some level of tactile telekinesis made a Pathbearer immensely useful when it came to holding massive objects together. The gravity control offered by Dynamancy still required an extraordinary amount of focus and attention to wield. If a spell failed to take into account one square centimeter of pressure, then a hole would be threaded through whatever you were trying to hold up, and its destruction would likely follow.

Gazing down at the Gate using his God’s Eye View Awareness Skill, Roland was surprised to find Can Hu already on site and in position with a formation of volunteer Geomancers. The Penitent rose, soaring up into the air with a plume of thruster emissions trailing in its wake. Can Hu’s body gleamed like a polished blade even in that bleak and enshadowed light. It moved faster than ever before, and for a moment Roland’s gut tensed as he prepared for something in it to break.

Yet, Can Hu didn’t. Its body endured—and performed.

For all the Challenger had inflicted upon Adam, he lived up to his word when it came to restoring the Penitent. He reforged Can Hu from matter Roland—nor anyone else—had ever seen. Now, it was far closer to its old self, slowly beginning to add pieces and modules to its frame.

Just as Shiv’s physical body arrived on scene, Can Hu slammed against the bottom of the district and sent a pulse of stabilizing Geomancy through the architecture. The anchored supports within the district quivered as an unseen power pulled them away from the danger zone—and then saw them melted down and reconstructed to accommodate the upper grid's new weight distribution.

At the same time, Can Hu ejected a series of drones from its chassis. They expanded out in a wide net, each one projecting a beam to the other as they magnetized themselves to the underside of the district and fired their rockets—helping re-till the unbalanced platform. This bought enough time for Shiv to get in position and lend his prodigious strength to Can Hu’s efforts. At the same time, the Geomancers below cast crude formation spells in concert, hammering further reinforcement into the material structure holding the surface district in place.

In less than a minute, the district went from being on the verge of collapsing to perfect stabilization.

But I'm still going to see that district redesigned later, Roland thought to himself, shaking his head in disgust. Unless every citizen is naturally capable of flight, there's no reason to have aerial platforms. If the Gate’s mana is fully compromised or the platform simply collapses, everyone on there dies.

But the time he had to gripe about the Vulteg's architectural choices was interrupted as a horde of disgusting monsters slipped free from the Eldritch column emitted by Uva. Roland felt his skin crawl as he glimpsed centipedes with hundreds of faces along their backs, each one screaming.

He forged a psychokinetic arrow and fired once, twice, thrice, and then his hands blurred; his arms multiplied, going from a set to four, sixteen, and then more. His bow grew larger as well, its fiery string burning brighter and harder. Its residual divine mana was still active, even with the Starhawk absent.

Before Marikos and any of the Descenders could react, Roland cut down the first wave of Terrorspawn, and then the next wave, and the wave after that. He saw them exactly, sensed them using his God's Eye View, and decided to serve as the first means of defense, with everyone else operating as emergency reserve to respond or plug up any breakthroughs.

At the same time, Roland poured levels into his Golemancy and started firing unique arrows into the ground. Rather than striking Outsiders, columns rose, each one a totem spawning flying hawks forged of different magical skills. They fought without Roland's guidance, but they already knew what they were destined to do. He saw through them, thought a single command to strike down anything that came within their vicinity. As they sprouted like teeth from the earth, facing the Eldritch pillar that curved through the air, they bombarded the Outsiders with swarm after swarm, establishing an emergency perimeter against the incoming beasts.

Thus far, the Terrorspawn fell like chaff. Though they were disturbing to look upon, they lacked Physicality, Toughness, and Magical Resistance, and their speed was only slightly greater than an Initiate's as well.

But they had numbers, endless numbers, and they kept coming more and more. And as time ticked on, Roland felt their strength grow. It was a gradual thing, but some of them weren't outright obliterated upon the first hit. They had lingering bits of matter left over, splattering down on the ground if that was enough. These Terrorspawn were leveling as well—and then there were ones that weren't possessed of bodies but were sculpted from living concepts.

This was why Roland targeted their mind. If they were molded from Uva, then they doubtlessly carried aspects of her Psychomancy within them—and almost nothing could function without a guiding intellect.

Thus far, the situation was stable and contained, but the Eldritch column grew with every passing second, swelling wider by the centimeter, and ever more Terrorspawn came charging forth. Roland knew better than to underestimate numbers, for quantity had a quality all its own, and there was a point when even a Legend could be swallowed by an endless onslaught of fodder.

“Master Arrow,” Hymn’s voice suddenly sounded in the back of Roland's head. “How is the situation on scene?”

“Stable for now, but not ideal,” Roland replied. He winced as a mess of blood exploded out from the ground—animated, blood-sputtering eyes and mouth along its fluid pools, howling hate at the world as it tried to gush toward the Perch in the distance. It was promptly unmade as a building-sized arrow struck it, unleashing a flood of Pyromancy that scoured the area clean. Roland noted the shooter, a dragoness wielding a greatbow, and made a note to himself to offer her his thanks later.

“Never mind, not entirely stable. The Terrorspawn are moving underground as well.” Roland sighed. “I should have anticipated that.”

Hymn hummed in response, and then came a wall of Psychomancy that washed over Roland and everyone else in the area. “Worry not, I’ve shared the problem with the Descenders. They should be able to play whack-a-mole while we concern ourselves with solving the problem. Speaking of, is the Deathless inside the mana core or has my Awareness decided to play a trick on me again?”

“He’s—” Roland blinked. “Play a trick on you? Again?”

“Oh, yes. My Awareness Skill really doesn’t like me. It’s trying to unlatch from me even now. It deceives me sometimes, so please be honest so I can torture the Fingerling I have bound to the skill back into compliance. We really can’t afford any confusion right now.”

“No,” Roland answered, though he was scarcely able to believe it himself. “He’s inside the mana core. He shouted something about trying to burn the taint after combusting.”

“Combusting?”

“Yes. He ate something from his frying pan—I think he’s temporarily transformed.”

A brief lull followed as Hymn failed to process that information. “I dislike it when people act stranger than I. It gives me an inferiority complex. As such, I will be joining him in the mana core to direct the overflowing Eldritch mana through the surface gateway to alleviate my inadequacy.”

And now it was Roland’s turn to feel his neurons misfire. “You’re going to what?”

When Hymn didn’t reply, Roland realized Hymn was already gone, and that all the High-Tier Pathbearers in this Gate were insane. Everyone but Roland, Valor, and… Oh, gods, the Culturist was among the saner personalities present.

Starhawk… I’m the straight man again. Roland sighed. I hate being the straight—

“Roland.” Without forewarning, without hesitation, the Starhawk’s presence descended, manifesting behind Roland in a flash of flaming wings.

The Dread Horizon’s body tensed—but he never stopped loosing his arrows. Years of combat taught him to be shocked and effective at the same time. “My lord. You return.”

“I… do. I heard you, Roland. I heard you, but I… I couldn’t… I couldn’t face you. I couldn’t face myself. My Domain was damaged—I gave myself to violence. I couldn’t face myself.”

“No,” Roland forced himself to say. The anger and grief inside him boiled, but Roland buried the pain deeper. “No time for that. Right now, I need you to help me save this Gate—and Uva.”

The Starhawk went quiet as he took in the rising eruption of Outsider magic. “And how did this occur—” The Ascendant of Justice went quiet as another individual teleported next to Roland in a flash of incandescent mana. The Dreamtaker appeared with a regretful expression on her face and waved at the Starhawk and Roland. “L-Longinus?” Thaen choked.

“FUCK NO!” The Dreamtaker screamed directly at the Starhawk, grabbing his incorporeal manifestation by the shoulders. “I mean—eh, no. Well. A bit. It’s hard to tell sometimes.” She opened and closed her hands a few times and sighed. “Having a body is very strange and interesting.” A faint smile blossomed on her face. “This meat can dream. It’s very wonderful. But also itchy all the time. And I have holes I don’t understand, and they spill sometimes when I get nervous-tense. Also, Uva is very mad at me because I did a fuck—so I need your help.”

An uncharacteristic squeak or groan of mental anguish escaped the Starhawk, and whatever Roland’s misgivings toward his god, this he understood. “Later, my lord. We can face the fact of… her later. Right now—”

A deafening crackle tore through the world, and the atmosphere grew dense with pressure.

Warning: Gate Piety’s mana core is at risk of imminent mana overload.

Warning: Gate Piety’s mana core has been contaminated by [unknown] mana

Warning: Gate Piety is at risk of complete dimensional collapse.

Then, a second crack followed, and the mana core began spraying jets of bright-red Vitae from the various fissures lining its surface.

“Sometimes, it feels like we never escaped the Stranger’s Garden at all,” Roland deadpanned, existential exhaustion overtaking him.
