Gate Piety is a complete madhouse. This is my final assessment after the near-month I have spent here. This is the only assessment the home office needs. New Albion is to, in my humble opinion, never, ever, ever attempt to seize or subvert this Gate.

Words alone cannot describe how volatile this Gate is. Ever since I arrived here, it has undergone crisis after crisis, and I have drafted report after report, only to scrap them because the situation at hand grew a magnitude more severe before I could send them in.

This is a Category 3 Gate. It should have fallen on the first day. It should have fallen when the Vulteg invasion occurred. It should have fallen when the Deathless decided to strike a pact with the Challenger and become Vaketh-Insul. It should have fallen during one of the many First Blood invasions. And it should have fallen a thousand other ways since then.

But it hasn't. Against all odds, against logic and reason, it has not. Instead, it has only grown stronger, as have the people inside it. As of right now, I too have been contaminated by the Deathless. I have encountered more life-threatening situations in this brief period of my long life than entire decades of active operations prior.

Somehow, Gate Piety is amassing a collective of Unique and Legendary pathbearers, while also proving to be an incubation spot for Eldritch gods. One of which, I am convinced, is evolving into an actual god, usurping Longinus the Wanderer's place in the Auroral Pantheon. I know I have raised this matter in a prior update, along with the Gate’s intentions to form a coalition against the inevitable Incursion that is approaching at a rapid pace due to the Deathless' constant escalatory growth.

As of right now, I believe we should consider the date provided by the notification to be completely unreliable and prepare for the Incursion to arrive within the next year or less. The Deathless has completed another Delve and gained a Legendary Toughness skill, and apparently a Unique one at that. I cannot claim to understand this skill yet, but I do know that he completed his Delve in approximately eight hours. An alarming feat to say the least.

And it is because of this that I must, for the interest of Throne and people, provide this plea. This desperate begging plea.

We cannot recruit the Deathless. We can manipulate him, obviously. We can direct him. But he is never to be recruited for New Albion. He is a double-edged sword that cuts both ways in the extreme. The only reason why he hasn't severed himself from life entirely is that he is meant to die and come back.

It is not a matter of training with him. It is not a matter of reconditioning. It is not a matter of control. There is no controlling a bomb. There is no controlling the wildfire that spreads and grows every time it goes off, becoming more and more powerful, more and more devastating. There is no controlling the Deathless. He is a calamity embodied. He is a cataclysm in the flesh. He can be reasonable; he can be personable; he can be talked to, but he will always bring destruction.

It isn't even of his volition. The System doesn't seem to know what to do with him. It keeps trying to remove him. It keeps trying to challenge him with escalating levels of strife, but he does not die. With him here, with other likewise extremely favored Pathbearers around him, I fear the flame of the System's affection will only burn more intensely inside of him, and if we are to bring him to New Albion, it will see us all consumed.

And understand this: Though you will gain the benefits of his favor, you must pay the debts as well. One mistake will see you made dead and him made stronger. New Albion cannot survive him indefinitely. The lifespan of Gate Piety might be precarious, but the Deathless is another question entirely.

I—As I am drafting this update, both Uva Mettabon and Adam Arrow have begun their own Delves. Furthermore, the gate's mana core has been infested by Outsider mana. If no further message arrives within the next two days, Gate Piety has likely collapsed and everyone within, barring the Deathless, has died. If he is to be deprived of his close companions and community, then I beg of you, deploy all assets possible and eliminate the Deathless, no matter the cost. He will not simply consume New Albion; he will consume our entire world; he will consume everything. If not, stop now. I have no means of seeing him controlled. I have no strategies.

Using maximum offensive field power is the only reliable solution I can imagine, and even then, that is predicated on us eliminating him before he exceeds our collective capability.

Again, do not consider him an individual. He is not a man. He is simply a slow and patiently growing Tarrasque.

—“Five of Spades” (Emergency reactivated Raven)

399

The Right Tools [III]

Andra's Legendary Cryomancy cracked and then shattered in an instant. Her midnight frost succumbed, swallowed by Uva's corruptive magics and transformed into a conduit for the Outside to break free.

Millions of tainted threads spread through the breaking columns of ice, devouring the crystallized mana instead of letting it descend as fallen hail. An explosion of fractured spiderlings tore through the air, flung into the distance like rain whipped toward the horizon by a hurricane. What followed was an even heavier impact; out of serving as a final dam, the Outsider magic she kept at bay erupted upward like a volcano finally bursting through its cap.

Instead of two separate beams, a single column of Eldritch mana rushed upward and slammed into Shiv and Marikos both like an ascending fist seeking to punch through the heavens themselves. Both of them braced themselves as the flood came forth—twin juggernauts anticipating obscene turbulence.

But even with might mustered and bodies tensed, they underestimated the sheer power of what they were forced to contend with. Shiv buckled immediately, launched back like a log carried away by a tsunami. Marikos held his position, but that was all he could do. Advancing grew impossible, and he howled with outrage and pain as his armor was pierced and his scales were flayed. The spiderlings betrayed their namesake and became as if a horde of locusts, shredding through Marikos as they started burrowing toward his organs.

They attempted to do the same to Shiv—and experienced the inverse fate. They were glass daggers dashing themselves upon an adamantine wall. His Scarforged shell flared silver and platinum with every hit, but took no damage, for it had already adapted in opposition to cleaving trauma.

Yet what both Shiv and Marikos failed to resist was the mana that crept through them. The former fought it off as much as he could using explosive bursts of his Nihilist; the scintillating flame lasted for a spark before it was overwhelmed and doused. Though a Unique skill capable of kindling itself from philosophy, it alone was not a match for an Eldritch dimension spilling over into reality.

A sphere of blinding flame expanded out of Marikos, incinerating spiderlings and sparing him any further harm. Yet the Eldritch mana washing over him infested his magics, and soon new nightmares assailed him from all sides, erupting from within his body. The Dragon-Knight snarled as hands of absolute darkness exploded out from bleeding gashes lining his flesh. “Away! Out of me, vermin! Face me true, blade to blade, spell to spell! Face me if you have any honor!”

Marikos' fury was pure and true. It was also incredibly stupid. Shiv looked on briefly, flabbergasted that he was genuinely attempting to shame an onslaught of nightmare creatures into adhering to the norms of combat.

Angling his tides, Shiv tried to get to Marikos, battling against the riptide of unnatural magic. Caught dead within the current, Shiv could feel how the mana was bending. It wasn't shooting straight up into the air anymore. Instead, it was arcing, and the insides were made up of countless threads, so thin they were finer than hairs. He could describe the torrent as a flood no longer. It was more like ten million razor-sharp webs ripping through him, cleaving into him both magically and physically. While Shiv was materially indestructible, the weeks' worth of Shapeless Tides he'd accrued were down by forty percent. His Magical Resistance would succumb soon. After that, death was certain to follow not only for him but also for Marikos—

Something slammed into Shiv from behind. It barely moved him physically, but it rattled all his skills and caused a sudden whiplash to go through his tides. He found himself unable to control his Physicality; his strength was pulled in all directions, vectors scattering as his body twisted. Shiv's shoulder and legs should have snapped out of their sockets; his neck should have been broken, but his Scarforged body refused to accept the damage. The sudden transition from a slashing form of trauma to contusions and muscle tears caused his shell to adapt, and once more the spiderlings came, burdening him with a surge of weight.

But the spiderlings didn't last long either, and neither did the other horrors leaping out from the accelerating nest of Eldritch mana. A chain of arrows struck their targets, the first detonating around Shiv to create a zone of unstable mana. His mana fields went haywire at the same time as the Eldritch tide crashing into him; all forms of magic lost control, straining, rupturing, and collapsing on themselves. A series of explosions followed, ripping stable pockets in midair.

Said pockets were chained together, expanding enough that they created a horizontal channel through the inverted waterfall of Outsider energy bound for the mana core.

A rain of translucent arrows then cleared the spiderlings and other horrors of consciousness. They were not destroyed physically, but they fell like marionettes with their strings cut, tumbling lifelessly through the air. A reprieve followed, with both Shiv and Marikos unburdened by attackers and dimensional energies.

In that instant, the top of the Last Morsel’s lid burst apart in a spray of black smoke, revealing the hastily cooked meal within. He didn’t bother studying the dish at all—just dumped it into his face in a desperate rush to consume whatever boosts it conferred. His helmet opened, and instead of plunging into his mouth, the food splashed into the manifested Vitae making up his Severed Shadow.

Cook the Uncookable Activated

Taintburner Obtained

Your Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet Skill has been boosted.

You have developed temporary immunity to the She Who Taints the Heavens Feat.

Another arrow hit Shiv, this one carrying a telepathic call dispatched by Roland: “Shiv, get yourself and the dragon out of there. The Eldritch mana is blasting through you. There's no point in holding your position anymore. Time to adapt.”

Shiv was more than inclined to agree. In fact, Roland’s flexibility was a most commendable martial philosophy—more and more, Shiv saw being a creature defined solely by brute force to be a humiliating limitation. Why, compare Roland to Marikos, and while the latter was a proper Legend, the former is a truer Pathbearer—a more effective warrior. Such a thing—

Shiv was jolted out of his sudden philosophical musing as his body exploded into a threaded nest of scintillating flames.

A panicked growl exploded out of Marikos. “Friend Shiv! Endure! I will see the flames assailing you extinguished!” He then performed a series of desperate gestures in Shiv’s direction, trying to trace a series of Pyromantic spell shapes using his mace and shield—but failed every time as the mana burst apart as unstable bubbles. “What?” he bellowed. “What is this? Has the foulness of the Outside compromised even my Pyre?”

It seemed that Marikos' emotions and intellect weren't the only things that were blinkered. His Awareness was also stunted, dramatically so. Or perhaps he was so deep in the throes of the struggle that he didn't notice Roland's arrow striking him, establishing a sphere of destabilization.

Once more, the lamentable mindset governing his form lay itself bare. Truly, Sir-Legend Marikos was a tragedy in motion. This was not how a proper Legend was supposed to be.

“Or maybe it is,” the Nihilist whispered, crackling within and around Shiv. The flames hissed closer than ever; they felt more like Shiv’s skin than a mana field he could conjure and kindle. Then, Shiv realized the skill was clinging to him. More than that, it was made up of snaking threads of shifting color—the kaleidoscopic resplendence representative of the Dreamtaker’s realm and Uva’s inherited power.

The burning fibers anchored both the Nihilist and Shiv in the same body, and while all his other magical Skills unraveled to become misshapen creatures harvested from someone’s strangest nightmares, Shiv’s body and Pyromancy suffered the effects of Uva’s taint no longer.

Wait, I didn’t include you in the meal I cooked earlier, Shiv thought. I scooped a chunk out of the ice to harvest Uva’s corruptive Feat—oh, felling hells, I forgot I left a chunk of Nihilism inside earlier. He had intended to eat and test the effects that came with cooking a portion of his Pyromancy mana, then left a slice of it inside his Last Morsel and cooked it again with this new meal. Broken Moon, I need to improve my Memorization.

Inertial Overdrive 372 > 375

