The Chosen was taken aback and looked ready to leap into action as he realized who had come. Without any hesitation, and ignoring his still-healing wound, he kneeled down.

“I greet the All-God Legion.”

Minaga looked at him for a moment. “Thanks, pal, but I’m not here for you.”

Turning toward the Sword Saint, who was still sitting down in the chair, Minaga cleared his throat. “A common friend of ours asked me to inform you that the Chosen of the Malefic Viper plans to soon depart from the Pantheon of Life’s territory, and if you wish to return alongside him, you should go to his place within not too long. You’re not in a super rush, but don’t dally either.”

“So Jake made you a messenger, eh?” the Sword Saint chuckled.

“What? No, Jake didn’t ask me to do anything,” Minaga said, shaking his head. “I was asked by Minaga.”

“Oh, really?” the old man smiled.

“Yep,” Minaga nodded before looking back and forth as if to make sure no one else was listening in. Once the coast was clear – ignoring the confused kneeling Chosen – the Unique Lifeform leaned in.

“But... hey... just between you and me, I’m pretty sure Jake was the one who asked Minaga to tell you, making Minaga just outsource the task to me afterward.”

“How dastardly of him,” Miyamoto shook his head.

“Really was,” Minaga agreed wholeheartedly. “Oh well, task accomplished, see you around.”

“See you.”

Without further ado, Minaga was gone as quickly as he’d come. A few seconds passed before the kneeling elf stood back up, looking confused at the Sword Saint.

“You are aware that was the All-God Legion, right?” he asked.

“I’m well aware of who he is,” Miyamoto chuckled as he leaned back in the chair.

“My Patron warned me to be incredibly cautious around him,” the elf said in a serious tone. “He may seem jovial and joking on the surface, but he’s one of the most dangerous entities in the entire universe, and making him an enemy would be a great way to cut your Path short.”

“Sure, theoretically, but in my eyes, Minaga is just Minaga,” the Sword Saint shook his head. “For better or worse.”

“I heard that,” a booming voice echoed through the ruined grasslands as the presence of Minaga enveloped both C-grades, making the elf look up toward the sky with fright.

“It was meant as an endearing statement!” the Sword Saint yelled at the clouds.

“Fair enough, sorry for the interruption.”

Minaga’s presence disappeared as fast as it had come, making the Sword Saint chuckle and shake his head again.

“As I said... Minaga is Minaga,” Miyamoto said, having chosen long ago not to overthink the Unique Lifeform. Sure, logically, he knew the elf was entirely correct, but sometimes it was best just to follow Jake’s creed of not overcomplicating things.
