Alat and Enar shared a look before Alat shrugged and Enar sighed. “I think she’s close.”

Tala frowned. “So… not ready?”

Alat shook her head. “This instant? No.”

Enar continued. “But if we approve her inscription, and set that before her, I think that she could be ready. We have a few weeks before the initialization of the city’s spellforms. Then we’ll travel to Bandfast, to Mistress Holly. With even a modicum of the dedication that she’s shown, Lea can be ready by then.”

The four fell into silence then, each contemplating the decision before them.

After a bit, they refilled their wine glasses and moved to talking about other things, simply enjoying their time together.

It was late in the night, near midnight, and Lea had long since returned with her group, going straight to bed as she was set on not interrupting her parents’ conversation.

The four had polished off the few bottles of wine they’d set aside and raided the sanctum stores for the same number again.

They were, of course, not drunk in the least, given their advancement and mostly cognitive natures.

“So, we are agreed then?” Tala said, bringing them all back on task.

There were a round of nods.

“Then, tomorrow, we’ll tell her we agree, if she puts in the work between now and Bandfast.” Tala drained her glass. “I’ll tell her tomorrow.”

They all stood, bidding farewell and headed to bed.

* * *

That next morning, a squeal of glee shook the sanctum.

Well, not literally, but both she and Rane grimaced at the sheer volume of Lea’s excited exclamation. “Really? Are you sure?” Then she hesitated. “No, you already said it. No takebacks!”

Rane chuckled, and Tala held up one finger. “Don’t forget what I actually said, young lady.”

Lea stopped, her eyes scrunching for a moment as she clearly worked to remember. Then, she nodded. “Yes, Mom. I will study hard and work to shore up my few remaining gaps.”

Rane cleared his throat. “And…?”

“And…” Lea frowned again, then perked up. “Oh! I will be confined to the sanctum after I get my inscriptions for an extended period, likely months, until I can show control and capacity to be gentle, to keep my strength under control.”

Rane nodded. “Good.”

Tala smiled. “I’m glad you’re so excited, sweet.” She gestured toward the table of food laid out for them. “Come on. Let’s eat, and you can tell us about your night.”

Lea brightened once more before practically skipping over to the table. “Oh, Mom! Dad! It was amazing. The food was good, but that wasn’t the highlight. The play was about a woman who had magic in a world where most people don’t! Can you imagine that?”

Tala and Rane shared a look. Yes, they could, in fact, imagine that, especially given that such was the state of this world, but they didn’t see a need to correct the girl, especially as the gushing continued even as Lea was eating.

The couple shared a loving look while they listened to their daughter.

In that moment, Tala realized that, by many metrics, she’d made it. She was rich, powerful, and in command of her own destiny. She had a family whom she loved, and things were looking up.

With only the Black Legion and the upcoming Leshkin war—along with her Reforging and a return to the arcane lands—hanging over her head, things really were in a great place.

-I feel like you realize this somewhat often.-

Well… I’m not good at letting it sink in.

-We should be better about that.-

Yeah, we really should.

So, Tala did just that. She ate and allowed the reality of things to truly sink in. All the while Lea continued to tell of her glorious evening out on the town.
