“That we not destroy the very production methods we sought to preserve. Given your handling of matters in the breach we feared you’d default to a more… typical Ascender reaction. But if you aren’t looking to slaughter people, why argue when if you succeed, it's a better outcome for us as well? We can acknowledge that your outcome is better, but we felt it was an unreachable goal. In that case, yes, a partial solution is preferable to destruction.”

Seeing Matt hadn’t grown angry, Dominus continued with his pitch, seeming much more at ease. “Though, I’d disagree that a limited but more thorough rollout is ideal. Even if a partial rollout works, which I’m sure it might, it will prove our point while making it seem as if we deliberately enriched ourselves at the expense of everyone else. You are currently exempt from such commentary, given you set the precedent from day one. But the worse the situation becomes for everyone else, the larger a target you may have painted on you by the opposition.”

Eleazar Rajagukguk, representing the second strongest ducal family in the Empire and one of Agatha’s earliest backers, finally made his presence known by nodding to Dominus while watching Matt. “Something no one else has bothered to mention is that our window of opportunity here is limited. If the Emperor returns home sooner than we expect that's fine, but if all the Tier 46’s return before him, we won’t have the clout to do this without relying on our parents or the Royals. At least not for a solution you’d find acceptable. Each of those high Tier will want their piece of the pie. If we want to avoid their interference, we have five to fifteen years before the Tier 46’s return and the other side knows it. If we wish to capture this opportunity, we must be swift.”

Liz, who'd spent some time going through the files shared earlier, sent out a new proposal based on their earlier plans, but modified with Matt’s goal of eliminating the exclusivity clause entirely. She didn’t sugarcoat the fact that aiming for that lofty of a goal was going to be much much harder than the more palatable agreement the nobles originally had put together, but Matt found it ultimately reasonable to both parties.

After seeing her new ideas, Kiri Winiata was the first one to speak. “I mentioned this before and it was disregarded, for good reason, but given the new direction our planning is taking, why don’t we revisit the idea of a self-regulated oversight board. Let us push the inevitable burden of inspecting every rift on farm worlds to the corporations and guilds who are so worried someone will make an illegal aura rift and harvest aura without paying them a cut. They are going to demand something like that if they can’t demand exclusivity, and forcing them to run it will keep them busy.”

Peter Wyatt shot right back, taking a firm stance Matt appreciated, “And that will then give them far too much power, if they have any inclinking of actual power at all. They can’t sell the product and run the oversight board. They’d start abusing their positions almost immediately."

Kiri shrugged her shoulders as if confused. “And whose problem is that? Then we have a perfectly legitimate reason to come down on them.”

Unexpectedly, Peter paused and gestured to signify she’d made a valid point. “As true as that may be, the core idea is still overly problematic. However, instead of rejecting outright, I propose a slight alternative. Why don’t we offer to passively monitor the rifts via planetary AI as well as check for any kind of ‘waste products’ being sold under the table. After all, recent events have shown that not all of them are safe. That’s already a problem I’m sure we are all dealing with, and it would turn the ‘farmers’ more directly against the various research factions which would occupy both.”

Boutaje pointed to the wall where he projected a row of numbers. “If they agree. My own speculation indicates we will face fierce opposition. Short term, this will hurt the companies, given the length of the previous contracts and the exit clauses. With the new laws, the aura farmers would be allowed to challenge the existing contracts and losing out on so many exit clauses. Combined with the lower than normal prices per unit of aura, the companies will be well into the red. Possibly for decades. They won’t take that lying down."

Matt shrugged. He’d been back in the Empire for five hundred years and had been making mana stones the entire time.

He wouldn’t go as far as to say that a problem that required money wasn’t a problem quite yet, but he felt it was the easiest solution if the other side agreed. “Liz and I are willing to take on some of the financial burden to help smooth the transition, but we aren’t willing to become these companies and guilds' personal banks. If each of our duchies covers five percent of the contract breaking fees, we’d only have to pay half. That should be something all of us can easily… Really guys, how bad are your economies right now?"

Matt couldn’t help but sigh as the various nobles used his question as an excuse to vent about the economic downturn crippling their higher Tier economies, and therefore most of their budgets. He also realized they were so interested in aura precisely because their higher Tier economies were floundering.

Their duchies were so old and well settled that their newly revitalized lower Tier economies, and therefore the aura that was at the center of it, had become critically important avenues of growth as they’d long since tapped out other revenue sources.

Leaning back, Matt met Liz’s eyes and grinned right back at her, even as the other nobles argued strategy.

“You realize this is going to turn you into the face man for this movement.”

Matt didn't shy away.

He might not have started this situation, but aura rifts were the first product of his guild and he'd wanted to step in for a while. To that end, he’d deal with the consequences, even if he didn’t like them.

“If it works, it's worth it.”
