They'd probably been told by their own parents that they wouldn’t get involved. Added with Leon's messages, Matt was confident that if the nobles did force through any workable solution and the various factions were foolish enough to do anything more than protest loudly, their parents would swoop in, hard. From every report he’d seen on their parents, they’d be happy to use the pretext of rebellion to permanently remove a potential problem for their heirs. Georgios had not rewarded his nobles for their kindness and soft hearts, though he had cared about their self control.

However, what he saw as a useful backup plan, the nobles saw as a failure condition. Understanding they wanted to prove themselves independent, he didn’t push that angle any further, knowing it would be futile.

Dominus tried to deflect, confirming Matt’s hunch. “As Boutaje said earlier, we don’t wish to destroy the very companies our duchies have spent so much effort nurturing. Our goal is to solve the problem diplomatically, with force of any sort being a last resort. If you can’t agree to that, Ascender Titan, then maybe we have misjudged."

Matt smiled, not pushing any further. As much as he felt conflict was inevitable, he did agree that it was best used as a last resort.

“How soon do you intend to implement your plans?” Asking a seemingly non sequitur, Matt confirmed some of his other guesses via the micro expressions they couldn't hide.

Seeing phoenix Liz cover human Liz’s face as she highlighted her own amusement caused Matt to smile, which put a spin on his following words he didn’t intend, but also didn’t mind.

“Lets not kid ourselves here, you have your own plans and don’t want me too involved with the actual strategizing, which is why you came to us early. Get Liz and I on your plan. And shit, I will concede this proposal is both fair and agreeable. So much so that some companies will probably agree to it as is. But if you want my help, my real help, it's far from enough. A three tiered patent system sounds great, as it will allow for some diversification, but why bother to play their game when you don’t have to?”

Dominus looked like he’d swallowed a lemon, but Heracleonas slapped the table leaning forward. “Nearly identical to what I said. The weaker we are from the outset, the harder everything that follows is. We need to go in with an aggressive stance, even if we are willing to compromise.”

Heir to the infamous duchy who'd shed oceans of blood to regain Agatha’s favor after they’d held firm to their original oaths when she took over, Heracleonas Staurakius was an imposing man who’d fought on the frontlines in the Empire's most recent war. Identity hidden via a mask, he climbed his way from private to sergeant, where he earned his officer promotion just before the end of the war cut his easy advancement off short.

Matt met his gaze, but Dominus calmly spoke, clearly having heard everything Heracleonas had to say. “And as I was about to reiterate to Ascender Titan, that is our last resort. If we are going to break everything, we’d best be served by trying to limit the damage. Currently, one of our largest issues is that this isn’t really a crisis yet. Getting people worried about an impending but distant disaster isn’t easy. With distance the worries will fade when the concerns don’t impact their day to day life, the average person simply won’t care. As nice as aura rifts and their by-products are, most civilians and unambitious delvers are content with the more basic versions you ensured weren’t bound by any exclusivity contracts, even if they have a downside. Using public sentiment is our first method, but far from our only one. Yes, I know we can make demands and force things through, but that is tyrannical and will breed resentment. Even if it is for a good cause, it will make any future acts harder.”

Liz plopped phoenix Liz onto the table and spoke for the first time since they’d begun. “Your points are well made, especially the one about trying. Uncle Manny—” Matt was amused to see more than a few look distinctly uncomfortable at seeing the Emperor referred to so casually, “—wouldn’t like to see us go overboard, even if it is for the right reasons. He cares almost as much about the how as he does the what and why. However, endless concessions aren't a solution either, and as a mostly outside party, you leave too much on the table. Inevitably, it comes down to ‘might makes right’ divided by how much of that might we are willing to use. Ours, the Royals, the Emperor himself, or even our position will be maneuvering themselves into their best positions. And note, when I say ‘might’ in this case, it isn’t solely combat power. Political capital both above and below board are still useful, but too many schemes makes you seem weaker than you are. You have the advantage, gather your factions, a—”

Liz stopped speaking as her smile turned wicked. “That's the problem isn't it? Your factions aren't really your factions quite yet, are they? Our generation of your vassals and faction members haven’t taken over from their parents yet, have they? And you probably can’t command their parents given their imminent ascensions? Or is it that you want to use us and this issue to help you consolidate your holds on your rebellious members? Ballsy play if true, but I have to say, it's inspired.”

Dominus worked his jaw, but Sciath, representing the second strongest dragon noble family, shook her head. “It's not as bad as you're implying, but ultimately, yes. Less than twenty percent of our generation of nobility have taken over, and the older ones in the positions we’d need to have aligned with us are mostly ambivalent, if not outright hostile, as they are trying to collect enough resources to reach Tier 45 and leave. Many of them objectively see the issue, but they also believe that we can deal with it, even if things fester and grow worse. With that mindset they have no reason to ‘inconvenience themselves with such trivialities'.”

Sciath’s voice lilted as she impersonated an archaic way of speaking, reaffirming her personal stance.

Continuing with her normal voice, she copied Matt’s earlier move and made a gesture of laying her cards on the table. “The same applies for the non hereditary nobles who as a whole, couldn’t care less about long term issues. So while we could wait, we don’t want to. Our official motives are varied, but we are determined to nip this problem in the bud. We will see benefits from doing so alone or with your assistance, but delaying wholesale is the worst option. It will both make the problem worse and more entrenched, the longer it is allowed to fester. Despite our varied political and personal differences, we realize the danger this direction will lead us into, and are firm in our commitment to fix both the exclusivity, and its resulting bottleneck with Concepts. While there was some discussion about using you or even another one of the Ascenders to bring the older generations to heel more forcefully, none of us here actually like that solution and would prefer to avoid it. You say we aren’t going far enough, but we are trying to eat our cake and have it too. We want to solve this problem in a successful manner as quickly as possible, and we are trying to do so without waiting another thousand years to fully take control of our factions.”

Taking a deep breath, the other dragon glared at him. “And we want to do both of those things without ruining the good thing the Empire has going in regards to aura. We as a Great Power, in a large part thanks to your guild, have been able to lead the pack in regards to creating new aura rifts further than any two of the other Great Powers put together. Secondarily, while we aren’t leading the field in aura enchanting, we are a firm second thanks to our relative abundance of aura, which makes testing relatively cheap. I do not wish to see our lead squandered by self interested parties, nor do we wish to see it set back by butchering our way through the very groups making everything possible.”

Matt was fairly impressed, having not expected the nobles to both see through his own bias and call him out on them when he was trying to play to the effect. He didn’t let that appreciation stop him from leaning forward and meeting her eyes.

Once he was sure he had everyone’s attention, he said a single word as off-handily as he could, “Liar.”

Sciath jumped to her feet, the emotions that had already been running hot flared into red hot anger at his accusation, but he didn’t hold back repeating himself once more. “Liars, all of you. If not to me than to yourselves.”

Seeing even Liz’s confusion, Matt stood up and leaded across the table, meeting the other nobles' angry glares one at a time. “If any of you really believed what Sciath was saying right now, you’d be agreeing with me. I call you liars because if you really saw this as a problem, your solution wouldn’t be so halfassed. What you call necessary compromises, I call foolishness. Yes, a conciliatory stance now might temporarily resolve the issue, but it will forever become the new benchmark.”

Holding up a finger, he prevented Kiri Winiata from interrupting him. “The next time a faction presses, you will have already established your line in the sand and moving it further will be that much harder. Also, give me a little credit, I’m not suggesting we need to kill everyone, let alone anyone.”

Silvia snorted right back, their familiarity giving her more confidence than the others, “Stripping the various researchers and leaders of their contractual rights might as well be the same thing as killing them outright. Did we not already have this conversation? For people like this, their ways of generating money are the main way they get stronger, and encroaching on that won’t be as easy as you are implying. It would be like demanding you stop delving altogether because others need to use the rifts first. They won’t accept anything close to your desired outcomes, and they won’t obediently become mirrors of your guild.”

Matt met her gaze, not backing down in the slightest. “I never said they can’t make money, only that their exclusivity clauses are ridiculous and harming the Empire itself. Personally, I don’t like that they were allowed to patent the information at all, but I don’t make the law. However, our duchy has already proven that without exclusivity contracts, various companies can still make plenty of money through volume. Yes, the added competition reduces the price they can demand per rift of aura harvested, but they are still making money hand over fist. Our duchy hasn't only become one of the largest exporters of aura because I ‘invented’ the rifts with Titans Torch. I won’t try to deny that it plays a massive part, but the data is there. When we banned the exclusivity clauses and left everything else up to normal contract restrictions, competition drove the various factions’ demands down over the course of a decade. It's well documented, though I concede our situation was mildly unique given our starting position. Regardless, I repeat, if you believed in what you said, if you really believed, you’d already agree with me that half measures are worse than waiting for The Emperor to return.”

Dominus looked like he wanted to strangle Matt, but even if the dragon hadn’t been two Tiers weaker at Tier 28, a fight wouldn’t have ended well for him.

“Are you willfully ignoring the backlash and resulting damage that such a large demand might cause?”

Matt didn’t shy away from the gaze, preparing to make his own retort. “I’m not ignoring it. I just don’t care. Just because something is difficult doesn’t mean it's not the right answer. It’s worth it.”

Liz put a hand on his shoulder, stepping in as Matt started to get worked up himself. “We are willing to help, but we won’t support halfassed ideas that will make doing what is needed even harder. We were aware of this situation, but our solution was to wait until the Emperor returned and help rip things out by the roots. Even as Ascenders and the leader of Titan’s Torch, Matt and I couldn’t effect such a change without slaughtering at least a few companies. However, I believe if we combine our efforts and play our cards right we can gather enough political power alone to force through an exclusivity reform. Hopefully a full-on ban, at worst we can help implement such laws in your duchies. While not ideal, I suspect such a move will break their back given our collective economic might.”

Liz smiled at Matt as he backed her up, “Off-hand, I know two of the top three aura research faculties are in your fiefs, if not located on your capitals. Forcing them to follow the laws might be hard, but even if they pull up and leave, they won’t be able to ignore your markets.”

Dominus’ expression abruptly shifted into a happy one as he reached out his hand to shake. “Deal.”

Matt took a minute to look at the proffered hand before looking into the dragon's eyes.

Carefully speaking each word carefully he asked, “Was this a… setup? To get me to agree?”

Dominus shook his head, his eyes staying locked on Matt’s not moving his hand. “Not in the slightest. You simply agreed to our biggest demand and so why should we bicker over the fine details any longer?”

Still not reaching out Matt carefully asked, "Biggest demand?”

