That didn't matter so much. More important was the fact that his opponent had an absolutely fascinating set of abilities. Or perhaps it was just a single one applied creatively? He wasn't quite sure yet. Identifying what these things did had never really been his strong point.

The Red Commander had been expecting to summon a Greater Indictment from the moment he decided to cast that ritual spell. The realms always did seem to protest whenever he indulged in the occasional compounded mass slaughter. Mass slaughter in and of itself wasn't usually enough to trigger one—that sort of thing happened all the time—but something about doing necromancy to commit even more slaughter was apparently offensive to the realms. Why this was the case, he had no idea.

But he was really more interested in figuring out how to turn the Indictment into one of his Sentinels. Especially if he'd be fighting Yggdrasil's End anytime soon, though he was hoping for about a week or so to prepare.

Then the Red Commander tilted his head, as if sensing something wrong, and frowned. Perhaps it was more critical that he capture this Indictment than he thought. It seemed someone had managed to break the seal on his Red Knight. But a mage capable of breaking that seal...

He brightened. "Ah, Yggdrasil's End," he said, practically singing out the words. "Now that I know you're here, this is your doing, isn't it? You've stolen my Knight. But I still have so many pieces in play!"

"You speak nonsense," the Greater Indictment across from him said coldly. He was a tall, wooden thing—no doubt some idol that the people of Idefel had once worshipped. It was no surprise that it would become the focal point of the realm's power and turn into an Indictment, but for a worshipped idol, it had quite the strange power indeed.

"Those villagers must have had a truly fascinating set of beliefs, to create something like you," the Commander said with a chuckle. "They didn't even worship a true divine, did they? You must be, what, some kind of false idol they put on a pedestal?"

"I do not care for your questions," the Greater Indictment intoned, and the Red Commander almost pouted, even as it caught him by the wrist and slammed him hard into the ground. The impact shattered his ribs even through the barriers and armor he wore and he laughed again, ignoring it; his magic quickly got to work repairing him, like it always did.

"You Greater Indictments never do," he said jovially. "You're all so boring. Except for your powers. Those are always interesting, did you know that?"

The Indictment didn't respond. Instead, he clapped once, and his form shifted. The tall, thin form was good for speed and had a deceptive amount of strength, but this new one was strangely blocky.

"Oh?" the Red Commander said. "What will you be stealing now?"

The Indictment grabbed at him, and the Red Commander watched as his armor broke off like it was made of putty. Before, that tall, thin form had swiped at him and stolen the speed and strength he granted himself; now it was doing the same with his armor... this thing was brilliant. It was practically made to be his pet.

"You might not want to put that on," the Red Commander said, but the Indictment ignored him, and he chuckled. The melted-putty armor flexed and rippled across its body.

Then it froze in place, staring at him. The Red Commander smiled brightly. How convenient! He hadn't even needed to lure it back to camp.

"I put a great deal of control magic into my armor," he explained casually. "It's a good precaution. Means I can move how I want even when my bones are broken, which is just the sort of thing a flesh mage needs. It works pretty well with abilities like yours, too. What do you do, absorb concepts from things?"

The Indictment didn't answer, mostly because he hadn't willed it to. "Mind you, I doubt that would've worked as well if I wasn't me," the Red Commander continued. "But I am. So... kneel for me, won't you?"

The Indictment shifted stiffly, like it was fighting the command, but even that small piece of armor it had stolen contained too much of his mind. And the Indictment, after all, had little to no experience with having a mind at all..

It knelt.

"How lovely," the Red Commander said. His fingers twitched, and without glancing at them, he sliced them off, letting the severed pieces drop into the ground. Blood flowed freely from the stumps before they sealed off, new fingers growing in their place, and he raised a hand to give his new Sentinel a fistbump. "See this? If you don't like something, you just cut it off and grow something new in its place. The Red Knight was getting boring, anyway."

He hummed for a moment. "I wonder which one of you gets hierarchical precedence," he said. "I suspect I'll be meeting Yggdrasil's End by the end of the week. Think you can steal something from him for me then?"

The Indictment gave him a stiff nod, not having any other choice, and the Red Commander laughed.

"Excellent."
