On contact, the entire dome was driven down into the earth before it exploded, shards of magic and stone becoming a razor storm that shredded her clothes and hurt far more than everything the Adamants had done to her. Not enough to indicate serious harm, but enough to make her eyes go wide, which was something she immediately regretted as she punched into the ground. The magic carried her on straight through dirt, then the rock below it, deeper and deeper and not slowing in the slightest. She couldn’t cancel the spell. She couldn’t even take a breath.

Faultline! Redirection! Force Pillar! Faultline! Force Pillar! Redirection!

Finally, something worked, but it took another few spells to fully reverse her momentum. As yet more earth erupted around her, she shot back into the sky with such speed that the air tore in yet another earsplitting boom. An instant later, she spat out of the top of the cloud of dust and debris, seeing the city shrinking below her beside the massive crater where the Adamant forces had been.

And still were.

From the smoke came a volley of those infuriating pink bolts, tracking her relentlessly.

Anya clenched her teeth, rage clouding her sight more than any quantity of dust. The path of escape was open above her, but she didn’t want to escape. They’d hurt her. Tried to trap her. Tried to kill her friend. And they’d survived her attempts to punish them for it.

I’ll do it again!

Before she could put her determination into action, a flash of light from the southern sky made her whip her head in that direction. Her eyes went wide as she saw the beam streaking toward her, carrying enough Light mana for a god.

“Dystees!”

It wasn’t a curse, but a cry of recognition. When she’d asked, Asten and Nena had told her of the three greatest gods, of El, Dystees, and Karum—and of what happened when you damaged their Garden.

Sure she was about to be smitten, Anya frantically hauled a Force Sheet into position, but the beam stopped short. It lanced from the horizon to a spot right in front of her in what felt like the blink of an eye, condensing into a man riding atop a panel of glowing light. He had dark skin and dark hair, like that of the miller, except Tern couldn’t float through the sky.

And then came the smiting. Anya thought she’d learned what pain was, but she’d been wrong.

Blinding white light. Agony. No space for thought.

Losing control of her magic, she tumbled from the sky, burning, burning, burning. In her terror and anguish, she lashed out with everything she had in all directions. None of it did anything, blocked by glowing panels of impenetrable white light. Her frenzy came to an abrupt stop as something wrapped around her, smothering her power.

The light faded, leaving only the echo of the pain as she thudded back-first into the ground.

“Augh!” she gasped, sure she was dying. Spots swam before her vision as she opened her eyes, looking down to find glowing white chains binding her, not unlike those she could conjure. Each massive link held enough power to crush her more easily than she’d crushed that first soldier, and she knew the mysterious resistance would not even inconvenience them. She also knew they’d do it in an instant if she so much as twitched, let alone reached for her magic.

“You are not a Citizen,” said a god in the shape of a dark-skinned man.

“What?” Anya rasped, struggling to focus through her damaged eyes.

Stepping down from the glowing platform to loom over her, the god crossed his arms. “I do not recognize your face. Identify yourself. Are you the same Force Mage who’s been harassing us near the gap?”

“I—” Anya croaked, her mouth feeling almost as dry as her charred skin. She forced herself to continue, knowing that if she did not, she would die. “I am Anya.”

“And who is Anya?” the god asked patronizingly.

“I don’t...know.” Anya licked her cracked lips. “My memory is...gone.”

“Oh,” the god said, disgust dripping from the word. “You’re one of her leavings.” He looked up at the sky, then spread his hands. “Did she not consider what a child would do, left with enough power to break the damage limit and without enough of a mind to know better?”

“I...who are you talking about?” Anya said in a small voice, terrified he’d take offense at the question.

The god only snorted, looking down on her again like she was mud on his shoe. “Did you have those villagers servicing you? Catering to your every whim? Would you have done the same with the city folk once you had beaten their defenders?”

“What? No, they’re my friends! We came here for help, but one of the Adamants tried to kill Asten, so I—”

The god held up a hand, and she instantly closed her mouth. “So that’s how it is. Somebody in that village deserves an accolade. Also, somebody in my army deserved what I’m told you did to him. Utter incompetent.”

“I don’t understand,” Anya said. “Please, don’t hurt them— Ah!” She felt herself being lifted by the chains.

“This is what happens,” the god muttered, ignoring her cry of pain. “This is why I cannot leave it be.” He raised his voice, addressing her again. “Rejoice, for your power makes you too useful to discard. Instead, I will give you a chance to help me.”

“Where are you taking me?” Anya asked, not daring to struggle as she dangled below his glowing platform. “It hurts! Please, I don’t understand!”

“You will,” the god said. “I will make sure of it.”
