“You would have still asked me, even if I couldn't give out time like this, wouldn't you?” Ren asked, and the three of them nodded. “Do you expect any of the other succubi to participate?”

“Good god, no.” Jay said. “Having two of them is more than I can handle as it is.”

Seldanna and the others laughed, because he had referred to his wife as one of them.

“I assume this is just a one-time thing, since you don't want any kind of commitment?” Ren asked, and the three of them nodded.

“I can't imagine making you agree to do it more than once, especially when we don't know if one time is going to work out or not.” Jay said. “What if we agreed to meet several times and the first time is a disaster, and we have to meet a few times after that?” He chuckled. “What a nightmare that would be!”

Ren smiled. “Is it okay if I take some time to think about it? This is kind of a big decision to make.”

“Of course.” Rachel said, and he felt the underlying current of resignation in her emotions, and she fully expected him to say no. “Take all the time that you need.”

“Thank you.” Ren said and took her hand, then bent over it and kissed the back of it. She caught her breath at being treated like a high class lady, and it flustered her just enough to make her remove her hand from covering Fayeth's mouth. She waved that hand in front of her face instead.

Ren smiled as he let her hand go, turned around and took one step, then turned back around to face her. “I think that's long enough to think about it.” He said, and felt disappointment from the three of them. When someone decided that quickly, it was usually a 'no'.

“I knew I shouldn't have...” Fayeth started to say.

“I would be happy to try and make you happy.” Ren said to cut her protest off, then felt utter joy from Rachel.

“We can use Fayeth's room!” Rachel exclaimed, then she, Fayeth, and Jay walked towards the doorway.

Ren and the remaining succubi followed them out of the room and down the hallway. “Go on in, and I'll be right there.” He said to Fayeth when they reached her room. She nodded and took Rachel and Jay into the room and shut the door. Ren turned to Seldanna and smiled. “You first, or should we share?”

“Wh-what?”

“I promised you a week each, didn't I?” Ren asked. “Let's go to your room.”

“But...”

“They won't even notice that I'm spending time with you first.” Ren said and a step up into the air.

Seldanna smiled and gave him a kiss. “I think we would all have more fun sharing.”

“Yes.” Ellaria said.

“I agree.” Chenoa said.

“I can't believe we still get knocked out because we can't handle it when you finish.” Katori said, and that made them all laugh.

“It's a challenge!” Seldanna said and they went to her room. “One we will meet head on!”

“Head on! Ha ha!” The other succubi said and laughed.

For the next 4 weeks, they did their best to improve their attempts at satisfying Ren and not collapsing into unconsciousness when he finished. When their time was up, he gave them each a big kiss and left the room, then he walked over to Fayeth's room and went inside.
