 predicament in the first place?" Doctor asked casually."I'm a creature of habit," Mharia said as she floated off down the hallway."Bloody habits."—"Okay, play it cool. Don't panic. Just be natural and easy going, but not so relaxed that you come off as rude, and definitely don't mention the bees or Pygmies just yet," Delta said to Alpha, who slowly blinked at her as the strange woman continued to hug the wall along the tunnel, stopping every once in a while to remark on the increasing 'Dungeon Alterations.'"Be cool, but relaxed, but polite, but vague," Alpha repeated firmly."Yes, no! Be yourself! You're amazing, but don't panic! Human interaction isn't scary or hard!" Delta said quickly, beginning to puff out her cheeks in a panic.Alpha was getting mixed messages but decided he got the gist of it."Welcome," he called, and the lady, Yattina, turned to him. Her human eye looked dilated, and her magic eye was rolling in her head in excitement."Don't mind me, I was… you offered me a tour, correct? Do I have your word on protection? Do I need to sign in blood somewhere?" the woman asked rapidly, a pen and notebook ready in her hands.Alpha was stuck between the hyperventilating Delta and the intense Yattina. Lucky him…"Why blood?" he asked, confused. He had a gold-grade Ritual level skill, but he didn't know so much why as the hows of it."Blood carries residue of one's core. It can be used as an intrinsic link to that person. That's how contracts of all kinds work!" she gushed."But you don't have a seed," he said, and she wrote that down. Delta gaped at him, and Alpha shrugged. It was true."Seed? Not an incorrect name for it. Dungeons are biological factories and creators, so for them, would it be truer to say it's a seed rather than an expanding core?" she wrote down. Slowly, her pen stopped."So, you know I don't have a core and thus aren't contract-bound. Do you want me to leave? I did technically cheat," she said slowly."I like that kind of cheating, being clever, but not being rude about it! She's even apologetic about it!" Delta waved her hands."It's fine," Alpha translated."Sorry, I didn't introduce myself earlier. Yattina Halenuo Congord Flimina, at your service. I work for Fairplay as the Captain of their 5th research division," she bowed, then looked bothered by something."I didn't bring a second tribute," she muttered."Twenty-four hour period," Delta waved off. Alpha told her not to worry about it and looked uncomfortable as he gestured to the tunnel."Welcome to the grand tour of Delta's second floor. You're currently entering from the outside using Quee's Tunnel to the second floor," he said, voice monotone, but despite his nerves, Yattina was eating it up, writing everything down.She raised her hand, and Alpha felt a weird flush. He was the one that was supposed to be raising his hand for questions.This felt weird."Yes?" he said, and she had her pen poised."How old is this tunnel? What is the etymology of the word 'Quee'? Is it an event or a person?" she questioned."Not that old. Derived from the shortening of 'queen,' and Quee is a person," Alpha said quickly and shuffled down the tunnel."More energy!" Delta encouraged him. Alpha picked up his pace."I didn't mean actual energy! Be enthusiastic!" Delta corrected herself. Enthusiasm, he could do that! For Delta, he could try!He turned, and Yattina nearly fell over her own feet skidding to a stop. They stared at each other, and actual anxiety set into Alpha, and he spoke on autopilot."Delta's Dungeon has over 1000 unique mushrooms and pots," he blurted out."NO!" Delta screeched."Wow," Yattina wrote down."Alpha I don't have…1000… mushrooms," Delta said and trailed off as if she just remembered something that she dearly wished she hadn't."Be right back, don't panic!" she said, panicking as she vanished.---Delta appeared in the Secret Garden between floors. She hadn't been back here since Hero and the Black Hole piggles. She had an upgrade that meant it just did its own thing, and since it was a sort of error room, the system didn't have proper notifications for it.Hero looked up, looking casual as he read a book from the third floor."Mother," he said warmly."Hero, have there been any weird things going on here?" she asked seriously, and the Raid Boss blinked."Define 'weird'?" he asked slowly.A chain of mushrooms slithered past, the head mushrooms dark with a flickering tongue. Its middle looked engorged as a flock of mushrooms made of cheese ran for their lives. The snake went past a vine, and the thing peeled open to spray a mucus-like web covered in spiky mushrooms at every other knot. It dragged the snake into its fanged mouth and turned back to normal.There was a crack of thunder, and little adorable red mushrooms began to fall from the sky. Seconds later, the fungi erupted in needles and exploded like shrapnel grenades. They bounced off Hero without any effect."Is this the worst of it?" Delta asked, licking her lips with abject horror. Hero looked over to the side, where a massive eye stared at Delta. It had roses on its head and a ridge of black Gutrots traveling down its back like a mane.The giant bipedal lizard let out a scream that shook the secret garden."GOD-" Delta screamed as she dove for cover. The thing stomped forward, and the large ridge she thought was a mountain shifted and tore into it, devouring the Rotrex in three bites.The massive dragon covered in Starshrooms glowed like a celestial deity and roared in victory."Weird? Nothing weird here," Hero said, going back to his book."How… do I have a dragon?" she demanded of the system.Critter: Jungle gecko has been bred with Gutrot shroom! 324 repetitions occurred until a rare mutation occurred.Mutated Jungle Monitor was bred with troll samples until a successful result occurred.Deadly Jungle King was crossbred with collected Dragon bones absorbed from defeating Lich Mharia. Only 0.4% chance of a successful subject. Experiment succeeded after 10 tries.Spore Dragon was bred with all possible types of Mushrooms. After testing weakness and strengths, Star Shrooms were selected.Celestial Spore Dragon: Critter?A massive beast of magic and destructive force. Its breath can cause instant spores to form on anyone unlucky enough to be in its range. Its blood is the most toxic thing to exist on this side of the world. If handled correctly, it is also the strongest antidote around.Its only weakness was its limited ranged options, which was corrected with Starlight Mushrooms, which allows it to perform aerial bombardments with lasers from nearly three hundred feet away."I don't think I should know, but how much does this cost in DP for my first purchase?" she asked, voice faint.First creation is free! All future purchases will cost 30,000 DP then all further attempts 500,000 mana."I didn't plan this," she told Hero, who simply turned his book to the next page."I know," he said warmly. She eyed the book and saw it was titled 'how to exercise your dragon.'"Nu can't know about him," she said, burying her face into her hands."It's fine, the dragon's not done cooking," Hero explained, and Delta paused in her groaning. Slowly, she looked up to stare at him. Hero turned another page, nonplussed."Explain," she asked, voice utterly calm.A box appeared.Celestial Spore Dragon is being combined with a Black Hole Piggle. Process will take fourteen more days. Expected result: Death Star Dragon."Why is the cancel button grayed out?" Delta demanded as she jabbed the screen with a scream."A lot of the system is glitching out," Hero said as he looked around. The dragon behind him went back to sleep."I just need to make it do something else so it doesn't keep evolving it further," she said, trying to remain cool as the two high-end raid monsters relaxed nearby.She smashed buttons and dragged icons over and away from the dragon. After a few seconds, a second slot began to tick as she accidentally began a second combination."I can fix this!" she cried.She dragged the screen out as if to cancel it and the screen expanded three more empty slots."I'd quit while you're ahead," Hero warned, but he seemed amused to watch the chaos."If I just fill it with orders, it'll lag and stop," Delta whispered in blind panic.Like, a Mushroom and a spider! A Piggle and a fish! A Piggle and a skeleton! A skeleton and a spider! This should really slow it down! A Blackhole Piggle and Bob! She slid down the screen, sweating and breathing hard."What have I done?" she asked aloud.A new screen popped up.Due to creative design and adding over 30 new monster designs to the system, you have gained a reward!All current and future monster creation times are reduced by 10%!"I am the architect of my own demise," she said with a hollow tone."But you're really good at it," Hero complimented her, and Delta curled into a ball of shame.---Monster designs are now being shared on the Delta Network!---"And this gate was designed to keep people out. Its purpose is to remain closed against any intruder's efforts to open it," Alpha explained, and nearby, Quee drooled on himself as he snored.Yattina was sketching the gate with glee and joy."Amazing!" she gushed. Alpha felt like he was padding an essay."The gate is made of metal, as wood is too easy to break," he went on.At least the science lady was having fun.---"Go to hell! I'm saving my captain," Lim told the jerkoff, Allatory."You're one boy versus an unknown Dungeon. Yattina's choices are her own, but you can't seriously think you can make it further than anyone else?" Allatory said, and Lim looked smug."I did what my captain would do and researched my options. I have a guide," he said and gestured to a boy who yakked the ear off a sour-faced girl with a book clasped to her chest. When the boy looked away, the girl smiled gently at him."The leaderboard members of Team Holy Pot. They agreed to help me… cause I asked," he admitted."Then go. I am not your captain," Allatory said with no emotion."I'll give you permission to take an advance scout pack. Bring her home," he said and turned on his heel to walk back into the Fairplay tents.Lim didn't need his permission for that.
