New Sub Skill!Decipher Level 1 (Beginner 0%)
(Active)
You are able to read the runes that you have the basic knowledge of in other glyphs
Higher skill levels will make it easier to read other runes in glyphs that you don't know

Ren closed the popup and got a message notification. He remembered the system warning him not long ago to expect one. He opened it.

New Message!Hello, Player (Ren).
This is the System Administrator.
We've been aware of your situation and have worked hard to come up with a solution. We believe we've found one. If you would come to the housing district, we can get your situation resolved immediately.
Thank you.

Ren closed the message and sought out Lord Eric. He thanked Eric for the party and gave his apologies that he had to leave early. Ren had urgent business to attend do and needed to go as soon as possible. Eric nodded and Ren left the hall, and then the mansion. He made his way to the housing district and found a new house had been built there. The message didn't say what to do once he got there, though. He wasn't sure if he was supposed to wait for someone else to show up, or if a new popup would appear.

“Master!” Teepo shouted. “From behind!”

Ren turned around and saw two men coming towards him. His first instinct was to run, but if this was what the system administer meant, then he'd see what was happening first. When the two men were close enough, they reached out and grabbed Ren's arms.

“Hey! What're you doing?” Ren shouted.

“Quiet kid. We're just doing our jobs.” One of them said.

“Another one, master!” Teepo shouted.

“This is for the best.” The other man said... and then the third man stabbed Ren in the neck with a needle.

“No!” Ren tried to struggle; but, the men held him tightly... with some difficulty.

“He's only level 3! Hold him still!” One of them said.

“Don't worry, kid. It'll all be over soon.” The man who'd injected him said.

Ren concentrated on the man's face and swore he'd remember who it was that had done this to him. The world faded to black a few moments later.

You have died!Automatic system logout has been inititated.
Countdown to log back in: 05h:59min:40sec

Ren woke up in the real world. “Motherfu-”

“REN HADDON! Don't you dare use that kind of language!” Barbara shrieked.

“Sorry.” Ren said. “It's just...”

“I saw what they did, honey.” Barbara said as she removed the VR headset. Her hands were shaking.

“Please tell me you recorded it!” Ren almost shouted.

“Of course we did. Once you were stuck in there, we had to keep tabs on you to make sure you were okay.” Barbara said.

Ren sighed and leaned back onto the bed... then jumped up like a gopher from it's hole in the ground. “Boy, do I need the bathroom!” He said and ran to use it.

********
Edward Torren was beside himself. “YOU DID WHAT?!?”

“We killed him.” Max said.

Edward sat in his chair and put his head in his hands. “Good God! Why would you do such a thing?”

“We tried several different options. Irregular brain wave patterns, both internal and external, errant code, batched system commands, you name it. We even tried just unplugging the headset. Nothing worked... until one of the tech guys remembered that when you were killed in the game, it automatically logged you out for 6 hours. It seemed like the best option.”

“The best option?” Edward sighed.

“We were running out of time.” Max said. “He just got the 24 hour logoff notice. We've never had anyone stay online that long.”

“Really?”

“Yeah, and even then it was one of the programmers that had put the notice in there as a joke. I mean, come on... anyone at all would need to eat, or use the bathroom, or even just take a break from playing... at some point during the day. Most players even stick to game day time and log off at night.”

Edward sighed again and lifted his head. “Is the new update ready?”

“Yessir. The patch is all ready to go. Once Ren was logged off, we sent out a game wide notification to log off for a system update. Now, at any time, you can open a popup and log off manually... bypassing the normal verbal commands. If somehow you still can't log off, the IFL protocol initiates automatically at the 24 hour limit.”

Edward stood up. “Good.” He looked Max square in the eye. “If you weren't the best programmer on the planet, I'd fire your ass right now.”

Max got a worried look on his face when Edward continued. “As a matter of fact... I want the ones who did it on the street in 10 minutes. Consider them fired as of yesterday. Standard severance package still applies, even though I don't want them to have it. Delete their game accounts and ban their profiles. If you, heaven forbid, had regular players do it... hired or otherwise... then they are to be banned from the game as well.”

Max was about to protest when Edward held up his hand. “If you even think about saying that I'm being too harsh, or going too far, then I'll have to reconsider your position as the best programmer.”

Max kept his mouth shut.

“Let's just hope that there isn't any video of the incident.” Edward said. “I don't want to see your face for a while. When the system is finished with the upgrade, take a day or two off. Goodbye.” Edward said.

Max got up and left the office.

********
