Entering and leaving the World of the Exalted Prima can be done freely. While you are in the real world, your simulacrum’s status will be in a suspended and hidden state. When you return to the Seat of the Exalted Prima, you will do so in the same place you exited from, if possible. In the event that the entry location is blocked or otherwise deemed ineligible as a return location, you will instead appear at the nearest suitable spot.

Warning: Leaving the Seat of the Exalted Prima will result in being unable to return for one year.

It was yet another message that contained a lot of important information. The fact that it spoke of his simulacrum seemed to almost confirm that Jake effectively occupied an avatar of sorts while in the World of the Exalted Prima, and the talk of putting it in a suspended and hidden state seemed to imply that the body inside the simulation was fully persistent.

At least Jake could confirm that it was separate from his true self in some ways, because now that he was back in the real world, he felt as if some of his Primeval Origin Energy had returned to him. In other words, whatever Primeval Origin Energy he’d expended within the simulation had no effect on his real body.

Checking his inventory, he also confirmed that the random sword was back in there. He’d chosen the sword because, quite frankly, he had no idea how many random metal ingots he actually had, while remembering that a sword was far simpler.

Also, before Jake had logged out of the simulation, he’d checked his resources and could now see that whatever mana and stamina he’d spent in the simulated world were back, too. Yeah, that was probably the least surprising thing, considering everything else.

Oh, and he also understood why Miranda said leaving the Seat of the Exalted Prima wasn’t really an option. Being locked out of the system event for a year felt like fully abandoning it, though he naturally had no idea how long it would last. Still, a year was a long time. Neat that the option was there, though, in case someone got simulation sickness or something.

Feeling pretty good about having confirmed some things, Jake didn’t see a need to sit around as he promptly returned to the World of the Exalted Prima, once more greeted with a system message welcoming him back.

He naturally appeared right next to Miranda, and the sword stuck in the ground. Before he could even say anything, she answered the question he was about to ask.

“No, there is no time dilation going on with this simulation. A second here is a second in the real world and vice versa,” she said before looking at him. “Say, do you have any other experiments or things you want to do during this Preparation Phase?”

Jake was a bit caught off-guard by the question as he shook his head. “No, why?”

“In that case, how about pulling out that Soulflame of yours and mass-producing some mana potions? The more the better, to fuel all the NPCs we’ll have powering different formations and defensive structures,” Miranda said with a smile. “I do believe that would be the greatest contribution you can make during this phase. Unless you have your own plans, of course.”

“I really don’t,” Jake said with a sigh. “So I guess it’s time to do some alchemy. Oh, and don’t worry, I brought plenty of materials.”

“Yeah, about that... they won’t work,” Miranda said, shaking her head. “Crafts will fail if you use materials brought from the real world. Equipment and whatnot still work, but raw materials can’t be used. If they could, we wouldn’t have made these lousy metal sheds.”

“Oh,” Jake said, really beginning to feel that in the field of experimenting and discovering things about this simulated world, he’d been severely outdone.
