Overwhelmed by the enormity of everything he’d experienced, Nick pulled up his profile while collecting his thoughts, reading aloud so his friends could follow along.

Contestant Profile: Nicholas ‘Nick’ Henry.

Level: 50.

Tier: 2.

Species: Human of Earth. Child of the Crimson Blight. Grade: C.

Class: Ascendants’ Hope (Unique, Legendary).

Attribute Points Per Level: +5 Strength, Dexterity, Toughness, Magic, Creativity, Mind, Charisma, Psi, and Meta. +5 Free Points.

Attributes

Strength: 25 (93)           Dexterity: 25 (113)        Toughness: 25 (119)

Mind: 25 (135)                Creativity: 25 (96)         Charisma: 25 (58)

Magic: 25 (250)              Psi: 25 (106)                    Meta: 28 (114)

Abilities

Ability Slots: 4 Active. 2 Passive. 1 Free.

Filled Slots: 2 Active. 2 Passive. 0 Free.

Note: Only abilities granted by ability stones and unranked abilities retained from previous classes require slots.

Active Abilities

Arcane Shield (Spell). Rank: 2. Path: Floating Platforms. (You have enough essence to advance the ability to Rank 6 but lack the understanding required to do so).

This spell creates a barrier formed from interwoven layers of force and pure mana. As a result, it can defend against most forms of attack. This barrier can be placed anywhere within 50 feet of the caster’s position but must be manually repositioned with an effort of will. Arcane Shield can bear a substantial amount of weight without sinking.

Force Riposte (Spell, Combat Art). Rank: 1. (You have enough essence to advance the ability to Rank 6 but lack the understanding required to do so).

Absorb the kinetic energy from an incoming blow when it touches your weapon and add it to your next attack. The attack must occur within 1 second or the effect will be lost. (This ability requires both stamina and mana to activate).

Mana Dart (Spell). Rank: 4. Path: Vital Energy Disruption. (You have enough essence to advance the ability to Rank 6 but lack the understanding required to do so).

Creates a magical projectile formed from pure mana that disrupts all forms of vital energy (health, mana, and stamina), turning them against the spell’s target.

Heavy Blow (Combat Art). Rank 1. (You have enough essence to advance the ability to Rank 6 but lack the understanding required to do so).

Heavy Blow consumes stamina to imbue a weapon strike with extra inertia, increasing its destructive potential.

Piercing Ray (Spell). Rank: 2 [token boosted]. Paths: Armor Piercing. Fast Casting. Cluster. (You have enough essence to advance the ability to Rank 6 but lack the understanding required to do so).

Create a fast-moving drill of force mana. The spell forms quickly, offers significant armor penetration, and can split upon contact if desired.

Passive Abilities

Ascendent’s Insight (Spell). Rank: 0.

Ascendant’s Insight allows its wielder to analyze entities that have been corrupted by eldritch forces, including creatures mutated by Taltos and his pantheon—Slaughter, Splendor, Suffering, and Spectacle. It may also offer visions revealing secrets the deities wish to remain hidden.

Enhance Physical Senses (Spell, Combat Art). Rank: 2. Path: Vision and Hearing. (You have enough essence to advance the ability to Rank 6 but lack the understanding required to do so).

Drains mana and stamina to dramatically increase the acuteness of the user’s taste, touch, and smell. Vision and hearing are radically improved.

Force Acceleration (Spell). Rank: 2. Path: Kinetic Projection. (You have enough essence to advance the ability to Rank 6 but lack the understanding required to do so).

Drastically increases the speed of movement in exchange for draining mana at a rapid rate. (This ability may be turned on and off at will.) After deactivating the skill, most of your kinetic energy will continue to travel in the direction you were moving, dramatically reducing your momentum

Force Armor (Spell, Passive, Aura.) Rank: 2 [token boosted]. Paths: Ambient Mana Absorption. Attack Redirection. Air Filtration/Elemental Mana Resistance.

Force Armor generates a thin, incredibly durable layer of force mana over its caster and any allies within range. The forcefield is flexible and will not impede mobility in any way. The aura will wrap itself around its recipients’ armor, clothing, and exposed skin.

The armor will draw a portion of its mana from the environment to reduce its cost. It can redirect incoming attacks to blunt their impact, filter airborne toxins, and is highly resistant to elemental mana. If the spell is shattered, you must pay additional mana to recreate it.

Traits

Class Traits

None. (The trait for this class has been incorporated into your bloodline).

Geneline Traits

Awakened to Magic (Enhanced)

+1 to Magic. 10% increased mana capacity and rate of regeneration.

Blend into the Background (Enhanced)

Blend into the Background generates a potent layer of optical camouflage for up to one hour each day. The effect also masks body heat and reduces sound and scent to a lesser extent.

The trait can be switched on and off at will, and these effects take 5 seconds to reach full power. The trait will not function against a creature that knows exactly where you are.

Gift of Tongues (Enhanced)

You can understand and speak the languages of all intelligent creatures. This trait is inheritable and will be granted to all members of your species in perpetuity.

Versatile (Enhanced)

+1 to all attributes. +1 free ability slot. 15% increased rate of skill improvement.

Bloodline Traits

Bloodline Slots: 21. Open Bloodline Slots: 13.

Blightborn (Superior): Your bloodline trait capacity has tripled. +27 to all attributes.

Dreadeater (Enhanced): You may consume the cores of dreadbeasts and other parasitic entities, gaining a significant portion of their attributes and innate resistances while converting their essence into a form that is compatible with your own.

Innate resistances afforded by Dreadeater: Darkness, Death, Electricity, Fire, Poison, Pressure Changes, Psychic Attacks, Wind, and Venom.

Eldritch Bane: Dramatically increases damage dealt to and decreases damage received from beings native to other planes of existence. It works to a lesser extent against entities mutated by the Mad God and his pantheon.

Force Adept (Enhanced): You receive a significant bonus to mana efficiency and scaling from energetic attributes when casting spells that use force mana, and a modest bonus to those using pure mana. Force Adepts are unable to cast elemental spells and receive a substantial penalty when manipulating elemental-aspected mana in any way.

Mana Manipulation [Non-Elemental]: Increases your sensitivity to non-elemental mana, making it easier to perceive and manipulate. This includes both the mana originating within your core and the ambient mana present in the environment. Mana Manipulation is helpful when creating original spells that are not granted by the System.

Omni Affinity: Increases affinity with all frequencies of mana, increasing their absorption, efficiency, and potency.

Skill Master: Any known skill may be increased without limit. Once per month, you may learn a new skill after receiving instruction and acquiring a basic level of proficiency.

Note: You are eligible to learn a new skill at this time.

Survivor (Enhanced): You require 50% less food, water, oxygen, and sleep.

Professions

Profession Slots: 2. Open Profession Slots: 1.

Trailblazer (Uncommon).

Trailblazers specialize in exploring the multiverse and surviving in uncharted territory, with a lesser emphasis on surveying dangerous biomes. (This Profession is only available to newly-integrated species).

Skills: Foraging. Pathfinding. Size Up (Evaluate Threat). Stealth. Tracking.

Trait: Storm Chaser.

Storm Chaser grants its bearer the power to sense weather patterns, especially dangerous and magical variants. It will help them notice changing conditions early on and may provide some insight into the nature of the danger.

Factions

School of the Ever-Surging Blade (Initiate)

Faction Level: ?. Faction Size: ?. Faction Leader: ?.

Faction Bonus: Sword skill is unlocked with no cap, regardless of class.

The Promethean Coalition “Team Earth” (Founder)

Faction Level: 2. Faction Size: 116 settlements. Faction Leader: Nicholas Henry

Faction Bonus: The Vital Energy Manipulation and Sense Hostility skills are unlocked with a cap of 50, regardless of class.

Titles

First Among Equals

Effect: Receive a 70% bonus to experience, essence, and skill gains acquired from any activity that benefits the members of the Promethean Coalition.

Techniques

Arctic Clarity

You may enter a state of extreme focus at will, shutting out external distractions, intense sensations, and undesirable emotions. This power will not function at full strength if it has been used recently.

Predatory Domain

You can project your killing intent and indominable resolve to assault the minds of your enemies.

Portal Visionary

Your consciousness has a natural propensity to resonate with the energy of the cosmos, which manifests as visions. Other situations beyond experiencing the portal network may trigger this technique.

Skywalker

You can use Arcane Shield and Force Acceleration to reposition and change elevation at will.

Severing Slice

You can combine pure mana and Devour to fire a blade capable of rending spells and stealing vital energy.

Sonic Slice

You can combine Heavy Blow and Force Acceleration to fire force blades at supersonic speed.

Theater of the Mind’s Eye

You can visualize memories, objects, and mental models with a remarkable level of clarity and precision.

Skills

Active Skills

Acrobatics: 25. (Trial of Mastery pending).

Evasion: 40. Sixth Sense: You will feel a faint tingling when an attack is headed your way from outside your field of view. This bonus may not be effective against opponents using advanced concealment techniques.

Foraging: 15.

Light Armor: 20.

Light Shield: 36. Strive for Perfection: A perfectly timed shield block will nullify a portion of the attack’s momentum. A perfectly timed deflection will add impetus to a projectile while making it easier to redirect.

Pathfinding: 11.

Sense Hostility: 22.

Size Up: 48. Discerning Eye: Provides additional details when Sizing Up threats that do not exceed the skill’s capacity.

Stealth: 18.

Sword (Journeyman): 50. (Trial of Mastery pending). Blade-Weaver: Wielding a sword requires significantly less stamina. This includes both the natural drain from moving your body and the cost of activating combat arts.

Throwing: 9.

Tracking: 18.

Vital Energy Manipulation: 25. (Trial of Mastery pending).

Wand: 44. Efficient Operator: Wands that run on mana will require less energy per use and wands that are powered by essence will regain charges at a faster rate.

Inactive Skills (None. Every known skill is active due to Skill Master.)

Inventory (Uncommon and above)

Blightbane (Legendary). Modifications: Living Artifact. Soul Forged. Blade World.

Adventurer’s Coat (Rare). Modifications: Durable. Self-Maintenance. Elemental Resistance. Force Distribution.

Bag of Molding (Rare).

Battlemage Armor (Rare). Modifications: Self-Maintenance. Durability. Flesh Guard. Otherling Resistance.

Battlemage Helm (Rare). Modifications: Self-Maintenance. Durability. Transparency. Mind Guard.

Elixir of Restoration (Rare). Modifications: Soulbound.

Explorer’s Boots (Rare). Modifications: Self-Maintenance. Durability. Elemental Resistance. Sound Dampening. Enhanced Leap.

Wand of Force (Epic). Modifications: Soulbound. Skill Activation (Wand). Living Artifact.

Wand of Healing (Rare). Modifications: Durability.

Arena Dagger (Uncommon). Modifications: Eversharp.

Adventurer’s Toolbelt (Uncommon). Modifications: Self-Maintenance.

Duelist’s Short Sword (Uncommon). Modifications: Eversharp. Self-Maintenance.

Cloak of Thermal Regulation (Uncommon). Modifications: Self-Maintenance.

Caster’s Buckler (Uncommon). Modifications: Durable. Self-Maintenance. Magic Resistance.

Half-Length Scabbard (Uncommon). Modifications: Durable. Self-Maintenance. Quickdraw.

Pugilist’s Gloves (Uncommon). Modifications: Durable. Self-Maintenance.

“Astonishing.” Bandit whistled—eyes growing wider the longer he listened. “Congratulations, Neek. You’ve managed to turbocharge every aspect of your being over the course of this quest. I’m proud to call you my friend.”

“I couldn’t agree more,” Kenji said. “I’m glad all that power was placed in the hands of someone worthy of wielding it.”

Lurk grunted her approval, leaning down to lick Nick’s face. It warmed his heart to know his friends were happy for him, and everyone was thrilled to be reunited after their lengthy ordeal.

They agreed to share the details of their recent growth, including Kenji’s Concept and Epic class, as soon as they began the journey to Earth. That meant it was time to have a chat with Yarren, collect their new bloodlines from the library, and leave this planet in the rear-view mirror.

Bandit went to find the man while Kenji formed a fire pit from rubble and Nick pulled provisions out of his pack, including some bottles of wine Aurora’s residents had gifted him that he’d been saving for a special occasion. If saving an entire planet, evolving, and earning a Legendary class doesn’t count as special, I don’t know what does.

“Pondering something amusing?” Kenji asked when he noticed Nick chuckling to himself.

“Not exactly. I’m still processing how insane any one of today’s events were, let alone everything combined.”

“I hear that. Pass me that bottle while we whip up a feast. After being besieged within the sewers for days, I’m in desperate need of something to take the edge off. Thank god Yarren showed us a cistern of fresh water we could bathe in, or you wouldn’t want to be anywhere near me.”

Nick laughed, taking a long slug from the bottle before handing it over. He switched on Enhance Senses, savoring the complex flavor as the wine washed over his palate, warming his throat on its way to his stomach. He decided to prepare enough food to fill everyone to bursting, including Lurk.

There should be plenty of supplies in the palace. I’m sure they won’t mind if we raid a larder two before heading back to the rift.

While he was cooking, Yarren sat down beside him, smiling as Lurk celebrated her reunion with Kenji and Bandit.

“We didn’t get a chance to speak much earlier. I know you’re in a hurry to return home but allow me to introduce myself and thank you properly. My full name is Yarren ap’ Azara. I was the youngest son of the Azaran dynasty. Now, I’m the only living member of my linage and heir to the empire.”

Nick had never met an emperor before, or an heir presumptive. He strongly suspected it wasn’t appropriate to treat Yarren so casually, but the man didn’t seem to mind, and these were extraordinary circumstances, so he just listened and went with the flow.

“We were caught off-guard when an emissary of the Hollow God spread his touch to my world. Dozens of dreadbeasts appeared overnight, slaughtering thousands within a matter of hours. They managed to kill several extremely powerful people through a series of tragic mishaps, collecting enough essence to evolve at an exponential rate.

“My mother issued an emergency quest then faced the monarchs in battle, killing half before being overwhelmed. She detonated her core rather than letting those abominations feast upon her soul and grow stronger still. Father realized Zora was coming for the library. He set out with my brothers and our remaining elites to activate the emergency wards and ambush the Death of Dreams. They kept the bloodline gems out of its clutches but succumbed to the monarch’s Nightmares.

“I begged them to let me join the battle, but they said I was too weak and left me with the garrison on Mount Firo. When the Storm Lord attacked the fortress, the soldiers locked me in the magehold, using its wards to keep the monarch out while trapping me inside. That’s where your friends entered the story, and I’ve shared the rest already.”

Yarren stopped in front of Nick and stuck out his hand.

“Thank you for putting an end to the dreadbeasts. Because of you, my family’s sacrifice wasn’t in vain, and calamity would have consumed my world if you hadn’t arrived. I’d like to restock your supplies and pile some valuable resources on top of the other rewards. If you can talk that beautiful beast into carrying them, I’ll load her up with a considerable fortune.

“I’d also like to join your alliance. If your settlement builds an expanded portal network, you can journey to this city without crossing through the conduits. I’m sure our people can find countless ways to enrich each other, including commerce and an exchange of knowledge. I’d love to show you my home once we finish rebuilding and throw a party that will go down in history.”

“I’d like that.” Kenji smiled. “I’m sorry for your loss and I’m glad you survived. Thanks for the assist in the sewers. We might not have made it if you hadn’t hit those minions from behind.”

Nick couldn’t see any downside to accepting the offer, and it was clear that his friends had come to trust Yarren while he was away. He gave his permission when a prompt from the System wavered into existence, grinning when he imagined Liz’s surprise.

You have formed an alliance with the Azaran Dynasty.

When everyone had finished eating, Yarren rose to his feet, and Nick stored the leftovers in his backpack.

“Thank you for the delicious meal. I’ll return the favor when you’re ready for a break. I will deactivate the wards then gather the materials I mentioned while you browse the library, consider your options, and decide which bloodlines you want.

“I’d give you all the gems you could carry, but I only have the passcodes to the building’s external defenses. I can’t bypass the internal seals until we locate the gemkeeper or find his remains, so you’ll have to use the keys we gave the System when we issued the emergency quest. Find me if you have any questions. I’ll help any way that I can. I’m familiar with most of the bloodlines.”

With that, Yarren entered the palace and the party made their way to the library.

“Well then.” Bandit leapt onto Nick’s backpack. “Whose ready to add a sexy new trait to their bloodline?”