Mina stumbled into the room. She was pressing her hand to the front of her sweatshirt, right over her heart. “He said it would be soon. He said we were almost there. Did that mean a minute? Two? An hour?”

Neither of them answered her.

She stared at Will’s body. “He wouldn’t have knocked himself out would he? If it wasn’t reallyreallysoon.” She took three breaths so fast that the air whistled between her lips, then she smashed her hand over her chest even harder, her fingers sinking into the thick fabric. “Ihopethisistherightthing. Activate Fragile Atmosphere!”

“Oh my god,” said Riley. Her voice was shaking. “This…this is really happening.”

She pressed a hand to her own chest. “Activate…activate Fragile Atmosphere.”

They both looked at Jacob. There was a layer of something like silver glitter covering their skin.

So that’s what it looks like, Jacob thought. It looks like that when you use your once-in-a-lifetime Contract signing bonus.

“Did you…?” Riley asked.

“I took a device identification offering.” Jacob’s voice sounded distant in his own ears. “Everyone said it was so much more useful. For a Wright.”

A gasp from above drew a portion of Esh-erdi’s attention. He glanced up with one eye. The sound had come from the messenger.

Her only function in this place, at this time, was to maintain a mental connection with another Avowed who still stood under the Contract’s shelter. A much surer form of communication in this environment than technology.

“What is it?” he asked.

“A message,” she said in one of the human languages.

A message when no word is expected, he thought while he watched her face and the demon below him at the same time. The news is never good.

“Relax, damn you?” The words didn’t really go with the questioning tone, and swearing--even in a perplexed whisper--sounded odd coming out of Tuyet’s mouth.

Alden looked toward her curiously.

“Tuyet?” Maricel asked.

“Sorry! I’m not talking to you. I just got a message from my brother. The oldest one. He’s a Sway, and he’s not…completely well. He lives on a residential ship. Sometimes he does strange things. He must be having a difficult time right now. Let me text him back.”

The bus was halfway across the bridge. The traffic was surprisingly heavy for the hour, but it was a Friday night.

“If Lute’s in the tub when we get home,” Lexi was saying to Haoyu, “then I think we should—”

An ear-splitting wail filled the air.

Alden was out of his seat in an instant, ready to move without any clue where or why he should move. And he wasn’t the only one. The siren was hideously loud. Everly, startled from her sleep, screamed and shoved Kon away from her like she thought she was under attack.

He staggered sideways a step and didn’t say anything about it. His eyes were fixed on Lexi, who was standing up from his seat, too.

At the front of the bus, Instructor Klein had also risen.

“What’s the siren for?” Kon asked.

<<That’s not the chaos siren is it?>> Ignacio asked from the front of the bus.

“We have a chaos siren?” Alden demanded.

“Nobody lose your heads,” Klein said. “Notices should be coming in any second. Stay calm.”

Notices appeared. Alden’s nerves were suddenly so bad he could barely make sense of the words the System was sending him even though he could read them fine.

[Disaster Alert: Attack on Matadero]

[Disaster Alert: Low Probability of Chaos Exposure]

Nobody had time to say anything about the two shocking “Disaster Alerts” before a third arrived:

[Disaster Alert: Oceanic Anomalies - Imminent

Avoid seawater. Seek high ground. Beware of possible tsunami.]**************
