“Shut up. I’m focusing. I thought…” Her forehead wrinkled as she concentrated. “I thought it was softer earlier. The magic envelope. There was more of a floaty feeling? I assumed I was just getting used to it, but maybe it really changed. It’s like it’s firmed up.”

“How long ago?” Mina asked.

“Right after we got the message?” Riley opened her eyes. “That was only a few minutes ago. It’s not like we could have gone too far off course in a few minutes.”

“How far is the edge of the blockade from Matadero?” Mina asked. “The timing is… and if he has taken control of the Submerger because he wanted to change our direction, that’s…the cube is the main thing out here. So...so you know...”

Riley swallowed.

Jacob swore. “It doesn’t matter how far anything is from anything, you two! Like I said, we don’t know how fast we’re going. We could be flying toward the place where they kill the demons like a bullet! We have to break into that cabin. Now.” He stared at Riley. “Now.”

For a few seconds, the decision stood there with them like a question. Then she straightened up. “Let’s do it. You—Mina—sway the hell out of Will. I don’t care what you hit him with. Give us an opening! Jacob, you—”

He nodded. His fists clenched.

They ran at the door together.

Here are the things they thought. As they tried. As they realized. That something had gone wrong. That something had ended. That something was about to end.

Riley Lin thought about how when she was a little girl, she’d had a recurring dream about running so fast through the streets of Anesidora that she created a river of wind in her wake. All the litter on the island tumbled through the air after her. And when she stopped at the northern edge of the Apex crescent, it all blew past her and out to sea.

At the end of the dream, she always turned around to see that everyone was astounded by her. Lightning Riley. Cleaning up their home for them every time she went for a jog.

She’d been really young.

Mina Nowak thought about how she’d never been that serious about coming along with these people. It was only a tantrum. A childish misbehavior to prove to herself that she was strong enough and smart enough to misbehave in a major way and not get caught at it.

She hadn’t meant it. She really hadn’t. Deep down, she’d known all along that she would ET back home within a day or two.

Next week, she would be sixteen. Her father had already bought the ingredients for her birthday dinner. She’d seen them in the fridge last night. She couldn’t remember why she hadn’t appreciated them.

Jacob Moore thought about how his mom would wonder why he’d lied to her in the last text message. In so many of them over the past months.

Would she be upset he hadn’t confided in her? Would she wonder if he hadn’t trusted her?

He thought about how his dad had always said the System only chose people who were mentally weak. "If you have a spine," he’d said, "why would it pick you? The Avowed are all desperate for it on some level no matter what they whine about. Damaged. They’ve got a need to be controlled. Why would the Artonans give real power to someone like me who can think for himself?"

A couple of years ago, Jacob had decided those words were crap. He was sure he had forced them out of himself. He was sure they weren’t still inside him, shaping who he was.

Riley thought, I’m going to bust this fucking door down and I’m going to save this fucking ship and I’m going to make it to my friends fighting for our rights. I’m going to do things in this fucking world no matter what my rank is.

Mina thought, Relaxrelaxrelaxrelax. Why won’t the Object Shaper relax? I know it’s not my strongest alter, but it should work. Did I use it too much hiding from them all? Is he really high level? Am I out of magic?

Jacob thought, Not here. Not like this. I don’t know what I want. I’ve never known what I wanted. But I want something different than this.

Riley thought, Kick it harder. More. I’m an Avowed. I’ve got power. Use it all.

Mina thought, If my mind control isn’t working, I’ll punch the door, too. I’ve got stats. He’s only an A. He’s only an A, and he’s trying to close off the whole cabin. There are three of us.

Jacob thought, I’m so glad I couldn’t talk anyone else into coming on this trip with me. They were all right when they told me I was going too far.

There was blood on the door.

Inside the facility the humans called a slaughterhouse—Humorous? Serious? The grivecks would be delighted by the name, but they might take it as an invitation—Esh-erdi was watching the fight below him with both eyes.

He stood on one of the transparent barriers that sealed the top of the containment area. The entity the fighters dealt with now was dangerous enough that Esh would not relax or trade banter with Lind, who stood beside him. But the demon was also simple enough in form and ability that he wouldn’t interfere unless one of the humans needed him.

The two dozen Avowed who'd been chosen approached the battle with one of the methods they had decided on days ago. Six at a time, using their abilities against it in waves. The demon was about the size of the riding terackerin Esh had recently given his nieces. The humans kept shouting “centipede” at it.

The Contract had withdrawn from this one small patch of Earth for now, so Esh and his partner wore translation devices in their ears. The equipment defined the word well enough, but he wasn’t sure why the humans had all named the demon so swiftly and surely based on nothing but its outward appearance. If it shifted its shape, would they start calling it something else? He almost wanted to ask one of the non-combatants who stood on the second barrier above him for an explanation, but his curiosity could wait. Being close to the battle, even as witnesses, was an educational experience for them, too. He should not interfere with their learning.

I wonder how they perceive it?

During his time here, he had heard the ones with some experience describe weak incursives like this to their newer members, but the descriptions still left him uncertain about the depth of their understanding.

Did they have some sense of what this creature was? Did they feel the becoming and unbecoming? The chaos oozed around it as it struggled against them and the richness of this world they lived in.

It had broken through in the spot where such things should break through if they were going to, and it would be gone soon.

The Avowed had been training together. They were dedicated to the task. And the way they used their skills was…workmanlike.

His partner made a pointed noise in the back of her throat. Perhaps his last thought had been gleaned. Or she had anticipated it.

“He is interesting,” she said softly.

She did not indicate the man with a gesture, but he knew which one she meant. The cheerful one who did less damage than most of the others but who did not tire. Avowed Zhang-Demir had a highly self-defensive fighting style, and there was a unity of purpose to the choices he had made for himself since being bound.

His path was simple. Strong. And he was proud of being those things, Esh imagined. Or selfishly hoped.

It was a path that would protect the one who walked it as he followed it so that he lived long enough to see it widen before him.

Now that is truly a hope.

Esh-erdi worried about humans a little more than he wanted to. So many of them. So few Avowed among them.

So similar to us.

What a fearful marvel Earth was.

And what a terrible responsibility.

On the boat, they were screaming—words, profanities, pain. The sounds battered the door in time with their fists and feet; they disappeared without echoes into the magic that held back the weight of the sea.

Fuck this door, thought Riley.

It doesn’t matter if it hurts, thought Jacob. Keep going. Get in there so you can get out of here.

RELAX DAMN YOU, thought Mina, slamming her shoulder into the door, imagining herself reaching out with her mind to scream the words into the face of the man inside.

And then, finally, the door broke open.

They fell through it.

Several miles from Anesidora, aboard a ship that served as a low-security housing facility for Avowed who were best kept away from the larger population for a variety of reasons, a dark-haired man sat alone in a billiards room. He was curled up in a chair, a quilt wrapped around him, and the lights were off save for the one over the large table. A few balls had been left behind on the baize from an unfinished game.

A woman poked her head into the room. “You’re up late, too!” she said. “Do you want to come on a walk around the deck with me?”

He didn’t seem to hear her. His mouth was moving quietly. The word “relax” was the only one loud enough for her to make out.

“Bad night?” the woman said. “You haven’t had one in a while. Do you want some coffee? I don’t make it as well as you.”

She waited for a reply that didn’t come, then said, “I’ll make us both a cup.”

The captain was dead.  Blood from a large head wound saturated the bunk below him. He’d died fast enough that his paperback was still resting on his stomach. As for the thief, his body lay in the kitchenette where blood spray stained the cabinets and a red pool spread out to cover some of the stickers left on the floor.

“Ohnononono.” Mina turned and ran. Her feet pounded the teak deck behind Jacob, then they stopped.

Nowhere to go. Nowhere to hide. It was a small boat.

Jacob's own mind was nearly blank.

Will squatted on the floor beside the Submerger. He was holding the holographic cube sticker he’d picked up earlier in one hand, and with the other, he was pressing the stylus to one of the logograms on the Submerger’s control dial. The metal bead in the tank was sunken still, but it was no longer in the center of the device. Instead it was battering itself against one of the glass walls of its container, like a tiny fish trying to break free of the aquarium that protected it.

“Sorry,” said Will, his eyes looking right through the teens. “You can’t feel it, can you? I can feel it. It’s right there, scratching and scratching at the door. Why does everyone on Earth pretend it isn’t there?”

“Okay,” said Riley, her voice remarkably calm as blood dripped from her hands onto the floor. “Sir. Will. We’re all friends. We all want the same thing. Give me the Submerger. Let’s talk about this.”

He blinked at her for a few seconds, then the stylus that controlled the device lifted into the air and snapped cleanly in two with a tinkling sound. The Shaper didn’t even have to use a gesture to do it.

“No!” Riley shouted, arms lifting as if she wanted to stop what had already happened.

Just outside the cabin door, Mina let out a sob.

“We’re almost there,” Will said, dropping back onto his butt and staring down at the sticker in his hand. “Almost there. Sorry. Sorry about the trip. I changed my mind.”

He picked up something from the floor that Jacob hadn’t noticed because of all the other horrific things there were to notice in the cabin. It was a potion injector, probably taken from the supplies the dead thief had stolen.

Will pressed it to his own neck. He spoke a word in Artonan then slumped to the floor. Unconscious or dead. Did it really matter?

Riley ran over to the Submerger and tried to lift it, but the control dial came with it. “Help me!” she said, fumbling with the broken stylus. “You two! Do something to help me!”

There’s nothing I can do, thought Jacob.

But he found himself dragging his getaway bag out of the corner where he’d stashed it. He reached inside and pulled out one of the few things he’d made as a Wright.

Some components, a spell impression that had to be cast a ridiculous number of times on the lens, a skill that fed it power if the battery ran out—a weak detector flashlight.

Jacob preferred the open complexity of wires, pipes, and circuits. Magically created items functioned in ways he didn’t understand, even if he’d made them himself. So he’d chosen the talents needed to make a magical gadget that might help him inspect nonmagical ones.

Some nonmagical ones anyway. His detector flashlight only worked on objects, and parts of objects, that had been crafted by hand or by spell. It didn’t help at all with mass-produced, machine-made parts.

I doubt the Submerger came from a robotic assembly line.

Jacob held his finger against the switch and pointed the dull red beam at the Submerger. He was surprised his heart could sink further, but it did.

“What is it?” Riley said. “What do you see?”

“Nothing.” The detector was supposed to show you places that were “disordered” on crafted objects. Loose screws, broken enchantments, malfunctions—almost everything had a flaw. They were supposed to turn hot pink under the light. “There’s absolutely nothing.”

And the flashlight was working fine; the snapped stylus was shining brightly. When Jacob swept the beam around the room, he could see all kinds of disorder. Even the thing under the tarp—the thing he was sure was some kind of a Wrightmade bomb—was giving off a small pink glow.

But the Submerger…

“That thing is really well made,” he said. “If it’s got weak points, they’re too small for me to see them. It’ll keep…it’ll keep doing whatever he told it to do. I guess we could try breaking it. But…”

But then we’ll die. If we break it, we die. If he’s set it to crash into Matadero, we die.

“We’ve got powers,” Riley said in a faint voice. “We’ve got powers. There must be something we can do.”

