Well, nothing changed at the very least. I glanced at Fu Qiang, and seeing that he was the manager of this branch of the Myriad Market, I figured he would have some useful information for me.

“I can agree to that. Just get it done as soon as possible.” I pulled out the feather, and he swished his sleever, making a jade box appear out of his bag of holding.

“Contract, first,” I said before putting it in.

“O-of course!” Fu Qiang fiddled a little, but eventually managed to pull out a contract and quickly began scribbling something.

He handed the paper over after a minute… and I still could not read it.

What the fuck do I do now? Fuck!

I was actually getting embarrassed about it. However, I bit my pride and whatever image I had in the manager’s mind, and snapped my fingers. “Xing Ya Chen, read this for me.”

“Huh? Ah- Yes, Ma’am!”

He hurried over and picked up the contract. The terms were fair, and I had nothing to lose. The manager basically agreed to everything that I wanted, and even offered me a few other advantages, such as creating a member card for me free of charge, registering me with their bank for free, and giving me a nice discount.

Clearly, this feather meant a lot more for them than it meant for me. Which worked out in my favor.

I dipped my finger in ink, stamping the bottom of the paper, and Fu Qiang did the same. After placing the feather in the jade box, the manager was full of smiles, and he looked almost eager to throw me out.

However, I wanted to do a few inquiries first.

“I’m not from here, so I hope Manage Fu Qiang can help me with some information?”

He looked a little stupidifed, a little annoyed, but more than anything, he looked respectful and obedient. “Of course, Miss Xiaolan, what would you like to know?”

“Everything about Golden Arch City.”

Of course, he couldn’t tell me everything, but I got the main gist of it. Besides being the most powerful in terms of military might and economic power, Golden Arch City was also the biggest and most dominant city.

It also had a few things only it could produce, such as Spirit Bamboo and Spirit Bamboo Flowers, as well as the Spirit Bamboo Spider and its silk. All of those things sold for a very high price almost anywhere you went, even outside this area.

As a result, they had connections with other, similarly powerful, outside forces. The City Lord, Sheng Yi Yan, had a big family. He was one of five sons to compete for the seat of City Lord, and in the end, he won via great martial strength and showed the might of his intelligence by earning a profit of one hundred and fifty times the initial investment.

That was a test given by his father to all the heirs, and whoever had the most return on investment would win. Strength was only secondary.

His four brothers had then each been given a corner of the city to rule over, and thus the city was split into four factions, with Sheng Yi Yan ruling over all of them.

Great… that doesn’t tell me much.

“Which of those brothers has a Core Formation stage cultivation?”

“Err… all of them, Miss Fa Xiaolan.”

I sighed, feeling a headache coming again. “And which one of them has peak Core Formation cultivation?”

“Err… all of them, Miss Fa Xiaolan.”

I almost wanted to blow up then and there. I figured that I would be able to learn something about the guy wanting to kill me, but it turned out be a pain in the ass.

“Alright, let me do this some other way. How many cultivators in Golden Arch City have peak Core Formation cultivation?”

“Err… I am not sure I can say. It’s a big city with a lot of powerful people. If I had to guess, I would say at least three hundred?”

I stood up. That was it, I was fed up, angry, and hungry. I wanted to get my refinement materials and leave.

“Miss Fa Xiaolan, wait!” Fu Qiang said just as I turned toward the door. “Our information pavilion may know what you’re looking for. You can go there and check. I will inform them not to charge you. Is that alright?”

I let out an audible sigh and turned to Fu Qiang, thanking him with a faint bow, then leaving.

Xing Ya Chen followed after me at the behest of the manager, and the two of us walked hurriedly toward the information pavilion.

I wasn’t sure where it was, so I ended up running in circles a few times before giving up and asking Xing Ya Chen to lead the way. He did so eagerly, and before I knew it, it was in front of me.

The staff smiled upon seeing me, and one of them led me toward some inner room. It was a little too bright for comfort, but I didn’t mind too much. I sat down on the provided chair, and no sooner than I did, a voice sounded out around me.

“What are you seeking?”

“I want to know the name of a man.”

“What details do you have?”

I then told the voice everything I knew. He was a man affiliated with Golden Arch City and was the uncle of two young men with the surname Meng. One of them was named Meng Bai; as for the other, I forgot to look at the kill notification, so I couldn’t say for sure.

But if they were brothers, they should have the same surname. That much should be enough, though.

“Please wait a moment…”

I waited for more than a moment, though. About five minutes, to be exact. Then, a jade slip flew toward me through the wall, and I grabbed it. It felt cold to the touch, and I hesitated between using my own Qi or asking for a spirit stone.

In the end, I could only ask for a spirit stone. I was too scared to use my own Qi for anything, as the less I had, the more the Demonic Qi could gain in my dantian.

The voice didn’t inquire about my strange request and sent a low-grade spirit stone through the wall as well. I swiftly used it to access the information inside the jade slip.

The two fuckers weren’t lying when they said their father was a powerful man. His name was Meng Mao, and he was indeed the City Lord’s uncle. Despite that title, he wasn’t that old, but had sired a lot of sons and daughters.

The two Meng brothers I killed were two of many he had, and they’d been exiled from the city due to their behaviour. I didn’t know if every member of the Meng clan had that sort of tracking protection on them, or if only the two of them did. From the way it worked, it seemed likely that only the two of them did, as it activated when both corpses were next to one another.

Anyway, he was strong, and in more ways than just cultivation base. He basically owned part of the city, though unofficially. Trade routes, shops, and other such areas were under his protection, aka he was getting paid for not attacking them by the city lord’s brothers, his own nephews.

That was a crazy business scheme… and such a crafty man had now set its target on me. I opened his page just to check, and sure enough, it updated.

[Name:Meng Mao]

[Affiliation: Golden Arch City]

[Age: 45]

[Titles: ???]

[Lvl: ???]

[Cultivation: Core Formation(Peak)]

[Enmity Level: Mild]

[Relationship: Unknown]

[Status: Alive]

He did not have any titles, and it seemed that the level was also hard to decipher. Thinking about it, none of the cultivators ever talked about the system. Was it something humans didn’t have access to? Mother knew about the system, and though I didn’t know if other Spirit Beasts knew about it, they were at least aware of it.

The little koi fish knew about it as well, as did the jade serpents. It had to be true then that humans didn’t know about System. Was it also why their levels were so low? Or were they outside of the system, and System simply translated their ‘level’ for me to understand?

So many questions, so few answers…

But I’d gotten what I wanted, so it was time for me to head out. Xing Ya Chen was waiting for me at the entrance and led the way back to the Heavenly Pill Pavilion. There, he handed me my cauldron alongside enough materials to attempt ten batches of pills.

He insisted on giving me a bag of holding… and in the end, I had to accept it, alongside a few spirit stones. I wasn’t about to waste my Qi opening bags of holding.

Though he was a little skimpy and only gave me a few low-grade ones. In all fairness, who could have possibly expected anyone to be a cultivator and not be able to use their Qi? It was a little absurd.

With the bag of holding on my hip, I asked Xing Ya Chen about where I could rent a cultivation cave, but he could only shake his head.

“There aren’t any cultivation caves here…” He said with disappointment. Hearing that, I could only shake my head.

I said goodbye— giving him a slight wave and a faint smile— and left the Myriad Market, and soon, the village.

After getting far away enough, I undid Perfect Disguise and took flight toward my cave, where I knew I could refine pills in peace. My clothes? Why, I hid them in a tree somewhere.

Soon enough, the cave mouth appeared on the horizon, and before long, I entered. It was a little cold, but it would do.

I used the spirit stones to open the bag of holding and took out everything I needed, and was about to get to work…

It was then that a shiver ran down my spine, and I looked backward, only to be greeted by a pair of dark green eyes.
