“What about her class? She knew how to work with us?”
We don’t know you. He tried not to be reproachful. It was Beilmark who stood straighter and spoke, a hint reprovingly.
“I ran for Jeiss. We have to have one member of the Watch on the Council. Raekea and I talked it out. She has good prospects with Pelt’s blacksmithing. She had to choose between her classes. [Councilwoman] or [Armorer]. She told me to give my best shot, and if I hated it, she’d run in the next election.”
Lism remembered how the last Council election had seen some underhandedness that meant Jeiss had won when it could have been Beilmark. At the time, the two Senior Guard partners had suffered a rift because of it.
Now? Beilmark was here. There was some poetry to it. Lism swallowed any comments he might have had and held out a claw.
“Of course, Councilwoman. Forgive me. I’m delighted to have you with us.”
She smiled at him and took his claw. No hard feelings, he hoped. He’d make it up to her, and when Alonna and Elirr greeted Beilmark, it was with a hug from both. The traditionalists had to nod at Beilmark grudgingly. Everyone knew the Senior Guardswoman, but when she stood with Lism, Alonna, and Elirr, Beilmark made it clear whose side she was on.
That made the numbers three and four, but there were thirteen seats up for grabs. Lism turned, worried.
“Where’s Krshia?”
She had to be running all the way from her home on the east side, of course. Alonna was eying the new Council, and another person stepped onto their side. A Gnoll.
Four and four. Equal numbers between Lism’s side and theirs. Then another—Lism’s heart sank.
Five and four. Not that all of them were united, but he knew four were old Council, old-Liscor traditionalists. Then came an independent candidate, the first to not belong to either side.
Guildmaster Okr. Head of the Mason’s Guild—the Gnoll who’d been building great parts of the city. He’d swept his race, then. He hadn’t tied himself to Lism’s Council, but he was a Gnoll.
Then again, there was at least one Gnoll among the ‘traditionalists’. Traitor. But Okr might…Lism’s head was buzzing. He just turned his head as Beilmark and Elirr congratulated Okr. Krshia. So long as they had her…
Another Human walked forwards. A man that Lism knew, but he’d been so caught up in his own fight that he’d forgotten—
Timbor Parithad, the owner of the Drunken Gnoll, had food in a basket, and he shared it around, smiling. He shook everyone’s hand, and Lism thought—The Wandering Inn. An ally?
He couldn’t read Timbor, but maybe—
It was five, two, and four, now. The traditionalists weren’t as happy as they were pretending to be. But if they got the others, then Lism’s progressive Council would be stalemated.
But the last two candidates…a Drake walked down the street as Lism stood on his tiptoes.
“I’ll go see Krshia. They might be not letting her get to us.”
“Lism—”
He could just imagine the Gnolls throwing a party in the streets. Howling. But Alonna just pointed, and he turned.
‘Mama’ Vala, the Drake who’d challenged Krshia for her district, stepped into line with the traditionalists. She was smiling so broadly he didn’t get it.
Why was she here? Krshia—Krshia was definitely coming. It was all a mistake.
“I’m the one who got her into this mess. She’s the Gnoll who fought at the Meeting of Tribes. The one who took Silverfangs here in the first place. If anyone should have won—”
Elirr was staring past Lism, and Beilmark was glaring at the old traditionalists celebrating loudly. Timbor simply stood there, munching on a breakfast sandwich. Then the final Councilmember of new Liscor arrived.
He parted the crowd gathering for the council gently. And the rain falling on them stopped. It ceased on the street he walked, across the city. He leaned on the staff he carried, and he did not smile. Not fully. It seemed as though a familiar and great weight was placed upon his shoulders, but one he had wanted.
Lord Mireden Raithland made the traditionalists stop celebrating. They stared up at him, and he raised one hand.
“Greetings, all. I apologize for my late arrival. I went to speak to the former Councilmember, Krshia Silverfang. I regret she is not part of this Council. But I have every faith that she will rise higher without us to hold her back.”
His voice was loud, carrying, and Lism just stared at him. It wasn’t fair. He felt that. It wasn’t fair. He’d gotten away with it, won by bluster and talk, and the woman who really belonged here…
Mireden’s eyes met his, and he nodded, calm. As if to say this is how it is. Then he focused on the current Council.
“I—good morning. Well then, shall we get started? Much to do, and I think we have plenty to discuss.”
Nertoyll was counting the Council seats. He clearly put Mireden with the independents and seemed to think he had a chance. Certainly, this Council was no longer an easy majority. Lism just trailed into the building, for once without words. He almost turned back.
“Get started without me. I’ll—I need to talk to her.”
Beilmark caught his arm.
“Give her a moment, Lism.”
“But I have to apologize.”
He pulled, and she hesitated, but before Lism could turn away—he felt so empty. Like this victory had all turned to ash. He’d trade his new class, the ring, to rewind time to a week ago. But then…
“Ah, Councilmembers. Good morning to you. I apologize, but we did not know when you would be up.”
Lism…paused. Someone was in the City Hall. Well, of course. The staff worked when the bigwigs slept. But someone other than the staff was here. Waiting before the stairs leading up to the council room.
“Who—what are th—what is the meaning of this?”
The traditionalists had come to a stop. The new Councilmembers had halted too, with mixes of alarm, curiosity, and, in Timbor’s case, sudden interest. It was only Lord Mireden who smiled.
Lism turned and blinked. For there, standing in front of him, were a pair of…
“Garry? Silveran?”
The two Antinium nodded at him, and it was Silveran, or rather, Silverstache who spoke.
“I reckon it’s mighty impolite to be here, but I thought it’d be good t’have some words. If we might address the Council?”
“This is all highly irregular. It’s our first day, and we will hear all citizens, of course, but—”
Councilmember Vala was standing behind the others, visibly distressed at the sight of Antinium. Especially these two.
Garry was brolic, but even Silverstache appeared…different. He’d levelled up in confidence, in authority, and indeed, even his accent. They no longer looked like ordinary Antinium, and Silverstache took off a hat.
“Pardon me, ma’am—and excuse my injuries. Terrible accident of racism on the streets. ‘Spart of why we wanted to talk to you, you see.”
His head was all bandaged up. The Council all stared, and Lism began to feel something. Just like last time—he cast around for Krshia. But then Garry spoke.
“At your earliest convenience will do, Councilmembers. It is a matter of importance, however, and I regret I cannot open my bakery until we meet, so the sooner the better.”
“The same for Silveran’s Cleaners.”
The two highly important, highly popular Antinium-led businesses…Lism stepped forwards.
“Naturally, the Council will hear you.”
“You’re not in charge, Lism!”
Nertoyll blazed at Lism instantly, but Lism just held up his claws.
“Oh, we’ll have to vote on that, of course, but we couldn’t hold up both businesses, surely? On what grounds are you asking for an audience, Cleaner Silverstache? Baker Garry? As individuals—there are plenty of petitions.”
All by the books. But Baker Garry just smiled in a way the Walled Cities had learned to fear.
“Ah, I see the misapprehension. We are not here as individuals, Councilmembers. Rather, Silveran and I are petitioning the Council as two members of our Guilds. Silveran is, of course, the Guildmaster of the Cleaner’s Guild.”
A pause. And Lism’s heart leapt. One of the traditionalists spoke slowly.
“We don’t…have a Cleaner’s Guild.”
“You did not. But the paperwork was filled in, and enough representatives filed paperwork. You must have not paid attention. I myself, of course, am now Guildmaster of the Baker’s Guild. I won the election last night.”
Baker Garry cheerfully tipped his hat at them. Silverstache went on.
“That’s right. So we’re here on behalf of some other Guilds. Driver’s Guild. Butcher’s Guild—you can ask them, but we’re friendly with several. We’d like to talk about any laws you were all thinkin’ of passing. Just to put in our voices.”
“And if we chose to pass laws that go against your very respectful voices?”
That came from Lord Mireden, who leaned on his staff, smiling into his beard. Garry scratched his head.
“I am sure this Council will do as it must. We simply represent a good number of workers who will have to decide what we will do in response to any laws the Council passes. You are our elected representatives. And we are those who bake, clean, or perform other services for the city. Thank you for hearing us out. I have some breakfast scones and coffee if you would like to partake.”
The Council peered at each other, and the Antinium gestured to the stairs. And Lism felt it. He began to walk upstairs after Timbor as the man moved first. Mireden was next.
“I believe we should table discussion of any citywide ordinances until after we hear our unions—I mean, Guilds—out. I would also like to request a meeting to discuss a system of ranks.”
Lism’s head swung around, and Lord Mireden smiled at the suspicious looks the other Councilmembers gave him. His eye found Lism, Beilmark, and a few others like Okr and even Timbor, who twitched, and he murmured into his beard.
“…With appropriate parties.”
“You know what that was?”
“Indeed, I do. We are premature in this lifetime, but call it a gift from my home. I’m glad; I have earned it. We have.”
So saying, Mireden strode up the steps, and Lism was presented with another mystery he tied to The Wandering Inn, and he recalled those words. What might they do? Did they have to give rewards? Could they? Or would they just decide and let the voice of levels itself…?
Wondrous. Momentous. He saw that chance again, that opportunity waiting for him like the most lucrative of sales, as the Council headed upwards. But Lism kept glancing over his shoulder.
Krshia…
So his city changed. For the better, but today? Lism knew one thing he regretted losing.
 
——
 
Krshia Silverfang sat on her bed as word spread. The new Council was in. Things would be different. But for a moment, she wiped at her face.
Her fur was wet. She cried for a bit, because it hurt.
Her class was gone. Changed back to [Royal Shopkeeper]. Her position was gone, too. Everything she’d worked for—
No, not everything.
But it felt like coming back to her burnt-down stall.
“What now? What do I do now?”
She didn’t know. She only knew she was tired and the worst had happened. So she cried until someone knocked at her door. It was one of her neighbors and the Silverfangs. And then Krshia realized someone was calling her, and when she answered the scrying orb, her sister was there. So Krshia smiled, cried, and hugged people.
Tomorrow, she’d search for a vision of the future. Today, she mourned what might have been.
 
 
——
 
It was all going to change. Again.
But this time, actually change. One didn’t dig up a Walled City without consequences. People loved to talk about ‘new eras’. The King of Destruction had been…
No, he had been serious. But it had been stupid to call him a change in the world. His empire had collapsed with his will.
This was the true marker of an era. No one man, but an inevitability. The Gnolls were right, as always.
The new era was coming like a wave, and nothing in this world could stop it. It would sweep across nations and leave the world different forever.
It was a terrible, horrifying thing. But if there were anything that gave Karsaeu-Dequoa hope, it was that. She did not hope after so long. Her chains were part of her being.
But in a new era, the current of change might rip asunder even established powers and grant her, if not freedom, then respite.
That was all. She finished reporting to her master on all she had seen. He was an unhappy man. Mostly because his Assassin’s Guild was being hunted and he’d been bested in some way. She had no love for the Circle of Thorns, or even his competitors. If anything, him suffering hurt her; she had to drive more passengers and his [Assassins] across Izril.
Work harder. At the same time, she didn’t wish for his success.
That was what it was to be a slave. So yes, she acknowledged the changing era, but wished for it, like someone called for the meteor from the heavens. Let it all burn.
She cared little for the Wall Lord’s alliance with House Terland. House Terland held a different kind of slave, and their suffering was as long as Djinnis, if different.
The driver of the Unmarked Coach lit a pipe made of her own essence. In it, she smoked some dirt and grass and cowpat manure since she was too poor to even afford the smallest amount of tobacco. What was foul to other people was just another kind of air to her. Smoke.
It kept people from being too interested in her if she smelled of it, anyways. She gazed at the old city she reckoned she remembered. A tired being who hadn’t really been part of it. Just the driver.
Then her head snapped up. And she turned. A man was walking towards her.
“Hey, you! Woman!”
Lord Gorthes Reinhart was still drunk and flushed on his own heroics. His surviving bodyguards and servants, a mix of bullies and lickspittles, followed him. He was a huge man and jerked a thumb at his chest.
Karsaeu didn’t answer. Lord Gorthes approached.
“Your damn carriage ran mine off the road. No one gets in my way. I am Lord Gorthes Reinhart. I heard you’re some famous [Driver] I don’t know about. Popped up while I was off the road, eh? Well, well, well.”
He sauntered closer with some of his bodyguards. Karsaeu flicked some ash out of her pipe. She ignored him as some Silverfang Gnolls who’d camped close to the coach poked their heads out of their yurts. They looked around, thinking to stop the impending trouble. But Lord Gorthes just strode over.
“Not gonna run? Good. Let’s get this over with.”
He put a hand on her shoulder.
Karsaeu smiled.
 
——
 
After a while, one of the Silverfang Gnolls ran to get someone in charge. The rest just watched. So did Lord Gorthes’ staff.
Well, the servants. Not the [Bodyguards]. They’d all tried to swing on Karsaeu or pull her off Lord Gorthes, so they’d been included in her self-defense clauses.
