All of them ran. Well, Osthia flew for it. She winged upwards and saw Boyd and Georgie sprinting behind her. The light-soldiers didn’t run. They marched forwards, and Osthia thought that was a good thing, easy to outrun. Then she saw their mouths opening, and one began to fire a glowing spear—
Osthia swooped them and sprayed the lot with acid. It…didn’t seem to do anything to the light-soldiers, but they regarded her, and she flew higher. Boyd and Georgie, uninhibited by others, were sprinting for it with the speed only a Sister of Chell and Advance Miner could muster. But above them…Osthia gained altitude, her wounded wings screaming, and murmured.
“Oh no.”
The wave of sludge monsters was almost gone. She had assumed that they had been the infestation that had ended Naamreles, but in fact, they were practically all vaporized already. Literally. Even the giant eel-thing was lying in pieces.
The Drake constructs were too numerous, too efficient. But that begged the question of why those filth-monsters had even been allowed to…?
The problem was now the legions of identical Drakes climbing higher. They might not have been thinking beings, but whomever had made them wasn’t stupid.
“Foreign non-citizens. You are all under arrest. Lay down your weapons. No army has been authorized within the City of Purity’s aegis. Surrender or be destroyed.”
Someone up top, Shellc perhaps, had realized the same thing as Osthia. The light-soldiers were attacking Salazsar’s [Soldiers]! Arrows were bouncing off their hard light-bodies, and they were firing arrows up, spitting spears, slashing—the Rubirel Guard were holding one of the exits to the dig site, and their armor was resisting the blades of the copies of Vnariss. For now.
“Major Shellc! That Drake claimed to be regiment-strength. It scans you, and if you’re not genetically viable or something, it’s happy to kill you!”
“Acknowledged, Captain. Get your people out of there. Hurry! Something else is coming up. Every [Mage] can feel it.”
Major Shellc’s voice was terse, and Osthia whirled. She saw Boyd sprinting up to join the small squad. Asrira’s Bitches (working name) were clustered together. Osthia almost dive-bombed them as her wings gave out.
“Captain, what the heck are those? We’re not getting paid for—”
Marrygold was aiming a hand crossbow down into the excavation site. Georgie and Boyd sprinted past the Rubirel Guard, who hauled them up as Osthia gasped.
“Just get ready. Something’s coming. We need to evacuate.”
“Evacuate? They did the job of killing those damn monsters for us. Can’t we identify ourselves or something? They’re not that hostile—”
That was Advisor Merls. Osthia and Boyd glanced at each other, and the [Wing Captain] shook her head.
“They’re unthinking automatons from another age, and they believe the Putrid One’s around! Fall back! Where’s Shellc?”
She was glad to see he was pulling the [Miners] back, but it was still slow. They were jogging across the ground—but he didn’t have enough [Soldiers].
Georgie was looking around for his team. He saw Maiss and the miners of his squad jogging towards the camp.
“Those idiots—just run! Maiss, Maiss, not that way—”
Osthia concurred. They had to launch a full evacuation. She was arguing that to Merls, who wanted to try to parlay with the light-soldiers, when her scales prickled. The shouting from below turned to screams.
Then it was light. And the final, or as Tolveilouka would have said, real guardians of the City of Light showed themselves.
 
——
 
It was not like the copy of Vnariss. He walked and spoke with the pre-programmed lines they’d used after taking his personality and form. This was something else, albeit still seeming made of light.
A brighter light. Its form was indistinct, if you could even look at it without being blinded. But when Captain Osthia shielded her eyes, she saw the vague outline.
It looked like a being with a long tail, neck spines, and claws. A Drake.
With wings.
The Purifier flew upwards in a flash of light, and when it hovered in the air, she saw a twin-halo hovering above its head. Its wings cast a nimbus of light around it that seemed to purify the very air, removing the permanent scent of cattle-dung. It had no eyes she could see, nor features.
The Purifier rotated slowly. Spotted the remains of one of the sludge monsters that the Rubirel Guard had destroyed. It flew downwards, ignoring Merls shouting at it, the Rubirel Guard backing up, weapons raised.
The Purifier was…big. It was sixteen feet tall. It moved faster than Osthia through the air, and when it pointed down, she knew it had magic. Because it ‘spoke’ with a voice as dispassionate and monotonous as what you thought a Golem’s voice would be.
It said:
“[Mass Cleanse].”
The filth on the ground, the Rubirel Guard’s armor, and even the dirt on Osthia’s scales from the fighting—some blood from her wounds that had broken open—all vanished.
She tingled. And she swore the Purifier grew slightly bigger. It turned.
“{Filth detected. Cleansing.}”
It fired the spell around it, cleaning everything—even sucking some of the dirt up and leaving bare, polished stone around it. Then it seemed to detect the Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans surrounding it. The Purifier stared down.
“{Non-citizens in noncompliance. Genetic viability 33%.}”
It gazed down at Merls. He raised his claws.
“I am from Salazsar. In the name of the City of G—”
The Purifier drew a sword.
“{Eradicating}.”
It slashed through Merls, hit one of the Rubirel Guard who had tried to block the blow, which tossed Maisy across the ground. The cut was bloodless. Merls’ torso and body collapsed, smoking, and the Purifier studied the corpse.
“[Mass Cleanse]. {Eradicating}.”
It hit one of the Rubirel Guard next, and the blade didn’t shear through the armor—so the Purifier grabbed the Rubirel Guard up and squeezed. The armor shook as the Drake writhed, and Osthia slashed at the Purifier’s legs with the Sisters of Chell.
Unlike the light-soldiers, her weapons bounced off its ‘flesh’. And then she heard the armor above her screaming a warning before the enchantments gave—
The crunch was followed by that voice.
“[Mass Cleanse].”
A bloodless corpse dropped. The Purifier turned, and a bolt of lightning struck it in the head. For a second, it wavered. Then continued. Osthia slashed into its neck, and the Purifier caught her. Inspected her. She wriggled, waiting for it to crush—
It put her on the ground. Then a hand grabbed Osthia.
“Non-citizen. You are under arrest pending—”
The copies of Vnariss. They were coming up. Dozens of light-soldiers, and more by the second. They were speaking.
“A Purifier has been summoned. Witness the City of Purity’s greatest protectors.”
“Resist and you will be cleansed.”
“Analyzing non-citizens for genetic viability…”
Osthia tore her arm free and elbowed the construct holding her in the face. It did virtually nothing, but she managed to leg-sweep it and flew upwards.
“Fall back! Fall back—Sisters of Chell! On me! Hold them back!”
She flew straight at the Purifier again and saw her squad attacking the light-soldiers. They were outmatched; the Purifier was glancing around for the lightning bolt’s sender. It caught sight of a [Mage]. Opened its mouth.
The ray of light burned through the [Mage]’s barrier spells and scorched a six-foot wide hole in the ground. Osthia slashed across the Purifier’s face and her blade didn’t leave a mark. She saw it turning, reaching up for her, gently even, like someone trying to catch a butterfly it didn’t want to hurt.
Could she distract it? Shellc was shouting at her to retreat. Osthia was peering down at her squad. Not them. She couldn’t let them—
She had hopes of doing something. Right up until the ground exploded in the dig site. The second Purifier stood, wings unfurling.
It was nearly twice as big as the last one. When it flew upwards, it was slowly. But with a terrible momentum to it. Osthia gazed downwards and then saw a claw breaking the ground. And she realized there was another Purifier down there too.
One so big it was having to squeeze through the tunnels. The two Purifiers landed on the top of the dig site, and both had swords. They were chopping anyone not ‘genetically viable’ into pieces.
That—that was the only reason everyone wasn’t dead. The light-soldiers and Purifiers would slow before each [Soldier] and [Miner] they came across. The Purifiers seemed to be able to scan in less than half a second—the light-soldiers required a few seconds, and if their targets were moving, they had to re-scan.
One of the Purifiers was pursuing a band of Silverfang Gnolls. One of the mining teams—it had its sword raised, and it towered over the tiny Gnolls. It ignored Osthia trying to stab through its brain—her sword was doing nothing! She needed Georgie’s pick! Where was he? She couldn’t leave a mark with anything, and she saw the [Mages]’ magic was just as useless on the Purifiers.
The Purifier bent and picked up one of the Gnolls who’d stopped to buy the others time. He lashed out at its hand, shouting Skills. It was the huge Ekhtouch Gnoll, the [Miner].
Thamert. He froze as the Purifier spoke.
“{Analysis. Genetic viability 89.25%. Congratulations, Gnoll. You are viable for Class 1 citizenship.}”
It put him down. Thamert staggered and seemed bewildered and mildly outraged. An Ekhtouch Gnoll wasn’t even…?
No one else was passing the tests if Osthia was barely 80%. How many Drakes were even Oldblood, let alone both kinds like Osthia? Now she saw it.
City of Purity. The Purifiers were still casting [Mass Cleanse]. In fact, the Purifier that had grabbed Thamert began to attack the Gnolls, then looked down.
“{Excrement. Cow. Removing…} [Mass Cleanse].”
It pointed at a patch of ground and removed the manure. Paused. Pointed.
“[Mass Cleanse]. [Mass Cleanse]. {Marking for further cleaning.}”
It had to do it twice more before it was satisfied. Then it took two lumbering steps after the Gnolls. Stopped.
“{Excrement. Cow. Insect nest. Ant. Removing…}”
Osthia caught her breath at last as she saw the second Purifier slow. The Purifiers might be higher-grade magic, but they were as stupid as, well, Golems. They were obsessively cleaning around the dig site, and she remembered the mining tunnels. Even the mines had been paved. Was the City of Purity supposed to all be like that?
But this was no stone city, this was a literal cow pasture. She grinned as she saw the two Purifiers stall out. Right up until she realized that the light-soldiers weren’t slowing. They were marching in ranks, coming forwards—and then some idiot decided to hit them with a lightning bolt. The bolt blew apart a group of light-soldiers—and a Purifier’s head snapped up. It abandoned cleaning and raised its sword.
A half-Giant made of light, who spat a ray of light. Osthia looked around and saw her squad fleeing its footsteps. It went to stomp, and the Sisters of Chell dove aside. Osthia cried out.
“Run! Run, you idiots!”
She’d meant for them to buy a second and disengage! But they’d kept fighting. Now, the Purifier’s head swung down with slow wrath. Osthia tried to put herself in the path of it as the third Purifier’s head rose over the excavation pit. Not again.
Had they bought anyone time?
 
——
 
Desperate Sisters of Chell being lifted in the Purifier’s grasp. One of the Sisters was pinned by a Drake light-construct because she could be a Class 2 citizen.
Boyd saw the Purifier taking Marrygold higher. The Sister screaming. Shouting at Boyd to run as Osthia hacked at the arm. The [Brave Knife] raised a backup blade.
She croaked as she saw the hand begin to tighten.
“[Heroic Stab].”
She plunged the tip of her dagger into the Purifier’s clawed foot. That was how big it was. Her knife actually pierced the glowing light-flesh, the first time anyone had wounded the damn thing. With the equivalent of a splinter’s amount of damage.
Boyd saw the Purifier pause, glance down at her, and she was backing up, already running. Tears in her eyes. But she kept watching Marrygold. To commit that face to Osthia’s memorial, if Boyd lived. If anyone lived.
The Purifier opened its mouth, aimed at Boyd, and exploded.
Its body detonated outwards in a flash of light, and then something hit Boyd. Tossed her through the air, screaming and pinwheeling, until Osthia caught her.
“I got you. I got—”
They landed, tumbling, and Osthia re-broke her wings and lay there, cursing. Then pushed herself up.
“Run! R—”
She turned, and Boyd glanced around. They saw Marrygold, Sadmile, the other members of her squad…sitting or lying in the grass. Staring around.
“You killed it? With a stab?”
She did? Boyd couldn’t believe it. It had popped! Like an overinflated pig bladder or water flask! She was pretty sure it wasn’t supp—
Then the smell hit her. Boyd stared down at something on her body and vomited. Osthia drew a breath and puked.
“What is—”
It was all over them. Something black and so foul that it ruined Boyd’s sense of smell in a moment. She heaved again, and that was a pleasant experience to the taste of it on her tongue. She hadn’t even gotten it in her mouth. The rest of the Sisters were even worse! It was, wait—
“Was that inside the Purifier-thing?”
Boyd turned, disbelieving, and saw the world’s largest cowpat still slopping down. Where the Purifier’s body had been—there was just compacted filth spreading outwards. The Sisters leapt up as the light-soldiers spoke.
“Purifier down. Sending for reinforcements.”
“Unacceptable levels of filth detected. Calling for emergency Purifiers.”
“Warning. Monster germination detected.”
—In the same moment, the sludge rippled, and some of it shot up. An eyestalk with a glowing magicore eye swivelled around, then a slug seemed to grow and slither out of the muck. A monster?
A filth-monster, like the ones that had just attacked the dig site. It made it three feet before a dozen light-spears skewered it. Another piece of the filth began to animate, probably because it was so concentrated.
Potentially, so magical. There was that black magicore in—Boyd and Osthia were backing away as the light-soldiers began to hack at the stuff. They were calling all kinds of alarms. Then another Purifier landed.
This one was over forty feet tall. How it had gotten out of the dig site tunnels, Boyd had no clue. Had it squeezed up here? Excavated the entire thing? Whatever the case, the Purifier swept a blade across the muck, killing whatever was germinating.
“[Mass Cleanse]. [Mass Cleanse]. [Mass Cleanse]. [Mass Cleanse]. [Mass Cleanse]—”
