“House Gemscale, prepare for combat.”
Ancestors, that sucked. He pumped a fist up in the air and went striding towards Xitegen to beg the [Lord] for help—and nearly jumped into the air when he heard the roar of sound behind him. Ilvriss turned, and they were cheering.
Colonel Maiss stood up with his company as the first light-soldiers broke into a run. The Drake set his jaw and exploded upwards. He impaled a grinning version of Vnariss on an enchanted blade and kicked another version of the Drake down the slope.
Next to him, a Gnoll fired point-blank into a Drake’s face, then ran through another with a spear. Major Shellc hopped over the dirt wall, and his sword slashed around him, then he leapt back up, having cleared a hole.
“You heard the Wall Lord! Hold the line! Salazsar and the Walled Cities!”
Ilvriss saw people taking cover as the light arrows began to rain down. But no one was running.
Brave people. He wondered how they did it. But then, no one had accused Ilvriss of being perfect. He could lack for introspection a lot of the time.
 
——
 
Ulva Terland didn’t arrive the moment that Salazsar engaged with Naamreles. She saw and heard everything, of course, but the scowling [Matriarch] ignored Xitegen until she could see the battle.
“Pretty.”
That was her first comment. At a distance, it was like glowing lines of light assailing that dirt wall. Naamreles, it transpired, was a big fan of attacking the enemy where they were strongest. After all, they could keep sending forces.
“Those Purifiers are advancing. Is the Drake buckling?”
“He’s not, Great Aunt, but when the Purifiers hit him—”
“Why are they different sizes?”
“They’re full of excrement.”
Ulva’s brows snapped together, and she had to get an abbreviated explanation. Then she rolled her eyes.
This is the doom of Naamreles? Well, despite Ilvriss’ tricks, a few Purifiers were joining the fighting. The rest were still ‘cleaning’ and seemed to be making zero progress given the literal plains of shit, but three were lurching forwards, and they were big. Big, as in ‘thirty feet tall’ for one of them.
“They pop like grapes?”
“If you can hurt them, Great Aunt. Lightning bolts fail. So if you’d like us to help…”
She said nothing. Ulva Terland was aware she wasn’t the only group who’d come to witness this madness. Lady Desinee El was holding a handkerchief over her nose.
“Oh no. It’s the Solstice all over again…he’s doomed. He needs help!”
Desinee had a weapon in hand. The Kaalglaive, for all she thought it was a stupid weapon. She appeared ready to charge, despite being in a riding dress. And she was saying that a bit too loud and glancing at Ulva.
“Lady Ulva, perhaps in this case…”
Lord Moltin began nervously. The Terlands who hadn’t gone into hiding, like Alorelle, were eying the armies, and Ulva just grunted.
“Great Aunt, it would be terrible if we let Drakes do all our work. On our lands?”
Xitegen’s voice had that overly patient sound. Ulva just narrowed her eyes.
“Shut up, boy. I’m waiting.”
“Great Aunt, with utmost disrespect, I will disinherit myself if this is how much backbone we have left in House Terland. Give me a damn good reason or I’ll—”
She finally saw what she was searching for and cut him off.
“Xitegen, I’d have you spanked like half the family deserves if you weren’t needed. I made my proclamation, or have you all forgotten? I wanted to see if they’d step up or not. There’s nothing commendable about following Golems into battle. They do all the hard work.”
It took him a moment to figure out what she meant. But Ulva had been watching for something other than the battle. She nodded at Timekeeper.
“Magnification.”
He obligingly had a Golem with a built-in telescope magnify the spot she was looking at, and Ulva sighed.
There they were. Did they think her words were meaningless? Well, even he’d probably forgotten, but they hadn’t.
“It’s more than a class. It’s a duty. If they’d failed their first test, I would have taken it back.”
What she was looking at was a group of [Riders]. Rather—a lot of [Riders], not all of the same party. More were coming.
Ulva nodded, so self-satisfied that everyone wanted to shove her.
Yweine did.
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle was swearing with nerves for two reasons. One—he wasn’t doing the sensible thing and running for the hills, but this was his land. His land in actuality, as Aronia had reminded him. There was nowhere else for their herds to go.
And he’d heard what Ilvriss had said. A Walled City’s treasures. So he’d told Aronia to grab all the kids and pack their valuables, then taken every [Rancher] he could. They were armed with bows, mostly, but they did have long, light spears they used to kill monsters from horseback.
Not a damn army. But if Ilvriss’ Drakes broke, then Marvus didn’t see a good way to push this City of Purity back. Not with the Terlands doing jack-all.
“We waiting around here until we’re growing moss, Marvus?”
“Shut it, Nithle. I’m thinkin’. I’m thinking the only chance we’ve got is to hit ‘em and run off. No sense in treating this like a brawl. Or is there?”
The Drakes had swords and armor, but they were all light. Marvus had seen them getting knocked about, but the [Ranchers] didn’t have armor. He amended his statement.
“Maybe there is. Don’t ride at the ones with bows; they’ll shoot us out of the saddle. Keep riding, keep shootin’.”
“What happens when we run out of arrows and magic from our wands? Hatchets and light spears against them?”
One of the Golva boys wanted to know. Marvus spat.
“No. No. Hey, how many of your lot know how to lasso anything at speed?”
“Everyone’s got a lasso Skill or just knows how for fun.”
The tricks you could do with a loop of rope, and not just for grabbing a runaway steer. Marvus nodded.
“I reckon those Drakes’re as light as can be. What if we rode on ‘em, and each one of us…”
“—Gave them a mile-long drag? Dead gods, Marvus, that’s nasty!”
“Well, these ones ain’t got skin to rub off, but I reckon it’d do for them what it does for anything else. Hit and go. As for the herd—”
All the [Ranchers] turned their heads, and Marvus felt uneasy. There were two reasons Marvus was uneasy.
One: the City of Purity waking up and legions of Drakes made of light trying to kill anything that moved.
Two: Big Burlap was behind him and there was no fence.
The giant bull was, in fact, free. He and five other prime bulls were pawing the ground and eying the glowing Drakes with a distinct lack of fear. Behind them were about four hundred head of cattle.
Not prime cattle. In theory, prime beef, but not all of them were the best for meat or milk. Rather….they were the most ornery, most dangerous bulls—and cows—that each ranch family had.
Man-killers, some of them. Or just heavy and mean. It was a miracle they weren’t trying to kill the [Ranchers], who were almost as nervous about them as the glowing Drakes. But Marvus had had a word with Big Burlap.
He never knew how much the bull got, but he was a product of Skills and breeding. And the bull could choose when he wanted to murder.
Right now, a bunch of magical Drakes seemed to beat the [Ranchers]. The herd were pawing the ground, defecating, but ominously silent. Marvus hoped that when the [Ranchers] went, the herd did too.
Then he didn’t want to be anywhere in front or behind them. Marvus had a force that would have given the Drakes a run for their money if Ilvriss didn’t shoot them all dead. But he was hesitating.
Am I doing this? Coming to a Wall Lord’s defense? I could let him hang out to dry. I bet Ulva Terland’s thinking the same thing. This wraps up Salazsar in a neat bow, don’t it? They started this mess.
But the fellow’s been honest as I can see. Even fought the damn half-Elf. Sticks in the throat to let him die fighting.
Marvus was conflicted. He kept waiting as another Purifier began to lumber Salazsar’s way. He saw the Silverfang Gnolls moving away, their entire tribe, and the [Miners]. The Wall Lord was getting his people out. Decent of him.
Damnit. It was decent of him. Marvus felt like he was on the brink of everything he knew and had known being proven untrue. Drakes being heartless bastards who deserved nothing more than an arrow between the eyes had run up against the Wall Lord’s actions again and again, of late. Now, he was wavering. Like he and Aronia were balanced on a board of wood. And he didn’t know which way he’d land. He just needed a damn push.
 
——
 
That was what was needed. Ilvriss was fighting for his life; they’d lost track of him in the battle as the dirt fortifications were overwhelmed by another wave of Drakes. Welsca and everyone else was fighting in the confusion, and the people watching on the scrying orb weren’t able to tell who was winning.
Which meant that Salazsar was losing, if only by attrition. Because another wave would come. And another. The other groups had to act. Someone had to compel them to act.
Someone who could bridge north and south. Speak between species. Someone with the authority to make the Terlands move, stir the hearts of stubborn [Ranchers] and, possibly, bulls.
Like a daughter of the most famous nation of diplomacy ever.
A [Princess], perhaps. Or the greatest [Diplomat] of Salazsar.
Lyonette du Marquin appeared in a flash of light next to Ulva Terland. The [Matriarch] of House Terland’s head rose slowly. Her permanent glower shifted to Lyonette. The [Princess] glanced around, eyes flashing. She drew her breath and said—
“What are you waiting for, you old hag?”
Ulva Terland recoiled. Lyonette jumped—whirled—and Lady Damia Reinhart ran through the [Princess]. She had leapt out of a black carriage that had just parked itself on the ground.
The Unmarked Coach and its driver, Karsaeu-Dequoa, was swallowing hard as she stared at the City of Purity unearthed. Because that—
That was before even the Djinni’s time. She had come straight from Invrisil to here. A bunch of women were bailing out of the carriage as well.
Varnie and her gang were armed for a fight. However, all the gear they’d purchased was for hypothetical Golems. The [Gang Leader] took one look at the army of Drakes and started swearing.
“Oh no. C’mon. I was ready to maybe fight a few damn Golems. But this? This is way beyond any damn debt! Look! Even she’s chickening out!”
She pointed at Ulva Terland, whose head snapped around, but Lady Damia just shouted at the Terlands.
“Are you mad? Can’t you see what Ilvriss is doing? First he fights the half-Elf for you—and the 6th [Princess] of Calanfer—and now he’s waging a literal war and you’re doing nothing? Is the honor of the Five Families, of House Terland, worth nothing?”
“Rich coming from a Reinhart—”
Ulva began, and Lyonette blinked as Moltin, Nouzcrat, and the other Terlands hesitated. One of the younger [Ladies] perked her head up. Damia swung around, eyes flashing.
“That Drake just fought a horror from the Age of Myths for you! He nearly died—you thought he was dead too! Princess Lyonette almost turned into something horrific—and this isn’t the first time they’ve fought this horror! Do you need more proof they’re on the right side?”
“Er, yes. Totally unprompted. Evil half-Elf.”
Lyonette was having trouble mustering the, ah, unbridled righteous passion that Damia had. Another fault of Tolveilouka. But Lady Damia had spotted the Silverfangs. She waved her hands at Clan Leader Plisce, and shouted at the [Miners] led by Foreman Rolx.
“What are you all doing? Ilvriss is fighting for his life, and it’s the City of Purity.”
“…But it’s an army.”
Plisce pointed at the glowing Drakes and the giant Titan-Drake with a halo, wondering if Damia couldn’t see them. The [Lady] spread her hands as she cast around.
“I know. I’m not blind. But this is it. A Solstice event. This is like the Meeting of Tribes, don’t you see? This—this is going to change Izril. For the better or worse. And you want to just run? I’m not saying charge them, but you’re Silverfangs! You have bows! And [Miners] have weapons—”
Her audience were staring at her. Damia pointed.
“Didn’t you hear Ilvriss speaking? The treasures of a Walled City are right there. Right there. Haven’t you wanted to be someone important? If you run now, you can say you helped dig up the City of Purity. But if you stay, you’ll be part of that legend. Level. Level or die. I’ve levelled more in this month than I have my entire life. They say this age is changing, and I feel it. I’ll be left behind if I don’t do something. Well, this is my chance, and I see it. So what if it’s an ancient Walled City? We have the Terlands, the [Rancher] clans—a Gnoll tribe—Salazsar, and The Wandering Inn!”
Her arms spread out to encircle them all, her eyes shining.
“If we all work together, if we use the bonds we’ve forged, and the power of our disparate peoples, we’ll win. With the power of—of friendship and hope—”
She lost Ulva Terland there. The [Matriarch] recoiled physically away from that last sentence. Her face wrinkled up, and even some of the Silverfangs bit their lips. But Damia just looked around—then strode over to Lady Desinee El.
“Excuse me, Lady Desinee. You’re selling House of El products, right? Put this on my account.”
“Yes, but—hey!”
Damia grabbed the Kaalglaive.
“I need a horse—Varnie, that’s my goal.”
She pointed, and the [Gang Leader] followed the path of Damia’s finger and stared at the largest Purifier. She gaped at Damia again.
“Uh—no. Are you insane?”
Damia’s eyes flashed with the power of hard thinking.
“The Kaalblades were made to destabilize magical beings. Isn’t that right, Lady Desinee?”
“Wh—yes, but—”
Damia swung around.
“All debts paid after this, Varnie. Who’s with me?”
No one answered. So Damia grabbed Lady Desinee’s horse. She stole that too and began riding forwards. Shouting.
“For Salazsar! For The Wandering Inn and…House Reinhart! For Izril!”
She began to gallop. Plisce sat on his horse, mouth open, watching Damia race past him, until he heard a curse. Then Chief Huntress Rayna was galloping after her.
“Every Silverfang with a bow—give those Drakes some covering fire! Stay away from everything!”
She rode past a Gnoll running with a pickaxe on his shoulder. Foreman Rolx and half of Salazsar’s [Miners] had begun heading back for Ilvriss before Damia had even finished. Georgie was swearing as he hopped from foot to foot, hesitating. But then the racing Damia had company.
Her galloping horse turned its head and eyed the Human running next to the mare. The affronted horse tried to gallop faster, but Lord Xitegen Terland kept up. His Golems…
