But then, two decades ago you might have had Ulva Terland right with them. She forgot. You just got old and upsettingly crotchety, and she knew she had aged. Losing your twin sister did that.
Let Damia Reinhart be the one singing with beer mug in hand. The other one—Lady Desinee El? Well, a mother was allowed to be young, and she had done what was needed. There was even a damn giant bull drinking beer out of a trough.
That was normal. You saw strange things after battles. All that excitement and energy had to go somewhere. Ulva recalled one time she’d seen Sserys riding back from a fight, then jumping off his saddle and kissing the nearest three soldiers in a row. A Lady of House Wellfar, a Gnoll Chieftain, Zel Shivertail.
…There was a reason she was thinking of the past. And why Lady Ulva was walking around the party, despite being tired and wishing only for her bed. Her back hurt. Her damn dais was broken, and they’d lost a lot of Golems, despite Xitegen’s Skill. She had a headache from all the organizing she had to do.
“Nevertheless, I will not be kept from my conversation any longer. You. Halt.”
One of the countless soldiers milling about the party stopped on their way to the latrines. They were drunk and, when they turned, clearly one of the Silverfangs.
“Er, Lady?”
The Gnoll man squinted at Ulva unsteadily; he was wavering on his feet. Ulva spoke.
“You will answer my questions.”
“I, uh—yes, Miss? Are you sure you don’t have the wrong—”
“Timekeeper, if the shapechanger lies again, hit her.”
“Yes, La-dy Terland.”
The Golem loomed out of the darkness, and the Gnoll jumped, turned—then gave up midway and sighed.
“Damn auras. I thought I had done it convincingly too.”
Xesci turned her head, and in the darkness, her body shifted. Then she was the plain Drake once more. Lady Ulva felt her stomach flip-flopping.
“Golems cannot be fooled so easily.”
“Mm. Well, I suppose I’m just sloppy. And drunk. Hello, Lady Ulva. You know, if you kill me, this entire alliance might fall apart?”
The [Courtesan of Change] bowed to Ulva. She was watching the [Lady] carefully. Ulva just folded her arms.
“Timekeeper, privacy. You. How do you know Petria’s face so well? You could copy her look. But never her mannerisms. Not without more.”
She was angry again. Angier than she had been at the Wall Lord, the [Princess], or anyone else. Ulva had come south to judge and played her role, but this woman…
Xesci tilted her head left and right.
“I can copy anyone I wish to, once I know them well. Even if I haven’t been intimate with them, Lady Ulva. I thought I did Ilvriss well enough.”
“You can breathe Dragonbreath if you change shapes?”
That had seemed incredible to Ulva, but Xesci just nodded.
“[Shapechange: Magical Form]. It’s not as good as having Skills, of course. And flying is so difficult if I haven’t done it in a while. I do apologize, of course, but you were trying to kill Ilvriss.”
Ulva Terland drew closer, and this woman had no scent. No real aura. Nothing. She was truly a mirror of all she chose to be. That was not what unnerved Ulva; she had met Golems capable of much the same. What had her heart beating with actual trepidation was…
“Do not lie to me by omission. If you knew Petria, it cannot have been long. There is only one way for someone with your class to steal a face. Answer me—how did you know her?”
Xesci regarded Ulva in the darkness, absolutely unreadable. Then she spoke.
“You do not appear to be trying to murder me to preserve her reputation. Or as upset as I feared you might be.”
“Do you think I’m some child who hasn’t seen the world?”
“No. But the older you get, the more inflexible your position. Dying truly has helped you.”
Ulva didn’t dignify that with a comment. But Xesci was a dangerous woman to be alone with.
“You were far more rigid in your way—if simply happier, I think—thirteen years ago. I did meet with you six times. Each one a different face. Do you recall a Lady Kinbe Wellfar? Silver-rank Adventurer Melts?”
Ulva stared. Then recoiled.
“I never found her. The adventurer made sense because there are so many, but no Wellfar ever—”
Xesci nodded and smiled ruefully.
“That was me going too far. I was younger. And Petria thought it a grand game. Six times, six different identities. That was all.”
“So—my sister hired your services six times?”
Ulva had known the moment she spoke to Petria’s ghost and woke and thought of what it had meant. But it still felt like a shock. Xesci nodded calmly.
“She found me. I was quite flattered to have the attention of one of the leaders of the Five Families. It got to my head. But yes. She hired my services when I was in First Landing.”
This woman had gone the length and breadth of Izril. Ulva licked her lips and felt nervous again.
“In which…form? No, I already know. She—was a sapphist, then?”
She had no other word besides that or ‘Turnscale’, but it didn’t fit. Xesci didn’t reply.
“I asked you—”
“I don’t give away my clients’ preferences, Lady Ulva. I would normally not even acknowledge the fact, but you two were twin sisters, she is dead, and I think there are extenuating circumstances.”
“I met her ghost. Answer me.”
This time, Xesci did blink.
“Fascinating. You know, I still had my doubts about that particular story Ilvriss told me. But…interesting. It’s all too much of a story for my tastes. Buried Walled Cities, ghosts. What is this, a tale with the Lightning Thief?”
She was one to talk. Ulva hissed at her.
“Just answer me! Petria never told me.”
“No. She was afraid of how you’d react. You two were the Twin Virtues. And you were, oh, a bit more of the traditionalist one. She worried you two would rift and never come back together.”
“She never said that to me!”
Ulva was stung. Ten years younger—and Xesci just smiled.
“It’s easier to tell a stranger than family. And we were intimate. No, I won’t betray her trust. Does it matter?”
“It matters to me. We knew everything about each other!”
The thought that she hadn’t known Petria fully hurt. That her sister had kept…Xesci spoke in the same way she’d cut Ulva before.
“She was finding out who she was. No—she already knew. But she’d been holding it off, fighting desperately to deny it. It was bursting out of her. I was just one of the final dams. I think, if she had lived, she would have begun exploring more.”
She had been taking more time to herself. And when she was so riotous to fight the Goblin King, they’d quarrelled. Growing apart. But Ulva just hissed.
“Did she think that would make us not sisters any longer? Did she think that little of me?”
Now she was furious until Xesci bent down, and her face became Petria’s again. Ulva’s heart jumped, but it beat on. Xesci showed her an uncertain look, Petria biting her lower lip with her teeth—then passed a hand over her face. Like magic trick, it became the Drake’s blanker face again.
“No. She was afraid of your reaction to her being a Turnscale…but also what it might do to you, Ulva. Because you were twins.”
And what one twin was, surely, the other was as well. That struck Ulva. It might have struck the younger Ulva far harder. But Petria was dead, so Ulva just clung to the knowledge. Hungrily. Bitterly.
“I wondered why she never searched for love. I thought we needed none for our own bonds or she just never found anyone worthy—let alone two, because one of us being wed would be so hard.”
“Well. Now you know. Does it change anything?”
Xesci stepped back, and Ulva stood there. She closed her eyes, then turned.
“Yes and no. Go about your night, Xesci the Changer. I will not have you hurt or killed, despite what you did. But I will summon you again to tell me more of the Petria I did not know. My word on a Golem’s heart on it.”
She was walking off, tired. To go and think and remember the Petria she knew and, if she was lucky, dream of a world that no longer was. Xesci watched her go. Then called out.
“Wait a moment.”
Ulva turned, and Xesci approached. She handed Ulva something.
“My card. My current establishment is destroyed or filled with muck, but this is a personal contact card. My rates are on the back, and if you’d like t—”
Ulva tossed the card in Xesci’s face. The [Courtesan] picked it up and handed it to Timekeeper. The Matriarch stomped off before she told the Golem to rub Xesci’s face in a cowpat pile.
Damn Drakes.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss had done something amazing out in the Cowpat Plains, which people were all saying needed a rename to make it sound more impressive.
Naamreles’ Folly, perhaps. Or the Cattle Plains? It was a work in progress. But the truth was that something important had gone down, and no one actually knew what it was.
Normally, you just talked about it and then forgot, but the news was captivating multiple cities far from there. After all…there was a magic door close by.
So from Invrisil to Celum, people considered how this might change their lives immediately, and they were excited, asking where that [Recruiter] was—they could do some digging.
As a smug Lady Damia would have told her family and any citizen—you had to be there to be truly part of it. You could still get a piece of the pie, but if you’d been there when you were needed, then you were truly at the heart of a great event.
Not that Lady Damia was in any condition to do anything at the moment. She was so badly hungover that she wasn’t sure she was alive. Soon, she’d be upright and freaking out about her new levels and making plans and getting up to her wacky hijinks.
But at least for now, the many people deserving of levels were slumbering their great efforts off, and their worth was being calculated, calculated…
However, the voice that spoke as two people woke delivered news to them before anyone else.
 
[Reformist Politician Level 30!]
[Class Consolidation: Reformist Politician → Politician of Liscor, the Flooded City!]
[Class Consolidation: Avaricious Shopkeeper Removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Handyman Removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Overly Proud Parent Removed.]
[Politician of Liscor, the Flooded City Level 30!]
 
[Rank 1: Son of Liscor Obtained!]
[Rank Reward: Signet Ring of Liscor Granted!]
 
<(City of Liscor) ranks system enabled. Criteria unassigned, ranks unassigned.>
 
Whereupon followed a bunch of Skills, but he exploded out of his bed. You see, he knew.
“It can’t be.”
Lism rushed to get his clothes on and stumbled out of his front door. It was before dawn, and he knew they were counting the votes. Everyone had tried to stay up, but the truth was that because there were so many new citizens, people had been having trouble counting, and everyone had put up a huge fuss over who got to count what—
In the end, they’d had to have [Mages] casting [Detect Truth] and had to bring in Pallassian and Invrisil mediators. So the count had gone into the night, and everyone had to sleep on it.
And…what was that last part before the Skills? Lism hunted around and found a little ring that had fallen onto the ground when he’d leapt out of bed. He picked it up with trembling claws and saw it had the emblem of his home embossed on it.
He didn’t crow or scream, he just sat there before the city woke up. The rains were stopping. They’d had the impromptu elections just on time. But he was thinking.
“It said something about the rest being ‘unassigned’. Son of Liscor. I wonder, do we have to figure out what that means? What kind of rewards you’d get?”
He stared around Liscor and wondered how big it was, now. Invrisil was surely bigger, and Pallass incomparable. But how many Drakes cities were as big as his?
How big can we get this year? We have so many pressures on us. The other Walled Cities. 
Who else won?
Suddenly, he had to know that because his ebullience faded. If they didn’t have the seats? If some idiots decided to pull back on all this was, wanted to be closeminded, ham-fisted, grab the money from the top instead of spreading it around?
He was afraid, then. Afraid because he saw himself in that mirror, and he’d nearly been ready to fight over making the city better his way then…
This time, it’d be better. Lism charged out the doors and heard the news spreading. Someone was running down the streets, shouting. But he was faster.
The ring. Lism felt the rains pelting at him, lighter, but they slid off his scales. He was as sure-footed in the street as could be, despite the wet cobblestones. Half his neighbors were slipping as they yelled questions at him, but he was running towards City Hall, screaming something over his shoulder.
They were already assembling there, the winners. The losers might still be asleep, but that was the thing.
The voice knew. The adjudicator of levels had told the winners. Lism came to a halt, panting. Counting.
“Is anyone…is…”
He saw enemies, at first. No less than three of them, all standing together, and his heart sank. With our new council of thirteen that’s not a problem if we all won our races, but if more won…
Then he heard a voice and turned. His heart lifted.
“Alonna? Elirr?”
Two of the Councilmembers he’d grown to respect were coming down the street. Elirr was yawning, but nodding at Lism.
“We made it, yes?”
“Ah, I see not every election went as well as we could hope. Councilmembers.”
Nertoyll, the current head of Liscor’s Merchant’s Guild, sneered at the old Council. He couldn’t hide a flicker of dismay.
Alonna and Elirr had been endlessly popular in their races. Of course, the original Council had won, the ones doing their jobs. Lism strode towards them and saw a familiar, tall Gnoll coming from the northeastern streets. He called out.
“Raekea! You made…it…”
It was only because she was wearing a poncho from the rain and he hadn’t seen her in the crowd that he made the mistake, even for a second. Lism stopped.
That wasn’t Raekea. His heart sank into his boots until he saw the figure walking towards him throw back her hood. Then he breathed again.
“Senior Guardswoman Beilmark?”
The Gnoll woman strode into place with Alonna and Elirr and turned to Lism.
“I apologize, yes, Lism, Alonna, Elirr. It was me or Raekea, and we agreed there would be no hard feelings afterwards. She had mostly dropped out of her race and told her followers to vote for me.”
“Wh—but how?”
Lism was confused until he remembered the redrawn districts. They’d changed to make sure each district was equally weighted in terms of population. Beilmark had lived next to Raekea’s district. The new district had pit the two Gnolls against each other. He remembered Beilmark running but he’d put it out of his mind because either way—but he’d thought Raekea…
