Someone began, but Ilvriss held up a claw. He smiled at Georgie and got a gritted smile in return. They nodded at each other.
“Three reasons, Georgie. One, I have the levels and Skills to boost you all. [Opulence Guard], my Skill, will let us tank attacks when we’re noticed. Second—I have a magic sword that can kill constructs and, I hope, even Purifiers. Third, I’m not going to ask you to commit to a mission of this danger without doing the same.”
“Hmf. Sure. What if you’re that fake Ilvriss?”
Georgie grunted, but Ilvriss just smiled. As everyone braced for Georgie to breach into the mining tunnels, he whispered back.
“There’s only one way to tell us apart, Georgie. One Ilvriss can breathe magical Dragonbreath, use his wings, and is, I daresay, a charismatic, captivating Wall Lord.”
“Uh huh. And what makes the other one unique?”
Georgie tapped the wall, and it collapsed. The tunnel was aglow with marching light-soldiers coming up. Someone cursed—but Osthia’s squad was already charging forwards. One of the Rubirel Guard unrolled the Tier 5 scrolls, and Ilvriss began to run, heart pumping. He passed by Georgie as the [Advance Miner] threw his pickaxe through the first rank of surprised light-constructs. Then Ilvriss was shaking his hips right to left. Waggling his tail.
He ignored the look Georgie was giving him.
“This Ilvriss can dance.”
In hindsight, he really wished that sounded better.
 
——
 
Major Shellc saw the Drakes made of glowing magic visibly slow, and Shellc swore they grew…fuzzy.
Did that mean they were being projected upwards after all, like the Archmage of Izril was speculating? He hoped so, because it had turned a desperate holding action into a battle that could be won. He began broadcasting the news, of course.
“A strike force has collapsed the tunnels leading into Naamreles! The enemy is out of reinforcements! Hold the line and we have them!”
He heard cheering, but the reason Shellc was being so loud was because victory was no surefire thing. The [Major] was sweating.
This was going to come down to the wire. The dirt-fortress that Salazsar had constructed was under siege from three cardinal directions. If it was breached, or their other allies lost their nerve, he’d have to call for a full retreat.
The light-forces of Naamreles were a bog of glowing limbs throwing themselves at Salazsar’s walls. They were like that joke you told about the heathen barbarous enemies of your nation: they attacked you en masse with little strategy, marching into your killzones.
The problem was it worked if you had so many bodies you could flood the area. Worse—he put them at Level 15 [Soldiers] in quality unless they combined or activated more advanced magics—which they could do.
But the light-soldiers resisted magic. A [Fireball] would cook a regular squad of troops or leave them so disoriented and hurt they were functionally mincemeat. Hit a squad of Naamreles’ forces and the ones not blown to bits would get up and keep fighting.
The true danger was like Shellc’s studies of the Antinium; if the light-soldiers surrounded you, anyone but someone in plate armor was dead. And they pushed.
“Our western flank is folding! Do not let them encircle us! Ranchers, give me a skirmishing line, there! [Form Battle Line]!”
Shellc was engaged in a brutal clash along Salazsar’s dirt-fortress; his entire objective was to keep the elements of the light-forces from encircling Salazsar’s position. As long as he kept their rear open, they could rotate soldiers out for healing and keep ammunition stocked.
The moment they were encircled, they died. The enemy seemed to know this, despite not having a living leader, and were advancing again. They were slowed by Shellc’s only tools. The [Ranchers], who rode and shot arrows from horseback. A skirmishing line of irregulars who could maneuver and fire.
Their angry cattle could provide a flanking charge as well, but the animals had no real direction. Lady Desinee could direct them, but then they’d be butchered unless he gave them an escape route.
Suboptimal, and he had no healing potions. However, Shellc’s other tool was the Golems under House Terland. And Ulva Terland was a seasoned commander.
The light-Gnolls armed with bows were beginning to shower the [Ranchers] with their light-arrows when a trio of Golems moved forwards and screened the [Ranchers] with glowing barrier spells. Then one rolled forwards—it had wheels instead of feet—aimed its odd body upwards, and began launching arrows nonstop.
One of Xitegen’s personal Golems. Mobile artillery that spat arrows at the archers. That allowed the whooping [Ranchers] to rain down arrows on the advancing Drakes, but in response, the Drakes just projected those damn shields above their heads.
Cue Battle Golems, who smashed into them. The light-soldiers began to swarm the steel Golems—then pivoted, a hair too late. Cattle charge from the left flank; Rubirel Guard leading an advance from Salazsar’s fortifications.
Grind them down. The light soldiers didn’t stop, of course. They kept pouring into the pincer attack, and they’d eventually overwhelm the other groups and force a victory. Now that their numbers were limited, maybe Shellc could wear them down, but he had no fallback point from Salazsar’s fortress.
So they had to break the lines here. The [Swordgrace Major]’s eyes glinted as he saw the western flank bunching up. Thousands of the light-soldiers pushing to advance…
“Now! Major Shellc, requesting bombardment spells! On my position! Fire for effect!”
A [Scrying Mage] standing next to him flashed the sea of enemy soldiers up, and Shellc waited. He stared upwards, and this was the part that made his guts churn.
“Come on. Come on…”
He didn’t know who he was speaking to. Truly. Shellc prayed for magic from the skies like a man dying of thirst prayed for rain. And then he saw the air twist. A gigantic spell circle appeared in the sky, and he breathed out. Three of them.
Spells came down.
A tornado, two bolts of [Grand Lightning]—and a hail of magical arrows. They merged together, and winds hurled bodies of light-Drakes skywards. Some survived, despite the magical arrows raining down everywhere—Shellc cursed and ducked his head down.
“Beware of enemy soldiers landing around you! To anyone watching—no wind spells! Don’t hurl the enemy around! Reinforcements coming from the north!”
He pointed out another wave of reinforcements, hoping they were one of the last ones. And he gazed up at the skies again.
 
——
 
Major Shellc’s image of the enemy soldiers he needed dead were playing on scrying spells in other kingdoms, as was his commentary. Demanding fire support.
The effrontery of this Drake. [Kings] and [Queens] glared at him. Then asked their [Mages] how many spells they had. Demanded to know if Wistram was…
They were watching, of course. There were jamming spells everywhere. Terland Golems? Naamreles’ magic in the Purifiers?
Whatever it was, the battles were flashes of images. You’d get fifteen seconds of one particular area, then the scrying spells would fizzle out, go dark, and the [Mages] would need another coordinate. Major Shellc was getting around that by sending [Magic Pictures] with coordinates.
It wasn’t their war. In truth, the Five Families were probably sending the most magic. But even distant nations in Terandria were watching.
Naamreles. A name they had in their history books. The name provoked the same unsettling nervousness, the tension that had not left the hearts and bowels of the mighty since the Winter Solstice. Or even before that.
Once more, kingdoms tried to throw magic and Skills across the world. But they had spent their magics again and again—instead of one-time scrolls, it was linked [Mages] firing Tier 5 spells off, using all their magic to contribute a single spell to the battlefield. And the Drake was demanding dozens of such spells. But no nations wanted to spend their artifacts.
Ailendamus had hurled two dozen spells in the battle already. All products of their linked [Mages]. A sign they truly could influence the world. Lesser nations? One.
But Ailendamus had ample reason; occasionally, someone could see a Human man fighting at the front of Salazsar’s forces. Not in the vanguard around Ilvriss, directly facing the buried City of Purity, but holding down the eastern flank.
Virtually unsupported. He was two dozen feet in front of the spear walls and trenches, fighting with his clothing akimbo, surrounded by light-soldiers. At first, you thought he was being sent to die—until he threw a punch and sent the enemy around him scattering like dandelion seeds blown by the wind. He was throwing spells too.
So was the Archmage of Izril. She and several [Mages], including the Mage Runner, Salamani, and Magus Grimalkin, were launching spells skywards into the Drakes. There were fires blooming around one section of the battlefield as well; the Knights of Solstice were burning down the light-soldiers, refusing to yield before the forces trying to overwhelm the eastern flank and get around the defenders.
Lines in the sand. Magic from above. But reinforcements?
Not many of them. They kept coming from Celum, yes. Golems marching from the Terland’s holdings, even running south at such speed they made it to the battlefield. [Assassins]—yes, [Assassins], including one who managed to behead a Purifier as it lumbered down on the Drakes.
But where was Pallass? Where were the other forces?
Too slow to react. Too unaware; there was no 2nd Army to mobilize, and 1st Army had standing orders to guard the City of Inventions. [Wyvern Riders] were flying from Salazsar and Manus, but they would take too long.
They’d have to teleport in, if that was even possible, and there was only one force in the world who could do that, or at least, advertised they could.
Wistram Academy had tried it twice. The Archmage of Memories had clearly thought to prove that Wistram was everywhere, and with the Archmage of Izril fighting for her life, he had sent a strikeforce. The ‘Super Soldiers’ armored in enchanted platemail who could fly and [Battlemages]—a squad of thirty.
Enough, by his calculations, to make an impact. What Eldavin hadn’t considered was that Naamreles was a city whose magic was as advanced as his. They knew about teleporting [Mages].
The first squad had appeared inside the largest formation of light-soldiers. Only the [Barrier] spells on the [Mages] had saved them, and even then, half had been dead by the time they fought their way out. Even the Super Soldiers’ magical armor hadn’t saved them from a Purifier. They’d practically retreated off the battlefield, and the Archmage of Memories had tried a second force.
No one but Wistram knew a second attempt had been made. Eldavin still wasn’t sure where they’d gone. So he waited, pacing and cursing, determined not to look worse as shaken [Mages] asked about their friends.
The half-Elf ignored them. He was calculating which nations were sending magic so he could advertise Wistram’s services to them. Make it clear everyone needed long-ranged magic. That these events were only going to continue. Advertising. But he wasn’t sure who was going to win as he saw the western attack finally break.
The forces of Naamreles was making a push down the center now. Climbing over each other to just break that center line. Were they going to make it?
Did he want them to make it? The half-Elf didn’t know. His stomach hurt, but he watched as his advanced scrying spells finally broke through the interference. And he saw a man running to break the column of light-soldiers flooding forwards.
Just a man everyone knew.
 
——
 
It was a light war. Lord Xitegen Terland meant that sort of as a pun, but it was also true.
Dangerous as the Purifiers were, and the light-soldiers of ancient Naamreles, his heart had been pumping harder at the Winter Solstice. Against the Goblin King.
He still had nightmares about that crimson gaze. He still saw the Mortemdefieir Titan in his dreams, and that was why it was hard to be around his family.
They asked him if it was real. If it had happened. The people of Celum were humbler and did not know the north’s splendor. But they believed. And so did Lord Xitegen Terland.
He was younger than he looked, he knew. Most people didn’t believe he wasn’t a decade older, at least. It might have been his levels or stature. Or, more likely, the long siege that had cost him his entire family. It had aged him, the [Healers] said, more than merely physically. He’d had grey in his hair before he was even twenty. Lines that only deepened with the years.
So what? He was alive. Alive, when his parents and household had starved. After the soldiers and staff had starved, then eaten the dead. When one wondered why Lord Xitegen Terland was so high level, so relatively young—
That was why.
He was one of, perhaps, four people in this world to have charged the Goblin King twice. The second was Saliss of Lights. The third was a farmer named Himilt who Lord Xitegen suspected was a ‘Vampire’ that had the north so unsettled. The [Lord] was no fool; it became obvious, despite Erin Solstice’s trick, and rather, in spite of it. The last was Elia Arcsinger.
The Vampire Hunters would know that the val Lischelle-Drakles were Vampires after they had broken every Golem in House Terland, tortured him to death, and animated his corpse since he assumed undead had no concept of honor. A man who had fought the Goblin King twice should not be treated as less than a hero, unless he betrayed all trust—and he should be given all trust.
Now, Lord Xitegen had experienced a lot of unpleasant things since then. Having to team up with Goblins against the Titan. The half-Elf, Tolveilouka, Wall Lord Ilvriss being in the north—
He did not like these things. He did not trust the Drakes or the inn, and this was all Ilvriss’ fault, in a sense. The high point had been the excellent cookout. Xitegen thought of all these things…and he would continue thinking about them when he returned to his mansion, poured himself a light brandy, and sat with a charcuterie board and considered what it meant, what was good and wrong and his part in it all.
But as the light-arrows rained down around him, the [Lord] of House Terland just gazed up. The [Golem-Lord of Enduring Dignity]. Level 49. And he felt it was incredible to be living in these times.
He did not think he entirely deserved his levels. But he had challenged the Goblin King twice. Seen a dead goddess bringing a hundred thousand Draugr to life. Yes, it was a lighter war, despite the desperation. They could always retreat.
So…to speed up his too-calm heart, Xitegen went jogging forwards. He heard someone shout at him, but he had never liked following orders. Even Ulva’s.
