They were moving fast, but there were only so many ways to go. When you were at the back, closest to the alarms blaring louder—
Georgie stood there, watching as people shoved. Team Leader Maiss was shouting.
“Move it! Move it! Don’t shove—”
He was keeping his head, like Foreman Rolx, who was standing on some scaffolding, directing the teams upwards. And still…no one knew what was coming. The Rubirel Guard were six strong.
They formed a line in the beautiful tunnel of old, holding halberds, facing the darkness. Behind them, Advisor Merls had a wand aimed down the corridor, and the [Soldiers] were waiting. Just…
“Get out of here, Maiss!”
Georgie was hollering at the Drake. Maiss, his recently-healed jaw Georgie had broken, was wavering as a gap opened. He hesitated, and his eyes locked with Georgie’s.
“They’re coming. Two minutes till contact.”
How did he know…? Skill. But which one? Then Maiss turned, and his team were heading up. Georgie was estimating how many people were in front of him. Now the regular [Soldiers] were retreating, and Merls was hesitating.
“Rubirel Captain—Advance Miner—”
“Get out of here. I run fast, and I have an enchanted pickaxe. Advance Miners and heavies in the front.”
The [Advisor] hesitated a moment more, then spun on his heel. Georgie glanced at the scrum of bodies, then lifted his pickaxe and turned back around. One of the Rubirel Guard’s backed up from the breach and halted next to him, chestplate rising and falling rapidly.
“We hold the breach into the mining tunnels until we have a clear shot at retreat. Advance Miner, stand behind us.”
“Don’t get in the way of my pickaxe. I can throw it once, and it’ll kill anything. Pretty sure.”
A moment of hesitation, then they formed a wedge. Three on either side, with a gap down the center, slanted inwards there. One of the Rubirel Guard braced something against the side of the tunnel; it looked like a glowing tripwire, only a thick, broad beam of red. He tapped the side of the odd device emitting the magic.
“Ruby Linewall in place. It’ll slow them down until the gem bursts. Halberds ready. We’re close-quarters. Reduce grips to 20%.”
The Rubirel Guard were too bunched up to swing the long halberds effectively. So one twisted something and collapsed the shaft of the metal weapon. Then they were holding axe-like weapons.
This was taking forever. Georgie’s clawed hand was sweating on his pickaxe. The Rubirel Guard said nothing until one of them spoke with a female voice.
“[Dangersense] is going off.”
“Took you long enough, Maisy. What, is your Skill on holiday or something?”
One of the others joked, and the leader snapped.
“Discipline in the squad. We have a civilian to protect.”
They stopped laughing, and Georgie saw the one called ‘Maisy’ glance at him again. Then she spoke.
“…It’s [Personal Dangersense]. Only goes off when I’m in harm’s way.”
Now, every helmeted head swung towards her. But some dipped. Georgie spoke through his spit-dry mouth.
“You ever think about keeping that kind of shit to yourself, soldier?”
She grunted.
“I thought you’d be mining out of here with that fancy pickaxe. Could have cut us a separate tunnel up.”
That was true, and Georgie might have done it. He glanced over his shoulder and saw Merls staring at him, still not even able to make a run for it himself. Drakes with crossbows, kneeling, glancing over their shoulders and falling back, rank by rank…he spoke too calmly.
“You stupid, soldier? You cut your own route out and the monsters just take that. Advance Miners never open up multiple breach points if there’s enemies in the shafts.”
Silence. Then another Rubirel Guard.
“Tactical. You’re not so bad for a damn Turnscale, Advance Miner.”
“Eat shit and die. I’m an Advance Miner, not anything else.”
How they chuckled at that. For just one moment, Georgie relaxed and felt as natural and at home with this lot as he ever had with a group. Like nothing else about him mattered, even though they knew.
He liked the company of dead men and women. It made things equal. And he just wished that wasn’t what it took to feel at home.
Then—he heard the tenor of the alarms change, and they stopped reverberating through his bones. To be more precise, they kept echoing in the ground—but now he heard them, not just the rumble.
Something was in the tunnels. Georgie stood there, pickaxe raised to throw, and he sensed it. A vibration through the ground.
He had [Lowlight Vision]. Thus, the Advance Miner was the first Drake in aeons to see the death of Naamreles coming out of the ruined City of Purity. His eyes widened as the [Light] spells illuminating the dark tunnel wavered.
Then the magic went out. Wobbling as the spell matrices destabilized. He recognized that. It wasn’t someone dispelling the magic. It was…Georgie saw a roiling mass as the light vanished. Glittering, and he inhaled the foulest scent in the world as the air shifted in their presence.
“Ancestors—[Gouging Throw]!”
He threw the pickaxe, and the first shape exploded and collapsed. Georgie pulled his claw back, and the pickaxe spun towards him. Shedding—
“Poison! Watch it!”
Maisy shoved at him, and the pickaxe clattered downwards. It had been spraying droplets of—Georgie almost reached for the relic-class item, but the Rubirel Guard grabbed it.
“Back up! Back up—seal helmet! Liquid? Gaseous—”
Then the glowing helmets emitted red light, and Georgie, weaponless, backing up, saw them. The first being of moving…sludge reared upwards until it filled the huge mining tunnel. And two eyes made of hollowed magicore turned to face the Rubirel Guard. It reached out, an arm of something so black and foul it seemed like filth incarnate.
The waste-being’s arm met six of the Rubirel Guard’s halberds, who slashed at the liquid and left spatterings across their armor. It didn’t recoil. It didn’t stop—the arm kept elongating as the roiling mass of sludge walked at them.
“Biohazard alarms going off! Poison! Contact poison! Even harmful aura—Advance Miner, get back!”
One of the Rubirel Guard’s helms blared as they kept hacking. The filth of the being splashed down and then tried to slither back towards the thing walking at them. The Rubirel Guard fell back a step; the being kept trying to reach into the cavern. So they were still hacking, but slower—slower.
Georgie saw something black and thicker than the liquid embedded in the arm they were trying to cut through. The halberds swung into the thick, ropey semi-liquid mass, and the fire magic embedded in the halberds didn’t activate. Instead, the weapons turned lifeless.
Manaless. One of the Rubirel Guard backed up, cursing.
“Armor power just dropped to 65%. Get back! What’s—”
“Magicore! That’s some kind of magicore! Give me my pickaxe!”
Georgie recognized it—the way the light spells had destabilized was exactly like how magicore absorbed concentrated earth and light magic and made [Mages] helpless. These things were—
What?
Filth Elemental? Sludge Golems? Something close. They were so foul that Georgie’s bile was rising in his throat, and they’d absorbed magicore. He expected to see flies buzzing around them, or slugs, but they were so rancid nothing could survive on them, even insects.
The Rubirel Guard fell back as their armor began to lose its magic. But they kept hacking. Maisy tore the pickaxe from her belt, handed it to Georgie. Heedless of the filth on it, he prayed his gloves were enough and threw it again.
Straight into the center of the sludge-thing’s mass. It was at the breach opening now, trying to get in. It didn’t react as one of the Rubirel Guard shouted.
“[Devastating Cleave]!”
He cut half of its body apart, revealing more filth magicore, and another of the Rubirel Guard pointed.
“[Squad: Razor Blades]. Now!”
They leapt forwards, hacking at the body emerging into the tunnel. Then—at last—Georgie saw the thing half-collapse. It became ooze, and the body stopped moving. It flowed around the Rubirel Guard’s boots, and Georgie backed up a dozen steps. Glanced over his shoulders.
Merls was ducking into the tunnel, eyes wide. Georgie hollered.
“Back up! Back up—we’re almost out—”
The Rubirel Guard were hesitating.
“The breach. We can hold it. Go—”
Then the second being of filth pushed into the tunnel, and when one of the halberds struck it in the face, the ruby blade bounced off the crystalline structure of the humanoid monster. It was seven feet tall, and it did not so much as glitter, for the ‘crystals’ were made up of the same filth.
But it was—hard.
Maisy recoiled, and a fist punched her into one of the walls. Another of the Rubirel Guard shoulder-charged the crystalline filth-monster and bounced off. All his weight and a [Ramming Charge]—he glanced up.
The punch sent him reeling past Georgie, backpedalling until he sat down. The Advance Miner didn’t know how hard you had to hit the Rubirel Guard to dent their armor, but the chestplate was bowed in. He heard a rasp.
“Hard target. It just bent my armor—”
“Fall back! Fall back now! The Ruby Linewall—”
The glowing band of ruby splintered as the second filth-monster pushed at it; it lasted for all of two seconds before the device exploded. Georgie was jogging back now, trying to drag a dizzy Maisy with him. She was way too damn heavy and stumbling—
Then he saw the horror get worse. The second filth-thing was passing by the two halves of the being the Rubirel Guard had killed when both puddles bulged. An ‘eye’ of magicore formed in each puddle. They began to ooze forwards, now no longer humanoid, but moving like a slime.
“You’ve got to be…”
The third filth-being breached the tunnel, and it was neither crystal nor horrible putty. This one was just…a floating orb.
Completely black. Dirt and other particulates were floating up towards it, and as it appeared, Georgie felt a pull on his tail. He heard Maisy whisper.
“Gravity magic. It’s off the scales for weight readings. Over ten thousand pounds—”
He just ran faster. The doom of Naamreles kept coming. These were just three. Then he heard reports shouted into his earholes. Each of the three tunnels was being breached.
There were…thousands.
And there was something else behind them. The alarms.
Something else was coming.
 
——
 
Major Shellc had in his claws a Tier 5 scroll. [Localized Earthquake]. He was debating collapsing the entire dig site, but there were people down there.
Moreover…he didn’t know if it would work. He saw [Archers] firing from above, heard the crackle of Erchirite Spears charging up. But what he saw was a hell like that of Rhir.
“The arrows aren’t working. The targets are too hard, or they just sink in—”
“[Piercing Shots] and magical munitions only. Hold the magic until we know if they absorb it. Advance Miner Georgie, are you out?”
“—Too fast—”
He was right. Not all the creatures coming up were slow. Some resembled Swamp Golems; huge, towering masses of sludge with magicore ‘bones’ that made hacking through them too difficult.
“Basic appraisal—the magicore has replaced the need for a magical crystal. We can’t snipe their cores. They’re not just golem-types. I don’t know what that is—I want it dead. Erchirite Spears! Call down the lightning.”
Something—it looked like a puddle with lots of legs. It moved fast up through one of the tunnels, chasing the [Miners]. It was climbing up the walls of dirt when the lightning hit it.
“Hard target to nail. Had to waste a [Pinpoint Target] on it.”
The Captain of the Erchirite Spears sounded a bit—nervous. Shellc’s voice was cold.
“It’s still alive.”
He didn’t have to see through the smoke or collapsing stone. Indeed, the [Major] averted his eyes and counted.
Another flash of lightning coming down. Then a third. A pause.
“Target’s dead. Oozing downwards—the area’s contaminated, sir. Likely.”
Three volleys of an Erchirite Spear company for one monster. Shellc whispered.
“Captain, how many times can your company volley in an engagement if you expend your spears’ and armor’s charges fully? Even if you have to sacrifice your gear.”
“…If we have to sacrifice our gear, thirty-five more times, sir.”
“I see. Hold until I have another target for you. Advance Miner, you’re being overrun.”
“If these idiots ran fast we’d be gone! Oh shit—”
That was when Shellc saw Georgie and six armored figures sprinting out of the lowest shafts. They saw more monsters moving up ahead of them. Shellc pointed.
“Now. Dump those chests of holding. Foreman Rolx, controlled avalanches. Knock the monsters down anywhere but our escape route.”
Dirt showered down, knocking down the monsters climbing the sides of the tunnels. Foreman Rolx struck the ground, and part of the dig site caved in—burying the climbing elementals. Shellc just watched the seven figures running upwards, dodging the monsters crawling around them.
They weren’t going to make it. A floating orb emerged out of the tunnel that Georgie’s group had fled from just as the crystal-elemental which had followed them out flexed its legs. Then—it jumped.
“Hells. They shouldn’t be allowed to do that.”
That was all Shellc said. He saw, for a moment, the elemental come up to eye-level. The [Major] drew his sword. Stabbed.
[Flashdraw]. [Distance Piercer]. [Explosive Tip].
His sword hit the flying crystal being and glanced off. Shellc grimaced as the tip of his sword exploded—and sent the being crashing down. But it didn’t do any satisfying damage. It got up and leapt again. At Georgie’s squad.
Shellc stared down into the dig site and spoke.
“Captain Asrira, fall back.”
That was what a good commander said, even if—he saw the Drake diving, still in her bandages, and twelve figures leaping down the slopes. Osthia breathed acid over the crystal elemental, who began to steam. The Sisters of Chell were throwing daggers, cursing as they wore their new leather armor.
Thirteen against—Shellc counted.
“Enemy appraisal is at four thousand and rising. Casting [Localized Earthquake]. Begin evacuating everyone.”
The ground rumbled, and his footing faltered. He saw the dig site collapsing inwards, and hoped it would slow the filth monsters. And it did…for a few seconds. Then his sense of the enemy noted them moving upwards again.
Can they dig? Shellc gritted his teeth.
They can adapt. Not good. We need to completely collapse things or take out whatever magic’s spawning them. But now he was ordering the full retreat. All his senses were screaming at him—
This was just the advance guard.
 
——
 
