It was cleaning the muck up. Osthia and Boyd watched, and both had a feeling about what was going to happen next. Because, each time the spell was cast, the Purifier got larger. First, it was forty-some feet tall. Then fifty. It was trying to absorb a lot of filth, after all. About, say…sixteen feet’s worth of filth?
It almost managed it. The Purifier was about fifty-five feet tall when it stopped casting spells. It pointed a finger at the remaining puddle of moving filth.
“[Mass Cl—]”
Then it exploded. Osthia, Boyd, and the squad of Sisters saw the magic bindings of the Purifier rupture. They stared up as a rain of blackness began showering down. Looked at each other.
Then they ran for it. Then, Boyd swore she saw her crazy captain laughing. Osthia had tears running down the filth caked onto her body.
“That? That’s the doom of Naamreles?”
It was just one of those things experienced [Mages] told younger ones. Stop relying on [Cleanse] and wash your underwear. No spell’s perfect. And some young [Mage] would wonder why anyone knew that. Or wonder—if you [Cleansed] something, where did all the dirt go?
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss didn’t know what was going on with Dig Site B. He heard only chaos, Major Shellc shouting orders—then some clarity.
“We are under attack from light-constructs, Wall Lord! It’s an entire damn army and some kind of super-summons capable of flight, Tier 5 attack spells—”
Oh no. The City of Purity was awake. Ilvriss was galloping towards the dig sites, shouting the alarm in the next moment. It was Lyonette du Marquin who was too slow to follow.
“Ilvriss, wait, I’ll get Ulva and—Ishkr, go find Xitegen now!”
Ishkr ran for the portal door. Lyonette whirled.
“Someone go after Ilvriss! Tell me what’s going on—not you, Nanette—and keep in contact!”
To her relief, the witch wasn’t running after Ilvriss, but into the inn.
“I’ll watch with the [World’s Eye Theatre]!”
“Good idea! Ilvriss, don’t—he’s gone.”
She ran a few steps out into the Cowpat Plains before Ser Dalimont caught her.
“Your Highness, my arm’s broken, and you can’t endanger yourself!”
“Marquin’s remaining breast, I can’t! Let go of me, Dalimont!”
They were arguing as the door closed behind them; Liska was sending Ishkr to Invrisil, and Lyonette’s heart was in her throat.
“Why now? No one was stupid enough to dig today, surely! Did it have to be this moment? After Tolveilouka, that bastard? Could anything else go wrong?”
Someone coughed behind her.
“Er, well, funny you should mention that. Now, look. I admit, we got a bit heated. I tried to turn you into a plague thing, you said hurtful things about my master—”
Lyonette froze. Ser Dalimont drew his sword, and Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer raised his hands.
“I’m just here t—”
Lyonette drew a crossbow and aimed it at him. He kept his hands raised. Tolveilouka had…a hole in his forehead. Dalimont and Lyonette stared through the hole and his pulsing brains, then lowered their weapons. Tolveilouka noticed and patted at the hole.
“Damn, is that still there? It stings like—listen. Things might not be going according to plan. See, I was helping you out.”
What? Neither [Princess] nor Thronebearer said a word. They just exchanged glances and stared back at Tolveilouka. The half-Elf put his hands in his pockets. Kicked a rock.
“Okay, look. I’m sorry about the dead Wall Lord. He seemed nice. Brave. Tell you what, I could reanimate his corpse? There’s some kinds of undead that grow on you. I’ll make sure he’s a nice one—well, nice as they get. I felt bad about it, really. He and I had a heart-to-heart, and I think I was respecting him near the end. Real composure in the face of death, that fellow.”
He’s not dead. Lyonette almost said that, and Ser Dalimont stepped gently on one foot. Neither one said a word. Tolveilouka glanced at them. Put his fingers together and took a breath.
“Okay, and the City of Purity…listen. I was hoping it was inactive. Turns out, it’s not. So, um, you’re about five hundred miles away from here. Great. Just close the door and I bet you they’ll get stopped before then. I’ll help! You just have to snipe the Purifiers when they’re distracted. Three-dozen in one place and even a Dragon has a bad day, and they’re sort of diametrically opposed to my nature. Hard to fight. A hundred and, well, everything’s dead. The rest of the light-armies aren’t that bad.”
Purifier. Light armies. Lyonette twitched, and Tolveilouka held up his hands.
“I know what you’re thinking, and I’m upset with me. But here’s what you need to know: they’re not perfect. Most are pretty damn big; they’re full of shit. Literal shit. That’s what [Cleanse] spells do. You think all that dirt and stuff goes nowhere? It’s in a mini-dimension attached to you. That’s why the first time any [Mage] opens a portal dimension connected to their magic it’s filled with crap if they’ve cast [Cleanse]. Normally, it’s not a problem, but if you keep doing it, well. Naamreles invented [Cleanse], and so they didn’t get the memo.”
He jerked a thumb over his shoulder and smiled.
“Actually, that’s how they killed themselves. That and selecting only the most ‘pure’ candidates for their citizenship. See, the Purifiers sweep up all the mess, but they reached a critical mass long ago. So new ones keep getting made, but once they sweep up too much shit, they explode. Then the cycle repeats. The security systems must have been fighting their own filth for, I don’t know, at least a few thousand years? Hilarious.”
He slapped his chest, shook his head.
“That’s why we buried the City of Purity; they killed themselves trying to purify their own ranks. Then their automated legions attacked everything mindlessly. No one wanted them around by that point, anyways. The problem was, it turned out their magic was good enough to keep going and doing the same damn thing. Hence why we had to bury them. There’s filth-monsters as big as half-Giants down there. Imagine being a citizen of the ‘City of Purity’, choking to death on the filth your city kept trying to clean! Those [Miners] your lot found were probably trying to escape and ran out of food and water!”
He laughed. Hesitated as he saw his audience hadn’t joined him. Tolveilouka cleared his throat.
“Ahem. So…now they’re loose, and they’ll probably execute anyone ‘impure’, which is mostly everyone. If you’re lucky, the Purifiers will explode and slow the others down, but uh, the light-armies are probably going to enslave anyone not pure, and the ‘citizens’ will be taken below where they’ll probably die of starvation. They’re—well, the Purifiers are the real threats…but the City of Purity’s armies are pretty damn…look, just close the door. I’ll throw rocks at them or something. I just need to, uh, get some weapons and heal up.”
He touched the hole in his forehead again. Winced. Tolveilouka gave Lyonette a thumbs up.
“I was helping.”
He backed up a few steps.
“I tried to. Look, you try it.”
The half-Elf turned, jogged off, hesitated, and then jogged back.
“When you think abou—”
Lyonette shot him in the face with her crossbow. Tolveilouka slowly pulled the bolt out of his nose and eyed her.
“I suppose you deserve to do that. Do it again and I’m breaking your fingers. Right…good luck with that.”
He ran off, then shouted.
“I mean it about ‘run’! You all suck if you can’t even get me to Phase 2! Stop shooting crossbow bolts at me, I’m just trying to help—”
He ran off. Lyonette and Ser Dalimont stood there in silence until the door burst open.
“Lyonette! It’s horrible! There’s Drakes made of light attacking, a-and Nanette sees more coming from below, but she can’t see the City of Purity because it’s warded!”
Hethon was waving his arms and panicking. Lyonette and Dalimont turned. After a moment, she nodded.
“We’ll be there right away, Hethon. Tell Nanette to inform everyone we know. And keep an eye on Ilvriss.”
He nodded and ran. She looked back at Ser Dalimont. He glanced around.
“Given where we were, I don’t think anyone could have seen…”
“Good. Dalimont? Not a word to—”
“Of course.”
More silence. Lyonette mouthed a few words, then exhaled.
“Helping.”
“Evidently, Lyonette.”
She felt at her face. At her arms, which had nearly turned into putrid flesh. Glanced at the ground he’d destroyed. Thought about Ilvriss.
“Dalimont?”
“Yes, Your Highness?”
“Find me a way to get on his bad side.”
“How, Your Highness?”
“I don’t know, a mean poem or something.”
Then she was running. But Lyonette didn’t forget this was definitely all Tolveilouka’s fault.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss heard the frantic fighting as he raced towards the Cowpat Plains and the dig site at top speed. By the time Lyonette appeared, panting what she’d been told at him, he didn’t question it. He just gave orders.
“Welsca, are you there?”
“Here, Wall Lord!”
He looked around and saw her actually flying past him. She had wings. And her scales were fire-red, not his prismatic—she was trailing smoke as she panted. Ilvriss’ own wings stirred, then he just began shouting.
“Here are my orders: Evacuate Thirthoof. Evacuate the base camp, and warn every [Rancher] in the region! Tell them what’s coming, and if they don’t listen, get them to just look this way!”
He wagered they could see the light attacks and maybe even the damn Purifiers, they were so big. Ilvriss kept shouting.
“Get me Master Oidhol as well!”
“Yes, s—Master Oidhol?”
Of all the Drakes—Ilvriss ignored Welsca and fished out a speaking stone.
“Major Shellc, are you there? I want you to retreat back to our base camp or further if needed! Do not engage those constructs!”
“I hear you, Wall Lord. But it’s a damn fighting retreat. Your Captain Asrira and her squad refuse to fall back. They’ve taken down a Purifier, but they insist on holding the line.”
Osthia? Ilvriss’ head was spinning from his near-death experience. He hadn’t slept. He really wanted a lie-down in Erin’s inn. He was sharp and fuzzy, like he was dying. But he just rode, and his lungs felt like they were glittering from the inside, if that was even a sensation. He toggled the speaking stone and hit mass-communications by accident.
It didn’t matter.
“Ilvriss to all forces, fall back! That means you, [Major]!”
Welsca turned, mid-conversation with a confused Master Oidhol. Did he mean Captain Asrira? Her rank had fluctuated a bit, but—then she heard the voice coming back.
“Wall Lord? We have to hold the line. Someone has to.”
Osthia Blackwing sounded…too calm. Welsca recognized it as a warning sign from her Manus training. Shock. The [Wing Captain] was a veteran who’d lost her entire command at least once.
“The army will be wiped out, sir. Requesting permission to hold the line.”
“Denied. Get out of there, [Major]. You and your forces.”
“Nossir. Someone’s got to cover the retreat, General.”
This time, Welsca’s head snapped around, and she nearly lost control and slammed into the ground. But Ilvriss was just galloping ahead. And…
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin was listening from the [World’s Eye Theatre]. She could see Captain Osthia. Both wings broken, and she was reeling.
The light-soldiers had refrained from attacking them until she’d hacked the twentieth one apart. Then they’d decided she wasn’t worth protecting. The only thing that had saved her was the cloth-armor that Ilvriss had bought for her from Honored Deskie. Eight light-spears had nailed her in the chest, and she was—mostly—unhurt.
But it looked like one had hit her in the helmet. Her squad was hunkered down in Dig Site B’s camp, fighting from the fortifications there. Drakes and Gnolls were evacuating the camps, but some teams, like Maiss’, weren’t immediately fleeing.
More were doing the things Drakes did. Captain Osthia spoke muzzily as scrying spells began coming in from Salazsar.
Dramm and the other spies were calling ten kinds of alarms, and regular citizens and Wall Lords were tuning in. Not the news, not yet. No one had bothered telling them.
What they saw were light-Drakes pouring out of a hole in the ground. Vast titans with halos and wings, patterned off another species, an ideal, battling foul monsters made of sludge. And what the citizens of Salazsar heard was Wall Lord Ilvriss’ voice, cracking, panting, and Asrira Shieldscale. Shouting at each other, confused.
“Drakes don’t run, General! We can hold them.”
Osthia swung her sword through a light-Drake’s neck. She stumbled, and someone caught her. Her squad. The Goblin Lord’s army was everywhere—no, the light-constructs. She was shouting. At General Thrissiam. Or was it General Garusa? It didn’t matter. He was bellowing nonsense in her earhole.
“That’s Dragondung, [Major]! I just gave you an order!”
“Order ignored, sir. What’s best for everyone is I stay.”
Another wave was coming. Her squad—Osthia was motioning them back, but they were good soldiers. They wouldn’t run.
One could save a hundred lives. Her commander was bellowing orders as well, but General Thrissiam just shouted back.
“That’s enough. I told you to retreat, Periss! Get out of there! Please.”
Periss? Who? Osthia began to croak, then saw another Drake climbing the trenches. She kicked a face in with her boots as someone knifed the bastard.
“Sir, I’m needed here—protocol dictates the commanding officer—”
“Hang the protocol. Retreat, Periss. I can’t lose you. What good are our heroes if we have to keep making them? Please. Run.”
The [Sister of the Unforgotten] realized that Ilvriss wasn’t talking to her at last. He was talking at her. Osthia’s head turned. She snapped out of the haze and saw the wounded Sisters around her. For a moment, she saw the pile of the dead. Then General Thrissiam waving at her—
She swore she saw Periss for a second, slowly regarding her as she sat, sharpening a blade and waiting for the next battle. None of them spoke, but their eyes—
Periss, Osthia, whatever her name was, turned.
“…Fall back in order. No one dies here. Squad, give me [Lesser Acidbreath] and run.”
The glowing forms climbing the trenches were greeted by a salute of acid. They paused only a second—then they cleared the trenches. No one met them with blades at the top. They marched into the camp, and the lines were breaking. Osthia was running.
Salazsar watched Drakes running and heard Ilvriss shouting a dead woman’s name.
But if that rattled them—
They’d seen nothing yet.
 
——
 
