His thick thighs carried him across the ground as his running outfit caught the falling lights. A glossier material, light, breathable—he took off his coat. He was wearing running shoes, of course. They just looked vaguely like a nobleman’s since he’d had them polished black.
Ryoka Griffin had once told him he had good running form. Arms moving in sync with his legs; when one rose, the opposite arm rose with it. His hands made blades as he held his fingers straight out, pumping, eyes fixed on the middle distance, over the heads of the soldiers.
“Hold the line! Hold until the tunnels are collapsed—”
Some Drake was telling everyone they were sapping the tunnels, or it might have been done. An end to these reinforcements—but in answer, the light-legions were mounting an offensive. The Purifiers were still gorging themselves and exploding like pimples of rot and ruination.
How beautifully abhorrent. The ground smelled like crap, but Xitegen had good purchase on it, even if he kicked up a bit of soil. When he turned his head and heard the thumping, he saw Controller Lectara running behind him.
A good woman who was piloting a Golem made for that purpose. Armor encased her, and despite the huge weight of the metal frame around her, which turned her into a giant in plate armor like a War Walker, she was running. Sprinting thanks to her new Skills. She’d levelled up well.
What?
Oh…she was calling his name. Xitegen Terland glanced down and realized the ground was moving under his feet at commendable speed.
I’m faster. He slowed and realized that Primera and Seconda were with him, as ever. But the foot-soldiers and Golems were further back. So he turned and jogged in a curve as light arrows hit the ground behind him. Faster. Faster—until his heart was singing.
[Run, Like My Beating Heart].
Such a fanciful Skill for a man of his dignity. But he had to run, didn’t you see? He did not necessarily like being on the side of Drakes. Or playing into this alliance. Or letting his brave people and Golems die here.
But she was there. Standing with the wind blowing in her hair, firing arrows down at the nearest Purifier, next to the Antinium.
Elia Arcsinger.
He hadn’t been wrong about her. She’d just forgotten who she was. All the trust in the world. The Named-rank adventurer was loosing arrows into the mass of soldiers coming at Salazsar’s forces. They were set—but they needed help. So, Xitegen caught his forces.
“With me!”
“[Follow the Standard]! [Raise the Banner of House Terland]!”
Lectara cried, and her armor projected the crest of House Terland over her head. How lovely. Xitegen thought the Golems who saw it moved faster—and he heard Primera’s heart singing.
I’m sorry. He peered at his bodyguard Golem and had so many questions. Then Xitegen ran on the guilt, his queries. The sight of Elia Arcsinger.
Arrows. Some Gnoll copied ten thousand times had seen his forces moving. They were sending more arrows raining down. Even—a light-ballista?
He saw something streaking towards him and ran left. His forces thundered left with him, and the ground exploded in showers of dirt. Now, his arms and legs were pumping. He remembered running at the Goblin King like this. If this wasn’t all a dream he was having as he lay upon the battlements, a child—
To make sure he wasn’t dreaming, he forced more energy into his legs and arms until he was gasping. Until the ground was truly blurring—then he saw the light-Drakes turning. Pivoting as a wing saw his forces coming. Xitegen was running across them. The light-Drakes spun, spears lowered to block his charge—but he just jogged past the spears. Refused to run into a damn line of pikes. He pointed one finger right.
“[Again, Again, and Ever Again]—”
His famous Skill. Shields appeared in the soldiers’ hands, and they raised them skywards. They’d seen his trick. Lovely adaptation. Xitegen stared into the eyes of a long-dead Drake who smiled at him. And Xitegen thought he could hear his weary soul asking for relief.
“[Covering Fire]! [Point-Blank Volley].”
Little holes in the air opened next to Xitegen—and then the arrows loosed. Not from above, but horizontally. A point-blank barrage. Piercing arrows, too.
Upgrades.
The light-soldiers jerked as the arrows hit them. Xitegen kept running as the lines of Drakes began to vanish—then they dropped their shields. So he rained arrows on them from above.
“House Terland, with me!”
He was still running, circling the Drakes, who had to slow and block his formation. But then Controller Lectara fired a [Ray of Incineration] as she ran. Golems unloaded spells as they moved, and Primera tossed a [Greater Force Orb] into the light-Drakes’ formation.
“Lord Terland! Purifier!”
Another one had approached the battlefield. Xitegen gazed up, and he remembered the Hag Queens of Aklat Vunn. He hadn’t been able to challenge them. If he had been the same level…
He was jogging at it when it vanished. Exploded in a shower of muck. Xitegen shielded his face at the smell, then looked down.
“Ah. You.”
So that was where the real Lord Ilvriss was. He had emerged from behind the light-soldiers. Which indicated that they were cut off from reinforcements if the [Major] shouting in Xitegen’s ears was any indication.
Some [Miner] had thrown a pickaxe through the Purifier. That, unfortunately, had just attracted every light-soldiers’ attention, and the Wall Lord was running from more arrows. And spellcasters.
That was really unpleasant to see; another light-Drake, female, with robes, conjuring what looked like [Fireballs] made out of yellow light. It was so unpleasant, in fact, that Lord Xitegen ran into her formation.
“[Full Momentum Kick].”
He saw her turn, and his foot hurt, but the blow blew apart her barriers and the light-mage. The copies of her went down as Primera ripped one’s head off, and his forces were on top of—
“Fall back! Fall back!”
Then they were gone again. And Xitegen was running at the Wall Lord. They locked gazes, and Ilvriss shouted.
“Lord Xitegen—”
“With me! We have to divide them or they’ll overrun us!”
The light-soldiers were getting distracted. Their push against the Salazsar wall was faltering. That was all they needed to do. Divide and conquer. Leave strategy to [Strategists].
It was just that Xitegen’s forces from Celum were maybe a thousand men and Golems because Liska had been able to send no more. They were dead the moment they were surrounded. And here came the light cavalry. Xitegen saw their lances dipping. He swore, out of the corner of his eyes, he saw Ilvriss dance-running next to him.
“Objectively hilarious.”
“Leave the [Riders]! We need to charge the center; they’re going to combine into mini-purifiers and attack!”
That might break the Salazsarian defenders. Xitegen didn’t trust Ilvriss’ precognition that much. But when he turned, eying the center of the light-soldiers’ mass—he saw air glow before the Golem leapt.
Yweine landed, swinging a sword made of magic through the light-Drakes riding horses with long, scaled tails and who looked lizard-like. When they tried to lance her, she turned, pointed a hand forwards, and each claw on her talon rocketed off her hands and fired into the enemy around her.
Then the claw tips detonated. She swung around, and before the rest of the lances could touch her, they exploded in a shower of lightning. Xitegen raised his hand, squinting, and another man was running forwards.
Nerul Gemscale was no born runner. But he led the charge of the Erchirite Spears.
“Nephew! Get out of here!”
Every Erchirite Spear of Salazsar was present—a full battalion of a thousand. Disguised [Miners]—Xitegen saw Ilvriss shouting.
“Uncle, you get out of here! Don’t be a fool—”
“Wall Lord, we are escorting you out of danger. Do not resist.”
Yweine strode forwards, and Xitegen would have loved to talk to her as well. However, Ilvriss was pointing.
“They’re combining! We have to attack! Major Shellc!”
Sure enough, the Drakes were stepping back from the fighting. Walking towards each other, smiling, and forming glowing orbs of light. The orbs were getting bigger, and the first one disgorged a Drake that was twelve feet tall.
Light-soldiers able to break the enemy lines and fight Golems on equal footing. Xitegen hit one with arrows and watched the light implode.
“I concur. Gentlemen—if we nobly charge the foe, we may stop the worst of the casualties and all die. Since there are two Wall Lords here and one of me, I consider it a worthwhile trade. Shall we? Or shall we bravely pretend we were better than doing the right thing?”
Nerul hesitated. He looked to Yweine, whose eyes flickered. A Golem with a spark of light behind them.
“The action is tactically sound. However, I shall escort you and the Wall Lord back—”
She didn’t want to die. Xitegen smiled. He regarded Primera and Seconda and wondered if they wanted to run. But he was a bad man; he didn’t ask.
“I’m with you, Lord Xitegen. Let’s go. Georgie, fall back with the non-combatants.”
Ilvriss snapped at the Drake who’d thrown the pickaxe, and the fellow hesitated. Before anyone could make up their minds, there was a voice.
“You don’t know how to charge the foe, boy. You do it like a drunken [Sailor]. You, Drakes. And you damn cow-riding fools, with me.”
Xitegen turned, and if he had thought his heart leapt to see Elia Arcsinger, it truly beat now. For there she was.
Ulva Terland appeared terribly afraid. She was sitting on her Dais of Health. But she was making it fly forwards as she carried the conductor’s wand. Timekeeper and all her personal Golems were with her—and to the right? Marvus and Aronia Lischelle. He was trying to get his wife to leave, but the [Ranchers] were with him. Even some of the bulls too angry to quit.
“Great Aunt, House Terland cannot afford to lose both its leaders.”
“Quiet, boy. You sound like a coward, and we are many things, but not cowards. Ranchers of the Plains, to me!”
Ulva shouted, and Marvus rode forwards, breathless.
“They’re turnin’ into super-Drakes. If we run into them and can’t get out—”
“Then we die. Or we cut through. Don’t stop or turn. Trust me. I will lead the charge.”
Ulva Terland pointed.
“Wall Lord, you and your spears fire left. Xitegen, behind me. [Ranchers], fire right and do not stop. The Golems will fight; keep moving until we clear the other side!”
She paused, and no one argued with her, though even Xitegen had questions. Ulva turned her head, then shifted around in her seat.
“There’s no Petria. It’s the first battle I’ve faced without her.”
She breathed out, and for a moment, he feared she’d crumble. But then Ulva Terland just gazed down.
“You are no Petria. But I have no other choice. With me. Hearts of Golems, thunder! House Terland, forwards! Create a breach!”
The [Matriarch] of House Terland pointed, and the air split as the first Golem unleashed a beam of flames. Timekeeper followed as her dais sped up, and there was a second—everything froze, and the Golems smashed through the first rank of light-soldiers. Then the second.
She’d gone in so fast even Xitegen was running to catch up. Wall Lord Ilvriss and Nerul Gemscale were running to the left, and Marvus Lischelle was swearing a storm on the right. For a moment, they caught each other’s eyes.
Ilvriss, Nerul, Xitegen, Marvus—all of them approaching that next step or who had begun the climb. Nerul and Xitegen locked eyes and felt it.
It was calling to them. Something beyond anything they knew. Their next level.
It was she who led them forwards, that glorious heroine of House Terland he had always remembered. Ulva Terland pointed.
“Five Families, follow! Forwards, you Golems of flesh and bone! [Awaken, Hearts of Izril].”
His heart—! Xitegen felt himself speeding up as it thundered, louder and more furiously than he had ever known. He was running, sending arrows flying left and right—and he saw green flames bursting along Salazsar’s lines.
The Order of Solstice. Salazsar was counter-charging. But Ulva—
The giant light-soldiers were forming. Trying to halt the advance. It was stalling. Timekeeper slammed into a giant Drake and was fighting, punching. The other Terland Golems grappled with their foe.
“The Doom of Naamreles will end.”
“To the Matriarch.”
“Bear witness.”
Voices without inflection that still conveyed something. A Steel Wargolem bringing down a bladed elbow into a light-soldier’s head. A Golem shaped like a Gnoll stumbling as a warhammer was brought down on its shoulder.
A desperate [Rancher] lassoing one of the light-soldiers, pulling it back to keep it from mincing one of the Erchirite Spears. Xitegen kept running, seeing it all. And then he saw Ulva Terland’s dais go crashing down.
“Great Aunt—”
A light-soldier had knocked it down. Xitegen was charging at it as Ulva arose, blood running down from her forehead. She pointed the conductor’s wand up, fearlessly, waving it like she were still hearing a song.
“[To Me, Servants of My Proud House].”
She spoke, and the light-soldier thrust down at her. But it hit Lord Xitegen, and he landed on the ground as the spear overloaded his protection charms. Seared his flesh and bones.
I’ll live.
He was trying to get up, to grab Ulva Terland, when he wondered where those helpful Golems were. He didn’t see a lovely reinforcement. The giant light-soldier was glancing around for some, too. It turned—and looked up.
And up.
And up—until the largest Golem in all of Izril, the Light of the North, struck the ground with a fist. The earth quaked. Then it paused.
“LA-DY TER-LAND. ARE Y-OU WE-LL—”
It spoke, and Ulva Terland shouted.
“Light of the North, destroy every light-soldier!”
The Golem paused as light-soldiers milled around it, attacking its gigantic frame. It ignored them and regarded a Purifier, which stared up at the Golem. The great Golem opened its mouth, and Xitegen jerked his head away.
The beam of light blew a hole through the Purifier and two more. Then the Light of the North rose and was sweeping its arms around. Smashing Drakes flat.
“Keep moving! Out the other side!”
Ulva Terland’s words made the [Ranchers], Drakes, and even lesser Golems and men and women remember they were in the middle of battle. She rose and sat on the only vehicle she had left: Timekeeper’s shoulders. She pointed, and Xitegen began running again. Until they breached the other side.
Even then, the fighting didn’t end. But the light-soldiers were dwindling. Xitegen kept running until the last glowing form had vanished, and the Purifiers began flickering out as the Light of the North walked towards them.
