It was not over, of course. But he did stop and drink some water Seconda handed him. Then…he saw the [Princess] running to hug Ilvriss and wondered who that Duke was, the one from Ailendamus.
He’d sworn he’d seen the fellow punching out an entire company of Drakes bare-handed. But the Lord of House Terland just decided to ask questions later. He did the only thing one did.
He made sure the wounded, Golems and people, were being seen to. Walked over to greet Elia Arcsinger. Made sure Farmer Himilt’s wife was well as she and her sister embraced and went about the difficult task of tending to the wounded and dead.
Then he went to check on his aunt.
 
——
 
That night, the television networks picked up on a story they weren’t really sure how to relate.
Er…armies of light-constructs attack in the Cowpat Plains! Which is really the name of the place! A Walled City dug up beneath our very feet, but halted, if temporarily, by an alliance of Salazsar, House Terland, [Ranchers], and—is someone smoking Dreamleaf?
It was already a crazy story, but one you could get behind—if you’d seen it. And surely someone had recorded it, but the copies were strangely hard to get ahold of.
None were coming from Salazsar despite eyewitnesses swearing up and down that they’d seen them. When someone had offered to sell Pallass News Network a copy, the bill had come to Sir Relz’s desk.
70,000 gold pieces to the care of House Reinhart. For half the recording.
He…was almost tempted to pay for it after having to sit in front of a camera and try to get answers. No one in the region was answering, and it wasn’t like the place was replete with Mage’s Guilds!
And someone was blocking scrying spells to the entire region. Which was fine. Just send a [Mage] from Pallass to the spot, right?
…Only the [Doorgnoll] claimed there wasn’t an exit point there. The [Mages] insisted she was lying, but she refused to open the door, and Sir Relz just gave up and hired a Magical Carriage instead.
When he finally got a [Mage] over there, the carriage never got to the site of the fighting. Instead, it was stopped by a [Lady] and a patrol of Golems.
The [Lady] had a glowing Golem’s Heart, and she introduced herself as Prithna Terland and informed Wistram News Network that the area was off-limits.
“By the authority of House Terland, this region has been sealed off.”
“But we’re the news—”
A Golem swung down a giant sword, and the news team backed up. The young woman smiled sweetly at them. Her heart…pulsed, and Sir Relz saw her gaze into the scrying orb.
“Please speak to Lady Ulva Terland or a representative of House Terland.”
“Miss, that is to say, Lady Prithna, we are Wistram News Network and representatives of Pallass.”
Her face never changed.
“And we are House Terland. Cross this line and you will be neutralized. By Golems.”
So that meant Sir Relz had to interview eyewitnesses raving about Drakes made of light appearing everywhere. A very entertaining Mayor Bootsy gave the best account, but when she said she was going back, she undercut the danger.
“Wait, back?”
“‘Sright, fancy newsman. It’s my home. Plus, I reckon there’s more call for us. Them Terlands are settlin’ down, and the damn Salazsarians are digging. Reckon we’ll bill ‘em for trauma and insist on walls, but I smell a fortune. And if there’s new boots down there, Mayor Bootsy will be wearing them!”
“Down where?”
She developed a twinkle-eyed smile and spat through a gap in her teeth.
“Can’t say.”
 
——
 
No one wanted to say. Even the miners who’d fled just got shifty-eyed and said ‘terrible thing, nearly died, but I guess I’ll be back to work. For the, uh, incentives.’
Naturally, everyone smelled a rat. But when the other Five Families politely inquired about the situation—did House Terland need help? Happy to send a few Named-ranks or a regiment, what’s with our lighthouse walking off—they ran into Ulva Terland.
Ulva Terland ignored everyone except for Deilan El and Magnolia Reinhart. She gave those two some time as they were heads of their families, but steadfastly refused to let anyone approach, even nobles.
The few who tried were sent back with a salve for the bumps on their heads. And spanked backsides. When an outraged conclave of Wellfar’s Admiralty demanded answers, her rejoinder was simple.
“If we need help, I’ll ask for it. We have it under control. I didn’t see you lot down there.”
“Down where? Lady Ulva, what is going on?”
And have you dug up a Walled City? The Wellfars were all glancing at each other. But the ones old enough to know Ulva Terland, the Ulva Terland of old, had a sinking feeling in their stomach. Ulva just grunted.
“I’m sure someone will have explanations at some point. I have to go.”
Golems were striding around behind her, their hearts beating. That told the Wellfars something. When one caught sight of Wall Lord Ilvriss running across the plains and hugging a little white Gnoll and swinging her around, then hugging a [Princess] and an Antinium—well, they did check their drinks for Dreamleaf too.
One of the oldest of Wellfar’s [Lords] raised a hand. Captain Adamaze looked Ulva in the eyes.
“Ulva. Tell me one thing. Was what we heard the Golems saying real? If it is a Walled City—really?”
His voice cracked with disbelief. The Admiralty leaned forwards, and Ulva Terland considered the question. Then she leaned forwards too, and her face of stone seemed to come alive.
“It was as real as the Winter Solstice.”
She cut the call on that. Belatedly, House Wellfar realized it might be further out of the loop than it wanted to be.
 
——
 
The deal was simple. Not that there was a written deal; Nerul was working on it, but it’d be the work of months, if not longer.
But Ilvriss had hopes. Now they’d found the City of Purity. All they had to do was, uh, re-dig it out.
They’d buried it pretty damn well with the Advance Miners’ help, but the [Miners] speculated that it was only a matter of time before the constructs got out, with that many of them. Even if they didn’t know how to dig for shit.
By the time they emerged, Salazsar would have real Gem Regiments ready for combat and specialized weaponry. Ilvriss was calling in everything he could, and the Sons and Daughters of the Wall had unanimously voted to send him reinforcements.
Even if they were hopping mad about the other unofficial part of the deal. Which was that whatever House Terland, the [Ranchers], or any of the interested parties found, they kept.
Oh, there might be a division of spoils, shares of the items, but more than one [Soldier] was swinging around a looted blade this night—as Enchanter Hedault politely screamed at them not to do that before he’d appraised them.
Keep what you take. Ilvriss had told them it was the only thing that kept Ulva Terland from killing them all.
Frankly, he wasn’t sure she wouldn’t try something, but the [Matriarch] seemed willing to admit that the City of Purity might be too hard for House Terland to take on alone. So, she, Marvus, and Ilvriss were going to sit down and come up with a plan of action.
For conquering the City of Purity.
No adventurers—unless they were hired. No games or infighting. They went in, they grabbed treasure, they walked out.
It’d probably go bad, but Ilvriss had seen the City of Purity. He sat, sipping a juice drink.
“It’s very…shiny.”
Lyonette just stared at him. Ilvriss ignored her poking him until it hurt too much.
“Ow, ow, stop that! Oh, fine. It’s all reflective surfaces or so it seems. Nothing to, ah, prove purity than seeing one’s reflection in the mirror. It’s actually so damn dazzling that the look we got at it was blinding—but Osthia got inside a building. She says the windows are tinted so you don’t get blinded inside. Predictably, she and her squad looted the place. Even their cups are enchanted.”
Everyone was hanging on his words. Ilvriss saw Georgie bragging about being the [Advance Miner] to all the other miners, who were giving him the time of day despite his personality. Lady Damia was still being tossed up and down by people cheering her—he winced as she finally threw up.
And he laughed. He laughed and sat there, feeling relieved, feeling a great battle ahead of him and risk—dead gods, the risk!—but relieved.
The city was real. Even if it hadn’t been—he glanced at his boots, and they twitched a bit. Lyonette noticed.
“I suppose you’ll have less time, what with all the action here.”
She sighed wistfully, and Ilvriss coughed.
“Actually. It might be pretty slow. We’re not going to risk a breach like that again. There might be a lot of periods of entire boredom. Followed by heart-stopping terror.”
“Oh? How so? Now that you know it’s there…”
She raised her brows, and he clarified.
“Now that we know it’s there, it’ll send waves of soldiers at us nonstop—if we go in the way the security systems remember. But if we find other points and send in Stealth Golems or [Rogues]…we have even more digging to do. It looked like a lot of the city had collapsed, and there’s all those damn filth-monsters. They’ll keep turning into trouble, so we do have to actually deal with the waste at some point.”
It turned out that after all that digging, they needed to do more digging! He sighed. At least they had a framework, and Lady Ulva Terland had Golems. Dead gods, Ilvriss loved Golems.
He was still eyeing Yweine. She had introduced herself, and he’d barely screamed at Nerul about the crazy deal, but Ilvriss had it on his calendar to do sometime this week. For now, he just sat back and laughed.
“Okay, okay. Let’s not talk about all that right now. Who wants a souvenir?”
Nanette Weishart was beaming as Mrsha pinched her nose; the place stank even worse now that the true origin of the smell that had plagued her had come up. Lyonette sighed.
“Ilvriss, come on. I have a hundred thousand questions, and I know you must be exhausted—but your Oldblood form? How does it feel to have wings? And—wait, souvenirs?”
Ilvriss modestly put one hand behind his back and felt at his bag of holding.
“I can see you’re not interested, Lyonette. But as Osthia’s people reminded me, whenever you visit a new city, you take souvenirs. I suppose I’ll let Nanette have the first pick.”
“Wall Lord, thank you so m—”
Nanette put her hands out, and Mrsha and Lyonette shoved her aside. They began to fight as Ilvriss peered around for Hedault. He waved at Bird, who was smiling as she waved back. The inn, triumph, and dead gods, no one he loved had died.
Except Merls. Ilvriss’ head bowed, but then he smiled and put the grief aside. He stood—and wondered, selfishly, what he’d get when he levelled.
He was a Drake, despite everything.
 
——
 
People were signing up for Wall Lord Ilvriss’ company, banging on the doors, asking if they could join up.
He was the talk of Salazsar. A hero who had challenged Sserys’ cursed words. Who’d fought his way through the enemy.
A Wall Lord, the very image of one.
And he had even grown wings. Become an Oldblood. There was a certain kind of traditionalist Drake who read a lot into that.
Wall Lord Zail might have been considered one of those Drakes, but he’d never really cared about Oldblood. The rest? Yes.
He was trembling in his rooms. He’d left Eschowar to scheme with the others. For once, he’d not been in the mood.
Everyone put it down to him being overwrought with relief that his son was alive after all that. And Zail was glad.
However…
His shaking wasn’t from that. It was from nerves. He’d watched the recording of the scrying spells—Salazsar was intercepting the others, and they’d leak eventually, but to his knowledge, this was the only recording of this particular incident and scene.
It wasn’t hard to see why; this scrying spell had been just before Ulva Terland had blocked all scrying spells, and most people had stopped watching after the battle was well and truly over. Zail, who had wanted to see all angles, had kept watching the footage until this had crossed his path.
Nearly three hours after all the fighting had ended, when the real Ilvriss had emerged and the [Princess] had run over to him with the white Gnoll girl, he’d been hugging people, trying to talk to Major Shellc, nothing to really see.
The Wall Lord was grinning, and it was really him; Zail had wondered if the fake Ilvriss was his son, but his son wasn’t good at fistfighting, let alone throws, and he would never have gone into a battle without his sword.
It was just one moment that not even the [Strategists] had paid attention to, yawning as they let Zail inspect the recording. They hadn’t seen him appropriate the memory crystal. So…it might be only he’d seen this.
Zail paused the recording again in his private scrying orb, which he’d been assured by the [Wardmistress] that no one could tap into. He saw the scene play out, rewound it, stopped it.
“There.”
It might be that this was the fake Ilvriss. Somehow. Or—no, he doubted it was faked, but maybe? Would someone have been that subtle? Ulva Terland? It wasn’t beyond her, but surely she’d have made it more obvious. The answer was more likely that it was real. But then…
Wall Lord Zail stared at the frozen image of Ilvriss, who had turned and was hugging an emerald Antinium with wings, beaming with delight.
Bird the Huntress. He was embracing her—just for a moment—before he went to high-five the others. An unguarded moment of…
An Antinium.
Zail vividly recalled Ilvriss being in his study, talking to him the day after Bird the Hunter had appeared on Pallass’ walls. They’d talked. About Bird and the Antinium, and that had led to…
Everything.
Zail rewound the clip. Played it. Stopped it. Went frame-by-frame until he’d burned it into his memory. Then, silently, he got up.
With his reclaimed strength of youth, he crushed the crystal and swept it into the fireplace and mixed it with ash. Then he went to sit.
Sit and think.
 
——
 
There was a party afterwards. Another damn party.
You had to have them. Victory celebrations, even if, as she kept pointing out, the threat of Naamreles wasn’t done.
Not by far. Even now, the damned light-sentinels were digging upwards. But they’d bought time before round two, and so, Ulva Terland allowed it.
She just didn’t partake of the wild, drunken celebrating. At least the Wall Lord was sober, but her heir apparent, Xitegen, was far too ready to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with Marvus and toast.
Male camaraderie. It had been like this after they’d gone to save the Drakes from the Antinium. At first, it was all formality. Then you had Linter Veltras singing songs with Sserys.
“Ridiculous.”
