If they had been able to call the New Lands, the Meeting of Tribes, return of the King of Destruction, the ghosts—everything—anomalies, craziness, but within the keeping of this time, this was the final blow. Men and women and children going to their ordinary jobs working for the companies gazed up and wondered if this was the era of fantasies.
And if so—
What were they doing here? 
Still, Ilvriss ran.
 
——
 
The Son of Salazsar was shouting.
“Hold the line! Don’t give up on me now! I’m not laying your pay slip on a grave! Do you know how much a funeral and pension costs?”
—He was still doing it too. If anything, his voice seemed more confident. He spun, and Alrric saw he had on a crimson cloak. Was it enchanted? The Drake wasn’t holding a sword, but he strode past the fighting [Soldiers], a squad of battered Rubirel Guard following him.
He was peering around, gauging the fighting. Alrric was sure that one of the other leaders, like Major Shellc, was directing the actual battle from behind the scenes, but Ilvriss was on the front. He ducked an arrow, cursing, and Alrric heard some pithy language.
“—gargling ballsacks of a Oliphant—”
He’d never heard Ilvriss swear like that. To be fair, Alrric had never seen the Wall Lord fighting up close. Practicing swordplay, or as a tiny image at the Meeting of Tribes, yes. But this?
Was Ilvriss mad? One arrow while his rings were recharging and he was dead. But it was working. He went striding down the line again, then spotted something.
A knot in the fighting. Another group had plunged too far in and refused to pull back. Only, this time, it wasn’t a hairbrained charge by a young Human [Lady].
No, happily, it was Wall Lord Dramm who had rushed forwards with his entourage, thinking to press an attack. From above, his section looked like a bulging ball of shrinking bodies; he was being enveloped.
The young idiot was making it worse because he kept shouting the same ironic phrase used by dead Drakes.
“Drakes don’t run! Hold! Hold, damnit! Drakes don’t—”
“That idiot!”
Alrric thought he was about to see a dead young Wall Lord. Ilvriss seemed to believe so too. He froze, pointing, and the Rubirel Guard tried to advance, but they’d be too slow. Dramm was swinging his sword wildly, and the light-soldiers were closing in. So the Wall Lord looked around—up—and then sighed.
He flung the cloak back to let his wings unfurl with a snap, then leapt. One of the Rubirel Guard tried to grab his legs, but it was too late. The Wall Lord flew up—and fell.
Straight into the middle of the fighting. He snapped his wings open as he landed and sent allies and enemies stumbling back. Dramm whirled.
“Wall Lord! Wh—”
Ilvriss strode over, headbutted Dramm, and shoved the dizzy young Wall Lord back at his people.
“Get him out of here! You idiots—retreat! Enough of quoting Sserys! Real Drakes run when they have to! And fight when—”
A sword nearly pierced his stomach. Ilvriss whirled, and it then became clear that his saving Dramm meant the entire area of fighting was collapsing.
On him. Light-soldiers advanced, and Ilvriss didn’t have—
Where was his sword? He dodged another sword, then grabbed an arm. Alrric saw Ilvriss pivot—then he performed a shoulder throw.
The light-Drake went flying over Dramm’s head as the dizzy Wall Lord sat up. Ilvriss pivoted, kicked another light-soldier in the ground, and when that didn’t work, swept a leg. He backhanded another version of Vnariss, and then he was boxing, punching.
And still shouting.
“We are more than one damn Drake! Look at the folly of Naamreles! We are Salazsar—if I fall, keep fighting! Drakes, Gnolls, Humans—with me!”
He sounded a bit like that young [Lady] from House Reinhart. Only, Wall Lord Ilvriss was under attack as he said all this. A slash cut across his armor. He staggered as an arrow hit him from behind and went down—had he locked legs with another of the light-soldiers to trip the Drake up?
—He came up after four heart-stopping seconds and threw another light-Gnoll. He was throwing them into each other, and the Rubirel Guard finally cut forwards. But the Wall Lord wasn’t done.
He wiped blood running down his cheek from his face as one of the versions of Vnariss got an opening. But it stopped and ran that eerie light over Ilvriss’ body.
They’d largely given up on scanning, but maybe the Wall Lord’s clear Oldblood ancestry had provoked the scan.
The copy of Vnariss spoke.
“Analysis: 50% genetic viability.”
Even it seemed confused a moment before Ilvriss drew a dagger and threw it through the Drake’s eye, and it vanished. He swept his cloak off his shoulders; it was clearly getting tangled. The Drake turned.
“Oldblood doesn’t matter. This is where that line of thinking ends. With me. With me!”
Then he inhaled—and Alrric saw him exhale something that glittered and burst. The light-soldiers threw up their shields, but something coated their armor, their ‘skin’, and hardened.
Crystals. It weighed down the light-constructs, some to immobility, and Ilvriss exhaled again. Only then did he cough and turn.
His tail swished on the grass as he lifted a fist. He practically sauntered back behind the lines. Alrric was a very happily-married Gnoll with a loving wife.
But he had to stare at Ilvriss’ tail, and he wasn’t sure if he’d ever seen tail-movements that suggestive on—more than one citizen of Salazsar experienced a moment of worrying confusion before putting it down to a trick of the light.
Certainly, the Wall Lord didn’t stop there. He rested one knee on a crate of ammunition, speaking to one of the [Archers], and his armor and pants outlined his body until someone blocked the shot. Possibly for his dignity, although dead gods, what did the Wall Lord have to be ashamed of?
Eye-catching. A presence larger than life. Captivating in his new form, in leadership and presence and—
Ulva Terland stood apart from Ilvriss, a forgotten heroine conducting Golems to war, eying the rising son of Salazsar. Across from them, a giant bull covered in wounds was deigning to let Lady Desinee clean his cuts—though Naamreles’ weapons left virtually no chance of infection—and the [Rancher]-lords and ladies fought for their lands.
Magic being plucked from fallen constructs’ hands. Levels gained by every person fighting. And more—more coming to give battle.
 
——
 
It was the only thing she could do.
Mrsha du Marquin was not stupid enough to join the fighting with the robes of Warmage Thresk or his staff.
She just…walked into a building after climbing a good-sized hill. Stopping to listen to the clamor outside. Moved slowly, despite the need.
She found him inside, for once, though she hadn’t thought to. But when the man turned from tending to the glowing, green flame, Mrsha stood there.
Almost ashamed. She didn’t want to do this. Not to them—but it was why they had been formed.
He would have wanted her to tell him.
“Mrsha? What’s going on?”
Dame Ushar said nothing as Mrsha handed Grandmaster Normen of the Order of Solstice a card. He read it, asked a few questions—and then his burned features firmed. He took something from the inner keep of the Order of Solstice, a single lantern glowing with green fire, and Mrsha wiped at her eyes.
The [Grandmaster] noticed and bent to hug her. And she didn’t tell him his stupid armor pinched her fur terribly. When Normen rose, he smiled once.
“We’re not ready. But we will never be. And we’re more ready than last time.”
So saying, he strode out of the Celestial Keep, still being built, and called out. Gnolls, Antinium, Drakes, Humans, and a half-Troll girl looked up. They listened—then, when Normen pointed, they began to run.
Antinium [Squires]. Over two hundred of them. Gnolls like Dekava Silverfang, holding yet-unlit lanterns. Waiting for their flame.
Armored—streaming for the [Portal Door] held open by a grim Liska.
Reinforcements.
Mrsha stood there as the remaining [Knights] that Normen had left to hold the keep should none return tried to go back to practicing, then ran to find a scrying orb. Then, heavily, she returned to the inn to see how it ended.
 
——
 
The Order of Solstice joined the fighting at the five-hour mark. The initial assault from the light-brigades had slowed, but with alarming regularity, Dig Site B spat out another group.
The Purifiers were almost completely entrenched around Dig Site B and the town of Thirthoof, engaged in a perpetual cycle of cleanup and explosion. Filth-elementals were rising as the Purifiers concentrated the waste, then detonated, unable to contain that much sewage. It was also pulling off some of the light-brigades who engaged the muck-monsters, but the rest kept attacking Salazsar’s position.
They ran into Golems launching spells, a rain of arrows from Lord Xitegen and the [Ranchers], flaming [Knights], Silverfang Gnolls, Salazsarian heavy armor troopers, the occasional pickaxe, and at least one bull too angry to die.
…It couldn’t last. Major Shellc had made a prediction.
“We can operate for three more hours at most before we begin to buckle. The moment we begin taking excessive casualties, the effect will snowball, and we’ll be overrun. Either we get help from Pallass or some other force or we’re dead. Lady Ulva’s reinforcement Golems will not make it in time.”
The faster Golems might, but not enough to turn the tides. Nor was the [Major] hopeless; he saw this entire affair as the opening salvo of a true battle, if not war.
They needed time. They needed to regroup, analyze which strategies were working, dig in, cooperate, and heal.
They would not have it. The power of Naamreles was to overwhelm and not quit. If they had space, hundreds of miles, it was conceivable they might wipe enough troops to get that time. Not with the City of Purity on top of them.
Yet the Drake was cool. Calm, even. He delivered this strategic assessment to Salazsar, and he was sure their High Command was counting which [Strategists] had figured this out and had viable solutions.
Major Shellc let the bigwigs, higher-ups, and brass confer and then ignored whatever they were going to say. Because, of course—
He’d come up with this analysis in the first twenty minutes of fighting. He had simply reaffirmed his hypothesis with actual observations and data. Now, the Drake raised a separate speaking stone to his mouth.
“Wall Lord, I trust you heard all that. We must slow the City of Purity.”
“Understood, Major Shellc. We are in position. We will begin the operation—now. Going mana-quiet unless we are compromised or need long-range Skills. Wish us luck.”
Major Shellc nodded tightly. Wall Lord Ilvriss’ voice was terse and a bit echo-y. But Shellc kept his posture, leaning on his war desk, not giving the enemy any signs he’d just said or done anything significant. They were probably dumb constructs, but they were adapting tactics. Slightly.
He went back to directing the battle, eying the Wall Lord who was still encouraging the troops from the front. Ilvriss didn’t seem to tire as he held a shield up awkwardly. He was dynamic, with the right thing to say to every soldier, captivating his city and everyone else with his charisma. Oh, and he had that stupid cloak back on.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss sneezed, then cursed as more dirt cascaded down around him. He was covered in it, and how not?
Five hours, more or less, of sneaking across the Cowpat Plains—literally crawling through cowpats in his armor—and then digging. He was covered in filth and would have liked nothing less than for a Purifier to clean him up.
But since running into one of those would botch this entire mission, he just stifled another sneeze.
“Damn. I forgot to ask if Xesci’s doing alright.”
He hoped she hadn’t gotten hurt, playing ‘him’. She’d volunteered, saying only she could do it. And it made sense to Ilvriss, because he had to be here.
This mission was going to win or lose the battle as much as holding the line up there. He had ten of the Rubirel Guard, three [Mages]—and Captain Osthia’s squad. All volunteers.
The Drake herself had somehow weaseled her damn way onto this mission despite having probably broken twenty or more bones. She’d insisted—and when he’d told her she was too hurt, she’d flown off and gotten Magus Grimalkin to cast [Restoration] on her.
Changing tactics. Even a healing potion couldn’t have done that. He and the other [Mages] were providing magical fire support, but Ilvriss had requested they save their mana for [Restoration] spells if possible.
He just hoped there’d be enough of them left to heal. He leaned against one wall and regarded his command squad.
“You heard Shellc. This has to be done. Now, to repeat the plan so we all understand it: we are to collapse the entrance tunnels to the City of Purity and everything else. The old mining shafts will be a problem given how they were reinforced, but if we can just tremor enough dirt, it’ll buy us time. Days, or if we’re lucky, the constructs will just forget we’re up here. Once the collapse starts, anyone trapped down there is dead. So we move fast, but we cannot hesitate. Understand?”
Everyone nodded. They’d dug down around Dig Site B to get to the mining shafts. Slow, stealthy mining while they heard the fighting above. Anxiety-producing. But they’d had to go slow to avoid detection.
Shellc had tried to collapse the mine shafts, but he’d only had time for a single spell. The magicore had absorbed the spell, and while it had slowed the light-forces, they’d just cleared the tunnels near the surface.
However…they had only one path of egress to the surface, via Naamreles’ ancient mineshafts. Collapse those and the security systems might not know where the ‘enemy’ was any more. Or they’d lose cohesion or, at very least, have to dig up through countless tonnes of dirt. The only problem would be collapsing the mineshaft and not dying.
Hence the tense Drakes and Gnolls, Rubirel Guard, Advance Miners, and Ilvriss. The Wall Lord checked his armor and sword. It sparked as he willed fury into it.
I am not going to die here. Especially not before I clear up that kiss with Lyonette.
It might be a stupid reason, but it worked for him. There was only one commenter. Advance Miner Georgie just had to say something.
“Listen, Wall Lord, I can see why I’m here. You need the best man for the job. Which is me.”
He ignored the other seven [Advance Miners] glaring at him. Georgie hefted his enchanted pickaxe on one shoulder as he gritted a fresh cigar between his teeth.
“—But why’re you here? We don’t risk the executives on this kinda thing. Sure you can’t get Magus Grimalkin?”
“Shut it, Georgie.”
