Xitegen wore the most dissatisfied expression that Ulva had ever seen on his face. She knew how he felt.
“That brat made this a hundred times more unpleasurable. I’m actually tempted to just hang it all. Friendship and hope. With a Drake.”
She spat on the ground, and Nouzcrat started.
“Ulva…”
The [Matriarch] of House Terland leapt off her dais and strode past him.
“Oh, shut up. I’m not disinheriting the only idiot who can act as Terland’s heir. Or half those children.”
Several of the younger Terlands were racing after Damia on horseback or with their Golems. Ulva Terland drew the metal wand from her side. She tapped it on Timekeeper’s side.
“I am Ulva Terland. I suffer no Drakes on my lands. I suffer ancient Drakes even less. Golems of House Terland. Let your hearts roar. [Concerto: Roil of Stone]. March!”
She lifted her wand, and Golems began to stride forwards. Like a conductor. The [Virtue of House Terland] conducting Golems like she and her sister had once done…Ulva turned her head.
“[Arpeggio Volley]. Take that Purifier out.”
A Golem with a giant ‘mouth’ planted its feet in the ground, and a spell began to gather in its center. It fired the first spell at the Purifier as other long-ranged Golems joined it. Ulva Terland’s eyes gleamed as she spun her wand.
“Light of the North—to me! Bring the wrath of House Terland south! Avoid crushing cities.”
Then she was conducting her side of the battle as Golems advanced. From safety—only an idiot got closer to a battle. But she did smile when she saw Timekeeper halt a rank of Drakes with his Skill a moment before he crashed into them like bowling pins.
There wasn’t a Terland born who didn’t love to see their Golems using their full power.
 
——
 
“They’re going in? We ride!”
Marvus Lischelle saw Damia charging and kicked his [Ranchers] into action. With whoops and shouts, they began to race across the Cowpat Plains, and the herd of cattle followed them. Slowly, but with an ominous building of momentum.
They passed by a disbelieving Djinni.
Karsaeu was puffing on a pipe, eying the [Ranchers] like they were mad. They wanted to throw hands with a buried Walled City? 
Both she and Lord Gorthes Reinhart, who was trying to sneak up on the Djinni, had no idea what was going on, and like hells either one was going to get in the middle of a fight.
In fact, the Reinhart had ridden over a thousand miles, and his ass was sore as he called up Cecille Reinhart and the family.
“Hey, Cecille. Cecille, pick up.”
“Gorthes? This had better be good.”
He angled the scrying orb slightly.
“Might be. Any idea why your daughter’s charging an army of glowing Drakes? The fuck’s going on here?”
He was relieved when she spat her cigarette out. Good, so he wasn’t out of the loop that much.
The rest of the family began watching.
Calidus already was.
 
——
 
The watchers from Salazsar couldn’t believe it. The sight of two different groups of Humans, let alone the Terlands, going to Salazsar’s defense?
“They’re flanking you! Behind you, Major Shellc! They’re going to wipe—”
Wall Lord Zail had, in fact, been screaming at Major Shellc for the last five minutes. But the [Major] had just cut him off and refused to pivot.
That idiot from Rhir—he’d refused to take a defensive position. Because he trusted Humans. But not Terlands. Not—
Zail saw one of the Golems punch through three Drakes’ heads and go storming into the fighting at Salazsar’s position. He waited for the Golem to begin attacking the astonished Salazsar soldiers, but it didn’t.
He sat back.
“But they’re Terlands.”
He was drawing breath to say something when he saw a bright, emerald figure buzzing past the Golems. An arrow hit one of the glowing soldiers, and Bird the Huntress flew over the battle.
Wall Lord Zail began choking on his spit.
 
——
 
“Bird!”
Nanette was screaming, but Bird had begun flying the moment she heard what was happening. She beat Elia Arcsinger by a minute, but the Named-rank adventurer just started shooting from horseback, angling her bow up.
Two [Archers]. No one but the watching people saw either at first. They just flew or found a position and began loosing arrows. Bird landed next to Elia, and they saw a hundred Gnolls with bows split off from the oncoming army.
“Ooh. A hundred versus one.”
“Two, Bird.”
“Right, whatever. Let’s see who shoots more.”
“This is life and death, Bird.”
Elia was sweating as she drew another arrow to her bow and loosed it. They were well out of the range of ordinary bows, or even Naamreles’ bows. Her arrow arced up, up—it hit one of the marching Gnolls in the nose. Bird had fired four arrows in the time it took Elia’s one.
She got one of the Gnolls in the knee and another in the shoulder. Elia paused.
“And I’m winning. That’s one. Two.”
The half-Elf fired a second arrow and knew it would hit another Gnoll before it landed.
Bird frowned, drew back on her bow, and the Chitrx-metal flexed. Bird fired, and the arrow went straight.
It refused to drop and, after two thousand feet, punched through three Gnolls, then exploded on the fourth. Elia turned her head, and the light-soldiers all stared at Bird. They began to march a bit faster.
Bird lowered her bow…then rubbed at one of her breasts.
“Ow.”
“Ah. You need a breastband for—”
“Ow, that hurt a lot.”
 
——
 
Everyone in The Wandering Inn was watching as Lady Damia led a charge straight into the City of Purity’s legions.
Or to be more precise—Damia charged in with Varnie and her gang. Everyone else didn’t do that.
Silverfangs took up positions on a hill that a [Shaman] raised and began setting up barricades. The [Miners] advanced onto Salazsar’s position from behind, and before they could get themselves minced, a screaming Welsca found them.
“Rolx! Don’t advance blind! I’ll find you a position—we need you to dig!”
“You what?”
The [Adjutant] was running strategy. She landed, coughing out smoke. The wings were fine, but she didn’t understand her Dragonbreath, and she was a fire Oldblood, now. She’d tried to flame the light-legions twice but only gotten smoke.
“Listen—this is a long engagement. We need your people setting up a camp and digging! The amount of earth you can shift can literally bury the enemy or form a wall! Are—are the Terlands on our side?”
“Yes, and so’s Lady Damia—”
“She’s not going to survive that charge. She’s insane! Listen, I need to fly—report to Major Shellc, there! He’ll assign you to a spot!”
Welsca took wing again. It was only an idiot who charged the enemy. She glanced down at Damia Reinhart and winced; the [Lady] was actually making her way in. But she couldn’t bail out a single [Lady], even a friend.
The [Ranchers]—Welsca swooped down and nearly scared Marvus out of his saddle.
“Marvus, are you on our side?”
“Wh—I guess so!”
“Then move where I’m directing you! I need you on harassing duty!”
The [Ranchers] had no sense of how to move in a battle. He hesitated, and then she showed him where he could ablate the enemy while they were engaged with one of the earthwork walls. She gave him credit: when he whooped and whirled his hat, everyone turned with him.
Everyone but the herd of angry cattle. They ignored the [Ranchers] and kept stomping forwards. They were headed for the center of the glowing Drakes’ mass, and Welsca cursed.
“That’s not the best place for them! There are more reinforcement waves coming—can you get the cattle to turn, Marvus?”
“Hell no!”
“Good, then—”
“No, I said no! Big Burlap’s leading them, and they won’t stop! He’ll go tearing into ‘em, and if they’re not dead, he might come out the other side hitting your lot! Just stay out of his way!”
Welsca cursed again, but she flew with the [Riders]. Any idiot could see the cattle herd was going to get itself surrounded once its charge stalled out. But she couldn’t control cattle, and there was no one exactly riding a b—
Welsca’s head turned. So did Marvus’ and every [Rancher]’s. They nearly galloped into one of the trenches. But she was doing it.
 
——
 
Deilan El was giving orders to muster whatever [Mercenaries] and standing forces they had on offer. Kaalblades too. First the half-Elf, now this. He was pulling at his hair and trying not to tear any out when he saw someone on the cattle herd. He squinted.
Then he enlarged the section of the battlefield. He stared.
Zelonica, his assistant, bent down to stare. Then the door swung open. Irve El stood there with another scrying orb in his hands.
“Is that—Desinee?”
 
——
 
This was madness. But Desinee El saw the herd of cattle about to commit to a suicide-charge, and she had to do it. She’d stolen someone else’s horse and had to do a flying leap from the panicked animal as it raced away onto the giant bull’s back.
In fairness, it wasn’t hard because Big Burlap was slowly accelerating over the ground, and there was a lot of him to land on. Nor did he ever expect someone to get on his back.
Let alone twice. His huge eyes rolled up towards her as he felt her land, and then they slowly started turning red. She felt him tense under her and hollered in one ear.
“Now listen! Aunt Maviola taught me how to speak to animals, and so did Zedalien! I know you’re smarter than regular livestock! See this? This is a Kaalblade!”
She waved one of the fake samples from her bag of holding in his face. Big Burlap snorted until Desinee spoke.
“[Product Demonstration].”
The Kaalblade snapped into life with that snap-hiss that Deilan had insisted would sell real well. She held the glowing blade up.
“It will cut anything in this world. You’re going to turn your herd or you’ll all die, got it?”
Is that a threat or an invitation? I only see them dying in my future. The bull began to trot faster, clearly ignoring her. Desinee leaned forwards and hissed in the bull’s ears.
“Listen to me. If you don’t turn, right now, I’m not going to just kill you. I’m going to hop off your back and neuter you.”
She held the glowing Kaalblade over his head and cut a tip from Big Burlap’s horn to show him she was serious. He eyed her. He eyed the glowing blade.
The bull slowed down, and Desinee pointed.
“That way!”
She took the herd after the [Ranchers] as a disbelieving Welsca flapped back towards her. Then…they were accelerating as Desinee saw a thousand light-Drakes marching towards the battle. Four hundred angry cattle defecated, distracting one of the Purifiers. Desinee clung to Big Burlap’s back as arrows fell around them. Then her heart was pounding.
I knew I was mad. But the world was mad after the Winter Solstice. Because it was so ordinary. Here—right here makes a dreadful kind of sense.
Aunt Maviola?
Desinee stared ahead and saw a flash of red hair and a burning banner. Then she raised the Kaalblade high.
“House of El!”
She watched Big Burlap run onto a sword the glowing Drakes drew. Then hit a second rank of braced Drakes. Then crash through the third—and they realized the angry bull wasn’t stopping for mere flesh wounds. Desinee swung her Kaalblade wildly, screaming.
 
——
 
Once again, for the first time since the Sacrifice of Roses, a battlefield saw multiple [Ladies] advancing into enemy lines. A screaming, terrified [Lady] of the House of El. A Terland [Lady] with a Golem heart roaring like the rest.
And Lady Damia Reinhart. She was swinging the Kaalglaive, screaming, as Varnie and her people fought around her.
Her job was simple. There was a Purifier lumbering towards Salazsar’s forces. If even one reached the Drakes, it would crush and kill them. Damia’s mind told her the simple equation: the Purifier had to be stopped.
If she popped it, the waste would distract the others. The only problem was reaching it.
There were glowing Drakes everywhere, and Varnie was a whirlwind of blades, stabbing through faces, swearing nonstop. Damia’s mind was shrieking something at her, but she had meant it.
Level or die. There was only one way a weak [Lady] could be useful, and it was this:
“[Bridge the Gap]!”
She was close enough—a ramp opened and forced the glowing [Soldiers] apart. Damia rode up the ramp with Desinee’s screaming mare and saw a huge, clawed foot stomping past her. She swung the glowing Kaalglaive at it.
Missed.
Her third wild swing saw the cumbersome, poorly-designed Kaalglaive’s tip slash across the Purifier’s leg. Damia saw the magic deforming around the tip of the glowing blade. Then something black bulged from inside the Purifier—
This time, it popped like a giant zit, pus blasting out the leg. It knocked the light-soldiers down, and they began crying for more Purifiers. Above Damia, the giant glowing Drake form wobbled. It tried to hold its structure, but then it started to destabilize. Before it could ‘bend’, it just—shattered. Into a million fragments of light.
Damia Reinhart caught her breath. She gazed up and saw a being more magical than she had ever laid eyes on vanishing, claw holding a blade that vanished and turned to fragments of light.
In the distance, the fighting Drakes and Gnolls and Humans were shouting. Cheering her? Damia Reinhart hefted the Kaalglaive higher with trembling arms.
She actually had done it. Even she couldn’t believe it. And she wondered…
Was this her Level 20 capstone deed?
Or even more?
A new class?
Her heart thrilled. She almost laughed—then turned around. And all she saw around her were glowing Drakes. No gang.
Just…Varnie, panting, as she stopped her whirlwind of knives Skill. Damia’s mind told her that maybe Salazsar was cheering her. But right now they were also telling her to get out of…
She turned her horse. The mare collapsed onto her forelegs. Damia tried to urge the creature up, startled, then saw glowing arrows standing out along the mare’s head. She fell onto the ground.
“Up. C’mon—damnit, it worked, but it was stupid as hell—”
Varnie heaved Damia up and threw a dagger into a Drake’s eye. Damia whispered to her.
“Your gang, Varnie. I’m so sorry—”
The [Gang Leader] eyed her and leapt forwards. Slashed a Drake’s head off, backstepped, knifed a Drake without looking with a backwards jab of her daggers. Pulled something out and tossed it.
Explosion of smoke. She activated a Skill and stood in a cleared section of ground, balanced on the balls of her feet. Smiling.
“Them? They’re not all dead. They just ran for it ‘fore we got this far in. Whaddya expect? You hired criminals, remember? I’m just surprised the idiots followed me in. Dumb as rocks. It worked, though. You just didn’t think of an escape route, did you?”
Damia’s silence was enough. Varnie checked her corners, drawing her daggers.
“Why are you here, then?”
The [Gang Leader] grinned.
