“I’m Varnie the Bloodletter. I’d rather be dead than a Face who ran from a debt. Stay behind me or we won’t make it. Shame there’s no bodies to hide behind.”
The smoke was clearing. Damia swung the Kaalglaive around wildly and wondered when the charge would run out. It’d kill any Drake soldier until then, but they were surrounded—
 
——
 
Damia’s destruction of the Purifier did not go unmissed. Everyone saw it—it was just that there was no one able to save her.
Ulva Terland was ordering her Golems forwards, but they had been fighting a flanking action, not doing a suicide charge. Bird and Elia were sniping down soldiers around Varnie and Damia, but…
Lord Gorthes eyed the Drakes and didn’t see any Oldblood Fliers anywhere near the fighting. Drakes liked fairly static formations, anyways. He leaned on the driver’s seat of his reinforced carriage and sighed.
“That’s your daughter alright, Cecille. Dumb as you. Goes charging in for a wagging tail and gets in over her head.”
“Gorthes. Be silent.”
Was that emotion in her tone? Gorthes grinned into the scrying orb and bit a lump of chewing tobacco. He eyed the Unmarked Coach, but the driver wasn’t doing shit. So Gorthes regarded the carriages of his best bullyboys and sighed. Then he lifted the scrying orb and spoke into it.
“This is Gorthes to the family. Is that Damia still sleeping with her brother? Werbel or whatever his name is?”
Silence. Some of the other Reinharts shrugged. Tourois Reinhart took a gulp of wine.
“I swear I saw that boy porking a [Maid] the other day. Not that it means much. In the damn garden.”
“She’s stopped.”
Cecille was pale-cheeked as she stared at the spot where the smoke was clearing. Gorthes nodded. He checked his chewed fingernails.
“Anyone got a good reason she should be dead? She murder too many people? Too much of a headache? Sleep with, I dunno, children?”
Silence. Which, when you got to it, was like a room full of applause in House Reinhart. No one ever said good things about the family. But if they had nothing overly bad to say…Lord Gorthes sighed.
“Damnit. Alright—on me!”
He grabbed the reins, then just drew a bullwhip and cracked it overhead. The stallion team moved into action. Behind Gorthes, he heard his minions, the sycophants and idiots he had for servants, hesitate.
“Lord Gorthes—”
They followed him. Although when they saw what he was driving at, they hesitated again. But Gorthes’ blood was up. He put the reins of the carriage in his teeth, gritting them so hard they nearly cracked. He swore he saw that damn driver of the Unmarked Coach staring at him out of the corner of his eye.
Gorthes spat out the reins long enough to bellow over his shoulder.
“Hey, you! Look at a real driver.”
Then he was roaring. The two carriages behind him were wavering, the [Drivers]’ faces white. The thugs he’d recruited were panicking.
“Lord Gorthes—we’re going be—”
“[Shut Up And Obey]!”
The [Brute of a Lord] roared. He saw the Drake light-soldiers turning. They paused, perhaps not sure how you attacked a carriage. A problem House Reinhart’s many enemies had faced over the years. Unless you had a pike wall, the horses, terrified of the bullwhip but mostly the multi-ton vehicle on their asses, wouldn’t slow.
Even if you got them, then you just had an out-of-control carriage reinforced with steel and magic—Gorthes was laughing.
A [Lord] laying around him with a bullwhip as he drove into the glowing Drakes. He kicked, got a slash on his enchanted clothing, swung a club into a face as he urged the horses forwards—
In his carriage, his servants were swinging their weapons. But the cowardly pukes were panicking. Gorthes saw one of the carriages pulling away.
“Traitorous cowards! [No One Double Crosses Me]!”
The [Driver] was turning his carriage away when Gorthes’ Skill hit him full-force. Literally; it was like the [Lord] wound up for the heaviest punch he could make and hit the man with it. The [Driver] reeled, insensible, and the carriage skidded into a wing of the [Soldiers].
Good enough as a distraction. The second carriage bogged down, and the panicked servants leapt out, trying to make a break for it.
Gorthes’ carriage went onwards. He felt the Drakes trying to grab him. But his eyes were on the smoke. One of the stallions went down, screaming, a glowing spear in its guts.
“[Cut It Loose]! Where—there!”
Gorthes saw a flash of blades. He bent down, leaning across the driver’s seat, and yanked something up.
A Kaalglaive, energy spent. He hauled Damia up, and she screamed, flailing, thinking he was a Drake. He punched her, dragged her over his lap, and then cracked the bullwhip again.
“Get us out of here, you damn nags!”
The stallions were screaming. They heaved, and the carriage moved as Varnie whirled, did a double-take, and leapt for the carriage. But the Drakes were clinging to the sides of the carriage.
“Lord Gorthes, we can’t get free! We’re too h—aaaaaaaaaaah!”
Gorthes grabbed the [Servant] who was screaming and heaved the man over the side of the carriage.
“[Die Before Me]!”
The Human projectile hit the Drakes trying to climb on board, and Gorthes felt the carriage moving. He shouted.
“I’ll promote ya if you live!”
Then he felt them accelerating. Lady Damia raised her head woozily.
“Uncle Gorthes? What the—”
Gorthes ignored her, cracking his whip at the horses, at the Drakes. It was only when he felt his carriage reaching a critical momentum and knew the Drakes couldn’t stop him before they burst free that he began laughing.
He threw back his head and roared with laughter, leaving bloody carnage behind him—even if most of it was magical light-soldiers. A full Reinhart. He grinned down at Damia as blood ran into one eye from a cut on his head; he had two arrows in one arm, and he didn’t even seem like he felt them.
“Always have a way out, you worthless little shit. Now you owe me.”
Gorthes just guffawed louder at Damia’s open-mouthed expression of astonishment. He loved it when he collected big favors.
 
——
 
They were—all fighting.
House of El. House Terland. Even House Reinhart.
Calidus was laughing so hard he had tears in his eyes. Clapping. Cheering even for Uncle Gorthes’ iconic madness. He’d never been prouder, truly.
Selys was searching for her friends, for Wall Lord Ilvriss. But Calidus just rose to his feet.
“He sees it. So does Damia. Are you all blind?”
The Faces of his Guild sat around him. Faces and Ranks. They were in the Assassin’s Guild. Selys was trembling, trying to be composed.
“Calidus, I—we need to assist. Strategically—if that is the Walled City—”
“Let them all die and collect on it after they’ve weakened the city.”
He nodded. Selys’ face turned stricken, then blank as she clenched her claws. But the [Lord]’s calm face burst into another maniac grin.
“That’s what my Grandfather would do. Because it’s the logical move in a world where no one trusts anyone and where allies are just that of convenience. The logic of someone who is unloved and loveless.”
Her eyes widened, and he turned. Calidus calmly lifted a speaking stone to his lips.
“This is the Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild to every Rank in the area. Undercover or not—you have full permission to attack the City of Purity’s forces. Do not attack or hinder Wall Lord Ilvriss or allied forces.”
He lowered the speaking stone and turned, beaming around at Losmere and the others.
“That goes for anyone who wants to participate, here as well. Don’t worry, I’m sure the fighting will last long enough for a carriage ride.”
Full permission? The Ranks and Faces eyed Calidus with as much skepticism as Selys. They looked, pointedly, at the giant Purifier shooting beams of light out its mouth before one of the Golem volleys ripped it apart.
But Calidus just chuckled. Then doubled over with mirth. Then ripped his shirt open because he liked the move. His belly flopped out as he breathed in and out.
“Do you not…see it? The City of Purity? And this is our chance! Rehabilitate our image! Put it out there, now, that the real Assassin’s Guild is defending the Five Families, as it’s always done! Levels! I bet Salazsar’s posting an all-call bounty for that Wall Lord! Get in touch with their Assassin’s Guild and demand a bounty!”
“Lord Calidus, you want our members to fight light-constructs from another era?”
Losmere was trying to do her cool, professional—Calidus seized her shoulders. Then scooped her up in his arms. She froze up, then tried to get free. He beamed at her, dropped her, and she landed on her feet like an angry cat. He shouted.
“Are you [Assassins] or not? I thought [Assassin] meant you killed things! Not just fleshy, blood-filled mortals! Here is the challenge of a lifetime with the rewards to match, and this is why your Guild died. Cowards stay behind! To every single Rank out there—the one that kills a Purifier is a Face! My oath on it!”
The Ranks froze up. Selys saw one of them, Slashface, push herself up from a table despite her healing injuries. Selys almost grabbed for her, but Calidus seized her shoulder. He glanced around in the silence.
“Well? Go!”
Two dozen Ranks were on their feet at once. One leapt out a window; another vaulted the table. And Calidus turned to the scrying orb, then hesitated.
“Ah, probably a little delay. Perfect. Well then…[Ascertain Consent]. Miss Selys? Would you mind it greatly if I swept you into an impassioned kiss?”
She blinked at him. Calidus Reinhart beamed at her. His eyes flickered—then he swept an arm around her and kissed her on the mouth. He was still beaming when she elbowed him in the stomach and slapped him.
“Someone get me a drink and a recording of this.”
Then he sat back down and leaned forwards. Because he couldn’t wait to see how this ended.
 
——
 
The news broke in Salazsar nearly two hours after the battle started. To be fair, there were people who’d seen it the moment the City of Purity’s alarms had been going off.
Alrric didn’t know if he’d blinked. He was sitting in his office, just watching, paws gripping his desk. He’d lost track of Ilvriss several times.
But now—he was aware the City of Gems was finding out. Of course they were.
Wall Lord Brilm’s son was there, and if there was a soul within screaming distance who hadn’t heard Brilm—of course, Eschowar and the smarter lot might have wanted to keep this private.
It was too late.
The funny thing was that it wasn’t on the news. Citizens of Salazsar were being told by word of mouth. Racing to get scrying orbs. But every time one of them tried to send a [Message] to Pallass News Network or Wistram to ask why the hell they weren’t covering this—nothing happened.
Only a bit concerning, that. Alrric filed that away for later. And he suspected—well, think about it.
All of House Terland was either engaged in the fighting or watching. They didn’t want anyone to know if their precious Golems died. Reinharts? Not big on sharing information.
The House of El was the only group who’d give anything away, and they might be glued to their scrying orbs like Alrric. If The Wandering Inn wasn’t shouting the news, then the only major city that could see this was Salazsar.
Salazsar was watching their Wall Lord fight. Ilvriss, the same Drake who’d been dragged in their own newspapers and the court of public opinion, the Drake who’d done the Right Thing at the Meeting of Tribes.
…His shouting at Periss still rattled Alrric. So he really had been in love. And…Alrric gazed downwards and saw.
Colonel Maiss was still holding the front lines. He was fighting side-by-side with Maisy, the Rubirel Guard having lost her damaged helmet, and the two were clearing the light-soldiers around them.
Roaring orders. Blood was running down Maiss’ rather impressively clenched jaw, and Maisy was hoisting a struggling Drake over her head with her halberd before she flung the enemy soldier off her.
“They’re fighting like Named-rank adventurers. We employ them? For how much?”
Alrric was checking on how much you had to pay someone to fight like that. He’d always complained about salaries, even if he was a big proponent of paying [Miners] better—but how much did you put on that?
Two hours of fighting. It felt like you couldn’t manage ten minutes, but Salazsar’s forces were used to fighting, or mining, for long bursts. They were rotating troops off the front, but the front lines still engaging with the light-soldiers were furiously battling for their lives.
See—there was Lady Damia waving her Kaalglaive from well behind enemy lines, exhorting the troops. Silverfangs had united under Elia Arcsinger and Salazsar’s [Archers] and were volleying into any exposed area nonstop.
There was a clearing in the fighting as Alrric saw someone standing at the fore of the battle. Alrric leaned forwards.
“Ilvriss?”
There he was. The Wall Lord came into view as he appeared on a giant scrying mirror in the main plazas of Salazsar.
His father, his administrator, his mother, his friends saw the Wall Lord. He was remarkably unhurt despite the fighting. A single cut marred his prismatic…purple…
What had happened to his scales? The Drake turned, and his eyes gleamed like the very gemstones his city was named after. His scales were still purple, but they had changed, taking on the colors of an opal. And his wings…
 
——
 
Helessia Gemscale couldn’t breathe. [Healers] rushed into her rooms, but she was pointing. And when they tried to turn the scrying orb off, she fought them.
She was gazing at his wings. They fluttered open as the Drake ran. So changed, but she would always recognize her son.
Wings.
It wasn’t…like he was the only Oldblood Drake anyone had ever seen. There were plenty, but—
 
——
 
In the City of Gems, Drakes were seeing the Wall Lord’s image being shone higher. On the sides of the towers. Someone had rigged up a projection spell, and citizens were pointing. Asking what was going on. Gnolls, Drakes, and a few other species, yes.
But it was the Drakes who went stumbling. Some nearly walked off catwalks or into traffic. They would look up, recognize Ilvriss, see those wings, and their minds would shut off.
For a moment, they’d be children again. Reading stories of Dragons and their ancestors of old. Seeing those Drakes flying with Dragons and dreaming of it.
Wings. How? How had he…?
To them, it was as important as seeing that Archmage fly. A dream that they’d forgotten they had, recaptured. Like seeing the Flying Gnoll of Pallass.
A million pairs of eyes followed the Wall Lord, and he was still running, larger than life, as his forces fought glowing Drakes. As if they’d come straight out of the storybooks into reality.
