Advance Miner Georgie knew what Maiss and his team were doing. Either they were panicking and grabbing their possessions, thinking they needed their pay or gear and putting that above their lives, or they were looting everyone else’s stuff in the chaos.
Fair enough, he’d done both. But this wasn’t a disaster anyone would survive. And they were his team, damnit—
“Maiss! Maiss, run, damnit! This isn’t the time t—”
He took a moment to find where the entire team had run into their tents. The makeshift barracks were more organized than most [Miners]’ messy cots with possessions strewn around. There was a temporary gymnasium next door, and Maiss’ team had always been weird.
Too many breaks. Too bad at their jobs, yet no one said a word up top. And Maiss himself…
He seemed calm as he knelt over a trunk in the center of the room. The rest of the team, Drakes and Gnolls, were shucking their clothing. Putting other clothing on, belting up—Georgie skidded to a stop, then bellowed.
“Are you insane? We have to run!”
Maiss whirled, then smiled.
“Advance Miner, you made it. Good. Get out of here. We’re doing our jobs. You’ve done yours.”
“What? Are you mad? Don’t be a hero—those light-things are everywhere, and the big ones are crushing the Rubirel Guard!”
Maiss kept pulling things out of the trunk, tossing them at his team. He adjusted his belt, and someone brought something over and threw it over his chest and began buckling it secure. A…breastplate?
Mining Team Leader Maiss glanced up, and his eyes were too calm. Not confident; there was a tightness there as he grunted.
“I know. Tier 3 spells have no effect on the big ones. Piercing Skills and high magic. Pop ‘em and the others get distracted. Advance Miner, fall back.”
“That’s armor. What’s going on?”
Georgie’s mind felt slow. Trouble he was good at detecting and running from. But what was…?
It was when Maiss stood and clipped a speaking stone into a holster at his ear that it clicked for Georgie. Maiss was wearing a metal breastplate and chainmail underneath it. He had on leg armor, even tail armor, and when he put on his helmet, only his jaw was visible; the jawguard wouldn’t fit anymore.
He grimaced and tossed the piece of metal aside. Maiss checked his belt, and he had a sword on one side with a spiked shield on the other, a backup wand, backup shortsword—then he was so familiar Georgie just blinked.
The [Soldier] turned and barked.
“Company, fall in! We’re up to our earholes in magical constructs! You heard the Wall Lord! Fall back and link with Major Shellc’s forces! Holiday’s over, boys and girls!”
“You—you were just—”
Squads of grim Drakes and Gnolls were moving out the doors, armed to the teeth in metal. Not just metal; Maiss had been tossing enchanted munitions and artifacts at his company. They wouldn’t have fit in a bag of holding with that much magic.
Maiss patted Georgie on the shoulder, then towed him towards the door.
“I told you I saw the Winter Solstice. And the Goblin Lord, and the Tidebreaker too. Do you think the Wall Lord really marched all this way north with only a token force? Sorry about the bad mining. Stick with us. Let’s go!”
Then they were barrelling out of the tents, and more teams were shedding their disguises and revealing their true colors. A rank of crossbows sank to one knee and fired; they cut down the glowing Naamreles soldiers, and then everyone was up and running. Fighting a retreat as Captain Osthia whirled.
Major Shellc’s voice was steady as it pulsed out of Maiss’ earpiece.
“Colonel, tell me your forces are ready for a fight. We’re headed to Fallback Point B. I’m going to slow the advance of the constructs with our Gem Regiments, but they won’t last long. Do not engage those Purifiers. Wall Lord Ilvriss has a plan to delay them, which means we’ll only be facing the constructs.”
“Yessir, Major, we are on the move. Only a few legions of Naamreles’ finest?”
“That’s the spirit, Colonel.”
Then Georgie saw a real army running and moving into place. His mouth was still open as he ran. He turned—and Captain Osthia was just as dumbfounded as her squad whooped and cheered.
In her case, she’d forgotten Ilvriss’ plan.
 
——
 
Ulva Terland’s eyes narrowed as she saw Drake [Soldiers] pouring out of the dig site. They were making for a seemingly-unmarked stretch of grass miles away from their base camp. [Miners] were milling about, but an entire third of the original dig force had revealed armor and weapons.
“That damn Drake brought a real army north. I knew it!”
“Under the circumstances, Aunt, we should be so lucky. What are we going to do?”
Xitegen was panting as he jogged in the scrying orb. She glanced at him; she was in Invrisil, counting the damage that half-Elf had done, and she’d been organizing a taskforce to wipe him out for good and his damn home.
Now this. Her temples hurt. Ulva snapped at Xitegen.
“Do? That fool’s the one who unearthed all this!”
“I think I heard them screaming about the Putrid One’s minions. Might not be his fault—”
“Silence. Where are you, Xitegen?”
She squinted, then realized the background he was running across seemed mighty familiar. Grass and flatness and—
“Are you going to help the Drake?”
“Aunt, a Walled City has just begun spewing super-Drakes into the sky. I heard enough when Timekeeper began screaming the alarm about Naamreles. Under what scenario shouldn’t I be concerned?”
Primera, Seconda, and every Golem he had was running with him, she realized. Ulva Terland hissed.
“You idiot, I am not wasting more Terland lives—”
“Only later when they’re fully assembled and marching on the north, Aunt?”
That drew her up. She drummed her fingers on her dais’ armrest, then turned her head away.
“Timekeeper, is this Naamreles’ worst? What else do they have?”
She waited for a response. Then peered around.
“Timekeeper? Where the hell is he?”
Still repairing himself? Ulva Terland closed her eyes and sensed—
 
——
 
Timekeeper was striding into the streets of Invrisil when Ulva Terland kicked open a window and leapt out.
He caught her, of course. She snapped as the Terlands rushed out; half their Golems were marching with him!
“Timekeeper! What are you doing? You’re abandoning your post!”
“The City of Purity has awakened, Lady Terland. I am going to stem their forces. With-out combatting them, they will reproduce infinitely.”
Her mouth opened—then compressed into a line.
“Define infinitely.”
“Any magical po-wer source will generate more Purifiers or their light-soldiers, Lady Ul-va. Without restriction, they will advance and conquer. The people of Naamreles are dead. Hence their burial by all forces. The folly of Naamreles must not spread.”
“This isn’t the first Walled City I’ve heard of being buried. Who puts all their problems in the damn dirt? Can’t the Drake handle it?”
The Matriarch of House Terland was complaining, but Timekeeper saw her checking her side as he strode towards the portal door.
“Burial is an acceptable practice when one is out of armaged-don class spells, Lady Ulva. I am informed by your predecessors they run out very quick-ly. Naamreles has barriers. I request reinforcements.”
She said nothing. But she let him put her down and strode into The Wandering Inn. It was chaos there. Timekeeper could ‘hear’ the [Message] spells and unsecured communication spells around him.
Drakes requesting aid from Pallass, who was slow to react. The City of Gems watching their Wall Lord, too far removed to act immediately.
Hesitation.
He had none. A Golem was waiting for him with a panting [Diplomat]. Yweine lifted a repaired hand.
“My directive is to keep Wall Lord Ilvriss alive.”
He nodded once at her. But halted; Lady Ulva Terland had not made up her mind. She was scowling.
“I want to see it for myself. All Golems are to hold from engaging until I give the order. Including yours, Xitegen. Violate my order and I will disinherit you.”
“By your will, Lady Terland.”
Timekeeper advanced through the door as Xitegen began arguing, but Ulva Terland was notoriously stubborn. All Terlands were.
He just hoped she made the right choice.
 
——
 
The infinite legions of Naamreles would have made even Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s Golden Hordes hesitate. For they were no Hemp-caste, who still breathed and bled and died.
These were a true force without care for their lives, and led by the Purifiers, they were advancing on the retreating forces of Salazsar. To judge whether they were worthy of Naamreles’ mercy.
The Purifiers were the most powerful constructs by far. They could fire Tier 5 [Dawnbreak Ray] spells from their mouths at will or activate Tier 6 [Sunburst Field] spells to clear enemy soldiers. At need be, they could link and project Tier 7 magic.
They had been made to slay horrors like Tolveilouka the Wretched. With their flight, catching the escaping Salazsarian forces would have been easy.
Unless they were delayed. 
The thing stopping the Purifiers was the Cowpat Plains themselves. Even as more and more appeared—and the City of Purity had too many, hundreds—each one became distracted with the…the filth.
In Naamreles’ orbit? Unacceptable! The Purifiers were no beings capable of thought. They did not see that the cleared ground around the City of Purity no longer remained. The pristine tiles that had eradicated all life for miles upon miles around the Walled City were long gone. Buried. But they behaved as if it were still there, purifying the manure. Purifying the dirt.
—Still, more kept flying upwards. There was no way to kill them unless they were too full and ‘popped’; not all of them were at a critical mass. Someone had to do something.
Like Master Plumber Oidhol. He was no hero. He was just a working [Plumber], if one of the best in Salazsar. He was self-conscious of always smelling slightly like the pipes he worked on. No one really respected a [Plumber] until you needed them. He had a stable job, though, family, sons who were taking up the family business, even if they were worried no one wanted to marry their daughters to a [Plumber].
Just a Drake who’d gotten an offer to work for that famous Wall Lord. And he’d thought…why not? Told his family he’d never be near any danger because he was just a [Plumber]. Who needed a slightly overweight Drake losing his neck-spines? He’d laughed about it.
“Master Plumber, they’re coming!”
Oidhol was up to his knees in sewage. He was wrapping pipes to form the worst joins in his entire life with sticky tape, fusing metal together with every trick he had. He and his helpers—
“I’m almost done!”
“Hurry!”
He should have been running. He could have, and no one would have blamed him, but Ilvriss had said—
Oidhol heard that voice from behind him.
“Non-citizens, this is your final warning. Analysis: 57.5%. Non-citizen, you are not qualified for—”
Fighting. The [Soldiers] in Thirthoof were trying to evacuate the panicked Humans. Most had ridden off, but this last batch was covering Oidhol—the Drake’s claws slipped. Instantly, he was sprayed with something so foul he didn’t think about it.
“[Emergency Stoppage]. Almost—bend them upwards.”
“Master, they’ll rupture—”
“They just have to last for a few minutes! I don’t care what the pressure is! Hurry!”
Frantically, the [Master Plumber] worked, and he heard screams, shouting. The voices.
“Analysis: 45.63%. Non-citizen—”
Closer.
“Analysis—”
Sweat running down his back and scales. He was thinking of his children, but there were children here, and people’s lives were on the line. 
A voice.
“Analysis: 30.88%. Non-citizen. You are under arrest. This is a military operation. Resist and you will be executed.”
Master Oidhol raised his claws slowly and saw the pipe was done. Jutting upwards, and there was a tower stack built by the other [Plumbers]. The ugliest mess he’d seen, already leaking, but his [Emergency Stoppage] Skill was the only thing holding this all back. He peered up, and a Drake with a smile and a glowing face, his Ancestor, was pointing a spear down at him.
“Non-citizen. Move towards the wall.”
The [Plumber] didn’t respond. He just gripped the pipe and hoped like hell it made a difference. The Wall Lord needed miracles and heroes. Dragons witness him—Oidhol was neither.
But he was a damn good [Plumber]. He lifted the [Emergency Stoppage], and the pipes rumbled like the digestive system of the greatest beast in the world. The glowing Drake hesitated.
“Non-citizen—”
Then Oidhol felt the pipes shudder and grinned. A Wall Lord’s idea. Madness. Practically a war crime in the world of plumbing. Oidhol couldn’t believe he was doing this again. It had been nigh on forty years since he’d built a system that emptied the septic system.
When he was a boy, he’d flooded an entire tower of Salazsar. Now? The [Master Plumber] had aimed the pipes where the desperate Wall Lord had told him they were needed.
Straight up.
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle couldn’t believe his eyes. It was like the end of the damned world. His world. The glowing Drakes kept coming, and those horrific, huge ones had killed everything. The town of Thirthoof wasn’t burning, but it was being swept by the shining figures.
He had his hat in his hands. This was all under their feet? Had the half-Elf woke them up? Or Ilvriss?
“They’re not gonna stop. Evacuate everything. We’ll never save the herds. Just…just open the pastures and let Big Burlap and the other bulls take their herds and…”
His voice was hoarse. He saw the Purifiers flying over the city. Blasting anyone they didn’t like. Even the cows.
Even the horses! They left only one alive; the rest weren’t, what, good enough? One was taking aim at the [Mayor], Bootsy, who was riding out with the last group. Marvus reached for his side, but he was too far away. The Purifier’s mouth glowed—
And then something exploded skywards, and it swerved. Stopped. Marvus squinted down.
“The hell’s that?”
He saw a weird, circular white cap on the ground he didn’t recognize. Wait, wasn’t that the ‘sewer system’ that Bootsy had been talking about? The one Aronia wanted? The Drakes had capped the old shit-lake next to the town. But what was…
Something was spraying upwards. Loosed by a [Master Plumber] and a Wall Lord’s Skill. [Adaptive Plumbing] plus the systems that Oidhol had installed were all being funneled into a few pipes, and the pressure was squirting what Marvus realized had to be the most disgusting liquid in the Cowpat Plains skywards.
That was saying something given all the competition. The liquid sewage nearly hit one of the Purifiers in the face, and they turned.
