They might have had kill-orders in their programming, but the sight of a fountain of…the Purifiers broke off their strafing runs instantly and began to [Mass Cleanse] the fountaining feces.
Or tried. It just kept coming. Marvus began laughing despite himself. The famous City of Purity, buried in the Cowpat Plains; the irony was not lost on him. Even so—he saw the Purifiers slow down and begin bloating again. That still left thousands of glowing Drakes marching towards Salazsar.
A flash of lightning split the skies. One of their Gem Regiments had just blown a company to pieces with lightning. Marvus wished that would do it. Or all the Drakes that the Wall Lord had hidden from even him.
“That bastard could have beaten the lot of us like drums. Shame…”
Marvus whispered.
“I don’t think he brought enough [Soldiers].”
 
——
 
Vnariss Stulvecrell was not the only Drake marching for the glory of the City of Purity. Nor was it even only Drakes.
A female Gnoll with a tall helmet marched into position, raising bows and extolling the virtues of the City of Purity with him. After all, the Walled City had taken every species.
So long as they aligned in thought.
And of course, later, so long as they were the best. Not the most pure of bloodlines, oh no. Just the best. The most attractive, the strongest, the—
The Drakes who fought in their glowing armies were not the regular civilians, of course. They were the soldiers who had won citizenship by being the best. By volunteering their faces and identities into forever.
Vnariss was beaming as he marched.
“A determination has been made. A foreign army is assailing the City of Purity. Purifiers, Light Armies of Naamreles, defend your home. Mandate: all Class 1-applicable citizens are to be taken alive at all costs. Mandate: The Putrid One’s minions are to be destroyed at all costs.”
A thousand of him spoke with the same voice. Walked with the same surety he had in life. Alongside him, the Gnoll, Incorra Wild Wastes, swung her bows up.
“For the glory of the City of Purity. All are welcome who shall produce a finer age. All those who would sully it be cleansed.”
Vnariss agreed.
“In the name of our tired City of Purity, advance.”
They marched. The Drakes and Gnolls were forming a battle-line in the distance, and the advance Light Soldiers were pursuing. But at a march; they did not run. They ignored arrowfire, spells that cut some down; they were hardy, enduring.
Not as tough as Golems, but not as expensive. Not as adaptive as summons, but far more mass-producible. The ultimate soldier, some had called them. So many made that claim, but Naamreles’ finest—
Vanished as another bolt of lightning crashed down. Light Gnolls were sent flying. A bolt of lightning blew apart 57 of Vnariss’ number, dissolving their light-bodies.
His head turned. The Drake identified a unit of Drakes slamming spears down on the ground, and the dark thunderclouds overhead. He spoke as he marched.
“Hostile magics detected. Erchirite Spears confirmed. The City of Gems. Erchirite Spears below legion-strength; no additional strategy required. Countermeasures deploying.”
As he spoke, the light-soldiers bunched up, not moved apart. And a glowing nimbus of light appeared over their heads. They became units of a hundred, and each one had an umbrella-shield that covered their main mass.
One of the shields took another flash of lightning, and it nearly winked out—but it had protected the light-soldiers below from destruction, and it would reform in six minutes. If they were destroyed, well, the goal was not to preserve any one light-soldier but merely increase their viability in combat as long as possible.
There would be more.
They engaged in combat as some of the Vnariss light-soldiers met the rearmost elements of the retreating Drakes. Loss ratio: 55-0.
Vnariss once again turned his head and studied the unit fighting without casualties.
Again, he spoke.
“Rubirel Guard confirmed. Rubirel Guard below legion-strength; no additional strategy required. Countermeasures deploying. Salazsar’s hostility has been logged. No Flawless Gemstone Regiments detected on the field. Battle shall commence in regrettable victory.”
At his words, the formations changed again. From a hundred soldiers marching together, they became…ten. Not because the groups split up. Rather, ten soldiers walked into each other, forming balls of light which shifted and revealed new figures. Larger. Giant soldiers stepped out of the orbs of light, forming squads once more. Giant versions of Vnariss. Armed with warhammers.
It was a suboptimal use of their numbers—unless fighting heavy armor. The gigantified Drakes advanced in a killing line ahead of regular infantry. After all, Naamreles had fought Salazsar before.
Vnariss’ copies had done so many times…Incorra walked next to him, hundreds of Gnolls smiling and aiming bows up, waiting to come into range.
“Praise the City of Purity. Condemnation to the traitorous City of Gems. They’re still around. Good. Perish, traitors to Drake-kind. Set us free.”
Forwards. The two walked and saw, ahead of them, something the City of Purity didn’t respect, even if it had always needed. The specialty of Salazsar, so both smiled, though they had never really stopped.
Digging.
 
——
 
Foreman Rolx was digging. He knew they were about to be attacked, but he was digging because, well…someone had to.
His pickaxe was faster than a shovel. He was out-digging three whole teams, who stared at him until he roared at them to hurry up. Because they were digging…trenches.
Trenches and a wall. It made sense. You dig a trench, you get dirt. Put the dirt into a wall.
Earthworks. When he’d told Major Shellc, the Drake had asked him if he could really dig even a small trench that fast. Because he was used to making [Soldiers] do it. Soldiers without Skills.
This was just soft earth. Rolx had already made the trench ten feet deep. Which didn’t mean a wall ten feet high, but it was getting there. [Miners] were packing rocks into the ground, and [Soldiers] were assembling.
Advance Miner Georgie nearly fell into the trench when he and Maiss’ team reached them last. The legions of light-soldiers were a ways behind them; they were slower and taking fire.
“Georgie! Get down here! Maiss too!”
When Maiss’ team didn’t move, Rolx swore and howled up at them; even they’d be useful, but Georgie tumbled down into the trench.
“Maiss is fighting up there!”
“He’s what? Clear everything around us! Just swing the pickaxe; it processes everything into dirt cubes! Someone will grab it with a bag of holding—go!”
He and Georgie began swinging their pickaxes until they ran out of mana. Or at least, Georgie’s did. Rolx’s just recharged as he used a Skill, and Georgie nearly spat out his cigar stub.
“Rolx, Maiss’ team are all undercover soldiers! They’re from Salazsar!”
“What? Really? Damn, we might just survive this. Keep digging!”
“How deep?”
“How tall are those giant Purifiers? That deep! But we’re building a slope. Give them a hill to run up!”
“Ancestors, why aren’t we running?”
The two kept digging, swearing, but both were thinking the same thought.
Can’t run forever. Someone had to make a stand, right? And both of them had magical pickaxes. Rolx was no fighter, but he’d seen how effortlessly the pickaxes took out light-soldiers. Better than the damn Rubirel Guards. If…
Then, and only then, did Wall Lord Ilvriss make it to them. Rolx heard the shouting from above and grabbed a rope; then after three pulls, gave up on climbing it and excavated a ramp because like hells he was young enough to pull himself up a rope all the way to the top.
Wall Lord Ilvriss was there. Shouting orders at Major Shellc, searching for Captain Shieldscale, talking with a ghostly Lyonette and even Lord Xitegen. Rolx listened, panting, gulping down water, and saw the light-soldiers were less than five minutes away. Already, light-arrows were raining down, but several hundred feet short of the trenches.
For now. He saw Maiss’ team armed and ready to go on the makeshift walls. And Ilvriss…he was speaking to Clan Leader Plisce. The terrified people from Riverfarm.
The civilians. When he saw Rolx, he motioned the Gnoll over, and Rolx’s stomach twisted. He and Georgie glanced at each other and walked forwards.
I have a family. I’ll…Rolx hesitated.
He wavered—and the Wall Lord spoke.
“All non-combat classes will evacuate the area now! Head towards the [Door of Portals]; if it cannot hold enough, Welsca, take them down the roads. Foreman Rolx!”
“Wall Lord—I’m ready.”
Ilvriss turned to Rolx, and the Gnoll swallowed hard as Georgie looked at him. But it had slipped out. Ilvriss slowed, then grabbed Rolx’s arm.
“Good. Get your people to safety.”
“Wall Lord? But—”
“I said non-combat classes out. Aren’t you a family man?”
Ilvriss didn’t wait for a response. He strode to the head of the line of Drakes and Gnolls. Soldiers. Ones he’d served with personally.
Maiss had been at the Winter Solstice. He and his company were gritting their teeth, aiming down at the oncoming legions, but they had to remember the Draugr. If this was not a hundred thousand Draugr—there were no other armies.
Just them. Xitegen was watching Ilvriss. So was Lyonette and Ulva Terland. So was his city and the [Ranchers], but the Wall Lord didn’t see any of them. He just walked down the line of [Soldiers], who glanced at him for something. Hope. Inspiration. He turned, peered at Osthia and Major Shellc, and gave them his best.
Ilvriss cleared his throat and triggered a [Loud Voice] spell. He spoke in that crisp, even impartial, tone he used at company events.
“Attention, all employees. Combat pay will be doubled for the duration of this engagement.”
Rolx stopped searching for a place to run. The Silverfangs stopped saddling horses and howling the alarm. Even the [Soldiers] lifted their helmets or eyed each other.
Ilvriss went on, steady.
“The same will apply to overtime bonuses. At this moment, all civilian classes will be evacuated from this area; this is a House Gemscale combat operation. With that said, I intend to hand out substantive rewards for all those participating in combat…”
Lyonette’s mouth was slightly open. She’d been possibly preparing for her own Marquin-type speech. Xitegen was cleaning one ear with a pinkie as he eyed Ilvriss.
But this was the style of the Wall Lord of Gems. And Rolx thought, after he actually stopped panicking—
Did Ilvriss change his scale color or something? Did he always have wings?
 
——
 
This was Ilvriss’ style. He was no Zel Shivertail. He could not say ‘follow my tail’ and plunge into combat. Nor was he even Lyonette or Erin.
He was Ilvriss all the way down. Cut him in half and you’d just get Ilvriss. He might have changed species, but that just made him…
Extra Ilvriss.
He was listing their combat benefits. Informing them about overtime pay. He could sense the [Soldiers]’ confusion. And you know what?
Maybe that was part of the plan. Talk like this was something predictable, and [Soldiers] who thought this was it, the final battle, stopped getting ready to shit themselves or run. Tell them that this was the life-or-death last stand and they’d fight like hell or treat it like that.
Tell them they were doubling their pay and they second-guessed the terror. But he was not a fool to think that alone would work, either.
Ilvriss adjusted the speaking stone.
“This is it, ladies, gentlemen, Selphids, if we have any. The City of Purity has been uncovered. The method was less than ideal. There will be an investigation, but this is what I came here to find. What I hoped we’d find. A Walled City’s treasure. And…its doom.”
He pointed, and they beheld the shining legions. The growing Purifiers absorbing the filth. One exploded as Ilvriss watched, and the others covered it. Like glowing butterflies glomming into a flower made of crap.
He wished his life involved less plumbing mishaps. Ilvriss recalled trying to unstick a toilet as Erin ran commentary and grinned.
A smile without fear. He didn’t know how it appeared to the others as he walked, calmly, down their lines. Meeting their eyes. Speaking as if he were at an office meeting. But with a passion that grew as he pointed.
“I don’t intend to risk anyone’s life I don’t have to. Clan Leader Plisce, workers from Liscor, Invrisil, Celum, Riverfarm, I will ensure that House Gemscale rewards you fully for your efforts regardless of whether or not I personally survive. But every [Soldier] and military consultant? We have to hold this ground. The City of Purity is going to advance, and there are people here who didn’t ask for a disaster. Well, we’ve brought it to them.”
The [Ranchers]. The people of Thirthoof, who’d been damned unpleasant. Ilvriss nodded.
“I don’t like them. I don’t know how you feel, but they’re still innocent. We’re House Gemscale. We clean up our own messes. More than that…look. Just look.”
He pointed, and the identical Drakes smiled at him. Marching as light arrows struck within fifty feet of him. But even they seemed to be listening, or it was Ilvriss’ mind playing tricks on him. The Wall Lord rasped.
“This…is our legacy. Sons and daughters of Salazsar, no, people of Izril—look. This is the folly of Drakes, the madness of Walled Cities. Our responsibility. It has always been here. Waiting until we were brave enough to confront it. I don’t know what the City of Purity was. Naamreles’ name has been all but lost to time. But I can see it now. The time has come to judge a Walled City’s sins. So: hold this line. If we need to, we will retreat, but it’s there.”
He clenched a fist, and his lungs felt like they wanted to expel something. Ilvriss coughed, and a plume of glittering dust engulfed him. He waved it away.
“A Walled City’s sins and treasure. This is my promise to you soldiers: whatever we take, you will keep. Not all of it, but if you fight with me, you will carry a helmet, a spear—that bow.”
He saw something and pointed. One of the light-soldiers in the form of a Gnoll had a real bow, not a fake one. She’d been firing actual arrows skywards. A captain-version of the soldiers? Now that he looked, more than one light-soldier had a real weapon or piece of armor.
Loot from other armies they’d destroyed? Ilvriss peered around.
“Take them down, and claim the City of Purity’s treasures. Don’t let anyone take it from you. I’m tired of sitting on a mountain of treasures that will never be used. Now’s when it matters. So…”
He had no closing statement to this speech. It felt like even the light-soldiers were waiting for Ilvriss to finish, marching a touch more slowly. The Wall Lord blinked, then shrugged.
