Georgie was running when the crystal elemental crashed down next to him and got up. It was fast. He saw the Rubirel Guard turning, but the insanely strong, tough thing was coming at them, and their only hope was to run. It was leaping, and he raised his pickaxe—
A Drake swooped down and breathed acid. She had one arm in a sling and a splinted leg, but she was still flying. Somehow, on broken wings. She drew a sword with her good hand, and the Sisters of Chell threw daggers.
—The crystal thing walked forwards, and its body bulged, then it shed its skin. Like a snake sloughing off the acid and leaving it behind. A size smaller, it came forwards, swinging a fist at Osthia, who flew back.
“Oh no.”
Boyd whispered as she threw a dagger at its face and the blade bounced off. She saw Osthia half-turn in the air, drawing breath to breathe again.
“I said don’t follow me! Fall back! Just keep the Rubirel Guard safe and retreat!”
Keep the Rubirel Guard safe—the armored Drakes hesitated, but everyone was shouting at them to run, run. The Crystal Elemental leapt again and smashed one of the Rubirel Guard into the scaffolding they were running up. The Drake in armor hacked at it, but his halberd just bounced off.
There were only two—no, three people who could damage it. Georgie lifted his pickaxe and hacked off several chunks of the crystal elemental’s body with the enchanted tip before it turned on him, and he backed up, swearing. Osthia breathed more acid, and Boyd—lifted her dagger.
[Heroic Stab].
She was shaking, and Osthia was shouting at her to run, but she reckoned she’d just seen something gleaming in the thing’s chest, revealed by Georgie’s pickaxe.
A gem, albeit foul-looking, like rainbows on sludge, in the center of its chest. Maybe…
The three of them were fighting. Darting around the crystal elemental. And then Osthia’s wings gave out. She faltered, fell, and the crystal thing raised a fist as Boyd leapt forwards. Stabbed—
Her blade went through the thing’s back and sprayed out crystals onto Georgie’s arms as he tried to grab Osthia. The [Advance Miner] recoiled, but the crystal being stumbled—head turned—and it fell forwards. Boyd stared down, and her dagger had shattered into a million pieces. But it was dead. She shot Osthia a trembling grin.
“How’dya like that? Told you I was in it. You—”
Her captain was just staring behind Boyd. Osthia’s face was calm as she rose. Boyd didn’t turn her head. She just leapt forwards—and something gouged the ground behind her. Then exploded.
When she turned her head, pieces of dirt showered down around her. She saw something—like a giant eel made of the same sludge, a thousand eyes of magical gems—twisting upwards. It had spines it fired upwards at Shellc’s forces. They exploded. Below the largest monster yet, the smaller sludge-elementals, were marching. Ahead of Georgie, Osthia, and Boyd, pursuing the Rubirel Guards who turned to look down, the shouting Sisters.
Ah.
Boyd squeezed her eyes shut. Then she glanced up.
“You can fly, right, Captain?”
Can you manage two people? One look at Osthia’s bandaged wings was the answer. The walls were sheer dirt—maybe they’d be able to climb? Boyd grinned desperately as Georgie eyed his pickaxe.
“Get out of here. I’ll collapse the tunnel on us. We’ll have time if they don’t dig us out.”
He shoved Osthia, and she spread her wings. She hesitated, regarding Boyd. Then she leapt up—and slammed into a wall. Something had plucked her out of the air and pinned her against the wall. Boyd gasped.
“Wh—”
The floating orb. It was sucking everything in. Magic, arrows—and Osthia was grabbing for purchase, trying to fly—Boyd saw it floating up, and Georgie raised his axe. Hesitated. Boyd drew a dagger.
[Heroic Stab] was on cooldown. But she had other stab-Skills. Could she lunge and—?
“Boyd, don’t—”
The Sister of Chell was smiling as she tensed. And Georgie—he shoved her back.
“Move aside, lady. This is a man’s job.”
He raised his pickaxe, bracing. Out of [Gouging Throws]. His scales were trying to pull themselves out of his face—his teeth were clenched around his cigar, and he stared at the pulsing orb. Did it hesitate? It seemed to. Then he heard those damn alarms pulse louder and swore he saw his life flash before his eyes.
It was brighter than he expected. Georgie raised the pickaxe with a shout, and then the light grew brighter. The orb floated towards him, stopped, floated back—
A spear made of brilliant, orange-pink light struck it in its center. Georgie recoiled and stopped sliding forwards. The gravity effect on him lessened. He saw the orb recoil, bulge, then absorb the spear made of light.
With…effort. It had to slowly yank the spear into it. It began floating downwards, and a second spear hit it dead-center. Then a third. The orb began to tremble. It expanded around the glowing weapons, which looked real to Georgie. A haft made of glowing light. But so detailed…
He was hesitating when something slashed through the Orb of Gravity’s center. It trembled, split in half, and then turned into a vortex which yanked Osthia, Boyd, and Georgie towards it. Imploding! It w—
The vortex vanished. The same glowing sword that had cut the orb apart swung again, and the gravity well disappeared. Then, Georgie, stumbling, came face to face with the being that had destroyed the monster. He looked down and saw his ancestors.
 
——
 
It had been a long time. So long. But some things were never forgotten, even by the turning of the wheel of ages.
A face. The face was that of a Drake. He resembled his descendants in so many ways. Perhaps…he had longer neck spines, that was all. Neck spines which were long and drooping in ways modern Drakes found unkempt, but he had threaded them with rings and beads, and they seemed like hair.
His armor was also the same. A breastplate with spread wings across the chest. And the symbol of his home, a Drake, with a claw raised upwards. The City of Purity’s emblem.
Even his boots were a perfect memory. Far thinner than a Human’s; they were made for a Drake’s clawed feet and had toe-caps made of steel. Or it would have been steel, but his body, his very nature, looked like light.
Orange and pink. Perfect to detail in every way, but no flesh. He was a magical being. No familiar. No summoned creature. Just a standard, albeit perfected—light construct.
He smiled as he swung his blade through the monster and advanced higher. Past the staring Drake holding a pickaxe identified as the property of Naamreles. Past the wounded Drake Oldblood and the Human.
Identification was required. But there was an order to his priorities. So the Drake opened his mouth and spat another spear.
That hadn’t been a power he’d had in life. But the copying spell was perfect to every other part of his nature. Even his voice.
“ALARM. TOLVEILOUKA THE WRETCHED HAS BEEN DETECTED. TO ARMS. The City of Purity marches! Monsters detected! Filth in proximity to Naamreles! Citizens, stand clear! I am—”
The eel-thing below fired more spines upwards, and two hit him. The talking Drake exploded in a shower of light magic. But his voice continued. Then, below, a hundred Drakes were advancing, pursuing the beings of rot, hacking them down, even the giant serpent. All saying the same thing.
“—Vnariss Stulvecrell, Light-Soldier! My regiment marches in defense of all that is pure and true!”
A copy of the same Drake kept advancing up the slopes, pursuing more monsters. Then another and another. There were hundreds, all with the same face. One of the versions of Vnariss turned, his boots coming together, and saluted.
“Drake citizens, {CITY UNKNOWN}, please follow me for your safety! You, sir, are you a citizen of Naamreles?”
He pointed at Georgie, and the Drake stuttered.
“Wh—h—”
Vnariss’ memory tilted his head, and he seemed to flicker for a second, in a way the Horns of Hammerad would have recognized. The same magic of the Trials of Shields…but Naamreles had given its magic to its friends.
“I did not understand that, sir. You are in distress. Please, follow me. To non-citizens of Naamreles, aspire to apply to the greatest Walled City of Issrysil. If you are worthy, even the unsuitable may polish their souls until they are reflected for eternity. Like me!”
He jabbed a thumb into his chest and smiled with all his teeth. And they saw him. Even ages later.
Vnariss Stulvecrell marched higher, and the light of the City of Purity followed him. The Putrid One’s minions had been detected. Rot had been found. He was just the first wave of the security systems.
The Purifiers were coming.
 
——
 
Osthia Blackwing didn’t know what was going on, but she could make a few inferences once the shock wore off.
We’ve found the City of Purity. Only, it’s not dead. These—someone activated the security systems. That half-Elf? Did they sense him or…?
They were fighting the monsters made of sludge. That Drake calling himself ‘Vnariss’ was engaged in combat across the dig site. He cut, hacked, spat those spears—he wasn’t nearly as good as he might have been with Skills, but there were so many of him, and his weapons cleaved through the monsters.
Most of them.
A crystal elemental like the one that had nearly killed the Rubirel Guard was fighting twenty of the glowing Drakes, smashing a fist across their ranks, but every time it shattered one, another stepped in. And their weapons barely damaged its crystal body, but they had no end—
Legions of light-Drakes. Constructs. This—
Was this the treasure? If they had this, they could field—Osthia’s mind was only focused on that smiling Drake trying to escort them to ‘safety’.
There was something about the Drake who had once been Vnariss Stulvecrell which drove the living to silence. He was old.
Oh, the constructs didn’t know it. They were just beings of light, temporarily summoned, and faithful copies. But even the template they were using was…frayed.
Like an old picture. He smiled, he fought, he spoke with those ringing tones, an icon chosen to represent the City of Purity, but he felt ancient.
Still, he marched upwards, and Osthia saw one of the Rubirel Guard above her stop, yank off his helmet, and wipe at his eyes.
Even now, he serves. Our buried cities—a myth was marching upwards. Osthia wanted to believe it was just salvation. But because she was a Drake who knew her kind—she put a hand on her sword’s hilt.
“Boyd, Georgie. Get behind me.”
She rasped, and the Drake soldier tilted its head.
“Non-citizen, you appear to be wounded. {SEARCHING DATABASE. CRIMINAL ENTRY NOT FOUND.}”
A pale, white light came from its eyes and swept Osthia up and down. She felt a tingle, but the Drake smiled.
“You are entitled to Naamreles’ mercy, citizen. Please, follow me until a supervisor can attend to you. This area is now under military law. Do not deviate from instructions.”
“Ah, c’mon, it’s like the Watch? Don’t that shit in our boots.”
Boyd was, perhaps, the fastest to pick up on the catch. The glowing Drake heard her. And its smile lessened slightly.
“Human. {SEARCHING DATABASE. CRIMINAL ENTRY NOT FOUND}. You are entitled to Naamreles’ mercy as well.”
The light flashed over Boyd as the copy of Vnariss’ eyes shone again, and then it paused. Amended its statement.
“<Criminal> class detected. Human, you are under arrest. Do not resist.”
So saying, the Drake aimed a sword at Boyd. It advanced at a fast walk, and Osthia drew her sword. Barred its way.
“Don’t. She’s with me—”
“Non-citizen, you are interfering with a military operation. Your case has been sent to a supervisor. Appraising…”
The Drake’s head turned again, and this time, the scanning of its eyes was slower. It swept Osthia up and down, and she felt naked, but kept her sword raised. What the light construct said next was where the glorious myth faded.
“Analysis complete. Drake Oldblood, 81.4% genetic viability. Congratulations, non-citizen! You are qualified for {Class 2 Citizenship}! You will be protected. Scanning…”
It hit Georgie and Boyd with the same light as they tried to back behind each other. The construct spoke.
“Analysis complete. Human, 43% viability. Ineligible for citizenship. Analysis complete. Drake, 65.5% viability. Congratulations, non-citizen! You are qualified for {Class 4 Limited Citizenship} upon approval. If you are a hired laborer, please present your card now.”
“What the heck is it talking about? This—what is this thing, Captain?”
Georgie was wide-eyed, backing up from the light construct, but it was barring the way out. Osthia just shifted.
“I think it’s from the City of Purity. It’s some kind of security system, like the Terlands’ damn Golems. But it doesn’t know the city is gone…try to get around it.”
The Drake’s face watched them as they edged around. But when Boyd tried to get to the entrance, its sword raised.
“Halt, criminal. Non-citizens, force will now be employed if you interfere.”
“Great—”
Now the legions of light-soldiers became a new threat in Osthia’s eyes. Just once, could they not find something good buried in the earth?
No one buried things that were actually good and valuable. Osthia blocked the light soldier’s path. It inspected her.
“Class 2 potential non-citizen is acting in hostile manner. Subdue. Class 3+ non-citizens are acting in hostile manner. Terminate.”
“Aw, c’mon—”
It swung its sword at Boyd’s head, and she ducked. Osthia slashed, and her enchanted sword cut across the light-soldier’s face and met resistance. Like that of hitting something hard, yet fragile. She saw motes of light spray upwards. The Drake recoiled—then spoke.
“Non-citizen. You will be placed under arrest following—”
Georgie buried his pickaxe in the Drake’s arm. The enchanted pickaxe tore the arm off the construct’s body with ease. Instantly, the construct began swinging with its remaining arm. Osthia lunged again, stabbed through its chestplate, and sprayed it with acid.
“Citiz—”
She twisted the blade and had to stab two more times. The light-soldier was heavier and harder to shift than she would have thought! But once she got it off the ground, she rammed it into a wall, and Boyd’s dagger punched into a shoulder. At last—it exploded in a shower of motes.
“Damn, it’s easier than the filth-things. C’mon, Captain, let’s run for—”
They were moving out of the tunnel when five more light-soldiers all wearing Vnariss’ face marched forwards.
“Non-citizens, drop your—”
