When Teressa was finally clear of the monster, Erick had had enough. This was not a monster to be learning from. This was a monster to kill. He unloaded on the beast… or at least, he tried to. The sky darkened with five [Call Lightning]s. Four Ophiel and Erick drew lines of power through the monster, sending bolt after bolt through the beast, but only five actually managed to get through the [Weather Wards] scattered across the land.

Five out of fifty bolts was not enough. But it created an opening. As the rain barely came down, as the spell was spent from the sky and clouds began to disperse. Jane leapt across the field, [Shadowalk]ing under the monster.

Great spears of darkness pierced up from below, impaling the red wyrm and breaking off from the sands, holding into the body of the beast like Jane had driven telephone poles into its body. It had no hope of its [Absorption Ward]s blocking that sort of constant damage.

Jane finished off the red wyrm, all on her own, with her long sword carving away half of the creature’s flesh, then another half. Then another half. Jane got down to the singular, bright red grand rad, bright as the sun, maybe only half a meter long, and yanked it from the wiggling body, and the body laid still.

Wyrm corpses and body parts laid scattered across the sands of the Crystal Forest. The sun was an hour from setting. They had fought the beast for the better part of an hour.

Erick declared, “Holy shit. Was that the last one?” He yelled out to Jane, who was still walking across the corpse, “What the fuck was that darkness stuff!”

Jane called out, carrying the bright red grand-rad, “I got [Shadowshape] a while ago.”

Erick mumbled, “Well that was a good buy.”

Rats spoke, barely able to stand, “I can’t go on.”

Poi said, “I’m spent, too.”

Erick laughed, then turned to Poi. “Like. No offense. But what did you do?”

Teressa laughed loud.

Erick felt a flush of heat across his face. Did he miss something? He said, “Sorry, Poi. I just—”

“No no.” Poi said, “It’s perfectly reasonable to assume that the Mind Mage did nothing. Even though every time the monsters would have struck, I altered the course enough so that they didn’t.” He turned to Teressa, “Sorry, Teressa. You should never have been chewed on.” He said, “I was low on mana.”

Erick felt like he had been slapped upside the head. “Really? That’s what a Mind Mage does?”

Jane said to Poi, “You’ll have to excuse my father. He’s very ignorant when it comes to magic.”

Rats and Kiri burst out a laugh.

Poi smiled.

Teressa touched the grey armor of her stomach. Five minutes ago, that’s where her intestines were spilling out through the holes in her armor. Now, her wounds were gone, thanks to Jane’s [Greater Treat Wounds]. Teressa had had to remake her armor, but that wasn’t really a problem after the issue of spilled intestines had been fixed.

Teressa said, “Thanks for being there, Poi.”

Erick threw his hands wide, saying, “I didn’t know!” He asked, “Is that part of how you know when people are around?”

Poi almost said something, but he crouched, sending out to the group, ‘We’re under atta—’

A bolt of fire clipped through Rats' stomach, leaving a burning hole where his spine should have been. He collapsed to the ground, as five of Erick’s Ophiels each took burning, straight-through wounds, dispersing their forms into disintegrating feathers. The other five Ophiel managed to dodge.

Hot, rushing panic filled Erick’s mind.

Erick instantly made the surviving Ophiel cast small-sized [Crystalline Air]s in the space around the group, blocking from multiple directions at once. He wasn’t fast enough to stop the burning orb that hit his own stomach. Almost all of his 8800 point [Personal Ward] ripped away, leaving spots of fiery brilliance clinging to his white [Conjure Armor]. Erick turned—

A firebolt went through the air where his head had been.

One firebolt spacked off of a [Crystalline Air], slamming through Kiri’s arm, blowing it away. Another firebolt clipped another [Solid Ward]; the assassin’s spell missed striking Teressa’s head full-on. Fire burned away half of Teressa’s face, while another bolt went through her stomach, burning away flesh and bone. Poi dodged a blow to his head; completely. Jane turned to shadow; the two flaming orbs that would have struck her, passed harmlessly through her body.

Two seconds had passed.

Fire orbs struck the [Crystalline Air] hanging around the group, cracking and breaking through, but deflected enough to allow Erick a second to think.

Jane thought faster, rushing to Rats, her hands glowing with healing magic.

Aurify. [Stoneshape].

As Poi sent out a wild, ‘Down! Down!’

Erick was already casting. A wall of stone, all around Erick, all around everyone, rose up into the sky, ten meters thick. And Erick took the party down, down. Kiri fell to her knees. Jane held tight onto Rats. Poi fell next to Erick. Erick barely stayed upright.

Firebolts followed down the hole, but struck the side of the new tunnel. They were [Fire Bolts] of some kind, but their unerring was minor compared to the pure damage of the spell.

The sky was a dot of light above. Erick moved the group down, and then left, casting a spot of wardlight when the sunlight vanished, illuminating the dome of stone around them, and the expanding puddles of blood, from three different people. Erick dodged their underground stone cart into a twist, curving the tunnel he had made into Veird, hoping that the assassins up top would see a twisting tunnel and decide not to follow. And then he cut off the entrance to the surface all together, locking them into the ground, without easy access to the surface. He stopped the stone cart. Two Ophiel blipped into the air beside him; the others were killed.

A blue box appeared. Erick couldn’t read it right now. Kiri was screaming, holding her stump; she had started screaming up there, and down here it echoed. Jane had one hand on Rats and another on Teressa.

Poi whipped out the rod of [Treat Wounds], sending, ‘Jane. Focus on Rats. Teressa will be fine, now.’

Jane was already on Rats, but she moved all of her focus to the scarlet dragonkin, pumping magic into his body, her face numb, his body…

Not coming back together.

No wait! It was! The hole healed. Rats coughed. He was alive. He had lived.

Everything was okay.

A rush of absolute terror passed Erick by, like he had almost stepped unthinking into traffic. Rats coughed again. Jane kept healing him. Teressa’s face pulled together, the wound in her chest already repairing with the magics Jane cast.

Poi rushed to Kiri, slamming a [Treat Wounds] into the girl. She stopped screaming. She calmed.

Poi said, “We’re not safe here. When we’re stable, we’re running.”

Teressa roared awake, upright, screaming, “We’re killing those fuckers!”

Jane pressed her bloody hands to Rats, still prone on the ground but breathing, now. Tears streamed down her face. “We’re killing them, Poi. Tell me where they are.”

Kiri cried, holding her stump in the wan light of Erick’s single lightward.

Poi said, “I am not arguing. I am commanding.”

Erick felt numb. He breathed hard. He touched his face. Tears had streaked his cheeks, and blood, too.

That firebolt had not completely missed his head. He felt the side of his face. Half of his left ear was gone. He stared at the shine of red wetness on his fingers for a brief second. And then came anger. A cold desire took root in his mind, spreading through his body. Not a hot anger, like usual. But a cold, dark thing. A hatred. A want.

An absolute need.

Erick asked, calm as could be, “Those were hunters, right? They kill people, right?”

Jane looked at Erick, and Erick saw the pain in her eyes.

Her eyes went wide. “Holy fuck you’re—”

“It’s just an ear. I’ll heal it later.” Erick said, “We came here to rid the forest of threats. This is a threat. They could be assassins, from Portal. Or they could be hunters. I need to know. We will take this information from their bodies.”

Poi looked to Erick, and Poi flinched away.

Rats stabilized, he sat up. Jane moved to Kiri, touching Erick with a bright heal along the way. Erick felt a burn on his face, a rapid pain across his ear, as nerves repaired. Soon, the feeling passed; his ear was back.

Erick sent, ‘Will they expect us to come after them?’

Poi sent, ‘I’m low on mana. Everyone is. Maybe… Kiri. Are you a Scion of Focus?’

Kiri sent, ‘I haven’t picked, yet. I can’t do it here, anyway.’

Erick sent to the group, ‘Is there a spell for transferring mana to someone else? Did anyone bring potions?’

Kiri sent, ‘This spell does not exist except—’ She winced, in pain, Jane touched her stump of an arm, applying [Greater Treat Wounds]. ‘Except as a Class feature. Mage Hunter and Font; one to take, one to give.’ She added, ‘They were likely invisible, anyway.’ She groaned a harsh laugh, sending, ‘If you actually had [Invisibility Purge]— It’s [Invisibility] and [Dispel].’

‘I would have noticed [Invisibility]’ Poi sent, ‘It wasn’t that.’

‘What happened out there, Poi?’ Erick asked.

‘… I can only blame myself and combat fatigue.’

‘That doesn’t matter right now.’ Jane reconstructed Kiri’s arm; it was currently a tendril of thin bone covered in thickening flesh, as she sent, ‘I need cloud cover and shadows, Dad. I can find them.’

Poi sent, ‘They’re likely long gone. But yes. If you want to do this, we will go out there spells blazing.’

Erick summoned another two Ophiel and sent them up. They were instantly shot out of the sky.

‘Fuck.’ Erick sent, ‘Ophiel was shot the second he appeared.’ Erick summoned ten normal [Conjure Force Elemental]s, shaped to look like Ophiel, but basically just flappy, wing-like monstrosities. The real Ophiel whined in flute sounds. Erick imbued his fake-Ophiels with [Teleport], and sent the group up. Checking with [Scry], the fake Ophiels scattered, flying around with a Handy Aura. Five of them were shot out of the sky, before someone noticed the [Scry] orb, and popped it. ‘Fuck.’ Erick sent, ‘Fake ones shot out of the sky, too. What spell is that? Is there more than one of them?’

Jane smiled, as Kiri breathed softer. Her arm was back. Kiri panted as Jane pulled away, tiny flickering fire escaped from the edges of her mouth.

Kiri sent, ‘It’s… [Fireball] on a [Force Bolt]. But condensed. Somehow. I think. It’s unerring, but not perfect. There’s too much power behind the spell to make it properly unerring.’

Jane stood back from the group. She had healed everyone more than enough. She sent, ‘Cloud cover, Dad.’

Jane’s midnight blue [Conjure Armor] vanished. She stood nude for the briefest moment, before her flesh morphed, expanding. Eight legs, blacker than night. Eight brilliant eyes that glittered in the light of the orb on the floor of the room, while her front two eyes, much larger than the other six, were large enough to act as a dark mirror. Erick saw a reflection of himself and his two remaining Ophiel in his daughter’s eyes. And then he looked down, to the blood still there, on the stone.

Erick sent an Ophiel upward.

Before Ophiel died to a dozen firebolts, the sky blackened with a fast triple cast of [Call Lightning].

Erick sent, ‘Wait to see if they [Dispel] it, first.’ He added, ‘And they stuck around after seeing me slam lightning into the [Ward] wyrm. They are either idiots who have lived under rocks, or assassins who know our capabilities.’ He stressed, ‘They know what we can do, Jane.’

Jane nodded with her whole spider body, sending, ‘And that won’t save them.’

Erick sent directly to Jane, and no one else, ‘Tania put you to sleep.’

Jane sent, ‘And right now, Poi is blocking all harmful mind magic.’

Erick instantly turned to Poi.

The sapphire scaled man nodded, sending, ‘We thought shadowspiders were immune to mind magic, anyway; but it turns out they’re just highly resistant, and specialized spells work especially well on them. But we are prepared now, Erick.’

Erick breathed hard, preparing himself. He sent another [Scry] upward, into a different part of the battlefield. It was dark out there, the rain came down in sheets. The [Scry] orb popped.

‘How the FUCK are they noticing my [Scr— They’re still out there. Somewhere.’ He sent, ‘You’re up, Jane. Good hunting.’

Jane sunk into shadow, rippling the cooling blood on the ground as she left the underground room.

Erick flashed a [Cleanse Aura] into the room, and cast a brighter wardlight, onto the ceiling. Blood and char vanished. Erick breathed easier, now. He checked the blue box that had appeared earlier.

Stone Travel, instant, medium range, 50 mana + Variable

A large area of stone stabilizes around you, then quickly moves at your discretion across or through other stone. Lasts 1 hour.

Erick sent a [Scry] orb upward.

Surprise filled his entire being; a monster had joined the fight. A monster the size of a wyrm, but not a wyrm.

A radiant red snake with glowing white feathered wings, flew across the battlefield, burning away the clouds and rain above. It swooped down, quick as a lightning strike, dashing through a group of five humans below, burning one instantly to ash. The other four humans managed to [Blink] away from the monster.

Seeing the beast in person was so much different than seeing it on paper. It was the Flare Couatl, and it was much bigger than the last report indicated.

Jane, still a spider, just stood on the surface, wrapped in deep shadows, watching the carnage.

Erick said, “It’s the Flare Couatl.”

Rats winced out, “Good. Is it killing the assassins?”

“Yes.” Poi said, “And turning them to ash, which means we won’t know who they are.”

Rats said, “That’s okay!” He touched the fresh red scales across his stomach, then moved his feet… Or at least, tried to move his feet. He scowled. “Nerve damage. Not healed enough yet.”

Poi moved over to Rats with the rod of [Treat Wounds], and began healing the redscale.

Rats relaxed after a gentle touch from the rod, saying, “Thank you.”

Erick conjured two more Ophiel, and sent them upward—

“You attacking the couatl, now?” Teressa asked.

“No.” Erick said, “But I am going to kill one of them so that—” Erick looked through Ophiel, and paused. “Uh.” He said, “We need to get out there. No danger right now… maybe.” One small Ophiel each blipped next to Kiri, Rats, Teressa, and Poi. “We’re going up. No spells blazing.”
