“Battle’s lost if you die, Fleethoof. Give the order.”
She hesitated—they were all high enough in level to maybe count. She looked across three faces and spoke.
“Basal. You’re in charge.”
The Lizaur hesitated, and the other Centaurs missed a step. Him? But then he ducked his head, and three Centaurs stormed towards the Redfangs.
The Goblins were cutting towards Kasigna, but they were fighting Humans and Drakes who had fallen. The forces of Pallass, Manus, the Five Families, couldn’t bear to look their friends in the eyes and kill them.
The Goblins…had fewer problems. Redscar was in front, holding a blade covered in lightning and Garen’s sword. Perorn stormed towards him and shot a bow point-blank at one of the returned souls trying to kill him.
Ser Sest smiled.
Perorn swore she’d kill Kasigna. Redscar was panting; there were enemies on all sides, but he lifted his sword.
[He Walked and Shadows Split]. Well, rode, but it didn’t matter. The Hobgoblin swung his sword—vanished from Thunderfur’s saddle—
Impaled Ser Kerrig from behind as the Rose Knight swung again. Perorn saw Redscar appear behind another Draugr and bisect it with his blades.
Some kind of advanced [Shadowleap]. The Goblin didn’t have a mastery of it. He staggered, and Perorn trampled an enemy Human.
“Let’s go. Forget the minions. Kill the [Necromancer].”
“Yeah. Chieftain’s orders.”
They surged towards Kasigna. Now, the Goddess of Death was walking forwards, and the entire battlefield retreated before her advance. Perorn saw, out of the corner of her eye, a figure walking through a mist of ice. Theillige had held down an entire wing of the battlefield, but even that one must have come to Perorn’s conclusion.
Kasigna’s eyes were moving towards the Wild Hunt’s champion. She ignored Redscar and Perorn as Perorn shot an arrow into her right eye.
No impact. My sword’s close to Relic-class. Skill plus sword.
Kasigna didn’t pull the arrow out of her eye. It was just gone in a flicker, as if it were a figment of her imagination she didn’t even pay attention to. Redscar roared a challenge as he drove at her.
“Redfang! Redfang—”
He was howling with a fury even he didn’t understand. Then he shouted something.
“Velan was right.”
Perorn jerked and looked at him. Kasigna’s head snapped away from Theillige. She saw Redscar and Perorn at last, and her eyes narrowed.
“Begone, Goblin.”
Well, that meant something. She lifted a hand—and Perorn slashed it off. Kasigna actually blinked and recoiled slightly.
Flicker. Her hand was back. Her eyes followed Perorn—and Redscar buried both blades in her chest and stomach. A fainter grimace.
Their weapons did do something! Perorn had suspected as much. When Kasigna had caught that bolt of lightning, it wasn’t for show.
“[Blade Art: Fraerling Song].”
“[Crimson Whirls My Blade].”
Kasigna flinched as the swords slashed into her. She was distracted by Theillige, but, Perorn thought, she just didn’t understand swordplay. They were definitely hurting her, though Perorn had never seen anyone heal from the wounds she was inflicting.
“You—”
“[Ghostrider]!”
Perorn ran through two of the Redfangs and Yameth and knocked Redscar and Thunderfur away. The fingers missed her by an inch—because she lopped the top of Kasigna’s hand off.
The Goddess of Death grew angry. Redscar beheaded her as Yameth drove another sword into her from the side, and she flinched as Perorn scored her on the cheek. Of all the weapons, she eyed the Centaur’s slightly curved blade.
“What weapon is that?”
A gift straight from the Labyrinth of Souls. Perorn cantered out of reach as Yameth and Ixeth allowed her and Redscar to dance around Kasigna. Her two Centaur [Captains] and the other Redfangs formed a circle of blades, and Redscar grinned as Kasigna took a step towards Perorn and actually stumbled.
He’d planted Garen’s sword in her shadow, and it actually anchored her a second. Kasigna hissed.
“Isthekenous.”
Perorn locked the name into her memory. She lifted her sword high as Redscar leapt, swords singing, and Kasigna acknowledged their danger. She spoke, her voice rasping. But it was no Skill she uttered.
“<Your Mortal Wounds Open>.”
Perorn heard the word of god and felt the world twist. Oh, she realized.
Oh. That’s what a Skill was based off of—
The act of—
She hit the ground as her old wound on her leg, Tulm’s final lesson to his mentor, exploded in a shower of blood. A scar across her stomach turned into the same wound that had nearly killed her in her first battle. Redscar blinked. He gazed down at a dozen wounds dripping blood and pulled a healing potion from his belt.
“Thunderf—”
The Hobgoblin collapsed as the Carn Wolf bled out next to him. Redfangs, Yameth, Ixeth—all collapsed as more Goblins and [Soldiers] within a thousand foot radius began to bleed and die.
Damn.
Perorn stared at the sky as a cry went up. She saw Ixeth rise, aim a bow up—Kasigna bent down and touched his head.
“See you…Fleethoof…”
Yameth was gurgling, his lungs filling with blood. Perorn stared at the sky. She was out of potions.
She wondered if her mother was watching her.
 
——
 
Kasigna walked past the mortals trying to preserve their lives. They were not her foes. She did not deign to spar with them, in the lands of the dead or now.
Power waxed and waned. She was liminal, upon the edge of strength. Yet still, they surely knew it.
“I am Kasigna. I have crushed pantheons and battled the oldest rot between worlds and never fallen. I have been laid low by the Laughing Folk, yet I stand with my domain behind me.”
Kasignel. She allowed even the soul of the wolf to enter, for it was more person than animal. A Hobgoblin reached up for it with a cry. He would join it soon.
All things. Even Oberon knew better than to enter this realm. Long dead, at the edge of her strength—in her domain, she could slay him, though she would admit the battle might well kill her.
Surely…this one of all knew it. Mortals could be excused their ignorance.
The Wild Hunt’s champion said nothing as they lifted their sword. There was no salute. No acknowledgement.
For this one alone, Kasigna met them in open combat. She swung a staff, almost slowly, as Theillige swung a sword, and the two weapons met in the air.
But that was just what mortals saw.
Two ideas collided. Two abstractions of being.
A woman wearing a dress of bones locked swords with a champion of ice bearing a scythe. 
A warrior riding no horse but a contraption of metal froze the ground as they circled a rotting corpse.
A grinning ferrywoman stood in the middle of the final river as a warrior walked with the blizzard of the end-times behind them over the freezing waters.
A thousand clashes in a moment. Kasigna bled into the aether, and the ichor of death fell on the Floodplains. Yet—she was holding onto Theillige’s hand as the fae drove the blade into her chest. She would not let go.
Even winter died. Even the idea of cold died.
“You cannot best me.”
The very end came for them all. A Djinni, a being of magic chained and screaming, tried to assail Kasigna from behind. They touched her and vanished as Theillige’s helm began to crumple—but the fae drove the blade deeper.
Kasignel was filling.
 
——
 
“Armored 14th withdrawing—”
“The Erchirite Spears have taken 50% casualties—”
“Anyone, help. They’re all ar—”
Grand Strategist Chaldion saw the battlefield on the map in front of him and in his mind’s eye. He saw the lines that had held, the orderly prepared ranks and fallback plans becoming final stands.
They were losing. Pallass’ 1st and 4th Armies were in full retreat. Niers had taken his Forgotten Wing Company across the enemy’s back, but it didn’t matter how many casualties there were.
That dead goddess would just raise more. And too many Drakes and Gnolls were dead.
“Grand Strategist, requesting permission to fall back. It’s time to evacuate the [Innkeeper]. Grand Strategist?”
General Shirka’s voice was steady, but urgent. Chaldion said nothing. The plan had always been to abandon The Wandering Inn, draw Erin into Liscor or even Pallass.
She wasn’t moving. He smiled up at that door still emitting flashes of lightning.
“What’s her line? ‘The King is smart and keeps his head. For if he moves, he’ll soon be dead.’ Beautiful. Don’t you see it?”
A [Strategist] was trying to give orders, counting the dead, aware every fumble and mistake cost lives. She looked at him blankly. She was too principled. He forgot her name. He’d put it on her file when he passed her over for better, male counterparts.
She cared about lives too much when sometimes you needed an idiot who could pay a butcher’s bill and never blink twice. Chaldion stared at the inn.
“If she moved or ran, she’d live. But they’d die.”
The Goddess of Death was distracted, focusing on Erin. All she had to do was not flee. It had to be hard.
The Grand Strategist was at peace. He could see, across the pockets of Drakes not falling back, Wall Lord Ilvriss fighting with Saliss of Lights. Damn Salazsar. Even Manus had fallen back before the Walled City of Gems.
He had better not die. Chaldion’s eyes lingered on his grandson, then he knew it was time. His claws could barely hold the table, but he forced himself to stand.
Time. The [Grand Strategist] of the Drakes always, always had one last plan. He saw Drakes losing their nerve, abandoning their positions.
General Duln wouldn’t be able to hold their position for another five minutes. Without potions, even good veteran Drakes could see death coming. They’d only win if they slowed that damn goddess.
“Aah. Aaaah. It’s glorious. What a perfect battle. We’re covered in it. Glory. We’ll be heroes. Can’t you see? We’ve killed a hundred thousand Draugr—we’re winning.”
Chaldion spoke into his speaking stone as the junior [Strategist] and the other members of the command tent looked at him. He heard a sound.
“Grand Strategist? The enemy is able to resurrect more undead.”
That brave Garuda, his second-in-command. Chaldion couldn’t remember his name. But he was the trustworthy one. He said the obvious thing. And the Grand Strategist turned. Looked at him with a grin. Then at the projection of the map with unsteady eyes.
The Draugr who’d been half-executed were dying fast. He pointed at the cluster of them.
“Nonsense. It just takes—one good blow. They’ll shatter, and we’ll have that damn Human dead. Reform on my position! Follow—follow me.”
His eye was gleaming. He’d replaced the blue gemstone with one made of topaz, and it glowed as Chaldion left the command tent.
“Grand Strategist? Someone stop—”
They were so used to obeying him they hesitated as his second shouted. Chaldion saw horses ready to evacuate his position; his bodyguards looked up as he swung into a saddle.
“Grand Strategist, are we falling back to Liscor or evacuating—”
“No. Form up. Form up for the charge! [Hold Until The Last]! To me! For Pallass and the City of Inventions! Rally to me!”
He had a sword. Meant to be ornamental, but the Drake drew it from his scabbard and waved it around his head as he changed channels on the speaking stone.
“Grand Strategist—”
“What is going on? Who’s giving that order?”
Commander Olesm roared into the speaking stone until he recognized the voice. Now, Chaldion was shouting across the entire Drake command.
“I am Chaldion of Pallass! Rally to me! We will rout the undead in a single glorious charge! With me, with me!”
Wall Lord Aldonss was dead. General Shirka and General Duln were under his command. No one was even close to his commanding position.
Officers heard him. Chaldion saw the Drakes fleeing or holding their ground begin to move.
“Hold, Ancestors damn it! Hold the fucking line or I will melt each one of you with acid jars! Liscor’s army, hold!”
Olesm began shouting curses as General Shirka barked.
“Grand Strategist, we cannot rout them—”
She was trying to address him on his personal channel. Chaldion ignored her. He saw Drakes turning to him.
“For the Ancestors! Drakes don’t run! To me! To me!”
“Chaldion!”
Duln was racing towards him, but the Drake kicked his horse into a canter, and now Drakes were following him.
The [Grand Strategist] of Drakes had to have a plan. Chaldion was laughing, his heart beating out of his chest. He was doing it. Did you see? Was she watching?
“What are the Drakes doing? Grand Strategist, your formations are breaking apart.”
Across the battlefield, Tyrion Veltras had noticed the shift in Drake lines. They were abandoning their fallback points, moving out from the fortifications. A charge? Foot and horse?
“Grand Strategist, requesting clarity on what the hell is going on?”
Now, Lieutenant Caoraz was speaking, protocol be damned. Chaldion wasn’t responding.
“Charge, charge! [Charge of the Lion]!”
Drakes cheered and burst into a run as the Grand Strategist plunged down the hill towards the center of the undead formation. There was no structure. Just—
Madness.
The Grand Strategist of Pallass had lost his mind. He was throwing Pallass’ army, elements of Manus, even Salazsar, straight into the heart of the undead. There was no retreating from that move.
“General Duln, override the Grand Strategist!”
Shirka barked. General Duln—hesitated.
“If he sees a [Path to Victory]—”
Chaldion’s yellow eye was burning. He was grinning as he rode, and he could sense Saliss’ eyes on him. Shirka’s voice was like iron.
“There is no victory in a suicide charge.”
That’s right. The Drake was laughing to himself. He could hear them all. [Path to Victory]? Whenever he looked, he saw her sneering at him.
Kasigna. She and that fae, Shaestrel, were dueling, and they made a mockery of his Skill. He could not win the board.
But he believed in victory. Chaldion saw more Drakes breaking towards him now. Drakes don’t run. Follow the Grand Strategist.
Then he heard the sounds of his salvation. General Shirka roared into the speaking stone.
“All forces, halt! Reform on Pallass’ 2nd!”
“8th Army, hold! Hold on my order!”
Lieutenant Caoraz was a second behind her, and then Wall Lord Ilvriss was calling out to Salazsar’s forces.
“Salazsar, halt. All Drake forces, fall back now. This is Wall Lord Ilvriss—”
Half the [Soldiers] running forwards faltered. They wavered, but officers followed Chaldion, encouraging their entire command forward. Chaldion saw his organized armies break and mill apart.
Lower-ranking officers or squads refused to join the charge. They split from their commanders, or higher-ranking officers fell back, and more than one commander tried to execute their subordinates for treason.
“Madness. He’s gone mad. Stop!”
