At first, Dame Welca thought all of the north was calling vengeance on House Walchaís until she realized it wasn’t a Human voice shouting it, but the rasping tongue of a Drake. There was a scream.
“Guard the inn! The Flying Antinium—”
 
——
 
They hit the inn like a swarm of locusts. Half of them were down one hallway before the inn realized what was going on.
Flying Antinium turned on Liscor’s defenders from the inside, tearing at the Watch, then even at other Free and Silent Antinium as their bewildered kin demanded answers—then fought for their lives.
“Traitors!”
Numbtongue howled as a sea of Flying Antinium burst into the common room. However, they were ungainly in close quarters, and the [Knights] were fighting viciously.
—The Flying Antinium were tearing at the inn as they died. They didn’t seem to care that they were being slaughtered.
The deed mattered, not the results.
A man came to a halt as one of the Flying Antinium, wing severed from Numbtongue’s blade, raised his head, mandibles dripping from Silvermop’s corpse. The brave little Worker hadn’t even expected it.
“Pivr. Pivr. What are you doing?”
Alcaz stared at the Prognugator. His hand was shaking as he held a club. Pivr answered slowly, scuttling forwards.
“It is logical to ally with the one called Kasigna. This one is not our immediate ally. She offers more practical value than pointless strife. The Flying Queen has decided.”
Chaos in the Hivelands. The other Hives were boiling, unsure of whether to fight—and Kasigna was speaking. Negotiating terms. This one would be difficult, even for the Goddess of Death.
Alcaz knew none of it. He spread his hands.
“Pivr. You don’t have to do this. We’re friends.”
For a second, the Revalantor really did hesitate. He was not thinking, up till now. He was just—Pivr. He had been given an order and asked if it was the right one. She told him yes. He asked again. But the answer…was always the same.
Pivr folded his broken wings as Normen saw the two facing each other. The Flying Antinium stared at the only person in this world who had ever been kind to him. His Queen was in his head. The [Knight] shouted a warning.
“Alcaz!”
Alcaz hesitated, but he didn’t back up. He was waiting, a hand open. Looking Pivr in his eyes. The Flying Antinium’s Prognugator rubbed his feelers together. Spoke with a clicking, halting buzz.
“Your ‘friendship’ was an attractive idea, Alcaz. I will live without it.”
“Pivr. Weren’t we friends?”
Alcaz’s voice shook, and Pivr turned his head slightly. Normen was fighting towards them, knocking Flying Antinium away. Pivr clicked softly.
“Yes. Yes, Alcaz. But my Queen is everything. What should I do but obey her? Without her, what am I?”
“My friend—”
Pivr saw the club lower a fraction and leapt before he heard the other word. Then, his mandibles were biting, razor-limbs slashing, and he wondered why the man was so slow. Pivr cut and slashed until blood, red and hot, ran from his chitin.
Alcaz lay there, eyes empty, as Normen screamed and sent Flying Antinium flying. Pivr looked into the [Knight]’s eyes and—turned and ran.
He scuttled back out of the inn, whispering. Ordering the Flying Antinium to reform on him.
“Fulfill contract. Fulfill promise. For the Queen. For the….”
Pivr cried out as he sensed them all dying. He leapt, flying clumsily through the night, searching for a target, and an arrow struck him in the head. Pivr jerked; he fell, spinning around, and saw the [Archer] drawing another arrow to the string.
Bird shot Pivr in the head again. And then again as the Flying Antinium crashed down on top of the ballista. Even then, the Revalantor snapped weakly at Bird. The Worker spoke to him, voice too calm.
“You are the most wretched Antinium in the entire world, Pivr. You do not deserve friends.”
“May--zkch-be.”
Pivr whispered. Then Bird fired an arrow that tore Pivr’s soul out of his body.
 
——
 
Three traitors approached Kasigna. Lady Bethal Walchaís, the Flying Antinium, each granted a boon just as promised.
Kasigna kept her promises. Her power defied this mortal world’s comprehension. The greatest spells and rituals were based off of her authority.
True resurrection.
They were all tempted. She felt their souls waver, and they began to believe. Still—many looked at her undead, at what they fought against, and refused.
Some were simply so desperate, so pragmatic, that they asked. What would you give for the dead to return?
The third traitor killed no one. At first, they just looked around for her and realized she had vanished. She flew towards Kasigna and dropped upon bended wing.
A Dragon.
Rafaema’s scales were mottled in gore. She had killed countless undead. It seemed she had a talent for war. She saw Teriarch flying high above, fighting, and she longed to go with him, but the Goddess of Death…
Was displeased.
“You offer me nothing?”
“I…I offer you my service. If you bring back my kind.”
Ah. The Goddess of Death looked at the young Lightning Dragon with sudden awareness. This old story. She lifted one finger.
“Kill the [Innkeeper] and I shall reward you.”
“I—”
Rafaema hesitated. Kasigna’s eyes narrowed.
“I offer nothing for nothing, last of Dragons. My favored prove their worth to me. If you wish me to bring back one of your kind—demonstrate your zeal.”
“Rafaema!”
Spearmaster Lulv had found her. He always did. Ferris, Aldonss, her people were surging forwards in a horror, abandoning their posts. Rafaema ducked her head lower.
“I don’t want one. Goddess of Death, what is your price for bringing them back? My people.”
“A species?”
Here, even Kasigna hesitated, but she seemed pleased at the magnitude of Rafaema’s wish. Rafaema spoke urgently.
“I will give anything for that—but I don’t want one. What—what will you ask of me?”
“Rafaema of Manus. Enough!”
The skies shook as, above her, the Dragonlord of Flame broke off his duel with the Frost Giant’s corpse and looked down. She just stared up, blinking tears out of her eyes as Teriarch beheld Manus’ folly.
What would you do if you could save your entire people? Her entire life, Rafaema had been told—Kasigna, the Maiden, looked at Rafaema with actual understanding and pity.
“You have nothing even a fraction of the value, child. Though…your form.”
She paused, and Rafaema’s heart lurched. Kasigna mused.
“No soul of this world can withstand our might. But your form might last a month. Even so, it is not enough by far. I could promise you a hundred souls reborn—after my victory.”
“Nothing now?”
Rafaema was hesitating, and the Goddess of Death glanced at Manus. She was not blind. Her lips twitched.
“Your mother. Swear a pact upon your very soul and pledge your city to me. And I shall grant you a gift for that alone. The rest will be the product of your deeds.”
Her hand outstretched. Rafaema looked down, and her mind vanished as she stared at what lay there. Rafaema looked up as the Dragonlord of Flames descended, and Kasigna held out her hand.
“Rafaema! Stop!”
Only one person could follow a Dragon across the battlefield so quickly. Spearmaster Lulv dove—ran his spear through Kasigna’s chest, and Rafaema cried out.
“Lulv!”
The Goddess of Death ignored the spear jutting out of her chest. She pulled it out—tossed the spear and the Gnoll aside like a fly. She pointed, and Rafaema covered him with one wing.
“Lulv! Stop! She’ll bring back the Ancestors. She’ll bring them all back if—if—”
It was wrong. Rafaema knew it. Treachery. She was staring at the inn, the Pallassians, Liscor—at The Wandering Inn.
Bird.
She could see him there standing with his ballista. Rafaema felt a lurch as she saw it was aimed straight at her. But the Antinium hadn’t fired. Not yet.
I would like to be friends.
Lulv lay on his back as Rafaema put a clawed foot on him, holding him down. He looked up at the desperate Lightning Dragon.
“What—did we do to you?”
The [Spearmaster] rasped. He stared at Rafaema as if seeing her for the first time. The Lightning Dragon flinched. Lulv saw her head turn, and he grabbed one nail of her claw.
“Rafaema—don’t do this. We don’t need the Ancestors. We need you.”
He pulled, trying to drag the Dragon back, and Kasigna’s eyes fixed on him. She gestured impatiently.
“Child. Decide!”
The Dragon wavered, torn between her city and her destiny. As she saw it. Lulv was rasping.
“Stop. Don’t do it—we are your people. We need you.”
“You’ve all told me, always, that this is my fate!”
The Gnoll shook his head as he felt Kasigna’s glare trying to close his airways. He rasped.
“I…promise…you don’t have to. Enough with the damn destiny. I would rather see Manus die than sacrifice its last daughter.”
He gave up on the stupid dream he’d been told was their future. He didn’t need it. Their Dragon—Manus’ last daughter—
Kasigna’s eyes were empty holes of anger. The Maiden saw Rafaema waver, saw her head crane up to Teriarch and at Lulv. Kasigna read Rafaema’s choice in destiny’s threads before the Dragon spoke.
“Fool.”
She reached out as Rafaema lifted her claw, trying to back away. Kasigna’s hand grabbed one of Rafaema’s wings and tore it off the Dragon’s body.
Screaming, Rafaema flickered, becoming a one-winged Drake—Dragon—blood spurted onto the ground as Kasigna tossed the wing down.
The [Spearmaster] stabbed her again but grabbed Rafaema as she collapsed. He began to run—and Kasigna appeared in front of him.
“Those who spurn me die.”
She saw the Gnoll snarl—tense—Kasigna reached out, then shielded her face.
Dragonfire blasted her as Lulv began to run. Teriarch flew past her, invisible to all but her eyes. Kasigna grimaced—then began to pursue Lulv. She lifted a hand, as if feeling her way through fog. She could not see the inn, yet she was advancing now, step by step.
It mattered not if Erin Solstice was invisible to Kasigna’s eyes. There was nothing to do in the darkness, no hiding.
Now, Kasigna walked.
She took one step—and the Gnoll dodged around her, trying to break through the undead. Manus’ [Soldiers] were throwing themselves forwards to clear a path—she saw another Gnoll waving.
“Lulv! This way!”
Ferris shot a crossbow, and the Void Bolt opened the air around Kasigna, trying to draw her into it.
She closed the void with a single gesture. Reached for Lulv. Nothing in this world could stop her hand.
Wall Lord Aldonss knew that. The Drake halted and did the only thing he could think of that would stop Kasigna.
He spat in her face.
Not lightning. Just phlegm. It struck Kasigna on one cheek as the [Wall Lord of Lightning] lifted his armaments burning with a Lightning Dragon’s power. Lulv leapt past him, and the two locked eyes for one second.
Kasigna’s hand had halted. Slowly, she wiped at one cheek, and her head turned to Aldonss.
Haughty champions of myth and legend. If you call out to them, they shall challenge you.
He remembered what Erin Solstice had said. The Wall Lord lifted a sword to the heavens as Kasigna spoke.
“Your city shall die for that, Drake.”
“Our daughter is alive.”
Aldonss pointed up at the sky as Kasigna touched him on the chest. The Drake collapsed without a word as Manus’ [Soldiers] felt his Skills vanish. A cry of horror arose from Manus—and Kasigna ignored the Drake as he fell backwards.
She looked straight up at the sky as the largest bolt of lightning this battle crackled downwards. It had the force to destroy everything around her. [Soldiers] of Manus, the ground, the hills—
It fell beyond the speed of mortal eyes to behold—yet she reached up and caught it. The lightning bolt froze mid-strike.
For one moment, it seemed it might overpower her. The crackling fury of energy twisted in the goddess’ grip, and her skin was rotting, and she flinched as it coursed through her flesh—
Flicker. Kasigna’s eyes blazed, her body whole, and her hand clenched hard on the bolt of lightning. Contemptuously, Kasigna squeezed her hand, and it vanished.
Then she looked up, and the cloud it had fallen from, which covered the entire area above the dark Floodplains—dissipated. It broke apart as Kasigna killed a patch of the sky, and moonlight shone down the clear space above Kasigna. However, even the ray of moonlight that illuminated the ground around her avoided the Goddess of Death, as if it feared she would take it too.
 
——
 
Perorn Fleethoof made a tactical assessment of the battle as Wall Lord Aldonss died.
They could still win.
She’d seen worse battles, and this one had actually swung back and forth. The Hag Queens were dying; the one fighting that duelist and the one fighting that bloated undead giant were both losing.
One was attacking Liscor, but the undead had been depleted by the overwhelming aggression throughout the battle. The armies that had poured forth from the dungeons were fighting the undead as well, but save for their numbers, they were outclassed by far.
Even so, it relieved pressure on the living defenders, and the monsters had downed a number of Kasigna’s undead. However—the Goddess of Death was currently murdering her way through the entire army. Flesh Worms were collapsing, undead rebelling against their allies, and even the suits of enchanted armor were falling to bits as the monsters tried to flee back into the dungeon and Kasigna’s forces hacked them down. Yet the damage they’d done was one more chip in her army’s integrity.
Victory was not impossible pending one condition that was amazingly simple:
“Someone has to kill her. I’m going to try.”
“No.”
Niers tried to override her instantly, but Perorn was already riding forward, ignoring him. She signaled her vanguard to fall back, and they hesitated. Numbers wouldn’t matter. Levels might.
“As long as she lives, the battle is impossible to win.”
Any idiot could see that. Kasigna was the one forcing the fallen to fight for her. She had killed Aldonss with a touch. She was the literal [Necromancer]; she’d summon another wave of undead if she lived.
Even the monsters of Liscor’s dungeon were barely keeping the defenders of the inn from dying, now. Erin’s inn was ablaze, but Perorn had seen those gardens vanishing. They were on the brink.
“I have to try.”
She was not the only one mustering for a charge. Now, the Goblins were sallying out of their positions.
Rags had taken up the Order of Solstice’s position around the inn. She aimed a [Fireball] down at the crawling centipede-undead and pointed; eighteen warriors rode wolves down, making for Perorn’s target.
“Don’t follow me.”
Fleethoof heard a shout behind her, and Yameth and Ixeth and Basal, her [Captains], broke from their commands. Perorn snapped at them.
“If I die—”
Yameth interrupted her.
