“A mere priest dares challenge a god? Slay that one.”
Hag Queens.
One went for Liscor.
One fought Tolveilouka.
One finished carving sigils of blood into her chest and pointed at the [Witches].
One leapt forwards, leading a final charge down the crumbling walls of stone and dirt towards Liscor’s army.
Olesm saw the Hag Queens pointing at Pawn and saw the two Giants crawling towards him. Both were half-destroyed already, but he guessed each one was larger than Liscor. One was coming across the Floodplains from the east—the other striking at the air, melting, already half-destroyed from the waist down by golden fire.
Either one would surely slay him, and no Skill nor soldier the Drake had would stop them. He looked at Kasigna, and Maviola El stared back at him. Perhaps they all saw their loves and friends in her face.
Take my hand. 
It would be so easy. If it were anyone else, the Drake might have thrown down his sword, forsaken his oaths, just for another chance. He did believe she could do it.
—But Maviola El. Olesm closed his eyes.
“Not her.”
There was only ever one chance. She had used hers well, even at the last moments. Olesm drew his Kaalblade and stared at the burning magic a second.
“Liscor’s army, hold your ground here!”
Terrified Drakes and Gnolls looked at him. Liscor’s [Soldiers] were hardy and brave. But no braver than Pallass’ finest or Vaunt’s folk. They gazed at a true Giant crawling down towards them, a Hag Queen from another world, and the undead and people they recognized pouring down the pass.
Olesm shouldered forwards, Kaalblade raised. He came to a halt at the front rank. A stupid place for a [Strategist] to be. Yet—he looked back, and they were watching him.
“I’m right here. I wouldn’t ask it of you if it didn’t matter. Stay with me.”
They did not immediately turn and run. That made them heroes. Olesm heard a whisper of approval as he slowly opened his belt pouch and put on a wristband.
Sands swirled around him, and he jerked as armor materialized out of the streaming grains of black sand. Some ancient metal gleamed on his body, and a voice spoke approvingly.
“Well said.”
Olesm turned his head, and a man with a rapier lifted it high overhead. He pointed it at the Hag Queen in a silent challenge.
“My children. Hold this line.”
Perril Chandler pointed a finger, and Olesm saw a shift in the ranks of the undead. They pivoted as a thousand reanimated Draugr under the Necromancer’s command struck them from the side. The Necromancer snapped his fingers, and the front rank of the dead around the Hag Queen disintegrated into dust.
Kasigna’s eyes narrowed, and the dead reformed. Two masters of the dead struggled as she pushed the Antinium’s Heaven back and summoned more minions.
Still, Liscor’s army waited for this final charge as more people threw down their weapons and fled, screaming. A row of skeletal riders lowered their lances, mimicking House Veltras’ charge. Liscor’s army began to fall back one step—two—even the Antinium were watching Heaven being pushed back.
Olesm bumped into someone as he took a step backwards. He couldn’t help it—he was not immune to fear.
Nor was the Minotaur. Calruz was already covered in blood and the gore of the undead. The Minotaur nodded at Olesm, then raised his axe with his one hand as he addressed a rank of Antinium. And they too felt fear, but they listened to his voice.
 
——
 
The Minotaur raised his axe, and [He Left Pride in His Wake].
To the Beriad, it looked like glowing footsteps. Trailing light from his axe that even a Draugr could not smash through. Calruz of Hammerad looked across a single rank that did not fall back and held Liscor’s army as they became the front.
The Crimson Soldier stood between the lines of the Antinium who wore the aspect of the House of Minos. He seemed peaceful, familiar to this moment.
The Beriad were afraid. The Free Antinium had faith, but for once, so did their foe. There was no shame in being terrified of dying.
They looked to Calruz, and the Minotaur put his back to the undead, though they were less than a minute away now. He spoke, raising his voice, heedless of the arrow that struck him across one shoulder or the black bile that splashed over his fur.
“Minotaurs have a saying. ‘Once is bravery. Twice is chance. Three times is courage.’ No one can ask a warrior to face certain death three times. Yet we stand.”
His eyes travelled down the line of Antinium. They were alight, and the Minotaur gazed down at his own two feet, as if belatedly hearing his own words.
“—It never gets easier, even if part of you wants it. That’s how you know it matters. Remember this, all of you: after this moment, you will never be the same. You were already the finest warriors I could ask to fight besides. There is no going back, now. You are crossing a line past which heroes never return from.”
Then he turned, his eyes glowing, and the Beriad lifted their blades high into the sky. Their lives flickered out before a great gale.
Three times. Undead slammed into the Antinium and Liscor’s army, and chitin and armor broke before honor did. The Crimson Soldier caught a Draugr’s fists and skidded back a single pace. One of the Beriad brought a hammer down, crushing the skull of a snake made of bones, and raised it high again as the Hag Queen’s magic vaporized him.
Calruz’s axe cleaved the air, a shining beacon that refused to vanish as the lines held. One second. Two…
Three…
 
——
 
Like fireflies. The Free Queen had seen the silly insects, just once, when she had made the painful journey to Liscor. Insects who signaled each other with glowing abdomens.
The souls of the Beriad were vanishing. The Free Antinium, the Silent Antinium—she tried to reach for them all.
Antherr’s soul was in her grasp, and she was trying, oh, trying so hard to hold onto it. But the Beriad, the [Knight]’s very being, were being pulled away from her.
She could not see Kasigna, deep underground, but she could have drawn a perfect picture of the Three-in-One.
The Goddess of Death was pulling all of them towards her. The Free Queen reached out and caught the Beriad’s fleeting souls. She held on with all her might.
In her throne room, Deferred Sustenance and Garry saw the Free Queen’s massive form shift. She was holding onto the air, and they thought they saw something in her feelers. Then…they heard a groan from her.
Her abdomen and body left the ground. Being pulled up by a force she was struggling against. The Free Queen held on as her limbs began to crack.
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart had fallen back to the last line where the army of Liscor was now taking the brunt of the fighting. Tyrion Veltras was signaling his intent to charge, but not down to the aid of Olesm’s forces.
“Take out key bones in its structure.”
“You will die. I forbid it.”
Lord Xitegen snapped at him. Tyrion Veltras aimed his lance ahead at the Giant of Rheirgest. His lance wasn’t even capable of snapping a single bone as the Giant ploughed towards The Wandering Inn.
“Someone must.”
A flying shape was darting around it, trying to cut or burn the Giant with a glowing black blade—but even the Faeblade was just too tiny to begin to damage it. Tyrion was aiming.
“That bone, at the elbow. It touches the ground every time the arm falls. Take it down piece by piece.”
His lancers were shuddering. Xitegen had his hand on Tyrion’s shoulder. Magnolia Reinhart interrupted the arguing [Lords].
“Leave that one to me. The one from the High Passes will never get to Liscor.”
She looked up at golden flames engulfing the titan still crawling down. A Dragon’s promise on it. 
Tyrion and Lord Xitegen turned to Magnolia Reinhart without looks of incredulity. They just didn’t believe they’d heard her correctly.
The Lady of House Reinhart sighed as she gazed at the ancient Giant. She walked forwards a few steps as Ressa pivoted.
“Magnolia!”
She didn’t say ‘don’t do it’—she just cried out as Lord Tyrion stared at Magnolia, uncomprehending. The [Lady] closed her eyes, and be it so silly—she did let a tear or two loose.
“I am sorry, Izril.”
Then she opened her eyes and saw the Giant of Rheirgest. It had been harvested over generations by the [Necromancers] of that village. But it was mostly intact. The ribs had been cut away, but she realized the skull was different.
This was no Human Giant. Maybe this one had been a Drake? She couldn’t tell from the worn skull, only that it belonged to a different age. Whoever this being had once been, it had belonged in the age of Dragonlords and myths. Its bones had been enough for the greatest Necromancer of his age, the Putrid One, to use as one of his greatest minions.
Someone had to stop it. Gently, Magnolia Reinhart lifted her hands. And first—she undid a Skill she had kept active for half her lifetime. She pointed at the Giant, gently, and spoke.
“[The Binding of House Reinhart].”
Lord Tyrion’s head turned from Magnolia to the Giant. First, he saw pieces of fabric unrolling in the air. Pink, of course. Ribbons, shimmering faintly, and they multiplied by the hundreds of thousands. Criss-crossing. Unrolling without end as they looped around the Giant.
It clawed towards her, raising one arm as ribbons anchored themselves in the sky. The other arm rose—snagged—as it was enmeshed in fabric. Magnolia Reinhart watched as that jaw opened, and the huge, flaring crimson eyes of the undead focused on her. It tried to pull itself again—and the arm was snared in the air now.
The ribbons refused to break. Tyrion was hesitating. How long would it last? She was going to—
He looked at Magnolia, and she lowered her hands softly. No nosebleed. No sign of stress, of the Skill cracking.
What did you do? Her capstone was supposed to be [Aegis of Grace]. He had never heard of this one. Why was she—weeping?
 
——
 
In the mansion of House Reinhart, old Regis was cowering in the basement again. The rest of the family had not paid much attention to the Winter Solstice.
Why would they? Magnolia Reinhart was the head of their family.
The Reinharts largely ignored the rest of the world, even for the Five Families. A few of them whom Magnolia trusted would represent them abroad—the rest indulged themselves with the riches they could eminently live off of.
Cecille Reinhart, Magnolia Reinhart’s aunt, worried more about her weight or whether she had been invited to the right functions in First Landing. Or her son and stepdaughter, Wernel and Damia, whom she suspected were still seeing each other even after she had forbade it.
If you asked her if life was good, she would have complained all day. But Cecille didn’t join the Circle of Thorns or dally with more…interesting…pastimes. She couldn’t have told you why if you asked. Only that Magnolia was everywhere and knew everything, and her wretched niece was a dangerous woman.
Always had been, ever since she took the family from her very father. What a thing.
Cecille Reinhart was reading a book when she glanced down and noticed something odd on her red dress.
A pink ribbon? She hated pink. She brushed at it, annoyed. Then realized there was more pink on her.
Ribbons on her arms, legs—Cecille shot to her feet. In the dead of the night, she heard cries of alarm from the mansion, and servants rushed into the parlor to see Cecille tearing something off her.
“What is—what is—”
Her mind hurt. Cecille was tearing at the pink ribbons she had never noticed before. No…they were fraying. Disintegrating. She lifted her shaking limbs, and her head—
Screamed. Cecille put her hands to her temples and began shrieking. It was the same sound coming from Damia and Wernel. She heard a shout from upstairs—her cousin Lotor—
The Reinharts were going insane. Servants backed against the wall.
“Mother! What’s happening? Mother!”
Her son and daughter stumbled into the parlor. They had no idea what was going on. They hadn’t been born when—
Cecille remembered. She was clawing at her face. Looking around. What was she doing? Reading a book? Her? How long had she been sitting in this mansion? How long had it been since she poisoned someone for offending her?
She threw things at her servants. She hadn’t fired one for over a decade. No servant of House Reinhart had died in over fifteen years. A record.
“Magnolia. Magnolia!”
Cecille began shrieking. Upstairs, she could hear Lotor beginning to laugh. Cecille was screaming—then laughing as servants backed against the walls. The old ones—the ones who remembered—half of them were running. The other half were grinning as pink ribbons fell away from them as well.
Cecille Reinhart had never hated her niece more. She had never loved Magnolia more. She was a Reinhart. Dead gods! Dead gods!
“Free! Free! House Reinhart’s snakes are unshackled once more!”
The [Lady] laughed in the faces of her son and daughter. They didn’t understand what had happened. Not yet. Even old Regis looked up as Cecille looked around—then strode down towards the vaults.
She wanted her heritage, now. That dottering ghost saw her and the rest of her family as fangless, idiots who gave nothing back to the family. She would happily admit to the latter—but she was free, now.
She would not be bound again.
 
——
 
Every single Reinhart was shedding Magnolia’s ribbons. Some were cursing her name, others applauding her even as they howled in agony. Their minds—
One of them was on the floor trying to pick up the ribbons.
“No. Nonononono. Stop it. Stop it!”
Calidus Reinhart was hitting himself in the head with a hammer he’d found; the [Assassins] had to use their strength to restrain him. The bloody-faced [Lord] stared up at the sky.
“She’s unbound us. We’re going to devour Izril until they put us down for good.”
Then he began laughing hysterically until he passed out.
 
——
 
A Giant halted in the Floodplains. Magnolia Reinhart’s final gambit. It tried to move, a titan large as a city, and she refused to let it budge.
It was—easy. She’d held worse for longer.
“To Liscor’s aid. Now.”
Magnolia Reinhart saw Xitegen and Tyrion turn. Liscor’s army was buckling. The [Lord] mounted up without a word.
 
——
 
What curious powers. That was not any gift they had ever writ into Isthekenous’ plans, nor he himself, unless he had kept secrets.
No…he had been honest to a fault.
Kasigna knew this was the work of his rogue creation. Yet Magnolia Reinhart’s Skill did not displease her; only that there was no guidance. Even the Goddess of Death studied how the effects might move the future…though the darkness around the Floodplains made seeing the threads of fate difficult.
What moves fate in the near future such that even I cannot predict it? That servant of the Faerie King alone cannot be doing this. 
