Nor was it the obnoxious pile of bread that clouded her vision. Kasigna, in her way, was blinder than her Hag Queens…yet sight was but one component, and she had many means. Each god had ever been different.
Kasigna was speaking to the air as she rested, regaining some of her expended strength. She was calm, impartial, the Mother offering…
Her brows creased.
“No. It shall be no requirement save worship.”
The Goddess of Death paused.
“Nor mark. Nor obligation in any hour. Others would ask it of you. I?”
She stared briefly into the air, considering it.
“What need have I for loyalty? Service. Speak my name, and that is all. Know me. That is all. I have taken servants who pledged and committed great deeds in my name.”
Her eyes lingered on her remaining Hag Queens.
“…Yet I have never needed nor asked it. It is a gift. That is what is divine.”
A third time she paused, and her brows furrowed. Kasigna hissed through the air.
“I am not Tamaroth. Do you think I require a thread upon you? One day, all will meet me, and this I offer that the world may see my power. Behold.”
She lifted her hand, and something shimmered in her grip. Mortals stared at Kasigna amidst the fighting, but she refracted their sight so only two might see it. Then the Goddess of Death smiled.
“Yes. Show me aught that I may smile. I shall give you more than you deserve. For that is my nature. It has always been so.”
Then she slowly, laboriously began to draw something from Kasignel itself. Proof of her intent. She did not lie, nor cheat, nor manipulate as they did.
She had always been the grandest of gods.
That was why Zineryr had loved her.
 
——
 
“The Ants’re dying.”
“So’re the regulars. Poor bastards.”
Three companies of Liscor’s 1st Army were licking their wounds. Even Ancestors-damned Manus was retreating, and 4th Company, 6th Company, and 9th Company, the forces sent to support Liscor, were bandaging injuries.
Watching as Liscor’s lines buckled. They were veterans, and at least two of the three companies looked placid, even content as they watched the Antinium die.
4th Company was restless. Wing Commander Embria was glancing at Narkr and Xith, her counterparts.
“They’re going to buckle without support.”
“Yep. Damn shame.”
Narkr, Wing Commander of 6th Company, the Bull Bastards, spat. Xith, the Drake leading Arrowstorm, Liscor’s 9th, glanced at Liscor.
“We should reinforce the city. The gates are buckling.”
“Good. More Ants are biting it. Dead gods, but they don’t quit.”
Embria was restless on her horse. She rode back a step.
“Our job—”
“Liscor, right. Let’s bail out home. Bastards, with me!”
Narkr whirled her mount. Xith pointed, and Arrowstorm headed for Liscor’s gates. Yet they slowed as they realized they didn’t hear a third voice joining in. Embria?
Embria wavered. She heard an argument from her command squad. Most of her officers, from Wikir to Veil, Pielt to Igissi, were silent in the presence of fellow [Captains]. But one of the new [Captains] wouldn’t shut the fuck up.
“Hey. Are we bailing them out? Or—or what?”
Captain Gna’s voice faltered. She had been looking around, waiting for the order. Even members of Liscor’s 4th looked at her askance, but a few were shifting from foot to foot as if they had wondered if anyone was going to say it.
[Soldiers] in 6th and 9th stared at Gna as if she had horns growing out of her head. The Gnoll gazed at them. Then at Wing Commander Embria.
The Drake was staring at her spear. [Spear of Glory].
“Embria?”
Her fellow Wing Commanders were giving her looks of suspicion. There was no going back. Wing Commander Embria looked at Liscor, which needed her. Then at the front. She hesitated, then pointed her spear down at the lines of Drakes, Gnolls, and Antinium.
“4th Company—Skywalkers—prepare for a [Lightbridge] charge.”
“Embria! Are you out of your Ancestors-damned mind?”
Xith barked at her. But Embria kicked her horse into a gallop, and 4th Company—split.
A fifth of them halted in their tracks. The rest hesitated a second—Gna was already blowing a signal horn. Then they were charging down the slope. Embria waved her spear as a [Lightbridge] appeared. She left her comrades behind as she plunged forwards.
“4th Company, charge! Charge!”
Liscor’s second army looked up as a ramp of light appeared over their heads, letting 4th Company charge over them straight into the thick of the undead. Then Wing Commander Embria heard a voice in her ear.
“This is Tyrion Veltras. Requesting command for three-dimensional tactics.”
“G-granted!”
Tyrion Veltras? Wing Commander Embria heard the enemy of the south addressing her [Mage]—then she felt her attention focus. She curved out of her charge and linked with a stream of [Riders].
“With me.”
Tyrion Veltras saw Embria’s [Soldiers] join the vanguard that did not take the [Lightbridge]. Instead, they were peeling around the fortifications, moving to box the undead in from behind. The first [Lightbridge] shimmered, redirecting itself to cross over the heads of the soldiers, instead of down into the fighting.
Half of 4th Company split. Embria saw her [Soldiers] charging onto their [Lightbridge] over the heads of the undead and the Hag Queen dueling a single Human with a sword. Drakes and Gnolls fell to one knee aiming their bows and crossbows down, and Humans, the Marshrangers of Oswen, half blind from the tears, ran onto the [Lightbridge].
They aimed straight down and started firing at point-blank range at the undead from above. Wing Commander Embria saw Tyrion glance at the skies.
“Fliers. Countercharge!”
His vanguard split away from the lancers pinning the undead, and then they were galloping up a road into the sky, yellow light stretching upwards. Time slowed around Tyrion and Embria as a wave of flying specters and another bat horror twisted in midair and saw the couched lances coming at them.
Humans, Drakes, Gnolls, and Antinium fought together as Wing Commander Embria and 4th Company left their comrades behind.
 
——
 
They could do this. Lord Xitegen saw the [Lightbridge] spell activate. The Forgotten Wing company was pivoting, and he was assessing the battlefield.
Both Giants were halted. Even that dead goddess seemed surprised by it, and he glanced around and saw more than one figure pointing at her.
Lord Xitegen Terland’s eyes were on Liscor, though. The Hag Queen was at the gates and smashing into the city. He addressed the allied command briskly as he tensed to begin running.
“I am going to defend Liscor! Terlands, with me!”
He took two steps, fell over, and landed on his face. Controller Lectara had been pulling a wing of fast-moving Golems to follow Lord Xitegen.
She saw the [Lord] of House Terland hit the ground, roll slightly, and jerk. He tried to get back up. Felt at his back.
“Oh.”
A dagger was in his right shoulder. It shouldn’t have taken the man out, but Xitegen’s arms collapsed, and he seemed unsure how it had gotten there. He looked up stupidly, and a woman spoke in a slightly breathless, yet unapologetic, voice.
“It’s a paralyzing venom. I say, does that count? I shan’t survive making an enemy of House Terland itself.”
“You.”
Xitegen’s mouth moved as he stared up at the [Lady] who looked around. Lady Bethal Walchaís stepped back, smiling.
“Tr—”
Controller Lectara began to shout until she saw a blur. A Rose Knight tackled her, knocking her flat. The other people around Lord Xitegen didn’t even know what had happened. One of House Veltras’ [Strategists] was gasping. She reached for a stone, and it shattered as a sword struck.
“Bethal. We have to run.”
Chevalier Thomast stepped back, grabbing her arm. The [Lady] nodded.
You.
Lord Xitegen just stared up at her as the [Lady] spoke down to him.
“I don’t understand why you didn’t take her up on it.”
He had no ability to speak. Bethal clasped her hands together and looked across the Floodplains. There was no guilt in her expression. Just longing. Fear—oh, yes. That she’d been tricked. But all she whispered was…
“Will that do, Lady Kasigna or whoever you are? Please?”
Her voice was lost in the dark night. The Knights of the Petal were moving away from their posts, reforming towards her fast. Magnolia Reinhart was still making sure the Giant was locked down, but her head was moving as she sensed Xitegen’s aura fading and pulsing a warning.
—Across the Floodplains, the Goddess of the Dead’s head rose.
Then she smiled.
 
——
 
“One.”
That was all the Maiden craved. She understood why it had taken so long. The youthful aspect of the Goddess of Death realized that necromancy was all this world knew, the paltry kind that raised corpses.
Not the old way. They expected a trick, a half-life granted by a powerful [Witch]. A curse.
They did not understand her.
One of them did, or had taken the risk. So the Goddess spoke.
“One, for now.”
She listened to a heartfelt plea, tilting her head, as the mortals stared at her. Kasigna shook her head.
“Your service I shall reward. Name the one.”
Not all of the souls were under her aegis. But half? She listened as a [Lady] whispered a name like a prayer. Kasigna stood taller, and her head turned. She looked into Kasignel where every soul she had ever taken stood once more, worshiping her.
Her hand outstretched, and she beckoned.
A single figure slowly walked from the throng of countless billions. She was just a girl, no more than fourteen, still wearing the garments of House Walchaís. She walked uncertainly onto the palm of the goddess, and Kasigna pulled her slowly across the divide between life and death.
It was not easy, even for Kasigna. Unlike the souls she called forth to do battle, she slowly conjured blood and flesh, gave the soul the full body she had lost.
A future. A present.
The Goddess of Death’s presence—faded—and the grass around her feet rebloomed slightly. The air blowing past her was just that. Her skin mottled—yet Kasigna’s eyes flashed, and she lowered her hand across the mortal world. Standing upon it, walking forwards from the final land…
Thricia Walchaís stumbled and looked around uncertainly as Lady Bethal reached for her. Slowly, Kasigna bent down, and the titan of ancient days placed a soul on the ground. Alive once more.
“Thricia? Thricia—”
Bethal felt at her younger sister’s face. The girl stared up at her.
“Bethal? Wh-where am I? Where’s the Goblin King?”
Thricia’s older sister was a decade older than she remembered. The girl remembered nothing of the lands of the dead—she looked around, jerking at her sister’s face, staring at Thomast uncomprehendingly as the [Chevalier] gazed at her, hand shaking on his rapier’s hilt.
The fighting stopped. The undead looked longingly at the soul returned. The Hag Queens themselves licked their lips with desire and awe.
Kasigna smiled as Bethal gazed up, eyes shining with tears. A desire for the others. She began to whisper another plea when her younger sister cried out.
“Watch out!”
Bewildered, disoriented, Thricia still raised her hand and slapped the dagger out of the air before it went through Bethal’s back. Thomast knocked another one down, whirling—and Ressa flung another.
“I shall answer your service with more rewards. Flee, woman. You are first of my favored.”
Kasigna spoke, and Bethal turned and sighed.
“Oh. Oh my. Magnolia. Are you angry at me? But look—”
A pink wave of light rolled forwards, vaporizing the pink paint on Lady Welca’s armor as the Rose Knight staggered behind her comrades. Welca was hesitating. Bewildered.
Ser Kerrig’s face was grim as he raised his battleaxe. Magnolia Reinhart’s aura raced over the two [Ladies] of House Walchaís but failed to break the wall of thorns and vines. Bethal’s aura.
“—My sister. Do that again and I will kill you.”
Bethal finished. A dangerous look entered her eyes, and her aura roiled, growing vines and thorns, piercing Magnolia Reinhart’s aura. But the [Lady] of House Reinhart was advancing.
“Bethal—”
Thomast saw the Humans of the north turning towards Bethal. Everyone had seen it. They gazed at Thricia in horror. Awe. Wonder. Doubt…at Kasigna.
“I-is that a Reinhart? Why does she feel like Magnolia? She’s so old. What’s going on, Bethal?”
Thricia was shivering. Bethal squeezed her hand tightly.
“I’ll tell you everything, Thricia. Stay behind me. Magnolia, you know I had to.”
She tried to plead with Magnolia, as if this were some accident and she had rudely offended Magnolia—for a good reason. The other [Lady] said nothing as she walked forwards. Bethal’s smile vanished as she grew serious. Her Rose Knights drew their blades as House Reinhart’s servants advanced.
“I always do what my heart tells me to do, Magnolia. And this? This was worth it.”
No excuses. No apologies. Just a smile and lifted chin. Flashing eyes. Magnolia Reinhart reached out—and looked at her bleeding hand as Bethal’s aura of thorns pierced her skin. She regarded the blood dripping to the ground and produced a pink handkerchief.
Her tone was too-calm as well. Lord Xitegen, still lying on the ground, unable to move, remembered that tone of old, and his blood chilled. Magnolia sounded sad, regretful, and cold.
“What you desire, you act upon. I have always loved that of you, Bethal. You chose your friends well. But you never think of your enemies.”
She tossed the bloodstained handkerchief down as Bethal’s smile became alarmed, then flickered out.
“Magnolia—”
The [Flower of Izril, Lady of the Dragon’s Promise] pointed a finger at Bethal Walchaís as her forest green eyes rustled and revealed a false dawn of light.
“You are a fitting end to House Walchaís. [Judge of Nobility]. I am the executioner of the north. [Bane Weapons: House Walchaís]. Kill them all.”
The [Maids] and [Butlers] stormed forwards without a word as Bethal cried out.
“Magnolia!”
She was fleeing towards her horses. Thomast locked blades with Ressa as Kasigna pointed, and undead rose to cover House Walchaís’ flight. Thricia was screaming questions—the Rose Knights locked swords with their counterparts. Servants battling each other.
This time—Dame Welca raced backwards as she saw Ser Kerrig hesitate. His face was anguished as he swung his battleaxe, pink armor glowing with magic. One of Izril’s finest [Knights]—
This time, the enchanted armor availed him naught. Reynold ducked under the swing of the axe, his legs blurring. His sword cleaved through the platemail with a whisper, and he whirled the sword through Ser Kerrig’s torso in a single motion before leaping on another Rose Knight.
“Kerrig!”
They were fleeing as undead blocked the servants, and Lady Bethal’s aura skewered a leaping [Maid]. Then the cry went up.
“Traitor. Traitors!”
