Now, his second-in-command was calling them all back, but it was too late. Half of the Drakes went straight into the heart of the Draugr. The injured undead vanished as Drakes plowed into them. It was an illusion and gave the other soldiers the momentum to run into the heart of the undead formation.
Then the Draugr began counterattacking. Chaldion saw one raise a hand and swung his sword. It was close to a relic and sheared through a head.
He hadn’t expected that—but he kept going. Now, the Drake line was fully engaged. And they were starting to die.
The huge centipede of bones was still mostly alive after being blasted by Salazsar’s forces. It writhed across the Drakes as they tried to bring it down, crushing hundreds in one motion. Specters fell on the Drakes from all sides, shrieking, and the bunched-up Drakes were being followed by more and more [Soldiers].
Nowhere to run.
I’ve killed them. The Grand Strategist was fully laughing now, a Demon on horseback. His terrified stallion was rearing, and he saw them looking at him. Seeing their charge stall out and a slaughter begin.
The Grand Strategist of the Drakes committing an unforgivable error. That’s right. He was calling out now as he spoke into his speaking stone above the screaming and frantic orders.
“Behind me are those who will lead the Drakes. With me are the beating heart.”
Then they went silent, and the Drake giggled at the sky. Did you see it? What a perfect ending. They had to replace him. Had to make the call—
Those with the will to oppose his order behind. Fools who’d be heroes with him. Chaldion turned his head and saw the undead halt. Buying The Wandering Inn time.
Perfect.
Now, all he had to do was die. Chaldion plunged forwards towards one of the undead, who raised a trunk-like arm. They were still trying to save him, some of the idiots. He saw spells blowing apart some of the undead, then felt the pull rip the scales off his arms.
His horse threw him at last, and Chaldion landed, shock replacing pain. He got up slowly, unable to find the strength.
I can’t remember anything. I have been here too long, even with Saliss’ potions. 
My arm is broken.
He switched hands, claw holding his sword now. Chaldion saw that undead raise a black arm to suck him into—
A Drake rode down on the undead and rammed a spear through its chest, and Chaldion almost sobbed. He got to his feet, sword swinging as he looked around.
Where was it? Which one was it? The dead goddess? Where was she? He couldn’t find his speaking stone, so he spoke aloud, hoping one would hear him.
“Those of you who live—lead us forwards. Replace me.”
He was swinging his sword weakly, almost using it like a cane as he looked for a single undead—Draugr were hurling Drakes aside. A great spindly undead was scooping screaming Drakes and Gnolls into a wicker basket. They ignored the small, old Drake. He saw a Draugr stomping past him and tried to swing his sword.
He couldn’t even raise his arm. Chaldion saw his shaking claw and realized he must be in shock. But the Draugr saw him, and Chaldion saw it roar and open its mouth.
“Save the Grand Strategist! To Chaldion—”
That idiot, Duln. Chaldion had thought more of him. Was he entering the battle? They were so afraid. Even now, even as he slaughtered them, they were afraid of a world without him.
Time. Chaldion dropped his sword. He spread his arms as acid and flames burst down around him.
Even you, Saliss? He looked up, but the desperate Drake was too far from him. Reassured, Chaldion looked up as the Draugr threw aside a Gnoll.
“I am the only Grand Strategist of the Walled Cities.”
The Drake smiled into the sky. He rasped as blood ran from his mouth.
“I will not be the last.”
Then he closed his eyes. Waiting. Waiting—until he opened them. Had someone slain the Draugr?
His vision was blurry, his arm now screaming pain, but Chaldion saw the Draugr’s arm was raised. Arrows were sticking out of its right side, but it was still animated. Two eyes glowed yellow, like his gemstone eye—but it did not lower that fist.
Chaldion stared at the undead, confused, then heard a laugh. He turned, slowly, and a woman walked through the ranks of the Drakes and undead.
Kasigna.
That was fine. Chaldion would have bent for his sword, but he knew it wouldn’t matter. He just waited for the Goddess of Death, unafraid.
Until she spoke.
“Foolish Drake. You think yourself clever?”
“Kill me, you worthless imposter.”
Chaldion dared her, panting. His ribs were screaming, and one was poking through his flesh. He was in agony, now. The screaming soldiers…Duln was charging after him. He had to die.
She knew it. The Goddess of Death flicked a finger, and the Draugr lowered its arm. It silently turned and advanced into the fighting.
“What…are you doing?”
The Crone sneered at Chaldion. As if she could read his mind, a being older and more bitter than he was. But she seemed amused. Amused…as she saw the Drake grimace and take a step towards her.
“I am the Goddess of Death, ‘strategist’. Do you think I do not behold a soul wishing to die? Why would I grant what you most desire? My enemies have lived eternities.”
The Grand Strategist’s blurry vision focused on Kasigna with alarm as he realized what she was saying. He took a step forward.
“No. No—kill me.”
She just laughed in his face. Chaldion reached out and tore at her shawl. He actually grabbed the fabric, and she took his arm in a withered grip.
He did not die. Kasigna pried his hand off her clothing, for he had no strength. Chaldion tried to bend and pick up a sword, but cried out as one of his ribs punctured his scales. He dragged himself up and pursued her, but his steps were leaden—
“Kill me.”
“Suffer, fool.”
She walked past him. Then Chaldion whirled—and the undead attacking the Drakes broke around him. He hacked at a passing Draugr, who avoided him. His sword bounced off a zombie, who did not stop. When he seized it—he fell to the ground and felt another rib snap.
Yet he did not die. Her laughter was in his ears. Chaldion reached for a sword as his blood ran on the ground. He tried to raise it, grabbed the blade with bloody claws and drove it towards his chin.
“Grand Strategist!”
That fool. Duln. His face was alight with terror as they charged at him.
No. Stop it. Chaldion was screaming, now, as his lungs filled with blood. He felt the point go straight through his throat. Ripped it across his neck—and Duln had a potion in his hands.
He couldn’t—die—the Drake was alive as his lungs filled with blood. He stopped breathing, couldn’t move, couldn’t think, as he saw Duln fighting back through the battle. A Dullahan holding an Adamantium blade, staggering.
She was right there. The Dullahan threw himself between Kasigna and Chaldion, and she reached out as Duln barred the goddess’ path. Then Chaldion was screaming, screaming, as Kasigna reached out and touched Duln’s chest, and the Dullahan’s head rolled from his body and fell.
She kept laughing at him. Now he was begging her, but she refused, and he finally understood the terror of her.
He could not—
Die—
Everyone but Chaldion was dying. The [Strategist] lay there, limp, tears dripping from the corners of his eyes as he saw his last plan falling to pieces.
 
——
 
The Drakes’ formation was in shambles. They had charged into the enemy, and they were dying like flies.
The last Hag Queens under Kasigna would die. He had sworn it—but they exacted a terrible vengeance, fearless. After all, Kasigna would grant them life again.
The Archmage of Death saw the Drakes routing as he drove the point of his blade deeper into the Hag Queen’s body. She wasn’t trying to kill him.
She was trying to kill Perril Chandler. He felt her trying to give the dead part of him strength. She was whispering as he flooded her with death magic. Her face exploded, revealing a grinning skull—and Az’kerash felt his humanity dying.
“Master? Master!”
His Chosen were battling around him, but only one dared enter the battle of magic. Ijvani aimed a staff at the Hag Queen’s back, and spells ripped the Hag apart. She snarled—turned her head as Az’kerash’s body jolted, and the mortal man began to vanish.
“Pathetic thing.”
One claw shattered Ijvani’s skull as it struck the black metal bones. Ijvani stumbled.
“Master? Help—”
She reached for him. Az’kerash and Perril Chandler looked up. Two hands rose.
“Ijvani.”
The skeleton cracked, then fell to pieces. The Hag Queen turned away from the skeleton and aimed a staff down at Az’kerash. She expected the Lich to rise.
But the Necromancer stood and caught the broken skull as Venitra turned, Oom made a terrible screeching sound, and Devail looked at his sister.
“Ijvani?”
“Kneel before the Goddess of Death—”
The Hag Queen felt the ground tremble and stopped. She looked down—then her eyes widened. She lifted a hand—before the giant of bones erupted from the ground and squeezed. The Hag Queen popped, and the Bone Giant tore at Kasigna, who stopped it with one hand and shattered it to pieces.
The Necromancer cradled Ijvani’s skull in his hands and spoke one word gently.
“Arise.”
A hundred thousand skeletons slowly arose from the ground. Kasigna swept her arm and erased them by the thousands as she walked forwards. The Necromancer didn’t look at her. He gently held his daughter’s skull as he waited, the ranks of the dead clashing.
One man for once.
 
——
 
The Hag Queen and the [Witches] had fought viciously the entire battle. First two, then one, but all the protections of the [Witches] of Riverfarm were shattered.
The last of them was Wiskeria’s hat. She stared down at the tear in the fabric her mother had woven for her as a mirror Eloise had borne in another life shattered to pieces and Hedag’s axe snapped.
“Here we go.”
“One more minute. One more—”
Agratha was panting as they tried to throw a hex back at the Hag Queen. The thing had lost most of her magics too, and she had been forced to carve bloody runes into her flesh. One eye had been ripped out by Mavika’s beak—but she placed a handprint of blood on her flesh and activated her final curse.
Eight [Witches] looked up in a calm silence as the trebuchets—only one was not burning—thumped. Riverfarm’s people were fleeing around their [Emperor]. Laken knelt, shaking a silent man who’d taken one of the Hag Queen’s spells for him.
“Prost? Prost…”
Gamel dragged the [Emperor] away as the Hag Queen pointed. Someone laughed.
It was a high, cackling laugh of despair. Agratha had always hated that laugh. It was the laugh of a woman who wanted to be nothing more than the very stereotype of her class. Who embraced it. Oliyaya loved to be feared.
She always said at the end—a witch should cackle as she died. She turned, her crooked nose covered in blood and broken, her wart-covered smile and rotted teeth bared in a horrible grin. She twisted her fingers together as she spoke.
“Sisters. Make something out of her flesh for me.”
Agratha felt Oliyaya seize the Hag Queen’s curses aiming at the coven. Oliyaya directed them all back onto herself in a moment as the Hag Queen hissed in disbelief.
The [Witch]’s head exploded, and a piece of flesh struck Agratha on the cheek. The last cackle of Oliyaya was in her ears as Agratha drove a single nail into a strand of hair tied to a rock.
The Hag Queen was laughing as she raised her hand for another spellcast. She glanced up; the boulder hurled from the trebuchet was flying towards her.
Dismissively, the Hag Queen stepped to one side. Then saw the boulder curve. Her eyes widened. Agratha’s simplest and most practical of charms tilted the boulder through the air. A basic homing charm—
The boulder hammered the Hag Queen’s body down to an oozing stump in a moment. Agratha dropped her charm as the [Witches] bent around their fallen sister.
 
——
 
“The battle is lost!”
“Hold! Hold until the last!”
The dead were all around him. Riverfarm was fleeing. The Five Families were drawing back. The inn—Gershal kept swinging that sword she had given him.
It was the steadiest thing in this world. Nothing could move it. The [Lieutenant of the Line] thought he saw the Tidebreaker’s back.
This time, he was right there. Right—something ripped his arm off. He looked up, and a Draugr knocked him flat.
Gershal stabbed it one-handed, now, activating the blade’s magic. A spiraling stab blew apart the Draugr’s chest.
To the last. Vaunt was right here. He got up, looking around, and the dead were all that was left. Gershal swung his sword, right, left, chopping now, finding how Zel had done it.
He kept standing long after he should have fallen. The dead surrounded the man, clawing, biting, seeking his very life until they broke up—jerked back from the body still swinging. In the silence, Gershal’s corpse collapsed and dropped the blade at last.
 
——
 
“The walls.”
Old Bamer was kneeling over a [Soldier], and the blood was running out. He was so hungry—but that was only the lesser part of him that wanted food.
The man in him wasn’t hungry. He had always thought they were half-Vampires, poor, ill-fated sons and daughters cursed by their heritage.
Now, of course, he knew they were just poisoned, but sometimes he felt the curse was real. He looked up and saw it.
The north gate was burning, the doors broken, but the civilians had been protected until now. Men with hats, the Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild—the Watch had halted everything.
Except for one monster. One of the gigantic vampire bats came over the walls, wings burning, but clashing with a dying Frost Wyvern on the walls. Bamer saw it shrieking and looking down at the city.
“The citizens—”
The oldest Vampire saw Himilt looking around and called out.
“Your scythe!”
Himilt reached for the weapon he had leaned against the walls of the blood bank. Fierre raced outside and blanched as she saw the magnitude of the monster crawling down into the city. She still began to run. Brave girl.
So did Himilt. Himilt, who should have been royalty, caught old Bamer’s eye as the one outsider to the Lischelle-Drakle family, Bamer, stared up. He had no family. No bloodline.
Both Fierre and her father were too slow. There were streets and buildings in the way. But the old Vampire just spread his arms, and his face distorted. Himilt turned, calling out.
“Bamer—”
The Vampire had a different heritage in his veins. His bones rearranged, and he looked batlike himself. His bones were light, and if he had the full power of his blood, maybe he would have become something just like that monster.
Too much a man.
“Watch over her. Our suffering hasn’t ended. I am glad I left no one behind in this bitter world.”
