“Serve me.”
It was what Kasigna said again and again, and each time, they refused. Necromancers, masters of death no matter their form, stood before her.
Not a single one knelt.
“Who wakes me from my slumber? Have the Walled Cities died?”
The Gnoll rasped in his coffin. His eyes were black, and he was covered in water. This place…was revealing them.
“You have destroyed my home. Who are you?”
The Village Head of Rheirgest stared at Kasigna, eyes flashing as he gripped a staff of bones. Tolveilouka turned his head away from the apparition swimming in the deeps below them.
The Mother of Graves was not what Az’kerash expected. She was most certainly not…a person. She had no voice he understood, but the rage emanating upwards was kith and kin to the rest.
“W-why have you—how have—I am Regis Reinhart. I will hear you negotiate.”
Some were cowards. Regis Reinhart flinched as Az’kerash stared at him with astonishment. A Fraerling stopped trying to send [Message] spells and Az’kerash saw the tiny [Necromancer] recoil from him.
The Archmage of Death stood there, panting, and looked around. He missed the undead Cat Beastkin hiding behind a bewildered Naga, avoiding his gaze.
There was too much to see. Az’kerash turned his head, and a dead man with white hair and features controlled by his hatred of the living and desire for vengeance—met the eyes of a man who held a rapier in hand, the mark of Silvaria still upon his robes.
They were one and the same. Perril Chandler and Az’kerash stared at each other.
“Two-in-one. Fascinating. A True Lich, but you’ve reanimated yourself differently, haven’t you? You must have rushed it.”
The Gnoll’s voice was still wet, echoing, as if coming from the deeps. He stepped out of his coffin.
“I am waking…I have been awoken at last. You—girl—your body was shattered. Well done.”
He turned his head, and another [Necromancer] bowed. She was a beast of bones, twelve feet tall, yet Hetarria, the dead [Necromancer] who had served on Rhir’s 5th Wall, had survived even destruction of her body with the bones she had possessed.
“Rhir greet thee, stranger. The Necromancer is alive. Foul tidings. Who is she?”
“I do not know. Have they resettled Rhir since the flame of magic went out?”
The Gnoll rasped, and Az’kerash’s head snapped back to him. Tolveilouka snarled.
“I know of you—”
Necromancers. The world’s mightiest souls drawn together. The consequences—even the Three-in-One seemed aware she was snapping fate’s strings against each other and paused to take in the cause and effect playing themselves out on grand scales.
They ignored her. No—not quite ignored, but the [Necromancers] did not understand her. She had no mana. She had no levels. She was no death mage they understood.
Only the Mother of Graves knew Kasigna and howled a challenge that shook this quasi-realm. Kasigna’s eyes narrowed.
Time was passing. What was happening in the Floodplains?
“That is our foe.”
Perril Chandler called out. Heads turned to him, but more [Necromancers] flinched away from his visage than trusted his words. He cursed, tried to take a step and draw his blade—
“I follow thee, death.”
Az’kerash knelt. The Lich bent his knee to the Goddess of Death—until Perril Chandler grabbed his arm. He saw the face contort, and the two realized as Az’kerash lifted a finger glowing with death—
We’re connected. The Gnoll nodded as if it were self-evident as mortal man and Lich struggled, conjoined, one being with two desires.
“What are the terms, stranger? You are not a Gnoll, though you smell and look like one across three ages.”
He stared at Kasigna, and the [Necromancers] realized she looked like their species. Fraerling. Naga. Drake.
“Service for my favor. Take my hand. I am Death itself; oppose me and I will turn your very power against you and leave you broken until I take you into my hand.”
The Crone’s eyes flashed. She erred, of course. [Necromancers] of this era were proud. They were always proud. But she could not help it.
She might respect one like Fetohep, who ruled despite death’s touch on him. But self-proclaimed ‘masters of death’? No. There was no olive branch Kasigna would offer.
Her pride refused it. The Gnoll regarded her with heavy-lidded eyes. Even Regis Reinhart snarled, slowly taking count of the people around him and slinking behind the Gnoll. The Gnoll gave him a frown without recognition as the ghost of House Reinhart looked terrified a second.
“I refuse.”
The Gnoll was not the first to speak the words. Rather, it was one of the Fraerlings of Paeth who pointed up at Kasigna.
“Stay clear of the [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice. Fraerlings warn you once.”
Kasigna stared down at the tiny [Necromancer], so affronted that a laugh burst from the Gnoll’s lips.
“I should listen, if I were you.”
He spoke mildly as he reached across his chest. The Gnoll was so casual, as one waking from a dream and unsure he was still dreaming—but he was not blind to the threat.
He slowly opened his chest like one opened a drawer and reached between his ribs. Withdrew a heart black and oozing, squeezed it until black ichor ran, and he licked it. Then he spat onto the ground, and the liquid began to bubble and rise into a minion.
“I see.”
Kasigna’s voice was cold and disappointed. How many had she demanded worship from? How many—failed? Necromancers, Khelt, a slumbering god…
She lifted a hand as even the Mother of Graves shrieked and swam upwards. The [Necromancers] backed up as Kasigna glanced down.
An example to be made. She reached down to touch the Mother of Graves, who was so vast even in this quasi-dimension…
Kasigna’s hand touched the raging soul of the Mother of Graves. The hand of the dead goddess, Death, the Three-in-One, touched the Mother of Graves, and the soul flickered—
The Dungeon of Liscor screamed—
—And the Mother of Graves refused to die. Kasigna recoiled as she felt the power of death, her power, torn away from her. The Grand Design of Isthekenous!
“Impossible. You are my—”
The Mother of Graves’ return blow rocked the entire dimension. Kasigna stumbled back for a second, her flesh tearing, her bones shattering as thousands of pounds of pressure mashed her entire being into less than pulp.
—She was the Crone again, hissing, even as an aspect of her suffered the blow. Just like Razia had struck the other dead gods, the blow hit one part of them, and they were a thousand versions of themselves. It was like destroying a single grain of sand in a desert.
Nevertheless—it was still a portion of Kasigna. She still felt it. Incredulity froze the Goddess of Death a second. Then she saw the Mother of Graves rearing back for another blow.
This time, the Three-in-One actually raised a hand to block the attack. But her hand wavered, and someone kissed her on the cheek as he slid a sword straight through her chest.
“My master sends his regards.”
Tolveilouka impaled Kasigna from behind and vanished as the Mother of Graves struck Kasigna again. The blow destroyed half his ‘body’, but the laughing Revenant reformed and grew.
Now, two titans were attacking Kasigna. Just like the Mother of Graves—Tolveilouka refused to kneel to Kasigna. Sheer spite and hatred let him swing a bloated fist down and send the Goddess of Death stumbling back.
The Gnoll was laughing. Laughing with a wild mirth as he conjured more minions. All the [Necromancers] not moving forward to fight were fleeing in the opposite direction.
Az’kerash and Perril Chandler wrestled with each other as Kasigna shrieked. The dimension was coming to pieces—the man grabbed the Lich and held him underwater.
“We fight.”
“For what? Why are you still dreaming you breathe?”
Az’kerash snarled back. Perril Chandler saw a crack run through his reflection—then the world broke apart, and the man reappeared back on the battlefield.
“Master?”
Four voices cried out in relief, and Az’kerash raised his head. He saw Kasigna reappear, stumbling, shrieking, as a figure still clung to her.
“Goddess!”
One of the Hag Queens turned, horrified, as Tolveilouka drove his blade into Kasigna’s chest again and again. He was giggling—until the Three-in-One caught his hand.
“Slay this pathetic minion.”
She tossed Tolveilouka through the air, and the last of the four remaining Hag Queens, the only one not battling the [Witches] or bearing down on Liscor, charged the half-Elf with a roar.
He grew as he grinned, and the Hag Queen grew too—until two beings as foul and rotting as the other were wrestling, one laughing, the other screaming, tearing at each other to see who had been made better.
“Ijvani, Venitra, Devail, Oom—kill every undead not under my control!”
Az’kerash began casting magic the moment he reappeared. A sword swept across the battlefield, blazing with light, and one of the Hag Queens broke off from dueling the [Witches] and caught the blade between two gnarled fingers a second before it touched her.
Kasigna had returned. She surveyed the Floodplains, seeing four of her generals slain. Yet her appearance proved as much horror as the half-beheaded Draugr; the sight of that foul titan fighting against her, though, provoked a strange hope.
Yet the Three-in-One drove her staff down. The screaming Crone spoke one word, and a third and final time they pulled themselves out of the air as a Giant made of bones crawled across the road. A second one made of frozen ice, steaming with golden flames clinging to it, passed below the cloud layer, and despair returned.
“ARISE.”
One last army rose to heed her. They appeared in silent ranks behind Kasigna.
Ghosts summoned from Kasignel.
Ser Sest paused and stared at the sword he held, his joy suddenly gone. Bekia stared across the field as Ressa slowed, and Magnolia Reinhart closed her eyes. Tersk looked around, but he could no longer hear the Armored Queen.
Not ghosts. They had flesh. They had…Skills. A final army moved forwards as the mortals beheld a boundary where sky met land. The mortal world fluttered away.
A curtain parted in the fabric of her shawl. A piece of cloth made of the last innocence even she had remembered trailed across the world and beyond it…was the final land.
Kasignel. They could see it, even walk into that far off land. Harsh, uncompromising, and then beyond it a gentle place to rest that stretched on, the totality of every world until they found an ending.
She brought her home with her, and it trailed across the sky as she summoned the souls to her. Forcing them to war; the greatest disgrace of the Goddess of the Death. For someday she would make no demands of them. She was merely desperate.
So now, the last army poured forwards, dead and the living following her finger pointing at the inn. Armies without end or fear.
There was only one piece of hope. Just one—the [Innkeeper] crying out in rage and hopelessness saw Kasigna stagger. The Crone flickered—vanished, and fell to her knees, and her skin turned ashen and rotted away until it was that of a corpse.
The Maiden knelt on the Floodplains, gasping as if for air. Yet when the army of returned souls whispered, she rose. Her face was rotted, her nose missing. Flesh regrew slowly, painfully, and she panted, trying to…remember…how the air felt on her face. She had forgotten how breathing worked. The Goddess flickered—until the chant began.
“Kasigna. Kasigna. Kasigna…”
She leaned on her staff as she made the mortals one final offer. Then she was the Goddess of Death once more in form. Weary, yet her eyes flashed victory as her power returned.
“There is no end to my power nor this long night. I say it one final time to all those here. Slay my foes. Speak my name and I shall grant you what I have always offered.”
What? What? Az’kerash, Tolveilouka, the mortals, looked up at Kasigna, and the Three-in-One gazed across the Floodplains and realized they did not know.
Truly. Truly even the stories…she lifted her hand.
“Serve me and I will return your loves to life. Serve me and I shall undo death itself. Serve me.”
Then she clung to her staff, her brow etched with agony. The final moments of the Solstice began with death.
With traitors.
And a scream that echoed underneath the feet of all. A shriek without words as the ground split—and an army poured forth, of horrors.
Suits of enchanted armor. Crypt Worms. Monsters of Liscor’s dungeon. They ignored the defenders of the inn and poured across the ranks of the dead and Kasigna’s summoned souls, biting, tearing. Kasigna, who had acknowledged no foe, who fought no battle herself in the style of old—
The dead goddess took one moment to spit on the ground. The Maiden stared down and spoke with a sneer.
“You are no god, failed pretender.”
 
——
 
Now they understand what it was to struggle with gods. It was no game designed that you should win.
They were in no way mortal and followed no rules. If they failed six times, they would come back a seventh. There was no mercy, no fairness to how they fought.
Mortal men and women defied gods, but every tale of them has always ended one way: gods remain.
At last, those who saw her finally understood what Kasigna was not by her displays of power, but by how she continued. She stood in the Floodplains, no longer vanishing, for the souls she called back to life required her.
She was the bridge to Kasignel, and part of them all wished to walk up into that land to explore it, to rest. The Maiden wore Erin Solstice’s face.
Then Maviola El’s. She beckoned, and a Drake looked up at her, and her promise made him sink to one knee where no blow had.
Yet he did not, would not take her hand. Drakes were retreating, falling back along with the Humans. Manus was covering their retreat, and Olesm Swifttail saw more lightning falling as Wall Lady Rafaema and Wall Lord Aldonss spat lightning across the skies, Spearmaster Lulv protecting his comrades.
But the undead were reaching the final line, which became the only barrier between them and the inn. Now, at last, Pawn raised his censer overhead.
The twisting skies of Kasignel, higher than the High Passes—flickered. Even Kasigna shaded her eyes as the sky over Pawn’s head became wild and vibrant, as if painted like a dream mixing with the brightest of days, the wildest storms.
An Antinium’s dream of Heaven. The reclaimed souls of Kasigna’s dead slowed where the sky met Kasigna’s lands.
Ser Sest stuck his hand across a barrier of the two lands and smiled. For a second—he turned—then Kasigna pointed, and Pawn’s Skill began to diminish, drawing back on itself. Her aegis expanded—halted—as the Free Antinium began to pray.
[I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky].
Even the undead seemed to grow sluggish as they advanced under a foreign domain. Kasigna’s eyes narrowed with faint amusement.
