His words were distorted as his face reconfigured, and they were bitter. Colfa looked up as Bamer spread his wings. Then he leapt into the skies. Screeching a challenge that the bat monster heard. It stopped screaming down into the heart of the city and leapt to meet him. A real Vampire—savage and old.
Bamer struck one wing and tore into the leathery flesh as fangs sank straight through his fragile body and into his back. Then they were twisting, and he could hear Fierre screaming.
Brave girl. The Vampire fell through the black night. Hoping this city would be kinder to her. Spinning, spinning now—he sank his fangs into flesh and drank deep before he struck the ground and his long misery ended.
 
——
 
Winter was dying. A storm had blown across the Floodplains like the wrath of nature—and it was melting. It died slow. Hard.
She liked winter. Baleros’ jungles had no winters. Only the north had forever snow. She’d always thought this was a gentler land than home.
“Ah, well. War’s like that.”
Jelaqua Ivirith was a married woman now. She didn’t feel that either. It was probably the blood. She was missing half her face after all.
The Halfseekers had acquitted themselves well. They’d only fallen back when Manus’ entire army plunged after Rafaema. Then—Jelaqua had seen and heard the cry from Liscor. They’d had to race around to the southern gates to enter. And when they’d arrived…
A Hag Queen was going through the northern gates. Her team had been trying to stop the Draugr making it over the walls.
Jelaqua saw the last Hag Queen at the gates. Every other one was dead, but they died so damn hard. This one had killed over two hundred members of the Watch and just as many Antinium. The last person who stood before her had held her off for five minutes alone.
Senior Guardsman Jeiss’ sword broke, and he recoiled before a claw tore out his throat. Zevara was on her knees, throwing up insects. She looked up as Liscor’s finest [Swordsman] staggered, and the Hag Queen laughed. Liscor’s Councilman, her Senior Guard, son of Liscor, sat down then tried to stand.
Then he closed his eyes. The Hag Queen pushed forwards as Jelaqua came to a stop, panting. The Watch was falling back, trying to drag Zevara to safety.
Seborn was still stabbing one of the remaining Flying Antinium. He looked up as the Selphid spoke.
“I was going to tell you after the battle, guys. But I’m ending the team.”
Moore’s face was a mask of blood. Jelaqua was terribly afraid. He was always such a big target, and she didn’t know how many times he’d waded into the fighting to battle Draugr, the only person larger than they were.
Ulinde was shaking. She looked up.
“Jelaqua?”
“You’re telling us now?”
Seborn always sounded angry. But he wasn’t, really. Jelaqua had gotten to know all her teammates over the years.
Halassia, Thornst, Keilam, Ukrina, Moore, Seborn…Garen. Now cute little Ulinde.
Those were the real Halfseekers. It still felt like they were that old team. They hadn’t ever come back from that day.
“We’ve settled every debt. Moore, you should run a library or something. Ulinde—you’re a promising [Mage], and if you want to be an adventurer, there are better teams. Seborn, you’ve been saying you’ll go back to the sea. It’s time, you know? I’m a married woman. It’s time.”
Screaming at the gates from the dying Watch. Each selfish second, Jelaqua knew people were dying.
But dead gods damn it, they owed her this. Moore’s eyes were locked on the Hag Queen. Jelaqua noticed a muscle shaking in one arm and stopped it.
“After this, I’ll go get my ship.”
Seborn quietly cleaned a blade. Moore whispered.
“I am tired of blood and who I’ve become. I’ll quit too.”
“I—I—”
Ulinde choked. Jelaqua put a hand on her shoulder.
“Come on, you too.”
“I’ll study with Archmage Valeterisa.”
The Selphid sobbed. Jelaqua counted the Draugr at the gates. She was no Ylawes who could do this with a smile, or the Horns who were literally insane. Love them. Halrac was no good at speeches.
This was just their style. The Halfseekers looked at her, and she smiled as if she were some heroine out of stories. You had to practice that.
“There we go. I’m breaking up the Halfseekers after this. So…”
Her voice cracked.
“One last time. Halfseekers. Charge!”
At first, it was a slow run down the street. Then they picked up momentum, passing by the corpses of Flying Antinium, pounding towards the gates. The Watch was falling back; the Antinium were dying.
Draugr and that damned Hag Queen were spilling forwards. She saw the Halfseekers running at her and laughed.
“You?”
Jelaqua leapt at her, flail spinning. It bit into the Hag Queen’s shoulder and sliced deep, and she tore another chunk away in a moment, but Kasigna’s champion was regenerating. The Hag Queen knocked Jelaqua aside and hissed as a [Fireball] blew apart one of her hands. She had shielded her face—Ulinde shot spells from both wands through the Draugr’s heads as Seborn leapt from shadow to shadow, hamstringing them.
The Hag Queen took a punch from Moore’s fists. The half-Giant’s grip was covered in bloody thorns. It ripped a piece out of her face—and the horror just laughed as she spat teeth and blood.
“You wear dead flesh, fool.”
Jelaqua was whirling her flail through Draugr skulls. She didn’t understand what that meant until the Hag Queen pointed. And Ulinde began screaming.
“It’s moving. She animated it. Help. H—”
The Drake’s dead body jerked—then the Ghoul was tearing at its own flesh. It ripped open its own chest cavity, and Jelaqua saw it tear a thin form out. Ulinde’s real body—
The Ghoul bit as the Hag Queen pointed at Jelaqua. The form Jelaqua was inhabiting twisted, and she felt death magic flow into her. Jelaqua seized her flail by the grip and drove it through her body’s head. The death magic ceased—
The distracted Selphid looked up, and the Hag Queen snapped her fingers. Jelaqua’s corpse imploded around the Selphid, and she dropped.
“Die.”
Seborn buried his daggers into the Hag’s head, flame and acid trying to melt her brain. She just reared back, slamming him into a wall.
Another blow as Moore brought down his staff and crushed half her head. The half-Giant uttered not a sound, but he snapped the bones of Kasigna’s champion—and they regrew. Even her head was reforming, and she was laughing.
“Weak.”
She lifted a blade in her other hand and drove it into his chest. The two were locked together as Seborn kept stabbing. Moore’s hands were covered in bloodthorns. [Bloodseeds]…but as he tried to tear her apart, she just kept—
His hands slackened as she twisted the knife. The half-Giant was slumping now, and Zevara was screaming as she saw the edge of the twisted blade emerge from his back.
The Hag Queen shook Moore’s fingers from her neck as her wounds healed. She shoved the half-Giant off her, and the gentle [Green Mage] fell. Seborn looked around.
“Ulinde? Jelaqua? Moore?”
“Pathetic.”
The Hag Queen scratched at the warts around her neck. She lifted the blade as Seborn raised his daggers. Then scratched harder. Digging her claws into her neck with a sudden look of alarm.
“No. No—”
She ripped at her flesh as it suddenly bulged. Then something burst from her flesh. Seborn recoiled as roses and thorns made out of drenched vines sprouted from the Hag Queen’s neck.
The snarling monstrosity ripped the brambles out of her neck—but her entire body was bulging. [Bloodseeds]. She took one step backwards, trying to utter a spell—
Seborn shielded his face as the Hag Queen’s body erupted into a mass of twisting vines and brambles covered with red thorns. The seeds Moore had planted in her flesh engulfed the last Hag Queen, and her body stopped regenerating as a tangled mass of bloodthorns ripped her to shreds.
The Watch screamed in relief, and the Draugr wavered. The undead lost cohesion, and Kasigna turned a second from the faltering Winter Fae. Yet there was no joy.
Just a shriek from above. A cry that filtered across the entire Floodplains. Weeping, ten of the fae flew over Liscor. Crying out.
 
“The last Giant of Izril is dead. The last child of Giants is fallen!”
 
And a cry from the only voice of spring.
 
“The Champion of the Fae dies well.”
 
“Moore? Jelaqua? Ulinde?”
Seborn got to one knee, shaking his friend. He didn’t know what came next. Didn’t move as the [Innkeeper] heard the cry.
 
——
 
“You knew you could not best me.”
The silent visage of Theillige said nothing as Kasigna watched the armor corrode. Metal flaked away, black thorns ripped into the faerie’s body from the inside, yet they refused to show Kasigna their flesh or blood or face.
Many times they had wounded Kasigna. If she had blood, it would have littered the Floodplains and bloomed black upon the earth. The sword of the Faerie King’s champion had cut well enough to end a lesser god.
—But they could not win. She was Death, an idea. They were a single champion of the Wild Hunt. To destroy one like her, Theillige would have to eradicate the very notion of death.
All they could do was make her suffer. She had survived worse. Kasigna tore off one arm as the shield fell. Yet the sword stabbed deeper into her heart, causing the Draugr’s eyes to flicker.
At the end of time when all was ice, there was no death, not ev—
A hand crumpled the helmet as the Goddess of Death laughed at them. At the end? Even if the world froze, ice itself would crumble and break apart. Even snow could grow foul.
At the end of everything, even destiny itself would take her hand. They both knew it, and gently now, Kasigna lifted her hand.
“Thou, for pride alone, challenged me? Of all I asked, you alone knew how it would end. Yet not one of the Tuatha Dé ever lowered their blade and knelt.”
For one moment in time, she was older, perhaps not wiser, but her voice echoed in halls fit for her kind, and she inclined her head, knowing their will and respecting it even as they strove apart. That helmetless warrior said nothing, and Kasigna whispered.
“You honor your oath.”
Then she gently lifted the helm from the body as the armor fell to pieces. An empty visor stared up at the sky. Then the faeries screamed, and Kasigna knew it was over.
 
——
 
The Garden of Wistram was breaking to pieces. Magic burned across the broken dome. The door was in pieces as Erin turned her key in the lock.
Sanctuary ends.
They were all—she looked out across the Floodplains and saw Kasigna lifting her hand and holding an empty helmet.
She had not even seen them struggle. She had not even seen the Winter Fae die.
It didn’t matter. Erin’s tearstained face rose as Kasigna sighed. And even the fae joined her court in Kasignel.
Erin Solstice walked into her personal [Garden of Sanctuary]. Four Gardens were gone. Her friends were dying. She saw Kasigna resume her walk. Erin turned her head just once.
“If you’re going to kill me now, Khorpe—do it.”
She paused. She had not seen the Drake the entire battle. Now she knew why. Erin waited.
“Khorpe?”
Then she saw him where he lay and stopped. And the Goddess of the Dead walked forwards until she looked up.
An archer aimed a bow down at her across those dark skies. Kasigna blinked up as Xrn, the Small Queen, aimed a spell down at her.
[The ___slayer’s Arrow].
 
——
 
Kasigna came to a halt as the Small Queen glittered in the night sky. She was weary from her battle with the Winter Fae, but she could not be defeated.
Not by Theillige.
Not by Diotria’s guardian.
Again and again, they forced that aspect of Kasigna to kneel in defeat. Agelum drove blades as pure as their essence into her body. They were warriors almost equal to the Winter Fae if you combined all their numbers together.
Mortal armies waged a war against her as fruitless as the one in the Floodplains. And the Crone did kneel.
Their leader drove a blade through her head—and watched as she knelt a second, form burning.
“You. Name yourself.”
The Goddess of the Dead rasped, and one of the Agelum landed.
“She is reforming herself, Lord. She has no end to her strength.”
“Then we shall offer her defeat until she sickens of it. Trace how she is entering this realm.”
Kasigna hissed as the self-proclaimed leader of Diotria looked down at her. Bested! Yet, like Erin Solstice, like Xrn—
She told them all the same thing, the Three-in-One.
“I have no end. Still, you continue?”
She rose. The stranger nodded calmly.
“I claim this land. I am Khetieve, woman. You cannot best me.”
He sounded like all the others, for all his strength. How she laughed. She laughed up at the Small Queen as she beheld the incomplete arrow the Centenium held.
“Perhaps. But I cannot die.”
 
——
 
Xrn was pouring all of her magic into one spell, but she could not even fully realize it.
[The ___slayer’s Arrow].
It was still incomplete. Even now, with her enemy before her—she did not understand how Kasigna could die. 
Yet she had the full attention of the Goddess of Death. Kasigna stared warily upwards and bared her teeth.
A true weapon to kill her, even if the maker was inexperienced. She beckoned as an [Archer] took aim.
One last gambit. Kasigna’s eyes narrowed, and she saw a faint spark of green.
“Is this your final gambit, Shaestrel?”
 
“Aye.”
 
The Three-in-One laughed. One of her stood in Diotria, rising and summoning another army against the false claimants to this realm.
Crone.
Another of her gently nodded to Theillige as the Winter Fae bowed before her, herald of her will like the others.
Mother.
The last aspect beckoned slowly to the Small Queen. Mocking the plans of the fae and the unfinished arrow.
Maiden.
“Come and see, child. You could learn to slay a half-child or another of my kin. Never me.”
“Someday, we will go home.”
Xrn dove as the arrow burned down through the skies, her body lighting up as she sacrificed it to become a vessel for her spell. Kasigna’s eyes widened, and she caught the arrow as the Small Queen vanished. Straining—gasping—magic trying to slay death itself.
She took Xrn’s hand, and the Small Queen began to vanish. Then Kasigna felt something pull at the soul. As [The ___slayer’s Arrow] began to fragment reality and she forced the magic away from her, she pulled—
—But the Free Queen would not let go.
 
——
 
The Mother halted, one hand raised as she reached for Xrn. The Small Queen could not defy her. She and countless Antinium stood before Kasigna—but a hand blocked Kasigna’s.
It was no Human hand, but an insect’s feeler. It was pulling at the souls. Somehow, a mere mortal had the effrontery to challenge her? Kasigna sensed Isthekenous’ Grand Design behind it.
Empowering this mere…Queen?
