The Goddess of Death, holding [The ___slayer’s Arrow] at bay with one aspect, was distracted. She pulled, and Xevccha screamed—but she refused to let go.
“You are not my equal, thing.”
The Mother spoke coldly to the Free Queen. She heard a reply as the two warred for the fate of the fallen Antinium.
“I. Am. Xevccha. Know, stranger, that you have wrestled with a Queen of the Antinium. You shall lose.”
The effrontery of mortals would never cease to amaze her. The Free Queen was losing as Kasigna pulled—it was unto a child tugging upon the universe itself.
Kasigna’s hand reached out for Xrn, for Theillige, who knelt silently before her—and a hand of eternal green caught her arm. She froze.
“No.”
The Faerie King caught her arm. He had opened a door. Kasigna could not believe it. She froze—then the Mother began to laugh.
“You challenge me for your subject? Here? You are both fools.”
The Free Queen and Oberon wrestled silently with Kasigna as the souls of the dead watched. They were all here.
Sest, Tersk, Moore, Thunderfur, Oliyaya, Khorpe, Tekshia, Ulinde, Theillige, Aldonss—men and women and Drakes and Antinium watching a silent war that even the Faerie King would lose.
He truly was mad. In his domain, she would not dare challenge him, which is why Avalon endured. Likewise, here, he did not send forth his host for the cost. It would take every last faerie to slaughter the six gods in their domain. The cost was too high.
Here? Kasignel? His face was calm, that eternal trickster, that meddler who had bested even the greatest god. Oathkeeper. Champion.
“Your ruined realm is a result of your worthless promises. One of my kin slew your consort. Now you strive with me over a single champion? Have you forgotten who I am?”
Death was pouring out of her. She had seen Shaestrel twisting fate against her. Now—Kasigna reached for the skein of destiny itself and poured her blood over it.
She seized Oberon’s grip, and the Faerie King was struggling now, his subjects screaming out in horror.
“I mark you for death, Faerie King.”
She began to pour her will into his very being. Then, she expected him to let go. But he continued to wrestle with her, grimacing as he beheld his own end.
Even gods and their like could die. She knew it full well. Kasigna took the Free Queen’s grip.
“You are marked for death, little woman.”
“So?”
They refused to let go. Then and only then—Kasigna looked into the Faerie King’s eyes and saw only grim determination. But she remembered the twinkle of mischief in the greatest trickster’s eyes. Realized—
This was a distraction.
 
——
 
The Maiden was unmaking Xrn’s spell as her other two aspects fought. She was divided. Distracted.
An [Archer] had let fly his arrow the moment Xrn had attacked. The shot was impossibly hard in the darkness. He was aiming at something he couldn’t see, but it was a shot he had to make.
He had only one arrow, and its tip glittered with the very fabric of everything. The language of the gods, which had become a system that defined…everything.
“Kasigna!”
Halrac Everam loosed the arrow that had erased a letter just once before. The Faerie King fought with Kasigna, wrenching her attention away from his trick.
He always had a scheme. The Goddess of the Dead’s eyes widened as she saw the arrow curving through the air. She let go of [The ___slayer’s Arrow]. Realizing what it was aiming for.
Her name? Could it do—?
True fear filled her, a terror beyond anything she had felt since the moment the Elves and Gnomes slew her. Kasigna let Xrn’s spell burn her essence. She shrieked as she threw a hand out. The arrow—
She drew on her power. Every scrap of it. Every shred, diverting her entire being, her aspects, all into one desperate move from the Maiden.
Kasigna halted time in the lands of mortality. Not just the passage of the Winter Solstice.
All of it.
Every ounce of her power went into stopping that arrow as it flew, seeking a name, perhaps—a file on her very being stored in the Grand Design of Isthekenous. Just over her head was where Halrac was aiming.
The arrow slowed as Kasigna labored to halt time. It was not her domain! The arrow moved like it was sinking through jelly—and Halrac Everam saw her hand rising, reaching for it. He lowered his bow and ran.
Shaestrel was screaming wildly. Halrac ran towards Kasigna as he felt time slowing around her. Lunging.
Briganda, Revi, and Typhenous were running after him. They felt themselves slowing—eternity became a lunge, an exhaled breath.
Griffon Hunt dove at Kasigna. Typhenous planted a knife in her eye. Revi cupped her hands, and Halrac leapt from them. His hand and Kasigna’s grabbed the arrow, and they struggled over it. Shaestrel and Kasigna saw it now.
A thread of fate moving to destroy her utterly and completely. The fae and Goddess of Death saw it intersect, fought over it—
Halrac Everam’s fate stretched before and behind them. Kasigna saw his birth, his failed loves, his friendship with a man by chance in the army. Disgrace as Gold-rank adventurer.
She beheld his future and death. A Named-rank adventurer facing down the Mother of Graves with that bow. A sacrifice in Liscor’s dungeon.
His fate wavered before her vision. She seized the arrow that destiny had no control over as they wrestled for it. Grabbed his arm and pulled.
His string of fate—snapped. Shaestrel and Kasigna recoiled with a cry. Halrac’s features twisted in a grimace, and he drove the point of the arrow at Kasigna’s face. She tore it away, and he collapsed. Dead.
Kasigna threw the arrow away from her with an oath. It passed across Briganda, and the woman dropped.
“Wh—”
The [Shieldmaiden] staggered. She raised her axe—then tried to use a Skill. Something was wrong. She blurred—
Thousands of female warriors in Cenidau jerked, and the Grand Design of Isthekenous shrieked. Kasigna panted, looking for the arrow. She stared as a Gnoll appeared out of nowhere, shedding a [Greater Invisibility] spell, and dashed for it.
“Give that to me.”
The Gnoll slid, yanking the arrow up, and she pointed a finger at the strange Gnoll. He whirled, daggers in hand, and Kasigna stopped time again.
She walked forwards as her body began to decay and crumble. But the Gnoll was frozen in space as she reached for the arrow.
Shaestrel’s plan ruined. The Faerie King’s grip wavering. Death, death, death. Kasigna tore the arrow out of the air as Iert backed away rather than face her.
“Kasigna.”
Erin Solstice called down to Kasigna from her inn. The Goddess of Death turned, the arrow in hand, and Erin beckoned. She looked down at her nemesis.
“Let’s finish this. You’ll bleed before you kill me.”
The [Innkeeper] uttered one final, tired oath as Kasigna nodded. No artifice, no tricks—Kasigna dipped her head.
“If that is what it takes.”
 
——
 
Halrac Everam walked into Kasignel and stood in a palace devoid of color. He looked up at a raised lectern, higher than the High Passes themselves, where a goddess stood.
She held a hand of green, wrestling with it and the Free Queen of the Antinium. Mother of death; below her, Drevish stood, creating her new realm tirelessly.
Halrac saw friends and would-be enemies and allies around him. He knew he was dead. Knew it in his very nature.
He had tried to wrestle with her. Beat her with a single arrow like some hero out of stories.
“I’m sorry, Erin.”
Halrac tried to find some sadness. Or anger. But he was just—empty. That was the nature of ghosts in the lands of the dead Kasigna created. They were at peace with it. Only the strongest of them could conjure great feeling, and now…
He was just tired. Kasignel stretched out before Halrac, an inviting wasteland to let it all fall away. Soon, he might wander out, first of the souls to see what this new, final realm contained.
…But first he was waiting for her.
Not long now.
“Kasigna.”
The word appeared in Halrac’s mind and being. He spoke it, and a part of his understanding of her became belief. The foundation of her power, unassailable in this realm.
They all said it. Billions of ghosts, and Oberon’s hand flickered as Kasigna poured death into him. The decaying goddess walking towards Erin regained some of her strength.
Belief.
Halrac saw a friend standing motionless among the many here, and some part of him was pleased.
“Ulrien.”
His friend was waiting. The two ghosts clasped arms silently.
“I saw you fighting. You tried your utmost.”
“I did.”
It was a wholly inadequate conversation. Empty, just like the two of them. Halrac Everam bowed his head. There was no idea of him…fighting back or doing anything. He was a ghost. He was dead. She was death.
The colorless, lifeless lands of the dead had no swift motion as the ghosts waited for Kasigna to finish her long night. Every single head rose to the mirror reflecting Erin Solstice’s face as Kasigna laughed in Oberon’s.
Halrac wished he could close his eyes. He saw the other ghosts who had tried so hard standing close together. Even Theillige, the silent kneeling figure, their head turned sideways.
Watching as Major Khorpe danced.
Halrac the Grim’s head turned as a single Drake moved. He leapt through the air, pirouetting, skipping as if gravity touched him lightly. A gleeful dance that belied the tears in his eyes.
“How…?”
There was no joy in Halrac’s chest. Even powerful ghosts like Wall Lord Aldonss were empty of emotion under Kasigna’s complete control. But the Major, the greatest [Infiltrator] of Salazsar, was running forwards.
His scales looked…grey. But not empty. The grey of age, a long life he might have even called a hair too long. The faded green scales and black armor of his station but a memory.
Yet he had color. The Drake was leaping, passing through ghosts, who flickered out as he moved through them, turning in bewilderment.
As if he were realer than the others somehow. Halrac Everam looked at Khorpe and then saw, for a second, Khorpe’s image of himself flicker.
He saw a Drake, scales lined with frost, then saw Khorpe smiling. Halrac’s head rose. His eyes widened.
In the [Garden of Sanctuary], sleeping up on Erin Solstice’s bier, Major Khorpe lay with his arms folded, a wide smile on his face.
After all—if Erin could do it, why not someone else? The Drake was running, now, and Kasigna?
The Three-in-One saw all. Except what a mere piece of bread, a Shadowloaf, hid. It could not protect Erin or her inn from attack, but it could disguise a single Drake.
Kasigna was gloating, slowly assigning a death to Oberon, battling the Free Queen, taking Diotria, and holding the arrow that Halrac had loosed. Sure of her victory.
She never noticed the Drake racing across the palace being built ever upwards.
Halrac followed Khorpe suddenly. He broke away from Ulrien and saw Theillige rise. The two began to run—and the other ghosts turned. Khorpe was tearing at his possessions, opening a bag of holding that vanished.
“No. No, no—my blades—”
He pulled the memory of his daggers out of—but cursed. They had no substance here. His memories of weapons were just memories. He could no more harm Kasigna than Erin Solstice could all that time ago.
Yet he was here. The Major was not blind. He had been trying to hide among the dead, and surely, if the arrow had failed—
It was him.
Treachery, infiltration, was a difficult game. He had stolen into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. He had plotted this, considering his life a worthwhile gamble to put someone on the inside.
But any spy had to find knowledge worth the risk. Or a target worth sabotaging.
Or someone worth killing.
He needed a weapon. The [Infiltrator] was running at the target he had identified, and Halrac pointed.
“Him. It’s him.”
His finger was aiming at Drevish, who had slowed his constant creation of Kasignel. He was channeling Kasigna’s powers but had no more ability to oppose her than any other ghost.
“I know. I don’t have a weapon. Can you kill him?”
Khorpe hissed. His Skills? He had been trying to activate them, but Kasigna had turned off Skills and levels.
By now, all the ghosts were looking at Khorpe, the one half-alive being in the entire deadlands. Drevish’s white haired head rose, and his eyes found the Drake.
He glanced up at Kasigna and did not speak. But she would notice, soon. Khorpe tore at his imaginary bag of holding as he slowed, tossing the crossbow loaded with the Phoenixfire Bolt, a dagger, the Faerie Flowers he’d plucked, all onto the ground. He seized a sword he had once carried and charged.
“Architect—”
Khorpe swung through Drevish’s neck, and the memory of his sword passed through. Theillige, Halrac, and the other ghosts halted.
“Alas. It was a good try.”
Aldonss spoke softly. Drevish agreed as Khorpe staggered. The Architect raised his hands.
“I have all the authority of Kasigna to create and destroy here. Once the Winter Solstice ends—I shall build slower, but you cannot suborn nor stop nor harm me, I am afraid.”
They were all so matter-of-fact. Khorpe hated it. He knew the real Drevish would be a fiery man. Halrac Everam had wrestled with a goddess.
So close. He looked up at Oberon, and the Faerie King was dying. Kasigna was whispering to him.
“Your end draws near, Faerie King.”
He did not even look down at them. His subject, Theillige, was kneeling on the ground, beholding the Faerie King’s thread of fate being assigned an ending.
Gently, the Wild Hunt’s warrior picked something up from the ground as Khorpe clenched his fists. They lifted a yellow flower, still glistening and as vibrant as the moment Khorpe had plucked it from the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Halrac inhaled, and Khorpe turned. The Drake’s eyes widened.
The Faerie Flowers were a bright yellow. Like the illusion of gold. They were not memories.
Slowly, Theillige lifted the Faerie Flower in their grip. The little sprig of the half-grown flower was blooming. Erin’s garden was filled with blooming flowers, and they were not of this world.
They were ideas. Plants unwisely given from the lands of the fae to this mortal realm by foolish faeries trying to con an [Innkeeper] out of a meal long ago.
Betimes they looked like simple little flowers. In alchemy, they were many things. They were a trick, an illusion—it was just a matter of perspective.
On a hill, an open gate was spilling a tiny crack between the Lands of the Fae and this world. The Faerie King had opened the door, and death was pouring out of it as he sacrificed his immortality and fought with one of the greatest aspects of Death to exist.
Around him bloomed a hill of flowers and two beautiful ones that marked a grave.
Flicker.
A hill of swords and a wartorn gate flashed before Major Khorpe’s eyes. He looked at that distant land—then down.
