Theillige offered him a sword, the handle curved and marked with old symbols. The honor of the Faerie Court, and a metal smithed in ancient days.
Then—the Drake smiled. He lifted the sword up, and the Architect’s eyes opened wide.
“Killing me won’t stop her. But go ahead.”
He whispered. Khorpe hesitated, and now, he saw Theillige hand another sword to Halrac. The Winter Fae picked up a sword, and Khorpe saw the warrior concentrate.
Drevish did not resist. He stood there as Theillige strode over to him. The warrior lifted their blade, but not at Drevish’s neck.
They were aiming at something just behind Drevish. No…connected to him? Khorpe saw it, like an idea. The thinnest strand in existence connecting Drevish to Kasigna. Khorpe blinked—and then he saw the same line—everywhere. Connecting Halrac up to Kasigna, who was laughing.
Major Khorpe met Theillige’s eyes, and the two nodded. Theillige swung the sword through the lands of the dead, master of blades, perfect warrior, and Khorpe cut the thread behind Halrac with a blade of Avalon.
Kasigna felt that. 
The Maiden froze and wobbled mid-step towards Erin’s inn, hand on the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door.
Her Crone aspect wavered as she tore the wings off an Agelum.
And the Mother held Oberon’s arm and gloated. Her eyes swung downwards—but halted. Each moment mattered. She was exhausted, distracted, and had been triumphant a moment ago.
Then she saw the Faerie King’s smile. She felt Drevish jerk, remembering his life and rage and indignation and hopes and joy, and the Architect’s cheeks mottled with color. He raised his hands and called on the power she had given him, secure in the knowledge he could never oppose her.
“I am the Architect of the King of Destruction. I have never created anything I do not believe in. Even the most wondrous works I will destroy if I find the slightest part unworthy. And you, my client?”
He called up at her as Kasigna jerked, trying to break free of the Faerie King’s grip.
He was laughing at her. Drevish met Kasigna’s gaze.
“I do not care for your version of the afterlife.”
“Stop!”
Three Kasignas appeared high above Drevish. Maiden, Mother, Crone! They bent for him, screeching, too late.
The King of Destruction’s Architect had never made anything he couldn’t destroy. He had never envisioned a citadel he could not retake if the enemy held it. He had been given the authority to make Kasignel, and even if he was servant of the Goddess of Death, she had to let him think, and he had idly wondered how he might destroy Kasignel—just to speculate.
Drevish did it in a single moment. He opened a door in the air—and then collapsed the boundaries of Kasignel. Instantly, the entire realm began pouring through the door into another one.
“Traitor!”
The Goddess of Death howled. She smote Drevish’s soul out of existence, but it was too late. She tried to seize Kasignel, but now the Faerie King was gripping her shoulder. What had Drevish done?
Why, he had pulled the land of the dead into another dimension. With it—every single soul Kasigna had.
All the ones worshiping her.
All the ones that had restored her ruined nature. Ghosts began streaming through the hole in the air, and Kasignel snatched at them. She would capture them again! They were mere ghosts, and she was—was—
Then she saw where the ghosts were going and recoiled in horror. Her lands were flowing into another realm. The only one that had bested her.
Hellste.
The Goblin Kings watched as Kasignel began vanishing. Souls were flooding into their realm along with all the fabric of Kasignel. All her authority. All her power.
“Never.”
Kasigna seized her realm, anchoring it once more to her being. The Faerie King was dragging her back, but now she turned on him in wrath.
“You will not best me, Oberon! You shall die! I mark you with my very nature!”
She fixed his destiny to that of annihilation, one last spiteful blow, and touched the Free Queen with the same prophecy of death. But he never let go. Instead, the Faerie King tightened his grip.
“The same to you.”
Kasigna didn’t understand what he was doing—until she felt all the death of her nature flowing into him—and his power filling her.
Life. Chance. Trickery—but most of all, life. Kasigna tried to break free, shrieking now—and the Goddess of Death felt the strands of her connection to Kasignel vanishing.
Thread. By. Thread.
Halrac Everam swung his blade through Kasigna’s connection to Kasignel. Major Khorpe severed another strand, and Theillige cut a score apart. The Winter Fae lifted their sword as Oberon nodded—Kasigna erased Theillige from existence.
Three strands left. Kasignel was vanishing, and the ghosts were flying into Hellste. Halrac threw his sword as Khorpe did likewise.
Three faerie swords hung in the void for a moment, and Kasigna pulled, one aspect of her per thread. She tore loose from the Faerie King’s grip and pulled. Then heard laughter.
Three Winter Sprites dove into death’s heart and snatched up the swords. Each one cut, mocking, jeering, thumbing their nose at the Goddess of Death, and she screamed as they died with cries of triumph.
Kasigna reached for Hellste as her power faded—and Oberon closed the gap in reality. The Faerie King turned, touched by death, but looking down upon her for a moment as he closed the gap to his realm.
Looking at a screaming corpse that began to vanish.
 
——
 
“No. No!”
Kasigna felt her base of power vanish. She was stumbling as Erin Solstice backed away, unsure of what was happening.
The Three-in-One flickered between her aspects, and each one was withering. Rotting. Her believers! Her power!
She still had some. But there was Kasignel. He—he had destroyed her realm! The Faerie King! No, that single mortal—
She was shrieking in the center of the Floodplains as the dead began to collapse around her. Erin saw Kasigna reaching out and pulling power from the undead, the remaining souls, like a starving scavenger.
The dead goddess looked more pathetic than she had when Erin first met her. Ryoka Griffin saw a rot overtake Kasigna worse than the first Winter Solstice.
“You know me. I have worshippers. I cannot be defeated.”
A hunching, gasping corpse staggered towards The Wandering Inn. Still and even still—she came for Erin Solstice.
She might kill Erin. If she instilled enough terror or found a realm—anything—the handful of mortals who now owed her fealty were keeping her alive. Die. Die, [Innkeeper]. Die, all of you.
If she had to eat them one-by-one…the Winter Solstice was still ongoing. She was holding the moment still out of sheer spite.
No one could slay her. Only injure her. Only set her back.
See? Why did the [Innkeeper] look down on her like that? Not with pity, but as if she were pathetic? Curse you. Curse the Gnomes. Curse you, Faerie King.
Kasigna had never understood other beings. She was death.
She…the arrow. Where was the arrow?
The corpse was searching the ground, unable to take an aspect, unable to stand existing in the mortal realm, but unwilling to admit defeat.
The grass refused to acknowledge her being. The wind blew around her, and the snow glistened. Die. Die! She tore up pieces of grass to remind it why it should fear her, crawling around, leaving a faint trail in the snow.
She found someone standing before her—tried to eat them, clawing at their legs.
Her daughter gently helped her to her feet.
“Cauwine. Help me.”
Kasigna saw her chance. Her daughter stood in the Floodplains—she would not fail!
Cauwine stepped back and bowed formally to her mother as Kasigna reached for her in relief. The dead Goddess of Last Stands looked at her mother with affection and regret.
“Mother? Mother, I swore that I would be something new. That I would change and not make the same mistakes you and the others make again and again. You see? That’s why they best us. No matter the cost.”
She gestured at the silent Floodplains. Kasigna only snarled, a guttural sound of spite. Cauwine paused, then bowed her head.
“I apologize. Treachery is the oldest thing of all for gods.”
Cauwine drew her blade as Kasigna turned to flee. The goddess drove her sword through Kasigna’s back and tore her form to shreds. She spoke to the air as a scream passed through the world and the Solstice broke to pieces.
“If you are wise, you will not come back from that.”
Then—
The Winter Solstice ended.
 
——
 
It was over. She did not weep. No one cheered.
But Kasigna was bested. Gone. Cauwine flickered out of existence, unable to sustain a corporeal form as the moons finally began to move and time resumed.
Erin Solstice stood in her [Garden of Sanctuary], wondering what had happened. Some grand trick, she knew. Some defeat for Kasigna that had well and truly laid her low.
Erin had not done it. She had merely survived. And the cost?
“Khorpe?”
He was smiling on the frozen bier. Erin reached down, hesitated, but there was no Drake there. Nor would there be.
The souls were gone. Whether or not Kasigna still had power enough to shape this world, the greatest of the six had lost her advantage, had become weakest of all. A wretched, defeated goddess once more.
“All because of you. And them. And…”
They were dead. Erin had heard them die. Felt it. She leaned on the bier as frost chilled her hands and skin. She felt nothing.
Erin Solstice, like Kasigna, had lost something. A tattered and weary soul rose as she rested a hand on Khorpe’s shoulder.
Maybe some of the Antinium could be reborn. Maybe not all of them had died.
Maybe.
That wasn’t hope. Erin Solstice stumbled down the hill. She was empty of everything, but she did walk out of her [Garden of Sanctuary] at last. Into her inn.
It was not destroyed. Truly not.
Undead corpses were strewn in her hallway, and the Flying Antinium’s blood and bodies had reached the common room of the inn, but The Wandering Inn had been destroyed far more thoroughly before.
She wished it had been ruined. Erin wished her friends had not stood before her and the dead at the last.
“Normen? Ishkr? Anyone?”
Erin looked around and realized they were outside. Her protectors, her friends, the surviving people had stopped as the undead fell and walked out onto the Floodplains to just look around and finally understand what had happened.
The [Innkeeper] did not follow them. She just sat down on a chair not bloodied at a table that had survived the fighting.
“Never again.”
She would never, ever endure a Solstice like this again. Erin knew time was passing, now. She felt her bones aching, unable to think.
Tomorrow didn’t exist. She couldn’t count them. She couldn’t—Erin’s head drooped. She put her head down on the table, hesitated, but—yes.
She just let herself go. There was no way to process this. There was no grief, anger, nor even guilt enough for her.
For once, Erin was grateful. Let someone else sort this, if they even could. Let someone else give her guilt or triumph and tell her what it meant.
A dead goddess’ wrath.
Survival.
Erin Solstice closed her eyes and waited. Her mind drifted, searching for an oblivion that would never last long enough, a relief she did not deserve. As ever, as always, she heard it in her ears.
 
[Witch of Second Chances L—BEHIND YOU]
 
Erin Solstice’s eyes snapped open. She pushed herself away from the table a second before something exploded with a soft pfft. She jerked away from the faint cloud and heard a voice.
“Erin? You al—”
Ulvama was looking around the room as she saw Erin whirl.
“Run!”
The [Innkeeper] lunged for her [Garden of Sanctuary]. Her hand was almost at the grass when the Gnoll leapt forwards and grabbed her. Iert opened a scroll, and Erin Solstice shouted.
“Roshal. R—”
Ulvama cried out as more warriors raced into the inn. A Drake who had been staring at her suddenly shaking claws looked down—and Tessa leapt down from the rafters as Erin collapsed. A poor bodyguard, but a deadly killer.
“Secure the other targets. Now.”
Iert’s eyes glowed as he drew a sword. Ulvama raised her staff and then heard a sound as he knocked the artifact from her hands and blew more dust into her face.
Outside, there was a sound louder than anything save thunder. A bang, the sound of a dozen explosions—Iert’s head rose with a snarl.
“What did you do?”
He howled at another figure, but then the Slavers of Roshal were running from The Wandering Inn as the Solstice turned to the darkness of another day.
