A rage unlike anything I'd experienced before shattered the meager walls of self-control I called willpower.

But even that couldn't stop me from using Power Through. Clarity returned.

Ten precious seconds of clarity. Then five more, where I'd have to hold on without it until I could shift out of this.

Around me, zombies burst into flames. I was bleeding flames. Everywhere I ran, I lit the world ablaze.

I used the few seconds I had to run as far from the others—and from the stage—as possible, shattering concrete steps as I ascended the opposite side of the arena. There were only a few zombies remaining on this side, but they burned like cinders.

Burning down one of the bigger landmarks of New York was not on today's bingo card.

The last two seconds I used to run headfirst into a concrete wall, which supported a higher tier of seats. The encounter ended in a draw. There was too much wall for me to break down and too much me for the wall to kill. Something in me shattered, though. Probably several somethings.

Which didn't bother the mind that took over. Which didn't bother me. All I needed to do was devour, maim, destroy. I'd heal. I'd grow. I'd end it all.

I turned. So many left to end. I'd leave with such might. The flames felt like the gentle caress of my mother.

"Eve," Gabriel said. "Remember our talk on top of the tower."

I ignored the false fylgjur.

"Listen to her, kitten," said the other.

I'd shatter that dissonant instrument first.

"Remember how you asked me why you could master that protector shape so easily. It is who you are. What you do."

I'd only done so out of fear. Fear of who I'd be if I allowed myself.

The cook had picked up the instrument and started plucking at its strings. The notes stirred a memory. A memory of the one I was. He was playing…

Mother. Fucking. Wonderwall.

Just as I was about to leap on stage, I shifted into the Might of the Meek-enhanced Garmr-touched Golden Retriever. My ATP were getting worryingly low, but in the worst case, I still had the Blessed Cup.

Stephen looked at me with wide eyes but continued to play, even as zombies began climbing the stage. He carefully climbed onto the stone slab that had held the guitar.

Playing that stupid song the whole time.

I turned to face the zombies. "I got you," I said.

"Didn't doubt you for a second," Stephen murmured.

Whatever he was doing, it was working. It was like his notes were disrupting whatever effect the siren's song had on the zombies. It made their movements more erratic and staggered, leaving me with plenty of openings to decimate those that got too close.

And I could hear the anger seeping into her song, too. But she wasn't ready to dive into combat herself yet.

"You need to get us up. To the others. Shared buff." Stephen's words were clipped—even playing that song took all of his concentration.

I looked from him up to where the others were valiantly holding their ground. Jamie was probably close to immune to the undead by now, but there were still too many for him to hold off on his own. Which limited Ash's and Liz's ability to keep the gryphon in check.

Right now it was still on the ground at the far end of the arena, furiously tearing through one of the sticky nets we'd prepared against the automatons.

I placed myself close to the slab. "Hop on, then."

There wasn't any buff I could see, but maybe the guitar showed him something the rest of us weren't privy to.

With one awkward hop, Stephen made it onto my back. Luckily, Spectral Tackle was still active. Otherwise, staying on my back while playing that guitar would be more than awkward.

The moment I began running to join the others, the siren unleashed an angry scream, and thousands of zombies turned their attention on us, away from the others.

"Just get in range of Jamie. And then don't stop killing."

I had to double-check to make sure he wasn't suffering from some kind of debuff. Everything here had made it seem like the guitar wasn't the source of the evil, but it wouldn't be the first time the Blessing messed around like that.

There just wasn't any room for debate. I activated Focused Fury and faced the incoming tide of undead.

They clawed, and bit, and kicked, and clung to me, ripping out tufts of fur, but I kept going. Oddly, they seemed unable to attack Stephen directly. Which only meant I got the brunt of their attention.

Which wouldn't matter once I made it back into range with Jamie. I just kept pressing on, jumping for any opening in the tide I could find, all while trying not to casually throw Stephen off my back. For once, I had no idea what exactly our plan was, and I had to trust that he knew what he was doing, or why.

And then we reached the radius of the Oath of Two and the pressure of the tide instantly felt less crushing. Zombies were falling to each swing of Jamie's sword, and each of his kills healed me up a tiny bit.

Though it wasn't just me. Every time any of us killed a foe, all of us were healed. I didn't know how he had done it, but that had been what Stephen meant. All of us had a buff active now, and right now it was no longer called Oath of Two—it was Oath of Unity.

I finally remembered to activate Exemplar Leader again. If that siren didn't intervene, we could hold this tide in check until she ran out of bodies to throw at us.

Which she knew, too. Even as I was still pushing my way through the crowd to get back to the platform the others were on, she decided to intervene and dive for my back, for Stephen.

Except I had six pairs of eyes, all sharing their threat awareness with me.

I'd been waiting for this. As soon as she got close enough, I threw my head back and activated Sentinel's Howl. Every zombie in sight stopped moving. So did the siren. I was invading her turf, so the daze didn't last more than a fraction of a second.

Which was more than I needed. I twisted to the side as she crashed into the concrete next to me. She shook off the daze just in time to look up at me before I grabbed her neck between my jaws and shook. Her neck went "crack." Her body went still.

I didn't hesitate to pull it into my inventory.

Around us the zombies collapsed. Stephen finished playing the song. The air reeked of blood, decay, and smoke. The Task was marked as completed. And the Crown prominently displayed its reward, front and center in my vision.

[Siren's Throat (Permanent Trait - Crown of the Laughing Queen Reward)

Effect: Your voice carries farther and remains clear through noise and obstruction. Songs and vocal abilities gain increased potency.

This bonus is permanent and crown-independent. It can be rejected.

[Accept] | [Reject]]

While I suspected this would be useless in most of my shapes, since they couldn't actually speak, I hit accept anyway.

I turned to see the other side of the arena in flames. Even though the stage had so far been spared by the fire, the ghostly musicians had vanished, too. And onto that empty stage the gryphon descended. I could feel its eyes boring into me as it unleashed a challenging roar.

There was no new task or anything that indicated that this needed to be a solo performance. But the ultimate show at Madison Square Garden deserved a bit of panache.

I canceled my shape.

"Make sure you leave before it's too late," I said.

"You make sure it doesn't take that long. We aren't leaving without you," Jamie shouted from up above.

I turned to Stephen, who was still catching his breath. "Do you think you can do anything with just a touch more flair?"

He looked up at me and grinned. "Absolutely."

He straightened up and cracked his knuckles before he placed his fingers back on the guitar. I made my way down the stairs as he began his next performance. While Fire Resistance wasn't the same as immunity, I still just walked through the spreading inferno—trading a bit of pain for a whole lot of style.

Walking through Madison Square Garden while it was on fire, to a perfect performance of Through The Fire and Flames, also hadn't been on my bingo card today. But it was probably the coolest I'd ever been in my entire life.

Still hurt like a bitch.

Up on stage, I pulled out the Blessed Cup and drained it in one gulp, while the gryphon watched me, pawing at the ground.

I faced it and set my feet. This had to be fast. And it could be if it just played along.

"Bring it on," I said.

The gryphon screeched at me and flapped its wings, ascending above the arena.

I had positioned myself a few steps in front of the stone slab, with my back to it.

For a moment, the gryphon became nothing but a shadow in the thickening smoke. There was another scream, something between a lion's roar and an eagle's shriek, before it turned in the air and descended again.

So far it had been pretty intelligent. It had seen me switch shapes. So it had probably done its own murder math and concluded that it could strike me down in any shape it had seen so far.

But had it noticed how impossible it had been for anything else to move me? Only one way to find out.

Its smoky shadow coalesced into a furious mass of beak and claws, aiming right for my fragile body at terrifying speed.

Just before it impacted, I switched back into the gorilla shape and activated Focused Fury. I let it slam into me. Let its talons punch into my body. Then I locked both arms around its torso beneath the wings, dropped my center of gravity, and let its own momentum drive me backward.

At the last moment, I arched.

The gryphon went over my head and slammed back-first into the stone slab. The stone shattered, and so did the gryphon's spine. Shrapnel from the pulverized slab buried itself in my back.

With a single move, I had raised my grappling skill from five to nine.

I looked down to see that its hind claws had raked open my belly. Blood was already pooling around my feet. Along with the smoke and the heat, I was getting a bit woozy.

Behind me, the gryphon croaked. It wasn't dead yet.

With my remaining strength, I lifted one of the larger fragments of the slab and crushed its head.

["Go ahead, I'll join you in a moment,"] I wrote in party chat, even as I began tearing my way through its rib cage toward the heart. At least this body had a jaw that could easily crack any bones that stood in my way. The heat was getting bad enough to singe my fur.

This would be so much more appropriate if it had been a phoenix.

Maybe I shouldn't have told them to go. This heart was a lot, and the situation was getting more uncomfortable by the minute.

Then a knife hit me in the shoulder. Which healed me. I looked up, my mind suddenly a bit clearer. Off in the distance, barely visible, Liz hovered, holding onto her handles.

["Hurry the fuck up, Eve,"] she wrote in chat.

I did. Soon, I was awarded the transformation and accepted it immediately.

The moment it was completed, I checked my UI and let out a triumphant shriek. It was an avian shape. I had 'gryphon' as an innate shape.

The flames were also consuming what little remained of the stage. I flapped my wings and made my way over to the others. Logically, this thing shouldn't be able to fly like that. It was far too heavy for its wingspan. I'd complain about the freebie once I got out of here.

The others had already left the arena and were awaiting me in the corridor beyond, with Jamie holding the door for me.