“I'm heading into the city for a while. See you later.” Ren took off running and Teepo didn't chitter in delight. Sorry, buddy. Ren thought. There's no way I can run like Princess.

“That's okay.” Teepo said. “I think I overdosed on speed, anyways.”

Ren snorted a laugh.

“What's so funny?”

Overdosing on speed means something different where Adventurer's come from. Ren thought, then explained it to Teepo.

“I don't know whether to laugh or cry.” Teepo said. “It was funny for the double meaning, but now that I know what you meant, I feel bad about all the Adventurers doing that.”

Ren nodded as he slowed down in the middle part of town. He went to Barnar's place first, and found out the reason deliveries weren't going to House Neram.

“We can't defy the Council, Ren.” Barnar said.

“You can't, no.” Ren said and grinned. “I already have.”

“They told us to keep the money from your order, too.” Barnar said and tried to hand it back to Ren, but Ren shook his head.

“I wont hurt the other businesses by taking back the money I already paid.”

“We aren't fulfilling our contract!” Barnar exclaimed and the nearby workers cowered a little and tried to not look at Ren.

“I'm sorry that the Council is hurting you like this.” Ren said. “I'm canceling my order.”

Barnar took in a sharp breath. “Ren!” He tried to hand back the money again and Ren shook his head.

“I canceled it, so you can keep the money.” Ren looked around. “Can I pick up the House Neram crest mold?”

Barnar huffed out a breath and pointed to the corner where the molds were made. “Help yourself.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and went over to the area and stored the mold.

“Do you need any mortar?” A worker asked and then winced. “I'm sorry.” She said and blushed in embarrassment.

Ren smiled and put a hand on her arm. “It's okay. I'm hoping this will all be worked out soon, and we can all get back to working normally.”

She smiled at him and nodded slightly. Ren waved to Barnar and the workers he could see and left to go to the lumberyard. He told them the same thing when they tried to give him a refund for the undelivered materials, since they were breaking the contract. Ren canceled the order, and they kept the money as well. The place for the windows was next and he repeated the process. Ren went to the stables and the female dwarf there wouldn't even lift her head to look at him, when he entered her office. She also tried to give the money back, then got tears in her eyes as Ren canceled the contract, and she got to keep the money by default.

“You.. you can't do that!” She said, nearly sobbing. “You paid so much, and now you're getting nothing in return!”

Ren took her hand and bent over it. “I believe your tears are worth more to me than the money.” He said. “Thank you for all your hard work.”

She actually did start sobbing then, and Ren left the office. His next stop was House Longore, and the paving stones. No sooner had he entered the lobby, when he heard a squeak of surprise and the patter of tiny feet as Angeilin ran over to him. She waved him to kneel down and he was taken into the smallest and cutest hug he'd ever gotten.

“I'm so sorry, your highness.” She said and let him out of the hug. “I tried my best to sneak more stones to another address and transfer them over, but the workers wouldn't even drop them close to your property.”

“Thank you, Ma'am.”

“Why aren't you wearing your nice armor?” She asked.

“I'm keeping things casual today.” Ren said and grinned. “You aren't though.”

Angeilin blushed a little. “Dorcot's taking me out for a boat ride after work.”

“You can rent boats?” Ren asked.

“Rent?” Angeilin chuckled, and it still sounded like glasses tinkling to Ren. “He bought one.”

“Can you tell me from where?” Ren asked, and she told him where to go. “Thank you, Angei... Ma'am.”

Angeilin laughed. “It's okay. We're almost family.” She said. “We sent in the petition a few days ago to change our last names.”

Ren's eyes widened. “Angeilin... you... you didn't have to...”

“You've shown me how things really are, and how unfair I've been to Dorcot all these years.” Angeilin said. “We pledged to House Neram, and you took us in without question.” She said. “We're more than pleased to change our family name to match someone so honorable.”

“I don't know what to say.” Ren said.

“You can say congratulations.” Angeilin said and laughed.

“Congratulations.”

“Now that that's out of the way, I guess you're here for a refund because we aren't fulfilling the contract.”

Ren shook his head and told her he was canceling the order, and they got to keep the money.

Angeilin shook her head. “I won't accept that.”

“Is Lady Longore in?” Ren asked, and smiled at her surprised expression. “Angeilin, I won't have the Council's decision hurt all of the businesses that I deal with, by making them lose Honor for no reason.”

“But... you...” Angeilin started to argue, then sighed as her resolve melted at the sincerity in Ren's eyes. “Okay.” She said. “Fine. I'll accept the cancellation.”

“Thank you.” Ren said, and bent over her hand. “Have fun tonight.” He stood up and left her standing there in the lobby. Ren ran to the Library and knocked, but there was no answer. He entered the building, since the door was unlocked, and crept over to the staircase, and got a popup.

Stat Change!

Sneak Level 8 (Beginner 0%)

Teepo.

“On it.” Teepo said and hopped out of the hood and went into the sleeping area. She wasn't there, and Teepo skittered up the wall by the stairs to search the other floors. “Second floor, third table.”

Thanks. Ren deactivated Sneak and walked up the stairs, making quite a bit of noise.

“She heard you.” Teepo said.

“It's me.” Ren said. “The shelf builder.”

“Your HIGHNESS!” The Librarian yelled, and Ren heard her clomping feet quickly cross the floor. He braced himself and caught her into a hug at the top of the stairs. “When she told me you'd been arrested... I thought... I thought...” The female dwarf started to cry. “...I'd never see you again!”

Ren smiled and pat her back. “If I thought I wouldn't be back, I'd have had my wife tell you that.”

She sobbed a few times and Ren gave her a piece of scrap cloth to wipe her face.

“But... you were sent to the HOLE!”

Ren's eyes widened, because she knew what it was. “I arranged for an early release.”

She shook her head. “They never release prisoners until they either serve a sentence, or are sent somewhere else.”

Ren smiled and gently let himself out of the hug. “You could say they sent me home.”

“I'm not going to ask how you did that.” She said as her crying slowed down.

“I just changed how everything was handled.” Ren said. “Now they even pay me for it.”

It was the Librarian's turn for her eyes to widen, and then she started to laugh. “You... you... hahaha!”

Ren let her laugh until she calmed down.

“You did the same thing here.” She said. “You changed how everything was handled. I have access to everything now.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I'm sorry I haven't been around to help.”

“Oh, that's okay.” The Librarian said. “I've been sorting in the mornings and reading in the evenings.”

“I'm glad that you're taking your time and enjoying yourself.”

“Me, too!” She said. “I've been kind of in a slump for years, and now I'm all excited over books again!”

“When I have time, so am I.” Ren said. “You can learn so many things.”

“I'm done sorting for today. Do you want to read something?”

“I do. In fact, a good book would have served me well in the Hole.” Ren said. “A good friend told me all about the Great Divide instead.”

Her eyes widened. “You're kidding!”

Ren shook his head. “Nope. I've got all these facts and figures floating around in my head.” He said and smiled. “The names are the worst, though.” He laughed. “Pronouncing them was harder than a freshly cut diamond!”

“Show me.” She said, seriously.

“W-what?”

“Tell me some of it.” The Librarian said. “Sit.” She commanded and pointed to a nearby chair.

“Where should I start?” Ren asked and sat down.

“House Greentree.” She sat down beside him. Ren thought back to what Teepo had told him, then nodded.

“Okay. There was this young girl named Annette...” For the next hour, Ren told the female dwarf all about House Greentree, it's lineage and it's role in the Dwarf Civil War. She asked him questions about it, and he answered them as best as he could. Teepo tried to give him some answers, but Ren told Teepo that he needed to do it himself. When the Librarian finished with her questions, she nodded to him, and he gained 10 Honor.

“Give me your Library card.”

Ren handed it over and she took it downstairs. She came back several minutes later and handed it to him. He examined it and his eyes widened.

Library Car Holder - Ren

Rank C

Books Read: 112

Earth Elemental Magic (D), Fire Elemental Magic (D), Water Elemental Magic (D), Wind Elemental Magic (D), Light Elemental Magic &copy;, Dark Elemental Magic&copy;, Ice Elemental Magic&copy;, Lightning Elemental Magic&copy;, Arcane Elemental Magic&copy;, The Guide to Endless Joy (Children), Fletching Mastery(B), Bruhilda and the Water Sprite (Children), The War - Civil War - Great Divide (Compendium) (A).

“Ma'am! What's this?” Ren asked surprised.

“I'm sorry, I can't give you more credit than that.” The Librarian said. “There's only a hundred books in the Civil War Compendium.”

Ren's mouth dropped open, and she laughed.

“Your highness, you just told me about 20 books worth of information, and I confirmed that you know the little details as well.” The female dwarf smiled. “I assume that if I asked about House Lokmorn...”

“I could tell you they had 3 sons, 2 of which married into the Royal family.” Ren said automatically. “By the gods...”

“You see?” She grinned. “You know the whole thing.”

“Ma'am... I... thank you.”

She waved his thanks away. “Whoever taught you all of that really knows his stuff.”

“He sure does.” Ren said. Thanks, Teepo.

“You're welcome.” Teepo chittered humbly.

“Now, about reading another book...” The Librarian said.

“I'm sorry, but I have to go.” Ren said. “I have an urgent appointment that I need to get to before dark.”

She sighed and nodded. “Try not to wait so long between visits, okay?”

Ren chuckled. “I kind of didn't have much choice the last few days.”

“Okay, you get a pass for that.” She said. “I know what the Hole is like.”

“You do?”

She nodded slightly. “I'm allowed to visit my brother once a month.”

Ren stood up. “Hopefully, it should be better there now.”

“Only if they stopped the unfair betting.”

“They did.” Ren grinned. “It's all fair odds now.”

She stood up and gave him a hug. “I'll ask him about you.”

“Just ask him if the stew was good.” Ren said as he walked towards the stairs. “He'll know who I am.” Ren walked down the stairs and towards the doors, and turned to wave at her. She waved back and Ren left the building, then jogged down to the docks. He went to the building that Angeilin had said sold boats. He went inside and saw it was a huge warehouse, with a pool in the center that went out into the harbor.

“That's pretty cool.” Ren said, and a Shipwright came over.

“What can I help you with?”

“How big are the boats you have for sale?” Ren asked.

“That depends. Can you sail?”

“Not a bit.”

“Then I have some nice rowboats out back.” He said and grinned.

Ren chuckled. “Sorry, I'm more interested in big boats that need a crew. I won't be sailing it myself.”

“Are you thinking of going into the shipping business?” The Shipwright asked. “You'd have to register and apply for permits from the Shipper's Guild.”

“I shouldn't have to register if it's personal property I'm moving.” Ren said. “Or doing it for fun.”

“Fun, eh?” He said and smiled. “I haven't met a lot of you before 2 days ago when I had another guy come in here and buy a big boat to go out on the water.”

“What do you have available?” Ren asked, and the Shipwright took him out to the dock through a small doorway and showed him one of the biggest ships Ren had ever seen.

“That's even bigger than a normal-sized ship!”

“Noticed that, did you?” The Shipwright laughed. “I was trying to compete with the Humans and Elves, but the damn thing is too heavy to move fast enough to compete.” He sighed. “I sunk a few platinum into it trying to make it lighter; but once you put cargo on it, it bottoms out in the harbor.”

“How's the engine?” Ren asked, admiring the hull.

“The what?” The Shipwright looked around, but no one was there. “How do you know about that?”

“I came here on a ship, and it had an engine, too. It made great time crossing the ocean.”

“Oh.” He said. “As long as you don't tell anyone about it.”

“You're only the second person I've talked to about it, and the other person was the captain of the ship I came here on.”

The Shipwright nodded slightly.

“So... the engine?”

“Fastest on the market.”

“I'll take it.”

“You don't even know the price.”

“How much do you want for it?”

“30 platinum.” The Shipwright said, jokingly.

Ren reached into his coin vault and started counting out platinum.

“I was only joking!” The Shipwright said. “It's not worth that much.”

“Oh, right.” Ren said and used Appraisal on it. It was worth just under 5 platinum. “How much?”

“8 Platinum.”

“I assume you're charging for all the work that still needs to be done on it?”

The Shipwright nodded. “I've got to finish the cabins inside.”

“How long will that take?”

“About a month.”

“How many are done already?”

“Only 4. There's 6 more, counting the engineer's bunk and the cook's.”

“I'd offer to help, but I'm too busy at the moment.” Ren said and handed over the 8 platinum. The Shipwright left to get the deed and Ren admired the thing.

I'll finally get to see the engine. Ren thought, and after a minute, the Shipwright was back and handed Ren the deed. He stored it and spoke. “I'll see you in a month.” Ren said and started to walk away.

“Wait!” The dwarf said. “Who are you?”

“I'm Ren, from House Neram.”

The Shipwright's mouth fell open in shock and he started to stammer. “No...no...not y-y-you...”

Ren sighed. “Let me guess. You got an edict, too.”

The dwarf nodded.

