Ren slept the rest of the night, despite his desire to do more work. He opened his eyes and remembered where he was; in bed and being snuggled on both sides by a beautiful woman. He felt Narhilda move slightly and he looked at her. She lifted her head and looked back at him.

“I'm glad you coming home yesterday wasn't just a dream.” Narhilda said and smiled.

“I thought that for a while, too.” Nathalia said. “I'm so glad you're really here.”

Ren chuckled and it shook both women slightly. “I'd have dug my way out of there to get back here.” He said. “Especially if I'd known you'd be in here waiting for me.”

Nathalia, and her mother Narhilda, laughed.

“Don't expect this to happen again.” Narhilda said and blushed a little. “I just... when you were taken like that...” She sighed. “I spent the last 2 nights in here because Nathalia missed having someone else in the bed.” Narhilda smiled. “Of course, I missed you almost as much... and with all the things you've been doing, I...” She shook her head. “How can you do so much?” Narhilda asked. “I'm barely keeping track of everything!”

Ren squeezed her shoulders. “I'm sorry about dumping all of this on you, Narhilda.” He apologized. “I want you to hire someone to help take care of it.” Then he thought about it. “Okay, maybe two someones.”

Narhilda chuckled. “You're finally realizing how much you've got going.”

Ren smiled. “The revenue from the Hole should help some.”

“W-what?”

“While I was there, I arranged a better way for the fighting to happen.” Ren explained. “I'll tell you all about it over breakfast.”

“Can't... can't we just lay here a while longer?” Nathalia asked. “We were asleep for most of it, and didn't... that is... you're really here...”

“I think I can spare another half an hour.” Ren said and grinned. “If you're lucky.”

She got a surprised look on her face, and Ren laughed.

“I'm kidding.” He said and kissed her. “I'll stay here for as long as you want.”

She sighed and put her head back on his chest.

Narhilda tried to pull away to sit up. “I'll leave, so you...”

Ren held onto her shoulder, and her eyes widened. “We're just cuddling, Narhilda.” He said. “I don't mind providing comfort to you as well, as long as you know it can't go any further than that.”

Narhilda smiled and nodded slightly, then lay back down to cuddle his chest. “I've forgotten how nice it was to have a man to cuddle.”

Nathalia chuckled. “I haven't forgotten it; but I sure missed it when I couldn't do it.”

Ren hugged them both tightly, and they sighed.

Teepo? Make sure we're awake in an hour.

“You got it.” Teepo said.

Thanks, buddy. Ren thought, and just lay there, being cuddled.

********

“He's becoming quite the Casanova.” Bonnie said, then shook her head. “I wonder what Lucy would think about all of this.”

*

During her lunch break, Elise finally got the chance to review some of the thousands of hours of game footage Ren had made available to her. She watched in horror at his first encounter with wolves while gathering herbs, then smiled at his ingenuity with crafting clothes and potions. Her mouth dropped open as she watched The Smith Trials, and his determination to complete them.

I... I knew he was something special when I met him... but this... Elise thought as she continued to watch Ren's adventures.

“Ahem.”

Elise put the tablet down on her desk and looked at her boss. “Yes, sir?”

“What are you doing?” Edward asked.

“I've been reviewing the footage Mr. Haddon gave us access to in the proposal.” Elise said. “Have you seen some of it?” She asked. “The things he went through, just after starting the game...”

Edward smiled. “I've seen some of it, yes.”

“The differences in his VR body and his real life one are significant, even right after logging in.” Elise smiled. “If we can get the VR technology and the medical field integrated like he thinks...”

“Yes, it'll be a breakthrough unlike anything anyone has ever done before.” Edward said.

Elise nodded, then looked at the clock. “I nearly forgot to eat lunch!” She took out a small brown bag with a couple of sandwiches in it, and started to eat. “Don't worry, sir. I'm not using company time to look at the footage.” She said after swallowing a bite of sandwich. “Lunch was the first opportunity I've had today.”

Edward chuckled. “I wasn't worried about your time management, Ms. Stanford.”

Elise smiled. “You don't have to worry about that, either.” She said. “You saw the report and footage from the installation.”

Edward nodded. “You handled that quite well. I was impressed at your restraint.”

“I do have some willpower, sir.” She said and chuckled. “I went into the lion's den and found a cute little kitten.”

He laughed. “Okay, Ms. Stanford. I'll leave you to it.”

Elise picked up the tablet and kept watching. This is the best show, ever! She thought, then froze. Oh, my god! Elise dropped her sandwich back into the bag it came from and she typed up the proposal. It'll take months to edit it all, and change some of the scenes a little to fit a good narration... but... this could be the best show ever!

********

Teepo woke Ren up an hour later, and he opened his eyes. Both women were lightly sleeping and he smiled.

How many men would pay a fortune to be where I am right now?

“3?” Teepo asked, and Ren chuckled, which shook Nathalia and Narhilda. They sighed and took in deep breaths. Ren let their shoulders go and rubbed their backs. They wiggled a little, fighting his gentle prompting to get up. He kept a hand on Narhilda's back, and moved his other hand down to Nathalia's hip. She snuggled closer, and Ren smiled.

“Nathalia.” Ren whispered, and made a pinching motion with his fingers. “Don't make me use the key again.”

Her eyes popped open and she sat bolt upright to glare at him. “Don't you dare!”

Ren laughed, and Narhilda sat up as well.

“By the gods, you're loud.” Narhilda sighed and rubbed her eyes. “I'll make breakfast.”

“Let me do that, My Lady.” Ren said and sat up, too. “Rest here, and I'll come and get you when it's ready.”

“You're so sweet.” She said and laid back down.

Ren turned to Nathalia. “You can sleep a little while longer if you want.”

She nodded, kissed him, and laid back down as well. Ren climbed out of the bed and tucked the blanket back over them. He went out to the kitchen and made french toast for everyone, including Princess. He went back into the bedroom about a half an hour later with two serving trays.

“What's this?” Nathalia asked as she rolled over in the bed.

Narhilda smelled her favorite food and sat up in the bed. “It's french toast!”

“I know what it is, Ma.” Nathalia said and chuckled. “I meant this.” She waved to the two serving trays of food.

“I'm serving you breakfast in bed.” Ren said and put a tray of french toast, apple slices, and juice in front of each of them. “I made a lot, just in case you were hungry.”

While they ate, Ren told them all about his adventure in the Hole and that he was still charged with disobeying a Council edict, but was out on bail. They asked what bail was, and he explained that it was when you arranged to be released before going to court.

“What are you going to do now?” Nathalia asked.

“Keep working, of course.”

“Ren...”

“What are they going to do?” Ren asked and grinned. “Arrest me again for the same charge?”

“Yes.”

Ren frowned. “They can do that?”

“If they catch you at it.” Narhilda said.

“Then they won't catch me at it.” Ren smiled. “I'll be sneaky.”

Nathalia smiled coyly. “Can I convince you to relax for a day or two?”

Ren walked over to her and knelt by the bed. “I promise I'll take the whole day off tomorrow... and spend it with you.”

Nathalia kissed him and grinned. “I'll hold you to that.”

“What about me?” Narhilda said, and smiled crookedly.

Ren went to her side of the bed and knelt. “I promise to spend as much time as I can today... working on the Keep.”

Narhilda snorted a laugh. “You're always so practical.”

Ren grinned and gave her a kiss on the cheek. “I need to make a run to the city to check on all my missing deliveries, so I'll see you both later.”

They nodded, and Ren took their food trays.

“What are you doing?” Narhilda asked.

“I'm cleaning up first.” Ren said.

“We'll take care of that.” She said. “You get going right now.”

“But..”

“I'll ban you from my kitchen, if you don't drop those trays.” Narhilda squinted her eyes at him. Ren's eyes widened, and he put the trays back down.

“Yes, My Lady.” He took her hand, bent over it, then left the bedroom.

*

When he shut the door, Nathalia turned on her mother.

“What was that all about?” She asked. “That was kind of mean of you.”

Narhilda sighed. “Haven't you noticed? He's doing everything himself.”

“Yeah, but that's how he is.” Nathalia said.

“He shouldn't have to do everything by himself.” Her mother said. “He does too much as it is!” She raised her hands in the air in exasperation. “He's so busy making things for everyone else, he's forgotten how to just live for himself.”

“I know.” Nathalia sighed and took her mother's hand. “I'll make sure he doesn't work on anything tomorrow.”

*

Ren had stood in the hallway to equip his Travelling Clothes and Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, and heard everything that Nathalia and her mother had said.

Is that true, Teepo? Ren asked his friend, then walked down the hallway. Am I doing too much for everyone?

“Of course you are.” Teepo chittered in laughter. “But, that's what makes you, you.”

Ren walked out the front door and went to the stable to feed Princess.

“If you weren't helping people, what would you be doing?” Teepo asked. “How would you learn all the great things you've learned, if you didn't help people?”

Yeah, you're right. Ren thought. If all I did were things for myself, I'd never learn anything new.

“That would be a complete shame, not to mention a waste of time.” Teepo said. “You're doing things because it's fun... so keep doing them! You can do what you want.”

Ren took a deep breath and smiled. You're right, Teepo. I'm going to do what I want to do, and if I want to make things for everyone, then that's what I'm going to do!

“Darn right.” Teepo said.

Ren chuckled and pat Princess, then left the stable. He tossed Teepo in the air to check for what was outside the gate, and Teepo said Golir was standing guard.

“Drawbridge coming down!” Ren said, and untied it and let it down slowly. He opened the gate and Golir stood there with surprise on his face.

“There's a new gate?”

“Yeah, I made it yesterday.” Ren said and shut it with a resounding clang. “Doesn't it sound nice?”

Golir raised his eyebrows for a moment and then nodded slightly. Ren smiled and stepped over to him. “I'm sorry for ramming through the old one.” Ren apologized. “Wohrum told me last night you had to jump out of the way.”

“I didn't have to.” Golir chuckled. “That was just my reflexes trying to escape impending death.”

Ren grinned. “I knew you weren't close enough to be hit, but I'm sorry anyways.”

“Thank you, sir.”

“Let me make it up to you.” Ren said and took out another set of gleaming red full plate armor. “I gave Wohrum his last night.”

Golir equipped it and grinned. “Sir, it fits perfectly.”

“What about your sword?”

“Family heirloom, sir.” Golir said, as he took it out of the sheath with reverence. “My grandfather... he... when he died...”

“He used that sword during the Great Divide, didn't he?”

Golir's eyes widened. “How did you know that?”

“A good friend told me all about the Dwarf Civil War.” Ren said and smiled. “Your grandfather would have been about your age at the time, I think.”

“Sir! He was!”

Ren smiled. “May I?”

“Of course, sir.” Golir handed it over and Ren examined it. The sword was old and rusted, chipped really badly along one edge, and the pommel was worn smooth. It was still strong and sturdy, though.

“That's a nice blade.” Ren said and handed it back.

“I thought about having it repaired, but Pappy told me all the stories about how he got all the nicks and chips. I don't want to lose those memories.”

“I'm glad I didn't offer to repair or sharpen it, then.” Ren said and smiled. “I'd like to give it a good polish, though. If that's okay?”

Golir nodded slightly and handed the blade back to Ren. He polished it as hard as he could, and removed nearly all of the rust from the blade, and added a lot of Durability to it. Ren wrapped one of the straps of Spider Silk Cloth he'd sewn up when making the handles for his own weapon, and sewed it tight.

“By the gods!” Golir exclaimed and looked at the shiny metal. “It's magic!”

That prompted Ren to use Enchanted Eyes and saw it glow. He used Read Rune and Decipher and saw a blue rune appear on the metal.

“Hold this for a moment.” Ren said and took out his Book of Runes, and flipped to where the new rune would have appeared. He held it out for Golir to see. “What does this say?”

“That's my grandfather's emblem!” Golir said. “He said it gave him the ability to pierce the hardest beast's skin.”

Ren smiled. “Did he tell you what it was called?”

Golir nodded. “It says, 'Spear'.” Then the blade in Golir's hand shot out to 6 feet in length and nearly clipped Ren in the forehead as it swished through his hair. Both men had shocked looks on their faces. The blade had become a spear.

“By the gods! I'm sorry, sir!” Golir said and looked at the new weapon in his hands. “How in the world?” About 10 seconds passed, and the spear shrank back into a short sword. Ren took it gently from Golir and pointed it away from either of them.

“Spear.” Ren said, and nothing happened. He looked at it and the rune no longer glowed. “We'll have to wait for it to recharge I guess.” He said and handed it back to Golir.

“Recharge?”

“If my guess is right, after an hour, it'll be able to do that again.” Ren said and deactivated his active abilities.

“Amazing!” Golir said. “I never knew my grandfather meant what he said literally. I thought it was just a battlecry or something!”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, you'd be surprised what you can learn from old stories.”

Golir nodded slightly and looked at Ren. “Thank you very much for showing me this, sir.”

Ren shook his head. “Thank your grandfather. He must have put it to good use to come back from that battle, then raise a family.”

“That he did, sir.” Golir smiled. “That he did.”

