“Then everything is okay.” Ren said. “It said to stop deliveries, not stop sales.” He grinned. “You're not delivering it at all. It's staying right here.”

The Shipwright's face lit up. “You're right!” He said and grinned. “See you next month!”

Ren left the building and ran all the way back to House Neram. How's my time, Teepo?

“You've got about 4 hours before you have to leave.”

Perfect! Ren thought, and nodded slightly to Wohrum as he unlocked the gate to let Ren in. “Leave it open, I'm leaving again.”

“Of course, sir.” Wohrum said and left the gate open. Ren went inside and told Nathalia and her mother about everything that was happening, then came back outside.

“You can shut it now.” Ren said as he ran by and up the road to the workshop. He went inside and over to Dorcot's workbench. “Hi, Dorcot.”

“Hey, Ren! How are you?” He asked. “Prison has been good to you, I guess.”

Ren laughed. “They liked me so much they kicked me out.”

Dorcot laughed. Ren looked at the bench and saw it was covered in diamond dust.

“You shouldn't leave all of that out.” Ren said. “It'll get all over everything.”

Dorcot turned in his chair and Ren saw he was covered from chest to thigh in diamond dust, and Ren shook his head.

“Angeilin won't be happy if you show up for her looking like that.”

Dorcot's mouth dropped open and he stood up to shake it off. “By the gods, I forgot!” He said and looked down at his clothing. “I'm a complete mess.”

Ren chuckled and took out some fabric, then sewed up a kind of suit, based on one of Lord Neram's designs. He dyed it black, and made the lapels red and added a red handkerchief to the pocket. Dorcot had stood there in shock as Ren made an outfit appear like magic.

“Get those clothes off and put this on.” Ren said. “Be right back.” He ran outside and waited for one of the carts from the mine to finish unloading. “I need to hire you to drive a couple of friends to the dock, then go back and pick them up later if they need it.”

The driver looked at him in surprise. “I'd like to, but I'm getting 2 gold a day to haul this stuff from the mines.” She said. “If I leave, my friends won't get paid.”

Ren smiled. “Since I'm paying you, that's okay. I can guarantee you'll still get paid.”

Her eyes widened. “You're Mr. Ren?” She looked at him. “Where's your gold armor?”

He chuckled. “I left it off today.”

“Well, I guess I can...”

“Great!” Ren said and went to the back of the cart, and sewed up a nice plush cover for the back, dyed blue.

“What are you... oh, that's pretty.” She said as Ren spread it out and nailed it to the sides. “Hey!”

Ren looked at her. “I'll fix it later, or make you a new cart and I'll keep this one.” He said. “I don't need another cart, but I'll find a use for it.”

She just stared at him as he rambled and Ren hopped out of the back and went into the workshop. Dorcot had changed and he looked fantastic.

“She should love that.” Ren said. “Oh, wait!” He went to the workbench and picked two nice oval diamonds and enchanted them with double glyphs of Antidark (8 runes total). He sewed up 2 pillows with holes cut out of them, attached a strap, and stuffed them with cotton. He dyed them red, slipped in the diamonds, and sewed the pillows shut. Ren went back out to Dorcot and passed him the 2 improvised life vests.

“When you go out on the water, put these on and tie them. They'll let you float on the water if you fall in.”

Dorcot stared at the bright red pillows and Ren chuckled.

“One is for you, and the other is for Angeilin.” Ren said. “Your cart is waiting outside.”

“My what?”

“Your cart! Go! Go!” Ren shooed Dorcot out of the workshop and then helped him climb in the back. He sat down on the plush interior and Ren turned to the driver. “His wife is the receptionist at House Longore. Pick her up and take them to the docks.” Ren handed her a gold coin. “Hurry! You want to catch her before she leaves.”

“Yes, sir.” The driver said and flicked the reins. Ren didn't watch them go, or notice the women as they stood there and stared at him. He ran back inside and went down the secret passageway to the Keep. He ran all the way to the bottom and started to dig out the bottom few floors. He cleared out 4 feet of dirt from around the entire Keep, about 30 feet high and for the full 800 feet around it. He took out the cart he mixed cement in, made some, and then jammed the 1 foot long, 1 inch wide iron bars every few feet into the wall after dipping the ends in the cement. Ren left about 4 inches sticking out, and covered the entire area that he'd dug out. He took out the pieces of the mold he'd made for the Main House and used the pieces of wood to construct a wooden wall that touched all the iron bars sticking out of the stone wall. He used fresh lumber to cover the rest of the 800 feet with wood as well. Once that was done, he made up tons of cement and poured it into the thin one sided mold, covering all of the iron bars and filling it to the top.

How's my time, Teepo?

“You're just about out.”

I'm just about done, too. Ren thought and poured the last bit of cement from the cart into the mold. Whew! Ren stored the cart and climbed down the handholds and looked up at his handiwork. 30 feet filled with cement in just under 4 hours is pretty good.

“Okay, you're out of time.”

“Dammit!” Ren ran over to the ramp staircase and up to the surface. He came out of the workshop and ran down to the house. He was through the gate before Wohrum even had a chance to say anything. “Nathalia? Narhilda?” Ren said. “I've got to go, or I won't make it in time.”

They came into the hallway from the kitchen and Nathalia went to hug him.

“Ren! You're covered in dirt!”

He looked down at himself and chuckled. “Sorry.” He unequipped the clothing and equipped it again. Nathalia hugged him and he gave her a kiss. “I'll be back sometime in the morning.”

“I'll be here.” Nathalia said.

“I didn't see Croggart today.” Ren said. “Where is he?”

“He said he needed to talk to his sister and brother about something.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Make sure you keep the gate locked while I'm gone.” He said and kissed Narhilda on the cheek.

“Are you expecting trouble?” She asked.

“I am these days.” He said. “At least I didn't build anything openly.”

“What did you do?”

“I told you before. I'm fixing the Keep.”

“How? You were outside.”

Ren winked at her.

“You're fixing it from OUTSIDE?!?”

Ren chuckled. “It's the safest way. I'm doing the outside first, and then I'll worry about the interior.”

“You're crazy.” Narhilda said, and then smiled.

“See you tomorrow.” He kissed Nathalia again and ran out of the house to the stable. “Princess, I'm going for another ru-.”

She was by his side in an instant and Ren laughed.

“Just a second. You need your saddle and harness.” He got them from Ruck, who didn't want to go this time. “Okay. I'll see you tomorrow.” Ren said, stored Princess' crate, and Ruck gave him an 'okay' gesture.

Ren put the saddle and harness on Princess and they left the courtyard at a normal pace. Once they were out of the gate, Ren told Wohrum to not open the gate for anyone, and to let the other guards know. Ren took off running and Princess ran beside him. Once they went through the city and got to the road to the warehouse, Ren let her go and she ran as fast as she could. They did the same routine that they did the last time, and Princess kept slowing down to let Ren feed her and let her Stamina bar refill, then she kept running full out.

They made it to the warehouse in just under 5 hours and Ren took out Princess' crate. She got inside and Ren went upstairs to the portal. He went through it and came out of the cabinet on the other side.

“There you are.” A familiar woman's voice said. Ren sighed and walked to the bedroom, then stopped in the doorway.

“Who the hell is she, and why is she laying in my bed?” Lucy asked.
