There were other things. The smell, or rather lack thereof. The fall didn’t hurt enough either. My missing night-vision and the shitty replacement. Mila’s pulped body strewn in untouched grass, and, the most telling thing of all, the fact that I can’t sense my Spiritual Weapons sitting in my room over in Mom and Dad’s manor, which kept throwing me off. For the last year, I’ve been unconsciously using my connection with them to orient myself, and without it, it’s like I’m walking around blind and deaf, which is incredibly disconcerting. That’s why I felt like everything was off, because Zhen Shi didn’t bother to replicate it, because...

Because he doesn’t know about it, or my night vision, and he’s gotten so used to fields of corpses he completely forgot about the smell. He’s not perfect and all-knowing, and neither are the Spectres. He has blind spots, he makes mistakes, which means that even if he’s a Divinity, he’s as mortal as the next person.

Which means he can die, and that’s good enough for me.

“Please,” I retort, rolling my eyes with feigned indifference. “Your half-assed illusions are barely believable, once you understand the game. That’s the only reason you’ve stayed ahead for so long, because no one else knew you were playing, but now that you’re out in the open, your parlour tricks are mediocre at best.” Like watching a soap-opera with ham-fisted acting and immersion breaking product placement. Once you see it, you can’t unsee it, and while he had me going at first, I don’t think I truly believed him even for a second.

“Such disrespect,” Zhen Shi hisses, and his hand darts out to grab me, but this time I’m ready for him. No matter how far he stretches his hand, it will never reach my throat, simply because I will not allow it, and my will makes it true. From an outsider’s perspective, the two of us zip about the unending whiteness in a struggle to capture and evade, but from mine, we simply face one another while the world moves around us. My practice with Pong Pong serves me well, as this is almost the same as moving through water, except now, I’m moving the water around me.

Zhen Shi is good at the game, but not as good as Pong Pong, so we are stuck at an impasse. Maybe he can eventually chase me down and overpower me, but it wouldn’t change anything, because I am not here in the flesh. Our little back and forth lasts longer than it should since Zhen Shi refuses to give up, but as the seconds stretch into minutes, my amusement gives way to awkward pity and I consider throwing him a bone. Brightening up at the idea, I sigh and say, “Fine,” while allowing him to grab me by the metaphysical throat. “Happy?”

“Insolent worm,” he hisses, releasing his grip in a rage. All but growling his next words, he says, “But you are a talent who shows much promise, and much can be forgiven. Not just in the Martial Path, but in the tools of man as well, and this Sovereign has always been magnanimous in the search for Truth.” Extending a hand in invitation, he says, “Join this Sovereign, and he will not only restore you to glory, but also guide you along your new Path and bring you to never before seen heights. Refuse, and this Sovereign will crush everyone and everything you hold dear, while you stand crippled and helpless to stop it.”

Taking all of a second to consider the offer, I shoo him away and say, “Hard pass. Tempting offer, but I bet you made the same one to Gen, and we all know how that went.”

“Hmph, Gen.” Zhen Shi’s sneer drips with contempt as he scoffs at my refusal. “Blessed with luck and talent, yet possessed by such meagre dreams and lack of ambition, a waste of potential and promise. Still, not an investment entirely without return, for this Sovereign is nothing if not adaptable.” Eyes burning with fervour and excitement, he extends his hand once more, this time as if asking me to take it. “You, little worm, live in the dirt, and you cannot see the grand designs this Sovereign has in mind. You stand on the wrong side of history, for the Dog Emperor and his Imperial Clan are but parasites on the human race, and this Sovereign intends to remove them. You, little worm, you toil day and night to help the people, but while your intentions are good, your methods are flawed. You seek to feed, clothe, shelter, and provide for them, and in doing so, you consign them to death. The strong thrive, and the weak die, such is the law of nature, and what you do goes against it.”

“Sure, if we were all still dirty apes living in the jungle.” Scoffing at how stupid Zhen Shi sounds, I shake my head and explain, “Humanity’s strength doesn’t come from strength of arm or durability of hide. It is our minds which set us apart, and my ‘flawed’ methods are indicative of that. Your ‘Grand Design’ would have us down in the dirt fighting wolves and tigers with fists and fortitude, while eschewing bow and spear because it would make us weak, but you don’t understand the heights humanity can reach with our minds alone.” I do, because I’ve seen it, and I won’t let some power-crazed maniac hell-bent on ‘elevating’ humanity into half-Defiled abominations ruin my dreams of indoor plumbing.

I’m sick and tired of shitting in an outhouse. It beats shitting in a chamber pot, but it stinks and I hate it.

“Bah. Only a fool who knows not the heights of the Heavens would dare scorn its power so.” Waving his hand in dismissal, Zhen Shi harrumphs and says, “So be it. This Sovereign sees in you the hand of fate, a tool sent to stop this Sovereign’s grand designs, but fate is not enough.” Curling his lip in a derisive sneer, he adds, “Especially when fate’s champion is a broken, beleaguered, failure of a child who knows not what he is meddling in.”

“I know enough, and I’ll muddle through the rest.” Seeing an end to the conversation, I decide to test my theory and raise one hand to grip him. Not his neck, but Zhen Shi’s entire body, held fast in a giant, invisible hand controlled by mine, and to everyone’s surprise, it actually works. “Look at that,” I say, marvelling at my work and enjoying Zhen Shi’s shock and anger while I try and fail to outright kill him. “I’m learning already.” It takes an incredible amount of focus to keep him from slipping away, like holding onto a thousand slippery eels trying to wiggle free in different directions. There’s no way I can keep him here though, not without staying forever, so I might as well get rid of him. Positioning my other hand to flick him square in the nose, I add, “By the way, tell Zhen Shi, the real Zhen Shi, that I look forward to meeting him. You may have been the one to cripple me, but ultimately, I can’t hold a puppet responsible for his actions.” Doing my best not to smile, I plant a small seed of dissent in the Natal Soul before me, because I’m positive that’s who I’m dealing with. The real Zhen Shi can’t possibly be this... temperamental, which means this is his Natal Soul whose been infected by Gen’s mannerisms. If that’s the case, then maybe I can sow some discord between the Natal Soul and the original. I’m not sure if Natal Souls can actually take over the original, but that would be an improvement since it would be much easier dealing with this... Gen/Zhen Shi amalgamation persona than the scary, unseen puppet master himself. “After all, you only exist so long as he wills it. I may be a worm, but you? You’re nothing more than a slave.”

With that said, I unleash the godfather of all finger-flicks and send Not-Gen flying into the all-white walls, which shatter to reveal the empty darkness of the Void. Taking a moment to look around, I see and sense nothing, which is less than helpful in determining if I’m in my Natal Palace or someone else’s. With nothing else to try, I close my eyes and will myself awake, but when I open my eyes again, I’m faced with the same black, unending Void all around me, and with no Ping Ping, Pong Pong, or Zhen Shi to send me back to my body.

...

Okay then. Might as well try again.

And again.

Andddd again.

One more time.

...

I’ll try twenty more times, and then I’ll think of something else.

...

Might as well keep trying, since there’s nothing else to do.

...

Having long since lost count of which try I’m on, I close my eyes, will myself awake, and open them again. Closing my eyes to try again, they snap open as I take in the darkness around me, and find that it’s not so dark after all. This isn’t the void, this is the real world, with me back in my room at the manor. Rolling over to sit up, it takes a moment to register I barely even moved and that it takes a lot more effort to sit up than it should. “Hello?” I croak, or at least I try to, as my voice comes out dry and strained. Thankfully, I don’t have to try again, as something shuffles in the darkness and scampers around on my bed, as if running in excitement yet mindful of my presence. After a few circuits around the bed, the floof finally slows down as my eyes adjust to the dark in splendid Defiled darkvision.

Only to find an adorably pint-sized Ping Ping wagging her turtle tail on the bed beside me while tippy-tapping up a storm. Her smooth curves and wide eyes melt my heart, as does her loving Aura and furiously wagging tail. Before me is Natal Palace Ping Ping, albeit much smaller than usual, though now she’s the perfect size to cuddle and hold. “Hey sweet girl,” I half-croak and half-whisper. “Good to see you survived. Learned how to Aura too I see, which is cool.”

So still I didn’t even see it, I flinch as another floof ambles across my bed, and I come face to face with the chonkiest, grumpiest red panda in all of existence. Rather than coming to say hi, the darling bandit bear ambles over, hugs Ping Ping around the neck, and glares at me in a fit of adorable pique, all of which strikes me as too cute to be real. Reaching over to pat the panda earns me a dainty swat, though it looks like the little chonker gave it his all. It’s adorable, he’s baring his claws and fangs, but they’re so smooth and nubby. Leaving him alone for now, I tickle Ping Ping’s chin and ask, “So you remade your Natal Palace already? Why’s my room here now?”

Of course, she can’t answer, so I settle for a hug and nuzzle instead, and she finally gets so excited she lets loose with a chorus of squeals. Footsteps sound outside the door, and some seconds later, Luo-Luo sashays through wearing her silken nightgown and a tired smile. “Shush sweet girl,” she says, her voice melodic as ever, “You keep doing this, and we might stop coming in to see what’s wrong. Lord Husband will wake when he is -” gasping in fright, Luo-Luo freezes in place before letting loose with a piteous cry of, “Lord Husband!” Rushing over with unladylike haste, she jumps into the bed and wraps her arms around my neck while driving me headfirst into her frilly bosom, which oddly enough is more unpleasant than it sounds. I think she wrenched my neck clean off, and I’ll need a long, hot soak to smooth out the kinks. “You’re finally awake!”

“...Ugh,” I rasp, worried about the implications of actually being in the real world with a pocket-sized Ping Ping, but there are more pressing concerns to worry about. “What do you mean, finally?”

“You’ve been unconscious for almost two weeks now, Lord Husband.” Freeing me from her warm, bosomy embrace, Luo-Luo cradles my head and forces me to look her in the eyes, her expression a mixture of joy and concern while I idly wish I could hug the red panda which they no doubt got to comfort Ping Ping. “The Defiled have marched, and the war has begun in earnest. Rumours say the front line is readying to fall back, but whether they can evade capture before arriving at the second line of defence is a matter of some debate.” Pausing as if unsure she should tell me this next bit, she bites her lip and says, “Sister Mila, Yan, and Alsantset left almost fifteen days ago to lend their efforts to the fight, and I am unsure how they currently fare.”

...

Welp, out of the fire and into the frying pan. I suppose a few days to rest and recuperate would’ve been asking for too much, but at least I have a chonky red panda to cuddle now...

Chapter Meme
