Leaping out of bed, I pause briefly to make sure I’m clothed before bolting out of my room, though it strikes me as odd I was sleeping in my normal, everyday outfit. The unlit courtyard flashes by as I sprint through the overgrown grass and out the manor doors, which for some strange reason have been left open and unguarded. Rationalizing it as my Death Corps guards having been deployed to set a perimeter before I blacked out, my argument falls flat as I do the same after tripping over something hard and metallic only a few steps outside the manor. That’s what I get for running headlong into the night with faulty night-vision, but my muttered curses die down as I get a good look at what I tripped over.

Or rather who. Whom? No, now is not the time, this is serious business.

Pale face frozen in death, Kuang Biao stares back at me with unseeing eyes and lips stretched in a silent scream. There’s no mistaking his corpse for a sleeping soldier, as his torso abruptly ends around the rib cage, with the clean, glimmering cuts in his dark, Death Corps armour indicative of the work of a Honed edge. My knee-jerk reaction is of course to look for his lower half, but the investigation doesn’t take long as I spy another armoured, Death Corps corpse.

And then another.

And another.

And still, another.

Dozens, or maybe even hundreds of dead lay strewn about the fields, familiar Death Corps and Sentinels who died defending the manor doors. Dried blood, broken weapons, severed limbs, and putrefied organs help sell the picture, and as far as I can tell, these Warriors died quickly. Many died like Kuang Biao, bisected across the chest, and a bit of mental rearrangement is enough to conclude that whatever killed them did so as easily as killing chickens, slaughtering multiple Martial Warriors with every slash. Even Spiritual Weapons provided no defence against this foe, as I spot the remains of Tenjin and Tursinai lying side by side, with their shattered weapons scattered in the blood-blackened grass around them.

The further out I look, the more powerful warriors I recognize, and I slowly piece together the story from the clues left behind. There’s Kyung, lying atop Grandpa Du’s frail form, no doubt dying in an effort to protect him. Binesi and several comrades from the Famed Fifty came up from behind the assailant, but it did them no good as their opponent was not caught off-guard and killed them all in one hit, Peak Experts dying like chaff to whatever calamity befell them. Ghurda and Naaran led several former members of the Iron Banner in one last valiant stand right in front of the doors, and the killer took its sweet time with them. The aged, amber-eyed Naaran left behind a whole corpse, embedded – no, pulped and plastered across the manor walls, while Ghurda, strong, sweet Ghurda, kneels with axe in hand, as if ready to surge up and fight again even though her guts had long since spilled out of her belly.

This can’t be happening.

Following the trail of violence away from the manor, I head towards the pond where I last saw Ping Ping and continue unravelling this grisly tale. A massive crater in the earth stretches across the once beautiful fields, with bits of steel and bone embedded within the soil itself. Standing at the epicentre of the impact is Nian Zu himself, whose ragged corpse is only recognize thanks to a shard of armour with half the ‘Situ’ characters written across it and his unremarkable trademark mace sticking up out of the dirt. It seems he unleashed the Shooting Star directly at his feet, in a desperate gambit to take his foe out with him, but given the mess back at the manor, it would appear he wasn’t successful.

The crater removed a good chunk of ground, so I circle the outer edges in search of more clues. After an empty stretch of grass and nothingness, I arrive at the exact spot where Guan Suo breathed his last, which I only know because his corpse is still there, utterly untouched and exactly as I remember it. The furrows of dirt where Ping Ping dug in to guard him are still there, but as I approach, a splash of vibrant red catches my eye and my heart stops in my chest. There sits a lock of Mila’s beautiful hair, as fiery as her personality and attached to a section of tattered scalp. With detached dread and growing horror, I spot more bits of my wife dispersed about the grass, including two untouched legs lying beside one another and directly under the majority of her splattered corpse.

Something stomped her flat, probably where she stood, unarmed and still groggy from sleep. My wife, my Mila, is dead and gone, and I wasn’t here to save her.

No, I was here, I just couldn’t save her. Nor could her parents avenge her, as evidenced by Akanai’s cold, lifeless remains splayed out face first in the grass, with Husolt’s hulking form kneeling in the grass beside her, his grieving, horrified expression frozen in death. Mom and Dad are also here, their corpses lying just short of the Shooting Star’s blast radius and only a few centimetres shy of holding hands. Mom died first, which I know because Dad left a trail of blood and guts behind him when he dragged his broken body over to her, but it seems his body gave out mere seconds before he could make it to her side.

Cold anger burns in my chest as I turn away from this gruesome and heartbreaking scene, my grief and anguish given over to the fiery inferno. This is my fault, I brought this upon them, why did I survive where no one else did, these thoughts and many more tumble through my mind as I make my way back to the manor, but my singular purpose drowns out all the noise as my smouldering anger takes over. Inside the courtyard, I spot the clues left behind which I missed in my haste to leave, with Yan and Eun dead in a corner and the corpses of my pets tossed haphazardly about. Luo-Luo and her handmaidens are also here, though not much of them is recognizable, as are several of Grandpa Du’s student guards who moved in along with him. Grandpa really made himself at home here, but that was kinda the point when I invited him, so I really shouldn’t complain, though I could do without Eun’s efforts to frill up the place. Without bothering to study any of these macabre displays in depth, I march back to my room and take a seat on my bed before closing my eyes to seek calm. That’s more or less what Balance is, or at least, that’s how I used to see it. Returning yourself to a neutral state, unaffected by emotion, though the more I learn about Balance, the less sure I am about anything.

But I am sure about one thing.

This is all bullshit.

“You know,” I say, once I feel calm enough to control myself and ignore the torrent of accusations playing on repeat in my mind. “It amazes me that I used to believe your bullshit. Like, how gullible do you think I am?” My words echo out into the silence of the void, and after a few seconds without a reply, I shake my head and sigh. “Really? You’re going to pretend I’m not talking and keep playing games? Real mature.”

The dark room fades around me, and is replaced with a sterile, white room, so bright and nondescript it makes my head spin. There’s nothing to focus on, so I focus on my hands instead, until out of nowhere, I become aware of a kindly grandfather type sitting across from me. There is no chair underneath him, merely empty air, just as there’s no bed underneath me, for this is not the real world. I don’t know whose Natal Palace we’re having this meeting in, but I’m guessing it’s not mine seeing as I haven’t been able to visit since I shattered my Core. That means I’m either in Ping Ping’s Core, which has implications I’d rather not get into, or inside this stately and imposing aged senior’s Core, which means I’m kinda boned.

Why do all my enemies look so sharp and put together? Just once, I’d like an enemy with a hunched back or is prematurely balding or something.

“You look better than I expected,” I begin, studying Zhen Shi from head to toe and taking in his elaborately embroidered robes depicting horrific acts of war, engraved jewellery fashioned in the shape of human body parts, and his silken, luxurious, and neatly groomed full-faced beard, all white and soft like a unicorn’s tail. “I figured you’d look younger. Weird right? I mean, I know you’ve been alive for eight-hundred years, but like... who wants to live that long as a geriatric senior?”

The amusement drops from his expression like a sack of bricks as his eyes narrow in irritation, which is suspiciously transparent. You’d think he would have learned how to hide his emotions better, especially considering how he used to be an Imperial Scion of worth. I don’t know the details, but according to Luo-Luo, they don’t hand out ‘Shen Zhen’ (Divine Truth) titles to anyone. ‘Divine True Corpse’ doesn’t sound like the most prestigious designation around, but even ‘Divine True Diarrhea’ would be miles above my station, though I have no idea what the criteria are for naming conventions. Either way, Zhen Shi, or more accurately, Shen Zhen Shi, is quite possibly the most dangerous person alive right now, which means angering him probably isn’t the best idea in the world.

Well, I whatever. I have a headache and I wasn’t feeling very kind. Also, I’m pretty sure he can’t directly kill me here, else he would’ve already done so instead of playing make-believe with Spectres and illusions.

“The young and the foolish know not the true meaning of fear.” Stroking his beard with a strong, supple hand, Zhen Shi sighs and shakes his head. “No matter. Little Worm will learn this lesson soon enough.”

Little Worm? Psh. Sticks and stones. “Falling Rain thinks Old Fart needs to hear how speaking in the third person sounds pretentious as fuck.” See how he likes it. Jerk. “Now, is there a reason for this visit, or are you just smitten by my dashing good looks and rakish charms?”

“Quips and insults do little to hide fears and insecurities, little worm.” Despite the puffed up retort, the set of Zhen Shi’s clenched jaw gives away his anger as he studies me close. “A mystery, you are, an insignificant fly who irritates this Sovereign so, yet evades death time and time again through nothing more than random chance and fortunate happenstance. Long have you been a thorn in this Sovereign’s side, and for this, you, little worm, have earned some small measure of respect.”

“Gee, thanks.”

My next words cut short as his hand clamps around my throat, and all of a sudden, I’m not sitting anymore. He didn’t rush over and lift me off my invisible chair, he just appeared with hand around my neck and my chair disappeared, leaving me caught like a chicken bound for slaughter. “Your impertinence does you a disservice, so this Sovereign shall help you hold your tongue, while enlightening you on matters of importance.” With a smile smug enough to be called gloating, he materializes a War Bond in his free hand and holds it up for inspection. “While your ability to elude death is but a minor annoyance, this scheme of yours is vexing to the extreme, for its existence stands in complete opposition to the ideals this Sovereign holds dear. Finance and politics have no place in this world, for they are the tools of the weak to control the lives of the ignorant. Greed is a powerful weapon, so this Sovereign commends little worm for his clever innovation, and sees you in new light.”

Releasing me from his grip, he smiles and waits for me to gasp and catch my breath, but I don’t give him the satisfaction. While he was droning on about his ideals, I was remembering that this isn’t my body and I don’t need to breathe, so I could speak even with his whole fist wedged down my throat, though I’d really rather not try it. Brushing my chest off before taking my invisible seat once more, I raise myself until I’m looking down on him from above and say, “You have a curious way of showing respect, considering I just caught you making an elaborate illusion meant to drive me to despair.”

“What makes little worm think what he saw was an illusion?”

For one brief, terrifying moment, I wonder how much of what I just witnessed was true and how much was false, because some of it might well have come to pass. We forget because Ping Ping is always so careful, but she could easily kill someone like Mila whilst lost in the throes of panic, and I could see Akanai and Husolt losing themselves in rage while trying to avenge her. What about Mom and Dad? Would they hold back if they thought I was in danger? Not a chance, which means they could very well have died...

No, none of that happened. It was all made up. It didn’t make sense. The bodies all told a touching story, an obvious and picturesque one at that. Mom and Dad, Akanai and Husolt, Tenjin and Tursinai, Kyung and Grandpa Du, one or two such heartfelt tales of death and sacrifice I can believe, but there were just too many to have happened organically. Real life isn’t so neat and tidy. People die in ugly, messy ways, leaving things unsaid and tasks unfinished. Even people I didn’t really recognize had stories about them, and then there were stories I didn’t entirely understand, like Naaran smushed against the wall. Why him? Why leave him mostly intact for me to identify? Why not Grandpa Du, or Dad, or someone who I’ve actually had a real conversation with? Not to say I don’t care about Naaran, but he holds himself apart which means I don’t really know him all that well, yet a lot of effort went into arranging an artful death for him.

