Jasi bent over the table as Emme pulled out a piece of parchment she’d gotten from the Mage’s Guild. The [Director] relayed Erin’s words.
“She says…she doesn’t have any. None that she can think of. She says she watched parts of something called The Children’s Hour, but she can’t use her Skill to recall the parts she didn’t watch.”
“What? Can she at least transcribe all that she remembers? Maybe we can get Andel to use it. Although he’s got his head shoved so far up his behind that he’ll soon be nothing but ass.”
Dismayed, Jasi looked at the tight handwriting. Emme shook her head. She was still excited, though.
“Temile is going to get her to try. But see here? This is what she told him when he asked her your question. She says—why not just change one of the current plays? Like Juliet and Romeo. Put Juliet in Romeo’s place and alter the lines.”
Jasi looked up.
“But that’s not the same. Romeo is different from Juliet. Erin doesn’t get how the roles work.”
“Right. So that’s why I thought—let’s rewrite the scripts. Dead gods, we do it already! Let’s create a female role out of the male ones, so they’re believable and true to the performance!”
The Drake looked up, meeting Emme’s eyes. She hesitated, then smiled. That was more like it.
“Of course! But—Andel will never go for it.”
Emme looked innocent.
“Who said anything about Andel? He’s too busy over his masterpiece, anyways. Let’s just think about which play you’d like to adapt. If you had a preference?”
Jasi didn’t have to think.
“Macbeth.”
Emme raised her brows.
“Really? You want the traitor’s role?”
“I’ve seen Wesle do it. That’s the role I want to play, only as Lady Macbeth, serving my [King]—or [Queen]! And I want different lines, Emme. I’m not strangling anyone on stage. But I could knife someone.”
The Dwarf woman paused. But then she smiled. She turned and called across the inn to the Players still present.
“Orica!”
A woman looked up. She had been helping write [Messages] back to the Mage’s Guild, but now she stood up and hurried over. She had ink-stained fingers, spectacles, and so many piece of parchment that she needed a clipboard to hold it all. She rushed over. The second [Writer] for the Players of Celum who did the ‘silver-coin’ plays, which were simpler, involved modern events, and drew in crowds, nodded to Jasi, then Emme.
“Something you want, Emme? Miss Jasi?”
“Yes. Put aside all your projects for now, Orica. We want you to rewrite Macbeth.”
The [Writer] looked wary.
“Isn’t that Andel’s territory, Emme?”
She was a former [Scribe], unlike Andel, who had been a [Potter] until the written word had called him to produce his first play. Jasi liked Orica more, for all she lacked Andel’s pure creativity at times. Orica worked fast and accommodated a lot more than the touchy Andel.
Emme shook her head.
“Not this time. You see, Andel’s busy with his new work, but Jasi and I think you’d be better than he is. Because we want to rewrite parts of Macbeth. Not to change the language, but the characters. Jasi wants to play Lady Macbeth, and we want you to alter her dialogue. Tweak her performance to match…well, a female character. Change others too! Can you do that?”
Orica’s eyes lit up. She sat down, putting her magical quill and clipboard on the table. She thumbed through it, finding an empty piece of parchment.
“I can do that. You know, I’ve always thought how odd it was that none of Shakespeare’s works had female warriors in them. None at all! It must have been a cultural thing. But—I can certainly try to adapt the play!”
“Not too much. Just make it believable. Add in a few details that change the play!”
Jasi bent over the table, speaking eagerly. Orica was already jotting notes down.
“Of course, Miss Jasi. It’s just nuance. A lot of the lines work fine as they are, but I could completely see a scene where the [Witches] first greet Lady Macbeth as their own. Sister! Yes—”
“Pralcem will flip his lid when he hears about this.”
Grev appeared from the side, chewing on some dried jerky. He grinned as the three women turned. Jasi scowled at him.
“Stop bothering us, Grev! And don’t you dare tell Pralcem or anyone else until we’re ready—”
A figure burst into the inn before Grev could reply. Pralcem himself, breathless, desperate, turned as the Players looked up. He scrambled for words, then shouted.
“Wesle! Jasi! All of you with weapons, come quick! They got Andel and Kilkran when they were out shopping!”
There was dead silence, then Rima gasped.
“Who? What?”
The Players shot to their feet. Wesle jumped out of his seat where he and the [Bard] were sitting. He rushed towards the door. Emme grabbed for Jasi.
“No, wait! Let Wesle and the men—”
“Damn the men! Let go, Emme! Let me see!”
In her seat, Orica sat up and began scribbling fast as Jasi tore away from Emme. She charged out the door, after Wesle. She only had a belt dagger, but she’d lived in the poorer parts of Celum. And the Players were her family.
 
——
 
She found Kilkran and Andel surrounded by a crowd—and the City Watch. They were already on the scene and a [Healer] was tending to the two men. Andel had a bloody nose, and Kilkran had taken a blow along the head. Kilkran was babbling to Wesle when Jasi arrived, panting.
“They jumped us! Just attacked us on the street as we were shopping! Four of them! I thought this was a safe city! But they attacked us—ran off before the [Guards] could even get them!”
“[Thugs]. They must have sensed the gold your friends were carrying, sir. There’s a new group in the city. They must have been behind it.”
The [Guardsman] addressed Wesle. The [Actor] drew him aside, and Jasi followed. She heard the two speaking.
“—former Watch myself. How normal is this?”
The other [Guardsman] hesitated, but Wesle had a hand on his shoulder, and he was copying the former [Watch Captain] of Celum. The [Guardsman] straightened, looking abashed.
“Honestly? Rare, sir—Mister Salkis. Attacks in the open don’t happen in Invrisil, not like this! But as I said, there’s this new gang, and your friends must have been carrying enough gold to warrant it.”
“Those idiots probably had forty gold between them. Kilkran and Andel spend big.”
Jasi groaned. The [Guardsman] nodded. And his expression read ‘idiots’ as he glanced at the two sitting and being tended to. He turned to Wesle.
“We’ll investigate it and try to get that money back, Mister Salkis. But frankly, with the amount of gold your two friends were carrying and how they looked—they were easy targets. And the [Thugs] are no doubt in hiding.”
Wesle ground his teeth together.
“Can’t anything be done?”
The [Guardsman] shrugged helplessly.
“The City Watch keeps crime under control. But there are always high-level experts. You know how it is.”
Wesle relented.
“I do indeed. Thank you, officer. And if you find the gold, we’d all be much relieved.”
He turned back to Jasi and shook his head. She walked with him as they returned to Kilkran and Andel. The [Healer] pronounced them both fine, even Kilkran, although she warned him to lie down. The two [Actors] let Pralcem and some others escort them to the inn. Jasi glared around.
“Some welcome to Invrisil! Kilkran’s an idiot, but still! A mugging in the open? Isn’t this Magnolia Reinhart’s land? I thought she was the most powerful [Lady] in Invrisil! She has estates in Celum!”
“She’s one of them. But speaking as a [Guardsman], I know how the Watch feels. We’re not exactly the highest-level, most of us. And our opponents can be very high-level. Stopping rogue adventurers is a nightmare. Come on, we’ll ask Desirel about it.”
Wesle shook his head. The [Bard] was sympathetic, but he explained to Jasi and Wesle what they already knew.
“It’s not safe in all parts of Invrisil. I don’t know what your friends were thinking. Well, they were on the main streets, but even so! You don’t flash lots of gold in some parts of the city. But it is safe. Generally.”
“What about Lady Reinhart? Doesn’t she handle crime like this?”
Desirel shook his head.
“Nominally. Invrisil does pay some of its taxes to her, but Lady Reinhart prefers to let the Watch do its job. She’s hands-off, which means we get bad crime now and then, but it’s quite safe in Invrisil comparatively! Trust me, I’ve been to other large cities in Izril like Gaunt, and gangs have so much power the Watch won’t clash with them for fear of getting wiped out.”
He shook his head as Wesle traded a glance with Jasi. Gangs weren’t big the further south you got. But organized crime was something they’d heard was worse in the north. This was a surprise.
“Here, it’s just incidents. The [Thief]’s probably part of a new gang that moved in. They’re kicking up a fuss; putting out [Thieves] and even robbing folk on the street! The Watch is trying to get them, but the gang’ll probably abandon anyone who gets caught and leave in a few days.”
 
——
 
“Damn, damn, damn. What were you boneheads thinking? We’re doubling the watch on the vault! No—I’ll move it to the Merchant’s Guild and deposit some more with them tomorrow! For now, no one goes out with lots of money, or if they do, they get an escort!”
Emme cursed out both Kilkran, Andel, and the [Thugs] in general. Jasi nodded, watching the two battered men slump over in their seats. Kilkran put a hand to his head where he’d applied some ice.
“Demons take those [Thugs]! How am I supposed to perform tonight? My head still smarts, even with the potion! Anyone know who they were? Will they be found?”
“No clue. And the Watch wasn’t optimistic. You’re not performing tonight either, Kilkran. We can’t have you passing out on stage.”
“What?”
The man looked up, aghast. Jasi saw him try to stand up and half a dozen hands pull him back down and felt someone tug at her arm.
“Jasi! I know who got them.”
“What?”
Grev was looking up at her seriously. He motioned her over, and Jasi dragged Wesle over as Emme laid down her directorial law. Grev turned to the two.
“Greenblade’s Boys. That’s the group that got Kilkran and Andel.”
“Grev! How do you know that?”
The boy looked scornfully at the two adults.
“How can’t I? Everyone’s buzzing about the attack, so I stepped out and asked some of the kids I met. I’m a [Street Rat], aren’t I? I’ve got my ear to the ground and a Skill that lets me find out that much. The other kids, they say the Greenblades’re new. Just like that [Bard] said. They’ll be gone soon, but they’re flash, not builders. Better tell Emme to leave them alone; they’d be bad news to cross.”
“Flash?”
Wesle looked confused. Jasi had heard Grev enough times. She just sighed as Grev turned and nodded knowingly.
“Sure. Flash is gangs or people on the bad side of the law who run in, get what they can, and run out. [Bandits] are all flash; they don’t stick around. Builders and other groups though, they’re different. Like rats.”
“What do they do?”
The young boy rolled his eyes, as if Wesle was the fool.
“Builders build. They give back to what they take so the take’s bigger and they protect clients. Like the Brothers. Rats’re just never noticed. They don’t like attention, so they strike rarely. Oh, and there’s viners too. That’s when a gang gets as big as the Watch and fights anyone who tries to uproot ‘em. Like the Sisters. Back in Celum, we had some of the viners and builders, but both the Brothers and Sisters got wiped out in that bad job with Miss Erin’s inn.”
Wesle blinked. The [Actor] turned to Jasi.
“You know, I actually understood some of that. I should try to study a [Thief]. That would be a useful person to imitate.”
“And get your head bashed in? We have one already. Grev, thanks for finding that out. Can the Watch use the information?”
“Not unless they’ve got good [Informants]. And they won’t help much anyways. These Greenblades don’t want to stay, which is why they’re hitting hard. They’ll get out soon before they attract big trouble.”
“Well, I don’t want you getting into trouble, Grev. Stay with the Players.”
The [Street Rat] snorted, digging a pinkie in one ear.
“No fear, Jasi! I’m not getting anyone into trouble! If anything, you all need me. Kilkran and Andel were idiots for walking about with that much gold in their pockets and not watching where they went! I’ll show you where to go next time so as not to get jumped. Probably.”
When Jasi and Wesle relayed that to Emme, she just shook her head. But it was true that Grev had that element to him most of the Players lacked. They’d all been upstanding citizens, aside from Rima. And she’d only been arrested as a [Thief] once. They consulted with her and Grev as Emme, Wesle, and Jasi all discussed the issue. Jasi turned to Wesle.
“Do we need to hire [Bodyguards] or something?”
“We’re nearly forty strong as it is. If we have the coin, we can. They’d help keep order and prevent trouble in the audience.”
Emme sighed.
“If we can reliably pull a huge crowd in tonight, I’ll add them to my list of prospects. We’ve had adventurers and former [Mercenaries] in our audience! Fine, I’ll take care of it.”
“The important thing is just not getting into trouble. When Grev says this gang is gone, we’ll all be resting easier. Sounds like they’re just temporary. Just a bit of bad luck, everyone. That’s all.”
Rima agreed. Jasi relaxed a bit. She was prepared to discuss the night’s performance when Yimur burst into the inn. He stormed up to the Players.
“Raskghar take them! This is a disaster!”
“What now?”
Emme shouted as she stood up. Yimur wasn’t hurt, and neither was Medel. But both were shaking with fury. Yimur pointed, his furry finger quivering with outrage.
“Emme! Everyone! I was looking for a place to perform, seeing other entertainers. But Medel found—there’s another group in Invrisil! Acting! Performing our plays!”
“What?”
The room turned into a chaos of shouting. Emme slammed on the table for silence.
“Yimur, say it from the beginning! Explain everything!”
The news, when Yimur got it out, was simple. Jasi sat back in her chair, head spinning.
“There’s another group of [Actors]? Here? Already?”
“They’ve been here nearly twenty days! And they’re doing our shows! They’re calling themselves—get this—the Men of Invrisil. That—that’s not even intelligent! Men? What about Gnolls? Females of any species?”
Medel’s face was red as he gulped down water and slammed the mug down. An angry and uneasy murmur swept through the Players. Chellise looked around, confused and upset.
