“That’s an analysis you got from reading the play dozens of times, Pralcem! Are there any ‘Turks’ you know of now? Any nation? Any group?”
Pralcem shook his head grudgingly. Emme nodded. She gestured at the original script, lips pursed.
“We’ve had this argument before. But the fact remains that this Bard of Avalon was a master, but even he can’t write a totally timeless tale.”
“Each play tells a story about the Human condition—”
“Gnollish too, thank you!”
“—the mortal condition—”
Emme slapped the table hard.
“But it’s still dated, Pralcem! It was a long time ago, I think. And I agree; the original is fantastic. And we should preserve it. But a play should be adaptable to the modern time. Do you think this work is so weak that it would roll over and die if we change the wording, not the spirit?”
She looked around, and the other Players of Celum paused. Jasi gave Emme a nod of support, and Wesle had to nod with a sigh.
“That’s a good point. It’s just not as powerful as the original.”
“But it is accessible. We haven’t done away with the original language. Just simplified it. It’s a concession, yes, but this is a gateway to the classic. Without it, the audience becomes lost. More people than not won’t get into the style of Shakespearian prose.”
“I’m told that [Knights] in Terandria use a tongue that sometimes sounds similar to this.”
Rima murmured, comparing the original and the classic side-by-side. She handled the paper carefully, for all that each member of the group had multiple copies each. They could afford it, although the scripts were written small by [Scribes] to save space.
Kilkran just snorted, indicating his opinion of the [Knights] by spitting out a bug that had crawled into his drink.
“If they spoke half as well as the words I poorly spew on stage, they’d all be [Poets], not [Knights]. Pralcem had a point. Where did it come from? Or rather, where did Miss Solstice come from?”
The Players fell silent. It was another discussion they’d had often, when they weren’t arguing over the right way to read a line, practicing new plays, or performing. Jasi spoke up at last. Her voice was quiet, dreamy. The other Players looked at her with as much respect as Wesle. She and Wesle were the original [Actors], but more than that, they were the highest-leveled.
“She never told me. I think she might be afraid to let people know. Perhaps she’s a runaway. Or it’s a secret for another reason. Erin might come from some old village in Terandria. One of those places where people can trace their lineage back to before Humans ever settled Izril. Terandria, or another continent, some isolated place lost to time. I could imagine Erin coming from there.”
“Me too.”
Wesle sighed. He reached for a bit of fish, chomped it down. None of the Players were drinking, and they were eating lightly before the night’s performance. Experience had told them alcohol and overly-heavy foods was a mistake.
Emme was no [Actor], but she was equally sober. She drained her mug of water and filled it from the pitcher; the inn had some kind of cold magic, either in their [Cook] or some spell, so there was ice in the pitcher, a nice treat. Emme tapped the paper, her voice firm and commanding.
“There’s a place for the original text. But not on first showing. To draw the audience in, they have to understand the context of the play. Remember Wales? We can put on the original text to honor the Bard, but as your [Director], I have to insist we use the rewritten version for the majority of our plays. No more arguments now.”
She looked at Pralcem, and the [Actor] reluctantly subsided. The other Players nodded; the existential debate over the authenticity of the original text had ended, at least for the next few days. Doubtless it would come up again.
“Funny. I never thought my days would be debating the validity of my performance and travelling from town to town.”
Kilkran chuckled at last, and the room laughed with him. Who could have imagined? Jasi nodded and cast her eyes towards the door. She could hear raucous noise from beyond, but not that of drinkers; someone was declaiming in a loud voice, while others murmured, bickered, and more [Actors] recited their lines.
“How are the new recruits doing, Rima? Do you think we have a second set, or do they need time?”
The [Actress] grimaced, as did Emme.
“Give them a week, Jasi. They’re still a bit raw. Decent—but we’re definitely taking the first play. We can swap out with the second team to see how they do with us—”
Emme rubbed at her chin.
“The regulars won’t like it. They earned their spot.”
One of the other Players shrugged amicably.
“Well, let them take the leading roles in the other plays. And it’s just to try them out. No one’s replacing anyone, but they have to be flexible.”
Rima nodded enthusiastically.
“True. And we’ve some great talent. Shawli’s performance the other night was just superb. She played Elsa phenomenally. If she could just have Jasi’s gravitas…”
“She’s decent. And so is Medel, but he panics. You saw him freeze up playing Othello last week when he flubbed a line? They all need experience.”
“True, but that’s not as bad as actual lack of talent, Kilkran.”
Wesle laughed at the offended bald man’s ire over the lesser [Actors] in their troupe. By now, the Players of Celum were over forty strong. That included two teams of [Actors] to put on multiple plays back-to-back and in case of accidents, people to make dresses and props, people to apply makeup, help set up the stage—and Grev. Jasi hoped he wasn’t causing trouble out there, but she could hear his higher-pitched voice now and then, and he had changed as much as she had with the Players of Celum.
Gone was the culpable young boy who participated in Celum’s crime, leading marks to muggings or stealing coin pouches. Grev was still young and street-wise, but he was Emme’s left hand, managing and assisting the [Actors]. Emme claimed Grev was too weak to qualify for her right-hand status.
The Players of Celum were settling back, and Pralcem had just ordered another round of snacks to tide them over for tonight when they heard a crash and raised voices from the other room. The inner group looked up, and Emme groaned.
“What have those idiots done now?”
Yimur perked up his ears. The Gnoll waited and shook his head.
“A fight. Medel and Kassa are at it again.”
“Again? We should get rid of both!”
Chellise looked disgusted as she half-rose. Emme sighed.
“They earned their place for talent, but I think we might have to be more discerning about attitude.”
“We already accept only the best.”
Jasi pointed out reasonably. Pralcem sniffed.
“And we get more applications than we can deal with already! Attitude is absolutely a qualification! Those two should be out if they start another fight—”
“And how is that fair? They’re talented. And we were all lucky, Pralcem. Moreover, attitude’s not a problem with us? What about when you screamed at Seepurk yesterday?”
The other [Actor] colored, but Emme got up with a sigh.
“Let’s debate this after the performance, please? And we can’t have injuries now! I’ll settle this.”
“No, let me.”
Wesle stood up with one fluid motion. Jasi eyed him; she was halfway out of her seat. The [Actor] nodded to her and she stood—but let him go to the door first. Jasi cracked the door open so the people inside could see Wesle stride out into the inn. The remaining thirty-odd Players looked up as Wesle halted in the doorway. The [Innkeeper] and a [Bouncer] were trying to restrain a Human man and woman from attacking each other, but everyone stopped as Wesle appeared.
He had a presence. More than just his appearance, it was in how Wesle carried himself. How he stood—even how he breathed. And of course, acted. He stopped in the doorway and demanded silence and attention. And because it was a demand, it came. The Players of Celum turned, and Wesle snapped.
“Medel! Kassa! Stand down at once! Are you [Actors] or children? The Players have no room for children! Dead gods, we have a play tonight! If you can’t remember that, how can we expect you to remember your lines? Back to your places!”
The words had a reverb in addition to the natural acoustics of the inn. Wesle was, in that moment, the image of a leader. Which he was, but he was also playing the part. It was an odd juxtaposition, but Jasi understood it. Shamefaced, the [Actors] instantly stepped back, apologizing as Wesle went to address the [Innkeeper]. The man was clearly impressed and even bowed slightly as Wesle tendered apologies on behalf of the Players of Celum.
“Not bad. Was he channeling Othello there?”
“Maybe just a bit of [Watch Captain]. Good! That shut up those two hotheads.”
Indeed, in moments Wesle had returned, and the background noise of the Players of Celum returned as the quieted Medel and Kassa went through their lines. Wesle smiled at Jasi as he came back to his seat with a platter of snacks and she winked back. He slid them onto the table with trained grace.
“[Method Acting], Wesle? Perfecting your [Server]?”
Kilkran’s voice was droll and envious. Wesle looked up and shrugged.
“Just a bit. Practice makes perfect.”
“Dead gods, but I want to hit Level 20. It’s taking far too long!”
Rima grumbled as she forked a piece of hard cheese. Jasi smiled and rolled her eyes.
“Rima, it’s been months since we became [Actors]! You want to hit Level 20 within a year?”
“Why not? You and Wesle did! Five Families, Jasi! I feel like we’re all leveling faster than—than any class in the world! I leveled more recently than I have in the last ten years!”
Rima threw up her hands. The other [Actors] were nodding. Jasi smiled, knowing what she meant.
“Well, it does slow down after Level 20.”
“Says the Level 24 [Actress].“
Wesle observed, amused. Jasi raised one eyebrow.
“Says the Level 26 [Method Actor]. I haven’t gained a class change yet! Nor can I use a Skill that lets me copy someone’s talent!”
“Talent, not Skills. I’m only as graceful as a [Server]. I can’t predict which table needs a refill, let alone dodge fifteen thrown mugs or knives without missing a beat.”
“They can do that?”
“High-level [Servers] can, apparently. I’ve been shadowing a few. But I’m only as good as someone a number of levels below me. Ten levels if I’m familiar with the activity, but fifteen or twenty if it’s something like magic.”
“So you can be a Level 6 [Mage]?”
The former [Guardsman] smiled. He sat back archly and sniffed, reminding Jasi of a certain [Necromancer] that had worked with their company. Languorously, Wesle put his feet up on the table, seemed to feel that was overreaching, and sat up. He spread his hands on the tabletop and tilted his head up ever-so-slightly, adopting a precise, somewhat condescending tone.
“Don’t be so dismissive, Miss Jasi. Observe.”
He flicked his fingers, and eight or so sparks shot across the table. Kilkran, reaching for a bit of cheese, yanked his hand back.
“That stings!”
“You can cast magic, Wesle?”
He relaxed, abandoning his imitation and shrugging.
“Only if I work at it. I don’t get new spells, Rima. But it is amazing what insights I get! Yes—insights. There’s part of it I can’t copy unless I’m in-character. Like that [Bladesman] we met? He was high-level enough that I couldn’t form a good impression of him. But I can copy a bit. I think I’m limited based on the ability of the person I copy and my own expertise. Even so—I can do our sword-battles far better than before. I’d even be a better [Guardsman]. See?”
His face grew serious, and Wesle stood with a brisk motion. He drew the sword at his side, a memento from his days in Celum’s City Watch with one smooth motion. Yimur leaned back, waving one paw.
“Keep it sheathed, Wesle.”
“I have control of it. I know swordsmanship. But I’ve learned far more. And I can copy a Level 16 [Bladesman]. I feel—dangerous.”
Wesle’s voice was flat, precise. He traced an arc through the air, doing a quick cut and stopping it in midair. Emme ignored Kilkran swearing at Wesle; she was below the arc of his blade.
The laughter, conversation, and noise in the room came to an abrupt end as one member of the Players who hadn’t spoken until now looked up at last. Andel, the [Writer] who’d been hunched over his work looked up and made a sound. Instantly, Wesle lost his posture and nearly nicked himself sheathing his sword. Jasi sat up and looked at Andel. The [Writer] solemnly blew on the paper he’d been writing on and looked up.
“I’ve done it. It’s finished. My opus—my finest work so far!”
“What? It’s done?”
The [Actors] in the room turned to Andel, and the air grew suddenly excited. The [Writer] sat back, gulping from his mug of ale. He collected the pages, delicately filing them flat against the table, then handed them to Wesle. With great dignity, he sat back and exhaled.
“Yes. Complete. It needs some edits, of course, but it’s good enough to perform. Tomorrow, or tonight if we can get enough [Scribes] to make the copies.”
“Memorize the lines and do them on stage?”
Kilkran didn’t look daunted by the prospect, just doubtful. He preferred to workshop each line until he knew his role by rote. Andel shrugged as Emme, Jasi, and the others crowded around Wesle, demanding to see. Jasi stared at Andel’s messy handwriting. The half-Dwarf woman, impatient at being unable to see, turned to Andel.
“How is it, Andel? You’ve written it. How good do you think it is for your finest?”
The [Writer] pursed his lips.
“As I said, my finest. Not at the Bard’s level, but…yes, my finest. I’ve worked on this for the last four weeks. And leveled eight times in the doing. It may not be the equal to anything else, much less our ever-popular silver-piece productions…”
His tone turned scornful. Jasi looked up with a frown, and Emme’s brows crossed. She hesitated, about to reprimand the [Writer], but Pralcem spoke up impatiently.
“Come off it, Andel. The silver-piece productions pay for your masterpieces. You must have more copies, older rewrites, right? Let’s have them over. I want to read!”
Andel nodded. He produced older drafts, and the [Actors] took them, scanning the pages and reading fast while he explained what he’d changed. Emme grumbled a bit since there was enough paper to keep all eleven Players reading their own copies.
“You go through paper and ink like it’s water, Andel! It’s not cheap!”
“You fund my writing, and I produce the plays that earn you money, Emme. What do you think? As I said, I’ll have copies made. But I want to workshop it after seeing the reaction of the audience!”
The Players were silent as they read. At last, Kilkran looked up.
