“How is this possible? Did Miss Erin tell someone else how to do the plays? Is the door to Liscor here already?”
“No, no. It’s quite obvious, Chellise. Someone must have seen one of our plays and copied it. It’s not hard. Miss Erin had the same problem with her food, remember?”
Jasi’s head hurt. She hadn’t expected it, but she should have expected it. The other Players looked astonished.
“But they can’t do that! We do the plays!”
“What’s stopping them? What’s wrong is that they’re stealing our plays.”
Yimur growled. His fur was standing up. Jasi looked at him.
“You’re sure? They’re not just doing the plays Erin showed?”
“They have our dialogue! Our alterations! I watched them do Othello—poorly! But they’re not calling him ‘the Moor’. He’s supposed to be a Stitch-Man, just like Andel rewrote it!”
“Those bastards! How did they do it? No—did they steal my scripts?”
Andel shouted. He looked around, and his eyes narrowed.
“Or is there a spy in our ranks?”
Emme slapped Andel on the back of the head so hard his nose started bleeding. She had to stand on a chair to do it. She looked around, glaring.
“No one’s accusing anyone of theft! Think, Andel! They don’t need spies. One of the [Actors] we let go could have taken our scripts! Or maybe we dropped some, we have so many! Or they could have just copied the play after watching! It could have been anytime we were on the road. Even when we were starting out in Celum!”
The Players fell silent. Jasi felt angry, hurt. Betrayed. On one hand, she knew that being an [Actor] wasn’t reserved for the Players alone. But—but she’d started it! She’d made the plays better, worked on them! How could someone just steal what her group had worked so hard on?
Wesle raised his head at last. He had been silent, but now he looked directly at Yimur.
“How good are they, Yimur?”
The Gnoll hesitated. It was Medel who replied, angry.
“As shit as the new ones on their first week! But they’ve got most of the lines down; someone’s definitely been taking notes. Worse, they’ve got extra stuff.”
“Extras? Like what?”
“Music, for one. There’s a [Harpist], some [Drummers] for the battle scenes, and they’ve got a [Fencer] who can do fancy fights. But it’s overdrawn—they do the fight scenes as if that’s the most important part, and the music takes away from the reading.”
“Unacceptable. I’m going over there. They can’t get away with this! How many are there? Let’s all go and—”
Pralcem was heading for the door. Emme dragged him back by his waistband. She snapped at the other angry [Actors].
“Oh no! We’re not starting a fight! The Watch won’t be on our side. Get back, Pralcem! Let me think.”
She paced back and forth as the Players watched, anxious, murmuring angrily. Jasi knew what Emme was about to say as the [Director] turned. There was only one thing she could say.
“Let’s show them, then. If they want to play at acting, we’ll show them acting. We don’t fight. We just prove that we’re good. We’re here—”
“But they’ve been here twenty days! Apparently they were a huge hit the first two weeks!”
Yimur groaned into his paws. Jasi saw Grev slipping out of the inn. She nearly raised her voice, but she let him go. Emme’s face fell.
“Well—how big?”
“Big enough that I think at least ten thousand people have seen them. Probably more. They were huge, Emme. And they’re rich. There are eighty of them, and they’re putting on performances day and night! They’ve rented a warehouse—they’re performing from there.”
There was dead silence. And then an oath. Emme grabbed a chair and smashed it on the ground. The [Innkeeper], a former [Sailor], took one look as the Dwarf screamed curses and retreated back into the kitchen. One of the [Actors], Kassa, had tears in her eyes.
“They stole our thunder! It’s ours! All our plays—this should be illegal!”
Rima was looking around.
“They can’t have done them all. Can they?”
She looked at Yimur. He hesitated, and Jasi stood up.
“I think Grev’s going to find out. Let’s wait for his report.”
He wasn’t long in returning. The boy returned to the inn, looking uncharacteristically worried. Jasi turned to him.
“How many plays do they have, Grev?”
He hesitated.
“Hamlet, Othello, Macbeth—all of ‘em! They’ve got every play we’ve ever done, even the silver-coin ones!”
The Players stared. Andel sat down hard in a chair.
“All? Even my adaptations?”
“They must have been paying to have someone listen and copy us.”
Wesle murmured. The Players looked at each other. Pralcem stood up.
“Now can we kill them?”
Even Emme looked like she wanted to agree. But Jasi shook her head. She waved a claw for everyone’s attention. And when she spoke, it wasn’t in Wesle’s commanding voice. She didn’t have the same air. She just spoke from the heart. But there was an authority of her own there.
“No. Listen. I know everyone’s furious. I am too. What that other group’s doing is wrong. But we can’t fight them. There’s no law against what they did. I wish there were, but there isn’t.”
“There are laws against stealing ideas among the guilds! If they were [Blacksmiths] stealing an invention, they could be blacklisted!”
Kilkran growled. Jasi nodded.
“True. But there’s no Actor’s Guild. And we have to face facts. Even if we take them down, we need to build our reputation in Invrisil. So we need to perform. Tonight!”
“How? They have all our plays! Even if we do them better, we won’t draw a crowd of people who’ve never seen an act.”
“Then we show them what makes us different, Medel. Listen. There’s one play we have that they don’t! Elisial!”
The Players looked up. They turned to Andel, then to Jasi. Pralcem looked hopeful—then resigned.
“We performed it three days ago, though!”
“Even if they’ve seen it, they won’t have Andel’s updated version. And—Yimur, how good are these [Actors]? Can they memorize a script in three days?”
The Gnoll bared his teeth.
“That lot? I saw their best. And they’re lazy. They fumble lines, they don’t have any presence—no. I think they wouldn’t be able to copy Elisial already.”
“Then that’s our opening. Unless anyone disagrees?”
No one did. But people were sitting up in their chairs, nodding. Emme looked up. She stared around, and then clenched a fist.
“That’s right. That’s right! We can’t give up. We just have to prove we’re real [Actors]. Elisial it is. Grev! Medel! Everyone! Get the word out! Jasi, you’re lead. Everyone else, with me! Stagehands, we need to find a big spot, sell tickets, and put together a play by nightfall! This has to blow the other troupe out of the water, you understand? It has to be a success. Now move out! This is going to be the best play we put out or I’ll feed you all to Eater Goats!”
 
——
 
The play, the play! Invrisil glowed as evening fell. The vast city full of millions of souls was sprawling, filled with entertainment! But one group, the Players of Celum, had entered the city. And while they were not the first [Actors] who’d come to Invrisil, they were the originals, the best. Accept no substitutes!
And indeed, there was a groundswell. There was a wave, ready to be ridden. More than a few people had heard of the [Actors] heading north. They’d seen the Men of Invrisil, but tonight, the [Actors] hit the streets hard. Grev, the stagehands, Emme herself began spreading word that caught fire on the [Gossip] networks, that lit up the rumor mill.
“These ‘Men of Invrisil’ are fakes! They’re copycats who stole the real performances by the Players of Celum! You want to see good acting? Come see Elisial, a new play put on tonight! Go to Sedia Street—the warehouse. Seats are only six copper! There’s fancy seats. Two silver!”
One of the Players was a [Promoter], able to turn his [Town Crier] class into an even more persuasive class. And the jabs at the Men of Invrisil took to Invrisil like fire. There was, to Emme’s great disgust, a large audience of fans of the plays already, and news of a second troupe made them excited.
“Not second! The original! Tell Davion to shout that! Tell him to find people who liked the plays—get them here! And—and get some [Laborers], Grev! We need help setting up seats, and the stage!”
The warehouse Emme had rented was a flurry of activity. [Actors] were rehearsing lines; they had to get the new script down much sooner than Emme wanted! Jasi herself was standing, rehearsing lines amid the key actors. She turned to Andel—she was already reciting memorized lines rather than reading from script.
“Andel, my line here—is it—‘I would I had known thee sooner’, or ‘I would that I had known thee sooner?’ How deep is Lady Elisial here? Is she disillusioned yet, or am I reading too deeply into her character?”
Andel hurried over.
“That’s right! In fact, she’s already contemplating…”
Another pair of [Actors] were rehearsing to the side. Pralcem threw up his hands as Rami grabbed a blade.
“Milady, stop—”
“No, no! That’s the wrong version! I’ve rewritten your lines! Get me a new script!”
The [Writer] stormed over. Emme saw him snatch the pages that Pralcem was using. He screamed for a [Scribe]. Emme would have helped, but she was racing out of the warehouse.
Food! They needed food for the people! That was a huge source of income! The first two places Emme rushed into, a tavern and a pub, told her flat out they couldn’t provide for that many people and weren’t interested in trying. The third, a restaurant, was better. The owner, who was also a [Cook] who made food that was cheap and plentiful, brightened when he heard Emme out.
“[Actors], huh? I’ve seen a pair of those plays. Good stuff! Bit hard to follow, but it’s entertaining! I can give you…free drinks and dinner for a space and a cut of the profits? Or let’s say I share everything I take tonight, thirty-seventy? After covering the cost of my ingredients! That’s a generous deal.”
She stared at him. That was the worst deal she’d ever taken. But Emme, after hesitating for a moment, accepted.
“The ingredients come out of your share. But—forty-sixty!”
“Thirty-seventy and I’ll take the cost of the ingredients. It’s a lot of effort!”
“You’ll make it back. Forty-sixty or I’ll find someone else!”
The owner happily accepted. Emme cursed the lost gold, but she had food, a place to perform—she ran, panting, and nearly collided with a furious [Actor].
Not one of the Players. The man was shouting at Kilkran with a group of his friends. He was pointing at their warehouse and the line already gathering.
“How dare you! We’re the originals! This is slander! You copycats come into our city spreading lies?”
“Where’d you learn your plays from, huh? We got them from the source!”
Kilkran was bellowing, being restrained by Yimur and Pralcem. The [Actor] sneered.
“Our [Writers] came up with them of course—”
“Lies!”
Yimur and Pralcem howled. They might have gone for the larger group of [Actors], but Emme shoved her way forwards.
“Enough! There will be no fighting! You—you thieves! If you want to claim we’re stealing your work, recite us some of ‘your’ plays by heart! Go on! I know you do Hamlet—give us a soliloquy!”
“A what?”
Heads were turning. Emme smiled coldly.
“A speech! Come on! Act 3, Scene 1! Hamlet’s speech! I’ll give you the prompt! Claudius and Polonius hide, and Hamlet enters the stage! And—go!”
She clapped her hands and looked at the [Actor]. The man spluttered.
“You can’t just demand—that’s our play—if you want to see it performed, visit our theatre! I perform Othello! I’ll do his lines—”
He struck his chest importantly. Emme sneered at him. She bellowed over him.
“Real [Actors] know their lines by heart! And we perform every play! Kilkran! Hamlet’s speech!”
Instantly, the former [Smith] strutted out onto the street. In front of the crowd, he turned. And his golden voice was somber. Haunted.
“To be, or not to be? That is the question—whether ‘tis nobler in the mind to suffer the stingers and arrows of outrageous fortune. Or—”
Emme cut him off.
“Yimur!”
The Gnoll turned and immediately took up Kilkran’s lines. He took a different view of Hamlet, making the speech angrier. But his intonation was no less than Kilkran’s. Halfway, Emme pointed and Pralcem took up the end, a Hamlet beaten by fate.
The three [Actors]’ performances made the crowd stare, then cheer. The Men of Invrisil looked uneasy and backed away as people turned to them, demanding they do the same. They couldn’t, and beat a fast retreat. Emme waved her hands, standing on her toes for attention.
“Spread the word! The real [Actors] are in Invrisil!”
“Real? Well, I must see this.”
A man with green hair remarked to a passing fellow in a suit. The [Butler], who was busy eating a sandwich, paused and looked up. They both drifted into line. And Emme grinned.
“You were born to be a Gnoll, Emme. That smile’s worthy of one.”
Yimur gave her an admiring look. Emme bared her teeth wider.
“Let’s just make sure this play proves my point.”
“No fear of that. I might be out of it—my head’s spinning—but it will be fine.”
Kilkran leaned against Pralcem. Emme let the big man lean on her as she ordered both Yimur and Pralcem back to practice. She helped Kilkran into the warehouse.
“What makes you say that, Kilkran? Easy—let’s let you lie down. I’ll have someone help you to the inn—”
“And miss the show? Never. I just need to sit—”
The man sank down with a groan. He looked up at Emme.
“It will be fine, Emme. Believe me. After all. Jasi’s leading. Just let her take them, and she’ll never let them go.”
Emme paused. And then she nodded. She took a deep breath, looking around the theatre.
“Let’s just hope so.”
 
——
 
That night, the Players of Celum put on Elisial. And Jasi played Lady Elisial herself. The role was meant for her. An adopted child, a Drake who’d become a [Noblewoman] in Terandria who was caught between loyalty to her kingdom and her people fighting the Goblin King a continent away? Pralcem played her husband, Wesle, her lover. The stage was set for her.
And it all depended on Jasi. The [Actress] didn’t see Emme charging around backstage, the other members of the cast hurrying to set up, worrying over their lines, panicking, performing miracles. She just put on her makeup, adorning her scales with her magical supplies. She got into the dress, checked herself, and read her lines.
