Even so, the [Guards] at the gates hadn’t heard of the Players of Celum. They asked questions, using truth stones to get answers from Emme and Wesle. When they heard the group was a band of performers, one of the [Guards] laughed.
“Actors? Hah, what’s that? Similar to [Tumblers]? [Bards]? Well, whatever it is, good luck. This is Invrisil. Every inn and tavern has something special! We’ve got [Musicians] performing—you’ll find a spot, but you won’t be alone. Lady Reinhart encourages the arts and they come! Invrisil’s second only to First Landing for that.”
He waved them through proudly. Pralcem looked indignant, but Wesle only gave the [Guard] a relaxed smile. Confident enough to be humble. Some of the [Actors] liked to put on airs or perform like their characters, but Wesle, and to an extent Jasi and some of the other veterans, had begun to simply embody different personalities.
“We’ve had competition, sir. But we’ve done fairly well for ourselves, even near Invrisil. Can you point us to a decent inn by any chance? We’re hoping to perform tonight.”
His air made the [Guardsman] size Wesle and the Players up a second time. The [Guardsman] pointed them towards a nearby inn, and Jasi thought she’d see him in a seat that night.
“Did you hear that? [Bards] and performers? We might not attract the same attention with so many competing entertainments!”
Kilkran waved a lazy hand.
“Relax, Rima. We’ll blow them away. We’ve done it so far! Even with that [Court Bard], remember? Have a little faith.”
The Players nodded. They weren’t overconfident—well, some of them were—most—but it was well-deserved. They’d had full houses or full squares or pastures each time they’d performed. Jasi wasn’t as sure as Kilkran, but her nerves weren’t overbearing.
“Let’s find that inn. Then we’ll begin preparing for tonight! I want some of you to see what we can get around the city.”
Emme began barking orders at the Players of Celum. She was directing everyone—except for Jasi, Grev, Wesle, and the original circle. Kilkran agreed to go exploring with Andel, but Jasi slipped off the wagon as it rolled through the streets. She didn’t want to wait while the wagons navigated the city; it wasn’t exactly a traffic jam owing to the organized way the wagons were given their own space to navigate, but she wanted to explore.
“Emme, I’m taking off with Rima! We want to check out the city and do some shopping, maybe!”
The half-Dwarf [Director] looked exasperated, but she nodded.
“Fine! But find us in…an hour! Don’t you all wander off! Meet us at the Landlocked Cove—the inn. If we’re not there, I’ll leave someone to tell you where to go!”
“Got it!”
 
——
 
There were perks to being the first [Actors], the leadership of the Players. Rima and Jasi strolled along, taking in the multitude of shops, the vast city. Wesle had already left, towed away by Pralcem, and Grev had disappeared as soon as they’d come through the gates. Jasi couldn’t help but worry, but Rima was too excited.
“Don’t worry about Grev, Jasi. He can take care of himself.”
“He shouldn’t go alone. He needs friends, Rima! Sometimes I wish we had more children with us.”
“Well, we’re definitely stopping in Invrisil for a while. He can find himself some. And maybe Emme will convince a family to join us. But it’s Invrisil, Jasi! Stop worrying about your younger brother! Look at these buildings! They’re so tall! I never imagined they could be this high!”
Rima gawked upwards at some buildings, a precursor to skyscrapers. Jasi stared upwards as well, then realized they were attracting amused looks. She put a hand to her coin pouch, remembering Grev’s lessons in how not to be pickpocketed.
“Don’t stare, Rima. Let’s explore. And keep a hand on your coin pouch!”
They were hardly poor these days. In fact, Jasi had enough money banked with Emme to pay for any of the jewelry she passed by. Not magical artifacts, but the Players had deep coffers stored in the bag of holding under lock and key that Emme watched like a hawk.
Jasi’s first stop with Rima was in a shop with tinted glass windows selling all kinds of curios. She exclaimed over the shelves and bins full of goods as Rima looked at art pieces from other continents.
“Ooh! Look! Scale balm, this far north? How much is it?”
The Drake exclaimed, spotting a familiar label in Drake script. The [Shopkeeper] hurried over, smiling, seeing new visitors to Invrisil. Jasi looked astonished; the woman was Human, after all!
“Do you have that many Drakes customers, Miss?”
The [Shopkeeper] laughed merrily.
“There are a few Drakes here. But you’d be just as likely to find Lizardfolk since they don’t go south of Liscor. Still, Invrisil’s the last major city going south. And we get trade from all over! It pays to have some balms along with the other things I sell. I specialize in perfumes, oils for the hair and skin—or scales! This is a lovely balm; I’m told it really refreshes the scales. Only eleven silver for the tin, but if you buy two…”
Rima was staring at a number of wooden whistles, expertly carved by Garuda in Chandrar, apparently. Each one made a unique, shrieking sound and she took two to buy, digging out some gold. She found Jasi negotiating the sale of the scale balm—and a small palette of paints you could apply on scales.
Drakes didn’t use the same formula Humans did. Scales were smoother, and held powder more poorly than skin. They didn’t need foundation and blush and concealers, but they had to change how they decorated their scales, neck spines, and so on. Jasi was delighted to find an entire range of accent colors she could use to color her scales. They were powerful shades, and she showed them to Rima.
“I might swap this out for the greasepaint, Rima. Greasepaint is cheap, but this is good. And maybe a perfume, if I can fit it in my budget. Excuse me, how much is this?”
She conferred with the [Shopkeeper], who was only too delighted to make the sale. The perfume was too pricey—two whole gold pieces. Jasi still bought it, but she remarked to Rima that there was no way she’d be able to fit it into her arsenal. She paid wholesale for all but the perfume, not haggling for the palette or scale balm, but getting a few silver off for the perfume.
Rima was more canny, arguing hard to get a silver and four copper off her whistles. They left the shop, and Jasi handed the perfume to Rima. It had a dreamy scent, almost wild as well, like some flower blooming in a wilderness. That’s what Rima thought.
“It smells amazing, Jasi. Can’t you add it to your supplies? And lend me some?”
The Drake [Actress] shook her head ruefully.
“I wish I could haggle the price down, but it’s set at market value. So if I bargain well or get ripped off, it’s still worth the same. Let me check anyways. [Performance Supplies]!”
She touched the palette and it glowed for a moment. Rima watched, envious, as a passing group of girls headed for the shop stared with curiosity. Jasi closed her eyes and frowned.
“Looks like it’s…one gold and three silver. Huh, that [Shopkeeper] didn’t know its worth. The palette’s added to my supplies! And the scale balm…”
The tin glowed as well when she put her claws on it. But when Jasi came to the perfume, she only shook her head.
“Two gold and three silver. If I add it, I’ll have to get rid of more of my makeup. I’ll just have to use this bottle. Or improve my Skill. But look!”
She flicked a claw and produced a copy of the exact same tin of scale balm. Inside the shop, the [Shopkeeper]’s eyes bulged. Jasi just smiled, and Rima sighed.
[Performance Supplies: 5 Gold]. If Wesle had a number of Skills, his best being [Method Acting], Jasi had two good Skills. Neither was as powerful as Wesle’s, but this one Rima would have happily taken a sword to the leg for. It did exactly what it sounded like. With the Skill, Jasi could summon exactly five gold pieces’ worth of supplies before a performance.
“Jasi, do you think I could get that Skill? I’d love to have it.”
Rima looked sideways at the Drake. Jasi shrugged, peering at other shops, her tail wagging with excitement as she took the perfume and slipped it into her bag of holding.
“I don’t know how rare it is, Rima. But just wait until Level 20! Myself, I hope this Skill upgrades, like some of them do. Can you imagine that? If it gets to something like fifty gold, I’ll hire an [Alchemist] to make me a potion I can use for each play! Or even a scroll! I haven’t tried that, only makeup and dresses.”
“Leave the tailoring to our [Tailor] or the poor woman will be out of work, Jasi. There are better things to be had. Like your scale balm! Or the paints!”
 
——
 
The two [Actresses] lingered for over an hour in Invrisil, just wandering the streets. It was a far cry from Celum; practically anything you might want was available in the shops, and there was an entire industry designed to cater to visitors. Unlike Liscor or Celum, there were restaurants, guided tours of parts of the city—and yes, entertainment in every form! The two might have wandered forever, but Grev found them.
“Jasi, there you are! Emme’s pitching a fit! She says you need to check in!”
“Oh! We forgot!”
Jasi turned, embarrassed, and Rima started. They’d wandered far from their entry point, and now they were completely lost. But Grev had found them with uncanny accuracy. The young boy grinned at them.
“Lucky you have me then. Don’t worry! I marked you with my [Waypoint] Skill, Jasi. And the inn! We go…this way!”
Grev winked at Rima and impishly darted across the street. He was low-level, since he was a child, but he was a [Street Rat] and put his few Skills to good use. Jasi and Rima followed.
“It’s huge out there, Jasi! Streets and streets—I went for an hour one way and I still couldn’t tell if I was nearing the edge of the city!”
“You shouldn’t have gone alone, Grev! Remember what I said?”
Her younger brother rolled his eyes at his sister’s concern. Grev was as taken with Invrisil as they were, but his experience was far different.
“I’m safer than I would be with someone minding me, Jasi! And I’ve got a good idea of the city. There’s gangs, alright. But they’re keeping low. The City Watch isn’t as poor as Celum’s was, but there’s at least one big group. Probably more. You want me to find out more?”
“No! If you get into trouble, I’ll thump you, you little brat!”
“You’re too slow. And you won’t thump anyone for fear of ruining your fancy claws for the stage!”
Grev darted out of Jasi’s reach. Rima laughed, and the group returned to the inn in high spirits. The Players had set up in the inn they’d come to while they took stock. Emme was grumbling about finding a good spot to perform in, preferably the same place where they’d sleep, but she’d already paid the [Innkeeper] to let them put their things in a room for a few hours.
“We should have sent someone to scout ahead and find the best spot! I’m not setting up everything twice, Jasi, and location is key! Where have you been? Wesle found someone!”
Emme pointed at Wesle and a man dressed in colorful clothing, a lute slung over his back to Jasi. The Drake walked over, and Wesle stood up.
“Jasi! Meet Mister Desirel. I was checking out the city, and we crossed paths.”
The Human man blinked at Jasi, but she was used to the reaction. She smiled, held out a claw to shake. He clasped her hand gingerly, but she didn’t scratch him with her nails.
“Delighted. I’m Jasi, a fellow [Actor] in the Players of Celum. How do you do?”
She added just a bit of refinement to her voice and met the man’s gaze directly for a second. Charming—Desirel blinked, then smiled more genuinely.
“A pleasure, Miss Jasi? My name is Desirel, I am a humble [Bard]. Allow me to welcome you to Invrisil!”
Behind him, Grev rolled his eyes and made a rude and lewd gesture. Jasi stared at him for a second, and Grev disappeared. Wesle motioned, and all three sat down. He’d ordered an ale for Desirel—milk and a juice for himself and Jasi.
“We’re competing with a lot of other entertainment, apparently, Jasi.”
“I saw as much on my walk. But the city is massive. Surely we’ll find enough people for all of us?”
The [Bard] chuckled as he reached for his cup.
“That’s what I thought, Miss Jasi, Mister Wesle. But it can be difficult! So you’re the Players of Celum? Not a bad name, and you’ve come at a good time. Still, you’ll need a bit more flash than this to make a proper living.”
He gestured towards Emme and the others. Wesle raised his eyebrows.
“You mean…?”
“Music! Magic! Costumes! You have some, don’t you?”
“Oh, we have costumes. But we’re not doing…entertainment. We’re [Actors], Mister Desirel. We perform stories.”
The [Bard] wrinkled his nose as Wesle tried to explain.
“Oh? Close to [Performers], then. Well, I daresay you can find good work with the nobility. They always want some saga about them written, and there’s steady work if you’ve a decent group.”
“We’re [Actors], not [Performers], Mister Desirel. There is a difference.”
Jasi’s voice was polite, but insistent. The [Bard] hesitated.
“Even so, I’d say you need to temper your expectations. Your Dwarf friend was asking about getting into the biggest inns? Good luck! Even Gold-rank adventurers have to compete for our best spots. We’ve several Level 30 plus [Innkeepers] in the city. A few almost as good as that one near First Landing. And their inns—oh, fabulous. But as I said, even adventurers can’t just pay their way in. Named Adventurers and the biggest [Merchants] can—in fact, Ellia Arcsinger herself is staying in the city! But again performing in her inn would mean you’ve reached the top.”
“And there is a top?”
The [Bard] grimaced.
“We have a Level 40 [Troubadour] in the city, among others. You think you can compete? It’s hard to play your best music and watch her steal your entire audience. They don’t come back, or if they do, they don’t pay as much after seeing her perform.”
He glowered, all too ready to grumble about the problem with competing with people nearly twice your level to the two [Actors]. Jasi met Wesle’s eyes; she didn’t feel too worried, and he clearly felt the same. The Players had something no [Bard] could match. She excused herself after a few minutes to speak with Emme.
“There’s a lot of competition, Emme.”
“Well, I’ll see if I can watch this [Troubadour] and see what we’re up against. But listen, Jasi! Remember how I sent a [Message] a few days back to Erin? She replied!”
“Really? What did she say?”
