She didn’t have them all perfect. But she had [Eidetic Memory], a Skill that let her visualize the script and words moments after reading them. But there was a difference between that and knowing the lines.
Her world was one of sharp focus, and almost dreamlike distance at the same time. Jasi was concentrating so hard on each line, rehearsing with the rest of the cast, perfecting how Elisial felt, how she’d act, going over steps in her head, she barely noticed when it was time for the play. She had no room for fear. She fed it into concentration.
Even so, when she peeked out the curtain and saw the hund—no, thousands of people looking down at her, up at her, from the makeshift stands, her heart skipped a beat. This was perhaps the largest crowd she’d performed in front of. As Grev stumbled out onto the stage to give the address, the Players looked at Jasi.
Her head went white. For a moment, the fear of failure overwhelmed her. As Grev spoke, and the first [Actor] walked out on stage, Jasi felt the pressure beating down on her. If she failed—
But then it was her line. And fear left her. Jasi strode out onto the stage. She turned her head, as the magical [Light] spells conjured flashed across her scales. She gleamed in the limelight, poised, her eyes flickering across the audience, pausing on a face. They were a blur. And sharp. She turned her head and delivered the first line.
“If you fear my scales, sir, you’d do best to look beyond them. For my heart lies in Terandria, my home. I have never trodden nor dreamed of Izril’s shores.”
And from behind the stage, Emme sighed in relief. Because if Wesle had been the [General] and then a [King] from head to sole, here now stood a [Lady]. Someone sighed as Jasi swept across the stage to confront the [Lord] who’d maligned her. She was beautiful, dignified—and she shone with that same intangible, invisible light that Wesle had. It drew the audience to silence.
The play began in earnest. It wasn’t perfect. Andel had work to do, and Emme winced at every fumbled line, every slight pause. But it was true what she’d claimed. The Players of Celum, even performing a new script, even rushed, were far better than the Men of Invrisil. The audience, some new to plays, others experienced with the version they’d been shown, were spellbound.
It was Wesle, Pralcem, Rima—then Jasi, Chellise—Medel, all of the Player’s best. But this time, Jasi was the one who shone. And as the play continued, as the audience became more enraptured, the brighter she grew.
“She’s doing it! Andel, look at her!”
Jasi seemed to grow more animated, more real, as if the rest of the world were turning grey around her. No; she didn’t take away from the world, she enhanced it. She was using her Skill.
[Audience Charge]. Their attention on her was revitalizing. As Jasi performed, the eyes, the anticipation, all of it became energy. And she drew it in, revitalizing herself, adding it to her stockpiles, performing at her best. Beyond it.
Even the best of the Players would grow tired after multiple acts in a play. Even with stamina potions. The nervous energy a low-quality stamina potion would give you wasn’t the same as being at your best. But Jasi didn’t need a potion.
She drew her energy from the audience and slew them in their seats. Emme could see slack jaws, people comparing what they’d seen to an actual [Actor], who didn’t fumble, who made speaking the lines of the play natural—or heightened, as the scene called. Acting wasn’t recital. Anyone could read a line. You elevated what you were given or you strove to match it, never less.
 
——
 
Jasi remembered the play only in pieces. In the depths of her concentration, she felt herself staring at the audience, as if she were distracted. But really, it was the teensiest part of her that had time to even look at them. The rest was so consumed in her role that her memory only picked up pieces of that night.
Gaping faces. A man dressed like a [Butler], staring up at Jasi, a pair of Runners sitting agape, an adventuring team with two Nagas pointing up at her. A [Mage] with green hair, a Centauress Runner open-mouthed, practically dancing her hooves on the ground with excitement.
Flashes. In the end, Jasi lay, bleeding, alone, propped up on rubble torn from a failed plot. Her hubris and shattered ideals lay around her, the bodies of her failures. Jasi looked up. She spoke a line, and searched for something more. The life left her and she collapsed. The curtains swept close.
And the audience went wild. It was like a lot of performances. Except…not. Jasi looked up, panting, after she’d taken the curtain call and bowed repeatedly. The cast surrounded her, patting her on the shoulder, sagging against each other with relief. Jasi looked at Emme.
“Okay, I admit it. Andel wrote a decent play. I still want to play someone not motivated solely by love.”
The [Director] had tears in her eyes. She looked out at the audience demanding to see the cast, talking about how different it was from what they’d seen! And she shook her head.
“Jasi, after tonight, I’ll pay for a new play myself!”
 
——
 
That night, the Players of Celum celebrated hard. They’d done one performance, but Elisial had been huge. And it had put them on the map. They were staying in the inn, but hardly out of company. Aside from their own group, the inn was practically heaving with people who wanted to buy them drinks—and talk to them about acting.
“We’re [Actors]. I’m not sure what you’ve seen, but the Players of Celum are the best in—in the world! Or have you seen better?”
Kilkran was happily drunk, speaking to a man, possibly a [Merchant], who had bought everyone a round twice. The man shook his head.
“I thought I had! But the Men of Invrisil don’t have your…presence! Dead gods, when I heard the speech that fellow, Wesle, gave? I could have been listening to a [Lord] rallying me to war! And I would have gone!”
The man emphasized his words, slapping the table, making his stomach wobble in reply. Kilkran nodded.
“Oh, Wesle’s one of our finest. As is Miss Jasi there.”
“I can see that.”
The [Merchant] turned. Jasi was at the heart of a throng of admirers, male and female. It was the star effect in Celum, multiplied ten times. Wesle and Pralcem were similarly besieged, having played leading roles. It was something they’d grown used to, but not this much. Jasi felt overwhelmed, invigorated, still on an acting high. She could see Emme speaking with another [Merchant], looking excited. Jasi didn’t spot Grev, but she was sure he was about, crowing with pride.
Of course, that was when the door burst open and the thirty or so men with swords and a sash of green tied around the hilts strode into the inn. Everyone froze, and Yimur appeared at the stairwell. He bellowed, not seeing the [Thugs], but pursuing a short girl holding a huge chest. The locked chest with their gold.
“[Thief]! Get her!”
He leapt down the steps, chasing the girl—and froze as the Greenblades, the gang of men, formed ranks. The [Actors] and guests in the inn stared as a man with a long, curved hatchet of all things stepped forwards. He had scars on his arms, but he was fairly well-dressed. And he had an educated tone that belied the way he swung the hatchet.
“It’s a robbery, ladies and gentlemen. Don’t worry, we won’t trouble you long. But if anyone calls the Watch, blood will be shed. My people don’t want to linger in Invrisil overlong. You—girl. Drop that.”
The female [Thief] had stopped. She stared at the Greenblades—in horror. She dropped the casket and it hit the ground with a thump. The girl fled, leaping towards the back of the inn as the [Thug Boss] advanced. He eyed the chest, but stopped as Yimur reached for it. The Gnoll [Actor] froze as the man with the hatchet raised it.
“Ah. I meant what I said. That must be something valuable, right? Well, we’ll have that. And everything else. People, your coin pouches! And bags of holding! Don’t hold out or we’ll have to take your hand with the money!”
The guests and [Actors] looked at each other. Jasi was frozen in a knot of people. She could see some people in the inn hesitating. But most were petrified with fear. She looked towards Emme as the [Thug Boss] pointed.
“Your gold. Now.”
Emme met Jasi’s eyes as Wesle looked around. All of the Players shared a thought. That was all their money! If they lost that, they’d be destitute. There was some in the Merchant’s Guild, but—
But the [Thugs] had weapons. Jasi bit her lip. Then Wesle pushed himself back from his table. He stood and bellowed.
“Players of Celum, to arms! Just like Macduff!”
For a second, the forty-odd [Actors] stared. So did the [Thugs]. But then they realized what he wanted. With a roar, they surged to their feet. Anyone with a weapon—and a good dozen had prop blades or actual weapons—drew them. They held themselves as if they were going into a fight scene.
The Greenblades backed up a step, caught-off-guard by the sudden display of arms. The [Thug Boss] had tensed. He seemed about to retreat, moving swiftly backwards towards the door—but then his eyes narrowed. He stared at Wesle, then at the other [Actors].
“It’s just an act. My intuition Skill isn’t rating any of them as good.”
Jasi’s heart sank. The Greenblades were hesitant, but their leader wasn’t. He regained his composure and pointed his hatchet. At Wesle.
“Except for you. Drop the blade, fellow. Let’s do this civilly or I’ll have to paint the tables with your guts.”
Wesle hesitated. He was holding his sword, angling the tip towards the [Thug Boss]. He was channeling the [Bladesman]. His voice, when he spoke, was flat and precise.
“Kill me, and the Watch will hunt you until your grave. Unless it’s here. How certain are you, sir?”
“Wesle—”
Jasi looked around. She had only her belt knife and the other [Actors] were tense! What could she do? Charm them? Bluff? The [Thug Boss] only had eyes for Wesle. He didn’t reply. But he was raising his hatchet. And Jasi knew, from his posture, the way he moved, that he was going to attack—
“Alright, alright, enough, thank you! I was going to make another entrance, but I suppose I can’t if there’s no one to apply to.”
A bright, cheerful voice rang out in the inn. The [Thugs], the [Actors], everyone turned. And a man appeared in a flash of light from the side. He was holding a wand and aiming it at the [Thug Boss].
His hair was bright green, and his robes were blue, but decorated with magical symbols and illustrations of monsters woven into the fabric. He looked like the very image of a [Mage]—if Jasi were trying to play one on stage. He wore a charming, confident smile.
“Gentlemen, these are the Players of Celum! And you’d be doing a crime against art if you were to rob or kill them! I object! Back away, please, and you’ll have space to run.”
The man with the hatchet hesitated. He stared at the [Mage], flicking his hatchet up and down. Preparing to throw? He licked his lips.
“Don’t—”
The [Mage] moved faster than anyone could see. His wand flicked up and shot a stream of magical darts across the room. The green projectiles left tracers of light, but they’d struck before Jasi or the [Thugs] or anyone else had registered the spell.
Anyone but the [Thug Boss], that was. He cried out, staggering back, clutching at his chest. He’d blocked two of the darts with the hatchet; the rest had cut deep into his chest.
“Boss!”
One of the Greenblades called out. Their leader tried to croak something, but he dropped, bleeding. His gang stared at him. Then one of them grabbed a potion, smashed it on his chest, and they fled.
The [Mage] grinned as the [Thugs] fell back. They rushed out the door, not willing to try him. He kept his wand raised, then flicked it and made it vanish.
“Dead gods! Dead gods!”
Emme was breathing hard. She rushed over to the chest with their money and grabbed it. The room burst into a babble of relief, and Jasi turned. The man with the green hair was bowing, accepting thanks, but as soon as he saw her looking his way, he stepped towards her.
“Apologies for the quick spellcasting. But I’ve learned my lesson about making speeches. I do hope I haven’t ruined your moment, sir?”
He bowed slightly to Wesle as the [Actor] came over. Wesle laughed shakily in relief.
“I believe you saved my life, Mister Magus.”
“Please! After seeing such art on stage, I could do no less. It’s an honor to meet you. Mister Wesle, isn’t it? And you. Miss Jasi.”
He bowed as Jasi held out a hand. She stared at him, then caught herself.
“You have the advantage of me, sir. Who am I thanking?”
The man’s eyes sparkled with genuine delight. He swept a grand bow.
“Eltistiman Verdue, at your service. [Magician], lover of the dramatic—and hopeful [Actor], for your consideration.”
The [Actors] stared at him. Eltistiman looked up from his bow, meeting Jasi’s eyes. Emme squeaked.
“You? You want to join us?”
“After seeing your performance, how could I not? I can assure you, good Players of Celum, I am nothing but an asset. I can cast illusions, I’m proficient with a number of other spells—and I’m fairly good at fighting.”
Eltistiman stood up, gesturing at himself. The [Magician] was indeed resplendent, but he caught himself as he looked at Jasi. And she saw the same thing that had grabbed her staring out of the man’s eyes.
“I—I’d love to have a chance to do what you do. And I’m not the only one! But if I’ve earned any goodwill, might I have the honor of requesting an audition?”
He looked hopefully at her. Jasi paused. But then she shook her head. Eltistiman’s face fell, but Wesle, with impeccable timing, put a hand on his shoulder.
“Friend, with a flair like that, you don’t need an audition.”
Eltistiman Verdue blinked. And then he looked around and beamed. And then the Players of Celum had really, truly, come to Invrisil.
 
——
 
The Greenblades were on the run. The Watch was hot on their heels and their members were scattering towards bolt holes. The [Thug Boss], a man who was fast with a hatchet and dangerous, nicknamed…well, it didn’t really matter. In the casting of life, he only had a bit part, at least in this scene.
And here was someone else’s star moment. The [Thug Boss] was racing for a safe house when something tripped him up and he went flying. His two companions shouted, and the [Thug Boss], hitting the ground, scrambling up, heard shouts—cries of pain—then silence. He whirled, grabbing for his axe—
And Sacra kicked him in the face. The [Thug Boss] was tough and still went for his weapon, but someone else booted him forwards. Into a wall. The man decided not to go for the weapon after that. He raised his hands.
“Wh—what—”
