The amphibious dragon walked with clouds of mist over it. With wings that spanned the width of a house, its long neck stretched up tall as trees. It wore battle armor, encrusted in gemstones. Water flowed underneath the plates, keeping the beast hydrated.

It glanced at us with vertical pupils. Unlike before, there was sharpness in its eyes. It was intelligent. A moment later, something touched my mind. I looked around, wondering what the fuck it was. Seconds passed, and the presence knocked against my mind again. A thick, regal voice echoed in my head,

"Are you one of the fighters here?"

I glanced around, "Maybe. Who are you?"

"Ah, I forgot my manners. I'm Alzroth. I'm the giant across this stream."

I glanced up at the gialgathen. Surely enough, Alzroth stared right back at me. I thought out words,

"So you have telepathy then?"

"Hah! All Gialgathens do. We're born with it, as we are born with many things."

"Why do you want to talk to me then?"

He shook himself, a few birds flying from his black and white neck, "Just passing the time until the tournament begins."

I nodded, "Ok, so what made you single me out?"

He reached up with a leg, scratching his neck, "You're ambiance. You walk with better footing despite being the biggest one here. Rare to see a warrior from other races."

I crossed my arms, "Well, it's how I started out. By the time I had other options, it wasn't worth changing paths."

The giant scoffed, sounding like a whale breathing,

"You're small for physical combat. You should've changed to something more fitting your stature."

It was my turn to scoff now.

"Really now?"

The beast shook his head, "I meant no harm in mentioning it. It's obvious just looking at you. I still can't understand why other races take offense when I mention talents and traits."

I shrugged, "You're assuming a lot here."

He showed his teeth, each one like a needle the size of a chair leg, "These allow me to crush most dirtwalkers in a single bite. How would you overcome something like this?"

I laughed, "Your teeth would break against my skin."

"Such confidence. We'll see how you and your system measure up to the true might and stature of a gialgathen."

"I'll see you at the tournament then."

I snapped the mental link. The gialgathen shook his head, shocked by the impact of it. If fighting someone else's mind was that simple, then I'd ask Torix to teach it to me. With all my willpower, it might be useful.

A wave of chatter interrupted my thoughts. I turned towards the arena, and two fighters stood on both sides of it. They both wore power armor. One of them had the Steel Legion crest on his chest. The other wore the emblem of the Soldiers of Fortune.

An announcer floated on a hovering podium. Wearing a flamboyant, multi-colored suit, the commentator flashed a smile. He had a swollen head and a wicked widow's peak. In the most vanilla announcer voice possible, he spoke into an intercom,

"Welcome one and all to the 75th annual honoring of Lehesion! In the name of the gialgathen that united all the people of Giess, we fight in his name. Though many have tried, only seven humanoids have won the tournament. A gialgathen almost always wins!"

His podium floated over the top of the arena, and he stared into a camera, "This time I have the feeling things will be different. Now, onto our first battle of the evening."

He pointed at the Steel Legion member, "Representing the Steel Legion here in Icosah, we have Earnest Meldiano. An expert in pistols, knives, and traps, he's a fierce competitor."

Earnest raised his hands, and his buddies in the Steel Legion clique roared. The announcer pointed at the other fighter, "And on the other side, we have a returning veteran. He's come out of retirement folks. Let's hear it fore Iasis Klon!"

Pulling off his helmet, Iasis raised an arm. All of Icosah shouted out; his fame was widespread. I scoffed, whispering to Althea, "That's the dumbass that tried blackmailing me."

Althea raised her eyebrows, "Him? Looks a little scrawny."

I shrugged, "He's level capped."

She glanced off to the side, "Maybe I should try blackmailing you..."

I glanced at her, "What, why?"

She reached up and tapped my helmet, "Because your reaction is cute."

I rolled my eyes as the announcer boomed, "Are both combatants ready?"

They both nodded. The announcer boomed,

"Then let's rumble!"
