A hint of shame came over her, which chased the arguments she planned to make from her tongue. Instead, she moved to embrace the woman she loved.

She would make sure she learned everything Avyna was willing to share, which meant that they both needed to make it through the battle.

Once the sun finally rose, the preparations were handled as quietly as anyone could manage. Those assigned atop the wall acted as they had since the siege began. The base commander was determined that no one would tip off the shimagu—any more than Sentinel Aurora’s exceedingly visible arrival already had—so their enemies would be unprepared for what was to come.

It helped that the shimagu had largely given up on climbing the walls. While Ranthia was struggling with the twins, the shimagu had made a serious attempt to take the base. [Mages] destroyed hundreds of ladders and ropes during that conflict and proved that they could shut down numerous Skill-assisted efforts to ascend the walls. Since then, few shimagu made the attempt, which meant the shimagu were unlikely to see Remera’s efforts to prepare for a counter-attack—so long as no more shimagu eyes appeared in the frigid skies.

The day ended and the sun’s feeble warmth gave way to darkness. Ranthia, half a dozen other soldiers, and several dozen dwarves were soon joined by Sentinel Night and Mirage’s new teammate. They waited in silence, next to a wide—temporary—staircase of conjured stones that had been stacked. Their means to ascend the wall as swiftly as possible, once the 4th Legion arrived. Unfortunately, they would have to jump off the wall at that point (Ranthia’s former instructors at the Ranger Academy would no doubt faint if they heard that bit of the plan), but they all had the vitality to endure it. And to be fair to rationality, the defensive [Mages] were to intercept and negate any attacks during their descent.

Avyna was over at the improvised landing platform—beyond her sight—with Glorine and Aurora and who knew how many others. Despite every reassurance Avyna had offered, Ranthia’s heart still ached. The love of her life faced danger—more directly than ever before. …It was irrational and unfair to blame herself for Avyna being in danger, but it was impossible to silence that traitorous, hateful part of herself that continued to whisper threats of Avyna dying due to falling for her—she could be the direct cause of a dazzling, immortal life coming to a swift and bitter end.

As if Avyna had never faced danger before. It was selfish and ridiculous, but—

“Focus, Grace. I hear the approach.” Night’s reprimanding tone pulled her out of her own spiraling thoughts.

It took several moments and as much willpower as Ranthia could muster to grab her fears and stuff them into that dark place in the back of her mind where they wouldn’t bother her—until the nightmares came, of course. But hey, she was probably overdue to get some fresh material, especially since her most recent brush with death had remained a no-show.

A short time after she had sufficiently silenced her fears, she started to hear what Night had spoken of. It was almost like a low thunder that never quite trailed off. She had never heard anything quite like the sound; even an army at a run wasn’t quite as loud or as frantic a tempo as that. The question of what was causing the sound had nearly bubbled up to her tongue when the sounds of the shimagu’s alarm and their shrill horns echoed across the region.

This was promptly followed by the sharp crack of the dwarven siege weapon firing its deadly payload.

“Go.” Night’s order was quiet, yet everyone gathered heard it with ease.

The charge began in uncanny silence. The ringing of steel, of gear and armor clattering as they made their ascent, was the only sign of the armed men and women’s rush. It was only when they crested the wall and leapt off that war cries were loosed—after the shimagu could already see them. Attacks came at them, as barriers and other Skills intercepted or redirected the onslaught.

There was no time to send another prayer to Xaoc. Not that she really needed to send yet another—she was probably on the cusp of annoying Him after how many she had sent throughout the day. But when the flare of light from above washed over her, Ranthia was sorely tempted.

The [Starship] rose to war, and it carried Avyna with it.

Ranthia couldn’t pray. She couldn’t do anything more to protect the woman she loved more than life itself.

But she could dance.

Ranthia scythed through the shimagu with a fury that only Night outmatched. They spearheaded the assault then, after a moment of silent communication that they shouldn’t have been close enough to pull off, they each took their own direction as they ripped into the shimagu. The dwarven [Battlemaster] took a third, several beats behind the two Sentinels.

The shimagu army was caught entirely flatfooted. The shimagu hadn’t bothered to keep their melee specialists at the wall for some time—the only ones that could even answer them up close and personal were the few with flexible Skills and the smattering of shimagu that wielded big clubs or hammers in a futile attempt to smash through the walls. Yet those shimagu faced specialists that excelled at close-range butchery.

It wasn’t even a contest. Several shimagu fled, but most stood their ground until they were delivered to Black Crow. With Skills and crude implements, the shimagu tried to meet the threat, but they were hopelessly outmatched. And Remera’s assault group wasn’t going to give them the time to muster a proper response.

As soon as the area immediately in front of the gates was secure, the stone gates lifted as swiftly as the [Mages] dared to move them. The assault group split into two, just in time to make way for the charging legionaries that expanded and settled into their neat formations. The 15th Legion returned to the field at last, followed by Remera’s comparatively anemic ground forces.

Which left the assault group with little to do for the moment. They had to hold position just in case something powerful or big tried to hit the gates while they were open, but for a brief moment, they were freed from the obligations of slaughter. Which meant Ranthia could finally seek a glimpse of what was responsible for the omnipresent tremble of the earth and that noise.

There were enough ogres in the vicinity that it took her a moment, but she soon saw them through the gaps—centaurs. Sixteen centaurs formed a V-shaped piercing formation, and they charged through the shimagu lines with a momentum that refused to yield. Each of the powerful men and women wielded a polearm of some sort—though no two grasped quite the same weapon—with the exception of the absolutely massive man that led the group. He carried a shield that was larger than most doors in one hand and a massive war hammer that seemed as if it belonged in the grasp of some great statue in the other.

They weren’t the only centaurs. Others, carrying bows larger than anything a human could competently use, swarmed around the shimagu at a distance, moving seemingly without a hint of order, as they launched brutally effective arrows into the shimagu army.

Most of the centaurs were armored, though how heavy their armor was varied. Some favored leather armor or wood. Some had minimal armor over their more vulnerable spots only. Some wore complete metal armor like a dwarf. A few were all but naked, trusting that their speed and dexterity kept them safe.

The 4th Legion was in sight, but they technically hadn’t joined the fray just yet, though they were already spreading out to pincer the shimagu between the still-deploying 15th Legion. Remera would be trapped in the middle, but the base was in no danger of falling—it just forced the enemy to stay spread out, to remain vulnerable.

Unless something went horribly wrong, the fate of the shimagu army was sealed.

The shimagu’s [Leaders] weren’t completely incompetent. They recognized the danger and tried to muster their forces away from Remera’s walls, but the centaurs smashed through those that attempted to do so. By the time Ranthia and the rest of her assault group were free to enter the fray—once Remera’s gates were securely shut once again—the shimagu were already losing cohesion.

Many of their enemies sought to escape, as things turned sour and the net of Legion steel closed in on them. Some made it, but the dwarven siege weapon made even escape a costly affair.

Other shimagu tried to dig in and entrench their position, but the Coalition had numerous elite forces in play. Night and Ranthia tore through some. The centaurs crashed through others. The dwarves obliterated far more. And a group of gnolls that fought like feral beasts tore through the rest.

The larger dinosaurs were the priority targets for Remera’s artillery [Mages]. Sentinel Aurora’s [Starship] stayed near the thickest concentrations of shimagu ogres as arrows and a few Skills rained down on their enemies from above. Counter-attacks were largely negated by the defensive [Mages], though Ranthia’s heart threatened to stop when she saw someone get struck by a stray arrow and fall from the beautiful vessel.

As terrible as it was, she was grateful that it was some unfamiliar man that she wasn’t certain she had ever seen before.

The distraction should have cost her, but the shimagu were in such dire disarray that none of them noticed her lapse. The only Skill that fired off near her just hit a different ogre—which pulled her focus back to the melee.

Night vanished and reappeared numerous times as they culled lesser opponents. Six different times, they moved together to respond to a call of a probable twin, and each time, Night removed the head of a regular shimagu soldier with a marginally skilled parasite. There was no sign of the dullahan twin or the winged twin, even as the shimagu army was slowly crushed.

The base commander’s timeline proved to be a bit too optimistic. Night disappeared entirely and Sentinel Aurora was forced to put her [Starship] down inside the base before dawn’s rays could cause problems for either of them. But, by that point, there were no concerns about the outcome. The only question was how long the surviving shimagu could fight before they succumbed to the inevitable.

The battle to free Remera from the shimagu’s siege concluded before lunch.
