“If you need anything from me, hit Star and 9 on the phone. It's a direct line to my post.”

“Does everyone need one of these things to get in?” Ren asked, and held the keys up.

“No, just the owner.” The guard said. “You can give me a list of approved people and I'll open the gate for them.”

“Can I do that now?” Ren asked.

“If you want.” The guard said. “I'll get the form.”

“Thanks.”

The guard went back into the shack and came out with a clipboard and a pen. Elise took it and wrote down Stella, Barbara, Denise, and herself.

“Who else?” Elise asked Ren.

“Barbara's husband.” Ren said. “Gloria Rayford, Lisa Everet.” He thought about who else. “Just in case, you better add Bonnie, too.”

“You can always call and add people later.” The guard suggested. “If someone shows up that's not on the list, I'll page you with a double beep on the phone.”

“That's a great idea!” Ren said. “Thanks.”

“It's my job.” The guard said as Elise handed him the clipboard back. “Have a good day.”

“You, too.” Ren said, and Elise pulled into the Emerald Estates.

“Wow.” Denise said. “Get a load of this place!” She said as they drove past a huge sprawling three storey house with 4 cars out front. “Is that a Porsche?”

“Yes!” Ren said. “And that's a pony!”

Denise stared as a kid was led around a small grass covered lot on the back of an all white pony.

“This is so cool.” Ren said, then his eyes widened. “There it is! That's my house!”

The pictures online didn't do it justice. The lot was huge, and the house was nestled right in the center of it. It was also three stories, but it seemed grander somehow. They pulled into the driveway, and it actually made the Hummer H2 look small by comparison.

“I think the driveway was made for a tank.” Denise said when she got out and came around to help Ren climb out. “It's gigantic!”

Elise laughed as she got out as well. “I think it was planned for several people to come and go, and they wouldn't have to worry about getting blocked in by other cars.”

“I noticed that at the first house.” Ren said. “They were in a line, and they'd have to pull each one out to leave.”

Elise nodded. “Or drive onto the lawn.”

“I think the first three cars are just for show.” Denise said as she got the wheelchair out of the back and Elise stayed by Ren. “They only ever use the last car.”

“Probably.” Ren said and sat down. “I wonder...”

*Beep* *Beep*

A horn honked and a car pulled into the driveway beside them. It was a man Ren didn't know, and he smiled as he saw the woman in the passenger seat.

“Hi, Barbara!” Ren said when she got out of the car.

“Hi, Ren. Long time no see.” Barbara said.

“Sorry about that.” Ren said. “I was a little busy.”

The man, who Ren assumed was her husband, got out as well.

“Good morning, sir.” Ren said. “It's nice to finally meet you.”

The man grunted a greeting, and Ren nodded slightly.

“I'm glad you could make it on such short notice.” Ren continued. “It was my fault, actually.” He said. “I got caught up in other things, and I even almost missed breakfast.”

“I know all about you playing that game.” Barbara's husband said. “It must be nice to escape like that.”

“Sometimes.” Ren said, and glanced at Barbara. “I miss a lot of important things when I do, though.”

The man nodded. He knew what it was like to miss something when you were too busy to pay attention to them.

“Well! Let's go on inside, shall we?” Ren said and smiled at everyone. “Let's get a look at the house that I want to make my home.”

The group went over to the front door, and went inside.
