‘Sculpture’ would be a poor word, though. The island held an art installation. The main part was a perfectly normal pagoda-like structure made of air and stone in the center of the island, rising several meters into the air. The secondary part was the inclusion of four silver obelisks, half the size of the pagoda, that each stood equidistant from the pagoda, surrounding the pagoda like a square of silver. The third part was in the form of small bridges between each silver obelisk that arced from the white road, toward the pagoda in the center. This here was almost the same sort of structure as the Void Temple, with its four bell towers surrounding a much larger central building, except here, the bridges led inward, instead of from bell tower to bell tower.

And it reminded him...

Ezekiel tried to follow Xue and Sikali toward Clan Star Song’s gate, but he stopped and stared at the art installation.

From a certain angle…

The art piece was missing the full square of silver metal, but the obelisks did a great job of giving the impression of something that was only half there, and this way, one could see the art from any angle and they’d know what they were looking at. The main thing here was the pagoda made of air and stone in the center of the island. It had a distinctive shape. It was seven-sided, and there were no walls. Just curling roofs and plain pillars and many same-sized levels. This was a shape and style that Ezekiel had only ever seen in one place.

It was exactly like the pagodas of air and stone that he had seen beyond the Gate inside the Green Labyrinth, the Twisted Vision which held the only stable dragon culture on Veird. This art piece was missing all the people milling around at the market, but the structure of it all was exactly the same. This pagoda was entirely non-magical. Ezekiel already had his mana sense fully open and—

Xue’s voice brought Ezekiel back to the moment.

“What?” Ezekiel said as he turned to the man, more startled, than angry. “Can I help you?”

Xue was sweating. Why was he sweating? Sikali looked equally curbed, though less worried about the moment than her husband. Oh. Xue knew what this art installation meant. Sikali might be aware, or maybe not. Or maybe both of them had only heard part of the truth. Maybe they knew nothing?

Maybe they knew everything.

Xue said, “Apologies, Scion. I was commenting on the stone garden.”

Ezekiel asked, “How long has this been here?”

“Hundreds of years. The Elders refuse to have it changed seasonally, as we change all the rest.” Xue said, “I could ask around if you wish to know more.”

“Another time.” Ezekiel said, “Let us attend the gathering.”

Xue bowed, and this time it was a true bow of deference. His wife gave Xue a strange, appraising look, before she followed his lead. When they both stood, Xue led the way forward, into Clan Star Song.

The gathering had already begun. The scents of cooked rice and a hundred delicacies from savory to sweet drifted on the breeze as the sounds of stringed instruments filled the night. Odin sang in soft harmony upon Ezekiel’s shoulder.
