“… I assume that means to have competency with aura control enough to remake spellwork, or cast magic, or otherwise?”

“Yes.”

“No.”

His lack of aura control was likely his biggest flaw. If Kaffi was asking about it, though, maybe she was able to solve that problem, so it was better to be truthful, there.

Kaffi sat back in her chair, relaxing into the pose of a teacher. “Do you have any spells you are working on right now?”

“Yes. I considered making a Rift the other day, but I realized that I should wait and do so here, to see how you do it.”

“We can make a Rift some other time.” Kaffi asked, “Do you play an instrument?”

“No. And I have little interest in learning one.”

“The aura is an instrument, too.”

“Uh.” Ezekiel’s eyebrows scrunched together. “It is?” He rapidly added, “I never considered it as such.”

“Of course it is. Do you know the spell we use to sing the Void Song?”

“Not exactly. But I have heard people speak of it as a simple spell that doesn’t seem like it should be able to lock out all the magic that it does lock out.”

Kaffi gestured. A blue box appeared.

Song of Annihilation, instant, super long range, aura, 50 mana per second + Special Cost

Call to the Void.

Multiple singers can join together to lessen the cost of this magic.

Kaffi said, “My [Song of Annihilation] is just one of several variants of the Void Song. The spells that other Singers create might not match mine exactly, so depending on which song a Singer unlocks, they might prefer to go to a different city of the Highlands where their talents better match those there, thus the costs of their magics will be lowered. Eralis, Alaralti, or Holorulo, or even one of the smaller suburbs with their own Singers; there aren’t many extra places for Singers to go, but they do exist.

“Or a new Singer might end up a Wandering Singer, if their song is one of the more useful and stranger variants. Either in war or protection, depending on their own predilections. A new Singer might even rise to become a member of High Clan Void Song itself, located primarily in Holorulo.

“Any potential Void Song, whichever version a person gets, doesn’t do that much. On its own, my [Song of Annihilation] is capable of rather devastating magical disruption, but it will not hurt a person, and it will only [Dispel] any targeted magics after I spend just as much mana as I would need to spend with a normal [Dispel] method. Void Songs are useless without all the other training we can give you.

“But! With the knowledge and training that we can give you, you can turn any similar spell you might create under us into a power similar to the Void Song that you hear out there in Eralis. With the control I learned here, my [Song of Annihilation] can [Dispel] for fractions of the cost, affecting entire warbands. With what I learned here, when I sing out there under the Grand Coil Bell, my power helps to protect the entire city of Eralis from threats without and within, making my fair city one of the safest cities on all of Veird. All it took me was five years of training, thirty years ago, and I have never once regretted this decision.” Kaffi asked, “Would you like to become a Singer, too, Scion Phoenix?”

Ezekiel most certainly did not want to do that. Not right now, and maybe not ever. Except... There was a conviction in Kaffi’s voice that made him wander down that path of thought. He took three metaphorical steps down that path, then turned right back around, and said, “Not this year. Not right now.”

Kaffi bottled up her disappointment, and said, “Then the knowledge I can give you will be not as much as you could have, otherwise.”

“Thank you for the attempt to persuade me to join your Temple. I am honored that you would ask. But I cannot give any promises regarding any lengthy terms of service that I am sure you would require of—”

“It is a five-year course, but the majority of the training is in the first year, and you are free to leave after those five years. We have a 90% retainment rate after that five-year course and our mortality rate of those who go out into the field is less than 1 percent. At the end of those five years, you will be given staff under your command who you can integrate into your own staff as you wish. You are protected when you become a Singer, and you will have the power to protect others, too. We will work with your needs.”

Now that was surprising. “It sounds like you are creating minor Clans all over the place.” Ezekiel asked, “What do you get out of offering such good terms?”

“We are creating minor Clans, because the Highlands expand. Four hundred and forty years ago the Songli Compact was signed by the now-High Clans Void Song, Devouring Nightmare, and Severing Crescent. Every year we bring more and more people into our aegis of protection and prosperity. Every year we expand from Holorulo, Alaralti, and Eralis; the three cities founded at our beginning.

“For we are Empire. We are charged with the holy duty to protect those who need protecting, and to empower those who seek power. We are always looking for new Singers to come to the Highlands, to join in our cause, and to put down roots in our great land.” Kaffi said, “With our ability to link to each other and cooperative cast, us Singers are like archmages to the rest of the world. What say you now, Ezekiel Phoenix? Do you not wish to become unto an archmage? Do you truly wish to pass up this opportunity?”

Ezekiel said, “I have opportunity already. I have obligations already. I cannot accept this option. I will accept the lesser training, please.”

Kaffi breathed in, then slowly released that breath. She was angry, yes, but mostly she was terribly frustrated. “Very well.” She took another breath and banished all irritation. “We have a few avenues of instruction open to outsiders. The mundane options are to learn an instrument, of which we have teachers for every instrument. Aura Song is not covered in this. This option is considerably cheaper than magical training. Are you interested in this?”

“No. I want the magical training.”

“Very well. It sounds like you are well versed in the normal functionality of much of what we do, so past a preliminary course, which should last anywhere between a day to a week and will be where you are assisted in making your Rift, the magical options are thus: Learning aura control, which then leads to Aura Song, which then leads to Cooperative Casting. This is the largest option. We also have Tier Work and Remake Quests, which sounds like something that you are already able to do. Then there are incantations and the molding of currently possessed magic into avenues of power that aren’t fully listed in the spells which you already possess.” Kaffi said, “Pick a path, and I will get you a teacher. You will have a month of instruction for your 5000 gold, and then you are cut off. Should you change your mind and choose to become a Singer, or should you choose to become integrated into the Clans of Eralis in some other, deeper way, we can reevaluate your continued education at that time.”

His choice was immediate. “Aura control.”

“This is the hardest of the paths. Are you sure? You might consume your entire month of lessons and not learn anything.”

“It will be a month well spent to learn whatever I can from the Songstresses of the Highlands.” He had never gotten far with aura control at all, and if the Songstresses had methods he could learn, then he would darn well learn them. He was glad he had been truthful about that part of his deficiencies.

“Very well. Your first lesson will be tomorrow at daybreak.” Kaffi stood, saying, “And we call each other Singers these days; ‘Songstress’ makes some men in our institution uncomfortable.”

Ezekiel stood, saying, “I will be here at dawn with the proper words upon my lips. Thank you.”

Kaffi said, “Show up at the eastern entrance. Good luck, Ezekiel.”

Ezekiel gave a tiny, half-bow.

Kaffi left the room first, walking away without another word.

- - - -

A scroll sealed with white wax waited for them at the Sour House, under the care of the proprietor and a runner in a white and blue tunic.

Ezekiel took the scroll up to the room and read it there. Plans were made because of what was written on the paper, but those plans would happen later. The team relaxed with some tea and some books and some weaving, while they spoke of what had happened in the meeting with Singer Kaffi, and if they would actually be in Eralis for a full month.

Ezekiel doubted that they would be here for a full month for something was sure to draw them elsewhere. But… if they were here for a month, if the world was peaceful for that long, would that be so bad? Caizoa hadn’t left a single message asking for his help with the Converter Angel, after all.

Julia thought Eralis a grand diversion, and was fine with staying here for a while.

Tiffany was having fun. Paul was doing fine.

Paul glanced to the opened scroll, adding, “But whatever happens there will likely change what happens to this decision.”

“Probably,” Ezekiel said.

They spoke a little of Loremaster Xue and his wife Enforcer Sikali, and postulated what Clan Star Song wanted from Clan Phoenix, exactly.

Julia said, “If all they want is thread in exchange for the Nacreous Weaver, then that’s suspicious. The Nacreous Weaver is a Variant of the Light Weaver, which is the usual result of a Dun Glint Weaver becoming a monster in an area full of Light Essence, which is already a rare combination to find anywhere in the world.” She added, “Such a trade would be incredibly beneficial for me, but they’d be losing out on hundreds of thousands of gold. They either have no intention of giving me the beast, or, they want you that much, dad.”

“… Well.” Ezekiel said, “That puts a few things in a few different lights.” He asked, “Would it be difficult to make the Nacreous Weaver work? From a Polymage perspective?”

“Yes.” Julia said, “Which is another angle. Maybe they’re so expensive that they’re actually priceless, and they won’t give them to anyone except those who enter into long-term contracts.”

Tiffany said, “They’re after you, Boss. Kaffi was, too. No doubt they’re plotting every way they can to get you to move to Eralis.” She eyed him.

Paul eyed him, too.

He sent, ‘I’m not leaving Spur.’

Tiffany sent, ‘Might not get that weaver, then.’

‘Eh. That’s fine,’ Julia said, ‘Just get some Dun Glint Weavers and throw them into the Headmaster’s Light Dungeon. Maybe in a year, one of them will be a Nacreous Weaver.’

‘I haven’t checked in on that place in a while.’ Ezekiel asked, ‘Paul? You heard anything?’

‘They expanded it a bit. Nothing too large, though.’ Paul sent, ‘I can make inquiries if they added new monsters or not, but that would announce that you are looking that way. The Headmaster will likely want to speak to you if you do this.’

‘… Not this week, then. Maybe next week, if things go well tonight and tomorrow.’ He said, “Anyway! We’ve got time for naps, if anyone wants to take one.”

Everyone took naps, for no one wanted to be low-energy tonight.

When Ezekiel awoke, he was the last one to wake, and it was an hour till sunset; the perfect time to leave. Ezekiel covertly dabbed his eyes with his magenta potion and reapplied some long-term buffs, for no one knew exactly what the night would bring.

There were some hints, of course. The scroll was a big one.

They had been invited to a gathering to welcome Tadashi into Clan Star Song, so Ezekiel was pretty sure that he would get to see the alchemist tonight, but he likely wouldn’t be able to see if the man was truly okay. If the 5 point Quest wasn’t enough of a clue, the very existence of such a party, and such an open change of Tadashi’s Clan allegiance, was yet another example that many Clans were still after the man.

Ezekiel openly wondered why.

Tiffany said, “An [Immortality] potion would start a major war.”

Ezekiel paled. “Let’s hope it’s not that.” He added, “And they wouldn’t invite us to a party with Alchemist Tadashi and several other Clans unless they were either planning on killing us there, or playing nice, and most of the people we’ve seen are trying to woo, rather than murder.”

Paul said, “They’re trying to woo you; this is known. They’re not sure they would survive the collateral damage from a murder attempt.”

Ezekiel grumbled, “Let’s have some… more positive thoughts than me killing them all in retaliation, please.”

“[Immortality] would have been my first guess, too. But now…” Julia thought. She offered, “It’s something to do with our reasons for being here.”

“Oh.” Ezekiel stood straighter. “There’s a thought.”

“Either a potion or a magic,” Tiffany guessed.

“A potion.” Julia said, “Has to be.”

Tiffany said, “There’s lots of precedent for this being about a magic considering that we’re here to gain magical understanding for Scion Ezekiel.”

“Maybe it has something to do with spiders,” Julia guessed, sarcastically.

“Ha! No.” Tiffany, suddenly sure, said, “It’s potions of the New Stats! Hundred gold, bet.”

Julia’s eyes glinted as she said, “I think they’re after Tadashi because he’s related to someone powerful. Or there’s a connection there that will be made public tonight. Hundred gold, bet.”

“No bet.” Tiffany laughed, then said, “You can’t get anywhere in Nelboor without knowing or being related to someone powerful. Tadashi is no different.”

Julia went, “Meh.”

Ezekiel put out there, “Alchemists use spells to craft their potions, just as much as any other magical profession does. But those bandits inflicted Tadashi with the Antirhine Elixir and there was a whole building of alchemy supplies back in the bandit hideout. They had taken most of the things out of there when they fled, but I noticed an Alchemist’s Friend in the corner.” At Julia’s odd look, Ezekiel explained, “It’s a psychedelic plant that feeds off of almost all potions, and it especially likes the toxic ones; a garbage pail for potion failures.” Julia nodded. Ezekiel continued, “They inflicted the Elixir upon Tadashi thinking that this wouldn’t harm him in being or doing whatever it was that… he did, or was doing. And that thing involved potions, for sure, and—”

Julia rounded on Tiffany, accusing, “You saw the potion house in the bandit hideout! That’s why you bet on potions!”

