Alden walked the curving halls of the lab’s residential section. He was alone for now, trying to control his doubts.

He’d had a plan. They’d been working toward it from the moment he’d carried her here. But now…now he was worried that trying to escape might actually be a mistake.

If I’m wrong about being strong enough to get us away from here, she could be stuck out there with my corpse and no way to survive.

This corruption event wasn’t like the last one. It was different in ways that were all to their benefit, except for their mutual lack of knowledge about how they’d ended up back on Thegund. This time, Alden had thought he could get them out.

The plan was all there in my head. Almost like I worked on it before I ever got stuck here again.

Sprinklers. Food. Mover discs. All the other supplies. The walls of the charging shed had been a pain in the ass to tear down and load onto the roof of the car, and it might not charge very well without the base, which would have to be left behind. But if it got them even a little farther on wheels, then Alden wouldn’t resent hauling it along.

They were supposed to get out of the chaos, head for the place where Alis-art’h had arrived the last time this had happened, and keep going.

The ruins of an abandoned city were in that direction. A few people still lived there. They would find shelter and some means of communication with those reclusive few if they could. If not, they would cross the whole freaking moon, and Alden would walk into Chayklo with Kibby on his back and say, “We politely request assistance,” to the first Artonan he found.

It sounded possible. If a lot of things went wrong, there were even plans B and C and D…but there was no plan that worked for Kibby if Alden got himself killed.

He passed door after door, agonizing over the matter.

I’m almost positive I could do it.

And I’m almost positive I could keep her safe here at the laboratory until help came, too.

He could preserve her every waking moment. He had more than twice as much bound authority now. His skill would hold, he’d be more stable, and he wouldn’t tire before someone showed up.

If they came as quickly as the Quaternary had. If they came at all.

At some point, do they just give up on repairing this shitty moon and abandon it for good?

There had to be people who cared about it. They’d built another lab. And if she was protected by his skill most of the time, then Kibby would be all right for as long as Alden was.

Last time, leaving had truly been the last resort. This time…it was a choice he had to make for both of them.

Choice.

My choosing season. I was glad to have one. How did I end up here?

He brushed the thought away and refocused.

The responsibility for getting everything right and not getting them killed had been hard before, and now here it was again, in even more overwhelming amounts. Kibby would go if he said to or stay if he told her that was best.

He felt so alone with the decision that he wanted to scream.

Am I freaking out? I want to. But I can’t do it in front of her. No scaring the little girl.

Abruptly, he turned into one of the rooms, no goal in mind other than getting even more privacy. He just needed a moment to compose himself before he went to find her and tell her, warmly and confidently, that he knew what he was doing.

That’s how it works now. You’re the rock. You get it right, or you get it wrong.

The door shut behind him. He slid down it and squatted there, eyes closed, trying to pull himself together.

When he opened them again, he discovered that he was facing a familiar painting on the wall.

“You,” he said. “You’re not supposed to be here.”

But then again, none of us are.

The knight in the painting was exactly as Alden remembered from when he’d seen it at the Rapport School. How long ago was that?

Although the barren red landscape and the knight with his spindly plant and his lantern were there, the painting had lost its magical pull. Instead of falling into it, Alden was able to look at it normally.

It must be a copy, he decided, approaching it.

The magic might not be there, but he still recalled the feelings the artwork had given him as clearly as if he’d seen it only a day or two ago.

The knight was tired. He was besieged by chaos on all sides. He protected one tiny patch of that world from the shadowy figures of the demons.

He was alone in a hellscape, too.

Alden pressed his hands to the painting on either side of the man’s image. He felt the roughness beneath his palms, let his face draw close. He thought about what he saw there for a long time.

“Thank you,” he said finally, stepping away. “You’re amazing there with your light and the life you’re guarding. I’m sorry you had to be in that place. I hope the fact that there’s a painting of you means you made it out.”

He left the room and found Kibby waiting beside the loaded car. He crouched in front of her, gravel shifting beneath his feet.

“Listen,” he said, reaching for one of her hands and smiling at her with every bit of confidence he had in him, “this place is dangerous for us. Being trapped here for so long hurt us. Too much chaos, the not knowing, that time you almost took out my eye with a rock you threw—”

“The best Avowed should have been able to catch that,” Kibby said.

He laughed for her. “I should have. You’re right. But this place is dangerous. It stinks. And my skill and I are strong enough to get us out. Trust me. I’m going to take you to Chayklo. We’ll watch a poetry festival together, and you’ll explain all the complicated words for my human brain, okay?”

Her face turned serious. “Yes.”

“All right,” he said, putting some enthusiasm into it. “Let’s go!”

They climbed into the car. They’d be sharing a seat. With the risk of having one of the demon grasshoppers come through the windshield, Alden wanted to shield Kibby for the whole drive to the edge of the corruption zone. It hadn’t spread so far yet. If everything went perfectly, she wouldn’t have to feel the chaos again.

I’ll get us beyond its reach then let her take over for a turn, he thought, pressing the memorized series of buttons. Her stomach will still be full from first meal. She’ll be wide awake and smiling.

His own stomach was churning.

“Where did you get these?” Kibby asked curiously, reaching for his forehead.

A second later, the sunglasses that had been resting there were knocked down onto the bridge of his nose. I brought these with me, too?

“From some Ryeh-b’t Avowed on Anesidora. They are the traditional face jewelry for people in Hawaiian shirts.”

“They look like protective glasses for too much light.”

“They’re that, too,” he agreed. The engine whooshed to life. “Can I protect you with my skill now?”

“First, I have to tell you I added something to the car. Another ingredient for weapons. In case we need one.”

“More explosives?”

“It’s the green jar in the back. It doesn’t explode on its own.”

“Okay.”

“Don’t drink it,” she warned.

“I’ll try to resist.”

She looked at him with one brown eye while the other turned slightly to stare over his shoulder at the place they were leaving behind. Again. “You can use your skill on me now.”

He nodded. “I’ve really missed you. Let’s get out of here and watch some Klee-pak together.”******
