Father and daughter walked through the streets, avoiding the damaged sections as they made their way to the south gate. The eastern gate by which they had come in was blocked by debris. As for where they were going to go once they got out, east seemed safe. However, his nose was still telling him that there was profit to be had along the front to the west. He’d make up his mind later, once they got through the barrier. If the Skipping Stone didn’t work, then they could try sneaking through the teleportation platform once the fires in that part of the city had been extinguished. If that also didn’t work, they could try swimming out through the river assuming the barrier didn’t block the flow of the water. He had a few potions of waterbreathing tucked away in his pack. If even that doesn’t work, well… He glanced at the dialog hanging in the corner of his vision. The message had not changed. No egress it says, however…

“Ava, what is the forty-third rule?”

“There is always a way,” his daughter replied.

He smiled. “Good girl. Watch out, there’s a hole there,” he said, pointing. Ava hopped over it rather than going around, showing admirable grace for a seven-year-old. Her initial terror had faded, returning her to her normal, playful self. Sadly, it seemed she was getting used to this kind of thing.

He’d been taking it easy these last few years, now that she was old enough to bring along with him. He was teaching her how to be a wandering merchant, showing her how to turn a profit from even the most mundane of goods. Last time he was in Fel Sadanis, he’d been selling worker’s clothes of all things. He’d still managed to make a tidy profit, despite the mundane wares. Of course, it helped that he’d acquired the clothes for quite a bargain.

Prior to their trip to Vestvall, he and his daughter had been traveling toward Fel Sadanis from Southguard when they’d been jumped by highwaymen, an event that happened to him with surprising frequency. One would think that the bandits should have started recognizing him by now. It never ended well for anyone who tried to rob Mlemlek Ko-Latti.

The bandits had also captured a few other travelers, one of them a clothier. She had been quite grateful to him for freeing her. She’d headed back for Southguard, saying she was going to continue her business where the roads were a bit safer. She’d offered to sell him her recovered goods for a pittance, an offer he’d gladly accepted. It had been mutually beneficial. He’d sell them in Fel Sadanis, and she would have something to show for the trip when she returned to the safe haven of Southguard. The DKE city was hardly a bastion of law, but the roads were indeed a fair bit better than they were around here. At least the bandits weren’t the rapey kind…

He sighed as he looked around the damaged city. The Watch simply didn’t have the numbers to patrol the roads properly. For an organization that purported itself to be all about the protection of the unawakened, they sure weren’t very good at it. All they would need to do would be to allow those same unawakened to join. If they trained them properly, then they’d actually have enough of a presence to keep the roads safe. Oh well. Bandits are an easy source of profit for the magnificent Mlem…

He looked at the cart that was trailing along behind him obediently. It was packed to the brim with the goods he’d acquired in Vestvall, as well as the former accoutrements of not one but three separate groups of bandits. The prize piece was a well-maintained crossbow. Though non-magical, it was still worth quite a bit by his estimate. A low level adventurer would have been happy to buy it. It was a far cry from the types of things he had dealt in before he’d decided to train his daughter, but you couldn’t just start off selling long lost magical artifacts. You had to work your way up. Counterbanditry was a bit rougher of a subject than what he’d intended to teach Ava when they’d set out, however. He rubbed at his shoulder idly, fingering the hole in his jacket. That was a bad one. If that archer hadn’t come along, I might have been in real trouble. He looked down at his waist and frowned at his pudgy stomach. That’s it, no more riding on the cart. I should have never bought this damn thing. It’s making me soft. He ran a hand over his bald head. Why, ten years ago, those bandits wouldn’t have even—

“Dad, look!” Ava said, pulling on his robe.

Mlemlek looked up, following his daughter’s finger. They’d passed through the gate and there was a huge crowd of people milling about outside, contained within the barrier. It extended well past the walls of Fel Sadanis, the ancient Majistraal city likely having been larger by a decent margin. It was completely transparent, but he could see the boundary clearly. The river, which had been flowing through the center of the city, was now forced to split and travel along the outside. Freed from its banks, it had flooded the ground and created a shallow lake as it flowed around the city.

The magical wall made a clean line between the soggy mess outside and the soggy mess inside. The air was still hot and swampy inside the barrier. All the snow had been melted by the fiery battle in the sky and turned the dirt road into mud. Mlemlek sighed. Damn, there goes plan C. If the river can’t get in, then that means it also can’t get out. That’s going to be problematic for anyone trapped in here. Not to mention the heat. How long until it cools down, I wonder?

“Daddy, the river! Look!”

He patted her on the head. “Yes, Ava, quite remarkable, quite remarkable indeed.”

“How’s it doing it?”

Mlemlek glanced down, seeing the childlike wonder on her face. He smiled as she looked up at him. “Well, you can see the message. You see why I keep saying reading is important? It’s the Majistraal, so that means the normal rules don’t apply.”

“I don’t know the words,” Ava said, shaking her head. “What’s ‘egress’?”

“It’s what we’re doing,” Mlem said, eying the crowd. He’d already told her what it meant, but it seemed she’d forgotten. He’d explain it again later. Getting through the barrier came first. There was a large group of the Watch on the other side, those that had been on patrol and returned to find themselves locked out of the city. A little ways away, he spotted the Guild branch-leader, Halgrave. He watched as the man swung mightily at the barrier with a hammer, sending up a massive explosion of water and earth as the weapon struck. There was no sign that it had any effect on the shield, not even a sound making it through the impenetrable wall. Force won’t work then. Magic it is. The Skipping Stone has never failed me before…

He frowned and looked back at his daughter. “Come on, let’s get away from the crowd. If this works, they’ll be all over us. The Skipping Stone only has enough charge left for one exchange if we bring the cart with us. I doubt I’ll be able to find someone with the spare mana to charge it back up, even if we do get out. Need I remind you that it is not a toy?”

“But it’s fun,” Ava protested as he led them east, away from the gathering Watch. He reached down to tousle her hair, laughing as she squirmed away.

“I can’t stay mad at you. Still, it takes me a full day to charge it for a single use, and that’s just for me, not all of this.” He waved vaguely at the cart following them. “How many days’ worth of charge did you use in your little game?”

She shook her head. “Not that much! I’m small, not like you. You’re huge!”

He looked down at his stomach again. Ouch. Point, daughter. Damn cart.

They walked for a few more minutes until they were safely away from prying eyes. Ava hopped up onto the cart now that they were out of the city, riding along happily as he trudged through the mud. The journey cart tended to attract a fair bit of attention, so he usually made a show of pulling it himself once they got into the city. Under the circumstances, he didn’t feel the need to bother. People had plenty of other things to gawk at. He signaled the cart to stop as they reached the barrier. He rested his hands against it, probing the frictionless surface. It didn’t feel like any barrier he had ever felt before. It felt real. Plan B is looking like it might be called for after all.

“Okay, here goes,” he said to himself, reaching out to grab the side of the cart. He slipped his other hand into his pocket and pulled out a plain gray river rock. It was a smooth flat oval, perfect for skipping, hence the name. Skipping Stones were rare and expensive, but hardly one-of-a-kind. He’d acquired this one when he was a teenager and he had it to thank for much of his early success. It had gotten him out of a lot of trouble, and into quite a bit more.

When thrown, Skipping Stones were able to phase straight through even the strongest of magical defenses by virtue of the powerful spatial enchantments anchored within them. When one struck the ground, the thrower would be teleported to wherever it had landed. They would have been a favorite of thieves, but the expense made it such that if you could afford one, you didn’t really need to be a thief any more—unless you wanted to be, of course. The stone in his hand was probably worth more than everything in the cart, other than the cart itself. Warding against them specifically was tricky, but not impossible. It was time to see if the Majistraal had been up to the task. The stones had only been invented in the last hundred years or so, so there was at least some hope.

He concentrated, focusing on the cart and his daughter. He could afford no mistakes. They would come with him. He whipped his arm forward, flinging the stone at the barrier as hard as he could. He wanted to get it over as much of the lake of icy water on the other side as possible.

The stone struck the barrier soundlessly and ricocheted, flying back over his shoulder. His eyes tracked it as it headed toward a large puddle where the meltwater had pooled.

“Depths,” Mlemlek cursed, just before he, his daughter, and the cart all vanished with an abrupt popping sound.

Citizen Westbridge stepped onto the teleportation platform as the fires continued to burn in the city around him. It was past time for him to get back to his own domain. He glanced at Citizen Fel Sadanis, standing nearby. She still looked the worse for wear, but she was recovering from the implantation quickly.

“Are you sure you don’t want to stay awhile?” she asked in a mocking tone. “The scenery around here is just beautiful.” A burning wall collapsed with a crash, the flames having weakened the supports. Westbridge paid it no mind. The fire was nothing to him. The residents of the city were already hard at work extinguishing it. It wasn’t like he had any magic that would have been able to help without causing even more damage anyway. It was Velika’s problem now.

“No,” he said, touching the activation glyph for Jarro. He’d unblocked it once more. Now that the barrier was up, only those on the list could get through by any method, including the teleportation platform. “I have been away from Westbridge for too long already. I still have three more jumps to get back. You will learn that ruling over a city is not as easy as it seems.”

Velika scoffed. “I’ll be fine.”

Westbridge shook his head. “I have already given you my advice. You would do well to follow it. You must make them respect your authority, as well as your power. Fear is a useful tool, but if you continue like this—”

“Spare me the sermon, Westbridge. We’ve been over this already.”

He sighed. Charge was building in the platform, draining the storage cells below. He idly considered stepping off of it to explain further, but decided against it. Recharging the platform would be problematic while the barrier was up. It didn’t help that the bloodworks was on fire. The mana in the blood that the Bank had stockpiled to fuel the platform was being released into the air as it burned, only to be drawn down into the barrier stone.

Westbridge waited a few seconds, then looked at Velika with a serious expression. “Good luck, Citizen Fel Sadanis. If you need anything, contact the logistics subcommittee through the link like I showed you. Don’t mess it up.”

He vanished in a flash of light just as he finished the last sentence, giving her no time to respond. He smiled as he was hurled through the non-space of the teleportation network. Perfect timing, just as planned.

He appeared in Jarro and stepped off the platform. He could have immediately triggered the glyph that would take him on to Ellis, but, as expected, Citizen Jarro was waiting for him.

“Did you tell her?” Jarro asked.

Westbridge’s mouth quirked. “No.”

Jarro laughed. “She’s gonna be ripshit when she finds out.”

“Yes,” Westbridge agreed. “I am looking forward to it.”

“You still think it’s a good idea? Trapping her in there all alone?”

Westbridge looked at the gray-haired Citizen placidly, considering his response. Citizen Jarro was an archer, a real mage-killer as he recalled. The man had been in the Guild, though, so that meant he had mostly hunted monsters, not men. There was no sign of that past now. He wasn’t even carrying a weapon, the burdens of leadership leaving his face lined and weary. As worn as the old archer looked, Westbridge had to admit that the man did know how to run a city. The common folk loved him, even if he was unpopular with the other Citizens.

“We cannot trust her yet,” Westbridge said finally. “If she survives the month, I will return and allow her access through the barrier. Until then, Fel Sadanis will remain completely sealed to everyone.”

Jarro grinned. “What if you die before that? Who’ll lower the barrier? What are you, like a hundred?”

Westbridge snorted. “You are one to talk,” he said mildly. Jarro had already been old when he’d joined the DKE, and that had been years ago. “The barrier will remain, even should I die. Theoretically, someone could access the barrier stone to lower it, but there is no one within that bubble with the necessary skill to operate the artifact. It takes a true mage. Either way, it is a pointless discussion. I am not going to die. The objective has been accomplished. Whether Velika succeeds or fails in her duty, it matters not. The city will remain sealed.”

Jarro snorted. “You mages, always acting so superior. I bet you’ve got one in mind already for her replacement.”

