The sentinel collapsed bonelessly to the cobblestones as Velika released him. She knelt down, casually making sure that the unfortunate man was still breathing. He groaned as she pressed her fingers against his neck to check for a pulse.

“Oh, don’t complain. You attacked me, remember? And after you pretended to surrender. No honor, I tell you,” she said as she stood, dusting off her knees. She was in one of the central intersections of the city, surrounded by a ring of the Watch—mostly officers, but with a few battered-looking sentinels supporting them.

She looked up at them, daring them to attack. “All done? Anyone else want to try a sneak attack like this idiot?” She gestured to the downed sentinel. None of them moved, watching her with fear and wariness. It looked like the fight was over for real this time. “No? Good. Someone come get this fool.”

She rolled the downed sentinel over onto his back with a gentle shove of her toe. Weapons clinked as the ring of Watch members shifted uneasily, but nobody came forward to obey her command. Velika frowned. “You!” she shouted, pointing to one of the officers at random. The man jumped, his bronze Watch plate clinking against the metal rings of his armor. “Drop the sword and come pick up this guy. Get him to one of your healers or whatever.”

The Watch officer looked at a nearby sentinel, a woman wearing full plate armor and wielding a sword and shield. Velika’s frown deepened. She growled as she took a threatening step toward the officer she’d singled out. “Don’t look at her, look at me. I’m in command here.”

The unfortunate officer’s response was cut off as a figure abruptly fell from the sky, landing behind her. Velika groaned as Westbridge stepped forward to lay a hand on her shoulder.

[Not yet you aren’t,] he said coolly, ignoring the cries of surprise and terror from the Watch. [Status?]

“Just great,” Velika said with a sigh, shrugging out from under his hand and turning to face him. “Did you deal with the goldplate?”

“Yes. He won’t be an issue any longer,” Westbridge said aloud. Velika smiled at the wave of despair that swept through the crowd following the Citizen’s matter-of-fact statement. Westbridge didn’t even look winded, though that might have just been an act. From what she’d seen, the Guild branch-leader had been quite strong.

“It is time,” Westbridge said, still ignoring the Watch completely. “Are you ready?”

Velika grinned. “I’ve been ready. Let’s do it.”

[It will be painful,] Westbridge said, using telepathy again for some reason. [We will move to a private location. Come.] He offered her his hand.

She slapped it away in irritation. She wasn’t a child to be led. “Get going, old man. I’ll follow you on my own.”

Westbridge sighed and floated up into the air, but not before he repeated that stupid incantation of his. He addressed the gathered Watch as he rose. “Do not attempt to interfere. Like it or not, she will be your warden until the barrier falls.”

Velika snorted, leaping into the sky to join him. “Warden? Really? Did you do that on purpose?”

“What?” Westbridge said, pausing his ascent.

Velika rolled her eyes. “The pun. You can’t tell me that was unintentional.”

“I do not see it,” said Westbridge.

“The Watch’s leader is called the Warden, and with the barrier trapping them here…”

“Ah, yes. Amusing,” Westbridge said. His face didn’t look amused. The man had no sense of humor whatsoever. Velika followed him as he floated lazily over the city. She used Airwalk sparingly, bounding between invisible platforms rather than trying to walk through the air as Halgrave had done. This is how Airwalk is supposed to be used. Stupid big blue showboating bastard. She glanced back, seeing the Watch milling about helplessly where they’d left them.

Westbridge led her to a large open-ceilinged building. It looked like it was a bathhouse, but the bath itself had frozen over. The pair set down on the pristine sheet of white snow that blanketed the surface of the ice. The entire room was pristine, in fact. The tile walls of the pool practically sparkled. Wow, someone really takes their cleaning seriously, she thought as she looked around the room. Still, my elevation is going to happen in a bathhouse? Really?

Westbridge cleared his throat, the sensation feeding into her mind through the telepathic skill that he was using. The glass orbs containing the faces of the assembled Citizens popped into existence behind him.

“Why do you do that?” Velika said, interrupting him before he could get started.

“What?” Westbridge asked, fixing her with an annoyed look.

She laughed. “The psychic throat-clearing thing. It’s weird.”

“Quiet,” Westbridge said testily.

Velika grinned. It was fun messing with the man. She shook her head as Westbridge launched into his speech. She’d let him have his moment. There was a place for pomp, after all. She just hoped he didn’t waffle on for too long. A bathhouse… I suppose it could be worse. At least it’s clean.

[Attention residents of Fel Sadanis and Citizens of the DKE. This is Citizen Westbridge. The area is now under our control. All dissenters have been pacified. There will be no further interruptions. I now return to the matter of the governance of the city and the surrounding lands. It is my great honor to nominate Lady Velika Vekuavak for elevation to the office of Citizen Fel Sadanis, pending confirmation by the full assembly. Is there any Citizen who will second this nomination?]

[Seconded,] said another voice, one she didn’t recognize. She looked at the floating orbs, trying to tell who had spoken. Westbridge must have forwarded the other Citizen’s words to her and the city as a whole. Message spells had a distance limit, one that the DKE implants bypassed. It wouldn’t have been possible for the other Citizen to send that directly. She looked back at Westbridge as he continued.

[The nomination has been seconded. A yes vote will confirm Lady Velika Vekuavak as Citizen Fel Sadanis. A no vote will initiate a formal discourse of the meri—]

[Enough, Westbridge. Nobody is going to vote no. Get on with it. I’m missing supper for this,] interrupted another voice. Velika smiled as she recognized it. It was her aunt, now Citizen Kallias. The woman was known for many things, but patience was not one of them.

Westbridge’s annoyance was a sight to behold. The mental clearing of his throat that came next contained all of his frustration as he pressed on, ignoring the interruption. [A no vote will initiate a formal discourse of the merits of the candidate, following which a second vote will be held. I now call upon the Citizenry to cast their votes in this, the most serious of matters.] He glared at the orb containing the image of Velika’s aunt as he sent the last few words.

One by one, the Citizens cast their votes. Velika held her breath as the green lights appeared. Soon, only one orb remained unilluminated. Peering at it, she saw that it belonged to Citizen Jarro. The green light that finally lit the orb flickered as if the magic was responding to the man’s reluctance. Velika smirked. Jarro had a bit of a reputation for going against the other Citizens. She’d half expected him to cause a problem, especially since Westbridge had just finished trashing a powerful member of the Guild. It was commonly known that Jarro had split loyalties due to his past.

[The vote is unanimous,] Westbridge said. [Lady Velika Vekuavak is no more. The name of her family will be set aside. Her past loyalties, set aside. Her past life, set aside. She now takes up the Mantle of a Citizen of the Democratic Kingdoms of Ekrustia. She shall be known by the name of her domain to remind everyone that a Citizen’s duty is first and foremost to the people.]

Within his orb, Citizen Jarro’s face bore a complicated expression. Velika didn’t even notice. Westbridge was sticking to the script, reciting the familiar litany for the elevation of a Citizen. She’d heard it when her Aunt had been elevated. It was all just noise. It didn’t mean anything.

She would be responsible for the city of course, but her first duty was to herself and her own power. The stronger she was, the safer the peasants would be. She wasn’t going to coddle them and cater to their every need. Power came with the freedom to act however you pleased. Perhaps one day, she would grow powerful enough to rise beyond the realm of the Citizens. Then she’d be in charge of the whole kingdom, with nobody standing over her whatsoever. For now, being acknowledged as an equal to the most powerful individuals on the continent short of Fecht would do. It would do nicely.

She returned her attention to Westbridge. He’d continued prattling on in the background, thankfully getting through the rest of the patriotic tripe about the strength of the union and so forth. It was finally time for the important part.

[Come, Citizen Fel Sadanis,] Westbridge said, drifting backward through the air and spreading his arms wide. The orbs of the citizens remained fixed as he moved away. [Take up your Mantle.] A final orb appeared, sliding out of Westbridge’s chest rather than popping into existence in the air as the others had. It bore his own likeness, bringing the total number up to the full 37, one for each Citizen.

Velika stepped forward. She bent all of her focus on Airwalk, keeping her steps stable and dignified. The orbs that had been surrounding Westbridge now surrounded her in a loose cloud. As she stepped within them, she felt the gaze of the assembled Citizens focused upon her.

[Begin,] said Westbridge.

Immediately, the faces vanished, replaced with crackling blue lightning that fuzzed past the borders of the glassy spheres. They snapped into a ring, surrounding her at waist level. Slowly, the ring began to spin, accelerating as lightning began arcing between the spheres and to her body. It was not unlike the effect of a teleportation platform.

Nobody save the Citizens knew the origin of the artifacts that linked them, but they were commonly accepted to be another relic of the Majistraal. The exact benefits that they provided beyond the link itself were also a subject of much debate. She’d find out the truth of the matter soon enough.

The ring began to tilt, then split into two rings, the second reversing in direction. They orbited around her for a few seconds, then suddenly froze, the orbs flying out to form a sparse sphere around her, the lightning vanishing, leaving only the glassy spheres, empty now.

She held out her hand. One of the orbs shot toward her, coming to a rest just above her palm. The rest followed, forming a vertical column. The column fell, orb after orb merging with the first. As they did, a spark of brilliant white light began to build within the orb, shining like a miniature star.

Westbridge drifted forward, the orb falling into her palm as he reached her. The magical construct felt smooth and tingly against her bare fingers. The white star within the orb was fading rapidly, revealing a glowing azure shard of crystal in its place. It was real, a perfect physical copy of the artifact that Westbridge carried within his own body, just as all the Citizens did.

The orb popped like a soap bubble, the shard of crystal falling into her palm. The crystalline material it was made from looked as if it had been shaped by a master jeweler. It was formed into an angular spike, wide at one end and sharpened to a wicked point at the other. The bluish color was coming from tiny interlocking chains of runes swirling within it, glowing with magic.

Westbridge cleared his throat, then spoke aloud. “It is attuned to you, as you were the focus of its creation. That will help the process, but it will still be painful due to your low level. Are you ready for the implantation?”

“I’m beyond ready,” Velika said.

Westbridge nodded. “You may insert it anywhere you wish. It will find its way to your heart on its own. Jarro stuck it in his toe, but the man is an idiot. Watching it burrow its way through him was...” Westbridge shook his head, his expression difficult to read. “He was screaming by the end, and he was of the correct level. Do you wish to do this on the ground?”

Velika shook her head. “I can take it,” she said. I’m not afraid of a little pain.

She guided the tip of the crystal through the narrow opening at the neck of her lamellar armor, touching it to her chest between her breasts. The needle-like point pierced her flesh easily. She felt the entire crystal pull forward as it started to burrow itself into her breastbone. She gasped in surprise. It didn’t feel like being stabbed. She had been stabbed plenty of times. This was worse. So much worse. The pain grew quickly, a terrible gnawing sensation that wasn’t confined to the spike digging its way into her chest. Ribbons of crimson agony spread through every fiber of her being as the implant began the process of bonding itself to her soul. Her focus failed and she began to fall as Airwalk collapsed. Then, she began to scream.

Mlemlek Ko-Latti had a keen nose for opportunity. That nose had often gotten him into trouble, and it looked like that was going to be the case here. He was already regretting coming back in the direction of the DKE. While it was true that conflict and adversity were great sources of profit for those with a mind for business, it was also true that being trapped in an active war zone was far from ideal.

“Come along, Ava, we’re leaving,” he said.

For once, his troublesome daughter offered him no argument. She was as ready to be gone as he was. The pair had just arrived in Fel Sadanis and booked a room when the building across the street had exploded. The next few hours had been spent cowering, a decidedly profitable activity when it came to preserving one’s life. The trick to cowering was to do so while seeming not to. People trusted a man who remained calm and collected even when the entire sky was on fire. He’d even managed to sell a few small items from his pockets to his fellow cowerers. There was no great profit to be had of course, but it had helped him keep his mind off their situation.

