“My gratitude for taking time out of your busy schedule to meet with me.” Lumornor remained seated behind his desk as he spoke. At least he looked up at her, though his smile was so forced that it very nearly came off as a sneer. The desk itself was shoved into one of the front corners of his cluttered workshop—with the available space otherwise filled by tables piled high with papers, books, glass, and jars containing floating bits of Xaoc knew how many different monsters and animals.

“Certainly, Clover insisted.” Ranthia glanced at both chairs that were on her side of the desk, noted that there were open books piled on each, and elected to keep standing.

Truthfully, there wasn’t much else to keep her attention currently. Anthelleon and Neyvern were spending some time together for a few days, Myntheria was pulling another one of her disappearing acts (how and why the body painter vanished for weeks to months on end remained a mystery; she always just waved it off as being “around” and/or just missing Ranthia), and the book that Ranthia was suffering through was best endured through brief sessions. Sure, the author was lauded for her romance novels involving a man and a woman, but her first foray into a romance between two women was proving to be a frustrating read. Ranthia had half a mind to try to track the woman down and seduce her, just to teach the poor elf that external tools were unnecessary to reach the peak of pleasure!

And she couldn’t just drop the book, at least not before she found out what became of the plot that the father of the love interest hatched—framing his daughter’s paramour for the murder of his wife. Still, Clover coming home with a note stuck to her fur (thankfully, easy to remove) requesting Ranthia’s presence was a welcome break.

Mostly welcome. Ranthia corrected the thought as Lumornor began to speak again.

“I see. I won’t waste either of our time, so I shall cut to the chase: what do you know about Biomancy?” The elf folded his hands as he openly watched how she reacted.

In what reality was that cutting to the chase?!

“Not much, honestly. It’s not like I can ask Clover. Our [Companion Bond] doesn’t enable that level of communication. I know she used to make me read Daw—I mean, Elaine’s Medical Manuscripts to her. Though I’m not even sure how those apply.” Ranthia refused to be flustered by the elf, even if he was so taciturn that it came off as rude. Hopefully he hadn’t noticed that she nearly used Elaine’s Sentinel title, rather than the name she had signed to her scrolls.

“I see. So, you claim that you have no Biomancy class?” His next question caught her entirely off-guard. And weirdly, Lumornor seemed to be outright pensive while he waited for her answer.

“And how in Xaoc’s name could I possibly get a class for something supposedly new without knowing anything about it?!” Seriously, she’d assumed the man needed to discuss something about Clover. Something about his demeanor had felt accusatory, and she wasn’t so bored that she was going to tolerate being jerked around by an elf that considered himself high and mighty!

“I… see.” Lumornor sagged back in his chair. He remained silent for long enough that Ranthia was just about to turn and leave, when he abruptly started to speak again. “My apprentices and I have painstakingly ensured that no other student of mine could be responsible. We have ensured that no other student, nor any known group of students that associate with one another, consistently had access to your rabbit. And yet, it—she—continues to manifest Biomancied transformations, demonstrating a steady rate of baseline improvement and complexity.

“I hold myself to the highest standard. While my students are my first experience with teaching, I fully expected to excel as an instructor. I could accept nothing less. To be perfectly candid: I was joking when I stated that I would teach your rabbit when we first met. And yet, as I plan to reduce the number of students I instruct to thirty-two, your rabbit has managed to make the cut.

“I have no other explanation for her transformations other than the improbability that she herself has become a Biomancer. I never imagined the rabbit would be included among the students that I allowed to take the full Forest-aspected Biomancy class.”

His tone was interesting to listen to. There was no small amount of personal distress in there—he was more than halfway ranting by the end. Yet there was an undeniable hint of pride lurking in every last word as well.

“Is that why she’s refused to take a third class yet? We have got to work on our communication. But… Honestly, I’m not surprised. I accepted long ago that she’d learned to read, and she’s constantly studying the books and notes that you provided.” Ranthia couldn’t help but to grin as she boasted.

“Reading? That is the least of it. Taking you at your word, I am forced to assume that the horrendous penmanship belongs to her as well.” Lumornor pulled several sheets out of a container and splayed them across his cluttered desk.

He wasn’t kidding about the penmanship—some of the words were more than a bit difficult to make out. And some of the ink was smudged in places in patterns that implied furry feet had dipped into fresh ink.

“…I suppose that explains why I keep finding my inkwell in weird places. But that mischievous fluff! She could have been writing messages to me this whole time?!” They had come a long way in figuring out how to communicate without words, but several times per season Ranthia found herself exasperated by her Bond’s seemingly inexplicable behavior! And knowing that Clover could have explained, but chose not to, was just…!

Lumornor smiled—genuinely smiled—for the first time since she arrived.

“And with that, I am convinced that you speak the truth. Very well, you may tell her that she will be one of the thirty-two students that I will select my apprentices and lab assistants from. There will be a lecture here, in my workshop, for each of them tomorrow at sundown. I will provide personal guidance and System weight before they take a Forest class.” And with that, the elf was plainly done with her. He put the papers—Clover’s papers—away and opened a book without another word.

In retrospect, Ranthia really should have made Clover apologize for hiding her ability to write in complete sentences from her first. From the moment that the bunny heard that she had made it through the latest diminishing of her class size, Clover became preoccupied with bouncing around with excitement for the rest of the evening—at least until she exhausted every last whit of her stamina and zonked out in the middle of the floor.

Ranthia left a note about the meeting at Lumornor’s workshop—signed with “Ranthia, who knows you can WRITE!!”—next to her bond and slipped out to attend dinner service.

Xaoc, of course, found Ranthia’s frustrations with her Bond to be hilarious. She had seen Clover sit in front of her little altar to Xaoc, and she was mostly certain that Clover prayed to Him as well. As such, there was a good chance that He knew Clover was keeping the depth of her ability to communicate from Ranthia.

Not that it stopped her from complaining while she danced and prayed. If He knew, He deserved an extra helping of her displeasure!

Before the thought could bring her up short, she heard the traditional two scratches at the door, followed by the Vlip as Clover teleported into their home.

“And that’s her now, so I’ll let you go.” Ranthia spoke the words aloud as she concluded her dance. Xaoc sent her a final vaguely comforting sensation before He withdrew His presence with a final snicker.

She got the distinct impression that He knew something she didn’t.

Clover was fast for a rabbit, but she hadn’t quite caught up to Ranthia’s speeds—in large part due the presumably stark contrast between their class qualities. Still, the moment Ranthia rounded the corner she had a very excited bunny lunging directly at her face. She just had enough time to notice something… unexpected.

[Rabbit – Spatial] level 573, [Rabbit – Spatial] level 573, [Artisan – Forest] level 32.

Ranthia caught Clover through sheer instinct as she worked through her shock. She knew that her Bond was clever, yes. The mischievous girl could even write!

But the final tag still seemed impossible to believe. Solareon had three [Griffin] classes. Every Bonded creature that Ranthia had ever met had bestial classes.

[Artisan – Forest] challenged everything she thought she understood about the System.

The difference between bestial classes and the standard elvenoid archetypes wasn’t well understood, even amongst elves. Worse, there were precious few elves that Ranthia knew well enough to reveal the true extent of what [Divine Eyes in the Void] showed her—most [Identify] or [Analyze] variants merely revealed the archetype of the target’s highest-level class and the color of their level. Ranthia’s ability to see more had been so unheard of in Remus that it was generally treated as a state secret—not that anyone consulted her about that decision. And even Avyna had been taken aback.

Anthelleon already knew, of course. Not that she knew much about Companion Bonds. She wasn’t one for studying books either, so she was of limited help.

Neyvern was surprisingly difficult to convince—he was certain that Anthelleon and Ranthia were both messing with him for some reason, at least until Ranthia accurately pointed out the only monster with three classes in a group of invasive beasts that they needed to purge. Once it was dead, he was finally convinced that Ranthia was telling the truth. Unfortunately, he claimed that any animal could choose a standard class if they were intelligent enough—which earned him Solareon’s ire for eight days straight.

So much for that theory. Ranthia had spent enough time with the magnificent griffin to gain confidence that she was much smarter than the average eight-year-old—at least by the standards she knew in Remus. She had never even met an elven child, though elven standards tended to be ridiculous.

The Lodge’s owner seemed to be unimpressed by Ranthia’s god-touched Skill variant, though she at least seemingly took Ranthia at her word. Supposedly, she’d seen something similar once before—a good reminder that Ranthia couldn’t be confident that no opponent would ever be just as well-informed as she was. She also confirmed that she’d seen both Bonds and bestial Guardians with standard class archetypes, though she had no idea what—if anything—was the difference between them and species-based classes.

Myntheria was still absent and Sunny had yet to reappear after… everything. Ranthia wasn’t about to bring it up with Elsynthene during any of the (too frequent times) that the Maestro invited herself over to Ranthia’s home for tea either. It was just too hard to trust the woman, in spite of everything that she had done for them. Something about the Maestro just felt too… calculated and transactional to warrant such trust.

And Litil only knew about as much as the tavernkeeper. But Ranthia had one more person she could ask…

“Ranthia! If it isn’t my favorite pupil—still burning bright as ever! Come in, come in!” The flames that had barred entry to the crystalline room receded as Scaldos beckoned her to enter.

“Something smells good. New wood?” Ranthia asked as she stepped into the fire elemental’s first kitchen.

And yes, it was only the first kitchen. His home was a crystalline mirror to her own, except each room bore a full-fledged kitchen, with a firepit in the heart of the largest room for the elemental to rest within. She found Scaldos’ main body there, though he had appendages stretched into two other rooms.

“A type of Neltuma that I haven’t savored in a thousand years! I hope the smoke doesn’t burn too strong for you?” He was plainly in a good mood.

“I’m fine, honestly. Like I said, it smells good! So, what do you have planned for today’s lesson?” Ranthia grinned at the pile of amorphous flames.

“I have the ribs of a maiasaura waiting in the chilled stasis box, if you wouldn’t mind.” Scaldos was absolutely capable of getting things from the cold box himself, but he preferred not to—he’d once claimed that he could ‘feel the cold through his fire.’ “I have a new marinade recipe in mind that I’d be pyro-delighted to test, then we can seal it with some of this fine wood to cook.”

Ranthia had approached the affable elemental just a few months prior to ask if he’d be willing to give her some cooking lessons. The elemental claimed she was the first person to ever ask him for lessons and had blazed so enthusiastically that he nearly scalded her through her vitality. Instead of payment, she had to test his new recipes whenever he came up with something—which was occasionally a significant hazard, given the elemental’s complete inability to taste anything.

Unless life threw any further unexpected hurdles her way, she fully intended to take a cooking Skill once she finally had a General Skill slot available. But even if that was still in the amorphous future, it was good to indulge in her hobby with one of the brightest, happiest people she had ever met. He wasn’t bubbly like Lysia had been, but Scaldos tended to find laughter in anything—even his abject failures. …Such as his thousand spore soup that lingered in Ranthia’s nightmares.

Soup should never have a powdery consistency lurking within its broth.

“Would it be alright if I asked a personal question? And even if you say yes now, don’t feel obligated once I ask the actual question, if it makes you uncomfortable.” Ranthia asked as she opened the cold box.

