But of course, the people here to sell him all these things still had to give their presentation. The company Erick was buying from was called Powerminer Incorporated, and they had sent their head saleswoman to make this transaction. Her name was Felicia Starzine, and she was a winged elf with 8 tiny gold wings hovering at her back. Her partner, and also the ‘owner’ of the company Powerminer Incorporated, was a floating blue cube by the name of Stackz, with a ‘z’, and he was an AI. The small blue cube was just a part of him; his main body was located in the Aetherium Bazaar, at PI’s main offices.

In a surprising turn of events, after introductions, Felicia came right out and said, “As you can see, the price is the same for all of them. We want you to set up a manaminer with automatic reincarnations, like you have done with the valkyries. The normal version you showed off, though.”

“Sure. I can probably do that.”

Felicia paused, going still, completely unable to believe that their price tag was being honored.

Stackz was similarly still, the floating blue cube turning a slight shade darker, and then brighter. And then Stackz asked, “Really? You’ll really honor this request?”

“Should I not?” Erick asked.

Felicia paused.

Stackz paused.

Erick smiled, and asked, “It’s because you get access to that same magics, right? As a part of the deal of installing one of these?”

Felicia and Stackz both spoke over each other, vehemently saying, “Absolutely not!” and, “Never ever!”

Now it was Erick’s turn to be surprised. Perhaps this was a part of the tech/magic gap of Margleknot showing itself, and yet… manaminers were magic, right?

Erick said, “I feel we are probably talking from different dimensions. I don’t see a problem with automating my magic, and yet you do. I feel that you will be stealing something from me, and yet you say you will not. What is going on here?”

Felicia paused, unsure how to answer. And then she said, “Your manaminers are your own. We do not touch them or even know how to access them after we hand them over, for that’s how we built the system. If you break it and you cannot fix it on your own and need another one… Then you have to buy another one.”

Well that was part of the miscommunication solved. Good to know.

Stackz spoke, “We approach everyone who can resurrect people and erase curses with the request to do exactly that with their manaminers we sell them, and we usually have to pull back that request to some monetary value. Every person who is capable of actually erasing Contract magic and other Evil sorts of powers are… They’re heavily targeted by assassins and thieves and otherwise. We would never take the magic that you imbue into your manaminers… for… for so many different reasons.” He said, “Security of the systems we sell you, which is the major one. No one but you can operate your manaminer, as Felicia said. Even if we could take the magics that you put into a manaminer, which we can’t, this specific magic we ask you to put into your manaminer would make you targeted by Wraithborne and various assassin organizations, which does put you at risk. That’s the main threat, here. Then there are much more insidious ways of those Evil people ruining your everything if you go against them, from infiltrative Contracts to other systemic soul poisonings of the manaminer. And… Well those are the major points of discrepancy between our points of view… Probably.”

Ahh… Yeah. Erick understood those issues. Contracts could poison a manaminer, then?

Interesting.

Felicia said, “We envision you taking over Slaver’s Den and installing House Benevolence using one of our miners to make this a land of reincarnation and new lives.”

Stackz said, “And that means you’re a target.”

“One we would support!” Felicia said.

“And one we would probably need to be supported by,” Stackz said, speaking in parts with Felicia.

Felicia continued Stackz’s thought, saying, “As soon as you get a Good manaminer up and running— I mean. Not ‘Good’, but a basically-good manaminer— We become a target, too.”

Stackz said, “We’re one of the major purveyors of manaminers, and because of that we’re under a lot of Contracts from Wraithborne. We’re located in the Aetherium Bazaar right now, and that affords us a whole lot of defense, but we would wish to move a few offices here… And honestly to start a branch of Powerminer Incorporated inside House Benevolence. We would ask to be one of your first allies, and to spread as you spread.”

Felicia said, “Business is good, but we didn’t get into this manaminer business to make money.”

Stackz said, “We got into this business to do Good.”

Erick tried not to grin. He said, “I think that sounds wonderful. Perfect, even. I could easily see myself working with a branch of people from Powerminer Incorporated, to make them a part of House Benevolence. Good to have good news. But back to the actual product stuff: I have some questions.”

Felicia tried not to beam too much joy.

Stackz glittered, though, which Erick assumed was joy for AIs. “Please ask away!”

Erick asked, “Do you know of the Script of Veird? Can I do a leveling system like that? I’m thinking simpler, though.”

Felicia looked hopeful, but she looked to Stackz.

Stackz easily said, “I have dissected what I could about the Script from the dossier of yourself, Ascendant Flatt. The Script appears to have many functions that are impossible with current manaminer tech, for the Script appears to have a whole lot of real power put into it, and it operates under different ideas from a lost cosmology. Powerminer Incorporated is believed to have had some history out of the Painted Cosmology, for the earliest known manaminers come from there, but we have no idea how those manaminers truly work, for we’ve been over here in this universe since our inception 75,000 years ago. The level of Authority granted by the Script over its people and land are… Well that’s a thing we just don’t offer with any manaminer we sell. You have to empower them yourself to get them that powerful, and I don’t think you can without godly power. The manaminers we offer are a lot more about ease of life and safety in a given area. We can certainly add on a few things, though. Do you have anything specific in mind?”

Those sounded like acceptable limitations.

Erick said, “An Awakening Machine, to awaken Benevolence inside everyone, and also the reincarnation magics.”

Stackz said, “Easily doable, along with the normal array of standard defensive options.”

“Good.” And because he was here, Erick decided to ask a question that had poked at him for a very long time. Erick asked, “As professionals, do you know what the three Bans of the Script might be? Dimensional, Infinitesimal, Propagation.”

Stackz easily said, “I can give you professional guesses, but nothing definitive. Firstly, it’s rather common to call limitations in a manaminer as something close to what they actually limit, rather than what they actually limit. Security through obscurity. With that in mind, I’m rather sure that the Dimensional Ban is for disallowing travel between Layers of their reality. Probably made to keep Veird safe from a threat they could not see due to Malevolence, or perhaps Nothanganathor made the Dimensional Ban in order to make Veird more controllable. He was there at the beginning of it, from my understanding.

“The Infinitesimal Ban is probably a limitation on depth of space in any given area; a limit against traditional Spatial magic, as in the size of things versus the size of other things. This is a common way to prevent a great many difficulties, like infiltrators or people living under your floors and in your walls.

“Propagation is a standard anti-propagation limit. It’s just common sense to make spellwork degrade itself instead of build itself. That’s basic anti-corruption, right there.”

Erick smiled at that. Yeah. That all seemed correct. He asked, “What is the way in which the manaminer actually mines people? I thought that was either Infinitesimal or Dimensional.”

“That’s a basic application of Authority,” Stackz said. “Not a Foundational Ban at all.”

“… Huh! Well okay then.” Erick nodded. “It was great to meet you. Now! I must be off to war again. You can continue this discussion with Lanzoil here and probably a bunch of other guys from the House, like the guys in our engineering division.”

Lanzoil stepped forward. He bowed and then stood straight, saying, “I have a lot of deep questions regarding everything.”

Erick repeated, “Nice to meet you, Felicia, Stackz. War calls.”

Felicia and Stackz bowed and bobbed respectively.

And then Erick turned to lightning and zapped outside of the geodesic dome surrounding the House. He had wanted to spend more time with Powerminer Incorporated, especially if they were going to be allies, but war called, and Erick needed to answer.

- - - -

The sky was clear of obstructions and there were no bombs dropping except for maybe the verbal sort, and in a few minutes. Erick hovered where he needed to be, and took stock of the situation.

Shadow was there waiting for him, shaped like a human queen and floating in stylish black robes. Querkooda was on the other side, in the air, hovering as a pale gold dragon.

Erick remained himself, for now, wearing some glowthread clothes.

And in the distance, an abomination hovered.

It was a man of several tens of arms, an assortment of necks and pelvic areas, and no legs at all, with the center mass being a good 8 or 9 torsos of various people. There were a few heads on that thing. All of them stared at Erick. All of the being was sewn or melded together, with some various metal bits and bobs here and there. It was Underling Chains; the only true ‘Power’ of Slaver’s Den. He was only a Power because he couldn’t easily die, though. He was, perhaps, one of the worst kinds of liches. Querkooda had spoken days ago about how Chains was definitely soul-planted in lots of slaves the universe over, just waiting to hatch in the case of the death of any of his smaller parts. In that way he was closer to a Talent, like Eldawae.

There was no Captain Shackle or Underling Walara to be seen.

Underling Chains floated forward.

He stopped 50 meters away.

Erick asked, “What brings you here, Chains?”

“I wish to bargain,” Chains said, “Leave this place and we’ll release all our current slaves. Continue your war and we sunder billions.”

Erick said, “Sunder them.”

Silence.

“… Ah,” Chains said. And then he added, “We’ll really do it.”

“I’m sure you will,” Erick said. “How about a counter offer: Declare the complete and total surrender of Slaver’s Den, and I will treat you as well as I have treated all the people of Slave Intake #45 and #38.”

Chains glared hate in his many eyes, as he rattled, “You are making a deep enemy, Ascended Flatt. If it takes me a thousand years, I will see you and your people eradicated from existence.”

“Careful now, Chains,” Erick said, “You might upgrade yourself from a simple pest that is easily forgotten to someone who actually draws my full attention.”

Chains went a little still, though he was composed of a lot of body parts, so none of him was actually still at all. And then he breathed in several sets of lungs and bodies, and pulled back, floating away. When he got far enough away, he stretched, as though his image had been pulled toward Centrics, his city, spaghettifying. As soon as he started stretching that way, the rest of his body followed, and within a single moment he was gone. He left behind some blood and bits of flesh, as though they were torn away from him for moving too fast.

Weird.

Erick said, “That was a weird way for him to leave. What was that stretching?”

“Some sort of transportation power,” Shadow said. “Not his, obviously. Grafted onto him.”

Querkooda said, “I am surprised we haven’t seen more weird magics.”

Erick said, “I saw a lot with Slave Intake #38. Mostly minor stuff, though. One guy pulled the color off of a wall to hide. Didn’t work. He burned in valkyrie fire anyway.”

Querkooda smirked. “Valkyrie fire, eh? I heard them calling it blackgold fire.”

“I like ‘valkyrie fire’,” Erick said, “Some people were calling it that last night and it sounded better than ‘blackgold’.”

Shadow said, “If you come out in favor of using the word ‘valkyrie’ to describe the various powers of your new warriors then people will continue with that belief and that confluence of Elements will be named ‘valkyrie’. From there, someone will give rise to that actual Element, and it will be a lot cleaner than Vile-plus-Exalted-plus-other-stuff.” Shadow looked to Erick. “Or you could go with ‘blackgold’, but that seems rather boring and unproductive of any future powers.”

Erick almost wanted to scoff. Instead, he said, “I have a hard time believing that a halfway-Element for Vile and Exalted doesn’t already exist, though I haven’t heard of any; I assumed it was Banned on Veird. I’m sure that Good and Evil must have a halfway-Element, too, even though I haven’t heard of that one, either.”

Shadow smirked. “Vile and Exalted and Good and Evil’s halfway-Elements are called Balance. Two different versions of Balance, though.”

“… Ah. I don’t like that much at all.” Erick said, “Let’s go with Elemental Valkyrie, then.”

Shadow’s grin widened to actual happiness.

Querkooda asked, “Shall we attend to the rest of the war?”

“Yes,” Erick said. “Let’s go see some would-be valkyries. Shadow? Will you be joining us?”

“I want to, but no. I will attend to the manaminer you’re purchasing.” Shadow said, “When they request to imprint blood or soul prints or mana signatures, you should do a double-layer system with office codes, like the Relevant Entities of Veird, and with a Castellan of the House, like with Rozeta. Who to pick for a castellan? I do not know. Certainly not me.”

“… Huh. Okay. So that’s how that works on Veird, then?”

“Pretty much,” Shadow said, and then she stepped away, vanishing.

Querkooda changed subjects, asking, “Where does that name come from, anyway? ‘Valkyries’?”

“Old Earth mythology about a god lifting up servitors, to gather the souls of the worthy after they died in righteous battle, to bring those warriors to a good afterlife and to prepare them for a final Apocalypse War known as Ragnarok.” Erick said, “I wasn’t aware I was making that spell with that much meaning when I went into the spell creation, but when I got close, I realized what I was doing, so I went for it, and here we are.”

