Reena softly said, “I feel them. They’re coming.” She smiled. She laughed. She declared, “And I’m going to help them now.”

Reena flickered with blood, exploding into nothing, gore spreading wide and far.

… Okay then.

Several hundred kilometers away, and thanks to a map below the valkyrie blood map that was targeted to ‘valkyries’, Erick saw as Reena reappeared at Slave Intake #22.

Erick kept feeding power into the red map, as he said, “I guess you can blood teleport. That’s useful.”

“Sir!” Xai said, and then he exploded into gore and reappeared at Slave Intake #22 as well.

Erick asked the other three, “You know how he did that?”

Griffin, Hendry, and Shivraa each had unsure looks upon them—

Shivraa suddenly floated straighter. “Oh. It’s like that.”

She exploded into frozen blood, and then left. She reappeared at Intake #9.

Griffin and Hendry looked to each other. Wordlessly, they exploded into gore, too. They reappeared together Intake #17, and Erick wiped away some drops of blood on his face and body.

Rapidly, the number of red dots on the infection map vanished, as people died. Those dots reappeared on the white ‘search for valkyrie’ map, on the floor below the red map, and soon, blue dots began to multiply.

Erick checked to see where Dakka was.

“… Where is Dakka?” Erick asked the air.

Lady Aelorika, wrapped in flowers and green, stepped into the space atop Erick’s Valkyrie Command Center, sighing, saying, “He’s that blue valkyrie dot over by Slave Intake #22.”

“… What?” Erick was already looking down there. He guessed, “That one standing off on its own?”

“That’s the one,” Lady Aelorika said, seeming down, as she looked out into the rusted sky, the faint glow of gold barriers faintly coming through there and there. “I’m pretty sure you’ve done this magic too well. I’ll try to damage control after this is done.” She looked to him. “It really would have been better if you would have become Good.”

Erick had a sudden thought. “You tried to get Nothanganathor to declare himself as Evil, didn’t you.”

“Yes. He would have risen to become Emperor of Wraithborne, like Morbion did. Nothanganathor’s danger would have been contained as well as used, but instead he fixated on Veird and killed a universe.” Lady Aelorika said, “This is what happens when people enter the wider world of Margleknot and then fail to leave behind their tiny homes, with their tiny matters and tiny problems; we all get dragged down into the depths of depravity. I pray this doesn’t happen to you, and that you go on to solve more problems than you create. Good luck with your war. We’ll speak afterward about Veird.”

Lady Aelorika stepped away.

And Erick continued to funnel mana into the red map until the valkyries’ Siphons powered themselves, and then went further beyond, into growth. It didn’t take too long. 5,000 warriors. Last time it only took 3,500. This time the battles went a whole lot faster, too. That’s what happened when you had an army connected mentally to each other, each able to share in the duty of shriving Slaver’s Den, all together.

The war went quickly and way too slow at the same time. Every second was a horror interrupted, and every second gave birth to a new horror, and hope. Mostly hope.

Attacks came.

Erick, Shadow, and Querkooda repelled them all.

When the first 20,000 people turned to valkyries, Erick decided he needed someone to get some of the horde to come home, to be reborn, so he poked at the map with his aura and some resons, flowing in some intent for a speaker to come out. It was an experiment that had worked before, but he didn’t know if it would still work, but since they could blood-teleport then maybe—

Shivraa appeared out of the red mist map like a floating ghost, only to come back to solidity, to float through the map and upward. She reached the roof under Erick’s feet and flowed through that roof like a frozen mist, to kneel before Erick above the Valkyrie Command Center. “My king. I heard your call. What would you have of us?”

“You’ve reached a critical mass. Have those who wish for their new lives to start flying into the normal area by the red pillars to be reborn. Have those who would move on to a next life beyond Margleknot to fly to the gold pillars, which I will be setting up soon. Those who judge themselves or as I judge them as the worst of the worst shall be moving on; they will not have a choice otherwise.” Erick said, “I’ll be enacting wave 2 of the valkyries in a few minutes, enacting infections in the cities out there that have no one. Those groups will need to be reinforced fast.”

“The warmachine obeys.”

“By the end of this war, I will be finding someone to be the lead valkyrie, to stand with me and send out orders to everyone else. Maybe a trio. Keep that in mind. You may return to the war.”

“Sir!”

Shivraa vanished in a splash of frozen blood, adding to the red slick already present on the roof of the Valkyrie Command Center. Erick returned to the war. Glancing down at the map below the roof, below his feet, he saw blue dots begin to flow toward House Benevolence, located on the side-ish of Slaver’s Den.

Erick activated wave 2 in all the other Slave Intakes, and also in the major cities of Slaver’s Den, in very specific locations. In Den, which was the Showcase City, filled with weird powers and weirder slaves, like a cross between New York City and a zoo. In Glams, the city of sex, overseen by Underling Walara, the demon succubus. In Centrics, Underling Chains’ city of hard cases and dangerous slaves. And in Anomalies, the main city of Slaver’s Den, where Captain Shackle oversaw everything. The only spot where the infection did not take at all was in Anomalies, the most well-defended city.

But everywhere else, Valkyries stepped out of the gore of the downtrodden and powerless, to bring grievance to the slavers.

And so it went.

Erick didn’t know if Chains tried to activate any of the sunder-kill Major Contract switches in any of the hidden locations out there in Slaver’s Den. What he did know is that the valkyries managed to get to every single location with one of those Major Contract hubs, as outlined by Kakalakot, and protect those locations. Kakalakot of the Slavehold’s information about all of that had been invaluable. Erick hoped the man was doing well, wherever he was. He might have doomed billions to slavery, but he had saved billions of lives today from sundering.

And so it went.

It was all kinda easy. But then again, when you had a few thousand temporarily-converted minds all working together to make vulnerabilities like billion-kill-Contract-switches obsolete, and the knowledge to actually do that, and the preparation and determination to make those vulnerabilities obsolete, then good things had a way of working out.

Still though…

A lot of people were dying today.

And Anomalies, Captain Shackle’s city, was proving to be particularly difficult to breach. The valkyries didn’t seem able to get more than a kilometer inside the walls before their blackgold fire guttered out and common guns killed them. They reformed outside the city with their brethren, but they couldn’t get past many of the barricades and Erick was absolutely sure that Captain Shackle had some hidden depths to him that—

Something rippled across the world.

And several million of Erick’s valkyries, currently attempting to attack Anomalies, simply evaporated into broken mana. Further afield, waves upon waves of blue upon the map below, all across Slaver’s Den, wobbled.

For a moment, Erick was stunned. Just what had Captain Shackle done?

… And then Erick knew.

As the map resolidified, Erick knew.

“Fuck,” Erick said, some of his worst fears confirmed. They didn’t manage to get every single Contract Nexus, and worse than that… “The killswitch can transfer inside of the valkyries in certain situations.” He asked the air, “The Quarantine still worked though, right?”

Yggdrasil stepped to Erick’s side, looking angrily at the horizon, but that anger was at himself. “The Contracts are still there in the valkyries and they’re mostly inactive, but that pulse got inside of them… And it bypassed the Quarantine.”

Erick felt the blood drain from his face. “How bad?”

“112 million people. I thought our Quarantines were better than that, but it appears these Contracts are better than they should be.”

Erick had a moment, and then he got back to war. “Captain Shackle is being pursued by the fae forces of Margleknot, then? He should be, right? For sundering people on layer 0.”

Yggdrasil glared at the distance. “Captain Shackle had an underling do it, all the while telling that person not to do it, but in a way that everyone knew that Captain Shackle was giving him the order to pull the switch. Captain Shackle survives, and the person who pulled the switch is now a war criminal. Lord Dakka has already called a Hunt and that person is already being erased from the world, slowly being sundered in a much worse way than what they did to all those people they destroyed. Even their name is being erased, for I do not recall it.”

Erick wasn’t sure what to say, except… “So Shackle is still there, then. Inside Anomalies.”

“Yes. Him and his remaining Underlings are hiding under his Authority. That’s why your valkyries haven’t been able to break the walls, or survive inside for more than a minute.” Yggdrasil said, “You’re going to have to break his Authority to end this.” He said to Erick, “He hasn’t actually broken Grand Law. We cannot advance on him. You can.”

“Then that is what I will do.” Erick said, “But Yggdrasil… I am guessing that Malevolence is what allowed those Contracts through your Quarantine. I am guessing that Malevolence can do a lot more than simply pierce a Quarantine. I postulate that it can kill a universe in a similar way, through slow poisoning.”

Yggdrasil had already had those thoughts and probably a lot more, both since this morning when he spoke with Aragathara, and since this latest horror. He stared out across the rust-red sky… And then he turned to Erick. “When you’re secure in this land, after about a month, I'll drop the time dilation between Margleknot and Veird. Nothanganathor has been requesting… a lot of things. His avatar will come to Margleknot and I and the Council will be having words with him. You can be there, but you’ll be a spectator unless called upon.”

Erick had mixed feelings, rapidly vibrating between rage and then worry. He decided, “I’ll be there.”

Yggdrasil softened with an ageless sadness, and for a moment, Erick saw Margleknot more than he saw Yggdrasil. “I thought I had it contained.”

“It’s not your fault, Yggdrasil. Malevolence is a blight that needs to be eradicated, and I am rather certain that no one here is taking the precautions they need to take against that evil. That is by that evil’s design.”

Yggdrasil frowned, but it was at himself. He said nothing.

Erick said nothing.

And Yggdrasil stepped away, vanishing into Elsewhere.

Erick continued the war until nothing was left but Anomalies, where about 7 million people crowded into a city meant to contain a million.

All the rest of what had once been Slaver’s Den was now either a valkyrie waiting for orders to proceed, or back to being a normal person who was rapidly trying to put their life back together after being a slave for years, decades, or in some cases, hundreds or thousands of years. Millions of people were in that boat, all wanting to know what was happening now, or if they could personally kill their former captors, or if they could free their former captors because they were good people, or if they could get away, far far away. There was no leaving this battlefield, though.

Erick’s [Grand Reincarnation]s, and reson-empowered [Reincarnation]s that sent people elsewhere, still worked. Yggdrasil had said that Erick could break the Quarantine, so that wasn’t too surprising, since the Quarantine was made by Yggdrasil’s roots and power (and also Lord Dakka) and while most things could not enter or leave, souls traveling on [Reincarnation] could, just like how the Contract Nexuses could still affect people outside of Slaver’s Den. Erick supposed fae could come and go as they wanted, too.

Lotta holes in this Quarantine, actually.

Erick wasn’t privy to those conversations about all that, but he certainly knew that those conversations were happening.

Organization from there took four days to get everyone in refugee camps and to send off the worst offenders that the valkyrie horde had captured. Erick put up a bunch more Benevolence dungeons to power everything he needed empowered in House Benevolence, and in the rapid expansions of his lands.

It was a disastrous few days of war and reclamation, with back and forth battles between standing valkyries and forays from Anomalies, and Erick rapidly making infrastructure and otherwise. Erick made more maps to break up the war away from a single point of failure. He appointed people to positions of power. He made duplicators to rapidly make food for everyone.

It was necessary.

And one more battle remained.
