Querkooda raised an eyebrow. “Ah.”

Erick smiled. “Sometimes things have a way of working out well.”

- - - -

In a large room under heavy defensive magics, far away from House Benevolence, Erick stood before 5 people who would become valkyries. Querkooda was there, too.

Three of those 5 people were from the original population of this new House Benevolence; former people from Slave Intake #45. Those three had since displayed prowess and skillful growth under Querkooda’s army training, and they were Querkooda’s tentative captains of the new Valkyrie Battalion. They were Griffin, Hendry, and Shivraa; human, elf, and some sort of ice-based half-elemental person shaped like an elf. Erick had never heard of Shivraa’s race, and he simply had not asked, so he didn’t know. She was more ice-Benevolence now, anyway.

And then there was Reena and Xai from Intake #38. Both of them were elves, though Reena looked more wood-elf than a normal elf, like Xai.

They all wore white tunics and pants, and nothing else; those clothes were going to get ruined, anyway.

All battles were naked-time battles once you got to a certain level of battle, and Erick tried not to think about that too much. Jane had been fighting like this for a long time, though, what with all her various [Polymorph] forms—

Erick got his head back in the moment.

This was a big moment.

Erick said to all of the five, “This is not a magic that was meant to raise up souls into warrior forms. Reena and Xai managed it, though. Not sure how that happened, exactly, but I approve of that happening. From what I have gathered, they both bore a deep hatred and a need to make things right. Perhaps that resonated with [Blood of the Valkyrie], and that is what caused their empowerment.

“And so, we are here.

“I cannot guarantee that you will retain your sense of self once subjected to this spell, but I can guarantee that you will remain a warrior on the battlefield, and should you survive, you will come back and be reborn once again in Benevolence. Your time as a valkyrie is a time of war, but you are not just warriors. You are so much more than that. You will come back from this, and you will likely come back changed.” He asked, “Knowing this, do you still choose to follow this path?”

Griffin, Hendry, Shivraa, Reena, and Xai, all took a knee as one, saying, “We pledge ourselves to House Benevolence, to be the instruments of War when needed, and to return to normalcy when War passes.”

Erick felt the air thrum, and then he said, “Your pledges are accepted.”

Querkooda shielded himself.

And then Erick cast [Blood of the Valkyrie] on each of the new valkyries at the same time, empowering the spell with resons and purpose, solidifying pledges to bodies in ways that he didn’t fully understand, but which he knew would work exactly as he wanted it to work.

Five orbs of blood crushed five volunteers into gore and red.

There had been no screams at all, for it had happened too fast and these five people were fully welcoming the soul magic cast upon them.

One by one, the five valkyries stood up from the ground, each of them shaped like the person they had been, but nude, and with red skin of various shades. Blackgold wings of swords swept out of their backs. Crowns of blackgold floated above their heads, and baleful red eyes opened up in those crowns.

Griffin was a valkyrie born with a blackgold sword in one hand and a shield in the other.

Hendry was surrounded by countless small blades, each of them sparking.

Shivraa was a being of palest violet, floating already and slightly shorter than the others, with a cold fog rolling off of her and her whitegold swords.

Reena was a beautiful woman, standing tall and proud and palest red. Her blackgold weaponry was almost like tarnished gold, instead of blackgold.

Xai was a handsome man of dark red skin, awaiting orders. His armaments were mostly black, but with gold at the center, like veins in black metal.

All five of them looked to Erick, and all five took a knee. “Apparent King!”

Good. It worked.

Erick checked the mana in the air. He scoped out each of their souls and bodies, checking for weirdness, or danger. What he saw was five people who had auras well contained to their bodies, and a strength of purpose that most people never achieved. Erick wondered how their propagative auras would manifest, but he was already pretty sure he knew how they would; he had created this magic, after all, and this time he had empowered it with resons, to make it work exactly as he wanted.

Erick said, “Rise.”

Querkooda dropped his shield—

The five valkyries tensed up…

But Querkooda was fine. He smiled, saying, “I can’t even feel an aura. You there, Hendry. Hit me with a dagger.” He held out his hand. “Right here.”

Hendry looked to Erick.

Erick nodded.

Hendry hesitated, but then he move a hand and one of his tiny daggers flew out and—

Skittered off of Querkooda’s hand. It did leave a mark, though. A little scratch… And that was it. No glowing red Blood Magic lines or infectious Death.

“Again,” Querkooda said. “Until you get that dagger all the way in there. Try to infect me.”

Hendry shot a single dagger into Querkooda’s open, steady palm, seven times before he got the dagger to pierce through that flesh and come out the other side of that hand. Querkooda tensed his hand, making a fist, breaking the floating dagger into motes of red, grey, gold, and black magic. That magic lingered on his flesh for a moment, but that was it.

He wasn’t infected by the Blood.

Erick smiled, for he was happy to know that this had worked out exactly as he wanted.

Hendry asked, “It’s supposed to instantly infect, right?”

Erick nodded. “Yes, and no. The answer right now is ‘no’, because none of you are connected to each other right now, except in the most basic of ways. You don’t have the necessary excess mana to make your auras strong, to infect others. When I broke the red [Spellsurge Weave] yesterday, that breaking removed the ability for the valkyries to infect others easily, and it also removed their ability to coordinate. I am glad to report that this remains true, though I am sure that if you really wanted to, you could infect a much-weakened target, and you could probably coordinate with each other in a more visceral, mental sort of way.

“What will make you true dangers is when I hook you up to a [Spellsurge Weave] to form an actual node network, to propel your powers into the infectious sort of stage.” Erick continued, “We will be doing some tests in the coming half hour to get a handle on all that, and then we go to war.”

And then Erick conjured a [Spellsurge Weave] imager in front of himself, among the gathered people, and had it target nothing at all. The white image of their surroundings began to manifest from a white weaver that floated above the preparation area; mist turning to hologram. Soon, the map populated with imagery centered about 20 kilometers upspireward from the House. The valkyries, Erick, and Querkooda, stood within that image.

It was a wasteland out there.

Erick looked to Querkooda.

Querkooda put his shields back up.

And then Erick targeted the valkyries with the weaver. The five of them populated the map like five little blue dots, and Erick asked them, “Feel anything?”

The five valkyries looked a bit lost.

Reena spoke up. “No, sir.”

Erick nodded. “That didn’t work, then. Trying the next experiment.”

Erick was very glad that didn’t work.

It would take more than simple targeting to connect them to a Weave.

Over the course of 45 minutes, Erick began to truly understand what this magic could do, and what it could not do.

Mostly, he figured out that [Spellsurge Weave] had to be summoned alongside [Blood of the Valkyrie] for the network of valkyries to manifest once again as a misty red map, and then each valkyrie who wasn’t already part of that network had to step into the red map and extend their aura into the image, to connect to that network. Once they were connected, their auras turned infectious.

Really infectious.

It was easy for Erick to clean himself of that infection. The Blood never got past his skin, and even then the Carnage Death was easily shoved away like dust billowing away from broken spellwork.

Querkooda was easily infected, too; Just standing beside a valkyrie was enough. It took him some doing to rid himself of the infection. He couldn’t do it while he was inside the infection area, either. He needed to get out of the valkyries’ natural aura range, which was about 4-5 meters if they were relaxed, and 10 meters if they were focused on battle. Reena could push her aura out to 25 meters when she focused on it a bit. But when Querkooda was out of the area of effect, he needed to actively purge the infection through aura work. He could purge the infection, though! Which was good news.

When the infection was dormant it was kind of a ‘burning body’ sensation, or needles all over the skin, according to Querkooda. It was nothing major. Nothing he or any other Talent would have actual trouble over.

Erick imagined that those without proper aura control would not be able to purge the infection at all, and they would have trouble. A lot of trouble.

As for the valkyries themselves...

Once connected to each other, Valkyrie fire erupted from their crowns and each one of them turned sharper, and stronger. They connected mentally to each other, to naturally share memories and power. Rapidly, they learned to move around each other and various obstacles Erick set up, their movements having turned from rote strength and power into something a whole lot more graceful. They danced without dancing, moving through obstacle courses, their blades turning sharp and deadly.

After an hour of testing, done mostly to ensure that all their minds still seemed all there and to ensure that they could disconnect and reconnect from the network themselves, which they could, Erick decided that this was enough. The new valkyries were still themselves, but they also were a whole lot more than that.

“It is time,” Erick said.

Querkooda, once thoroughly cleaned of infection, went back to the House, to oversee the defenses of the land there.

Erick and his valkyries moved outside of the ‘Valkyrie Command Center’, as the valkyries were now calling it. Standing above the hidden white roof, Erick looked to the sky and canceled most of the hiding magics of the VCC. Illusions came down, revealing a white castle made of eternal stonewood.

Erick said to his valkyries, “You will remain here while I infect a few cities at once. This will ensure your mentality passes on to the newborns. You will be joining those war efforts soon, by flying there. From there, all of Slaver’s Den will be falling today.” The valkyries already knew that, but Erick had said it aloud for the people watching, because they were surely watching. But to actually call upon them, Erick turned to the sky, and said, “Yggdrasil. I am now releasing wide-scale [Blood of the Valkyrie]s upon Slaver’s Den. This is my official heads up to you. Propagation magic is being released in 1 minute.”

Yggdrasil stepped out of the air, to stand in front of Erick. He looked concerned. “Are you really doing this, this way?”

Erick looked to his son, and said, “I am.”

“Then I request 1.34 billion resons to enact a quarantine. That number might increase if your magic becomes unwieldy. This should prevent the propagation of your magic to other parts of Margleknot, but it is not 100% certain. Quarantines are never certain.”

Erick didn’t expect that, but he rolled with it. “What about the propagation of the Major Contracts, or whatever they’re called?”

Erick was worried about the indiscriminate sundering of billions, as Chains had threatened, but it wasn’t enough to stop him. Getting rid of great Evils was always going to come with a cost.

Yggdrasil said, “It should prevent those from triggering outside of Slaver’s Den, but again, that is not certain.”

“How not-certain?”

“The quarantine should work against most non-Power threats, which means you’re the only one really able to break it once it goes up.” Yggdrasil said, “But those Major Contracts were written by Powers. By Morbion and others.”

“I accept the reson cost, then. Please deduct it from my account.”

Yggdrasil nodded curtly… He paused.

Erick waited.

Yggdrasil breathed, then said, “… I stayed out of this decision of yours to do this valkyrie thing for a while, father, but…” Yggdrasil said, “This is probably going to work exactly how you want it to work, but the aftermath is going to be… Unknown.”

Erick nodded. “I’m aware. Sorry for worrying you.”

“On the plus side, Lord Dakka is now seated amongst his harem, watching on every screen he can find, giggling like a child for their awaited afternoon candy.” Yggdrasil said, “So I’m pretty sure this is exactly what he wants.”

Erick huffed a tiny laugh, then said, “If he can uphold the standards I expect out of allies, then he’s invited to watch from here—”

“I agree!” Lord Dakka slipped out from behind Yggdrasil’s big green body, smiling, giggling. The fae of war and death wore rusted metals, his wings fluttering rust into the air, as he said, “But I want to participate!”

Erick rapidly decided, “Can you keep infected people from running? That’s my only worry about this.”

“I can do that and so much more!”

Lord Dakka’s giggle turned into a peal of evil laughter as he vanished into his own cloud of rust, his laughter turning deeper, darker, to become a rumble that filled the world. The sky darkened a fraction.

Scant white clouds began to change to something redder—

Yggdrasil said, “I was already planning on keeping people from running, but this is probably better. Good luck, father.” And then he stepped away.

“See you later, Yggdrasil.”

— clouds of rust filled the world overhead, blocking out the sky of Margleknot, but not before brilliant gold hexagons came into being between the continent of Slaver’s Den, and all the rest of Margleknot. Words appeared on the gold, and all of those hexagons read the same thing:

QUARANTINE

Erick moved on.

Down below, Erick had already scoped out targets on the Weave image. He was focused on Slave Intake #22, #9, and #17 right now, with his targets being ‘Graduates who wish for Death’. He had 37 targets, but that would change, and fast.

Right now, the spell had no power to infect anyone else.

But then Erick flowed [Renew] into that spellwork, pouring power into weavers far, far away—

Reena gasped, followed by smaller reactions from Xai, Hendry, Griffin, and Shivraa.

