Aragathara continued, “It took another several thousand years before Nothanganathor was ready to Sunder the Painted Cosmology with his Truth, in an attempt to recapture the Mantle of Magic from Melemizargo, to lift his curse and become the God of Magic that he always should have been. I helped him, because I thought he was doing something else besides Sundering that universe. I thought he was seeking to Sunder his curse. He might have even succeeded in doing that, if that is what he chose to go for, for Nothanganathor was very good at achieving his goals. He was a great man. A great emperor. A perfect… everything.

“But sundering his curse is not what he chose to do.

“I followed him forever, but it wasn’t until you came out of Veird with your story that… I went investigating, in true. As soon as the Sundering happened I —of course— began to suspect. Everyone did. Nothanganathor had saved a piece of the Painted Cosmology and his brother in the process, and was then granted stewardship of that world? His now very-weak brother, whom Nothanganathor was known to speak of eating, if he ever got the chance? The implications were obvious. But I did not want to dig deep. I did not want to see.

“In truth, no one cared about a dead universe except for a few people and Nothanganathor. The Painted Cosmology was done. The story was big when it happened but Nothanganathor spoke of how he was saving what he could, and then came more good words…

“Margleknot moved on.

“But now a different truth is coming to light.

“And so, I came here at the end of my life, to repent for my part in that horror. Perhaps Nothanganathor was true in how he didn’t cause the Sundering, but that is doubtful. I want to repent. I want to bring about a perfect empire. I want to roar at Nothanganathor myself, to ask him if it is all true. That is why I pledged myself to Shadow. That is why I pledged myself to you, Apparent King, and to House Benevolence.

“For to kill a universe is the gravest of offenses, and Nothanganathor certainly did that. He needs to be brought to justice in whatever way is final.”

Silence stretched.

Erick had listened to everything, and saw that Aragathara was speaking a truth. Her truth? Nothanganathor’s truth? The truth of the Sundering? Perhaps all of that, and more.

What did Erick gain from listening to this story, though? Anything new?

The part about Nothanganathor killing Margleknot’s person-avatar in the Painted Cosmology. A Slice of Infinity all of Nothanganathor’s own. The part about how Shadow and Shades killed that avatar whenever they could, but they didn’t sunder it… Probably.

Erick asked Shadow, “Did you sunder Margleknot’s avatar when you found it?”

“No. Never.” Shadow said, “We killed it and sent it back home.”

Erick looked to Aragathara. “I have not met the man yet, but it seems to me that Morbion is pretending that this isn’t a big deal. The Fae Council are pretending this isn’t a big deal, too. Like Nothanganathor isn’t a MASSIVE part of their history. Even the Fractal Fairy only cares about reconnecting to the Darkness in whatever way they can. No one seems to care much at all about Nothanganathor or Veird, except for me, Shadow, and Yggdrasil.” It seemed like some sort of application of Malevolence, and it probably was. And yet, Erick asked, “Why?”

Aragathara was a little flummoxed by Erick’s question. She came up with an answer quick enough, saying, “Because Nothanganathor never liked to work in the light. He was always a dragon who should have been Darkness. It was who he was. It is who he still is. Finding any solid information on the man is near impossible. But the Council and Morbion have been working without Nothanganathor for almost 1,500 years at this point, and that was more than enough to give him the benefit of the doubt and accept that a tragedy was a tragedy. There are many other users of Malevolence besides him these days, too, so they don’t even really need him.

“The Council only needs Nothanganathor for massive universe-ending problems, but small users already use Malevolence to find and destroy those problems before they become problems.” Finding her stride, Aragathara said, “And Margleknot is home to an infinity of problems. The amount of effort that people are giving toward this old Nothanganathor stuff is about normal.

“The past is the past, and no one cares about it except for those it still affects, and that means me, and all of you. Quite honestly, Nothanganathor is old-cauldron, and you’re going to end up killing him soon enough… Or maybe you won’t.” Aragathara said, “No one is quite sure how you’ll solve that.”

No one was sure? Had he not told them all— Ah. Erick had been offering redemption to many people, including great Evils. They thought he was going to offer redemption to Nothanganathor, too. Shadow glanced at Erick, for she was also wondering what Erick’s solution would be, now that all this truth was getting out.

Aragathara clearly hoped that Erick would see fit to forgive Nothanganathor. Perhaps that had been her true goal in coming here, aside from saving herself from the oblivion of a corruption-fueled soul-death.

Erick said, “I won’t offer him redemption.”

Aragathara strongly said, “Good. You shouldn’t. Universe killers should be beyond all redemption, even if he does plan on bringing it back if he wins.”

… What?

Dissecting that statement had Erick spiraling through a bunch of different thoughts. First, Aragathara was trying to be ‘on Erick’s side’ and prove that she was a faithful member of his House, to keep in good standing with Shadow. But she still hoped that Nothanganathor could be forgiven. And yet, she truly believed that universe-killers did not deserve redemption. She was a flurry of emotions in the hitch of her voice and the straight of her back and the tension of her hands upon the armrest of her chair.

Well.

People were complicated.

The whole situation was kinda complicated… if Erick let it be complicated.

Hearing that Nothanganathor has a bunch of souls inside of him, though…

Well. That was kinda… a thing. To hear that Nothanganathor was planning on bringing back the people of the Painted Cosmology had Erick thinking of the Black Gate and Melemizargo with the shadow-infected crystal towers of Ar’Kendrithyst and of the dungeons.

And also, now there were the valkyries.

Erick’s latest magic was tailor-made to Siphoning Nothanganathor’s power and then multiplying rapidly and assaulting him through pure numbers, and then, perhaps, carving into that sun-sized beast and pulling out a treasure of souls… But could that work?

Would that work?

It would probably work.

It would need to be a battle less of annihilation, though, and more of complete dismemberment, which would be more difficult.

And yet… To let Nothanganathor bring back what he killed?

That would be what Erick was doing right now with the valkyries. He was killing things to bring them back.

… The situations were not the same at all, though…

As Erick’s thoughts spiraled—

Shadow had a much simpler reaction.

Shadow scoffed, “He’s not resurrecting my universe with him as the god of it all.”

“He probably changed those souls to worship him, too.” Erick said, “All he needs is the mantle of the God of Magic and he could bring back the entire Painted Cosmology and kick you out, couldn’t he, Shadow?”

Shadow stared at Erick. “He’s not resurrecting my universe.”

“I wouldn’t want him as a god-dragon either.” Erick asked Aragathara, “How do you know that is his goal?”

“He’s always wanted the Painted Cosmology for himself; for that universe to be his True Empire,” Aragathara said, “It was only because of the actions of his family and the destruction of countless versions of Margleknot’s avatars, many of whom had become friends, that he doesn’t want the Painted Cosmology Fae or Melemizargo’s line of dragons to exist anymore. Nothanganathor even sucked up as much of the Painted Cosmology as he could in order to save it, though Melemizargo managed to keep a lot of it himself.” She paused. “… Or at least that’s what I think Nothanganathor was able to do with his Sign of Power. He has been using that part of himself to hide things in his own personal hoard for a very long time, so it makes sense he captured as much of the Painted Cosmology as he could.”

Erick was slightly conflicted in a very odd way.

“We’re still killing him,” Shadow softly declared, “And it doesn’t matter what hostages he might theoretically hold.” She said to Erick, “Your valkyries can capture any souls that he might be hoarding, so his hostages don’t even matter. We’ll get back as many of them as we can, and that’s that.”

Okay.

Yeah.

This was too big to make any decisions right now.

Erick suddenly stood, ending the conversation there. Aragathara rapidly followed. Shadow took a moment, but she stood, too. Erick said, “I appreciate your candor and answers, Aragathara. This is a lot to think about, from the fact that I seem pulled in a direction to create something amazingly useful that turns out to be exactly what I need to continue forward, to the fact that all of the Sundering is a result of some sort of family feud from 10,000 years ago, to the idea that Nothanganathor has… What? The souls of those who died? Or actual stuff?”

“Probably souls and the rarest, best treasures,” Aragathara said.

Erick nodded. “Sure.” He continued, “All of this has been informative. I need to go make more defenses and more war, now. I can’t quite tell what is going to happen in the next 24 hours, but it’s going to be big.” He said to Shadow, “I’m rather certain we weren’t attacked at all since the assault of Slave Intake #38 because they were looking at that whole event and weighing options. We need to be prepared when they come with a flag of truce, because we’re not giving them a truce at all.”

Shadow nodded, saying, “Of course.”

“Later,” Erick said, and then he turned to lightning and flew to the main House.

- - - -

Erick landed in front of Querkooda, his second Ruby, and a few engineers who were working on the [Infinite Imaging]. Lanzoil was there as well. Erick’s arrival was a fast interruption.

Erick wasted no time. “Hello everyone. We’ll be getting that manaminer now. How do we go about that? I heard the Aetherium Bazaar was the place to go.”

After a short pause of thought—

Lanzoil said, “Yes. The Aetherium. I have a standing appointment for us that we can use or not.”

The meeting they had been having suddenly reorganized. The engineer that had helped to make the Awakening Machine, Tris, spoke up, “A manaminer would clean up a lot of the problems with the Imager. It makes magic work well with tech if you set it up right, and I know how to set them up right. Did about a hundred of those before now.”

Erick said, “Good. Glad to hear it.”

Querkooda asked, “Can we even trust the people who sell these things?’

Lanzoil said, “The one I have in mind, yes. It’s an organization of Knowledge Mages who are allies with the Good side of Margleknot. They put in a request to speak with us four days ago about possible manaminer purchases and I vetted them long before that. They’ve been around for thousands of years.”

Erick narrowed his eyebrows for a multitude of sudden reasons, mostly to do with Knowledge Mages being able to exist in this universe at all, and if there were ties with the Script of Veird in some convoluted way, and what was up with the Goddess of Knowledge of the Painted Cosmology and the possibility of her ‘body’ being somewhere inside the blue Core of Veird. But the thought he most focused on was, “How did that request come in?”

“The mail room,” Lanzoil said, “It’s a miracle we even noticed their message, since it was a normal, small message that came through with ten million other requests.”

“Finding a single spark in a storm,” Tris mumbled, reluctantly accepting random chance as not that random at all.

Erick silently agreed with the man, and then said to Lanzoil, “Let’s go meet them.”

Lanzoil said, “They can come here?”

“… That’s probably a better idea, though I do want them to bring pictures of what their offices look like so I know who to complain to if they end up selling us a trap.” Erick asked, “And what is a Knowledge Mage in this universe, anyway? They’re Book Mages back home. We also used to have a Goddess of Knowledge back home, too.”

“Their offices are well known and haven’t moved in eons, but yes, we can get those pictures,” Lanzoil said. “And a Knowledge Mage here is pretty much the same thing, but with tech additions.”

Tris spoke up, “Some are artificial intelligence ‘gods’.”

Everyone looked to him.

Erick asked, “Really? AI gods?”

Lanzoil asked, “Like, machine things?”

Querkooda said, “I have trouble believing that. There has to be souls somewhere in them.”

Tris was growing comfortable around big powers, which was good for him and for House Benevolence, because he continued to speak without worry, “They get a soul most of the time, but the young ones are pretty much just machines. The machine ones can do more than the living ones, too, so they try to stay machines, or very low-level living things. So yeah. More like gods than people. That’s their preferred route toward power, too; helps them solidify themselves in a way that simple tech can’t do. They’re all over the tech side of Margleknot.” He frowned a little, adding, “It’s been that way for hundreds of thousands of years, I thought?”

Lanzoil shrugged. “I never got to the tech side of things.”

Querkooda said, “Me either.”

- - - -

In a room of House Benevolence, a short time after deciding to actually do it, Erick stood for a different sort of meeting. One he rarely got to participate in these days.

He was going to buy something important.

The room was already filled with diagrams and offerings, all of them in the shape of floating orbs of various colors. Power readouts that Erick didn’t fully understand floated alongside maximum size and population readouts that Erick did understand. The price tag for all of them was the same, though.

In soft gold words, floating in the center of the arrangement, was the price.

The price tag was relatively cheap, too, and something he was already willing to do.

