While most of House Benevolence was white, it did have a lot of grey and black accents here and there.

The Queen’s Castle was a reverse of that, being black with white accents. It was sharp corners where House Benevolence was soft domes. It was arrow slits in tall walls while House Benevolence was big open windows. But the Queen’s Castle still had benches for people to sit on and balconies and party areas, though they were smaller than those located in the structure of the House, at the center; more intimate, perhaps. The main marker of Queen’s Castle were all the sharp lights that produced harsh shadows here and there, and the overhead lamps that hung directly over the center of every walkway, those lights hanging over bases to cast flickering pools of soft shadows, like carpets.

And then there were the drapes and veils and all sorts of fabrics.

The Benevolent Dark Queen seemed to love her drapes and veils and fabrics. Erick kinda thought they were an unnecessary security risk, because a lot of stuff could hide in rooms where half the walls had fluttering fabrics on them. ‘Was that fluttering over there a person hiding, or just the wind?’ ‘Who knows!’

At the same time, those fabrics gave Shadow’s people lots of room to hide.

Erick felt that to have all those fabrics at all was to invite a game of cat and mouse into one’s own home.

Shadow had smiled at that, when Erick mentioned that one time. She had said, “Erick. If someone wants to skulk around in my house, then I welcome their attempt and will teach them proper manners when they invariably fail.”

Erick had laughed at himself, saying, “I suppose that is what would happen!”

Shadow had smiled.

And now Erick was here again, in a meeting room in the Queen’s Castle, with a nice view of the glass-covered garden outside and below. Warm sunlight cast warm shadows across a greyscale oriental-like carpet under Erick’s shoes. He took tea with Shadow and Witch Aragathara, their tea service sitting on a delicately-carved marble tea table between them, with Erick and Shadow on one side and Aragathara on the other. This was a nice room for meetings with nice people.

Erick wasn’t sure if Witch Aragathara counted as a ‘nice person’, considering how much credit she took for her former companion Nothanganathor’s rise to power.

Aragathara had been a very old woman. Now, since her [Reincarnation], she was a mousy young woman, with pale skin, freckles, and orange hair and eyes. She looked like a 19 year old human, yet she still had an oldness about her. Perhaps it was a timelessness, but no. It was definitely an ‘oldness’. She made Erick think of grandmothers, especially with the softness in her bright orange eyes, and the dirt under her nails and on her various gardening clothes. She had just come from there.

Shadow began, “I trust the garden is working out well, Aragathara?”

“Yes, Ma’am,” Aragathara said, smiling a little. “It’s perfect. All the Benevolence in the air does wonders for the sugar content of my greatberries and the density of the wheat grains. I can’t wait to make a fresh cobbler. I haven’t had one of those in millennia.”

“Good to hear,” Shadow said, sipping her tea.

Shadow was allowing Erick to set the tone, then.

So Erick asked, “Will you be pursuing lichdom again?”

“Doubtful. That will be the backup plan,” Aragathara said.

“… Oh?” Erick asked, an eyebrow raised.

Aragathra said, “Maybe in a decade or two I might try for lichdom — and there’s no time like the present to start setting that up, of course— but that is the backup plan. When I first rose to power I started off with resonwork and I can already tell that I’m set up to succeed there, and I have Darkness and mana production now, and that Darkness and mana is growing, even from this conversation. I get the distinct feeling that when I do enough to secure your trust and your futures and the future of House Benevolence that the knock-on effects of such a foundational growth will propel me to Ascension even if I actively avoid following the paths of direct power. I never got there before, but I’m a few decades away from ascending this time. I will, of course, be Ascending under Shadow’s control.”

From her look, Shadow had already heard all that before. She was perfectly composed.

Erick was not perfectly composed. Erick sat back in his chair. He sipped his tea. It was good tea. He set the tea down and said, “Okay then. I hope your rise to true power goes well for everyone.”

Shadow relaxed a fraction.

Aragathara bowed in her seat.

Erick asked the air, “I’m kinda surprised that Yggdrasil isn’t here for this.”

Words appeared.

We had long conversations yesterday while you were making valkyries.

Shadow nodded.

… Erick nodded too, he supposed. He wondered what Yggdrasil thought of the valkyries. He would ask him later. Erick looked to Aragathara. “Let’s talk about Nothanganathor and the destruction of Margleknot’s avatar in the Painted Cosmology.”

Aragathara sat straight, and reported, “The general timeline is not set, because Margleknot’s time frame is always shifting, but roughly 12,000 years ago there was a tournament to decide who would become the next God of Magic of the Painted Cosmology. By that time I had known Nothanganathor for a few thousand years, having been a companion of his whenever he came to this uber-universe.

“When I first knew him, he was a precocious lad, prone to fits of magic and domination like any dragon. I was originally an enemy of his, because he wanted to be the king of my world, to add it to his hoard. Me and my sisters drove him off every time. Back in that time, he had his Shadowed Sun style, and he was more domineering than good or evil. Somewhere along the way other enemies cropped up and Nothanganathor proved himself as a better ally than enemy, and we helped him to become emperor-in-truth.

“A hundred years later corruption came to my world, and 90% of our people perished. The infection ended when Margleknot came to our portion of infinity and eradicated the danger and rescued the survivors.

“We moved to Margleknot after that.

“Nothanganathor raised a land in Margleknot, rapidly becoming a true Power. My eldest sister, Ara, was his right-hand woman, and the mother of his children. This sort of existence lasted for a thousand years, all of us having long turned to liches in that time, but Nothanganathor remained a dragon, of course.

“He worked tirelessly to destroy corruption and to study corruption so that he could destroy it more easily, in order to gain more allies here. He was a superb emperor. He was also the only real link this universe had to the Painted Cosmology as well, to the Darkness, because the Painted Cosmology did not have many people who cared to be a link between Fractal and Dark, and the Darkness had forbade Margleknot from planting one of his roots into that universe.

“But Margleknot had avatars, and the Fractal liked to speak to the Dark anyway, so Margleknot sent avatars into the Painted Cosmology, into the Dark. He had been doing this for a very long time. Just small people, always; disconnected from him, without any true power or memory. They lived their small lives, then they died, and the soul returned to Margleknot, and such was the way in which communication happened. Long before the tournament for Godhood, Nothanganathor and Ara and sometimes the rest of us would venture into the Painted Cosmology with Margleknot’s avatar, keeping them relatively safe for a few decades on this or that world, but never interfering with their lives.

“This was because the Fractal wanted to experience those lives.

“It was during these sabbaticals of overlooking one small, unknowing life of Margleknot that Nothanganathor grew to hate the Painted Cosmology, for every time Margleknot’s avatar died it was due to someone from the Painted Cosmology, either a Shade or even Shadow herself at least 4 times that I was personally aware of, doing the deed. Margleknot didn’t seem to mind. Sometimes we were friends with the unknowing avatar of Margleknot, though, and seeing them always die to the people of the Painted Cosmology was… it was hard.

“And that’s not even getting into the main problem of being away from our Empire in Margleknot. That was the ultimate reason that Nothanganathor turned to Evil to solve a lot of problems. The Good people of Margleknot had a way of tearing down our Empire every time he went away.

“Don’t get me wrong. Our Empire was certainly evil in many small ways, but we enjoyed a level of prosperity that few on Margleknot ever have, before or since… At this point of the tale, if things were how they had been long ago, Margleknot would have reminded us that our Empire was still small and messy compared to some of the greats. That little back-and-forth banter used to be exactly that; friendly banter.”

Aragathara got a brief, far off look in her eyes, of times long ago.

She continued, “… And so, because Good kept harming us, Nothanganathor turned to Evil to solve problems and keep them solved.

“We grew.

“A lot.

“When we grew, Nothanganathor needed to keep Other Evils in check, because we had officially stepped into the Balance War. I won’t bore you with those details, but eventually some problems arose that required us to do things we did not want to do, and which required power.

“And so, we figured that Nothanganathor’s mother, the previous Goddess of Magic, was doing a shitty job, so we orchestrated a killing event in order to take that Mantle of Godhood and move our Empire to the Painted Cosmology. The details of that were long and sordid, and kept away from Margleknot completely… As much as one can, anyway. Business done outside of Layer 0 was the best way.

“And so… I poisoned 350 gods of the Painted Cosmology with what is known as Goddeath Corruption. It is a rather good killer of gods, but it needs to be made rather specifically and applied carefully… Those details would fill a few libraries. So. Moving on: I made the brew. I planted the curses. I let them stew and gods died. Most people didn’t care about those deaths, because most of those gods we targeted were Evil, and very minor. Ikaramaliana’s poisoning was actually a secondary effect because she investigated every death that happened, and because the Painted Cosmology had no natural defenses against Goddeath Corruption. Ikaramaliana’s greatest weakness was the same weakness as all god dragons, and she had none of the defenses that would have kept her safe; she was too proud, and she had no companions. Only servants.

“The tournament to seize the Mantle of Magic came about in short order, only 230 years later, about 50 years after Ikaramaliana’s death.

“Nothanganathor would have won, but Melemizargo rose victorious instead.

“Melemizargo only won because he had captured and tortured Ara, my eldest sister and Nothanganathor’s wife, for information.”

Aragathara took a moment.

Erick took a moment, too. That was a lot. Erick had gone into this meeting knowing that there was going to be a lot, but he had not expected to hear that Melemizargo had tortured the wife of a competitor and brother. How true was this all?

Erick glanced at Shadow.

Shadow nodded.

… Right. She had been there, for sure. All of this story was true, then, as much as a Wizard War can be true in any specific, singular way.

Aragathara continued, “From there, Melemizargo rose as God of Magic, and broke Nothanganathor's everything. All the strongholds all across the Painted Cosmology. All of his personal power. All of his personal Truth. And then he cursed Nothanganathor to a sideways life as a leviathan, which was widely considered the lowest form of dragon… by dragons, anyway.”

“Leviathans are my children, too. There is nothing wrong with them.” Shadow said, “But I would have simply killed Nothanganathor had I known he would return like he had.”

Aragathara looked sorrowful for a moment.

Erick asked Aragathara, “You sound sad that Shadow has done all of this to you and yours, and yet now you have become beholden to Shadow of your own volition?”

“I have,” Aragathara said, solidly. “For a long time, I hated Shadow and her ilk. I hated her and the Painted Cosmology, too, for what they would do to Margleknot’s avatar. I was right there with Nothanganathor to help him come back from death, to rebuild himself into our emperor again, to become something truly Malevolent for the good of our people. It was during this time that we raised up Wraithborne, and Agatha, my other older sister, became Morbion’s right hand woman.

“You know the ring world that sits around the Evil Death sun? We made that. ‘Wraithborne Tower’ used to be our land. Our people. Our prosperity. We brought out what it could really be.

“But our Empire started to fall down the same trap as all Evil Empires. We became too Evil. So we abandoned Wraithborne to Morbion, who is now in charge and doing well. Nothanganathor did not want to abandon his land, but he had to, for he had lost power.

“… But back to the story:

“On one of Margleknot’s avatar journeys to the Painted Cosmology, long after Nothanganathor regained much of himself and we started overseeing that foray into the Painted Cosmology again, Nothanganathor killed the world that the avatar had been on and captured that avatar’s unique Sign of the Fractal. He corrupted that Sign into his own universal-level of power. He called it his Sign of Power, and it became his Truth, in true. It’s a little slice of Infinity that is entirely his. He hides all the gods he has killed behind that Sign of Power. He hides everything that is of any worth to him at all behind that Sign, including my sister Ara’s corpse.

“The Fractal never caught on to this subterfuge… Or perhaps they enjoyed the new experience. I do not know. Margleknot never caught on; of that I am sure. He was… quite angry earlier when I explained this to him, and then showed him some memories and other proofs and opened up some hidden caches for him in some hidden parts of the universe. If our relationship to Margleknot was not ruined before, it certainly is now.

“I will show you those truths, as well, but… From the look on your face this telling is truth enough…”

Erick was frowning. He schooled that expression away. “Continue.”

