They’d lost, but he’d been more useful at shielding people and helping them maneuver over obstacles than he had the first run. And he’d made it across the finish line in the end. So at least he’d been able to experience the full course.


They were focusing more on killing me than they should’ve been, though, weren’t they? I guess because they saw the other team do it, and they figured it worked.


Of course Alden wasn’t happy with how it had all gone, but it was more upsetting that his teammates were disappointed. Everly was so frustrated after her second death that she’d been crying a little even as she kept going. Lucille just got quieter and quieter until people started snapping at her for failing to communicate. Reinhard blamed everyone else for everything. Lexi blamed Reinhard for everything.


Njeri had asked Maricel if she couldn’t go a little faster at one point and Maricel, who was under a lot of pressure because of how useful she was on most of the obstacles, had almost bitten her head off. They were talking quietly to each other now as they slogged their way toward the girls’ locker room ahead of Alden.


By the end, even Haoyu’s attempts at peacemaking were leaning toward intimidating instead of peace-inspiring.


Too many different pressures building up.


They’d all screwed up in gym before now, but this was different. More personal. Tuyet was the politest of assassins, and Alden was still kind of miffed that she’d picked him to kill. Twice.


Not that he’d ever showed it.


“Maybe if I’d carried Everly on my back around the track,” Jeffy said. “I think that’s what I did wrong.”


“I think everyone did stuff wrong,” Alden said. “Don’t punch a hand dryer over it or anything. On Friday, we’re going to do so much bett—”


“Because he’s dead fucking weight!” The heated voice from behind them made Jeffy, Alden, and several other people turn around. It was Winston. He was pointing at Max.


Their team had lost twice today, too.


“I’m sure he was doing his best,” Vandy said. “We were all trying hard. Maybe if we meet tomorrow to plan—”


“He didn’t have magic for most of the second run!” Winston shouted.


Max shoved through the group. He looked furious.


“What? You don’t have anything to say for yourself?” Winston called after him.


“Did you do what Max suggested during the race?” Alden asked.


Winston rounded on him. “I’m not talking to you.”


“And I don’t know why I’m talking to you, but here we are. Stop being such a dick. Max is amazing at strategy and his spells are harmless traps and movement enhancements. He’s got to be one of the most valuable members of your entire team for this activity.”


“This isn’t any of your business.”


Alden shrugged and turned away.


“Only the teams with B-ranks lost!” Winston said. “It wasn’t fair.”


Someone shushed him. A couple of people shifted uncomfortably.


Very scientific reasoning, thought Alden. He followed Max, Haoyu, and Lexi through the locker room door.


“I didn’t ask you to do that,” Max said waspishly.


“I wanted to. He’s annoying. And I got killed in multiple embarrassing ways. My self-control is shot.”


Haoyu shook his head. “Again? Oh, Alden. The last time that happened you took the lives of eleven—”


“Not you too!”


“—innocent young radishes,” Haoyu finished.


Alden looked over at him. “I am sorry I died so much.”


“It really wasn’t your fault. I think it was actually Kon’s strategy. He’s an asshole.”


Kon was standing in the corner of the locker room, unsealing the front of his unitard. “Haoyu!”


“Was it your idea?” Lexi was staring at him.


“Why do you look shocked?” Kon asked. “I can have ideas.”


Lexi raised an eyebrow at him.


Kon gave Alden a nervous smile. “It wasn’t really a strategy. Just us trying to pull something together to fit a couple of goals. But I was the one who suggested we focus on you. I’ve been thinking I should do more brain work since I’m kind of useless at everything else in this class for now.”


“It’s fine. But why—?”


“Our goal was to incapacitate somebody as far away from help as we could. You seemed like a decent choice because you were going to be a really useful assist for the rest of your team. Having you out of the way was convenient for us. And you could clear the final hurdle on your own. If we’d taken out Everly or Njeri, one of you would have headed back to the track with them right from the start and been on hand to help out. When you went down, they had to run all the way back out there for you and then run twice around the track carrying you.”


I think I’m glad I slept through that.


“It could’ve worked out a lot of different ways. Or not at all. We were lucky Reinhard shot Tuyet. Most of us were just planning to use the obstacle creation tablet to increase the final hurdle height so you had to call for help. Tuyet put you out of commission for the whole game.”


Alden sighed. “Thanks for the nap I guess.”


“You’re not mad?”


He shook his head.


“Hey!” said Kon, brightening. “When are you guys going to invite me to see your apartment? I’ve invited you to see mine!”


“It’s just an apartment,” said Lexi. “Nothing to see.”


“I have a slow cooker,” said Haoyu.


Kon blinked at him.


“I have a rug. Or two,” said Alden. “Lexi assigned us all our own food shelves.”


“Okay. That’s really homey, but…why do I feel like you’re all leaving something out?” 
 
***
