A large dart made of a shining, nacreous material bounced off his forehead and hit the ground at his feet. It didn’t hurt, so it took him a second to realize he’d just been killed.


[DEAD - Back to Start]


“When you die, take the path of least resistance out of the gym! Don’t worry about the obstacles!” Principal Saleh announced through her megaphone.


“Go!” shouted Reinhard.


“Hurry!”


Alden had already taken off.


Shit, he thought, focusing on his injury list as he ran.


If this had been real life, Tuyet’s dart would have killed him so quickly his brain wouldn’t have registered the pain. She’d loaded it with an explosive spell that blew outward in a fan shape from the point of impact.


Just that fast. I didn’t even feel her target me.


Possibly he’d been too distracted? He didn’t think so, though, since he’d known an attack was incoming.


Alden had assumed a Meister with ranged weapons would have a targeting ability, but maybe she didn’t. He hadn’t worked with Tuyet in gym before. The S-rank could just be highly accurate thanks to stats and talents, no additional targeting features necessary.


It could even be that she targets points in space instead of people. I don’t think I’d feel that. When Reinhard had shot him previously, the arrows had seemed to be semi-attracted to specific body parts. Like he’d told them to hit “Alden Thorn’s left knee” even if Alden’s left knee moved.


Doesn’t matter. Just get around the track three times as fast as possible.


He passed the final members of his team on his way out the door. A death is really going to slow us down. If the reset timer on the weights is just a minute or two, someone will have to hang around or backtrack to help me move them


It felt bad to be the one who’d gotten hit, but there wasn’t anything he could’ve done about it that he could see. He wasn’t sure what the best course of action for stopping something that small and fast was. Dodge, shield, or try his newfound ability to grab it out of the air?


When his feet hit the pavement of the track, a filming drone whizzed into position beside him, and as he approached the starting line, he got the “Race Start” notification with no countdown.


His teammates were having an argument over comms about forcing people through to the end—who should run ahead, who should hang back, what talents they needed to get everyone through the rest of the obstacles.


I’m just going to focus on running.


He was alone out here, so there was nothing else for it.


“You guys tell me if someone from their team comes back toward me!” he said as he cleared the first hurdle.


He pushed himself. He didn’t want to be the hold-up. As he lapped the track, he tried to plan the most efficient ways through everything ahead of him. Do the laps, through the tube, fire…if it was still iced over from Everly’s spell he was good.


The only bright side about this situation was that dying had removed the movement restriction on him, and it wasn’t much of a comfort, since his restriction had been so minor he’d barely noticed it.


“Halfway through the third lap,” he said. “Be back in the gym soon.”


“Maricel’s lifting Jeffy over the wall!” Haoyu reported. “He’ll be through the water obstacle fast. Once he hits the finish line, the threat of one of us taking out Tuyet might force her off the top of the wall. And toward the finish, too, if we’re lucky.”


“She’s still up there?”


“Sniper perch,” Reinhard said.


That’s more intimidating than I would have imagined it being at the start of this.


Alden was on the grass, sprinting back toward the building, when Lucille said, “They’re waiting for something.”


“What do you mean?” Lexi asked.


A pause.


“Lucille’s in the water!” said Maricel. “I think she means that other Brute who’s been standing there. Why haven’t they gone through the finish line?”


“Alden, stay off the gym floor!” Haoyu shouted.


Alden reached the gym seconds later and stopped right at the edge of the white floor. “Why?”


He tried to take in everything. Tuyet was still in position on top of her team’s half of the fifteen-meter wall, a dart in hand. Jupiter was lifting Konstantin up with a lifematter bag. It looked like a very rough ride. He was hugging the bag with his arms and legs. Maricel was providing a gentler elevator service for Haoyu with one of the sandbags.


“I can’t just stand here,” said Alden.


Haoyu’s head was whipping around. “Jeffy, you need to get over our finish line now.”


“But what if you guys need help with the water?”


“We have to take out a member of their team. Kon’s best. Now. While Reinhard’s got a clean shot.”


“I’m going to take out Tuyet.”


“No, you can’t!”


“You think I can’t hit her?”


The bell rang as Jeffy crossed the finish line. The green lines for Alden’s team flashed bright, and the barrier went down.


Before the green had finished flashing, the bell rang again and the red lines flashed.


Haoyu said, “Take out Konstan-”


An arrow cut through the air and struck Tuyet in the ribs with force. She fell backward off the wall.


“No!” said Haoyu.


“I told you I could get her!”


“That’s not what I meant! Why would you shoot the fastest runner they have left? She’ll be back right away.”


Seconds later, Tuyet was whizzing past Alden on her way to take her second set of laps around the track. Water droplets flew off her as she passed him by.


Alden made a hasty shield for himself out of his cord while he waited anxiously for a sign to go. He chose the same zigzag design he’d used versus Big Snake on Monday, even though it wouldn’t do much for the fire, and he had to assume Tuyet could dart him through it. There were other combatants to consider, and this should help against some of them. He thought he could crawl through the tube with it on his back so he wouldn’t lose it.


He also thought he knew why Haoyu had asked him to stay off the gym floor. Dangerous attacks could only happen there. Anyone interfering with him before he stepped onto the white surface couldn’t use much force, so he couldn’t be sent back to the start again.


But if I just stand around until Tuyet gets back, we’ll lose anyway.


“Lucille’s coming back for you!” Haoyu said.


“Meet Lucille at the weights!” Maricel said at the same time.


The other team still hadn’t used the attack chance they’d just earned. I don’t like this.


He crawled through the long tube. When he was halfway through, Lexi said, “Stay in there!”


“Why?”


“We’re coming back for you.”


<<Cover your head!>> Maricel shouted.


Alden dropped his preservation on the paracord shield and refroze it in a split second. Later, he would feel slightly clever for the quick thinking. The zigzags of cord draped down over his back, butt, and head. It wasn’t like it was great armor, but it was the fastest armor he could possibly have managed with so little warning while stuck on his hands and knees inside a tube.


Right then, however, it felt like a pitiful effort.


He covered his head with his arms. He heard people shouting. A crack. And then a lot more cracking and popping as a damn forest shot into the pipe and through it. Jupiter’s largest tree limb hit him so hard it ejected him from the tube, and he rolled backwards, his arms and legs unable to stop his momentum, to crash into the barrier that prevented students from getting thrown into the bleachers. Heart pounding, Alden tried to scramble onto his feet only to find he couldn’t move. His suit wouldn’t let him.


[Penalty: 100% restriction, unconscious]


[Injuries…]


The list scrolled for a long time. With the low pain setting they were working with today, he felt fine, but apparently he was on his way to being dead. Again. He was hemorrhaging.


“By the way, you shouldn’t talk or text your teammates when you’re listed as unconscious!” Lesedi Saleh announced through her megaphone.


Alden’s teammates were talking so much that he wouldn’t have been able to get a word in edgewise anyway. Apparently, Lexi had tried to stop the flying limb with Writher, but all he’d done was “trim it a little” according to Reinhard. Now he wanted to trim Reinhard a little. Maricel, Lucille, and Everly were frantically trying to assess Alden’s injuries from the readout they’d gotten and guess how long it would take him to die. Njeri was asking them all to confirm if she should cross the finish line or not.


What a mess.


The principal walked over to have a look at Alden. He was lying on his side, disturbed by the answers he’d received when he mentally requested more details about the injuries.


“You can talk to me if you want,” she said, squatting down to give him a smile. “How are you enjoying school?”


“Less at the moment than usual,” said Alden. “It’s been good. I have cool roommates.”


“Glad to hear it.” Her dark hair was in the same sleek bun she usually wore. “After viewing a certain video, Instructor Colibrí, from the university, wants me to strongly encourage you to come by her office and talk about your on-camera presence and your dress sense.”


“Really?” Alden said in a high voice. “How nice of her. So nice. Uh…I’m very busy right now, but maybe next quarter…”


“I want to strongly encourage you to keep up the good work. Instructor Waker was impressed with your efforts in class on Monday.”


“I kind of wish he was here to throw tennis balls at me now.”


“Ha!” She shook her head. “He’d love nothing more probably. I’d also like to ask you to stop by my own office if you find yourself running into any trouble here at school.”


“Thanks,” said Alden. “But it really has been pretty great so far.”


She stood. “I hope it stays that way. We’ve got a lot of talented kids, but things get tense for some groups when we actually start bringing combat into class. The team exercises should build some camaraderie at the same time. We’ll see.”


The bell rang. Njeri had just crossed the finish line.


Alden’s suit finally decided he was a goner, and he pushed himself up and ran toward the door.


He heard the bell ringing again and Haoyu said, “That was them crossing the finish line, Alden.”


So they have another attack chance.


He had rounded the second curve of the track and was heading up the slope toward the final hurdle when Maricel said, “Where’s Tuyet?”


“I think she’s in the pipe,” Njeri replied. “I don’t see her from the finish line.”


Alden was running as hard as he could. It wasn’t easy to find air for a conversation, but he was listening to theirs.


“She’s not in the pipe,” Jeffy said. “I’ve been watching for her.”


I just assumed she was back in the gym.


He hadn’t been able to see the course properly from the angle he’d landed at when he fell. So he’d thought she’d made it while he wasn’t looking. She was fast enough that she should’ve been back in the gym by now.


“I didn’t pass her,” he got out as he launched himself up and caught the edge of the wall. He dropped down onto the mat. “I didn’t see her on my way out here.”


There was a beat of silence.


“We need to pause for a second and think,” said Haoyu. “Where is she? And why is she there?”


“Ah!” said Maricel frantically. “This is bad.”


“What is?” Lexi demanded.


“The rules! Tuyet might be able to use her—”


A human shape flew out from under the thick mat Alden was about to step off of, and an arm shot toward his foot.


“Fuck!” he shouted, leaping back.


“Sorry!” Tuyet cried. Her wet hair was plastered to the side of her face, and she had an impression on her cheek from the asphalt. “Did it hurt?”


Alden clutched his chest. “What the hell?!”


Giving people heart attacks had to be against the rules.


“Don’t back off the mat,” said Tuyet. “You might hit your head when you collapse.”


“What?”


She pointed down at his shoe. A dart was sticking out of the top of it. He realized his foot stung.


“You stabbed me?”


“I’ve got a bandage! It’s a tiny needle! The magic on it just makes you go to—”


Alden’s knees gave out. He flopped onto the mat.


About twenty minutes later, he woke up lying on the bleachers with one bare foot. A small bright yellow bandage was placed just above his toes, and someone had used a pen to draw an animal on it that might, charitably, have been called a raccoon. It had little z’s coming out of its mouth.


Groaning, he covered his face with his hands.


[Haoyu: He’s awake! Hi, Alden! First of all, I am so, so sorry.]


[Lute: I hear it was hilarious.]


[Alden: What happened?]


He sat up and looked around the gym. His teammates were up on top of the bleachers across from him, listening to Fragment explain something about the MPE building’s ceiling, if the direction her finger was pointing was any indication.


[Haoyu: We didn’t plan well. It all collapsed. They killed Astrid and Lexi. We got Jupiter.]


[Alden: I take it we did not win.]


Tuyet was back in her sniper position, running the course with her team, so it was obvious.


[Haoyu: Reinhard and Lexi didn’t hit each other with their weapons. That’s a win.]


Alden put his shoe back on and went to learn some school emergency procedures.


Our next try will definitely be better than that one.


******


Dragging himself out of the gym after class, dripping wet and exhausted just like the rest of his team, he decided he hadn’t been wrong.


The second race was much closer, and he’d died only a single death to Heloísa, who’d tackled him so hard on top of the big wall that she took Everly Kim and herself over the edge with him.


