Alden liked the notion of an obstacle course, and he had a hundred and twenty feet of paracord weighted with a heavy-duty carabiner to contribute. It was fine with him if they all looked at this as an interesting opportunity to test their abilities, like usual. But he was getting the feeling that most of the others were more anxious and eager to prove themselves than they had been on Monday.


“I can shoot Tuyet!” Reinhard was saying. “I know I can take her out.


His preferred strategy was for Lucille and Maricel to plow through the course together and hit the finish line, so that they could get two attacks on the other team as quickly as possible.


“I’ve watched uni obstacle course competitions,” Haoyu insisted. “It’s different because a lot of those people can complete a whole course without assistance, but in this kind of team run, you don’t send all of your strongest competitors to the end. You keep some of them in play so that they can help everyone else.”


“He’s right about not losing critical players,” Njeri said. “Though I’m not sure Lucille is actually our strongest competitor.”


She looked over at the quiet girl. “You’re literally our strongest of course. But you couldn’t run the whole route on your own if you got left behind, could you?”


Lucille shook her head.


Could any of us, though? Alden wondered.


“Start in thirty seconds!” Lesedi Saleh announced.


Maricel was shaking her hands out and staring at the track ahead of them. Reinhard made a strangled sound.


Astrid bounced eagerly on the balls of her feet.


“Save your energy,” Lexi said to her.


“Who me?”


He grunted.


They all stood at the starting line. On the other team’s side, Jupiter was humming and glancing longingly toward the mound of freshly cut limbs and twigs she’d stolen from someone who’d been pruning the grounds. Her team had barely managed to talk her out of telekinetically hauling the whole pile with her during the race. Appropriate elemental weights were being provided for each Shaper to use here and in the gym, but if they wanted something special, their teams were required to transport it through the entire route. A couple of the others were carrying heavy branches for Jupiter, so that she wouldn’t be slowed down.


[Race Start in 10…]


“I don’t want to lose,” said Everly, getting in a ready position.


“Your ice will work great for messing with the other team,” Njeri told her. “If we can get someone to the finish line.”


“I don’t even know what we’re doing,” Reinhard muttered, checking the straps on his quiver one last time.


“Just run as fast as you can and send back news once you hit the gym to report on the obstacles,” said Lexi. “Don’t be idiots.”


“Nobody cross the finish line without consulting the rest of us,” Haoyu said.


“The principal is watching,” Jeffy whispered.


“We know,” three of the others replied at once.


Reinhard scowled. “I’m more worried about the fact that they’re making this footage available to the rest of the first years. Two hundred other people will be trying to decide if we should’ve gotten into the school with them or not.”


[3…]


“It’ll be fine,” said Haoyu.


“Only if we do well. This is going to be their first impression of us.”


Alden preserved his cord. He was wearing it wrapped around him in loose, cross-body loops. Haoyu was his entruster, which was becoming a usual thing for gym class.


“Win,” Lucille whispered.


[1]


Here we go.


They took off.


From the first few steps, Alden knew it wasn’t going to be anything like his last time running the track. For one thing, this was a race, and for another…these weren’t a bunch of B-ranks who’d failed to make the cut.


Thank goodness running with my trait is one of the things I’ve practiced the most.


It was a relief to finally have a ground element surface under his feet in class. He didn’t bother to look at what was going on with the other team since no attacks would be coming in yet. Instead, he focused on his form, his speed, and eating ground as fast as possible.


One day, they’re going to give us something like mud to run across, and I’m really going to shine.


This afternoon, he wasn’t doing badly compared to his own teammates. Lucille and Jeffy were ahead of him, but having the magical help from Azure Rabbit had put him ahead of the A-ranks and Maricel.


It’s a nice change from being slower than most of them in the gym.


The hurdles out here were walls of varying heights that rose from the track itself. He leaped the first easily, mentally thanking the trait for the height he got and Bobby for the fact that he could feel confident about proper form and knowing his limits when it came to making landings.


He kept going.


After climbing a steep hill near the end of the circuit, Alden jumped and pulled himself onto the top of a much higher wall than any of the others had been. He was relieved to find a mat waiting to catch people at the bottom.


He hit it, ran a few more steps, and got the [Lap One Complete] notice through his interface.


I feel pretty good about this. He thought he was pacing himself correctly; his body was moving well.


He completed the second and third laps in exactly the same way as the first, bypassing Jeffy, who’d taken on the task of standing beside the high hurdle and boosting people over it. Chat on their team voice call suggested everyone was doing all right on their own or with the helping hand for the last jump.


Lucille had made it through the first indoor obstacle and was reporting on the next one as Alden left the track behind and ran down the marked path toward the gym. Reinhard wasn’t very far behind him.


Who’s ahead of us on the other team?


Finlay and Tuyet were way out front. He thought at least one of the other Brutes was ahead of him.


Alden flew through the open doors of the MagiPhys building and down the short hall into the gym.


“Floor On!” Instructor Foxbolt called loudly from her post at the start of the indoor course. “Green line!”


The obstacle course loomed in front of him. Green and red lines on the floor and the obstacles themselves indicated each team’s path. Alden had a momentary flashback to the children’s play area outside a fastfood restaurant he had visited when he was little as he got down on his hands and knees and started crawling through a long plastic tunnel. When he emerged from the other end, he found the obstacle Lucille had mentioned in her update from just a short while ago.


[Go through.]


Yes, that was obvious.


It didn’t make the assignment look any more appealing.


“So,” he said aloud for the benefit of the rest of the team, “the shipping container obstacle is on fire, as Lucille mentioned. It’s a little bigger than a regular shipping container, I think, and the walls shoot jets of flame. The floor doesn’t. Should I go through on my own or do you guys want me to stick around and shield you?”


Haoyu answered first. “Be there in a sec. Lucille, how much damage did you take running through?”


“Not bad,” she said succinctly. “Like a sunburn. Ten percent movement reduction. My suit got stiffer. ”


“Ten percent is bad,” Reinhard said. “Take a penalty like that a couple more times and we’ll be moving like snails.”


“I can probably ice the whole thing over!” Everly sounded slightly winded. “I don’t think that’s against the rules, but I’m not at the halfway point for my last lap.”


That’s unlucky, thought Alden as the heat from the box in front of him made him take a step back. If Everly was standing where he was now, she could’ve handily solved the problem for everyone and then run on.


I wish I’d picked the poncho now, don’t I?


The point was to force himself to come up with non-obvious solutions, but he still would’ve felt cool waltzing through the fire obstacle.


The sound of rapid thumping from the tunnel behind him made him turn, and he saw Reinhard emerging. “Carry me,” the archer demanded, before he’d even stood up. “Do your trick. You can right?”


“Yes…should we just wait for Everly and get everyone else through without damage all at once?”


“I’d like to go ahead,” Reinhard said impatiently. “It’s important to get people to the end as fast as possible. Finlay and Tuyet are way ahead of Lucille.”


Alden looked down the course. Tuyet and Finlay were climbing the high magic wall by having her embed her darts in it and using them as handholds. “Can you do that with your arrows?”


“I won’t know until I try to stab it with one and see what kind of settings they’ve got on it.”


“All right, but let’s try to make sure I don’t end up with a huge movement penalty either.”


It was less than half a minute before Lexi climbed out of the tube. “Shield me instead.”


“I just put on my Reinhard outfit,” Alden replied, quickly shifting the archer’s weight. “Does this look easy to achieve?”


Reinhard was draped over his back with his feet hanging almost to the ground, human-cloak style. His arms were stuck straight out past Alden’s ears, gripping the quiver to offer some protection for Alden’s face and torso. It was a very uncomfortable way to carry someone, but time seemed to be of the essence, so…


Off we go.


He hauled his human shield into the fire box, sticking closer to one wall and shuffling sideways as fast as he could along it with Reinhard positioned to take the brunt of the flames. He was through it quickly and feeling relieved as he dropped the other boy.


“I really didn’t take any damage!” Reinhard slapped Alden on the shoulder and thrust his paracord back toward him. Alden took it. Reinhard was his target now, so it was formally re-entrusted.


“It’s an all or nothing kind of shield. Do—?”


Reinhard started to sprint ahead only to stop and curse two steps later as he saw the next obstacle.


“Lucille already moved these for us!” he protested, staring at the line of black weights in different shapes that stood before him. Each weighed either 500 kg or a full metric ton.


The instructions flashing in front of their eyes indicated all the shapes needed to be moved down the course twenty meters and up a ramp to be dropped into the appropriate compartment before anyone else on the team could go forward.


“The obstacle must reset.” Alden was bending his elbows and knees experimentally to see what the three percent movement restriction he’d earned from being slightly singed on his way through the tunnel felt like.


He looked around to see Haoyu and Lexi both running through the fire, with Haoyu shielding Lexi from the brunt of the flames. Meanwhile, their group call was getting busy.


“I’m at the gym!” Astrid shouted.


“I’m not far behind her,” said Maricel. “I can shield us both with the sandbags.”


“Jeffy, get Everly and Njeri over that last hurdle.” Haoyu hurried toward a tire shape and squatted to get his hands underneath the edge of it. He pushed it up and flipped it, and it hit the floor with a loud bang. “We’ll be nearly done with these by the time you get here.”


He squatted again.


Lexi was concentrating on wrapping Writher around a cone shape—a little worrisome since this wasn’t one of the challenges where they were allowed to chop things in half. Reinhard was shoving a sphere toward the ramp.


Alden laid a loop of cord around the base of a waist-high dodecahedron. He bent down, preserved, lifted. He was gratified when it moved easily. Here we go, protecting our precious rope from this eleven hundred pound villain that wants to crush it.


The shape of the weight meant that when he lifted, it settled into the loop he’d made. He carried the weight out in front of him, being cautious on his way up the ramp because he was nervous about dropping it and having it roll back on him or someone else.


After this, there’s the rope climb straight up and then those bar swings. I can do those. The cord’s going to be useful for the vertical ascent, too. He could lift people up, and then they could pull him up. Maricel could lift herself and others too. All together as a team it would be fast.


From the top of the high wall there’s the diving tank. That one looks harder to manage.


He dropped the weight in the designated area and headed back for another. Maricel and Astrid had just run out of the fire.


“Alden,” said Maricel, letting a pair of charred sandbags hit the floor beside her, “let’s move this one togeth—”


A bell sounded. The red lines all over the other team’s course flared bright, and Jupiter, who had just arrived at the weight-moving challenge with a pair of smoking branches in tow, cheered.


A ripple in the air indicated the lowering of an invisible barrier between the two halves of the course.


Reinhard was swearing.


“Lucille!” Haoyu called. “Can you see who crossed the finish line from up there on the bars?”


“It was Finlay,” Lucille said.


So he’s out of the race now, thought Alden.


“Should I hit him?!” Jupiter was shouting.


“No!” one of her teammates shouted back. “Stick with the plan.”


“Everyone look out!” Haoyu said


“Especially men,” said Lexi. “She said ‘him.’”


“We’re screwed,” Reinhard spat. “Tuyet’s standing on top of the wall.”


Alden looked. Tuyet was up there, her chin-length black hair dripping, having obviously backtracked from the water obstacle.


She fixed her eyes on him. He moved to position his paracord in front of his torso for some protection, but she moved faster. Her arm whipped through the air so quickly he only realized that was what the motion was when it was already over.


