“Miss Erin, I appreciate the hospitality. I truly do. But please, you need not force yourself. We understand the recent death of Brunkr has affected you all. It has hurt us too. He seemed like a fine [Warrior]. That is to say—[Knight]. My apologies. I would not like to intrude.”
Silence fell over the inn as the adventurers drank. Zel closed his eyes and Ilvriss scowled into his mug. Erin looked down at the ground.
“Yeah. That was—sorry.”
She wiped at her eyes. Regrika smiled sympathetically and reached a paw out to touch Erin’s hand. The [Innkeeper] moved back a bit and shook her head briskly.
“I don’t want to be down. And I don’t want to be pushy, but I just thought I’d be hospitable, you know? That’s what I do. I’m an [Innkeeper]. So this steak—”
She edged it close to Regrika. The Gnoll hesitated. Erin looked at her pleadingly.
“Just let me know how it tastes. I worked really hard on it.”
There was no way around it. Regrika sighed and cut into the steak. It took a bit of work to slice a section away, and it crunched as she popped it into her mouth. The Gnoll chewed obligingly. And then her eyes widened. Across the table, Imenet was making the same expression.
“Good?”
Erin looked intently at their faces. Regrika’s response was to cut off another bit of steak and chew it. She gulped and looked at Erin, deeply surprised.
“It’s…excellent. Very tasty. How did you…?”
Beneath the table, Imenet kicked her. Regrika coughed.
“You’ve outdone yourself again, Miss Solstice. I am quite happy with this dish. Did you…spice it differently, somehow?”
“Something like that. Go ahead! I’m glad you enjoy it!”
The young woman beamed as both adventures began to scarf down the steaks. When they were done, there were only crumbs. Regrika leaned back and eyed her plate. Then she looked at Imenet. The Drake was raising both his eyebrows at Regrika.
“A truly fine meal. The best I’ve had in…forever, I believe. Erin, I would love to know how you made it.”
“Really?”
Erin looked over the moon. Regrika nodded.
“I would pay much for the recipe. And I will certainly come back tonight.”
Imenet curled his tail up in delight.
“Yes. Tonight for as long as we are staying. What is it made of? I haven’t tasted…taste…”
Both adventurers leaned over the table towards Erin. She hesitated.
“Well, it’s a bit of a secret. But I guess I could tell you.”
“Yes, please do.”
“You really want to hear?”
“I would pay much for it, yes.”
“Okay, then. Listen close.”
Both adventurers leaned in. Erin whispered.
“It’s bone.”
Regrika blinked.
“By bone, do you mean meat off the bone—”
“No, I mean, it’s bone. You ate bones of dead animals. There was no meat in that. Not one bit.”
Both Gnoll and Drake looked at Erin. She took a step back and pointed at their plates. Her smile was still on her face, but it had changed.
“You want to know what that was? It was bones, dried and ground up into dust. And other bones soaked in pig’s blood from Octavia’s shop and mixed with mana potions. I baked it together using marrow as glue. Then I dyed it with more blood. It looks only a little bit like a steak. No one else would ever eat it. No one except you two.”
Regrika stared at Erin. The hairs on her body began to rise. Erin continued. She had a very big smile on her face.
“And I put poison in it. Bad poison. The kind that can kill Shield Spiders. I got it from Octavia. I put in a lot. Funny. It didn’t seem to matter if I did. I knew you’d like it.”
“I don’t understand. Is this some kind of joke…?”
Imenet tried to laugh. Erin turned to him. Her smile had become wide. Her eyes were bright.
“No. I didn’t expect you to actually eat my food. But you did. You ate it and didn’t notice a thing. You thought it was steak because it was red and shaped like it. That’s not normal.”
“Well, I—”
“And another thing. You didn’t like any of my other dishes. I could tell. You didn’t like drinking beer, and you didn’t like the cake. Not one bit. And you lied about that. I guess that’s normal. Everyone’s got different tastes and all, but then I got to thinking. Hey Regrika, you’re a really weird Gnoll, you know that?”
“Really? I think I’m quite normal, yes?”
Regrika bared her teeth. Erin did the same.
“No. I mean, you smell like a Gnoll and you act like one. And all the Gnolls love you, but guess what I noticed? It was a little thing. You never really mentioned Mrsha. Not once.”
Imenet glanced swiftly at his companion. Regrika hesitated and then appeared indifferent.
“Mrsha? Oh. The little Gnoll cub. She was very cute. What about her?”
“You think she’s normal, don’t you?”
The Named Adventurer paused.
“No. But I did not mention her because it would have been rude. A Gnoll cub being raised by a Human is strange. However—”
“You don’t know what I’m talking about, do you?”
Erin stared at Regrika. Imenet’s eyes widened. He hissed at Regrika.
“The white fur!”
“That’s right.”
Erin stepped back from the table. Her eyes were on Regrika. The Gnoll stared back, no longer smiling.
“White fur. That’s bad…luck? I don’t know. But I know that every Gnoll knows what it means, even if they won’t tell me. Every Gnoll. Ishkr was born in Liscor and he still knows about white fur. But you, you didn’t bat an eyelash. You asked whose kid Mrsha was.”
Silence. Regrika shifted in her seat. She looked around and suddenly saw a different room. The Gold-rank adventurers from Griffon Hunt were standing up at their table, adjusting their belts, nodding at each other and spreading out. On the opposite side of the room, the Halfseekers were already in position. Jelaqua lifted her two-handed flail, not trying to hide it.
“You don’t like normal food. You lied about killing Brunkr. And you don’t know about white Gnolls like Mrsha, which every Gnoll knows about.”
Erin’s voice was hard and loud. She was walking backwards, back behind a table where two Drakes were getting to their feet. Zel and Ilvriss walked forwards. A sword was in the Wall Lord’s hands. Zel’s claws were open.
“I see. We were discovered.”
Regrika’s voice was very calm. She remained sitting at the table as the Gold-rank adventurers spread around the room and the two Drakes stopped in front of their table. She smiled at Zel Shivertail, and then looked at Erin.
“One question. How did you know I lied about Brunkr? I passed the truth detection spell the Antinium gave me.”
Erin looked at her and shook her head.
“Isn’t it obvious? It wasn’t about the truth crystal. Everyone was looking at that, but I could tell without it. You gave it all away here.”
She tapped her mouth. Regrika blinked.
“What?”
“It was your smile. You smiled like Mrsha does when she’s been naughty. Kids are bad liars. And so are you.”
Erin looked at Regrika. She reached for something lying on a table and came up with a knife and a frying pan. Halrac growled at her.
“Don’t be a fool! Get out of here!”
Erin didn’t move.
“I want to know who killed Brunkr.”
Ilvriss spat. His eyes were on Regrika and his grip was steady on his sword.
“I don’t care about the Gnoll. But justice is justice and I won’t have the law broken by a Named Adventurer. You, Gnoll! Tell me. Why have you been asking about Ryoka Griffin all day? What’s your connection with her?”
Zel shifted. He stared at Regrika and then Ilvriss. He was wary, his stance low.
“Who are you? What are you doing here?”
Silence. The two adventurers looked at each other. Regrika stared at Imenet. Imenet nodded. Losing her temper, Revi shouted as she raised a glowing talisman.
“Well? Answer us!”
Regrika exploded backwards in her chair. She rolled out of it and onto her feet as the table shot towards Moore and Seborn. The half-Giant was knocked off his feet by the impact and Seborn dove out of the way.
“Damn it! Attack!”
Ilvriss and Zel charged forwards at once, towards Regrika. Ulrien and Jelaqua leapt forwards at the same moment as the other adventurers leapt backwards. Halrac looked around and shouted.
“Watch out! The Drake—”
Zel turned. Imenet had vanished in the moment when Regrika moved. Now he reappeared in front of Zel and Ilvriss. Halrac loosed a shot. Zel swiped.
The arrow struck Imenet in the back of the neck. The claws tore open his face. But the Drake still moved. He placed a hand on Zel’s stomach and one of Ilvriss’ arms and spoke.
“[Lesser Teleport].”
They vanished in a pop of air. Jelaqua swore and she and Ulrien rushed at Regrika. The Gnoll had her massive sword and shield in one hand. She raised it and blocked Jelaqua’s first swing. Ulrien slashed at her from behind with his greatsword. The blow skated off her armored back as Regrika twisted to one side.
“Typhenous, cover us! Revi! Summons! Erin, get clear! Jelaqua—”
Regrika turned. Ulrien swore and attacked.
“[Devastating Slash]!”
His sword changed trajectory mid-cut. It swerved as Regrika lifted her shield to block and shot down, to her unguarded legs. Ulrien swung with all his might, and his blade bit into the Gnoll’s furred leg. And stopped.
The greatsword shuddered to a halt, buried two inches deep into the Gnoll’s leg. Ulrien stared at his blade as the force of his cut travelled back up into his hands. He tried to step back and wrench his sword free from the impact.
“Weak.”
A sword rose. Regrika brought it down. Ulrien raised his bare arm to protect himself. The sword connected with his arm and there was a flash of light. Something—an amulet exploded on Ulrien’s chest. He stumbled back, his arm still intact.
The second sword stroke took off his head. Ulrien’s body stood for a moment, and then the big man’s corpse collapsed forwards. Jelaqua howled as she lashed Regrika from all sides. The Gnoll stood under the barrage, and then turned and struck. Jelaqua choked as the sword stabbed through her stomach and then leapt back.
“Ulrien?”
Halrac stared, the bow and arrow he’d drawn frozen in his hands. Typhenous roared and threw bolts of magic that blasted into the Gnoll—
And did nothing. She stood in the center of the room, raising her arms, laughing. Regrika turned to Erin as the [Innkeeper] stood frozen in the middle of her inn. The Gnoll’s blade ran with blood. She pointed around the room, at the other adventurers. She ended with Erin.
“You are all dead.”
