Erick stared at the ceiling, waiting for the sky to brighten even a little before he got up for the day.

And then he decided that he didn’t want to wait any longer. He got up. Ophiel did not squawk at being disturbed off of the bed; he had picked up on Erick’s emotional turmoil and had never pretended to fall asleep, like usual.

Erick went directly to his tower to get to work. He summoned a few more Ophiel, and sent them outside, on the ledge. A quick [Stoneshape] outside his window, below the Ophiel, pulled a few troughs up from the orange stone. A casting of [Call Lightning], but Shaped to the house, brought rain from the sky, filling the troughs with clean—

Poi said, “Up already?”

Erick glanced behind, then returned to face his window, saying, “Don’t worry about me.” Rain ran in tiny rivers down the window, while the city slept in the distance, and Ar’Kendrithyst loomed past that. “I can’t sleep so I’m making those rings for Delia’s group.”

A small stone door Erick had built into the side of the tower, that let in platinum rain, also let him hand off a diamond to the exterior Ophiel. As the troughs filled up, Ophiel broke the starter diamond apart, and began to make more. Some of the Ophiel held open [Cleanse Aura], wiping away thick air, while other Ophiel cast [Crystallize Diamond] under the water, spilling bubbles and contamination from the process. While that was happening, Erick turned to his completed diamond stock. There wasn’t much left—

Erick glanced back to the archway to his tower. Poi had moved on, so Erick returned to the current problem to solve.

—There weren’t many ring-quality gems left, or wrought-quality metal, for that matter. Maybe he should just make the solid diamond rings? Eh. No. He didn’t want to make something that the kids would outgrow. If most of them were Delia’s age…

Erick stopped for a moment, all thought fleeting. As his thoughts came back to him, he said, “I should help the orphanage, too.” Erick added, “And the Adventurer’s Fund.” He pondered, “Would Mog like rings, too?” He muttered to himself, “Surely, she would. Maybe for her more capable people? Hmm.”

Erick summoned a face mask and gloves and enough protective equipment to keep the diamond dust out of his eyes and out of his clothes, and went to work making blank Stat gems. Carve. Shape. Grind and polish to a perfect sphere; the exterior of the gem would become the interior, so it had to be perfect. While he worked, he thought about how to make the world a better place. Killing the Shades would go a long way toward that goal, but Melemizargo could just make more, couldn’t he?

Besides that, Erick had no idea how to actually fight a Shade and win. He wasn’t exactly sure of their strengths, but they were supposedly archmages in their own right.

… That thought made Erick pause, briefly. If they were all basically archmages, and Jane was able to kill one herself, then, not to knock Jane, but what did that mean for him? Obviously, it meant that if someone took him unaware, he’d likely die. Health was an ‘illusion’, after all, and there wasn’t much of a way to fight back against some of those situations when he was just himself. He knew all that, already. But to put that in terms of killing Shades, and they were already supposed to be really tough to kill, so what did that make him? Weak as a kitten?

He smiled to himself, contemplating his own mortality, and how the only way to avoid the problems he was facing was to run away. After all, if a Shade could die when they were taken unaware, what hope was there for him, and all his own attempts at raising his defenses?

It was like protecting a house from robbers, really. You could protect a house with locks, and gates, and heavy metal walls, and such, and there was merit in taking those steps, but if someone wanted in, they were going to get in.

But there was another solution. The solution was obvious, when he thought about it! The solution was people, of course. Erick just needed more help. He needed to surround himself with good people. Duh. ‘Get help’ was Erick’s usual go-to reaction to solve almost all of the problems he’d ever encountered. So why wasn’t that his first solution, here?

… Probably all the unusual trauma he’d suffered recently.

… And everyone expecting him, as an archmage, to sequester himself away from everyone, and to be able to pull a solution to every possible problem out of his ass, or some other location, like he was a walking Relevant Entity of the Script, or some shit.

Erick smiled as he worked.

And then he noticed a box he hadn’t thought about in a while. He paused his carving. He went to the box. He opened it, revealing a football-sized silver ball. He had enchanted the silver ball with as much All-Stat purple manalight as he could, and then sealed it with a layer of platinum rain. It should have exploded, but it did not explode. It remained. But how would anyone use such a thing? Jane as an ooze— Nope. Fire ooze. Not a workable solution.

… But if she got a metal ooze form? Maybe? Hmm. Shelve that idea for now.

A wrought could just put the silver football inside of themselves, couldn’t they? It was a miracle that the orb hadn’t exploded, though. No one would want to put ordinance inside of themselves.

Erick summoned another Ophiel, and with a gentle command, he had that Ophiel take the silver orb and ‘play with it’ for a while. Toss it around. Don’t let it hit anything except sand, maybe. Ophiel grabbed the football with an application of Erick’s Handy Aura, and a happy trill. He blipped away to a room upstairs—

Two things suddenly occurred to Erick.

One, was that Ophiel had blipped away and taken the orb without actually touching the orb, but with using [Flight of a Thousand Hands] to act as the <hands> part of [Teleport]. There was no [Blink]ing between here and the third floor rooms, after all; that was definitely a [Teleport]. So how did that work? Was it the ‘intent’ part of the Handy Aura, that functioned as a bridge to [Teleport]’s <hands> requirement?

Two, was that Particle Magic was a nice way to help the people of Veird advance both scientifically and against the monsters, but all of the good Particle Magic was locked behind Particle Mage, and was therefore likely never going to become a part of the magics necessary to truly fight off the Darkness. What was needed, was firepower against the Dark, and any method to gain that firepower and distribute it among the people would be a good thing.

… As long as ‘the people’ in this scenario were all people like Erick, who abhorred killing others. Monsters were fair game, though.

And in addition to ‘Two’: Erick already had a good method for increasing one’s firepower, that wasn’t just the rings he was making. It was a method that was already a part of the Script, already open to almost everyone, and had already proven itself to work three times. Finding the right sort of people to teach might be difficult, and there would be some ethical concerns going forward regarding the treatment of magical constructs, maybe, but...

Erick watched the four Ophiel outside his window as they created diamonds in the troughs below. Ophiel chatted with himself in trills and whistles, singing a tiny chorus of storms and night, while the sky rained itself out and the stars reappeared.

Ophiel was a really good [Familiar], wasn’t he?

- - - -

The sun rose in the east, painting the sky outside Erick’s southern window with purples, then reds, then yellows, as twilight came and went, eventually filling the sky with blue.

Erick continued to make gems.

When Kiri woke and wandered into his tower, carrying breakfast and coftea on a tray, he gladly took a break to eat. He wasn’t ready to tell her of his ideas quite yet, but she asked if she could help, and yes, she could. Erick sent her out after some wrought-iron for some rings; then she could help make gems.

When she came back with the metal, she commented on the prices she saw down on Market Street. As the two of them worked on diamond spheres, they spoke of the goods flowing into Spur. Clothes and weapons and all other finished goods were more or less unchanged, but fabrics and metals and ore and anything else unfinished? They were half as much as they were before Portal’s embargo.

One out of every five stores on Market Street were still closed, their operators targeted and assassinated by Caradogh’s attack, but those stores that were open were all selling at a discount. 20% or 30% less in most cases. One posh alchemy shop was even half-off the entire store. Apparently the alchemy shops were all in the same boat on that one; they were all selling at least half off. And all of them were packed, too.

And those were just the shops.

The grocers and the restaurants, the diners and the bakeries, especially the bakeries, they were all absolutely packed with people, and fresh goods, even this early in the morning. Everyone was happy for the return of the rains.

Erick occasionally glanced up to look south, at the line of green growing a kilometer away, and at the stone gazebo visible to the far right, outside his window. It was still an hour to go-time, but people were already out, getting ready for today’s rain. He sent an Ophiel to wait in the gazebo. When Rollo and Calizi showed up and gave him that signal, Erick set an Ophiel out on top of the tower. Platinum rain fell right on time, as he and Kiri continued to make and then enchant gems. Kiri still wasn’t able to make the proper purple maskward, but she didn’t need to, right now. Erick made the maskwards, but both of them imbued Stats into the round diamonds.

Erick sent Kiri out to fetch sandwiches from Jane’s favorite shop, Meat! Bread! Cheese!, before the rain stopped; they would get too packed for Erick’s liking if he went for sandwiches after the rains. By the time she returned, her arrival with lunch was accompanied by clear skies, and the end of the day’s rain.

Poi ate lunch with them. Teressa showed up soon after, and ate her two sandwiches with gusto.

In another hour, the first 600 rings were done.

By that time, Erick had formed a pretty good idea of what he wanted to do, going forward. He gathered Teressa and Poi and Kiri together, in his tower, to ask their opinion about teaching others how to make a [Familiar] like Ophiel. He spoke. They listened.

No one said anything.

After a minute of silence, Erick said, “Well?!”

Kiri offered, “I think you should create some water gathering particle spells so that they don’t need your rain all the time. The current water-from-air spells are much too low-power for anything except niche needs. Easy water has less of a chance for catastrophic side effects than your [Familiar]-for-everyone idea.”

Teressa said, “People don’t need more power.”

Kiri continued, “A minor version of your [Exalted Storm Aura] would put way too many alchemists out of work, though. So maybe hold off on that—” She added, “Oh. You can’t create that spell without Particulate Force, anyway. No one can combine [Grow] with a Particle spell right now.”

Teressa stressed, “Make the ‘easy-water’ spell.”

“Okay okay.” Erick filed away ‘[Easy Water]’ in his mind, but returned to his ‘[Familiar]s for everyone responsible’ idea, “I don’t want people like the Red Dot mage learning how to fight through [Familiar]s with independent mana pools.” He looked to Kiri, saying, “But there are more responsible people out there in the world besides just you and Sizzi.”

Poi almost said something, but suddenly stopped. He looked stuck. He remained quiet.

Kiri looked from Poi to Erick, and continued, “Sure. But Rats left after he got what he wanted. Do you want that to happen again? I don’t want that to happen, at all, ever again.”

Teressa got a dark, angry look on her face, as her lips became a thin, hard line.

Erick said, “I don’t want to hold people under my power forever, Kiri. Not you, not Rats, not anyone. I’m sure when you’ve gotten Particle Mage you’d go on to make your family back in Odaali safer, wouldn’t you?”

“Fah!” Kiri said, “They’re perfectly safe! I’m staying here. I managed to snag you as my teacher until I say otherwise, and I don’t ever see myself saying that.”

Erick felt a wonderful flicker in his chest, like a gentle heat. He blinked a few times, to clear his eyes of their water.

Kiri glanced away, half-sullen, murmuring, “Don’t make a big deal out of it.”

Erick smiled, saying, “Thank you, Kiri.” He continued, “But about more Ophiels: Maybe the Headmaster has some trustworthy people that could learn this method?” He stressed, “The point is to put these strong tools in the hands of those who would use them properly. Not to hoard everything for myself and those directly around me.” He added, “I recognize the need to be that kind of paranoid person, but I don’t want to be that kind of paranoid person.” He said, “What I want is more ‘giving away potatoes to the world’ kind of thinking. There’s no way for me to order fries in a restaurant when I’m the only one who has potatoes, after all.”

Kiri declared, “That is not the same thing at all!”

“It kinda is—” Erick tried.

“No it is not!”

Poi blurted, “This secret is practically out already. Might as well go for it, sir.”

Eyes wide, Kiri rounded on Poi. “Holy gods! Sizzi blabbed, hasn’t she?”

Erick laughed. “Okay then!”

Poi went stone-cold silent.

Kiri’s eyes went wider. “Sizzi blabbed.” She murmured, “Oh. That might be bad.”

