Erick said, “I think I know that theory. It was called ‘Dunbar’s Number’ back on Earth, but it only dealt with how many people a person can ever really keep track of at any one time. 150, right?”

Sizzi thought for a moment. She said, “Yeah. I could see that being the right number for 10 Willpower. The Personality Limit is considered 300 random people, at 20 Willpower, though, with a much lower number for personal friends.”

Kiri said, “Yes. That’s all well and good, but let’s not forget your wagging tongue!”

“I am sorry.” Sizzi said, “Truly! It was a mistake. I did not mean to betray your trust.”

“You didn’t betray my trust, Sizzi.” Erick said, “I never expected anything I said to remain private. I just hope the fallout isn’t catastrophic.”

Sizzi frowned. “Magic isn’t treated the same over there as it is out here. They do yearly checks to make sure no unapproved person has taken Clarity or gotten their Willpower or Focus above 19. Whatever outcome comes from this would be measured and quiet—” Sizzi winced, as she realized what she had said.

“That’s what I’m afraid of.” Erick laid it out there, “More Quiet War shit.”

Sizzi murmured, “Sorry.” She quickly added, “But I really don’t think there’s anything to worry about. Orxan tried to make a [Familiar] but failed. And then there was my cousin Bex who—”

Someone knocked on the door to the room.

Poi just opened it, like he was knew who was on the other side.

When Erick saw who it was, he realized that Poi probably did know who was at the door, because of course he did; he was Poi, after all.

Sizzi spoke first, her voice tainted with worry, “Mother?—”

“Good. You’re all here.” Zago stood framed by grey stone, with sand on the hem of her black robes and flyaways poking from her white hair. One of her horns was chipped. She looked harried, but her eyes were bright violet, and focused. She said, “There has been a development with the Dead City. Come to the war room when you are done here. Sizzi knows where it is. Everyone will be there as soon as they can. Mog, Merit. Silverite and Killzone.” She did not wait for a response. She just blipped violet; gone.

For a moment, nothing happened.

Then Erick laughed in the face of Zago’s proclamation, saying, “And here I was, wishing it could be anything else but the Quiet War!” He added, “Serves me right.”

No one else thought him funny. He didn’t consider himself funny, either, but you had to laugh at some parts of life, didn’t you?

Sizzi got up from her chair and strode out of the room, saying, “This way.”
