Poi frowned at Kiri, saying, “Your mental magic teacher should have told you not to draw conclusions based on what Mind Mages do or do not say, especially when it comes to specific people.” He said, “Hypothetically, Sizzi wasn’t involved at all!”

Kiri immediately exclaimed, “I hope you’re not insinuating it was me!”

Poi sighed.

Erick grinned as Kiri teased Poi. He probably should have been worried about a plague of Ophiels, or whatever, but the sheer terror of his trip to the Hole was long gone, and all he wanted to think about were more people like Kiri getting their own Sunnys, and other nice things. Depending on how Ophiel’s creation method got out, this could be a good thing! Theoretically.

Erick glanced to the boxes of gems, then to his people, and said, “I’m going to drop these off at the Church, and then I’m going to talk to Sizzi, if I can find her.” He asked, “Who wants to come?”

- - - -

All three of them came for the first half of the trip.

As soon as Erick hit the city, he realized that the journey to the Interfaith Temple would take a bit longer than it normally did, especially since it took him twenty minutes to walk past the Gardens; he chatted with farmers, making sure they had what they needed, and every time he asked, they said they were good.

But besides that, Spur was packed with people, these days. Erick liked walking everywhere, so he never brought up the subject, but with the crowds on the main streets and even seeing a few people in really nice clothes, Erick wondered about vehicles. He had seen some wagons in Oceanside that were used to get goods from ship to shop, but the true lack of wheeled conveyances in Spur seemed suspect ever since he came back from the island. People didn’t fly around here, or on floating platforms, either.

Teressa held one of two stone boxes of gems under one arm, saying, “All forms of vehicle are outlawed within city limits. Most people aren’t even allowed to [Teleport] around town, though enforcing that rule is a lot harder than the vehicle rule.” She added, “And that reminds me. Merit asked me to ask you without directly asking you if you could scan for [Invisibility] and [Force Trap] whenever you get a chance.”

They rounded the corner of a store with a line of people twenty deep waiting to get in the doors. It was a bakery; the scent of bread hung in the air like a siren’s call to indulge.

Kiri held the other box of gems in both her arms as she glanced at the bakery, and said, “That place makes the best bread, but I cannot abide those lines.”

Erick smiled. “At least they’re not waiting in lines to get any bread at all, right?” He glanced to Teressa, asking, “And why would Merit not want you to directly tell me?”

“I don’t know.” Teressa added, “I’m not going to get stuck between that sort of thing, though, so I’ve just up and told you.”

Poi spoke up, “They don’t want to wear out your hospitality.”

Erick smiled at that. And then he teased, “Do you monitor my calls, Poi?”

“No.” Poi said, “But more than a few people have dropped subtle desires that they have expected me to pass on to you.” He added, “I pass along everything that is an actual request from a known and trusted source.” He asked, “For example: Would you like to join a rookie mission to kill five mimics? Or would you like to donate all your magical knowledge to this startup mage group no one has ever heard of? Or perhaps you’d like to have a tea party every day at a different house?— Hmm. Uh.” Poi asked, “You don’t want that last one, right?”

Erick laughed, “Not at all!”

Kiri muttered, “Thank the gods.”

Erick added, “But maybe once in a while, it might be nice?”

Poi said, “I’ll keep that in mind.”

Erick continued, “But, you know? I’ve been expecting to get inundated with a lot more telepathic prods than I do.”

Teressa laughed.

Kiri said, “You could probably cripple any random person who tried to contact you without your consent.”

“Noooo.” Erick brushed off that concern, saying, “It’s only like… I don’t know? A thousand damage? It’s not even real damage, anyway?”

Teressa joked, “Maybe for you.”

Poi said, “Attempting to contact someone who doesn’t want to be contacted will backlash you for half of your Health in False Damage. Most people call it mental shock. It’s like a headache, but worse. It can’t kill you, but it will make you feel horrible. If you have lower mental stats, it ‘hits’ harder, too.”

“Oh?” Erick asked, “Is there an actual calculation for that damage?”

“It’s an informal thing; not a real calculation at all,” Poi said.

Kiri added, “For the unwanted sender, the formula is half your Health plus a portion of the mana of the recipient, dependent on a few different factors, like nearness makes the feedback worse, and degree of refusal is also taken into account. A large enough refusal can knock you to the ground.” She added, “But besides that! It’s impolite to contact people you don’t know. Especially people with power. Everyone’s heard the parable of the Unwanted King.”

“I haven’t,” Erick said.

Teressa smiled, saying, “It’s about a king who ruined his nation, and yet he wouldn’t allow himself or anyone else to leave or else the monsters would overcome everything he had left. So he sent out calls to every person he knew, but he was the Unwanted King, and no one liked him. Every time he tried to contact someone to get help, they rebuffed his [Telepathy]. The damage from the feedback caused him to faint. He recovers, of course, but when he wakes, some of his people are gone. This process repeats.” She shrugged her massive shoulders, setting her new shiny silver armor to glitter in the sun. “He eventually dies alone as the monsters are closing in, The End.”

“It’s an old trope.” Kiri said, “There’s tons of literature written about him.”

They spoke of literature and stories Erick had never heard of as they walked through the busy city.

Eventually, they arrived at the Interfaith Church. Erick led the way past the vineyard, into the Church itself. An acolyte received them, then showed them through the front cathedral, where light shone down through rainbow stained glass, and the walls were made of white stone carvings.

They ended up on the right of the main church, beside an open door, where the sounds of children playing on playgrounds carried through the hallways. The acolyte knocked on the open door, informing the occupant of Erick’s arrival.

The woman beyond said, “Hello, Archmage Flatt,” as she walked to the door. She was a perfectly composed older woman with scales the color of rubies, who wore the pale silver robes of a priestess of the church. “Greetings. I’m Mother Eriliad Sands. I’ve been expecting you.” She stepped into her office, saying, “Come on inside. We can talk.”

Erick smiled. “Nice to meet you, too. I’m glad to know I’m expected.” He went into the office.

Everyone else stayed outside. The acolyte that showed them here gave a quick farewell, and went on with his business.

Eriliad’s office was homey. A large window looking south showed a sandy playground with jungle gyms and swings, where rambunctious kids played tag around obstacles, and jumped on each other, and roughhoused, and laughed, and lived. They looked happy out there, but as Erick watched, one kid played a bit too rough with another, sending the second kid tumbling into the ground. Red blood marred the sand.

A young woman in silver priestess robes rushed over to the too-rough kids and picked up both of them by the arms. The injured kid was crying, but otherwise okay. Erick couldn’t hear what the woman was saying, but every single kid nearby looked mortified, especially the one that had gotten too rough.

Mother Eriliad sat down behind her desk, saying, “I have heard that Delia Greentalon has garnered your support?”

Erick turned back to Eriliad, saying, “Yes. She has.” He sat down across from Eriliad. “She asked for me to deliver some enchanted rings here, and they’re done, so that’s why I’m here. One of the reasons, anyway.”

Eriliad kept a stoic face, but she was obviously tense. “Please, go on.”

“I was all prepared to just hand over the goods and wish them all good luck, but when I understood that you would be the one to handle this transition of goods, I wanted to speak to you about Rats— I mean. Xendross Sands.” Erick asked, “I want to know if he is okay. If he had contacted you? I understand he was going through something painful, but I never knew until he was gone.”

Eriliad kept her shoulders square and her eyes level. She was obviously controlling her response. Moments passed in silence, before she said, “He was there to oversee the Life Binder bringing me back from my Final Rest. I can’t forgive him for that, but even still, I love him as if he were my own.” She added, “He has always been an emotionally stunted idiot and it has always cost him everything he ever built. He—” She shook her head. “I cannot speak of him any more or I am liable to journey south and drag him back here by his ear.” She added, “Maybe some other day, but not now. Apologies, archmage.”

“Perfectly fine.” It wasn’t, but Erick let it be. He said, “If he wants to return, can you tell him that he is welcome to come back, but only after clearing the necessary security questions and answers, of course.”

Eriliad seemed to go softer at that. She smiled, tiny, as her shoulders relaxed. She said, “If he ever realizes his folly, I will tell him you said this.”

“Now that that is out of the way—” Erick said, “Ah. Thank you, Teressa.”

Teressa was already stepping into the room with both stone boxes. She laid them on the table in front of Erick, then gave a short bow to Mother Eriliad and stepped back outside. Erick opened the first one and set the lid to the side, as Eriliad stood from her chair to see inside the box. Silver orbs gleamed in dark settings atop strips of dark metal.

Erick said, “Each box has 5 layers of 60 rings; they just need a bit of [Metalshape] to twist into the proper shape. You could even use [Stoneshape] to properly shape them, but that ends up a bit crude— You’d know how to do this. I don’t have to tell you.”

Eriliad stared down at the bounty before her. She picked one up. She glanced to Erick, then looked at his fingers. She saw that the rings here were not the same as his own.

Erick said, “These are lesser versions of what is possible. I want to help Delia and the victims of the Red Dot, but I don’t want to give away too much power at once. This particular box of rings is unlike any you’ve ever seen; I guarantee it.” He added, “Anyway. If the kids prove to be responsible, I can make stronger ones. Can you tell Delia, that? I haven’t spoken to the Army, yet, but I’m going to make them some new rings, too, and soon.”

Eriliad held the almost-ring up, then said, “I’ll test this now, if you don’t mind.”

“Go ahead!” Erick added, “Do you need me to— Guess not.”

The strip of metal flowed into a ring, and settled down onto Eriliad’s pointer finger. When the dark iron settled, she gasped. “TEN TO EVERY STAT?!” She immediately took off the ring. She almost tossed it back into the box, but she didn’t. She laid the ring on her desk. She stood over the ring, staring at the artifact. “This—” She cut herself off. She thought.

Erik waited.

Eriliad sat back down in her chair with a great wumph. She said, “You’ll get them addicted to magic that doesn’t exist except from you. I don’t like that… But.” She added, “That’s what I’d say to anyone else who came here with this sort of extravagant gift. Normally, I’d throw you out of here with your shirt on fire. It’s my duty to protect these kids, you see.”

“I completely understand.”

“That said, even you can’t possibly be this giving.” She seemed to deflate, saying, “Or maybe you are?” She solidified, adding, “No. I need to know what you get out of this.”

Erick said, “I want to help those who I can help.”

Eriliad thought for a moment. She said, “I need a larger reason than that.” She added, “If I go around with that sort of story, then someone else will invent some other reason that you’re doing this.”

“Then tell them that I want to support those who can do good in the world.”

With a concerned voice, Eriliad asked, “Are you feeling guilty over what happened to the Farms?”

“Of course.” Erick barreled through whatever uncomfortable emotions filled his chest, saying, “I thought I was helping people, but then hunters got involved, and now Spur has a rapid influx of orphans due to my inability to find and kill every single threat out there, before it became a threat. If I can empower those who are left, maybe they won’t suffer as much when I try to do more good in the world.”

Eriliad looked at Erick. She said, “That seems rather demanding.”

“Knowing that my actions have consequences is rather a normal thing to recognize and ameliorate. This gift is one such attempt to lay a good foundation for whatever might happen in the future.” He added, “It’s not paranoia if they really are out to get you.”

“Apologies. What I meant to say is: That seems rather egotistical.” She added, “And you haven’t thought this through nearly enough.”

“… Excuse me?”

