“You’re not excused.” Eriliad narrowed her eyes, then took a deep breath and a completely different tone from before. She spoke like a woman defending her children, “You don’t seem to get what this ‘gift’ would do to these kids. These rings are targets and Delia is completely unqualified to speak for her fellow recently-orphaned and this much power is NOT going into the hands of children, especially when less scrupulous people will break their little fingers to get rings that never break!” She launched into Erick, saying, “How can you possibly consider this a good idea?!” She added, “I knew you were kind-hearted, but this is completely irresponsible!”

Erick backpedaled, “They’re just 55 extra Stat points. That only costs a thousand gold every few mana pools to replace with normal gear.”

“Spur’s Care Services feeds 4500 orphaned and low-care kids every day on a thousand gold! Your idea of money is completely inflated, like all high level adventurers!” Eriliad said, “You might have killed all the nearby hunters, Archmage Flatt, but there are still rookie adventurers around here that would do awful things to children if that’s what it took to acquire a single artifact!”

Erick was taken aback. He bargained, “This method is not that special. Anyone can do it if they know the trick. These rings are nice, and nothing more.” He said, “They aren’t really ‘artifacts’ at all!”

“Then take these rings and sell them! Get them out there on the market, so that they’re not so special people would kill over them.” Eriliad picked up the ring on her desk and put it back in the box. She shut the lid, and said, “Because these rings are not going to my kids, and if you don’t want to kill them, then you won’t break like wet paper when Delia comes back to you, whining for some other way to get her hands on power she is too young to possess!”

- - - -

Erick walked out of the Church with his boxes floating to his sides.

When they were far enough away from the vineyard and Erick didn’t think his voice would crack with anger, he asked, “Was she right?” He added, “We killed every nearby hunter, didn’t we?”

Kiri said, “I’d guess that anywhere between five to twenty of the kids to get a ring would also get into serious trouble because of it, but you could track these rings, and kill whoever stole one. Everyone knows you can track people in some unspecified, possibly blood magic way, now. That’s a pretty big knock against her argument.”

“Yeah. But...” Teressa said, “That’s only possible if the kids report the problem. People would notice a body, or a missing person, so that likely won’t happen, but I doubt many would report a simple theft.” She added, “That reminds me. Merit also dropped heavy hints that she’s interested in using you to catch thieves.”

Erick asked, “What about you, Poi?”

Poi frowned. He said, “I was… caught up in the good you wanted to do, while also considering that very, very few people want to do anything against any of your interests, especially with Spur supporting almost every action you take. I considered your idea to give rings to the freshly matriculated as somewhat low-risk, and already told the Guard that there might be kids walking around with your rings on soon. Merit thought it a risk, too, but it would be simple enough to nail to the wall anyone who had a ring who was older than 17, for that would mark them as improper owners. Your ability to track them was secondary to that, but it was also brought up as a countermeasure against theft. But… Mother Eriliad is right, and also wrong, and also considerably overprotective.

“Delia and her crew are orphans in the care of the city until they turn 18, but they are freshly Matriculated. They are adults. If they choose to be adventurers, then it is not our right to deny them their journey. But… Giving someone unearned wealth never turns out as good as you think it will.” Poi said, “So I have to agree with Eriliad, but for very different reasons.”

Erick sighed out at the sky. “Then… I’ll figure out some other way to help Delia.” He said, “But I’m not selling them. So...”

- - - -

Teressa took a right inside the Courthouse, at the floating globe of Veird hanging in the center of the building, but veered left. She split off from the group to see if Silverite’s office had any [Witness] needs for the day. She’d head off to the Guardhouse next, and then meet everyone back at the house, later.

Erick, Poi, and Kiri, took a right at the globe, and split right. Erick floated his boxes just above his hands; it wasn’t an overt display of magic, but it allowed him to carry the two large boxes without much effort.

Finding the appropriate offices, Erick went inside. He bypassed rows of chairs filled with people; each of them holding paperwork and waiting for their number to be called. It did not take long to find the desk of the appropriate person. The man at that desk also saw Erick coming, and smiled.

Erick floated his boxes to his side, dropping the act that he was holding them up himself, and said. “Hello. Delivery for the Quartermaster; Liquid. 600 rings.”

The greenscale secretary, ‘Thom’, according to the nameplate on his desk, grinned wider. He tapped his desk with a talon, saying, “Quartermaster Liquid is out on business, but you can set them right here, Archmage Flatt. I’ll be sure she gets them. The Army thanks you for your donation.” He asked, “By chance… are any of them Willpower?”

“Much better than that!” Erick opened the lid to a box, saying, “Go ahead and take one.” He tried to keep the acid sarcasm out of his voice as he said, “Careful though. I’ve been told they’ll make you a target."

Thom did not seem to care about Erick’s tone. He just plucked out the ring sitting on top; the one Eriliad had formed. He said, “Yes. That is true. They do make you a target.”

Erick felt his stomach drop. “Really?” He winced. “How bad was it?”

“Not bad at all.” Thom added, “Some dumbfucks tried to steal from soldiers in the Dead City. They didn’t survive that lesson.”

By now, a few of the nearby office workers were craning their necks to see what was going on over by Liquid’s secretary. It took less than half a moment for the excitement to go to some of the people sitting down, waiting for an interview. Some of them stood up to have a look-see.

Thom slipped the ring on his finger. He exclaimed, “Plus 10 to every Stat!”

People instantly got up from their desks—

Thom glared, belting out, “Sit back down!”

Most of them sat back down. The interviewees also backed up, as someone else behind a different desk spoke like a retired drill sergeant, and told them all to get back in their chairs, before calling out the next number.

Thom turned to Erick saying, “Thank you, sir.” He smiled mischievously, saying, “Liquid is going to be thrilled. As will the rest of us. We’ve actually run a little low. These things remove cursed objects, so we’ve actually used up almost all of what you gave us before.”

Erick paused. He asked, “Really?” Now he felt a little bad. He should have replaced the Army’s rings well before today. He said, “You guys should have said something.”

Thom smiled. “So are they all bonuses to every Stat?”

“Just the ones in that box. The other box is an even assortment of normal plus-25 Stats. 75 rings of each kind, waiting for fingers to be formed around.”

“Perfect! Great. Thank you.”

“You’re welcome.” He added, “If that’s not enough, then send me a request for more.” He asked, “Actually. How many people are in the Army?”

“12,000, if you include the Guard. Maybe only 500 active soldiers at a time, though.” He said, “So 600 is great for our needs. Thank you.”

Erick felt a spark of inspiration. “If you want me to outfit the entire Guard and Army, just give me the word.”

Thom went speechless, but he quickly found his footing. “I’ll pass the message along.”

Erick nodded, then left them to it. By the time he neared the exit for the Quartermaster’s offices, the other people around the room could not hold themselves back. They rushed Thom, everyone wanting to see the new shipment. For his part, the greenscale man deftly yanked the boxes of rings away and retreated into Liquid’s office, slamming the door shut behind him.

- - - -

Erick, Poi, and Kiri went to the Mage Guildhouse.

Sizzi sat behind the front receptionist desk. She spotted Erick walking into the building. In that moment, she seemed for all the world like a deer facing down a semi-trailer truck on the highway. Her purple skin paled as her violet eyes went wide.

A soft looking bunny made of bright violet fur poked up from behind the counter. Its long ears twitched to see what Sizzi was looking at. At the same time, Sunny almost flew off of Kiri’s shoulders, but Kiri controlled her [Familiar] before Sunny got too far. Ophiel, resting on Erick’s shoulders and looking like a tiny parakeet, simply twittered in soft, interested guitar strums.

Anhelia, sitting next to Sizzi, but talking with a customer, noticed Sizzi’s shift and the sudden perking-up of the three nearby [Familiar]s. She glanced from Sizzi, to Erick. She paused in confusion, then her eyes went wide, too. She smiled.

Erick smiled, walking to the receptionist’s desk, saying, “Sizzi! Just the person I wanted to see.”

Anhelia said, “Why don’t you two use the room back there?”

Sizzi forced a smile to go along with a nervous chuckle, as she stood from her chair. “If you would follow me, archmage.”

The bunny hopped through the air like it weighed nothing, to alight on Sizzi’s shoulder. Somewhere between the desk and its creator, the bunny shrunk to the size of a mouse.

In one of the stone rooms Erick had once upon a time used to get his Mend-Cleanse mage quest license, Sizzi pulled a few chairs from a stack against the wall and set them out in the center of the room. She took one. Erick and Kiri each took their own chair; Poi stood to the side of the room, and closed the door.

Kiri glared at Sizzi the whole time. Right before she sat down, she spat out, “I cannot believe that you would spread Erick’s method for—”

“It was unintentional!” Sizzi sat down. Everything about her spoke of accepting a defeat; from the slump of her shoulders, to her downcast eyes. “I never meant for this...” Her bunny flopped from her shoulder to her lap, as Sizzi said, “I was on a trip to Kandahi, you see, on the Wall. Do you know where that is?”

Erick, already sitting, said, “I’m vaguely aware of the location.”

“I have family there.” As if accepting that she had done wrong, Sizzi rapidly said. “One thing led to another and I was very drunk and looking back on it, it was very stupid, because they were plying me with drinks to get me to talk about Rokkel.” Sizzi flicked her eyes up and down, causing a blue box to manifest.

Summon Rokkel, medium range, 1104 mana + Variable.

Summon an Rokkel to do your bidding. Maximum 10 Rokkel permitted.

Rokkel persist until killed or dismissed.

All Rokkel are the same creature; to know one is to know them all.

All Rokkel naturally have and regenerate mana based on your own mana and mana regeneration, which they may use to cast the spells that you imbue them with, at your own command or at their own discretion. Comes summoned and proficient with [Lightshape], [Telepathy], and [Scry].

All Rokkel are able to alter their size and shape.

Imbue your Rokkel with new spells, wherever they are. Variable

See through the eyes of your Rokkel. Variable

Communicate telepathically with your Rokkel. Variable

“Looks almost the same as Ophiel’s,” Erick said, patting Ophiel on his shoulder.

Sizzi said, “I am sorry, archmage. I know we never entered into any formal arrangement, but I acted rather foolish with the method you gave me.”

Kiri harrumphed, and shot a glare at Poi. Poi just rolled his eyes.

Erick asked, “So what’s the damage? What’s actually become of this?”

Sizzi said, “My uncle Orxan disappeared into the Magisterium, the day after I told—” She sighed. She said, “That’s a lie. I didn’t just tell. I gave a successful demonstration.” She held up her hand, palm up. A bangle of yellow metal and tiny purple stones jangled on her wrist. “Grahla. Come out out.”

The bangle went liquid as it flopped up and around her hand like a tiny ooze. Grahla took its place atop Sizzi’s palm, burbling upward, eyeing Erick and Kiri with purple stone eyes.

Kiri’s eyes went wide. “Oh my gods. You made a second [Familiar]!”

Erick smiled. “You can do that, huh?”

“Yes. You can. Grahla’s creation was as successful as Rokkel’s, too” Sizzi said, “[Stoneshape], this time.”

“How many can you make?” Erick said, “I never considered making more than Ophiel.”

Ophiel trilled to hear his name.

Kiri said, “I’ve tried, but it didn’t work for me. Sunny is perfect, anyway.”

Sizzi said, “I’ve tried for a third. Zog. I wanted to make him more real. Two seems to be my limit, for now.”

“Class ability?” Erick asked.

“No.” Sizzi said, “Well. Yes. Actually. But I don’t actually have a Class, yet. So that’s not my limiting factor.”

Kiri said, “One of the options of Summoner is the ability to turn up to your Willpower-divided-by-10 temporary summons into a new [Familiar].”

“Yes. But I’m not a Summoner, yet.” Sizzi’s metallic [Familiar] slipped back around her wrist, as she said, “As far as I can tell, the ability to make more [Familiar]s with Archmage Flatt’s method is likely tied to your Personality Limit. It’s not a real number, but more a hard limit based on biology and personality.”

