“Please ignore the many layers of confusion the name they’ve chosen can produce. They’re just big fans of the first definition of magic. Because, as they point out, contemporary Artonan guests on Earth use many different words that the System translates as ‘magic’ that are better translated as ‘power,’ ‘dominance,’ ‘sway,’ or…more bizarrely…‘my spot.’”

“Avowed who go to the Triplanets often enough have to notice those things, too,” said Alden. “Once you speak the language, it’s impossible not to realize that the way they talk about magic is different than most humans think of it. But it probably comes across as wizard cultural posturing to people who don’t like Artonans or who don’t care to delve into it. Because if a wizard doesn’t sit down and explain it to you really slowly and clearly, it’s easy to convince yourself that they’re just being poetic, arrogant, and alien. Instead of surprisingly literal.”

Boe shut the laptop and set it aside. “So give me your definition!”

He was leaning over his knees toward Alden. He sounded eager.

Of course he did. Alden wanted to tell him, and at the same time, he very much didn’t.

“Talking about it in general is fine,” he said hesitantly. “But if you want me to try to teach you how to do it, too, I…I’m going to need to think about that. For a long time probably. Okay?”

Boe stared. “You think you can teach other people how to do it?”

“I don’t know. I don’t think it would be impossible if I chose the right person. Probably another Avowed. It would be really hard. And time consuming. Maybe even years worth of time consuming for both of us? If I even wanted to at all.”

“I wasn’t asking you to teach me,” said Boe, watching him closely through his brand new glasses. “I assumed you couldn’t. Either because of that tattoo on your chest or because you were a one-of-a-kind case. For the obvious reason.”

“Oh. I am, but I think there should be others who are capable of it. Only it would be harder for them than it was for me. And possibly less worthwhile.”

According to her, Gorgon’s refinement of Alden’s authority made him qualify as ‘gifted’. He hadn’t thought much about that statement over the past few weeks, but it had crossed his mind a few times. Mostly when he was wondering how gifted you had to be for an entity like that to acknowledge it.

Thanks, Gorgon. Hope you liked Natalie’s cinnamon bun.

“I think you have to be underestimating the difficulty of it even with all those caveats,” said Boe. “Everyone is curious about magic. Plenty of smart Avowed spend lots of time with the Artonans. By all accounts, they’re secretive as hell, but there’s no way every last wizard, including a couple who’ve gone and married humans, would refuse to teach it. Someone would have broken the rules by now. So if it’s not damn near close to impossible, then the Triplanetary Government must assassinate everyone who does it, because otherwise there would be a small population of human wizards running around already.”

“From what I’ve been told, I’m basically the only one right now,” said Alden.

It made more sense when you knew the whole truth. Joe was probably the king of rule breakers, and even he had been very firmly against teaching an Avowed magic. It meant flouting your culture, your colleagues, and your conscience. And after months or years of training, you’d be gifting your student not only power but a variety of pain they couldn’t properly understand and consent to until they were too deeply involved to back out.

You’d have to be at least a little bit of a monster.

Or a very patient and determined child who didn’t know any better.

He cleared his throat and pointed at the TV. “My definition is totally better than that guy’s. Here it is: while I was on Moon Thegund being sandblasted by chaos, I became aware of <<myself>> as a unique existence within reality. Becoming aware of yourself in that way is probably what the Human Dominators, or whatever they’re called, are translating as ‘my spot’? It works. You gain awareness of yourself as an entity beyond the physical, and in doing so you come to understand that you both have and are authority. You learn to direct your authority to effect changes in reality—aka doing magic. In the process of doing so, you can grow the strength of your authority and expand it beyond your initial ‘spot’, gaining <<presence>> and the power to do more magic.”

Alden took a breath. Awesome. He’d gotten it all out. Mostly in English. And it sounded closer to right than he’d thought it would.

“I don’t know why you’re grinning. That was some of the most abstract, batshit sounding—”

“It was really very clear!”

Boe shoved up his glasses. “You sound like a snooty Artonan wizard wearing an Alden suit.”

Alden considered that. “Thank you.”

“Fine. I did understand that better than the single sentence definition at least.”

“Do you want to see me do it? We can always finish the movie later.” Alden undid the buckle on his leather cuff bracelet and unwrapped his auriad.

“Cool. Is that a magic string?” Boe reached out curiously.

Alden had been in the process of standing, and at the sight of a hand reaching for the auriad, he reflexively leaped backward. Only to fall over the coffee table full of snacks.

“Ow…” he said, staring up at the ceiling.

Boe stood with an amused look on his face. “Are you all right? Your Agility stats failed you hard just now.”

Alden let his left foot sweep a chip bag to the floor as he yanked his leg off the table and sat back up. “Yeah. Sorry. That was—”

Boe held up his hands. “I will not touch your magic string,” he said, the solemn voice at odds with his growing smile.

Alden climbed to his feet. “I know. I know. That looked crazy. Maybe you can touch it. I just haven’t really thought about it, and I panicked.”

“Is it delicate, or is it dangerous?”

“It’s part of me,” said Alden. “I’ve bonded with it, and we’re growing more intertwined as I practice.”

“We? Does it have a personality?” Boe asked, lowering his hands.

“No. That’s me projecting.” He looked down at his fingers. He was already absently weaving the auriad into the starting position for the elementary school graduation spell. “It’s an auriad. It’s a tool that feels sort of like an extra limb. But it’s also a deep expression of myself. Honestly, I’ve got a little bit of a security blanket thing going on with it, too.”

He took a step closer and held the interlaced string out toward his friend.

Boe regarded it cautiously.

“It’s neat. It’s almost like liquid instead of string to the touch,” Alden said, holding it in front of Boe's nose. “I promise not to fall over the coffee table again.”

“I’m good. I’m not sure if we’re talking about me shaking hands with your soul or you offering to let me touch your favorite kidney, but either one sounds unnecessary just to satisfy my curiosity.”

Alden shrugged and lowered the auriad. “Well, move Victor off the sofa then, and watch me and my favorite kidney do something cool.”

He headed into the kitchen, his hands moving by rote. His mind was focused on manipulating his authority into the shapes that filled in the gaps in the auriad’s pattern. It felt good. Exciting. Like he was approaching the edge of a high dive, and he was already anticipating the way the water would part for him.

Yield to him.

In exactly the way that he demanded.

His free authority moved. Not as fast as his fingers could. His hand speed had surpassed his authority control by too much, but that was all right. It gave him a new goal to work toward.

He spun to face the sofa as the final design of the spell took shape. Boe was standing off to the side by the pinball machine with the cat in his arms. Alden lifted the auriad, aimed over the counter, and made sure to throw himself into the final push. He didn’t have enough free authority to hold himself back in the way he’d been able to on those final days at the lab.

But the water still parted.

Alden couldn’t see the square of force shoot across the room, but he was aware of it on another level. It was as if there was an echo of the command he’d given in the world around him that he could just barely detect. One day, maybe he’d be able to feel it more clearly.

He was staring at the exact spot he’d aimed for, so he saw the instant the back cushion of the sofa depressed, in a perfect square shape, with a thwuff sound. The whole piece of furniture rocked and fell over onto its back.

“Did you see?!” he demanded, hurrying into the living room and letting the auriad helpfully wrap itself back around his left wrist. He pointed at the fallen sofa. “That was my spell!”

Boe set the cat down. “That was sick!” His voice was almost as excited as Alden’s. “That was a hundred percent a spell that the System would never offer a Rabbit. And you’ve got it anyway!”

“I know!”

“You kicked the couch from across the room!”

“I can do it from even farther, but the aim needs a little work. It’s just the graduation spell they give wizard kids when they leave this fancy-pants elementary school on Artona I. But—”

“But if you can do that you can do so much more!”

“I know. There are like a billion spells I won’t be able to do because I’m not Artonan, but they’ve been wizarding around since the dawn of time and they’ve got more magical knowledge than anyone could ever learn anyway. So even if I’m stuck with pure hand casting and I can’t do double-brain dolphin chanting or jet off to other worlds to get potions ingredients, I’m not ever going to run out of stuff to try!”

“Can you do it again?”

“Yes! A few more times at least. Can I show you some others, too?”

******

An hour later, they sat on the floor in the wreckage of the living room. All the furniture was tipped over. Several chip bags had been used as targets, and crumbs littered the floor. There was a faint smell of smoke in the air from the little bits of paper that had been burned in lieu of candles, they both had very sanitized hands, and the last chiming notes of the song spell were fading from the air.

Victor had abandoned them to their madness long ago.

Alden laid on his stomach on a battered sofa cushion and watched Boe. His friend’s back was propped against the bottom of the overturned sofa, and he was trying to get the wax paper wrapper off a smashed caramel. He was relaxed and happy. They both were because Alden had asked if he wanted to share the emotion.

Boe had seemed surprised. Alden just thought it was the obvious thing to do.

And there was another reason…

Now’s a good time.

“Big anxiety spike,” Boe said without looking over at him. He’d been verbally identifying Alden’s emotions for a while now, maybe as an attempt to fully disclose what he was reading.

“I know. Could you shield up again?”

“Done.”

“I wanted you to know it’s fun for me. Doing magic.”

“That’s an understatement. You’ve got this very specific emotion when you do it. Like self-affirmation and a success high all rolled up together. I haven’t felt anything quite like it before.”

Alden took a deep breath. [My affixations hurt now.]

Boe’s fingers stopped prying at the caramel wrapper. His eyes met Alden’s.

[I don’t know why I’m texting it. I guess it’s easier. When the System does my affixations now, I can feel it. Changing me.]

“Oh,” Boe said quietly.

[The work the Artona I Contract did on me after I got back from all that time away was… I couldn’t even use my skill after it happened. Not until a couple of weeks ago. And it’s still this thing that…sometimes I can’t sleep. I don’t want to talk about it. But I did want you to understand why I freaked out yesterday when you were trying to tell me about U-type affixations. And why I’m not sure about teaching anyone else.]

Boe hadn’t looked away.

Alden did himself, letting his eyes fall on the dirty floor.

“Anyway,” he said after clearing his throat, "now that I’m back in action again, I’ve been memorizing new spells. I think I’ll be able to cast a couple of them really soon. There’s this one that crushes the hell out of stuff. Close range. Baseball-sized crush zone. Sphere or pancake depending on how I adjust it. I think it’s going to be like having permanent access to a hydraulic press. I’m going to flatten all the things. I don’t know how practical it will really be in everyday life—”

“Extreme crushing doesn’t have to be practical,” Boe said in a casual voice. “You should just enjoy it.”

Alden smiled. “Right. Also—close range flash freezing. I’ve got both of those down, and I’m basically just waiting until my authority develops enough so that I can do them. I think I'm almost there.”

“The freezing spell goes well with your new passion for keeping inappropriate things in your pockets.”

“Exactly! I can make frozen food and keep it frozen. All I need is a spell to heat it back up, and I’m a one-man kitchen.”

“You can make tiny flames,” Boe pointed out. “Just learn to cook over an open fire, and you’re set.”

Alden gasped. “I’m amazing.”

“You’re shaping up to be the ideal camping buddy if nothing else. You even entertain people with finger songs.”

“The spell I plan to memorize after those is very similar to the graduation spell. It makes a sharper force shape, a triangle that flies through the air like a thrown dagger. Spells that cut and smash in different ways seem to be particularly common uses for auriads, but they aren’t the only kinds. There’s an honest-to-goodness object summoning spell at the end of the book. I’m drooling over it.”

