In another drawer, he found various bits of rope, hooks from fishing lines, and a ledger for her shop. He tossed those back in and kept hunting, and was rewarded by the bottommost drawer. Within it were two objects that gripped his attention immediately.

The first was a thaumic cauldron. Approximately six inches in diameter, it was a small device and much like the icebox was fitted with a reservoir and those angular lines. What was different was that the cauldron had two distinct settings, written in elegant script along the side.

Heat.

Freeze.

The thaumic cauldron used Water to cook objects within it, or to slowly freeze them instead, depending on what the recipe might require. It was an extremely useful tool that Harker had only ever read about—and for good reason. Even a small cauldron cost a fortune. Where had a shopkeep in Creston gotten the funds for it?

No matter. It was his now. He put it into his pack and focused on the last item.

A notebook, it had a plain leather and wood binding with nothing more than a strap around the outside to keep it closed. Inside, however, it was a treasure trove.

These are her personal notes! Harker flipped through a few pages, and sure enough most of them detailed plants and animals while discussing the nature of their poison or venom. Near the back, however, he spied entries on general practices and even a few recipes.

Harker packed it away, eager to read it in the future.

The rest of the room was fairly empty. Harker didn’t trust that for a moment. If she was half as clever as he assumed, his would-be killer wouldn’t keep anything important in plain view.

“Sovereign Sight.”

Every time he used his Talent, it felt like stubbing his toe over and over again, except all across his chest and left arm. Despite it all, he didn’t hesitate to press his radius to three feet and hold his Water. Information flowed through him and he took several careful steps around the room, starting in the center and expanding outward in a slow spiral. By his third loop, he found it.

The floorboard. It’s loose.

He reached down and, guided by Talent, he found the exact point to press down. The board popped up, just enough to catch the lip of it with his finger. When he pulled the board free, he could see the dark, tasting the accumulating dust and feeling the chill damp.

And a metal lockbox.

Harker lifted it out of the hole, setting it on the floorboards before himself. It was wide but relatively thin, made of iron and rusted all along the bottom. The lock on it, however, was well oiled and strong. Inside…he frowned.

I can’t sense inside. Why?

Briefly, he considered bashing the lock open, but sighed as he realized the obvious answer.

Still holding his Talent, he made his way back to the front, where the woman's corpse lay crumpled behind the counter. Harker gagged at the scent and taste of her dead flesh though, bending over and wretching.

“Oh Ancestors’ mercy,” he muttered. “That is foul.”

Harker tried to shift his focus, tightening the effect of his Water around himself and pivoting his body until he only had the woman’s head and shoulders included. There was a glint of metal in her hair.

The key.

He snatched it up, but hesitated when his Talent caught on something else. It was around the woman’s neck on a leather thong. A porous stone no bigger than the last joint of his thumb, Harker recognized it instantly.

A scourge stone? It was a thaumic consumable meant to ward off the weaker types of Aberrants. Having seen the woman’s collection, he shouldn’t have been surprised she’d have something like it. This will be useful.

He returned to the bedroom. Once there, he carefully unlocked the iron box. It clicked, releasing its grip on the lid without ill-effect, and as he opened it Harker found his Talent giving him information once more.

He closed it, and the jumbled details faded from his awareness.

Something in the box is blocking me.

Inside was a pouch containing five silver bars, three inches long and flat. Harker could believe it—sitting before him was more wealth than he'd ever seen in one place. Each bar was worth fifty silver coins each, something only banks and businesses possessed. They would be hard to spend in a village like Creston. Harker pocketed them.

Layered beneath the pouch were identification papers, a kind that Harker had never seen before. They even were stamped by the official seal of the Commonwealth.

Name: Miriam Gale

Born: Issu, 1/8/977

Talent: Poisoned Touch

Scope: Minor

“I was right.” She must have manifested the Talent when she’d patted him on the shoulder. “Potent, and I didn’t even feel it until it was too late.”

Normally, his skin would prickle or tighten when someone used their Talent, like goosebumps. Was it part of the Talent itself to be subtle? Harker shuddered. If that were possible, it meant he’d have to be far more careful in the future.

Beneath the paperwork, he found three palm-sized vials and a number of bundled ingredients set beside each. The vials were labeled in a neat hand, but it did not list out their purpose.

"Gutrot poison," he murmured, opening up the notebook. He found an entry on it fairly quickly. "A common poison meant to be imbibed in drink. Tastes sharp and medicinal, but the flavor can be masked by strong wine. After a ten-minute delay, will cause bowel distress for several hours."

So it’s a powerful laxative. Probably very powerful if its effect is drastic enough to be called a poison.

The next was labeled as Wild Tincture, and it too had an entry. "An uncommon poison, meant to be applied in a fine mist. When sprayed into the eyes, ears, or nose, it inflicts the target with hallucinations for ten minutes. Warning: hallucinations are often violent.”

Now that is interesting. Harker smiled and moved on to the last.

It was labeled as Essence of Shadow. “Expensive to make. Inflicts an extracted Talent (Shadowflare) onto a twenty-foot radius. For thirty seconds, it creates an impenetrable darkness that can only be seen through by specialized tools. A Shroud specialty.”

Harker frowned. “Shroud specialty? What does that mean?”

The note said nothing else, and Harker put it side. It wasn't important. Far more interesting was the fact that one could extract a Talent into a bottle. He lifted the Essence of Shadow up, holding it against the light that shone through the high windows. The black liquid inside sloshed about, but not like water. Instead, it seemed to act more like smoke.

The stories of thaumists always spoke of them taking Talents and putting them into bottles and tinctures and salves. They were powerful crafters, creating wonders out of Water, reagents, and the might of the Infinite Sea. Yet he hadn't quite imagined this.

Harker packed them all back into the box and took it all.

After a little more than twenty minutes, Harker exited the shop with a significantly heavier pack and aching tributary. He slipped out of the side door, locking it with Miriam’s key before heading in the direction of the market on swift, sure steps.

Stillwater followed, blood staining his mouth, still munching appreciatively on a haunch of raw meat. “Onward human! Let us find another shop to ransack!”
