For real, I wrote this one while on so much cold medicine. Let me know if I messed up any grammar/spelling/weirdo phrasing.

______

Courtney froze and went pale. She opened her mouth as if she were going to defend herself but must have realized nothing she would say would help. Instead, she looked to Twitch in mute appeal.

Her heavily tattooed knight in shining armor stepped forward. He was a skeletal thin man, and Tiny, who had slabs upon slabs of muscle, could probably break him like a twig. It didn't seem to matter to Twitch, though, as he moved between them.

"Nah, man. That's not happening."

The atmosphere around them seemed to change. Thomas was reminded of the House of Healing with that same sense of heavy calm. He didn't know how the others weren't noticing and freaking out, but Thomas found it easy to shove the false peace away. He wasn't going to just stand by and let Tiny murder their prisoner.

"Twitch's right," he said. "There's no need to feed the boss a snack. There's plenty of us, and the dungeon's given us mana and items. If we split it all up, absorb what we can, then we can take it on and get the boss drops. They should be good, right?"

Tiny's gaze snapped to him, and his eyes narrowed.

He knows I can throw off his emotional manipulation, Thomas thought. Does he know that I know it's coming from him?

Zack cut in, practically drawling out an easy, "If this thing can split up, that's double the loot drop possibility." He spread his hands and shrugged. "It's just the math, bro. I'm not doing this dungeon for my health. I want the goods, and I want to get stronger to make those assholes outside this hellhole pay." He looked to the others, seeing Sue and Holden start to nod. "Right?"

Tiny's falsely genial smile flickered just for a moment.

Then Jo stepped in and placed her hand on one of Tiny's thick arms. "When I get out of here and face my daughter, I gotta know deep in my heart that I was better than them." That last word was aimed sourly at Courtney. With one poisonous look, Jo made it clear that she wasn't appealing to Tiny's better nature because she cared if Courtney lived or died, but because she was better than the other woman.

Courtney glared back, but she wasn't stupid. She kept her mouth shut.

Jo shot her a sarcastic smile before she turned back to Tiny. "My team's strong. We were doing level 3 dungeons before this. We can take the boss."

Tiny didn't frown, but he looked like he wanted to. Easily the most powerful people in the group were all allied against him. For a moment, Thomas was worried he would grab the dead remote control that went to the ankle monitor and try to bluff Courtney into becoming Boss Chow that way.

However, he made the smart decision, and slowly the false calm faded. Tiny shrugged. "Fine, we'll take on the boss as a team." He raised his voice. "Everyone take five to check your weapons and absorb any last mana."

Thomas took that moment to edge around the corner and get a peek at the boss. It was a low, drippy, cavernous room, mossy and puddled in some places, with the exit door barely in view at the other end.

An eight-foot-tall, human-shaped wisp strode back and forth like a guard on duty in front of the door. The top of its head practically scraped the ceiling.

It glowed a weird purple-silver in his Eyes of Riches vision. He'd seen the same in the wisps that dropped decent crystals and so fully expected the boss to do the same.

That wasn't all: A few of the glowing gems that stuck out of the cave walls and illuminated the space all looked golden.

Thomas hadn't paid much attention to them once he realized they were decoration and not actual mana gems. These, however... they were different. They were crystals all by themselves, no drop required.

Score.

Pulling back, he drifted over to his team. Tiny was off speaking to Sue and the dungeon feed guy—he had to get his name at some point. Jo was having her own low-voiced conversation with Zach. She included Thomas as soon as he stepped up.

"No telling with these bosses. Sometimes they take physical hits like the sub-bosses; sometimes they get knocked back by mana. I don't think anyone's bothered to take them down. The guards want us rerunning the dungeon for the easy drops, not risking a whole party wipe."

She spoke easily, like this was run-of-the-mill. Thomas wasn't fooled. She had to have seen some hard things during her time here.

Zach must have seen it too because he rested a hand on her shoulder. "I'm not involved with my family anymore, but for whatever it's worth, I'm sorry."

Jo shook her head. "It's not your fault." But she must have heard the bitter emphasis in her own voice because she sighed, shoulders slumping. "Not the dark elves either. I guess."

Thomas glanced around to see if anyone was listening. None were that he noticed, though with Gifts, it was impossible to be entirely certain. Still, he had been waiting for this conversation. "Our working theory was that the Light elves wanted to take our team away from the dark, either as a statement or to trip them up with their new colony."

She nodded, her sour expression deepening. "It's not like they told me their motives, but that's the impression I got for me and you. Except I don't think they woulda put you here in this hole. You would have been made to heal their people." Her eyes flicked to Zach. "They wanted you tied up in a bow and delivered back to your family. Not the ones here, I think."

Zach nodded calmly, like this was no surprise. "My father's an asshole."

That, Thomas felt, was probably underselling the point. The anger he had been banking for a while now—the fuse that first lit when Braxton had his hand practically burned through—flared up again. "The elves can't interfere like this, not before the System Integration. And your family can just... just fuck off on their fuck-off horse and keep on fucking off."

The other two were looking at him with amusement in their eyes. Thomas, however, was far from amused. He was so pissed he could barely think, much less string a decent curse together. It had been a stressful few days. Maybe this blowup was overdue.

"Where's the System Champion?" he demanded. "We all know this place is being mined for the Light elves. Why aren't they doing anything?"

"The who?" Jo asked.

Twitch had stepped closer too, clearly eavesdropping on their conversation. Thomas didn't care.

"The lazy-ass System Champion! Chosen by the System! There are supposed to be consequences for screwing around with the native populations before System Integration day." He gestured sharply to the dungeon. "This counts! People getting kidnapped, getting fed to the dungeon so the elves reap the rewards? What the hell!"

Zach shook his head. "My family's acting as intermediaries. It's gotta be enough to keep the heat off them."

"The System can't be that stupid," Thomas said flatly.

"Hey," Twitch broke in. "Any you got more electric mana? I liked what I got and wanna re-up." His fingers jerked a little as he spoke, like he was jonesing for another hit.

That was probably like giving someone with severe ADHD an energy drink, but whatever, Thomas had a D-grade in his pack he didn't care much about. The act of fishing it out helped him to blunt the edge of his anger. As it faded, he was able to think clearly again.

He paused in the act of pulling the mana crystal out and smiled. "Hey, Twitch, I just thought of something."

The man wasn't an idiot, and he caught the devious tone in Thomas's voice. He actually stilled for a moment, which was a rare thing for him, and looked at Thomas warily. "What's up?"

Thomas shrugged as if it didn't matter. "Just remembered that Tiny picked up what looked like an A-Grade electric crystal from that sub-boss drop." He lightly tossed his own, rather puny D-grade in the air and let Twitch catch it. "Just thought you oughta know."

"Huh," Twitch said, and shuffled off in a direction that just so happened to take him near where Tiny was talking to Sue.

Zach looked at Thomas, eyebrows raised. Thomas shrugged back. "He's also a pickpocket. Stole a potion from Jo once in that one dungeon we ran with him. We were on high alert and didn't notice a thing."

Jo didn't look amused. "I know you got something against him, but I'm telling ya, Tiny's a good man."

"He has emotional manipulation powers," Thomas said, "and he isn't afraid to use them to get what he wants."

"If it's his Gift, then it's a reflection of his soul," Zach added. "If you think about it, that's so dark."

Jo gestured in frustration but hissed her reply low so no one would hear them, "That's total BS. Thomas practically has 'greed' as his Gift, and he's the nicest guy you'll ever meet."

"It's the healing mana," Thomas said flatly, though inside he warmed a little. Who didn't like to be liked? "It makes you think that way. But trust me: Tiny sucks."

"Tiny's a good leader," she insisted. "He's saved my life a dozen times in this stupid dungeon, and I'm not going to forget that." Frustrated, she walked away, and Thomas let her. She would cool off, and hopefully she would start to think about what they were saying.

"No, for real, he sucks. Once you pointed it out, I started to notice what he was doing," Zach said after a moment, then added, extra annoyed, "He didn't even invite me on his dumb New York team."

"You'd go to New York?" Thomas asked, curious. He'd always thought about visiting, but the price of plane tickets was insane.

Zach grinned. "Have you been to the city in the fall? Epic."

Thomas shook his head in answer. "Also, I don't know what Jo's talking about. I'm not nice. I kill things on a regular basis in dungeons. Baby things. For their loot."

"Sure, man," Zach deflected, and then before Thomas could shoot something back, gestured for Antonin to join them. He had been sort of standing off to the side, staring at them with a vacant, vaguely hungry expression like he wanted to join the conversation, but the words and meanings were going over his head. Once he came close, Zach put a hand on his shoulder and met his eyes directly. "There's going to be a lot of fighting soon. When that happens, stay behind the rest of us, okay? I'll protect you, but you also gotta stay out of the way."

"Watch the exit," Thomas added, on inspiration. "It's the most important job. You have to watch our backs."

Antonin blinked between them and looked like he was struggling to work through what they wanted from him. Finally, he nodded seriously. "Watch the exit," he repeated in a soft voice, pointing to the boss room.

"You got it, bud," Zach agreed.

Tiny clapped his hands together, and Thomas felt a zing of attention and anticipation that made him turn his gaze toward the man. He wasn't the only one. Within moments, every eye was on him.

"Alright, I think it's time," Tiny said. "Jo, you said your team would lead the vanguard? The rest of us will act as support and pick off any stray wisps that try to come at you while you work. Remember, the boss will split into two, and only after that can they be killed."

Two against four—no, make that five, as Courtney unexpectedly stepped up to the group, with a friendly bump against Twitch's shoulder. The man looked surprised, then grinned at her.

Ah, young love. Or Courtney knew she was dead meat if her protectors died and she was left with Tiny and company. Either way, Twitch looked happy.

Jo nodded at him. She had her game face on, all previous annoyance with Thomas and Zach forgotten.

"We'll hit it with everything we have to make it split. I'll use my blades, Zach brings the fire, Thomas will use that light beam thing in his halberd. Twitch, see if you can get between it and us if it fights back. Thomas will keep you upright." She glanced at Courtney and scowled slightly. "What can you bring to the table?"

Courtney smiled back sunnily. "I have the Gift of Rubber."

Then she bent backward. Like, straight backward, double, in a way that a professional contortionist would be able to do. Some guys might be into that sort of thing, and while it was impressive, Thomas mostly found it deeply disturbing. Joints should not move like that. For politeness' sake, he struggled not to make a face as she popped back up again and explained, "It's not completely useful for offense, but I can keep from getting hit."

"You do that." Jo nodded once, though she didn't bother keeping the disgust off her face as she turned to the entrance.

Thomas quickly reached into his bag and pulled out a level 3 Light Mana crystal. He absorbed it in a flash but directed all the motes to his halberd. His core had the level 5 stuff, and he didn't need the weaker mana for himself. For the first hit, he wanted quantity instead of quality, and an entire mana crystal's worth should do the trick.

They stepped forward with Tiny, Sue, Holton, and dungeon feed guy stepping after. Behind them came Antonin, looking scared but determinedly checking their backs. Good man.

The boss must have heard their voices outside because it stood directly before the exit door in a strong stance, arms crossed over its chest. It had no face at all to read, and yet Thomas could easily see the challenge it was throwing down: They would have to get past it to get to the exit reward.

That was fine by him.

Jo counted down. "Three... Two... One... Fire!"

Thomas, who didn't realize "Fire" was coming, already released every bit of Light mana he had absorbed out of that crystal on "One." It came out as a beam as thick as his torso and so bright that he had to squint against it.

It struck the wisp straight on, right over its crossed arms, and was followed a moment later by a spray of needles and then a strike from a thick ribbon of fire Zach snapped out.

The first volley went about as perfectly as it was possible to be. The boss wisp was already starting to dissolve in the middle thanks to Severing Radiance, and it reeled back at the flurry of needles which buried themselves deep within.

Zach had mixed results using fire against regular wisps, but this thing seemed prone, as even though it looked like it was made of energy, it somehow caught flame with a screech.

It slashed one limb at them and fired yellowish wisp energy. Twitch smoothly stepped between them, grunting as he took the hit, though there were no visible wounds. The shot from the boss seemed to be a reaction more than anything else. It was a little busy being on fire.

It made an ear-piercing screech that modulated, weirdly, into a chorus tone: three notes in harmony. Uh-oh.

Thomas shot at it again and this time struck it in the head, but it was already splitting apart.

Suddenly, three bosses stood where one had previously. They were as large as the original boss, but they were in three separate colors: white-gold of Light mana, pale green of Nature mana, and snapping blue of electric mana. Also, because life wasn't fair, none of the injuries from the original seemed to have carried over.

The triple bosses struck back.