"I need you to do something if you want to earn my forgiveness," Rose continued. "You're going to need to help that young man over there," she gestured at Shiv and Adam, "and you're going to make sure that my boy stays fine and healthy and unharmed by whatever the fuck you inquisitorial shitheads are doing, and then you're going to help them get us out of this godsdamn mess. Whatever help they need, you provide. And whatever happens to them, every little scratch, I'm going to hold you personally accountable."

"Seriously?" Jessica hissed. "I didn't agree to anything yet."

"No? But you already did. You didn't say no, and when you don't say no, that means you folded. I still remember you, Jessica." Rose began to chuckle, and her voice bordered on the villainous. "I still remember."

The Giantsbane stared back at the former Diviner. "Yeah, well, um, uh… Fuck you too."

"But you're going to do it," Rose said. "You're going to do it because you haven't walked away and you haven't killed anyone yet. That's the problem with you, Jessica. If you're not jumping at the bit to do something, you're thinking about it. Your tells are too obvious. Remember, I didn’t even need Divination to take your money at the table.”

The Giantsbane's expression went from incredulity to a deadpan frown. "Immediately, I find myself regretting the fact that you're actually not fucking dead."

Shiv shouted, calling out to his fellow Legend, "You believe me now?"

Jessica clenched her teeth but didn't reply. It seemed that she usually answered ‘yes’ only through silence or insults.

Suddenly, Rose whispered something into Jessica's left ear. She blinked several times and then threw her head back before barking out a loud laugh. The way she then stomped over was more like a petulant teenager rather than a battle-hardened warrior who butchered Jotuns and nobles alike to slake her bloodthirst.

She came to a stop before Shiv. The Deathless instinctively clenched his cheeks tight. She couldn't technically harm him here, but she had that look. She had that posture. And his trauma would likely stay for a good while longer.

Jessica's eyes darted between Shiv, Uva, and Adam off by the side. Hades Hymn slowly leaned in. "Well, Legend Hawgrave. I must say that—"

"Don't talk to me, Hades," Jessica said, holding up a hand and blocking him from her sight. "And keep your robes tight. I don't ever want to see that messed-up appendage you call a penis again in my life."

"What?" Adam whispered, looking between the two Legends.

Hymn wriggled his nose. “Very interesting phrasing considering you were the one who broke into my house and had a group of large, strong bots pin me down while you searched me thoroughly.”

“Orders are orders,” Jessica shot back. Then she bared her teeth at Hymn. “And weird, fucked-up rituals are still weird, fucked-up rituals.”

The Headmaster took in everyone's suspicious looks, and then he simply shook his head and sighed mournfully. "It was an unfortunate incident in the past where Jessica here raided my home at a most inopportune time on behalf of the Inquisition—suspecting me of hoarding harmful materials."

"Because you felling were, asshole!" Jessica growled. "You were selling and distributing messed-up flesh tomes and materials that were twisting people's minds. They were hatching weird hand-monsters out of their skulls.”

"Then why was I not charged? Why am I not imprisoned for such a vile deed?" The Headmaster placed a hand on his chest, and Jessica's face turned red. "I will tell you why," Hymn continued, holding up a finger, "it's because we share a benefactor, and the materials that I was distributing were actually sanctioned by the highest echelons of the Republic. And because Councilwoman Veronica Chandler is a noble and wise soul who is a far better judge of character than you."

"You know, this is starting to be a running theme," Shiv said. "Just how many pots does Veronica have her fingers in?"

"Yes," Hymn answered.

Jessica just groaned. “I’m done talking—or even bothering to acknowledge his existence. You explain to me how you managed to bring her back. Every little detail.”
