Unable to help myself, I place my arm around her shoulder and lean into her, taking her in a light embrace and half-listening while waiting for a proper place to interrupt her. It takes far longer than expected, Lin's advice both nonsensical and repetitious, her arms comfortably wrapped around my waist while we sit beneath the rising moon. “...So even though I'm okay with you having so many wives, it doesn't mean you can be unfaithful, you have to be upright and moral, okay?”

Jumping on the minor pause, I force my way into the one sided-conversation. “Even after experiencing countless lives while under a Demon's mental assault, there were only a handful in which I had multiple wives. In the vast majority, I had one wife, two kids, and a happy family. What does that tell you?”

Her head shifts to stare up at me, Lin ignores my question without hesitation, leaping to her own conclusions. “You aren't going to marry Mi-Mi? That's terrible Rainy, if you already made your decision then you have to tell her, it isn't right for you to act this way.”

Her confidence sends me into hysterical giggling, the movement waking up my kitten and earning me a sound of discontent, his head snuggling against my chest. She's already made up her mind we will be married and can see no deviation from that future. My laughing fit at an end, I let out a long breath, squeezing Lin in my one-armed embrace. “I don't know about marriage right now Lin, nor do I really want to make a decision. I just want to go home and regain some semblance of normality so I can clear my mind and figure things out.” Removing my arm from around her, I move about to face her, kneeling so we are eye to eye, a difficult thing for me to do. Her large, brown eyes are expectant and patient, waiting quietly for me to say my piece, understanding my need to vent.

“You may have noticed I've been more... tender with you.” Her shy smile widens as she nods lightly, her cheeks blushing a little, and it makes it all the more difficult to admit this next part. “Well I'm sorry to say, but that's not entirely by choice.” Her smile freezes, and it takes every bit of willpower not to cup her face and bring her close to comfort, as doing so would send mixed messages. “The mental attack, those illusions I'd immersed myself in, they messed with me in ways I still haven't completely puzzled out. I know it wasn't you in my dream, only an idealized, unreal caricature of you, tailor-made to keep me happy. The problem is, I see you and I remember our wedding we never had, or our trip we never took together... our children who were never born.” And never will be, a tiny voice whispers inside my head, threatening to send me spiralling into despair. “It's all a fantasy and it's unfair to you, because I don't really love you, or any of the others, I ... I'm just having difficulty separating fantasy and reality.”

My voice thick with shame, I can no longer look her in the eyes, my head hanging as I stare at my sleeping kitten. “That's why I've avoided Mila and spent my time with the kittens, it's just easier. I'm not strong enough to end the betrothal, and I can't shake my false affection for all of you, so I ignore everything and focus on these cuties.” Nor am I brave enough to reject Akanai's daughter, especially not while I'm still trying to make up for my mistakes. “I even told Yan she should go with Du Min Gyu, not only because it was her dream to find someone willing to teach her, but also because it got her away from me, letting me deal with my emotions on my own. Any longer and I wouldn't have been able to control myself. I need you to be more reserved, give me a bit of space, at least until we get back home. Please.”

Ignoring my plaintive request, Lin surges forwards and embraces me tightly, her arms wrapped around my neck. “Don't want to. I like all the hugs and hand-holding, it's like I have my sweet, affectionate Rainy back, the one who used to read me stories and carry me home after herb picking.” Backing off, she places her hands on her hips and smiles sweetly. “I made my choice, I'm going to be your wife. You take as much time as you need, I'll wait, but you should talk to Mi-Mi too, let her know your thoughts.”

Reminding me once more that we have more grueling days ahead, she skips off back to her tent, leaving me alone once more with my kitten, thinking things through. Fucking decisions, too many for me to make. It's easier just to go with the flow, let life carry me around where it will, but that is no longer an option for me. I can't help but wonder what other me would say, and his imagined answer makes me laugh. 'Marry them all and sort it out later', a straightforward and idiotic response that somehow manages to make sense. In a few ways, his outlook is more suited to this world. I haven't even taken command, and I'm plagued with worry over leading soldiers to their deaths. Even if I decline, would Akanai let me off the hook so easily?

What about marriage? Is it unfair of me to leave Mila on the hook like this? Am I overthinking things, worried about false feelings of affection? And Lin, she only loves me because of a childhood crush, which makes me feel like I've done something wrong, tricked her in some way. Ugh, things would be so much easier if I just let other me take over for all the hard decisions, then I can at least blame everything on him.

Time to step up and make the tough choices.

...

Well... starting with the easiest one, at least.

Wandering back into camp, I leave my kitten in my bedroll before heading towards my destination, nervously sweating in the cool night air. Pausing outside the tent, my stomach does a series of somersaults as I steel myself for what comes next. This is a game changer, there's no going back once this is done.

After going through a series of imagined conversations, I give up and cough loudly, pausing a moment to listen before stepping through the flaps, hoping she isn't here. My hopes are soon dashed, and I simply blurt out what I came to say. “I was talking to someone, and uhh... I've stalled these past few days because I didn't know what to do or say, or if I even wanted to. I'm flattered, and I'm willing now so if you can... uh... yea.”

Her eyebrow raised, Akanai stares at me as if I'm having a stroke. “What?”

Clearing my throat, I try again. “I err... Thank you for the leadership opportunity, and for believing in me, but I have no idea what I'm doing. If you want to replace me, I will not object, but if not, I humbly ask for your help and guidance in leading the new Sentinels.”

With a wry smile, she gestures for me to sit. “I am happy to see you finally take your duties seriously. You have much to learn and we have little time.” Her smile disappears as quickly as it arrived, her demeanour stern and professional as always, holding her thumb and index finger scant millimetres apart. “I was this close to hanging you by your ankles and dragging you behind my quin, hoping a few loose rocks would jar some sense into your thick skull.”

...

I should buy Rustram a couple of drinks when we reach the Bridge. It's the least I can do.

Chapter Meme
