“The Titan is contemporaneous of me, Ilvriss. He designed gigantic towers to sit still and push areas. The King of Destruction only knows how to charge. At least, with his armies. Fissival’s forgotten their own tactics. Maybe losing that Wall Lord did it.”
“And how would they do it?”
Grumpily, Ilvriss tasted some of the strawberry gelato that he’d taught his [Chefs] how to make. Zail chewed down happily, thinking privately that he could tell Ilvriss in detail how to pull off the old Scintillation Counter and a dozen strategies. He did know them all…
“In the old days, Fissival would run small core armies like that. But instead of just their [Mage]-troops, they had huge auxiliaries from the other cities. We’ve fought with them as many times as against. How you do it, you see, is that you run a screening force ahead of your magic troops. If they don’t have us or another Walled City to back them up, the front ranks aren’t Fissivilian. You screen with thousands of Gnolls on the front. And then…”
Zail was so engaged with his memories he failed to see Ilvriss’ face change. His son looked up, and Zail only broke off after a second.
“What?”
“We didn’t do that, did we?”
“Do what? Use auxiliaries?”
“No, I mean—I heard the Hectval Alliance was employing those tactics, but we didn’t use Gnolls as our expendable frontline. Did we?”
Zail paused, and he was thrown by the question, then tried to back up.
“That’s just one example of a strategy, Ilvriss. It’s like throwing [Miners] into pockets to hack apart armored groups. Sometimes you need to supplement your forces—”
Miners used to be more predominantly Gnoll-heavy back in the day. Ilvriss put down his spoon and glanced at Zail, then swiftly changed subject.
“Oh, right. Speaking of miners…that Adamantium really is being bid on by everyone north of Liscor. Dwarves, Pallass…we had too few buyers because no one could really work the stuff; now everyone wants it. The Empire of Sands, the King of Destruction, Deríthal-Vel—the Dullahans, always. What do you think we should do regarding investments?”
He tossed that one at Zail, and the old Drake saw it. He stared at Ilvriss, and his son avoided his gaze. Zail sat there a second. He hadn’t meant…
He left the topic there, in silence, and that was his mistake. Sometimes, he and Ilvriss talked like this. Other times, Ilvriss told Zail not to worry about it. As if having a life ‘free from worries’ was one you wanted.
That was all two weeks ago. In hindsight—Zail would have insisted Ilvriss listen if he could have seen the future. He should have crushed Fissival in prior wars.
He should have left Ilvriss with more.
 
——
 
Now.
 
“I didn’t charge, Father. They just kept raining down magic on us. Damn…impossible advance.”
Ilvriss was laid up in bed, and Salazsar was hushed, somber, the day thereafter. Zail sat by him, and he knew that their army had retreated and thousands of soldiers surrendered.
It was hardly a critical defeat, but it always felt like this when you heard about a loss during a war. He was just glad Ilvriss was alive.
“Don’t speak. You’re an idiot for going out there, and you’re going to rest. Let a [General] handle the fighting.”
Navine was worried, upset, and taking it out on both of them. Zail glanced up as Ilvriss groaned.
“They’ve got their own experts in the field, Navine. If it’s one [General] versus their [General] and several [Mage Lords]…we tried to encircle them, but they just blew everything into pieces. I don’t want to know how many mana potions they wasted.”
“Don’t attack yourself. Just rest.”
Zail patted Ilvriss’ claw, wanting him to be quiet for once. Ilvriss stared up, breathing slowly. Even with healing, he was weak as a feather. Magic was hard to heal, so he lay there with several tonics and poultices to rebuild his strength.
“Can someone…check on Osthia? Don’t let her get hurt. Nerul will—”
Navine was nodding, but she frowned and raised a finger for clarification.
“I will. Who’s Osthia?”
Ilvriss froze a second.
“Asrira. That’s her other name.”
Navine’s eyes flickered, and Zail paused a second, but Ilvriss’ head fell back and the two left him to the [Healers]. And Zail had a lot of thinking to do.
 
——
 
My son. Zail sat in the nursing home, frustrated, unable to sit still, but so tired that after pacing around the room three times he had to sit.
His body was old. His wounds held him back, and he knew he forgot. He’d had to be reminded of the Meeting of Tribes war, and then it had come back to him…
But I’m still in here. Zail, the real Zail, felt like he was staring out of Wall Lord Zail’s face, and when he thought of himself, he didn’t have the dent in his forehead.
He wanted to rage against the idiots who had harmed Ilvriss. Shake the foundations of his foes, drag the City of Gems up, and he had the will and emotion to do it. But there was lead in his bones. Lead in his soul, weighing him down.
An exhaustion that was so unfair. That was age. That was one part of age.
Another part was looking at Ilvriss’ face and seeing the first grey scales on him. Realizing that Ilvriss was getting older…that was what made Zail truly feel it.
Everyone was considerate of him and came to ask how Ilvriss was doing. From Eschowar to Khorpe—Itreus wasn’t present as he was figuring out how to respond to Fissival’s blockade.
Did Salazsar want to try attacking them again, or was it better to try and isolate their army or wait out the siege and attack from another direction? Zail could conceivably head out to the meeting and be heard.
But he didn’t want to be heard. He had never felt more useless than when he stood with his son bleeding to death in front of him.
“He made a mistake, Eschowar. He did. You don’t have to lie. Fissival saturating the air with spells. Classic. They’re holed up in the pass itself. Lobbing spells everywhere. The Mage Throwers were tossing [Valmira’s Comets], and he was trying to get around the pass and hit them from above.”
The old Wall Lord, the [Fulminous Lord of Cabochon], was closing his eyes, and the shaking stopped. He cracked one lid open.
“They ran into mine spells.”
“Yes.”
Trap spells, littered all over the advance. When Ilvriss had tried to head down the valley center, they had filled the air with magical firepower.
Classic Fissivilian tactics. Khorpe muttered.
“Should have…he should have seen it. Death in the mountains. They love fighting in mountains. More than us.”
Nothing made a Fissival [General] happier than seeing someone climbing over rough terrain as he sat on his tail and ordered mage-strikes. Zail stared at Khorpe.
When they talked about what they knew, everyone fell silent. Even the staff. When they talked about this…Khorpe stopped shuddering at shadows.
Perhaps because he knew death was in war, he didn’t fear her searching for him. When Eschowar spoke about the same battles that had led to famous [Generals] apprenticing themselves under him—like Wall Lord Aldonss—it didn’t matter that he couldn’t lift a cup.
We have lived so long. Too long? No. I don’t want to die. But the world is changing, and here I sit, unable to do the only thing I know how to do.
That was the heart of Wall Lord Zail’s frustration. It was a burning feeling in him.
Use me. Make use of me. Give me one…
“…One last time. She was right, that damn [Lady] who burned us at the Bloodfields year after year. She was right.”
They thought he was losing focus. One of his minders bent over.
“Wall Lord Zail? Is everything alright? What’s my name? Where are you? Maybe we should get you back. It’s been a long day—”
She reached for him, but halted and yelped as she snatched her claws back. The air around Zail was…prickly. It was charged.
The old Wall Lord sat there as several people edged away—but Eschowar didn’t. Khorpe didn’t. And now, Zail was looking around the room, counting faces.
There’s Illidrem. He’s barely able to get out of bed, but he’s looking up. There’s Ascadenia—I saw her use a spoon the other day to open the door they locked on her. Didn’t Nmorie teach magic until she forgot…?
An idea was dawning on him like a second sun. It was so natural that he was surprised he hadn’t thought of it before. But then—there had never been a cause.
Salazsar was so safe. But he had seen it during many wars himself. It was the foundation of the King of Destruction’s strength and why the world still trembled at his name.
He looked up as Eschowar met his gaze, and then Zail stood up.
“Eschowar…are you thinking what I’m thinking?”
“Are you sure you’ve thought it out, Zail?”
The old Wall Lord was cautioning him. But Zail turned, and he felt lighter. He looked around the room filled with old men and women, and one of the staff was bright enough to ring a bell for help.
But it was too late. Zail turned to Eschowar.
“If we were useless, I wouldn’t think it at all. Are we useless, Eschowar? Are you thinking what I’m thinking?”
The old Wall Lord raised his brows. Khorpe was slowly, slowly pulling something out from under his chair. One of the staff tried to sneak up on Zail—then froze.
Why did Khorpe have a hand-crossbow? It was loaded with a Phoenixfire Bolt. Both Zail and Eschowar turned to Khorpe, and the Drake shrugged.
“I was going to shoot death when she found me.”
That would have been the end of this entire floor. Probably everything fifty feet above and below as well. They were doing a service to general safety, clearly.
Are you thinking what I’m thinking? A final time, Zail met Eschowar’s eyes, and at last, the other Drake sighed.
“Maybe, Zail. But how are we going to smuggle eight Gemstone Regiments out of the city without anyone noticing?”
His eyes twinkled as Zail stared at him. Then Zail laughed, and he felt…he thought he felt lighter. He turned and called out.
“Someone call Linvios. Tell him I have a job.”
Then he was heading for the door, and they tried to stop him, of course. They really did. But they were kindly idiots who knew nothing of what was in his heart.
Or what was on his fingers. Zail Gemscale was rather like Khorpe after all. Someone sealed the doors with a locking spell.
Zail raised his ringed hand. One of the rings contained [Detect Truth]. He’d have to get rid of that one. His old armor…his old gear was right where he had left it, or so he hoped.
Meanwhile, he twisted the middle ring on his claw, then pointed it at the door.
“Ears. [Thunderglass Spray].”
 
——
 
“He did what?”
Wall Lord Ilvriss got word of what was going on too late. He tried to get out of bed, but he was too weak. And worse—
“Stop him! Stop them!”
Nerul was trying to do just that, but the problem was—Osthia Blackwing hissed at him as Navine tore at her neck-spines.
“We’re trying! But they’re pulling rank on us!”
“They can’t do that. They’re retired.”
“Tell them that! They just shout they ‘outrank us’, and they’re armed. Plus, they have all their old classes, so their Skills actually work. Curse that blue-scaled idiot from Liscor!”
Ilvriss tried to get out of bed, but he was immobilized. Even if he could—things were moving so fast that Zail only deigned to visit him once. When he did, Ilvriss shouted and tried to do something, but he couldn’t move and couldn’t change his father’s mind.
That, as Zail pointed out, was ironic turnabout. And perhaps it made Ilvriss think. But he lay there and worried and demanded to be carried on a palanquin, and no one would listen to him, and they just humored him at best.
All he could do was worry and watch. Ilvriss tried to come up with schemes, and he was so desperate that he actually called on a harried young woman, who appeared by his bed.
“I didn’t do it! I swear!  Whatever it was, I…whoa. Ilvriss, what happened to you?”
“Erin? What did you do?”
The young woman hesitated.
“N-nothing. Ilvriss! I thought you were mad about me because you heard about something else. What—what happened?”
He had to tell her about the war with Fissival, and her brows darkened with alarm the instant she realized what was going on.
“A war? I haven’t been checking the news with the beach.”
Ilvriss coughed painfully.
“It wasn’t a big…engagement. I think Pallass plays down the war between cities when it can. But listen. My father…”
“Why didn’t you tell me you were hurt? I could’ve baked something for you that might have helped! At least—you didn’t have to let me think you were well! Here I was, playing chess every night with you and thinking you were on your way!”
She was outraged. Ilvriss raised one claw.
“Erin. I didn’t want to worry you. I don’t even think they were trying to kill me. It’s damn Drake pettiness all the…wait a second, what games with you? I thought that was Mrsha. I haven’t been playing any games.”
Erin gave Ilvriss a side-eye.
“No, that was only Mrsha the first time. She only knows how to do the Fool’s Mate, and she keeps trying to humiliate everyone with it. Whaddya mean you haven’t been playing? Then who’s been playing me? They’re good games, too. Very good. I put you up against Niers—or so I thought—and he nearly lost.”
Ilvriss stared at Erin. Then he demanded someone find where his chessboard was. He found it right where it had been left—next to Wall Lord Zail’s breakfast table where he would relax in the mornings and evenings and kill time, next to the Rubrix Square that made Erin’s eyes nearly pop out of her head.
Three days later, the army of Fissival met Salazsar’s in battle.
 
——
 
They were coming. Fissival was entrenched in the mountain pass that was called Sserys’ Line, and they actually laughed when they saw Salazsar’s army coming back for a rematch.
“I think they don’t have enough [Soldiers]. They came at us with 80,000, and now they’ve got barely 50,000. Maybe they’re afraid of taking as many casualties as last time!”
Either way, they sneered at the City of Gems’ army. Salazsar was arraying far below the cliffs where Fissival had established magical fortifications.
If they wanted to get at them, they’d have to cross trapped land up through a hail of magic. In fact, the Mage-Throwers were already calibrating, getting ready to fire.
General Rodissc was reporting back to the City of Magic, and he was unconcerned with the opposition. The only person unhappy with the enemy force was Mage Lord Ascoden.
“I see a bunch of siege weapons down there. Make sure you have those Mage Throwers under heavy guard.”
“Barrier spells are engaged, Wall Lord. Don’t worry; if they want a shooting war, we have more magic than they can dream of. I’m not counting a huge [Mage] presence.”
