“I remember that. I had to follow him about all over the sea one time. Miserable. It was like…”
He flinched as he ducked away from a bird flying past the outdoor room where they sat, and he nudged into someone sitting at the table. Linvios, Zail, Eschowar, Khorpe, and Nmorie, who loved cards.
Linvios patted Khorpe on the shoulder reassuringly. Khorpe trailed off, then brightened.
“Do they talk about his ship? He had custom-rigging on his sails. Not just wind-powered, but two masts, and he placed the wind spells at odd angles. So you’d see them heading left, but you could never tell if they were actually heading left, whether he was tacking into the wind, or whether it was the wrong sail.”
“One imagines you could just stare at the ship and see which way it was going, Khorpe.”
The [Reconnaissance Major] happily upped the ante to six silver.
“Then you’re following an illusion, Zail. That’s the beauty of it. Even the illusions looked like they were moving according to the wind. Three Archmages.”
“You stole that.”
Eschowar cracked one eye open, and Khorpe paused, about to sweep the pot.
“No I didn’t.”
Linvios suspiciously checked his card, but Nmorie glared at Khorpe.
“Why are there six Archmages in our deck, then?”
Both she and Eschowar began demanding the deck be counted, and it turned out, once Khorpe was disqualified, that Eschowar had the winning hand. He didn’t look at his cards as they were turned over. He just remembered them the moment you showed them to him and played blind. Zail cheered up as he saw a glint emerge into Nmorie’s eyes; she was a consummate [Gambler] in her side class.
The former Mistress of Spellcraft in Salazsar’s academy scoffed.
“I never liked Krsysl. He’s pretentious. There was a time when his writing was respected and sought-after. These days, he’s constantly writing to a goal, rather than for it.”
Zail raised his brows as Eschowar muttered agreement.
“…I have no idea what that means.”
The Drake lady raised her claws to adjust spectacles she no longer wore as she recited.
“Don’t you remember any of his lines? ‘Oh, sovereignless, twice-exiled kindred met in brief recompense under Qualvekkaras’ shade. There Harpy Queen and Wind Dragon folded wing, trading scale for feather as Chandrar’s final sun rose on the last pact of the skies. Forgotten, unreported to every nation; remembered in the twilight of both races. Would that the cities had given scarce credence to the subtlety of that moment, they would have steered a clearer course through the ichor of war thereafter and broken pacts when they called for aid and heard only the silence of lapsed promises and goodwill tarnished beyond repute.’”
She wasn’t using a Skill. The table paused a long moment, then Khorpe muttered.
“Too fancy for me.”
“You cretin. It’s not bad. L-Linvios, throw something at him.”
“I prefer Barelle’s work.”
The Maestro muttered, and everyone glared at him. He sighed.
“So no one’s even given a passing thought to the Singer of Terandria’s songs?”
“Drivel.”
Zail declared, and in response, Linvios hummed a bar that made the Wall Lord pause.
“No, wait, what’s that?”
The Maestro clicked his claws.
“I can’t do it justice, and the song crystal wears out after ten thousand plays. I shall summon some of my people.”
He tapped a hanging gemstone on his wrist and spoke into it.
“First Violinist…no, just one voice. If you have a moment, I would appreciate the full strings. You know where I am. Viola, violin, cello at minimum. I Stayed Too Long At The Fair…yes. A discerning audience would like to hear it.”
His audience sat up. And soon, a bunch of respectful young musicians were rushing up the stairs, setting up, and Zail blinked and listened to a song that wasn’t as garish or purely loud and fast as he had disliked. This one had nuance.
It didn’t end with one song. So taken was she that even sad Laudire came out and began to sing, dueting with some of the younger Drakes, and then they played some classic songs, and Zail found time passing by in good stead and stopped counting it.
He played a chess game with Eschowar, reminisced with Khorpe and Linvios about Fissivilian foibles, and everyone watched a broadcast on the scrying orb.
And by the evening, Zail had a chat with his son.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss did not not enjoy conversations with his father. And yes, that was perhaps the best way to word it.
It was just that they were father and son. And also Wall Lords. And also sometimes it was father and son, and it made it hard to live together, much less talk about the direction of the company or anything else.
When it worked, it worked. Ilvriss had just gotten something from a Courier, and he was inspecting it in a very good mood as he talked plans and Zail talked about his day.
“I…well, I knew she had one, but I didn’t think I’d get one from her. ‘Made by Archmage Valeterisa in conjunction with the Ullsinoi Faction of Wistram’. Well, that fits.”
He was holding…a chessboard as the two had a very fine steak dinner together. Ilvriss and Zail got on like Navine and Helessia—they were used to this kind of dining.
“A chessboard. Enchanted, is it?”
Zail gave Ilvriss a long look as he thought about his conversations regarding his son’s definitely-not-wedding ring gift with his friends and the Drake himself. Ilvriss glanced up.
“…The Titan of Baleros has three with her, I think. And Earl Altestiel is getting one, according to the note. She doesn’t expect me to play much, it seems.”
“You’re a good chess player. Why not?”
Ilvriss coughed and chuckled around his drink.
“Aha. Father, recall the broadcast? She’s the best player in the world bar none. I’ve made the error of trying to play her seriously. Well, it’s a gift that’s thoughtful, and apparently this Archmage is a guest of hers and making the product, so she sent me a copy. Frankly…I might see her soon enough, but I’ll thank her for the gift nonetheless. Oh—look. Someone’s already moving a piece.”
A pawn moved up on the white side, and Zail raised his brows.
“I’ve dabbled at chess. It’s more like, oh, old Rubrix Square puzzles. I was always good at them and gem-matching.”
Ilvriss prodded a chess piece forwards and then glanced at his father.
“Rubrix what? Oh—”
Nothing would do but Zail get one of the old, old, beautiful cubes made of over a thousand little gemstones in multiple colors. They were tiny, and you’d move each facet, yellow topaz, green emerald, and more, to form patterns or form one color.
“Pattern-matching. You used to play with it, but you never took to it.”
Ilvriss was greatly distracted by the device.
“Rubrix. You know, I never thought of—where does this come from?”
“Our history. One of the Dragons invented it, you know. They’re an old toy we kept around. It’s good training for little Drakes—though as I recall, you mostly chewed on it.”
Zail sighed as he clicked it around absently. Within moments, he’d turned part of the cube red, and Ilvriss raised his brows.
“Dragons invented that?”
“So they claim. Frankly, they probably stole it from someone else. Many things the Ancestors ‘invented’ later came from other species, or so I heard. I’ve heard rumors the Titan didn’t create chess. A [Historian] accused him of taking credit for it, but it was all hushed up. Or how else would a Dragon have known the game?”
“That…is a very good point.”
Ilvriss seemed to know more than he was letting on, which made Zail curious. But the other Wall Lord moved a few more chess pieces, then was checkmated within a dozen moves and closed his eyes. The white pieces began dancing around in triumph as Ilvriss covered his face.
“I think I’ll avoid her [Message] spells for an hour. Erin Solstice never gloats that I’ve observed; she’s too professional. But I worry that I lost to Mrsha or someone else. Anyways, how was your day, Father?”
“I tried to smuggle in a bottle of wine to my peers and was reprimanded.”
They’d all still gotten a good drink in, and Zail was smug about it. Ilvriss gave him an exasperated look.
“Really? Father…”
“We are not children, Ilvriss. If we want to drink, we’ll do it. You’re lucky we don’t dig out our old rings and raid a distillery by force.”
“Dead gods save me from the idea—you know, some of them are literally dangerous with their Skills and classes? Drinking makes it worse.”
Zail scowled, and that was where the harmonious, good-natured talk broke down.
“I know, but what are they supposed to do? Do without?”
Yes. That was what Ilvriss wisely did not say. Zail trailed off, and Ilvriss cleared his throat after a second.
“—I’ll have to bring them something in return. Something…what’s a good gift from Salazsar, Father?”
“You’re leaving? Already? What about the war?”
Zail grew alarmed. And Ilvriss grew—defensive. He was normally open about ventures in the broad strokes, even if he refused to discuss how it should be done with Zail. But he was evasive.
Ever since the Meeting of Tribes, he’d been making plans.
“I—have a few mining projects I’ve dug up. It’s not in areas Salazsar controls, but the ventures are highly important, and I’m going to try negotiating my way into some work. There’s also the New Lands, but this is going to be—well, I’m passing through Liscor. The door is handy, and I will be back, but it’s essential.”
Mining ventures? Zail didn’t believe that for a second. It was true, sometimes you found Adamantium or valuable ore elsewhere, but Salazsar was literally a mountain of gems. More importantly, it had the industry and talent to perform mining operations.
You didn’t just pack up and resettle somewhere without a lot of work. If Ilvriss was preparing an expedition, the costs would make it inherently risky.
“And you’re taking Nerul, your other associates, with you?”
And [Soldiers]. True, you did that on any expedition, but this was a lot of outlays when the New Lands were sapping everyone’s talent. Ilvriss avoided Zail’s gaze.
“Well, it’s pressing, and I want to hurry.”
“Who told you about the mining spots? Was it—the ghosts?”
Ilvriss twitched, and Zail got an answer, though the conclusion he came to was slightly wrong. He sat back. Ilvriss avoided Zail’s gaze as he fiddled with his utensils.
“Has—anyone else been visited by ghosts?”
“No one wants to say anything if they have. You did. Why not just lead with that?”
Ilvriss groaned.
“Father—it’s highly secret. Please, swear you’ll say nothing to anyone.”
“Of course not.”
If Ilvriss had been chosen—Zail grew excited, then serious. He leaned over the table and remembered Itreus’ advice.
“But this war with Fissival is coming at the wrong time, isn’t it? If they’re moving to blockade the trade road, you’ll need to break their advance before you can go.”
Ilvriss gave him a long look.
“You have my quandary in an uncracked geode, Father. Yes. I think the army can handle it, but they are hopping mad. At least I’ll be out of range of them…I feel worse that our cities have gone to war.”
“Bah. It’s the local cities who have to worry. Neither city will come under direct siege. Fissival’s just looking for a victory after losing their Archmage. Those fools. But let’s talk about the army. If you go, bring the Gemstone Regiments. Fighting Fissival is inherently obnoxious.”
On that, Ilvriss and Zail could agree. [Mages]. Salazsar had a fairly strong martial tradition. Not as much as Manus, but Ilvriss had a distaste for magical, ranged battles.
“We beat their grand army once, Father.”
“Yes…about that. Why did you charge them?”
Zail had been curious this entire time, but aside from talking about the Meeting of Tribes’ fallout, they had never gone into the military action because that had been the least important part of the discussion. Ilvriss paused, cutting at his steak.
“—Well, it was an impromptu thing. Spur of the moment. It worked.”
The older Wall Lord rubbed at his head.
“Salazsar isn’t known for charging, though. When you fight Fissival, charging the [Mages] is like charging into an exploding porcupine. Zeres is the sweeping advance. Manus charges. Even Oteslian strategy likes charges more. I remember thinking that it would have been more proper to rotate into a pincer maneuver and press them. Send your riders in, but not yourself.”
Ilvriss sighed. His father was a good war leader, which meant that when he chose to, he could and did critique Ilvriss’ strategy in everything from the battle with Zel Shivertail to other engagements.
“Father, there was no time, and it was a surprise attack.”
“A crossbow to the head is a surprise attack. You gave them minutes to watch you charge at them. You did the same thing against the Tidebreaker, if I recall. You charged the Tidebreaker, the most defensive [General] of Izril.”
Ilvriss turned red as the staff politely changed courses.
“It almost worked. I separated him from his command, and I had him—”
“Until you didn’t. You lured him into a forest, and since he survived, his army ate yours while you both were separated. Why are you charging all the time? That’s Sserys’ strategy, and he’s a [Mercenary]. We’re a Walled City, Ilvriss. Sserys organized his tactics around Liscorian class-stacking and the fact that he had to work with a bunch of irregulars and other armies. We have discipline.”
“Well—how would you do it?”
The younger Wall Lord made the mistake of challenging Zail to do better, and the Drake gave him a long stare.
“You hit Fissival with Gemstone Regiments. When they bring Mage-Throwers, you bring ballistae. That’s easy. We have armaments, they have magic. Forty thousand regulars of Fissival might be tough, but they’re lacking in numbers. They should have that many core soldiers, but three times as many auxiliaries from the other cities. I would pin down one [Mage] division with the Rubirel Guards, and once they get minced a bit, [Mages] always surrender or run.”
He was talking broad strategy, having no maps, but Zail began to describe the Scintillation Counter to his son, a Salazsarian strategy. The younger Drake put his head in his hands.
“Father, Father. No one uses that anymore. There’s no Skill based around it.”
“It’s just math.”
“It’s math and timing, and one wrong move and you lose an entire battalion! New warfare is fast. Sitting formations are a dangerous idea. Just look at the Archmage of Memory. He could bombard your entire wing if they pause. The Titan? He’ll throw a hundred counters at you and hit you from every side. The King of Destruction—all peerless advances.”
