Nerul chimed in unhelpfully. Zail glanced at him, then eyed Asrira. Ilvriss’ new bodyguard and second-in-command. He had thought she was a replacement for Periss in more ways than one, but she seemed like she was just a soldier.
“Did you have a word with…Calistoca? She’s a family friend.”
“I talked with her. But it was fine. We’re mustering an army to repel their advance in the north, and a second force has to stop their raids along our allied cities. Fissival’s been bombarding the area with [Mage] squads, and they’ve got a proper one. An army. Now, of all times! We’ll have to engage them.”
Zail’s mind lit up. He strode over, wishing he was faster of limb. He could still move fast…sometimes…but his days of holding a sword were behind him. His son was taller when Zail remembered being taller most of his life.
It was often said that Ilvriss resembled a younger Zail, except in scale-color. Zail didn’t see it. Ilvriss had gotten a lot from his mother, Helessia, and Zail had used to be taller and thickerset. Ilvriss sometimes looked frankly thin, and he would sit in his office with Alrric, the Gnoll [Administrator], and work with only those weak lunches.
The Gemscale Company had changed from the one Zail had inherited and kept up as a boy, filled with huge board meetings where you started in the conference room and ended in the bar, drinking and eating with all the administrators. It was ‘slim’ now, in both costs and direct administrators.
Apparently it was more profitable, but Zail remembered all the old friends complaining to him about losing their positions or the new jobs. True, Ilvriss had rescued them when the books were in the red for three years straight by hiring Alrric and cleaning house, but it had been one of the things the two had warred on.
“Regarding the war—did the families not vote for enough forces? They’ve been stingy before.”
Zail could talk about that all day, but Ilvriss was disinterested in talking about the war with his father, it seemed. He tried to brush it off.
“It’s just one actual army, Father. The south is just Fissival throwing spells and running off.”
“How large is the northern army? What’s their composition?”
Ilvriss sighed and glared at Asrira as she answered for him.
“Forty thousand regulars, Wall Lord. We believe they’re carrying six Mage-Throwers and at least two elite [Mage]-divisions.”
Zail was impressed. It wasn’t high in numbers, but you couldn’t march a huge force around like that. Besides, Fissival was most dangerous in quality over quantity.
“They must be furious. That’s a blockading force. They want to hold the trade road. What kind of [General]’s leading them?”
Asrira was trying to ignore Nerul and Ilvriss glaring at her, trying to get her to shut up. Zail noticed it, but she was addressing him and replied.
“A…[General] Rodissc. I believe he’s a [Mage-General] like most. If I recall right, he’s normally stationed along the coast.”
“Oh. Then he’s one of their coastal guards against [Pirates]. Defensive. What are we sending back at…?”
“Father, it’s managed. General Greex is going to take charge, and if need be, I’ll join the offensive. If it ends this damn fighting…it’s just inter-city war. Don’t concern yourself with it. It’s late. Why don’t we all get some sleep?”
By ‘we’, he meant ‘you’, and by inter-city war, he was referring to the style of war that Drakes practiced against each other. Like Terandria, they would surrender rather than fight to the death, so it was not uncommon to see entire battalions surrender and be ransomed rather than slaughter each other.
War with Humans or Gnolls was bloodier and often had no quarter. Zail hesitated.
“Greex is solid, but no genius. He needs you or another subcommander to function properly. You’re taking the Erchirite Spears? The Topaz Shields and some of the Rubirel Guard would be standard against that kind of thing…”
Ilvriss’ pained expression grew more pronounced.
“We have the Erchirite Spears on retainer, Father. And yes, the Rubirel Guard are with me. Sixteen…I don’t know if we’ll engage the Topaz Shields directly. General Greex has it well in hand.”
And once more, the older Drake hesitated, but he had talked strategy before and he didn’t know the map, but…
“Right. Of course. Nerul. Will you be staying here?”
“I’ll head off to bed in a moment, sir. Thank you—I’m sorry for troubling you.”
“Not at all.”
Zail lied as Nerul gave him a fake smile. The two disliked each other. Ilvriss smiled as he glanced at Nerul and his father.
“Why don’t we all get some sleep? I’ll tell Alrric to delay our plans. Again. Actually, he might be staying up. Asrira, can you…?”
“I’ll send a Street Runner.”
She strode off, and Ilvriss and Nerul nodded to Zail. The Wall Lord bade the two goodnight, then paused at the door as he pretended to walk slowly to his rooms.
“Xesci will meet us in fifteen. Do you think one of us should go ahead…?”
“I’m minded to send you, Uncle. But frankly, if anyone has to broker peace—”
“They’ll just throw me in jail if I go now. Why don’t we…?”
They were heading off. Clearly, not to sleep, but to meet with…Zail’s brows furrowed more. Xesci, the [Prostitute] that Ilvriss had added to his personal group of advisors.
What was going on with him?
 
——
 
Wall Lord Zail had a routine. Every morning, he would rise and check on Helessia. She was his wife and lived her life in an enchanted, floating bed. She would greet him, and he’d nod if she was busy talking to Navine, their daughter, or exchange a few words.
Often, these days, Zail would then retire to breakfast served to him and read one of the ‘new papers’ or check the scrying orb over breakfast. It was all new—he was used to written reports from [Spies] or [Informants] summarizing worldwide events, but the scrying orb was engaging.
After that, Zail would see if Ilvriss was about and have a word. And after that…his day lost structure.
The evenings were when Ilvriss would return, and Zail would greet him, Navine, say goodnight to Helessia if she wasn’t asleep, and sometimes stay up reading a book. He grew tired earlier, so he didn’t have a huge nightlife.
But the middle of his day was when he wasn’t sure what to do. Not that Zail couldn’t do anything.
Yes, he forgot things, and yes, he moved slower. He was well aware of that, but his minders, the care-giving staff, were often an inhibiting factor.
They had orders not to let him wander Salazsar in case he got into accidents, and while they’d accompany him where he wanted to go, they were very mindful of his physical condition and would insist, politely, that he return if they noticed him flagging.
Perhaps he needed it, but he resented their presence. Ilvriss and Navine had both insisted Zail keep them, and he could neither fire the helpers nor escape them that easily these days.
So he abided. They were critical if he did get injured or…confused. He just wished their presence was also part and parcel to him doing something necessary.
Like, say, leading the Gemscale Company. Which he did, these days. So he would make the trek along one of the high bridges to the office where Alrric worked and engage himself mindfully in noting events in the mines, issuing orders.
The problem was that Ilvriss had returned to the office, and he was vocally unhappy when he found his father doing ‘his and Alrric’s jobs’.
“Father, you don’t need to handle it. Alrric is a fine [Administrator], and I can’t have you going behind his back.”
“We have an arrangement, Ilvriss—”
“Yes, Alrric said, but how is it going to look if you give him an order that he has to either obey or challenge you on? It’s putting him in a tough position—I have a meeting in five. Why don’t we discuss this later?”
So, Zail had less work with Ilvriss returned, and it annoyed him greatly because part of his time had been happily engaged in something productive while Ilvriss had been marching towards the Meeting of Tribes.
The Gemscale Company was not an infallible ship. They’d actually struggled when they sold part of the Adamantium mine stake, and Ilvriss’ costly outlays to buy that Potion of Regeneration had affected their bottom line.
Tens of thousands of [Miners] and all kinds of jobs rested on them. Zail had helped bring the company back around by telling Alrric about an old gem-shaft that they’d been able to revitalize. It was churning out rare materials, and they’d been doing fascinating things with mining teams.
Newfangled ideas. Not just Gnolls taking charge. That had been another change in Ilvriss’ time. He’d hired a lot more high-ranking Gnolls under Alrric. Zail disagreed with the practice, and still partly did even with having the competent Alrric in charge. This was a Drake company. It employed Drakes. It wasn’t hostility towards Gnolls, but supporting the people that Salazsar belonged to.
But since he’d had to work with Alrric, Zail had okayed a number of initiatives, including letting the mining teams compete. They had chosen six shafts and given each [Foreman] or [Forewoman] free rein. The most profitable team got bonuses, but—and this had been Alrric’s notion—any severe injury or death instantly got the team dissolved if it wasn’t a pure accident.
Young Drakes and Gnolls racing against experienced, high-level [Miners] provoked healthy competition.
Zail had been actually going down and inspecting the work and the techniques, which revolved around everything from old hand-carting of stone and ore out to net-spells that continuously dragged rubble out of the area; all the [Miners] had to do was excavate.
Then Ilvriss had returned, and Zail was left aimless. Not just bored, but devoid of purpose. And that…
That was the hard part. The other hard part was being treated as if you were old. Even if you were—Zail resented it.
 
——
 
His son had changed. All his old friends and hobbies seemed to have been replaced. These days, he wasn’t concerned with Gemscale profits and the safety and pride of Salazsar, but more with the New Lands.
To be fair, everyone was. But Ilvriss was also looking north, speaking with Tasilt, the Drake who’d married a Gnoll and made her a Wall Lady, and he was keeping company with Nerul—another radical—Asrira Shieldscale, and Xesci.
All objectionable choices. Nerul was Nerul, but Xesci was literally a Drake of the night. Why would Ilvriss sully Gemscale’s name? He refused to talk about it with Zail. And Asrira was respectful, a soldier…but she was also Pallassian.
Not that Ilvriss required or sought Zail’s approval. Zail had thought Ilvriss was on the right path. Now, he worried, and he talked about it with the only people he could.
“He’s not a traitor. Ilvriss would never be, but he’s…changed. His focus has shifted.”
“Loyalty?”
“No, focus. I’ve asked him on truth spells whether he still loves Salazsar and he’s not in Pallass’ bed. But he talks differently, Eschowar. He’s always talking about Liscor.”
“That mudhole? Are you…sure…he didn’t marry that Human girl? The one everyone was talking about? He gave his ring to her. Lyonette du Marquin. If he marries a Terandrian [Princess]…”
“It wasn’t to that one. And he said it was a gesture of esteem.”
Eschowar Erchirite, one of the members of the famous Erchirite Walled Family that produced the spears used in one of the Gem-Battalions, stopped eating lunch and looked up. His eyes were rheumy, and his claws shook even when holding a spoon.
But his mind was clear, as it ever had been when he was a Wall Lord at the same time as Zail. He was another former soldier—well, most Wall Lords and a good number of Wall Ladies had seen war.
Unlike other Walled Cities, Salazsar had Walled Families who were like [Lords] and [Ladies]—able to do many things at once. Zail had always been good at war. He had fought for Salazsar until he took the blow that had ended his career.
In Eschowar’s case, age had taken him out. The trembling, like Zail’s memory and like old age, was just not something modern magic and potions could undo. You could [Restore] the body…but if the body was at this state naturally, restoring it didn’t do much.
Well, perhaps if everyone had Chaldion’s access to his grandson’s alchemy, they’d be in a bit better shape. But Eschowar was eighty-seven years old. He was sitting in a sanctuary of sorts, though he might have called it a jail.
It was like…a nursery, but for age instead of youth. There were plenty of staff like Zail’s minders who helped members of the Walled Families get around, from bed to food to everything else.
One of the towers near to the Gemscale Family’s had long been used in service of the oldest Drakes in the city. Zail was an exception in that he lived with his family, as did Helessia. Sometimes circumstances meant that Drakes like Eschowar ended up here, and even if he wasn’t a resident, Zail visited at least three times a week.
The old Wall Lord understood Zail. He was trying to think, and water sloshed in a cup designed not to spill as he lifted it up and—with effort—drank.
It bothered younger Drakes like Brilm, who saw the effort it took and felt bad or poorly for Zail and his elders. What Zail and Brilm’s elders didn’t say was that he could take his sympathies and shove them up his tail.
No one liked it, but it wasn’t as if they felt…old. Zail felt like a young man still. He just happened to have an old body. He just happened to have more memories.
In the same way, Eschowar’s eyes were keen.
“If he’s smitten…you don’t think it’s a possibility?”
Zail paused for a long time.
“I can’t imagine this is all the product of infatuation, Eschowar. He just had Periss. They were as close to engagement as I could have bet. I don’t think my son would change this much for…love? He hasn’t even been in the company of that Human.”
Erin Solstice. But then, she’d been dead. Zail felt very uncertain, and Eschowar put down his cup.
“Maybe it’s not love. But you change like a [Lightning Bolt], Zail. You know that.”
“This much?”
For answer, the other Drake looked at him.
“S-spoken to Itreus recently, have you? He’s the talk of…well, everyone wanted a word with him. And Linvios.”
Zail’s neck scales rose a second, and then he exhaled slowly. Eschowar had a point. Some things could change very fast indeed. A wedding had changed Zail’s life in marked ways.
Itreus Torimine was in better condition than Zail, and he didn’t stay here, still running House Torimine instead. Well, jointly.
