Salazsar knew better than to try to out-mage a city where every citizen was capable of casting Tier 1-2 magic. Ascoden acknowledged that Rodissc had prepared properly, but he scowled.
He was a vocal detractor against the war, but he was still a son of Fissival. So he was watching Salazsar approach with great concern.
“I’m sensing a lot of magical signals for an army running without [Mages], General. What am I looking at? Gemstone Regiments?”
Rodissc glanced down at the colorful forces below. His eyes picked up the sparking spears carried by companies of Drakes, marching in their painted armor like a splash of yellow. He nodded, tuning his sight spell on a group of Drakes carrying oval, pale-white shields.
“That’s the Erchirite Spears, the Topaz Shields…I’m counting a lot of magical regiments, but nothing more than what they brought last time. They’re dispersed through the army. Probably to avoid us blowing a group to pieces.”
“Watch the Rubirel Guard. They’ll advance through most magic.”
“We are prepared to intercept and surround them. Don’t worry, they fold without reinforcements, Mage Lord. If you’ll excuse me…”
They were getting into range. The General of Fissival saw Salazsar arraying in an odd formation below as the Magic Throwers began to calibrate for shots on their lines.
He didn’t see a command tent like last time, or an obvious [General]. Not that he was intending to murder a [General] or Wall Lord…there was punishing Salazsar until they capitulated, and then there was escalation.
Wounding that damn Ilvriss that badly was actually the ideal outcome. But Rodissc had to own—he’d been surprised that Salazsar had come back for round two.
Either their [General] was very confident they could win or they really needed the pass open. He was bothered because he hadn’t heard that their top [General] was coming out.
In fact, Rodissc didn’t know who the hell was leading the army. He’d asked for information, but Salazsar was in chaos, and none of the clandestine agents had managed a report.
Rodissc got his answer sooner than he’d thought. The army was deploying along the approach up to Fissival. But it looked like they were digging in. The huge slope leading up to Fissival had a few chokepoints, and Salazsar’d taken one with the fewest openings. There were three, leading past huge boulders that would stymie an advance.
But why in the name of the Ancestors did it look like they expected Fissival to come to them? They were out of range of all but siege-weapons, but Fissival was only too happy to come down a few hundred feet.
They’d trapped the entire approach coming up, and Salazsar would literally be buried in spells and avalanches if they came running up the slope. The enemy commander clearly knew this, but…
“General. Do we begin bombarding them? Their ballistae are landing establishing shots.”
A few thuds—and collapsing earth and stone. The ballistae were ranging, establishing the right angle to hit the Magic Throwers.
Well, we can’t have that. General Rodissc lifted a hand, and his army lifted wands. [Mages] began linking.
Fissival fought with spells, and they knew how to link and hurl a bolt of [Grand Lightning] down, or a [Siege Fireball]. They didn’t usually need more than that, but they were more than capable of casting [Acid Storm].
Since that was against most codes of war because their enemies would retaliate in kind, it was Tier 4-5 spells at this range.
Salazsar’s ballistae opened up first, though. The expensive, Drake-made armaments roared, and the General flinched as one hit the magical barrier over one of the Magic-Throwers near him.
“Impact! Barriers at 61%!”
“They’re using magicore-tipped bolts!”
He swore. One shot had taken down the magic barriers way more than it should. Someone had armed the ballistae properly—but Salazsar didn’t have barrier spells. He counted twelve ballistae to his eight.
But theirs would be rubble soon. He regretted wasting so many resources—but Salazsar was rich.
“Open casting! Give them a taste of Fissival’s revenge!”
Fissival’s army began to cast, and spells began raining down on the Drakes and Gnolls below. [Fireballs] grew and roared downhill while [Grand Lighting] flashed downwards. Slower than actual lightning, but so quick it was a flicker before it struck. And that was followed by [Valmira’s Comet], hurled by magic-throwers.
Enchanted crossbows were ready to fire at anyone charging up. But for now, it was long-ranged magic, and Rodissc sat back. He expected to have to batter Salazsar before they found the nerve to come uphill, but he was sending [Scouts] left and right.
He’d heard Symphony had left the City of Gems, and if they were gambling purely on the [Assassins]—a single ambush was not going to work.
Rodissc was doing everything right for a [General] of Fissival. He had made no obvious mistakes, and he kept his advantageous spot without ceding any ground to the enemy.
In qualitative terms, he was really pulling off a Thelican-quality battle. Which was all you needed, really.
Only one thing bothered Rodissc. It was under the roar of spells and the howl of magic in the air…
Why did it sound like they were singing?
 
——
 
There were eight of them. Eight…old men.
Well, they weren’t all men, but the point was not lost on the [Soldiers]. They had given orders, and they were in charge, so no one was deserting. If anything…they were beginning to tell old stories.
If you feared being led by an old man who couldn’t hold a sword properly, what about the [Fulminous Lord] who could breathe lightning and had once blasted an army off the side of a mountain in a storm?
And they were singing. A [Soldier]’s drinking song. Zail was humming as he stared up at the glowing spells coming down towards him. That terrified regular [Soldiers].
“Ancestors, it was all ever for me. I did it all for none but I.”
“Wall Lord! They’re—”
“I see it. Gemstone Regiments, prepare for the Scintillation Counter. Mark.”
Wall Lord Zail gently pulled something out and knew Eschowar was holding a copy of it. It looked like…a Rubrix Square.
But less of a square. It was really more of a series of speaking stones glued together. And they didn’t speak so much as light up. When he pressed down on one—another lit up in the claw of the [Squad Leader] of the Erchirite Spears, Division 2, Company 1.
They were arrayed neatly with the Topaz Shields, Rubirel Guard, and other Gemstone Regiments throughout the army. Each group was standing ready, and as the magic came down—the Erchirite Spears did what they had been ordered to do:
They planted their spears in the ground, aiming them straight up. The Erchirite-tips crackled with enough lightning to throw their own magic in the enemy’s faces.
Terrifying, though, to advance on [Mages] with the high ground. What kind of idiot would charge up a slope at a bunch of [Longbow Archers] or Fissival’s forces?
Not Zail. He kept humming as the Topaz Shields lifted their enchanted shields overhead. Each Gemstone Regiment had a special weapon, shield, or piece of armor mined from the magical crystals of the City of Gems.
Each one had a different power. You could combine them and send a huge [Chain Lightning] attack if a bunch of Erchirite Spears used their spears in tandem.
But that was such a basic version of their strength. Old Drakes knew how to use the spears. Zail had fought Fissival more times than he could count.
His body hurt from riding and camping, even in the expensive tents they’d sequestered. He was tired already, and his heart hurt from beating so fast.
But he saw it. Zail feared he might lose track of himself, forget. But somehow, he didn’t think he would. Even if he was sleeping—his claws began to dance.
[Grand Lightning] coming down. His claws flicked a gemstone like someone else playing a musical instrument.
It was just like a Rubrix Square, which was why [Enchanters] had designed the system like that.
The stone lit up, and a [Squad Leader] saw it and shouted.
“Now! [Ground Electricity]!”
Forty Drakes drove the tips of their spears down hard. They shouted—and the [Grand Lightning] twisted as it arced down. The [Soldiers] screaming in fear looked up as the bolt twisted—and touched the spears.
Lightning rod. The flash illuminated Zail’s world. The killing magic turned, lured by the Erchirite Spears…and dispersed into the earth. Zail smiled as [Soldiers] gasped and above—the [Mages] paused.
They hadn’t fought us for an age. No—the Erchirite Spears had done that last time. But this time, it wasn’t one battalion warding off a few lightning spells. Zail glanced up, and his claws began to dance.
[Siege Fireball], [Grand Lightning], [Ice Lances]—his claws moved, touching different points on the command-stones. Each one was tuned to a squad nearest to the spell. When it lit up, they reacted, absorbing the spell. Or—deflecting it.
“[Shield of Mana]!”
The Topaz Shields lifted their glowing shields and blocked a [Siege Fireball]. Their shields drained of magic and began to recharge, and they fell back. The Rubirel Guard, four of them, strode into place.
“[Spell Attractor]! Br—”
Thwoom. The sound of their armor meeting a shower of huge [Light Arrows] rang, but Zail was partly deaf. He was just staring up, and his claws were moving faster.
He didn’t look at the army below. He just trusted they were in position. And his mind was staring at…
Colors.
Yellow to yellow. Erchirite Spears were capturing lightning. Viridian Axes against light spells. Sacchite Maces, cold against cold.
But there was more to it. The spells began to shift, and he saw the [Mages] pause—then start throwing different magic.
They were no fools. Here came…
[Burning Lightning]. Zail’s fingers almost missed, but he skipped two stones at once.
“Now! [Flameguard]!”
“[Ground Lightning]!”
The Rubirel Guard and Erchirite Spears combined powers. Burning electricity ran down the spears, threatening to cook the Drakes holding them alive—but the armored Drakes in their red armor were engulfing them in an aura of crimson, nullifying the heat.
It was just colors and combinations. Like someone twisting a Rubrix Square and knowing how the patterns lined up. Like a [Lady] choosing flowers that matched. Like someone playing on an instrument.
It was the music Zail knew. Even with the Scintillation Counter, he heard screams as not all of a spell was captured, as people were injured. But he looked up as a hundred spells shot down and only a single one passed by the glowing strength of Salazsar: a hundred thousand shining gems.
 
——
 
“How—how are they doing that?”
General Rodissc knew, intellectually, what they were doing. It had taken him minutes to realize this was the Scintillation Counter of Salazsar.
It was just—he’d never seen anyone crazy enough to use it on a battlefield. The nerves you had to have to trust your troops to counter a spell that fast?
It was not a Skill. To pull the counter off, you had to be able to see each spell, guess which combination of your troops’ armaments would ward it off, then signal to your troops to activate their powers.
True, there was some leeway—a [Mana Shield] could block a lot of spells, but it was like playing arrow-scroll-sword at high speed and with a hundred permutations.
Someone was doing it. He finally heard who his opponent was.
“Wall Lord Zail? Wall Lord Eschowar? They’re retired. They’re dead, I thought—is he trying to avenge his son?”
He had a moment of panic that he’d kill some old Wall Lord and escalate the war. Then the General’s worries mounted.
“Magic Thrower down! General, they’re firing on us!”
A panicked voice—Rodissc turned in disbelief, just in time to see a second magic thrower implode.
A bolt from a ballista slammed into the magical arms of the enchanted device, and flaming magicore spread across the device as [Enchanters] hurled themselves away. The magic warped—and it detonated in a shower of corrosive magic.
“Barriers!”
“We’re trying, but the ballistae—”
They were cranking out shot after shot, and a catapult was hurling greedy magicore, which sucked up the barrier spells.
Fissival had failed to destroy Salazsar’s ranged weapons, and now the City of Gems was wracking up a terrible bill.
Worse—arrows were landing amidst the unshielded forces. They came uphill, at great range, but one of the Wall Lords was using a Skill.
“Shields up! Shields—”
One of the [Magic Captains] had to remind his troops to raise their shields. The barrier-spells had gone down, and physical arrows were showering [Soldiers]. Rodissc shouted.
“[Battlemages]! Vary your spells!”
“We’re trying, General! They’re blocking tri-element spells! Do we have permission to use cloud spells?”
“No—get me a Tier 5 [Serpent of the Five Elements]!”
The [Mages] stopped their onslaught and began preparing a big spell. But as they did, Salazsar began hurling bolts at the [Mages]. Trying to disrupt the linked casting, and the arrow fire got worse—
“[High Mage] Itelln down! Restore the link! Restore the—”
“Cast the spell! Cast the—”
A hundred-foot serpent of magic came roaring out of Fissival’s army, a glowing body of light and huge maw made of ice, whiskers of lightning trailing behind scales of fire. Clouds of darkness smog trailed from it—had someone added darkness magic? Who had authorized that? Was Mage Lord Ascoden’s darkness-project gaining ground? Either way—the serpent howled as it descended.
[Serpent of the Five Elements]. General Rodissc saw it roar down, and even Salazsar’s army couldn’t stop it.
It went ploughing into the Drakes’ ranks, biting, burning and freezing and shocking as the Gemstone Regiments tried to slow it.
Erchirite Spears siphoning off lightning, Rubirel Guard—he saw a squad of Topaz Shields fall over and crowed.
“Got them! Got—damn.”
The spell vanished after half a minute of tearing into Salazsar’s forces as it was finally nullified. Hundreds of wounded Drakes and Gnolls retreated, unable to heal with potions so conveniently.
“That worked. Get me another [Serpent]! [Scouts], find me the Wall Lord.”
General Rodissc felt in control again. He turned, and a voice crackled through his [Communication] spell.
“Again? General—we’re being torn to pieces.”
Then he looked behind him and realized something that jarred with his understanding of the battlefield. General Rodissc stared at lines of Drakes screaming and taking cover behind any obstacle they could find as arrows landed around them. Ballista bolts were hammering the ground as three magic throwers desperately maneuvered, trying to dodge and return fire.
