Three out of eight. Five were splintered ruins, and all twelve of Salazsar’s siege weapons were still hammering the ground. Then Rodissc took a look down at Salazsar’s army.
Of all their visible damage, only the Tier 5 spell had even left a big mark. And they were already reforming, rotating Gemstone Regiments into place.
“Wait…are we losing?”
Impossible. Fissival was losing a ranged war? Fissival was losing the—
 
——
 
Major Khorpe stared up as Zail and Eschowar conducted the Scintillation Counter. Fissival was losing.
How long was it since they were reminded no one got a superiority in anything? One of the [Strategists] in his command was agog.
“Major! They’re going to be torn to pieces! I had no idea the Scintillation Counter was so effective!”
“They’re coming. Fixed defenses become a trap. They’re coming. Get ready.”
He was shaking, staring at the sky. But he made himself hold. Zail was right. This was what they knew. The old [Major] could barely lift a sword—but a wand would do.
These young Drakes and Gnolls didn’t know how to fight.
“Pallass can do the same thing. A thousand exploding potions versus a hundred spells. Oteslia just summons swarms of insects. Now they’re coming. Get ready.”
He was in charge of one of the three passes. Zail held the center; Eschowar was on the right. The old Drake was waiting. Waiting for the charge.
“Fissival on the charge?”
Someone laughed, and Khorpe looked at them for a moment.
“Have you ever seen a charging [Battlemage], boy? Be silent.”
There were few things more terrifying than someone with nothing to lose coming towards you. The Drakes fell silent, and they were listening to him. Listening…because they sensed what he said mattered.
Zail. Eschowar. The others had to be sensing it. This…Khorpe looked up, and someone screamed.
“Incoming! Watch o—”
The Scintillation Counter didn’t block everything. A twisting bolt of black darkness magic got past Eschowar. It came down in a spiral, and Major Khorpe looked up and sighed.
This was also what he had waited for. What he expected. Let it be us. Khorpe saw the magic reaching out, a twisting hand. He stepped sideways, and it dug a gash in the earth three dozen feet deep, slicing into the earth and leaving black tar.
Four Drakes around him had gone down, slashed by the unpredictable arc of the spell. Khorpe looked down, and a gash cut a ‘v’ around his feet. It had trimmed his boot heels.
The [Strategist] who’d been talking so excitedly picked herself up, then felt at her tail. She stared up—and the black line was right where she’d been standing until Khorpe had pushed her forwards.
“Major? How did you—?”
The old [Reconnaissance Major] stared up at the sky. His eyes gazed up into the firestorm of spells meeting the Gem Regiment’s magic.
“I saw death coming. Form up.”
Yes, indeed. Let it be us. We learned how to dodge. His head bent down as he heard the roar coming down the hills.
Fissival was charging.
 
——
 
Now, Fissival knew what was down there, and they had received the orders to charge. There was only one good order that General Rodissc could make. Well, that and surrender.
They were backed into a corner. The same terrain that had sheltered them from being flanked was now a trap. Fissival had to come down, and Salazsar had the choke points. They were ready.
But the City of Magic was ready to take them like a storm. Had you ever seen a charging [Battlemage]? General Rodissc had ordered a full onslaught.
The younger [Soldiers] saw this as an opportunity to correct the insult at the Meeting of Tribes. They’d take down Salazsar like the City of Gems had done to them.
But the regular infantry? The veterans? They listened to the word filtering up to them.
“Wall Lord Zail? Wall Lord Eschowar?”
And they had a moment of fear, the same fear that Nerrhavia’s Fallen had learned at Reim. The fear young men learned.
Old men in war. Old men and women with levels and nothing left to lose.
“The Rubirel Guard’s holding the right flank with Lord Eschowar. Retired Rubirel Guard.”
“Ancestors.”
One of the [Veteran Magic Soldiers] whispered. He was grateful they were heading down the center, now. He had seen the two dozen Drakes wearing heirloom armor. Regular Salazsar [Soldiers] would rout or surrender. They would not.
“Fifteen seconds!”
They were marching downhill as the [Mages] tried to soften the advance. Coming downhill on treacherous terrain—but they were staring at the three passes. Like thunder. They just had to come down like thunder. The Drakes tensed—
“Five, four, three, two…for the City of Magic!”
 
——
 
Zail had put aside the command stones. He was walking forwards, ignoring his bodyguards and the [Soldiers].
He had to do it. They didn’t want to die, none of them.
It was funny. Being in a war reminded him he didn’t want to die, even now. Yes, he was doing it so Ilvriss would be safe.
But he didn’t want to die. He just wanted to be alive. And this…
Helessia had told him he was an idiot, but she had looked at him with that familiar exasperation and half sat up in her bed. The effort that took…they had walked back in time, and she had been the exasperated one seeing him off for another war.
Once again, he went. Ever again, one more time with the same feeling in his veins. Now, the [Soldiers] were cheering his name as he passed, staring at him. Half in disbelief, as if they feared he might fall over. But in this moment, as the foe poured down, they followed his back as he passed and their voices rose.
“Wall Lord! Wall Lord Zail! Zail, Zail—”
As if he was the one hero of this battlefield. As if they hadn’t been here before.
Well, maybe they hadn’t. Maybe they didn’t know how it was done. So he’d show them.
He was not, like his son, confident enough to charge into battle and let his strength of arms and levels sort out the rest.
But there was a way to do it.
Fissival came down the slopes, into the passes, howling so loud that even the loudest braggart of Salazsar went silent. They thundered towards the Drakes, holding the line. It was so easy to charge. That was why Ilvriss and young [Generals] did it all the time.
Your heart in your throat, screaming your soul out at the enemy—a boy could fall on them like a lion. How did you hold the line with the same spirit?
Not with a speech. Nor with any glorious line of shields cutting down the savage hordes. You did it like this.
 
——
 
A single Drake, scales grey with age, a purple helm of Orichalcum on his head, walked out of the line of [Soldiers] and spears. A thousand Drakes were pouring down at him, feet pounding the ground, blades raised.
Their eyes fixed on him as he walked out in front of his troops. Just past the tips of the spears. Not far, but so they all saw him. 
There was no time for speeches. Arrows were landing, and spells lit up the world. 
The Wall Lord of Salazsar held something out. It was a sword in a scabbard. The horizontal hilt of the blade hung in the air, and his weary, clawed hand grasped the hilt of the sword.
He drew a bright blade, glowing with lightning, and traced a salute of Salazsar into the air. Then he held the blade at his side.
There he stood. A lone figure standing before his army, waiting for them to come to him. Across the breach, a line of warriors wearing crimson armor held their ground behind a Wall Lord, eyes sparking with lightning. 
Voice like thunder. Blades dancing in the air as an army cheered their backs. 
Come challenge me. I have been here before and triumphed.
Zail looked at the Drakes charging at him, and youth quailed and their steps faltered. A Swordmaster of Salazsar held his ground as the Army of Gems roared—and then the two sides met.
 
——
 
Like someone ringing the gong of war a thousand times out of screams, cries, the clash of arms. Magic thundered in the air, and Fissival tried to chant a spell of victory.
But they were just the City of Magic. They poured into the gaps and…slowed…
Stopped.
The charge ran into the Drakes and Gnolls around the old Wall Lords and halted. The army of Fissival tried to fight forwards, [Mages] attempting to cast at point-blank range. They just had to pierce Salazsar’s lines. Then—then—!
The screaming General Rodissc, like Zail, was no idiot who committed himself into the center of the fray. He was at the rear, demanding his [Mages] attack. They were just about ready to begin casting support spells when the First Violin played the first note.
Symphony stood to the rear of Fissival. It had taken them a long time to get in position, but they had strict orders not to intervene until the charge, anyways.
Scaling a mountain was hard at the Maestro’s age. But Linvios Reiscale, love him or hate his group of [Assassins]? He was a function of Salazsar.
“[Concerto: Glass Rain Upon Issrysil’s Plains]. Encore, encore. First Violinist, take the left. They’re faltering. The rest of you, to Wall Lord Zail’s aid. Now. Fortissimo!”
He drew the spectral rapier out of the air as dozens of elegant musician-assassins drew blades. Fissival’s command and rear lines looked back and heard Symphony as they descended on their rear.
That was what Salazsar had that Fissival did not. Gems, color, and music. The Maestro dove towards the [General] of Fissival, sword drawn, golden bell chiming purely for the sweet sound of it. So they remembered it was there.
Every battle needed a flanking force. Every hero needed the consummate villain to look good and play his part well.
He laughed as he came down towards the Drake holding wand and sword, turning with the whites of his eyes showing. The Maestro spoke:
“[Sword Art: Mourning Dove’s Lament].”
Three minutes later, Fissival’s army began to surrender en-masse.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Zail oversaw the capture and ransoming of the City of Magic’s army. Like most inter-city battles, it was not as bloody as it could be.
But it was still war. ‘Not as bloody’ just meant one army hadn’t been executed to the last. The Wall Lord felt…tired.
Victorious? Perhaps. Perhaps, when he looked around and realized neither Khorpe nor Eschowar nor Linvios were dead.
Khorpe had a new scar on his face, but aside from that and Eschowar losing a bit of his tail, they’d lived.
None of them were upset about that. Next time, they’d see. They were not invincible; it was just that they were damn tough to kill, and they intended to keep that reputation up as long as they could.
“Next time?”
Nerul stood there, having been chosen to oversee the ransom negotiations. Zail was massaging his back.
“Of course. If Ilvriss leaves—someone has to go to war, and the current generation does it wrong. Do you think our counterparts in Fissival will just sit there?”
“Are you suggesting we escalate? They send their old men, we send ours?”
Nerul looked mildly horrified at the suggestion. Zail just glared at him.
“We don’t want to. We don’t need to kill each other. Not this…something else, Nerul.”
He was trying to explain. It was like Zail could sense a combination in the Rubrix Square or smell thunder in the air. Soon, he would be needed.
He felt younger. And indeed, people were listening and taking note, including his son. Or perhaps it was because they had no choice.
“The Last Defenders of the Wall. A fanciful title. Are you going to be giving orders?”
Nerul eyed the coalition of Drakes who had certainly subsumed a lot of political power—in addition to the power they had reminded people they had. Zail just stood there and looked back towards his beloved City of Gems, rising from the mountain.
“One last time. One last time, and again, Nerul. One last time until the end. Until I am no longer actually useful.”
He stood there, and Nerul could not remember Zail looking younger or older. The Drake [Diplomat] threw up his claws.
“When is it our turn to lead our cities and this world forwards if old men like you kick around?”
“When you deserve it. When you wrest it from us. But we’ll hold on until you break our fingers.”
Zail pointed his sword at Nerul, and the [Diplomat] didn’t dignify that with an answer. But the old Drake smiled—and listened to the world agreeing.
 
[Wall Lord of a Thousand Exchanges, Coin and Sword Level 44!]
[Skill – My Strength, Regained (Ten Minutes) obtained!]
 
[Fame – Remember My Name obtained!]
 
He awoke, groggy sometimes, not knowing where he was or what was going on. But the voice, at least, reminded him. Zail lay in bed and stared up, thinking.
He had heard Lord Eschowar had gained a more powerful Skill reclaiming his sublimity or something. But this would do.
Zail closed his eyes and felt young again for ten minutes.
