Things were troubled, and Zail might envy Itreus’ work and purpose, but even his relationship with Helessia, cool and sometimes icy as it might be, was better than the giant rift that had formed between Itreus and his wife.
It was…complicated. Life was. The two had divorced, but Calistoca and Itreus had both inherited their company, which they both made decisions on.
Zail didn’t bring that up when he found Itreus. The older Drake was sitting and talking with another mutual acquaintance.
“Zail. Good to see you.”
One of Salazsar’s powerful Wall Lords sat there, looking grey, but fit. Sharp. For his age. Sharp as a razor. Calistoca was much the same. Maybe it was why they were together, but the two had split just as hard for reasons…well.
Zail didn’t know all of it. He gave Itreus a very polite nod, as he’d done for four decades since the marriage.
“Am I disturbing you?”
Itreus was often at work, but he had come to visit another old friend, a Drake who was staring around and shading his eyes, despite sitting in the glass atrium as snow fell, illuminated by [Light] spells. It was pleasant—but the Drake was terrified.
“I see it. I see it everywhere, Itreus. It’s on Zail’s shoulder and mine…”
He tried to edge back in his seat and almost fell out of it. Itreus steadied him and waved a few helpers away. He indicated a seat.
“Not at all. Khorpe, it’s just Zail.”
“I know it’s him. But he’s bringing death with him. I see it on his shoulders. Don’t let it touch me.”
Khorpe was no Wall Lord, but a former soldier who’d risen to a high rank. A [Reconnaissance Major]—well, that was his official class. His real one might have been higher, but even now he didn’t talk about it. Every Walled City had a spy-corps, and Khorpe was retired.
He had…fears. He leaned away from something only he could see, and he avoided shadows and danger. He claimed he could see death.
It was bad today. Zail didn’t try to touch Khorpe if death was clinging to him. But he did nod again, at Itreus, who gave him a tight smile.
They were old enemies. Nemeses, really. There was a time when if Zail had spotted Itreus across the floor, he would have drawn his sword and gone for the other man’s head. But a single event had changed that.
Itreus had invited Zail to his wedding. No, that wasn’t it. It was the fact that Zail had been invited, according to oldest Drake traditions, as the nemesis along with the best man to honor Itreus.
It was often used just for formality or no longer employed, but Zail had taken the honor seriously, and he and Itreus had quashed every grudge between them. They might never be boon friends…but that peace had held for over forty years.
Zail was just a bit proud of it. The two and their companies had never quarreled since then. They had come to moments where the two were bidding against each other or might get embroiled in a dispute, and Zail had thought of his pledge and gone to Itreus to have a quiet word, or Itreus had come to him. And they honored it.
Despite the divorce.
At any rate, Itreus could have probably taken Zail, Khorpe, and Eschowar down with one claw tied behind his back these days. He looked good.
But tired. And but for his mutual respect for Zail—he looked bitter. His enduring power and authority hung about him like adornments on a deeply unhappy Drake. Every time he smiled, Zail got the impression he was having to remember more and more how it was done. He looked sharp, in his suit, and dressed to impress, but he was reclusive and visited this place because he had few boon companions and his wife and children were greatly estranged from him.
As was his other…old friend.
“How is Ilvriss?”
Itreus sat with Zail, and the Drake shrugged.
“I’ve been complaining about him nonstop. But if he leaves, I’ll complain more. He’s associating with…well, I told you.”
“She’s the most high-level [Courtesan] in the city, if it helps.”
Zail grunted.
“I don’t understand what he sees in her. Or Nerul. I used to talk to him, and he’d listen. I was going to ask him about the war with Fissival, and he just didn’t want to hear it. Not that, nor business nor anything else, it seems.”
Itreus paused and glanced sideways at Zail.
“Uncharitable of him. You were the war-leader of Salazsar in more wars than he’s seen in his life. And better with a sword.”
“He doesn’t need me to lecture him.”
“Maybe talk with him another time. You could talk war, at least, if the mining’s no good. I can’t lecture my offspring about battle, and that’s the thing you are qualified to talk about. He’s not seen many wars between Walled Cities.”
This was true, and Zail felt a bit hopeful this would be the case. He nodded at Itreus.
“And how are…things in your business?”
“Well.”
Itreus’ lie was flat as his smile. Zail nodded and didn’t press. What an unhappy man. 
If only…well, Zail was no good mediator, and the rift between Itreus and those closest to him was deep. Better people had tried to bridge it. Itreus seemed to sense Zail’s thoughts and muttered.
“I’d retire, but I think Calistoca would just seize control. I’d let her if it meant an end to glaring at her—but not this. I don’t think I’d last, Zail.”
“Eschowar claims it’s not the worst.”
The two Drakes looked across the floor where the older Drakes, their peers, were going about their day, and Itreus’ face was bleak.
“…I can’t stop working, Zail. If my son was about like yours, perhaps. I’ll die in my office.”
It was a statement that was heavy, but Zail just nodded. He looked across the floor and thought…he would have rather done the same.
Salazsar had a tradition for older Drakes to rest and retire. Not all Walled Cities did. Oteslia was far, far different, Zail understood, in that they had institutions like this where Drakes and Gnolls formed communes and tended to gardens or helped care for animals all day.
That would be…nice. It was classic Oteslian softness, but the two cities were the only ones with any formal institutions at all. Salazsar had managed the accommodations for its most important clients; Zail couldn’t speak to ones lower down in the city. It had a [Chef] who made food that wasn’t hard and could be digested, custom drinking apparel, enchanted beds, but it was still unpleasant.
Khorpe was staring out the window, looking for the death sneaking up on him as Zail and Itreus talked. Someone noticed, and a Drake woman came over with a big smile.
“Major Khorpe, we have a gathering for everyone to play a game. Come on, let’s get you into it. You had such fun last time.”
She pointed, and Zail and Itreus noticed a spirited Gnoll woman clapping her hands and getting a bunch of the residents to join in. Songs and limited games, like tossing [Lightball] spells around.
Like we’re children after all. Zail imagined what Ilvriss would say if Zail told him they were going to play with the glowing light orb and sing, rather than have him at a meeting. Khorpe just stared over and shuddered.
He sometimes refused to talk, and the Drake woman sounded exasperated. Maybe she was tired, but Zail stiffened as she raised her voice.
“Major, we’re going to have fun now. Are you going to participate in my event?”
Khorpe stared at her, and Zail resisted the urge to tell the Drake woman to hop off the balcony of the tower. She spoke to the same [Soldier] who had given [Generals] orders and intelligence like she was speaking to a child.
“I’ll—participate.”
“Good! This way. The Major’s joining in, Torers!”
He walked off, and Itreus muttered to Zail out of the corner of his mouth.
“If someone said that to me in a meeting, in that tone, I would fire them.”
“Mm.”
Zail paused and, after a moment, brought up a name he had heard whispered in this place months back.
“Have…you heard of Maviola El? The one who led House El?”
“That firebrand? I heard she died.”
Zail nodded slowly.
“As a young woman. Riding across Izril. I heard Hectval killed her. You saw the part where the Assassin’s Guild…?”
“Yes. Yes, I remember hearing Linvios giving commentary here while it was going on.”
He’d actually mentioned the other Drake’s name. That showed you how pivotal the moment had been. Zail stared out the window at the sunlight cutting through snow, turning it golden for a second.
“What an end. Even for an enemy. What a spectacular one.”
The other Drake’s eyes were faraway with envy.
“Yes.”
 
——
 
Presently, Wall Lord Itreus left, and Zail reckoned that his visit had taken up a good portion of his day. He still lacked the ability to fill the rest of it to his satisfaction and wondered if he should go for a walk to see the mines after all.
Then again, Ilvriss would be wroth if he found out. Zail was just about to stand, with effort, when a second figure appeared, striding into the nursing home.
Itreus had just reached the door, and when he came face-to-face with the tall, intensely strong Drake with sapphire grey scales and a suit befitting a conductor, a Maestro, he halted.
“Itreus.”
“Linvios.”
Linvios Reiscale and Itreus exchanged a glance that had more between it than any inland sea, and Itreus’ voice had such intensity that you could have bottled it and turned it into a Tier 7 spell.
Linvios stepped smartly to the side. His deep sapphire scales and silverine eyes flicked to Itreus, who walked past him stiffly without a word.
Now here was someone else who would rather die at work than here. Linvios stepped into the home—and caught someone gently as she almost fell over.
A Drake woman had tried to get to the door, but she couldn’t walk without help. She was trying to get out.
“Let me out.”
“Laudire, what’s wrong?”
“I want to leave. I want to leave. Please, get me out of here.”
She tried to get the door, but the Maestro knew she wasn’t allowed out, and Linvios carefully held the Drake upright. Instantly, some of the staff noticed the attempt to break out and strode over.
“Lady Laudire, you know you’re not allowed out. Please, don’t make us escort you back to your rooms.”
“Let me out. I want to leave—”
She raised her voice as loudly as she could, trying to get out, but the door was too heavy and…
No one else here even glanced up as Zail’s stomach tightened. Presently, the Drake woman was led back, but she was still crying and demanding to go.
Could anyone blame her? What could you say? She was unable to go out without help, and unlike Zail, she didn’t have dedicated carers. But she wanted to…
Linvios gently walked with her, talking quietly until her voice subsided, and then he appeared back in the home. He looked tired, but so damn young Zail glowered despite himself.
That was a high-level [Warrior]—well, [Assassin] for you. Linvios led Symphony, and like other Named-ranks, you were either still quick or you were dead. The Maestro glanced around, and he knew many people here. He stopped by Eschowar’s table, then said something to Khorpe, and then he saw Zail.
“Good evening, Zail.”
Like Itreus, their old rivalry was behind them. Zail nodded.
“Were you intending to catch Itreus?”
“Just to see if he’s well. But no, I thought he was gone. You’re looking well.”
Zail grinned at the stupid remark. He was the same as ever. The two sat and made smalltalk, and Ilvriss came up again.
“You’ve never had children like us. Did it ever occur to you?”
The Maestro’s smile became a distant look. He stared at Zail and then shook his head.
“Never. N—”
He hesitated.
“No.”
Then he seemed tired, and Zail regretted asking, in part, but what was the point to not asking questions now? The old Wall Lord shrugged apologetically.
“Perhaps life would have been easier. I just don’t know what to do for him.”
Does he need help at all? That wasn’t really the question. Zail sat there, frustrated, envying Itreus and Linvios, and the Maestro rubbed at his head slowly. He seemed recovered from the Trial of Blades.
He had crossed swords with a legend. He had always been here, Zail knew. Symphony…doing what Salazsar needed, sometimes acting to further private goals, but often to defend Salazsar’s interests. He was as part of the City of Gems as Zail. If anyone deserved a place in this home—it was he, as well as Zail.
“Symphony feels like children at times. They come to me, talented children who play and dance well, but don’t understand anything else.”
“And you train them to be the best.”
Linvios looked surprised by the comment.
“In part. But I also train them to work together. And if they play with my Symphony…what do you think they do after they’re done? Part of my job is finding a future. Few reach it, and few want it. I do not. But without anyone to help, they would play and dance forever without any future. The Assassin’s Guild in the north…they run like that.”
Huh. Zail had never known that Linvios even thought beyond the contracts. Then again, he had never asked. He had never respected Linvios’ profession for most of his life, even if he’d needed to make use of them.
“What do you think I should do about Ilvriss, Linvios?”
The Maestro gave it some thought as he sat there, and he glanced up at Zail, in the end, with a slight, bitter smile.
“Talk to him. That’s all you can do. And if things don’t work out—at least you’ll have a memory.”
Zail thought of Itreus and Linvios, the best of friends. Wall Lady Calistoca, dignified and cold as ice towards the duo. The gap between all three that had appeared for no reason he had seen.
Well…he had never asked. Some things you let lie quiet. That was respect. Even now, Zail refused to ask.
He wondered, suddenly, whether Linvios would have respected that or told Zail he would have liked to tell. But if so…no. Everyone had their faults.
Zail let it lie, and presently he stood up. He could no longer hear Laudire crying. Perhaps they’d used a calming tonic or [Sleep] spell. Linvios sat there for a moment, then got up as well.
“Cards, anyone?”
It was a good stand-to that everyone could play, even if they couldn’t always hold the cards. In this case, even Eschowar did well enough if someone played him in.
“Trade card four. Ante two more ‘silver’ in, and has anyone read the latest Lightning Thief book?”
Zail obediently pushed a card in and held the replacement up to Eschowar. He grunted, and the card went face-down in front of him as Linvios upped the ante. Zail sneered.
“That trash? I read the book Krsysl Wordsmith wrote out of solidarity, but it’s so predictable. Rising action, minor conflict usually with whatever paramour he meets, major conflict for the treasure of the day, end. It only got interesting when the Eyes of Baleros were involved.”
Khorpe stared at his cards, muttering.
