“Ancestors, it was all ever for me. I did it all for none but I. 
Lift me not upon your wings. If you raise your tails, be it only to your back. 
My sins were always only mine. Ancestors, look down on all the grief I’ve ever brought, the fire I breathed.
It was always mine, and come from none but I. My foes, lay your grudges down ere I die…”
 
The rest, he forgot. He had forgotten the words and perhaps the way you sang them. He forgot the name of the song.
But Zail Gemscale could still remember singing those words as a young man across the bars and battlefields and cities of Izril.
He remembered the song as he looked down at his son. And he realized he’d never known what the song meant until he was older.
Wall Lord Zail Gemscale of Salazsar was old. Not as old as Chaldion, but he often envied the Grand Strategist’s boundless energy. Chaldion had never left his post. Zail? Zail had retired decades ago due to his injuries.
He had a divot in his skull, scars down his back, and he’d lost enough blood to kill a dozen Drakes. He knew he looked worse than that. Sometimes he caught a view of himself in the mirror and wondered who the decrepit Drake was. That was, if he recalled who he met in the looking glass at all.
He was not the face of the Gemscale family these years. If people remembered him at all, in his city, he was the old patriarch of his family, father of Ilvriss, the controversial, changed Wall Lord. And they would say, he knew—
‘Zail? I thought he was dead. He’s still alive then?’
Someday he would pass, and they would hold a minute of silence for him in some parts of the Walled Cities. [Miners] below would pause for a brief moment, then get back to work.
He would be mourned by those who knew him. And the problem was, they were vanishingly few. Zail knew this because he had done it. He had sat down hard, put a claw to his chest as he heard a name of a friend or foe gone—then looked at his minders, at people around them, and realized they had no idea nor care who had left.
Why did he think of this? Well, Zail was old, and he had thought of his end like any reasonable man would, especially in his condition. But he thought of it now, because the man of the hour, the Drake whose future lay bright and open and waiting for him, Wall Lord Ilvriss—
Zail’s son was dying in front of him. The old Wall Lord looked down at the blood, and it ran from purple scales. Torn holes in Ilvriss’ flesh.
Crossbow wounds. Drake weapons. It was harder to hold a bow with claws, so they tended to crossbows. He counted seven wounds. Mana was burning the air, making his eyes water, and Ilvriss was lying on a shield.
He had come back like a thousand thousand Drakes in Zail’s lifetime. Dragged in by Captain Asrira Shieldscale, on a shield, into a room with shouting Drakes.
“Move aside! Move!”
The Healer Merla, the finest [Healer] in Salazsar, was bending over Ilvriss. She was applying a healing potion carefully, cursing, as Ilvriss’ people shoved onlookers past. Zail staggered slightly as she worked.
“They’re enchanted boltheads—”
Asrira, the bright-blue scaled Drake, was trying to warn her. Merla just snapped back.
“I know. Give me light and room. What spell struck him?”
“[Valmira’s Comet].”
The answer came out of Zail’s memories, flitting together like a dream as he listened to that song. He saw Merla’s head rise and glance at him. Captain Asrira hesitated—then nodded.
“Yes, [Valmira’s Comet]. They hit our position with it.”
“I understand. Someone cast [Dispel Magic]. It’s making even my [Enhanced Potions] fail. I need someone to clear the mana away. Now!”
Someone called for a [Mage]. Zail could taste the mana in the air, hot and painful, the sting of it. It was familiar to him. As Merla worked, agitated Drakes talked in the background.
“How did they overwhelm him? Damn Fissival—he’s a Wall Lord.”
That was…Wall Lord Brilm, one of Ilvriss’ friends. He had been pacing around when Zail arrived. He was no warrior, but Ilvriss used to run with him.
“It’s war, fool.”
Merla herself snapped back. Zail almost nodded. Comet to flush out a command post, then a hail of crossbow bolts.
He’d been too close to the fighting, then. You stayed out of range of their Skills such that even if they hit you with a long-range spell and then used [Covering Fire] or [Long-Range Volley], you were safe.
“Where are the rest of the forces?”
Someone, Tasilt, that radical brat who’d married a Gnoll, was asking the only sensible questions in the room. Zail heard more horns sounding off—Salazsar was filled with alarms.
“Full retreat. General Greex was unwilling to advance into their bombardments. Fissival’s advanced past Sserys’ Line, and they’re blockading the trade roads.”
Sserys’ Line. The renamed pass where he’d once broken the Antinium armies. It connected Salazsar via the trade roads to the entire west and center of Izril. With it blocked, they’d only be able to move southwards.
Fissival’d advanced far across the north, then. Zail didn’t understand. He must have lost track—he recalled talking with Ilvriss about the war, but he stood there, looking down at his son.
Why are we fighting this time? I cannot remember.
Logic told him that the war must have been going on a while if Fissival had pushed all the way across Salazsar’s left flank. He recalled Ilvriss sortieing, claiming he was needed. Then—today.
The blood flow was slowly stopping. A good sign, not a bad one. Ilvriss’ wounds were mending; if they had refused to close and the blood flow had slowed, he would be dying. Even so—so many wounds would tax even a healthy body. You could die with a healing potion in your veins. And magic made it worse.
“We must strike back at them!”
Brilm was shouting, and Tasilt snapped back.
“This is not the time, Brilm! Convene the Walled Families if you want to make a stand, but—”
“…Has the City of Magic issued any demands?”
Zail turned his head, voice low and quiet, and he saw the other Drakes in the room looking at him. He was oldest by far; this was a room full of young, busy people trying not to jostle him. And they gave him a look of such…
“Wall Lord Zail? Ah—ah, they haven’t made any demands.”
“Nothing? They’re not after the magicore? Or Adamantium?”
They’d dug up a new vein recently. Fissival loved rare materials, and it always needed more magicore. Zail was sure that had happened. He grew worried—and saw Tasilt look at Brilm. And he felt it.
I’ve forgotten something. 
“They—haven’t demanded any reparations, Sir Zail. Not yet. They may demand them now. But I think it’s mostly outrage keeping them advancing.”
“Over what?”
“The…the Meeting of Tribes, sir?”
Zail stared blankly at Tasilt, and he did not remember. Something…stirred in the back of his head, and he put a claw up. He touched at his skull, and the place where he had once been struck, a dented portion of his mind, felt missing, even now. Tasilt’s eyes flickered, and Brilm smiled too hugely.
“Your son attacked Fissival’s armies. We sent them packing and—that’s what happened, Sir Zail. Don’t you worry—Ilvriss will make it. He’s had worse falls in the city! Why don’t I get you a seat—”
“I’m fine.”
But Brilm was already calling for a chair, and Zail was being led away. He resisted a second, looking down.
Ilvriss.
The Drake’s eyes were closed, and his face was a grimace as he lay there, Merla tending to his wounds. Zail thought of the Meeting of Tribes, of the state of the Walled Cities. His company, House Gemscale.
There lay a Wall Lord of Salazsar. Businessman, politician, and general combined.
It had come crashing down on him, and his blood was running down the edge of the shield.
It should have been Zail, in battle first. If he was capable…he realized he was humming as Brilm sat him down. No wonder they thought he was mad. But he wasn’t. He was just remembering a song.
 
“Ancestors, it was all ever for me. I did it all for none but I.”
 
——
 
Two weeks prior.
 
In the winter of the 14th month of the year, Mouring, Izril was changing. Moving fast despite the snow that fell everywhere.
Old figures were on the move, like Klbkch the Slayer. Nations were engulfed in strife, internal and external.
In distant Chandrar, the Strongest of Pomle was leading a war into the heart of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. And the former Strongest, Orjin, was training with the greatest [Warrior] of Chandrar, Torreb the Undefeated.
But this wasn’t about Orjin. Someone more important was about his own great journey. Wall Lord Ilvriss had a calling. It came from far outside his City of Gems, which he had known so well.
Once more, he was making plans to leave the City of Gems. In truth, he would have left earlier but for the difficulty of travelling in the snow, the New Lands—and the war.
“—asinine. Completely, utterly. If you want to scold me, don’t do it while taking credit for being one of the Walled Cities that fought with the Gnolls! You don’t get both.”
Wall Lord Zail had been napping when he heard his son’s voice. He sat up in the living room of the Gemscale family’s apartments. That was a multi-level suite on top of their tower, one of the many spires that rose from the City of Gems digging into the mountain beneath.
In Salazsar, wealth was altitude. The smallest spaces, the tops of the towers, were held by the oldest families, while commonfolk lived closest to the mines, the ever-expanding lower floors of Salazsar that fed the city with magicore, gems, coal, metals, and more.
These were ancestral suites, and while each generation added more, some of the paintings dated back thousands or tens of thousands of years. There was an old family sword hanging on the wall that had been wielded when Dragons still flew the world.
It was broken, cracked at the hilt, and every generation of the Gemscale family would climb up over the enchanted fireplace and slyly try to remove it from where it hung on the plaque.
Then the young Drake would snap the hilt of the ancient sword out of place, stare in horror at the Staregic metal blade they’d ‘broken’, and panic.
Zail remembered doing that. He’d run to a [Blacksmith] and begged for help. His father had caught him and a sweating Drake trying to forge a new blade onto the back, and Zail’s father, Vekoal, had laughed so hard he’d told the story across half of Salazsar by nightfall.
Ilvriss and Navine, his sister, had been different. Which one of the two had done it was unclear. But Zail distinctly recalled coming back and noticing the empty plaque on the wall that a [Thief] had, apparently, stolen.
The two Drake children had kept up the lie and even added a ‘stolen’ bracelet and cups to the count. Zail had not been amused and gone along with the charade by calling the Watch Captain till they confessed. Then he’d punished them for a month…
He was less proud of that. Why had he shouted about duty and honesty at his son when his own father had laughed? One memory was good. The other…was of him staring at a scared boy’s face, trying not to cry.
“Wall Lord?”
Zail blinked. He realized he was standing, leaning on his cane, and his helpers, a Gnoll and Drake, were staring at him with slight worry.
Familiarity, but worry. He’d paused, frozen in place, as his eyes lingered on the sword on the wall.
“It’s nothing. My son is back.”
“Yes, Wall Lord. Shall we guide you to him?”
“I know where he is. Send for…send for something to eat.”
It was late. He’d been napping. He should have been abed, but he wanted to know what the Walled Families had decided. Zail had almost gone himself, but Ilvriss had told him he’d sort it out.
He knew every Drake over fifty who regularly attended. Most were peers, or he’d known them as children growing up. Zail had wanted to say, ‘I could pull support for you’, but Ilvriss was the leader of House Gemscale. And Zail had been tired.
“—it’s classic Drakeism, Nephew. We want to look good, but not suffer for it. Of course we’ll brag about being on the Gnolls’ side. We always need new [Miners]. But the censuring vote on you is because you led us into a war. Now, if you’d both supported the tribes and kept us out of a war, they’d be mad you didn’t credit all of them. Chaldion did it right…in a twisted sense of the word. A hundred dead soldiers—and not all of them got minced—and he gets to claim Pallass put in an effort. We study him in school, that bastard.”
“Nerul…please stop talking sense. We have an aversion to the consequences. I am the…heh.”
Zail hesitated as he made his way to the parlor. That other voice was familiar and disliked. Nerul, the foremost [Diplomat] of Salazsar, was also a member of House Gemscale. But he didn’t reside with the main family, and Zail disliked him.
Nerul’s tone was a good example of why he was so unpleasant for Zail. He had said the part about [Miners] with enough derision to make Zail’s scales prickle. He was insubordinate, a drunk, and not a warrior.
No true son of the walls. But Ilvriss had begun associating with his uncle more and more, and Zail didn’t understand why.
It was after he had gone to Liscor and fought the Tidebreaker. After…he’d lost Periss.
He’d changed. That happened to someone when they lost a friend in war. Zail just wondered if Ilvriss would snap out of it.
“Well, Fissival doesn’t have the sense to back down. We’ll have to engage them after all if they’re really after Sserys’ Line. Ancestors. The waste.”
“And just when you’re trying to head north, eh? It’s almost like they noticed you were making plans and decided to put a thumbclaw in your eye.”
“They’re not going to blockade an entire trade route just to spite me, Nerul.”
The doors opened, and a burly Drake was pouring Ilvriss and himself a drink. Nerul lifted his cup with a laugh as a [Soldier], Asrira Shieldscale, stood to brisk attention with the two. She noticed Zail and bowed, but Nerul was laughing.
“You think they won’t? They blame you for ‘losing’ the Meeting of Tribes. As if Khelt, those damn Gnoll ghosts, and Sserys reborn, weren’t about to kick their teeth in! I—oh. Zail.”
“Father.”
Ilvriss turned instantly, and his annoyed look and lashing tail turned to chagrin.
“You didn’t have to stay up. It’s past midnight.”
“I was napping. What did the Walled Families decide? Censuring House Gemscale? Ridiculous.”
“It’s just a slap on the wrists. Nothing actionable. They’ll charge us tripled fees for access to the mines. That’s nothing.”
“Especially to someone who started a war between Walled Cities.”
