“Exactly. I’d get boiled alive if the System threw me to the wolves waiting outside. I’ve robbed or tried to rob at least half of them,” Esmeralda said, a smile tugging at her mouth as she recalled those memories.

“Then…” Zac glanced at the black dot silently floating in the realm’s center.

“Don’t worry, I’ve got everything planned out,” Esmeralda thumped her chest.

“Good. So, what’s next?” Zac asked.

“Most of the taint should be expelled, but the disruption undid some of my preparations,” Esmeralda said. “Can you keep going?”

“Sure,” Zac nodded.

He’d spent some Void Energy activating [Eye of Desolation] and [Desperation’s End], but they were ultimately just Late D-grade skills. Their combined cost was only the equivalent of uncoupling two or three timelines. Nearly half of his Void Energy reserves remained, and his human side was already fast at work recovering the loss. By the time he ran low, his human side should already have returned to the mirror realm with Emir in tow.

Zac stopped. “Wait, which ones should I pick?”

“Begin with the ones that were connected to the evil timeline. As for the order, just go with your gut,” Esmeralda said. “I’ll keep an eye out as well.”

Zac nodded, and they soon returned to their previous routine. Zac banished patches of silver water one after another, occasionally having to dodge bursts of corruption. Esmeralda’s estimate was soon proven correct. The cones of tainted Space of the First Era quickly grew weaker. By the third timeline, [Second Singularity] started to expel normal spatial Dao along with the corruption.

The treasure wasn’t shedding its own spirituality. It was rejecting the Spatial Dao containing the unique markers of the Omnipresence Chamber’s artificial timelines. While their presence wouldn’t cause Esmeralda nearly as much problem as the corruption, it was still heterodoxy that would make absorption harder.

Zac maintained a measured pace over the next day. Part of it was precaution, the other part was necessity. The war between timelines only grew more intense as fewer competed for space, and Zac had no choice but to add some buffer time to let things settle a bit between each dimension. Insisting on going at maximum speed was too taxing even with a C-grade Bloodline and Peak D-grade energy reserves.

When the war grew too intense, Zac had no choice but to hunker down while continuously maintaining [Void Zone]. In the end, it wasted more time than if he had maintained the delicate balance between timelines. The breaks were a chance for Zac to recover some Void Energy while keeping an eye out for threats.

The fact that August’s presence never returned wasn’t enough to make anyone lower their guards. They knew he was still out there somewhere, plotting in the shadows. As a precaution, Zac didn’t allow his Void Energy reserves to dip below thirty percent, and he didn’t hold back on pills to recover his wounds and mental energy. If a second strike arrived, it would only be deadlier than the first.

Occasionally chanting the mnemonic did allow Zac to spot suspicious timelines two more times. He wasn’t as clear what about them was problematic, and he directly targeted them without looking into it any deeper. Then, during a routine inspection, his mnemonic exposed a timeline that made Zac react for a different reason.

It was familiar. It was his—the reality where he’d spent a lifetime as a woodcarver.
