We hunted ourselves some breakfast and then made our way back to the empire walls by mid-afternoon. I checked out Lily’s new Path along the way and was quite impressed by what I saw.

Name: Lily

Race: Hell Hound

Level: 15

Path: Shadow-linked Deceiver

Stage: 5

Body Development: 0%

Vitals

Health: 275 / 275

Mana: 450 / 450

Stamina: 444 / 444

Attributes

Strength: 53 (+10)

Dexterity: 111 (+26)

Vigor: 55 (+13)

Sense: 90 (+20)

Attunement: 99 (+23)

Active Skills

Decoy Strike LVL 4

Create a single shadow clone, then strike when your foe takes the bait.

Bonus damage if you strike directly after your clone is attacked.

Slip Dash LVL 3

Slide along the ground in a quick evasive maneuver.

Cry for Help LVL 3

Mimic other species with a distressing cry to lure them in.

You can now mimic speech and specific vocal ranges of an individual.

Flicker Mist LVL 2

Briefly take a mist form that is untouchable from physical attacks.

Shadowbond Constructs LVL 1 (Evolved from Shadow Clones)

Split yourself and your bonded rider, summoning two clones.

Umbral Passage LVL 1 (new)

When clones are active, you and your bonded rider may switch your true selves between them.

Shadow Crucifixion LVL 1 (new)

Summon two clones to latch onto a target’s limbs and hold them in place. Effectiveness is influenced by differences in strength.

Passive Skills

Basic Fighting LVL 4

Enhanced Smell LVL 4

Balance LVL 3

Electricity Resist LVL 1

Quick Reflexes LVL 4

Umbral-linked Mass LVL 1 (new)

Clones of yourself and your bonded rider have minimal physical mass and may deal damage and interact as more than mere shadows.

Traits

Easy Stride LVL 4

Reduced stamina drain from running and movement-based skills and traits.

Wall Runner LVL 2

You can run along walls as long as you maintain your momentum.

Pack Bond LVL 5

You gain experience from anything killed by a member of your pack during a hunt in which you are involved.

You and your packmates regenerate mana and health 5% faster while resting together, the bonus stacking an additional 5% for every nearby pack member.

You and your packmates take moderately reduced damage while hunting together.

You have an innate understanding of your pack members’ stats and abilities.

Mentally signal your intentions to pack mates.

Mist Step LVL 3

Your steps are absolutely silent.

Fear Resonance LVL 1 (new)

When hunting at night, your prey are induced with several debuffs, including increased stamina consumption, causing them to tire fast, a fear effect to harm their decision making, and they take increased damage from your attacks.

Bonded Rider LVL 1 (new)

You form a permanent bond with a single chosen rider. This bond cannot be easily replaced.

While fighting alongside your bonded rider:

Your movements and intentions synchronize, increasing combat efficiency.

You gain increased experience from the foes and prey you kill together.

Eheheh “Deceiver”! I loved Lily’s new Path’s name!

It seemed the main upgrades from this evolution were to her clones, while also getting a similar trait to Grick’s that focused on their bond as rider and mount. Giving them mass and also allowing her and Grick to switch their true selves between clones could really become overpowered! I could imagine both offensive and defensive uses of it. Like imagine switching your true self right before taking a hit? That could really be overpowered!

Shadow Crucifixion must have been what she was using when she held that bandit in place for our interrogation. Though, her strength was quite low, so I supposed she couldn’t rely on it too much against stronger targets.

But then I couldn’t help but give a wolfy smile at Fear Resonance. My precious little sister is just becoming more and more of a nightmare, isn’t she? I couldn’t be any prouder!

She had gained a few levels since last time I checked. I wasn’t even that far ahead of her anymore, though it did make sense since we were fighting things under my level for a while, and the higher your level, the harder it is to advance. At the rate things were going, I couldn’t imagine how hard it would be to gain levels once I was in my 30s or 40s or even higher.

Soon, we were nearing the wall outside of the Verdant Empire capital, where a set of green-garbed guards leaned into each other and whispered, one pointing towards us. Grick was sitting atop Lily’s back as we prowled up, and the guards cleared their throats.

“Ah—you must be Grick and the two Hell Hounds. We were ordered to escort you back to the palace if you arrived.”

“Thanks, nice humans!” Grick said.

I guess it was only natural to address the person who could respond, rather than the two dogs, though I was sure Grick was getting painted more and more as the hero of this story. It was obvious by the way the farmers pointed in our direction and whispered to each other. They were much more focused on Grick than either Lily or myself.

“Grick, ask them about Mei.”

“Did human girl come?” he asked, looking up at one of the guards from Lily’s back. “Grick rescues human girl named Mei from nasty bandits.”

The guards looked at each other, and one said, “I believe I heard something about that. She was escorted to the Palace, as far as I know.”

Well, if she was this important Mei person for real, I guess she was okay. There was something weird about her though, for sure.

We went through one of the side entrances of the wall and were met by another group of guards who walked with us all the way back to the green-tiled roads that led to the palace grounds. From the gate to the palace was about a good hour-long walk, and once we arrived, we were handed off to yet a third group of guards. I decided it was time to take my human form, but I needed something first, and as soon as the handmaids floated in to tend to our needs, I asked Grick to translate for me.

“Puppy needs human clothes,” Grick said, pointing at me.

“Of course,” Aiko said, “right this way, we’ll get you all taken care of.”

“Where Rin?” Grick asked.

“Rin has been informed of your arrival and will send for you when she’s available,” Aiko assured.

I found that they were prepared for us after all, because a privately sectioned-off portion of our room had two fresh sets of clothes waiting for me. One outfit was another of those flowery kimonos, and I let out a huff as soon as I saw it. I figured I’d have to talk to Aiko about getting me something for evening wear that was a little… I don’t know. Different. Sure, it was comfortable, but I was a predator! Hmmm… well, the cute outfit probably makes me seem less like a threat which might be preferable so long as I’m in the palace walls, but I’d think my small body was doing a good enough job of that already!

Luckily, the other set of clothes was a little more practical. A nice blue tunic with some slacks that could be tied off with a sash.

I switched my Path to Veiledfang Stalker, then transformed and quickly got changed, tying off the sash as best I could, but everything fitted rather loosely. Once I walked out from the privacy of the divider, the girls huddled around me.

“Please, allow us to help you with this Lady Hell Hound,” one said as they started adjusting my clothing.

Lady Hell Hound? I guess they didn’t have a proper name to call me by yet, but that felt a little weird.

“It’s fine,” I said, trying to wave them off.

“Now, now, it’ll only take a moment.” They pulled and tugged at my clothes, and I was honestly somewhere between too exhausted or too apathetic at the moment to really complain too much about it. I just let them do their thing, and once they were done, it fit much more snugly.

“Where’s Fox?” I asked as soon as they released me.

“Lady Fox? She’s… um…” Aiko frowned, folded her arms, and tapped her foot. “I’ll go see if she’s available.” She said it with such annoyance in her voice, I wondered what Fox had been up to while we were away?

Aiko slipped away without another word, her sandals whispering softly against the polished floor as she headed over to Fox’s room.

Grick leaned toward me. “Fox in trouble?”

“I doubt it,” I muttered. “Fox has probably just been being… Fox.”

Lily, however, was clearly uninterested in all this, her attention drifting toward another handmaid coming in and setting down a tray of food. Lily scampered over to it and sniffed as she decided on what to try.

“Just leave me some puffstork legs,” I told her.

It wasn’t long before Aiko returned—but not quite how I expected.

She emerged from Fox’s room with a stiff posture and a very deliberate calm, one hand pressed firmly against her face as if she were trying to physically push something out of her mind.

“…She’ll be with you shortly,” Aiko said, voice tight.

There was a brief pause, then the door behind her cracked open again.

A girl stumbled out—young, red-faced, and very clearly flustered. Her hair was a mess, strands sticking out in every direction, and her clothes… well, they were technically on, but only just. The sash at her waist had been tied in a hurry, slightly crooked, and one sleeve hung lower than the other.

She froze the moment she noticed us.

“…Ah—!” Her face somehow turned an even deeper shade of red. She quickly straightened, or at least tried to. “L-Lady Fox is available now!”

Then she bowed far too quickly before scurrying off down the hall like she was fleeing a burning building.

“Grick, why don’t you go ahead and get some food? I just wanted to ask her about some things,” I said. I was also just slightly worried about what I’d find behind that door.

Grick didn’t need to be told twice about the food, though.

“Okay!” he said, hopping down from Lily’s back and immediately making a beeline for the food like a missile.

Aiko slid the door open for me and I entered where I instantly spotted Fox, sprawled across a mound of cushions like she owned the entire palace.

Actually, scratch that—she looked like she owned the world.

She lay on her stomach, half-sunken into the cushions, a pipe resting between her fingers as she took a slow draw then exhaled a thin stream of smoke towards the ceiling.

Two girls knelt around her—one gently brushing out her tail, the other working her hands against Fox’s back in a slow massage.

On the bed just off to the side, a third girl lay completely passed out, sprawled on her back, breathing slow and even, looking like she’d been utterly spent and then abandoned there.

“Hey, kiddo!” Fox said cheerily. “How’d the hunting go?”

“We completed the quest…” I said, already questioning why I bothered coming in here in the first place.

“Hmmm, fifteen, right? That was fast.”

“Fifteen? Lady Fox?” the girl brushing her tail asked.

“…Ah—don’t worry about that. Business talk,” Fox said to her. She rolled a shoulder as she started to get up, signaling the girls to pause. They each stood at attention, hands folded under their sleeves as Fox sat up and stretched, letting out a long yawn that bared her sharp fangs.

“Would Lady Fox like a glass of wine?” one of the girls asked.

Fox didn’t even think about it. “Mm. Yes, please. That’d be nice.” The girl scurried over to a table to retrieve it.

I immediately cut in. “How much have you had to drink today?”

Fox blinked at me. “Nothing yet. We’re just barely getting up.” Then she grinned. “But no time like the present, right?”

“Fox…” I said dryly.

She raised a brow.

“We’re meeting with Rin soon,” I said flatly. “You’re supposed to be my advisor. Shouldn’t you be sober for that?”

Fox studied me for a second, then let out a quiet huff through her nose. “Mmmm… Fine. You got a point.” She waved a hand lazily at the girl who had just returned with the bottle. “Hold off on that for now.”

The girl bowed her head. “Yes, Lady Fox.”

Fox pushed herself up to a stand, stretching as she did, her tail flicking again as if mildly put out. “Mmmm, has breakfast been set out, at least?”

“…Yeah,” I said. “Grick and Lily are already tearing into it.”

Fox perked up slightly at that, the annoyance fading almost instantly. She turned to the two girls. “Alright, you can take a break. Looks like I need to start getting ready for work.” She winked.

“Yes Lady Fox,” they chimed together, bowing their eyes below their hanging sleeves. One of them walked over to the girl who was passed out on the bed and began to nudge her.

Fox lifted a hand. “Actually, just let her sleep.” She flashed a fang. “She’s had a long night.”

The girl in question let out a content hum as her arms reached out and snagged a pillow that she hugged against herself, and she curled deeper under the covers.

I didn’t even want to know what the hell’s been going on since we left.

But whatever, I didn’t worry about it as I made it back to the breakfast table to find Lily had been very polite about not hogging all the puffstork legs.

“Hey! You two have evolved already, congratulations!” Fox said as she plopped down at the table. “Mmmm, got some levels too. That’s actually insanely good for just a few days.”

“Grick powerful!” the goblin said between sliding a fish into his mouth, and he flexed a toned arm as he did so.

Serving girls floated in, setting cups in front of both me and Fox and filling them with a steaming liquid. I sniffed at it, determining it was tea, which was something I wasn’t particularly interested in.

“Seriously, though,” Fox said, resting her cheek on her palm as she sipped her tea. “It’s not normal to gain multiple levels in a week, let alone just a few days.”

“It’s because of Pack Bond. We can get full experience while hunting as a team,” I explained. “So how much are you kept in the loop around here?”

“In the loop?” Fox asked.

“Do you know what’s going on with my brothers?”

“Ah— You’ll have to ask Rin. I’ve just been settling in myself.”

I gave her a glare, feeling tempted to place a Death Mark on her now that the one on that archer back in the woods had finally worn off. I realized I’d have to be a lot more careful with Death Marks in the future and only use them on someone I was sure I’d be killing soon—aaah, not that I actually intended on killing Fox! I just had the urge to plague her with the fear effect.

Fox chuckled. “Hey, hey! You’re staring daggers.” But then her voice lowered with a bit more hostility. “You got a problem, kid?”

“Not a problem, but you’re only here because they want me. And you haven’t exactly been subtle about taking advantage of the situation.”

“I’ll remind you…” Fox began. “I never wanted to come behind those walls in the first place. I only came back to save you from getting snatched by the Valrok guy’s pets. So, you’re welcome. Now I don’t have a choice about leaving or not, but if they’re at least being hospitable, I might as well enjoy myself, right?”

My ears folded down, and I frowned. She wasn’t wrong, and I really couldn’t argue the facts. But still, something about it was just rubbing me the wrong way. Though, Fox always had a way of rubbing me the wrong way.

I grabbed another puffstork leg and put my annoyance with Fox out of my mind. I just hoped we wouldn’t have to wait too long before talking to Rin, and I could actually get some answers.

Luckily, by the time I had a nice pile of clean bones on the plate in front of me, and Grick was half asleep from overeating, Aiko came to the head of the table and cleared her throat.

“High Regent Rin Zaoh will see you now. She’s awaiting your audience in the war room.”

I felt a sudden tug of anxiety. I’d soon be finding out if reuniting with two of my pack members would be a little closer, or if it was still no more than a vague hope.

As I got up to follow Aiko, I felt a hand on my shoulder. I looked up to see Fox smiling down at me. Her grip was light, but firm enough to stop me for a moment.

“Don’t go in there like that,” she said quietly.

“…Like what?” I asked.

“Nervous. Desperate.” Her eyes flicked toward the doorway where Aiko was waiting, then back down to me. “Rin will see it on you. And she’ll use it.”

My ears twitched.

“…I am desperate,” I muttered in a low whisper.

“I know,” Fox said simply. “That’s why you can’t show it.”

Fox’s smile softened just a fraction—less teasing, more… serious than I was used to from her.

“You’re not some pet she’s trying to tame, and your job isn’t to impress a master,” she continued. “You’re a weapon she wants to keep. And if there’s already fifteen less bandits that won’t be stressing her guard, you’ve proven your potential and earned your place here. You have leverage. So act like it.”

My eyes shifted away from her. I wanted to believe in what she was saying, but the actual powerlessness I felt over not being able to just go save my brothers and the rest of my family gnawed at me.

“Think about it,” Fox continued. “Look at how they’re treating us. Look at what they’re giving me.” Then she lowered to a knee to whisper. “They could have just stuck me in a room with a couple meals every day. But Rin knows if my forced detainment feels like that, and I’m not okay with it—and don’t worry, trust me, I’m pretty damn satisfied—but if I wasn’t, you would never accept it, and she’d lose some of her grip on you.”

I canted my head. “So you’re saying she’s manipulating me. I already knew that, though.”

“No,” Fox corrected. “She’s negotiating with you, but more importantly, she seems to be negotiating in good faith. She’s trying to give us what we want, so she gets what she wants. That’s how any kind of trade works, in essence. But you have to understand—a negotiation is still a negotiation, and if you forget your own value, then you’ve already lost. Get it?”

“Is everything alright?” Aiko prompted from the end of the room.

Fox flashed a fang. “Just a last-minute pep talk. You ready, kids?” Fox asked as she raised up and looked around for Lily and Grick, who were just joining us.

“Grick’s ready,” Grick said.

“Yeah, I’m ready.” I nodded.

Aiko bowed and then led the way through the halls. I looked at the tapestries and portraits of frogs and I finally asked, “So, there are other nobles living here?”

“Of course there are,” Aiko said.

“It’s just, I haven’t really seen anyone else other than guards and serving girls…” I looked up to Fox, who had spent a bit more time here.

Fox shrugged. “I’d been enjoying my own room for the time being.”

“That’s because you are in the guest wing,” Aiko explained. “For privacy and security reasons, the royal family have their own accommodations.”

“Makes sense,” Fox hummed.

“So I’d been wondering…” I continued. “Are they uh… people, or, you know…” I glanced to one of the paintings. “Frogs?”

Upon asking, Aiko stiffened slightly.

Fox then patted me hard on the back and said, “Hey! What’s with a rude question like that?” She then turned her attention to Aiko. “You know how it is with kids. Always say exactly what’s on their minds.”

Aiko’s expression smoothed into something carefully neutral. “The royal family are… as they are meant to be,” she said.

That wasn’t an answer, but as I opened my mouth to complain about it, Fox cut me off.

“Right, right,” she said easily, waving a hand like it didn’t matter. “Very mysterious. Very important. Got it.”

I frowned but let it drop—for now.

Still… Aiko’s reaction felt a bit odd to me, and I wondered about what the final bandit I had killed had said about it. Of course, propaganda from an enemy nation would be portrayed in the worse way possible, but even such things tended to be rooted in some truth and… well… the emperor was undeniably a frog himself.

But before I could ponder on that any more, we were led into the war room where Rin awaited us. She was sitting at the end of the long table, a sheet of paper between metal fingers. Standing just over her shoulder was another girl. She was pale-skinned with rosy cheeks and had the loose robes of a serving girl, but instead of the lighter colors of the others, hers were black with pink flowers augmenting it.

Rin looked up and returned the page to a binder. “Welcome back. Please, have a seat.” She gestured over the table, then turned her attention to the girl behind her. Rin then started making movements with her hands and mouthing silent words. It looked so odd that my brow rose, but the girl simply nodded and grabbed the binder, then politely exited the room.

As me and Grick climbed into our seats, and Fox collapsed into hers, Rin explained, “Xiu is deaf.” Then pointed a metal finger at her own ear to clarify. “It means she can’t hear anything. She communicates well through signing and reading lips.”

“Oh,” I answered, searching through Lisha’s memories. “Yes, I know what deaf means. In my other life, what you just did is called sign language.”

“So how did your quest go?” Rin asked, cutting right to the chase, intertwining her metal fingers under her chin as she leaned forward.

“We’ve completed it,” I answered.

“Excellent. I honestly did not expect you would be back so soon,” Rin answered. Her red eyes focused on both me and Grick in turn. She then stood from her seat and paced around the table, arms crossed behind her back as she moved. I watched her, but she stopped as soon as she got eyes on Lily. “And you’ve all grown significantly. This is very good.”

“So what about my brothers?” I asked, cutting to the chase myself.

“So far, we’ve confirmed that the Scorched Steeps Tribe is in possession of two Hell Hounds.”

“And…?” I asked.

“And.” She paused, locking her gaze with me. “It seems unlikely they will be willing to sell both.” She let it hang there, leaving space for me to respond. My eyes dropped away from hers. I had to hold back the low growl that wanted to bubble up in my throat.

“So you’ve asked them already?” I pressed.

“No. That also has to be handled with care. The information we have now comes from, let’s say… our intelligence network.”

“You mean spies?” I asked.

“I prefer to go into as little detail about how exactly I know what I know as possible.” Rin paced back over to her side of the table and retook her seat. “But here is what the situation seems to be. One of the males was meant to go to the fighting pits with the mother, while the other was to be sold to the Scorched Steeps. It seems Valrok of the Bloody Peaks Tribe had warned that they would be untamable as a pair. But this advice has gone ignored. Now seeing the difficulty of taming a Hell Hound let alone two, the Chief of the Scorched Steeps Tribe wishes to get rid of one.”

I shook my head. “You said you’d help me get both of my brothers back. I want to find Luke, Iris, and my mother as well!”

“As for the rest of your family, I don’t have a plan yet, but we are looking into it.”

“What about Ben and Jerry! Can’t you pay them enough to give both back!”

“Don’t get ahead of yourself,” Rin said sternly, her red eyes locking onto mine once again. “The purchase of even one is up in the air at this moment. We cannot force a sale if it is not desired by the other party. I was merely giving you insight on the situation. As for other courses of action, that remains to be seen.”

I let out a breath. “Right… based on my performance.”

“Based on what’s feasible,” she corrected. "But I gave you my word we'll do what we can."

I opened my mouth to complain further, but she cut me off—

“And you will not interrupt me again,” she said sternly. “I’ve been lenient, but my patience has its limits. I have no use for a soldier who barks at me at every turn. Do you understand?”

I froze, mouth still half open. I looked over to Fox, who shrugged a single shoulder. She then gave me a reassuring smile before leaning forward to address Rin. “Apologies, High Regent. You know she’s young, and the lives of her family members is naturally a delicate subject. You’ll have to forgive her. She’s learning.”

I muttered under my breath, “You’re the one who told me to stand my ground.”

“Yeah, but not to disrespect the warlord in her own war room,” Fox muttered back.

“You’re the worst advisor ever!” I hissed.

“You just need to learn nuance, kid,” she shot back.

“Can we proceed?” Rin asked, her voice cutting through our banter.

Fox chuckled and waved a hand. “Of course, we’re all ears!”

Rin held her gaze on me a moment longer. Finally her posture relaxed. “Now, we’ll get into the other paths going forward when the time is right. For now, I’d like a report on the quest you’ve just completed.”

“A… report?” I asked.

“Just tell everything that happened. What you’ve learned, thoughts on the threats, and possible locations of other threats. I’d like details on how you’ve gone about completing the quest as quickly as you had… and…”

There was a knock on the door that cut her off. Rin said, “And there was one other thing I needed to ask you about.” She then raised her voice and called, “Enter.”

I looked over my shoulder to see a familiar face. It was Mei or Saku-something, dressed in plain white robes, but that wasn’t all. Her hands were shackled in front of her, her wrists locked inside a thick wooden block with a hinge. There was an armored guard on either side of her, and the black-robed servant, Xiu, filed in right behind them silently.

I gasped in surprise. “Mei!?”

Grick looked back and forth between Mei and Rin.

“P-Please, help me, Ser Grick,” Mei pleaded, but a guard nudged her shoulder, silencing her.

Grick stood up on his chair, leaning forward with one hand on the table and the other pointed back at her. “Why do that? Mei good human!”

Rin nodded and sat back. “So, you do know her. Start your report with how you had come across her.”
