Her tension rose as Mato approached the center of the cavern with two of Calen’s motes of light bobbing after him. When he reached the spot directly below the monstrous spider hanging from the ceiling, he let out a deep roar, taunting it. His challenge was answered immediately by a loud hiss and a blast of flame that smashed into the ground right where he was standing. The blast rocked the cavern, sending Ali’s minions ducking and dodging as chips of rock and globs of slag clattered off the walls. Still, Mato simply stood his ground, trusting his life to the fire resistance on his armor and the elixir he had just downed – and the gentle pulse of the holy restoration magic that worked to bring him back to full health.

From deep within the flaming web, the dark, spined form of the massive spider slowly emerged suspended on a thick strand of burning silk. Ali gasped. How is it so big? Four hind legs gripped the silk strand as it spun more, a continuous ripple of precision and strength as it paid out the line to descend into the chamber. The front legs waved in the air as if tasting it, while eight eyes lit with inner fires took in everything.

It paused in midair for a moment and then dropped the last couple of meters to the ground. Sharp chitinous legs blurred, attempting to skewer Mato from above, but he sidestepped, and the spider landed in a crash of sharp spines and wicked stabs that sliced through the rock as if it were clay.

Mato flared with the telltale green of his nature-affinity magic and his huge paw Swiped horizontally across the face of the spider. The great crash and angry hiss told Ali that he had severely annoyed it. Still, she waited as Mato shuffled backward, maneuvering the giant Flame Broodmother to face away from them.

Mana swirled within the monster, and it let forth a roaring blast of intense red fire, a cone that seared across the back half of the cavern, knocking Mato rolling despite his huge, armored bulk and leaving a track of glowing slag in its wake.

Faster than Ali could track, the Broodmother was upon him, razor-sharp gleaming jagged edges of its blurring front legs slicing through Mato and rock with equal ease. Mato’s blood sprayed across the cavern, steaming as it struck the super-heated rock, and her Acolytes yipped in surprise. While the damage was substantial, it still seemed manageable. The wounds were deep, but the healers were already restoring him. The spider struck again, the attacks somehow even faster.

“She has a Frenzy ability,” Malika announced. “Watch Mato’s health.”

A progressive melee haste buff based on consecutive strikes, Ali recalled, remembering the ability from her studies. This could be bad. Mato was not the most dexterous tank, and dodging wasn’t exactly his style.

“Go,” Calen announced, punctuating his statement with an incandescent arrow.

“Attack,” Ali commanded, relaying the instruction mentally to all her minions. Immediately, arrows flew, Lightning Bolts crackled, and her rogues sneaked out across the chamber, invisible to mundane senses in the darkness.

A red formation of magic coalesced within the Broodmother’s abdomen, and Ali immediately focused her attention. Having no prior experience with this boss, she needed to be exceptionally cautious – any ability could be deadly with the element of surprise. Sage of Learning ticked, drawing some of her meager mana supply away, and the formation suddenly became clearer to her. Her potent perception skill highlighted similarities between the formations etched in fire and her memories of something similar in the flavor of bone magic.

“It’s summoning monsters!”

“Above!” Calen yelled, and within the dense flaming web along the ceiling, several dozen Flame Skitterers fanned out along thin filaments of the fire web. Still, the Broodmother pulsed her summoning magic every couple of seconds, and each time a new batch of spiders materialized, scurrying away into the dense webbing, or one of the larger Flame Spinners dropped down from the ceiling.

The ceiling blazed with the light of Calen’s explosions.

“Kill the spiders up there.” Ali backed it up with the mental image for the benefit of her simple-minded Sparkling Oozes, and they immediately flowed up the walls, lobbing explosions of light into the center.

“Archers, kill any spiders that make it to the ground. Protect the healers.” Her Kobolds nodded, acknowledging her instructions. “The rest of you, stay on the Broodmother.”

The dark cavern began to flicker and flash as the intense explosions ripped through the webbing and small spiders that hung above the giant flame-wreathed boss. Some of the flashes were so intense that they overwhelmed the light of the flame and the web, leaving the cavern strobing between pitch-black and brightness so strong that it hurt her eyes. Everything moved in stop-motion, and with the amount of mana exploding, she was struggling to understand even her mana sight.

She almost missed the second magical formation within the spider.

“Watch out!” Ali yelled as she suddenly found the almost fully complete magical formation pulsing with red angry power. There was no time to analyze the spell.

With a sound like a fireball detonating, a sphere of flaming strands burst from the Broodmother like a whirlwind of blazing silk. A strand lashed across Ali’s chest and her shins, picking her up and slamming her into the wall. She coughed, winded, and found herself glued to the wall a meter off the ground with the skin on her legs blistering and burning. The Broodmother screeched loudly and charged Mato where he had also been pasted up against the wall but, with a great ripping sound, he tore himself free and engaged with a roar.

“Ali, healers,” Calen called from where he too was struggling against his bonds.

Fuck, everyone is webbed! Quickly, Ali connected her perception to her three Acolytes and found that all of them had been blown too far for them to reach Mato with their spells. Minion Teleport pulsed to the will of her mana and Ali appeared near the ceiling. Suddenly free, she summoned a barrier to catch herself while the Sparkling Ooze she had switched places with, slithered back up the wall like the flame webbing didn’t even exist.

Ali flew down to the center of the chamber, urgently counting down her recharge. As soon as it expired, she switched places with an Acolyte, teleporting it out of its fiery bindings and into the center of the room, where it would hopefully be in range of the already profusely bleeding Mato.

“Bone wall,” she demanded, harsh draconic syllables making bone-affinity mana flare from her trapped Bone Mages. She hissed at the searing pain of the flaming bindings that had until just a moment ago restrained her Acolyte, but she just gritted her teeth and began to deconstruct them. While the placement of her Acolyte was calculated to be ideal for healing Mato, there were still Flame Skitterers being spawned, and they would quickly destroy her healer without any help. She tossed out a barrier to help it. Expansive, thick walls of bone sprung up around the lone Acolyte, hopefully enough to protect her while she labored to free more of her minions. As soon as her recharge was up, she switched with another ooze, again appearing near the ceiling of the cavern and landing on a hastily summoned barrier. She created four barrier shards, making them as sharp as she could, and split her attention between Malika and Calen, tearing at the strands of fire silk gluing them down while she flew down trying to decide what to free next.

If I can get Malika out, we will have enough healing. Her trapped Acolytes had not been idle, they were actively healing against the damage of the flaming webbing – but it was Mato she was most worried about.

Shaman, she decided. Ali found one of her shamans, and teleported herself into his web prison, freeing him to protect her Acolyte from the spider swarm.

Her shaman dropped his nova totem near the bone walls and lit his shield with electricity as he waded into the spawned monsters. She continued freeing her minions, using her teleport every time the recharge was available, and tearing at the webbing with her barrier shards. When she finally sawed through and deconstructed enough strands to free Malika and Calen, the fight regained a modicum of stability. Ali breathed a sigh of relief and set herself to freeing her remaining minions.

I can’t miss that spell again. She ran through her options in her mind. Barriers, she decided. But on who? Where? She puzzled over the tradeoffs, considering all the options while the cavern flashed with the bright explosions, Lightning Bolts, and the Broodmother’s flame blast. At least Mato wasn’t being pushed back by that anymore now that he was fighting up against the rock wall of the cavern, but he and the Broodmother seemed to be fighting with sound as much as brawn, trading angry hisses with furious roars. Enacting her plans, she rearranged her minions, shifting them across the cavern so that they stood in two main groups on either side of the Broodmother, with just rogues and shamans behind her.

Soon enough, she saw the giant spider drawing heavily on the domain mana within the cavern.

“Web Explosion!” she yelled, throwing up three barriers instantly. One protected two Acolytes that she had made stand beside each other, the second materialized in front of Calen, and the third covered two of her shamans.

The maelstrom of flaming silk rope ripped through the cavern as the web blasted everyone else outward from the boss and glued them to the walls. Sticky, burning strands clung to the surface of her barriers, but they had served their purpose and Ali dismissed them at once. Calen and four of her minions were free, and with her adjustment to the placement of her minions, they were only stuck to the walls in two places, all well within range of the healers.

Much better, she thought, as she switched with her ooze to free herself and summoned her sharpened barrier shards to begin cutting Malika and her remaining minions free. I’m not doing a lot of damage this fight, she thought while teleporting back up to the ceiling again. But, getting everyone freed and back into combat faster would have a much more significant impact on their fight than if she threw her shards at the boss directly.

From her high vantage point, near the ceiling of the room, she looked down and studied the fight. Many of the spawned spiders were dropping down near the center of the cavern, or scuttling down the walls, and if she could deny them half the room through clever use of the bone walls or barriers, she could potentially corral them into a clump for more efficient elimination by her shamans’ lightning abilities.

“Bone walls,” she sent, along with the detailed image of her intent. As she made her way down, several diagonal walls of bone appeared and Ali augmented them with her barriers, causing the skittering spiders to bunch up in the center. Without even needing to instruct them further, the shamans tossed their Lightning Nova totems to land amid the spiders to devastating effect.

With all her minions freed and the spawned spiders taken care of, she checked on the Broodmother’s health using her Acolyte’s Healer’s Sight.

“Twenty percent,” she announced, surprised to discover how low the boss already was. But she had been frenetically busy the entire fight and hadn’t been aware of just how long they had been at it.

Right as she announced the value, the Broodmother let out an angry hiss, and the flames on its body surged, intensifying into a furious blaze of heat and flame that began melting the rock on which it fought. Its legs blurred and a fountain of blood flew from the sudden array of new deep wounds on Mato’s flanks, shoulders, and back.

The first of her Acolytes triggered Devotion, the pillar of holy light gleaming out brightly against the dark red of molten rock and flame.

“It’s enraged,” Calen shouted, immediately triggering his Righteous Fury, and unleashing a brilliant storm of arrows at the boss which seemed to be shredding Mato with its unbelievably powerful, hasted strikes, leaving a gruesome display of blood splattered against the wall.

Ali shot a few barrier shards at just to get in a little extra damage, when she noticed the surge of fire-affinity mana within the Broodmother again.

“Web Explosion!” She summoned her three barriers immediately, trying to cram more of her minions behind each one. This time she managed to get all her shamans and Acolytes, while also protecting Calen from the explosive snare of the web. Her head cracked against the rock wall as she was glued to it by the webbing, and she saw stars briefly before she freed herself by teleporting her ooze into her spot.

She gasped as several hasted strikes cut deeply into Mato while the flame blast simultaneously smashed him into the wall, and his health dropped precipitously low. But just as the blurred forelegs of the spider sliced downward, his health skyrocketed. Last Stand, it must be.

“He used Last Stand,” Malika confirmed, dodging in to heal him.

Thirty seconds. Mato must have used his potent perception skill to anticipate the need for his final defensive skill, Last Stand, casting it with perfect timing and giving them thirty seconds of breathing room to smooth over the transition through the enraged Web Explosion.

Malika somehow managed to dodge the web this time and tore into the boss with a dazzling display of precision martial arts, so Ali worked to cut her archers and bone mages free instead, prioritizing the monsters with the most damage.

Ali was still cutting web from her last minions when her chime sounded.

Your group has defeated Flame Broodmother – Spider – level 60 (Fire) Grove Warden has reached level 53 (+2).+20 attribute points.

Ali immediately spent all twenty points on wisdom, growing her mana pool by six hundred. At last, that spider was worth it!

Arcane Insight has reached level 27.Arcane Recall has reached level 10.Barrier has reached level 39.Empowered Summoner has reached level 25.Minion Teleport has reached level 14 (+3).Inspiration has reached level 9.

She released her barrier shards, allowing them to disperse into the golden glitter of unbound mana as the urgency of the fight suddenly waned. The sounds of explosions and arrows faded as the last remaining spiders were quickly hunted down and eliminated. Ali freed her remaining minions using Minion Teleport or deconstruction exclusively because it conveniently detached the exceptionally sticky web from them, instead of leaving annoying burning strands stuck to skin or armor.

