"Exactly!" Cale beamed proudly at him, clapping a hand on his shoulder, and Damien did his best to suppress the glow of pride from within. Mostly because he wasn't really sure what to do with anyone being proud of him. Or him being proud of himself, for that matter. "Magic wants to be cast. Incantations are one of the best ways to persuade it to do that. Just like praying to the Gift, for example."

"So... I should try an incantation," Damien said slowly, and Cale nodded at him.

"Try to shape your mana in a way that feels right for what you want it to do," he said encouragingly. He took Damien's wrist and guided it to the edge of the jar, just over the water-flour mixture inside. "Then whisper your incantation. It might take a few tries, but don't worry if it fails."

"A-alright," Damien said. He felt a little foolish, but he did it anyway, extending his new Verdant Flame mana into a thin little rod that extended into the mixture.

Cale's eyes widened slightly at the pale, flickering green flame that extended from Damien's fingers, but he said nothing. Instead, his gaze somehow became intent. Damien looked up for just a moment, caught the conflict in his eyes, a flicker of something old and heavy he couldn't understand.

And along with that, something seemed to change. The rest of the room faded away, leaving only Damien, the jar, and Cale Cadwell Cobbs. He could feel the mana in the room gathering around them, almost like it was holding its breath and waiting for him. Waiting for...

Waiting for the creation of a spell.

Damien thought it would be difficult to find the words, but instead, the words came to him naturally and seemed almost to reverberate into the mana itself:

O driver of cycles within the air: you who seeds civilizations, the ever-present, the spore-eternal

Feast now upon your gods-given fare: an offering given for a harvest yet to be, now-ethereal

Something seemed to flood through Damien, a pattern that was familiar and then suddenly different. The Gift curled around him in reaction—no, in anticipation. Excitement? His cloak fluttered behind him, seeming to sense the change in energy.

[Decay Bolt] has evolved into [Yeast Bolt]!

Damien stared. He'd almost forgotten that all of this was about encouraging yeast to grow in the jar.

[Yeast Bolt, Level 1] [Second Tier (Unique), Active] [500 Mana]

An application of the Verdant Flame, this spell encourages the growth of yeast and other microorganisms that contribute to the taste profile of sourdough bread. This spell will forever be known as the first of the Legacy of the Verdant Flame.

"Um," Damien said. "I think the Gift might be making fun of me."

"We definitely need to talk about that," Cale said, sounding distracted. Damien glanced over to find his mentor busy dumping pinches of flour into a now-frothing mixture of flour and water. "And about how you know about incantation rules. After we deal with this, though! We need to make sure we don't ruin the starter. Quick, help me dump more flour into this—"

Syphus's dry voice echoed into the room, making them both jump. "I would ask if I arrived at a bad time, but I'm not sure any timing would explain this," the golem said. "Lucky for you both, I don't care as long as Cale turns my arm into a cannon later. What was it you wanted to tell us, Damien?"

"Um," Damien said. "It's about... I think it's about a new mana aspect? Kind of? The Gift said it was something called a Legacy—"

"Oh?" Syphus seemed suddenly very interested. It rolled all the way up to him and peered at him closely. "You've discovered a new mana aspect, have you? How interesting."

"Sisyphus, stop taking over Syphus without asking," Cale said without looking up. "Also, come help me dump flour into this jar! The yeast is hungry!"

Syphus—or Sisyphus? Damien was deeply confused about this—sighed and straightened. "You know, I did think you would be as difficult to locate as the legends say... but I did not think you would be difficult to predict as well."

"Less talking, more flour-bending, or I'm going to make sure the next time Syphus conjures sand it's going to show up on top of you."

"...The fact that I believe you troubles me greatly." Syphus's golem body shuddered before moving to help.

Damien just stared at them both.

Then he mechanically grabbed some flour and started helping with the flour thing. It seemed easier than questioning whatever this was.
