While the clash of Advanced Primordial Aura in the sky only becomes more intense, my perception of the rest of the Purple Zone becomes more clear.

The spread of links of loyalty in the outer settlements keeps speeding up.

I can see a perfect ring now, around the entire neutral zone. The demon-run land that connects to the ritual zones is already under my control. From my natural perception now, I can feel the entire central domain.

Instead of just around, the domains slowly spread out to the edges of the Purple Zone, where there are hardly any Primordial Trees. In the back of my mind, I can see almost the entire Zone.

My linked worlds still increase quickly, surging past 110 billion.

–

Every new one that connects lights up another dot in the dark expanse of the lower realm.

Many of them have little to no life left on them, as they are ancient worlds from billions of years ago. However, there are some that have sprouted new civilizations unrelated to the current owners of their worlds.

This brings a constant new surge of data points into the World Wide Connectivity System. New spectate POVs are added to the forums, sorted by the admins, and sent out to the teams of fighters handling the demon invasion.

There is no longer a lack of power or fighters in the lower realm, there is only a need for more eyes, teleport points, and time.

At the same time, a new update rolls through the World Wide Connectivity System. All registered planets can now support instant fast travel points for Admins, Knights, Commanders, and Generals, even if there isn't a soul left alive in the solar system.

This can be overridden by the admins to allow civilian access via a simple application.

Alveron begins rapidly approving High Ranking elites, strong 1st Class fighters, and exceptional outliers in any world that applies to fight against lingering armored white demons that are not an immediate threat to life. The higher-risk cases are reserved for the Inner Circle.

Before this update, none of them would have ever been on the front lines.

However, an extremely dense wave of Primordial Aura streams in from the Upper Realm, making any fighter that accepts it able to wield this power.

It does not feel natural at all, everyone that accepts it understands that it is an emergency break in the system, and the Rising Emperor is granting them a portion of his power to fight for their future.

Simultaneously, new options start popping up in their natural mana-based system options.

Before, there were only a small amount of skill-borrowing options approved by the admins. They included self-regeneration and most of the elemental combat skills. Special cases received some of the more volatile and rare skills; however, no one has seen the borrowed buffs sections yet.

Instantly, everyone sent out to the front lines has the option to activate their own mana-based greater forms, Divine Astral Forms, and even Celestial Rank buffs.

Unlike skills that directly transfer to their systems, these buffs mutate when borrowed. No one can directly unlock the Rising Emperor's Sacred Body, nor can they replicate the unlimited growth nature of his Astral Form.

However, a system user can access buffs that are multiple rank-ups away in their own system's future track, allowing monsters from 3rd and 2nd Class worlds that have not even leveled up past 1000 yet to unlock Celestial Bodies. It gives them the temporary framework to wield Primordial Aura and take out stray ancient imperial demons all over the galaxy.

–

The situation in the Green Zone is much different.

There are far fewer Imperial Demons, and the three Generals that have the power to kill them are ruthlessly doing so by the hundreds.

Many of the Elites that were standing by join in to target the stragglers that try to land cheap shots on the citadels.

Zashen and the enormous white griffin protect the Grand Citadel while Ava takes on the bulk of soldiers in the front lines.

Asic and Torvak stand their posts at Ellipsia.

Behind Arie and Raven, an army of shadows lurks below it. They are the remains of a demonic army that the High Noble Vermillion Demon who used to own Mensa Citadel left behind. All of them now hold a fraction of the power from Arie's spirit hands, and they are infused with the Primordial Aura pouring down from the Purple Zone.

They act as the final line of defense, but the invisible swordswoman and the dark archer do not appear to be letting a single demon through.

The Fortress is completely protected by its own ancient defense system. A few stray ancient mindless demons wander out to it, but they explode into pure ether and demonic essence on contact with the defense barrier around it.

The fortress itself has begun to blink with a strange white and silver light, and glyphs start floating to the jet-black surface of all the cube-like structures that make up the floating island of storage in the sky.

The reactor below the Grand Citadel blinks at the same exact rate.

–

In the Cyan Zone above, the energy manifestation of tree roots is growing in size, spreading over the outer layer of the Ravine's High Quality Ether barrier.

At first, it was far too strong to fall victim to this Celestial Grade form that Abby summons from her Dryad's Legacy. It would only allow small amounts of High Quality Ether residue to flow off of it. This was the only energy source allowing the tree to grow larger.

After all, she and Seraphel drained the entire Cyan Zone of its energy after killing Lucian, and the Dark Blue Zone above was cleared out by Jay and Maria on their trip upward before.

The only source of power is this ancient array, and the roots crawl all over it, surrounding its edges and trying to find weak spots anywhere they can.

This is not an easy feat. After all, a Royal Demon was trapped beneath this array for hundreds of millions of years, and never found a crack.

It is a perfect seal, nothing from this zone can possibly break an artifact created in the Purple Zone.

That is, unless they had power borrowed from the very zone that it was created in.

When the Primordial Aura of the Rising Emperor pours into Abby and Seraphel, both of them receive the most potent stream out of anyone below.

They are the closest to the source, and in need of energy the most.

The entire massive green tree starts to ripple with rainbow aura, invisible to the eye for those that cannot understand its depth. Every passing second, the aura gets more refined, denser, and more complex. This is because the Rising Emperor's understanding of Primordial Aura itself is progressing with every passing moment.

Waves of budding Advanced Primordial Aura seep into the roots of this tree, and they're reinforced with enough pressure and pure will to begin cracking through the top layers of the Ravine's array.

The pure white High Quality Ether that is released when these glyphs begin to break and spin out of control is millions of times greater than the runoff they were leaking before.

Streams of pure white ether flow up the roots of this tree, and the roots squeeze tighter, breaking through more and more layers of the array.

Instantly, the leaves and branches breaking through into the Blue Zone start to grow upward. They are breaking through their growth plateau, up toward the sky again, searching for the top of even this zone.
