They had all snuck into the guild as soon as night fell and it got dark outside, and they had been cooped up in this conference room for hours. Ali felt the time ticking away relentlessly toward the inevitable deadline of the trial which had been scheduled for tomorrow morning.

She had to admit though, that the combination of Mieriel’s intelligence gathering, Ryn’s organizational skills, and the combined political savvy of Mieriel, Vivien, and Lira, they had accomplished a great deal. One question remained: would it be enough?

The door clicked open, and Ali looked up to find Vivian returning.

“Were you able to convince him?” Lira asked.

“Yes, he agreed,” Vivian said, sitting down.

“Convince who of what?” Ali asked.

“I asked the mayor to open the trial to the public,” Vivian said.

“What? Why?” Ali blurted out. Not only was she to be put through the wringer, but now there would be spectators?

“It is part of our strategy, dear,” Lira said. “If it were just the council members, then the death of Roderik Icecrown would weigh heavily against you. But the news that you killed him should win the average commoner to our side.”

“But they don’t vote.”

“Correct,” Vivian said. “But some of the council members care about the opinions of the townsfolk. It is good leverage. It also works with the food shortage concerns.”

“I see,” Ali said. She had offered to help out with the food shortage, so their scheme made sense. However, bands of anxiety clamped across her chest at the thought of defending herself in front of such a large audience. “Can we at least have Mieriel in the crowd then?” Ali asked. If she was forced to have a big audience, having a mind mage to feed her information would be an incredible tool.

“Now that’s a fantastic idea,” Calen said.

“Unfortunately, the council would never allow me in,” Mieriel said. “And I’m not strong enough to conceal myself from Donella Novaspark.”

“You’re not?” Ali asked. Losing Mieriel during the trial would be a huge loss for them.

“I can’t even hide from you anymore,” she admitted. “And Donella is reputed to be in the nineties.”

“Ok, summarize it for us, Mieriel,” Vivian said.

“Vivian is a yes,” Mieriel said. “Gerald Brand seems to still trust you guys from your contributions to the Goblin siege, so if you provide the scouting report on the Necromancer’s forces, he is likely to be our second yes.”

Ali was a little surprised that Gerald Brand remembered them, and that he was favorably disposed to them, but Mieriel seemed certain.

“The mayor is our next yes,” Mieriel announced. “Provided you’re certain you can solve the food shortage?”

Ali nodded. With Lira, and Eliyen, and the help of some of the refugee farmers, she was certain they could turn the ashen former forest cavern into an impromptu farm that would produce enough food for the entire town.

Ali shuffled through the flashcards till she had the one for the mayor.

William TurnerAffiliations: Mayor of Myrin’s KeepMajor concern: Feeding the town.Expected Vote: Yes.

She had only met the mayor once, but she had met his son Aiden many times, including when she unlocked his class and at the guild. He was not going to be an automatic yes like Vivian, but everyone was certain she could win his vote by offering to feed the town.

“And for the council members opposed, Bastian Asterford is going to vote no for certain. He won’t stand for the death of a noble.”

Bastian AsterfordBastian’s job is to represent the crown’s interest in Myrin’s Keep. He is a noble of the prominent house of Asterford. Affiliations: New Darian Crown Executor, NobleMajor concerns: The death of Roderik Icecrown, and his son Donavan during the class trial.Expected Vote: No.

“I was unable to get any intelligence on Donella Novaspark, but just going by her reputation, she will be hard to budge,” Mieriel continued. “We expect her to vote no, also.”

Donella NovasparkReputed to be a person of high integrity and exceptional power. Affiliations: Founder of the Novaspark Academy of Magic.Concerns: unknown.Expected Vote: No.

“Hadrik Goldbeard is a typical Dwarf. Rowdy, loud, loves his ale, and is also incredibly stubborn,” Mieriel said, reading off a page of handwritten notes. “We expect him to vote in the interest of the crown – therefore no. I should point out that there is no love lost between him and Jax – the two of them often fight in council meetings.”

Hadrik GoldbeardVery strict about his duties and a strong advocate for the law.Affiliations: Tax Collector for the New Darian Crown, BankerExpected Vote: No.

“That brings us to three votes each, with the tiebreaker going against us. So, we must win over Jax Hawkhurst – of all the council members, I believe he is the most flexible. He is entirely self-interested and can be swayed with enough money. I suggest buying his vote. I am aware you sold Magicite to Weldin Thriftpenny, can I assume you’re able to make more?” Mieriel paused, glancing across the table.

“I can,” Ali confirmed.

“Then I suggest mentioning the need for a merchant company willing to sell Magicite outside of the town as a way of hinting at a deal with him. Everyone will know what you’re doing but, because you’re not outright bribing him, they won’t be able to say much. Hadrik will be pissed, but we’re expecting him to be a lost cause anyway.”

Jax Hawkhurst A man of flexible morality, politically connected, mastermind of a criminal syndicate. Affiliations: Hawkhurst Trading Company, Town WatchConcerns: Personal profits.Expected Vote: flexible.

“But he’s a criminal,” Malika objected, clearly upset about the conclusion. And, in Ali’s opinion, rightly so. While Mieriel said they would not be outright bribing him, it was pretty blatant. A Magicite deal would make him incredibly wealthy, increasing his power.

“I know, but I don’t see any other choice,” Mieriel countered.

“This cannot be our strategy,” Malika doubled down, rising from her chair and slapping the table with the flat of her palm. “He supports the Town Watch and all the violence and intimidation they inflict on the common townsfolk. I can’t believe we will have to get in bed with him. Ugh!”

“I’m open to any ideas, any different approaches,” Mieriel said, undaunted. “Remember, if Aliandra is found to have no rights, your arguments of self-defense will be void, and you will all be sentenced – probably to death. Most of the council see the Town Watch as a necessary evil and will convict you of killing representatives of the law. At best, Vivian will be able to protect you while you flee town, but you will be outlaws everywhere in New Daria.”

“That’s absurd, they are the criminals!”

“Many of them are not, even though I agree the leadership is corrupt.”

“What about Donella Novaspark? You wrote that she has high integrity, that’s a good thing, right?” Malika asked, seeming desperate to find an alternative. But Ali could tell what the answer was before Mieriel even started.

“I couldn’t get close to her, but the rumors show that she has been outspoken about the dungeon below Myrin’s Keep, advocating for culling it quickly to restore the safety of the town. In this case, her high integrity means she will not easily be swayed from what her morals dictate. She perceives a threat, and that is bad for us.”

“What about Hadrik? He cares about money too, right?” Malika said. “If we have to stoop to buying a vote, can’t we buy his instead?”

“He cares most about the law, and he will vote according to the crown’s policy on this. New Daria’s royalty generally disapproves of dungeons, going so far as to even forbid operating or exploiting subjugated dungeons for profit.”

The argument raged back and forth with neither side letting up, but Ali tuned it out. Buying Jax Hawkhurst’s vote – for that’s what the plan really was – seemed to be the only way to win the council’s approval. If the council granted her person-status and the protection of the law that went with it, her friends would be safe. Their argument that they were trying to defend her would be valid, and the deaths of the Town Watch would be considered necessary to defend themselves and her from harm. This would be easy to argue with the testimony of Aiden and his group.

But the thought of working with the crime syndicate boss that had hurt Malika so much and inflicted so much hardship on the people of Myrin’s Keep left her feeling dirty, unclean, and fouled to the core.

“Malika, I’m really sorry, but I think I need to do what Mieriel suggests. I hate the idea of helping him, but I cannot go into the trial knowing there might have been a way to save you all and not take it. I know you will never be able to accept working with him, but it’s not your commitment to make, it’s mine. If all it takes is selling him a ton of Magicite, I would much rather you lived.”

“I can’t believe this,” Malika exclaimed, getting up and storming out of the room.

Ali’s heart sank. I’m sorry, Malika, this is the only way. I hope you can see it eventually. She was not at all objective in this; it was her life at stake too. She was terrified of facing another Roderik. But Malika was obviously very deeply hurt by her decision, and she had no idea how she would ever make it up to her.

If only there was some other way.
