“Alright, listen up. Of the five—six, sorry—of us, I’m the only one that’s been here before and I need to explain what’s about to happen for the next few days. So, gather ‘round, shut your noise holes, and actually listen because I don’t want to get killed because of some knife-eared jackass.” Malista announced, glaring at Sylphene the entire while.

The woman had been the only one to vote against taking her along and she never, ever let Sylphene forget it. She was also the highest level of the group, at 984. Her primary role was defensive, despite the presumed implications of the absurdly massive sword that she wielded.

“I’ve been up this way once, to the Hub at least.” Nangyna, the male wearing a dark steel bustier and matching armored skirt, chimed in. He was one of the two [Mages] in the group and specialized in both Pyronox and Mountain. And at level 780, he was the second weakest person in their group by conventional metrics.

“Good. In that case, shut your noise hole and listen, because I refuse to just assume anyone else did anything correctly. We’re about to enter the domain of Drx’tharan, the Sun-kissed Slaughterer. Yes, for those of you who lack basic knowledge, he’s a dragon. He isn’t hostile toward our kind, and we want to keep it that way. We’re detouring to leave offerings for him—that was why I told you to bring some baubles, Knifey—before we proceed. If you see a strange bright light or a draconian shadow overhead, do not look. Our host is a Radiance specialist and I’m not turning around just because some tourist blinded herself.

“If—and I mean if—he deigns to approach us, I expect everyone here to venerate him. This is his territory and he could erase us all if we test his patience. He has allowed devils to pass through his territory for over two thousand years, and we are grateful.” Malista punctuated her final words individually, with as much vigor as she could muster.

Sylphene joined the chorus of acknowledgements once the other devils spoke up. Malista had never given them permission to speak, but the group was… surprisingly casual with one another, at least by the standards Sylphene had gotten used to since she crossed the border.

As for the dragon, she was hardly surprised. The northern continent was sparsely populated, which resulted in monsters and other dangers that were far beyond their level. The only way they could travel safely without thousands of levels was to move through the territories of even deadlier threats—namely the beings that would both tolerate their presence and have the necessary might to tame a slice of the wildlands.

“Oh, one other thing—don’t attack anything here. Even if something nasty comes after us, we’re running. Killing any of our patron’s flock is an absolute last resort and if it happens, we must make up for it. Sister Drastica, that means put your weapons away unless I specifically tell you to arm up.” Malista glared at their notoriously twitchy hybrid [Warrior].

“Fine. Just don’t come crying to me when Black Crow reaps us.” The woman in question shrugged as she gave her flippant response, unshouldering her bundle of javelins afterwards. The [Warrior]/[Mage] had been the one to initiate almost every combat encounter they had faced. Granted, her unrelenting bombardment of—for someone at level 739—powerfully accelerated javelins was great for breaking through the defenses of even the toughest monsters, but it was something of a relief to know that no additional unexpected fights would be triggered without warning.

The woman’s Skill-improved senses were a touch too honed.

“Sister Endera, you’re with me if anything does attack. Debuffs only; I’ll call to disable it if we have no choice.” Malista concluded her speech there, apparently, as she stood back up from her crouch.

“As you command, sister.” Endera chirped her agreement with a solemn nod. At level 830, she was just behind Sylphene’s level. She too was a [Warrior]/[Mage] hybrid, though she specialized in melee with hit and run tactics, applying escalating debuffs as she slipped in and out of range.

Bialldra had never said a word during the entire session, though that was rather typical. The level 899 [Mage]’s entire repertoire of noises began with a disgruntled “meh” and ended with surprisingly shrill cries of passion, with precious little in between. And her contributions to battle were… messy. It was obvious that she lacked both the levels and the stats to properly utilize the spatial distortions that she wanted to use in battle, though she still tried her best. Which of course made it extremely dangerous to be downrange from her.

Sylphene, as usual, fell in behind the group as they made their way into a tunnel that had seemingly been formed by melting directly through the mountain. There were no forks or branches to the cylindrical tunnel, it was simply an unerringly straight line that led to sunlight at the other end—almost certainly created by the dragon lord that controlled the region.

They were just over halfway through the tunnel when they heard the first roars. Fury and pride in equal measure, formed into such powerful sounds that the mountain itself seemed to shake around them, dislodging a few glassy fragments of stone from the tunnel. Sylphene and the devils hesitated, then Malista broke into a sprint—forcing everyone else to follow.

Unfortunately, she was running the wrong way. What sort of facetless fool ran toward what were, quite clearly, the sounds of two dragons locked in battle?!

Sylphene emerged from the tunnel to witness a scene carved from the nightmares of her ancestors. A mere moment after she cleared the tunnel, the two dragons slammed into one another with such force that the [Mages] of her group were thrown backwards. Sylphene herself stumbled—only Malista remained unmoved by the ferocity of the impact. And they were still well removed from the dragons. There was enough distance that, without the benefit of their vitality (and superior elven eyes), both of the apex mysticals would have been mere dots in the sky!

Please, if you have any say in the matter, do not allow either of them to notice what I am about to do. Sylphene sent the prayer on terror-filled impulse before she activated [System Perception] and directed it at the two dragons. She did what she could to keep the ‘impact’ of the Skill as indirect as possible, relying on a blend of her senses. It was recorded that dragons often had some means to sense attempts to [Analyze] them—but she had to know what they were facing.

[Drx’tharan, the Sun-kissed Slaughterer], level 3071, was the larger of the two dragons. His scales were a vibrant and elaborate pattern of yellows, oranges, and reds—as though he were the sun itself, manifest in flesh. Golden jewelry hung from his claws, though much of it had been utterly ruined by the battle thus far. For the moment, the dragon seemed hale and unharmed, not that his unblemished state lessened the fury that radiated from his body.

[Vex-tanax, the Platinum Pride], level 2690, was the challenger. As the name implied, their scales were a pale silver color that shone in the light of the midday sun. They wore no ornamentation, aside from the conjured Inferno that coated their fangs and claws.

“What shall we do, sister?” Bialldra spoke a complete sentence for the first time since Sylphene had met the woman.

And yet, Malista seemed to have entirely missed the rarest of sounds. Instead, she took an awed step forward as she watched the dragons circle one another.

“No… Not now…” She whispered, so quietly that she seemed to fear either dragon hearing her.

The dragons immediately ceased their posturing and resumed their battle. They were both fast. Dragons were the apex of existence—the final masterpiece of the creator gods. Just as elves were the perfected form of the elvenoids that preceded them, dragons were the perfected form of the mystical creatures that the gods had moved on to once the elves had been crafted. Even with her elven perception, honed by her modest vitality, Sylphene could barely even make sense of the battle.

The dragons barraged one another with minor Skills and spells, each too weak to meaningfully injure the other. They were mere probing strikes. Any one of them could have struck Sylphene down with certainty, yet hundreds of them were exchanged with every moment that passed.

And then, the time to test defenses came to an end, and the dragons got serious. Drx’tharan unleashed four beams of concentrated Radiance, each so dazzling that they seemed far thicker than they truly were. As expected of the element, there was no travel time—all four tore through the mountains that surrounded the lush jungle that comprised the dragon’s territory. Yet, despite the instantaneous nature of the attack, none of them so much as touched Vex-tanax.

“Prisms… The challenger must have a Radiance element too—or Spatial.” Sylphene voiced her suspicion, wishing she had more speed. She had spoken as swiftly as she could manage, yet another dozen exchanges had passed between the dragons before she could finish!

They needed to leave! By the spires, they had to get clear. Had any of those beams passed over them before they were cancelled, all six of them would have been annihilated instantly! Even the follow-ups would have reduced their numbers!

By the time Sylphene finished her thoughts, Vex-tanax had managed to swoop higher into the air and soared above the lord of the domain. Once they had the advantage of altitude, they counterattacked with the staple attack of dragons—a blast of dragon’s breath. Moments before the Inferno-aspected mass made contact, Drx’tharan glowed vibrantly and vanished—reappearing adjacent to the challenger as he tried to grapple the smaller dragon.

Inferno was not an instantaneous element, unlike Radiance, but there was still no time to react. Even with her perception at its limits, Sylphene’s body was too slow to move. Instead, Syl—Avyna, in her final moments she denied the deception!—turned her half-formed thoughts to the woman she loved, unsure if she was trying to silently apologize to Ranthia, or if she just wanted to call to mind her beloved’s face. One last time.

The Inferno would miss them, but it was a close thing, especially at the scale of the attacks. The dragon’s breath strafed through a section of the jungle, before it swept up the mountains, a mere six peaks away from where they stood. The heat was too much to bear—she desperately shut her eyes as she felt agony seep its way into her skin.

And then the heat was gone, as swiftly as it came.

Sylphene had absolutely no explanation for it. A space six mountains wide was just gone—a shallow trench left in their place. It should have been too close for any of them to survive, yet there they stood. And all that Sylphene had suffered was a light reddening of her skin and a few mundane heat blisters. The others were largely the same, though Nangyna had suffered the most with his dismal vitality—there was true charring on sections of his exposed flesh.

Still, they were alive and Malista’s and Endera’s Auras would be sufficient to tend to their inexplicably mild wounds. Even the jungle seemed to have endured the dragon’s breath far better than she would have ever expected. Much of the undergrowth was gone, but the trees still stood, with the bulk of their leaves intact, no less—which made the stink of burning leaves that filled the air even stranger.

“We must leave!” Sylphene was never one to hope for a miracle twice in a row. And just in case, she sent her gratitude to her beloved’s deity. She was somewhat relieved when He declined it—she was uncertain of what she would have done had He directly intervened to save her.

“Sister, please!” Nangyna seemed to be on her side, but Bialldra and Endera grimly looked to Malista, awaiting her instruction.

Drastica had rearmed herself and held a javelin ready, as if she seriously expected to be of meaningful assistance to a battle between tyrants that possessed several times her own level.

But before Malista could answer—assuming the woman even would have ever answered—the world turned white as all six of them were forced to shield their eyes. Even Sylphene could barely endure enough to make out Drx’tharan’s attack. His dragon’s breath felt as though it bore the sun’s total ferocity, compacted into a dense, blazing pillar of Radiance. And yet it was merely the first volley of the high-level dragon’s attack.

Behind the dragon’s breath was a copy of the dragon himself—one wrought from Radiance that was undoubtedly just as potent as the breath itself. It was diving toward the would-be usurper with its claws bared.

And the true Drx’tharan was right behind his attacks, with his fangs and talons ready to meet the younger dragon, in an uncanny mirror of his deadly doppelganger.

A somewhat cursed thought, in retrospect.

Neither Radiance attack was quite as instantaneous as the beams had been. They were swift, to be certain, yet had Drx’tharan not been in such close proximity to the upstart, Vex-tanax might have been able to evade.

Not that they even tried. Instead, their scales became far brighter.

No.

They became reflective.

Drx’tharan probably realized the danger, but it was far too late. His dragon’s breath touched the Mirror coated scales and were absorbed—followed by his doppelganger. Vex-tanax screeched in pain—assuming Sylphene was appropriately parsing the myriads of bestial sounds that dragons were capable of—though they endured and returned the Radiance in a powerful directed pulse.

