He decapitated the crouched form, plucking up Pine’s head. Randidly examined the piece he had obtained, a chunk of Pine’s actual body, and made a face; this monstrous lizard form was hideous.

If Randidly did say so himself, Pine looked quite a bit more handsome as a ghostly hound. Definitely, that should be the default in the future.

But this was the last piece he needed for his grand gamble, his final trick. Randidly rolled his shoulders and wondered if he could pull this off.

Especially because the true threat to him… was completely unknown.

“Okay,” He released a breath. “One step at a time. Neveah can handle the process in here, Pine will hopefully manage the last coupling… and I…”

He envisioned the grand stage for his final trick. He released a vague, half-formed pulse of Nether, hoping he would be enough.

Despite having mentally prepared himself, Randidly couldn’t help but gulp. The plan was relatively simple; the Vessel of the Nexus could no longer support both the darkness and the Nexus proper. So they needed to be bourne by a new Vessel, his.

However, he didn’t want to directly merge both the darkness and Nexus into the Alpha Cosmos. Not only did Randidly worry about the massive burden on his psyche, but he also wanted to methodically untangle the System from those portions before the connections became permanent. The inevitable connection required a lot of work from his Pantheon, who were already overworked with the exploding population of the Alpha Cosmos.

So he would engage in a delaying tactic; he would accept the darkness and Nexus into his Vessel, but would use momentum and balancing, putting the two new arrivals and the Alpha Cosmos into orbit of each other, to host them without mixing them. At least until the problems could be resolved.

However, in order to truly reach and move the Nexus and the darkness into position…

…Randidly Ghosthound would need to stretch wider than them to allow the positioning to occur. For his final trick, he needed to go outside the Nexus.

And prevent any insidious vultures from swooping in while the isolated universe was at its most vulnerable.

He flared his images. He blinked back the lightheadedness as so much energy burned through his veins and fueled the working. His mind was overworked, his Vessel stretched in so many directions. But he gritted his teeth and focused.

His palms tingled. All the preparations, all the sweat, all the struggles, it all was for this. He took out the remnants pieces from Pangu’s Asymptote and stabbed them through the flesh head he had taken from Pine’s decapitated cast-offs. When he looked at the streaks of white goo and black ichor on the pieces, he couldn’t help but grimace.

Distasteful, but it was an insurance policy, just in case Randidly’s worst fears were confirmed.

With a graceful bit of sleight of hand, he stuffed those shattered mirrored shards in the waistband of his pants for easy access. He stepped forward and slipped out through the cracks of the Nexus and into the wider multiverse.
