The First Realm Of Hell, Axlomock

There, the greatest of devils reside, capable of battling the Oathsworn Angels. It is said that this realm is the origin of all demons, there were hubris and greed led to the downfall of their kind. They broke through the void, seeking to assert their corrupted ways in every land, every realm, every home. Few have ever been to this realm and returned. Perhaps, only Angel Sehara has successfully made the journey.

Smaller demons from Axlomock include Brimstone Giants, and Scurges, but the most fearful of all creatures from this realm are the ones who appear almost human. The Venal.

The Infernal, by High Priest Storm, Chapter 2 Page 4

“They agreed!” Tanya says, happily making her way over to our group.

“To what?” Libby asks, shaking her head at the excited girl.

Tanya pauses, “Some of the horses and some of the owls want to fly with me. They also wanted to tell you that you can rest safely here.”

I look past her to the gathering horses and owls in the trees above. That’s a good thing I suppose.

“We’ll rest for dinner then. Grab anything you need.” I say, “I’m hoping to get up top before full dark, if not, we can stay the night here.“

The group nods, and backpacks are lowered to the ground as the group gathers together. None of us like being watched by the wildlife, but Tanya’s words are reassuring.

The girl continues to explore the area as we settle down for food. Keve starts a fire, and Daron takes over cooking while the young Lin girl explores and happily finds alchemy ingredients. A small herd of horses slowly approach our group, then settle around us. We watch them warily, and they do the same right back at us. Tanya returns and happily pets and speaks to the horses, lowering our wariness.

After a minute of hesitation, I walk over to her.

“Do they have names?” I ask, my gaze meeting the gaze of one of the mares.

“In a sense, yes.” Tanya says, gently petting the largest of the stallions, “But not in words. It’s hard to explain. Here.” She grabs my hand, and holds it out to the mare I’d been watching. The shadow-horse walks up and sniffs the hand, then nuzzles it. “Scratch her behind her ears.”

I follow the advice, noticing as the other mercenaries approach the herd. The Dralk stay reserved, except for Commander Vakar who walks over curiously.

The mare seems to grow comfortable with my presence, and I smile as I scratch her ear. I’ll admit I’m biased against horses, since they don’t tend to do well in the overgrown wilderness in comparison to rock-lizards or stags. Still this creature seems surprisingly sweet.

Tanya introduces the others to the herd, and we mill about with the mana-aligned animals as dinner is prepared. Soon enough food is done, and Tanya hurries to fill bowls for all of us.

As we eat, I watch as owls fly down to Tanya. She speaks with them, and some of them disappear, tattoos spreading across her arms as her class abilities work. The shapeshifter as well rests on her arm again as a purple vine. I wonder why she doesn’t have more companions? As far as I’ve seen she only has the reavers and that white fox. Maybe these animals are more up for joining her for one reason or another. I’ll have to ask later.

Keve sits next to me in the dirt, his legs crossed. He smiles at me and holds out a small carving of an owl, its wings spread in flight. “For you.”

“Thank you.” I take the carving, studying it. I’d been considering trying my hand at some mana-circuits that would allow flight. “It’s been a long journey. How are you holding up?”

The Vishten warrior looks over everyone, his large eyes unreadable. “The flame must burn, and I must move forward.” He looks at me, a small smile exposing the points of his sharp teeth, “I am tired, but rest will come when we are home. You look… tired.”

I give him a small smile, “I’ve been on edge for a while, listening to my Danger Sense. I can’t rest on a delve.”

Keve nods. He pauses, as if there’s more he wants to say, then shakes his head ever so slightly. “You push yourself hard. It is not lost to my eyes.”

My smile moves wider. I can see his embarrassment at the compliment, “Thank you, again. I wouldn’t be able to do it without your protection, and everyone else here.”

“True, this world is not good for one man alone.” His eyes move to the horses, several of them surrounding Eyla. Even Daron seems to have made friends with one of them.

We sit there in a comfortable silence as the rest of the delve team talk and move around the fire.

The vines move aside, and we walk out of the ruin. It hasn’t been that long, but the sun is just as beautiful as I remember it, shining through the clouds that surround it. Kind of it to do that right as we leave.

Shar flies ahead, making sure there aren’t any threats waiting for us on our exit. When she gives the go-ahead, everyone leaves the ruin.

Several relieved noises come from the party as everyone appreciates the sun again. I look back to Tanya, who puts her hand to the ground, several tattoos traveling down the back of her neck and presumably across her back disappear as shadows coalesce into a small herd of horses. Ten in total, all releasing those strange shadows from their hooves and eyes. I think only one of them is actually mana-aligned, but I’m not sure. Similar to Jasper, they might just have features changed by mana, rather than being able to cast spells.

Tanya speaks to them quietly, while the Dralk spread out around us, watching the forest for danger. Something moves in the bushes, and our group turns to a large elk. It watches us for a moment before turning, and moving into the underbrush.

I turn my gaze above, studying the foliage. Small critters move above with our exit, but nothing big seems active.

Libby and Vakar quickly organize the party, and we move forward, down the path to where we’d set up camp. Shar watches the path from the sky, and we make it to the camp without too much trouble.

The Angel Statuette is where we left it, and I activate it. The world ripples as a break in the illusion appears, revealing our camp. I wave everyone through, then step in after them, closing the portal behind us.

“Hey Jasper,” I say to the rock-lizard, petting his snout as he sleepily looks up at me.

He glances at the horses, then grumbles, a sound that’s eerily similar to a landslide of rocks before closing his eyes, and going back to sleep.

“Commander Vakar,” I call to the Dralk man.

He turns away from his warriors, and walks over to me. “Yes, Delver Leo?”

“Let’s get all the items out and accounted for.” I look up at the sky, evening slowly approaching. We’d spent quite a bit of our morning in the kennels with the tamed creatures. “You’re welcome to stay here with us for the night, if you’d like? That way we can make our way to your people together in the morning.”

He glances over his people, considering. Finally, he nods his head, “Another night around the fire will bring us peace.” He calls out something to the other Dralk. They move closer, and he looks at me. “Where would you like them to place their items?”

I look over the camp, then head over to my tent, and pull out a blanket. I lay it out flat, and they start emptying their packs. Moments later, the mercenaries join as well.

One of the Dralk makes their way to an open spot on the ground, and starts to set up a small tent for their people.

“Shar,” I call out as I kneel next to the items and mark them in my notebook.

The crow hops off of where she’s resting on Jasper, her body shifting to a cat as she hits the ground. She pads over to me, twisting her head as she looks up at me. “Yes, Leo?”

“Do you remember when Master Lorn was injured by that necromancer?” I hold up one of the retrieval rings, 12 in total, each of them leading back to the teleportation gate below the ruin. Three were missing, somewhere in the world.

“I remember.” She sits on her haunches. Her tail flicks back and forth, and she watches me as I place the rings separately from everything else.

“You said you didn’t know the man with the tattoo of a crow.” I pause, and look over to her, “Why do you think you were given the form of a crow?”

Shar folds her legs and lays down on the ground, “It’s just one of my preferred forms. There are other things I could be.”

I go over the illusion amulets next. Five for the undead, and five demonic. A strange thought occurs to me, and I pause, holding up one of the amulets, “Do you think your old master was a Crow? Or pretending to be one?” He hadn’t exactly been on good terms with the Angels, considering who and what he kept in his dungeons. Shar had also said that the old Headmaster of the Owls had come to visit the Archmage.

Shar looks down at her paws, considering the question, “I don’t think so. He wasn’t exactly a good man, but he was just as wary of the demonic as he was of the divine.”

I nod my head, then continue my checking of items. I make sure to set aside a few items for the Dralk, but not everything can go to them. I’m not sure if I’d trust anyone with the daggers that give alignment, and the retrieval rings stay with me as well.

It takes me a while to get through the items, and I notice the others gathering around the campfire as I do, chatting quietly.

I’ll have the mercenaries equip the horses while Keve and I make our way to the Dralk’s council.

Thankfully, I manage to get everything categorized well by the end of the hour, at which point I move my gaze to one of the more interesting prizes of this Delve.

Lvl 5 Training Golem

This golem was used to train new recruits hundreds of years ago.

I call out to Grildor, and he walks over to me, helping me pick the wooden golem up, and drag him over to the campfire. He settles in next to me as I kneel over the golem.

Shar sees what I’m doing, and pads over to help me gently take the big wooden guy apart. I get some curious glances from everyone, but they return to their conversation as I pour over the circuitry. I’m not planning to use my spell yet, not with the Dralk still here, but what’s intact is helpful all the same.

“Who do you guys trade with?” Daron puts a feather on the back of one of his arrows as he talks to the Dralk’s scout, a lean man who’s short for one of his people, but still taller than the rest of us. Dark brown lines mark his wooden mask, “Surely you guys need food during winter, or metal for your swords.”

The Scout glances at Vakar, who gives him an almost imperceptible nod. “We have camadar. They leave home. Special. They get… things from your towns, when we don’t have.”

I glance up from a particularly complicated circuit, looking at the young man who was struggling with the language. Despite his struggle, he seems surprisingly comfortable at the campfire with us. In contrast, the rogue who’d wanted me dead at our first meeting, Alora, I think, sits away from the group, sharpening a small throwing knife.

“What is your city like?” The Scout asks, “I heard it heavy with metal, and smells.”

“Depends on the city.” Daron answers, “Hey Grildor, remember Frontier City Raman?”

Grildor looked away from where he was pulling some dice from his bag, “Smelled worse’n my cookin.”

Daron snorts, “got that right. Onder is nice though. They take care of themselves, if you know what I mean.”

The Dralk Scout frowns, uncertain, and I can’t help a small snort as I look back down at the inert golem.

“I may know what you mean?”

Both of the mercenaries burst into laughter.

Grildor slaps his knee, “I like ya. Would ya like to join us fer a game?”

I hear the clacking of dice, and the poor Dralk scout is brought into a game that’s quickly joined by most of the people around the campfire.

“Shar, can you hold this up for me?” I ask, handing her a light stone.

She gives me a look as she grabs it with her mouth, and holds it over the circuitry.

A presence beside me makes me look up to see Commander Vakar joining in with the game. I smile, then return to my examination.