Huge, black, ghostly skeletal arms reached out of the air and gripped the doors. The metal doors groaned under the weight of themselves, and the skeletal arms pulled harder, opening them wide. The skeletal arms pulled the doors open all the way, and then faded back into the stone. The hall beyond looked like a grand central stage surrounded on all sides by low seating—

Horns trumpeted a clarion call of power from inside the building.

And then a man stood upon that central stage. He walked out of the large building, toward Erick. He was obviously a lich, wearing thin black robes that showed grey skin and a sexless body. Black bones poked through here and there. All of it had to be an affectation pointed one way or another, and Erick wasn’t sure what the goal of his affectations were, exactly. He was elven and about as tall as Erick, which was around 3 meters due to his own dragon stuff. Erick assumed this was Chancellor Eldawae.

It was probably Chancellor Eldawae.

Erick stepped forward, meeting the man halfway, in the sun.

The man stepped out of the meeting chambers, his eyes filled with silver light, as he regarded Erick. He gave a tiny, partial bow, saying, “Greetings, Ascended Erick Flatt of Earth and Veird and the new Father of Margleknot. I am Chancellor Eldawae. What brings you to our humble respite in the Endless? A way back to Layer 0, perhaps?” He pointed in the distance, toward a dim grey pillar on the horizon, to Erick’s right. “That is the correct path to the nearest portal to Layer 0, but that is not the full story. Go there, and then follow the next four pillars and you will make it to the way out of this land. It takes an ascended about a year to get to that first stop if you’re moving fast, but not too fast. If you move at the full speed of action you will get there in a minute, but about 14 or 15 years will have passed here in this land. The entire trip to Layer 0 is something that might take a person either 10 minutes and 75 years, or 6 years of simply moving fast.

“Or.

“I have a better option.

“Kill the time worm and we can see about funding the creation of a portal here, in Da’luwe. Falling to Layer 1 is easy. Leaving Layer 1 is only usually possible through walking, or dying. But we can make a portal under certain circumstances, for 1 person at a time. The only reason we don’t have one is because it’s expensive to maintain the wards, and every time the worm tests them we’re set back that much more.”

Chancellor Eldawae stopped talking.

That was all rather simple, then.

Erick said, “I want to install more Benevolence towers in your land to bring more bounty to your land, and to allow for a freer populace. I’ll see about killing the time worm afterward.”

Chancellor Eldawae had no response, except to stand there like a posed corpse, regarding Erick.

Erick remained silent.

Eventually, Eldawae asked, “Your purpose in those Benevolence towers?”

“My goal is the eradication of Evil from the Wraithborne Tower which would result in the eradication of a lot of subsidiary evils in the rest of Margleknot. I would desire for slavery as you know it to end as well. I do this because everything can be made better. The best way forward to a better tomorrow is only to kill what needs to be killed and then save all the rest, including the truly great evils. As long as people wish to be better, then I want to help those people be better.

“Take, for instance, the body you’re wearing. Is that for show, or because that’s what your magics allow for? If it’s for show, then that’s fine. If your body is that way because that’s the best option you have available —and I see that many undead around here are similarly corpse-like— then know that Benevolence can make for truly proper bodies. My boyfriend is an archlich and he put some Benevolence into his bodies a while ago, thus allowing for a much wider array of emotions and cohesion and power.

“A lot more power.

“And speaking of power, and going back to the towers I want to put up: you’re low on resources here, or something, and you need more resources. I have absolutely no idea why you have a water shortage at all, for instance. The tower I have already built is something I put up in 5 hours and will last forever, unless it is messed with. I’m sure I could do better if I had your cooperation in that.” Erick said, “In a more sinister way, I am helping how I can and proving that Benevolence can do what you cannot for whatever reasons, and extremely easily as well. That is how I can prove my power and the weakness of your current society.”

Some of that was bluster. Hard to say what parts, exactly.

Chancellor Eldawae was silent again, thinking.

Erick waited, but he was not idle. He gauged the reactions of every single person watching this exchange, from up in the nearby towers, to on the wall and preparing to strike Erick down with spellwork if the word was given, to inside the lecture rooms to the side, to those who mana sensed this conversation from inside hidden bunkers inside walls here and there. The soldiers among those here were all waiting for the signal to go, or to stand down, but the courtiers and sycophants and clerks and nobles all watched with a bit more worry, or hope, or absolute disdain.

Most everyone here wanted Eldawae to end Erick right here and now.

The smarter people knew that Eldawae would not have such an easy time doing to Erick what he had undoubtedly done to so many others in order to keep himself in power.

Eldawae was a smart person.

And so, Erick waited.

Eldawae relaxed a fraction and regarded Erick with dismissive silver eyes as he spoke in a pleasant tone, “I find it insulting that you think my body is not an acceptable form. Sex is highly overrated, Wizard Flatt.”

Erick grinned. “I completely agree. But then there’s food, and warmth, and a whole bunch of physical things that are nice to have.”

“You may enact your towers. The limits of Da’luwe are from the tops of the Wall to the top of that central tower behind my grand meeting chambers. Your current tower is below this measure, so that is fine. Do not build higher than that, or the worm will see. Do not dig any deeper than that height below the surface of the sands, either. To be safe, simply do not go below 25 meters.

“We don’t have a lot of water or many other resources so we have to import a lot of it from side realities using resons. Everything runs on resons here, and everything is imported.

“Da’luwe is a penal colony, so please do not go freeing people from the crimes they have committed. These crimes include murder, rape, arson, warmongering, failure to pay, genocide, treason, drug trafficking, terrorism, fraud, grand assault, impersonation, and many others.”

Erick easily asked, “Are you a penal colony looking to hold people, or to rehabilitate them?”

“To hold until death. Rehabilitation is not what people get sent to Da'luwe for, but that does still happen from time to time.”

“What about all the people in the city who aren’t undead? Who are just living lives of ease? Or the people by the Wall? Are they all Contract soul-shackle slaves, too?”

“The people who are living in luxury in Da’luwe are either those who are born to those who are imprisoned here, or visitors from outside who find themselves stranded here in the Endless, who come to us like you came to us. Those who were born here, if they choose to stay past the age of majority, are the majority of those in the city. Everyone who lives here contributes all of their power to powering Da'luwe, though, and that includes those who are not prisoners. Excess power goes to paying off debts, if people have them. Most people do not have debts; they have sentences for offenses committed. Many people stay shackled past their payments in order to support others.” Eldawae said, “Those who have minor offenses, but which are still major in the eyes of the Tower, get to keep their bodies and intellect upon arriving here, if they work a job like ‘wall guard’. Those who do major offenses become undead shackled to the city until their debt is considered paid, and then they are allowed to die and join the Waiting Room waiting line.”

… Well that was a lot.

If some of it was true…

Erick decided he still didn’t like their system.

After a moment more of thinking, Erick asked, “How does one kill the time worm? Is it just the one?”

“There is only ever one time worm in existence at any point in time, and the only way to kill it is with extreme power, surrounding the entire beast and obliterating it down to the last iota of existence. Soul magic works well. It only ever stays dead for about a hundred years, though. Don’t worry about trying to stop it for longer than that.”

“Is it truly mindless? Unable to be soul shackled?”

“No, and no. It’s a very intelligent beast, but it wants to eat and eat, and that’s all it is good for. Killing it will open up Da'luwe to likely fighting a surface war in the near future against any number of unknown actors and a few known enemies out there, but there’s always more of those than anyone can count. That war will happen in 70 years if we’re lucky, 90 if we’re more lucky, or 30 if we’re unlucky.” Eldawae said, “Those who crash against our obsidian knives, seeking to take our bounty, often find themselves prisoners, though.” He shrugged. “It’s usually a wash.”

“… I’m going to go out and make some resources for you all, and then I’ll go take care of the time worm problem. Talk to you later.”

“Please keep your fight away from the city. Far, far away.” Eldawae stepped back. “It was a pleasure to meet you, Ascended Flatt.”

“You as well, Chancellor Eldawae. I’ll be back.”

“I look forward to properly welcoming you to Da'luwe next time.”

Erick flew up and out of the city, to the outskirts.

32-ish hours later, and after having created eight more resource towers all in a rather organized circle surrounding the main city, Erick flew out and away from the obsidian wall, back the way he had come.

Toward the lands that held the time worm.
