And some of the undead inside the city began to turn into real people again. Flesh grew around bones and people started to step out of their own rot. Some piles of dust in broken houses turned back into people that were rapidly joined by other people, all of them looking rather damned happy for a brief moment, but then rapidly falling into despair. Some of them openly cried out how they couldn’t afford this. They couldn’t afford to be alive.

The still-living relatives seemed to agree with them. Someone complained about how there wasn’t enough food or water to go around, either, which was a problem on top of their debt. Some were happy, though.

Erick finished paying off the debt that the purple man had requested and then he added another 50,000 reson crystal to the common cause just because he could—

A spring turned on in the village square.

A spring.

Turned on.

In the village square.

Why was it off at all? Who the fuck knew!

Erick added another 50,000 crystal to the undead network—

Three more springs turned on all around the village. The walls turned sleek and clean. A spring burbled out by the orchard field.

“Oh this is just fucking ridiculous,” Erick said, looking all around, judging the Wraithborne Tower’s policies. Or perhaps this was purple-dude’s fault? Hard to say and Erick didn’t want to get into it anyway, because... He just didn’t. Not directly, anyway. So instead, he said to the very-happy purple dude, “I’m going to make a water tower over there. I don’t trust whatever horrible Evil-water you got working under these sands. You can take from the water tower’s edges, but if you go inside and break the magic or harvest too much, it will break down.”

The purple guy said something about how that wasn’t necessary, but he was a mouthpiece of the laws around here.

Erick did what he wanted.

And soon, about a hundred kilometers away from the obsidian wall, in the middle of nowhere, Erick raised an eternal stonewood tree out of the ground, and then transformed it into a wide, wide tower. It was about a kilometer wide, and the main walls were 80 meters tall, but some things poked above that 80 meters, such as a grand dome of eternal stonewood that stretched over the whole thing like a latticework bubble. Erick placed a small [Terraforming] in the center, under that dome of latticework, and then he made the eternal stonewood do some illusions, to make the whole thing not really visible above 50 meters. Eternal stonewood could do illusions, after all, and Erick did not want to alert anything about this ‘tower’s’ presence.

Like the time worm.

Erick played with the spellwork in the ‘coliseum’ for a while, making sure that it was working right and that it would eventually fill with water and plants and such, and eventually life. A node network and a bunch of secondary spellwork would ensure that whatever Benevolent life grew here would overflow the coliseum itself to spread far and wide, and also deep. Only the stuff inside the central area would contribute to the stability of this place, but the life that would grow here should be able to do that five times over, at least.

And that would probably be good enough…

Erick spent another two hours adding some redundant systems to the whole thing, like extra [Terraforming] magics and a more robust node network and even a few [Duplicate]-based generators, like the ones he had used in his base on FENRIR.

“And that’s good enough,” Erick announced to himself, as he stood at the edge of the place. “Very good.”

Low waters flowed away from raining storms and flashing lightning. Mosses and grasses were already growing here and there, while lilies opened up petals and flowers atop pools of clear water.

The whole system was poised to grow and grow, and that was great.

This little side project had taken him around five hours. Erick turned back toward the grey pillar in the distance, and the city underneath that pillar. Five hours should have been more than enough time for Chancellor Eldawae and the city of Da’luwe to get ready for him.

- - - -

The city at the center of the obsidian knife wall was a rather nice city, though it was built a lot wider than tall. The sprawl was real at Da’luwe; nothing was close to anything else, and undead made getting around easy. The surrounding villages were all farming plots made of tens of small houses and lots of undead, all surrounding a central large flesh golem, just like the flesh golems at the wall. From pulling carts to farming the fields to cleaning the houses to sewing the clothes, the undead did everything.

Erick wondered how many of those undead were real people, trapped in their own bodies.

Erick stopped at the first of the largest villages he saw, setting down in the town square, to look up at the flesh golem in the center, which looked down at him. Erick stared at it for a moment, and then he looked around, checking out the hovels and the undead working the lands. Even for all the undead labor, the labor wasn’t doing much. The lands were not fruitful.

Erick took out a 50,000 reson crystal and rolled it over to the nearest ‘mindless’ undead.

The entire village turned into real people.

“OKAY,” Erick said, as people regained themselves. “That was too few resons for too much action and this is disturbing.” He looked up at the central golem, who was now looking down at Erick with flickering purple eyes. “What’s the point of having a people if you make them into undead slaves? They literally do more work if they’re allowed to simply live their lives. This is basic economics.”

The revived people in town did not like being awake. They were incredibly anxious that Erick spoke that way to the center flesh golem. And then just about every single one of them prostrated themselves to the golem. Each one said small words of re-binding, their souls re-shackling.

The flesh golem opened its mouth and words flowed out in a language that was not draconic, but which Erick knew from his time in Margleknot anyway. It was a language called Frata, and it was rather languidly spoken, almost like French. “As per Tower Rules, you have paid your relatively minor debts and you are all forgiven of your crimes. We would have had you walk to the main city and resurrected you there upon the completion of your time served, and then laid out your options for your reintegration into society, but it appears you have a walk ahead of you. Those wishing to stay may kill themselves when Ascended Flatt leaves, and you will return to the Other World, and re-enter Da’luwe control, where your work and production are added to your balance.” The 50-meter tall flesh golem said to Erick, “I don’t control anything here, Ascended Flatt. I am merely a person working the fields, too. Please speak to someone higher up than me.”

… So there was a lot there.

Erick had stepped into a problem that he didn’t understand, paying off debts from people who didn’t want it, and maybe made it ‘worse’ by doing what he believed to be the right thing.

… welp! That’s fine. Erick was fine with doing what people believed to be harm to them in order to help them. He had gotten over that particular compunction a long time ago. These days he mostly recognized that compunction and listened to it sometimes, to make sure that he was doing the right thing.

It was the right thing to make people live again and then toss them into new lives free of soul shackles, especially if those soul shackles came with barbs that hooked into the person, and made them feel good about having the shackles around them.

Erick frowned.

This was not a problem to solve in one day.

Nor was it a problem to solve with absolute force, either physical force, or monetary force.

Erick simply took off into the air and headed toward Da’luwe’s largest dome, right underneath the grey pillar in the sky. He did not want to watch as the people behind him killed themselves on whatever implements they had available. He saw it happen, though, because his eyes were open in every direction.

As bodies fell to the ground most of those souls remained in those bodies, and new shackles turned them into drones. They got back to work. Erick wasn’t sure what was happening with the bits of souls that went away…

Oh.

Erick looked at the air again, remembering something he had heard about the places that the Tower kept in Layer 1. Erick couldn’t see it, he couldn’t feel it, he couldn’t sense it at all. But there it was, a manaminer in the air.

The entire city of Da’luwe and probably all the way to the obsidian knife wall, was under the domain of a manaminer. Or rather the ‘Authority’ of a manaminer, Erick guessed.

Eh!

Erick couldn’t get his mind off of all the people he saw below. Some of them seemed to be truly mindless automatons, based on the amount of soul in their body. Most of the people this far out of the city were real, though, and their bodies were doing basic labor while their minds were elsewhere.

As Erick got closer the suburbs got better.

He started to see real people living their lives once again, and they weren’t working. They were laughing by pools and drinking wine. Reading books in comfortable chairs by the window. Having sex on rooftops. Painting murals. Conversing at cafes or eating dinner/breakfast/whatever at fancy restaurants. The undead were still there, but they were cleaning houses and emptying trash cans and flipping burger-like things on a grill.

It appeared the undead were the working class and some of them were actual criminals, or some shit. Erick had a hard time believing that the guys he had left under that flesh golem in that village had committed any crimes that necessitated thralldom.

… Maybe the guy by the wall had.

And yet, probably not.

Erick had encountered stuff like this before in the Fractured Citadels of Quintlan. They had certainly never gone into this sort of depravity, though. Slavery was against the Script, and anyone who caused a slave usually ended up either dead or waking up to find their slaves gone, because the anti-slavery Quest system issued Quests to slaves, to either empower them to kill their slaver, or to escape. Even with all that anti-slave stuff going on, though, slaves and slavery still happened. Even with the anti-Teleport stuff in the recent years, slaves got other options that were almost like a [Teleport] to safety. It was an evolving system.

What came before the Freelands was the largest example of real slavery shit going down on Veird, but even that slavery was gone now that the Freelands were there. Back when that land was simply the unincorporated slave houses of Nergal, years ago, House Benevolence, but mostly Destiny and Messalina, worked together to dismantle all of that down there.

… Erick wondered, with the Demons being real again, was slavery back on the table on Veird? Yggdrasil hadn’t spoken of that back when he had talked about what was going on back home, but the demons, even if they were incani, had a habit of doing the slavery-thing.

But in that case…

Entering into an Elemental Vile and Demon slave contract was the only way for an incani to die and end up with the house they signed up with, instead of randomly placed somewhere else on Hell, as like, a dretch or worm; the lowest lifeforms of demonkin.

And that was largely true. Demon slave contracts weren’t all that bad, in a technical sense. The new ‘slave’ became a member of a demon house upon death, and sure, there was conscripted grunt work, but they were treated more like little brothers or sisters, and not really like slaves at all. The Old Demons were all dead, and all that was left on Hell was generational family houses built by incani, and upon centuries of dead grandmas, cousins, brothers, fathers, etcetera.

The soul shackled slavery on display here in Da’luwe was not like incani slavery at all.

As Erick flew through the sky, looking at the ground below and at the people, wraiths and ghosts and other incorporeal flying undead began to lift up from the edges of houses here and there, all of them looking almost invisible against the rest of the world. They were the aerial defense force, of course. Some of them took to the sky to follow Erick. Some floated up in front of him, directly in his path, their eyes full of hate and their bodies turning partially real as they prepared to strike. But then their eyes would flash a different color, going from invisible to barely green, or yellow, or orange, or purple. Purple happened a lot. And then, when that happened, the undead would disperse, or move to the side, or ignore Erick.

Erick assumed that the ghosts were all on simple commands to kill anyone in the sky, and that it took work to make them not attack the people in the air, which was why Erick was the only one in the air right now… At all, it seemed. Everywhere Erick looked, nothing was in the sky at all, except for him.

Erick floated toward the largest, central buildings, which held upon a low mountain in the center of the city, looking like an Evil-Vatican-meets-Parthenon sort of place, and mostly grey with black accents. It was a land made of domes and spires and tall silver trees, sitting behind a high wall that separated it from the high-class parts of the main city of Da’luwe.

Some scary-looking undead, including what appeared to be a few ghost-alien-dragons, briefly appeared underneath as Erick crested the wall separating the central castle from the rest of the kingdom. But then those ghosts went back to total invisibility, soaking back into the wall and the land. Their eyes didn’t flicker in that redirection. They didn’t need to hear commands; they were likely intelligent ghosts.

Everything in the castle land was light grey stone with black accents, and it looked positively evil.

Still, it looked kinda nice.

Erick landed by a wide fountain in a large, central square, right in front of the gigantic domed building. This seemed like a good place for him to start, and his Lightning Path agreed with him.

Living people and a few liches, for sure, had been walking around down here, going from here to there, but they all scattered when it was apparent that Erick was coming down into this courtyard.

Erick faced the large domed building, and wondered at its closed doors. They were each tens of meters tall and wrought with imagery of city building, which was pretty good in Erick’s opinion. City building was a lot better of a theme than most undead liked to—

