Markus partially drained and fully devoured all three giants, making sure they were fully dead first. He could scarcely believe he’d managed to kill these things, or that he was still standing for that matter.

Legs tired, body aching, Markus marched over to where the imp sat and plonked himself down on the floor.

“Done already?”

“No.”

“Well how long are we going to be down here?!”

Markus pulled up his status screen, ignoring the imp entirely.

Level 26. He’d gone up 4 times since this morning. One was from Meditating, so that was roughly a level per giant devoured.

[Name: Markus Brown]

[Class: Otherworlder (Earth) (Tier: Novice 26)]

[Health: 890/1070]

[Mana: 5804/4090]

[Strength: 80 (+30)]

[Agility: 80 (+30)]

[Arcana: 20]

[Constitution: 130 (+30)]

[Spirit: 100]

[???: 0]

Still a novice. He wondered how long it’d be until that tiered up. He needed to ask about classes at some point, too.

Fuck. Markus scratched his head, rolling his shoulders as he looked his stat points over. This was the first time since getting here that he truly felt in the driver’s seat concerning one of his actions, that he didn’t just feel like he was reacting to all the bullshit around him.

Felt good. Felt nice to have his efforts beginning to pay off.

And he could do this for a while, assuming he didn’t find some way to nastily injure himself. He could keep this up until he was tired, sustaining himself off the mana of whatever creatures he encountered and fighting all fucking night if he had to.

And he did have to. Four levels wasn’t nearly enough. He needed more if he wanted to get through this hellhole alive and punish the sadistic freak that had put him here, a lot more.

42 free points and 50 regular, including leftovers from last time…

50 went straight into Spirit. No fucks given. His mana capacity increased by almost 1500 on the spot. In fact, Markus felt the increase in his energy as soon as he locked that choice in, and the way it wracked his body was fucking crazy.

Beyond that, it gave him energy. Higher Spirit meant less need for food and sleep, right? Markus could feel that signature alertness creeping into his mind before he’d even registered why. His determination to fight and grind through this dungeon had straight up doubled.

Beyond his levels laid skills. He held his free points for now, ready to dump them the instant something called for it. Moreover, the skill tree held multiple new discoveries for him, all of them things he’d never had to deal with or figure out even once until now.

Namely, he’d finally reached level 10 on two different skills and unlocked two Masteries at once, as well as unlocking a Path Evolution for Regeneration, which had just hit level 25.

There were… a lot of options in front of him, and that was without even considering the Path Evolution. Time to see what the fuck Masteries did.
