“For sure,” Jake nodded, having never really felt like Yggdrasil owed him much in the first place. He had just been a courier who brought her some good stuff from Villy, and if she truly owed anyone, it had to be the snake god.

With a final nod, Yggdrasil dispelled her dryad body as it turned into pure nature mana and became one with the environment once more. This left just Jake, Artemis, and the Forest King back still inside Yggdrasil’s Divine Realm... which technically meant Yggdrasil was still there, just not actively.

“I will require some time to fully acclimate to my new body and ensure everything is as it should be,” the Forest King said as he moved his clawed hand up in front of his mask, opening and closing it a few times.

“You do that at my place,” Jake said. “The Pantheon of Life gave me an entire palace with way too many rooms.”

“Pantheon of Life... so that’s where we are,” the King nodded. “You’ve gone through quite the efforts to facilitate my resurrection.”

“Would have felt like a dick if I hadn’t,” Jake shrugged.

The King was silent for a moment before he spoke again. “I do have to make a confession. While the time and place it happened hadn’t been planned, and my demise had occurred earlier than I would have preferred, I had already intended to-“

“I get it,” Jake held up a hand and interrupted him. “No fucking way all the puzzle pieces required for your return would have appeared that conveniently out of pure luck.”

“Perhaps I had underestimated your intellect. Then again, I should not consider a statistical outlier a new standard,” the King said, sounding almost impressed. “But yes, my demise could have been considered halfway planned. Poorly planned, I came to learn from the Primordial. If I’d had more time, I would have likely seen the flaws... alas, I have no cause for complaint seeing the final result.”

“Hey, glad it all worked out, though I would recommend avoiding dying again any time soon, as I don’t have any other Primordials owing me favors right now,” Jake said with a smile.

“I’ll attempt to,” the King said, actually taking the well-deserved flak.

Jake didn’t say anything more but just felt glad that the Unique Lifeform was back. It made him feel that at least some of the damage Ell’Hakan had done was now remedied, and made him feel slightly better about his failures in the past.

He also knew that he wouldn’t be the only one happy to hear that the King had been revived, as it was definitely time for a proper Nevermore Party Reunion.
