“Ok,” Aliandra answered. She sounded more than a little uncertain, but her eyes and the set of her mouth conveyed an inner determination that somehow Malika found easy to trust. “I’ll do my best.”

“You know, with your skill, you could probably get a job in Myrin’s Keep as the town cleaner. Or maybe Chief Rat Disposer.”

Aliandra pouted again. “I’m not so sure about this skill anymore…”

Malika led the way through the darkened cavern, careful to avoid any groups of monsters that may be beyond their abilities. It didn’t take long before their patience paid off.

The rat looked like the one Aliandra had defeated, just a little scabbier around the muzzle, and she felt a surge of anticipation as she studied her foe.

“What level is it?” Malika whispered.

“Level two,” Aliandra said. “Why, don’t you have Identify?”

“No, I have Appraise,” Malika said, keeping her reply simple and to the point. There had been enough sharing for one day.

Quietly, she gestured to Aliandra to wait and keep watch as she approached the rat. She turned on her skills in preparation for the fight: Perfect Body which enhanced her attributes, and her defensive skills; Enlightened Evasion and Soul Armor which would hopefully protect her from excessive damage. Her body reacted to the surge of magic, becoming faster, nimbler, and yet significantly tougher. It was an exhilarating feeling.

Remember to watch the cost.

With all her enhancement skills enabled, she was reserving a substantial amount of her mana and stamina, but she had already decided she would simply have to learn how to manage her resources efficiently – turning off any of her defensive skills at this stage seemed a terrible idea. At least her Relentless aptitude gave her the flexibility to pay the reservation for Soul Armor and Perfect Body with stamina instead of mana if she chose. For now, though, her experiments suggested that reserving mana would be better – the bulk of her attacks would come from Martial Artist and that could only be fueled with stamina, so she decided to prioritize that.

The rat caught her scent and whirled, charging at her with a shrill, grating screech. As she stepped up to meet it, the rat reared up and hissed at her furiously, swiping with its sharp claws. Malika’s faster and more agile body easily dodged the first swipe, but she took the second on her right thigh.

A small trickle of blood ran down her leg from the shallow wound.

Soul Armor? she thought. Her skin seemed unnaturally tough, and the claws had simply not penetrated nearly as deeply as she had expected. Not only that, dodging the first attack had felt natural and easy, but she knew it had been faster than she would have been able to dodge yesterday. Still, it got me. I need to be sharper.

As the rat recovered from its initial attack, Malika unleashed a punch she had practiced since she was old enough to stand in the dojo, but this time she empowered it by feeding a bit of stamina to her Martial Arts skill. Even from the initial twisting in her torso and the flexing through her feet, she could tell it was the most powerful punch she had ever thrown. As her fist flew, she found that the knowledge of how to use her Soul Strike support skill came to her intuitively. She linked Soul Strike to her Martial Artist attack with a brief pulse of mana, and a bright aura of blue-white energy sheathed her fist as she connected solidly with the side of the rat’s neck. The power of her blow knocked the rat back several feet, skidding onto its haunches, and she immediately felt the warmth of her magic returning a few points of health, about half of what she had lost to the rat’s claws.

That is going to add a lot of survivability. She would gain a constant trickle of health so long as she had the resources to use her Soul Strike. She was beginning to understand the other half of her Relentless aptitude. More stamina regeneration meant she could keep going for a lot longer.

Shaking its head, the rat scrambled to its feet. Malika immediately pressed her attack. Charging forward, she traded blows with the creature. She dodged one claw swipe with an uncanny precision that must have been the result of her Enlightened Evasion, taking the second hit on her shoulder, feeling the force of the attack again being blunted by her reinforced body. Her punch connected flush with its ribs, and again she felt the small but welcome trickle of regained health from her Soul Strike. The tough rat whirled, grappling her with its claws and tearing into her side and shoulder with unrestrained ferocity. Malika went to the ground with it, her left arm wrapped around its neck while punching it repeatedly with her right fist, causing flickers and flashes as her Soul Strike lit the dirt and rocks nearby every time she struck. Unable to escape from her headlock or defend against the relentless tide of her fists pounding its head, the rat quickly expired, dropping limp in Malika’s choke hold.

You have defeated Sewer Rat – level 2.

Soul Strike has reached level 2.Perfect Body has reached level 2.Soul Armor has reached level 2.Martial Artist has reached level 3 (+2).

Not a pretty fight, but effective. She checked the bite wounds on her shoulder and side, but they weren’t nearly as deep as she had feared. Most of her injuries had already healed over from her repeated use of Soul Strike, and with just a small flash of her Healing Mantra, the remaining cuts closed over, returning to unblemished healthy skin. The first monster experience earned with my new class! She watched the glow of the floating blue-white notifications hovering in her vision slowly fade, leaving a heady sense of achievement.

Aliandra came running over, gasping and wide-eyed.

“I’m fine,” she reassured her. “I just healed the damage, and I should be ready to go after a few minutes of Meditation to restore my stamina.”

So much easier than yesterday, she thought happily. My class is awesome!

Suddenly, her worries about the Town Watch thugs and a life of crime in the alleys began to fade. Her stubborn insistence on maintaining the daily discipline of the dojo, secretly training her martial arts no matter how many times she was beaten, seemed to have finally paid off. Even though her opponent was just a level two Sewer Rat, the contrast between her power yesterday and today was like night and day.

If I work at it, if I train hard, I can definitely get stronger.

She sat to Meditate and recover her mana and energy while Aliandra deconstructed the corpse of the rat she had just killed.
