Aliandra

Ali sat chatting with Malika for quite a long while, initially just happy with her new ability to communicate. Sage of Learning still took a point of mana here or there to fill in some missed meaning while she was listening, but it proved significantly harder to speak. Stumbling frequently with her language proficiency, she began to tell Malika a little about her life and how she had grown up in the great city of Dal’mohra, but before long she found herself circling the great well of sadness and fresh grief at the center of her heart. Whenever she approached the subject of the last day, she found herself diving into a tangent.

For her part, Malika proved to be a great listener, sitting patiently, asking occasional questions, and simply letting her find her own way. When she finally found herself describing her and her mother’s escape from the city under attack, it was like a dam burst deep within and she could only watch from the dark recesses of her mind, powerless to stop the words as her story burst forth. It just came out, words falling over each other as she relived her terror and weakness, the horror of facing the Nevyn Eld and his Death Knights, and the heart-wrenching grief of her father and then mother sacrificing their lives for her to survive. When she came to her mother’s final words, Ali choked up, unable to continue.

Surprisingly, Malika did not tell her how it would all be ok or offer any other platitudes. She simply sat a little closer, and, staring off into the distance, she began to fill the silence with her own story. Unable to speak, Ali simply listened, shocked at both the horror of the story and the unemotional delivery in which it was shared.

“It was a rogue dungeon,” Malika began. “When the dungeon-break happened, hundreds of fire salamanders were ejected into the surrounding area. There was nothing anyone could do; my entire home town was burned to the ground.” She continued in a flat clear voice, describing waking up in the heat and flames and fleeing in terror while choking in the billowing smoke as if she was discussing a trip to the bakery. When she described how her parents had died, her voice did not change in the slightest, but Ali’s heart broke in sympathy with the tears that spilled unnoticed down Malika’s face.

“I barely escaped with my life, hiding in a fleeing merchant wagon, and that’s how I ended up across the border here in Myrin’s Keep.”

“The pain has never really gone away,” Malika continued. “I’ve spent the last ten years indebted to the Hawkhurst Trading Company’s loan sharks, being forced into a life of crime with the Town Watch. But with your help and the shrine, I have a new purpose. I want to become someone they would have been proud of, you know? A strong martial artist, able to do some good in this world. I think they would have liked that.” She finally noticed the tears and wiped them with the back of her hand, turning her face away, as if she were trying to hide her embarrassment.

She’s been dealing with all that for ten years? How can she even continue every day?

They both fell silent, sitting side-by-side for a long while, each with their own memories.

“For me, it was yesterday,” Ali said miserably. “I miss them so much.”

While it did nothing to diminish her emotions, Ali felt somewhat better for having shared with Malika. If nothing else, she felt there was one person in this horrible world who understood what she felt.

Slowly her heart quieted, and her mind began to return to the present and the situation she found herself in. Her home was gone. In its place was this monster-filled dark underground mockery that smelt of death and decay – here, where she had taken the almost unthinkable step into the unknown by choosing her class, a hybrid class with combat abilities.

“I don’t know how to fight,” Ali said, finally admitting to Malika, and herself, that she felt woefully out of her depth. People studied for years to prepare for a life with a combat class – there were entire schools devoted to training the tools needed to survive and succeed – and she had none of it. A little overwhelmed, she wished for a return to her previous life, a now unreachable life of safety and study.

“What do you mean?” Malika looked a little surprised. “Calen and Mato said you identify as a mage now?”

“I spent my entire life preparing to be a scholar and researcher,” Ali answered. “My mom was one of the preeminent researchers on the nature of magic itself. And she always said I might surpass her someday.” In truth, she had been beyond excited to embark upon that journey, learning from her mother, and the other prominent researchers and sages. All of that must lie buried in the sands of time or long relegated to the pages of history by now.

“Well, now my home is gone, overrun with monsters, and I have combat spells, but I have no idea how to use them. I know my way around a library, but out here, I’m just scared,” she finished awkwardly.

“You were going for a non-combat class?” Malika asked, an incredulous expression on her face. “You had no combat skills to speak of earlier and you killed that rat by yourself?”

Ali nodded. She knew it was perhaps an unbelievable thing, but it had happened. Through fortune, good luck, or sheer willpower, she had won against a monster.

It’s not like I had much of a choice.

“Do you think you can teach me?” Ali asked. Malika was so confident in battle. She always seemed to know what to do. Ali just remembered feeling lost and confused, or terrified most of the time.

“I don’t know much about mage classes,” Malika answered. “And I just got my own class, so I’m hardly an expert.”

Ali’s disappointment must have shown on her face because Malika quickly continued. “I don’t mind helping you test your skills, and we can discuss some strategy ideas. How about you share your combat skills with me? I mean … if you feel comfortable sharing.”

Ali got the distinct impression that it was Malika who would feel more uncomfortable sharing, but she didn’t mind. She smiled and brought up her status book in her mind, opening it to her class skills, and then chose her first four skills and sent the descriptions of each to Malika. “I don’t know what the last one is for,” she said, referring to her Deconstruction skill. “My two remaining skills are non-combat skills for study and magic. They’re how I was able to learn to speak so fast.”

Malika studied the skills for a moment. “It looks like you have all the bases covered with the first three. You have a damage skill, a defense skill, and a control skill.” Malika’s demeanor had changed instantly, the vulnerability replaced with a certain confidence and the reappearance of the self-assurance Ali had observed earlier.

There are categories? Ali was truly out of her depth. The defense category was easy. That must be my Barrier skill. “What is control?” she asked, “Don’t both of my other skills do damage?”

“Your Grasping Roots is a control spell,” Malika said. “It does do damage, but the most useful effect will be preventing the monster from moving. That way it can’t get to you. Think of it this way, you can use your roots to bind the monster and then you, or your team, whittle it down until it dies. You have your Barrier as a backup in case it breaks free.”

“Oh, ok,” Ali said, nodding. That sounds surprisingly straightforward – in theory. I’m not sure I could have held that Starving Alpha for long, if at all.

Your proficiency with the Common language has improved.

Ali hadn’t been bothered by the disorienting shuffle of memories in her mind for a while, but it seemed her Sage of Learning was still ticking away in the background, improving her understanding of the language as she practiced more.

“Ok,” Malika said, getting up. “Let’s test your skills.”

Ali stood up, uncertain what to expect. “What should I do?”

“First, let’s see your Barrier,” Malika said.

Feeding a little mana into the skill, her disk of golden magic materialized right in front of her, hovering in the air about the size of a dinner plate. A human-sized dinner plate. The beautiful transparent construct shone with the golden radiance and tugged at her heart once more. Mother.

Malika poked at it. Then she pushed it with increasing power, but the magical construct refused to budge. “Can you move it?” she asked after a few moments.

Ali tried moving it with her will, and with her hands, but nothing worked. To the best of her admittedly meager power, the barrier seemed fixed in space, anchored right where she had created it.

“Ok, let me hit it.” Malika drew back a fist and threw a powerful punch connecting with the magical barrier with a loud thwack. “Not bad,” she said, shaking her probably bruised hand for a moment to ease the pain. Malika’s skin suddenly flared with white glowing magical runes that quickly faded. “I have a skill that increases my attributes,” she grinned. She threw another punch and a crack appeared in the barrier disk. Her third punch flashed with the light of a magical skill as her fist slammed through the barrier, shattering it with a tinkling sound. The barrier shards dissolved into the air as the mana powering it dissipated.

Ali looked forlornly at the shards. What good is it if it breaks?

“How fast can you make another one?” Malika asked her.

Instantly a second barrier appeared, taking only the time needed for her to will it into being. Oh. Now she felt silly and small. She really knew nothing, didn’t she?

“That looks like a really good defensive spell,” Malika said approvingly. “It took my full power and three skills simultaneously to break it. It’s much better than the spell you used on the wolves yesterday.”

“The class change consumed that skill to give me this, I think,” Ali said. She pictured her mother’s kind face and sent a quick thought of gratitude for the powerful magic she had inherited.

“Now why don’t you try out your damage spell?” Malika suggested. “Shoot me.”

“What?” Ali exclaimed in shock. Is she out of her mind?

“How are we going to figure out how much damage it does?” Malika asked. “Besides, I have a healing spell. It will be ok, just stop if I ask.”

Obviously, I’m not powerful enough to really damage her. Alright.

Confirming twice that Malika was ready, Ali tried her Arcane Bolt spell. She had seen mages casting firebolts and ice lances and similar combat spells a few times, so she set her feet wide on the ground, tentatively thrust a hand forward pointing at Malika, and tried to push mana into her skill. Obviously, she didn’t want to really hurt her new friend.

Nothing happened.

Hmm. She pointed her finger instead, but, once again, her magic failed to materialize.

“Shoot!” she declared. Uh, why is this so hard? She cleared her throat uncomfortably and tried again. “Fire! Cast! Summon Arcane Bolts!”

A flush crept up to her cheeks as she realized she was prancing around like a child playing ‘Mages and Sorcerers’. It didn’t help one bit to see Malika grinning at her.

The instant she turned her focus to Malika, the mana she had been failing to shove into Arcane Bolt suddenly rushed out, like water draining from a bathtub the instant the plug was removed.

A tiny golden orb of energy a little larger than a marble appeared in front of her hand and shot off with a soft thwip and a whoosh, accelerating rapidly as it curved toward Malika. Her mana flowed, channeled continuously into the Arcane Bolt spell. Another orb materialized, and then another, firing off two more bolts in rapid succession.

“Eep!” she squeaked, fumbling with her skill in a desperate attempt to cancel it while the bolts struck Malika in the chest with a staccato thud, thud, thud. With a wrench, she stifled the flow of her mana and the spell stopped, but she stared in abject horror at the thin wisps of smoke rising from three small, cauterized holes punched through Malika’s tattered shirt and skin.

She had just shot her new friend three times in half as many seconds.

“Are you ok?” she gasped, running over to her.

“Looks like fifteen damage,” Malika said. “So, about five per bolt? That’s not too bad.” Malika’s body flashed with a sudden blueish-white light and the holes in her flesh vanished.

She calculated that? Ali thought, still struggling a little to move past the fact she had just shot her friend. Oh, that makes sense. Plus, that must be her healing skill. While Malika had not chosen to explicitly share her skills, Ali’s curious mind and fascination for magic were rapidly forming a detailed picture of her friend’s skillset. She had already seen the healing magic when Malika had used it on her.

“I would die in less than five seconds,” Ali said. That’s quick! I hope we don’t fight anything with magic.

“Ooh!” Malika exclaimed, eyes suddenly widening in surprise. “Is your health really that low?”

“It’s twenty-five,” Ali answered, suddenly worried that she might have messed up something important.

“You need to invest in vitality,” Malika answered. “I have a hundred health – you’re definitely going to need more.”

“Are you sure?” Ali asked. “I get only five health per point because of my race – I get a penalty because I’m … small.” She frowned. It had bothered her since she was old enough to read it – the aptitude was even called ‘Tiny’. “I get fifteen mana per wisdom instead.” She had spent all her attribute points on intelligence and wisdom already, trying to make the best of her racial aptitudes and her class skill traits.

“Yes, definitely,” Malika answered without hesitation. “Adventurers get hit; you can’t always block everything. If your health goes to zero, you’re dead and none of your other attributes or skills matter. If you have enough health to survive, you earn more time to escape or cast your barrier. Otherwise, you will die from the first surprise attack.” She smiled grimly. “Dying tends not to be recommended.”

Ali grimaced. “I see.” I really don’t know what I’m doing. She had simply chosen her attributes based on what had the largest effect. However, Malika’s point showed the glaring flaw in her logic as clear as day.

What use is mana if I’m dead?

What she had thought of as a simple task – assigning attributes – had suddenly become a complex balancing act where her life was at stake.

