“Ok, shoot me some more,” Malika insisted. Ali was still extremely uncomfortable with this approach, but she did as Malika requested, firing her magic in short, controlled bursts, and eventually found she was glad she did. Testing her skills was much like practical research – she learned a lot about how the skill worked. It turned out that her skill let her fire the arcane bolts in almost any direction, and, provided she kept Malika fixed in her mind as the target, the bolts would arc around in the air and home in on her position.

“Guided missiles have a lot of tactical potential; you have a great attack spell!” Malika seemed quite excited about her magic. “Ok, now let’s try your roots.”

Ali used her plant magic on Malika. Thick, gnarled brown roots sprung up from the ground, tangling Malika’s legs rapidly. The air filled with grinding and the scent of fresh wood and sap. Ali quickly realized that there was no comparison between her new spell and the Plant Growth skill her class had absorbed. For one thing, she didn’t have to find roots in the ground and encourage them to grow with her mana – the spell created the roots. The second difference was the sheer power and durability of the constructs. There was no contest between this combat-grade magic and her previous cantrip.

Malika seemed to be struggling against the roots, trying to break out by punching them with her magic, and still, it took her some time.

Maybe I could get away now? Her thoughts returned to her first traumatic experience fighting the Sewer Rat, wondering just how different it might be now that she had Grasping Roots.

“It doesn’t do a lot of damage compared to your arcane bolts, but it’s strong,” Malika pronounced after she finally freed herself from the grasp of Ali’s plants. “You could definitely do some damage while your enemy’s trying to escape if you use both your skills.”

Ali smiled, happy that her combat toolbox was coming together. It was a good idea to test them, she thought, appreciating Malika’s help more and more. And she was having a lot of fun with her magic. Maybe now I won’t be so useless after all. What did she mean by calling me an adventurer? Is that what I want?

“Ok, what was your last one?” Malika asked.

“Deconstruction,” Ali answered, “I’m not sure what this is for, it destroys stuff but requires focus...” she trailed off. It really was a confusing skill, and for the life of her, she couldn’t figure out how to use it.

“Show me?” Malika asked. “It says destroy, right? How about we test it on that patch of moss first?”

“I’m not sure how.”

“How about you try prancing around like before?” Malika asked with a grin.

“Hmph.” Ali imbued her glare with the full weight of just how unimpressed she was with that idea – which only made Malika grin more.

Although… maybe it works the same way as Arcane Bolt?

“It says it has a range of ‘touch,’” she mused, reviewing the skill’s description. Ali reached out toward the moss, resting her fingertips on the springy surface while she focused her mind on it just as she had when she had figured out her other skill. Deconstruction instantly activated, taking a surprisingly tiny amount of mana. A ring of glowing golden runes appeared, settling onto the patch of moss around her fingertips. Slowly, the moss began to glow with a softly pulsing radiance, emitting tiny golden motes that floated upwards. Many of them evaporated in the air, but those few that touched her skin were absorbed.

Is that mana? It was incredibly rare for mana to manifest visibly, and Ali’s eyes widened at the sensation of it being absorbed through her skin with every soft touch. At the same time, her mind filled with an enormous influx of information that was somehow shuttled off somewhere unseen.

This effect lasted a little more than ten seconds and when the spell finished, the moss had completely dissolved into light and dispersed.

I recovered quite a lot more mana than the skill used, she realized, still trying to puzzle out what it had actually done.

“Yeah, I see,” said Malika, “Let's skip that one for combat, for now, I think whatever is attacking you won’t wait patiently for you to do that. Not sure what you’re going to use it for, but it seems really good for cleaning stuff,” she said, pointing to where the moss had been. The stone looked pristine and entirely undamaged, with only the moss completely removed.

“It restored almost twenty mana,” Ali said.

“That could be useful,” Malika said. “Ok, let's talk strategy a bit, and then go find a rat to test your skills on.”

Ali glanced at her nervously. Seriously? Does she want to find a rat on purpose? She still felt rather traumatized by her first encounter with the giant sewer rat. A live one?

“It’ll be ok, I’ll help you if you get in over your head,” Malika reassured her. “Plus, I need to try out my skills too, and I need to earn some experience.”

Before Ali knew it, and, in her opinion, entirely too soon, she found herself standing next to Malika outside in the dark cavern staring at another huge mangy rat, her legs a little wobbly with remembered fear. Being an adventurer was such a terrible idea – but, if it made her stronger…

Sewer Rat – level 2

It hadn’t seen them yet, but she could almost hear the hiss and screech that it would make and smell the reek of decay on its breath. Her last time facing a rat had almost killed her.

“You can do this,” Malika encouraged her. “There’s a world of difference between having no class and being level one.”

That’s right, I have a class now, she thought, but her fear didn’t much care for the distinction. Especially considering neither of them had tried their new classes in combat before. For all Malika’s confidence, Ali was acutely aware that they were both equally inexperienced with their skills and classes. You go first. I’ll just stay back here.

The gray Sewer Rat scrabbled and scraped around in the dirt and among the piles of old bones with its sharp claws, presumably searching for something to eat. The sharp yellowed teeth and beady eyes gleamed in the dim light, reminding her all too clearly of her first encounter. Ali glanced nervously at Malika who smiled back at her. She was beginning to understand Malika’s insistence on vitality. Twenty-five health points felt far too little facing a monstrous rat bigger than she was.

Suddenly, the rat looked up, nose sniffing the air and it turned its head sharply, fixing its eyes on Ali. With a screech, it charged. Ali stiffened up in panic as her heart hammered in her chest.

“First use roots, then shoot,” Malika’s calm voice cut through her fear. Hanging onto the calmness in Malika’s voice as if it could save her life, Ali cast her Grasping Roots. Her mana poured into her skill and an explosion of thick, gnarled brown roots erupted from the ground, winding themselves around the rat’s legs, bringing its charge to an abrupt halt.

It hissed loudly, shaking its head as it tried to bite the roots binding it.

Whoa! That … worked?

She sucked in a deep breath and reminded herself why she was doing this. She was going to get stronger, strong enough to recover her home and never feel helpless again. Even facing Nevyn Eld. She was taking her first step forward. You can do this, Ali, she urged herself. Her determination returned. Carefully fixing the rat in her mind as her target, just like in their practice, she used her Arcane Bolt skill. The tiny golden bolt of energy catapulted away from her, accelerating to the rat even as another formed, and then another. The rat let out a loud pained squeal, almost breaking her concentration, but she held onto her stream of conjured flying bolts.

After several seconds of rapid bolts slamming into the rat, it broke free and charged, leaping straight for her. Crap! The pain made it stronger! Before panic overwhelmed her, Ali summoned her backup magic. The barrier disk snapped into existence right in front of her face, golden light pouring out over the mossy ground. With a heavy crash, the rat slammed into the barrier, its teeth screeching across the surface as it slid to the ground, dazed. Following Malika’s suggestion, she recast her Grasping Roots on the momentarily stunned rat, and it immediately started thrashing frantically.

Ali jerked backward, desperately dodging flailing claws and snapping jaws, and tripped over a rock, landing with a bone-jarring thump on her behind. Breathing heavily, she scrambled to her feet and fled the furious monster she had just trapped.

Once she reached a safer distance, she created a new barrier in front of her. Angling her spell above the barrier, the golden bolts flew skyward, accelerating as they arced back down to slam into the rat’s back. She kept firing for a few seconds until the rat once again broke free and charged her. Her bolts simply readjusted their direction to track the rat as it came on like a mangy juggernaut full of pain and fury.

She saw its face looming through the transparent magical barrier, jaws agape and ready to attack, when suddenly it collapsed to the ground right at her feet, followed immediately by the sound of a soft chime in her mind.

You have defeated Sewer Rat – level 2.

Grasping Roots has reached level 2.Arcane Bolt has reached level 2.Barrier has reached level 2.

Oh, that was it? She just stared uncomprehendingly at the corpse on the ground and the notifications for a while, breathing hard.

“Well done, you did great!” The excitement and happiness in Malika’s voice clashed with the remnants of panic and fear still gripping her.

“I was scared,” she told Malika with a frown, “I panicked. If you hadn’t said something at the start... I mean, that was terrible!”

“That’s fine,” Malika interrupted as she trailed off. “Being scared is ok, this is your first time doing this on purpose, right? Besides, you stood your ground, and you killed the rat without letting it get to you.”

Ali looked up, her face relaxing into a little smile, some of her confidence trickling back at Malika’s encouraging words. She has a point, Ali decided – her last encounter with a similar rat had almost killed her, but this time – even though terrifying – she hadn’t even been hit. I did panic, but I recovered and finished it by myself. That has to count for something, right?

I love my magic, she thought. It may not be the class she had dreamed of, but the golden magic was most certainly hers. And as she stared at the rat she had just killed and the friend that had helped her, a little of the fear in her heart faded.

Malika

Malika had never told anyone her story. She had only done so because Aliandra sounded so lost and alone. It had been almost ten years since that day, and she had had to bury her feelings deep inside to survive the harsh life on the streets of Myrin’s Keep. The only time she had cried in front of Edrik had earned her a swift concussion and a few broken ribs – and an expensive trip to the healer. She had been woefully unprepared for the surge of unleashed emotions that hit her like an avalanche when she had opened up to Aliandra, and even now she still felt like her heart was trembling within her. She disliked the feeling – the feeling of weakness and vulnerability. A feeling that would get her hurt, beaten, or worse – but the feeling refused to go back into the room she had banished it to all those long years ago.

She sat and waited while Aliandra recovered her breath from the fight. The Fae clearly came from a soft life and was woefully unprepared for even the rats and wolves down here, to say nothing of the monsters in her story. And yet, Malika saw something within her that refused to give up. It was that tiny spark of unbroken will that spoke to Malika. As different as they were, the spark that refused to be snuffed out resonated so powerfully with her that her heart clenched within her chest. A connection with a person that she hadn’t felt in forever.

She shook her head, dismissing it all as sentimentality. I’m just unsettled by my memories, she thought. At least working with Aliandra on her skills and teaching her the basics of strategy felt productive and satisfying, even if she wasn’t nearly qualified to help. Seeing Aliandra’s quick grasp of her magic and how to use it under pressure was almost as exciting as her anticipation of trying her own class out. But connections with people? That was a vulnerability a Street Rat couldn’t afford.

I wonder if I would have her courage if the rats were as big as me.

She was still shocked that Aliandra had faced down and killed a level three monster with nothing but cantrips. The way she described her previous two spells, they sounded like the kind of skills you would use as a teaching aid – something safe for children to play with.

Eventually, her little companion looked up. “I used up almost all my mana in that fight. It’ll take me an hour to fully regenerate.”

“Why don’t you use your trash disposal skill?” Malika asked with a grin, teasing her to try and lighten the somber mood. “You said it recovers mana.”

“It’s not trash disposal!” Aliandra retorted. “I’m… just not really sure what it’s for.”

Her pout looked way cuter than Aliandra had probably intended. Tactfully, Malika declined to point it out. Instead, she said, “Whatever it is, it restores mana, right? Why not use it on the rat and see how much you get? It can’t resist anymore, so it should be a valid target.”

Trash cleaner or corpse disposal duty. She does not look amused!

Malika looked on curiously as Aliandra used her unusual spell on the corpse of the rat slowly turning it into particles of light and it dissipated into the air. It was a rather strange magic, and she didn’t have the faintest idea of how to help Aliandra figure it out.

“That got me a lot of mana,” Aliandra said, openly startled. “I’m ready to continue.”

“Did you get any skill increases from the fight?”

“Yes, three!” Aliandra said, grinning brightly. “Wait, you didn’t?”

“No, I didn’t do anything in the fight, so I probably didn’t even earn any class experience,” Malika answered.

Technically, she might have been a contributor – she was actually reducing the risk simply by being there and acting as the lookout. Is that really how it works? Did I reduce her experience, too? If she had earned some small amount of experience, she had no way of knowing.

“Oh, did you want to find a rat, too?” Aliandra asked.

“Yes, I’d like a chance to use my skills,” Malika said. “This time, can you stand to the side and jump in if I get in trouble?”

