This isn’t a war. This is a Purge, for the Enemy is intent on genocide, and nothing will change his mind.

Knowing this, I ignore Mom and Akanai’s warnings to keep quiet and ask, “So you’ve said all you’ve come to say?” Struggling not to flinch under his stare, I rethink my choice of words, but I figure it’s best to keep the message short and sweet so the point gets across. “Good. Then kindly fuck off.”

Silence ensues as the tension ramps up until I can barely breathe, but I stand tall before the unseen pressure of Poppa Piggy’s building fury and hold my head up high. So what if he can kill me as easily as crushing an ant? That’s nothing new. I’ve been the small fish in this giant ocean since the day I arrived, and I won’t let a little thing like the threat of death cow me into submission.

...Oh, who am I kidding? This was a terrible idea. I should’ve listened to Mom and Akanai...

To everyone’s surprise, Zhu Chanzui does not lash out in rage, but instead throws his head back and howls in unrestrained laughter. “Yer a True one, ye are,” he says, and panic grips me as I hear the Capital T True in his words and recognize what he means. Looking around to see if anyone else heard it, I belatedly realize he’s speaking through Sending rather than broadcasting his words for all to hear. “Defiant even in the face of death.” Shaking his head, he smiles at me from above, a smile tinged with pity as if I’m the crazy one. “Ye don’t belong here,” he Sends, and again, my heart skips a beat, wondering just how much of my past he knows. “Ye’ve seen the Truth, know it in yer bones, but yer upbringing tells ye yer wrong and it tears you up inside. Ye know our way is how things have to be, and you’ll be much happier once you accept it. Stop struggling and surrender, child. Not to me or the Uniter, but to yer own inner desires. Cast off the shackles of civility and morality and be true to the creature within. Become the Devourer again, the man yer meant to be, not this weakling pretender playing by rules made up by men long dead.”

Despite knowing my arguments won’t sway him, I decide to voice them anyways because it needs to be said. “Might does not make right,” I begin, my hated enemy’s amusement only fuelling my conviction. “You are not right by virtue of strength, your strength only allows you to suppress the will of others. If you claim up is down and down is up, does the world upend itself? No, at most, we switch the meaning of the two words under threat of death and the world continues as it is. Up is still up and down is still down, we just call them by different terms now. What has your strength done there? Nothing.” Hitting him with my best sneer, I continue, “You say humanity has grown weak because we are safe, but just because you say it does not make it true, no matter how strong you might be. I believe humanity is stronger than ever before and poised to surge forward as a whole, but just because I say this, does not make it false, no matter how weak I might be. Personal strength has no bearing on the Truth, for the Truth merely exists as is, for each of us to see and interpret in our own unique ways.”

Oddly enough, Zhu Chanzui actually takes the time to consider my words carefully, even repeating parts of it back to himself. “The Truth merely exists as is,” he says, tasting the words on his tongue and sharing them with the entire Citadel once more. “There for each of us to see and interpret. Words to ponder and consider, but some other time.” Gesturing at the command centre across from him, Poppa Piggy says, “Don’t this prove yer logic wrong? Yer father, arrested for a crime he did not commit, all so some brat could, what? Take yer woman? That’s what this is about, ain’t it? If ye were strong enough, then no one would even think of touchin’ yer woman.”

Yes, but how the fuck does he know this? Also, the fact that he’s defending me will probably turn people against me, because why would a Defiled Divinity speak in my defence if I wasn’t allied with him? Ugh. Just what I need, more political shit flung my way. Instead of confirming or denying his words, I tackle his argument instead. “So the wives of all strong men are faithful? The husbands of strong women eternally devoted? You must not have spent much time in high society, else you’d understand how laughable your argument sounds. What happened here was a miscarriage of justice, because where might is master, justice is servant, but flaws in execution does not render the concept of justice worthless.”

“Bah. Justice.” His sneer back in full force, Poppa Piggy spits the word out like an unappetizing morsel. “Honour. Integrity. False concepts created by bored humans sitting safe and happy in their luxurious homes. They had no obstacles or adversities to overcome, so they manufactured their own. ‘A man must behave honourably’ the nobles say, while robbing their peasants blind. ‘A man must have integrity’, claims the merchant, while cheating clients and country alike. So too with justice. Rules fer the peasants, but different rules fer the Warriors, special rules they themselves don’t even adhere to. Where is honour, integrity, and justice in nature? Does the wolf challenge the bull to single combat and set a time and date for their duel? Does the fox leave the chicken’s nest untouched when the dog falls asleep guarding it? Does the rabbit demand justice from the tiger which ate its mate? Don’t talk to me about justice, because it doesn’t exist in nature.”

“You’re right.” Judging by the sharp intake of breaths echoing around me, I probably should’ve led with something else, but it’s too late for regrets now. “Justice, honour, and integrity are concepts created by humans, which is what makes them worth aspiring to.” At some point, Mom let go of my arm and left me free to pace about, but she’s still there supporting me from the side. Same with Akanai, looming behind me, her mere presence reminding me there are always taller shoulders to bear the Heavens and lending me courage to speak my mind. I only wish Dad were here with me too, but I know he’ll be proud of me when he hears what I said. “‘Might makes right’ is an unfortunate truth, not a goal to strive for. You would have us return to a time when our ancestors roamed the wilds and only concerned themselves with their daily survival, because you think this will make us strong, but you are wrong. We are not wolves or sheep, bulls or tigers, cranes or dragons, or what have you. We are human, and we are strong because we have human concepts, ones which separate us from animals.” My notes come to mind, and I pause to think back on the deceased Chief Beardy’s warning, to refrain from making my observations public, but here and now, his words ring false. No, there’s another reason he wanted me to keep silent, something which had to do with his guarded stance and flat out refusal to approach me, to the point where he threw my notes rather than handing them over.

He, a grand Divinity, was wary of me, a crippled boy, someone he could have killed without breaking a sweat, all because of what he read in my notes.

So do I share what I just came up with to refute Zhu Chanzui and risk ruining the faith of the Sentinels around me? Or do I keep it to myself and move on?

Rather than one or the other, I pick a third option and skirt around my newfangled Truth to let others come to their own decisions. “Humans are far from the strongest creatures in this world, but we have conquered it nonetheless. We do not live in fear of the wolf and tiger, they live in fear of us. We have tamed the horse and bull, run off the fox and rabbit, spread our people far and wide across the lands not in spite of our weakness, but because of it. We alone are weak, but united as one, we are an unstoppable force, one which can only be threatened by another just like it.” This time, it’s my turn to shake my head at Zhu Chanzui, and it feels good. “You say the True Path is ‘might makes right’, that the weak die and the strong survive. Well the Defiled have followed your True Path since before the Empire’s founding, yet it is only now, after who knows how many millennia have passed, that they finally pose a true threat. Why? Because they were recently united under one leader, who pushed all the Defiled to work towards one goal. That is humanity’s strength, unity, not conflict, and your own people prove it.”

Which is also why so many Spiritual Beasts turn into Ancestral Beasts. Because they too are seeking the human Path, to live in harmony with others around them and aspire to noble ideals like honour, justice and integrity, for these human concepts are what will ultimately elevate us to the Divine.

I don’t know how or why, but I just know this is Humanity’s Path, a different Path from the one Ping Ping and Pong Pong follow, but a viable path nonetheless, because all Paths lead to the Dao.

Since Poppa Piggy doesn’t seem ready to speak, I hammer my point home. “My father’s arrest was a gross injustice, and I came here to demand it be righted. Whether they agree that my father is innocent is another story, but every person in the Citadel can understand how I feel and empathize with why I would want his name cleared and to see justice served. If you cannot understand, then you still have much to learn about being human, but I would expect as much from a monster who sells his children into slavery.”

That last bit garners a reaction from Poppa Piggy, and again, it’s not one I expected. Confusion as to why I would bring his children into this, because he truly doesn’t understand why it matters, and that saddens me. Guan Suo had parents to teach him what it meant to be human, but I don’t think Zhu Chanzui was ever so fortunate. I cannot imagine the events and experiences that shaped him into the person he’s become today, and I don’t want to know, because even if redemption is not out of his reach, I do not care to help him find it.

Because I am human, and I am vengeful, so I will see him dead.

Anger rises in my chest as I struggle to contain it, until it occurs to me that there’s no point in doing so. Embracing the torrent of emotions surging through me, I parse through them one at a time to experience them in full. Pity for Zhu Chanzui, but not much, because he is unrepentant and does not care to improve because he believes he is right. Hatred too, not just because his trading company enslaved me, but also because my father is still in danger, and I’m stuck wasting time with this fat bastard instead of storming the command centre to save the man who gave me everything. Impatience, because I wish to be done with this, and anxiety over Dad’s unknown fate, as he has yet to inform anyone regarding his status, which is not at all like him. “So, as I said before, if you’ve said all you’ve come to say, then please kindly fuck off, because I have more important matters to attend to and can’t be bothered with you anymore.”

And finally, Zhu Chanzui’s good natured cheer dissipates to reveal the monster hidden underneath. “Ye have a way with words, boy, I’ll give ye that, but don’t mistake my curiosity for benevolence. Ye amuse me, but not enough to put up with yer insolence.”

“Benevolence and insolence, two more human concepts.” Shrugging, I ask, “Why should it matter if I am insolent if might makes right? Shouldn’t you just kill me to prove me wrong? Except doing so wouldn’t prove shit. I’d be dead and you’d still be wrong, even if you delude yourself into believing otherwise. Another human concept by the way, self-deception. You should rethink your Truth, because from where I stand, it’s full of holes.” Waiting a beat to see if he has anything to say, I cock my head and ask, “So? What will it be? Are you going to kill me, or are you going to leave and stop wasting my time?”

“Stop. Taunting. The Divinity.” Akanai’s Sending is almost word for word and beat for beat the same as Mom’s, while Yuzhen and Binesi offer a similar Sending in Common. There are a few more panicked messages much to the same effect, Sent by scared Warriors fearful I might goad Zhu Chanzui into destroying the Citadel, but I don’t think he will. Sure, he can kill me and probably flatten everyone in a hundred kilometres in the process, but he won’t survive it. There are Imperial Divinities watching from the sidelines, ready to strike the moment he presents an opening, and while his presence here is all but daring them to attack, he also knows he’s safe so long as he doesn’t do anything drastic, like destroying the Citadel. Divinities are all walking nukes, and as such, need to tread carefully, lest they accidentally turn the entire world into a barely habitable wasteland.

Plus, at the end of the day, something tells me Big Poppa Piggy is selfish to the extreme and cares only about his own needs and desires. Working with the Defiled is a matter of shared goals, not an altruistic pursuit, so he would never trade his life for the life of a worthless crippled human, nor would he sacrifice himself to deal a grievous blow to the Empire. He came here to gloat and scare us a bit, but I will not be cowed, because despite his loose adherence to the Treaty, he’s more than happy to take advantage of its terms whenever it suits him.

And if I’m wrong, then the People’s Divinities will exact bloody retribution, and I’m okay with that, because spite is another human concept I am happy to indulge in.

