There are good days and there are bad days, and then there are days like today, when my ‘open rebellion’ against the Empire ranks as the second worst event of the day.

I get that trials and tribulations is this world’s whole shtick, but I would appreciate it if we could limit ourselves to one catastrophic mishap at a time. I had yet to even confirm if Dad is still alive before the Peak Expert Wraiths started popping out of the woodwork, led by the Bloody Fucking Confessor himself, and now we’re dialing things up to twelve with the arrival of an Enemy Divinity, because why the fuck not? Luckily, Jixing’s lesser beardy isn’t a complete moron, only most of one seeing as he finally ordered the Death Corps to stand down. At least I assume he has, since no audible orders were given, but the black-armoured guards have fallen back into formation in front of the command centre, their halberds raised and ready to hurl at Big Poppa Piggy. On Akanai’s orders, given out loud so all other respective parties can hear, the Sentinels also fall back with me alongside them, dragged by Mom to one corner of the plaza in what I can only imagine is proper Mexican stand-off protocol.

Sentinels in one corner, Death Corps in another, and Big Poppa Piggy makes three, standing in the sky and looking as fat and stupid as I remember.

Okay, fat is being ungenerous, since it does seem like it’s mostly muscle. It’s like if someone took a hulking sumo wrestler and gave his portly figure the chiselled definition of a professional body-builder, which is both remarkable and unsettling at the same time. Standing high above the crowd with his mohawk held high, Zhu Chanzui glances over the gathered crowd in obvious disdain, wholly unconcerned by the fact that he stands alone and unaided in the heart of the Northern Citadel. Hate to say it, but he has the stones, though it’s hardly surprising considering his record against Divinities. Mahakala died to Chanzui, and while no one really said much about what happened in the extended three versus three match of Divinities, I hold the fat pig responsible for Guan Suo’s death as well. By my count, that makes the score 2 – 0 in favour of the pig-man against the Empire, which I suppose earned him the right to be cocky.

What I wouldn’t give to have Peace or Unity in hand right now, to deliver a Guided throw or a spring-loaded bullet directly into his fat piggy face. Sure, Muyang’s new Spiritual Gun-Spear didn’t kill Goujian, which means Big Poppa Piggy would probably shrug off my best hits without even blinking, but I’ll never know unless I give it a shot, and I doubt there’ll ever be a better time than now.

Mostly because there’s a better than good chance that we all die here.

Though only felt for an instant, Big Poppa Piggy’s baleful Aura reminds me of my vulnerability once more before a friendly, bolstering Aura sweeps it away. Since I doubt the beardy Divinity up there would be so kind as to shelter us ‘rebel filth’ from Chanzui’s Aura, it lends credence to my theory that the People have Divinities to spare since I sent Guard Leader away with Lin-Lin, Luo-Luo, and the pets before marching on the command centre. It seemed prudent at the time since I was worried Jixing might try stealing Luo-Luo away in all the chaos and I didn’t want my wifey or floofs getting caught in the crossfire. Assuming they found their way out of the Citadel, this also means Ping Ping is safe from discovery and on her way to reunite with Pong Pong out in the bamboo grove, and with a little luck, they might even all make it out of Central ahead of the wave of shit that’s about to come crashing down.

Despite the presence of an Enemy Divinity standing in plain sight, long seconds pass without an Imperial Divinity coming out to stand up to him. Pretty sure the incompetent beardy up in the Legate’s room is also a Divinity, considering he was one of the three such bearded Imperials sitting beside the Legate during that big meeting of Divinities, but between being too slow to save Jixing and too stupid to fixate his anger on the right Enemy, it seems he wants nothing more to do with today’s proceedings. He’s not even standing at the window anymore, and while he could just be Concealed, somehow, I doubt it. He’s probably long gone by now, with the body of his dead ward no doubt, off to make excuses and scream rebellion to absolve himself of responsibility. I don’t know much about him, but he seems like the type.

If I had to guess, Jixing’s beardy is probably surnamed Yang, while Shen ZhenWu’s Chief Beardy is a Liang. I don’t really have any proof, only conjecture based on the fact that they’re both willing to play bodyguard for their family successors, and I can’t imagine Divinities really need a day job to pay the bills. No idea which Supreme family the third beardy hails from, but much like Yang Beardy upstairs, I haven’t seen hide nor hair of the mysterious third Divinity since the night Mahakala died.

And now, the culprit who murdered him stands before my eyes, high in the air like a god amongst mortals, both within my reach and wholly untouchable at the same time.

“Ain’t this a sight to inspire,” Chanzui says, his voice booming out into the silent Citadel as every man, woman, and child listens with bated breath. “Idiots killin’ idiots in broad daylight, leaving yer enemies free t’ come and go as they please. Yer almost making it too easy to kill ye all, too easy indeed.”

That fucking accent. I hate it, and not just because it brings me back to my time in the mines, but also because it’s fucking infuriating to listen to. It’s like he’s speaking around a mouthful of shit that he keeps sloshing around in his cheeks for flavour, and it makes me want to slap him upside the head and kick his goddamned teeth in so I don’t have to listen to his drawl anymore.

Okay, maybe it’s not just the accent that bothers me and I have unresolved anger issues, but still, my point stands.

With no rebuttal forthcoming, the Ancestral Piggy takes this as an invitation to monologue. “Foolish mortals, going about yer pointless lives and petty squabbles while death hangs over the horizon. You think yer Wall will protect you? You think yer Emperor will keep you safe? Yer Western brethren thought the same, and now they march under our banner, bearing sword and spear in the name of the Truth. Ye call us Defiled and believe we have fallen, but what ye don’t know, what ye cannot comprehend, is that you’ve all been lied to. You who were born to be wolves have been made into sheep, all so those who put themselves above ye can keep playin’ at bein’ dragons.”

...He’s not wrong, but I don’t like agreeing with him on basic principle. Sick of listening to his bullshit, I speak up before anyone has a chance to stop me. “Oh please.” Every eye in the plaza turns towards me, but I raise mine to meet Chanzui’s, staring down my most hated enemy for the first time ever. I’ve seen him before, but this is the first time we’ve come face to face, and from what I can tell, he seems more amused by my interruption than anything else. Ignoring Mom and Akanai’s Sent warnings, I steady my nerves and pray my voice doesn’t tremble too much as I retort, “And I suppose you’re here to tell us how life will be better under your boot? Under the heel of the Defiled?”

Poppa Piggy’s rumbling chuckles hit me like a jackhammer to the chest as he stares down at me from on high. “And when did I say that?” His hateful sneer fills me with unbridled rage, and only Mom’s steely grip around my bicep keeps me from stepping out in front of the Sentinel’s guarding me. Might not be the smartest move advancing on a Divinity, but if Big Piggy wants me dead, I doubt my guards could stop him. As far as I can tell, most of the damage done during a battle between Divinities is ancillary, meaning I’d probably die to collateral damage even if a friendly Divinity blocks the direct attack itself. As evidenced by Jixing’s beardy, it’s much easier to kill than it is to protect, and even the shock-waves generated by the battle between Han BoHai and the Confessor was enough to make me spit blood, leaving me feeling like I’ve been through eight rounds of a boxing match despite having done nothing but watch from the sidelines. Battles between Peak Experts are nothing to sneeze at, and I keep having to re-evaluate what I know every time I see one up close.

Seeing no answer is forthcoming, Poppa Piggy shakes his head and smiles. “I ain’t here tah coddle ye and tell ye things will be okay, or to win ye over and weaken the Empire more than it already is. No, there’s no need for any tiresome tricks and strategies, no point in pandering to politics or popularity. A bloody reckoning is a coming, and ye’re all unfortunate enough to be standing in the way. That’s all this is, and it’s what yer Emperor won’t tell ye, but whether yer all fractured or united, it wouldn’t make a difference either way. Even if ye all fucked off back to yer provinces right now, we’d still come for ye all after settlin’ accounts with them Eastern Imperials. North, South, or Central, we’ll come a knockin’ when it’s time, so just you wait.” Dismissing me with a snort, he addresses the Citadel inhabitants once more, preaching from on high to the lowly mortals below. “Ye’ve all been living too well. Ye got yer Walls and yer armies to keep ye safe, and because of this, the human race has taken a turn fer the worse. Millions of ye are content to live in yer hovels and shanties, payin’ yer taxes and bendin’ yer knees like the good little sheep ye are, but them nobles and merchants who lord themselves above ye ain’t any better than you are. Take away yer clothes and tools, and throw ye into a pit, and yer just two naked humans with nothing but tooth and fist to rely on. No difference between ‘em ‘sides the circumstances of their births, but since the Empire values bloodlines above merit, they tell ye one is better than the other, even though you’d never know by lookin’ at it.”

I hate when my enemies speak logical sense, but I know better than to believe his pleasant words. However, since it seems clear he still has more to say and I am not entirely suicidal, I bite my tongue and put together a rebuttal while Poppa Piggy clenches his fist and carries on. “See, ye always hear people sayin’ ‘might makes right’, but in all me years, I ain’t ever met nobody who lives by it. When I was a young’un, I accepted the Empire’s rules and lived by them, made connections, did favours, and built up a merchant company to obtain wealth and bought everything my heart might desire. By yer standards, that was how life should be, and there I stood at the top with everything a man might dream of havin’, but here’s one thing they never tell all ye commoners dreamin’ of strikin’ it rich: wealth be as empty and soulless as the coin which represents it. ‘Trials and tribulations,’ ye all cry, thinkin’ all yer toil and sufferin’ will amount to something someday, but most can’t even imagine the meaning of true suffering.” His wide lips split into a toothy grin as he sweeps his gaze across the plaza, and when he speaks once more, I can feel the conviction in his words and the madness in his mind. “But don’t ye worry. Yer Grandpa here is fixin’ to teach ye, and then you’ll understand. Might makes right, this is the natural order of the world, one we will soon return to after clearing out the chaff and rubble. We are the cleansing fire, the raging tornado, the crashing tsunami, and the toppling earthquake all in one, and nothing will stop us. Not yer walls or yer heroes, and not even yer Emperor and his feeble Divinities.”

Tossing a sack down to the stage with a casual flick of his wrist, I hop once to look over the Sentinels in front of me and see what’s in the sack. As it rolls unevenly across the stage, I realize it was not a sack, but rather the bloody stump of a head wrapped in its own hair. By pure happenstance, I get a clear glimpse of the face during my brief hop and my breath catches in my throat as I come face to face with Chief Beardy, who I last saw only minutes before the super Wraiths attacked Shen ZhenWu.

“Threats and posturing,” the Legate said. “We know their Divinities won’t attack.” Shows how much he knows. I really hope the Imperial Clan has more than three Divinities, because otherwise, we’re straight up fucked. Rest in peace Chief Beardy, whose name I never learned, but in my defence, you spent almost all your time Concealed, so I never really knew if you were there.

“This marks three Divinities this Granddaddy has killed in this past year alone,” Zhu Chanzui brags, pounding his chest with pride. “And this is what ‘might makes right’ looks like, how life was meant to be lived. The weak die, and the strong survive, that is the True Path we all must follow. You need something? Then take it or die trying. You want something? Then you best be strong enough to keep it. That’s how things should be, because only through conflict and competition can we progress along the Path. We who seek the Truth have come to challenge you, and thus far, your defenders have been found wanting.”

Well fuck. So not only is Poppa Piggy strong as hell, he’s also a bat-shit believer of Zhen Shi’s teachings. Problem is, now the entire Citadel knows we’ve lost three Divinities since the war began, all dead at the hands of one crazed Ancestral Beast. There is nothing to debate here, no room for reason, because he has not come to cajole or convince us that his way is right. No, he’s here to give his mission statement, to tell us that the world we know is crumbling around us, and that a new world order is coming to replace it.

