Looming closer, but not too close, Poppa Piggy flashes a smile to hide his glare, but I see through him. “The crippled Minister of Finance, standing up to a Divinity. How brave and courageous.” Tone dripping with sarcasm, which is yet another human concept, he looks me up and down in mock admiration. “How far ye’ve come from yer days in the mines.” Grin widening as he watches me freeze up, he savours the moment and takes in everyone’s reactions before continuing. “An inspiring story, one which should be shared with all. See, some of ye might remember a little tussle he had with my merchant house in Nan Ping. Set his ‘Divine’ Turtle to wreck the place and exposed my dealings with my new allies. Highly inconvenient, since there was still work to be done, and I wanted to know why a little northern savage would have it out for my company, so I looked into it and found that this wasn’t my first tussle with the People.” Grinning from ear to ear in genuine glee, he holds his hands out wide and addresses the crowd. “Turns out, one of my ventures up north purchased a slave almost ten years ago, a child of twelve with amber eyes. Because of this, someone sent a Captain to rescue that amber-eyed slave and slaughtered all the other slaves and guards in the process. By sheer happenstance, one of my merchants escaped and brought word that Captain Baatar of the People was responsible for the slaughter, and when I learned that, I realized Falling Rain is likely that slave he rescued. What a touching story, don’t you all think? From slave to Minister of Finance, how admirable.”

Already I can hear the gasps and whispers, feel the stares and judgment settling down on me. Mom and Akanai each put a hand on my shoulder, and I take a deep breath to calm my nerves. I have thought of this day for years, wondered what would happen if this secret ever got out. In the Empire, being a slave was a mark of shame, one which can never be erased, but while I’ve had nightmares of being cast out from ‘proper’ society due to my past, now that it’s been revealed, all I feel is relief.

Because I am not ashamed, and now, I can finally speak freely about what I went through.

Meeting Poppa Piggy’s eyes, I can tell he’s startled by what he sees, not fear, panic, hatred, or anything else he might have expected, but cold, uncaring indifference. “Yes,” I say, ignoring Yuzhen’s Sent advice to deny everything. “I was that slave, a common boy of twelve years. In the mines, I worked ferrying stones and ores to the wagons from sun-up to sun-down. I was beaten, tortured, starved, and denied any and all basic human decency, as well as forced to watch other slaves beaten and tortured to death daily, all as part of some sick, unholy experiment you were conducting to create some Defiled concoction. I suffered, and I endured, until the day my sister found me and brought me to my father, who righted the wrongs done to me and brought me home to heal.”

Turning away from the pig, I turn to face the Sentinels around me. “The People took me in as one of their own, and for that, I will forever be grateful.” Some of those familiar faces already knew, but most did not, and it gladdens me to see more sympathy than scorn, though the latter does exist. There are Imperial soldiers around too, but most seem more perplexed than anything, as if wondering how this could even be possible. “I was once a slave, Sentinel, Warrant Officer, and Number One Talent of the Empire. I am now a cripple with a shattered Core and the Minister of Finance, but that does not change my past, nor am I ashamed of it, because those were the trials and tribulations set for me, and I am that much stronger for it.” As much as I want to go into a rant on the evils of slavery, now is not really the time, so I turn back to Poppa Piggy with a mocking smile. “As for you, you should really stop contradicting yourself. If ‘might makes right’, all you need to do is defeat us on the field of battle, yet here you stand, bragging about your accomplishments to scare us and playing mind games to turn us against one another. Killed three Divinities? Perhaps, but you and I both know you did not win by virtue of strength alone.” Waving a hand in clear dismissal, I add, “Now for the third time and final time, fuck off. There will be a day when I come calling to right the wrongs you’ve committed, but that day is not today.”

Even as I say it, I realize I’ve gone too far, because I just outright threatened a Divinity, and even the most modest warrior would see this as a challenge. The air thickens as Zhu Chanzui radiates threat and violence from every pore on his body, a living, breathing engine of destruction on the cusp of losing control. “Enough of yer disrespect,” he snarls, each word shaking me to the bone. The world ripples as he clenches his fists in rage, like twin Demons being born in the palm of his hands without the unsettling vortex of Spectres around him. “Ye think you know suffering? I’ll show ye – ”

Big Poppa Piggy’s ravings cut off mid-rant as a globe of water explodes in his face and sends his bulky form careening away. Crossing dozens of meters in the blink of an eye, he regains his ‘footing’ up in the air and snarls again, his flesh unblemished but his robes shredded and hair in disarray. “Show yerself! Ye think I won’t kill eve –”

Again, the all-powerful Divinity is cut off mid-sentence by an exploding ball of water, but this time, it only rocks him back on his heels. Following the attack back to its origin, his expression flickers between shock and dismay, or perhaps even a bit of fear, for the Divinity who stands against him, does so on four, stubby, leathery legs.

There Ping Ping stands in all her diminutive Divine majesty, her stomach lowered, shoulders squared, neck cocked, and beak wide open in what I’ve been calling ‘siege-mode’. It’s even more adorable now than it was before, and while her attacks don’t seem to be injuring her opponent, he does seem unwilling to fight back, and soon disappears without uttering another word. Not sure why, but I’m guessing it has to do with the fact that Ping Ping is an Animal Divinity whose strength is unknown and her actions are unrestricted by the Treaty or just morality in general. Unlike me, a man who has died before and is all too willing to risk the hundred or so years of lifespan he has left, Zhu Chanzui is not so inclined to risk his life on a whim, a life which may still have millennia left to live.

In short, he has so much more to lose than I do, which is why I was so willing to play chicken. Ping Ping showing up to save the day is nice and all, but I almost wish she didn’t, because now, the turtle’s out of the bag and I have no idea how I’ll keep her safe.

Regardless of the future, there’s one thing that needs to be done. “Good girl,” I croon, patting her head and not using her name just so I have plausible deniability. Divine Turtle? No, this is another, different powerful turtle. Maybe that’ll work.

Oh wait.

There are two things I need to do.

Scooping the sweet girl into my arms, I hug her tight as she keeps careful watch for danger and turn to Mom. “Come on. Let’s go see Dad and make sure he’s okay, then we should decide what we’ll do next.” Walking to the stage with head held high, I keep a close eye on the upper rooms and pray that idiot Divinity tries to stop me, but no argument is forthcoming and the Death Corps let me pass without a fuss.

Smart move on his part, because, I’m done playing politics. From now on, I will walk softly and carry a Divine Turtle, because I’m young, dumb, and not afraid to die.

...

I’m not a huge fan of that tagline, but if the shoe fits...

Chapter Meme
