“I was trying to kill that damn giant slime. Thing had way too much health.”

“Giant slime? The one from the quest in the middle of the board? They let you go after it alone?”

“Nobody tried to stop me. Wish they had. I guess I look stronger than I am.”

“So you’re a mage too? What was that light spell?”

“Lunar orb. It isn’t good for much, other than making light. Still, I need it, for my build.”

“What build? Oh, I’m being rude, sorry.”

“A little. Don’t worry about it. You saved me, so I owe you. Can I trust you to keep quiet about what I’m about to tell you?”

Rain nodded.

“Good. I know of a rare class, including the <something> requirements. I am trying to unlock it, so I need to pick some really specific skills.”

“Oh, I see,” Rain said, debating whether to tell the man about his own rare class. He decided against it for now. He really didn’t know anything about him, other than the fact that he was some sort of mage. I’ll get to know him a bit better, first.

“So you went after the slime to, what, earn money? Experience?” Rain asked.

“Neither. I need to kill a strong essence monster, and I’d hoped that the slime would be one. It wasn’t, but by the time I found that out, it had already blocked the tunnel behind me.”

“An essence monster?”

“Yes. It’s a requirement for the class I want. I’m stuck at level 5 until I pick something. I’m not taking mage, that’s for sure.”

“Oh, so it’s not just the cap? You can’t level until you pick?”

“Right.”

“Oh, I didn’t know that. It never even occurred to me to not pick right away. Shit. Thanks for telling me about it.”

“Thanks for saving me. Is there anything I can do to pay you back?”

“Well... I do need Tel to get back into the city...”

“Sorry, I’m flat broke. I lost what little coin I had in the sewer. In fact, I was hoping that I could join you out here so I don’t have to pay for lodging. I’m not from around here, and I don’t fancy hunting slimes so I can afford the bunkroom.”

“Sure, I’ll have to talk to Tallheart, though. This is his hut, though I suppose we did kind of build it together.”

“Stick to being a mage.”

“I know, right?”

“Tallheart is the cervidian?”

“Yeah, did Jamus tell you about him? Is that going to be an issue?”

“No. I have no problem with his kind, as long as he doesn’t have a problem with me.”

“Oh, good. Well, then, I’m sure he won’t mind...”

Rain stood awkwardly as Val looked around the clearing.

“Should we go find him?” Val asked.

“No, I think it would be better if we let him talk to Jamus for a little while.”

“Then what should we do while we wait? What were you doing before I got here?”

“I was just training my magic.” Rain waved at the burned circle of grass.

“Fire mage, then?”

“No, I am… an aura mage, I guess. I use auras. It isn’t my ‘class’ class.” Rain made air-quotes with his fingers to explain what he meant, but this just got him a puzzled look.

“I don’t think I’ve ever heard of that one before. There are some aura users in the <something>, but they’re more… humm. They aren’t adventurers, let’s say.”

“The <something>? Jamus said that word before. Sorry, I’m not from around here either. This isn’t my first language.”

“Yeah, Jamus told me that you were a bit… different. Your accent is pretty strange, that is for sure.”

“What did he say?”

“Just that you were quick at learning languages, and that you were from somewhere, very, very, very far away. His words.”

“Ah, yeah. That’s accurate. I was teleported here, I don’t know how.”

“Hell of a thing. So, training, huh? Fancy a bit of a spar? You don’t seem like you’re too much higher level than I am.” Val looked at him expectantly.

“I don’t know... My magic isn’t really good for that kind of thing.”

“Ok, what then?”

“How about if we go hunting? All I have to eat are ration bricks.”

“I can’t eat those damn things. Your bartender... Khurt? Was that his name? Anyway, he’s <something> for making them like that. I didn’t believe Jamus when he said they were your favorite food. He has a stack of them for you, by the way.”

Rain scoffed. “Don’t listen to Jamus. I don’t eat them because I like them.”

“Hah. I knew he was full of shit. Well, I’m up for it. What are we hunting?”
