Alden gritted his teeth. He almost said, “Nothing. Wrong number.”

He could always trash the leftovers or drop them off on the tmithan floor. But he didn’t want to be part of the problem.

“Hey. Sorry to bother you. There’s a ton of extra food at the dorm. The professor in charge of the labs had it delivered. I’m having a picnic. You guys are mostly done with work, right? You should come.”

“Oh,” Naya said, surprised. “Is it enough food for everyone?”

“Yeah. We’re loaded. No meat. It’s all vegetarian. But it’s pretty awesome. Plus, there’s ice cream-ish stuff.”

“How ice cream-ish are we talking?” she asked with a laugh.

“Fifty percent. But it is frozen.”

“Say no more,” she said seriously. “I’ll be there in twenty.”

That went surprisingly well.

After the call ended, Alden selected one of the containers that seemed to be designed to seal completely. He filled it with all his favorite things, then he hurried it up to the third floor and stuck it in Thwart Hog’s sleeping capsule. A few minutes after he made it back down, the other humans started arriving.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, Manon was the first to appear. She was wearing her black Rabbit uniform, and her hair was up in a bun.

“Wow!” she said, examining the ridiculous spread. “Do you mind if I…?”

She gestured at the containers.

“Go ahead.” Alden tried not to freak out and overanalyze his own emotions. She wasn’t a Sway. And he was a rank above her. Whatever she did, it wasn’t going to be that serious. The effect of a single dose of her skill was probably milder than the peace of mind wordchains he’d been using so often lately.

I just have to stay alert and aware.

“This is for all of us, right?” she asked, examining the spicy soup. “Members of the boater can have it?”

“Yes?” Alden said. Hadn’t he just covered that? “You can have it.”

“Great!”

He expected her to grab a fork or a spoon and dig in. But instead she started arranging the containers.

Oh, he realized. Those questions were so she could establish stronger ownership over the food. So that she could arrange it to suit the boater members better. Or just herself.

It was unexpectedly mesmerizing to watch her work. How much of a difference could arranging things make?

A lot, as it turned out. Even the more garishly-colored containers somehow looked more appealing in the locations Manon chose for them. She flipped lids off selected ones seemingly at random, but Alden soon realized those were the foods he’d thought were a little too hot.

Did she know that they needed cooling? Or did she just know that they would suit humans better if the lids were off?

She even picked the fishy lettuce out of the pasta and stuck it into the soup.

She didn’t taste either dish. There was no way for her to know what anything tasted like. It had to be some entirely different method.

“How does it work?” Alden asked. “Your skill?”

Was there a small hitch in Manon’s motions? The briefest of pauses? Or was it his imagination?

“What?” she said. “Sorry, I was so focused!”

“I just mean what does it look like to you?” Alden clarified. “I didn’t want trade secrets or anything. Does the food glow if it’s in the wrong spot or something?”

“Oh! What an interesting question! No, it doesn’t glow for me. I guess some part of your own skill must?”

Alden had been thinking of the targeting halo. He nodded.

“I see empty spaces,” she said. “Like the world is made up of layers and layers of unfinished jigsaw puzzles. I pick the right puzzle for the occasion, and I try to fill in all the empty spaces as best I can with the objects I have available.”

Alden couldn’t picture that well at all.

“Were there a bunch of lettuce-shaped holes in the soup?” he asked, perplexed.

“Yes.”

It really is like jigsaw puzzles I guess.

Just before the others started to arrive, she took a knife and carved the cake-tasting potatoes into roses. She placed each one in a different container, in the perfect spot to somehow make it look like the feast of miscellaneous parts all went together flawlessly.

Alden didn’t understand how it worked. But it did.

And in a way, it answered a question he hadn’t wanted to ask. If Manon didn’t have a piece that naturally fit into her puzzle, she could always shape one herself.

Soon, there was something that felt like a party underway on the clover lawn in front of the dorm. Everyone was excited. They wanted to hear about Alden’s day and the emergency, and they didn’t seem to care that he could only give them the foggiest of details about what had happened. A couple of them even started giving him advice about life on Anesidora, and the medical team guy who always wore nice suits—Chris—mentioned that he should reach out to the main hospital on the island and ask about volunteering.

Then, at some point Alden couldn’t pinpoint no matter how hard he tried, it began to shift.

Conversations became just a little more awkward than they should have been when he joined in. He caught the occasional annoyed sigh or glare direct his way. The angry guy made a snide comment about some people having all the luck.

Alden carefully avoided looking at Manon, and when it became too uncomfortable, he just bowed out. It would look strange if he stayed when he’d always gone out of his way to maintain his distance before.

As he climbed into his capsule, more than willing to take advantage of the private space even if he wasn’t sleepy yet, he wondered what kind of puzzle piece he was. Had she just slotted him into place where she wanted him? Or was he only a spare she had brushed off the table?

Either way is fine for now, I guess. I just need to get back home and away from her while I decide what to do.

He opened a small panel in the wall of the sleeping pod. There was a narrow shelf for personal items there. It was empty.

Alden took the gifts he’d gotten from the treat bowl in the doctor’s office and lined them up. There was a lump of glittery black modeling putty, a whistle that produced a different random note every time you blew on it, and small stuffed toy in the shape of a bright blue Ryeh-b’t.

It was little kid stuff, but it made the capsule look less sterile.

The Ryeh-b’t’s tail and wings had wires in them so that they could be repositioned. Alden entertained himself by making the small reptile-ish animal look like it was poised to take flight.

Then a thought occurred to him, and he took the bone shard he’d been wondering what to do with and stuck it into the modeling putty. He rolled it into a perfect ball and set it back on the shelf.

“Just an ordinary collection of knickknacks for an ordinary guy,” he said to himself.

He took a sleeping pill that night, and as he lay staring up at the ceiling of the capsule, gradually growing more and more groggy, he kept telling himself that it was only seven more days.

One week. Just one. And he could sleep in his own bed, in his own house, with his aunt making too much noise in the middle of the night and his friends just a short stops away by bus or train.

Maybe I’ll go back to school instead of trying to think of a way out of it, he thought. It sounds so easy right now. Just sit in class. Raise your hand every now and then.

He yawned.

It would be nice.
