“Ha! No. You gave me a dead mishnen and a means of ingratiating myself with all kinds of interesting people. In exchange, you get supper delivered. There’s even a place that supposedly delivers Earth food to campus, though I have my doubts about its authenticity. Do you humans eat cheese fondue all that often?”

I wish I did. Alden’s stomach growled. He thought he shouldn’t be hungry, considering what he’d seen this afternoon, but he was famished.

“I’ll take anything that’s not made of animals or by animals. I like those egg roll things…you were eating one when you arrived at the pond earlier. Those are good.”

Joe fell silent for a minute, eye zipping behind his lens, then announced, “Food is on its way. Enough for your human friends as well, so that they won’t be jealous.”

“I haven’t got any human friends here.”

“You’re pitiful, aren’t you? In that case, I’ll double the order so that you can try to make some.”

Alden sighed. He wondered if he would be a traitor to his species if he just asked Joe outright about Manon possibly using mind control on people.

A moment later, their cart finally arrived for them, and Joe started making small talk about the pros and cons of melted cheese.

“There are only pros,” Alden said. “Cheese has no cons. How do I get more refusals?”

“That was a quick turn in the discussion.”

“I was thinking that having a ton of refusals stacked would help me avoid crazy summoners. It was relevant to the earlier conversation. Not the fondue one.”

It was also going to be necessary if he ever wanted to get work as a hero. If he was one of those Rabbits who got summoned frequently—and considering how busy he’d been over the past few days it seemed likely that he was—he would need enough refusals to reassure anyone he might work with that he wouldn’t be a liability.

“Having ‘a ton of refusals stacked’ would indeed help you with that. But I’m afraid the best way to get them is the obvious one. Hope you are summoned often and save them up.”

“There’s seriously not a way to get bonus ones?”

Joe squinted in thought. “Few that would actually feel like bonuses to the recipient. Unless you like the idea of unusually traumatizing quest assignments.”

“I don’t.”

“Perhaps some people can award them. I personally never had the option. If you’re just hoping for a more predictable life, then long-term assignment is a good choice. If you can obtain one. You’ll know who you’re working for. And you’ll earn a lot of rest days. You can postpone a portion of them. It’s not the same as a refusal, but it allows you to carve out time for yourself.”

“You mean the downtime you earn after a certain number of days of being summoned? That can be postponed?”

“You didn’t know?”

Alden shook his head. He’d been aware that such downtime existed, but he hadn’t realized it could be used at his convenience.

“The System should let you bank time off once you have some, which you can then use to guarantee yourself a break when it’s most convenient for you.”

So it’s like saving up for a vacation.

It wasn’t as flexible as a refusal. You would have to use the banked time without ever knowing if you were choosing moments when you might not have been summoned anyway. But that would be great for his purposes if he got enough of it. If he was helping out with a critical situation on Earth, he could spend a few of his saved hours to guarantee he stayed there instead of getting zapped to another world.

And then, ideally, his refusals could be reserved for getting out of terrible or dangerous quests.

The cart dropped him off at the dorm, and Joe eyed the building critically.

“It looks depressing,” he said. “Why did they make it depressing?”

“It’s pretty okay. Windows would be good. And private rooms would be nicer. But there’s air conditioning on the human floor, so I’m not going to complain.”

The first and second floors were for tmithans and lortch. When the interior elevator door opened on floor one, it felt like a dry sauna. And the lortch floor was pitch black and full of clicking noises.

Alden had no desire to visit the neighbors in their preferred environments, and they probably felt the same.

He said goodbye to Joe and took the elevator up. He was delighted to realize he was the only person present.

He headed straight for the showers. His last bath had been a hasty dip in a rainforest pool full of poison, blood, and probably mishnen pee. He would soak himself in rubbing alcohol if he knew where to get some.

He searched the stalls, hoping one of the boater members had left body wash lying around. Most of them kept their personal items in their lockers, but today he was rewarded with a bottle of expensive-looking shampoo.

Alden said a silent apology to the owner and resisted the urge to use the whole thing.

While the too-hot water blasted him, he scrubbed until he thought every last bit of the bizarro day must have gone down the drain. Then he dug his fingers into his hair, washing it for the second time, and felt something odd.

Blinking away water as the rinse cycle started, Alden stared at the tiny, diamond-shaped shard between his thumb and forefinger. It was a bone fragment smaller than his pinkie fingernail. It was still stained with blood.

His mind immediately went to the strange operating/magic ritual room at the House of Healing. Stuart was probably there still, having his foot…reassembled? Regrown?

I hope this wasn’t a critical piece, he thought.

He was past the point of being queasy. Or maybe it was just that a single bone shard in isolation wasn’t as freaky as a whole pile of bloody meat and bone chunks had been.

I don’t have to return it, right? What do I do with this?

He guessed the logical thing was just to wash it down the drain. But what if it got stuck there, and years from now, some Artonan plumber found it? And they traced it back to its owner using magic. And Stuart’s “very important” family got mad that the bone hadn’t been treated with proper respect or something.

It sounded ridiculous, but not quite ridiculous enough for him to ignore the possibility.

I’ll take it to Joe tomorrow. Maybe he can drop it in a vat of acid. Or his eels can eat it.

Then, as if it was a perfectly sane follow-up idea to have, he idly thought, I can eat it.

“Gah! What the shit, brain?!”

Alden staggered back against the wall of the shower only to realize there wasn’t much point in trying to escape from himself. He held the piece of bone at arm’s length and examined his own mind in horror.

It was exactly the same matter-of-fact feeling he always had about potential food now. Not really the intrusive voice of the gremlin, though he tended to equate the two, but something that felt more fully united with his person.

A buffet of things he would have liked to consume were off-limits. But this gross random fragment of an alien guy named Stuart?

Totally eatable.

“Nooo,” Alden groaned, pressing his forehead to the pale green shower tiles.  “Ugh. Why?”

And as soon as he thought it, he discovered he knew why. Just like he had that first day after donating some of his blood to Gorgon…which was maybe the worst idea ever if this was the result.

I couldn’t drink hot chocolate because the cow didn’t offer me the milk. But I can eat Stuart’s bones like some kind of horrible ghoul because he entrusted himself to me.

Dammit, Gorgon. What kind of creepy things do your people get up to for this to be a part of your makeup?

Why couldn’t this power/curse/thing distinguish between chicken nuggets and people? And why didn’t it care that Stuart had definitely not been inviting Alden to dinner when he consented to the skill’s use? The gremlin had made a major nuisance of itself, trying to make sure the contract between Alden and Joe was all perfectly consensual and balanced.

Is the this-is-food detector separate from it? Is it confused because my skill was directly involved? Is it just hungry for Artonan and looking for an excuse?

Also, did this mean Alden could eat anyone who had entrusted themselves to him? It was a dark question, but it had to be asked, and…

Yes. Indeed. A moment’s thought gave him the answer. Joe’s rescued assistants were on the menu.

“Oh my god,” he whispered. “It’s like I’m designed to be a cannibal.”

Boe would probably remind him that technically cannibals ate their own species. And technically anybody could be a cannibal. In fact, Alden was less likely to become a cannibal than most people since he would have to get people to entrust themselves to him first.

That made him feel a little better.

A little.

How did I get myself in this mess?

He was curious about what would happen if he ate the bone but not nearly curious enough to ever do it. Even if he set aside the ick factor and the evil factor, he could still get some kind of lethal alien virus. Or maybe Artonan bones were an allergen to humans.

Wonder why they never covered that one in culture class.

He was so distracted he accidentally let the shower get halfway through its unpleasant oil-spraying cycle before he noticed.

He turned it off. He didn’t toss the piece of bone down the drain.

He still wasn’t sure what he planned to do with it. Maybe he’d give it to Joe to dispose of. He could respectfully bury it? Or maybe he’d take it back home to Gorgon and see if Gorgon could eat it, too.

If it belonged to Alden now, and Alden offered it to him, would that count?

Here, buddy. Got you a souvenir.

He snorted at himself. He definitely wasn’t going to do that one. Stuart seemed pretty okay—kind of hard to understand but definitely not a guy who deserved to wake up one morning with a strange voice in his head, a meat ban, and no idea how it had happened to him.

#

“Can I tip you?” Alden asked the delivery person a few minutes later. “Is that all right?”

He was standing outside the dorm, hair still damp from the shower, signing a tablet to acknowledge his receipt of an obscene amount of takeout that had just arrived in a mini helicopter with an Artonan in a professional-looking gray uniform.

<<Why would you tip me again?>> they asked in a confused voice, setting yet another container of food on the pathway. <<It is not necessary to begin with, and you already did it when you ordered the food.>>

“Oh. Okay.” Apparently Joe was a tipper.

Not long after that, he watched the helicopter leave. Its blades were completely silent in defiance of common sense.

Joe really goes all out when he’s saying thanks, he thought, staring around at the stacks of takeout covering the sidewalk.

The containers reminded him of high-tech tiffins. Judging by the different colors and designs on each, they’d come from multiple restaurants. Several of them were whistling and steaming like kettles. One had smoke curling out of the sides, and another was covered in an exciting layer of frost.

If that’s anything remotely like ice cream, I’m going to swim in it.

Alden wanted to eat inside, but considering the close quarters, it might not be the best idea. Some of the food was giving off strong smells. He moved the containers off the path into the short clover-like plants that the campus used as ground cover everywhere. Then, satisfied that he was out of the way of any foot traffic, he started opening everything.

It was a beautiful experience.

Every container had utensils included, so Alden took a two-pronged fork from one of them and started stabbing.

The vegetables that looked like small, whole potatoes tasted like hot vanilla cake. The squares that looked like cake were savory and herby. There were not-meat balls that were kind of peanuty, and there was a pasta dish that would be a fine substitute for fettuccine alfredo as soon as he picked out all the hateful pieces of fishy-tasting lettuce.

He had more than one kind of grain bowl covered in greens and sauce to choose from, and they were all decent.

A bright yellow container was entirely full of the eggrolls he’d requested, and he shoved one in his mouth while he tried to decide if he was brave enough to take a bite from a bowl of soup so spicy that the steam wafting off it was making his eyes water.

There were some surprisingly awesome salads, and the container with the smoke pouring off it turned out to be a functional mini grill. It came with a second container full of food on skewers and a bunch of loose leaves that were obviously some kind of seasoning, though Alden wasn’t sure if he was supposed to put them on the food directly or add them to the smoldering burner.

Altogether, it was enough food for an army.

I should share.

The standard supper offerings would be available in the Avowed dining area soon. It was always fine, but this was much better. And it wasn’t the boater member’s fault they were hard to get along with. Or at least he didn’t think it was completely their fault.

Manon was probably nudging them toward disliking and excluding him for her own purposes.

Before he made his decision, he carefully pried open the lid on the frosty container. To his delight, it was frozen dessert. It was packed in, filling the container to the brim, and the flavors were in stripes like Neapolitan ice cream.

The texture was halfway between sorbet and shaved ice, and one of the flavors was definitely wevvi. But it was close enough.

“System, can I voice call Naya? The human Avowed who lives at the dorm with me?”

Naya was the younger woman with the bright red streaks in her hair. He didn’t know anybody’s last name, but he doubted the System couldn’t figure out who he meant. And a local call should be cheap.

It took a couple of minutes, but she answered. “What do you need?”

She sounded annoyed.

