Adam returned to himself. He fell from his Divinity. He sank back into his flesh, his eyes opened, and he faced that which was tasked with killing him. His assassin regarded him wordlessly, yet appreciative. The Deathless was like that, and the orc that wore his body and assumed his mantle was close enough in skill and nature. Though he was deprived and frustrated that he never got to taste Adam's divine blood, he was genuinely pleased and proud. In his eyes there gleamed a glow of gratitude and affability.

"Well, looks like you finally did reach that godhood you were looking for. That elevation. Did I help at all? Was it because of me? Be honest. Let me have this since you're going to burn me away."

And the Deathless orc was burning away. He was burning and searing, his flesh peeling in major portions. His limbs were aflame, and the sin inside of him was dissolving. The itch went first, but he was a vessel of true darkness, of purest evil. Beyond the Challenger's will, he wanted to enact a cruelty all his own. There was no sparing him. There was only death. In the realm where Heroism and Tyranny reigned absolute, there could be no sin, and so all sinners were fated toward disintegration.

"Yes," the Paragon admitted, honestly and at peace. "More than you can possibly know. And I'm glad you're not actually him. This wouldn't have been enough if it was actually him. He would've comforted me. He would've given me a shoulder. His presence is warmth. I'm glad you are not my brother. I am glad you are not my guardian. I didn't need a place of sanctuary, not in the arms of another. I needed to build one of my own. I needed to realize the face of my true enemy."

The Deathless bowed his head, an act of supplication and an acceptance of his damnation to follow. Adam shaped an arrow, and he saw his enemy drop his shapeless tides to expose the soul to a final coup de grâce.

The Paragon granted the orc his peace, and as his body burned, there came a glow of absolution and certainty toward the future ahead.

"How does it feel?" the Culturist asked, speaking up for the first time in what felt like decades, his voice tense and rapt with curiosity. He wanted to know.

Adam shook his head. It was hard to find the words at first, but he smiled once more, and he graced the Culturist with its warmth. "Everything might not be alright. Perhaps it will never be. But I think I'm ready to live with that."

And a part of his newfound confidence proved contagious, for the orc stared back at him as his own eyes came aglow. In that was the leftover of Adam's previous nature, the innocence in himself that departed, transformed into Divinity, but left in those beneath him. Those azure orbs that were once a familiar sight stared back at Adam, not from a mirror, but from a face made for slaughter, and the Culturist averted his gaze from Adam as he considered his new destiny.

So you say, Paragon.

Encounter Completed (4/5)

Initiating Encounter (5/5)

Encounter 5 Objective: Strike down your fallen se—

Adam felt weightless.

He'd known what was coming. A second star manifested next to his, and a clash of Awareness raged against him.

But Adam had loosed his arrow a lifetime ago.

The System's will came second to his own now. His Awareness was already branded upon his own soul, and what more was his clone than a mirror of who he was?

The fifth Encounter ended before it even began.

He launched a golden Shard of Exalted Flame directly into the mirror before him and the one hiding within it, into the System, and into the Delve that it acted through. It must have found this act oh so symbolic, oh so clever. If it were a person, it would have been snickering and rubbing its hands like a fly, having planned all along to surprise Adam in this gesture of storytelling. That he was his greatest shadow all along. That he could overcome himself and thereby overcome anything else, thus seizing control over his destiny.

But that was the false story. That was the lesser narrative.

The truth was this was a declaration of war upon Adam, a means to shape him, but he decided to shape himself. For in him, there was something beyond the System's reach. The mists and the hand they shaped were more than just mana, and though the vapor was represented in his Zone of Absolute Dominion, it was just the tip of greater powers unseen.

The Adam in the mirror crumpled and collapsed, a burning hole where his face used to be. The Paragon said nothing as he studied his alternate self’s corpse. It burned as one would when infused with great wrong. To see another version of himself implanted with such evil was a mockery, a laughable thing. The System acted vulgarly, giving him a reason to despise himself, to hate himself for his weakness, but as the Culturist was right and wrong at the same time, his experiences made him who he was. It was more than that. He was more than that now. He had to be.

For Divinity was about faith, and faith was about an ideal. It was about utopia, and the part of utopia that was so tantalizing and impossible, yet so unassailable, was that it was unreachable, and that people strove towards it in spite of that.

It was the act of being better that was the sanctuary.

It was a worship of ideals to be a sinner in motion toward good, to be an orc in rejection of his nature, to try even when you stumbled and failed time and time again, to be someone weak yet defiant of that weakness, undefined, desperate to evolve. There was virtue even under Tyranny. That was Heroism: to choose valor for valor's sake, even when there was no reward.

The Culturist let out a breath he'd been holding for some time. "This is quite something, Paragon. Quite something indeed. You've come a long, long way since you were the boy I breached to reach the Deathless. I thought I might be able to lend you my aid for this struggle, but…"

Adam held up a hand as he silenced his first worshipper, his first true worshipper. The Challenger, perhaps, was one who offered his prayers to Adam before others, but the Paragon saw clearly now. The Culturist, though wrong of his birth nature and brutal in his past, was now as close to a follower and protector as any. He stared upon the Paragon with reverent awe, but the Paragon looked back with no more judgment or prejudice in his eyes. If there was anyone Adam knew who embodied Heroism to a meaningful extent, it was the Culturist, for he fought, for he strove, again and again, time after time, even as he failed ever and always.

Until now.

"You did help. More than I ever wanted to admit before. More than you know. You guarded me in the Fairwoods, but even before that, you tried. I want you to know that you've always tried, Culturist. I recognize that. Even if I didn't feel that gratitude at the time, I recognized that, and it should be worth something. That little spark of Heroism amidst your acts of bloodshed, it should still be worth a measure of worship and decency."

"It wasn't enough," the Culturist replied. "I told you before, these hands are stained with my sins. You should see that as true as my struggles."

"They are, but the lesser nature of your virtue doesn't discount its existence. Because all acts of worship are absolute, in a way." Adam turned his gaze skyward while his higher self looked down, and he studied himself. He studied this mock representation of that town he failed to protect. Blackedge, in essence, was shattered and dead. Blackedge was finished. There was no more hovering town above the ruins of Lost Angeles. It had been gutted during the siege and then ground to dust in the Stranger’s realm, its survivors paltry and broken, scattered and severed from the Republic that was meant to protect them—betrayed even before they were butchered. But still, there were survivors, and there was a legacy. From Blackedge to Gate Piety, there was a path ahead for Roland, for the Starhawk, for Adam, and for everyone he'd managed to save. Few though they were, they still lived, and that was an absolute victory of its own.

That was an act of worship as well.

As the Delve began to collapse, Adam bowed his head to the Culturist. "The Divinity burns inside of me. I don't think I'm quite ready to be a true God yet, not nearly. I think from your many lifetimes, there's experience to gain and there's wisdom to be used. If you will be my guide, if you will stand by my side, I will do what I can to keep your soul spared of darkness and unburdened by sin. I can't promise to be a righteous god, not when I don't have enough power. I can't promise to be the smartest, nor the wisest, nor the greatest, but I can promise you that I will try. I will give everything I have if you give me everything you have. My worship in return for yours."

And the Legendary orc's lip quivered, like he couldn't decide whether he wanted to smirk or break out laughing. Yet there was no hint of scorn in his features. "Everything I have is for everything of yours," he intoned. "Quite an offering, Godling, but a great honor nonetheless. I will do what I can. I would have done so even if you didn't ask it of me. For I owe you my salvation from the first moment your light cast the Challenger away.”

Adam held out a hand, his digits far too small to engulf the Culturist's grasp, but the orc reciprocated nonetheless. He clasped the Paragon by the arm, and something flowed between them. Another pulse of worship passed through their link, and Adam felt a part of him rise higher still. He briefly flickered, sinking down into that place of Divinity, that divine Domain which separated the mortals from those who ruled as gods. He stayed there a heartbeat longer than before, before he returned, before the Delve collapsed, before he was cast back into the embrace of reality, spared both of his torment and risen to face the trials ahead.

Adam's golden eyes opened, once again two of them—one on the left side of his face, and one that speared down through the ceiling of Starhawk's Perch, cleaving through that metaphysical barrier of faintest dominion like it wasn't even there. A border of charcoal was breached, unable to stop Adam's ascending omniscience.

A new star was painted in the skies above Gate Piety, dramatically altered from Adam's memories. His Glare of Immolating Omniscience fell upon his gate, and he found it consumed by a crystalline nest festering with strangest creatures of impossible shapes and more. For a moment, his gut tensed as he prepared himself for battle. His bow had been summoned to his hand, drawn from that space in his soul where he equipped the weapon, but before he could rise, the room filled with others.

The Culturist was already there, beckoning him to lie down to recover for a while. Then there were the others: his mother, half asleep in a chair, tumbling out in sudden alarm; Isabella in the corner of the room, looking through books and schematics. They seemed to be pages detailing a person's biology and treatments for those deep in a coma. Then there was his father, arriving just in time. He ascended the platform somewhere else before this moment, but perfectly fated to witness Adam emerge from his Delve. There came a flash of gold as Shiv and Valor followed. A heartbeat later, through a bolt of lightning, translucent and bright, lingering with the kaleidoscopic imprint of eldritch essence, Uva carried herself across and through matter using her transformed Psychomancy. All three of them had been altered irrevocably, dramatically, uniquely.

All three of them were joined, and the System smiled as one of them, divine, defied its will. Adam felt it. The coiling chains of fate grew ever tighter around him, but he wasn't choked like he was before.

Thus, inside the Paragon, a newfound vow: one foul with defiance, and bright with vision. Tighten your grip over me, System. Draw your chains tight. I'm not going to yield. I will not let you twist my way toward that of my brother's destruction. I will not be the one who murders my sister. I will not be the one who betrays my own Divinity. I will stand above you. I will take your crown. Your mana, your legend, my inevitable reign. One tyrant, one reality, one usurping the last.

Legendary Skill Evolution Gained: Glare of Immolating Omniscience (Legendary-Standalone)

Domain Worshiped: [Heroism/Tyranny]

But such a notification did not come alone, for a set of other lines followed, and Adam found himself faced with the growth of something beyond him as well.

Gate Piety

Category 3 > Category 4
