The Dragon slept in his cave. It was not—unusual. Sleeping Dragons were part of myth and legend. It was only when they woke up that trouble started. Usually. Sleepwalking Dragons were their own set of problems.
Or they had been. The time of Dragons was over. Everyone, that elusive body of people who had so many opinions, everyone knew that Dragons still existed in this world.
Probably. Somewhere. But the time when Dragons could be found, if not commonly, then with some regularity, was gone. Yes, some lived.
But they had faded. Like the Dwarves, their blood running thinner. The Giants, vanishing, their descendants shrinking with each generation. The half-Elves remained constant by virtue of their natures—but they forgot and dwindled.
All things die. The time of Dragons was done. And none knew it more than the one who slept.
Teriarch. Time passed by for the Dragon in a blink as he slept. No phone’s alarm rung him. He had it on silent-mode. No intruders found his cave, though adventurers were hunting in the High Passes, searching for Wyverns.
He was alone. Sleeping and passing years by like other mortals saw days roll by. Occasionally he did wake.
But not for long. Why wake? Sleep, yes. Sleep. He was old, and had few obligations left. If there was anyone who might have roused him—
She had made a promise. And it was not fulfilled. She still sent him messages, of course. They hovered around his head, caught in a little net of magic. They were aggressive, worried, chatty, or just introspective.
Letters from one of the few people who knew he was alive. And someone who cared—rarer still.
Old man, you haven’t called upon me in a long time. One of my carriages has broken down and I will pay you to fix it. Come and have tea. Oh—incidentally, I’m in possession of a number of technical marvels like the one Miss Ryoka gave you. Would you care to inspect them?
 
Teriarch, I have a situation with the Assassin’s Guild. Some scrying spells would be appreciated. If, of course, you can spare the energy to cast a spell? Contact me.
 
I may be heading to Oteslia in a short while. If you wake up, some advice about Drakes would be helpful. Gifts and whatnot…
 
I sent Sacra to check on you. You must have camouflaged your cave because she was unable to locate it. Is everything well? What is this incident with the Wyverns? Do let me know.
 
Little messages. Not proper letters; the High Passes had a problem with runners. Even they didn’t deliver there. Except the crazy ones. But still—correspondence.
He hadn’t read any of them, even when he’d been awake. Nor, as the letters mentioned, could anyone short of Magnolia herself rouse him. Perhaps she might have.
But she had made a promise. And concerned as the tone of her writing may be, she was used to this. So the Dragon slumbered on.
If he was aware of anything—it was the adventurers, some Silver but mostly Gold-ranks. Even two Named Adventurers, combing the High Passes. Sometimes hundreds of miles from him, hunting Frost Wyverns. But he sensed them, in a way that a cat senses mice rustling about.
No—rats. Enough rats or big ones could kill a cat. Something to be wary of. And—what he was ultimately waiting for.
Not these adventurers, specifically. The Dragon snorted a bit of smoke out as his dreams turned to the past, as they so often did.
Which would it be? A [Knight], armed with ancient artifacts? An adventurer, or a team of them, willing to die for glory and treasure?
An army, who would die by the tens of thousands to scratch an immortal’s hide? Or perhaps a [Mage], wielding spells like the very ones that had created the High Passes? 
Who would come to kill him? And would he have the strength to slay them, or flee? Yet—even dreaming, the Dragon knew his threats were less than they had been in days of yore.
No more Giant clans, brave enough to battle the other monarchs of this world. All but a few of the ancient Djinn and their children lost, their magic broken. 
All dead. So the Dragon wept in his dreams, remembering. For a second. Then his dreams shifted again. And he slept. Waiting.
Waiting for eternity to end, or that visitor, whoever they were. Whomever came first.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin stood in the pelting rain, hands raised over her head. She tasted bile in her mouth. The smell of burning filled her nose.
The carriage was burning, the superheated wood steaming, but still burning in the rain. It had been filled with people. But there had been a flash. An explosion. And they had all died.
Just like that. A [Fireball] had done it. One Tier 3 spell. It didn’t seem right. People should not have that kind of power.
But there they were. Ryoka looked around as they appeared out of the storm. Some rode towards her on horses. Another just ran, moving as fast as the riders. One—no, a pair—were on a carpet.
One was flying. Ryoka Griffin saw dark clothing, masks. A bloody sigil on their clothing. She knew them.
The Bloodfeast Raiders. There were ███ of them. Ryoka Griffin blinked. There were…she counted.
███, ███, █████, ████…she lost track. How many was that? ███? Something was…wrong. She saw how many there were. But she was—unsure how many there were. Her brain was struggling with something.
They were mostly █████, but two were ██████. They stopped around her; two were aiming wands at her chest.
“Good shot!”
A merry voice rang out. Ryoka turned and saw one of the [Raiders]. ███ was laughing; the voice was distinctly ██████. But again, the knowledge faded from Ryoka’s head. The masked figure was waving at the others.
“Who changed the rally spot?”
Another demanded. The one on the carpet waved at the others. The voice was ████, authoritative.
“Me. Is this all of us?”
“I’d prefer the north. ████ couldn’t make it. Or █████. But I see some old faces.”
The ██████ █████ who had spoken first waved at the others. She was—grumpy. And holding a pair of enchanted blades. Ryoka stood, frozen, as she replied.
“I had to sneak away from ███████. My █████ was watching me like a hawk. So who’s this? You waited until she left before you hit the carriage. Nice shot.”
“Thank you.”
The carpet-rider had one of the wands that had cast the [Fireball] spell. ████ ██████, the same person Ryoka had seen in the scrying orb, turned to the others. Fierre knew her! She had pointed her out! It was ██████! The █████ from ███████!
The █████ grimaced and the others made laughing sounds behind their masks. They were all ██████, that Ryoka could tell. Instantly—before the knowledge faded from her head. Then they were masked strangers again. ██████.  Laughing merrily.
“Let’s catch up afterwards. But the Bloodfeast has begun. No time for waiting around.”
The leader ordered as ██ pointed the wand at Ryoka. She held very still.
The Bloodfeast Raiders. They were Izril’s most feared [Raider] group. They struck north, south—it didn’t matter where. They had sacked Drake cities, turned entire Human towns to ash. There was no discernible pattern. No one knew who their members were and no Bloodfeast Raider had ever been caught alive.
They were also all high-level, armed with powerful artifacts. There were hundreds of thousands of gold pieces in bounties on them. And still, they had not been caught.
This group was also new—the Bloodtear Pirates had a standing objection to them taking their name. But then—the Bloodfeast Raiders could be said to have outstripped even that famed [Pirate] group.
Because when they attacked—people died. They didn’t just attack ships for profit. They killed for fun.
She had to run. But the wands were aimed at her and one of them had a flying carpet. One had █████! She’d never outrun them, let alone the one who had moved as fast as Hawk. ██ was carrying a spear.
Enchanted, too. Ryoka could practically sense the magic coming off them. She felt the wind blowing at her back. But she was too afraid to control it.
“What about her?”
The one with the spear pointed at Ryoka. She shivered as the [Raider] laughed.
“Do you like her? Is she going to be a [Slave] or do we have fun before the feast? Or see if she can dodge [Fireballs]?”
Ryoka froze. Her bag of holding was loaded with sand, caltrops. If it came to it, she’d ask the wind to blow it in their faces and run. They’d blow her apart before she got ten feet, especially in the rain. But—no.
“Not just yet. I told you, I called the change of locations. My Skill was tingling. She’s got something on her. Something valuable beyond compare. Can’t you…feel it? What about you, ██████?”
“Oh yes. Now that you mention it…”
The █████ drew closer. Sniffing. ███ grinned at Ryoka as the Human female tried to hold still, her skin crawling. A dagger poked at Ryoka’s side.
No. The electronics. Ryoka closed her eyes. Of course. [Thieves] could sense treasure! Why couldn’t a [Raider] do the same? Idiot! You idiot! The others were dead because of her, and she was going to—
“Aha!”
The [Raider] reached around Ryoka and plucked something from her belt. Ryoka froze.
Her iPhone was in the little leather holding case she’d had commissioned for it. The ear buds caught on her belt loop and the Bloodfeast Raider untangled it. Puzzled, they offered it to the others.
“Now what’s this?”
The others clustered around. One pushed up ███ mask for a look. Someone growled and the █████ ██████ put it back down hurriedly. But the memory of what Ryoka had seen was gone in a moment.
“Huh. It’s not magical. Looks expensive, though. What material is this?”
She tapped the screen then jumped as it came to life. The others murmured. The leader looked thoughtful.
“Expensive indeed. Anything else?”
The one with daggers prowled around Ryoka. After a moment, they shook their heads.
“Nothing. Is that a bag of holding? Must be a crap one. City Runners. She’s got some weak potions on her belt, but I’m not interested.”
They prodded the bag of holding Ryoka had by her side suspiciously, but without any real interest. The leader nodded. Ryoka stared at the [Raiders].
Oh. Dead gods. They didn’t know she had the other electronics in there! Teriarch’s bag of holding he’d given her really was an artifact.
It made nothing better. The leader shook their head.
“We’re done, then.”
“What is this thing?”
The [Raider] who’d taken the iPhone waved it at the others. One pointed a spear at Ryoka’s chest.
“Let’s make her talk. What’s your name, City Runner?”
“Ryoka.”
The young woman whispered it. The [Raider] tilted their head.
“I don’t know the name. Damn. I hoped this was a famous Courier or something. If we got one of them, it would be big news. Did any of you see that delivery with the three Couriers? That was fun.”
“Oh, I saw it! Loved that.”
The others chattered merrily. One reached for the iPhone, and the other swatted it away. Ryoka was just staring. They were so casual. Then the one with the iPhone blinked and tapped it. The glowing screen had a complicated lock on it.
“Huh. Password…? What is this?”
“Give it here! This yours, Miss Runner?”
Laughing, the one with two daggers stowed a blade and caught the iPhone. They wiggled it in front of Ryoka. She shivered.
“No—I was delivering it. I have no idea what it is.”
Lie. The [Raider] looked disappointed, but brightened.
“Well, that’s half the fun. Figuring out what it does. Say—who wants it?”
Half the group raised their hands. The one with the spear leaned on it and looked at Ryoka.
“I’ll forfeit the—whateverthatis—if I can have this one. I could use a [Slave]. Anyone got one of Roshal’s collars? It’d be hard to smuggle past ██ ██████, but I could send her to Roshal first.”
They laughed as they pointed at Ryoka. The leader shrugged. They had a bow and arrow; they’d put away the wand, and were busily stringing it.
“We’ve got a schedule to keep. The Bloodfeast is waiting. One hour. You want her? Knock her out or spell her and tie her up.”
“Great. Thanks.”
The spear rose. Ryoka tensed. No. And the one with daggers raised ███ hand.
“Hold on. I say we let her go. What about this? Five minutes head start, then we follow her?”
The other [Raiders] looked at the one who’d spoken. The one with the spear was put out.
“Why? It’s more fun for me.”
“I like her. She’s a Runner. It’s amusing to see what she does. Hey. Miss Runner.”
The [Raider] came close. The mask leered at Ryoka, two painted golden dots for eyes revealing ███████ ██████. The [Raider] spoke.
“You can run away and we won’t follow. But we’re going towards that city. You know it?”
She pointed down the road. Ryoka shivered.
“Celum.”
A grin behind the mask that Ryoka sensed rather than saw.
“That’s right! And we’re going to kill all of them unless someone brave warns them. And everyone on the road. What are you going to do? Boss?”
She looked at the leader. The [Raider] with the bow hesitated, and then waved a hand and laughed.
“I like it. Five minutes? Miss Runner. If we see you again—you die. Make your choice.”
The other [Raiders] agreed, chuckling with anticipation. They were so—casual. One of them peered up at the skies, pulled something out.
A scroll.
“Just enough time for me to get rid of that damned rain. Run along, little Runner.”
Ryoka lowered her hands. She looked around. The one with the spear was annoyed, but he brightened when someone whispered that he could catch her if she was too slow. The others just looked at her.
“I can—go?”
The [Raider] with the iPhone flipped it up, caught it. They peered at the password screen and then looked at Ryoka.
“You have four minutes and forty seconds. I like you, Ryoka. If you live—I’m going to remember your name.”
They were smiling. All of them. Ryoka Griffin looked around. And she saw.
What little monsters. Not even grand evil, like Az’kerash or Belavierr. What little—terribly mundane evil. Like people from her world. Not magnificent darkness. Just petty and terrible. They enjoyed killing. They wanted to see her run.
The carriage smelled of burnt flesh and ash as the fire finally went out. Ryoka looked around. This was evil from her world. The same petty madness as someone with a gun.
“How small.”
