“Captain Todi, we’ve run into three Eater Goat packs so far. We need to pull back. Our style is teleport-and-cast. But it doesn’t work if we teleport into the enemy!”
One of the Gold-rank adventurers on the mountain was speaking. Teriarch, muzzy from his dream, froze, listening.
They were right outside his cave. He heard a man’s voice, replying.
“We came here to hunt. We’re not backing down. We don’t go without making our mark. On me.”
They were here. Adventurers. They knew! The Dragon’s fuzzy mind snapped to alertness. Panic. Fear.
Teleport out! Go to the emergency cave, like when that Human had appeared despite his ward spells near Liscor! The Dragon prepared a mass-teleport spell.
And then stopped. He was still dreaming, caught in that state when the past and present and perhaps even the future blended together. And the Dragon remembered—how many times he had done this.
Flee. Or fight. The adventurers didn’t…seem too competent. But—they were here.
Which meant there were more. The brass Dragon rose taller. And suddenly—he was resolved.
“No flight. Very well.”
Let it be. Did they come at last? The Dragon rose slowly. Dozens. No—nearly a hundred, scattered. Muzzily, he counted, sending remote, moving pulses of magic that only expert [Mages] would be able to even detect, let alone trace.
Nearly a hundred in the High Passes. He felt a chill—which turned to fire in his chest. If they were all Gold-rank. That would do it. They were spread out across the mountain range. Prepared to strike at him if he flew.
“How clever.”
The Dragon’s lip curled back, exposing teeth. He sensed no great power among them. But perhaps the true warriors were hidden. And ants could still kill.
Even so—part of him was disappointed. There was no bold challenger. This pitiful little team was clearly the sacrifice. They would die first. But there was no great champion who would challenge him outright. They had nearly snuck up on him in his sleep. You could respect that.
Still. Legendary heroes had assailed him once. And been broken, or forced him to flee. He had destroyed armies and leveled nations in his wrath, righteous or petty. It was a shame that this might be his death.
But few chose the manner in which they died. The Dragon rose, and dragonfire rose in his belly, still hot after endless aeons. But the Dragon was still proud. He roared a challenge as he called spells to level mountains to mind, summoned his arsenal of treasure to be spent for the most precious thing he had: his life.
“Let it be an end, mortals. Come. Challenge me and witness the last flight of Dragons in this world!”
The Dragon roared. His cave shook. He spread his wings to fly.
In that moment, Teriarch the Dragon did not recall that he had hired adventurers to hunt Wyverns for him. Waking from his sleep, he only had instinct. And that was—from experience—that no group of idiots would ever assail a Dragon without taking the measures to kill a Dragon. He was prepared for armies lying in hiding, Level 70 [Rogues] jumping out of teacups and so on—
And then a bit of magic triggered automatically. The Dragon blinked as, before his eyes, words flashed. At the same time, the same concepts began speaking in his head.
Magic. Rather like the iPhone’s ability to take notes. The Dragon’s eyes flickered.
“…Oh. The Wyverns.”
He shook his head. His temporary freak out faded. He exhaled a plume of fire, remembering. Relaxing. More information played.
The Dragon reviewed them grumpily. High Passes. Yes, yes, the High Passes, his second cave. He’d put up ward spells…talked with the Goblin. Oh? Yes, it had been fruitful. He should induce some dust into the Dragonthrone so he could clean it properly and give it that ‘lived-in vibe’.
More notes played in the Dragon’s head. He relaxed. Outside—the Gold-rank team of Todi’s Elites had the opposite reaction.
“My [Dangersense] is going insane. Abort! Abort!”
Todi screamed. The Gold-ranks fled, screaming and teleporting away in a panic. They had no idea what had caused their sudden sense of impending death, but one of the rules of adventuring was that you didn’t ask questions when you felt a [Dangersense] alarm. You just ran.
Inside the cave, Teriarch was still…processing. The Dragon harrumphed as the adventurers fled. He was half-tempted to intercept their teleport spell, bring them into the cave and squish one of them for waking him from his nap. It wouldn’t be much of a waste. They’d never kill the Wyvern Lord with little wands of [Fireball].
“Silver-ranks.”
The Dragon snorted dismissively. Possibly Bronze-rank since it was just a team that relied on equipment. A good Adventurer’s Guild had to be discerning about Skill vs skill vs money.
That aside, the Dragon began to think as he looked around his cave. Absently, he wandered over and rummaged around in his hoard. Someone had organized it recently—him. But since he’d forgotten the standard to which he’d organized it—monetary value based on a calculation of raw magical value? Idiotic—he ended up tossing things around.
“I should just pile things up by category. But how do you categorize keyblades? Stupid smiths and their combination weapons. Not to mention transforming weapons. Where’s that spoon that transforms into a rapier? Hrm, hrm…”
Distracted by a thought, the Dragon hunted for the spoon. He amused himself by making it transform into the deadly sneak-attack weapon created by a true madman. Or madwoman, as the case had been.
Teriarch had notes. Mental, magical notes, and physical ones. After all, if you couldn’t remember every little detail of what made the Concealed Spoonblade forged by Maia Whitforgers of the Terminus Dynasty which had claimed fifty-eight lives until the [Assassin] killed themselves while eating soup—what was the point?
And his hoard was much like Teriarch, caught in the past. The Dragon flicked the Spoonblade over his shoulder after another second, instantly bored. He hunted around again.
“Food, food…there.”
He found an armoire of holding and shook it out. It was probably the wrong vessel to store food in, but Teriarch’s notes indicated there was about a thousand pounds of prime beef in it.
He licked his lips as the meat fell out of the armoire. The Dragon flicked his claws. Obviously, he wasn’t an uncivilized Dragon. He ate out of a bowl, delicately lifting morsels to his mouth and chewing.
“Ah, the breed of cow this beef comes from is extinct. For the last eight hundred years.”
Smugly, the Dragon savored his meal. The rarity only made it better. He didn’t need to eat, and it gave him dreadful indigestion sometimes. But treats were treats.
He couldn’t finish all thousand pounds of the beef—well, he could, but not without wasting a one-of-a-kind meal, so after about three hundred pounds, Teriarch put it back in the armoire and updated his notes.
It was only then that he realized he had a cluster of [Message] spells metaphorically hovering around his head. He snorted.
“What is this? ‘Confirmation of bounty regarding Wyverns…?’ I sent the payment! Do Adventurer’s Guilds not know how to give out gold these days? Disgraceful.”
The Dragon slapped his tail, shredding the [Message] spell. He frowned, reading another one.
“Invitation to Grand Magus Eldavin of…who? To attend a conference at Wistram?”
He blinked a few times. This one was fresh. The Dragon scratched at his metallic mane. Then a note flickered into his mind.
“Oh.”
One of his fake personae. He’d made it and this one hadn’t expired due to natural causes yet. The Dragon grumpily filed this one away. He had no time for Wistram’s games. That damned Zelkyr probably just wanted more funding for his Golems. If he wanted to make money, he should make more Truestone Golems and sell them! As if three was all that great.
“When they were first invented, there was an army of a hundred. And weren’t they hard to smash? That puffed up little Drake with his female sculptures…”
The old Brass Dragon huffily ranted for a second. And then he remembered.
Zelkyr was dead.
The Dragon sat back. And instead of old, he was ancient. He blinked a few times. But—he didn’t dwell on it. He looked up.
Then he read Magnolia Reinhart’s messages to him. The Dragon’s eyes widened.
“That insane girl actually managed to—[Assassins]? Bah, a plague on them. And I’m not her [Enchanter] on house call! But she’s going to Oteslia? She’s just a girl! The Wall Lords will eat her. Perhaps literally.”
The Dragon got up and began to pace. And for the first time, a bit of anxiety entered his voice.
“What’s the date on the last [Message] spell? Hrm. Not too long ago. Perhaps I could fly out and—”
He paused at the entrance to his cave. A…thing stood outside his cave. Teriarch’s eyes crossed.
And Todi looked up at him. Or perhaps—not Todi. It had his face. But Todi’s arms were too long. His eyes unfocused. He swung around.
“Thing. Begone.”
Teriarch stared at the creature of the High Passes. It backed up. The Dragon regarded it. It regarded him.
He inhaled. Todi leapt. It was gone before Teriarch could exhale. The Dragon blinked a few times. Backed up.
He redoubled his ward spells on the entrance of his cave. Then he paced back to his cave and sat down.
“…Perhaps a simulacra of me. Yes.”
He hesitated as he began to weave a representation of himself to go out into the world. And his concern for Magnolia Reinhart, genuine and urgent—turned to suspicion.
“Wait. Is this a prank to get me out of my cave?”
The Dragon narrowed his eyes. There was no way Magnolia Reinhart would have ever received an invitation to go to a Walled City. The Drakes would hop into bed with the Gnolls and marry Lizardfolk before they approached one of the Five Families.
The Brass Dragon murmured, closing his eyes. And he saw Magnolia Reinhart in his mind.
“Besides, that girl’s far too young to achieve that. Even if it were possible. Not as young as she is.”
Where was that little brat? Not sixteen years old and she thought she could trick—no. Wait. Was it thirty? Forty?
Teriarch froze. His notes began to play, but he cut them short with a wave of one claw. He tried to concentrate. It felt like he’d just spoken to her before having his nap. Let’s see—she had been here.
The Dragon tapped the floor. And bleeding? Had Ressa failed to guard her? She was forty—no—
“No. She was—is—sixteen. Always pestering. Her and that carriage and that uppity little [Maid]-[Assassin]. She wants to paint it pink?”
The Dragon concentrated on his latest memory. Clinging to it. He nodded, going back. That was Magnolia Reinhart. She was going to meet him in the Dawn Gazebo. The brat was late.
Empress Sheta?
Teriarch opened one eye. Who had he been thinking of? He rose, unsteadily. Why was it so dark? It should be dawn. Was he late?
His notes chimed in his head, trying to tell him something. The Dragon brushed them away. No—that wasn’t right.
“Concentrate.”
Of course. Ger. He must be in one of the mud palaces. Poor housing for a Dragon, but it was all they had. That was who he was meeting.
The Quarass of Germina? Yes—yes. They had arranged to meet in the flowering grasslands of Zeikhall since the rains had brought the blooms for the first time in three decades. What was he doing lazing around here?
The Dragon walked out of his cave. Looked around. Then his notes chimed again.
High Passes. The Dragon recoiled, hurried back inside his cave. He closed his eyes, murmuring a spell.
Magnolia…? How old was she?
And the answer was there. The Dragon’s face fell. And the image of the young woman, the uppity teenager—was replaced by a magical image of a woman full-grown. Her youth turned slightly bitter, but still—so willful.
“Forty two? So old. That is surely not…”
The Dragon wanted to deny what he saw. And part of him did. He closed his eyes, banishing the image. This was just a figment of his imagination. A mistake.
He would wake from the dream, and meet the [Empress].
The Quarass waited.
Magnolia Reinhart was playing a prank.
All of these things were true, and none. The Dragon was still waking. But now, he was afraid. Of no mortal thing. Not the little thing in the High Passes. Not his death, whenever it came, or armies.
But of this sense of unreality. Had he imagined her? Magnolia? Did she even exist to begin with?
The Dragon was afraid to consult his notes again. He just lay there, waiting for reality to reassert itself. But it never did. So—he debated sleeping again. Until it all made sense.
He closed his eyes.
And then heard a voice. It was real. So wonderfully real it snapped him back to reality.
“Hello? Will you let me in?”
It was coming from outside. His ward spells had caught the intruder—no—just held her back. She was running her hands across the stone, which was real and solid to her.
“I need to speak to you. Please. Let me in. Teriarch?”
“Ah, I knew it was a prank.”
The Dragon relaxed, and smiled. He murmured a spell and the visitor stumbled into his cavern. The Dragon drew himself upright, trying to be imposing.
“You have some nerve returning here, wretch. Be grateful I do not incinerate you on the spot.”
The intruder stopped. The Dragon saw with eyes keener than any hawk that it was a young woman. She raised her hands, babbling, distraught.
“Great Teriarch, I apologize for trespassing. But I have brought you gifts. If you’ll hear me out…”
He must have pulled off his imposing look well. Teriarch preened a bit.
Teriarch was relieved. It had been a dream. Magnolia looked older than sixteen, but he had been asleep for a while.
He would make it up to her. The Dragon looked down—paused.
All Humans looked alike. But he was fairly certain that this wasn’t Magnolia Reinhart. Or Ressa. The Dragon’s good nature turned into wrath at once.
“Who are you?”
He snarled. The Human backed up, wide-eyed.
“It’s me! I apologize for returning, Lord—er—great and terrible Teriarch, Lord of Flames, but I have brought you something.”
The Dragon blinked. He looked down at Ryoka. And his gaze was blank.
“Who are you?”
 
—-
 
The Dragon loomed over Ryoka, and she felt the heat of his wrath. Ryoka held still. He didn’t know her?
“Ryoka. Ryoka Griffin your…eminence?”
What did Dragons prefer to be called? Ryoka had envisioned this meeting a thousand times. But never like this. The Dragon narrowed his eyes.
The City Runner was here. She had run through the High Passes unmolested for once; ironically, all the Gold-rank teams had cleared the usual density of monsters. And they had all been running scared for some reason just now.
She was tired. Weak. She had run away from Erin. Celum still smoldered.
But here was the Dragon. And yet—him not knowing her hurt.
