He had heard her argument before she even made it.
“But it’s still evil. Why not stop one evil if you can?”
“Because it is meaningless.”
The low rumble ran through the cave, tired, draining the energy out of the air. Like time, the Dragon whispered. He silenced Ryoka with a single look from a cerulean eye.
“Do not speak. I have heard it before. Why not save a single soul if I can spare the effort? Perhaps.”
He breathed. And the smoke whirled around Ryoka. She saw another city, like Celum, but different. Walls made of smoke, people moving about.
[Raiders] came. Riding on horses, shooting arrows. The Dragon squashed one of the smoke apparitions. The other [Raiders] fled and the smoke-people rejoiced.
“I save the city. Look how I change the world. See? He might have died. But for me—he becomes a [Mage].”
A little smoke-boy appears. He waves a wand and conjures a sparkling smoke-spell. Ryoka watched as he grew. The Dragon whispered on, his mismatched eyes glowing in the darkness.
“But for me, history changes. And this boy—becomes an Archmage.”
The young man became older, raising vast walls of stone, calling down fire—and creating magical wonders. The Dragon erased him as he stood on Wistram’s walls.
“Or—a monster worse than the [Raiders].”
The same boy walked around, casting [Fireballs], turning cities to ash. Like the Bloodfeast Raiders. Ryoka shivered as the illusion made of smoke vanished with another wave of the claw.
“Either could be true. By my actions, I could bring about great good. Or evil. Or nothing in particular. That is a Gnomish argument. If you can but see the future, what is the correct decision? Is it better to slay a warlord before he rises? Is it just?”
Ryoka nodded. She knew her world’s variations of that argument. The Dragon smiled, pleased.
“You understand?”
“I do. But better to do something than not, isn’t it? Aren’t we culpable for—”
“Silence.”
Gently, the Dragon froze Ryoka’s tongue in her mouth. The young woman froze. But she had a point! She was able to debate.
Then she looked in the Dragon’s eyes. And saw that he had heard her argument. The opposite argument. The insane argument that involved him burning down the city to spare the [Raiders] the effort.
He had heard it all. It wasn’t that she was wrong, or right, or poor at argument.
She was just too late to make it.
“I know all these things, girl. Good, evil. Morality. This is a Gnomish argument, something for those that love to argue and debate questions with no real answer. But there is an answer, one that is truest of all. Let me show you. This is the Dragon’s answer to your riddle of ethics.”
He waved a claw. And Ryoka saw the young man again. The [Archmage] stood on Wistram’s walls, creating beauty. The destroying monster leveled cities, creating an army of death with magic like his.
And then the [Archmage] grew older. The [Warlord] suffered a heart attack. His armies dispersed. They created evil empires.
The [Archmage]’s teachings became legend. His students used his spells. Ryoka watched two worlds hovering in the smoky illusions, flashing before her.
Vast empires of death and fear—that changed and became—just normal. Forgot their roots.
Wonders of magic that grew and rose higher, built upon one person’s genius.
And then—the empires began to crumble. The magic faded. Constructs were lost, the spells dissolved. The legacy of the [Archmage] was forgotten, only scraps remaining. The [Warlord] was gone, his name lost to time.
Nothing remained. Ryoka felt like shedding a tear for the wonders she’d seen. It had been too real, the images in the smoke. She had seen faces—marvels. Too realistic to be just illusions.
Perhaps Teriarch had seen them all, and called them from memory. Now, Ryoka saw something.
A group of settlers, building a few wooden walls. They weren’t Humans. But Gnolls. And after a small amount of time, they build a settlement. More began to move in.
And there was the city again. And here came the [Raiders]. Ryoka saw the same scene play out, only with different characters.
She understood. The smoke whirled around her, turning the air dark. It didn’t choke her lungs; it just was the world. A dark vortex of shadows mixed with light. She saw two glowing eyes looking down at her. Heliotrope and cerulean. A whisper, old as time.
“The Dragon’s answer is this: good, or evil. Effort or not. It never matters. All things end.”
The smoke vanished. Teriarch sat there again. Ryoka was standing on her feet. She looked around, disoriented. And the Dragon lay there, tired.
“Ryoka Griffin. You ask why I do not slay these enemies of yours. The answer is that I did. When you begged me ten thousand years ago on bended knee to take wing, I did. When you died on Rhir to humble me and move me to rage against the Crelers. I did.”
He looked at her. The Quarass stared up at him, solemnly. The Dragon sighed. Reality flickered.
“I battled my kin for you, girl. I created empires, fought to raise walls that would last forever. All turn to dust.”
He saw an [Empress] nervously perching on a chair. Sheta nibbled at some seeds as she listened. The Dragon spoke again.
“Why should I keep fighting for you? I have roused myself to destroy armies. Why another twenty, another thousand for your petty lives? I ask not out of malice.”
Magnolia Reinhart frowned, opening her lips. He silenced her again, ignoring Ressa as the [Maid] tried on a crown.
“Why should I rouse myself? You have nothing to offer me. Riches? I could buy your family a thousand times over, even Regis Reinhart. What have you left to show me? Wonders? Horrors? I have seen it all. Let me sleep.”
He blinked as Magnolia opened her mouth, a flash of determination in her eyes. And then—she was Ryoka Griffin. The Dragon saw the young woman fidget, look at her teacup.
All the same. He wondered if this was a dream, too. But here she stood. Arguing. Begging for aid against the Necromancer. For this city plagued by raiders. Her friends.
The Dragon was tired. But he was also—waiting. His heart began to beat. Because he was shackled by memory, bound by the chains of the past. But that was the thing. He could also remember…
Glory.
The Quarass looked at him with immortal eyes.
Empress Sheta couldn’t contain her dismay.
The young [Lady] pursed her lips as she nibbled on a biscuit. Her maid flipped a dagger over, bored with the debate.
Ryoka Griffin spoke.
 
—-
 
The Quarass looked at him with immortal eyes. The Dragon waited. He and she spoke in Zeikhal, the Great Desert.
Yet, there was not the endless oblivion of sand now. It was flowering. The rains had come, pouring down for the first time in a decade. And the desert had bloomed.
Brilliant flowers and plants filled the lands. The sun was bright, harsh, even. But the Dragon felt none of its heat. And the Quarass, her skin dark, was used to it.
She had lived three lifetimes under the sun already. And, barefoot, wearing a young woman’s face, she walked with the Dragon. For every hundred steps he would take a single stride.
“You are right, Dragon.”
That was the first thing the Quarass of Germina said after his lesson about time. She looked up at him.
Fierce. Unafraid. She had killed his kin. Won freedom from the tyranny of Dragons. She did not fear him.
Nor did he fear her. The Dragon stalked slowly across the lands, unafraid. He had slain every monster in Zeikhal. His scales still healed from wounds he had taken killing another Dragonlord. But he was triumphant. Undefeatable.
Still old. He listened as the Quarass went on, stepping around a plant that grew like thorns. Her bare feet crunched over something and she paused just for a moment.
“It is true. Your aid means little in the entirety of time. But you gave it to my people. Before I give my answer: why did you do it?”
“I felt like it.”
The Dragon smirked. The Quarass gave him a flat-eyed look. They were not friends. He had agreed to this meeting and she had taken it out a kind of wary respect. But she would rather kill him, and he lay Germina to waste. That they worked together was only out of necessity; the Dragonwars of Chandrar would continue, everyone knew. And he courted Germina as an ally—or at least for a pact of non-aggression ere the wars begin again.
“Why did you agree to meet with me, one of your sworn foes? You, who pledged to slay every Dragon in existence now beseeches one for help. Are you so craven after three lifetimes? Answer me that, Quarass.”
The Dragon countered her with a question. The Ruler of Germina’s eyes flashed. And her hand stole to a dagger coated with a toxin that could slay even Dragons. The Brass Dragon’s eyes narrowed and he tensed. But the Quarass lowered her hand. She spoke stiffly.
“That my people may live—I would do anything. Compromise my values, change what I am. Die—I have done so thrice already. Better to be cruel that we may live, Dragonlord of Flame. I speak with you to learn; I entreat that we may never see such depravities as before. We are no one’s toys.”
Teriarch considered this.
“Well said. But then—what of my words. Why should I help you?”
The young woman, who was already centuries old, tilted her head thoughtfully.
“You claim this matters not. But you and your people fought your own kind. You saw the depravities of Dragonkind and even now, Dragons splinter into factions. Surely, then, you are troubled by the plight of us. Ants we may be. But I gave my life for Germina. And I will again and again. And you—I think you are a liar, Dragon.”
She pointed up at the Dragon. And he listened, smiling, the greatest predator. The Quarass turned to him.
“I believe you care. Even for ants. And you will teach me. For if you do not—you are the same monsters my poison has consumed. Morality separates you from a beast. So even if time makes our achievements worthless—you will save Germina’s people today because it matters to you.”
A fine answer. The Dragon still laughed. The Quarass looked up at him, affronted, wary.
And he spoke.
“Ah, how little you know, Quarass. Believe what you will. Power is something I strived for, though I was given it. But I am Dragonlord, unmatched even among my peers. I share my power with none.” 
The sun shone down on Zeikhal. Beautiful, fleeting. The desert bloomed. The Dragon inclined his head to her, a [Dragonslayer]. An enemy, but a worthy one. And one who had given her soul to immortality for her people. Yes, for her, he bowed his head and spoke.
“I fought my kin because of disgust, not morality. And I offer you my wisdom out of respect. I am no one’s savior. If you would be Germina’s—what will you sacrifice?”
For answer, the Quarass just opened her arms. And Teriarch roared with laughter. The Quarass laughed too.
She spread her arms wide and he and she laughed as they walked through the endless flowers. They spoke, and he gave her knowledge. They swore a pact, in that moment of bloom.
Blood from the Quarass’ bare feet ran onto the dusty soil where the new growths pricked her. But she never said a word.
 
—-
 
Empress Sheta couldn’t contain her dismay. She paced back and forth, hunched, in the Dawn Gazebo, as the two spoke in her palace. Teriarch was perched on the cliff, his head level with the young [Empress]. At last, she had a reply, which she voiced tremulously.
“Honor, your High Eminence?”
“Honor?”
The Dragon’s smile made the girl flinch. She fluttered her wings slightly. The Royal Harpy girl pecked at the bowl of seeds in front of her, nervously. But her words were dignified as she ruffled her wings.
“Yes, High Eminence. Honor, duty—forgive me. I am not skilled with words, as a [Diplomat].”
The Dragon waved it away.
“Speak. And why do you address me so?”
He was pleased by the appellation, but curious. The Harpy girl ducked her head slightly.
“They told me to address you as High Eminence Teriarch, the Starfire Dragon of Iltanus and Ward-Regent of Voltail. And your other titles.”
“Er—yes. To be expected, even from the [Empress] of Iltanus. But you may go on with less…pomp.”
The Dragon coughed, embarrassed. He had insisted on proper respect, but it was something to be called it so sincerely by the little girl fluttering her wings and staring at him in awe. Sheta spoke carefully—and she could not have been more than fourteen, yet to grow her adult wing-feathers.
“I know it may be fruitless, sire. But if it is—why did we ever stop making nests on cliffs? Why do we strive, if not for this temporary today?”
The child’s words astonished the Dragon. He blinked one eye at her. His radiant clothing—Dragonclothes, which were more decorative than anything, flickered in the winds whipping the high citadel of Iltanus, crown jewel of Izril, in the very center, along the High Passes. The Empire, which ruled over Terandria and Izril, lay below them. Vast lands filled with the Walled Cities—who alone did not kneel to the Harpies, yet who still maintained a wary peace.
For Teriarch was sworn to defend Iltanus. And his distant children, the Drakes, were wary of his might. And Iltanus’. Now, Sheta, First-Wingdaughter of Iltanus, looked earnestly up at the Dragon and pleaded with him to stay another generation. He had sworn to leave after her father died. But she asked nonetheless.
“Shouldn’t we do all that we can to make the Empire as plentiful as we can? That is why I was born. To rule. I must do it well.”
“And what happens when that conviction fades? Or you cannot answer their every complaint? What happens to your children should you bear them, Empress?”
The Dragon whispered at her. The same question that he had—no—would ask the Quarass. Had asked her father. Why strive against forever?
The Harpy girl bridled her wings and looked at him defiantly.
“I do not know. But I hope you will judge me and all those. I trust you, Lord Teriarch. I know I am not as intelligent as my father. Or as brave. Perhaps I am flawed. Perhaps, as you say, none of this matters. But you still fly with us. So, I must believe this.”
She touched her breast with one wing.
“If I do not matter, if Iltanus does not—if we are but dust in ages to come, he who is immortal and eternal will remember us. And if he remembers us well, we will surely not die.”
She closed her eyes as she said that last. Sheta nervously cracked one eye open and saw the Dragon gaping at her.
“Um. Was that a good answer?”
“…Yes.”
Weakly, the Dragon replied. A fledgling had said that to him. And he was caught again. Another generation. Because he had to know—what kind of ruler she might be. The Dragon bowed his head. And unasked, he began to recite an oath of loyalty for the third generation of Iltanus’ rulers, that it might endure a moment longer.
 
—-
 
