In all of Ryoka’s simulations where she tried to outwit Teriarch, get what she wanted, what she needed, not one scenario had involved him not remembering her. He had brought her back when she’d died, gone a round with Az’kerash in his fury. How did he not remember?
For a moment, Teriarch loomed, suspicious, fiery—
A Dragon. So glorious and wonderful it hurt. Ryoka looked at him and knew magic was real, legends were true. If he incinerated her, it would be a good death.
…Sort of pathetic since they’d already met, but nothing to be ashamed of. Death by dragonfire. Very traditional. Got you lots of points in Knight-Heaven.
And just being in his presence reminded Ryoka that there was something else. A Dragon in his cave. She smiled wildly. Part of her—a crazy part of her wanted to spread her arms and say, oh—‘Try and burn me, you overgrown gecko. If you even can.’
…But that would be classic suicidal Ryoka, like insulting Teriarch to his face. Which she was resolved not to do—unless he provoked her.
To her relief the Dragon seemed to latch onto the name.
“Ryoka Griffin.”
His eyes flickered. The Dragon’s expression cleared after a microsecond. He sat back, then just looked weary. And a bit annoyed.
“Ryoka Griffin. The Runner. And—ah. Yes. Az’kerash. Of course. Of course.”
He sighed.
“I apologize. You Humans look the same. I completely forgot about that minor incident. What are you doing here?”
Ryoka’s ego, not very large at the moment, promptly lit itself on fire and jumped out the window of her heart. She bowed slightly.
“I’m sorry for returning. I just—”
“Mortal. You have trespassed on my goodwill thrice now. Once, I called for you as a simple messenger. But your persistence displeases me. Did I not tell you to safeguard the secret of my existence with your life? You have gazed on a Dragon four times. Once is more than most mortals may dream of.”
The Dragon interrupted Ryoka, suddenly fully in a mood. He paced back towards his horde and curled up, looking dismissively at Ryoka. She followed.
It had been a long run. Well—walk. Run and walk and…Ryoka tried to remember her grand speech. Despite the strange opening, this was falling into simulation Route D with possible crossover with Routes B and E of her ‘Teriarch persuasion plan’.
“I know, Lord Teriarch. And I am exceedingly grateful for your generosity. I wouldn’t bother you at all, but I have brought you a—bargain. I carry a treasure with me.”
She almost said ‘gift’, but her internal notes on Route D told her to try bargaining first. And the Dragon’s eyes did light up a bit.
“Indeed? I recall the last time you offered me something, Ryoka Griffin. And your little device was amusing. For a while. But you have gall, to trespass here and dare to bargain.”
He rose, and a smirk of contempt and amusement, as the giant to the ant, ran across his face for a moment. Ryoka winced. This was like Route E. Shit.
She drew herself upright.
“Great Dragon—”
What was the next line? Teriarch blinked at her, and tapped one earhole.
“Speak. My patience wears thin.”
They killed all of them. My fault. Celum’s still on fire. What am I doing?
Ryoka pushed the thoughts away. The Dragon was enjoying this. Or so it seemed. He had an amazing poker face, but she knew he had an ego and liked being—a Dragon to mere mortals. She tried again.
“Apologies, Great Dragon. Perhaps I should say—I have a gift and a bargain to be struck. I would not intrude on your abode without making an offering. But the gift and treasure go together.”
“Hrm. Very fitting. But why would I wish for treasure that you could obtain? You waste my time with frivolities, girl. If this treasure is not to my liking—I may decide to incinerate you for the vexation alone.”
The Dragon paced back and forth, eying Ryoka up and down. His eyes glittered as they fixed on her bag of holding and his smile widened a tiny bit. He knew. Ryoka bowed, keeping her face straight.
“Not just any treasure, your—er—Lord of Flames. I am aware of my insignificance. My lack of worth…”
She trailed off. Gulped.
“…I can’t even stop an arrow. Or a bunch of [Raiders]. I’m not a [Guardsman], let alone an adventurer. I’m useless against most people. [Witches]—monsters. Even small ones…”
The Dragon blinked. This upsell was getting long. Ryoka knew it. She shook her head.
“…but this gift and treasure isn’t from this world. But from mine. It is unique. Valuable beyond compare, that even a Dragon might covet what is one-of-a-kind. For—even if the objects are similar, the knowledge within is vast and unique.”
Ryoka swore she saw the Dragon nod slightly, and another flicker-smile crossed his face. She spread her arms.
“You have used my iPhone, my treasure from another world. And what I have, Teriarch, are objects of equal worth or more. Just like this—”
Route D. The young woman reached for her side. Opened her little carrying case. And pulled out nothing.
Her iPhone was gone. Ryoka looked at her side.
“The—iPhone. Just like the one you have.”
She pointed at the iPhone hovering in front of Teriarch. The Dragon frowned.
“Have you…lost your device that you claim is worth so much?”
“No. It was stolen.”
Ryoka saw him blink. She felt a lump in her throat.
“It was [Raiders]. The Bloodfeast Raiders.”
Another brief pause. The Dragon sniffed dismissively.
“The—ah. That pestilential group. Well, it seems my possession has increased in value, would you not agree?”
He bared his teeth. Ryoka matched his smile.
“Yes, well, it was just this evening, actually. I just met them.”
“And you survived? Truly, even [Raiders] are not what they were. The most feared group in all of Izril indeed. Hah. I knew Reinhart was exaggerating.”
Teriarch snorted. Ryoka raised one finger.
“Actually…they were pretty good. They killed a bunch of people in Celum. I barely got away.”
The Dragon was only half-paying attention. He was nodding to himself.
“What was that old group that sacked Wistram? Sympathy’s Feathers? No, their name was actually quite elegant—hm? Well, you survived, didn’t you? Perhaps, insignificant as you were, even the [Raiders] paid no mind to you. Which leads me to ask if what you carry was of any worth.”
Ryoka tried to smile.
“No—I barely escaped. But I kept these—priceless devices—because of your bag of holding. Another gift, Great Teriarch. Thank you. I escaped with them. And my life. And they killed half of Celum and I ran away. I couldn’t do anything. And I tried this time. I really did.”
The Dragon was looking at her. The City Runner knew she was babbling. She tried to go on.
“But these gifts—are—”
Her throat was tight. The words felt like they were coming out, piece by piece. Ryoka inhaled and her breath was shuddering. The Dragon looked at her.
“Ryoka Griffin. You are crying.”
The young woman reached up and touched her cheeks.
“Oh no. Not now.”
She wiped at the water trickling down her face. Snotty nose too. Just great. Just—way to mess it up. She couldn’t stop from breaking down for another twenty minutes? She had been doing so well.
Something died in Ryoka’s head. Route D. And Route B, and E, and all the other projections. She hadn’t planned for this. And she had dreamed of this moment.
‘Twas a glorious scene. Tempting a Dragon with artifacts, knowledge, technology from another world. Tempting his ego and vanity and greed with a true game of wits. Calling on debts, if she had any.
It should have been wonderful. As magical as their riddle game should have been. He was Teriarch. This should be magical. Not—Ryoka wiped at her face with her shirt but only got soot in her eyes.
The Dragon was real. The journey was dangerous. Perhaps not as much as a journey far through the lands of evil to a mountain which was also a volcano while escorting a ring of dubious utility—
But dangerous all the same. She had been carrying the ring. And she’d brought the monsters to Celum.
…No. That was arrogance, believing it was all because of her. Perhaps it had just been bad luck. But even if she had nothing to do with the Bloodfeast Raiders—she wanted it not to have happened.
She wanted to have done something.
“I’m sorry.”
Ryoka Griffin’s voice was muffled as she tried to scrub at her face. The Brass Dragon looked down at the mortal. Ryoka lowered her hands. But the tears didn’t stop. She looked up helplessly, as the Dragon sat there, frozen.
“I’m messing this up. I’m sorry. I just—it’s been a really shitty day. Can I…sit here for a second? Please? Please?”
She was shaking. The Dragon found his tongue.
“Of…course. Sit.”
Ryoka Griffin collapsed onto the ground. Only now, did Teriarch look at her. See how her shoulder was half-healed, her right arm moving far less well than the left. Smell the soot and ash. Hear a suppressed, choking sob.
“I tried. But it didn’t do anything. I planned so much for this day but I was afraid to come here because I knew it would go wrong. And it did. I’m sorry—I should go—”
“No. Stay.”
The Dragon blocked Ryoka with a tail as she tried to crawl out of his cave and let something eat her outside. He bent his head.
“Sit, child. Here. A chair.”
He found a throne, yanked it out of his treasure pile, eyed it, and found something actually comfortable to sit on. Ryoka kept sniffing, trying to suppress the tears. The Dragon cleared his throat. Awkwardly. Even his scales weren’t immune to this.
“You look—hurt. Allow me.”
He began parallel-casting a healing spell as he appraised her. And the Dragon looked around. He coughed, desperately.
“I think a handkerchief as well…stop using your shirt. Here. Cloth. And perhaps tea. I have a set of Drathian cups somewhere around here. Something to eat? Do you…like beef?”
Ryoka Griffin found herself blowing a nose on some incredibly expensive half-Elven sewn cloth probably worth more than your standard castle. And the Dragon rested on his claws, waiting for her to stop crying and tell him what had happened.
And that was the funny thing. Ryoka had tried, with plans and preparation to bargain with him, a dangerous task. Because Dragons were wise, or at least, old, and cunning. You couldn’t outwit a Dragon. You couldn’t even outclever them. But she had won her way in here by virtue of knowing a Dragon’s true weak spot. Or at least, this one’s.
He had a soft heart.
 
—-
 
“Please help me.”
The Dragon sat in his cave. Listening to the young woman pleading with him. Making her case.
He could smell the ash and death on her. And it reminded him of battlefields he had roamed. He had left the very same stench on a thousand thousand warzones, drowned in it.
It was all too familiar. As was her face. Pleading, made wretched by grief.
But she did not just beg. She had a pride. Pride enough to be humble.
“It seems we always meet amid tears and grief, Ryoka Griffin.”
The Brass Dragon spoke. The young woman had to laugh at that. Her tears were dried, although the remnants of them lingered in her voice and in the air. She flexed her right arm. And felt—better.
Completely. She looked up at the Dragon. He had healed her with a touch. She exhaled.
“That power. You healed me in a moment.”
The Dragon looked amused.
“Of course. Even among the mortals of today, healing spells are still known. [Restoration] is a high-tier spell. But at least one [Mage] is capable of casting it. Naturally, my healing is more complete.”
“Naturally. But if you can use it…can’t you understand what I’m asking?”
“I understand your argument. I know the entirety of it, girl. It sways me not at all. But continue.”
Teriarch harrumphed. Hot air and smoke blew around Ryoka, making her cough. She had a little table—Beastkin hand-carved, from Baleros—and a chair that might have belonged to some royal family in another era. Porcelain teacup from Drath—
A pile of medium-rare beef, sliced onto a plate. Richer than Wagyu beef. It practically melted on the tongue and made you keep eating. Ryoka had stopped after her third helping. But only just.
Yet, she was focused on the Dragon. She was also embarrassed. But she felt better.
And Teriarch was speaking. He eyed the little pile of electronic devices. But for Ryoka’s iPhone, they were all there.
A laptop, a pair of smartphones, a tablet—the prize of the group of Earthers under Magnolia’s protection. Ryoka had paid dearly for them.
But they were here. So the young woman pleaded.
“If you can do that. Surely you can spare knowledge. Some aid…?”
“No.”
His voice was flat. Not unkind. Unkind Dragons did not offer you tea. It was too sweet by far, ruining the delicate fragrance—but he had added sugar without thinking. Probably due to someone else’s influence.
“But why? You could catch them. Unless they’re too elusive for even a great Dragon to catch…?”
The flippant remark made Teriarch frown at her.
“I am not omnipotent, brat. Or can you find every ant that scurries through the grass? I could locate the Bloodfeast Raiders. And then what?”
“Um. Kill them?”
“And then what?”
“…There’s less monsters in the world?”
It was a simple argument. But Teriarch just sighed. Ryoka’s hair blew all around her crazily.
“Child. I’ve explained this to you again and again—”
He caught himself, eyed Ryoka, coughed into one claw.
“—That is to say, the argument is so tedious I have had it with every mortal who comes entreating me for aid. Kill the Bloodfat Raiders.”
“Bloodfeast.”
Teriarch waved a claw.
“Even the name is too unoriginal. How many [Raider] groups do you think have existed over my lifetime? How many armies? The Black Judgment of Chandrar—phaw. Another insipid name. Sympathy’s Feathers or whatever they were called. And those are but [Bandits]. Say I hunt them down. Then what? What happens when the next group appears?”
Ryoka went silent. She could see ahead of this argument as well. And then he’d have to hunt down the next one, and the next. And become the eternal guardian.
They had had this conversation before. When she had pleaded with him for help against the Goblin Lord.
“I know you don’t take sides. But what about—evil?”
“They pillage and kill and rape. Is that evil?”
The Brass Dragon looked challengingly at Ryoka as if this was up for debate. Ryoka put down her teacup.
“I hope so. You can’t—philosophize that. Some things have to be evil, don’t they?”
“And yet, when an army does it to their enemy, it is just ‘war’. If I quibble at the actions of your raiders, why not stop it on a larger scale?”
It felt like Ryoka was arguing with herself. A younger, brattier self. But the Dragon seemed caught between amusement at playing Devil’s—or perhaps more accurately—Dragon’s Advocate. And a weary kind of sadness.
