And for the first time in a while, he wanted to leave his cave. The Dragon closed his eyes. He couldn’t do that. Some people could see through even his best concealment spells. A Dragon shouldn’t fly without being prepared to die.
He exhaled, slowly. And more [Message] spells appeared, waiting for him. He felt old, and…tired?
No. For once, he longed to watch the second movie. The little computer screen glowed in front of him. The Dragon eyed…the mutated slime-thing. That was apparently a Troll.
But what was the fun of watching a movie alone? Some fun. But that had been…pleasant. He sat there, the Dragon. And realized something.
He had never seen a movie before. Brilliant plays, yes, and dramas, magical wonders. But that had been new.
“One hundred and two points. Minus eighty points for the false Dragon.”
The Dragon murmured. He closed his eyes. And then slowly opened them. Something was peculiar.
He was…awake. He had woken up. The Dragon blinked a few times. And sighed.
Those little girls. This one had been something. He closed his eyes. And realized something else.
“…I forgot to tell her how to appease the Fae.”
Route J. In which Ryoka Griffin teleports out of Teriarch’s cave. Without getting her reward.
 
—-
 
The first wagon rumbled into Celum. Carrying a door. Wailant had his horses moving fast. And Erin Solstice, bumping around, just…stared at Celum.
“Oh no.”
It was destroyed. The [Innkeeper] slowly got down from the wagon.
“Back it up! Any [Raiders] about?”
The former [Pirate] was nervous as he looked around. Garia and Viceria weren’t at the farm. Erin slowly swung the door open. Two figures jumped down, warily.
Relc and Pisces. They’d come with the wagon. Embria was riding with some of 4th Company. And as Erin wrestled with the magic door—Relc pulled it out of the wagon and set it up with one claw.
“4th Company! Secure the area! Watch for invisible or concealed targets! Or traps!”
Embria bellowed. The wary Drakes spread around. Erin just stared as the door opened and Viceria gasped. The inn was full of people.
“Dead fucking gods. I’ve sacked ports, but we took the loot, not torched…”
Wailant muttered. Erin was shouting through the door.
“Bring them through! Hurry!”
“Adventurers first!”
Yvlon stepped through the door and stopped. She just stared around. The Halfseekers followed her, nearly running her over. Jelaqua swore.
“Bloodfeast bastards. They struck again.”
“Who—who are you?”
A nervous [Commander] from Remendia stared at Erin and the magical door. She looked at him.
Humans were here. Several hundred; trying to find survivors. But it was uncoordinated. They hadn’t brought supplies.
And Celum’s people were shell shocked. It was night, and there were too many hands, not enough organization. Erin Solstice heard voices.
“I’m Erin Solstice. [Innkeeper]. We’re with Liscor. Esthelm.”
“Liscor? But that’s a Drake city.”
The man stared blankly at her. Then he focused.
“Wait. The Wandering Inn? Aren’t you—”
He broke off as someone marched through the door. Watch Captain Zevara saluted as the Human [Commander] recoiled.
“Watch Captain Zevara of Liscor. As a neighboring city, Liscor’s Council has voted with majority to support Celum in its time of need. As well as investigate claims of a Drake among the Bloodfeast Raiders. I am representing the Drake cities in this, sir.”
“Oh. Uh—hello.”
The [Commander] saluted. Erin nodded. The vote had been 6-2. Even Lism had done the right thing.
But perhaps that was because of the [Strategist] who marched through after Zevara.
“Strategist Olesm of Liscor. We’ll be assisting the recovery effort. What’s the situation, Commander…?”
“Uh—we’ve been pulling bodies out of the wreckage. But we don’t know how many are wounded or…I’ve never seen a city like this. Even when we had Gargoyle attacks, it wasn’t like this.”
The man looked around helplessly. Olesm looked at Zevara.
“We’re going to need recovery teams. People looking for the wounded. I’ll organize the relief efforts from this end.”
“Noted, Strategist Olesm. I’ll coordinate from my side. Watch for the Bloodfeast Raiders. They should be out of the area. But stay wary.”
Zevara stepped through the doorway. Olesm briskly turned to the stunned Human [Commander].
“Sir. We need to work together. I will take command. If that’s alright? Esthelm is ready to assist as well. We have to coordinate through the magical doorway. How many people are under your command?”
“I…but you’re—”
A Drake. The [Commander] looked uncertain on whether or not he should be drawing his sword or asking for help. Erin narrowed her eyes. She saw people staring at them, pointing. She heard the inn’s name on their lips.
History ran deep between Liscor and Human cities. They had no time for this, though. Erin rounded on the [Commander].
“Hey, buddy. Listen up—”
She raised a fist. But before she could, someone strode through the magical door and poked the [Commander] in the chest plate. He recoiled.
A [Lady] strode through the doorway, ablaze with passion. She looked around.
“Commander!”
She snapped. The man straightened to attention, instinctively.
“Yes, Miss? Wait—who are you?”
Maviola’s orange eyes narrowed.
“I am a [Lady] of Izril. And you are being an idiot. Shut up and listen. These Drakes are working with me. Under my authority, you will assist them. Take command of your men. Bring me all your officers. Now.”
“Yes, Milady!”
Olesm and Erin both watched as the [Commander] listened to the voice of authority. Erin glanced at Maviola. The [Lady] winked at her.
“I outrank him. Olesm, I’ll take charge of the Humans.”
She swept past him. And through the door came more adventurers. Bevussa took wing, [Laborers] with handcarts pushed through boxes of weak healing potions.
“Uh, okay! Adventurers! Spread out! Wings of Pallass, do a reconnaissance at high altitude! Watch for flying [Raiders] hidden in the skies! Anyone sees anything, blow the horn twice!”
Olesm began giving furious orders. Erin backed away. She looked at the inn, debating on whether to help from that end. But more supplies were coming through and Zevara and Lyonette were both giving orders.
Erin looked around. The city folk of Celum looked up as relief arrived. Something was lighting a spark in them, snapping them out of their delirium. Erin felt it.
That was Maviola. Olesm too, by deed as much as the [Lady]’s aura. Erin closed her eyes. Then she opened them and began to help.
“This way! We’ll set up a tent over here. Anyone who’s hurt, come over here! We have healing potions!”
In the chaos of the night, Erin found herself giving orders—but only a few. Watching as Olesm and Maviola organized with efficiency she lacked. The [Innkeeper] was out of her depth. What she was good at was leading smaller posses, like the groups going through the city, looking for people in need.
Most weren’t badly hurt. Celum had healing potions, after all. But people were homeless—lost. Erin gave them a purpose. They followed her, joining teams excavating ash and rubble.
Somewhere in the night, Erin found herself face to face with the [Mayor] of the city. He was wandering around, looking lost. When he saw her, he just stared.
“Oh. You.”
“You! You—you weren’t here! The door wasn’t here! Now you’re here?”
Cetris Duiland gabbled. His hair was covered in soot. He was hurt. An arrow had taken a chunk out of his leg and the healing potion had only healed some of it. Erin backed up as he advanced on her.
“I’m sorry. When we heard—”
“This is your fault! They had bets! Bets! It wasn’t supposed to be like this! You were supposed to go and we were safe! You took your door!”
The man was babbling. Erin saw the people around her restraining the [Mayor]. She didn’t know what to say.
“He’s distraught. Pay him no mind. This wasn’t your fault.”
A voice spoke wearily from the side. Erin turned and jumped.
“Fals!”
She threw her arms around him. The City Runner staggered. He looked relieved to see Erin and sagged in her arms.
“Erin Solstice. You came.”
“Of course. As soon as I heard. Are you okay? Where’s Ryoka?”
“She left. I’m sorry. She was hurt.”
“Oh…”
Erin had known. She closed her eyes. Why had Ryoka been here? But there was no time to ask questions. With the help arriving, Fals looked ready to collapse. Erin looked at him.
“You need to rest. Come on. Back to the inn.”
“I can still move.”
“No. We have it. You did so well, Fals. Rest.”
The City Runner’s energy went out of him at Erin’s words. He dropped and Erin had to get someone else to help her half-carry Fals. Someone else led Cetris away.
This was her night. Working in Celum. It was insane. Erin couldn’t believe this burned-out city was the same place she’d been fighting with.
 
—-
 
Hours later, closer to midnight, The Wandering Inn was bustling. The door kept opening and closing and people filled the hallways. Drassi admitted a line of people from Esthelm, ready to help, and pointed.
“Wait in the hallways. Or common room. We’re letting through people from Celum. Make room, please! Left side!”
The [Builders] nodded, moving left while the right-hand traffic of frightened Humans, some with only the burned clothing on their backs, sat, waiting to be let into Esthelm or Liscor. Many were crying, or just too numb for words.
It was a familiar look. As they sat there, a little figure crept past them. Mrsha carefully poked a woman holding her sons. They jumped in terror, looked at her.
Solemnly, Mrsha offered them a cup of goat’s milk. She was passing out refreshments.
“Oh…for us? Thank you.”
The little Gnoll nodded. She looked at the two boys and they stared at the Gnoll. Mrsha carefully handed them two more mugs off her little tray and yawned.
“Is that you, Mrsha? Thank you for helping. But you must rest. Time for bed.”
A figure appeared behind Mrsha. The Humans froze, slopping the milk out of their mugs. Pawn saw the little Gnoll shake her head, blearily going back for more drinks.
“Be at peace. I am Pawn. I will help heal anyone who needs it. I have sustenance. Potions. Do not be alarmed. What is your name?”
The frightened mother hesitated. Something about the Antinium was…soothing. Perhaps it was the gently smoking censer he held, or his…nature. She untensed.
“Lila. I—we’re fine, sir.”
The Antinium opened his mandibles and raised them. The Humans flinched, but his voice was soft. He knelt, looking at them.
“You are not. But you will be safe.”
Something about his voice made them feel he was genuine. The family nodded slowly. The [Priest] walked down the line of Humans, introducing himself.
This was disaster. Tragedy. The door flickered to Liscor and Drassi waved at the others.
“Through here! We have beds—Pawn, please take them.”
“Yes, Drassi. Everyone, follow me. You will be safe. There is room for all.”
The [Priest] led the frightened people away. Drassi leaned on the door.
“Celum, next.”
She opened the door, tired. She’d been doing this for hours. But it wasn’t even hard work. No one could rest with the destruction.
Let alone…Drassi saw Olesm appear in the doorway. He was relieving Bevussa, who’d scoured the area with her team. No Bloodfeast Raiders. They’d left.
“Where’s Erin?”
The Drake looked around.
“In the city. We’re mostly done finding the…bodies. Yellow Splatters has excavated the houses. It’s just finding everyone a bed. Erin’s still out there. I’ll send someone to bring her back.”
Drassi nodded. She looked out into the city, waiting until Erin Solstice came back.
But she didn’t. The people kept coming in, directed here by the [Innkeeper]. Mrsha eventually fell asleep in the kitchen and Ishkr put her in her bed. But the adults kept working, some passing out for lack of sleep.
Invrisil wanted to help too, but the door couldn’t support all the magical influx. Nevertheless, Wesle and Jasi insisted on coming, and they were also—beacons.
They shone brightly, as the sun began to rise. Before Drassi knew it, it was morning. She woke up on a table, and realized she’d fallen asleep.
“I’m sorry! I’ll go do the door—”
She looked around. But Lyonette, serving breakfast, shook her head.
“You worked hard, Drassi. Rest. Most of the transfers are done.”
“Where’s Erin?”
“Still in Celum. She’s been awake all night. She’s just—there. I tried to make her come back. But she, Maviola, Olesm—they were up all night.”
As if the [Princess] hadn’t been keeping pace with them. Lyonette yawned. She was ready to drop.
But for a bit longer…the inn’s resting Skill had kept the people inside it up long past normal people’s endurance.
So, in Celum, Erin Solstice stood in the morning sunlight. She looked around, staggering.
“You okay? You have somewhere to sleep?”
She looked around. The [Carpenter] nodded. His shop was converted into a living space for his extended family. She had known him. He’d made the baseball bats. His name was…Erin wavered. The [Carpenter] had to steady her.
“We’re okay, Miss. You should rest.”
“I’m fine. This isn’t anything. You have room? We can put people up in Liscor or Esthelm if it’s too crowded.”
She smiled at him. The man looked around.
“Not yet, Miss. We’ll…see. We might figure it out today. The [Builders] were talking about putting up houses. But there’s graves to be dug first, bodies to be burned.”
Erin’s smile vanished.
“Yeah.”
She looked around. Celum was…burnt. Thousands were out of homes. The door hadn’t been able to transport them all, but it would begin transporting more today to Esthelm or Liscor.
At least, this would not be another Esthelm. Esthelm had been very insistent on making sure the undead would not rise. But rebuilding would be…
People were walking around. Many aimlessly, just looking around, exclaiming over the damage, looking for friends and family.
Trying to wake up from the dream. And realizing it was reality, which was far worse. Erin turned. She saw a lost man sitting on the ground. Timbor Parthian, the [Innkeeper] with the big beard sat in front of his inn. It was gone.
“I’ll go to sleep in a bit.”
Erin walked over towards him. The man looked up as if he’d seen a ghost. His eyes were full of tears. They had been enemies a day ago. But Erin just sat next to him. She could relate to his pain. And there was no magic for him. But—there might be. The Antinium were her friends.
That was the [Innkeeper]’s power. Not as fiery as Maviola, who had taken command, or Olesm—but just as strong in her way. Erin hugged Timbor as he broke down.
After a while, Erin made Timbor come with her. She took him to the magic door, helped get him through the line.
