The young [Lady] pursed her lips as she nibbled on a biscuit. Her maid flipped a dagger over, bored with the debate. Magnolia Reinhart looked around the cave, so close to Liscor.
In the shadow of Iltanus’ capital. Sometimes, Teriarch dreamed of flying higher, of sitting where Sheta and he had spoken.
But the capital had been lost so long ago, few even remembered the name of Iltanus. Even Dragons, what few remained. Now, only monsters prowled the High Passes. And they were dangerous, even to him.
He seldom left the cave. But this young, upstart of a [Lady] was determined to drag him out. Magnolia Reinhart, who was chewing on a biscuit she’d brought him, looked up at Teriarch and swallowed before replying.
“You may tire of it. But I do not. So no peace endures? No kingdom lasts? But we did it. It can be done. And isn’t that worth the effort, to bring peace to the entire world?”
The old Dragon snorted, wearily. But he had to correct her.
“Not Humans. Well—once. In ages past—half-Elves earned the dubious distinction of ‘world peace’ twice. True peace, yes. But never without fault. Always with sacrifice, sometimes terrible sacrifice for ‘peace’. Is that worth it?”
“Is it better than doing nothing, old man?”
The girl scornfully corrected Teriarch. The Dragon exhaled a plume of flame at her and Magnolia ducked with a squeak. Ressa just laughed; Teriarch wouldn’t harm her.
“Don’t get uppity with me, girl. And stop calling me that!”
“I’ll call you what I want. You’re just old. And tired.”
Grumbling, Magnolia got to her feet. She crammed another ultra-sweet biscuit into her mouth. It was amazing she could eat as much as she did and not grow fat. But she was young, sixteen, and vibrated with energy.
Or maybe that was the sugar-high. The [Lady] stalked back and forth; she had plans. Visions of the future.
“We can do it. Drakes and Humans can work together.”
“You stole their lands. I remember when all of Izril was occupied by Drakes and Gnolls. And Harpies. The Nagas even had a settlement—ah, but those were bitter wars between Drakes and Lizardfolk. They still remember.”
“History. Boring.”
Ressa rolled her eyes. Teriarch saw her climbing up towards a throne made of jade. Sitting there would confer unto her the power of an ancient empire until her death. He flicked her off and the [Maid] somersaulted through the air and grumpily went off to look at his books. He sighed and pulled the shelves of cursed books out of the way.
“I can do it. The past is the past, Teriarch. And I can unify Izril. I don’t have to be a tyrant. I don’t want to be one. If we can stop fighting—we can bring peace to Izril. To Baleros, and Chandrar. That stupid King of Destruction can’t beat everyone. Izril needs to unite and fight him. And if we can beat him? We can make this world better. And I promise you—it won’t be like all the other times.”
“You couldn’t bring peace to a pair of squirrels fighting over an acorn.”
The Dragon snorted at her. Magnolia strode up to him and poked him in the snout, hard. He went cross-eyed. She spoke, seriously.
“Let me try. I can do it. Just watch, old man. I can unify the north and south. Stop my family from playing their twisted games. And when I do—I want you to leave this cave and come with me.”
“But what will you show me that I have not already seen?”
The Dragon sighed, suddenly tired of this debate. Magnolia Reinhart smiled, and her eyes sparkled with mischief and courage.
“I don’t know. But neither do you. Isn’t it worth finding out what the future holds?”
Something flickered in his eyes. The Dragon half-rose. But he offered her no vows of loyalty. No great wisdom. They were just companions. He had taught her the past, and she was resolved. Some small bits of aid, that was all. She would do it herself. And when she did—he looked out of his cave.
“I will think about it.”
Magnolia hugged him, impulsively. The Dragon eyed the young [Lady] who laughed as she hugged his snout. Then he blew her off with a snort. But he smiled.
 
—-
 
Then and now. The Dragon sat in his cave and refused to budge. An army couldn’t change a Dragon’s mind. He had defended his lair against Wyverns and he would die fighting rather than give up his treasures to another Dragon. They had scales as hard as mithril, egos as stubborn as Dwarves.
But hearts as soft as silk and cotton. The old man looked at another little girl. And there were so many he had met. Even if they were not so much girlish or little.
Now, another one had come. Or had she already been here and was this another memory? The Dragon didn’t know. But he lay there, more tired than he had been in any of his memories, even with Magnolia Reinhart. That probably made this reality.
Was it all just a dream? He closed his eyes and if he did—he could imagine all those countless aeons of struggle had just been a dream. For what was left? Only memory.
And even the memory of Dragons faded before infinity.
“But what a pleasant dream.”
The Dragon rose, stretching his wings out. The young woman jumped. The Dragon stopped resting. He stretched, rising higher, a titan of shining scales. Teriarch looked down at Ryoka. And he asked the question, a variation of the one that had come before. Because she was like the others.
“In two hundred years, you will be gone from this world, Ryoka Griffin. And I will think of you only as a figment of my imagination. A fantasy, however bitter or sweet. Why should I rouse myself for the visions which flit before my eyes? Give me an answer better than all the ghosts who stood where you now do.”
Like the others. Different in form, but the same in nature. Why bother? Perhaps—because the dreams were so brilliant.
Perhaps because he had been waiting for this. The Dragon waited, his heart pounding harder. Like the fae, he longed for it.
A challenger. One with magical arms to hunt his life. Or—this. He looked down at the young woman, expectant. Hoping.
Show me brilliance. Challenge me with that which I have not seen in my existence. Wield words like a sword forged of arcane metal and sorcery and craft.
Ryoka Griffin spoke.
“I know you’ve seen it all, Lord of Flame. I…understand that. No—wait.”
His face fell as she scratched her head. Not exactly a good start. But then—Ryoka closed her eyes. Her expression firmed, and when she opened them, her voice was confident again.
“I understand that I cannot comprehend your perspective. I am not immortal. My worldview is limited. The ant cannot see from the giant’s eyes. But perhaps—I have seen things even you have not. Because I have been to another world. And no Dragons have ever flown on Earth.”
The Dragon saw the young woman pace back and forth. She turned, and pointed at the tiny technological devices from her world.
“Now there are two worlds. And mine—dreams of Dragons. We long for magic. Because a world without it is just painful. We need heroes. Legends. But this world has magic and still, there’s so much cruelty. Darkness.”
She pointed at Teriarch, through the haze of the illusory smoke that still hung in the air.
“Perhaps you do not need the world. But we need you. It doesn’t matter? Two worlds are colliding! I believe even you will not have seen what comes next. I look around with an ant’s eyes—but even I can feel it.”
She raised one hand, and he saw the missing stumps of two fingers. Ryoka stared at them, shuddering. She had refused his offer to heal them again. He had forgotten he had offered the first time.
“A God sleeps on Rhir. Things even the Fae fear stalk my dreams. The Stitch Witch crawls across Izril. The King of Destruction is awake! My world is coming. And we have conquered all of Earth. Do you think our armies won’t march on this one? No Dragon has witnessed a war of the worlds. But it is coming. And you think you can sleep in this cave and pass it by?”
She looked at him, scornfully. The Dragon narrowed his eyes. But Ryoka Griffin wasn’t done. She pointed at him.
“I have a riddle for you, Teriarch, Lord of Flames. If a Dragon sleeps in a cave, unknown to everyone in this world and does nothing—does he even matter?”
A snort of fury rolled through the cave. Ryoka hesitated. But the irritation was in itself a new emotion. The Dragon felt drowsiness leaving him. He debated teleporting her ten miles up in the air. But he listened as Ryoka Griffin backed up. She touched the little devices of plastic and metal. Quietly now, she looked at him.
“I don’t have much to offer you, I know. Curiosity. Trinkets. I came here because…I’m lost, Teriarch. I keep trying to move forwards. But every time I do, it feels like I fuck everything up. If the world is dust to you—it feels fragile to me. Like glass. I know what that’s like.”
She gazed up at him. Slowly, Ryoka sat down on the ground, bowed her head.
“It’s so hard to be…better. But you have to try. Or you’re stuck in the same place forever. And I’m so tired of being that person. But the world keeps kicking you when you’re down. It’s so hard to change.”
Empires fell to dust. The Dragon looked at Ryoka, and understood her completely. Only, he saw the inverse.
It was impossible to stop change. He had tried to hold onto Iltanus. Defended it until the last city fell. He had tried to forget.
But they always stood before him, just so. Ryoka Griffin looked around. At the treasures of the past. And she pointed out of his cave. Urgently, looking at him.
“Show me there’s hope out there. Or show me what a monster is. You’re supposed to be the most powerful being in this world. Don’t sleep. Please. I want to believe in something. Show me—there’s a way out of the darkness. I need to see the light. And what better radiance than Dragonfire?”
She stopped then, panting. Hoping. The Dragon looked at her. And felt her words tugging at him. He closed his eyes, thinking.
“…Fifty seven points.”
Ryoka Griffin blinked. She looked up at Teriarch. The Dragon elaborated, cracking one eye open.
“Out of a hundred. The point about multiple worlds was well-made. Rather typical, calling upon my status as a being of myth and legend. Bringing up Rhir and the fae—good. This [Witch]—no. Not the same league of threat to me. Just a busybody. I have no idea who this King of Destruction is. A rather insulting riddle, but I will allow a touching finish.”
The young woman just stared, flummoxed. Fifty seven? That was a failing grade no matter how you sliced it. The Dragon continued.
“And you are wrong about one thing. Rhir. That is not a—your understanding is incomplete. No. I take points off for that. Well done, nonetheless. For the attempt.”
He folded his claws and looked at her. Ryoka looked at him and felt a sinking sensation in her chest.
“…What? You won’t do anything?”
The Dragon’s voice was level.
“A moment ago, Magnolia Reinhart stood in front of me. I’d give her sixty-two points. And I did not stir for her. Make no mistake, Ryoka Griffin. Your plea moved me. If you had made it ten thousand years ago, let alone in my youth—I would have agreed. But not today. Do not curse yourself. Curse only the countless numbers of your kind who have beseeched me with the same grand speeches.”
Ryoka felt the energy draining out of her. She had to catch herself before she fell backwards on the ground. She struggled to sit up.
“But—please?”
“I am tired.”
That was all the Dragon said. Desperately, Ryoka got to her feet. She hurried over to the pile of devices.
“But what about this? At least—if I give you one as a gift—won’t you help me?”
She had begged him for his aid to make the world right. Which was Route G, a long-shot even in her eyes. At least though…Ryoka held up the laptop.
Teriarch eyed it wearily.
“A curio. But I have seen your other device.”
“It’s nothing like the iPhone. I will trade them for help. I told you. Ivolethe is alive.”
“I know. Fae do not die easily. She shattered her mortal form. She lives. But the Faerie King is wrothful with her. And his ire is not one you should provoke. Take comfort that your friend lives, Ryoka Griffin. You do not wish to make matters worse? Believe me. Offending the Fae is the surest way to invite calamity.”
She knew it was true. But—Ryoka helplessly gripped at something in her belt pouch. She felt freezing cold, lifted the little statue up. Teriarch focused on Ivolethe’s form. He paused, looking at Ryoka.
“I know. But she’s my friend. My first true friend. I’d do anything to see her again. Even take a [Witch]’s bargain.”
“Do not do that. That busybody is not to be trusted. She always takes more than she gives.”
The Dragon whispered. An old man cautioning a girl. Ryoka knew he was right.
“But…please? Won’t you take anything for this? Anything? One of the things I asked for. A protection artifact for Mrsha. A cure for Fierre. Anything at all?”
She offered the small pile of objects. The Dragon hesitated.
“Would you have me give her a Ring of Greater Health? Or a Necklace of Protection? Would you take a panacea for your Vampire friend? Artifacts of such power I have. But that too is interference. And is what you possess worth that? Are they unique, truly?”
Ryoka’s face fell. She lifted a smartphone, looked at it. The copy of her iPhone hovered in the air. And the Dragon could just—copy the other devices.
Kindly, but sternly, the Dragon flicked a claw at the pile of devices.
“I will offer you a trade, Ryoka Griffin. A small favor for a copy of each. Trinkets. Knowledge. Then we will part again. I cannot solve your woes. I tried to, once. It just made men smaller, petty. That is the flaw of paradise, of Khelt. A Dragon cannot solve anything. I am a Lord of Flame. But not almighty. Close, yes, but…”
Ryoka half-smiled. Teriarch chuckled. Then he looked seriously at her.
“But I cannot fly into Rhir’s hell and live. I cannot dive into the lair of Krakens and hope to emerge unscathed. My people were laid low by mortals. I do not underestimate them.”
The young woman wiped at her eyes. But she wasn’t crying. She’d just expected—everything.
“Okay. Thank you.”
The Dragon seemed vaguely surprised as the fight went out of Ryoka.
“You are satisfied with that?”
She just looked up. And nodded.
“Yeah. I was just—pinning my hopes on an impossible dream. One even a Dragon couldn’t fulfill. That’s classic me. I should have been realistic. I should have stayed at Reizmelt. Fixed my problems myself.”
“There is wisdom in that. We cannot rely on others for everything. Knowing your limitations is also part of wisdom, girl. Some things are unchangeable.”
The Dragon unhelpfully added. Ryoka sat down. She looked at the pile of electronics. And closed her eyes.
“Can you…help me see Ivolethe again? However unwise?”
