She whispered. The Bloodfeast Raiders looked at her, confused. Then Ryoka turned and ran. Ran as fast as she could. She heard them laughing behind her. And she feared them, feared death because they carried it with them. But she couldn’t help but think that thought over and over as she ran, her lungs bursting, moving too slowly as she put every bit of power into each step.
How terribly small.
 
—-
 
She was about twenty minutes from Celum by carriage. But that was as the carriage moved in the downpour and it began to lessen even as Ryoka ran.
The wind howled at her back. Giving her fear wings. But her feet were just feet. She couldn’t fly, and each second passing was another one closer to death.
The roads were empty at first. The City Runner ran, sprinting fast as she could, terrified she’d slip. Then she saw the first caravan on the road.
A [Merchant] was headed north. He and his team of [Guards] saw the City Runner in the lessening rain and the mercenaries sighed in relief as the storm clouds began to part. They paid little attention to the City Runner, save to note how fast she was going. Some priority delivery?
They heard her shout as she spotted them.
“Turn around! Get back to Celum! [Raiders]! Bloodfeast Raiders!”
The words tore out of Ryoka’s mouth. The [Merchant] poked his head out of the wagon.
“What?”
The [Head Guard] blinked. He saw the City Runner running at them. A long-legged young woman. Face pale behind her darker skin.
“What? [Raiders]?”
He and his escort checked their weapons. But then the last part of her words struck him. The [Guard] heard Ryoka’s terrified voice.
“Bloodfeast Raiders are behind me! Run! Run!”
The [Guards] froze. The [Merchant] turned pale.
“Not the—they struck six hundred miles north of here last time! It’s not—are you sure? Hello?”
He bellowed at the young woman. She just ran past him. There was a [Farmer] taking her wares to market. Not Wailant; the [Pirate]-[Farmer]’s absence had ironically enriched every other [Farmer] selling to Celum. The female [Farmer] heard Ryoka shouting.
She too froze. But Ryoka was running past her, ignoring the questions. She screamed it at a group of [Riders].
“Bloodfeast Raiders! Run!”
“Guard—take us around. Even if it’s normal [Raiders]—at all speed.”
The [Merchant] seized the reins, yanked the startled donkeys around. The [Guards] saw the caravan turning. They glanced up the road. Then—they saw the City Runner running for Celum.
It couldn’t be real. The Bloodfeast Raiders were a myth. Like the Goblin Lord. Or—not a myth, but a reality that didn’t happen to normal people. Not to them. For a moment, the people basked in that luxury of disbelief.
Then the panic set in. The [Farmer] unhitched her horses from her wagon. She slashed the leads—then leapt on the back of a horse. She didn’t turn her wagon. She booted the startled draft horse and raced off the road. Abandoning her wagon. The other horse, startled, followed her.
The [Riders] turned and began to race after the City Runner. The [Merchant] paled.
“—Dump the cargo! Dump the cargo! Everything but the valuables! Hurry!”
He screamed at his assistants and workers. They stared at him, and then at the people fleeing back towards Celum. The City Runnner was still running, screaming the alarm.
Bloodfeast. Supplies began falling out of the caravan as they were shoved out. But then—one of the [Guards] swore.
The escort’s leader, the [Head Guard]. He had made up his mind. The Runner could be wrong. But if she was right?
“Ride! Towards Celum!”
He screamed. The [Guards] hesitated. The covered wagons were moving too slowly, even divested of their cargo. The [Head Guard] pointed.
“Go!”
The escort fled, abandoning the wagon. The [Merchant] howled.
“Don’t you dare—”
Then he saw his people fleeing the caravan. Two jumped off and ran after the [Farmer]. Another hid in the grass. Half stayed with him, frantically tossing out everything to lighten their load. But his best assistant, a [Trader], took her wagon off-road, tossing everything out of it. The [Merchant] gaped around.
This wasn’t happening. He tried to lash the donkeys to make them move faster, but the stubborn animals refused to move faster—the [Merchant] looked back down the road.
“Faster. Faster—it’s just normal [Raiders].”
He tried to whisper to himself. He urged his wagon down the road as his trade goods, his life’s work, scattered behind him. Maybe it would slow—
The [Merchant] glanced back when he saw a group of four figures on the road. Riding towards him—no—one was running. His blood froze. He felt for a Wand of Light Arrows, hands shaking.
“They’re supposed to be dozens. Dozens! It’s not them. It’s just—”
An arrow passed through his forehead and straight through the other side. The [Archer] on the flying carpet crowed as the [Merchant] toppled off the wagon and the terrified donkeys slowed. The [Raider] raised their bow and shouted down at the others as they charged.
“That’s one for me!”
Then they shot forwards. The bow was raised and after firing another shot, they pulled out the Wand of [Fireballs] and shot another.
 
—-
 
Three minutes ago.
They were indeed having fun. It was rare a Bloodfeast was called; after all, they were all infamous criminals. But—they reveled in their notoriety.
And as Ryoka had seen, their motives were basic. Simple. The [Raider] with the daggers was full of good ideas.
“A contest!”
They laughed and clapped their hands together. The [Raider] looked around at the others.
“Whoever hits the most with projectiles. Wands only. Winner claims—their pick of the spoils or whatever-this-is. Agreed?”
They waved the iPhone at the others.
“I’ll use my bow and wand.”
Their leader immediately countered. The others grumbled. The one with the spear shook their head.
“I don’t use wands.”
“Oh, be that way. Then—just total kills. Agreed?”
“How do we keep count?”
“If we all see it, it counts. Otherwise—take heads.”
“I’m not carrying heads. But I want that thing! Agreed! Most kills wins! Anything goes!”
As they spoke, the [Raider] with the scroll unrolled it, grumbling.
“[Clear Weather]. So they can see us coming. It was hard getting two of these. I want a bigger share of the loot. Think we gave that City Runner a head start?”
“I hope so! I like her. What if—hear me out. What if she survives and gets away from us? Then—I’ll hire her to deliver something.”
“You would. How long does she get? If I find her, I’m capturing her.”
The others laughed, clearly taken by the idea. Another checked the skies.
“Might be five minutes. Or three. I don’t care. Let’s go!”
They shot forwards on their horse. The other [Raiders] shouted and followed, their little promise to Ryoka forgotten.
They flew or rode or ran, casting [Fireballs] that exploded as the rainfall ceased. The [Raider] with the bow fired an arrow as they rose higher on their carpet. One of the other Bloodfeast Raiders flew beside them, checking their magical daggers.
The arrow went through the [Merchant]’s head. The bow was magical as were the arrows. The leader crowed as they celebrated.
Two seconds later the wagon exploded as a pair of [Fireballs] hit it. The other [Raiders] groaned and passed by the screaming donkeys, now on fire.
“Damn, that girl took all our sport! I want to level again!”
One of the riding Bloodfeast Raiders groaned. They were high on excitement. The fear along the road, the sensation of holding other’s lives in their hands—
It was so much fun. You could take someone prisoner if you really wanted. It was a nuisance, but the Bloodfeast Raiders had connections to Roshal. No one would catch you; they had an hour to wreak havoc.
And they were high-level. The city never stood a chance. The [Raider] with the daggers swooped down and shouted encouragingly.
“That just means they’re all inside the city, idiot.”
“Right. Target practice!”
The [Raiders] brightened. Celum lay ahead. Someone was blowing an alarm. The Bloodfeast Raiders brightened. Then—one swore.
“That idiot made it on the walls. Looks like you won’t get a chance to hire her—”
The rest of their words were drowned out by a sudden howl in the air. Wind blasted the two airborne [Raiders] out of the sky. The ones on the ground saw the raider with the dagger slam into the ground.
“Gah! Dead gods!”
They screamed. The one on the carpet hung on for dear life as the winds tossed them, threatening to throw them to earth. The other [Raiders] felt sand blasting their masks. Bits of metal were flying through the air.
“That bitch. I’m going to cut out her eyes.”
One of them swore. The figure on the walls was pointing at them. But it was just wind, however much it threatened to toss them.
They were the Bloodfeast Raiders. A gust actually picked up the one with the spear, but they stabbed it into the ground, anchoring themselves. Even the fallen [Raider] with the daggers hadn’t been hurt. And the one with the bow took aim.
“Idiot.”
They loosed an arrow. It didn’t miss.
 
—-
 
Ryoka experienced her run to Celum in bursts of reality amid the panic and fear. She didn’t remember clearing the road to Celum, only bursting through the gates, following a pair of frightened [Riders].
“The Bloodfeast Raiders are coming! Get to Liscor! Get to the door!”
She screamed at the [Guards]. They stared blankly at her.
“The Bloodfeast…?”
“Get to the door! To The Wandering Inn! Then close it!”
It was so simple. They had to get as many people through as possible! Then—then shut the connection! Bring through Relc—bring through Gold-ranks! If they could fight the Bloodfeast Raiders. They could, right? Ryoka ran through the streets, shouting.
Few people were outdoors given the heavy rain of a few minutes ago. But it was too early for sleep. Ryoka ran, shouting around the stitch in her side.
“The Bloodfeast raiders are coming! Get to the magic door! Get to safety!”
People on the streets turned to look at Ryoka. Most were just shocked—stunned. That was a normal, Human reaction.
It was going to get them killed. But Ryoka ran down the familiar streets, screaming. And as shock wore off—panic set in.
People began to scream. Ryoka shouted at them to follow her and ran—
The door was barricaded. A sign said ‘closed permanently, moved to Liscor.’ Ryoka found herself hammering on it, slamming her shoulder into Octavia’s door.
But the shop was empty. Ryoka looked at the people around her. Someone was blowing a call to alarm. Screaming filled the air.
“Where did it go? Where’s the door?”
She was grabbing someone and shaking them. A [Mayor], his face white. He babbled.
“They took the door! It’s no longer here! Hasn’t been for weeks! It’s not the Bloodfeast Raiders is it? It’s…but we got rid of The Wandering Inn! We did!”
He looked at her. Pleadingly. Asking her to deny reality. Ryoka let go of him. She stumbled back.
“We’re all dead.”
That was all she said. She saw a family began to wail behind the [Mayor]. He was shouting for everyone to get indoors. As if that helped. The Raiders had [Fireball] wands.
Then she was on the walls. Ryoka Griffin stood with the frightened City Watch. Looking at the ███ approaching [Raiders]. So few. But they were throwing [Fireballs] at the city walls.
One detonated and blew a squad into pieces. Ryoka flinched. That was what was wrong with this world.
That was what was so glorious.
You could have monsters with levels that no one could beat. Who could just conjure [Fireballs]. A person shouldn’t have skin like steel, the ability to create explosions. That was like—superheroes among mortals.
But you could have heroes. You could have legends.
And monsters. Ryoka raised a trembling hand.
“Please—”
Not long ago she had been part of a [Witch]’s story. And she had felt helpless. Ryoka Griffin was a Runner in a story about heroes and demons. She couldn’t stop this.
But she had to try.
The wind blew hard, fighting against the [Clear Weather] spell. It fought Ryoka too; it didn’t always obey. But it had to.
The blast of air knocked two the Raiders out of the air. Ryoka poured the contents of her bag of holding into the wind, threw it into the Bloodfeast Raider’s faces. She saw the one on the carpet being flung around in the air.
“Fall. Break your neck! Die!”
Ryoka screamed at the wind. The one with █████ had hit the ground, but they were alive. But the one on the carpet was clinging to it. Ryoka willed the wind to dash them into pieces.
Kill them. Break them into pieces.
And yet—the wind fought her. Refused to hurl the [Raider] into the earth so hard they became paste. And Ryoka realized—she was fighting herself.
It was so hard to kill people. She wanted to. But it was still—hard. No—it was easy. All it took was a wand and the will to point it. But it was hard for her to do it, still.
She didn’t want it to ever be easy. She didn’t want to be—
The wind blew. But the [Raider] righted themselves. And the bow aimed at Ryoka. She saw a flicker.
The arrow went through her shoulder and out the other side without stopping. Ryoka felt a tug, spun around with the impact and stared at her arm. The hole in her body.
A gaping, jagged hole in her right shoulder. Her arm wouldn’t move. Ryoka saw a [Fireball] arcing towards the walls. Another detonated; hit the portcullis and blew a hole in part of it. All ███ were throwing [Fireballs] now. The [Guards] tried to return fire, but they were out of range. And the two who tried to use spell and bow—were killed in a moment.
High levels versus low. The [Guards] started to flee. Ryoka looked down.
“That’s a lot of blood.”
She vaguely reached for a healing potion. But it slipped out of her grip. Ryoka saw the [Raider] with the spear racing for the gates. She had to stop him.
But the wind—wouldn’t obey her. And she was so weak. Valceif? He could have done something. But she had killed him.
Even Erin would have done more. Ryoka felt that same, familiar feeling.
If only she had levels. She couldn’t remember why she’d ever refused them. Silly pride. A suspicion…Ryoka lay down. Or the floor rose up and caught her as gently as a bat hitting a baseball.
The Bloodfeast Raiders came through the gates. The first houses began to explode as they cast their spells. Ryoka Griffin muttered as she tried to stand.
“…my fault.”
She touched her shoulder. And her head went white. The young woman rolled over. She stared at the sky and thought she heard them laughing. Amid the cries of fear.
Celum. This was Celum. Ryoka was so glad…it wasn’t Liscor. Or Erin’s inn. She covered her eyes, as if this was a dream. The City Runner whispered.
“I’m back. Did you miss me?”
