The joy from figuring out new direction of study didn’t last long. The ancient Killing Intent wasn’t some fount of endless enlightenment, and clashing with such an extraordinary force was leaving both his Soul and Heart embattled. Not to mention, forging his spiritual body in the flames of war didn’t mean mindlessly slamming his head against the enemy like a beast. It would take time and effort to figure out a proper approach to realigning his spiritual bodies.

There was nothing else he could glean from the ancient intent’s rampage, and Zac was starting to get a headache from staying in an agitated state too long while suppressing murderous urges. The Killing Intent was indifferent to Zac’s plight. It showed no inclination of leaving on its own, and hundreds of clashes against Zac’s Dao had weakened it by less than one percent.

Zac got to his feet, his eyes red with agitation as he began swinging his axe according to his Inexorable Stance. It wasn’t easy. His bloodline still hadn’t dealt with the Crushing Death, and he still felt as though he was straining under a powerful gravity array. Swinging his axe helped alleviate the agitation brought from the Killing Intent, but he still felt like he’d eaten a barrelful of stimulants.

He glanced toward the forest, wracked by indecision. The interiors hidden by the dense rain filled him with an unmistakable feeling of mortal danger. At the same time, swinging his axe at the air wasn’t doing it. The pressure was building and he needed release. The island decided when Zac could not.

The countless pebbles on the beach began rattling and jump from thumps that rapidly grew stronger, and Zac turned toward the forest line a few miles off. Trees swayed or exploded in fiery conflagrations as a pack of roaring beasts burst onto the scene with great fanfare.

Zac briefly wondered if he’d been dragged back into Sevona’ dreamland, because he actually recognized the animals from the earlier vision. They were called Unvai Drakes, natives to the mountains of Sevona’s long-lost kingdom. Rather than the territorial but reclusive species that lived in volcanic regions, these drakes looked a lot more like the tainted packs that had attacked Sevona’s party.

The two dozen bipedal beasts only stopped to orient themselves for a moment before rushing straight for Zac, emitting hostility so palpable that the Killing Intent stirred with hunger. Zac initially thought they’d been attracted by his rampaging aura, then cursed upon spotting the real cause. A slack-jawed Idiche flickered in and out of existence as she ran in front of the infuriated pack.

The patterned egg the size of a soccer ball firmly grasped in Idiche’s hands made it easy to put things together. Idiche had used her B-grade cloak to sleepwalk right into a Drake’s nest to rob them. That much was fine. Zac would be the first to admit he was curious what a dragon egg tasted like. What he couldn’t understand was why Idiche was bringing the whole pack back to him. Then, Idiche was right upon him.

“What—!"

Zac was interrupted by an egg smashing right into his face, drenching him in smoldering yolk filled with dense fiery energy. Anguished howls shook the beach as Zac wiped sulphuric yolk from his face. It looked like he’d found his release.
