Eppie was almost to the arts block door when she heard Valorie's voice addressing Simone. Valorie clearly did not care for being overheard.

The two were talking. And their conversation sounded like bullying… of the teasing kind.

Arts block.

David Cooper stood outside the door, mentally preparing his lessons and also listening in on his rowdy students. Craig once told him that this habit of his was a weird way to start the semester, but Cooper disagreed. “Listening” was a habit he had acquired while teaching in the Black Box theatres of the Bronx. By his personal pedagogy, if an instructor were to understand the natural atmosphere generated by his students, he would know which walk to choose, which tone to use, and who he would have a gentle chat with by the lesson’s end.

Indeed, over the years, he had saved productions and students, all by pausing outside the door and listening for a few minutes.

Presently, the students were hopeful and optimistic. He could hear Min-jun's particular laugh, the one that started high and fell off a cliff. He could hear Madison adjusting her bag with calculated giggles, watching the room to see who was admiring her. He could hear Eppie doing her stretches against the wall, her voice cutting through the din. Cooper had been teaching long enough to identify his students’ moods by the sound of their physical instruments.

He took a sip of his giant coffee. He walked in.

He did not look at Fontaine first, which was his natural instinct. After all, he wanted to check if his co-conspirator was still committed to the cause.

The students grew gradually silent. Cooper moved to the table, set his coat down, then allowed the practice room to settle further under the weight of his gaze. He smiled at them, and the kids smiled back nervously.

He told them to reset to neutral.

Only Eppie succeeded among them. His actress remained committed, perhaps, more committed than before.

As for the rest, the holiday break showed in their bodies. Their postures were uncertain. Their hips were rigid, their spines no longer speaking the right language. He could see the plasticity of people who stayed up for two weeks, catching up on TV series or video games. He could see the rigour of their holiday bodies conforming to couches, tables, chairs and beds, or, in Min-jun's case, Korean BBQ.

“Stand up,” he made them rise from the horseshoe semi-circle.

The kids stood. He worked them for the next thirty minutes, moving through his breath work, then through Costello’s body work, then through Seyrova’s dynamism.

From floor to wall, to the open air. The feet, the body, the arms and then the head.

He made them open and close, then close and close until they opened up.

He made them move like automatons, then anemones.

Then they moved on to voice.

Jackson’s voice had dropped a step. Jules was still recovering from a cold. Madison’s voice needed moulding still. Chelsea’s had evolved, as had Lucy. Chloe’s voice had improved immensely, and finally, Eppie’s remained a tier above, as it had been.

In the second hour, he stood beside the girl.

He watched her with her feet planted, her eyes closed, and her face carrying the expressions of the exercise, lost in a play of her mind’s making. Her protean persona was admirable; to dive deep into a character was not easy, even for senior actors. This was what made Eppie different to the rest. Cooper felt that his student acted as if she were always playing one role or another, so that when yet another role arrived, she could head-hop into it with the ease of a skin-changer.

What had Eppie done in the holidays? He was eager to hear it. For now, she was managing the class with the quiet enjoyment of someone who had been looking forward to Yoga class.

“Welcome back, Miss Fontaine.” his tone while speaking to her subtly changed from the rest of his greetings.

“Thank you, sir,” she smiled back at him. “It’s good to be back on track.”

Cooper walked back to his table. Underneath, he had acquired copies of their next play for everyone, reprinted in an A3 format so that the students could readily compare them with the original script.

“Romans! Make way—!” His voice boomed across the classroom as the box landed on the desk. “For vengeance is in my heart, death in my hand, blood and revenge are hammering in my head!”

He looked at Fontaine.

She looked at him.

Their semester had officially begun.
