Alexander gave the dungeoneer a small grin, "Yeah, Torix taught me an atmosphere stabilizing spell before this. He figured the world might not have a habitable atmosphere."

Alexander took off his mask, "You guys can take them off now."

We did, and the magic kept the wind and rust out, clearing the air here. Alexander let out a breath before pulling off his rebreather. He heaved for the purified air, and we followed suit. Hod stayed outside, killing the stray metal eaters or flying cobras that came close.

Lester sat to the side, pulling out a few venoms and fluid sacs from his dimensional storage. He pulled out a big bowl, poured several of the ingredients into a solution, and Lester piled bunches of rust into the generic mash. Isa whipped out a clear jar full of a glowing, yellow liquid too. She poured it over herself, and it cleansed her of all the muck leftover on her.

She offered it to me, "This will clean-

I snatched it out of her hands, pouring some of the good stuff over me while letting out a sigh of pure, unadulterated comfort. Isa scoffed,

"Looks like I didn't have to tell her twice."

Lester kept making his concoction while we all got cleaned. When we finished, Lester's rust porridge turned into a thick, delicious-smelling broth. He cleaned himself before taking out smaller cups, and he poured himself a serving with a ladle.

We stared at him as he drank it. The sheer satisfaction on his face convinced us to follow suit. As we got our food, he gestured to the dish,

"I've killed similar eldritch in the past. I kept their venoms, and I mix them and a few enzymes into this. It took a good bit of experimentation before I got the formula right, but now it tastes like beef stew after I've added some spices."

I took a swig, and he was right. It was a lot like meaty gravy. Lester scratched the side of his head, "I will admit, I've been eating this stuff for about a year now. The only side effect so far is growing rust over my thighs. No big deal."

We quit drinking before Lester busted out laughing with Isa. Isa pointed at us, "They believed you. Hah. Hah."

Alexander, Amara, and I glared at them, but that didn't stop the two veterans from getting a laugh in. With the area secured and our mission understood, we took a breather for lunch. We chatted as we usually did, idling over preparations, practices, and how crazy it was on another planet. As I took another glass of whatever Lester cooked up, I stared off at the shattered sky.

In the distance, this moon orbited a gas giant. The green, striped planet dwarfed everything else in the sky. Even at this distance, its gravitational pull influenced the world we stayed on. Its pull was palpable, though I might have just gotten used to gravity wells from Daniel. Further beyond that gas giant, a red dwarf star lulled in the distance. The star closed in more than the sun on Earth. Despite that, I could look at it without my eyes hurting, at least for a few seconds.

The skyline brought a quiet, otherworldly beauty to this savage place. It wasn't a standard panorama, but it left a mark either way. The sounds of this planet echoed that feel. The winds above ebbed out with a low drone at all times, the surface inhospitable. It was like the breeze howled out for company in this lonely place. Somehow, that was a sad, serene sound.

That might've been because of who I was around. Talking with my friends, enjoying a good meal, and watching the stars drift by made me feel warm and content. As Hod walked back in, he completed that picture. The bird spread his wings,

"Hod wide awake. Hod sleep long time. Hod guard others while others sleep."

Alexander rubbed the bags under his eyes, "Thank you, oh mighty birdman, for giving us some rest."

Hod flexed his scrawny arms again, and I gently smiled at him. Goofy as he was, he always meant well. The dungeoneers coasted off to sleep first, drifting into a sense of ease in seconds. They were used to camping out like this, unlike the rest of us. Alexander relaxed second, the guy too tired to stay awake.

I sat there and thought by myself, the echoes of the wind outside, offering a pleasant white noise. We had so much left to do here, like uncover the Elysian secrets and hack into their system. I couldn't even imagine the secrets we'd find here. It left me nervous, yet excited at the same time. As I dozed off, I slept with a smile.

Who knew, this might even be a little fun.
