Or, well, it wasn't really outside. We stepped into a vast, double-sided alleyway. Alleyway wasn't the right word, but it was a better description than a mall since everything was so old. The stores, housing, and mineshafts sprawled out under the customary clear panes above. Everything filled out into a line about a mile wide, with buildings and businesses crammed into the premise.

Neon signs, piled trash, and dripping pipes gave the entire megastructure a worn-down look. The stagnant, stuffy air held an uncomfortable humidity which steamed over at the edges of the windowpanes overhead. One side of this place looked better off than the other, fewer mineshafts over there and more upscale businesses. At least as deluxe as they could be since this place passed its glory days long ago.

What was important was that our team's info panned out - it was nighttime. A little light leaked in from outside, kind of like a sunrise and sunset at the same time. We used this pseudo night as camouflage while we ran through the townsite, following Isa and Lester. After a minute of walking, we reached an alleyway surrounded by several abandoned homes. Heaving for air, they caught their breath for a minute.

The situation seemed stable, so I leaned towards them and whispered, "Where do we go from here?"

Isa grinned with a drip of sweat pouring down her brow, "Yeah, so this is where it gets more complicated. We need to rest a minute before moving towards that side of the building."

She pointed at the dimmer side of the expanse. Looking closer, the buildings showed more wear and tear than the buildings along the opposite side of this endless line of buildings. Isa took a deep breath,

"These guys, they're on some kind of tidally locked planet. However, it's not completely locked, so this ring of buildings has to be moved every couple of centuries. This is the most stable part of the planet right now. That's why they build here based on what the guide told us."

Hod stood up straight, "Hod enjoy history lesson, but what history lesson have to do with Hod?"

Lester rolled his hand, "The point is, we're going to the abandoned ruins where this ring of buildings used to be. Every couple dozen miles along the older side of this place, we should be able to find a nook or cranny leading to those ruins."

Isa pointed at me, "We'll need you to cut us a way into that place. Once we're there, we'll need Alexander to cast some atmospheric magic to help us survive. Schema helps, but this isn't the kind of planet you want to just be on the surface of. It's the weather. It comes in these huge dust storms, and the creatures crawl everywhere here. It's a fringe world because of that."

My eyes narrowed, "How'd you figure this all out? Surely the guide wouldn't go into this much detail?"

Isa rolled her eyes, "We talked to some homeless people. Give them some food and time, and they're usually more than just a little chatty. They also know a thing or two."

I frowned, "I couldn't understand anyone when I got here. How did you guys?"

Isa tapped the side of her face, "They gave us some kind of software implement so that we could. Amara checked it out for bugs earlier when we regrouped. According to her, we're safe."

Amara already worked within her status, the red standing out from the standard blue coloring. She got to work, breaking into Elysium's system already. I turned to her, "How long do you think this will take?"

The eldritch hissed, "Three to four days at most. Their security isn't as extensive as Schema's encryptions."

I turned to the dungeoneers, "Then, uh, you guys lead the way."

Isa pointed at me, "We need you to scout out where to go next. Find a crevice leading to the old ruins. We'll follow you there after you come back."

I gave her a terse nod and walked onto a different plane. With my breath held,  I sprinted out of there, the metal underfoot creaking under my feet. The buildings blurred around my vision as a sandstorm raged above us. Rocks bounced off the translucent covering, the material resistant to any impacts. I winced at that, knowing they'd discover something was amiss about the broken glass in the warp room.

There wasn't anything I could do about it now. After several minutes of running, I found a section of missing buildings. In place of living space, a slit appeared in the endless tunnel. Pacing down there, I found a steel tunnel leading down towards a sewer that drained its contents into an underground cavern. It was good enough for our escape. Retracing my steps, the rest of our group waited while huddled near the abandoned alleyway.

I couldn't send them a message, so I appeared out of their view. I stepped over, waving my arms so I wouldn't surprise them. My new strategy worked, and they followed me towards the exit. They moved at a crushed snail's pace, Alexander holding us back. To speed us up, I pulled out a mana potion from my storage, pouring it over Alexander's face.

It woke the wizard up, and the potion seeped through his skin. I lifted him up in my arms, turning towards the others, "We don't have time to carry him this slowly. Come on."

I jogged forward, and the others ran to keep up. It annoyed me how slow they were, each of them moving in slow-motion outside of Hod. They couldn't help it, but I couldn't help my frustration either. We passed several nightly patrols, some of Hod's shadow magic serving as a distraction for us. Within an hour, we reached the tunnel I found the side slit from earlier.

Looking around, the others made sure no one followed us while I pulled out a section of sliced wall. I cut it earlier, making sure it fit back in place like a puzzle piece. That trick made it so that it took a long time for someone to find where we left and entered. Funneling everyone through a cramped crawlway, we reached a series of pipes. I pulled the same tactic, taking out a chunk of the tube.

That's where the situation got ugly. Blegh.

We crept through the sewage pipe, the entire crawl resulting in a tight squeeze. The smell was unlike anything I'd ever had to suffer through, and it left me gagging. To my chagrin, Lester vomited on the way there. I nearly killed everyone when insects made of more leg than body came pouring out of the crevices of pipes. Those creepy insects squirmed over me before reaching Lester's vomit.

We smooshed several of them just moving, and I turned to the dungeoneer and seethed,

"You throw up again, and you'll be losing more than just your guts. Do you hear me?"

The poor guy gave me a not with his eyes wide, "Yes, mam."

I felt terrible about that later, but there's only so much a girl can do. At least no one else threw the hell up after that. Thirty minutes of crawling continued, and by the time we got out of there, the sewage might as well have fused with our skin. The pipe ended with a chute of waste pouring out into some water below us.

Broadening my irises to see in the dark, I found the ledge from earlier. Extending my arm into a whip with a bone hook, I swung over towards the ridge. Using that same hook, I created a zipline for the others to cross. Gripping with lengthened fingers, I pulled my flexible, deformed arm taught over the gap.

I spoke in a soft voice, "Hey, use this to get across. We don't want to leave evidence we were here."

They listened to me, which was nice of them. Hod held Alexander, getting the boy across. He still hadn't recovered from his mana overuse earlier. The others wrapped their arms and legs around my arm and skulked through. It took a few minutes, but everyone was safe. As they got over, Lester gave my long arm a tap,

"Where did you get this rope? It's effective, but it feels kind of gross."

Pulling my arm back, I accidentally gave him a slap on the back while making my limb familiar again. Obviously, it was entirely accidental, so I said,

"Oh, that was my arm you guys just used. Sorry, it's gross."

Isa gave Lester a shove, "First the vomit and now this. Are you trying to get on her bad side?"

Lester let out a cough, "No, but that doesn't mean I'm not doing a good job of it."

Isa let out a hearty laugh, "Hah, let's go. We need to put some distance between us and them."

We got away from the megastructure at the middle of the planet, and before we knew it, I carved us a route back into the old settlements from these caverns. If I thought the previous town was rusty, this place carried red wind and powder everywhere. The abandoned buildings served as breeding grounds for metal-eating eldritch as well, and the air stung my lungs.

It stung my friend's lungs too, and the entire place smelled of blood because of it. Whether that was the rust or my lungs getting shredded by particles, I couldn't tell. Combine that with the dry, water soaking wind, and this place wasn't the funnest place to just sit around in. We managed by chugging health potions as we went forward. Hod kept moving like usual, almost enjoying the dry dust in the air.

It left my eyes hurting and tearing up as we crossed this desolate, empty superstructure. I didn't know what else to call it, the expanse barren. It was an abandoned version of the last place. Above us, the crystal panels that kept the dust storms out were splintered beyond repair. The window panes crushed under rocks, adding a jagged edge to the ground and the air alike. Monsters eyed us from a distance as we walked, the steel eaters hungry for the iron in our blood.

Other eldritch, the alpha predators here, ate the steel eaters as well. They hid in the dense, red clouds, all of these monsters walking around us. Green, glowing eyes opened in the red smog around us. These hulking, four-legged tank monsters hulked around us like rabid dogs.

At this point, Hod took charge now, securing the perimeter around us. Each time one of these shadowy figures attempted attacking us, Hod tore their eyes out with the sharpened talons of his feet. He used magic I didn't know the guy could cast, imbuing his feathers with energy. The spare plumage lobbed like explosive shrapnel at the monsters, letting us make our way towards a sealed-off room.

It looked like a shelter used to house people a long time ago. Bunk beds lined up in several rows, only decayed frames remaining. The doors ripped out a long time ago, and many bitemarks lined the outer walls on the most rusted parts. The dilapidated skeletons of bipedal, uhm, lizards, I guess? They piled in the corners in piles.

Lester frowned at the place, "It's perfect..."

Hod smashed two metal eaters' skulls, the lipless monstrosities falling in piles of burnt and orange gore. Their bodies congealed in seconds, turning into gelatinous piles of corpses. From the clouds above, slithering, steel cobras lunged down and spit onto those piles. Melting the congealed substance, they devoured the metal eaters in a frenzy.

Isa put her hands on her hips, "We're not outside, even if there isn't much keeping us out of there. That'll do for now."

I created hundreds of filaments over my forearm before brushing a clean area for Alexander. Setting him down, I pulled out a rebreather from my dimensional storage. Putting it on him, I turned to the others,

"This atmosphere is breathable but toxic. Get some rebreathers on."

They followed my command, everyone but Hod putting on a mask. The birdman stayed outside, securing the perimeter. I left Alexander and helped slice the monsters down. Keeping to the massive cobras, I slit them apart as they lunged at us. I got good looks at them as I did, and their metal scales explained how they survived here.

These creatures reminded me of the silvers, though living off rust instead of mana pollution. Life found a way, at least when the eldritch were involved. These snakes used an acidic venom to melt the iron eaters' metal shells, and that let them feast on the mush left behind. At one point, I caught a cobra lunging at my face. The monster's teeth lined its throat all the way down, making its open mouth look like a pit of needles.

Needless to say, I found those snakes more intimidating than the metal eaters. The hulking, four-legged iron munchers weren't slouches either, though. They carried enormous jaws full of shearing teeth. Metal plated them, big surprise, and they walked around with glowing patches on their underbellies. My guess, their stomachs were like furnaces that melted their food into absorbable nutrients.

For them, at least. Either way, we culled several dozen of the creatures before securing our perimeter. We didn't let the cobras feast on the bodies of the iron munchers since they'd reproduce and multiply off of them. From facing Hybrids, we both discovered that a scorched earth policy worked best sometimes. Leaving behind anything alive meant it would come back later with interest.

We stopped that from becoming an issue, culling for a while. By the time Alexander reawakened, we had massacred a large portion of the nearby eldritch. Hod guarded the corpses while I walked back in, the dungeoneers protecting Alexander in the meantime. Those creepy, insectoid balls of legs kept trying to crawl into Alexander's eyes, ears, and nose. What they intended to do in there, I never wanted to know. It wasn't good. That much I was sure of.

Either way, Alexander shook off his fatigue after a while, and he pulled out his grimoire and a mana potion. Chugging the fluid, he went about casting another spell. A semi-transparent barrier passed along the old bunker, encasing this storage champer. Entirely. As it did, Isa pointed at the mage,

"You overcasted your mana reserves again. You need to come up with more efficient methods for your magic. Otherwise, you'll end up hampering more than helping."

Alexander sighed, "I know, I know. I'm just not used to missions yet. Sorry."

Lester shook his head, "Just think about it next time." Lester sat himself down, looking at the rest of the place, "You did a good job clearing this place out of that rust, though."

