“Some wizards don’t have a proper sense of responsibility toward those who work for them, but most of them do care about their own reputations and what offending my family would cost them. It would be very stupid for anyone to ask you to complete a task inappropriate for your abilities and the Ryeh-b’t class. The <<scrutiny>> if you ever formally complain about an assignment, or if you’re badly injured, will be so zealous that all but the most powerful would struggle to survive it with their summoning rights intact.” Stuart took a breath. “The Contracts may still select you for emergency summonses, but I do not like to imagine a day when the emergency is a demon on a world with a Contract and you are the best remaining Avowed for that task.”

Alden was suddenly less interested in changing the subject. “Do you really expect my future to be all boring, safe Ryeh-b’t duties?”

He didn’t know why it sounded more likely coming out of Stuart’s mouth than it did when his own thoughts circled the possibility. He’d tried so many times to convince himself that not running afoul of death and danger was also a potential future for him, but believing he could really have it…

“I think when you want battle outside of your dreams, you will have to rely on your school. Or you will have to tell me or another knight. Someone who won’t be afraid of my family.”

“When I do?”

“I mean to say, ‘If you do’. Of course. You are smiling! I’ve made you feel relieved?”

“You have. Also, there are people over there.”

“We should speak more of this if it relieves you! And I should tell you that the actions of Worli…people?” Stuart’s eyes widened. He jerked his head around to see the approaching line of people with their lights.

“Quickly!” he hissed, dropping his own light spell and reaching for Alden’s arm. “We will hide in the woods until they have passed, then run as fast as we can to the summonarium!”

Alden stopped petting the bokabv. “What? We’re going to run away from them?”

“Yes! Unless…” His face fell. He turned slowly toward the bokabv’s head. “Noh-en.”

An Artonan girl appeared. One of her hands, covered in rings, was gently stroking the bokabv’s snout, while the other was by her side, flicking through the gestures of a spell.

“Hello, Stu,” she said. “I’m happy to see you and very surprised you didn’t notice me until now. Please introduce me properly to your companion.”

******
