A spell chant containing lots of clear language wasn’t common in Alden’s limited experience. Symbolic sound, spell-only strings of noise…Porti-loth’s hooting while he was healing Zeridee-und’h must have had meaning, but it wasn’t words.

Yet, here Stuart was, telling the seeds in his hand about other seeds that had been carried by wind and various animals to find fertile ground in this land over the ages. Then he said, <<By my blood!>> and tossed them over the soil.

Alden sensed a presence around himself for a moment—not touching him, not about him, but definitely asserting something strongly in his vicinity. It was hard to tell in the dark, but he had the feeling that Stuart’s handful of seeds had been dispersed more evenly than the throw would have done on its own.

Stuart threw another fistful quickly, and this time, paying more attention, Alden noticed that some of the tiny seeds landed on him. He managed to catch one against his cheek, and he held it in his hand for a second as it slid for the gap between his index and middle fingers and then fell through, aiming itself for the dirt.

Stuart closed the canister.

“Did you finish your grass planting that fast?” Alden asked.

“Sowing on prepared ground shouldn’t take any wizard my age long, unless <<conditions>> are strange. I have a strong advantage on this land because my family has lived here for many generations, but a member of the wizard class has to be able to provide food and protection from weather, pest, and infection to enter a university. Schools have different ways of deciding you’ve satisfied that requirement, but knowing spells for planting and keeping fields are commonly among them.”

He set the container down, and walked toward Alden and the bokabv. “Accelerating growth or growing food out of its season is more difficult. But this grass grows quickly anyway, and it’s for demonstration, so it doesn’t have to thrive here. It will be removed when she leaves.”

Alden watched him stride confidently toward the animal. “Do I have your permission to use my skill on you if she attacks you?”

“That’s not going to happen.”

“At least let the Contract send you to a House of Healing this time instead of bleeding all over the grass seeds while I fight her to get your arm back.”

The hand Stuart was stretching toward the bokabv didn’t stop moving, but he did say, “I was going to cast pleasant spells at you later to test your skill, but I think I should pick less pleasant ones.”

He placed a hand against a glowing haunch. “Come here. How do you expect to end the demon in your dream if you won’t pet a <<docile>> animal?”

“With a shield and possibly explosives,” said Alden, approaching. “I was trying not to make her nervous. I doubt she’s ever met a human before. You were worried about that when you introduced me to Other Alden, remember?”

He stopped beside Stuart, and the bokabv only gave him a curious turn of the head when he reached out to touch her coarse fur. It was matted and crunchy instead of damp like he’d been expecting.

So the glow lasts even when the drool dries.

“Hi,” he said, patting her a few times. She had a smell. It wasn’t a powerful odor, but the funky, sweetish scent with blue cheese undertones didn’t encourage him to bury his face in her fur.

He walked around her for a while, trying to focus on the experience of being near her. Stuart said having real memories would make Yenu-pezth’s job easier when they built the dreams.

I’ll reframe the situation and realize the nightmare is over. I’ll realize I’m strong enough to take action and change the outcome if it were to happen again.

Really realizing it instead of just comprehending it in a factual way—that was the goal.

Eventually, when he was satisfied that Mrs. Bokabv truly liked his company and had peaceful intentions, he squatted in front of her and looked up, getting a sense for how big she was compared to him. A few steps away, Stuart was using his auriad, doing something to increase moisture content in the dirt. The bokabv stomped toward Alden, probably wondering why the visitor who’d been massaging her and talking to her had suddenly stopped and gotten lower to the ground.

Alden leaned back just in time to avoid a rope of glowing slobber. Her snout, covered in dirt, came toward his face. He barely managed to divert it with one hand and catch himself with the other before he could be fully knocked onto his back.

“I’m not dressed for wallowing on the ground,” he told her in English.“Good girl. Let me up. Come on. Let me stand up. Please?”

He managed it without getting filthy, no thanks to the bokabv, who had clearly decided that his face would be improved if her snout and tongue were in contact with it.

“Instinct,” Stuart said, finishing up with his auriad and coming back over to watch Alden with the bokabv. “You were short and by her side, and you must have looked like you needed to have your fur washed.”

“I’m not a little bokabv,” Alden said, rubbing her shoulder. “Sorry.”

“It would be reasonable to imagine a demon that was once as she is now being directed by similar instincts—to protect the young, to be closer to them, to separate them from danger.”

Parental instinct.

Alden’s hand paused on the warm fur. “I know you told me how demons like that can behave…how they’re what they were in some ways and changed in others. I understand. I’ve even been planning with that in my thoughts. But when I imagine myself back on Thegund, trying to protect myself and Kibby from one, and I think of what would happen if I failed…they’re more like monsters.”

“In your dreams, they’ll be whatever you and Healer Yenu choose. If you think it is more soothing for your sleep and your mind to kill a demon sharpened by rage and <<aggression>> toward you, then you should do that. You don’t have to <<complicate toward perfection>> in this matter. You are in search of healing, not a future like mine.”

A future like his.

Going to places worse than Thegund. Fighting there against chaos and the broken creatures it made. Dying there, likely, so far from home.

How many people would search for a life like that unless they were ignorant about how bad it could really be…or invested on the familial level?

Some, I guess. Not many, I bet.

“I want to think about it the right way, and I am an Avowed. So meeting demons is always a possibility.”

“You are someone who will not turn your eyes from the chance that danger may find your world.” Stuart sounded so satisfied about that. “One who <<readies>> himself for storms under skies that rarely hold clouds. Earth is fortunate to have you.”

Alden blinked at him. Giving me praise so grand that it induces vague feelings of distress about my obligation to my species is so on-brand for him.

“You do remember that I was going to take the flyer off of Earth and save myself? Before the situation with Zeridee-und’h happened?”

“I won’t forget the story of your recent trial. I have contemplated it several times already.”

That was concerning in its own way.

“You should leave when leaving is suggested in a situation like that,” Stuart said. “If a world is lost, what good would come of being lost with it? You prepare yourself for terrible outcomes that aren’t hopeless.”

“I was thinking more about how I might eventually be summoned somewhere to fight demons than about Earth being…lightly?…corrupted and me needing to fight them there. But yes. Being prepared is good even if I’m not searching for a future on the path of highest intensity.”

“I think you mean ‘onus’.”

No, I’m pretty sure I said it right, Alden thought.

They pet the bokabv in silence for a while longer, until Alden was surprised by a sudden brightness. Stuart’s pale auriad was laced through the fingers of one hand, a diffuse golden light shining from…

Is that a modified version of the symbol of the lantern from my book? Can I ask him if it is without it being way too suspic—?

“Alden,” said Stuart, drawing his hand back a little, which made Alden realize he’d been leaning closer to get a better look, “nobody should summon you to end a demon.”

He was frowning.

Alden suddenly noticed how odd the Artonan’s timing was for bringing out the light spell. They’d been operating by bokabv glow since they’d arrived here, and now the sky was lightening as sunrise approached.

“I think you would have difficulty finding a wizard who would let you kill a demon strong enough to be hazardous to you,” Stuart added.

“That sounds like an exaggeration,” said Alden.

“Your skill is lovely. I know you’re striving to better it in ways that will make you a more competent protector. But you aren’t as <<well-gifted>> for fighting demons as many other Avowed.”

Not right now maybe. Not if you look at the profile that isn’t true.

“Your father said I was very whole and implied I would spend some time doing scary things in the future.”

Slowly, Stuart said, “How…scary did you think it was going to be?”

Alden shrugged. “I don’t know.”

Now, thanks to her, he knew Jeneth-art’h wasn’t imagining him as some kind of super warrior who would get fired out of a cannon toward the nearest chaotic entity. But he couldn’t say that his anxieties about being useful enough to warrant the Primary’s interest in the first place had disappeared.

“I’m not sure how to answer your fears if you don’t tell me what they are,” Stuart said.

“I’m not going to tell you all of my fears right now. Let’s enjoy the morning with our bokabv.”

“But some of your worries are probably my fault.”

“They aren’t.”

“Father wouldn’t summon you to fight a demon. He can do that himself.”

“I know.”

“You were very remarkable when you held me with your skill. I believe you have prodigious natural gifts that could help you to excel beyond the usual for an Avowed. If that is true, then one day, when you are older, you could assist newling squads.”

Alden had been on the verge of a snippy insistence that Stuart drop it and focus on something else, but hearing, “I felt your being, and it took me half a second to decide you were a prodigy,” followed by, “And so maybe when you’re thirty, adolescent knights might find you useful enough to have along,” was distracting him.

He wasn’t offended or relieved. He wasn’t even surprised, since he was getting confirmation of what he’d already mostly known. He was just digesting it all.

Too slowly for Stuart, as it turned out. He thrust the hand holding the auriad toward Alden’s face again to get a better look at him.

“And,” he said, “working with knights would ensure that your gifts did not <<languish>> or your growth stall. Noting your potential and deciding not to let it be wasted is a desire <<in opposition>> to sending you to battle something beyond you.”

Alden squinted against the light, and Stuart dimmed it.

“I didn’t think your father was someone who threw Ryeh-b’ts at demons to see what happened.” I kind of worried it a few times, but I never thought it was the most probable thing. “But I still have to live with the fact that not every summoner will be nice or worried for my safety.”

He rubbed the bokabv again. “So…just in case.”

Stuart was staring. It was the variety of Stu-stare that looked like it had volumes of thought behind it. Probably a hundred new notes were being added to his mental profile of Alden to be contemplated later, hopefully not with the help of Earth’s internet.

“Don’t think about it so seriously,” said Alden. “We’re having an easy morning with each other and the—”

“We should talk about this until I fully comprehend and appreciate your concerns. And then I will help you with them.”

“I would rather focus on sorting my thoughts about demons.”

Alden could tell from Stuart’s determined expression that the can of worms that had been opened wasn’t going to be shut again until every wiggling problem had been pulled out and dissected. Gone were the days of them avoiding awkward topics, apparently, unless those topics were off-limits due to Stuart’s oaths and sense of duty.

He looked around for some kind of distraction so that he could have his Intensity Level 4 morning back. At least until sunrise. He just wanted time to figure out how to talk about his thoughts regarding summoning without outright lying to Stuart or leading him toward bigger questions.

Lights? People.

Over Stuart’s shoulder, across the grounds, a line of lights had appeared on the staircase. They partially illuminated the shapes of those who carried them as they headed slowly down in single file.

“Stuart, there are some peop—”

“Even irresponsible or <<despicable>> wizards will have care for your safety from now on. Excessive care in some cases, I expect. I have wondered if it might not annoy you in the future to be <<deprived>> of challenges that are a match for your courage.”

Alden looked back at him. “You’re worried I won’t have opportunities for courage during future summonses?”

