Dark Heartwood Mace – level 90A deceptively heavy mace crafted from the dense heartwood of an Ironwood tree. Linked to your mana, this weapon will shapeshift with your changing forms. Damage: Blunt, Physical.Heavy (Added Physical damage on hit with this weapon.)+55 Strength.+12% increased attack speed.Mana: Shapeshift.Parasitic: +5 Nature damage to wielder on activation of a skill or ability. Requires 630 Wisdom to unequip.Requirements: Shapeshifter, Strength 315.Quality: Uncommon.Value: 89 gold.One Hand – Mace – Ironwood.Rugged Heartwood Bulwark – level 93A rough-hewn heavy ironwood shield that appears to have been grown rather than fashioned into shape. Linked to your mana, this shield will shapeshift with your changing forms. Armor: 669Block Chance: +35% (Blocked attacks cannot cause critical damage.)+56 Strength.+45 Vitality.+22% increased amount of damage blocked.Mana: Shapeshift.Parasitic: +9 Nature damage to wielder on activation of a skill or ability. Requires 677 Wisdom to unequip.Requirements: Shapeshifter, Strength 326.Quality: Uncommon.Value: 95.7 goldOff Hand – Shield – Ironwood.Dark Druidic Band – level 91A dark polished band of wood. Linked to your mana, this ring will shapeshift with your changing forms. +54 Endurance.+45 Strength.+22 Vitality.+12% to Nature damage. Mana: Shapeshift.Parasitic: +12 Nature damage per second. Requires 638 Wisdom to unequip.Requirements: Shapeshifter, Endurance 319Quality: Rare.Value: 127 gold. Ring – Oak

“See? Each item has an additional Parasitic enchantment,” Malika explained. “That’s the curse, you can see how much wisdom you need to unequip it. That’s why I can take it off and you can’t – you don’t have over six hundred wisdom yet.”

“I can get sixteen hundred in Tree Form,” he said, shifting quickly, but to his dismay, even though he had the requirements to unequip the items in this form, they shifted to blend with his body, and there was nothing to remove. Frustrated, he shifted back to normal, glaring at his four hundred and sixteen wisdom in Beastkin form. I should have put more points into wisdom.

“That’s a very nice skill,” Lyeneru said. “Appraise?”

“Yes,” Malika answered, looking somewhat uncomfortable. But Lyeneru either didn’t notice or gave no indication, and Mato only registered it because he knew of Malika’s origins.

“Huh, that’s cool,” Calen interjected.

“It’s definitely not cool,” Mato said, frowning at his friend who had that ‘look’ on his face. The one when he was presented with an interesting puzzle.

“No, not you,” Calen answered, examining the items Malika was carrying, but carefully not touching anything. “The druids healed from your nature magic damage. That implies they have some kind of nature absorption – the parasitic enchantments probably heal them too.”

“Oh, that’s nasty,” Malika said.

“For you, Mato,” Lyeneru said. “Just keep the items for now. You can still fight, and they should be a big upgrade. It looks like you’re just going to take continual damage, and more damage when you activate abilities, but Malika can keep you healed for now.”

“But how do I remove them?”

“When we get back to the camp, we can try to find you some spare items with wisdom enchantments and maybe ask Eliyen to craft a wisdom elixir. If that’s not enough, you may need to put some points into wisdom for a few levels before you take them off.”

“Ok,” Mato said, feeling rather glum. A couple of levels. It would be a tall order – he needed more than one hundred and fifty wisdom to make up the difference, and that would likely take a while. Seriously! Just when I get something good…

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
