RIVERWALL

Marshalla had one condition for Niala to use her equipment: she wanted to be the one to operate it, claiming that it had been calibrated to her precise preferences over decades of time.

It had nothing to do with wanting to observe a potential new discovery, though she would have admitted that it was a nice bonus.

They reconvened in Niala's workshop, set up the measuring equipment, and began the tests once more.

The mana distillation process was time-consuming, but not terribly complex. All they had to do was keep Marshalla's mana-resonance metre turned on and printing out results while Niala used a mana infuser to saturate a single-herb infusion.

They started the process, with David fuelling the mana heart, keeping the supply stable, while she kept an eye on the readings.

Vagrant's soap was once again the first sample tested, and the resonance metre showed the expected frequencies for the two known compounds held within, but nothing else.

They moved on to the next three herbs and got the same result; only the known compounds were detected.

It wouldn't have been a discovery if it were easy, Niala reminded herself.

The tests kept going for the rest of the day, and deep into the evening, using various settings on the metre, changing the increments on the mana infuser, and a mix of other possible factors.

Nothing gave the hoped-for results.

Niala thanked Marshalla, who assured that she'd be back tomorrow, as she really did want to assist in the discovery of a new compound, if that was the case.

The lab was cleaned up, the tools put away, and the couple retreated to their home. Dinner was shared with Linzy as usual, and Marshalla, who was invited as thanks for her help.

Linzy kept them apprised of the shop's business, which remained brisk and mainly driven by the richer residents and adventurers, though the number of regular customers kept increasing.

It was a light balm on Niala's frustrated soul to know that her shop was finally gaining the trust of the townspeople without the need for personalized potions, which was still a popular service.

Night crept up, and everyone turned in for the day.

Feeling that his wife might be a little too let down by the lack of results to get frisky, David offered her a warm embrace and sweet words whispered into her ears instead.

He quickly found out that he had miscalculated and found that a frustrated Niala was a Niala in need of potent release.

Not that he complained.

Marshalla joined them for breakfast the next day, too engrossed in the plate of fluffy, creamy eggs before her to notice the frequent smiles exchanged by her hosts. Linzy didn't, but then they were going at it so much that it wasn't that interesting to poke at anymore.

The goblin figured that they were trying to put a bun in Niala's oven, and she wished them all the best. She wasn't jealous at all that their kids would be born at the top of the world. No sir.

But she also wouldn't pass up the chance of being Auntie Linzy; winning horses were meant to be ridden all the way! Just like Niala was doing with David!

After breakfast, and wondering what had triggered Linzy's full-toothed smile in their direction, they set back up in the workshop and resumed their experimentation.

Niala tried partially-mixed herbs, then the concentrate of many herbs, and many other variations, but to no avail. No new compound appeared.

As a last measure, and to make certain she wasn't crazy, they did the test on a completed Old Woman drink. She stuck the mana infuser into the liquid, brought the resonance metre's probe to the lip of the beaker, and ran the aetheric distillation process once more.

And they found it: a new resonance signature that didn't match any known compounds. It validated her theory, but it posed a new question: why wasn't this compound present in the individual herbs?

Marshalla tapped at her cheek. “Perhaps it is present, but in too small a quantity?”

Niala furrowed her brows. “But you said your resonance meter could read something as small as a nano-manawatt. If the compound was that weak in all of the herbs, there wouldn't be enough to combine into what we just got from the final drink.”

Silence, as everyone fished for a theory.

The scholar spoke again. “Maybe it is masked by the compound present?”

“I thought of that too, but there isn't a singular compound present in all of the herbs. To be true, then the new compound would have to have multiple resonances, and that's not possible.” Niala's ears wiggled. “Well, at least, I don't think it's possible...” She added.

Marshalla shook her head. “No, it is not. Everything in life has a single resonance pattern.”

David raised an eyebrow. “Not everything does.”

“Explain.” Demanded the old woman.

“It's just... in enchanting, there is the concept of poly-runes and echo-runes. They're runes that-”

Marshalla picked up his train of thought. “-That resonates with each other to create after-effects. Yes.” She turned her head toward Niala. “Dear, is there a similar thing within the field of alchemy? I am far from an expert, but I never heard about that kind of interaction.”

Niala stared at her work table, ears rigid, and only the tip of her tail flicking. “There is something. Hybrid potions, it's something I discovered after my trip to the Radiant Archive; a way to make compounds react with each other more than once.”

She turned and locked gaze with Marshalla. “But this is so stupid! The process isn't even supposed to be possible without using advanced temperature control! And you're telling me that I just...” She flitted her hands around. “Triggered it all by accident by using the first four herbs I spotted in the garden?”

Her shoulder slumped as she let her hands fall, and her ears deflated. Her voice was a tiny whine. “I wanted to figure out the puzzle...”

David was throwing his arms around her into a warm embrace before she could do anything else. The corner of her mouth quirked up despite herself, and she lay her head back into him.

Marshalla blinked, then chuckled. “Ha! You have the soul of a true scholar! But fret not, Niala; this is only a theory! An alchemical theory!” She took a step forward, swinging her arms wide. “We should confirm it! Observe it! We have seen the result, but we must understand the process!”

Niala lifted her head to meet Marshalla's gaze. Her brows inflected, and her ears lifted. “You're right! We just know what the final image is, but we haven't actually put the puzzle together!”

“Indeed! The steps are still a mystery!”

“That we're going to solve!”

“And master as our own!”

“Yeah!” Niala said, pumping her arm and stepping out of David's embrace.

He watched his little wife stomp back to her workbench, prepare a new set of ingredients, and let herself be taken over by the fever of discovery once more.

He smiled and resumed his role as a mana battery.

Niala and Marshalla did, in the end, figure out some of the process that led to the creation of the new compound, because it was a compound after all, and not a hybridized effect as she had first thought.

Many bells of testing had shown that the compound didn't exist naturally in the herbs, but came into being as they interacted with each other.

She was calling it Nihilus, because it came from nothing, and had classified it as a transient: a compound that did not exist naturally, but instead was the byproduct of regular ones.

The compounds' actual creation was still vague and poorly understood, which was to be expected after a single day of experimentation, but it would be a project for the future.

For now, she had proof that a new type of compound existed, and if one did, then surely others as well. The thought of finding them all out through thousands upon thousands of permutations filled the catkin with glee and wonder. She was an explorer who had trudged through a dense jungle only to happen upon a vast valley filled with mysterious wonders.

Her father was going to go ballistic.

They thanked Marshalla once more and decided to invite all of their friends over for a celebratory dinner. Leandro, Sybil, Sammie, Anna, Hodge, and Anaakendi all attended. Nobody really understood why, only that Niala was happy and wanted to share in the happiness. Nobody questioned it; You didn't question a reason to eat Niala's cooking.

The day after, now that his wife's urgent matter had been at least partially addressed, David re-involved himself with the establishment of the enchanting company, which was still nameless for now.

He would have to figure something out by the time he applied for an operating permit from the town hall. Maybe he'd ask Niala, she was good with naming things.

His new employees were still in high spirits, something he hoped would continue for as long as possible. He guessed that he could bribe any eventual disgruntled employee with Niala's cooking, though he'd rather everyone remained naturally happy and involved.

He walked into the warehouse to the sound of civil arguments and pencil scribbling. Once they noticed him, the enchanters waved at their “boss” and invited him to come over so they could explain what they had been up to.

The various enchanters and experts might not have the necessary tools to begin actual production, but they had plenty of paper to make and refine schematics, which is what they had been doing over the past few days while David was busy with Niala's alchemy.

The control module for the incomplete Landretti distiller had been chosen as the priority project, and most of the team had been working on it. Stefan Landretti's design and schematic turned out to be incomplete, and more of a late prototype than a finished product.

Given the complexity of the enchantments involved, they expected to be working on it for at least a few weeks still, and would probably need several iterations before it could be considered functional, at least to their high standards as craftsmen and women.

The group had stiffened as they told David, waiting to see his reaction. So far, he had seemed like an appreciable employer, but they knew how even the nicest manager could get irate when told the timetable they wanted was not possible.

David, however, once again defied their expectation, saying that the creation of the control module would take the time it needed. Quality, he said, was not part of the equation; it was the objective.

That piece of wisdom quickly made the rounds, and, by the end of David's visit, had cemented itself as their unnamed company's motto.

Cornelius would have been incredibly pleased that one of his quotes had been adopted by master craftsmen.

David, for his part, couldn't wait until Niala heard one of the enchanters recite it.

He returned the next day, going around the various impromptu workstations and asking for the workers' preferred working positions, table height, chair style, and so on. When asked why, he told them it was so he could order custom-made furniture from the local carpenter.

The gesture confirmed that their new boss wasn't really a boss. No boss spent that much money on his employees.

After taking everybody's preferences and special requests, he spent time discussing enchantment with them, deepening his knowledge of runes further, showing him where he was going wrong with his own training, and what he was doing right.

Once the staff understood that their benefactor wasn't just interested in their craft but was a practitioner of it himself, they practically threw themselves at him.

They offered private lessons, asked him to show what he knew, so they could fill in the gaps. They proposed to have him bring his engraving gear and do a few example pieces that they would review.

By the end of that second day, they didn't think of David as a boss anymore, but rather a Patron of their art, someone who understood and valued its intricacies, and by extension, valued them as artists and not mere busy hands that dragged an engraving head on metal all day.

The topic spread among the families of the workers; the tall, scary-looking man with a hidden heart of gold and his wife, the catkin angel with a smile for all. Nobles that the common people would actually look up to.

None of the relocated families were ready to fully trust them, not yet; too many times had members of the high society offered honey before stabbing their back, but they were hopeful.

The next day, when David visited once more, the team presented him with a name, one that he accepted on the spot:

Timeless Runeworks, with the slogan: “Quality is the objective, time is the tool.”

It was just vague enough that she couldn't be certain if it was related to one of her father's quotes.

It was perfect.