Gan Le’s arrival wasn’t enough to fully control the most important prize, but the tide started to turn. That was until the giant monsters arrived and threw their weight into the fight, evening things back out.

Slow to move, they were mere shadows of their former selves, but that was still head and shoulders above three of them.

Pulling back, they let the Republic secure the pillar momentarily.

When Liz and Allie arrived, they launched their own counter offensive and pushed them off the pillar, having only been able to mine a single gem off it in the meantime.

Matt personally mined the growth crystal with a unique pickaxe that had a thread of amber weaved through it. Said thread was so small, it didn’t appropriately represent the effort that had gone into slaying the giant pterodactyl that had taken over a windswept valley, but the effect had been worth it.

Swapping into his harvesting form, Matt was left incredibly vulnerable as he concentrated on hitting the pillar in the precise strikes this strange realm preferred, rather than trying to power through it.

Counting in the control room, he cheered as he reached the magic number, three, and an extra growth item gem appeared out of nowhere.

Through exhaustive testing, they’d learned his passive could only work once per mined resource that was able to be reclaimed from enemies’ bases, which prevented them from mining and then giving back someone's pillar of growth item gems over and over to farm infinitely. Exploits aside, the upsides were more than worth it for him to risk the mining himself.

He could have used one of his own units, but they were slower and he only had the one pickaxe that let him push his upgrade from an extra resource every fifth to every third.

They’d hoped to find a way to go lower to abuse their advantage, but Matt was personally content, given they already had the most growth item gems out of any remaining team by a long shot.

Still chipping away at the crystal, Liz and Rah worked together to protect Matt as he grabbed three more gems before backing away.

Leaving the final gem to the Republic team was a bit of politics all on its own, but the other side seemed to accept it and their advances stopped. Both sides settled down on their newly-created border, content to feast on the corpse of the Sword Sect and the resource nodes that were either undepletable or not fully tapped out.

That just meant more free resources for them.

Chances were they’d be fighting each other sooner than later, but that wasn’t now. They were running out of time and crystals, which led to everyone saving up strength for a large final push, most likely at them, given they had the most to lose.

Their daily battleground was against the Flying Sect group, but they weren’t keen on avenging their compatriots. Their attention was focused entirely on the singular growth item gem waiting to be harvested.

With a floating island as their base even in the battleground, they were more mobile and immediately aimed for the resource, but it required a full uninterrupted ten minutes to mine the ore, ensuring speed wasn’t a determining factor.

The Flying Sect team started building ground-based fortifications as they floated above with flocks of harpies patrolling the sky.

Rah used his units to carve trenches through the ground, making it hard for the harpies to swoop down and use their now-glowing claws to attack, and usually kill, a unit.

From inside the fortifications, their own ranged units returned fire.

Zack's units cast protective spells as attacks rained down from above.

Dozens of unit types assisted the harpies as they struck devastation into anything they hit.

Matt pegged them at nearly half as strong as a hero unit, which was impressive. His own units had been upgraded quite a lot, chasing after more resource improvements. But even accounting for the normal variation of upgrade paths, the harpies were damn strong. It did imply they’d pumped every special resource into that singular unit, which might open the Flying Sect up to other weaknesses…

After sharing that thought with the others, they started looking for any noticeable weaknesses.

They were so interested in that, they actually stopped truly trying to take the growth item gem, only interrupting their competition to reset their progress when they had to.

With the initial blitz taken care of, they were able to settle in, with neither side willing to admit defeat.

With few other resources on the map, they quickly mined everything and started pulling from their reserves.

They’d won more than a few early fights by simply having deeper pockets than their opponents, but everyone entered with enough to fight for the entire hour, or risked being defeated in detail. They suspected the two teams they hadn’t encountered or seen had been eliminated like that, but they couldn’t be sure with their limited information.

When the harpies couldn’t stop their advance, the Sects team pulled out one of their trump cards.

They dared to risk one of their hero units.

A nearly human-looking man leapt to the ground from their fortress, grappling with and destroying one of Gan Le’s units in two hits. Shining with copper light, he quickly turned the tide in the Sects’ favor and the timer ticked down to the final minute.

Even the harpies' attack tempo increased to the maximum, trying to slow their reinforcements down, regardless of the casualties. Aster and Zack sacrificed fifty of Magnus’ units to merge two spells and cast a massive blizzard that covered the airspace above the trenches, giving their units a moment of respite. One of their earlier upgrades, they’d been saving that move for the final clashes.

That was when Allie moved.

She teleported next to the Sects hero unit, and using one hand, grabbed his wrist while her other drove a yellow crystalline dagger into his neck.

The moment the attack landed, she vanished once more, which let her avoid the active spells cast around the hero to trap their response.

The poison that flooded the area killed every unit within its range, but upon seeing that they backed off, letting the final few seconds go uncontested.

Confident with their victory, the Sects group didn’t expect the massive ice golems that formed out of the still-lingering ice banks.

Envisioned to battle the Clans’ giant robot units, the golems had no trouble tanking the harpies' attacks while rushing the mined gem.

The hero unit grabbed the gem and tucked it under an arm as he jumped into the air and grabbed onto a wisp of wind that tethered him to the platform and started reeling him in.

He nearly made it.

A golem clapped its hands together, trying to force him to jump away, where he’d have to start over.

However, to everyone's surprise, he didn’t hold onto the growth item gem or try to save himself; instead he tossed it to a nearby harpy and sacrificed himself to the golem’s attack. The hero unit's elimination ensured the enemy team got the growth item gem, but Matt and team didn’t have any quick ways of taking down the battlefield flying fortress, so they backed off.

They had plans, but they were centered on the normal map’s battlefield. They’d been planning for the final week’s inward focus for the past month, and had no intentions of playing their hand now for a single growth item gem.

Even their attack on the Sword Sect was meant to strengthen their borders more than it had been to eliminate an enemy.

They’d been doing too well and knew the other groups would eventually turn on them, hoping to cannibalize their thirty eight growth item gems.

Most groups had gathered enough of the gems, but they were the only one with more than two or more stacks of the reward, and it was unlikely for anyone to expand outward any more. The overworld monsters at their current range were simply too strong to be wiped out without weakening oneself to the point any other group would be foolish not to attack.

The Clans team who suffered that fate had stopped everyone else from expanding after the second month, leading to everyone consolidating their gains and preparing for the final week.

And they were right.

With three days left, every other group still remaining in the strange realm attacked them in near unison.

They were ready.

Their first response was to drag the Flying Sect’s fortress into a mountain range, where they tethered it with enormous crystalline chains that they hoped would take at least a day to break through. They tried a similar tactic on the Flying Corporation group, but they avoided the trap and forced them to meet them in aerial combat with Liz's units. Still, that was acceptable.

They could handle one flying enemy, not two.

Having retrieved all of her harassing units in advance, as well as having prepared well for this final showdown, their team finally abused their crystal advantage. In a golden flood, they dumped more units onto the battlefield than anyone could have expected.

Keeping rough track of their extra crystal production after the first week, they’d saved a large portion of their unexplainable units, not wanting to let anyone know about their full capabilities until the final moment.

From the mountain they had started calling the Roost after Rah hollowed part of it out in his testing, two thousand additional Liz units took to the sky. They mauled the fighter jets, accepting horrific losses and then pushed through the withering barrage of laser fire to reach the Corporations flying base.

Matt and Zack added their own assistance as their defensive cannons opened fire, large projectiles of mana rising then falling until they slammed into their shields with enough energy to crack a mountain.

When the flying ship started to sink, they backed off. Their main goal had been accomplished, and they didn’t have to defeat these additional opponents to win, only survive until the timer reached zero. Following their plans, they strategically collapsed their defensive lines in a fighting retreat.

The first two fell faster than they would have liked, but as their perimeter constricted, their defenders' advantage started to shine and they stemmed the bleeding.

Amusingly enough, their one-on-one daily battles became periods of respite instead of times of worry.

As much as Matt wanted to throw everything at a singular opponent while they had the opportunity, their opponents knew that. As such, they didn’t even attempt to venture out of their initial defenses, waiting until they could return to where they held the advantage.

So instead, they used their advantage to mine what little resources they could and relax, before returning to the meat grinder that was their final two days.

On the second day, they started losing people.

Stenson went down, protecting the retreat of the last surface supply train, not letting their enemies get their hands on it. Though a worthy sacrifice, the loss of high end combat power still hurt.

Limited to the command room, he fully dedicated himself to macro, which eased the burden off of the rest of them slightly. Katya and Arden quickly followed suit in semi-deliberate sacrifices to slow down the advance and buy them time.

They only needed one of them to survive, and there was no reported distinction in the rewards given, so no one hesitated when the time came.

Matt, Gan Le, Susanne, Rah, and Liz all did their best to hold the frontlines directly, but with so many other teams, they were outnumbered in every fight, and keeping their hero units alive was hard enough. To make up the difference, they hemorrhaged units, burning through stockpiles of crystal reserves while trying and failing to keep up with demand.

On the final day, Matt turned all of his remaining units from miners to fighters, pulling them out of the hidden underground resource nodes where they’d been for the last month and a half. That finally stopped the relentless push of the other teams, but also signaled their own end.

With no new additional resources, it was simply a question of who would have deeper pockets.

Liz went down first by a coordinated ambush from all but one member of the Monster Collective team, and still managed to take down two of their hero units before she fell, but her loss hurt. They nearly lost their second to last defensive line then and there, but they managed to hold on.

With five hours remaining, they were forced to retreat to their last line of defense, focused solely around protecting the growth item pillar. Rah and then Lura went down in rapid succession, spending their lives as best they could.

The other groups clearly expected them to blow up the fortifications, using their most disposable units to lead the way. But ultimately, they ignored the casualties required, desperate to reach the growth item gems.

Matt went down during that hectic assault, no longer having any units to replace his own death.

They held on, but it was close. Far closer than Matt would have liked, given that he could only watch on from the command room, but Gan Le and Zack kept the other teams off their pillar for the final twenty minutes, and that was all that mattered.

They might not have held on if it wasn’t for the Federation team backstabbing the Monster Collective team and trying to take their less-defended pillar. They weren’t the only ones to try and snipe a last minute steal, just the first to act on it.

With victory secured, the relief hit Matt, taking a weight off his shoulders that then morphed into a successful flutter on his stomach. After so much effort, Matt was relieved to finally see his reward.

His mental mantra repeated endlessly, hoping they had done the right things and gotten the growth item modification reward.

A single gem absolutely stuffed with exotic energies materialized in front of Matt, its shell a painfully thin barrier containing the energies that pulsed with a kaleidoscope of colors.

