Even without touching it, he knew its power. It was intrinsically connected to him through his spirit already.

This energy was the raw and undiluted form of what made a growth item special, without anything to obscure it.

It was beautiful.

Stunning in a way Matt knew would mesmerize him for days if he let it.

Any item he brought in contact with the gem would be transformed into a growth item. And if the reports were correct, he’d get a degree of customization relative to how well they’d done.

Except, Matt didn’t want to turn any of his existing items into a growth item.

He’d love to upgrade his sword, to add its neutronium ingot without sacrificing a spiritual empowerment Natural Treasure, but they didn’t get that option.

Knowing he needed to make a decision, Matt let his hand move on autopilot, seeing everyone else had already claimed their reward, hoping an answer would come to him with the added pressure.

Except that didn’t happen.

As Matt touched the crystal, all he felt was a profound sense of loss.

He’d been considering a new growth item to possibly help with his casting issues, some form of spell stabilizer. However all of his plans revolved around getting it custom made and only after rigorous testing. He also intended to make it from the best materials he could get after the breach's influx of Natural Treasures and rare resources, but now those possibilities rushed and half formed.

Matt had considered what else he could turn into a growth item that might be useful long term, but none of them called to him and now that he was put on the spot indecision tried to paralyze him.

His mind first landed on his underarmor, as it was similar to his other and had been considered as a base before being discarded, but something bespoke. If upgraded, it could give him a layer of defense few would know about, but once more, he didn’t have access to their ship or any of the rare Natural Treasures he’d want to use when making such an armor.

Already, he could feel the dynamic equilibrium of the energies slowly move out of tune. And once they had, they would tear themselves apart. He had about thirty minutes before that happened, but it wasn’t enough.

Matt considered using a mana concentration device but with his Intent… he didn’t really…

Matt didn’t let himself get distracted. Instead he cycled through ideas.

His power armor?

He could, once Allie was done, ruin everyone else's plans by getting Allie to teleport him to the Empire’s armory where they stored non-used Ascender gear. He could grab the armor and qu—

Matt paused as he registered the daggers Allie was already turning into a growth item.

They weren't like her Tier 25 war daggers, they were them. She also hadn’t seemed to hesitate in shoving them into the floating gem.

Matt knew she must have had the items on her, but given their limited storage options traveling through the sky bridges, he had no idea where she’d pulled them from.

Her private message answered his question. “Did you not take a single keepsake? Dumbass.”

Matt almost shot back he wouldn't have smuggled any such item into the breach, but didn’t waste his breath, instead letting his mind run.

Looking at the others, Matt saw them all already hard at work.

Zack looked ecstatic as he stared at his converted spell array ring, finally completing his dream of turning the buyout reward into a proper growth item.

Gan Le, however, managed to irritate Matt and he almost regretted bringing the man along as he had to watch the man turn his already formidable armor into a growth item.

Matt hadn’t used the gem, so he wasn’t sure exactly how much control they had over the final object, but he doubted the item would get worse for its enhancement.

Susanne didn’t surprise Matt at all, with her turning one of her Concept sheathed weapons into a growth item. It wasn’t the weapon he’d expected, she’d chosen a sword so thin it looked like it was made out of tissue paper, but he knew it was also the sharpest weapon she had in her arsenal.

Rah, however, was creating a bracer made out of normal-looking marble that was flecked with purple and teal, signifying it as one of the Rare Tier 30 earth-based Natural Treasures they’d gotten. That made his final choice obvious, and Matt thought boosting his primary mana type was a solid choice, given his upgraded Tier 25 Talent already let him be more versatile than most.

Matt knew exactly where Aster had gotten the wide Sects-style sash she was turning into a growth item. He even knew its ability, and despite not being Gan Le’s largest fan, he fully agreed with her turning it into a growth item.

Originally a small gift Gan Le gave Aster after joining them, the sash made the wearer colder and had been a thoughtful but overly grand gesture.

When Aster turned it into a growth item, Matt suspected it might become her strongest defensive layer to date. She hadn’t shared with anyone except him through their bond, but she’d already noticed [Deathly Cold] was assisted by the sash, and they’d strategized about getting a similar but combat-focused version of the gift when they returned to settled space.

Now she got to skip that, as well as chose the path the upgrades took, and Matt felt a twinge of jealousy at the fact she had such a perfect item on hand when she needed it.

It wasn’t a nice or good thought and Matt squished it before looking to his wife.

Like him, she wasn’t working on turning an item into a growth item. Instead, she was still in her preparatory phase and he watched as she cannibalized her small portable alchemy cauldron, replacing its ordinary metals with her now-upgraded Blood Iron self-made ichor metals.

Matt was shocked at the audacity and wished his wife well but didn’t bother her.

Replacing the metal without destroying the enchantments was nigh impossible, but Zack lent a hand, diverting some attention away from his new growth item to assist her, keeping them stable until the conversion was done.

Seeing that, Matt's largest wish was that he could take this prize home and use it later.

That, however, was flatly impossible. It was a shame the gem only resembled the mana storage devices he’d spent so much time studying, instead of having their energy preservation properties. He’d have been able to…

Matt looked at the gem blankly for a moment, his mind trying to process the idea he’d just had.

Not pausing to question the how or if it was possible at all, Matt connected with the mana in the reward gem knowing he needed to simply act. He was confident he could use the energy even if this test failed but he didn’t consider that possibility too deeply. He had no intentions of needing that backup.

He felt the energy try to enter him, but he was faster.

Acting on instinct, Matt injected his mana into the outer layer of the gem and tried to activate his Tier 25 Talent, wanting to turn the gem into something more permanent.

It didn’t work.

Matt’s Talent didn’t really work on other people's mana and the strange realm’s mana was no different. More than that, trying to change the reward gem’s outer shell felt wrong.

It might be possible to force the change but that wouldn’t do what he wanted.

That would be like coating a chicken's egg in a sealant, hoping to hatch the chick later. It might stop anything from escaping, but it wouldn’t prevent the insides from rotting as the unique blend of strange realm reward energy started to decay.

Even if it worked, he’d have at best hours before it was rendered useless, rather than thirty or so minutes. Allie could probably get him back to the Empire without a hitch but she’d be wiped out and the best crafters would take longer than that to find on his own.

She’d also leave the rest of their team stranded in the breach, making that a very last resort. If Manny was still in the Empire, Matt would have had her take them to the Tier 50 in a heartbeat, knowing the Emperor would have a solution, but he had left before they had. As much as he loved them, Mara and Leon weren't crafters and wouldn’t be much help either.

The people at his guild were his best bet. Maybe he could find some of the mana storage researchers and they could figure out a way to better preserve the energy together.

He’d almost fully accepted that end point when another thought came to him.

Why am I trying to copy the strange realm?

He’d already proven the strange realm storage devices weren't perfect. The things they contained slowly drained of energy and that would still ruin the reward.

Feeling that he needed to make a decision now, he decided to follow his gut.

He’d end up destroying a bad growth item anyway, and as such, he didn’t hesitate once the decision was made.

Forcefully solidifying the outer shell on the gem, he then flooded it with his mana. It mingled with the preexisting energy contained inside the gem, but as said energy was already tuned to him, there was no rejection.

Matt hadn’t considered that angle, but as it needed to be to make a growth item bonded to himself, it didn’t inherently reject his mana; unfortunately, he also knew he couldn’t do this for anyone else's reward.

With no time to waste, and left with only hunches and speculation, Matt pushed his Tier 25 Talent deeper into the gem.

He didn’t want to fully solidify the crystal.

Something told him that allowing his mana to halt the energy entirely would instantly snuff it out, like trying to freeze fire.

Without magic, it was impossible to freeze energy, but Matt had magic.

He had his Talent.

The purest representation of his unique spirit.

There was and could only be one Matt.

He didn’t need to copy the strange realm because he wasn't the strange realm. He neither knew how they worked nor how they created the things they did, but he didn’t need to.

Matt only needed the energy to keep going and he already had the solution.

He’d had it since he advanced to Tier 5 under the watchful wings of Liz’s closest brother Travis, his husband Keith, and Aunt Helen.

Matt was Endless.

Feeling like something was going to split deep inside his mind and spirit alike, he pushed his Talent even deeper into the gem. It was like trying to push rope into the thickest half-frozen mud imaginable, but he persisted, even as he felt as things started to unravel before him despite his best efforts.

It was in that visualization that he realized what he needed to do.

Once his mana, and therefore Talent, had fully infused the gem, he activated his Intent for the briefest of moments, darkening his mana to ink black and commanding it to solidify even as he drained most of the willpower he had recovered over the strange realm’s duration.

The instant before it could fully solidify, he did something he’d never considered before. Matt forcefully stopped his Talent and shoved the nearly solid mana to get it moving. It was the tiniest of shoves, and he knew it was entirely wrong the moment he did it.

It was wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong.

The gem's entire structure started to fall apart as his efforts had disturbed the fragile equilibrium that had been present between the strange realm’s energies and his Intent-empowered mana.

Matt forced himself not to panic, carefully following the energy patterns and trusting what his instincts told him the energy wanted to do.

Knowing how risky it was but doing it anyway, he spent most of his remaining willpower activating his Back to Basics floor reward, fully tapping himself out, knowing he’d be paying for the action later, but proceeding regardless. He’d suffered years’ worth of survival in Minkalla relying on the Daedalus formation to give himself access to magic, but it was all worth it as a light seemed to go on inside his head.

It wasn’t a new idea but rather his mind, his [AI], his mental training, and his previous accumulations from testing mana flows coming together in a slightly discordant symphony.

He burned through an ocean's worth of mana trying to process everything and come up with a solution.

Seeing what looked like the best answer, he followed the idea.

Almost immediately, he knew it was a failure, but he kept going as it wasn’t that wrong.

Turning the pulling motion into a push, Matt shoved the mass of mana and energy, getting it moving in a much more complex way with half a dozen different layers all moving in different directions and with different patterns all while preventing his Talent from fully solidifying the mana and energy.

It wanted to lock everything down into a solid, stable mass, but with the energy's constant movement, it prevented his Talent from fully solidifying the mana and energy inside. It reminded him of water being frozen. If cold enough, even moving water could be solidified, but if the conditions were just right, even walls of ice could move like liquid.

He’d landed somewhere close; even if it wasn’t perfect, it was good enough. While the inside of the gem was dense like honey, it was still very much a liquid, despite being entirely solid.

Taking a moment to observe the decay rate of the energy, Matt almost didn’t believe it as he detected absolutely zero decay during his testing.

The energy was perfectly stable, and the small push he’d given the energy inside before the end continued to spin without any outside interference needed.

Matt’s first reaction was to retest, as that wasn’t how most energy containers worked, there was always some loss, but his following three tests all had the same result.

No energy in, no energy out, no energy change.

A seemingly perfect container.

Finally starting to believe, he couldn’t resist a chuckle.

He’d done it.

He had no true idea how he’d done it, but he had. True understanding would come later, but that was all that mattered in the moment.

