Chapter 469

Matt’s form changed as he responded to the newest incursion from what they were calling the Sword Sect.

That was to differentiate them from the Flying Sect, which was one of the two aerial-based teams still in the running. There had been a third from the Clans, but they made the mistake of clashing with the Monster Collective Swarm team.

No one had known they'd done it, but however they managed to merge units together, it had been effective. Tree spiders were scary, but spider wasps were another breed of nightmare.

The Dwarves hadn’t known what hit them, and they’d contested the Swarmers on their shared border over the remnant of the flying citadel’s growth item gems.

They hadn’t succeeded, but Liz led wings of her phoenix units deep into their territory and burnt down several of their farmed forests, drastically reducing their troop production, which had allowed them to take several of the more important radiant crystal mines needed for the top level research.

Liz herself was a terror.

In the three months they’d been inside the strange realm, she’d used the dual reality of the place to further her own mental training.

Last he checked, she was at forty two fully independent raiding wings. They took losses, but thanks to one of the unique upgrades Liz had unlocked along the way, she could revive her units so long as a few survived. Recovery took time, but with so many groups operating, she was a menace.

Though, not quite as much of a menace as Allie.

Matt wasn’t sure if it was genius or idiocy that prompted her to have the idea, but it had paid off handsomely. Thanks to two of her normal upgrades, Allie had been able to create invisible sentries, giving them real-time coverage over large portions of the enemies’ bases.

So long as her units didn’t move, they were completely invisible, and their teleportation didn’t break their camouflage thanks to her second upgrade.

It wasn’t perfect, they were still physically there and could sometimes be detected through other means, but the information they revealed let them always arrive ‘just in time’, as he was doing now.

It was a careful dance to keep their enemies guessing, but it was exhilarating.

With everyone fighting through the medium of the strange realm, ingenuity, team work, tactics, and politics made the strange realm a treat Matt sorely needed.

Crushing two of the most common Sword Sect units, a glowing floating sword that tried to rush into the breach, Matt also commanded Stenson's ships to repair the wall.

As if time reversed itself, the wall and the turrets recovered in time to block the next wave of a dozen swords.

They weren’t alone, but neither was Matt.

Two dozen of Gan Le’s tanks marched forward, intermixed with as many of Susanne’s units, and behind them were twice that in support units.

In the command room above, Matt selected and commanded the rest of their prepared units along the border to advance. While only numbering slightly over five hundred, the attack was a substantial investment when it came to the gear each unit was equipped with.

Most teams had chosen to go down similar paths, and the Sword Sect were no different, which meant the numbers in their clash were fairly even.

Matt kept his hero unit in the back, only moving in to support his units when he was about to lose several, as if he didn’t care about such losses. To reinforce that feeling, he then commanded his back-up troops into the battle, firmly outnumbering his opponents.

They didn’t give up the border region easily.

Their units amassed just out of range of the still-faltering frontline, preparing for a fighting retreat through their well-reinforced valley region. They had been skirmishing with the Sword Sect over this border for more than a month now, and both sides had known this day would come.

It had only been a matter of time, but the moment was now.

They would have to see whose preparations were better.

Smiling, Matt commanded his troops to advance fully.

Using part of his consciousness, he corrected formations, redirecting Susanne’s soldiers into weaker flanks, baiting the enemy into overextending, and shifting his own troops out of their counter-maneuvers on the fly. He even made sure that Gan Le’s units were tanking the ranged magics that half-heartedly peppered his units from afar.

He knew there was more to the attack but he didn’t react, simply commanding his army to advance.

The field exploded as Matt’s units reached the frontline, but he lost less than five percent of his vanguard units. Seeing that, he didn’t change his tactics, instead watching for his opponent's response from their deeper position past the entire battlefield, from what Allie’s scouts revealed.

It took a long time for the response to come, and he had some suspicions as to why. Thankfully the response came exactly how they expected it.

A large army of close to five thousand mixed units marched in response to Matt’s incursion. Said attack was in response to the Sword Sect’s original probing attack, but that's all it had been.

They hadn’t expected this level of response, and Matt even feared they wouldn’t respond, wasting his and Rah’s effort, but they finally sent their army forward.

Commanding one of Rah’s units to move in a pattern, Matt bypassed the strange realm’s normal range communication limitations.

It was limited, but they’d already discussed and planned around every variation they could think of, and seeing a large army was their best case scenario.

Outnumbered four to one, they stood little chance of beating the army in the field, but Matt didn’t intend to. Instead, he pretended to create his own skirmish line a few miles into their territory, acting as if he wanted to hold his position to wait for reinforcements. He knew they could see him but tried to order his units around as naturally as possible as the larger army marched ever closer.

Almost a mirror of what happened during his initial attack, the ground turned against the mobile force. However, instead of exploding, the ground collapsed as Rah commanded his sappers to complete their missions, causing the western flank of the Sword Sect to drop almost sixty feet.

The damage itself wasn’t too bad and the attack didn’t kill any of the Sword Sect’s army, not that they’d expected it to. The world was so gamified, they’d made sure to test if fall damage worked the way they wanted and it was a good thing they had as falling couldn’t but it could damage.

That was where the labyrinth came into play.

Commanding his army along the carefully intact paths, Matt used his ranged units to attack from above, while his melee units interfered with the Sword Sect’s attempts to climb the walls.

When that proved a losing proposition, they tried attacking the walls, but that was an even harder challenge.

While the strange realm allowed underground alterations, that wasn’t what Rah had done. That might have worked, but it never would have been as effective as what he did.

The original idea of the attack had come from a unique building they gained access to when they killed a giant golem boss: a labyrinth.

Scalable to nearly any size, they struggled to decide on how to apparently use such a large ‘building’ in anything but a defensive manner.

Rah had already considered using his units as sappers before that, but the lack of fall damage to units made the efforts not worth the time investment.

That was until he merged the two ideas.

Not limited to making the labyrinth on the surface, he chose to create it only a few dozen feet underground. The moment his units completed it, the ground above crumbled inside, along with everything standing on top.

As a proper building, the walls were now reinforced with crystals and far too strong for even fully upgraded units to reasonably damage.

Matt couldn’t help but laugh at how well Rah’s plan came together as his army quickly annihilated the enemy army.

Pushing deeper, he finally met up with Rah’s hero unit on the far side where he had been hiding.

“That worked perfectly,” he couldn't help but say the moment he could speak to Rah in the command room.

Rah was equally jubilant. “We can secure this entire region’s flank with the labyrinth while we start moving the resources.”

“Oh I wanted to ask, did you see why their response was so slow?”

When Rah said he didn’t know, and nothing was visible in what Allie’s troops revealed, they decided to push deeper into the Sword Sect territory.

Seeing nearly no resistance as they passed by mines and buildings, their confusion was finally solved when they saw the other army approaching the heart of the Sword Sect.

Sixty foot tall monsters, reminiscent of the bosses the Republic team had killed, Matt saw them tearing into the final remnant of the sect troops.

Seeing the core of the base, Matt and Rah led the attack, rushing to try and claim the growth item gems.

With only a week left in the strange realm, they weren't the only ones to go on the offensive, it seemed. And with both of them acting at the same time, the Sword Sect stood no chance.

While unintentional, Matt and Rah had no desire to share if they didn’t have to. Unexpectedly or not, they weren’t going to pass up the fortune. They did, however, inform the others to pivot as many units to their flank as possible via troop movement signals.

The battle’s opponents shifted, but that also made them much scarier.

The Republic Monster team was a formidable one that they’d clashed heavily with in the battlefield the day before.

They hadn’t lost, but they hadn’t won either, and Matt was eager for a much more interesting round two as they fought over the corpse of the Sword Sect.

Heavily defended with both buildings and units, the Sects team did their best to hold on, but under a relentless full-scale assault from two other factions, they crumbled.

When the final Sects hero fell, the rest of their units stopped moving and their buildings and resources became ripe for plundering.

They clashed at the growth item gem pillar.

The Sword Sect had performed admirably up until their downfall, with nine gems already incorporated, but the fruits of their efforts became a battleground.

Knowing they needed to hold on in the crucial early moments, Matt moved his hero unit up with Rah as the two of them clashed with three of their opponents. At the same time, they commanded the attack, watching as reinforcements crossed their vast territories.

Falling into an acceptable stalemate, as neither side was able to claim control of the growth item pillar long enough to mine a resource from it, Matt scanned the rest of the map.

Liz was still skirmishing in the other groups’ bases, but the others hadn’t been idle.

Aster, Allie, and Susanne were holding off an attack from the Ranged Corporations group in their south.

They were aiming for the radiant crystal mine in the area, but the three of them managed to hold off their assault without too much effort.

Their south, at least, was far more industrialized, with proper supply trains to move resources and half-finished products deeper into the base from their ever-expanding sprawl.

It was almost amusing, but the crystals then came back in the form of newly arriving units who matched their attacker.

They’d named the Ranged Corporations group that because they preferred ranged combat, not because they could only attack from a distance. They were one of the stronger remaining competitors, with their own vast territory.

Their mammoth units were like walking tanks with the layers of armor piled on them, while their more offensive units rode on their backs or from hot air balloon-like drives they used to snipe from.

The Corporations’ rifles were items, but they’d fully leaned into them and it paid off. They could field not only larger armies than most others, thanks to their cheaper base units, but their rifles were head and shoulders above the best portable mana cannons that their own group had access to after they ran out of ranged research upgrades.

Liz had originally run rampant in their area, but they’d set up scout towers to snipe any flying units that tried to cross the border with their range advantage. When she did succeed, her units were quickly hunted down. With her help, they’d recovered several weapons to study, but they learned little, having already advanced down their own individual paths so far they could no longer pivot to take advantage.

Destroying the weapons was easier and far more punishing, given the horrendous costs of fully upgraded weapons. The Flying Corporation, having not invested in their units themselves, had mass producible units still available from the lower strata infinite crystal resources. The weapons to arm them were far harder to pump out, and each one destroyed was a painful blow, so they’d long changed their focus when fighting them.

The battle was still active, but with Matt pulling most of the attention to the former Sword Sect, the trio’s offensive had ground to a halt.

Gan Le arrived first and Matt sighed; the fight became much easier as the numbers finally evened out and he could change out of his defensive form. While almost indestructible at this point, the upgrade lacked a meaningful way to deal damage.

Gan Le, after his own series of upgrades to his base units, as well as his hero unit, had turned into more of a mana-crystal-steel turtle than a man. But his defensive reduction aura was vital to letting Matt form swap.

Flipping into his offensive stance, Matt’s form slimmed down as it sped up. Using that sudden shift, he landed a deep cut on the enemy hero unit he was dueling, forcing them back and giving himself breathing room.

