Creating a similar gem out of mana, he tried to pull off the same trick again.

He failed, but he already could tell what he’d done wrong.

He needed his Intent to concentrate his mana as part of the stabilization process, but he couldn’t touch his Domain for the next hundred years or so if he wanted to avoid permanent damage, having fully emptied his willpower reserves.

Not wanting to give away what he’d done, Matt pretended to tuck the crystal away but instead simply slipped it in his chest, where it would be hidden inside his spirit from casual observation.

Its location made it easy for him to check on the gem to ensure nothing changed from the microsecond earlier.

He also intended to keep the gem there until… he didn’t know when, but at the very least when they returned to the Empire. The moment something started to change, he was going to have Allie rush him back to his guild, but it appeared remarkably stable.

With even a few days lead time, so long as he had full access to his guild, and more importantly his researchers and craftsmen, Matt was confident he’d be able to make something impressive if the worst came true and the gem started to lose energy.

But it didn’t.

The strange realm reward was perfectly preserved for when he wanted to use it later. Much, much later.

In the four months they stayed on the crystal planet to ‘observe’, Allie was able to create a waypoint so they could come back at any time. It was, in fact, the only reason Matt was willing to leave the crystalline planet at all, given how much information he was learning by studying it.

However, the main reason they left was that a Federation team had taken charge of the planet and they kept shadowing Matt as he tried to study things. That successfully irritated him enough to be willing to leave. If the planet de-aspected, he was going to hold everyone responsible accountable and he’d be starting with them as the ‘rulers' of said world.

They did, however, learn through the gossip chain that the Flying Corporation team was the only one to get the growth item modification reward out of their group of entrants. Hearing that, Matt tried to stir up some internal jealousy, but he couldn’t find the effort to care, given what he’d managed with his own reward.

He still had the spirit strengthening Natural Treasure needed in exchange to get the neutronium ingot added to his sword.

With most planets and strange realms accounted for, everyone started to settle down, waiting for the end of the breach. Some delved, but most teams turned the last few weeks into a party. It was almost anticlimactic given the earlier fighting, but no one left standing in the planets around them seemed inclined to fight over the remaining scraps.

Everyone was content, though it wouldn’t last.

After adding two more waypoints, they decided to return to the ruin that had injured Susanne to advance their cultivation while waiting for the final eruption as the bubble burst.

They were hardly alone.

Nearly everyone had bought the corporation's map, and as such, the ruin had turned into one of the breach’s main attractions, as teams from all three breach points tested their luck inside.

Rah wanted to experience the explosion to the end, so they waited a few extra days instead of teleporting out.

As described, the contracting space compressed the worlds together until they started to repel each other.

It started subtly; the worlds grew closer, their sky bridges more firm, more real, the distances shorter. Then like a switch was flipped the entire bubble fell apart in a matter of moments.

It started from somewhere towards the third breach point but close enough Matt felt it through the sky bridge network.

In the compression the worlds found they had no more space to give. Their sky bridges were as short as they could go, the worlds would collide if they were pressed together any more. That forced other planets to shift, but they too had been running out of room, and in a chain reaction, all of the worlds brought in from the third layer of chaotic space vibrated as they locked each other in place while the energy bubble tried to shrink further.

With the worlds unable to get closer and the bubble continuing to shrink, something had to give.

All of that inward pressure suddenly vanished as the bubble popped and the planets that were too close together tried desperately to get the distance they craved.

Despite not being able to see it, Matt knew all of the remaining third layer energies were washing through the core of the breach. Any ship not capable of flying through the third layer caught out in the open and not inside a planet's protective reality would be lucky to survive.

After they felt the surge of energies start to slow, Allie teleported them back to where the rest of the ship and crew were waiting, finally ending their journey into the Rasdale tidal breach.
