Malika

Malika shot bolt upright, awakened by a powerful pulse of energy coursing through her body, leaving golden glitter-like sparkles dancing along the wooden beams of the carpenter’s trash pile she had been sleeping under, and all along the walls of the dingy alleyway.

Bursts of visible golden magic shot up from below, shards and flames that passed clean through the pavement and on up through the buildings like they simply weren’t there. It was as if someone had detonated a vast magical explosion far underground, but Malika knew for certain that no mage in this godforsaken town was even nearly that powerful. Myrin’s Keep was far too miserable a place for that.

Heart racing, she huddled in the corner among the broken boxes and discarded offcuts as the enormous energy of the blast, which had somehow failed to hurt her, began to fade to golden motes of light that drifted upward into the sky like a cloud of fireflies.

What the heck was that? She was certainly no expert, but she had never heard of golden magic like this. Nor could she even fathom a spell of such power and energy that had yet passed through the pavement and whatever rock lay below, buildings, and even herself without effect.

I’m not hurt… am I?

A loud crash followed by swearing startled her, suddenly snatching her attention from the lights.

Shit! Adrik and Edrik!

She instantly recognized the voices of the twin enforcers of the Town Watch and instinctively knew that they were looking for her. Distracted by the bizarre phenomenon, she had not even noticed them approaching.

Her mind and heart raced as her body flooded with a surge of adrenaline. She ducked and rolled out of the wood pile and made a break for the end of the alley, sprinting as fast as she could. There was a rush, a crash, and a burst of pain as a heavy weight slammed her into the side of the building. Her head cracked painfully against the brick, and she blacked out briefly.

When she came to, she found herself choking, barely able to breathe, hoisted off her feet by a powerful hand gripping her throat. That would be Edrik. She could always tell them apart. Edrik was the one who enjoyed inflicting pain, at least more directly than his brother.

Did I just imagine that, or did the whole town just leap two feet into the air? The golden explosion had seemed so real, and yet both brothers seemed entirely oblivious to it.

She saw stars across her vision as she struggled for breath, but all she managed was the ineffectual scrabbling of her heels searching for purchase against the wall.

“Got you, little rat!” he gloated, never missing an opportunity to shove the Street Rat title they had forced on her in her face. “Where’d you think you were going?”

She screamed. Malika had long since abandoned her dignity in these shakedowns. If there were guards nearby and they heard her, there was a chance she would escape with fewer bruises and broken bones. Unfortunately, with his hand clamped around her windpipe, it came out more like a croak.

He casually slapped her across the face, making her head slam painfully into the wall again.

“That’s for trying to run,” he said with a vicious sneer. “You know you bring this on yourself.” He punched her in the stomach, winding her. “And that’s for trying to scream again. I told you last time to take your punishment quietly.”

His grip released just a little and Malika took a ragged breath, struggling for air.

“Mr. Hawkhurst runs a respectable business,” he said, drawing in close and subjecting her to the rank caress of his breath along the side of her face. “That means you lift items and money for us so we can pay off the debt he so generously lent you. Hand it over. Now!” His voice grew progressively angrier and louder as he spoke, ending with him yelling in her face with spit flying.

While most of the town believed Jax Hawkhurst to be a savvy businessman, owner of the Hawkhurst Trading Company, and an upstanding member of the Town Council, Malika knew the uglier truth from personal experience. The Town Watch – and several other organizations – in Myrin’s Keep, were secretly under his control, used to keep his name and reputation pristine even while carrying out the shadier, and sometimes downright illegal, parts of his business dealings.

If Jax caught wind of Edrik invoking his name in public like this, he would certainly have words with Kieran Mori. And then Kieran would have Edrik flayed. Of course, the only time she had ever tried to report the twins, she had woken up a week later with a hefty new chunk of debt from the healers. Adrik and Edrik were awful, but Kieran Mori was truly evil.

Malika retrieved a small pouch of coins from inside her shirt and handed it to Edrik. She knew from painful experience that if she didn’t give him something he would start breaking things until she did. He snatched it from her and tossed it to his brother.

“Where’s the rest?” he said, shaking her hard enough to make her teeth rattle.

She had hidden the rest in the wood pile, but she wasn’t about to give that up. Without some money, she wouldn’t be able to afford the donations at the Temple of Lunaré to get herself patched up.

“That’s all,” she managed, her voice not working quite right.

There was a flicker of red light as he activated a skill and a surge of pain shot through her side as he punched her. Two or three of her ribs cracked audibly and she gasped at the sudden shock of pain.

“Hey, don’t kill her,” Adrik said. “Besides leaving a mess, Mr. Mori won’t be happy.”

“You always interrupt my fun,” Edrik complained.

Through the haze of pain, Malika saw a most improbable sight – a glowing golden butterfly flitted between her and the thug while he was looking away, coming briefly to rest on her cheek before flying off once again. She blinked in confusion, wondering if she had been hit too hard in the head again.

That’s too pretty to be a dream, isn’t it? She stared after the exquisitely detailed butterfly as she struggled to reconcile the delicate beauty with the violence of the explosion earlier. Who sent you?

Seeing that Edrik was still distracted with his brother, Malika took aim and punched him in the side of the head with her left hand, channeling every ounce of the martial arts training she had received in her youth.

He rounded on her with a glare of pure fury. “Did you forget I have a Class, you moron?” His backhanded slap across her face left her ears ringing. “You can’t even scratch me, what the fuck are you thinking?” The return strike slammed into the side of her head. “Or did you think your daddy’s precious martial arts are actually worth anything?” His straight punch snapped her head backward, cracking her nose. “Oh, that’s right, he’s dead,” he continued with a cruel laugh.

A warm rush of blood streamed down her face and her vision blackened before returning in a rush of light.

A soft chime filled her mind and two lines of glowing blue-white script appeared floating in her field of view.

Requirements met.You have gained one primary class slot.

Malika groaned and blinked as her mind reeled from the impact, the metallic taste of blood filling her mouth – she had bitten through the side of her tongue. But the notifications lingered, glowing words in her mind that beckoned for her attention, visible even when she blinked.

“Stop playing with her,” Adrik said. “I found her stash.”

Without a word, Edrik flung her to the ground and spat on her, glaring down with a look of undisguised contempt. The twin thugs sauntered off without a backward glance, Adrik tossing and catching the small pouch of her hard-earned money in his hand while they chuckled among themselves, leaving Malika lying in a heap in the dirty alley. She stared in disbelief at the blue-white glowing words floating within her mind, but the tiny sliver of hope kindled by the notification flickered defiantly within her, refusing to die.

If they find out, they will force me to take a Pickpocket or Thief class.

She dreaded the thought of being beholden to these parasites for the rest of her life. They had already taken so much from her. First forcing her to evolve Identify into Appraise so that she could gauge the value of items in the marketplace. Then training under the gentle ministrations of Edrik’s whip to unlock the Lockpicking and Pickpocket general skills she so despised. And then the Street Rat title that forever branded her as untrustworthy to anyone who used Identify…

Will they take everything from me?

She stared longingly at the notification once more. If I could just… She hesitated as if the very thought would cause the twins to return. If I could just get a real Class. Maybe then I could stand up to those thugs. Her thoughts drifted back to her previous life. Her parents’ dojo, and her childhood dreams of earning a martial arts class. Of making her parents proud. Of being respectable. If only they were still alive.

Blinking back sudden tears of years-old grief, she shoved the memories and dreams back into the box they had escaped from with the proficiency of years of practice.

There had been talk in the market earlier today of a class initiation ceremony – to be held in the Town Hall, as usual. If she wanted even the remotest chance to avoid her fate, she needed to be there. She crawled over to the wood pile and levered herself to her feet, spitting the blood out of her mouth and wincing at the pain radiating from her side. She wiped the blood from her face and pushed back her unruly black curls.

What I wouldn’t give for a haircut.

Or enough money for a haircut.

Then she chided herself. If I had money, I would be at the temple getting healed. Shit, I will need money for the initiation. If it hadn’t been for Adrik and Edrik’s shakedown, she would actually have had enough.

There were countless rituals to influence the natural path of class acquisition among the ordinary folk; prayers and incense offered to the ancestors, or the gods of the local people of this kingdom, rites of cleansing, special food, the list was endless. However, Malika knew them all to be no better than superstition. And besides, she had prayed to the ancestors as a child, and they had forsaken her to this miserable life. No, if she wanted a good class, and a better shot at life, she would definitely have to take it for herself. The only thing that worked was a Class Shrine, and that was not available to the riffraff, refugees, the poor – a Street Rat like her.

Gingerly she bent over and began rummaging through the trash, eventually finding a rag that was not completely soiled. Taking her treasure to a puddle, she dipped it in the water and dabbed the blood still leaking from her nose. She flinched at the painful touch, but her nose didn’t actually move, so it probably wasn’t completely broken. With her beauty regimen taken care of, she stopped to consider her options.

Can I do this? She needed to get to the shrine in the Town Hall and find money to pay for it – and that was if she could even convince them to let a bruised and bleeding Street Rat in. All of that and she still needed to avoid Adrik and Edrik, and whatever terrifying sorcerer or monster was lurking in the sewers below the town, spewing powerful magical discharges and mana butterflies.

Don’t be silly, she thought, chiding herself. The worst things down there are rats and spiders. Although she had heard rumors of a Kobold or two. Dangerous, yes, but nothing like what her overactive imagination had conjured.

I’ll just have to figure it out as I go.

She limped down the alleyway and out onto the main street that ran adjacent to the poorer slum districts of Myrin’s Keep. She received a few worried and scared glances, but most people seemed to be scurrying away, fleeing, no doubt, from the sounds of fighting – or perhaps the crazy magical explosion from earlier, if they had even heard it. She still couldn’t quite tell if she had imagined the whole thing.

I probably look terrible. At least her skin was naturally dark enough that the blood and bruises wouldn’t be too obvious at a distance. The cuts and bruises didn’t worry her too much, but Edrik’s last punch left a lingering dizziness, and she could tell he had broken her ribs again by the way they shifted painfully as she walked.

Malika hurried along the street, making her way towards the Town Hall, hoping against hope that Adrik and Edrik hadn’t made her miss it. I can get a healer later. As she drew closer, the worries ever lurking below the surface of her mind bubbled over again.

She had been forced to do a lot of petty thievery for the Town Watch and their crooked thugs. What if I don’t get any good class choices? She practiced her martial arts diligently every day. Well, some days after Edrik and Adrik come, I can’t even stand. But what if that wasn’t enough to offset the skills that had been forced upon her? The title? She just had to believe her bloodline and her persistent practice would be enough to give her at least one good class choice.

Just one please, she sent the thought out. She didn’t believe the ancestors actually listened, but for this, she was willing to try anything.

Malika reached the Town Hall without further incident. It was one of the few original buildings that remained – most of the rest had been torn down, burnt, and rebuilt many times over the years. You could tell by the superior craftsmanship; the way the heavy granite blocks had been seamlessly fused into a structure that had weathered the worst this town could throw at it emerging unblemished.

Malika approached the doors and was stopped by the guard with a gruff, “You can’t go in, Street Rat. They’re busy.”

Am I too late? If she couldn’t choose her class today, she was certain Adrik and Edrik would figure it out and choose for her. Heart in her throat, she forced herself to speak, to sound confident despite the blood in her mouth and her swollen tongue.

“I’m here for the class initiation?” She grimaced at the rising inflection at the end that turned her confidence into a question.

“Oh, you’re a little late, they started already,” he said, throwing her a concerned look. “Are you ok?”

“It’s nothing,” Malika said, averting her broken face. “I… tripped.” She trailed off as her voice quietened. The lie twisted in her gut.

“Uh, right,” the guard said and opened the door. “Well, go in quickly, the mayor usually takes a while with his speech.”

Malika blinked and looked up at him. Her heart jumped. His small kindness was so unexpected that she stumbled on her words. “Th… thanks,” she managed and rushed in.

