General Skills- Meditation – level 3- Basic Martial Arts – level 5- Dancing – level 4- Acrobatics – level 5- Calligraphy – level 3- Lockpicking – level 4- Pickpocket – level 3- Appraise – level 5

Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Bloodline (Ahn Khen): Dormant

Attributes- Vitality: 8- Strength: 7- Endurance: 12- Dexterity: 13- Perception: 10- Intelligence: 9- Wisdom: 11

Health: 17/80Stamina: 67/120Mana: 108/110

It worked! Obviously, this was what she had wanted, but she had been suppressing her excitement, as if certain that at any moment someone would leap out and stop her. But the change to her status was undeniable, and her rush of excitement threatened to bubble over.

The mayor spoke once more, “Now that everyone has unlocked their experience, Commander Brand has assigned a garrison guard to guide each group to a suitable area for your trial. Good luck, and please be careful out there. The danger is real, and we do not want any of you to die.”

In the gap of silence that followed his pronouncement, the mayor’s eyes surveyed the hopefuls, hesitating briefly when they met hers. Malika quickly diverted her eyes, a habit drilled into her over years of needing to be inconspicuous.

On that somber note, all the candidates began collecting their packs and weapons and saying their goodbyes to their family and friends. Malika took comfort in the fact that their assigned guard was the same one who had shown her kindness at the door.

“Sewers or Forest?” the guard asked them. “Rats and spiders, or wolves and bears?”

“Which is more popular?” Donavan asked.

“The forest for sure,” the guard answered.

“We’ll take the sewers, then,” Donavan decided.

Malika raised her opinion of Donavan a little. It was a smart decision, in the less popular area they wouldn’t need to compete with the other groups, and they would be able to finish quickly. She firmly dismissed her worries about improbable cults of rogue sorcerers lurking in the sewers.

“We already have a rat, after all,” Donnavan added.

Malika frowned, but she held her tongue.

As they followed the guard, Mato muttered, “He thinks he can just take over, I really want to rearrange his face.”

Calen, looking a bit concerned, placed his hand on the bigger boy’s shoulder and said, “Not a good time Mato, just let it go.”

As they left the Town Hall following the guard through the city, Malika felt her mood begin to improve, the potentially volatile group dynamic notwithstanding. She had actually done it. She was on her way to her trial. Feeling cautiously optimistic, she followed her new teammates.

A sheltered, far too nice Half-elf; a possible Town Watch spy; an arrogant noble; and a grumpy Beastkin, one comment away from a brawl. And a Street Rat – what could possibly go wrong?

Leading them to an alleyway, not unlike the one she had slept in last night, the guard unlocked and removed a heavy iron grate covering a hole in the ground. The vertical shaft of aged brick descended into the darkness, and the damp stench of the sewers slammed into her face like a wall of filth, making her gag.

No wonder it’s not popular, she thought. I bet the forest smells better.

“Ready?” asked the guard, offering a few lit torches.

Glancing at each other briefly, they nodded to him. Malika took one of the torches, tucking it carefully under one arm, and began to climb down into the sewer using the rusted iron hoops stapled into the ancient and crumbling brickwork.

When she reached the bottom of the ladder, Malika found herself in a small damp chamber, the sound of dripping unnaturally loud in the dim torchlight. Moss lined most of the crumbling, water-stained brick walls and floor, making everything somewhat treacherously slippery, while trickles of water ran out through the one open archway.

Donavan immediately strode toward the open passage.

“Shouldn’t we have a plan?” Malika asked, her voice echoing a little in the dark chamber.

“I’m not interested in your plan, you didn’t even bring a weapon,” Donavan shot back, “Just follow me and kill the monsters and we can all get out of here.”

Biting back her retort, she followed the group, irritated with their self-imposed leader’s disregard for her or any kind of prudence. But she was an outsider in this group, and she only had to put up with them until she earned her class.

Suddenly she jumped, startled as a large hand gently settled on her shoulder, wincing in pain as her movement displaced one of her snapped ribs.

“It’s not very powerful, but you look like you need it,” Mato said.

She stared at him in confusion for a second before she saw the small vial in his enormous hand, stretched out and offered to her. The clear glass container was stopped with a simple cork, and the red liquid sloshed a little inside.

Minor Health Potion – level 1Consume: Gain 50 health over 3 minutesQuality: NormalValue: 1 silverCreated by Morwynne Fizzlebang. “Wounds begone!”Potion

She hated that he was right – and worse, that she would owe him – but she wasn’t going to be a whole lot of use in combat if she was doubled over in pain every time she moved.

“Thanks,” she said quietly, and downed the expensive potion, feeling the warmth flooding her body as its potent magic began to work on her injuries.
