Malika had never seen the inside of the Town Hall before. It was enormous, easily able to hold over two hundred people, but with all the milling about and the gear stashed on the floor, it felt crowded. The early morning sun streamed in through large windows and lit up the polished wooden floor. Most people – the Humans, at least – became eligible for class advancement a little before the age of twenty, so it was quite easy to pick out the applicants from among the family members and friends who had come to support them. Standing in front of the crowd, Malika recognized the mayor, William Turner. He was a portly middle-aged man with a reddish flush to his face, but he still looked quite imposing dressed in his impressive official robes of office. Next to him were several official-looking people she assumed to be the various Guildmasters presumably looking to recruit.

Malika quickly found a spot to one side and tried to ignore the disapproving glances of some of the nearby people. Surreptitiously she wiped the blood that was still slowly leaking from her nose on her ragged sleeve and tried to pass it off as a sneeze. And then she saw it. On display upon the table behind William Turner stood a two-foot-tall obelisk of polished stone. An artifact of obvious magical power. Its surface was polished to a gleaming smoothness and elegantly etched with runes. Malika surreptitiously used her Appraise skill on the artifact.

Shrine of the Second PathAn artifact of elvish construction. Offers class experience and an alternate class choice. Owner: William TurnerMana: Unlock class experienceMana: Unlock an alternate classOwner’s Mana: Recharge the shrine’s mana reserve. 5000/5000Created by Nathaniel Sunstrider.Quality: RareValue: SoulboundShrine – Artifact

No Value? That was a surprise – assessing value was the point of Appraise. But perhaps her skill wasn’t leveled high enough to tell, or perhaps it was because this was the first soulbound artifact she had ever seen.

Malika turned to focus on what the mayor was saying.

“I am glad to see so many of you taking your civic responsibilities seriously and stepping up to acquire a class. This is your first step to becoming a productive member of our town. I am aware of how much work it will take to complete your trial once I unlock your classes, so I want to thank you for your commitment and wish you all good luck in unlocking the best classes.”

The guard at the door, it seemed, was spot on; the mayor liked the sound of his own voice. Malika tuned him out again and, while he continued his speech, she scanned the crowd, quickly picking out her mark. Her information told her she would need two large silver pieces to pay for the use of the shrine. It was an unreasonably cheap price for a class initiation. She had heard that most towns and cities with access to a shrine charged more than a gold piece for the service – sometimes, far more. The underground rumor mill held that the mayor had defied the nobility to keep the prices down, but even with such a gesture, the price was still way out of reach for most of the poorer townsfolk – many of whom would be forced to accept whichever common class that fell to them by chance instead of having a choice.

Malika could not afford to leave this to chance.

Quickly, she slipped through the crowd, bumping into the elegantly dressed merchant who seemed to be the father of one of the applicants.

“Watch it!” he snapped at her.

“Sorry,” she mumbled, using her Pickpocket skill to deftly lift a small money pouch that he had tied to his belt, her Street Rat title making her actions just a little less obvious to those standing nearby. She had picked him because he seemed wealthy enough to have some money, but not rich or smart enough to secure his coins inside a magical storage item. Her gut wrenched at the necessary theft, and the irony of using her despised Pickpocket skill to try to avoid a Thief class was not lost on her. Retreating to the edge of the crowd with her loot, she worried once again that her actions may have tipped the balance of class selection irretrievably into the realm of thievery and a life of crime.

“If you are here seeking a crafter or merchant class, please step forward one at a time. Once I enable the shrine for you, simply channel your mana to unlock class experience. Then you may find your guild master or mentor,” the mayor said, indicating the masters standing behind him, “and you will be given the details for your respective experience trials.”

As the crowd milled about, trying to organize, Malika appraised her pilfered money pouch. By the weight and her skill, she could tell she would just barely be able to cover the price. But the heavy tension bearing down on her shoulders eased up a bit. As each non-combat candidate stepped up and placed their hand on the shrine, a brief flash of light illuminated the runes on the granite surface. One by one, they gathered into groups behind each guild master.

There are quite a few merchants and blacksmithing apprentices, she observed, wondering how hard their trials might be. But such was not the path for her.

Once the guild masters had their new charges organized, the mayor wished them good luck, and they all filed out of the Town Hall.

Returning his attention to the now much-reduced crowd, the mayor’s expression grew far more serious. “For the rest of you, acquiring a combat class carries an enormous risk. You must survive several fights against real monsters before you earn enough experience to gain your class. Most likely, some of you will not survive this trial.”

In the silence as he paused, Malika could easily hear the soft sounds of people breathing nearby.

“On the other hand, as you’re well aware, the benefits of a good combat class are exceptional. You will become strong, and Myrin’s Keep will grow with your strength. I will remain here for the rest of today; once you are notified that you have unlocked class choices, return and I will make the shrine available for you to select your class. I’m sure I do not need to remind you what a privilege and advantage it is to be able to choose your own class. The garrison is offering immediate positions for anyone choosing a military class, and Commander Gerald Brand will be present to advise you. Also, I should let you know that the newly formed Adventurers Guild is now accepting members under Guildmaster Vivian Ross. She will also be present at your class selection later, should you be interested.”

“Because of the necessary danger, I will only permit groups of at least five candidates to undertake the combat trial. If you do not have a pre-arranged group, please find others to group with now. You will need to rely on teamwork to ensure your mutual survival – even facing a level one monster unclassed is extremely dangerous.”

Immediately there was a hubbub and lots of shuffling around as people grouped up.

Here, then, was Malika’s greatest problem. What law-abiding citizen would willingly group up with a Street Rat? Her stomach churned as her eyes darted across the crowd, seeking people foolish or desperate enough to consider teaming up with a lowlife like her.

Most of the candidates already had friends and groups planned so the noise quietened down quickly before she could even take the initiative. Malika found herself ignored as usual – clearly, nobody wanted to associate with the obviously foreign refugee from the wrong side of the border. Just as she was mustering up the courage to step forward, two boys walked over.

A Beastkin and a Half-elf? The misfits and outcasts flock together, she thought. The non-humans were probably being avoided just like she was. She no longer had Identify, but their races were plain for anyone with eyeballs to see.

The Beastkin boy was broadly built, sporting a shock of reddish-brown hair and tannish skin. He was dressed in well-used leather armor and carried a short mace at his belt and moved with a confident power.

Bear? The word ‘hirsute’ seemed to have been made to describe him. Whatever his heritage, it was large, hairy, and very strong.

The Half-elf, on the other hand, had a lithe athletic build and carried a longbow. His unkempt white hair was worn long and loose, seemingly intended to disguise his characteristic pointed ears.

“Hey, I’m Mato, and this is Calen,” the large boy said. “How about we group up?” His direct and familiar manner put Malika immediately on guard, but she couldn’t afford to pass up this approach, she wasn’t exactly swimming in offers.

“Sure,” she answered, trying to keep her tone neutral. She was not particularly good at ‘friendly’ after all this time spent surviving in the dark alleys and criminal underworld of the town. But it didn’t look like the two of them had many people clamoring to take the trial with them either. Necessity really did make the oddest allies after all.

“Great,” he said, scanning the crowd. “Now we just need to find two more.”

“How about him?” Malika pointed to a tall boy with a sword and brand-new armor standing by himself, apparently not interested in finding a group. By his stance and posture, she could tell he had been trained. And his gear, well, it radiated quality and extreme value, making her Appraise skill quiver when she used it. Everything was enchanted. Everything? Malika thought, doing a double-take. Crap, how rich is this guy?

Mato grimaced. “Ugh, Donavan Asterford. Self-important jerk and bully. Anyone but him.” Malika was certain the two boys had had some rather turbulent history to warrant such a negative reaction. However, even she recognized the noble family name. She was not usually allowed into the noble district, but the name Asterford was synonymous with wealth and power in Myrin’s Keep.

From behind her, she heard a soft female voice say, “Can I join you guys?”

Malika turned and her heart jumped as she immediately recognized the Town Watch badge the girl displayed on her plain black cloak. She wore her brown hair cropped short and wore dark brown leather armor and two sheathed daggers at her waist. A pair of furry ears poked up out of her hair, and her catlike green eyes gleamed as she stalked over with a lithe feline grace.

It’s just a coincidence. They couldn’t have found me already. Malika tried to quiet her racing heart. I got this far, don’t let anything spoil this …

“I’m Tala,” she said when Mato introduced the rest of them.

Malika fervently hoped she was just trying to get a class like herself and wasn’t here to hunt her down on behalf of Adrik and Edrik. The Watch has new recruits too, they’re not all trying to get you, she thought, trying to reassure herself.

Mayor Turner looked across the room. “Donavan? Why don’t you join that group, and we can get started?” he said, pointing over at their group.

Donavan’s thin, angular face took on a haughty expression, which seemed like one he practiced. In front of a mirror. In a strident voice, he complained, “I won’t go with the Beastkin, he’s uncouth and boorish, I refuse. I’m fully capable of killing a few monsters on my own.”

With a sigh, the mayor responded, “You either group with them, or you can wait for the next class initiation. The council agreed to these rules, and I won’t break them. Not even for you.”

With a sneer, Donavan retorted, “Fine, but my father will hear of this.”

His arrogance was shocking, leaving a ripple of whispers through the crowd. He was speaking to the mayor after all, noble father notwithstanding.

But Donavan turned and stalked over to the group. “I guess you guys can join me,” he said. Glancing at Malika, he wrinkled his nose, “Who invited this beggar? Street Rat? She’s not even wearing any gear.”

Bristling, Mato interposed his bulky body between them, growling, “Are you looking for another fight, Donavan?”

Donavan just rolled his eyes and snapped, “Of course, Mato’s standing up for the strays again.”

Malika’s anger flared instantly. “I don’t need your pity. And I don’t need your protection!” she snapped at the two boys.

“Whatever,” Donavan retorted, “I’m the leader of this group, let’s go.” He strode off toward the mayor and the shrine without even a backward glance.

Malika swallowed her anger. I can’t afford to create a scene here, she chided herself, annoyed she had lost her temper. But Donavan was really creating a horrible first impression, his contempt rankled – and she certainly did not need a boy to fight her battles for her. After all, her experience in the alleyway this morning showed she could get beaten up just fine on her own. Great. What a perfect day.

Sharing wary glances with one another, the rest of the party followed Donavan, and Malika found herself walking beside Calen.

“Sorry about that.” His voice was both soft and gentle. “Mato used to stick up for me against Donavan’s bullying when we were younger, so there’s no love lost between them.”

To Malika’s surprise, she found only genuine sincerity and concern in his expression.

“Hopefully we can work well enough together today, and all get our classes,” he added.

Somehow, as if by magic, she felt all the shame, embarrassment, and anger dissolve in his straightforward honest gaze.

“Uh, sure … ok,” she managed. He seems way too nice for this crappy town, she thought. He must get taken advantage of a lot.

Malika stood alongside her new companions while each of them used the shrine. Once it was her turn, she dropped her stolen silver pieces on the table. Putting her hand on the cool granite surface, she sensed a resistance to her mana. The mayor did something, and suddenly the shrine accepted a small infusion of her mana, and she heard a chime sounding in her mind.

Class experience unlocked.

[Shrine of the Second Path] Once you have earned enough experience, a class will be offered based on your choices, abilities, and actions. You can unlock an additional class choice at the shrine.

With a sudden rush of excitement, she checked her status.

The blue-white glowing text appeared instantly, hovering there – a personal illusion conjured within her mind. It was, as always, invisible to everyone else unless she chose to share it, but she only ever did that when Adrik or Edrik threatened to kill her.

Everything was written there in those softly glowing words. Her commitment to her meditation and martial arts, and the thieving skills she had been forced to learn. Even her title, Street Rat.

There was one change, though, and her eyes were immediately drawn to the new ‘Class’ line – new since the alleyway – now unlocked and ready for her to earn experience.

Name: MalikaRace: HumanTitles: Street Rat

Class: [Unlocked]

