Why shouldn’t I leave? What’s keeping me here? Aside from my family, friends, and pets, I don’t give a shit about anyone else. Fuck Sanshu, fuck the province, fuck the Empire, and fuck this world. They deserve the Defiled, two sides of the same coin, murderous bastards one and all. Yuzhen can scream Martial Law all she wants, but does she really have the authority to conscript me? It’s so hypocritical, riding to save Sanshu immediately after consigning thousands to a needless, insensible death, going along with the atrocity like it’s a normal day at the office. Hell, maybe for her it is. Clock in, file papers, drink tea, order the death of thousands, break for lunch, and so on, same old shit on a brand new day.

My silent dissent (enforced under implied threat of death) is interrupted by a commotion outside the camp, Mafu waking to sniff the air and squeak with joy. Opening the tent flap, I follow Mafu out in my cotton pajamas, curious about the commotion. Only a small sliver of moonlight illuminates the night, more than enough to make my way through the camp. Ever since waking from my water-logged nap, my eyes have been sharper than ever, for distance and low-light. There’s no telescoping action or green tint, my eyes simply see with more clarity than before. Not sure if it’s thanks to Baledagh’s Defiled status or some passive chi thing, though I probably should find out, but I’ve been busy. Either way, it’s a useful little skill and so long as it works, then I’ll use it. Like I said, two sides of the same coin.

The cause of Mafu’s excitement becomes clear as we come across my retinue setting camp nearby, along with Huu and Fung’s people. Greeting familiar faces as I navigate through, I find Lin leaning on her well-dressed quin, yawning as she holds a bear cub in her arms. Smiling for the first time in days, I walk up and embrace her from behind, my little wifey melting in my arms. “Hiya.”

Her hair mussed from sweat and skin covered in dust, she’s still a sight for sore eyes. “Hi hubby. We rode all day so we could catch up with you. Miss me?”

“More than you know.” Arms still wrapped around her, I gently stroke the cub while Mafu extracts the other cub from the saddlebags. “Not that I’m complaining, but why are you here? We’re riding to battle, you should find somewhere safe and wait for me to come get you.”

“Silly Rainy, where would I go? Don’t forget, a Purge just took place and there are Defiled and Demons running around.” Her toothy smile shining bright beneath the moonlit sky, proud of her thinly veiled excuse. “It’s much safer here with you, this way you can protect me.”

My heart pangs in regret for all those people I couldn’t save. So many of them dying in such horrific manner while I stood and watched, too afraid of the consequences to help. “Your faith is misplaced Lin, I’m incapable of protecting anyone.” Making eye contact with the leader of her guards, I say, “Tomorrow, you will take Mei Lin and ride for the Bridge. I’ll send a few Sentinels to escort you.” Maybe all of them, after I talk to Mila, Huu, and Fung.

Ignoring Lin’s protests, I leave her with a kiss on the cheek and head towards Mila, chatting with one of Yuzehn’s aides. After greeting an over-enthused Aurie and an indifferent Li Song, Jimjam and Sarankho, Mila sends the aide away and strides over towards me, beaming with her hands behind her back as she waits for my praise.

Poor girl, Akanai’s methods have her starved for approval. “Thank you Mila, you’ve done an incredible job.”

“I know,” she replies, “In fact, I should take your Token for myself. I deserve it.”

“You do. You really do.” If only it worked that way.

The smile falls from her face as she senses something amiss, her small, delicate hand reaching for my own. “Is everything all right?”

Pulling her into a hug, I concentrate on my chi, putting my words in before transmitting it to her. It’s a little similar to talking with Baledagh while hiding my normal thoughts, which made it easy to learn. Sending without skin contact is much more difficult, some nonsense about locking onto the recipient and what not. “Try not to say too much, don’t know if we’re being watched. I need to know, on a scale of one to ten, with ten being treason, how bad would it be if we just... left in the morning? Packed up and went home?”

Pushing back from me, Mila’s eyes are filled with confusion and concern. “NINE?”

The sound of her voice explodes inside my head, like a gong going off in my ears. Hiding my wince, I ask, “When did you learn to Send?” Geez, and here I thought she’d be impressed by my new skill.

“NOT LONG, I’VE BEEN PRACTISING WITH TURSINAI BUT SHE SAYS I’M A LITTLE LOUD. SORRY.”

“Didn’t even notice.” My deadpan response earns me a punch on the arm, her pout in full force.

“WHEN DID YOU LEARN?”

“Err... this morning, Yuzhen showed me how.” Another punch. “Don’t be jealous. So leaving is out of the question?”

“YES. WHY DO YOU WANT TO LEAVE? THIS IS OUR CHANCE FOR GLORY, THE REASON WE CAME OUT HERE. DID SOMETHING HAPPEN? TALK TO ME...”

Shaking my head in answer, I pull her close for another hug, her arms squeezing tight around me. “Sorry, can’t talk about it.”

Guess I’m stuck fighting for a cause I don’t believe in. The Empire doesn’t deserve my help, my blood, my sacrifice, so they won’t get it. Fuck glory, let the Defiled and the Empire duke it out, I’ll hang out on the sidelines and pick off targets from range, ready to grab the easy win or run home if things go south.

Honestly, either way works for me.

Chapter Meme
