“Yes.” Ren said, and smiled at Andrela as she scrubbed his chest very thoroughly. Her face flushed red, because she was touching Ren and he was picking up nearly everything she was feeling. She stopped scrubbing and lifted her arms so he could wash her. Ren felt a wash of emotions as he lathered up his hands, then moved them towards Andrela's white skin. His hands touched her shoulders, and he felt fear, excitement, worry, joy, sadness, and several other emotions that he couldn't quite sort out from her.

Ren leaned close and smiled. “Can you turn around?”

Andrela nodded slightly, and turned around. He felt her disappointment, and then her shock when he stepped close to her and pressed his chest against her back. Her body stiffened for a brief moment, and she was sure he would apologize and back away; and she gasped when Ren reached around her and put his hands on her breasts and scrubbed them.

“By the gods.” Someone whispered as Ren gave Andrela a thorough massage and scrubbing. He could feel the feelings going through the shared Aura, about how much they were all enjoying Andrela's reactions; and then he asked Andrela to sit down. She did so without question; so, Ren lifted her legs and scrubbed them for her, and ended at her feet. When he was done, Andrela was more relaxed than he'd ever seen her, and her presence in the Aura had a calming effect.

“Me... me next.” Frikara said. “Please.”

Ren turned to look at her, and saw that none of them has finished washing each other. “You're right, Navruth.” He said and lathered his hands up to deal with the next customer. “This is going to take a while.”

“By the gods, I hope so.” Frikara said, then gasped when Ren's soap-covered hands caressed her breasts from behind, and she moaned in pleasure despite her serious attempt not to.

*

“What is he doing?” Lylyth the Queen of the Dark Elves asked.

“If I may?” The healer asked, and Lylyth nodded to her. The healer placed a hand on the side of Lylyth's head and closed her own eyes. “I'm only getting a trace of it.” She said. “He's giving pleasure to... one, two, three, four...” She smiled. “...five women at once.”

“He's WHAT?!?” Lylyth exclaimed. That little man? “Five women? Really?”

The healer nodded. “I'm surprised you can't feel them yourself.”

“So am I.” Lylyth said. “That's why I called you. Ever since my old abilities started to resurface, it's been getting harder and harder to read what's around him through the Mark.”

“What about him?” The healer asked. “Can you still feel his emotions?”

Lylyth nodded. “He has been coming through clearer the last few days.” She said. “What's wrong with me?”

The healer looked worried for a moment, then sighed. “Please don't kill me.”

“What do you mean?” Lylyth asked surprised.

“If I tell you this, I must beg for mercy.”

“Just tell me!” Lylyth said, angrily.

“You are...” The healer leaned forward slightly to whisper. “...becoming infatuated with him.”

“I am NOT!” Lylyth said loudly. “He is just another Marked Minion!”

“As you say, Your Highness.” The healer said and bowed deeply to her. “May I leave?”

“No!” Lylyth said. “Tell me why you think this!”

The healer swallowed loudly and her fear filled the room. “There comes a time in every elf's life when-”

“I AM NOT A CHILD!” Lylyth yelled, then concentrated on the healer's fear. She followed that emotion inside and ensnared her. “No stories. Tell me.”

“You are hunting.” The healer said, completely entranced and captured by her fear. “You will continue to hunt until you find what you are looking for.”

“What am I looking for?” Lylyth whispered, but she had finally guessed what the healer was going to say.

“Another chance.” The healer said, and passed out.
