“I’m really uncomfortable with the fact that it’s ahead of us instead of behind us, Zeridee.”

He’d been picturing the danger at his back, chasing him. And ahead of him—really, not that far away—there would be people, tall buildings, superheroes, battle groups…safety.

We could get cut off.

He walked the perimeter of the gallery, looking out in every direction, trying to understand what was happening out there in the dark.

“I think…”

He trailed off because he didn’t know what he thought. From up here, he could see another blocky multi-story building in the direction they needed to go in. Several minutes of his fastest carrying-an-adult-Artonan pace, by his reckoning.

I could do jog-rest-jog. Keep moving out of the evacuation zone, stop every time I hit a concrete building at least a few stories tall for a breather and head upstairs to check out the landscape.

Doing it that way sounded like some sort of plan.

I think it makes sense. I don’t want to get in a situation again where I’m down at street level with no idea what’s going on up ahead or behind me, so heading up high to do periodic checks is good. Don’t want to run toward a patch where all the lights have gone out, right?

The plan came with new worries.

If the power goes out everywhere I’m not going to be able to see anything.

What if the next building I aim for has a door like a bank vault?

What if the next time I try to talk to Zeridee, the blood loss finally gets her, and she faints?

“Yep,” he said aloud, deliberately ignoring his own inner questioner. “It’s a good plan. I think a short rest and regroup while I try to figure out what the noise and vibration is doing out there is the right choice. I’ll do something about my fucked up toes and try to fix the straps on this Canadian man’s sandals. Oh, and let’s find ourselves some light switches!”

Inspired by Instructor Klein’s technique on the bridge earlier, Alden had an idea to make the gallery lights flash an SOS by flicking a switch over and over. He was foiled by technological “advancement.” Instead of switches, there was only a lighting control panel accessed via the screen by the elevator.

“Listen, you dumb seal,” he said, poking the happy animal in the forehead. “You and I both know that there’s no reason to password protect the lights! You’re just afraid I’m going to get a good look at some of the freakier statues hiding in the shadows!”

He abandoned the project since it was cutting into his self-imposed “rest and regroup” plan and went to sit down.

The only seats in the room were translucent acrylic benches lining the windows on two sides. He took a corner one so that he could prop his back against the wall and still see out, facing in the direction he planned to head.

He spent a couple of minutes adjusting his shoes, fighting his way out of the poncho—because it was getting messed up anyway and he was hot—and getting himself situated on the bench in as comfortable a position as he could find with a whole other person resting on him.

“Okay,” he said at last. “I’ve got to be totally honest, Zeridee. I wish you weren’t hurt, but I’m glad you can’t see me now.”

Playing a game of “the floor is lava for the person I’m holding” while he tried to adjust his clothing and take care of his own injured foot was inelegant to say the least.

Now I sit here and I watch and I make decisions. Calmly.

Yeah, right.

He was already fidgeting even though he was finally getting the chance to sit, just because not running felt wrong.

The roaring seemed to have diminished. He stared out, trying to watch for changes in the cityscape.

People are up ahead.

The lights of downtown Apex were there, curving around the crescent, so close and so far at the same time. He hoped the guys were all right.

They’re definitely more all right than me.

He pulled his attention back toward nearer destinations. The building he’d mentally marked as his next stopping point was in view.

We’ll aim for it when we leave. I could take the stimulant injector there.

The label warned there was a possibility of sudden onset tiredness after it wore off, and he was leery about using it until he was just a little more sure that salvation was within reach.

For a while longer, he stared out, hoping to spot signs of life, signs of danger, and signs telling him where help might be.

“I wanted this place to keep me safe.”

He shifted Zeridee’s weight. The way he’d positioned her was making one of his legs go numb.

“Anesidora, I mean. That’s not all I wanted from it, but it’s probably the main thing. Chaos is supposed to stay out there, with you Artonans. It’s not supposed to chase me to Earth.”

Matadero was supposed to be nothing—a blip that happened, and then he would hear about it on the news and forget it again. Like it had been every year of his life up until tonight.

“I would like to file a complaint with the ambassador. As an Avowed, I expect safe and comfortable living conditions when I’m off-duty. It’s only fair. The demon cube should be moved to whatever place on Earth is as far from Anesidora as possible. So you guys just pull some wizards together, act all mighty like you did when you showed up eighty years ago, and tell the rest of the planet you’re going to plonk it down somewhere else.

“And if the cube can’t be moved, you can plonk whatever’s left of this place elsewhere instead.”

He watched the dark place up ahead, wondering.

“Hey,” he said finally. “You weren’t about to tell me to put you down, were you? Before I preserved you again. It sounded a little like you were.”

He looked at the top of her head.

“Don’t do that to me, Zeridee. I know we only just met, but you’re…”

She was kind. She’d been left behind at least partially for his sake. She was the sort of person who fretted over the safety of her human neighbors, and she’d thrown her broken body at an Avowed who had tried to murder Alden.

And she’d killed him.

“You remind me too much of too many people who have been important in my life. Pieces of each of them.”

Kibby, Hannah, Arjun Thomas, Thenn-ar.

If she asks me to put her down, and she seems to be having a lucid moment, I guess I have to do it.

But then what happens to us?

“Please don’t ask. It’s really not heroic of me,” said Alden. “You’ve made me care about you just that fast. I still see ways for us both to get out of this together, and as long as I see them, I don’t want to find out what it feels like to leave you behind. That’s all.”

******

Back downstairs, Alden gave himself a last minute pep talk while he drank from a water cooler near the elevator.

I’m up for a jog to get to the next building. Move forward steadily. If I think it’s about to get really dangerous, and I’m three quarters of the way there, I’ll keep going. If I haven’t made it that far, I’ll turn back.

He’d decided three quarters of the distance should be his cut-off instead of half, since he didn’t know what the exact situation with the other building would be. It might take him a few minutes to get inside, or he might discover it was impossible to break in and have to haul ass toward the next best thing.

This place had the advantage of being a known quantity. One with a door he’d already broken.

He refilled his paper cup again, and the cooler released one giant blub as water poured from the tap.

He drank, crushed the cup, and dropped it into the trash.

He felt ready to move. He’d already washed the blood off his hands. Zeridee was slung across his back now, her braid wrapped around his chest and shoulders.

All right. Let’s go. This isn’t a Thegund-level tribulation. Just a bad night. It doesn’t matter whether the System’s answering me or not. I’m getting us both to safety within the hour.

Determined, driven, and focused on the journey ahead, he headed for the exit.

And froze at the sight of a pale-skinned, dark-haired man wearing nothing but a bright red swim brief.

His back was to Alden, and he was pulling open the puzzle door. He stepped out into the night. As the door swung shut, Alden saw him throw his arms out and stand on his bare tiptoes, head tipped back for a big inhale.

“This is your night, Liam!” he shouted to the street. “This your time! Become more than—”

The door closed, cutting off the man’s voice.

The damaged lock clicked a few times.

******
