"But still so utterly far," Cripple replied, cutting his former companion low with a rageful snarl. "Can you recall how you reached the gate the first time? Because I cannot. Only with a proper guide and through our combined skills and experiences did we survive the depths. Was your original intent to dispatch your favorite son alone? How cruel of you, Thaen, to condemn him to an unnecessary and pitiful death with such a choice."

"What do you mean?" Shiv asked, wanting to know just what it takes to reach the Great One. "Do you need to fight through something? Do you need to survive some kind of challenge or calamity? The Dragon-Knights say there are ruptures near the Great One all the time in the depths. Mana storms, primal gates, and all that. But humans have survived all those things before. Is it really that bad?"

"It is worse than you can possibly fathom," Cripple declared. "It is beyond what you can fathom."

"There is no direct path to the Great One," Valor added. His expression twisted. "The fundamental rules of reality, as well as those imposed by the System, crumble and dissolve in their wake. A single misstep or a mistaken thought in their proximity can see you unmade. The Great One is a god beyond gods. And even dead, they still dream, and to be noticed within their dreams is to court something worse than death."

Maia’s lip curled in disgust. "And worse yet, these two fools will be as if blaring sirens and burning airships dancing over the slumbering god. It remains dead, as Valor has said, but that does not mean it can not partially awaken. If it does, the consequences would be beyond severe. The Great One will realize that something has intruded on its soul, that someone has siphoned its mana to serve their own ends, that hostile entities are usurping and leeching from its legend. What will follow, then, is rejection of the highest form, followed by spiritual reformation. And that is assuming it can even manage that. It remains broken, and if the worst comes to pass and the Great One returns to life a shattered, insane thing, that might prove the end of this world and all Integrated worlds in its proximity. We cannot wander blindly into the embrace of the Great One. The only way to achieve true and proper severance is through you, Deathless. What is dead may yet be reborn. What is broken can be birthed as a proper whole."

"Great. Just what I wanted to be, a resurrection incubator." Shiv rubbed at his face in exhaustion. "But we might have a problem there too, Educator. If you hadn't noticed, I failed to resurrect someone I actually care about and who died just recently. And no offense to the rest of you, but I don't really give nearly as much a shit about the Great One as I do about Georges." His following admission was quiet and weak. "And even though I tried, I still couldn't bring him back. I just couldn't."

For once, Maia didn't reply with scorn or anger, but gentleness. "It is alright, boy. There is much about you that remains undiscovered. But you could resurrect someone. You have resurrected someone. Lady Van Erren is proof. She is a testament. We are not dealing with a theoretical or an impossibility. It has been done. We simply need to learn or to teach you how you can do it again. And we will help."

"We," Shiv said. "You and Udraal. Not sure how much I want his help. He gave the Tarrasque to the Frost Giants. We're still going to have to deal with that shit."

"Udraal did WHAT?" Cripple nearly shrieked. It seemed the Educator had let it catch that last bit.

"Ah, right." Shiv turned. "Udraal gave the Undying Tarrasque—the one that you and the other Auroral dipshits were supposed to put down, the one that you decided to kick over to the South so that it would shit all over someone else's nation and ruin someone else's day—to the Frost Giants. And now it's coming back down, and it's going to be your problem again because you didn't solve it beforehand. You tell Veronica that she's a dumb fucking idiot for that, by the way."

"This…" Cripple turned its massive slab of right arm into a clenched fist. "This cannot be allowed. It cannot." In an instant, its incandescence vanished around Radio, and the small automaton let out a shrill beep as it promptly collapsed on the ground. For a second, it just lay there, Cripple no longer present to power its locomotion.

"Radio?" Shiv asked, nudging it with a foot. "You alright?"

"No," the bot squeaked. "Feels like someone ripped my power core right out through my back end."

Shiv sighed. "Where'd Cripple go?"

"I think it jumped to one of its other Avatars, probably to go yell at Councilwoman Chandler or something."

"Yeah, I'm sure that'll be useful." Shiv scowled. He didn't see Cripple convincing Veronica of her error. Instead, he saw that being the other way around. He saw the Councilwoman bludgeoning the mentally fragile Ascendant into submission with her Rhetoric, and maintaining her position without suffering any penalties. Shiv would have to give her a piece of his mind later. He didn't expect that to do anything either, but someone should call her a fucking bitch out of principle, and it might as well be him.

"That's another thing we have to handle: Frost Giant invasion." Shiv shrugged. "Nothing for it. Suppose once I get a chance, I'm going to go take a look at what's waiting for us up north."

The Educator's eyes widened. "You intend to intervene on behalf of the Republic? Why? Let this be their war, their distraction. We should use it to our advantage—"

"No," Shiv said softly. He didn't want to argue with her. He wanted his point to be known, however. "This is not their war. This is everyone's war. That Tarrasque needs to die. The World Quest exists for a reason. And if the Ascendants and the Councilwoman don't want to clean up this mess, then I'm going to. Someone needs to kill that damn creature. It might as well be me. It's made from my Vitae. And this is what Udraal probably wants me to do anyway. To keep fighting and killing and getting stronger. To evolve more of my skills and to see if I manage to resurrect someone that way. Or, if I manage to shit out Adam's unborn sister through another evolution at some point. You tell me I'm wrong."

Maia hesitated. "You are not. However, it's not wise to rush into this fight. The Court of the Shattered Moon is not known to be sensible. If they can gain the advantage through killing you, they will. And the rewards that come with your death are enticing indeed."

"Yeah, well, I guess my solution is getting too hard for them to kill."

Valor hummed as he took in all that information. "I think I agree with the both of you."

"What?" Shiv said, not understanding the ancient Pathbearer. "What do you mean you agree with both of us? You want me to fight the Tarrasque while also leaving the Frost Giants for the Republic?"

"No, it is unwise to rush this fight, but this war is ours to finish before it even begins. Besides, the north offers unique training opportunities for all of you. It will take time for the Frost Giants to muster their forces. And we can extend that time when we strike at them strategically. Yes, I think we can take advantage of this war to break up the monotony of our routine and other tasks. Yes. This will be a most useful training indeed. It is almost equal in opportunity to claiming the Tarrasque’s head and reaping the bounty of skills that come with it."

Shiv blinked. Valor was talking about a war with the North like someone would a planned trip to the local pub.

The lich suddenly clicked his tongue. “Actually, I recall there to be ancient pre-System ruins nearby. Is that right, Shiv?”

Shiv stared at Valor, unsure where this was going. “Yeah. Not that far away from the Abyssal gateway. Why?”

“Let’s take an excursion. You. Me. Adam. Can Hu. And Uva. Let us see if my suspicions are correct—why these ruins have remained ruins all this time.”

“Radiation,” Adam breathed. “You’re looking for something that’s beyond the System’s reach. Some that mana can’t seep into.”

“Ah,” Valor said, smiling. “Then you already have some idea as to what I intend.”
