“Bad Jimu! You shitty cat, I'll cook you in a fucking stew!”  With a meaty pork bone clamped between his jaws, the feline bandit leaps gracefully out the window, stopping to glance back at me in smug victory. I blame the twins, they're always feeding that fatty, giggling when I attempt to scold them. I have no power over them and they know it, those little terrors getting away with everything they can. Alsantset was the disciplinarian, and Charok is mostly content to let kids be kids, leaving me to fill in as bad cop, a job I'm ill-suited for. A single pout from either of them is enough to break my heart, and they're old enough to know how to take advantage.  Slamming the shutters closed, I return to cooking breakfast in the dimly lit kitchen, muttering obscenities beneath my breath. Cat doesn't taste very good but I'm harbouring thoughts of cat hot-pot every day, if only to relieve my financial burdens. I should have kept more money instead of giving it all to Akanai, over a thousand gold packed neatly in a compact case. In a few short months, those tiny, adorable kittens have grown into hulking beasts, 200 kilgrams of fangs and muscle with plenty of growing still to be done. Keeping them well fed is a full-time job, but with so many other things for me to do, I've resorted to outsourcing their meals, burning through all my coin. If not for Mila and Li Song adopting one and easing my workload, I would have gone broke feeding these stupid cats. Huu is a smarter man than I, choosing coin over these bottomless pits of debt and suffering.  A snorting chuff draws my attention as Auric rubs his head against my leg, eyes wide as he begs for a treat. Helpless against his charms, I toss a bone out the kitchen and he pounces after it with a happy yowl. Named for his golden fur, Auric still prefers to sleep snuggled against me while Jimu has his own place in the quin stables, getting along fabulously with the pups who are close in size. Pafu and Suret are teaching the pups how to hunt, unlike the worthless thief and beggar cat duo who play around all day, napping wherever they please.  Once breakfast is almost ready, I make my way to the twins' room, walking in and waking them gently, grinning from ear to ear at their sleepy faces. “Good morning my little sweetlings, how are you today?”  “Morning Rainy.” Tate rushes out the room as soon as he's dressed, full of energy and calling for the cats, who react accordingly and ignore him. Tali is more subdued, leaning sleepily against me as I dress her and insisting I carry her to the dining room. Tate joins us shortly, followed by a train of cats and quins as they settle around the table, hoping for scraps as they lick their lips, fangs protruding as their mouths hang open, panting in anticipation. One pup rests his head on my thigh while Auric takes the other thigh, both staring up at me as I eat. It was cute when they were tiny, but their heads now weigh about 30-40 kilos a piece, their begging ways cutting off blood circulation.  After a simple breakfast of salted pork bone congee and fried dough fritters, the three of us walk hand in hand to the training grounds, followed by our menagerie of pets. Everyone we pass stops to greet us, most trying to make inane conversation about the weather or their gardens or some other boring topic. All the social niceties are starting to get to me and if it wasn't for the twins, I'd choose to live on the outskirts like Taduk, avoiding all the small talk and obligations that come with living in a small community. It's mentally exhausting.  Waving goodbye as Tali and Tate run off to join their friends, my heart clenches in a moment of grief. They grow up so fast, already learning the Forms, firing arrows and practicing meditation, all the skills necessary to survive in this harsh and bloody world. I had hoped Auric and Jimu would be their lifelong companions, but watching the two stupid cats lick themselves without concern as the twins run off, those dreams are fading fast. The two wildcats lack the pack mentality, independent creatures that prefer to lead solitary lives.  This is why dogs are better.  Wrenching myself away from the training grounds, I herd the animals towards the edge of the village, vacantly smiling at the incessant greetings as I prepare for the arduous day ahead. Within minutes, I am joined by a steady stream of the damned, former soldiers turned Sentinel trainees, their posture defeated and docile as we march towards our grim fate. A bleak atmosphere greets us as we arrive at the temporary barracks, the trainees shuffling off to queue up for breakfast while I stand around looking suitably imposing, eavesdropping on the conversations around me.  Behind a table, Bulat stands listlessly, filling bowls with rice as his mother Maira browbeats him into submission. “Stand up straight boy, yer a soldier, act like one. You work hard out there, you hear? We've plenty to be grateful for, so don't you dare disappoint our benefactors.” Grabbing his face with one hand, she twists his head to look straight at her. “Answer me when I'm talkin' to you boy.”  His hangdog expression is almost comical as he answers, the very picture of a dutiful and suffering son. “Yes Ma, Bulat will do his best.”  “You just look to Gerel, do as he do. Now there's a proper soldier, always polite and straight-backed, handsome too.”  “Yes Ma, just like Senior Captain Gerel, a hero among men, tiger among sheep.” Poor guy, he seemed happier as a cripple with no future. No wonder he joined the army.  Brushing off his collar, her hands leave trails of flour behind on his leather armour. “None of your lip boy. I met a proper lass, a village girl named Dei An over there by the meat buns. Smile, boy, are you daft? Pretty as a flower ain't she? Loves to cook and sew, you go speak with her when you've a chance now. The least you could do is leave me some grandchildren to raise a'fore you go gallavantin' across the Empire .”  Bulat's eyes show plenty of interest while he studies Dei An, giving her a tiny wave as she smiles back at him, a lovely young woman in the prime of her life. “Yes Ma, plenty o' grandchildren.” I'm surprised he isn't drooling. Is that how I look when I stare at women?  “Come now Maira, the boy has plenty to do before the day is over, allow him a moment of peace.” Dagen claps his hand down on my shoulder, grinning wickedly as he towers beside me. “He's working for a harsh taskmaster, demanding and inhumane in his training. Besides, you're far too young to be a grandmother, still a young lass yourself.” He strokes her face tenderly, eliciting a girlish smile as she shyly bats him away, the two of them flirting in plain sight to Bulat's obvious dismay.  As the older couple walks away arm in arm, my heart lifts a little, happy to see Dagen find love again. We never talked about what I saw in his head, but I think being able to say goodbye to his family was therapeutic for him, even if it was only imagined. They struck up a budding romance on the journey from Shen Huo, full of danger from bandits and wild creatures, a whirlwind courtship that still burned bright.  At the appointed time, I give the order to start, shivering from the cold as I remove my shirt and steel myself. Bulat and Rustram line up on either side of me, striking me enthusiastically with wooden rods, working me over without mercy. The dull, heavy sound of wood on flesh fills the air as the trainees mirror our actions, a bloodied and bruised band of warriors taking turns to inflict harm on one another, strengthening our bones and muscles as we reforge our bodies. The trainees not a part of my squad are at a disadvantage, needing to work harder to heal without my methods, but it's good practice for them. While they aren't able to regenerate limbs, they might learn to treat their life-threatening injuries long enough to reach a proper healer.  Once my body is thoroughly tenderized, I circulate my chi to begin the healing process, stimulating the growth of Panacea throughout my bones as I march around, repeating my daily adages in an oft-repeated sermon for all. “Know the burdens that each of us carry: Mediocrity. Inferiority. Ordinary. If I called you second-rate then no one in the world would ever be third-rate.” Taking the rod from Pran, I lay into Saluk with a powerful, two-handed strike, staggering the large half-bull and earning a look of anger as I wind up for a second strike. “To go easy on your comrades is to sentence them to death. Suffer today so that you may survive tomorrow. Endure, that is your mission, your goal, your duty. Pain is fleeting, embrace it, because it means you are still alive. Only in death will you find peace.”  This is all Gerel's fault, he's the one who suggested this training after asking me about my thought process behind it. The only thing keeping the camp from rioting is the fact that Gerel takes more abuse than any three men combined. A grim, almost fanatical tyrant of a man, Gerel is brilliant and talented, picking up my healing method without difficulty and dealing a massive blow to my pride, regenerating his entire arm in under a month. Some people are just born lucky.  Moving on, we begin demonstrating the Forms as our bodies heal, veteran Sentinels wandering through the ranks, offering guidance and corrections as they see fit. Gerel stops in front of me to study my movements, stopping me after a moment. “Deer Form: Parting the Underbrush. You can be aggressive or gentle, slow or speedy, but you cannot be half-hearted. Once you begin, you are committed and must follow through, else you will be left off-balance, open, and vulnerable.” A quarter-circle sweeping motion, he demonstrates the Form several times, one-armed, both armed, a leg sweep and a shoulder sweep, all different variations of the same basic motion. After watching me repeat his movements, he nods in taciturn approval and proceeds to help Rustram with his sword Forms.  After three hours of the Forms, the trainees are panting with exertion as we move onto archery practice. Even among all these rookies I'm far from the best shot, which is a little embarrassing considering most never held a bow before arriving at the village. Ravil in particular is a great shot, wielding his double-recurve bow with grace and accuracy from atop his quin, Jinx. Rustram also has some skill, and a few former hunters are also capable, but overall, the level of accuracy is rather low, if not outright terrible. If things continue in this manner, I'll be leading a squad of meat shields, the worst possible outcome. Ensure your favorite authors get the support they deserve. Read this novel on Royal Road. After a break for lunch, we move on to our daily sparring. Armed with a practice shield and sword, I wave Pran and Saluk over. “Let's go, I know you two are itching for payback. Let's see if you have what it takes.” Unable to hide their grins, the two lumbering brothers circle me slowly, separating as they twirl their padded sabers.  Launching myself at Saluk with my shield raised, I punch viciously, connecting with his saber. My massive opponent staggers back at the impact, taken by surprise. Whipping around, I execute Parting the Underbrush, smashing aside Pran's descending weapon. Punching him twice with my shield, he reels back as my boot hammers into his gut, sending him to his knees. Spinning away from Saluk's heavy chop, I angle my shield so his weapon goes wide, causing him to overextend. A single punch to the jaw is enough to disorient him, and my sword taps roughly against the side of his neck, inducing a choked cough and signal of submission.  Shaking my head in disapproval, I step back to give them time to recover. “You need to work harder and smarter. Give flesh and break bone, but that doesn't mean you can leave yourself open and vulnerable. Again.” Our second round ends as quickly as the first, both nursing fresh bruises while I try not to sympathize with their plight as they kneel in the grass, glaring ferociously at me. “Again.”  I've become just like Akanai, but I gotta say, it's much better being on this end of the exchange.  After several more rounds, Pran and Saluk's lay prone upon the ground, their chests heaving, braided ques in disarray, and faces bloodied. My eyes sift through the observers, sensing their fear and awe, taking no pleasure in this. If they're this weak, what good are they? They need to improve before time runs out or I'll be the one beaten and bruised once Akanai gets her hands on me. “You two, go heal your injuries, but try to keep watching. Rustram, Bulat, Ravil, your turn.” They're not the only ones who need to improve.  After a few rounds with the three of them, a deep, friendly voice calls out, chortling as he speaks. “Let those soldiers rest awhile boyo, my hands are itching after seeing you fight.” Major Vichear ambles over, the colossal, bear-eared officer towering above me as he grins from inside his helmet, sword and shield raised in challenge. “Come, your skills will rust if you only spar with those weaker than you. Let us show them a fair match between true warriors.” Smiling at the compliment, I nod once, relishing the prospect of a challenge.  The three unfortunates crawl away, clearing the space for me and Vichear as I mirror his stance, shield in front and sword raised, circling him as I search for an opening. Exhale. Focus. Show intent and blood thirst. I will chop at your right shoulder. Vichear reacts to my feint, shifting his sword to block and I dart forward, my chop transforming into a thrust. A quick hit against his shield and I fall back, his sword whistling through the air before me. Reengaging, a second thrust probes his defenses, almost slipping through.  I continue darting about, dashing in to strike before leaping back, avoiding a head on clash. More than 200 kilos heavier, with almost