 a meter difference in height and twice my girth, he makes for a physically intimidating opponent, the sheer size difference enough to overpower me with ease. I've grown taller in the last year, so maybe I'll be able to overcome that advantage given enough time. I'm only asking for half a meter more in height before I finish growing, not too much. I turned 18 a few months ago, so I have plenty of time, right?  ...  An abrupt shield charge from Vichear takes me off guard, and I leap back to avoid being thrown to the ground by the impact, landing neatly almost two meters away. Diving under his diagonal slash, I roll past him, avoiding an errant kick powerful enough to uproot tree stumps. Slashing at his knee, the impact barely shifts his meaty leg as he turns to meet my attack with a powerful chop. Raising my shield, I falter beneath the forceful blow as he seizes the upper hand. His sword and shield alternate in a storm of attacks, each strike raising an ear-splitting crash as I stumble backwards, desperately blocking, my jaw clenched as my bones reverberate with every impact.  A wild swing catches me on the shoulder, sending me tumbling head over heels through the flattened grass and dirt. Disoriented, I struggle quickly to my feet, spinning quickly to find my opponent and balance. After a few spine-tingling seconds, the world stops spinning and I see Vichear standing still, his sword resting point first in the ground as he patiently waits for me to regain my bearings. Opening my mouth wide in an effort to end the ringing in my ears, I blink several times, trying to clear my thoughts and come up with a plan to defeat this Goliath.  “Let me take over brother, I cannot promise victory, but I can put up a better defense.”  Inwardly shaking my head, I answer him silently. “No, I need the practice. I can't rely on you for everything, I gotta pull my own weight around here.”  “As you wish brother.” Other me has been surprisingly compliant lately, more laid back and easy-going ever since his month-long nap. He's still pretty bloodthirsty, but no more than a normal Sentinel, without a single rant about doom or dismemberment. I think leaving him toys to play with helps, mostly cards and board games created in my mental space, giving him something to do in his spare time. He also loves to play mahjong, and I let him take over to play whenever I get the chance. He's not so bad anymore, and I actually like having him around, like an intangible little brother to play games with.  Taking time to adjust my breathing, I focus on the match at hand, choosing a plan of action before nodding at Vichear. With his deep belly laugh, a hearty chuckle that compels you to laugh with him, he lifts his sword and waves me forward. “Come boyo, I know you can do better than this, don't you be scared of hurting old Vichy.” Smacking his armoured belly, he snorts loudly over the racket. “You need a few more years yet before you can put a dent in this mountain of fat.”  Smiling silently, I take a single step back and ready myself to burst into action. Focusing all my weight on my left foot, I begin to perform Balance on Windy Leaf, leaning forward to begin my charge. My strength explodes, travelling down my leg and through my calf, a cloud of dirt flaring from behind my foot as I execute Bull Form: Scraping the Ground. My body surges forward in a single bound, appearing instantly in front of Vichear as my sword thrusts towards his midsection, completing the new attack with Pierce the Horizon. A three form combination charge, the next level in my most powerful attack, the culmination of months of practice after drawing insight from my match against Ouyang Yu Jin.  The world seems to move in slow motion as Vichear contorts his body, spinning gracefully as if weightless, twirling through the air and batting my sword aside. My admiration is cut short as my face crashes into his elbow, and like a puppet with its strings cut, I collapse to the dirt. The world spinning once again, I try to make sense of what just happened, staring without seeing, the warm, coppery taste of blood filling my mouth.  Welp... There goes months of practice. Back to the drawing board.  Vichear's smiling, dark-skinned face peers down at me, his teeth gleaming white. “Damn boyo, you gave me a fright there, smashed yourself right into me. Fast little bugger, aren't you? Guess I was wrong, you've plenty of power in them spindly legs.”  “Fuck you man.” My voice is slurred and drowsy, my head struggling to lift itself. “You... you phony! How are you so agile? You're big and fat, you should be slow and clumsy, it's not fair...” Too OP, nerf Bears please.  Lifting me by the vest with a meaty palm, he sets me gingerly on my feet before clapping me on the back, laughing heartily, taking no offense at my words. “Impressive eh? Dance lessons, that's my secret. I joined for a woman, but who would have known? Soon after my debut opera performance, I killed my first Demon while out on routine patrol. They don't call it a sword dance for nothing.” Belting out a few notes in a beautiful baritone, he guides my unsteady steps over to the shade, sitting me down and patting my back as I cradle my face, fighting the urge to vomit. “Good show out there, you fix up that dent in your face and come back for another round when you're good and ready.”  This is my life now, beating up trainees and being beaten in turn, a vicious cycle. Lamenting my fate and complaining to Other me, I heal my fracture bones while I rest my eyes, the months of built up fatigue weighing heavily on me. The six month time limit is coming to an end soon and I can only pray that my squad makes the cut, the imagined punishment enough to send a shiver down my spine. Seeing Tate and Tali enthusiastically practicing their martial skills scares me even more, the thought of those two darlings falling to the Defiled a recurring nightmare, sprinkled with tiny bones and terrifying screams in the backdrop of our ruined village. I need to be stronger, strong enough to protect them from the Defiled, the Society, wild animals and everything else this shit hole of a world has in store.  Maybe the trainees will hate me for pushing them this hard, but I'm doing what needs to be done. I miss being one of the guys and hanging out with them, gambling and dicing, talking about women and life. Now, they all grow hushed and wide-eyed whenever I'm around, saluting and bowing despite my protests. It's almost as exhausting as making small talk.  “Enough rest. Stand.” Gerel's firm tone brooks no argument and I leap to obey, the reflex literally beaten into me. As much as I idolize the man, easygoing is not a word I would use to describe him. He makes Akanai seem rational at times, willing to dole out physical punishment at the slightest infraction, likely with orders to whip me into shape. Standing before me with his massive glaive held to one side, he looks down at me, a bald, amber-eyed god of war, scornful of my weakness. “We spar.”  Sigh... Only now do I understand, life and tribulation are truly one and the same.
