Stifling a sigh, Nian Zu stepped in to pull Gerel back, and to his surprise, the man only resisted a little. Facing the Southern Warrior, Nian Zu drew himself up to his full height and said, “I have spent my life in service to the Empire, but I have never married, nor have I sired any children. Would you claim that I have failed my ‘holy duty’?”

“This one would not dare.” Though his words were deferential due to their difference in rank, Nanda’s attitude was anything but. “A shame though, for the son of Situ Nian Zu would be a formidable talent indeed. A tiger father will not beget a dog son, but there will come a day when the old tiger can hunt no longer.”

Impudent bastard...

“Come now, let bygones be bygones.” Interjecting himself into the conversation with a long sip of tea, Shuai Jiao offered a solemn smile that lacked any and all warmth. “As Colonel General Nanda said, he meant no offence. It is merely a difference in perspective, one we must look past if we are to unite in harmony. Is that not what the Legate always says?”

“Of course,” Yuzhen purred, stepping in before Nian Zu could even consider doing anything unwise. “No offence taken. It is true, I cannot bear children, but just as I was raised by a father unrelated by blood, I mean to adopt an orphan to raise as my child once matters have settled down here.” Turning to Nian Zu, she smiled sweetly in a manner that was anything but and added, “And you sir... how could anyone accuse you of failing your duty for not siring a child of your own? Why even Commander General Shuai Jiao has no heirs to speak of, and General Nanda surely holds you both in the highest regards.”

A clever rejoinder, pointing out that even though Central and South might have allied against the North in this political struggle for power, there would eventually come a time when they would clash as well. There was more nuance to the conversation as well, including her outright refusal to call Nanda ‘Colonel General’, but that was about all that Nian Zu picked up on. The girl exchanged a few more words with the Commander General before withdrawing from their company, bringing Gerel and Nian Zu along with her. There was nothing else to be said, nothing of note at least, for even though Rain was working tirelessly to unite the provinces together, the absence of pressure from the lacking Defiled offensive was proving detrimental to his cause.

Strange to think that the second greatest threat to the Empire came from within, but such was the nature of power. Du Yi once said that those who sought power were not deserving of it, and those deserving did not seek it. A wise man he was, and Nian Zu was lost without him, but as he followed Yuzhen away and watched her scheme her schemes, he was reminded that he had yet another memento to remember Du Yi by.

For Yuzhen was Du Yi’s daughter in every way that counted, and though Nian Zu would never presume to call himself her father, he was Du Yi’s husband in heart and in spirit, if not in fact. He didn’t need a ceremonial vow and validation from an audience to know that he and Du Yi had loved one another dearly, a thought which eased away a heavy burden Nian Zu didn’t even know he’d been carrying. His steps steady and spirits light, Nian Zu took a deep breath and let go of all his lingering sorrow, for all it did was darken the happy memories he still had.

They lived, they loved, and they made merry together for many decades before Du Yi’s passing, and for Nian Zu, this much was enough. Now it was time to let go of the past and look forward to the future, perhaps even playing the part of doting grandfather to Yuzhen’s future child. Grandfather Nian Zu, now there was a title he never expected to bear, and a significant one at that, but when he imagined what it would be like, he could not help but smile.

Such was life, trials and tribulations, but not without reprieve or reward.

Chapter Meme
