Were they alone, Nian Zu would’ve quietly pretended not to notice the bizarre couple’s antics, but alas, there were too many other people present to feign ignorance. Southern Marshal Quyen Huong’s repeated scoffs were clearly meant to convey his disdain for Yuzhen’s company, but Nanda Bayin, the chosen successor to the rank of Colonel General sat in between the Southern and Northern Marshals, was either feigning ignorance or so captivated by Yuzhen’s beauty that he had yet to notice his superior’s subtle derision. Likely the latter, given how Quyen Huong hand picked this lustful toad to fill the void left by Tiger Slayer Tran Hoang’s untimely death, which was against everything the rank of Colonel General was meant to represent. Marshals were not supposed to appoint their Colonel Generals, because while civil officers worked hand in hand with military command, there were many aspects to their relationship that were antagonistic in nature. This was the reason why Marshals held the authority to grant any military rank to anyone they pleased short of Colonel Generals, who could only be appointed by the Emperor Himself. Granted, the Marshals usually had some say in the nomination process, but their word held less weight than that of a Lieutenant and Major Generals.

In fact, to avoid the appearance of favouritism and curry favour with his Society backers, Du Yi had vocally opposed Nian Zu’s promotion to Colonel General all those years ago, but his loyal comrades had rallied around him and the Emperor saw fit to grant him the highest rank in all the lands.

Or at least it had been the highest, until Shuai Jiao appointed himself as Commander General and expected both the North and South to fall in line. Seated on Nian Zu’s left, the ascetic Warrior was dressed in his customary brown robes, so plain and unappealing when paired with his bald, mottled head, rugged, weather-worn features, and darker, earth-toned complexion. At first glance, the Commander General almost appeared out of place amidst such esteemed company, handily out-dressed by Marshal Yo Jeong-Hun sitting on his far side, who was garbed in a flowing robe festooned with enough feathers to make Rain’s laughing birds give the man and his shiny jewellery a wide berth. Though drastically different in appearance, these two men were birds of a feather, voracious political animals who would do almost anything to come out on top. Shuai Jiao favoured the neutral approach, taking no sides and playing his enemies against one another, while Marshal Yo was more direct in his meddling, often backing a weaker competitor in order to waste the strength of a more superior foe. On the surface, it appeared as if both men were like oil and water, but Yuzhen saw through their deception long ago and warned Nian Zu not to cross either one, for their relationship was more akin to oil and fire.

“They are much like you and Dad,” Yuzhen had explained, a statement which had given him the entirely wrong idea at first. “Their relationship appears confrontational on the surface, but dig a little deeper and you’ll discover that one has never made a move that proved detrimental to the other. Jeong-Hun plays the part of fire starter, igniting conflicts where tensions already existed and prompting all parties involved to waste the resources and reveal their strength, only for Shuai Jiao to appear as peacemaker before a true victor is decided.” Shaking her head in admiration, Yuzhen continued, “This way, they weaken their enemies without need for direct action, playing their foes against one another while staying above or behind it all. Why do you think Central had a third Colonel General to begin with? Because Shuai Jiao needed someone to take the brunt of Mitsue Juichi’s focus away from him, and who better than a young Warrior and commander so popular and promising that he threatened Juichi’s very legacy?”

It seemed so simple and obvious once she explained it all in depth, but Nian Zu would’ve never seen through their ploy on his own. It also raised many concerns regarding the pair, such as whether or not Marshal Yo was running the same scheme on young Rain with help from his brother, Yo Shi-Woo, or if Shuai Jiao had manipulated events to kill Ryo Dae Jung with a borrowed blade now that Mitsue Juichi had removed himself from the board. Impossible to prove for the moment, but Nian Zu remained guarded against them both. Unfortunately, due to the nature of their stations, he was forced to interact with them both on a near daily basis, either via correspondence or in person at high profile events, such as today at young Rain’s third and most lavish wedding.

At least Shuai Jiao kept to his humble persona and refrained from displaying the airs of a superior, holding his own fan and pouring his own tea as he sat ever so slightly forward of the rest of them. Nian Zu had not seen the man move his chair, so either he was seated slightly in front of the rest of the group by sheer coincidence, or he’d done so under an insidiously subtle cloak of Concealment. If Nian Zu had to guess, he suspected the latter, but short of catching the man in the act, there was no way to prove it. Either way, it would not do for the crowd to see tension within the highest echelons of command, especially not with young Rain preaching unity and harmony to anyone who would listen.

It was all part and parcel of the show, so Nian Zu smiled and paid lip service to the boy’s message while resisting the urge to drive his fist into Shuai Jiao’s hypocritical face. Hmph, Commander General indeed, this upstart had the gall to elevate himself above his peers and expect everyone else to fall in line. That was indeed what happened, but only because Yuzhen had advised him not to rock the boat. “The exposed nail is the first to get hammered down,” she’d said, referring to how Marshal Quyen Huong had already thrown his support behind Shuai Jiao, no doubt in exchange for aid against the unruly Southern General Officers with grand ambitions of rising to Colonel General, all of whom likely started fighting the moment they received news of the vacancy.

But now, Rain had entered the game and was busy praising the fallen Tiger Slayer for the sake of the Southerners in the crowd. Say what you will about the boy, but he learned fast when he wanted to, no longer the same wide-eyed, slacked-jawed, backwater lout of a yahoo who first stepped foot in Nan Ping with the Divine Turtle at his back. Looking resplendent in his golden armour as he stood before the crowd, the young Legate addressed his audience with the confidence and charisma of a leader born, a far cry from the mumbling, stammering fool of a persona he so loved to play at. Many of his insecurities were genuine of course, but there had never been a man more arrogant than Falling Rain, someone who believed he should be capable of doing everything right and never forgiving himself for any of his mistakes. Combined with his indefatigable determination and innate inability to give up, this proved to be an advantage for the brilliant young man who not only held the highest office in all the outer provinces, but was also quite possibly the most promising young talent in all history and a Warrior who eschewed all common sense by reaching a stage of strength wherein he was not quite a Peak Expert just yet, but at the same time quite possibly a mere half-step from Divinity.

A fact he was supposed to prove today, by means of the Bekhai’s popular wedding custom wherein the groom’s strength, endurance, and/or intellect were tested through a series of ‘friendly’ tests arranged by the bride’s family.

To this end, young Rain commanded his Death Corps to open the sluice gates, and as the crystal clear waters flowed into the sparkling white basin that would soon become a harbour in truth, he announced that the games would begin after a Citadel-wide break for a sumptuous lunch provided by his household. Free to stretch his legs and fill his belly, Nian Zu used this time as an excuse to distance himself from the stifling company of his peers and study the new Citadel defences with a critical eye while partaking of the delectable ‘finger foods’ provided to them all. Though he’d been present for the planning process and kept up to date with the progress, seeing the wide basin, expansive bridging docks, and spanning towers with his own eyes left him breathless with appreciation. Any ship attempting to make it onto the docks would first have to get past the four seasons towers, isolated island fortresses with room for only a single ship to dock at the back, which led into a sheltered kill room from which the defenders could loose bolts and stones from any and all angles as the attackers contended with the three heavy barricades barring the only path further up and into the tower. This was contingent on an enemy ship actually making its way to the tower in the first place, as the multitude of upper levels were festooned with aptly named murder-holes brimming with too many bolt-throwers to count and room for Irregulars to add their crossbows to the barrage. There was also a concrete crow’s nest at the top that held three massive catapults each, and plenty of footholds for a Peak Expert with a Runic Cannon to rain death upon his foes below. Even without those fearsome wonder weapons to keep the Enemy at bay, Nian Zu was certain that an army of Irregulars supported by a small contingent of Martial Warriors would be enough to hold the Four Seasons forts, freeing up a sizable number of soldiers to serve and deploy elsewhere.

If the Enemy intended to assault the Citadel by land rather than by sea, then their options were even more limited. Either they could assault the Northern or Southern section of the walls or proceed along the wide, concrete bridge that led straight to the docks and the Bulwark overlooking them. Both options meant the Enemy flanks were left open to the towers, but the bridge was most certainly the more deadly trap of the two, for it could be raised at multiple sections to allow ships to sail past, which in turn could also be used to deny passage to Enemy combatants. As for the docks themselves, those were also fortified, though less so for the sake of convenience, with raised platforms and parapets to fire from should any Enemy combatants ever make it that far.

And if they did? Well, then they’d be faced with the daunting prospect of taking the maze-like Bulwark, a feat even Bai Qi failed to accomplish in a timely manner despite leading an army larger than anything the Empire had ever before faced.

To further bolster the defences, there were plans to install raised platforms similar in design to the Four Seasons Towers all along the Western border, and the Central Citadel already had four such bastions in place. A native to the province, Sir Gwangjong was the brilliant mind responsible for the speedy construction of all these sturdy fortifications, and he’d done an admirable job contributing to the defences of his homeland. Nian Zu only hoped young Rain could convince the man to bring his construction company north for a few months to work on the Northern Citadel as well, because there was a good chance the Enemy would avoid the Central Citadel and its formidable, newfangled defences from here on out in favour of easier targets.

The tides had finally turned in the war against the Enemy, for time was no longer on their side. As the Empire fortified their defences and procured new, more effective weapons of war, it would become increasingly more difficult for the Defiled forces to break through the Western border. For this reason alone, Nian Zu supported Rain’s bid to launch an offensive into the Western province, because at the very least, it would buy much needed time to prepare. Even Shen ZhenWu could not have foreseen the incredible impact young Rain would have in a few short years, as none of this would have been possible without his personal brand of peculiar ingenuity. Bolt throwers, crossbows, catapults, and cannons, as well as the trained Irregulars to man them, Nian Zu had no choice but to admit that the addition of commoner combatants to the Imperial Army was quickly tipping the scales in the Empire’s favour. Then there were all of Rain’s curious inventions, such as clear glass to create magnifying tubes that allowed anyone to see far off into the distance, cheap paper to keep track of anything and everything one cared to write down, the concrete ships floating out on the river in apparent defiance of physics, and the cast iron wagons with their rubber-lined wheels Yuzhen procured for long distance, overland travel, all these things and more were changing the Empire as Nian Zu knew it, and all for the better to boot.

This was without even touching upon the economic improvements young Rain introduced into the world, of which there were too many to list and Nian Zu quite frankly didn’t entirely understand. Why anyone would part with cold hard coin to buy a piece of stamped paper was beyond him entirely, to say nothing of why those papers were now worth exponentially more than what he’d initially paid for them. Rain had also recently introduced some more stamped papers, which were somehow different from the first batch, but still readily accepted by nobles and merchants alike in lieu of coin. Madness is what it was, but it made sense to Yuzhen and other financially savvy individuals of the Empire, so Nian Zu simply accepted it and moved on.

