By the time he was done touring the defences, the massive concrete basin was almost entirely filled with water and Rain made his presence known once again. Having exchanged his golden armour for a loose, unbuttoned shirt and waterproof shorts that stopped just above his knees, he’d lost much of the grandeur and dignity his mantle of office was expected to maintain. So much so that Nian Zu could hear Yuzhen grinding her teeth while struggling to maintain her smile, but the boy made up for it and then some by Cloud-Stepping from the Bulwark all the way to the marble monument he unveiled only a few hours earlier, a sizable distance to cover at such a slow pace. Impressive as this display might be for a boy noy yet twenty two years of age, most of the audience would not understand just how demanding a feat this truly was, for Falling Rain Cloud-Stepped like an old hand who’d been at this for years. Take Gerel for example; After making the initial jump, his subsequent Cloud-Steps came quickly and often, making it appear as if he were sprinting atop empty air while moving through molasses, with legs pumping disproportionately to how far he travelled. In contrast, Rain all but glided through the air in a slow, gentle arc, only to land lightly atop nothing and hop forward again whenever he so pleased. A leaf floating upon the wind, that was how other Peak Experts described this level of mastery, one few could ever reach. Even Clearsky Bao, Nian Zu’s dearly departed friend and a man once hailed as the fastest mortal in the North, had only just recently reached this level of proficiency after decades of gruelling effort, and while young Rain might not be faster than Clearsky Bao, he made Cloud-Stepping look far more effortless than the once Sovereign of the Skies ever could.

And as if that were not enough to shock and amaze, Rain did so while carrying his bride to be, the charming and lovable Mei Lin, whose wide, heart-felt grin was infectious to behold as she lay in her beloved hubby’s arms, flutter-kicking her dainty feet in an expression of pure delight.

Having achieved this high a level of Cloud-Stepping, it was clear that any contest Rain took part in against his peers would be farcical at best, especially considering how he’d already trounced the young military minds of the Empire during his last wedding. According to Yuzhen, the boy claimed he’d come up with something suitable for the grand occasion, but Nian Zu harboured his doubts as to how interesting it would be. Whatever the boy was scheming, it required six floating platforms, each one big enough for five people to stand on and bearing a wall of netting affixed to two poles standing upright on deck. There were also several rafts bearing stacks of wooden logs cut to similar dimensions, around thirty centimetres in diameter and at most half again in length. All of this and more was being carried over in four small boats, each one manned by eight Death Corps Guards who rowed in perfect synchronicity. Young Mila and Yan were also present, as were Li Song and Zheng Luo, each one seated in a different boat and dressed for the occasion in outfits even more scandalous than Yuzhen’s, though still more modest than most.

Say what you will about Falling Rain, but he was a man with varied tastes...

As the small fleet made its way across the basin, trailed by the Divine Turtle and a pack of roosequins no less, the Death Corps guards slowly released their logs one by one, without any real rhyme or reason. Soon enough, Rain arrived at the monument and landed lightly beside it, still carrying his bride-to-be and not showing even a hint of fatigue. As he turned to address the eager crowd, he spoke in his customary casual manner asking if the food was to their liking and idly discussing his favourites, all to buy more time for the Death Corps Guards to loop around the basin and unload their cargo. The six netted platforms ended up with three on either side, and Nian Zu was beginning to see the boy’s plan take shape. Some sort of aquatic battlefield setting perhaps, to show off his mastery of the Blessing of Water? Baatar claimed the boy had yet to replicate his downright unbelievable achievements that helped secure victory against Huanhuzi’s fleet, but young Rain had been sparring with Gerel almost every day lately, and from what Nian Zu had seen, the boy would find few worthy opponents under thirty, if any.

Once it was clear the Death Corps Guards were almost done setting up, Rain launched into an explanation regarding his intent. In the end, Nian Zu’s guess had been close, but rather than a sparring match he would undoubtedly win, Rain had devised a contest in which Martial Strength was not the defining factor. A sport, he called it, though he had yet to come up with a name, one played with two teams of five Warriors, preferably ones capable of Cloud-Stepping. Each player would receive a wooden rod, one with two forked tines affixed to one end. The tines were just wide enough to hold the rubber ball, which was the object of contention in this particular engagement. At best, one could only cradle the ball within the tines rather than firmly carry it around, which was intended rather than an oversight as Nian Zu had initially suspected. The goal of the engagement was to get the rubber ball into one of the nets without touching the ball with anything besides the rod. What’s more, neither the ball nor the player were allowed to go into the water, else control of the ball was forfeited to the opposing team, who would then start back by their nets. There were also rules for goal-keepers, who were allowed to stop the rubber ball with any part of their bodies, but one could only score a goal using the rod, else the point would not count. In the end, it came down to a game of numbers, and the higher scoring team would win.

And most importantly? While players were not allowed to make contact with the ball using anything besides the rod, there were no restrictions against making contact with other players.

All in all, Rain claimed the rules were a fast and loose version he’d thrown together for the occasion, and that some fine tuning might be needed, but once everyone understood the game, he called upon four members of the Bekhai to come join his team. Rather than his wives, he picked his sister and her husband, as well as Fire-Bird Tenjin and his wife, Tursinai, a fearsome, chain-wielding Warrior who Nian Zu had marked as the most dangerous young talent after Gerel. Perhaps even more dangerous, considering she was more than half a decade younger and only half a step behind, but Alsantset was hot on Tursinai’s heels and obviously of a mind to surpass her.

Finding a team of Cloud-Stepping Warriors to pit against them was no easy task, but young Rain had plenty of volunteers eager to try their luck once he promised a sizable reward of a thousand gold per player to any team able to defeat him. The first group to try was a mishmash of various well-known youths, older than Rain’s group and veterans one and all, but the young Legate’s team ran roughshod over their opponents in an overwhelming display of skill, speed, teamwork, and talent. Having devised the rules himself, Rain held the upper hand as he was the only one who had time to put together a plan of action, and he used this to great effect. Since it was all but impossible to carry the ball using the rod and Cloud-Step away, passing was the best way to move the ball forwards, and the Bekhai skills in archery served them well here. While their opponents converged on the ball itself, Rain and his teammates focused on passing and intercepting the ball as they moved across the wooden logs with remarkable ease, never once faltering in their offensive or defensive efforts. Eventually, Rain’s team scored eleven goals to their opponent’s three, all of which were lucky throws on unguarded goal posts. That was the other key to Rain’s victory, the fact that even though a goal keeper was allowed to use their body to block the ball whilst standing on the netted platforms, there was no rule forcing them to remain there. Thus, his team always outnumbered their opponents in every engagement, an advantage which proved well-worth the risk more often than not.

Three more teams tried their luck before the Warriors of the Empire started taking their Legate’s game seriously, for each team had forced Rain to reveal a few more of his hidden tiles and uncovered the true depths hidden within the sport. Only the rod could be used to stop the ball, and touching it with any part of one’s body meant control was forfeited to the opponent, so whenever Rain’s team was unable to progress, they would simply whip the ball at the closest unsuspecting opponent and bounce the ball off their bodies so that they might start anew from their side. Then there was the fact that no one thought to bounce the ball off a floating log to make an unexpected pass or goal, or how one could throw the rod to intercept the ball so another player could catch it, or how one could simply target and break their opponent’s rod, forcing them to return to the bridge to retrieve a new one, as well as half a dozen other devious schemes young Rain put to the test over the course of those games.

Not even the Azure Ascendants, a team led by a former Lieutenant Colonel and made up of multiple infamous bandits could defeat young Rain’s team in this game. They could only force him to reveal yet another powerful hidden tile, wherein he used his Blessing of Water to propel the logs in any direction he liked. Oh how the crowd laughed when he simply glided away from a devious trap set by Lord of Thunder Lei Gong, only to carry himself and the ball right up to the net. Even Gerel and Yuzhen took part in the fun alongside a team of their peers, though young Rain showed no face to his older, talented tribesman as he repeatedly moved the logs out from under Gerel’s feet, an act which had Nian Zu howling with laughter. The man was far too uptight most of the time, and a cool dunk was just what he needed, though he would never admit as much to Yuzhen.

Despite all of Rain’s Water-Blessed shenanigans, Gerel and Yuzhen’s team came closest to defeating him, but even they were unable to secure a victory once Charok revealed his true skills and started scoring points without ever leaving his goal post from across the lake. Fiery Eyes, the Bekhai called him, on account of his unparalleled vision and uncanny aim, which as it turned out was Rain’s final hidden tile that helped him secure a victory in their closest game yet. All in all, the games were played in good fun and everyone left in high spirits, even after Rain’s team emerged undefeated against all comers, though he had the good graces to donate the promised prizes to help pay for the blood price for the fallen soldiers. His mood much improved, Nian Zu clapped the soggy yet smouldering Gerel on the back and gave him a big grin, which only further darkened the surly man’s disposition and set his wife to laughing.

All in all, a successful display of young Rain’s talents, though not what anyone expected. Not only did he flaunt his ability to Cloud Step and manipulate Water Chi, he also proved himself able enough to engage in friendly clashes against Peak Experts. More importantly, he demonstrated his tactical acumen by running figurative circles around his more skilled opponents. As a Warrior, his skills were so undeniably impressive that there was no doubt he stood at the forefront of humanity in terms of raw talent alone, but now, he’d proven he was also a competent leader and cunning tactician, qualities he would need to lead the Empire to victory.

Even Nian Zu had to admit he had his doubts when the boy declared his intention to drive the Enemy out of the Western Province, but as the date for the counter offensive drew near and his brilliant plans started coming together, Nian Zu felt a spark of hope forming in his heart, one he ruthlessly suppressed so as not to let his expectations get out of hand.

“Such a shame,” Nanda Bayin exclaimed, shaking his head as he watched young Rain play a few rounds with sweet Mei Lin, who leaped across the logs with more grace and agility than most of the contestants today. “The Legate is so talented at so young an age, yet insists on planting his seed in barren fields. A great man such as him should have many wives yes, but also many children to ensure his talents are passed onto the next generation if the worst should come to pass. Such is his duty, else the Mother will soon run out of suitable sons to take up arms against the Enemy.”

“Oh?” Lips pursed in a smile which Nian Zu could only describe as a diplomatic scowl, Yuzhen shrugged off the Southern Officer’s statement and said, “No matter. If the Mother lacks sons, there are still many daughters for her to call upon.”

“Ah I meant no offence.” Waving his hand in a lackadaisical manner, it was clear Nanda was not one for politics, as he continued to explain himself despite Yuzhen’s narrowed eyes and Marshal Quyen’s subtle cough suggesting he shut his mouth. “But a man’s holy duty is to fight, while a woman’s holy duty is to bear the soldiers of the next generation. Only then can we continue to struggle against the Father’s minions most foul. Since half-beasts are unable to bear children, it is a clear sign of the Mother’s disfavour, and as such, a marriage with one is akin to...” Awkwardly gesturing at Yuzhen, Nanda finally realized he’d overstepped as Gerel’s handsome features twisted into a furious grimace, but the Southern Warrior would not be cowed by a young, Northern upstart.

And Mother forbid it, Yuzhen looked like she intended to let her husband fight the man for her own entertainment...

