“Stop using my name like a title, it’s awkward. Drop the formalities and speak like a normal person please.” There was no smile for Luo-Luo, but he answered her question regardless, pointing at document and writing out the numbers in Common next to his illegible symbols. “According to these documents, as of this morning I have twenty-eight thousand, seven hundred and sixteen gold left in my war chest. This would have lasted me almost half a year, but now I have to factor in another three hundred and sixty soldiers. Deduct wages, food costs, other estimated expenses, and a reserve fund for emergencies, we’re left with two-thousand four hundred and thirty five gold, the absolute most I can spare. Keep in mind, this is it. There’s no more money coming in either, aside from my wages as a Second Grade Warrant Officer. A piddling thousand gold per month which won’t even cover feeding my retinue, ridiculous.”

Blinking in confusion, Luo-Luo sifted through the documents in search of the final number, surprised by her Lord Husband’s substantial income and confused by his staggering expenses. Why was he paying his soldiers such high wages? Were his scruffy, thuggish soldiers all Experts? This was all out of pocket no less, was his family lacking coin or could it be a custom of his people, to teach their youth the value of coin? The food costs alone were exorbitant, exacerbated by his choice of top quality feed for soldiers and mounts alike, not to mention the vast swathes of income ear-marked for ‘Tanaraq’. A name of someone or something perhaps? Hush money for an illegitimate lover or child? No, this was far too much... ‘Pensions’ were another large part of his expenses, though it didn’t say who or what he was paying for. It was all a mess, but there were more pressing matters to attend to. “Luo-Luo is confused. How did you arrive at this value without an abacus?”

“Uh... Math?” Unwilling to explain, Falling Rain glanced at Lin-Lin for help.

“Mm, don’t worry Luo-Luo, hubby has the right amount, he’s really good with numbers.”

Unable to accept how quickly he derived an answer, Luo-Luo studied Falling Rain’s scrawls for more clues, her Lord Husband and sister-wife happy to give her time. Finding a pattern in the illegible scrawls and the Common Script he’d written for her benefit, understanding dawned on Luo-Luo. “These symbols represent numbers?” she asked, pointing at the page. “This vertical line represents ‘one’? Why change the number one? It’s already written as a horizontal line...”

“Wah, Luo-Luo is so smart!” Lin-Lin’s praise was without derision, nodding as she explained, “This symbol is two, and this one is three, and-”

“Lin,” Falling Rain interrupted. “Maybe we should leave the numbers lesson for another time and stay on point.”

Desperate to understand, Luo-Luo pointed at the four circled symbols and asked, “Then how does this represent two thousand four hundred and thirty five?” To write the same out in Common Script would take seven characters, and while she recognized the new symbols for two and three and assumed the others were four and five, she was at a loss on how to decipher it to arrive at the above total.

Rolling his eyes, Falling Rain sighed and hastily explained his system, and while Luo-Luo wanted to dismiss it as absurd, the more she heard, the more impressed she became. His explanation was a little lacking, but it was essentially a positional numeral system where the first column had a place value of one and increased by a factor of ten for each column to the left. It eliminated the need to write out the qualifying terms like hundred, thousand, or ten thousand, leaving only numbers on the page, a clean and simple solution to a minor, almost negligible issue, though still useful to save time and add clarity. Only... “Why did you need to make up new symbols for each number? Why not use the numerals of the Common Script?”

Lin giggled. “Because Rainy didn’t know how to write numbers in Common, so he had to make up new ones.”

“No... Well, yea, but that’s not the only reason. You also don’t have to lift your brush. You know. More convenient.”

He didn’t know how to write numbers, so came up with numbers of his own? Then he arranged them in a well-thought out system which would remain logical all the way to infinity? He must have had help, perhaps from his Teacher? Eager to brag, Lin-Lin continued explaining the merits of her hubby’s system and how writing the numbers in certain arrangements helped the reader with mental arithmetic. Addition, subtraction, multiplication, and even division was made simple so long as one had access to ink and paper, solving complex equations using logic and a few strokes of the brush rather than rote memorization. He even had symbols to denote what type of calculation took place, allowing someone to easily double check their work or a reader to follow along without notes or explanations from the author.

Mother in Heaven...

“See, isn’t Hubby smart?” Lin-Lin asked, her eyes barely visible through her smile. “Everyone should write numbers like this, it makes so much more sense.”

Reeling with shock, her thirst for knowledge overpowered caution and Luo-Luo asked, “Why wasn’t this in the book of inventions?”

Surprised by her tone, her Lord Husband didn’t take offence or scold her, taking it in stride as he sipped his tea and shrugged. “I thought about adding it, but I had to cut a lot to keep the book at a reasonable length. Besides, it’s just a different way to show numbers, it’s not that big a deal.”

Not that big a deal? Was Luo-Luo’s Lord Husband an idiot or a genius? This system would revolutionize how the Empire approached mathematics, a language of numbers and nothing else. The possibilities alone...

Forestalling her next question, Falling Rain asked, “Look, let’s get back on topic. We have two thousand four hundred gold, but it’s hardly enough for a six restaurant banquet. Stuff is a lot more expensive than I realized, and while I have art and things I could sell, it’ll raise uncomfortable questions. Hell, if I hadn’t won twenty-thousand duelling all those greedy idiots, I’d barely have enough to feed my people for the next two months, assuming prices don’t increase.”

Oh her poor Lord Husband was no miser, but a man weighed down with debt and duty. Wishing she could help lighten his burden, Luo-Luo set her mind to work parsing through his holdings and contracts to find ways to help him save money, but there was too little information. Unfortunately, money still had to be spent, for Lord Husband’s exalted status demanded no less. Were he to host a substandard or shabby wedding party, he would lose face for both himself and his benefactor, while driving away allies and emboldening enemies with his poor reputation. Chewing her lip, she mentally revised the menu for this reduced budget and asked, “What items do you intend to sell? If reluctant to part with it, perhaps we could find a pawn broker instead? This banquet is important after all.”

Before Lord Husband could answer, a brief knock sounded at the door as it swung open, revealing an older woman in poor health being carried in the arms of a handsome, blue-eyed half-wolf. Lips pursed in a frown, the older woman’s brown eyes narrowed as they focused on Luo-Luo, scrutinizing her as if she were a prized horse. Visibly unimpressed, the older woman snorted and said, “Pei. A wastrel and a milksop. Not even here for half a day and already you ask my son to sell his hard earned valuables? What makes you think you're worth the expense?” Smacking the half-wolf on the chest, Luo-Luo’s Mother-in-law added, “Enough looming about, you blockhead. Put me down, I’m feeble, not crippled.”

While her Lord Husband fetched cushions and helped his mother get comfortable, Luo-Luo stood and curtsied, greeting the fearsome woman and her silently disapproving husband with trepidation. “Consort Luo-Luo greets Father and Mother.” Did everyone in her new family eschew convention? Why would his parents not send word of their arrival?

Waving off her husband and son as they fussed about, Luo-Luo’s Mother-in-law sat on her cushion with back straight and neck craned, sipping her cup of tea. “Oof, get down girl, you’re too tall as it is.” As Luo-Luo knelt to obey, the domineering woman asked, “Now what’s this about pawn brokers?”

Cheeks burning with shame, Luo-Luo answered as quickly as she could, hoping to reverse the poor impression her in-laws had of her. Oh, this was so mortifying. Why didn’t her Lord Husband or Lin-Lin speak up in her defence?

“Hmph.” Unimpressed with the explanation, Luo-Luo’s Mother-in-law pinched Falling Rain’s cheek. “Unfilial child, have you no respect for your parents? We’ll pay for your wedding banquet as is custom, though this is getting out of hand. A third woman? How many will you have before you’re satisfied? Think of how poor Mila and Lin must feel.” Turning to her dour husband, she added, “This is your fault you know, yours and Akanai’s for always leaving him to fend for himself. Not only has he picked up these bad habits, the boy doesn’t even think to ask for help, he just shoulders everything by himself without a second thought. Irresponsible is what it is, but luckily I insisted we come visit. Oh, how shameful would it have been if people found out Falling Rain, the number one talent in the Empire, had to borrow money for his wedding banquet? Rain, go fetch your second, the smart one with the moustache, not the wispy-bearded pretty-boy. There’s work to be done and not much time to do it.”

Awed and intimidated, Luo-Luo knelt in place as her Mother-in-law took command, a dragon among tigers who possessed an air of natural authority and brazen impudence. Her needling statements made Luo-Luo want to curl up and cry, but at least Mother-in-law wasn’t stingy, looking down on Luo-Luo’s suggestion of hosting the banquet at six restaurants. Instead, Mother-in-law decided the Magistrate’s courtyard would be their venue and proceeded as if it belonged to her, declaring, “No one’s using it so why not?” While ordering extravagant delicacies and ostentatious decorations to be put in place, she simultaneously interrogated Luo-Luo on her history and what she needed for the banquet.

No wonder Luo-Luo’s Lord Husband was henpecked. His father and brother were too...

In short order, Mother-in-law decided she needed to be on-site to plan the banquet and Luo-Luo was quick to offer the sharp-tongued woman the use of her palanquin. Heart pounding with fear and excitement, Luo-Luo sat across from her Mother-in-law and beamed with delight, happy to finally get the banquet she’d dreamed of as a little girl, with promises of a new dress, jewellery, and even a zither to perform with. Of course, the banquet wasn’t so important anymore, Luo-Luo only placed so much emphasis on it because she thought she was destined for a wretched and gloomy existence, married to an uneducated brute and deceiver. After learning more about him and his burdens, Luo-Luo was now thoroughly convinced of her Lord Husband’s worthiness. It didn’t matter if he had help creating his number system and other inventions, for he excelled in both Martial and intellectual pursuits while others struggled to excel in one or the other. The Heavens had not forsaken Luo-Luo, for even with all his quirks and shortcomings, her Lord Husband Falling Rain was a brilliant man and worthy Patron. With or without this banquet, Luo-Luo would be proud to bear his children, children who would be destined for greatness.

With her Lord Husband’s talents and the blood of Emperors running through their veins, how could their children be anything less?

Chapter Meme
