The Venal are extremely capable mages, often able to disguise themselves with dangerous illusions. Only able to come to our world in a physical form, these demons think themselves above the others, second only to Devils. Their magic is unique, with an infernal script separate from our own runic languages. Mages who attempt to learn their script find themselves facing corruption. While techniques exist to lessen or stop the corruption, such a path is only recommended under the direct scrutiny of an Oathsworn Priest.

The Infernal,  by High Priest Storm,  Chapter 2 Page 4

I look over the book, then back to the wooden golem in pieces before me. “Are you sure this circuit is translated correctly?”

“Mmmm mnmnm” Shar says around the light stone that’s in her mouth.

I look over to where she sits on my shoulder, shining the light down for me in her cat form. She has a humanoid form, why doesn’t she use it? Now that I think about it, has she used her humanoid form at all in front of other people? I don’t think she has.

I shake my head. Then trace the foreign words in the book with my finger. The complex circuitry drawn carefully into the page above the explanation is very similar to the circuits I’m seeing in the training dummy’s heart.

I’m starting to pick up bits and pieces of Merlan, since so many of the Archmage’s books are written using it. Like that word, Maramala. It’s similar to another word that refers to battle, and that’s what Shar translated it to for me, but it has a different ending,  “ala” as opposed to “aba”, which gives it different context, I think. More like a friendly duel than a fight to the death.

“How goes it?” Eyla sits down next to me, bringing me out of my thoughts.

I look up at her with a small smile, “Complicated, but I’m starting to learn.”

She leans closer, and studies my messy notes, her next words coming out wistfully, “I wish I’d been taught a magical profession.”

“You weren’t?” That’s surprising, as a mage of the stronghold, she should have access to most of the ones our people remember.

She bites her lip ever so slightly, then shakes her head, “No. I have Diplomat as my profession. Master Lorn decided that staying alive in a den of snakes was more important than… well, most things.”

“It’s that bad with the Arcanists?” I gently close my notebook, and the book I’d been studying from in my bag. Shar spits the light stone in my hand, then helps me put the other golem back together.

“Not all of them, but my grandfather’s death wasn’t a natural one.” She looks into the forest, her hand tightening into a fist.

I hesitate for a second, then reach out and take her hand with both of mine, gently rubbing it to help it unclench. “I didn’t know that, I’m sorry to hear it.”

She looks down at where I’m massaging her hand, then shifts so that she’s holding one of mine, her grip tightening as she speaks, “The De’Vereth keep me safe. And soon enough I’ll be powerful, all on my own.” She pauses, her eyes staying on our held hands. “When we get back… I might change, Leo. You saw it last time, I have to be stronger in that city.”

“That’s okay. I won’t hold it against you.”

She snorts, “Seriously. I haven’t had… someone more than a friend in a long time. Not that I’m saying we are, I- I just don’t know how to hold those two lives together.” She looks up, meeting my eyes with her ice-blue ones.

I squeeze her hand, “I-“ I let out a small laugh as I rub the back of my head. I take a deep breath, then look back at her, “I want to be more than friends. Or at least, I want to try.”

Her lips quiver as she tries to hold back a smile, then she laughs, looking away. “Yeah, you’re cute. Y‘know that?” She recomposes herself, then lifts her chin in a decidedly adorable motion as she looks at me. She continues imperiously for the first few words before trailing off awkwardly, “I think… that I’d like to try too.” She looks away her cheeks reddening slightly. “Not that I know what that means, mind you.”

I shrug, “We’ll figure that out together. I’m not exactly experienced in this area.”

She turns to me suddenly, “Exactly. Honestly, this whole idea is doomed to failure, I hope you know that.”

I nod as I lean forward. “Honestly.”

She doesn’t move away as I give her a light kiss. Her lips are soft, and I only linger there for a second before pulling away. Her eyes are half-lidded, and they open as she looks at me with a soft expression I find hard to describe.

She nods her head. “Honestly.”

“I’m right here you know.”

We both freeze, then look over to the cat who’s standing on top of the wooden training golem, her tail swishing back and forth in annoyance.

“I need your help to put his arm back.” She motions towards a wooden arm.

Right. I clear my throat and hurry to help.

Light laughter makes me turn to see Eyla covering her mouth as her shoulders shake. She looks away from my eyes, unable to stop from cracking up.

I snort, then get back to attaching the golem.

Shouts, and laughter nearby draw my attention to the other side of the campfire, where Grildor and Daron are playing a card game with several of the Dralk warriors. It looks like they’re having fun, which makes me happy.

Once the golem is put back together, I sit back down next to Eyla, and we continue to talk about little inane things, the moon and the stars shining down on us from above.

I wake up from the light shining into my tent, Shar curled up on my chest, and a book held open by an inert light stone on my right side.

I pick up the sleeping cat, and set her down next to me as I sit up. She opens her eyes, then shrugs before closing them again.

I wonder if she’s actually sleeping. I think I remember her says she doesn’t need sleep.

The light stone goes into my bag, and I put the book I’d been reading into my private library, then I step out into the cold morning.

I pull my cloak tighter, the enchantments getting to work to fight the brisk cold morning air. My face still feels frozen, since I don’t have any cloth covering it.

My breath plumes out in front of me, and I watch it disperse into the cold spring air.

A soft voice calls me over to a small fire, where Tanya is grilling several vegetables with meat.

I look down at the ground, still lightly covered in morning frost, and instead stand next to Tanya to look at the long thin greens she’s grilling in animal fat.

“Hey Leo.” She says as she searches through Libby’s bag and pulls out a container of seasoning. “Libby is rinsing off in the stream. Everyone else is super sleepy.” She pours some of the seasoning in, making a rather glorious smell come from the food.

I gulp as the food calls to me, then turn away, “Think I can disturb her?”

Tanya shrugs.

Fair enough. I make my way to the small stream, running through our camp behind one of the larger trees. “Libby, can I come over?” I call out.

“Come through.”

I step around the tree, to find her standing with her feet in the water. She’s soaked through, having gotten all of her clothes wet. She wrings out her hair as she smiles at me. “These clothes are amazing. It’s nice to be warm while wet in this weather.”

I chuckle, and shake my head as I make my way to the same stream. I splash some of the water onto my face, then after a second, decide to dip my whole head in.

I pull out, and immediately feel the cold pulling at my wet hair.

Libby laughs. “I’m looking forward to a nice bath when we get back to town. Speaking of…” She steps out of the water, and makes her way to her boots, “What is your plan, Leo?”

I let out a sigh as I pull a clean rag from my pocket, “Do you have soap? I forgot mine in my tent.”

She nods, and hands me a bar.

I get the rag wet, and mix them together. “Once we handle the Dralk, I think I’ll need to go back to Stronghold Deragun.”

“Isn’t that dangerous?” She asks.

“Probably.” I take off my cloak, then untie my leather armor, setting the pieces down next to me, “But the church called all of the Orders together with the reveal of the angels.” I unbutton my shirt, wrinkling my nose. The cloth is enchanted to stay clean, but I still get dirty.

Libby sits down on a root nearby,  “And you need a paladin of Angel Levis.”

“Exactly.” I rub vigorously at my arms with the soapy cloth.

“I thought the Oathsworn Orders were gone.”

“Rare, but not gone entirely. Apparently one of their paladins reached out to the reapers with everything going-“ I hiss as I pull cold water up to rinse away the soap. I grit out my next word, “on.”

“What about the Arcanists?” Libby pulls a comb from her bag, and starts pulling it through her hair, “How are you even going to get into the city?”

“They’re looking for a mage. I’ll go in as an explorer.”

“That blood mage might recognize you.” Libby’s eyes narrow, “We’ll have to keep track of him, make sure he’s nowhere near you. It might be best to leave Keve and Tanya out of the city. They’re too recognizable.”

I blow air out slowly as I continue to rub with the cloth. “You’re right. We’ll set up camp nearby. There’s always the possibility plans will change too.”

I squeeze the rag, and rinse it in the water, before hanging it on a nearby branch.

A soft “Breakfast is ready!” Comes from the other side of the tree.

We pause our conversation as Libby stands up. “We’ll talk more later. A stop in Onder might be a good idea as well.”

I nod, and she walks to the other side. Then I put everything back on, my stomach asking why I don’t just leave immediately for the delicious smelling food.

With a flourish of my cloak, I make my way back to the campfire, where people are already starting to eat the food. The horses are out, grazing nearby and surprisingly comfortable with the humans in their midst.

A plate is handed to me which I devour greedily.

Once everyone has had breakfast, the Dralk start to get ready for the journey to their home. I share a look with Keve, who has bags under his eyes. Another late night, if I had to guess.

The two of us stand and get ready with our own preparations. I already have the items I want to give to the Dralk separated, so it’s just a matter of getting them into the right bag, then we meet them on the edge of the Statuette’s barrier.

Our journey to the Dralk home passes in silence, everyone still getting used to the morning. The plantlife changes from trees to large mushrooms, light emitted from the forest around us. As soon as we enter the tunnels, everyone except Commander Vakar disappears, off to their own tasks.

Keve and I are brought through the same tunnels I’d traveled through last time. Roots and mycelium poke through their earthen walls, creating a kaleidoscope of colors that light our path as we make our way to the council. Dralk of all shapes and sizes watch us from their earthen homes. They look less surprised by my presence, all of them instead looking at the Vishten man who walks beside me.

Soon enough, we’re brought to the same hall I’d met the council in last time. Eight of them are already sitting in their seats, while four more walk into the room, our arrival mildly unexpected. I look around for my Mentor, but don’t see him.

Commander Vakar bows to his people, “We, the …, have returned, … with you presence.”

I bow, and Keve copies the movement, “I am Delver Leo Grayson. This is my…” I pause, trying to think of the right word. Friend isn’t right, but I’m not sure how to describe a trusted companion. Finally I settle on, “Brother, Keve of the Vishten.”

Everyone’s attention shifts to the woman who’d controlled our last conversation.

Lady Kala stares at us from behind her golden mask. She watches me for a long moment before turning to Keve. “It has been a long time since a Vishten warrior was allowed in our home. We welcome you both, Delver Leo, and Keve of the Vishten.” She folds her hands in front of herself. “Tell us, what secrets will you share?”

I look at Keve, and he steps forward, his hands resting on his swords as he look around at the gathered Dralk. Finally, he looks at Lady Kala. “My people have a Stronghold, and we are willing to share its protection.”

The words silence the room.