Sally pat the short woman on the shoulder. “Frikara.” She said, and then gave her a one-armed hug. “Ren is going to be happy that you went out at all.”

“He... he will?”

Sally nodded. “I've known him for a long time. When he finds out what you and the other girls are planning, he'll be more than happy to have missed a quick visit with you.”

“I... I hope so.” Frikara said. “Otherwise, all of this planning wasn't worth missing that one moment with him.”

*

Lylyth, the Queen of the Dark Elves was not happy. “What is wrong with you people?” She asked her chained captives. “I've been reasonable, patient, and understanding!”

“I think that is the problem.” The healer said. “They are scared, but they are not terrified of their Queen like they are supposed to be.”

Lylyth sighed and rubbed her face. “I'm trying not to fall into that trap.” She said. “If I just kill indiscriminately, what would be the point? What would I gain, except unnecessary deaths?”

“That. Right there. That's what's different about you.” The healer said. “You wouldn't question yourself before.”

“Oh, damn.” Lylyth said and looked at her captives. None of them had said a single word to her, even when she threatened the family members she also held captive. “The Royal Consort gave me a conscience.”

One of the captives laughed, and a giant spider leg formed beside Lylyth and speared him through the face. It popped out the back of his skull, and when she withdrew the leg, blood and brains plopped out of both holes and onto the stone floor.

“I warned you.” Lylyth said as several large spiders picked up the tall corpse, unhooked it's chains, and carried it away. “No one disrespects me or the Royal Consort.”

“My Queen.” The healer said and looked at the captives. “They disrespect you by not speaking.”

All of the captives felt Terror then, and Lylyth sucked it all in and smiled.

“I believe you're right.” Lylyth said and 4 giant spider legs formed around her.

“My... My Queen!” One of the Dark Elven Lords said. “I... I will tell you.”

“No!” One of the others said and a spider leg speared through his head as well. The spiders pulled the corpse away, and unhooked the one who offered information.

“Speak and live.” Lylyth said.

“The other lords and I have seen your power wane and degrade over the last few months. We knew if this was to continue, the Elves would hear of it and take advantage of it.”

Lylyth walked over to her throne and sat down. “Continue.”

“Grimlow had the idea to...”

“Liar.” Lylyth said and two giant spider legs shot out and stopped when they touched the sides of his head. The Dark Elven Lord trembled at his almost immediate death and Terror spilled like a river from him.

“My... My Queen.” He nodded. “We all gathered together and I am unsure who had the original idea.”

Lylyth nodded.

“We discovered then that Grimlow already had one operation set up. He wouldn't say how long he had it, but he said that it had been a complete success.”

Lylyth sighed. “You were trying to build a mass of troops.”

“Yes, My Queen.” The Dark Elven Lord said. “They were to be throwaway units to unleash upon the Elves, to cause them both disgust and distraction.”

“Oh, that it would.” Lylyth said and tried to hold in her laughter. “Only it would work on my own army as well.”

“We... ah... hadn't thought that part through, My Queen.” He said. “We were working on it, however.”

Lylyth shook her head. “How many of these... operations... do you have?”

“Not counting Grimlow's, since it's troop production was stopped by the Royal Consort, we have 26 of them available.”

“Did... did you say twenty-six? You have twenty-six of these... ghoul factories?”

“Yes, My Queen.”

“Great Vasalor.” Lylyth said. “How many ghouls...”

“The Royal consort killed the last batch of just over 600 from Grimlow's small-time operation. It had taken him 3 months to get that many ready. We knew his method could be more effective if made on a larger scale, so we ramped it up and can harvest at least that much from each of the other operations every month.” He smiled. “Minimum.”

“...and the total so far?” Lylyth asked. She thought she would dread the answer, and she did.

“They've been in full operation for 3 months, My Queen.” The Dark Elven Lord said proudly. “We have just over 50,000 ghouls ready for deployment.”
