The [Lord]’s musings would have to wait, though. He was aware of the [Messenger] who declined to give his house of origin. So the [Lord] had kept him waiting—but since the puzzle of politics was so aggravating, he finally told Ullim to send the man in.
When the [Messenger] walked into the room, Tyrion was looking at a map of Terandria. But the instant the smartly dressed man entered the room, the [Lord] turned.
Tyrion Veltras was no fan of great diplomacy. He had been described as an honorable man—or to his detractors, straightforward as a blade, without bend or give. But for all his faults—
He was a seasoned warrior, commander, and leader. When he felt the [Messenger] enter his room, the [Lord] turned and put his hand on his sword.
“Who are you?”
The [Messenger] was surprised. The [Lord] had seen him through in a moment. Slowly, the man bowed. And he smiled.
“Lord Tyrion Veltras. I am a [Messenger] with an offer on behalf of my masters.”
“You are no [Messenger]. You are an [Assassin].”
Tyrion spoke flatly. He saw the man’s eyes flicker.
It was a thousand little signs. From the concealed blades, to the sense the [Lord] had of the other man’s aura. A killer trained. Couriers could fight—this man killed. Even the way he stood was light, like someone who was ready to spring or move suddenly—not like a [Soldier] at all.
“Reach for any of your weapons and I will kill you. Who sent you? This is a poor attempt on my life.”
The [Lord] had a hand on his longsword. He was searching his keep, trying to detect a hidden killer. He had a thought.
If they were after Sammial or Hethon—
“Jericha! Ullim!”
He raised his voice. Instantly, his [Mage] and first assistant rushed into the room. She gave the [Messenger] a quick, troubled look.
“Milord?”
“Find Hethon and Sammial. Now. Place them under an elite guard, and have Ullim do the same.”
“Lord Veltras, I can assure you I came alone—”
Jericha’s eyes snapped towards the [Assassin], who was smiling. He looked…charming. Blonde haired, sable-eyed, youthful—nothing like his nature. But a killer had a presence Tyrion had learned to notice. Jericha had a finger to her temples, sending out a [Message].
“Lord?”
“Go. I will be safe.”
Tyrion was armed. He didn’t have his armor on, but he could equip it in less than a minute. And he never took off his other artifacts. His sword was an heirloom of House Veltras. He was more dangerous in the saddle, but he could have killed the [Assassin] in a moment.
Still—the impudent intruder didn’t seem afraid. Just…annoyed. His eyes flicked to Jericha as she exited the room. And he bowed, slightly, keeping his hands slightly raised and to his sides.
“Lord Veltras, my masters did not send me with anything but goodwill in mind. Please hear me out. I am a [Messenger]. Of the Circle of Thorns. They have been watching you. Now—they would like to make you an invitation.”
The Circle of Thorns? Tyrion knew that name. An old group that most nobles knew of—but he had assumed they were long extinct, if he had ever given them a thought. He didn’t remove his hand from his sword’s hilt. But after a moment, he gestured curtly.
“Stand there. My warning applies. Speak your message.”
The [Assassin] sighed. He looked at this over-proud [Lord] with all his bravado. But he was a leader of one of the Five Families. He gave Lord Tyrion his most charming smile and bowed; he did have social-Skills to use for his infiltrations.
“Very well, Lord Veltras. Let me be clear and frank. The Circle of Thorns is not a rumor. Perhaps you have heard of my masters. Well—they exist. And they have existed for ages as a body that does what is necessary for Izril’s survival.”
“Plots and schemes.”
Lord Veltras was not impressed. The [Assassin]’s lips twitched before he could stop them.
“More than schemes, Lord Veltras. When you called for aid—the Circle of Thorns backed you. Part of the reason why so many flocked to your banner and not Magnolia Reinhart was that we believed in your cause. Indeed—we have seen many reasons to favor you over…other…great nobles of Izril.”
He had switched to ‘we’. Tyrion was aware that Magnolia had lost control of the Assassin’s Guild. He had wondered to whom. Now…pieces were connecting.
“And how powerful is your master’s organization?”
“We have many influential nobles and other members. The Assassin’s Guild belongs to the Circle of Thorns. Lord Veltras, the Circle would like to put their assets behind you.”
“I do not like [Assassins].”
Salva. Lord Veltras stared at the man until he grew nervous. The [Assassin] was used to at least some nerves from people who knew he was a trained killer. Tyrion Veltras looked at the [Assassin] as if calculating exactly how many ways he could kill him. The [Assassin] didn’t like the sensation.  He was supposed to do that.
“My Guild is only one part of the Circle, Lord Veltras. There are countless assets the Circle can bring to its allies. Or…members. You have proven your commitment to driving the Drakes back and claiming Izril, as well as your integrity to the true Izril. Compared to traitors to the realm, you are the Circle’s champion. They would make you that in title and reality.”
They wanted him. The [Assassin] spoke slowly as Tyrion’s eyes flickered.
“The Circle of Thorns has many ranks. We would make you the commander of the Circle’s assets. The First of Thorns. But let me speak more of the Circle’s ranks. Of how it operates. This is an honor, Lord Veltras.”
“What if I refuse?”
The [Lord] finally took his hand off the hilt of his sword. The [Assassin] relaxed slightly. Lord Veltras strode over to his desk and checked a glowing scroll; his sons were secure, as was Ullim. No other intruders detected, so far. He glanced at the [Assassin].
“I do not intend to be coerced into allying with any side. Despite your ‘honor’. What if I told your masters no?”
The [Assassin] gritted his teeth. He hadn’t wanted this assignment. Tyrion Veltras was as stubborn as they said.
“Then, they would ask you keep the Circle’s secrets, Lord Veltras. Nothing more. My masters work for the good of Izril. One can be a silent ally of the other, or at least, tolerate its existence.”
“And if I do not wish to do that either? Out of curiosity. What would your masters try to do to me?”
The [Lord] stood there, eyes never leaving the [Assassin]’s face. The man bared his teeth.
“Well, Lord Veltras, it is not my intention to make any threat towards you. As I said, the Circle values you. But my masters will not let Izril fall to ruin. Today, in fact, one of Izril’s greatest traitors will suffer for her transgressions. Against you as well as others. I believe you know her?”
Tyrion looked up. The [Assassin] smiled beatifically. This was the fun part. He watched Tyrion’s expression as he let him in on the secret.
“Today, a scion of the Five Families meets her end. Magnolia Reinhart is about to die. Would you like to watch?”
 
—-
 
Now.
“Lady Ieka Imarris. Another priority [Message] for you. No sender.”
Ieka looked up. Not from Salamani or Valeterisa? Actually—she might forget. She waved a hand.
“Well, send it in.”
The note was short, and unsigned. But when she saw it—Ieka froze.
 
Order a scrying spell at the following coordinates…
 
Slowly she rose.
“Get me a scrying orb.”
She reached for the artifact her [Maids] hurried to bring her. The [Lady] stared at an open stretch of road somewhere she couldn’t place. North of Invrisil a good ways, on the road to First Landing…
She waited. Then she saw a pink carriage. And then—
 
—-
 
Now.
Magnolia Reinhart sat in her carriage, reaching for another cube of sugar. Ressa slapped it out of her hand without looking.
“Ressa! Please, if I must be cooped up in here, at least give me the dignity of sugar.”
“There’s nothing dignified about it. We won’t be much longer. Read a book or something.”
The [Lady] sighed.
“Even the fastest coach in Izril is arduous on the posterior, Ressa. How much further to First Landing?”
“At least three more hours at our speed.”
Lady Magnolia pursed her lips. The ability to cross Izril like, well, the fastest thing on land wasn’t something she liked to complain about normally. But it took her precious time even with her repaired carriage. Teriarch had reinforced the spells. Still—Izril was vast.
The carriage was moving at its classic, faster-than-anything speeds. Reynold was watching birds look at his carriage as he zoomed past them.
They were headed to First Landing. Magnolia sighed as she looked around the carriage, but she didn’t try to toss sugar at Ressa or something like that. She was aware of Sacra and the two other [Maids] riding with her.
“Lady Aerta had better be serious about this entire affair, or I might strangle her.”
Magnolia pursed her lips. She hadn’t intended to go to First Landing today. She was preparing, almost prepared to visit Oteslia. It had consumed her, finding gifts, arranging matters, security, dragging the things she wanted out of Regis’ grasp—
But something had come up. Lady Aerta, someone Magnolia was distantly acquainted with, a product of intermarriage with the Wellfar and Terandrian noble houses, had reached out to Magnolia with a very interesting request.
She had somehow gotten word about the meeting in Oteslia. And, surprises abounded, wanted to accompany Magnolia.
That—was too much to pass up. Magnolia wanted to know how Aerta knew, and if she was serious—consider the offer. Pryde, Bethal, Wuvren, Zanthia—Magnolia had considered all of them, but the invitation had been for her alone and she didn’t want to alarm the Drakes.
Still…Magnolia glanced at Sacra and the two other [Maids]. It could also be a ploy, so Ressa had ordered the other [Maids] to accompany them. Which was silly; if Lady Aerta had some kind of trap, it was going to be of a social design. Attacking a noble member of the Five Families in First Landing was tantamount to suicide.
“I believe I shall have a nap. Inform me about this—this detail about a fire with Archmage Valeterisa’s isle. If she’s gone and blown herself up, we’ll have to deal with that.”
Magnolia sat back and closed her eyes. She did do a lot of organization in the carriage, but it was more tedious. Ressa signed and consulted her informants who had told her about the strange events on the isle.
As they rode, the one man in the carriage—or rather, driving it—was bored. Reynold Ferusdam had to keep alert, though; even going slightly off the road, a collision at this speed spelled death for whomever he hit.
He noticed that the dirt road they were taking that ran along the city of Celical was rather empty for the last stretch. Perhaps a monster attack? He was reaching for a Scroll of Messages to check; Lady Reinhart liked to be appraised of such things when he saw, fast-approaching—two wooden posts in the ground.
They were…just wooden posts. Hammered into the ground. But something about them made the former [Cavalry Lieutenant]’s instincts shrill.
Something—Reynold was a veteran of wars and numerous battles even before he’d come to Magnolia’s service. He didn’t ask for Ressa’s opinion or hesitate. He instantly turned the reins. The carriage shot left, turning with incredible speed. At the same time, Reynold snapped towards the carriage.
“Lady Magnolia, something might be happening. I think—”
The infamous pink carriage swerved left, still at the insane speeds few things in the world could match. It avoided the two posts with the invisible wires strung between them. And—hit the second layer placed to the left and right at top speed.
The magical carriage struck the wires. And the [Trapmaster Assassin] saw and felt his wires take the incredible force of impact. And—hold.
The pink vehicle flipped. It crashed into the ground as the [Butler] went flying. The carriage hit the ground as the ghostly horses vanished and rolled for nearly a hundred feet. It came to a stop, wheels spinning upside down.
“Told you it would work. Let’s get to work.”
The [Trapmaster Assassin] left the cover. And four more [Assassins] walked with him. They strolled over to the pink carriage.
 
—-
 
Now.
They were being watched. Lady Ieka Imarris stared at the downed carriage, a wheel still spinning comically as she adjusted the scrying spell she’d cast.
She—couldn’t believe it. That was Magnolia’s carriage. They’d stopped it. She saw the black-clad figures walking towards it, slowly.
“Four…five? Five? They sent five?”
She had seen the Assassin’s Guild attacking the Couriers. Ieka thought they needed at least a few hundred to make sure they did the job. Then…she looked at the downed carriage.
“Oh.”
They had sent their best. This time—the Assassin’s Guild had sent their Faces. No Ranks. No expendable [Assassins]. Just five of them. One had taken out the carriage. Now, they spread out. One conjured a [Fireball] and blasted the carriage.
The enchanted wood held. The [Assassins] seemed to confer—then one of them approached, with a long sword.
Lady Ieka watched. And she was not the only one who had been told to observe.
They watched, in silence. Countless nobles, using magic and the coded message’s coordinates to observe. Some had been told directly, like Ieka. Others stopped at parties, told by a friend or a friend of a friend. Some had just been told to watch, like Lord Emile, Lord Gralton, or other influential [Lords] and [Ladies].
Lord Tyrion Veltras had been told. The Circle of Thorns had decided to kill Lady Magnolia Reinhart. Unlike the Couriers—they wanted her well and truly dead.
The [Assassin] with the blade never got to the carriage to begin taking it apart. One of the doors blew open. He leapt backwards as the [Assassins] braced. One threw a dart which exploded—but Ressa blocked the projectile. She leapt out, a blur, slashing with the deadly, poisoned dagger, the Vision of Grasses, as the other [Assassins] spread out. Behind her were the two [Maids]—Magnolia Reinhart remained, at least for a moment.
“Ressa.”
Ieka watched the [Maid] slashing at the first [Assassin]. She was flinging objects down. Scrolls, magical artifacts—anything and everything she had.
 
—-
 
“Watch out. She used to be a Face.”
There were five of them. The [Trapmaster Assassin], the white-haired man that Ryoka and Fierre had met, was one. He eyed Ressa, then withdrew glittering lines of metal.
Wires. He flung them into the air as the [Assassins] held their ground, appraising Ressa’s dance with their [Blademaster]. Five of them. They were cautious; mostly of the blade or artifacts. And they were waiting for the [Trapmaster] to give them an advantage.
