Then.
Ryoka Griffin didn’t know if she liked the Archmage of Izril or was disappointed. Because when she realized how many prisoners had died in those cells—how many intruders…she looked guilty.
“I forgot to task myself with monitoring them. Oh no. What an error. And they…starved to death? They would have—without food—oh no. Did I forget? What do I do? Were some of them important? I—I—”
A look of genuine distress flashed across her face. But—rather than moral anguish over the deaths she’d caused—it was more like someone realizing that the pets they were supposed to housesit had all starved to death. Serious—but not like actual death.
Even so. Her reaction was mortal. Unguarded. For a moment. The Archmage of Izril panicked as she floated down to the ground. She put a hand to her temples.
“I—I—”
Then her expression went unsettlingly calm. Her hysteria subsided. Valeterisa spoke in an inflectionless voice.
“That was clearly an error. Moving on—it seems my experimentation was flawed. I was caught in a mental paradox; being too close yet unable to solve the conclusion. In totality—your presence was beneficial. You will be rewarded, Runners.”
Ryoka Griffin, Salamani, Fierre—looked at the Archmage of Izril. Valeterisa’s expression was cold before it flitted back to tired, rueful emotion.
“I’ve made a mistake. But I’m close. Yet it was good I woke up. There is so much I have to do. Come with me.”
She beckoned them. And Ryoka Griffin realized—she had done it. There was more to settle, but she had accomplished an impossible delivery. She had won her reward.
One more noble for the Summer Solstice party. Only a few more impossible tasks to do. Then she could meet her friend who had died.
It was a fitting quest.
 
—-
 
Now.
Lady Ieka Imarris was annoyed. She was pulling strings, and still—Lady Rie demanded more little favors for this [Emperor]. It was everything from nudging a [Merchant] to adjust his course to trade concessions, arranging salt from an allied [Lord] to be sold to Riverfarm, thus benefitting both groups and breaking the House Ulta salt monopoly.
She had the power to do that as a higher-ranking member of the Circle of Thorns. Even so, it grated on Ieka’s nerves.
Yet, if she was upset over the [Emperor] situation that she had no control over—her mood changed the moment she got the [Message].
“Lady Imarris, priority [Message] for you from Salamani the Courier!”
“What? Give it to me at once!”
The [Lady] snatched the slip of paper with shaking hands. She had been certain Salamani had a chance. But could it really be…? She read the note from the Mage Runner and gasped, blinked twice, and read it again, slower.
 
The Archmage of Izril is awake. I cede credit for the delivery to Ryoka Griffin. Requesting agreed-upon hazard pay. 
            –Salamani
 
“Ryoka Griffin? But I thought—”
Before Ieka could [Message] Salamani back and demand a proper explanation, her [Maid] arrived, panting.
“Lady Ieka—another [Message]. From—from Archmage Valeterisa.”
Ieka dropped the first note. The second one was just as short. Wide-eyed the [Maid] retreated as Ieka read it.
 
I am not pleased. But I will speak with you at earliest convenience. Your Runners burned my isle down. Was that intentional? We will meet shortly.
            –Valeterisa, Archmage of Wistram.
 
Ieka Imarris felt…unsteady. She massaged her temple.
“Burned part of her…? What did they do?”
She was about to send a [Message] spell herself, blasting Salamani for allowing Ryoka to be endangered and angering the Archmage, but then Ieka caught herself. Even when she’d hired Salamani, the odds had been low he’d succeed where other Couriers had failed or given up. A Named Adventurer had quit the assignment.
“This—this is an excellent day. Beyond excellent. With Valeterisa out of seclusion—dead gods. And Ryoka did it?”
That was what the message had said. Ieka remembered the City Runner and could scarcely credit it. No wonder Ryoka had been so confident! She must have been furious to know about the Courier being hired after her. How had it happened?
Ieka would find out. And she’d make a proper apology to Ryoka. With gold! Oh yes. And perhaps a private dinner…?
No, no. Ieka caught herself. Subtlety. But Ryoka Griffin’s exploits would not go unrewarded or unmentioned. Oh no. If no one was considering her as a potential Courier—well, this all but cemented her recommendation.
And what had Ryoka requested aside from gold? Oh yes, the poor girl had wanted a party. In Riverfarm? Ieka blinked as she put together Lady Rie and the [Emperor] with…
Well, she would get her party. Ieka had connections. Lots of them. For Miss Griffin, she would lean as hard as she could to get the girl whatever party she wanted. Entertainment? Ieka could supply the mage-illusions herself, she was so exuberant!
Fantastic news. Just—Ieka sat down to plan and send her own flurry of [Messages]. The Archmage of Izril had returned. It was fantastic news.
She was busy—until the third priority-[Message] reached her just past midday. And if she had thought the other two were important…
 
—-
 
Then.
It was one of those fine summer days. Hot, yes, but with enough of a breeze to make it feel comfortable rather than just hot.
The smartly-dressed [Messenger] who rode up to the keep’s gates was rarer than Runners. But his class still existed; a sort of private messenger you could afford between the nobility.
“I have a personal statement for Lord Veltras. May I speak to his lordship at his convenience?”
The man’s demeanor, dress, and refined manners all spoke to his nature as a high-class servant of some house. Possibly, even one of the Five Families.
However, the [Majordomo] of House Veltras, Ullim, informed the [Messenger] that a meeting wouldn’t be immediate.
“His Lordship is riding. He will return within the hour. If you have a missive, it can be left here.”
“Ah, then I will wait. The message is confidential—verbal only. At Lord Tyrion’s convenience.”
The servant smiled. Ullim did not.
“His Lordship will return and see to you in time. You may be waiting for longer.”
That, the [Messenger] did not like.
“I—see. But if you would inform his lordship my master would appreciate a swift request—”
“If your master does not announce themselves, Lord Veltras will take their message at his convenience.”
With that, the [Majordomo] had the [Messenger] escorted to a guest room where he was watered and fed—with about that much delicacy. The food was closer to a rider’s rations than something elegant.
It rather put the man off. He was thus annoyed when it turned out that Lord Tyrion, after a two hour morning ride, returned to his study but did not immediately see the [Messenger]. He took his sweet time about it and the old [Majordomo] would not be convinced to persuade his master. The [Messenger] was really annoyed—especially because he had a time limit to deliver his missive. It was all about timing.
And style.
 
—-
 
Lord Tyrion Veltras was not in a good mood, either. True, that was not a rare occurrence, but today he was genuinely irked.
Over Terandria. Anyone with an eye towards continental politics was aware of the Ailendamus war threatening the Dawn Concordat of three kingdoms. Like many Terandrian conflicts, this was a war about politics as much as actual conflict, so a lot of maneuvering had been going on.
Ailendamus had been encroaching on Kaliv’s lands, threatening other kingdoms, building up an excuse, casus belli, for war. Trade blockades, convincing other kingdoms to abandon the three smaller kingdoms so they’d be weakened when war actually began—
The larger empire was a giant, having swallowed other nations’ territory and won several wars in the two decades since King Itorin II had come to power. They were set to roll over the Dawn Concordat if Pheislant, Noelictus, or another nation with an axe to grind didn’t decide to help out. Even then—Ailendamus just wasn’t a fun nation to fight. If it halted wars with the other nations and focused on you…well, then you were in trouble.
Politics. Tyrion understood most of what was going on and he wasn’t even directly invested in the war. It was far from Izril’s shores. He just liked to keep up on such things, like the King of Destruction’s conquests and Balerosian battles, as well.
Ailendamus had taken a bloody nose in that incident with the Lord of the Dance. They’d lost an entire fleet and suffered diplomatically as well, for all they screamed it had been a trick.
Still—if Ailendamus went to war, the Dawn Concordat was in trouble as it was. Lord Tyrion had evaluated their armies and, in his mind, the outcome was a defensive victory with significant casualties and unavoidable losses of territory on the Dawn Concordat’s side at best. And that relied on the strength of their warriors and expertise of their generals—never a given thing.
But those nations knew that too. So each one was reaching out for allies. And as it happened—Izril had a history of interfering in Terandrian conflicts and vice versa. Of course, King Itorin knew that the Dawn Concordat knew that so…they had reached out to Tyrion Veltras.
The Lord of House Veltras had received two offers, one from Ailendamus via their [Emissaries], and another from Calanfer, the most political of the three members of the Dawn Concordat. What they wanted was simple: when war began, House Veltras would send aid to their side, in form of troops, resources, and perhaps even Lord Tyrion himself.
It was a smart move. Lord Tyrion had one of the most elite standing armies and his House could threaten either side just by allying. And if he pulled in another of the Five Families? It could swing the entire war.
So—Ailendamus was eager to prevent that, or get him on their side. But Calanfer was far more desperate. Both had reached out to Tyrion and offered a traditional method of incentive, which had troubled the Lord Veltras this day and the entire week. It had put him off hunting and his training.
Ailendamus had offered the hand of a [Baroness] to Hethon, Lord Veltras’ older son, or an arranged marriage with a noble of similar rank for his noninterference.
Lord Tyrion had been insulted at once. A [Baroness], marrying the heir to House Veltras? It spoke to Ailendamus’ overinflated egos, as well as their disdain for Izrilian nobilities, their ‘uncultured cousins’. Tyrion had sent an instant refusal and made a counteroffer.
“Princess Ozena’s hand would be acceptable.”
He had mentioned that—without being truly serious; she was a decade older than Hethon. But the response had been…infuriating. The [Emissary] had politely stated that there was no way King Itorin would ever marry his daughter off to a ‘distant noble house of such standing’.
King Itorin II didn’t seem to know or care how infuriating that was to Lord Tyrion. The [Lord] remembered such grudges. Nor was he afraid of Ailendamus; the Terandrian nation might be a giant among other nations where it stood, but it did not rule Izril.
By contrast, Calanfer proved its reputation for good politics, even if it wasn’t nearly as adept at military matters. They had approached Tyrion after his exchange, possibly having heard of it, with a much more flattering approach. The Lord of House Veltras had ignored that, of course, but their offer had been direct and meant to strike a contrast.
For his aid, they would offer no less than arranged marriage between Hethon or Sammial and a [Princess] of Calanfer. One of the many [Princesses], true, and thus a distant chance that the [Lord] would ever become [King]—but the benefits were still enormous.
And troublesome. Tyrion had thought it over for a long while. Either it would be an existing, unmarried [Princess], or, if the royal family had another heir, a [Princess] newly born, a marriage when both were of age.
In either case, there was an age imbalance. And that troubled the [Lord] greatly. He wasn’t sure what to do.
His marriage had been arranged when he was a boy. It had turned out for the best, since there had been love there. But Tyrion was aware of arranged marriages that ended poorly; the majority, in fact.
He…wanted the best for Hethon and Sammial. But was that irresponsible young love or…marrying into Terandrian royalty, however distantly?
“They should have better lives than mine. Hethon would be a [Prince] by marriage. If he took the house—he would be royalty, the first—no, second—Izril had known in ages. Or Sammial could inherit…”
He had to consider it. But in diplomacy, one could move forwards while still leaving room to back out. Tyrion had considered the options frankly. Of the current [Princesses], there were two of Calanfer who were eligible. The 4th and 6th Princesses…er…Seraphel and Lyonette, according to his information.
The 4th Princess was even older than Ozena. And married multiple times, a widow at least once. Tyrion grimaced.
“The 4th Princess is not acceptable. I would…consider the 6th Princess of Calanfer.”
She was about five to six years older than Hethon. That was…possible. And for such negotiations, this was a first step.
Calanfer was far more amenable than Ailendamus. Jericha brought back an immediate reply; their [Diplomats] were always prompt and ready to reply or take a response back from their [King]. That was true soft power. And they also made their statement in a refreshingly straight-forward way, calculated to appeal to House Veltras’ leader. Tyrion read the offer grimly.
They wanted him to vouch for another of the Five House’s support—or two. That would be significant. The communiques practically stated that if he brought two more Houses against Ailendamus overtly—the marriage was as good as done.
He had to think about this. The war with Ailendamus didn’t concern Tyrion; that was almost an upside. Even if House Veltras went to war, they wouldn’t overcommit and with the right strategy, they could efficiently level and inflict losses on the enemy. He would relish that.
But marriage…the [Lord] wished his wife were here. Salva would have known what to say. Actually—she might have encouraged him to go to war with Ailendamus and damn the marriage. Insults like that were not to be tolerated. But…
It was telling that Lord Tyrion didn’t discuss the matter with Hethon or Sammial. It would have never occurred to him; he was thinking of consulting others, and he would have gone to Jericha, Ullim, or even another [Lord] like Pellmia, or one of the other Five Family’s leaders before his sons.
