Evidently the others were also intrigued, because Professor Graystalk was looking around with a renewed sense of fascination, Leo was already taking notes, and even Thorn looked,.. well, he looked slightly more impressed, anyway. The vinewalker's expressions didn't really change much.

"Yes yes!" Clock cheered. "Human magic exchange academy! Thoth University! Many famous humans. Come! Clock has authority to register you."

"I would like to be registered as a professor, please," Graystalk said.

Clock paused. "You sure? Humans competitive! Will make you prove yourself."

"I am quite certain." Professor Graystalk was wearing a grin Cale wasn't familiar with. "Perhaps you could register Cale as my assistant?"

"Yes yes! Clock can do that. You want... attend and teach? Yes?" Clock bounced a little on his feet. Cale opened his mouth to protest—he really just wanted to attend a bunch of classes—and then shut it again.

Graystalk was supposed to teach them to craft magical foci. That was probably what he was thinking about. Classrooms would be a useful resource, and they might even get to see if humans did things differently here. It could be fun.

"Yes," Graystalk said, glancing at Cale.

Cale gave him a thumbs up. "Sure, I'll be his assistant," he said. "Where do we sign up?"

"Rooms first! Put things in room," Clock said. "Pick up uniforms! Then we find administrator branch. Come, come!"

Cale glanced at the others, then followed along, bemused.

If only Flia and Damien were here. He hoped they'd find a way to meet up soon—he really didn't want them to miss out on this. They would've hated to be left out of cool new magic lessons.

***

Flia and Damien sat at the only two desks in what was indisputably a classroom that Ashvali had shoved them into. Why there was a classroom in the motel, Flia had no idea. Nor was she certain they were going to learn anything useful here, given their professor was...

"Bob," the indescribable eldritch horror supplied helpfully in a thousand different voices. "My name is Bob."

"How many of you are named Bob?" Flia asked, exasperated.

Bob undulated for a moment. "Thirt... eventeen."

"That's not a number."

Damien nudged her. "I'm not sure we should argue with Bob," he whispered.

"I'm just saying," Flia grumbled. It didn't seem to matter to Bob anyway—it just undulated again, splattered itself across the chalkboard, then re-formed into the vague impression of a professor holding a stick.

"First," Bob said, "I will teach human etiquette!"

"We know human etiquette," Flia said. Why had Ashvali called this important again? "Humans aren't forgotten. That's sort of the whole thing."

"If you are looking for a human and hear footsteps behind you, never turn around," Bob said. "The human is following you! But if you turn around, both you and the human will be trapped forever."

Flia frowned, straightening slightly in her seat; beside her, Damien did the same.

This wasn't human etiquette at all.

It could have been nonsense, but Flia had the strangest sense that Bob was trying to communicate something to them, and she was pretty sure the look on Damien's face said he thought the same.
