Alden cleared his throat. “It’s not that I dislike the Knights. Conceptually, they’re awesome. Now that I know what they’re doing, I think they’re probably some of the best people I’ve ever heard of. Alis-art’h is using her skill to single-handedly terraform the chaos away from a planet-sized moon. I could fanboy over that like Kibby. But…I just watched a man mercy kill his own daughter. While his son looked on in ritual silence.”

“Several of his sons and daughters were there.”

“Right,” said Alden “So, on an intensity scale of one to a hundred, that was at least a ninety-nine point nine. And I can’t handle it right now. I am really tired. I want an intensity level of, like, four. At least for the next year or two. I want to go to high school. Maybe join a club. A boring club. A book club. Not an alien demon-fighting club.”

She raised an eyebrow at him and then stared pointedly at the auriad. “Intensity level four?”

“Yes,” he said seriously.

She grinned. “Don’t worry about it. The Knights of the Mother Planet aren’t currently recruiting humans into their ranks.”

For some reason, Alden felt like she was lying.

“Why would I lie? The idea hasn’t even crossed their minds. There have been Knights from other species in the past, but it was long before your planet was discovered. And even then, there were a relatively small number of them compared to the number of Artonans. Just having an authority sense and an affixation and swearing to protect the Triplanets doesn’t automatically grant you access to the elite level of ‘demon-fighting club.’ There’s at least one other requirement…even if you ignore significant political factors.”

“That’s good,” he said with relief.

She raised an eyebrow. “Is it? I think I should point out that you are on the verge of accepting nearly all of the most difficult parts of Knighthood without the benefit of the reverence and extraordinary support they enjoy from the rest of wizarding society.”

Alden frowned.

“You’re still an Avowed. You can still be summoned into battle. And the Primary is already aware that you’re abnormally chaos-resistant. Your stability was especially noteworthy considering how fresh your affixation was. There’s usually a period when a skill works but it’s still in the process of…settling in and becoming. It can be vulnerable to certain kinds of damage. Avowed can’t feel it, but Knights pay attention to that kind of thing. His son is really quite sensitive. When your authority touched him, he noticed that it was of an unusual caliber, and he mentioned it to his father in passing.’”

Thanks, Stuart.

Alden thought back to the party. “Does he plan to summon me into battle?”

“He was making a mental note of your qualities for later. He’s currently thinking of you as someone who will be useful support staff for Knights in low level chaos fields in the future. An errand runner or medic’s assistant. He plans to reassess your abilities when you’re around thirty.”

“Level thirty?”

“Years old,” she clarified.

“Oh.” At least it was a long way away. “Thanks for the warning.”

“It wasn’t a warning.”

Alden was still going to take it as one. “What’s the other requirement?”

“Hmmm?” she said, smiling down at her mug.

Has she gotten friendlier and less professional since I decided on keeping my authority sense?

It definitely seemed like she had. Alden preferred this more personable version of a System to the others he’d interacted with. But at the same time, it was off-footing. He couldn’t even pretend he was talking to a thing anymore. She felt a heck of a lot like a being.

“The other requirement,” he said. “For being a knight. You said there was political stuff. But also one other requirement. I’d like to know what it is.”

So I can avoid ever meeting it.

“Oh that. They’re wizards sacrificing massive amounts of authority, their lives, and enduring sometimes torturous pain for the sake of others. It’s not like they’re going to go through all of that only to take a bunch of dumb little skills that let them arrange flowers or shoot fireballs or fluff pillows. They can do that nonsense with a spell and a bit more time and effort. And spreadingyour authority over fifty different itty bitty talents isn’t how you slice something the size of a moon in half, you know?”

“I heard it was an eleventh of a moon.”

“Thegund is a big moon.” She stretched her legs out in front of her and wiggled her toes at him. “Anyway, most Knights can afford a few supplementary talents for their own convenience, but those aren’t important. Defending the universe is all about having that one useful, well-designed, infinitely expandable skill to funnel all of your power into. As long as you don’t choose one of those, nobody will be interested in—”

She paused and then gasped dramatically.

“You’re making fun of me,” said Alden, astonished to find himself saying something like that in this situation. “You’re a mean System. I didn’t even know Systems could be mean.”

A monocle appeared in her free hand and she held it up to a pink eye to exam him.

“Avowed skill number one hundred and twelve,” she said. “Designed at a time when the Knights were fewer and weaker, and many believed they would not be able to push back the chaos without help. Potentially powerful, of course. But not intended for solo combat. You’ve been thinking of your skill as something simple, but its creators admired it most for its versatility. You’ll see if you choose to develop it. It’s capable of supporting a number of other skills in interesting ways.”

She tossed the monocle away.

“They had so much trouble choosing nice poetic names for most of the originals. But not this one.”

A complicated sigil appeared, glowing in bright blue light on the television screen. It was a circle full of dizzying geometric patterns that seemed to shift slightly every time Alden tried to follow them with his eyes. Two bright dots shone on either side of it, barely touching the circle’s perimeter.

“One twelve,” she said. “The Bearer of All Burdens.”
