The unseen bell tolled again. Someone sitting on the bottom level of seats stood and walked to the center of the snow-covered grounds. A single line of footprints was left in his wake.

It was too far to see his face clearly, but Alden recognized him by his hair. A shade of purple so pale it was nearly white. The Primary.

When he reached the center of the field, he stopped.

“Good morning,” he said. The man’s volume was ordinary, and yet it carried all the way to the stands where Alden sat beside his son. “I am honored to serve with you all. And to serve those of you who must leave us today. Thank you for helping us to hold onto the frayed strands of our unraveling universe. Please rise if you have chosen to make your final sacrifice for us.”

The bell sounded.

People stood. Alden counted eleven of them.

It was so quiet, he could hear the whisper of the light snowfall. Beside him, Stuart had stopped breathing. He looked down at the boy and saw his eyes fixed, unblinking, on a girl who couldn’t have been that much older than Alden was now.

As young as eighteen or nineteen maybe, even though she was in the full knight uniform instead of the quilted coat.

Her short-cropped hair was almost as white as the Primary’s. She was standing a few dozen yards to the right and below them, and as the bell rang again and the standing people began to walk down to join the Primary on the field, she glanced over her shoulder to look at Stuart just once.

It was the briefest exchange. She had dark circles under her eyes and a heartbreakingly wounded expression on her face.

Stuart made a small sound in the back of his throat.

Don’t you dare, a voice whispered in Alden’s ear. Don’t you dare make her feel guilty.

Stuart flinched. He stopped breathing again.

Alden saw the instructor for the class moving his mouth without making a sound. He thought the man was still magically whispering in Stuart’s ear, but it must have been something Alden didn’t need to hear.

I don’t think I needed to hear any of this, he thought as he watched eleven people walk across the snow. I don’t think I need to see any of this. I think whatever this day was, it belonged to them. It was never meant for me.

The girl who looked like the Primary was not the youngest. There was a boy around her age, too. The others were all older, though none of them were visibly old. Nobody in the crowd was. Alden assumed the knights probably all had access to healers capable of rejuvenation. If the Velras could manage it on Earth there was no way incredibly important Artonans couldn’t.

The eleven stood in a line before the Primary. He approached the first woman and held her hands in both of his.

“May-en,” he said, in a steady voice that reminded Alden of how the man’s sister had been speaking to him just a short while ago. “How much you have given us. You have earned your rest. Thank you for your service.”

She fell to the ground dead.

There was not a single mark on her.

The Primary went down the line one by one.

Alden would have been thrown out of the stadium by the instructor if he were really present. He managed not to make a sound or flee, but he couldn’t stop himself from clenching his fists and looking away each time one of them fell.

It was so, so quiet. And that made it so much worse.

“Sina-art’h,” said the Primary, holding the pale-haired girl’s hands. “You have shone so brightly for us—”

Was there something different in his voice? Maybe. If there was, surely it was so well hidden that nobody could fault him for it.

Alden wanted to reach over and slap a hand over younger-Stuart’s eyes, just like he’d done that day by the lake with the mishnen.

“You have earned your rest. Thank you for your service.”

When the last person had fallen, the Primary turned and walked away. The ground of the stadium shifted, and tree roots slowly broke through the snow. Over the course of the next half hour, they pulled the bodies into the soil.

Alden watched Stuart watch it happen.

The other boy never let himself blink.

At last, as the class stirred around them and started to leave, Alden spoke. “The knights aren’t wizards.”

The Artonan woman appeared on the other side of Stuart like she’d been there all along.

“You finally noticed.”

“I haven’t had much experience with them, you know. I’ve only met two in real life, and they weren’t showing off their magic all that much at the time.”

“They are wizards. Very dedicated ones usually. Most of them consider the lifelong development of their magical knowledge to be part of their obligations, though it’s not technically part of their oath.”

“Right. Stu-art’h’s going to college. I should have said, ‘They’re not just wizards.’”

“No. They’re not.”

Stuart still wasn’t blinking. He wasn’t moving to follow the other kids out of the stadium. Alden could see the metal rings around his irises very clearly.

“The Primary and the Quaternary weren’t carrying tablets that night at the party. And they didn’t have glasses or eye rings or any of the other things I’ve seen Artonans using to access the System.”

“No.”

“The Primary just spoke to the Artona III Contract directly when he wanted to. He was annoyed with it for refusing to translate what he was saying to me.”

“He has a low tolerance for petty restriction.”

“I think I just saw him execute his own daughter,” said Alden, trying and failing to shove the memory of the girl’s face away from his mind. “And it didn’t look like something he wanted to do. I doubt he has tolerance for petty anything.”

“Sina-art’h,” she said. “Yes. She was one of his daughters. Very talented. It’s not fair to call it an execution.”

“What was it then?”

“An honorable release from something she could no longer bear. An escape that freed her from pain and allowed her to still be of service to those she loved. The remnants of her authority are gathered here, woven into the ground beneath us and the forest around us. Old magic. They become part of a ward against chaos.”

Alden stared down at the dark patches in the snow where the bodies had disappeared. “An escape…from her affixation.”

The woman nodded.

“She was an Avowed,” Alden said. “All the knights are. They don’t have the tech to connect to you because they don’t need it. They must have System interfaces like I do. And the Primary. Whatever he did just now to…release those people…. was magic. But I didn’t see anything that looked like him casting a spell. It was instantaneous. He was using a skill.”

Between them, kid Stuart suddenly slumped forward over his knees. His whole body started shaking.

“Can’t we give him some privacy?” Alden asked. “I don’t think he’d want me to see this.”

An instant later, he was back on the sofa in his old living room. His mug was in his hand. The television screen showed Kibby, her expression focused as she lit the promise sticks on top of Alden’s birthday seven-layer dip.

“You’re not quite correct,” the woman said. “Though both have their power bound into skills, Knights aren’t Avowed. Just as Avowed aren’t Knights. As an Avowed, you had very little choice when it came to having your authority bound—”

“No choice,” Alden said.

She considered him.

“Almost no choice,” she amended. “You may find it comforting to know that if you were given another option on that day, and granted full knowledge of what Avowed are in truth, you would still have chosen to accept the Contract. You wanted access to magic for your own reasons. There was no other way for you to have it, and there never would have been. At that point, the chances of you somehow awakening to the authority you possessed and learning to use it on your own were so infinitesimal that even this didn’t object to the deal.”

The many-faced Gorgon twinkled again on the tree.

“That doesn’t make it right.”

She shrugged. “Right and wrong, in the purely moral sense you mean now, aren’t mine to manage. And if they were, nobody of any species would enjoy my management. My morality would be based on a vastly more elaborate thought process than any organic mind is capable of.”

Alden sighed. He ate a few of the half-melted marshmallows off the top of the cocoa, and more appeared to replace them.

Finally, he said, “So, the point of that field trip—it was to drive home the fact that feeling your bound authority the way Knights do isn’t something to take lightly?”

“Correct.”

Alden’s auriad was still drifting around overhead, just out of reach.

“If you can take away my ability to feel it, why don’t you just do that for them?”

“The sense is still very new for you,” she said. “Even then, you’re almost too far along for me to erase it without erasing too much of you along with it. As it is, it will be an expensive procedure. For both of us. But my Alis asked me to pay you special attention, and she has earned a favor or two.”

My Alis.

“She was trying to get you to help me? When she said that stuff to me right before I teleported?”

“I don’t have access to her right now, but searching through your memory of her, I am sure she only hoped I would expend a little more energy than you are owed in order to facilitate the teleportation ritual she used. Which I did. But she didn’t realize you were in the process of making yourself so unique. If she had known, she would have wanted me to spare a bit more of my efforts for you. So I shall.”

“How many Knights choose to be…no, I guess that doesn’t matter. You’re playing around inside my existence right now, aren’t you? Can you tell if I’m not going to be able to stand it over the long term?”

“Oh!” She looked delighted. “Earth was wrong about you. That’s rare.”

Alden frowned at her.

“It said you wouldn’t ask for my advice. It said you would feel overly directed, deprived of individualism, and less satisfied with your decisions if I made recommendations.”

That doesn’t sound like me at all. Was I really like that?

“I’ve made a lot of life-or-death decisions for myself with zero help since Earth last talked to me,” Alden said. “They’re not fun. I promise I’m not going to feel deprived of individualism if you tell me what choice is going to keep me sane.”

“If you want the highest chance of survival, job satisfaction, and overall future happiness, you should give up your authority sense,” she said promptly.

The auriad disappeared.

“However, when I rewrite you, some other things will go with it.”

Ornaments began disappearing from the tree. The planet Kimnor, a glass orb that contained the green-white flash of the lab exploding, a promise stick lit and glowing like a candle among the branches.

Alden’s breath caught. He looked back at the television. Kibby was gone.

“No,” he said.

“You will not feel sorrow because you will not miss her. It’s not even like amnesia. I would have to be far more thorough than that. But it won’t hurt. And you won’t feel the pain of your bound authority in the future. And your life will be much simpler, and more pleasant, moving forward.”

“You’re talking about making me a different person.”

“You will be a different person after your upcoming affixation anyway. I am offering you a choice about which different person you want to live as. It’s not something I will be able to do for you again in the future.”

“It’s not even a choice!”

“I let you argue this point earlier. But here I will disagree with you. This is a moment in which you choose. You have bought this option for yourself through actions that endeared you to my Alis. I have done my best to show you the gravity of your decision. Don’t pretend that your hand is being forced in order to distance yourself from the responsibility.”

Alden made himself calm down. He tried to think about it. Really. What it would be like to just go back to who he had been, a little stronger maybe. With his skill feeling like nothing but a gift. He could see how it would make him happy. But…

“I’m not going to choose to rewind to a different version of myself without my memories of the past half a year.”

“You could, though.”

He stared at the television screen. It was blank now, but he almost thought he could see through it to that moment when the last traces of the bodies were dragged beneath the snow.

“Yes,” he said finally. “I could. But I don’t want to.”

Something liquid soft and familiar settled against his left wrist, and he looked down to see the auriad wrapped there like a bracelet. It felt just as comforting and essential to him as it had ever since he’d finished bonding with it.

He considered it for a while then turned back to the woman on the sofa. “I don’t have to join the Knights of the Mother Planet now, do I? You were just using them as an example of people with skills and wizardry, right? It’s not the only option?”

“You don’t like them?” she asked with a pout in her voice. “They keep the universe in one piece. You have wondered before why even the highest ranking humans are called so infrequently for combat assignments. It’s partly because the Knights are the more qualified, and therefore the preferred, first line of defense. Without them, the Triplanets would be using the supply of Avowed very differently. Even the factions that fear you would not be designing so many charming little nothing talents for you. Or wasting your skills on serving drinks. And you would live—if you lived at all—in a significantly darker world.”

