She dropped the last two charges of her wand into her mage and one of the acolytes as she flared with the holy light of Devotion and unleashed everything she had at the eye demon. But with her drake pinning it down in the corner, and her healers taking turns in the Inspiration circle, the Eye of Agnor slowly lost ground – and with Ali disrupting most of the teleportation magic, the demons running amok in the cavern slowly dwindled and eventually they burned through the enormous health pool of the raid demon.

You have defeated Eye of Agnor – Demon – level 152 (Arcane / Hellfire)You have defeated Xammath [Desecrator] – Pit Lord – level 160 (Blood / Hellfire)

She mopped her forehead, having to read the lines three times before she could believe she’d won. Ugh, that was ugly. Uh… anything else?

What followed was a ringing cascade of kill notifications for lesser demons, but the two most important ones were dead, and the blood and hellfire cavern soon fell silent. Ali slowly turned to survey the destruction. Black flame and burnt slime still dripped from the walls everywhere she looked. Blood splatters decorated everything – her monsters, the ceiling, the walls – in fact, the only thing that wasn’t covered with blood were the minions who had been standing in the Immolation of the Eye of Agnor.

Ali felt a sudden rush of relief as the kobold acolytes finally managed to cure the remnants of the Pit Lord’s Corrupted Blood, and her warped and blurry vision slowly stabilized. She was breathing hard and soaked with blood and sweat, and all she had done throughout the fight was inscribe some runes and summon a dragon, but this had been by far the hardest battle she had ever faced.

Well, except for him, she thought, recalling her defiance in the face of Azryet’s wrath. Although she wasn’t entirely sure hiding behind a barrier while it was eroded by a god-tier dragon’s breath counted as ‘fighting.’

She didn’t appear to be in any immediate danger, so she flew across to the enormous corpse lying partially submerged in blood. The first thing she did was to deconstruct Xammath’s enormous war glaive that still stuck up out of the corpse of her dragon. Her Scion of Azryet had been the tipping point in the battle – without the sheer power of the void dragon, she would have been wiped out easily. As it was, the Abyssal Dragon and the Devouring Consumption had fought the Pit Lord to a standstill. She deconstructed the black dragon.

Thanks for the void damage, she thought wryly. She couldn’t wait to show this dragon to Havok.

Placing a tiny hand on the shoulder of the Pit Lord, she activated her magic, careful not to get any of his obviously potent blood on her. It was the second Pit Lord she was deconstructing, but she had no desire to face another just for a chance to get the imprint – she knew precisely how fortunate she had been with the environment, and her Devouring Consumption – a situation she wasn’t sure she could ever duplicate. Maybe Azryet will let me spend some time in that graveyard again. The huge demon corpse evaporated into mana, leaving behind several reagents that splashed her as they dropped into the pool of blood. Following her mana sight, she fished them out, wiping the blood off on her already blood-smeared robes and storing them carefully.

Demon Core.Greater Hellfire Essence x2.Crystallized Pit Lord Blood x7.

Ali studied the warped and twisted remains of her blood shaman carefully – somehow ripped from her control by the corrupting power of the Pit Lord and made to serve her enemies. It had also warped the troll into a horribly twisted monster – a mockery of its previously proud troll heritage. She deconstructed it too, deciding it was a fitting way to dispose of the loyal minion. Besides, she knew just how bad of an idea it was to leave corpses in a hostile dungeon – at least she knew what she would do with them, and she had no desire to face hordes of demonic troll shamans in the future.

Then she flew over and hovered above the collapsed spheroid shape of the Eye of Agnor. This is my third one. She felt a sense of anticipation and nervousness – by all rights, none of them were the same variant, but her Grimoire had surprised her before. She felt the subtle flow of her magic entering the demon’s corpse, and slowly it evaporated into mana.

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Immunity (Void).Domain Magic analyzed: Immunity (Holy).Domain Magic analyzed: Curse Aura (Fire Vulnerability).Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.

Ali could scarcely believe the notification. She stared at it for a few moments, but it stubbornly refused to disappear. Without needing to think about it any further, she quickly gave up one of her precious free chapters and received the notification she had been hoping for.

Variant: Eye of Agnor added to Imprint: Demon.

I can make it.

On the ground where the corpse had been, she found another demon core among the essences. It was clearly a high-level reagent of some kind, so she carefully collected it, hopeful that she would eventually be able to return and sell it to Weldin, or at least discuss it with Thuli or Lydia. Or maybe Azryet has a use for it.

Demon Core.Greater Arcane Essence.Greater Hellfire Essence.

“Miss?” Azryet’s scout approached cautiously, interrupting her while holding a strange stone artifact in his hand. It was a disk-shaped object with runes inscribed on both surfaces. “My master will be pleased to hear of your success, but I recommend we leave as soon as possible. This victory will not have gone unnoticed.”

“We can go as soon as I deconstruct all my dead minions,” Ali said. “I assume we go back the same way we came?” She continued deconstructing everything that had been killed, not wanting to leave anything for the demon dungeon to consume, but the thought of fighting her way back through an alerted god-tier dungeon, this time without a level three hundred Devouring Consumption, left her more than just a little worried. She paused, considering the option of summoning a fresh Devouring Consumption and having it clean the chamber for her. It would start at level 100 this time.

“That will not be necessary,” the scout said. “I brought a Hearthstone.” And with that, he activated the stone artifact with his mana, and a huge runic circle appeared on the ground. “Step inside when you are ready; it will take all your minions, too.”

Ali’s eyes widened at the sight of the novel spell formation. Ooh! That looks useful! I wonder if I can learn it?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
