Erick stepped from the twilight of Spur onto a dark, grassy hill, lit by stars, the moons, and a far off glow on another high hill, and another, and another. All around Erick, every hill on the surrounding endless prairie was topped with stone towers, some small and singular atop their hill, some large and crowded, with peaks and raised porches, every one of them looking like organized piles of legos, or stone trees. Sunlightwards glowed in the air around the bases of those towers and on streets of muddy dirt that connected one hill to the next. Men and women in armor poked up here and there among the crenelations, like birds in stone trees, each of them holding spears, watching the night. Several of them watched Yetta and Erick and their whole party as they arrived on the grassland.

Erick would never have seen any of that without [Ultrasight]; he needed to level all of that up to [Hunter's Instincts] as soon as possible.

A cold wind blew across his small party, snaking into Erick’s loose desert attire, bringing with it the smell of freshly tilled dirt, and the whispering night. People in those stone trees were up and awake; some talking about war, some talking about food. Erick would have listened more, but Yetta, dressed in nicer yellow leather armor than what Erick remembered, and Jane, in her midnight [Conjure Armor], were both looking at Ophiel on Erick’s shoulder.

Yetta tore her eyes away from the winged, eyed creature, saying, “Welcome to Odaali-in-Exile, Archmage Flatt.” Her voice was strong. “We will be having a small get together with the appropriate people, like I explained, if you do not mind.”

“I’m good for anything,” Erick said.

Yetta nodded, saying, “Thank you.” Yetta glanced at Erick’s clothing. She said nothing. “If you would follow me.” She began walking down the hill.

Erick tugged at his clothes. What was wrong with them? Sure, they weren’t the nicest things he owned, but they weren’t farm-clothes. Who was he meeting, anyway? Army people? They shouldn’t care.

Yetta began walking down the hill.

Erick followed Yetta down the hill to a dirt road nestled between the grasses of the prairie, casually surrounded by Teressa, Poi, and Rats; they were forming a perimeter around him. Erick felt a bit nervous at needing to be surrounded by guards, but Jane walked at his side, and that made him feel better. When they got to the dirt road, Yetta turned on her [Cleanse Aura], turning tiny bits of the land here and there into thick air. Now why was she doing that? Erick felt a bit more nervous than before, guessing that Yetta was protecting them from stray killing clouds of dead air; this must be why all the buildings were on top of hills, on top of towers.

Erick quietly asked Jane, “How’s it been?”

Jane sent, ‘We’re being watched.’

‘Well duh. How bad is it?’

‘Not that bad. I’ve already caught people testing my ability to find them sneaking into my rooms; [Greater Shadowalk] has a lot of new applications; I’m still learning. I don’t think the spies are a problem, but they are annoying. And what the hell is that thing on your shoulder?’

Eyes had blinked open everywhere across Ophiel’s tiny body; the little guy was taking in sights from everywhere. He watched as Yetta’s thick air played in the wind flowing across the grassland. He extended his wings, feeling the sky move around his little place in the world.

Erick sent her an image of Ophiel’s blue box, sending, ‘I made my [Familiar].’

Jane read the spell description, sending, ‘You made a damned angel, Dad. What the hell!’

‘Veirdly angels are people, Jane. Ophiel won’t be mistaken for an angel here, at all.’

‘You know what I mean!’

'Yes, I do.'

Erick smiled as their group reached a stretch of the dirt road that was different than what came before, it was slightly darker. Yetta’s [Cleanse Aura] billowed thick wind everywhere. What had just happened?

Erick didn’t have much time to ponder that, though. No one seemed nervous except for him, and Ophiel tittered; kneading Erick’s shoulder with its wings, touching Erick with a tendril of [Telepathy], asking a wordless question about flying.

Erick sent back, ‘No. You have to stay here with me. You can go flying later.’

Ophiel seemed to focus on their surroundings, his wings folding down against his sides. Maybe he had picked up on Erick’s nervousness. Ah. That wasn’t good. Erick wanted a strong [Familiar]; he tried to put on a stronger persona, standing up straighter. Ophiel seemed to stand taller on his shoulder, following Erick’s example.

Jane sent, ‘It’s not a real angel, is it?’

‘It’s not a real anything; just a mana construct. That was Sizzi’s opinion, anyway, and I’m starting to think so, too. It’s starting to pick up small mannerisms, but they’re only the mannerisms I expect it to have.’

Jane looked at Ophiel, sending, ‘I hope it helps keep you out of danger.’

‘We’re all in danger, all the time, Jane. Ophiel here will help me survive it.’

Jane smiled a little, as she looked out into the night.

Erick changed the subject by asking Yetta, “Why the [Cleanse Aura]? Are we that close to the front lines?”

Yetta said, “There’s no sewer system here; all of this went up three weeks ago, and it’s constantly being expanded.”

“… Oh.” Erick looked at the brown dirt path. “Want me to [Stoneshape] this path to raised stone?”

“No. I want this place to be as temporary as possible. I would have preferred huts.” Yetta said, “But some people have different ideas of what is necessary.” She pointed to a hill two hills away, to a taller tower than most crowded with a small, ornate palace on top. White stone shimmered under brilliant light orbs; warm lights pouring up and out of an interior courtyard, coloring the night sunlight-yellow. A mishmash of towers ringed the central, unseen courtyard. “Duchess Wilhelmina Dominair and Duke Cyril Odaali are waiting for us in the Temporary Palace, along with several other important people, as I explained.” She glanced back. “I have to ask: What is that thing on your shoulder?”

“A [Familiar].” Erick said, “I made him six hours ago, so he’s still learning.”

Erick suddenly remembered that he still had learning to do, too; he had gotten quite a few points from leveling off of the yellow wyrm. He allocated 10 points into Willpower, in preparation for an expensive battle to come.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 45, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 41,094,128,156/183,631,190,300

Class: 6/6

Points: 6

HP

1020/1020

1020 per day

MP

3240/3840

15,360 per day

Strength

20

+14

[34]

Vitality

20

+14

[34]

Willpower

50

+14

[64]

Focus

50

+14

[64]

Favored Spell waiting!

As his mana ticked up and his two All-Stat rings remained at 8 and 6, a gentle feeling of expansion sunk into his soul. The night seemed a bit brighter; a bit warmer. Like something inside of him had ticked one more measure toward balance. Erick smiled as he touched Ophiel’s wings. The little guy wasn’t quite as stiff as the last time Erick petted him; he pushed into Erick’s touch, like a dog enjoying a pat.

Erick asked Yetta, “Will I be expected to speak?”

Yetta answered without turning, “A little. I suspect most people are sticking around this late just to get a glimpse of you, or maybe to talk, and then they’ll start heading home.”

Erick suddenly said, “I’m sorry, Yetta. I did not think that Ar’Kendrithyst would be that dangerous.”

Yetta kept her face forward. She walked in silence for a little while, but eventually said, “I know you didn't think it would.” She sighed, then said, “But you’re here now, and we will take back my home.”

Erick said, “Of course. It will be done, and it will be done swiftly.”

Yetta stared forward, saying, “I hope so.”

Erick sent to Poi, ‘How are we doing?’

‘Good so far.’ Poi walked beside Erick, sending, ‘People are watching and there’s at least two invisible people around us, trailing our path, but they don’t seem to be hostile.’

Erick kept a straight face, and sent, ‘See? I can keep a straight face.’

‘Very good, sir,’ Poi sent, a hint of amusement to his thoughts.

As they approached the white tower, the gentle sounds of music carried on the wind. Ophiel perked up; Erick told him to settle down. The sounds of violins, cellos, flutes, and smaller voices carried on the air, growing stronger as Erick walked up to the white stone-tree tower palace.

Yetta led the way to a three-meter wide staircase that wound around the base of the tower. Two men in white armor stood at the base; they stood straighter as Yetta stepped up the dirt path, coming toward them, and the palace. Yetta paid no attention to the guards; she started right up the curving, white staircase.

Erick, Jane, Poi, Rats, and Teressa, followed; dirt knocking off of their boots as they ascended behind Yetta. The path circled the tower, flowing up into the center, past murder holes and through open stone gates, into a space of stone and light; a castle courtyard a hundred feet in the air, complete with small fountains, gentle voices, and a get-together already waiting for Erick and his people.

A small band played to the left of the staircase, scattering music into the air. Ophiel hugged onto Erick’s shoulder, seemingly excited at the music and at everyone, a dozen eyes fully open and flipping around to stare at everything and every person. Erick felt like his inner child was sitting upon his shoulder; he too, felt excited at the prospect of visiting kings and queens. It didn’t really matter that an assassin who tried to kill him was linked to these people; Erick felt nervous and giddy all at once.

Past the landing at the top of the stairs began an open-air veranda-courtyard, filled with sunlight orbs. It was a space large enough for a hundred people, and there were at least that many in attendance. Humans filled the space, from pale to dark, blond to black, they were all dressed in fine suits or fine dresses. Jewelry sparkled in the light. Some wore polished armors with dress swords or maybe real swords at their hips. Wine glasses abounded; some were drinking dark red, others drinking a pale sparkling yellow. People spoke under arches to the side of the courtyard, or around standing tables here and there. The music did not stop at Yetta’s entrance, but several people turned Yetta’s way, to look at Erick and his entourage.

A guard— No. A butler, in black and white, just to the side of the entrance, asked, “Your bags?”

Teressa said, “We can do that ourselves; just point the way.” She turned to Erick, whispering, “I’ll take yours and Poi’s.”

Poi was already handing Teressa his pack. Erick did the same. People at the party were glancing at him, while some openly stared. Teressa and Rats vacated down a side hallway, away from the party, Rats giving one last glance toward Erick that seemed full of ‘I’m glad I’m not going into that’.

And just like that, Erick’s party was down to just Jane and Poi. Yetta was already stepping into the party, but she stopped short, seven feet from Erick. Cyril, decked out in white and gold clothes more expensive-looking than usual, was standing up from a table nearby, set up at the top of a tier of the slightly stepped courtyard. He walked toward Yetta. At his side at the table had been a woman similarly expensively attired, but done up in green. Emeralds and gold lined her brown hair and her thick-fabric regency dress. She looked twice Cyril’s age; maybe even older than Erick. The woman strolled alongside Cyril, toward Yetta and Erick.

The music ceased, as Cyril and the woman stepped to what was probably an appropriate distance from Yetta. The entire gathering was looking their way.

Yetta announced to the rapt audience, “Presenting Archmage Erick Flatt, planar human, here to assist in the assault on the devils inhabiting our homes; to kill those who created the abominable Daydropper.”

Yetta yielded the floor to Erick as all eyes turned on him.

Erick was still processing if Yetta had just roped him into killing people, as he said, “[Withering] will not work through a [Weather Ward]. If someone has set up [Weather Ward]s, someone else will need to pop them. The spell will target anyone and anything with a rad inside, so if you have intestinal rads you should not be a part of the assault. If there is no 10 mana rad inside of a person, or a monster, then the spell does nothing.” He added, “I hope rebuilding after this tragedy goes well for everyone.”

Several small claps passed around the late-evening party.

The music started up again, and with a bit of [Perfect Hearing], Erick heard some of the conversations that resumed; they were about him. But the woman in green and Cyril were stepping closer, and he could not listen to the wagging tongues of others any longer. Poi was at Erick’s back, Jane was at his side, and that was a good enough security blanket as he was going to get in this strange land.

In a speaking voice, Yetta personally introduced, “Crown Prince Cyril Odaali, and his grandmother, Duchess Wilhelmina Dominair, Lady of the High Court, eighth cousin of the Viridian King, his Majesty Drundi Raivo.” She remained where she stood.

Cyril said, “Welcome to the Greensoil Republic, Archmage Erick Flatt.”

Erick sent to Poi, ‘Is it proper to bow, here?’

‘I would never bow to these people.’

Wow! Okay, Poi. Erick wasn’t going to get any help from him, so he just said, “Thank you for having me.”

Yetta put forth, “I would like to discuss the battle plan for tomorrow. Now.” She added, “Where is Captain Denarth?”

“Yetta.” Cyril tried, “The battle isn’t starting until the day after tomorrow.”

