Everyone went their separate ways, but Erick remained in the living room, working on his spells and abilities, occasionally checking in at the farm.

And then he realized that he had taken Yetta’s [Gate] to get here. How was he supposed to rain at Spur’s farms tomorrow, when he had no known [Teleport] path to get home? He could probably rely on Yetta to make another [Gate] for a copy of Ophiel to fly through, but that seemed like a poor solution to what looked to be a longstanding problem.

So he created another Ophiel, and gave them all [Teleport].

Erick sent the third Ophiel up into the sky, and then west, using the [Familiar]’s innate [Scry] to ride on his shoulder for a little while. Ophiel loved the open night sky, with stars above and wind flowing strong. He sang to the world as he [Teleport]ed west, over prairie, over forest and vast, never-ending mountains, above ice capped peaks and over the Crystal Forest, with Crystal Agave and mimics glittering in the night. They witnessed land and sky that neither of them had ever seen before.

It was a nice trip. They stopped at several interesting locations and cast hundreds of spells; Erick leveling up some other things that he had neglected until now, but that he would need for the battle tomorrow.

Erick and Ophiel also got hopelessly lost.

After an hour or two of exploratory [Teleport]ing, Ophiel finally managed to get close enough to Spur that a [Teleport] to ‘above the house’, put the winged [Familiar] above the Human District. He let out a trill of happiness; he had found his destination! And then he [Teleport]ed away, super fast, because someone was firing some high-powered spell in his direction.

A rushed telepathic link from Poi struck Erick with, ‘What are you doing, sir! [Teleport]ing your creature into Spur like that!’

‘Finding the way home, Poi,’ Erick patted the Ophiel on his shoulder, sending, ‘He’s going to spend the night there, too, watching over the house.’

‘… Okay. They know, now.’ Exasperated, Poi sent, ‘Good night, sir.’

‘Good night, Poi! Thanks for always looking out for us.’

‘… You’re welcome. It is a pleasure.’

While Erick strung mana and [Exalted Storm Aura] to the Ophiel at Cyril’s Farm, going on what looked to be an appreciated hour number three, he directed the Ophiel closer to Spur to find the best way from there to the White Palace, while flashing out ornate [Conjure Armor]s and delicate [Conjure Item]s.

Soon, Erick had plotted a direct course between the White Palace and Spur, gotten a lay of the land, and seen exactly how much destruction the Daydropper had created out of Odaali.

- - - -

Ophiel hovered high in the cloudless, dark sky, [Ultrasight] and [Perfect Hearing] ticking down against his mana instead of against his HP, since he had none of the latter. With a hundred eyes, he gazed upon the enemy, and the enemy was vast.

White walls a dozen meters high and thousands long, surrounded a minor mountain, capped with bright white searchlights trained on the land outside. Erick focused on the outsides of the city, first.

Devastation and destruction laid everywhere, houses torn from their foundations, trees scattered, but there were no fires; fires didn’t survive under the blanket of dead air that dominated this land. Nothing lived out here except for daydroppers; nothing moved except the undead, and there were a lot of undead. As far as Ophiel could see, shambling corpses moved among the debris of their former lives, echoing pain into the sky, screaming; heard by no one but themselves, and Ophiel high above.

Larger undead monstrosities, amalgamations of bone and viscera, prowled in the darker places, watching the night with dozens of eyes scavenged from the dead. Ophiel saw as one of the horrors ripped out of its hiding hole to snatch a zombie that had gotten too close; munch crunch went the lesser undead, its mass added to the larger monster.

Ophiel turned to the white city. Someone had scrawled large black graffiti on the walls, reading ‘Kill and Exterminate Quest: Humans!’. Ophiel flew higher still, up above the searchlights pointed outward, to see into the darkened interior.

Ophiel [Teleport]ed higher still, as some fire magic engulfed it, but failed to do more than half of its [Personal Ward] in damage. Still, Ophiel needed to move faster, so Erick imbued him with [Swift Movement], and Ophiel flew faster, quicker, [Airshape] propelling him to be the wind and be just as untouchable. Fire lanced out from the city, streaming from unknown sources in the darkened city interior.

But it wasn’t dark. It was a [Distortion Ward], Erick recognized the characteristic Picasso-esque scattering of reality under the dark upper layer of the city’s airspace as a plume of fire snaked out from below that distortion, looking like a red static until it breached the surface and turned into a radiant animated fireball that flew into the sky, giving chase, racing to catch Ophiel.

Ophiel sang louder, violins and flutes booming out of the creature as it flapped and moved across the darkened, obscured undead city of Odaali, keeping ahead of the hungry flames.

Erick had seen enough; he couldn’t see anything.

Ophiel [Teleport]ed far away, one [Teleport] chasing the next, back toward Spur, leaving the screaming undead and destruction of Odaali far behind.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself after he left Ophiel at Spur.

Tomorrow was going to be a big day.

He checked on Ophiel-over-Cyril’s-farms; he was doing fine and happy, raining across people who needed food. This was hour four of the rain, and people were slowing down. The silos were getting full, and there was nowhere else to put all the growing grain. Erick dismissed that Ophiel; the rain was done, for now. Ophiel-over-Cyril’s-Farms went into non-existence with a gentle whisper of wind; now there were two Ophiel in total. Erick patted Ophiel, then went to bed.

Tiny Ophiel hung on to Erick’s headboard, watching over him as he slept, while also watching over the house in Spur.

- - - -

Breakfast was a quick affair, punctuated halfway through by Yetta who burst through the front door, shouting, “There will either be spellfire or there will be archmage blood spilled by my hand!”

Everyone was suddenly tense. Poi stood rigid over a stove of hashbrowns, while Jane casually set down the pancake she was grabbing. Teressa sighed out, catching Rats’ plate before it hit the ground.

Yetta yelled, “Give me your answer!”

“Fucking hell, Yetta!” Erick said, “I’ve already scouted the place and have a plan for killing not only the undead prowling around the outside of the city, but also the rest of it. Calm, please!”

Yetta stared at Erick. Poi poised for an assault, while shadows flickered behind Jane’s eyes.

Yetta looked around her, and said, “Fine. Start your assault when you are able. None of the other archmages are willing to go first.” She looked away, saying, “Sorry. It’s been a day, and it hasn’t even begun.”

Erick said, “I don’t pretend to understand what you’re going through, but I am here to help, and I am understanding in my own way.”

Yetta frowned. She said, “Start in on the outside of the city, whenever you are able. The other archmages will take their cue from you— and before you ask, no, they won’t share who they are or what they’re capable of, and if they think I am giving away their secrets, they will pull out of the fight.”

Erick nodded over his plate of eggs and bacon, saying, “I’ll begin the assault in one hour; and it will be very, very obvious.” He reluctantly said, “I hope I am as effective as you hope.”

“… I pray for that as well.”

She blipped away in a smattering of yellow light.

Erick breathed. He sighed and said, “I’m going to be defenseless while I’m doing this. Are we good to go?”

Jane asked, “So you went to Odaali last night? With Ophiel, I guess?”

“Just into the sky,” Erick said, as Poi sighed in the background. Erick continued, “High white walls, a dark [Distortion Ward] covering the whole city, undead prowling around outside.”

"So I guess it's time to talk of what I saw." Jane said, “It’s not just one [Distortion Ward], but thousands, and it’s not just blanketing the top of the city, but all the way throughout the whole space.”

Erick looked at Jane. “How much of Odaali did you already explore?”

“I've only seen about as much as any competent spy should be expected to see.” Darkness flickered from Jane's hands up around her body, as she said, “Spying is very easy, now. And I had all of yesterday, too.” She whispered, “I can see through this stuff.”

Teressa said, “Killzone is going to love that.”

Jane smiled. “He already knows, and you are correct.”

“… Can I get a map on this table, here?” Erick gestured at the breakfast table.

Jane said, “Yes.” She stabbed a hashbrown with her fork, adding, “After breakfast.”

Erick started summoning Ophiels outside of his window, saying, “That’s fine. I have to summon the full squad, anyway.”

Ophiel trilled as more and more of himself appeared beside himself, flying outside of the windows of Erick’s rooms at the White Palace. Erick let them go explore, for now. The battle would begin soon; there would be no time for peaceful flight when the spells started flying.

After his mana was back, and breakfast was over, Erick asked, "So tell me what you saw?"

Jane began, "So what I saw was this: The city is full of undead and living patrols..."

- - - -

Seven Ophiels flew in a cloudy sky, high above troops stationed on thick stone walls that cut through farmland and estates. The hastily erected stone barrier was the front line of the containment effort; it rose from the ground twenty kilometers away from Odaali, a full encirclement of the captured city, but even at that distance it was barely able to contain the undead and the daydroppers that spilled out of the white walled city.

On both sides of the wall, as far as Ophiel could see, was destruction. Past the wall, toward Odaali, was blackened ground and prowling undead terrors, but even on the defended side there was horrendous damage; the Coalition Army had had to push in toward the city, fighting all the way, destroying homes and town halls and everything that had taken hundreds of years to build, in order to take back the land and create the front line wall. But this was as far as they could go. The undead were too strong, the daydroppers too plentiful the closer one got to Odaali.

The front line wall had even been breached in several locations last night, but the Coalition Army pushed back the undead and took back the front line. Fires still smoldered on both sides of the barrier; oxygen was able to exist here, but not any closer to the city.

Ophiel flew high, across the barrier, spreading out as he traveled closer to Odaali, taking in the sights, getting a lay of the land in the daytime, while Erick decided on the best way to attack. The white walls rose twenty kilometers in the distance, but the fight was also right below.

In the daytime, Erick could clearly see the undead horde that had been raised out of the populace. Thousands of people stood everywhere, like desiccated corpses walking around on puppet strings, shambling and plodding from here to there, some barely clothed except with tatters, others in the armor they had likely died wearing. They strolled aimless, across most of the land, but directly underneath Ophiel, they looked up at the winged [Familiar].

With purple eyes gazing skyward, the horde underneath Ophiel took notice of the winged creature above, and they stopped being shambling, directionless creatures. They moved smoother, they walked faster, they tried to remain under Ophiel, but when they couldn’t, the horde up ahead was already staring at Ophiel.

There was some semblance of a hive mind in there, according to Jane, and it seemed to be true. Erick reflected it would have been nice for Yetta to speak about what she wanted out of the assault, of the best way to attack, but Yetta was probably herding her own cats right now. She expected Erick to see what needed to be done, and then do it. Erick hoped he lived up to that demand.

Ophiel flew forward and the landscape changed from blackened devastation, to devastation covered in green. Green vines blanketed the land, thickly covering the remnants of destroyed buildings, twining around dead trees, covering farm fences and roads, choking out groves of trees, while fragmented purple shards layered below the Daydroppers.

A dense magic held in the air; some variant form of [Airshape] that locked the underlying layer of dead air from blowing away, like an invisible smoke holding ten meters above the ground. If Ophiel were a breathing creature, it would be dead the second it flew below that layer of variant air. Luckily, it wasn’t, and it would never need to get that close, not for what came next.

Now was as good a time as any to start killing; he was far enough away from the front line wall. Erick would be using his own mana for this part.

A white orb materialized around the central Ophiel of the flock of seven. Thick air crashed outward, spilling hundreds of meters down to the ground, suddenly inundating the green and purple land ten kilometers in every direction. A riotous keening filled the air from all sides, as daydroppers suddenly withered and died. Plumes of clean air burst up through the layer of dead air, scattering thick air into the sky.

Ophiel spread out further, preparing to take evasive maneuvers, and fire back at anyone—

