“… If I figure it out and lock them down, would they give up? Or would they go down with the city?”

Jane giggled, and Opal went silent. Wilhelmina looked hopeful for half a moment, but quickly turned to resignation.

Wilhelmina said, “I doubt it. They’re prepared to die.” She sat a bit straighter. She said, “Forgive me my lack of decorum. Attack the city, any way you can. Let them blow it up if they wish. Depriving the enemy of a stronghold in the center of the Greensoil Republic is more important than saving a city that might never recover.”

Opal said, “I agree.”

Erick’s mana had mostly recovered, so he summoned four more Ophiels outside the window of the room. He was back down to low mana; he needed to wait to recover. He asked, “So? The plan?”

Opal said, “The upper reaches of the city are layered with [Weather Ward]s and—”

“Wait.” Erick said, “Could I [Grow] the Queen Vine instead? Have it turn on its masters?”

The room went quiet again.

Opal said, “You would likely get added to the Kill and Exterminate Quest.”

“Ah.” Erick said, “Never mind that idea, then.” Erick had another idea. “How about producing a plant that is parasitic with the daydropper, neutralizing its ability to create dead air? And then I [Grow] that one?”

Opal hummed. “What were you thinking?”

Wilhelmina did not look hopeful; she just looked more resigned.

“A [Cleanse] vine,” Erick said.

Opal hummed again. She said, “The danger in attempting to create such a thing is that you create another problem for the environment, and besides: whose version of [Cleanse]? A plant might grow and mutate into applying [Cleanse] in a way you will never expect. It might view the bacteria in the human body as an infection. Or worse: it might grow to view humans themselves as an infection. That could be worse than the daydropper. People have been making and dying to monstrous plants for a long, long time, because those plants almost always turn on their creators, and then themselves. The Daydropper is among those that do not follow this trend, and so we are in the middle of a Kill and Exterminate Quest to get rid of it.” Opal’s sphere rotated once. She said, “A [Cleanse] vine is a bad idea. Creating a magical plant should only ever be done under controlled conditions and with priests of Atunir in attendance and in approval; never on the battlefield.”

Erick’s mana was full enough, for now. He said, “Then no [Cleanse] Vine.” He had another idea, “How about normal rain? And then I freeze the Queen Vine with multiple layers of [Wintry Sea]?”

“Oh?” Opal hummed. “Maybe?” The orb stilled.

Everyone waited for her to speak again.

The opalescent orb dropped to the table and rolled a foot, coming to a stop on a wrinkle on the map.

“Uh.” Rats asked, “Was that supposed to—”

The orb righted itself, floating into the air, Opal’s voice coming out of it, “I just checked. Freezing the Queen Vine might explode the ordinance, or defuse them. They’re using high-grade Tower designs popularized five years ago over on Nelboor, and those things worked well all up and down that war-tossed continent." She hummed. She said, "Colder temperatures do negatively impact the explosive yield of rad-bombs, either way. It’s a toss-up; I have no idea if this will work.”

“Do it.” Wilhelmina said, “I give you permission. Those bombs did not work so well in the winter, Opal. Check your sources again.”

"I guess I will!" Opal asked, "We’re going with this plan?”

"Yes," Wilhelmina demanded, a spark of hope in her voice.

“Yes,” Erick agreed.

“Tenebrae has been notified.” Opal said, “He’ll do his thing once we’ve started the attack. This is what we’re going to do...”

- - - -

Far and away, south of Odaali, but within sight of the city, seven Ophiel [Teleport]ed into existence, each holding rocks that had been anchored with area [Absorption Ward]s provided by people with more than enough mana to spare to create powerful area protections. Each Ophiel also gently flickered white with [Personal Absorption Ward]s. Three of the Ophiel held opal orbs, in addition to their [Ward]ed rocks.

The sky in the north was a hurricane of Force shards, flowing from left to right, whistling loud. The [Shard Storm] touched the clouds and ripped across the land. All inside of that dangerous sharp space, under the storm, undead were piecing together, like piles of body parts reconnecting, but waiting to stand up until after the storm was gone. Around the undead, green growth blanketed out from crevices, across destroyed houses, shedding purple fragments as the new daydroppers grew ever larger.

Ophiel flew directly up, staying well outside of the [Shard Storm].

Another [Teleport] brought the whole flock into the high, high sky, directly above Odaali. They were kilometers up, but still the [Shard Storm] reached this far. [Force Shrapnel] buffeted them, but they maintained position, their area [Absorption Ward]s doing heavy work. If they had teleported directly above the city, this tactic would have failed, but the [Shard Storm] was weaker up here where the churn of shards was less directed, less whipping around the center with sustained force.

Far down below, past the [Shard Storm], lay Odaali, a dozen kilometers wide, situated around a minor mountain and layered with black [Distortion Ward]s and [Weather Ward]s, and more.

Opal’s orbs pulsed, the energy of the pulse taking a second to reach the city below. All across the blackened roof of layered [Ward]s, holes appeared, exposing the towers and buildings of the city. The orbs kept pulsing, popping every type of [Ward] except absorption; like throwing darts at a wall of balloons at a county fair.

All seven of Ophiel cast [Wintry Sea] after [Wintry Sea], dropping glittering blue spells through the [Shard Storm], into the city, into the holes opened up by Opal, while Erick cast [Call Lightning] after [Call Lightning].

The sky was already filled with Force shrapnel, but now it filled with dark, foreboding clouds. Rain started almost immediately, falling down into the [Shard Storm], clouds and rain carrying away on the twisting wind.

But the clouds piled higher and higher. Lightning flashed. All seven Ophiel were in the middle of the thunderhead, now. Rain flowed, stronger and stronger.

A bomb cyclone formed over Odaali, at Erick's command. Night overtook the day.

And still, Erick cast [Call Lightning] into the skies above Odaali. And still, Opal popped [Wards].

Ophiels started disintegrating under the force of the [Shard Storm]; one gone, two then three. When only two were left, Erick stopped focusing on [Call Lightning] in order to funnel mana into the remaining Ophiels. Opal’s orbs shattered; Ophiel was alone in the sky, while Erick rapidly tried to save them from disintegrating.

Something shifted in the [Shard Storm].

As lightning charged through the thunderstorm all around Ophiel, the [Shard Storm] suddenly dropped, its radius lost by over half. Some important thing had broken inside the city. Ophiel was now outside of the spell, but still over Odaali; now hidden in the roiling thunderstorm.

Ophiel dropped down to get a look at the city and ran right into the maws of two flying fire snakes.

He disintegrated to fragments of mana in an instant.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself.

A display screen hung in the air to the side of the room, projecting the battle of Odaali for everyone around him, and from this perspective, Erick wondered if he would ever be the same after seeing what he was capable of causing.

White walls rose in the distance, but they were frosted over. Spikes of ice crashed up and out of Odaali, growing taller and thicker under a deluge from above, like a river had opened up in the sky and turned into icebergs as it hit the city.

Wilhelmina stared at the image. Rats and Teressa were looking from Wilhelmina’s guard, who had his hand on his sword, to Erick. Teressa’s full helmet was on; Erick had no idea what she was thinking. But Rat’s redscale face was openly slack, tiny ‘wows’ and ‘oh my gods’ escaping from his mouth. Poi stood near Erick, watchful.

Jane broke the near silence, saying, “Well fuck. That’s quadratic mage for you.”

“It’ll stop raining in seven minutes,” Erick said, trying to negate some of the reality he was seeing. “It’s not that— It’s not...”

Jane asked, “Can other mages do that? How do you guys still have civilization when this is possible?”

Wilhelmina said, “Archmages are few and far between because most are not capable of combining magic into...” Her voice faltered, “Into a force like this.”

Jane said, “Well damn.”

“How many [Call Lightning]s is that, sir?” Poi asked.

“Uh. Twenty. I think.”

Opal’s voice came out of the viewing screen, “Here comes Tenebrae.” She added, “The Queen Vine is active, some bombs have detonated; most have not. It appears you were right, Wilhelmina. Those bombs don't work so well in the winter." She added, "Oh! The Halls of the Dead have fled the field.”

The image moved slightly left.

Someone —Tenebrae, Erick suspected— had decided that they did not like living on the ground; so they made a floating castle. That floating castle, all solid grey stone and military-minded, hovered in the sky to the left of the white-walled city, staying well outside of the bomb cyclone and devastating blue spells wreaking havoc inside Odaali.

Erick said, “Now that’s impressive! A flying castle! I can’t do that.”

“Not yet,” muttered Rats.

Erick glared at the redscale, but Rats didn’t care; he was staring at the viewing screen. Erick looked back to the screen.

A monster stirred in the city.

Under the ice, cracking up through layers upon layers of frost, up into the freezing rain, flowed deeply green and purple vines, like trees growing a blizzard. Growing upward, rising into the sky, a hundred spiked branches of the Queen Vine flowed into the storm.

The [Shard Storm] suddenly contracted, gathering close to the vines, to the trees, churning around the Queen Vine like so many sawblades, carving away at the constricting ice, freeing the monster from its frozen prison. It thrashed into the sky, hundreds upon hundreds of meters long in every direction; violently powerful.

Coruscating beams of kaleidoscopic light flashed out from the entirety of the Queen Vine, pummeling into the grey castle.

The attack did not reach. The prismatic beams flashed against an invisible sphere surrounding the grey castle, reflecting randomly to splash across what remained of rural Odaali and into the sky, ripping up the land, tearing away the clouds.

An invisible pulse tore out of the grey castle, spreading in every direction, tossing dirt and debris, pressing back against Erick’s still raining [Call Lightning], but doing worse to the Queen Vine. Tendrils shredded, the sawblade spell faltered. The Queen Vine rippled as the grey castle advanced—

Wilhelmina stood, saying, “This location is no longer safe. The Halls are attacking.”

A boom echoed somewhere outside of Erick’s room. The viewing screen flickered and died.

Opal’s voice said, “Get out of there! Now!”

Everyone moved at once. Jane grabbed Erick; Erick grabbed Jane. Rats shouted that ‘It's time to go! Where, though?’ Erick had a location in mind. He flashed out another small Ophiel, to go with the one on his shoulder. He had enough hands like this to take everyone with him at once, including Wilhelmina and her guard.

Wilhelmina grabbed her guard’s hands, saying, “Yetta and Cyril are fighting the Halls of the Dead right outside; I suggest you stay out of their way. I’ll be in touch.”

The Duchess and her guard vanished in a blip of grey.

Erick reached for Jane and Poi, while Ophiel reached out for Teressa and Rats. Erick said, “Come on! I got a location scouted already.”

“Good enough for me.” Rats linked with Ophiel.

Everyone gathered fast as the whole building shook. Briefly, Erick held in the air, as the ground and the building all around them began to collapse under the guidance of some unknown force, but the [Teleport] situation had already been worked out. In a blip of white, Erick and his people left the crumbling White Palace.

- - - -

Erick, Jane, Poi, Teressa, and Rats, reappeared on the plains to the west. Nothing but flat green grasses stretched from one horizon to the next.

Jane let go of Erick’s hand, and said, “I love you, Dad, but if Yetta and Cyril are fighting back there I’ve got to go help them.”

Erick looked at Jane. He breathed. He said, “Okay. Be safe.”

Poi interrupted, “We’ll keep him safe, Jane.”

Jane looked like she was going to say something to Poi, but he beat her to it; Jane smiled, nodded, then said, “Thank you,” before vanishing in a blip of midnight blue.

A wind blew across the prairie.

The battle, and the Queen Vine, were far away. Erick, Poi, Teressa, and Rats were safe, but no one else was.

Was Erick okay with this?

No. He wasn’t, but he had to look after his own before he could secure everyone else.

Rats broke the silence with, “I knew you were an archmage, but seeing is different than believing. You iced that city!” He added, “Uh. Sir.”

Erick said, “Anyone could do that. Jane said it best: I don’t understand how your civilization hasn’t crumbled by now.”

Rats said, “Wilhelmina had it right; you literally invented every spell you used out there. No one else can do that.” Rats added, “And how much mana did you use this morning? Thirty thousand? More?”

Teressa said, “Ophiel has his own mana. So maybe fifty thousand, altogether.”

Rats said, “And you claim to not be a real archmage? Bah! You’re the archmagey-iest archmage that ever archmage’d. Uh. Sir.”

