Lances of light sparked up from the undead horde below, aimed at every Ophiel; Ophiel dodged, [Blinking] around under his own mana. With [Ultrasight] and a hundred eyes for each body, Ophiel saw every attack before it came near; evading came naturally to him. Ophiel was the flier; Erick was the gunner. Erick was thrilled Ophiel could dodge this well; this was so much easier than doing everything himself.

Erick maintained the [Domain of the Withering Slime], but went back to his body to check on a few things. He was sitting at the cleared kitchen table over a map of the city, and—

Wilhelmina sat on the other side of the table.

The Duchess said, “Good morning, Archmage.”

“Uh.” Erick looked around, then gestured at the map in front of him, saying, “I’m in the middle of… this.”

Rats delivered a cup of steaming tea to Wilhelmina, while Jane sat by Erick’s side and Poi stood behind him. Teressa was by the door, arms crossed, wearing her full body grey armor, standing next to a similarly armored man who was rather intimidating and probably a very large human, but who was still two feet shorter than Teressa.

“Don’t mind me.” Wilhelmina said, “I’m here to provide assistance to the only archmage who seems willing to attack. If you don’t need my help, then you don’t, but I would be remiss to not provide said help, when I am doing nothing but entertaining people who want a piece of the pie before it’s even come out of the oven.”

Erick checked his notifications while he listened to her, and yes, there were lots of Daydroppers dying as he fed his [Domain of the Withering Slime] into the battlefield.

Erick nodded, saying, “Okay. Then. Update: Withering is working well on the battlefield south of the city. Looks like I’ve already taken out… two hundred daydroppers, or more. Number is still going up. They’re all low level?” Erick looked over the notifications. “Maybe… level 20ish?”

Wilhelmina did not seem to take this news as good. She just calmly said, “The Queen Vine eats all of those who get above level 25; we discovered that rather early after establishing the front line. All the smaller undead are around that level, too. The larger ones are level 40, but we’ve only ever managed to kill two of those; they exist as a mind that moves from soul to soul, and can escape through the horde if there are any other nearby undead.”

Erick said, “Thank you for the information.”

Wilhelmina dipped her head, then lifted her face to look at Erick, saying, “Of course, Archmage. When I heard Yetta had just thrown you into the battle, I knew she wouldn’t have given you enough information about the forces you face. Yetta might be a Champion, but she was an adventurer for many, many years before this recent addition, and that is how those types are, unfortunately.” She added, “Feel free to question me about anything you might be seeing out there, at any point in time.”

Erick nodded; Jane had given him much of what he needed to know, but Wilhelmina would know more, if Erick needed more answers.

Erick went back to Ophiel.

Ophiel dodged lancing beams of white light with simple rolls and experienced [Blink]s, but with seven bodies and without Erick’s direction he had taken some large hits to his [Personal Ward]s. There were still seven Ophiel flying around, though. And Ophiel was getting better. He was gaining battle experience faster than he was losing integrity. Erick shored up the mana of several who were low, and then went on the offensive.

Down on the ground, the white beams were coming out of walking corpses without any real rhyme or reason; he would need to destroy a vast many of them. But as Erick watched, he saw that the attacking horde was getting better at attacking Ophiel. There were minds at work in that horde. Erick knew each of them was a human soul trapped in an undead body, working under the commands of those in the city, but it appeared some of the horde also maintained their intelligence into undeath.

Killing them was a philosophical question for another day.

Erick was far enough away from the front lines, and there were more than enough enemies here, that a [Wintry Sea] would likely stay in the area. Erick imbued the spell into Ophiel, and directed Ophiel to unload upon the undead.

Wintry Sea X, long range, 1 minute per level, 250 MP

A large designated space rapidly loses all heat, dealing <damage> to all inside. Damage from Wintry Sea automatically slows. <Wintry Sea attaches to those most affected by itself, and will switch to another target if the most affected target perishes>.

Glittering blue spheres of cold blossomed across the horde below. Seven at a time, three times in a row. Twenty-one orbs of blue glittered in the daylight, and raced off. Ice formed on the edges of fences and bricks. The effect upon the undead was immediate; legs broke off, frozen to the ground, while the body continued forward without control, smashing down, breaking into blackened chunks of frosty flesh and bone. [Wintry Sea]s rapidly scattered across the land, moving through the horde like hyperactive children, left and right and forward in lunges and spurts, focusing on a target long enough to break it, and then moving on. Within moments, the lancing white beams ceased. The horde in this small part of rural Odaali had been routed, but pieces of it still remained; the blue spells scattered fast and far while generally moving north, toward Odaali, following the largest concentration of undead but skipping some targets here and there for whatever indiscernible reason.

Ophiel followed the blue spheres north, keeping pace with them from the air as they ripped apart the undead, while the [Domain of the Withering Slime] cleaned up every daydropper in sight, the bursting [Cleanse] of every daydropper death carving ten meter holes in the purple droppings that layered the ground.

The manasphere shifted, as some massive spellwork took hold of the ambient mana. The sky churned. The air turned sharp. Sparks filled Erick’s vision—

He came back to himself, sitting across the table from Wilhelmina.

“Uh.” Erick tried to reconnect to Ophiel, but the seven at the battlefield were gone. One was still there in Spur, and another two were nearby; one on Erick’s shoulder and the other hovering high in the sky above, keeping several dozen eyes on everything around the White Palace. But the Ophiel Erick had sent into the city were destroyed in some massive spellwork. Erick said, “They killed all of them.”

Wilhelmina spoke, “Yes. The counterattack has begun. They’ve activated the Queen’s [Shard Storm].”

Erick touched the Ophiel on his shoulder; he seemed sad, but at Erick’s touch, he trilled out excitement. He was ready to go again. Erick would be ready to go, soon, too; as soon as his mana came back. He summoned the first of seven more Ophiel directly out of the window to his room, and sent a [Scry] orb high, high into the skies above the battlefield.

- - - -

A storm of something had filled the world; it immediately consumed Erick’s [Scry] orb.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself. “What the fuck?” He leapt out of his seat to look out the window.

Odaali was several hundred kilometers away, but with how high that something was—

Wilhelmina said, “I thought I would have seen it from here the first time she activated, too. But you can’t.” Wilhelmina explained. “We’ve cleared the lands surrounding Odaali of both undead and daydroppers twice before, but each time, once there is enough damage done to the surroundings, the Queen Vine activates her mana storm. It reaches out halfway to the front line and high into the sky, doing several small actions all the while killing everything that the Queen does not permit in her presence.”

Erick listened to Wilhelmina and sat back down, his mana recovered enough to pop out another Ophiel; so he did, right outside his window to join the other one.

She continued, “In some arcane, unknown order, it gathers the souls freed from destroyed undead, either creates or repairs the bodies destroyed and stuffs the souls back inside, and reseeds the land with daydropper seeds. All the while ripping the manasphere into a [Force Shrapnel] storm on the level of a goddess.”

“Downtime?” Erick asked.

“None.” Wilhelmina said, “She can reactivate her mana storm at will, and while she does, the entire sky turns to dead air. Our frontlines are currently holding open many, many [Cleanse Aura]s, in order to keep the effects on the rest of the Greensoil republic to a minimum—” She paused, listening to the air; lines of intent connected her to at least three other people. She said, “Archmage Tenebrae is unable to [Dispel] the mana storm, but Archmage Opal seems to be having some luck understanding the spell.”

“Archmage Opal is here?” Erick asked, turning to Poi.

Poi said, “I doubt it. She lives near Spur and does not move for anyone or anything; her [Familiar] is likely on scene, though.”

Wilhelmina said, “Your guardsman is correct.” She paused again. She sat much straighter, and said, “Opal says that the [Shard Storm] is not truly originating from the Queen Vine. It’s five people working in concert to create the spell—” She frowned. “You can do that?” She shook her head, saying, “No. It can’t be; ritual casting is not capable of linking with monsters! That just doesn't—”

The air sparkled atop the table, above the map of Odaali Jane had created out of [Conjure Item]. A sphere of shimmering opalescence appeared. Erick looked around; he, Jane, Teressa, Wilhelmina’s guard, and Rats, were not expecting this appearance. But Wilhelmina and Poi were nonplussed. Poi looked at the opalescent sphere like it was perfectly normal to see such a thing just appear before him. Wilhelmina gazed upon the sphere like it was an annoyance.

Wilhelmina started in on the floating orb, “You will do what was bargained for, Opal.”

“I am.” Opal’s voice emanated from the orb. It was a wispy, scratchy thing, belonging to a woman who had smoked at least two packs a day for forty years. The orb turned toward Erick, “That [Wintry Sea] of yours is a menace. You should never use it outside of a situation like this.”

“I am aware,” Erick said.

“Good.” Opal said, “Then to fulfill my bargain: Erick. I have fully seen the entirety of Odaali and the land underneath. If you send your [Familiar] up high and drop those [Wintry Sea]s from outside of the sphere of the [Shard Storm], and I pop the [Ward]s protecting the city, I have no doubt that that awful spell will fall into the city and disrupt several of the components sustaining the storm. The [Shard Storm] won’t go away, and that won’t be the end of the fight; that Queen Vine has much worse tricks up its sleeve. But it will enable the rest of the plan to come together.” Opal turned back to Wilhelmina. “They have plans to blow the city if they cannot hold it. Keep your men out and plan on rebuilding.”

Wilhelmina suddenly yelled, “That is unacceptable! You must take back the city intact!”

Opal’s floating orb said, “I will be taking down the various [Ward]s layering the roof of Odaali when you are in position, Erick. Expect to get pushed aside by Tenebrae as soon as that old asshole makes his appearance—”

Wilhelmina stressed, “You will take back the city without letting them blow it up, Opal. Find a way. That’s what you archmages do, isn’t it? Find unlikely magical solutions to otherwise impossible scenarios?”

Erick asked, “How are they going to blow it up?”

Opal spat out, “Overcharged grand-rads at every city block—”

Wilhelmina gasped, as Erick drew a complete blank.

“— laced in with the Queen Vine; when she dies, the city dies.”

Wilhelmina said, “Then we shall kill the people! And when the defenders of the city have fallen, we will take our time extricating the Queen Vine.” She demanded of Erick, “Don’t you have some spell that targets people?”

Erick froze, then quickly came back to himself, shouting, “NO! I DO NOT!”

The room went quiet.

Wilhelmina’s face turned hard; distant. After a moment, she spoke with authority, “Do what you must, and I shall pray my city doesn’t become a crater at the end of today.”

Opal said, “A crater might be preferable, Wilhelmina. No one will want to live in Odaali after it has fallen this far; Spur is only recovering because of Erick, and my city has been trying to recover for a hundred years.”

“Is there a way to enchant rads from a distance?” Erick asked, a sudden idea springing to mind. “Sorry, that was nonsensical. I meant: Could we disenchant the rads that they’ve primed to blow?”

“No.” Opal said, “A few hundred years ago, sure, back when rad-bombs were pathetic little things. But not these days. The ones they’ve created in there are the good kind, too. Top of the line; Odaali will be a memory if they trigger.”

Wilhelmina sighed into her seat.

“Okay...” Erick tried, “Do you know how a Shade’s [Teleport Lock] works? I’m sure they’re planning on escaping the city before they blow it, right?”

Opal’s orb vibrated with laughter. “Not the slightest idea! I’ve been trying to figure that out for the longest time. They get the spell from Melemizargo himself; its deity-granted magic. It’s not even in the Script. There are ways to prepare an area to lock out almost every kind of magic, including teleportation, but they’re expensive and take time to create. A Shade’s [Teleport Lock] is absolute and they can turn it on and off at will. Near as I can guess it’s an aura of some kind. But even people with [Eyes of Magic] looking at Shades operating the spell can’t figure it out.” She added, “I doubt you can, either.”

