“Haste aura!” Ali yelled.

Ugh. That’s nasty, Malika thought, interrupting her nice, simple skill rotation and bursting a huge heal into Mato instead. Then she shifted into a flurry of dodges and blocks as she danced around the sea of furious holy swords, delivering her soul magic in bursts that loaded the archon up with lingering soul magic flames.

We need to take this thing down. Soon!

Ali dismissed her Grimoire and sent her freshly resummoned champion, Kir’mogan, back into the fray. Distracted by the interactions of the Divine Archon’s mana interacting with the Well of Divinity for even just one single moment had been enough for three of the whirling blades to impale her Troll while he was engaged with one of the summoned elementals. The immense spike of holy damage while under the effects of the vulnerability curse aura had been more than sufficient to kill him outright, and that had taken out her Mortal Wounds as a tool for controlling the Archon’s healing. She was more than a little annoyed with herself – just a little more attentiveness and she might have saved him with a well-placed barrier.

She scanned the battlefield again with more than just her own eyes, determined not to let anything slip again. It was not the worst of predicaments; they could still claw their way out of the hole with a solid helping of creative thinking.

The flying sword images were a serious problem. Totally chaotic and hard to predict, they hit extremely hard and, even though they were far from the archon herself, they still seemed to benefit from all her masteries and support skills. They careened around the battlefield, causing mayhem, but in a fashion that betrayed sufficient intelligence that Ali was forced to conclude that the Archon was controlling them directly. Blood sprayed freely in crimson fountains, punctuated by the occasional flying, severed limb, causing headaches and mad scrambling amongst the healers, and everywhere the blade images went, they dropped lingering patches of consecration burning on the ground like so much litter. Deadly, third-tier, flaming litter.

Divine Heal. Ali automatically identified the formation right as the Divine Archon cast it, but this time, it did not target one of the elementals or the archon herself. Ali blinked in surprise as her Eye of Agnor suddenly lost a huge chunk of health and burst into flames. White flames. Of Consecration.

Ugh. So, that’s it. The true nature of the Divine Archon’s healing spell had eluded her all this time, but finally she understood the missing part. It wasn’t just a healing spell. It doubled as a ranged damage spell against demons. I thought that kind of thing only worked on the undead.

She grimaced. Still, there was one silver lining – at least, now, she knew enough to disrupt it.

Unfortunately, that was a large part of her frustration, too – there weren’t any decent spells for her to steal. She had tried to steal the aura, but that hadn’t worked. The sword-throw thing seemed to be a martial ability requiring stamina, so that was out. She couldn’t steal the wings either, which might have been very effective. Mato would kill me. Still, the image of the hulking bear flying about on angelic wings was enough to draw out a smile despite the urgent situation.

She had stolen the dispel once, but that seemed worthless; she had many dispel skills at her disposal already, and the paladin’s was an inferior version. She stole a Holy Smite, imbuing her barrier with holy magic, but she didn’t do damage with her barriers much anymore, so that didn’t help. Nor would holy damage help in this fight; the Archon was either immune or so highly resistant to its own affinity that it bordered on equivalent. When she had stolen the archon’s barrier sphere, she’d been excited, but dismantling that had proved to be a far more efficient use of her time; it was a self-cast, and she couldn’t give it to anyone else.

Divine Heal. Again. She formed the counter-formation and disrupted the powerful healing spell, watching with satisfaction as the shattered shards of the formation drifted down to the ground. Likely, she couldn’t disrupt all the heals, but with Mortal Wounds and fewer heals, they would be able to finally make some progress. Perhaps I can steal a heal every five minutes. At least I can throw that Mato’s way.

She reorganized her minions a little, shifting some of the archers and casters to focus more area-damage spells onto the summoned elementals, and organizing her mages so their ice bolts would pierce through more targets.

Why are they still there, though? Her fireballs were detonating among the holy elementals – at least the real fire fireballs, delivered with enthusiasm by Emberious, and the hellfire ones. The blaze was an ugly combination of black, orange, and red. The holy fire, she was keeping back for obvious reasons; she didn’t want to risk healing the enemy. Arrows flew in tight volleys, delivering payloads of lightning and nature damage to everything they touched, and yet, the elementals were all still standing.

Worse, the Divine Archon was steadily adding to their number.

Ali frowned, turning her attention to the lesser monsters, who, with the aid of some kind of haste aura, were turning out to be a mounting headache.

What is going on? It took thirty precious seconds focused on Arcane Insight and Sage of Learning before it clicked. The flickering white flames that carpeted the ground seemed far denser than the outlying consecration dropped by the whirling swords, and that was her key.

“Fuck! The elementals are dropping Consecration, too. They’re healing each other!” Ali shouted.

In her extreme focus on the most powerful threat, the Divine Archon herself, Ali had missed the subtle clue. Consecration appeared as white ghostly fire on the ground; without close scrutiny, it was nearly impossible to tell where it overlapped. Most of the growing swarm of holy elementals were fighting from within several overlapping fires and being healed rapidly.

“Move them out of the fire, Mato,” Calen suggested. “Maybe just keep dragging them around in a big circle.”

Even though his telepathy formation activated, Ali couldn’t hear what Mato said, but moments later, he shifted backward, drawing the pack of elementals and the archon with him, which was a more than clear enough sign he’d understood.

“Fireballs! Hold the Frost Nova for now,” Ali ordered. Locking the elementals in place in the Consecration would be worse than useless, but fire, as always, was a fantastic choice. With a few directed thoughts, she set her healers shifting out of the way in anticipation of where Mato would need to move next, erecting strategically placed barriers to deflect the spinning sword. She disrupted another heal and then dismantled the sphere of barrier magic immediately afterward as Mato turned the entire field into a running battle.

Walking battle would be a more apt description. It was like a very, very slow chase, with Mato leading the monsters by shifting backward ever so slowly.

She studied the fight under her Healer’s Sight. “Throw your axes right into the middle,” she said, directing Kir’mogan to greater effect.

“Yes, Seeker,” he answered brusquely, redirecting the rapidly tumbling axes to make the detonations and bone shrapnel burst amid the elementals every now and then, delivering Mortal Wounds to all.

“Perfect aim,” Ali said as she watched health begin to drop across the pack.

“Ali, can we get Bloodlust?” Calen asked.

“Yes,” she answered, directing Joraa to use their most potent melee buff. The blood-curdling scream he uttered in response to unleashing the powerful storm of blood was not strictly necessary, but having been personally exposed to the heart-thumping surge of adrenaline and literal bloodlust the spell caused, and thus understanding how it felt, she chose not to chide him.

Calen responded by erupting into radiant light as he used Righteous Fury.

“All out!” Ali shouted. Not to be outdone, she poured all available mana into Empowered Summoner, boosting her Eye of Agnor and her Sylvan Storm archers with a sudden infusion of magical power. But it was when Tol’brekk tore through the pack of elementals with a vortex of blood and steel that the notification chimes began to sound and pillars of animate fire began to fall like sheared wheat.

You have gained Holy Vulnerability (Aura).

She switched auras? Ali couldn’t figure out exactly why, but it seemed clear that the Divine Archon favored the haste aura when she had a lot of minions, and the holy vulnerability one when it was just her. She glanced over at the corpses of the elementals, noticing only now that there were actual steel armor pieces and swords lying on the ground. Perhaps her personal damage has a higher proportion of holy magic than the elementals? Can that even be right?

Ali put it out of her mind for now. It wasn’t like she could do anything about the auras anyway. Instead, she flew back and forth, tracking the fight, chaining barriers into the paths of whirling swords, and using her dismantle and disrupt every opportunity she found. In the wake of the running battle, they left scattered elemental cores, armor, swords, and dense patches of ghostly white flame that took forever to go out and somehow failed to consume the grass.

Suddenly, the Divine Archon stopped and turned toward Ali, and said, “You have proved to be worthy. Protect the Well.”

Then, to Ali’s surprise, her chime sounded and the Divine Archon fell to the ground amid a slowly fading blaze of holy fire. Eh? That killed it? She could not help but feel robbed by the sudden end to the fight.

Your group has defeated Divine Archon – Celestial Sun Elf – level 278 (Holy).Your group has defeated Sacred Guardian – Elemental – level 255 (Holy) x16.Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 235 (+3).+30 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 145 (+3).Arcane Recall has reached level 80 (+2).Barrier has reached level 126 (+4).Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 83.Sage of Learning has reached level 108 (+2).Martial Insight has reached level 136 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached level 123 (+3).Minion Teleport has reached level 83 (+2).Identify has reached level 50.Inspiration has reached level 47.

The first thing Ali did was fly over to the echo of the Well and dunk an empty vial into the waters, but to her dismay, the flask came up empty, the real-world glass entirely failing to interact with the Well’s water.

She stared at it in dismay and then tried again, but no matter how many times she dunked the vial into the Well, it remained an echo of reality. An existence long gone.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
