Randidly felt positively brutalized after repeated impacts.

Even with the reinforcement of his numerous physical passives and his defensive Cloak of a Thousand Lightless Horizons, even as his upgraded Vitaly, Homunculi’s Engineered Perfection, activated to the point it teetered between being a Pinnacle Rarity Stat and a Ghosthound’s Deviation one, Randidly wanted a break.

He felt like a trampled sock after repeated contact with Elhume’s punches. He felt like phlegm trapped in a skinbag, about to rupture. Every impact felt like he was just short of being able to divert the strike, equal the force, and endure without being knocked backward. And the frustration ground against him just as surely as the impacts did.

Yet waves of heat wafted off his body as his wounds healed. His image physicalizations had taken on a slightly battered appearance, but that only made the Stillborn Phoenix and the Dread Homunculus more ravenous. Significance pooled within his chest. He felt how close he had become to condensing that last grey bubble of Nether.

Randidly felt Raymund Ballast strike, right as he could feel Fiero’s divided attentions, as he expended more and more of his power to try and squash Randidly. And now the Patron of the Borrowed’s grip had been loosened on Techetadore’s body, who leaked blood from the ears and mouth from the strain of the previous assault.

Randidly loosed a sigh of relief; now was the time to strike. But perhaps not at the target he had intended. He had another gurgle of an idea rising through his chest, especially because of how close he felt the two were in their conflicts.

Can you hold for a few seconds? Randidly sent the message to Raymund.

Indeed. I would rather die than allow Techetadore to be tortured for another moment.

Randidly’s lips twitched. The fatalism notwithstanding, he needed a bit of time for this side project. Because a shift in Shal, one that shocked and wounded Randidly in equal measure, had earned him a notification.

One he had waited a long time to see.

Congratulations! Your Fatepiece the Keystone of the First Ghasthund has grown to Level 99!

Congratulations! Your Fatepiece the Keystone of the First Ghasthund has grown to Level 100!

Congratulations! For pushing your Fatepiece to Level 100, +8 Predictive Synapses and +15 Grey Monarch’s Authority per Level!

Congratulations! You have completely Leveled your Fateset, the first Fateset in existence! Pantheon Intervention. You have earned the Path Majesty of the Revolutionary Fateset 0/10000! Due to the fact your Fate has become complete, you now may create a Grand Fate!

The Grand Fate: Myth of the Alpha Cosmos is open to you!

The Grand Fate: Randidly Ghosthound, Moirae Chimera is open to you!

The Grand Fate: Temporal Wanderer and Cultivator of Miracles is open to you!

For now, Randidly ignored the Grand Fates; even if he could make them through the Pantheon and avoid the peril of the Actus Suprem’s current activities, he wanted to create a Grand Fate simultaneously with his Nether Core’s Penance. But now that he had all of the bonuses he could squeeze out from the System-

“Sulfur?” Randidly rolled his left shoulder. “Are you ready to give them a taste of their own medicine? And Acri, no more being greedy. This time, it’s all for me.”

Both Soulseeds vibrated their understanding. Randidly felt the bubbling power within one of the spines along Sulfur’s length. After being so thoroughly bludgeoned by Elhume, he had captured a bit of that same power.

Randidly turned from Elhume and looked at the Swacc Family forces, ganging up on his Vulpis Squad. He released a breath, his eyes glittering. He didn’t like to bully those weaker than him, but he wasn’t above it to get an edge. “Siren’s Dirge of Bottomless Taking. Erebus’s Baleful Waltz. Helen’s Sea, Cradle of Unlikely Lives.”

The Songstress crooned out the approach of death, but her voice was silent. The thousands of phantasms shifted into position also without making a noise. And then the hammer fell as Helen’s violent Domain crashed upon their unsuspecting backs.

Congratulations! Your Skill (Fusion Domain) Helen’s Sea, Cradle of Unlikely Lives has grown to Level 1164!

…

Congratulations! Your Skill (Fusion Domain) Helen’s Sea, Cradle of Unlikely Lives has grown to Level 1210!

The Swacc Family didn’t see it coming at all. When all the kinetic force of the fight above rained down, edged with vicious phantasms and the sucking hunger of an event horizon, Armaments cracked and shattered. Bodies were broken and pulped. Probably fully half of the forces were taken by surprise and killed, their heads obliterated and their organs destroyed.

For the first time in a long time, experience flowed into Randidly Ghosthound. Notifications flickered up in front of him.

Congratulations! You have reached Level 65! +8 Stats distributed between (Base Names) Vitality, Perception, Resist, Intelligence, and Control, +38 Free Stats! +1 Stat to a Mental Stat. +1 to a Physical Defense Stat. +1 to a Mental Support Stat. +2 Control. +156 Health, +165 Mana, +160 Stamina, +6.5 to all Regenerations! +1 to Health and Stamina Regeneration! +2 to all Stats

Due to Guidance of the Wraith Adder, +4 Dreadful Alacrity and +2 Bonus Stats!

Due to the Alchemist’s Passport, +3 Cognition of the Aberrant Alchemist, Deity’s Ruthless Cerebral Scope, and Exquisite Piety, +4 Predictive Synapses and Grim Intuition

Due to Dreamcatcher of the Long Night, +1 Grim Intuition, +1 Predictive Synapses, +1 Exquisite Piety, and +3 Discretion of the Apostate Moirae per Level.

Due to Hierarchy of Burden, +4 Homunculi’s Engineered Perfection and Carrion Dragon’s Carapace per Level.

Due to Visage of Obsession, +10 Discretion of the Apostate Moirae, +50 Mana per Level.

Due to Codex Hexahedron, +7 Grim Intuition, +6 Chimeric Indifference, +10 Stamina per Level.

Due to Keystone of the First Ghasthund, +8 Predictive Synapses, +15 Grey Monarch’s Authority.

Congratulations! You have reached Level 66! +8 Stats distributed between (Base Names) Vitality, Perception, Resist, Intelligence, and Control, +38 Free Stats! +1 Stat to a Mental Stat. +1 to a Physical Defense Stat. +1 to a Mental Support Stat. +2 Control. +156 Health, +165 Mana, +160 Stamina, +6.5 to all Regenerations! +1 to Health and Stamina Regeneration! +2 to all Stats.

…

Congratulations! You have reached Level 75! +8 Stats distributed between (Base Names) Vitality, Perception, Resist, Intelligence, and Control, +38 Free Stats! +1 Stat to a Mental Stat. +1 to a Physical Defense Stat. +1 to a Mental Support Stat. +2 Control. +156 Health, +165 Mana, +160 Stamina, +6.5 to all Regenerations! +1 to Health and Stamina Regeneration! +2 to all Stats.

You have gained the Skill Charisma of the Arch-Heretic (T)!

…

Congratulations! You have reached Level 90! +8 Stats distributed between (Base Names) Vitality, Perception, Resist, Intelligence, and Control, +38 Free Stats! +1 Stat to a Mental Stat. +1 to a Physical Defense Stat. +1 to a Mental Support Stat. +2 Control. +156 Health, +165 Mana, +160 Stamina, +6.5 to all Regenerations! +1 to Health and Stamina Regeneration! +2 to all Stats.

You have gained the Skill Protostar Sears the Fabric of Space (P)!

…

Congratulations! You have reached Level 92! +8 Stats distributed between (Base Names) Vitality, Perception, Resist, Intelligence, and Control, +38 Free Stats! +1 Stat to a Mental Stat. +1 to a Physical Defense Stat. +1 to a Mental Support Stat. +2 Control. +156 Health, +165 Mana, +160 Stamina, +6.5 to all Regenerations! +1 to Health and Stamina Regeneration! +2 to all Stats.

Randidly released a breath as the experience stopped flowing. He felt his self expanding, empowered and reinforced will the sudden influx of Stats. With time slowed to such an incredible degree, he took a moment to examine the gains from ripping his way up twenty-seven Levels in a single moment. His images wouldn’t change at all, but he had accumulated a ridiculous one thousand and eighty free Stats. In terms of total Stats, the total was even more frightening: these Levels had earned him a little over thirty-five hundred Stats.

In a single moment, Randidly had accumulated more Stats than most individuals possessed. If he had a half-step advantage on most individuals in foundation previously, he now left those individuals in the dust.

Congratulations! Your Skill Arch-Heretic’s Thaumaturgy (P) has grown to Level 1001!

Randidly Ghosthound stepped forward as hot blood seared its way through each muscle. His body tingled, even his limbs, tendons, and bones tingling as they improved across every dimension at once. At the very least, each Stat received a bump of about two hundred. However, with the gains concentrating around his Discretion of the Apostate Moirae, his upgraded Control-

He took another step, feeling the violence he had gathered prickling against his back. He released a misty breath. He started to sweat, feeling a powerful change come over him. At the moment, his Discretion of the Apostate Moirae sat at 8996. And he had on hand the 1080 Free Stats he earned for gaining twenty-seven Levels all at once.

He poured all those extra Stats into Discretion of the Apostate Moirae and broke past 10,000. A wolf’s grin dominated his face. With his brain evolving in painful eruptions of fire, he stalked toward the wavering Elhume and prepared for the second round of their bout.

This time, he would not come up short.
