“GahHH!” Ren grunted as he was partially crushed under the stone hand's grip and one of his legs was broken. He lost almost three quarters of his Health as the hand lifted him up to be level with the Spirit of Earth's chest, and it opened the hand to make a platform with it's other hand and arms. Ren had collapsed when it let him go, and he stored his armor to examine his injuries.

Broken leg in two spots. Ren thought. Bruises along my right side, sprained elbow, and a twisted ankle.

Ren used a Major Healing wand to start tending to his wounds as the Spirit of Earth's chest rippled like water. A being with translucent skin, exactly 6 feet tall, stepped out of the chest. Ren was about to greet the person when another stepped out, and then another. Ren blinked his eyes as the arms started to ripple like the chest was, and more and more of the beings came out. When the last one stepped out of the giant throne golem, Teepo had told him there were 451 of them.

They were also completely naked.

Ren wasn't sure what to make of it as he kept healing himself. He had never met so many divine beings before, or seen so many naked people. One of them stepped forward, and Ren saw the being was distinctly female. She was similar to the Fire and Water beings he had met; but under her skin, it was grey and white gravel of various sizes grinding together.

“Why are you laying down in my presence?” She asked.

“My apologies.” Ren said, and used the Major Healing wand to fix his broken leg. “My frail body couldn't take your embrace.”

“You are... being polite.”

Ren nodded as he stood up. “I'm not going to complain that you damaged me, when all you did was allow me to see you.” He smiled. “That's not the best way to start a conversation.”

She smiled. “You are a charmer.”

“Only to those predisposed to like me.” Ren said and dropped his head in a slight bow, then knelt on one knee. “It is an honor to meet you, Spirit of Earth.”

“You should feel honored.” One of the others said. “Asking her to dethrone herself to meet you is beyond contemptible.”

“I really did not know it was.” Ren said, and didn't take his eyes from the Spirit of Earth. His Etiquette skill might not be active; but, he wasn't stupid enough to divert his attention from her. “May I ask you a question?”

She nodded.

“Why don't you want me to gather the green meteor ore?”

“You have seen what it can do!” Another one said angrily.

Ren felt the anger spread out through a lot of them, except for the Spirit of Earth. He wasn't sure why.

“In a large enough quantity, it can do untold damage!” The angry one said.

“It does cut through the earth easily.” Ren said. “I thought that was because of what I made with it, though.”

“It can damage any element in the right circumstances.” Yet another one said, much more calmly. “We have been protecting everyone from it's dangers.”

“Then you came along and dug a bunch of it up!” The angry one said.

“I'm not going to lie and apologize for that.” Ren said, and the anger spread to more of them. “I will apologize for disrupting your safeguards, since I never intended to disturb them.”

“Disrupt and disturb? You killed them!” The angry one exclaimed.

“I did.” Ren said. “The last one almost killed me in return.”

“I wish it had!” Another one said. “You wouldn't be here and bothering us!”

“Actually, I would be.” Ren said. “I'm an Adventurer. I'm on the path to learn as much as I can, and gain all the skills that I can.” He smiled. “I already have both Fire and Water affinities maxed. Earth is at 30% already, and with my churches bringing you more and more followers every day...”

“You did that?” The Spirit of Earth asked.

Ren nodded. “I built them so that people could come and worship in both peace and privacy, in accordance to their personal beliefs... or just in a general sense.”

“So, that's why we are getting so many growing requests.” One of them said.

“Most of them have to be from the dwarf kingdom.” Ren said. “There's not a lot of people in my county to make requests yet.”

The feeling of anger from them dropped to just annoyance.

“Is there anything you prefer as offerings?” Ren asked, and the beings looked at each other. “I can get word to the dwarves if there's something you would rather have instead of what you've been getting.”

“You are a wonder.” The Spirit of Earth said. “All offerings are welcome. We won't dictate what we will and won't accept from those that follow Earth.”

That reminded Ren of the time he had dinner with Jhulune's parents and had offered up some Mana during her father's prayer to Mother Earth, and of the other offerings he had made.

“If I may, can I make another offering to you?”

“It's not a piddly amount of Mana, is it?” The angry one said. “That barely let me grow a dozen potatoes!”

“Well, I didn't know what I was doing at the time and could only offer what I had available.” Ren smiled. “Jhulune dragged me to eat with her parents, and I wasn't prepared for that at all.”

Several of the beings laughed, and a bunch of them nodded agreement.

“Then what do you offer?” The Spirit of Earth asked.

Ren had knelt the entire time they talked, so he stood up and he held a hand out to her. “Would 10,000 Mana be a good start?”

A ripple of shock went through the beings that surrounded him, and because he was still within the Amulet of Interrogation's area of effect, they knew he wasn't lying with the offer.

The Spirit of Earth stepped forward. “Yes, that is a good start.”
