Udraal gave a snort of disgust. "Politics is for those without choice and those who are weak. You are neither, Chandler, and the sooner you learn that lesson, the faster you will become a Pathbearer."

"I am a Pathbearer," she said with an offended sneer, "though our Paths are quite different. And some of us have desires to flourish, to build something that lasts, instead of trying to murder the only world we ever knew."

"Murder?" Udraal laughed. It was a bitter, scornful thing. "You can't murder something that's never been alive. You can't murder a canvas or a book or a cage." His voice fell to a low growl by the end. "But you can break it. You can reshape it. You can build something new from its bones. You can forge a proper foundation."

"A foundation which your mother never saw?" Veronica asked, jabbing at his wound.

Udraal simply shook his head. "Yes, neither mine, nor yours, nor anyone's. We could all be as gods, people living in eternal harmony, beyond the tyranny of oblivion, beyond the pointless suffering offered by the System, beyond all of this." He let out another scoff. "What is the point of all this power, all this understanding, all this evolution, if it just ends? If we have to succumb to the whims of a mechanism that knows only the nectar of war and bloodshed?"

"It sounds nebulous and like the ravings of a madman," Veronica answered honestly. "Frankly, I think I'll go with the more stable option of having my Ascendants institute a proper nation, one where they can establish stability. You know. The only thing we will ever experience that is remotely close to eternal harmony.”

Udraal scoffed. “Your Ascendants are butchers, psychopaths, whores, and—”

“Some are still alive!”

A loud cry sounded as a spearhead pierced through Udraal's forehead from behind. In a moment, Longinus appeared, and he flared into existence, his serpentine body glistening with his human portions as well. Yet, instead of crying out in pain, Udraal simply frowned as his eyes turned upwards to look at the spear jutting out from his skull.

"Ah, Longinus, I was wondering where you were." Before he could say anything else, a cage of lightning collapsed around him, curling tighter as it bound him in place. Black forks of crackling electricity sliced into Udraal's vessel. Yet, he shed part of himself and broke free from Halsur’s grasp like stepping through an unlocked door.

Stormhalt gave a cry, which turned into a wail of pain as a counterblow of dark lightning exploded out from Udraal. It lashed free through the air, crashing against Halsur's power and jabbing his Avatar through the thigh. Blood spurted free from Stormhalt, yet he pushed himself further, channeled more for his god, more to overwhelm the adversary that had laid so many other Avatars low.

Before Udraal could do anything further, part of his body went missing. His left arm disappeared as a massive hand closed over it. Everything the hand touched vanished, along with the pocket of space itself. Udraal tried to move, only for a swell of blackness to part around his right, and from it came a massive form. Its eye was cyclopean, its body was wreathed in vengeful flames, and its fists were like stacks of towers crashing together. It struck Udraal, and the air combusted and detonated once more.

Cripple had been brought into the fray as Veronica asked, but she caught the Ascendant’s gaze and knew there would be another problem to face soon.

White filled the space before Veronica, and Udraal's body shattered in half, bones and limbs flying free as a cataclysmic detonation bloomed within the scoured space. The Animancy Core tumbled out from its broken vessel, and just then a massive hand caught that as well, pilfering it for the Ascendants.

With the tide turning, Kathereine called out through Veronica, and a song of destruction fell upon Udraal. He flew through the air, and bits of his body were ripped away. The longer he listened, the more he fractured, until his face was peeling, breaking apart in flakes as well. Udraal Thann was a dangerous foe. Udraal Thann would kill you if you made one mistake, but Udraal Thann could be beaten, could be broken, could be—

"It's been fun, Veronica," he said as he released another spiral of Chronomantic clones. They briefly held the Ascendants at bay, but Halsur’s lightning tore through them quickly. "Yet I must depart. I’ve reduced your number enough and paid you a visit. My other selves have also decided to free every last prisoner in this place. Now, you'll have a choice between maintaining control of this prison of yours or stopping me from retrieving what is rightfully mine."

At that, he hammered the haft of his banner into his chest, and Udraal came ablaze with Animancy. By the time Halsur’s lightning reached him, he was a fading flicker of blue. But instead of being seared into reality, it collapsed and tunneled away. Udraal was gone. His soul had escaped. And in his wake, only a few pieces of drifting bone remained. Drifting bone and the boiled carcass of a foreign demigod.

Silence followed. Crushing silence. Several Avatars were dead. An Ascendant had been wounded by Animancy. And now Udraal was probably going to steal both Adam Arrow and the Deathless that the Republic so desperately wanted.

But Legend-Councilwoman Veronica Chandler was not done. She wouldn't bend over for the world. And she wouldn't fold, not until she had no cards left to play.

"Anthony," she said, "get Harlock to shroud the entire prison."

The old man frowned. "But that would leave—"

"I don't care what it leaves unprotected on our borders or within our territory. This is what matters. This, right now. We have a foreign power inside the heart of our Republic. And he's about to take our Deathless away from us. I'm not accepting that. Not after what he did, and not after what we suffered. Kathereine. Song of Slumber. Withdraw yourself from all other Avatars. All power to me."

“But you are my only—”

“I’m not in the fucking mood, grandmother.”

Kathereine shivered as Veronica snapped. The Councilwoman's voice was cold and hard now. "And get me the leaders of the Abyssal Faiths, including the Composer. There is something we need to discuss. Someone we need to discuss. The terms of the treaties have been violated on this day, and it is time for them to enforce their end of the—”

“No.” Cripple’s voice interrupted Veronica, and she just bit back a growl. The Ascendant was still manifested, and it glared down at Veronica, incandescent mana raging as it stood apart from all the other Ascendants and Avatars. “You face me first. You—”

“Cripple. I’m going to tell you this with all the candor I can muster. Your offense and frustration are understandable, but your betrayal is unacceptable. We are either united, or we are nothing. And right now, the boy you feel so morally compelled to save is going to be taken by the single most treacherous Pathbearer in all Integration. So. I suggest you help us find him before the only one who wins turns out to be Udraal Thann.”

Cripple went quiet for a moment. “How do you know they’re still here?"

“I don’t.”
