Hero was so new they weren’t sure what he exactly was, but the Priest was going overboard.  The Tinker knew the best way to build a trap to actually hurt Tall Beings. Fungalmancer knew how to breed and cultivate both healing and poisonous skills, able to draw on the Great Mother’s knowledge of ‘biology’.

‘Dieology’ the Tinker corrected. For knowing how to kill Tall Beings was the only reason to know this stuff. The Fungalmancer decided not to get into this old argument.

The Tall Being was in danger and the Great Mother would not be pleased, but trying to overthrow the Elder and Priest would basically incite civil war between believers. Harm not didn’t count if this Tall Being would just pop his heart out like Hero and be fine, but trying to convince people that he would die would need proof.

Tinker was most direct.

Just get the Great Mother here to sort it out.

Fungal wanted to push him off the ledge. As if it were so easy. They were group monsters. Their actions only counted as a group and such division might mean they won’t reach the Mother unless they were united.

Tinker, again, was direct.

Then find someone who wasn’t so limited. Leave the City and speak to the Frogs, the great Sea Serpent, the silent ghost, the bees! Fungal was concerned.

Their travelling speed and means of communication made it difficult. The Bees might understand or they’d spend some precious time trying to explain as Priest removed the Being’s heart in some misunderstood way of trying to see his real form.

So, a plant or mushroom being would be better...

The Tinker was almost casual when he spored back his answer.

The Doom would understand them. Fungal froze and then nodded slowly. The Doom would, but would they survive to return? The Tinker was rather blunt.

Their lives meant little. The life of an outsider which they swore not to harm was in danger from their own blind worship. Disappointing the Great Mother was a fate worse than the unknown earth.

Fungalmancer agreed after a moment. They were quick to move as a wreath of golden flowers were placed on the Tall Being’s head with great purpose.

---

Unseen by Grim and an exhausted Kemy, a tunnel opened up and two Pygmy Mushrooms rushed off into the jungle on the newly obtained steed of a Pigglecap.

----

Hero eyed the cloud of wailing despair and sickly fumes. Some sort of ghost or malicious energy that slowly moved towards him like mist. Sets of armour in the hall hissed and melted into pools of silver and rust as it passed by.

Physical attacks and corruption would be pointless here and this thing might actually out-pace his own regeneration if it had him at the center of its mass. He flexed his hand as he had time to call upon the system to relay his information to him.

Hero. Wandering Raid Boss.Conditions: Have a force identified as an ‘Invading Army’ with intent of harming the Dungeon core attack the Dungeon.

This dangerous lifeform is able to infect and corrupt different strains of life to serve his command and turn wasted resources of the enemy back at the foe. This being was created by Dungeon Core Delta with great emotional conflict and deeply wishes for your forgiveness.

Known powers include:Infect body. Infect a body and overtake it for yourself.Alter appearance: Appear as a human or other.Infection: Infect a target with spores and have your will overtake theirs.Calamity Wave: Give up all pretense of humanity and spread endlessly.Inheritor of Delta’s Heart: As blessed by Delta, you-

He smiled as he reread that last line and then rolled his neck.

“Sorry, pal... Someone’s counting on me,” he pointed a hand as coils of mushroom from his mane wrapped around his arm. They began to slowly light up in a mix of light and black light. The deafening peel of air being vaporised sounded out as Hero pushed his hand forward.

The ghost shrieked and Hero twisted as he plucked a mushroom off his back and it transformed into a familiar grey mushroom. In his other hand, a mushroom turned dark red and began to burn.

He threw both and the resulting explosion dispersed the ghost back into the ether. He saw metal suits of armour being controlled by more ghosts marching towards him. He grimaced. They had stopped throwing skeletons and zombies at him and now he had to work with automatons.

Which aren’t exactly corruptible.

With a narrowing of his eyes, his entire back turned into Gutrot Mushrooms.

Save for the exception of the middle most mushroom which burned red. His body shot forward as his heart erupted out the back in an escape motion, quickly spawning new mushroom tendrils. His old body exploded against the rushing metal, igniting the tunnel and shaking the entire fortress.

Without a body he changed up his tactics,eight main tendrils thickened and he became a central  heart, guarded by eight legs, focusing as the drain on his energy was immense. On each knee joint of his new body, a tiny Mushroom Spitter monster formed. The glaring creatures that once upon a time turned into Mushy and Maestro all rotated like turrets to target the surviving armours as their sickly green eyes lit up.

He scuttled up the walls until he was hanging above them and his new monsters began to rain down acid on the metal, melting them as he plowed through the remaining resistance.

Hero moved down the hall with increased speed as a massive door tried to block his path. The acid seemed to make runes light up and just run off. Using protection magic against him now?

Wise, but perhaps too late. He looked around and broke down... reforming into a massive boar with large tusks. He charged and the physical blow shook the door hard and tore open tiny little crack. Hero saw it repair itself and couldn’t be too mad.

After all, if he was allowed to unfairly regenerate? Then he couldn’t be mad when others did it. But it did leave him with a slight dilemma. Or did it...

He frowned as he hit upon a mushroom blueprint Delta hasn’t used outside testing. He shrugged as he was sure it would do the trick,

---

Inside the room, the Bone Commander rattled orders for the mages to keep the spell going. They had to stall the Beast as long as they could.

One of the mages gave a warning of alarm as their channeling magics became erratic. The door that was the target of many protection, warding, and repairing spells was decimated as something continuously ground it down.

A chunk of the door peeled back to show a massive maw of mushrooms and darkness. An unnatural wind sucked at the room’s contents as it pulled the door apart. The darkness was even consuming the ambient light somehow! Mages were drawn in, magic and air followed and even sound.

None escaped the hole in space itself.

The commander slipped and was gone.

---

Hero lowered the tiny little black piggle that was attached to his mane with a thin rope and stared with awe. He held the pig to his own face and smiled.

“I am humbled to know that Delta can end even me if she tries. You are something I cannot fight,” he nodded and felt better knowing he was not unstoppable, as arrogant as that sounded. The pig blinked.

“Oink?” it said back. Hero put it under one arm, not willing to end it so soon. It was good company!

---

Brother was amused. He watched as skeleton bits, parts of a door, and a few other things were shot into the abyss like cannonfire, raining down on his personal space. He melted down everything for mass.

The creature was amusing, but losing mass from his body-world to a blackhole would cause weight issues down the line. Brother did not fancy being a size zero at the end of the day. A slight tweak and boom, it was a wormhole back into the world!  He picked up a skull he had yet to consume and tapped it.

A black heavy sphere floated out of it and Brother held it.

“Tch... its this bad?” he asked aloud. The seed turned slowly, the energy almost hissing at his presence.

“Yeah, yeah... but you thought you’d be safe from us. Idiots, we’re trying to save you. Being part of lil’bro isn’t exactly going to be a fun experience,” he told the seed. The seed from the member of the Silence didn’t answer since it wasn’t actually conscious nor truly sentient. It was what one would consider a cell of a human or beast. A mindless little worker.

And if these followers were cells? Then the leaders and those of Durance would be akin to embryos or clots.

He crushed the seed and slowly, the black powder turned back to inert colourless dust. He focused and the dust shot off into the world tunnels around him.  From one twisted talented mage, four to five average kids would be born. Then again, they could be five amazing kids if genes, luck, and mana got involved, but who really knew?

He eyed the tiny ball of blackness of their brother that was left behind. From parent to child, a seed reproduced, but it was a needy thing, it wouldn’t reproduce if the potential child was weak and once a healthy and potentially strong child was conceived? The seed infected them enhancing their potential to fearful heights.

If two parents had three children and two were normal healthy kids and the third was some strange savant of magic or such? Then that child had inherited the majority of the child seed vs the tiny portion the normal child had managed to absorb by luck. The seeds drove them to constantly seek more challenges, to sharpen their powers, and gather with other infected over time in groups. Most ended up developing strong skills or talents or even new fields of knowledge.

However, most seeds would be taken by monsters or Dungeons over time. The true issue was the Pure Seeds. The strongest remnants of the Little Brother that don’t reproduce so much as jump hosts. These caused people to actually feel the Abyss and the space between. To feel him.

Those were the nutters who formed cults and ended up being a damn pain. Brother sighed,shaking his head. Silence was only alive for a short while but his creations were still making a mess. Pure Seeds felt his hate and madness, they went insane and wreaked havoc, started up groups and gathered ripe seeds.

The whole purpose was to slowly create a whole race of powerful infected humans who would be bursting with ripe seeds and when enough seeds ripened...

A whole new birth would begin.

He sat down in his fishing chair and stared at the large cavern. He closed his eyes and felt his skin breaking as he was mined. He felt his trees and hair being brutally burned or cut for material. He felt pockets of poison seeping into him and making him itch.

He felt that damn tree digging deeper and deeper like a parasite. He felt more and more of himself being lost in shape as Dungeon’s spread more land. Soon, maybe not too soon, Brother would just... vanish. He wouldn’t be himself anymore after his original shape was gone.

Sister was giving more and more to make more Dungeons, establish safe connections to other dimensions where gods and goddesses could be called upon, each connection costing her a mote of her own light.

They were both sad candles giving it all to repent for the fact they were lonely and just wanted a little brother.

He nodded once.

“If you break it, then you fix it. Running away is kind of dickish,” he stretched. Besides, if he did fade, he left a bunch of super critters around the world for people to fight. That should be fun, right?

He felt a tug on his fishing line and began to whistle a jolly tune.
