"No." Thanatos cut him off. "I want to move the ship."

"Move it? Why—"

"Don't ask questions, unless you want to end up like them," he gestured to one of the headless corpses with a finger, "or the fools outside."

Elder Hao gulped. That little glimmer of hope inside him had died by now.

"It's this one," he said, pointing to the command console.

"Good. Make the ship go backwards," Thanatos said.

Backwards? Elder Hao blinked. Why backwards... oh. That would make my airship crash into the Imperial Flagship.

"We will be obliterated by the Imperial Flagship's cannons long before we can crash into it," Elder Hao explained, but he knew Thanatos wasn't going to listen.

"Just do it," Thanatos insisted.

Elder Hao took a deep breath, and his hands began to dance across the bloodstained console. His only hope was that the Flagship would notice his change of course and, instead of obliterating them, he would be saved. After reluctantly putting in the final command, the entire ship tilted as it began to turn.

"I'm really in awe of the All-Seeing Eye's capabilities. When can I meet him?" Elder Hao said, turning to face Thanatos. "I know a lot about the Celestial Empire and would be willing to cooperate."

"You will get to meet him soon enough," Thanatos said.

Elder Hao's attention was captured as he felt reality scream as the Imperial Flagship powered up its weapons.

"We should get out of here," Elder Hao insisted, only to turn and find himself alone.

Thanatos was gone.

"Ah…" Elder Hao chuckled. A lifetime of service was about to end at the cannons of his own captain. "What a tragic fate," he mused as he faced his death. A heartbeat later, the entire room erupted in hellfire, and his body was incinerated in a wave of heat.

Ejecting his Nascent Soul, he fled the burning wreck that was crashing to the ground. A deep anger rose up in him. His cultivation, his position in the Celestial Empire, and even his body had been taken from him by the All-Seeing Eye. I will get my revenge on that dark god one day! Mark my words—

"I told you," the voice of death whispered to him as a shadowy hand cradled his fleeing soul, "not even death will save you."

Elder Hao looked behind him and saw a grinning Thanatos.

"I will take good care of you."

In that moment, the true meaning of fear was engraved into Elder Hao.
