Their small talk went on for another few minutes until the woman, one of Frederic’s assistants, knocked on the door and set a box Matt couldn’t see through with his spiritual perception on the desk before leaving with a bow.

“And this is the major reason I asked you to come see me. In my official capacity as King of Finance, I’m giving this to you Titan.”

With a finger, he pushed the box over to Matt who flipped it open.

The first thing that grabbed his attention was the box itself, inscribed with both depleted and enriched metals in a dizzyingly complex array of overlaid runes that either was some advanced technique he had never encountered before or was the product of a Talent and someone very practiced with it to boot.

Once the box was opened, Matt saw an unadorned golden ring nestled in a rich purple fabric.

Plucking the ring out, Matt felt the magic of the ring intertwine with his spirit. It was trying to bind with him like a growth item. Not exactly, but the process was similar just without any actual binding process. After a moment, the ring seemed to retract its tendrils which was when Matt was able to access the insides of the spatial ring.

Matt’s eyebrows went into his hairline as he saw what was inside, which caused Frederic to laugh lightly.

“A beauty, isn't it?”

“Is this what I think it is?”

“I’d imagine so. You might not realize this but your mana is starting to become an actual issue. Harper can’t have so many agents purely on your mana duties, as even they can’t be told of what they are moving, which means they need to be cycled every trip. Don’t get me wrong, it's a good problem to have but a problem nonetheless. To that end, I was tasked with creating a fix. And here it is. A storage ring that has the teleporting swap function of a planetary tether perfectly functional inside an expanded space.”

Frederic sighed as he looked at the ring with the two of them. “That took nine of the Empire’s best crafters to make. So long as you are within any kingdom-level capital world or your own duchy, you will be able to make deposits to a hidden secure location without the need for anyone to see you arrive or people visiting you. Once you reach Tier 35 or so, we want to upgrade the formation to tie into the planetary tethers themselves to just teleport things directly to the Capital but your spirit isn’t strong enough for that and the costs are… mindbogglingly expensive.”

Matt whistled in appreciation even as Aster created illusions of him pouring mana stones into the ring. He had no idea how the ring functioned and even his [AI] had no idea beyond ‘throw crafting and enchanting Talents at the problem’. The tethers that connected worlds were already complicated technology but they explicitly didn’t work in spatial folds or compression, which the ring obviously had.

Concentrating, Matt created mana stones in the ring like he did with his current ring and nodded as the internal formations churned, arranging the mana stones into nondescript boxes automatically.

“The teleport costs about one hundred billion mana or twenty minutes of your current generation to activate the swap function but as you Tier up further, that will become negligible. Our mana problem is just a logistics job now.”

Frederic looked pleased as he answered a few other questions Matt had about the ring.

“Now before you go, there is a second topic I wanted to talk to both of you about before you return. Not in an official capacity but I’m looking for support for an initiative the hereditary faction is trying to push.”

Matt shook his head. “I can’t give more mana. Most of the hours of my day are already spoken for.”

Aster shrugged next to him. “I'm not sure what I can do? Do you really need snacks ordered?”

Frederic smiled as he leaned back and waved away their concerns, but the action only raised Matt’s warning bells.

“We don’t need mana or snacks. If either of you really like the idea and want to donate, I’m not so foolish as to say no but we are seeking your political support more than your considerable financial or desert support.”

Matt had already opened his mouth to decline, but the answer caught him off guard and piqued his interest. “Oh?”

“This is a joint venture by myself, King Rusty, and Queen Tur’stal but before we get into that, let me start by saying I took it upon myself to mention this to you as I know I stand for something of a…” Frederic searched for a word before settling on, “representative of what you see as the worst of the hereditary noble faction.”

Matt slowly nodded in acknowledgment even as he felt Aster flex their connection to give him support. He didn’t need it but it was nice. “I can admit that. I actually like you as a person, but the people you represent are—” Matt changed his mind and cut himself off. “Let's just agree that I don’t have the best view of a large portion of them and their ideals.”

“And that is why I’m the one bringing this up. If you reject this proposal, you hopefully won’t feel as bad as if you were rejecting people you have a better relationship with. If you aren’t wholly opposed to the idea, can I give you our proposal?”

Matt wanted to just reject him outright but Frederic was being upfront and honest with him. He was also incredibly helpful with things like the new ring.

“Sure. I’ll hear you out.”

Frederic turned to Aster who nodded and he started speaking. “Do you know much about the Knightly Orders?”

Matt shook his head in unison with Aster who said, “Not particularly. I remember it was something before the dynasty changed. Something about noble elites.”

“Correct. Empress Agatha took a… let’s call it a negative outlook on the program and those who survived her usurpation of the throne understood they should keep quiet about their status if they didn’t want to end up on suicide missions. While technically not outlawed, all imperial funding of the program was redirected to the Path and its expanded faculties. With the treaty limiting the size of the Path, we’re experiencing a glut of military funding which we are seeking to use, at least in part, to revitalize the Orders. It will both maintain a major part of our history before it’s too late and increase the diversity in our elites.”

Frederic paused letting Matt and Aster think everything he said over.

“Are you just looking for a mouthpiece to push the program for public support?” Matt nodded his agreement to Aster's question.

“Not quite. Between myself and my fellow Royals, we have enough political power to push through the initiative but it would be costly in political terms.”

“Is Manny against it?” That idea immediately raised Matt’s hackles. “I also want to know what you’re getting out of this and why you’re coming to me of all people before we go too much further. I get Aster. She enjoys politics but why me?”

Frederic shook his head. “No, nothing like that. If he was truly set against it, we wouldn’t bother. He's taking a politically neutral stance. If we can force it through, it will cost us and weaken our position for other arguments. Besides, the Orders aren’t entirely outlawed, they’re just largely vestigial, sharply in decline, and lack most of what they need to operate. I, Rusty, and Tur’stal can and intend to grant them most of the legal permissions required even without full Imperial support. But, there are a few things which we can’t provide, and it would be far simpler as a full-Empire initiative regardless.”

Mollified, Matt leaned back as Frederic added. “As for why I want you two? The Emperor is neutral, which means Mara and Leon are neutral. Harper will remain neutral unless someone sways them but all are happy with them remaining neutral. I could bring them over to my side, but the cost-benefit calculation doesn’t work out in favor of that. Given this is a military initiative, that provides an additional dimension to the calculation. Rusty is working to persuade the Academies and their Graduates it would be a benefit for them as well, and I’m looking for support among Ascenders. Allison and Zack don't care enough about politics to give much weight and Elizabeth is in a delicate position, so I’d rather not put her in a spot where she would publicly oppose her parents like this. That leaves you two, Aiden, and Lila. Aiden is too irritable right now while in recovery to be properly persuaded for something like this, and while Lila has already expressed her support, she has politically aligned with the hereditary noble factions often enough that her support is less valuable than it could be. With the two of you and her both supporting the initiative, however, that would be bipartisan Ascender support, and would sway a substantial number of existing fence-sitters.”

Matt pursed his lips and thought over the proposal. Frederic was being honest with him and he appreciated that. If Manny didn’t care enough to deliberately block this initiative it couldn’t be all that bad and Frederic’s logic for not asking Liz made sense.

He however, could support the idea but the question was did he want to?

Matt’s initial thought was to just decline, he wouldn’t call himself a loyalist but he wouldn’t argue if someone else did.

Manny was about as good a ruler as could exist outside a vacuum and genuinely did his best for the Empire and the people inside of it. That didn’t mean the hereditary nobility was inherently bad but Matt had a distaste for them having grown up on Lilly and in some of his recent interactions as a duke. He could at least logically recognize his homeworld was an outlier in how badly it was mismanaged but that didn’t change his feelings on the matter.

He could also feel that Aster would follow his lead if he vehemently rejected the idea which he deeply appreciated.

“I’m not going to say no, but I’m not familiar enough with the Knightly Orders to commit either. What are they, and why were they originally cut back?”

“Much like most pinnacle elite programs, the Orders are about concentrating as much power as possible within a single person. So much power, in fact, that the person underneath the power barely matters. For the Knightly Orders in particular, that comes in two forms. The first is a specialized natural treasure, frequently imbued within a child from birth. The Everflame Order was the most prominent Order for centuries, using Eternal Embers to create fire-based elites with some truly impressive skills.”

“From birth? As in, using Natural Treasures before awakening? That’s possible?” Aster's ears wiggled in surprise.

“Yes. While not all Orders managed it, and those that did kept the ‘how’ as an incredibly close secret, the greatest ones were able to manage it with some regularity. It worked quite well, though, and having such potent magic as a child tended to drastically influence their Talent and Domain in a beneficial way.”

“I can imagine….” Matt tapped his chin in thought, “But you mentioned two forms? What was the second?”

“Their Squires. A given Knight would have a dedicated support team who specialized in helping them specifically, rounding out their weaknesses and enhancing their strengths, and forming a cohesive group far greater than the sum of the already impressive parts. Some Squires would even go on to become Knights of their own, but that’s another conversation.”

Matt mulled that over with a few silent fluctuations of his and Aster's bond to see how she felt about it. “I have a few concerns, but nothing that would cause me to reject it. Why were they disbanded, exactly?”

“Politics, mostly. The Orders very definitively sided against Empress Agatha during her coup. She also had personal issues with many of the existing Knights. Then, noble families closely entwined with an Order tended to have undue power, which she sought to curtail. Combined with the absolutely abysmal state of the Orders, most of whom were absolutely rife with incompetence and corruption, she saw it fit to sweep the board of them all. A modern revival would be without most of the excesses and abuses of the old system, hence the lack of true opposition from even the Emperor.”

Aster asked a good question Matt hadn’t thought of though. “I can see why you personally are supporting these but why are your political blocs backing you in this? Seems like they would lose influence as proportionally their power decreases with new strong players entering the field.”

“A good question. The famous Orders were massively influential that is true, but often lost to history were the numerous smaller Orders funded by a few noble families who were in turn helped by the Orders giving the families a wider influence. That direct support ensured the nobles were invested in the military strength of the Empire in a way they aren’t currently and is part of what we want to replicate.”

They asked a few more questions but he didn’t see a reason to say no. Not directly. He actually agreed with Frederic that nobles should feel more invested in the Empire. Any such investment would be a net positive but empowering a faction he didn’t particularly like didn’t sit right with him.

He suspected he would end up agreeing but he’d need to talk to Liz no matter which way he leaned. Even if she wasn't publicly supporting it with him, there would be some bleed over.

But ultimately the major reason was that the Empire needed unity. It needed to see that despite differences, all sides were still a unified whole working for a greater whole even when they disagreed.

Matt didn’t like politics but he was aware of his image enough to know he was something of a poster child for the anti-hereditary noble faction.

