Frederic, Rusty, and Tur’stal could do this without his or Aster's help but even with Lila’s support, it would be a decidedly one-sided endeavor. His and Aster's support could even, if not tip the scales, add some weight to making it a bipartisan effort of all nobles, not just hereditary ones.

That was undoubtedly a good thing never more obvious than having Kees as his vice guild leader. As a former hereditary noble working as his second-in-command and leading day-to-day operations, his clear oppositional political stance from Matt kept a lot of issues from manifesting. Thanks to his influence, Titan’s Torch was largely apolitical and even more surprisingly, people believed and trusted that.

In their working on setting up the guild, he and Cato had suspected and created dozens of plans for when the inevitable politicization of his guild happened but even though they were still in the early years, there were zero signs of that happening, which could be directly laid at Kees’ feet.

There was a weight to bipartisan support.

He had questions, though. Many.

One thing he hammered down was what the Empire was supposed to be providing? Frederic surprised him by not wanting for mana directly, though there would be some level of support for nobles with low-Tier worlds. They wanted access to the resources, namely legacies and rare skill modifications, the Empire typically saved for Pathers and Academies. There were also a number of statutes which the Order’s traditional ‘raise a child with access to powerful magic’ broke, and they’d need specific legal consideration for that, but even without support from the central government, the Royals had enough leeway to make it work.

There were other things, but that was the major sticking point as far as Matt understood it.

Once they were done, and had full documents of the ideas tucked away for further review, Matt and Aster stood up and shook Frederic’s hand. “I don’t know if I’ll agree, but I’m leaning that way. I need to talk to Liz, but I understand and agree with a lot of what you said.”

“I would expect nothing less. Either way I would like to thank the both of you for hearing us out.”

Matt’s mind didn’t stop racing even as he and Aster hitched a ride on the Allie Express.
