Leaping to his feet with a snarl, Baledagh lunged across the table with Peace in hand, but the monk was ready for him. Slipping to one side while still seated, he neatly avoided Baledagh’s attack. Rolling to his feet, Baledagh turned to attack again, only to find the monk’s palm waiting centimetres from his face. “Brother SanDukkha please,” the monk Sent, calm and relaxed as could be. “This one means you no harm. Your secret is safe with the Brotherhood.”

Smacking the arm with his free hand, Baledagh failed to move it at all. He might as well have tried to shift a massive tree with a flyswatter. “And why should I believe you?”

Withdrawing his palm, the monk closed his eyes and bowed in prayer, giving Baledagh an opening to strike. “Because,” he Sent as Baledagh drew Peace back to throw, “this one, and many others of the Brotherhood, were also once Defiled.”

Freezing in place, Baledagh dropped his sword in shock, staring at the sitting monk whose eyes were still closed in prayer. Heart pounding and throat dry, it took several tries to croak out, “I don’t believe you.”

“The Spectres spoke to you.” The monk Sent, unperturbed by Baledagh’s accusation. “They gave you power and made you strong, promised you more if you only surrendered.” Opening his eyes, he gave Baledagh an approving nod. “But you did not surrender, nor did you succumb. You fought back against the Father’s foul minions, resisted their temptations, but still availed yourself to their power when necessary. Then, a droplet of Heavenly Water found you and cleansed the Taint from your soul, so now you walk in the Mother’s holy light. Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

Falling to his ass, Baledagh sat and stared at the monk in wonder. “How did you find out?”

“You met the Radiant Fist Wugang in Sanshu, who was at one point an initiate of the Brotherhood. Like you, he was once Defiled, and like me, the Abbot saved his soul from eternal damnation. Eventually, he parted ways with the Brotherhood over opposing values, but he still understands the good we do and sent word of your good fortune.” With an easy shrug, the monk concluded, “The rest was speculation based on your history, hence the need for an Oath.”

Damn it. Baledagh had been played, tricked into admitting his... second greatest secret about being Defiled. Blobby’s existence, his third greatest secret, was also known, which meant the monk was likely responsible for Brother and Blobby’s disappearance. What reason did he have for taking them? For the monk to admit to being Defiled was a small comfort, but Baledagh didn’t know what to make of it. Mother above, what was happening? He desperately needed Brother’s help to make sense of it all, before he made a mess of things like always. Why was he so useless? Helpless and afraid, Baledagh fought back his tears and whimpered, “Give him back...”

Thrown off by Baledagh’s demand, the monk drew back and furrowed his brow. “Give who back?” he Sent, confusion clear in his voice. “The Heavenly Water? It’s missing?”

“No. Well, yes, but not him.” Leaving Peace behind, Baledagh crawled over to the monk and grabbed his hand. “Give Brother back,” he Sent, throwing all face aside to beg. “Please, I need him. He’s the one you need to talk to, I’m worthless without him. If you need to take someone, take me instead. See, I’m not Falling Rain, I’m Baledagh...”

Under the monk’s careful questioning, Baledagh threw caution to the wind and told him everything. His scattered memories of the mines, his time spent watching through Brother’s eyes, finding true consciousness during the Demon Vivek’s mental attack, his misfortunes in Sanshu, and everything up until the other day when Brother and Blobby went missing. The only thing he held back was Brother’s memories of a previous life, though why he chose to omit that particular detail, he wasn’t entirely sure. Though terrifying at first, the more he spoke the easier it became, like a weight lifting off his chest as he revealed his deepest, darkest secret, hoping against all hope the monk would have a solution.

When Baledagh’s tale came to an end, the monk sat in thoughtful silence and Baledagh was happy to leave him be. While not an ideal candidate, he finally had someone else to rely on. All this time, Brother insisted he would eventually create a new body for Baledagh, but neither of them knew anything about moving souls or creating lifeforms. If the monk could take Brother’s soul away, then maybe, just maybe, he could put a soul in someone else’s body, which meant Baledagh would finally be free to live a life of his own. He’d still stay to fight alongside Brother, but as his own person with his own life. Baledagh the warrior, free to ride onto the field of battle to find glory to call his own, free to make new friends and find new love...

Free to... just be free.

“Brother SanDukkha,” the monk Sent, interrupting Baledagh’s daydreams. “Three things cannot be long hidden: the sun, the moon, and the truth.”

“What’s that supposed to mean?”

“The mind is everything. What you think, you become.” Placing his hands on Baledagh’s shoulders, the monk looked him in the eyes. “You suffered much as a slave, did you not?”

“...Yes.”

“And when you stumbled across the ruined village in the mountains, when you saw the remains of those tortured children, what did you feel?”

“Anger. Hatred.” Trembling at the memory, he blinked and whispered, “There were fifteen of them. I counted. Fifteen kids tortured and worse.”

“This one believes that is when the Father’s minions first sank their claws into your soul.” The monk’s voice was soft and gentle, without accusation or blame. “It is why the Defiled behave as they do, so you will hate and revile them, to push you out of the Mother’s light and make you susceptible to the Father’s lies. But you resisted them.”

“I did?”

“Yes, because you are a good person with a kind soul. You knew something was amiss, that your dark thoughts were not your own and torturing Defiled was not right, so you protected yourself.”

...what? “How?”

Swallowing hard, the monk ignored the question and launched into an explanation. “The Defiled are not controlled by the Spectres, not entirely. Instead, they allow the Spectres to control them, a minor, yet significant detail. True control only falls to the Spectres when the host surrenders, at which point the Spectres suppress the original soul and take over, moulding the body to better fit their needs.”

“A Demon.”

Nodding, the monk held Baledagh in place and continued. “Thus, it is a man's own mind, not his enemy or foe, which lures him to evil ways. The Spectres tainted your soul and infected your thoughts, but you held strong and refused them. You resisted for years until Sanshu when the Heavenly Water freed you from their unholy touch.”

“... I don’t understand. What does this have to do with Brother?”

“Rain, -”

“No, I told you, I’m Baledagh.”

“Rain.” The monk’s firm tone set Baledagh back on his heels, and he tried to fight free. Holding him in place with a steely grip, the monk sighed and shook his head. “Your name is Rain,” he Sent, softer this time. “I have seen this before. After your encounter at the ruined village and during the subsequent battles, you discovered something wrong and instinctively rejected the Spectres’ influence, but they are not so easily dissuaded. Inspired by the Demon’s illusions, you created a second persona within your mind and foisted the Father’s taint upon it. This allowed you to continue harbouring those dark thoughts without acting upon them, rationalizing it as thoughts belonging to someone other than yourself, but your first Awakening showed you the truth. Hiding will do you no good.”

Screaming like a wounded beast, he fought the monk with everything he had, kicking and biting to no effect. “It’s not true!” he screeched, tears streaming down his cheeks as he flailed in the monk’s grasp. “Brother is real! You’re a liar, a deceiver! Let me go! I need to find Brother. I need him, I need his help, please...”

Lifting him into the air like a petulant child, the monk ignored his cries and Sent over them. “Even after being freed from the Spectres, you were accustomed to having your second persona there, using him like a crutch to stand or a shield to hide behind. Because while Brother is smarter, Baledagh is braver, is this not so? When you are afraid, Baledagh comes out to face your fears, and if he fails, then it is no fault of your own. Poor, frightened child, you have been free from the mines for many years, and now you are free from the Spectres, so it is time you accept the truth. There is no Brother. There is no Baledagh. There is only Falling Rain.”

How long Baledagh fought for, he didn’t know, only giving up when he had no strength left to fight. Pulling his limp body into an embrace, the monk’s Aura settled over him like a warm, comforting blanket, filled with pure, untainted acceptance and devoid of any judgment or censure. “It’s all right, Rain,” the monk said. “You are not alone. You have your family and you have the Brotherhood. You are a good person, and you will make it through this.”

Weeping softly, Baledagh closed his eyes.

And I open them.

Shaking like a leaf, I’m forced to confront a not-so-Noble Truth.

I am not well, and I haven’t been for a very long time.

Chapter Meme
