They flutter around me, and more settle on my head. I grind my teeth. These little demons followed me out of the city, much to my dismay. I thought they’d give up on me with an entire city’s worth of humans to bother, but no*.
 
*Yeah, that’s right. I was trying to pawn them off on other people. So what? If you had to deal with these supernatural freaks for more than five minutes you’d be ready to do the same.
 
One of the faeries laughs and pulls at my hair. I feel some hairs rip free of my scalp and I snap. That’s it. I know it’s a bad idea, but I swat at them and drive them from my head.
“Get lost!”
The faeries take off and my fingertip grazes one and goes numb. They’re too cold to touch, and they’re not afraid. One buzzes next to my face, sticking her tiny tongue out at me as she mocks me.
 
“Ooh, scary, scary! It bites!”
 
I growl at her, but she only laughs and flips me off. Where the hell did faeries learn that gesture?
“Why the hell are you following me, anyways? Don’t you have anything better to do?”
The faerie looks offended and tilts her head away. She looks to one of her friends and remarks loudly to the air.
 
“Hark, the stinky thing talks!”
“Disgusting! It should die!”
 
My foot slips on a patch of the ice and I crash to the ground. Ow!
I pick myself up and realize a shard of rock is embedded in my hand. I pull it out, and blood wells out of my palm.
Those damn—
You know what? I’m just going to keep running. And it’s not  because I know I can’t do anything to them.
I get up and run down the long, winding rocky path. At least my shoes protect my feet from the sharp rocks. Now, where was that damn cave? I only barely remember reaching it last time—I was nearly dead as I recall. But I think Teriarch’s place should be just up ahead—
I turn past a cliff wall and suddenly a massive gaping hole taller and wider than the gates of Liscor appears in my view. Well. I’m here.
I hesitate as I stare up at the faded yellow scrap of cloth anchored by a boulder over the cave entrance. Only now do I suddenly remember exactly what Teriarch is. Let’s see. Now that you’re really thinking over your life choices Ryoka, does it make sense to bother a possibly Elven mage of incredible power who gave you a task that you did not carry out? Yes? Well then, go right ahead. This has been a message from your brain.
I take a deep breath and instantly regret it. But I’m here, and victory belongs to the bold. Also, bullets in the head belong to the bold, usually instead of victory, but I’ve got to do this.
The Frost Faeries swoop down around my head, oblivious to my trepidation. They laugh as they fly into the cave, chattering still.
 
“Ooh, does the human think we’re afraid of caves?”
“At least she’s not smart enough to use iron. We’d freeze her nose off for that!”
“Shall we drop the ceiling on her? Or maybe—”
 
I hear the booming words as a rumble in my bones before I realize their words. A massive voice booms out of the cave, full of irritation and command.
“Pests. Begone!”
The effect of the massive voice is instantaneous. The Frost Faeries react as if struck. They scream and flee in every direction a second before a huge stream of fire blasts over my head. I throw myself to the ground as the heat cooks me then dissipates.
For a while all I can do is lie on the ground, shaking a bit. Holy crap. That’s a scary spell. I get up at last, not so much because I want to go in, but rather in case I need to run.
The same voice echoes from within, not quite as loud, but just as huge. It sounds out in tones of disapproval, addressing me.
“Enter, Ryoka Griffin.”
If I were religious…I’m not, so I just hope with all my heart as I enter. I hope I’m not about to die.
The cave is open and vast, not so much a cave in truth as a plane hangar, only a bit bigger than most of the plane hangars I’ve seen. It makes me feel as though I’m in some kind of other world, and huge as the cave is, it’s far from empty.
In no time, the rough ground changes from stone to smooth marble. The rough walls…still remain, but suddenly they’re covered by paintings, weapons hanging on walls.
Pedestals appear, holding magical objects and bookshelves full of old tomes share space next to odd things I can’t even describe. A mirror gilded with gold that doesn’t reflect my shape? A suit of armor made out of stone? A…keyblade?
The wonders around me are unreal, but that fits the sole occupant of the cave. There he stands, in the center. He waits for me, and I feel the change in the air as I draw close.
There he is, the person responsible for at least some of my misery over these last few weeks. A mage. A man? A mystery. A dragon.
Teriarch.
 
—-
 
The first thing he does is get rid of the terrible stench surrounding me. A click of his fingers, and now not only am I smelling fresh as a daisy, but the potion at my side is in his hands. I should say—in a bubble in his hands. It looks almost exactly like a bubble, as the delicate membrane swirls with all the colors of the rainbow in his hands.
He looks much the same as I remember. Which is to say, too perfect. Teriarch stands in front of me, nearly six foot six, an old man dressed in clothing fit for a king.
He’s like an archetype of humanity, a tall, faintly bronze-skinned man with white hair, but the physical presence and body of an Olympian god. He stands in front of me and looks down, his pointed ears and celestial eyes narrowed in disdain.
A massive golden-scaled Dragon stares down at me with annoyance. His massive wings unfurl and beat once, stirring the air—
A gust of air strikes me in the face and I blink. What was that? A spell? Teriarch looks irritated, and waves his hand. Whatever caused the disturbance in the air stops.
“Ryoka Griffin.”
I don’t know if it’s the magic or just him, but Teriarch’s voice is deep and resonant. He looks at me, and my knees go weak. And not just because he looks like some kind of unattainable vision of male beauty. He’s also scaring the crap out of me, and I can’t tell why. Maybe I just sense how much power he’s got in him.
“Teriarch.”
“It has been a while since I last saw you. And now, you show up just when—and bringing those pests as well. How curious.”
Holy crap, this is hard. My entire plan revolved around me getting here and I didn’t honestly think I’d manage to do this. But I’d completely forgotten how intimidating Teriarch is. Here’s a guy who can teleport me with a few words and shoot fire hot enough to scare Frost Faeries, and I’m about to—
“It’s nice to see you too.”
My first and last response to any situation is sarcasm, followed quickly by irony and scorn. Teriarch looks at me as if I’m a bug and shakes his head.
“Mm. And so I must ask you why you have returned. The last time I saw you, I gave clear instructions. You were to deliver a ring and a letter to the mage known as Perril Chandler, also known as Az’kerash. You have not done so.”
“Yeah. I’ve been busy.”
“Doing what?”
I gulp. Teriarch’s gaze is nearly impossible for me to meet. I stare just over his shoulder instead.
“None of your business. But I came back to tell you I won’t deliver your letter and ring to Az’kerash.”
“Why not, pray?”
“You cast a spell on me.”
“And?”
He looks completely disinterested. That’s enough to get me angry. I raise my voice.
“And I don’t like having people tell me to do things against my will. You cast a spell on me against my consent. For that, you can forget having me deliver anything.”
Teriarch blinks in surprise, and then his eyes quickly narrow at me. He shakes his head darkly, and I feel the ominous presence around me grow stronger. Fear is eating a hole in my stomach.
“Effrontery. You come here into my home and tell me—but that is your kind, isn’t it? But there is something more to this—this display of insolence, isn’t there?”
He strokes at his beard as he stares hard at me. Teriarch’s eyes narrow.
“You would not have returned after ridding yourself of my spell just to tell me you refuse to serve me. You want something else. Tell me why you are here.”
He points at me, and I feel like answering him. But I bite my tongue.
“N-no.”
He frowns. His finger glows, and his voice deepens.
“Tell me.”
He looks in my eyes and I feel something touching my mind. It’s the same as the first time I met him. I feel an overpowering urge to obey, to spill the beans and let him know everything and anything he wants.
But I fight back. I’ve done it once before. It took everything I had, but this time is easier. I refuse to open my mouth, and the pressure builds and builds before it suddenly stops. I shake my head and glare at him.
“No. Stop that.”
For the first time since I’ve met him, Teriarch looks well and truly floored. He stares at his fingers, and then back at me in disbelief.
“You—resisted my spell. How did you do that? You have no class.”
“It’s called willpower.”
“By willpower alone? That should not be—I suppose it might…”
He trails off, eyeing me with a bit more interest and possibly respect than before. He spreads his hands.
“Very well. What is it you wish to say? Why have you returned without delivering my ring and letter to Az’kerash?”
He’s still so intimidating, for reasons I can’t even explain. But I hold my ground. I have to answer back. I’m not going to just roll over, am I? Come on Ryoka! Sass this stupid mage! You can do it! You can throw some shade—you’re the shade master! That’s what they called you in school!*
 
*No, they didn’t. They called me ‘bitch’ and other uncreative names.
 
“I couldn’t find him. I checked the Blood Fields and found nothing. Oh yeah, I also found out I was under a spell and broke that too. Got a problem with that?”
“Yes.”
Whoever Teriarch is, he’s clearly not up with modern retorts. The proper response is ‘fuck you’ or something to that effect. He glares at me.
“The exact location of Az’kerash is irrelevant. I gave you his general location. It is up to you to find him and deliver the message.”
I glare back. For once, I think I’m being out-glared, but I don’t give in.
“How am I supposed to do that? I have no idea where he is. And why should I do anything for someone who cast a spell on me to make me do that against my will?”
He shakes his head as if he could care less.
“You are a Runner. I have made a request. The logic is simple. You will complete the delivery.”
I grit my teeth hard enough to hear my jaw creak.
“No. I won’t.”
“You will.”
I shake my head. It takes more effort than I could have imagined.
“I won’t.”
He growls at me. Actually growls!
“You agreed to fulfill my request. You were paid—”
“To collect your request and the payment. I was going to deliver it to the Runner’s Guild so someone could fulfill it. Possibly me. That’s how an unmarked request works. I didn’t agree to do the delivery myself, much less be enchanted and forced to do it!”
“So what will you do? Refuse my request? Destroy my delivery? Throw it away?”
Teriarch looms over me. Was he so tall before? He looks furious.
“Or did you just come here to complain, Ryoka Griffin?”
I stare up at him. Don’t flinch. Drop the bomb.
“No. I came to tell you that you’re being blacklisted.”
“…What?”
My Runner’s pack is on my back. I flip it open and pull something out. The small Runner’s rule book I bought at the Guild. I open it and point to a passage I’ve bookmarked.
“Rule 21 of the Runner’s Guild states that ‘any Runner affected by spell or Skill may refuse to provide services and cancel any request made.’ Also, it says that anyone who attacks, hinders, or otherwise alters a Runner in the course of their duties can be banned from receiving or requesting any future deliveries. You can see it right here.”
I raise the book and throw it at Teriarch. He blinks and only a flick from his fingers stops the small volume from striking his face*. The look of irritation and incredulity on his face is almost worth whatever horrible fate I’m about to endure.
 
*Oh yeah. I threw the book at him.
 
He opens the book and flips through the pages, his face a portrait of disbelief. He looks up at me.
“You—cannot be serious. Do you know who I am?”
“No. Why not enlighten me?”
His left eye twitches.
“I am Teriarch, and I do not obey any requests of a mere—I will not be censured by you or the Guild of Runners.”
“Fine. In that case I won’t complete your delivery. You can have your ring and letter back.”
I open the belt pouch at my side and pull out the folded letter and ring. I thrust it at Teriarch and he blinks in disbelief.
“I’m keeping the potion, by the way. That’s also in the rules.”
“You cannot do this.”
“Watch me.”
For a second I think I’ve gone too far and the mage is about to explode. Teriarch’s face goes red, he yanks on his beard, and then starts shouting at the air.
“No. I will not—be silent, woman!”
I’m too scared to make a comment about sexism, but Teriarch doesn’t seem like he’s talking to me. He paces back and forth, mutters darkly into the air, and then looks furiously back at me.
“I must have that delivered. And I will have you do it. No—! I insist! It will be so!”
“I’m not doing it without another deal.”
“Then ask! What is it you desire, human?”
Okay, keep your cool Ryoka. I gesture with my hand aimlessly at the entrance of the cave.
“I went to the Blood Fields, but didn’t find anything. You said he’d be there or surrounded by the undead, but how can I find them? This continent is big. I have no idea where this Az’kerash is. If you want me to do the delivery, you also have to give me some kind of map.”
Teriarch stares at me. He takes a breath, releases it, and nods curtly. His hand raises palm up, and he says five curt words that make my ears ring. I can’t even remember what he said, only that when he’s done, he’s holding a…stone?
Yes, a stone. Just…a rock. A smooth one, but not much larger than my palm. It’s completely normal, aside from the glowing arrow of golden light etched in the center, of course. It rotates around and then points southwest fixedly in his palm.
Teriarch tosses it at me and I nearly drop it. It’s warm.
“Here. This will point without fail towards his magical signature. Would you like anything else? Or should I give you a flying carpet as well?”
“Do you have one?”
The look Teriarch gives me should fry me in place, but his gaze twitches just a bit to the right side of the room. No frickin’ way. But he recovers and when he points at me this time, the tip of his finger is glowing ominously.
