“If that were enough, which it is not, how could you even make this claim? Are you the new Patriarch?”

Tsung went silent. Then he said, “I have been offered the title as per the Compact of Songli, but I didn’t want it and so have denied it.” Tsung said, “But if taking up that mantle will keep the university running and Red Ledger as a Clan of Songli, then I will take up the mantle and make this promise to you official.”

Ah.

So that was why Elder Varo directed Erick here; he wanted to keep Red Ledger as a proper Clan of Songli.

To be sure, though, Erick asked, “What is your relationship with Elder Varo of Devouring Nightmare?”

Tsung frowned. He reluctantly answered, “We were students together, fifty years ago here in this very same University. Practically everyone I’ve had contact with in the past week has been old acquaintances or former friends or even lovers— Everyone seems to have an agenda, now that I’ve been tapped for Patriarch of Red Ledger. I’ve denied them all.” He tapped the paperwork in front of him with as much contempt as he could put into a single finger, saying, “But I cannot deny them anymore. Not with these shadows looming over the lives all all my students, and those who remain. If you don’t help, then someone else will. Eralis will not lose this university of healing. Not while I draw breath.”

Erick considered.

He wasn’t opposed to the idea of helping this man. A university dedicated to the healing arts was a necessary thing, and Red Ledger had been the power behind this university for a long time, if Erick was understanding that correctly. But. There was a question.

Erick asked, “And what happens if you fail?”

Tsung said, “It won’t happen right away. It’ll take months. But when Red Ledger cannot pay its bills, we will be struck from the List of Clans. I will lose the right to my name. I will likely have to join whatever other Clan decides it wishes to expand into healing, for the University will still be here. I might remain a professor. I might not. Likely not, for whoever comes in afterwards will wish for my expertise and I will give it, but they will eventually push me out as their new blood gains power. Many of us might move on to other places before they can do that to us. Oceanside, perhaps. What remains of the Clan Mountain in the Alluvial District will be gifted by Compact Law to whoever is able to pay to have it rebuilt. I have no idea what will happen to all of the students we had waiting to raise to clansmen. The same thing that will happen to the university students, I’d imagine. If I can’t stop this decline, then… A lot of interlocking layers of how Eralis functions will unravel... in ways I can barely imagine.” He stared down at his papers, getting a far off look in his eyes, as though he had realized he left the oven on at home and everything was going to burn down. He stayed silent, in thought.

Erick was thinking, too.

And it was an odd thought. A series of odd thoughts.

When Terror Peaks called him out as a Wizard plotting with Melemizargo, that was only the largest, most recent problem with people thinking he was somehow ‘evil’. People had been thinking he was evil all the way back when the former Weather Witch of Spur, Krakina Kali, called him a Wizard in the middle of the farmer’s market. It had started with his invention of [Call Lightning]. Due to that international upset, and with the humans imagining that he was working with the incani, since there were no humans in Spur at the time, he had almost been assassinated by the Greensoil Republic. And then Particle Magic enabled the killing of Odaali.

And then there were a million other smaller problems all across the world due to Particle Magic. Xue had even spoken of a few; how Particle Magic caused poisons here and there, and how he had been on the watch for them for the past year. Erick even remembered when some guy invented [Condense Gold] before the spell was called that, and thus got a smack down by Rozeta, with his spell taken away and barred to him. That story made international news.

The invention of [Exalted Rain] was yet another mixed bag problem, which caused a meteoric rise in Spur’s population, through people moving into the city, but also eventually resulted in the attacks by Caradogh Pogi and the Hunters of the Crystal Forest, and the Cinnabar Hand.

People started to think better of Erick the world over when he helped to end the ballooning spider horde attacks at a dozen different cities…

But at the same time, with Candlepoint in the mix, his public relations took a dive.

And so, a lot of people hated him, for whatever reason, like Tsung had demonstrated before he started begging for money.

Erick had no illusions that if this Terror Peaks disaster had happened elsewhere, somewhere besides in this super polite society of Songli where a lot of people were already allied with him, that he would have been run out of town. That he would have been called a danger to everyone around him, and they would have been right to call him that. Honestly, he was surprised he hadn’t already been told to leave.

Silverite and Treehome and Tenebrae had already kicked him out and told him to go away until he was done with his Worldly Path, and they were right to do so. This Worldly Path was fucking things up for him, in a bad way, but they were perfectly reasonable fuck ups. Things that had happened outside of his control, that he rapidly moved to control, most of the time. Maybe he didn’t control things as well as he could have. Maybe he hadn’t been as proactive as he could have been…

He was trying, though.

Maybe he needed some long term planning, so that when this Worldly Path was over, he wasn’t barred from visiting every single place he planned to visit. He needed to leave these places better than how he found them, and he had, mostly.

But 4 million dead in a blitz-war in the Songli Highlands…

This was not his fault; it was Terror Peaks fault.

But he could still leave this place better than how he found it.

And maybe the Worldly Path had slipped this hospital into his Path. He had been wanting a better way to move forward, hadn’t he? Maybe that ‘better way’ was through philanthropy.

Erick was magically strong, with the ability to end wars before they escalated too far, but he was also financially strong, and he had never truly utilized that strength before. Maybe it was time to use his other strengths.

… So that was the larger, more rational reason for deciding to do what he had decided to do. He could use some good public relations, so why not buy a hospital? Why not help them out? Why not… Help them expand? Get some shadelings in there, too, to learn how to heal people.

If a lot of the shadelings in Candlepoint knew how to heal people, then that was a way to trust, right?

That was the logical, rational part of Erick telling him that this was a good idea.

The emotionally satisfying reason for entertaining this idea, though, was that Erick had always been scared of death-by-cancer, or any of a dozen different medical issues. And he was filthy rich now, with the ability to gain money rather easily, if he wanted.

So why not buy a hospital that was in dire need of a financial rescue?

The more Erick thought of it, the more he liked the idea.

The nature of nobility in Songli and the reality of Red Ledger’s clan mountain, or the reality of how hospitals worked, or any of those nuanced concerns, were not important to Erick. At the moment, Erick had a place of healing at his mercy, and if he didn’t take this opportunity provided to him, then, as Tsung had said, someone else would come and take over, and then Erick would have been out of an opportunity to help people in a way he had always wanted to help.

Erick asked, “Why ask this of me, and not the other rich people who surely exist, who are coming to you with offers of assistance?”

“Because you won’t be around much. I’m hoping that I can take a grant from you, at the very least, and put up a dedication plaque outside of the hospital, and that’s all that will change.” Tsung said, “If we have to change the name of the place then we can do that, too. I don’t care about the look of the place or who gets credit, but if you do, then we’ll do that, too.”

“… Thank you for your honesty.” Erick held back a smile, as he said, “Some things are going to change, and I don’t necessarily mean the name. I once joked with Scion Yaro, may he rest in peace, about healing stations of [Greater Treat Wounds] on every street corner. He said that the enchantment costs alone would make such a thing impossible. I can likely solve both of those issues, for I am very, very good at collecting cores from thousands of monsters at a time.”

Tsung’s eyes lit up when it sounded like Erick was going to agree to his requests, but then he listened to Erick’s words, and Tsung controlled his excitement to more manageable, reasonable levels.

Erick continued, “I need to know more about how healthcare works in Eralis. For instance, does it work like it does at Oceanside? I see a picture of you with the Headmaster over there, so you know that most people can arrive and get free treatment for most problems, with payment only required for deeper issues that require actual resources aside from mana. Does it work that way here?”

“… We can reform some methodology.” Tsung said, “How much do you know of how healing works around here?”

“Not much at all, except that I have seen healers out there not healing people if the people didn’t have gold.”

Tsung frowned. And then he started talking.

Tsung spoke of [Greater Treat Wounds] costing 10 gold, which was a half-month wage for an unskilled worker. Erick asked ‘why not free?’ Tsung spoke of taxes and upkeep on properties and the price of nobility in Songli. How did that work, when the Clans controlled everything? Who did they actually pay taxes to? For each city, it was different. Void Song controlled Eralis, and its international trade. Severing Crescent controlled Alaralti, and the breadbasket of the Highlands. Devouring Nightmare controlled Holorulo, and the Main Army. Each city collected its own taxes, both from allied Clans and from commoners. This money went toward the upkeep of each city’s lands, bureaucracy, and security. There was also a Grand Tax, required from every Clan in order for them to remain a Clan of Songli.

Red Ledger would fall behind on those payments after the Chelation War. They barely stayed afloat in a normal year.

After that dry learning, Erick offered some healthcare ideas that were, admittedly, not fully formed, and which included: free treatment for commoners and a sliding scale of payment based on ability to pay. He also asked how willing was Tsung to take in shadelings to teach them proper Healing Magic.

Tsung paused. He spoke as though testing each of his words, “I will… Consider. This is more… difficult.”

“Maybe one or two or ten, at first. They could [Viewing Screen] classes, perhaps.”

“This is more acceptable.” Tsung rapidly said, “The gods give us Healing Magic. I don’t know if a shadeling could even learn… Anything at all! I don’t know.”

Erick nodded, saying, “Then we can let that requirement go for now.”

They continued to talk for a long while.

Teressa kept a lookout on the mostly empty building all around them, while Poi stood in the back, overseeing Erick’s conversation with Tsung. Eventually, when Erick formally agreed to solve at least one of the university’s problems, the one of gold, Tsung broke down in tears for a brief moment. After that outburst, he happily broke out a bottle of expensive grape wine that he had imported from Eidolon years ago.

Over a shared drink, and a bit more talking about taxes and payments and how all that worked, mechanically and lawfully, Erick felt better and better about this decision. There were a great many problems that Tsung needed to solve, but Erick was fully capable of solving most of them with a nice injection of cash.

Or rather, an injection of cores.

Tsung said, “We can’t actually take the cores as currency, ourselves, for we don’t do much enchanting here. We have a few small enchanting schools as offshoots of the University, but we need the gold; not the cores. Therefore, we will be completing this transaction through the Clan Exchange— Ah. The Mage’s Guild. If you do not mind. They can take the cores and the Grand Bank of Songli can take the gold.”

“Fine by me.” Erick asked, “How many other offshoot schools do you have? Or is it just the enchanting school?”

“The University has three campuses. The main one, here. Then there’s the main hospital— That was destroyed by a [Gate] bomb.” He paused. He continued, “Some of your money will be used to clean up the main hospital; those Extreme Light bombs certainly made a mess of things. Some of the people who survived that attack are housed here now, plying their trade and helping whoever comes through the Teleport Square out front. The last campus is for enchanters. That’s far to the west of Eralis, in a little city called Juun.” He added, “There’s also hundreds of smaller offices everywhere in Eralis. The majority of our Healers are out in those locations right now, but much of the initial horror of Terror Peaks’ assault is over, so a few people are moving around again.”

“What about healing clans in Alaralti or Holorulo? You’re not the only hospital around, are you?”

He said, “Alaralti and Holorulo have smaller healing Clans, but they have no Doctors. They have Priests and Shrine Keepers and Light Healers. They’re hired out to heal special afflictions, but mostly they tend to their own cities. It’s a different way of doing things.”

Erick said, “Healthcare is so very different here than it was back on Earth. We didn’t have magic, so you can imagine how much more difficult healing a wound would be.” He laughed. “I bet you’re one of the few people who could actually imagine that.”

“Aye. Long term healing doesn’t happen very often. [Treat Wounds] is a miracle.”

“Not just that. Even [Cleanse] is a miracle. If I had that one spell back on Earth… I would have been able to save so many lives.”

“Ah. Yes. I can imagine, though I am sure my imagination fails to reach the target.” Tsung asked, “Is that why you’re helping Red Ledger get back into the fight?”

