Warning: You seek dangerous information. Pursuing this line of questioning further will put you at risk and draw the notice of the [Farwalkers].

Her stomach turned into a solid block of ice. Her savior was no savior at all. He belonged to the people who Sullain had gotten the Tarrasque from.

“I remember the arrangement, and I'm not here to ruin your story. Though, not like you need any help from me to do that…” The Farwalker's following scoff was filled with disrespect and derision, and for a reason Uva didn't yet know, the Usurper-Narrator stayed her hand instead of smiting him from existence. “Look, I'm not here to piss you off—that kind of just happens because I'm a real people person. Chorus sent me here directly. We have a certain danger to catalog, a threat to multiple realities, one that's lifting a world to a premature incursion. And my ancestor world at that. Besides, you know how this goes. The Harbinger’s a Restricted Skill. I can't skip the interview process for certification or elimination.”

Uva stretched her fractured shape wider, shrouding Shiv behind her eldritch geometries the moment the Farwalker said the word elimination.

The man glanced at her—and she tasted a tang of exhaustion from his unfurling mind. Her eyes widened as he suddenly developed a Psychomancy skill. A translucent field tore out of him faster than she could perceive. It stretched further and further, passing the bounds of the vast forest in an instant, and it reached upward and reached past the clouds into the stratosphere, and it kept going still.

Uva's Psychomancy strings were capable of independent movement, granting her unparalleled power projection, even for her Tier. But in less than a blink, the Farwalker before her redefined what she understood to be reach. All mages had spheres of influence. Except sphere wasn't a strong enough word for the Farwalker. Standing here before him, she became a small little octopus suffering a brutal epiphany: the Farwalker wasn't some leviathan. He was more so an ocean unto himself. At any moment, he could have snuffed her mind out—her and everyone she held dear.

And somehow, he kept that power silenced and hidden away from her. She hadn't even known that was possible.

“You don't know about a lot of things, kiddo,” his voice rumbled in the back of her mind. He spoke, but it sounded like his thoughts were cast by crashing waves, and even when he tried to be gentle, there was a colossal pressure building on her. If she had been anything less than a Heroic-Tier Psychomancer, her mind would have shattered. All of a sudden, the weight lessened, and she felt him pull back a bit. “Sorry about that. Not used to reducing my mana frequency so much. My last assignment had me poking around a dead empire ruled by Mythic-Tier psychics. Wrestling with their planetary Nullwave projectors left me pretty strained.”

“Planetary?” Uva breathed. She almost didn't want to know. She was a little scared to know, but ultimately she had to know. She wanted to see what lay beyond the incursion, what awaited them on the other side.

A twang of mirth vibrated through the Farwalker's psychomancy field, and even that felt like she was being battered by tsunamis. The tsunamis, however, carried a vivid memory over to her:

His awareness hovered behind his shoulder, regarding him from the third person. With a thought, his field swelled out from him as he stood with his back to distant stars and dead pieces of metal larger than mountain ranges floating like particles of dust in soundless space. Before him, slowly drifting apart, were the unmoving corpses of beasts that dwarfed small celestial bodies. Their normally smooth bodies were ridged with metal implants, and each of their skulls had a neat hole lanced through its forehead.

Three pods of Void Leviathans had met their ends at his hands, but his insides were sour with sorrow and wistfulness rather than pride at the feat of murdering creatures of such immensity. Nothing in this dead realm evoked triumph in him. This hadn't been a hunt, but euthanasia for beings mentally enslaved and alchemically altered to serve as war beasts in service to the now extinguished Valestros Dynasty.

But while the Dynasty had fallen, its weapons, treasures, and monsters remained a danger to Chorus and the Commonwealth of Civilizations Under Integration.

And in his mind, the poor Void Leviathans deserved better than another thousand years of experimentation, torture, and enslavement. Produveral saw something of himself in them—of his ancestors too. But there was no easy fix for the mistakes of yesteryear, committed by the hands of over-powerful and over-simple tyrants.

All he could give them was a final mercy. It came in the form of a mana-nullifying piece of grain, fired through his reactionless rifle from the very edge of the local star system. It took him some time to set up the shot. He didn't want the Void Leviathans to suffer any further anguish. He knew what it felt like to survive when the ones you cared for didn't, and it was with those memories in mind that he pulled the trigger.

With the final slave defenders of the fallen Dynasty put to rest, he projected his mind magic and compelled it to grow wider and wider and wider. He gazed down at what the Void Leviathans had been protecting—an artificially constructed world, entire continents forged of mithril, each carved with specific shapes as part of a galaxy-spanning spell array. Veins of limpid fluid criss-crossed through the mithril continents—crude ley-lines put in place by the Dynasty’s architects.

They were on the cusp of a collective civilization evolution before the calamity arrived. Crossing the rubicon to Mythic was no easy task, and it served as another great filter for those who failed to cleanse themselves of flaws.

Even so, a dead world to an extinct Mythic Dynasty still possessed enough mana to make things a struggle.

But a struggle was all it was. He pushed his Psychomancy just a bit harder and brute-forced his way through the malfunctioning thought-inhibiting jammers buried in the planet’s core. The core was inhabited by a psionic gestalt, formed from the mana and memories of the planet’s inhabitants, but with the soul plague running rampant, the gestalt was driven to madness. This meant that his campaign of euthanasia wasn't quite over.

His mind magic stretched across the expanse of stars and cleaved deep into the planetary crust. He felt the jammers scream at him, then the shriek rattling in his mind. He gritted his teeth, and his helmet’s amplifier enhanced his already considerable power. He wasn't a dedicated mind mage, but he had more than enough raw power to break through…
