Sitting upon a throne of branches and roots was the avatar of the World Tree's soul. A youthful and radiant figure made from glowing bark and soft light. The Chairman gulped. This Inner World already made him feel small, yet he was barely the size of the avatar's finger—not that the World Tree's avatar was human or even humanoid. It was something indescribable, a vague collection of raw power that had taken form. It was his own mind that seemed to form an appearance in a desperate attempt to comprehend what he was seeing.

The Chairman didn't dare take a step forward. This was as close to the avatar as he was willing to go.

"World Tree, I have come to talk."

An aura of pure rage surged toward them from the throne down the golden bridge like a roaring tsunami. The Chairman raised his ring, filling it with Qi and conjuring a barrier that enveloped himself and the other council members. It was pathetic, but they were forced to cower behind it and wait for the World Tree's rage to subside. A scream of profound pain echoed through the realm from the avatar, making the spires of crystalline trees flash with power.

"I know you are in pain, but you have to understand—" The Chairman choked on his words as the scream ceased and the World Tree's intense gaze landed on him. Defensive artifacts activated, stopping his body from being crushed into a pulp. His consciousness, however, quaked as the World Tree spoke, not in words but in meaning. Directly into his soul, a voice woven from the whispers of the wind, the crash of waves, and the deep groan of mountains thundered through his very being.

"I have no need to speak with dead mortals." The words appeared in his mind, built from flashes of intense emotions from the World Tree.

The Chairman smiled awkwardly. These were words he received from a being he had helped raise and had known for longer than the Celestial Empire had stood tall.

"World Tree, I am alive, am I not? Why do you condemn me as dead?"

"You misunderstand and exploit my kindness," the avatar said, standing and looming over them like a titan. "You puny mortals drink my sap to extend your pathetic lives, thinking I can't fight back. Well, that ends soon."

"She can fight back?" Mistress Veilshade said without hiding the fear and astonishment in her voice.

"Mother nature would never do such a thing," Faelorian said before pausing, "Right?"

The Chairman raised his hand, silencing the chatter between them. While the World Tree was old and timeless, it was sometimes immature and easy to read. He had a sinking feeling about the World Tree's plan, but he had to confirm it.

"World Tree, we protect you from the beast tides. If we were to die, so would you. Tell us, what do the threads of fate say about our futures?"

"Death under a thousand fangs, and your corpses will be ripped to shreds by a thousand claws."

The Chairman's eyes narrowed, "Death by so many fangs and claws? That could only be in reference to the beast tide. You're bringing it here? Are you a fool? If we die at the hands of the beasts, you will be next."

Ancient laughter boomed through the space, shattering the purple shield they were still cowering behind.

"I'm a true immortal being. Even if I were to die at the claws of the beasts I draw here, I would be reborn again. Such is the endless cycle. Meanwhile, your deaths will be gruesome and, most importantly, permanent."

"Tell her to stop this madness, Chairman." Faelorian Lysanthos demanded. "To bring the beast tide here, that's insane! The beast tides have always avoided this place. We aren't prepared for it."

"I... can't stop her." The Chairman admitted through gritted teeth. "The only hope is if we get Stella Crestfallen back—"

"Foolish mortal," the World Tree bellowed as a root of blinding power erupted from the ground before her like a pillar of light, "Stop trying to use my daughter to control me. She is destined to save me, not serve as your hostage."

The Chairman grimaced, "And how do you know that?"

"Because we share the same blood," the World Tree said as the blinding root glowing with power fell down before her, crashing into the bridge and destroying it in a wave.

"Run!" The Chairman shouted, but the seasoned cultivators around him were already on the move. Their Monarch Realm souls hummed with power as they teleported using various techniques to escape the World Tree's Inner World.

The world seemed to explode around them as they barely managed to make it through the tear, returning to the world outside the World Tree.

"What in the nine realms was that?" Faelorian Lysanthos shouted, his usual calm and peaceful demeanor gone. "The beast tide is coming here? Floridawn is on the ground and will be the first hit. I refuse this."

"Don't worry, we should have three more years," The Chairman said, trying to calm him down.

"Oh, Chairman, you don't know?" Mistress Veilshade said with some amusement.

"I don't know what?" He snapped. Now wasn't the time for her games.

"The beast tide," Mistress Veilshade tilted her head in apparent amusement, "It's already on the move. Sources say it's nearing the Blood Lotus Sect. You know... the last known location of your precious little experiment."
