“Furfur, I respect your class and abilities. But I fear—my time in Chandrar has given me insights you cannot dream of. I have been friends with the Empress of Beasts, and she has taught me many things. So—observe the forbidden technique. [Fourfold Petting].”
With that, he began demonstrating a 100% increase in the techniques of ear scratching, tummy-rubbing, and cat-pampering. The cat practically writhed with delight in Ksmvr’s hands as Klbkch stared at him.
“Unbelievable.”
He stalked past Ksmvr, and Dekass wandered away since he had been told the cats were not part of the food being served. Furfur watched in silence as Ksmvr amazed the onlookers with his talents. The little dog stared at the cat as Furfur put him down, and he raced over to get a scrap from Crusader 53.
What would be his response? Furfur was very still as he fished in a belt pouch. Then…he produced a short-toothed comb and brush.
Instantly, the cat abandoned Ksmvr and leapt into Furfur’s hands. He began to comb and brush the cat’s fur as Ksmvr’s mandibles fell open. Furfur nodded to Ksmvr and picked up the dog; it was getting late, and they needed to sleep.
 
——
 
“Ksmvr, where did you go?”
The Antinium came back to the central fire as Ceria, Pisces, and Yvlon showed him the cake slice they’d safeguarded for him. The Antinium didn’t touch it. He sat there and looked at his comrades.
“My team, I have been bested, humiliated, and defeated. It is a strange feeling, to be so roundly thrashed. I may never recover. And yet—I must train harder.”
He clenched one fist. Yvlon turned to Ceria, uncertain whether or not they should get up and avenge Ksmvr or not.
And the night went on.
 
——
 
In the end, there were a lot of theories about happiness and the meaning of life, if you’d even thought about it in a grand sense.
“The meaning of life? Uh—”
Joseph completely blanked when he was asked. He glanced around and stuttered.
“Well, they say lots of things, right? Like, um, to ‘crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and hear the lamentations of their women.’”
Kevin began choking on his drink with laughter as Erin’s head swiveled, and she gave Joseph an outraged look. But the people sitting around Joseph took him at face value. Numbtongue gave Joseph a long, long look and a frown.
“…And then what?”
“Huh?”
“What do you do after that?”
The Hobgoblin gave Joseph a very distrustful look, and Seborn broke in.
“Pillage and plunder, obviously. And worse. That’s your meaning of life?”
He gave Joseph a deeply disturbed look, and the young man raised his hands hurriedly. Imani was horrified. She might have been from Earth, but she had no idea what he’d been quoting.
“That’s what you want to do, Joseph?”
“No!”
“It’s clearly what he meant from the context. What are you, some kind of Bloodtear Pirate or those insane raiders?”
A Drake twitched at her spot around the fire, but Joseph was the one trying to defend himself.
“It’s not me—it’s just a quote, guys. It’s just one theory, right? I mean, no one knows the answer—”
Pawn raised one hand politely. He had been creating some bread for extra food, and he turned to Joseph.
“I have seen my enemy driven before me many times. I have also crushed their heads with a mace. It is not best in life to me, but I respect your attitude towards the game of football. No wonder you are a [Coach].”
It was getting dark, and the laughter from the fire where Joseph’s name was being dragged through the mud almost woke a sleepy little Gnoll in Lyonette’s arms as she carried Mrsha to their rooms. But most people were sitting around the glowing embers in the darkness.
When they rose, they’d have to go home or beg a room for the night and face consequences like how much they’d just eaten or the work they had tomorrow or just—life.
But this night had been quiet and enjoyable. Not mind-blowingly fun or crazy. Just—good. In fact, that was why even the Silverfangs had arrived near sunset.
They did not feast, exactly, but they had eaten and listened and talked. They would not have come for a great party, but this—this was close enough to their ceremonies.
Krshia Silverfang sat with a cup in her paw as she spoke, a nigh-invisible shadow with a glinting necklace of silver in the darkness.
“This talk of happiness, of life—I wish I had but an answer.”
She looked around, and Erin Solstice heard her growl in the darkness.
“We cried all our tears a while back, but it wasn’t enough. I should have stayed to bury the dead but I couldn’t face it. Cetrule…Torishi…Silverfangs left one dead Gnoll for every six that lived. I cannot smile for new lands or a glorious age. It comes at too high a cost.”
There it was again, and no one ran from it. The distant laughter faded, as if they heard, but someone did reply to Krshia.
It was Kevin. He spoke, thoughtfully, into the silence.
“In another world, there really wouldn’t be any point.”
Everyone looked at him, Grimalkin, Pisces, Erin, Krshia, Selys, Saliss, and Numbtongue—those were the people in the central spot. Kevin surely knew he was being listened to, but he didn’t care. He went on.
“At least we level up, here. At least that’s not forgotten. Sometimes I see things that have no meaning, and I…I don’t get why it happened. At least here I can say—maybe I’ll be able to do something in time. I couldn’t, even if I tried, even if I was there. Before. That’s something, right?”
Erin felt like he was looking at her. She knew he was speaking to her. It was something she’d said, and Ryoka.
So that was where he was. They were all changing, and Kevin’s words hung in the air. Until Erin interrupted him.
This night, this evening with the fire, was good. She pushed herself up with her elbows in her chair and shook her head.
“No. Even if it were a place without levels or rewards or quests or magic…”
The others focused on her, and she sensed each one here, though they were a bunch of people as still as statues, shadows in the night. But she knew their faces and…Erin inhaled, and the air was smoky, making her cough. Oh, but it was real. So she had to tell them—tell Kevin he was a bit wrong.
“We are bound together by the things we lose and the things we’ve done. I’ll never forget that. I never did, even when I died.”
Pisces looked at Erin, but it was something only she could say. Erin turned to Krshia, and the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] studied the Human. They had met when Erin first visited Liscor, and Krshia was one of Erin’s first friends.
“I know what the Gnolls did, Krshia. They helped Mrsha. They did many things.”
“Some selfish. If it is a debt…”
“It’s not just a debt, Krshia. I know what they did. What they went through. I won’t forget what happened, and I wasn’t even there. I didn’t see it all, but I don’t think Lyonette will ever forget. Or anyone else. I’ve said this before. For Goblins. But today and every day afterwards—no Gnoll of the Plains will ever go away hungry if they come here or have to sleep on the ground. Or Antinium. They’ll always be friends. Hopefully, if there’s one thing we can keep, it’s that.”
It wasn’t much, but it was all they had left. Erin looked around and felt Krshia’s grief. She felt the contentment of some, Grimalkin’s conflict of duty and purpose. Chaldion’s bone-weary despair and fear.
Hidden emotions in some, words still left to say. Ceria was staring at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] felt something bubbling in her chest. It was something you could feel and maybe even forget, but Erin had learned many times that these moments mattered.
She jumped as a claw touched her side. Saliss poked Erin with one huge eye open.
“Free food and shelter? How about Drakes?”
“Pass.”
Erin swatted his claw down, and Numbtongue lifted a hand.
“Goblins?”
“I think the Goblins generally feed themselves.”
Erin stared pointedly at Ulvama, eating half a cake, and Numbtongue laughed. Her gaze roamed the gathering of people, and she heard little conversations. People she didn’t know, speaking.
 
——
 
Like that Cave Goblin, Rasktooth. He’d been merry enough, eating and drinking and chattering to the Worker, but he could not walk.
And unlike Erin, no [Healer] had told him he would again. He looked around and smiled hugely.
“Good night. Good day. If I die, I am happy.”
He looked at the Worker sitting next to him, and Infinitypear seemed shocked.
“Why will Rasktooth die?”
The Cave Goblin tapped his legs with an expression like it were obvious.
“Useless Goblins die. So I die.”
To his surprise, Infinitypear shook his head vehemently. The Worker picked up the Cave Goblin and put him on his shoulders.
“No. I am your legs.”
“Not always. Don’t be silly.”
Rasktooth poked him in the head. In response, Infinitypear poked him back.
“I will never put you down. You will not die. Not without me.”
It was such a stupid…it was such a thing to say that the Cave Goblin laughed. He raised a hand to punch the Antinium, but then patted him on his head. And all he said was this as he rubbed at his eyes.
“Brother, brother.”
Infinitypear smiled as he carried Rasktooth away from the fire. He agreed.
“Brother. And friend.”
 
——
 
Erin had heard all of it. She needed something to blow her nose with, so she used the hem of Pisces’ robe.
“Erin.”
But he didn’t stop her, just grimaced. Erin wiped her face.
“Sorry. But that’s what they need to say. We need time. It’s too much. We have to say it slowly. Even though…”
They also had so much to do. Pisces looked at her as the people began rising, breaking up for sleep. But that moment…his eyes fixed on her.
“I—do have something to say to you, Erin. But I—I cannot—now is—”
He glanced around the fire, and Ceria, Ksmvr, and Yvlon were there. But Pisces couldn’t say it. Not with people. Maybe not even alone. He looked at Erin’s shadow, and he didn’t see how her eyes fixed sadly on him. But Erin didn’t say the things that would ruin this moment. She just patted his hand.
“We have time. I’ll get it out of you when you’re ready.”
The [Necromancer]’s head bowed.
“…Time? It’s been ten days. More. I left…”
He was about to shout it, say it, but Erin just tightened her hand on his.
“For another day, rest. Just one day.”
He nodded, and Erin wheeled herself away from the fire. She had something to do too, and she heard the quiet voices speaking in the night.
 
——
 
They were not all good conversations. There were fights and even stupid questions. Like…
“Was it worth it? Do you regret anything?”
It might have been a random guest who asked that, or even a friend of the inn. It was a stupid question, whether it was Rasktooth or anyone else who was asked.
Of course you regretted not dodging. Of course it hurt, and of course you regretted the pain and what might never come back.
How could you ask a person that? Let alone a tribe, even, especially in hindsight? It was the kind of question that deserved a stinger in the eye on general principle.
The little bee fanned one wing as Lyonette put her on the windowsill. She had a bowl of honey water waiting for her, but she’d been stuck in the sling all night. She would have loved to fly…but she wouldn’t. Never again.
She would have crawled around on the ground outside, but it was too dangerous for her, and she understood that. She could not fly, and Apista regretted that.
She had no answer, but the little white girl was sleeping in bed and the [Princess] smiled so much she almost cried. Apista felt it. As Lyonette went to sleep, Apista limped to the slightly open window and lit a bit of one of Palt’s cigars with some flame she produced.
A drink and a smoke on a moonlit night. Worth it…she fanned her stub of a wing and dragged herself forwards with her good legs. She didn’t know about worth. But this?
Yeah. That felt nice.
 
——
 
It was dark now, and the last moments of this gathering were breaking up. But all it had meant, all the powerful feelings that had been shed here, even in part, still lingered. What was it? Could you name it?
The [Innkeeper] didn’t know, but she went around, wheeling her chair into shins, apologizing, and bidding people goodnight. But she had a problem.
“Excuse me. Do you know where Alcaz and Normen went? Pivr? I saw he had…they’re already in Liscor? Darn. Hey. Um. Do you have a hat? Ceria? Yvlon? Helmet? Grimalkin? Relc, buddy?”
“A hat?”
The sleepy people looked at Erin, and she realized none of them had a hat. This was a hatless crowd. Aside from the Brothers—they were anti-hat.
“What’s with you guys? Not one of yous has a hat? Not you, Ser Sest? Give your helmet! …Where’s your helmet?”
“Why do you need a hat, Erin? You don’t wear hats!”
An exasperated Selys snapped back. Erin rolled around with increasing urgency.
“Lasica! You’re a [Chef]. Poofy hat? Bah, what kind of [Chef] are you? Pebblesnatch would have my back. Did Garry…? Argh!”
She rolled forward, and the door to the Garden of Sanctuary appeared. Erin rolled through room after room, disrupting the occupants, but she had no hat. At last, in desperation, she rolled into the kitchen.
“This…okay…”
Her guests followed her. Bemused, but that air of happy charm, of…something, lingered. In fact, it more than lingered.
It was here. The pleasant conclusion of the evening. Fading, but lingering around…
“Erin?”
Selys stared at Erin, and a sleepy Lyonette came downstairs because she’d felt it too. Not an aura, but something…close.
Her friends saw Erin Solstice pull something from a cupboard, inspect it, and bite her lip.
“I hope this’ll do. It’s not how I was taught, but—I’m an [Innkeeper]. Okay, here goes.”
With that, she raised a pot and put it over her head, the handle facing backwards because that was cool.
Erin stared at her friends with a pot on her head. Pisces began laughing, a slow laugh, and Ceria snorted, and Yvlon rubbed at her eyes.
“Erin, what…?”
“Just wait. Okay, I tip it like that and…gotcha!”
Her shout was triumphant, and then Erin snatched the pot from her head. She glanced around, decided she was not wearing that all day and night, and slammed a lid over it. She stared at the covered pot along with everyone else.
“Erin—what did you just do?”
The [Innkeeper] winked at her friends, and they gave her looks of great suspicion. For there it was. The crazy Human of Liscor, Erin Solstice, the [Innkeeper], the girl whom Nereshal called the Goblinfriend in times to come…she was many things they knew.
And something they didn’t. Pisces’ eyes widened, and Ceria gasped as the circlet helped her mind jump to a conclusion. Grimalkin just checked off a box and went to bed, smiling, without telling the weary Chaldion.
