“…That was part of my job as Magus of Pallass. I didn’t expect you to reply. Nor will Chaldion push today. But you know they will not let up. This isn’t even knowing information about the Antinium, Erin. You have been marked a person of interest by all the Walled Cities.”
Erin eyed Grimalkin. That was unusually…no, he was always honest, but there was a difference to how he sat and stared at the block of burning wood. Ishkr uneasily eyed the grass, but Kevin grabbed the husk of corn. Erin and Grimalkin stared at it as he searched around for something to attach it to.
“There’s not much of a fire here. Just a block of wood. I need…kindling. Dried wood.”
“There is firewood around back. Let me get some.”
Ishkr trotted off and came back with a pair of logs. Grimalkin saw Kevin try to place the burning block of wood in between the other two in some logical way to create embers. The art of building a proper fire…
Grimalkin got up, came back with five more logs, and arranged them with Ishkr. Then he pointed down and poked a finger through the largest one.
Erin felt a rush of heat, and when Grimalkin withdrew his claw, the wood was already a smoking ember from within, and flames began to rise across the rest of it. He waved his finger, and Kevin gave him a look of respect.
“That’s cool magic.”
“Physical augmentations. My specialty, after all. What is this for?”
For answer, Kevin chose his spot carefully and laid the husk of the corn between two logs. Then he frowned.
“I don’t want it to touch the fire. I need a poker or something.”
“I can find one.”
Ishkr left, and Grimalkin raised one eyebrow. Erin folded her arms.
“Roasted corn. Or grilled or whatever. Can you believe this guy? I mean, I guess it’s a new food, so everyone’ll be excited.”
Grimalkin eyed Erin.
“…Roasting corn is not a new invention, culinarily speaking, Erin Solstice. I have eaten roasted corn hundreds of times before.”
“Oh. Well, I haven’t.”
“What’s wrong with her?”
Kevin joked, and Grimalkin’s lips actually twitched. He glanced at Erin, then down at the crowd blanketed by the silence spell. People were pointing up at Erin in confusion and craning their necks.
“Are you not going to do something…interesting, Miss Solstice?”
“I don’t think I can. Not what people want. I just wanted a snack—oh, thanks, Ishkr. Okay, Kevin. Show me this so-called vaunted grilled corn of yours.”
“All I need is a bit of butter…”
“Why’s it in the husk? Don’t you peel it first?”
Grimalkin looked at Kevin, and the Earther decided just to keep at browning the corn. Who had [Basic Cooking] here again? Well, no one needed it, and it wasn’t going to be the best thing ever. But there was already a faintly pleasant smell in the air, and the fire might be warming, but a faint chill of fall was making the heat enjoyable.
“Grimalkin, did you have to get me or something?”
The Sinew Magus was like a boulder as he sat next to Kevin. He replied slowly. Almost…bitterly?
“My duties to Pallass mean I must do quite a lot, Erin. Not this. Contrary to what you may believe, I am not wholly Pallass’ instrument. Pallass and I do not align on all matters. I realized that recently.”
Erin saw Kevin glance up and then go back to his roasting. Ishkr decided to get some butter, and Erin turned to Grimalkin.
“…You mean Ferkr?”
She knew what had happened at the Meeting of Tribes. Grimalkin didn’t answer. Which was an answer in itself, because he was normally very talkative about all matters. He prodded Kevin.
“The corn appears to be roasted.”
“You sure? Gah!”
Kevin snatched his fingers back from the steaming corn, which had indeed begun to smoke very heavily. Grimalkin was about to rescue Kevin from the frailties of skin when a gnarled hand reached out and a voice snorted.
“Weak as a Human. Can’t handle a hot plant? You’ll never forge Adamantium. There. Eugh. What’s this?”
Pelt the [Master Smith] husked the corn and stared at the crisped kernels with some lovely browning. Erin blinked.
“Pelt! When did you get here?”
“When I heard some idiot had posted a quest to the City of Stars. I expected to find the inn burning and all the Drakes dancing naked in the streets. It’s quiet. You going to eat this?”
“Yep. Hey!”
The ‘hey’ was because Pelt instantly snapped the corn in half. He put half on a plate that Ishkr had brought and grabbed the bowl of soft butter. He dipped the other half of the roasted corn into it and took a huge bite, then did another dip.
“Good. You can share. What’s this thing? Too crunchy on the inside, but the yellow things are good. I’m hungry. Haven’t taken a break from smithing all day.”
He had eaten the corn and the cob in one huge bite. Which, yes, was technically edible, but…Erin protested as she put some butter on her portion.
“Pelt! That’s my corn! Don’t you know what corn is?”
“This is corn? You’re joking. This isn’t corn.”
Pelt nearly dropped the piece of corn. He pointed at it, aghast.
“Corn’s dark. It looks the same, but it has black leaves, and it’s pale as snow.”
“No…what kind of corn do you eat?”
Grimalkin snapped his claws.
“Snowcorn, from Noelictus, the Kingdom of Shade. They are Terandria’s breadbasket—they provide most crops. Deríthal-Vel would import it.”
“Right. Are you telling me corn’s not white and black? Damnit. Those undead-kissing freaks. It’s the same as bread all over again.”
Grumbling, Pelt sat down, and Kevin’s stomach rumbled. He looked at Ishkr.
“Do you, um, have more corn, Ishkr? We could fry more. Or—how about bread? Hey, we’ve got some.”
“I’ll check.”
As he did, Kevin simply tore some of the fresh loaf of bread and began trying to roast that over the fire.
He set fire to the bread. Erin laughed as Kevin blew frantically, then she gingerly picked up the grilled corn and inspected it. It certainly smelled good, and she was hungry. She frowned as she took a few bites.
“Now that you mention it—maybe I have eaten this before? At fairs and stuff. Weird. Is this how people eat corn elsewhere?”
“They do it in Michigan too.”
“Nah, nah. Boiling is how it’s supposed to be. This is like an alternative way.”
“Erin, you’re making me mad. I’ll push your chair down this hill.”
Pelt’s loud crunching interrupted the squabble. He’d just eaten the entire corn cob. He licked his fingers—which were sooty—and nodded.
“That’s not bad.”
“Pelt! You don’t eat the entire cob!”
Pelt and Grimalkin challenged Erin instantly.
“Why not?”
“Indeed, it is far more beneficial to consume the entire product. Baby corn is edible in its entirety; I observe [Farmers] feeding the cob to goats.”
“Yeah, and they’re goats. I’m a person.”
Pelt snorted.
“Do you peel your apples first and not eat all of it? Humans.”
“Hey! What, you eat the core too? And the seeds? That can kill you!”
“What? That’s stupid. Is a [Druid] going to make them explode in my stomach? You hear this, Sinew Magus? I bet she cuts the crusts off bread too. Like an infant.”
The squabble was interrupted by a loud crunch. Everyone turned and saw Kevin biting into toasted…toast. He winced at a shell of charcoal on his failed first attempt, but then brightened up.
“Ishkr, you’re a genius.”
The Gnoll had come back with all the corn he could liberate, a chunk of parmesan, a grater, a bowl, and another jar of honey. Kevin slathered some honey over his bread, but when he announced he would now create roasted corn with parmesan, that was the step too far.
“There is no way that will taste appetizing.”
Grimalkin refused to hear of it. Pelt was all for it and tossed the corn husks on the fire without fear of flame. Erin just smirked at him.
“You started us down this dark road, Grimalkin. You’re gonna eat it! I’ll have a bite too. Pelt, what’s up?”
“You mean, besides you coming back to life? The Gnolls nearly getting wiped out by the damn Drakes? Izril cracking like a bad egg?”
Erin hesitated.
“Um…yeah?”
“Nothing. Aside from someone ‘inventing’ Demas Metal. Gah, I suppose he has a right to it. If he’s even alive after the damned Drakes tried to send Gnolls the way of Halflings and Harpies.”
He looked up from arranging the corn expertly—of course a [Smith] knew how to grill anything to the heat he wanted. He met Grimalkin’s eyes.
“Sorry, I guess.”
Erin, Kevin, and Ishkr turned to the Sinew Magus, but Grimalkin just sat there a moment before glancing up.
“…You haven’t said anything that a reasonable observer couldn’t claim. I don’t believe this is the moment to defend the Walled Cities. Nor was it defense that motivated five Walled Cities to bear arms against the Gnolls. Excuse me—three. As Oteslia and Salazsar were clearly acting in defense of the tribes.”
Erin bit her lip, and Kevin exhaled slowly. This was the kind of thing that she hadn’t talked about. Erin had gotten several accounts of the Meeting of Tribes, and she had even been there, albeit as Sserys. But they’d talked about it in the manner of recalling it. Normally, they’d drop it there, but…Erin looked around and realized there was no need.
She wasn’t going back into the inn, and the corn was grilling once more. Ishkr reached and pulled out a butterspice tea for Grimalkin and a mead of some kind for Kevin and Pelt.
“…Grimalkin. I bet you don’t know or you can’t say, but you trained in Fissival, right? Is it true that the Drakes were stealing magic from the Gnolls?”
“Yes.”
Everyone stirred. Grimalkin looked up. His face was shrouded despite all the light.
“I cannot prove it. And before you ask, no, I didn’t know about it. But the facts line up. To what end is a mystery, but they did.”
“So the Drakes stole Gnollish magic to weaken them. Then—when the tribes found out, they marched into the Meeting of Tribes to…kill them?”
Pelt spat sideways off the hill.
“Classic.”
Erin shook her head.
“Why?”
“The Walled Cities occupy a certain mindset. They regard any foe as an inevitable clash—it only matters when. They thought, clearly, that they could win an advantage by striking first. It almost succeeded, but for Khelt, one could argue.”
Grimalkin’s voice was flat. Erin watched him, and Kevin spoke up.
“It seemed like hell, Grimalkin, man. I know Pallass didn’t fight the Gnolls, but I was watching it happen. I don’t know if I could ever look at Manus, Zeres, or Fissival the same way.”
The [Sinew Magus] sat there. He didn’t meet Kevin’s eyes, and Erin held her breath.
“No. I don’t believe many people could, Kevin.”
Kevin hesitated, then spoke quickly, raising one hand as Pelt flipped a piece of corn.
“But it isn’t your fault. You were far from the Meeting of Tribes, and I know you’re….I’m just saying the other Walled Cities.”
Grimalkin didn’t say anything at first, and Erin replied slowly for him.
“…But he could have been. He didn’t do anything, but the Walled Cities still did this, and Pallass didn’t really stop them. And Ferkr was there. Is she okay?”
The Sinew Magus glanced up.
“Ferkr? She is my finest apprentice, though I barely trained her as much as some of the others. She is well. Nothing you’ve said today is wrong. I have been reflecting on much the same.”
There it was. Erin Solstice raised her cup to sip, and it was empty. She handed the cup to Ishkr with a pleading look.
“Can I get another? With a straw?”
“Of course.”
Erin turned back to Grimalkin.
“What could you do, though, Grimalkin? I mean…I get it. If I was—alive—when it happened—”
Everyone smiled a bit, and Erin went on.
“—I’d have tried to do something. But you…what could you do? I mean, it’s done. So what?”
“…Quit Pallass.”
Kevin’s mouth fell open, and Pelt sat up. He flipped husks of corn onto a plate as Erin looked sharply at Grimalkin.
“You don’t mean that, do you?”
His eyes were very calm as he met her gaze.
“My options are simple, Erin. At their very core—there is a binary. Everything I do falls within those two outcomes. I consider everything. And as I learned, it is not impossible to quit a Walled City.”
He looked pointedly at Pelt, and the Dwarf grunted. He unwrapped one piece of roasted corn and began to lather it up with butter as Kevin did likewise. The Dwarf slapped away the bowl of parmesan.
“Pallass is just another city to me, Drake. I left my real home. No, I was exiled. There was nothing for me anywhere. Now…with my pride, I chose Esthelm, but think carefully. You can never go back again.”
He met Grimalkin’s gaze, and the Drake wavered. Erin held her breath. Then she took a piece of corn with cheese on it and stared dubiously at the concoction.
You got the powdered cheese to hold onto the corn with butter. Or mayonnaise, which sounded even more heinous. Erin took a bite and then chewed thoughtfully.
“Hey, this is pretty good! It sounds disgusting, but…Grimalkin, have one. You too, Pelt!”
“No.”
“Put that in my face, Kevin, and I will feed you a coal.”
“Ishkr! Come and have—”
The Gnoll reluctantly put down his tray of drinks, but when he took a bite of the corn and instantly spat it back out, that made Pelt ironically try it. The Dwarf found he enjoyed it, as did Grimalkin. Ishkr growled.
“I hate cheese. Sorry.”
“What? You hate cheese? All cheese?”
“Yes. It’s not even that I hate it—I get very sick. I even get puffy. And er—other things.”
“Wait, like bad poo? How long have you—I don’t really recall you hating pizza.”
Ishkr shook his head.
“I’ve had a slice or two and it was good, but I just—cannot have cheese. Butter is fine, actually. But no milk, no cheese.”
“Wait a second. That’s lactose intolerance.”
Kevin spoke up, and Grimalkin looked at him. Ishkr hesitated as Pelt decided to toast some bread.
“What does that mean?”
Erin wavered, then shrugged helplessly.
“…He’s allergic to milk. Intolerant? One of the two.”
That bombshell of information—fizzled out on the ground as Ishkr growled thoughtfully and then nodded along with Grimalkin and Pelt.
“That—makes sense. I guess I just never said it like that. You can be allergic to milk?”
“Sure, Antinium are allergic to wheat and stuff. Gluten. Wait a second…didn’t they fix that?”
Grimalkin raised a claw.
“They did. My reports indicate that Antinium are non-lethally and non-significantly intolerant to wheat-based products, or, as you say, ‘gluten’. I had to research the matter because some idiotic [Tactician] in the Walled Cities considered dumping flour on them in battle. I also found that at least a few members like their Centenium were resistant.”
