Erin blinked, and the spell wore off before it had even finished casting. Four Antinium nudged Crusader 57, but in a resigned way. Erin tried to rise, realized she couldn’t, and turned.
“Pisces, sorry—who are these Antinium? I mean—welcome! That Worker has a giant sword!”
She pointed at Crusader 57’s weapon. Pisces stepped back as Erin wheeled forwards, smiling.
“Hello! Welcome! I’m—I’m Erin Solstice.”
How they twitched at that. Their antennae, poking through the holes in their helmets, twitched, and Erin saw them lock onto her. Even the Worker with the giant sword.
She wanted to stand, take their hands, or hug them, but more Antinium were coming through. Erin looked around and gestured to the tables.
“Sit, come in! Food’ll be here in a second—Ishkr, Lyonette! Who…I’m Erin. I said that. We have to talk. Just sit down for now and, um, maybe put your weapons at the door? Do we have a weapon rack or something? At least the sword.”
The zweihander and the big weapons that another group of Antinium with horns on their helmets were carrying were going to be hazards, even if they leaned them against the table. Forget tripping over an umbrella or bag; you’d cut yourself if you ran into that big blade.
Erin pointed vaguely to a corner, and Crusader 57 glanced at it. His response was instantaneous and, unfortunately, predictable.
“fUcK yoU. No one takes my sword.”
Erin’s mouth unlatched itself once more. Mrsha turned in her chair like the student meeting the wise master of profanity. Lyonette clapped a hand over her mouth and then tried to cover Mrsha’s ears, and Seborn began clutching at his sides again.
Instantly, all of Squad 5 slapped Crusader 57 on the shoulder and back, and he slapped back. Erin Solstice looked at him, at a loss for words.
“Um. Who are you?”
The question had an odd effect on the group, because they came to attention, and even the amazing Worker responded.
“Crusader 57, Squad 5, Battalion 1 under Commander Dekass. Liscor’s Army. Acid Jar Battalion.”
He offered her a sarcastic salute, and Erin Solstice stared at him.
“What battalion?”
The question threw Squad 5 harder than appearing in the middle of the Great Plains in a war. They looked at Erin and saw the lack of knowledge behind her eyes. They beheld the sky…and the sky had no idea who they were.
Erin knew there had been a war against Hectval, but no one had told her everything. She looked at the [Crusaders], then the Beriad as they formed a line. Then Pawn and the other Antinium coming in and around the room.
Lyonette might have known, but she wasn’t at Liscor. Same for the Horns, and even if they had been in the area, like Grimalkin or Selys, this hadn’t been their war. It was something Erin had to be told; not her fault for not knowing.
She’d been dead. But as Erin looked at Squad 5, she felt a tremor in her heart. A deep uncertainty which only grew as the door opened and a grinning Cave Goblin clinging to an Antinium Worker’s back came in.
Rasktooth and Infinitypear. Erin didn’t know either one, but she realized the piggybacking Goblin wasn’t doing it just for fun as the Worker helped put him into a chair. She glanced around as Squad 5 introduced themselves.
“Crusader Toni. Crusader 52-3. Crusader 53, the original. Crusader 54-6, Crusader 55. Crusader 56-2. Crusader 57-7 is me, but I’m just Crusader 57 because it’s my name. Crusader 58-4, Crusader 59-2, and Crusader 60.”
What a strange kind of name. They had no formal names, just that number.
Just like…Antherr had. Erin listened to the way they said it, and something came together in her mind.
“What does—what does the number after the first one mean? Crusader 57…7?”
The Worker looked at Erin blankly and then explained slowly.
“It means six Crusader 57’s died before me. You didn’t know that either.”
Erin looked at him and then around the inn. Chaldion peered at the [Crusaders], his gemstone eye flashing. Relc just sighed and raised a mug for Squad 5, who waved at him. They seemed cheery, gazing around wonderingly, except for Crusader 57.
He might have got it first. Erin sat there and decided it was time to ask.
“I know there was a…war with Hectval. Didn’t Pawn say—what’s this about a crusade?”
She looked up as the [Priest] himself entered the inn and stopped. Pawn’s smile found Erin’s disturbed face, and his mandibles closed a bit and drooped. Pisces exhaled and decided to find a seat.
The ghosts of the dead were all gone. All gone, and there was nothing in the afterlife anymore. But still, somehow, they entered the inn. Erin had known there was a cost. She saw it unspoken behind some eyes, but Gire went still at her table, and Mrsha gazed sadly at the Antinium. Erin tried to count as she was offered a dozen explanations, but the number was too high.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice had already been grieving ten days, in part. She knew Khelta was gone and all the others. She was aware that good people had died to bring her back.
She remembered how she had felt after the Siege of Liscor and how it had crushed her for weeks.
This was not the same. The dead probably deserved it, but Erin was ashamed that she wasn’t catatonic with grief. She’d had too long to process it. She was…too grateful to be alive.
Even now, it was hard to believe it.
“The Antinium went to war to…for revenge.”
She looked around at the Antinium sitting with her, and Yellow Splatters nodded.
“For you.”
Pawn quickly interjected, looking at Yellow Splatters and then the other Antinium in the room.
“Not just for you, Erin. It was necessary. Hectval had to be stopped. Each [Crusader] volunteered. Ah, not [Crusaders]…special soldiers.”
They were glancing at the Drakes listening into the conversation, but that word had been dropped enough times for Grimalkin’s quill to not even bother noting it down. Erin gulped.
“And how many…?”
“I believe an exact count would not be productive.”
To Erin’s surprise, it was Belgrade who said that. The Worker seemed—different. For one thing, he’d brought some of the only non-Antinium guests that weren’t friends of Erin’s into the inn. He nodded at the wide-eyed Drakes and Gnolls currently begging autographs from some of the Gold-rank adventurers or looking around the inn.
“All of Liscor fought, Erin. My command squad is here as well, and I believe they would like to meet you. It was not just the Antinium.”
“So Drakes, Gnolls, Humans, and Antinium died.”
“They had to. It was a war. Hectval continued to launch attacks on Liscor. We are still at a state of war, but I believe it has been limited to skirmishes. At least, Yolden has joined us, and the alliance has fallen back to around their cities.”
The other Antinium nodded, and Belgrade clacked his mandibles.
“Commander Olesm is in the field, but I hope I can relieve him so he may return.”
“Commander Olesm. What’s Yolden? Another city?”
Selys broke in.
“I told you about it, Erin. Remember?”
“Yeah, but—”
Belgrade politely raised a finger and interrupted Selys.
“Actually, I believe [Strategos] Olesm is the more appropriate term, but we say ‘Commander’ as a catchall.”
“Huh? Huh? Huh?”
It was definitely too much to take in, but what Erin got from the introductions were…well, the important parts to her. She knew, despite Pawn’s attempts to downplay. Especially when she met the Beriad, who had fought against Zeres.
Antherr’s company, which had been a group of a hundred Antinium.
There were seventeen of them here, and many had limbs still in the process of being regrown. Or simply scars. Then Erin noticed the Goblins.
Ulvama was here, and she acted like she’d always been here and Erin was the new guest. Which was one thing. But Erin sensed there were more…Goblins in the inn than just that.
“Rasktooth?”
The Goblin waved as Erin came to his table. Infinitypear looked at the other Antinium, but oddly—he was not as familiar with them, and they nodded at him much like a stranger. Awkwardly.
Which was an interesting dynamic, and Erin recalled that he must have been part of the Mrsha-rescue alliance. Rasktooth cackled as he took Erin’s hand.
“Frozen [Innkeeper] all better. Good! Little bee, too.”
Apista crawled off his head and onto the table. Erin had never seen Apista so friendly, but Rasktooth and she were instantly given a cup of sweet blue juice. Rasktooth looked around his chair, but didn’t get up. There was a big scar on his stomach and back, and Erin gazed at him and then looked for Numbtongue and Bird. The Hobgoblin [Bard] met Erin’s gaze calmly and nodded. Numbtongue’s gaze was sad. And proud.
Not all of the Fellowship of the Inn had made it. But most had, and Erin hesitated as she gazed around, at the ceiling, at a wall…
“…Is there a Goblin in my basement?”
Everyone glanced at the floorboards, and when Ishkr went to check, he came back as a Goblin dressed all in black with eyeliner, a sharp umbrella, and even lipstick appeared. Gothica the [Goth] grinned at Rasktooth and waved at Erin as the [Innkeeper] silently pointed.
“Um.”
“Don’t ask me. I didn’t do it. But yeah, she’s a [Goth]. Not even a Visigoth. You think that’s weird? Wait until you meet Fightipilota.”
Kevin muttered as he scanned around for Goblins he knew. Gothica, for her part, stared at Erin with interest, but she’d been having fun in the basement.
There were tons of dead bodies down there for the Selphids, and she’d been pretending to be one then scaring the daylights out of Ishkr at random. She’d been doing it the last week as a hobby. And levelling.
It was all far, far too much for Erin to figure out. She turned back to Squad 5 and decided to do the only thing she could do.
“You’re super-welcome to my inn, everyone. Help yourself to anything on the menu and whatever you want to drink. I have people I need to talk to, but I’m gonna talk to you all. That’s a promise. I hope you enjoy The Wandering Inn!”
Squad 5 did cheer up at that, and they all nodded eagerly. They were reading the menu, which had its own Antinium-section for foods they could eat. Erin was almost breathing out when Crusader 57 spoke up again.
Crusader 57, the myth, the legend. It was safe to say most of the Free Antinium had heard of him already, although he hadn’t returned to the Hive more than twice since becoming a [Crusader]. However, word spread about the not-Aberration Worker with a foul mouth who’d told Klbkch to go perform intercourse on himself and was part of the famous Squad 5.
Not all of what was rumored about him was good. He was as famous as Silveran, but he occupied the negative space in public opinion, which made him a rarity. Only the horrible Furfur could compete, or Klbkch himself. He was rude, mean, and he hurt people’s feelings.
In this case, he didn’t even say anything that negative; he just spoke up where most Antinium were silent.
“So this is the inn that’s so special. Everyone talks about how wonderful it is. We’ll see.”
If ever there were a comment to make Erin sweat…she focused on Squad 5, who had hurled themselves into war for her, and turned.
“Um—I-Ishkr? Let’s start with some blue fruit juice and acid flies. For appetizers! Then they can order what they want.”
A bowl of acid flies for each [Crusader], and because Ishkr had been harvesting them for four months with few customers, he had enough for all the Antinium guests to fill their bowls and then some. Nevertheless, it was accompanied by blue fruit squeezed fresh into a glass, and Imani had arrived with Palt to reinforce the inn’s culinary staff. Lasica had already begun making backup dishes.
Erin watched Squad 5 eat with relish as they crunched down the big, black flies, which had the faintest taste of, yes, acid. It was not a sight for the faint-of-heart, and new guests to the inn, like Gire, seemed nauseous as they glimpsed a few innards gushing from cracked flies. The Antinium also experienced the joys of sugar as the blue fruit drinks were served.
This is good.
One of the Beriad signaled with the Antinium’s developing language. He was carefully, painstakingly weighing his options between a Cheesicore Omelette—an omelette filled with cheese, Corusdeer venison or other meat, and local veggies, or the Antinium-version of a Grainbite Trout, which meant instead of crumbs and spices stuffed inside, it was acid flies and spices.
It was possibly the hardest choice he would ever make in his life, and if Antinium could sweat, he would have. One of his comrades came to his aid in this dire hour to suggest he get the trout, which meant they could split the dish.
That was the kind of tactical thinking you got from being a [Soldier] in Calruz’s squad. It didn’t occur to the Beriad that they could order more than one dish apiece.
In a way, the Antinium lacked for some of the inn’s wonderfulness because they didn’t realize ordering a dish and having it appear literally less than five minutes later, steaming hot, was a luxury. However, they certainly appreciated actual food, seats and utensils designed for them, and the ambiance of the inn.
There was the sky herself, and even if she didn’t create a manifestation of Heaven just by being near them, some people were climbing onto the stage, the Hobgoblin was tuning his guitar, and the inn felt…cosy. Even if Klbkch had returned, the inn was inviting to them like no place they had ever been, except the Painted Antinium’s barracks. And there was the little fluffy white Gnoll they’d heard about!
Like [Tourists], they looked from thing to thing they’d heard about in the stories. The [Innkeeper] looked relieved that they were pleased, and even Crusader 57 could readily admit that the food was good and the inn was nice.
But that was just it. He leaned forwards as Erin wheeled over to the table.
“How’s that, guys? Squad 5? Enjoying yourselves?”
All of Squad 5 tried to cover Crusader 57’s mouth, but he just bit at their fingers.
“The food is good. It’s a nice inn. Not worth dying for. You’re okay too.”
Pawn and Belgrade froze at their table and stared at Crusader 57’s back. Bird calmly tossed a Garry-gluten roll at Crusader 57’s head. It bounced off his helmet, and Erin shook her fist.
“Bird! I’m…I’m sorry. I didn’t know you were fighting. I would have said…”
Crusader 57 stared at Erin blankly.
“It’s not your fault. We were going to die in the Hive anyways. Fighting Hectval is better. And easier, even with Manus. It’s just not worth it for the inn.”
He glanced around defiantly as the other Antinium glared at him. Crusader 57 was rapidly plummeting to the depths only Klbkch, Furfur, and Ksmvr had ever enjoyed in the Antinium popularity poll.
