And Erin? The [Witch] winked at her guests.
“I’ll show you later. Have a good night, everyone. Just…ask yourselves one thing when you go to bed, and for the future.”
They focused on her, and Erin took a breath. She put the pot on her lap and folded her hands together.
“Do you have…a wish?”
“A wish?”
Lyonette blinked at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] smiled.
“Yes. Ask yourselves that. A wish. Something you’ve always wanted, deep down. Or something you realized you wanted.”
She looked around, and the little pot vibrated with something.
“Not a dream or something you really want. A wish. It might not be possible, but maybe it is. Something you want to do. In the days to come—I want to see what we can do. I want…I think we should get a pet. Make this inn worth even more than it is. Is Crusader 57 here?”
“Yep.”
Joseph jumped as one of the figures raised a hand. Erin laughed in the darkness.
“I hope this inn was okay, at least. But not perfect. You wanted more, didn’t you?”
The Worker considered the question for a long time. All the guests of the inn waited, and Squad 5 poked him vigorously, but he would say his piece no matter what, and when he replied…
It was with a shrug, and even perhaps, a slight raising of the mandibles.
“No. But you helped the Free Antinium do everything that came afterwards. So it’s good enough. You’re good enough.”
He looked around in the silence and scowled.
“What? That’s what I meant.”
Erin laughed. Then she wheeled forwards and took one of his hands.
“Next time, Crusader 57—okay, maybe not next time if it’s tomorrow. But next time you come here—there will be something for you. I promise. And for everyone else, something great. Something that matters.”
Someone sighed into the darkness. Not because they denied it, but because they believed her. Ser Dalimont. He looked past Erin, as if he had seen just that.
“A triumph of a lifetime. What comes next? Do we just live the rest of our lives satisfied or give up?”
She shook her head.
“No, you continue on, and everything’s even better thereafter. Have a good night.”
So, the [Innkeeper] closed a door as she bid the last guests farewell and put the pot full of promises next to her bed. She took a while to go to sleep, but when she did—perhaps the world was a bit better.
