Now you believe. Of course, when the evidence is irrefutable, like a voice in your head, a destroyed Adventurer’s Guild, and a quest felt across a continent, most people tend to believe.
Most of these reasonable people would then say, ‘yes, you have my attention. What can we do (within reason and convenience for me at little personal risk) in this situation?’ And they thus demonstrate why they will never be called upon.
Because if you well and truly believed before that it had to be proven concretely, you were already there. If it mattered, you had been there. What came next was not for you either, probably. No matter how much you wanted it.
All this to say that when Erin Solstice tried to return to her inn, everyone wanted to talk to her. Especially Guildmistress Tekshia, but even she was willing to waive her considerable grievances for a few hints. Maybe a quest or two. Or just a few answers to the thousands of burning questions in their minds.
The [Innkeeper] refused to answer anything. For once, she let the four Thronebearers surround her, and you had to say this for them: they might not be the greatest combatants on a battlefield, but they knew how to keep the onlookers back.
“Back, good people! [By Appointment Only]!”
Ser Lormel checked a Drake trying to get to Erin with a plated arm, and Erin realized that Calanfer’s [Knights] were probably masterclasses in keeping their wards from interacting with the public.
As for Erin—well, she shouted a lot of things, but very little of it made sense.
“Sorry about the guild, Tekshia! I’ll, um…I have to go to my inn! I didn’t know it would do that, honest! Good thing I didn’t do a bigger one, huh? I can’t talk about it right now! Watch Captain, please don’t arrest me—where’s Mrsha?”
The press of bodies and shouting made it hard for onlookers to see what happened next, but there was a moment of panic where the [Princess] whirled—and then a giant Gnoll picked up a little white Gnoll girl and put her on her shoulders. Mrsha thusly secured, the Hobgoblin, Antinium, and the adventurers cleared a path towards the inn.
By the time Erin Solstice got to her inn, people were trying to climb through windows, but they found them all locked, and the inn was a fortress. The front door was a lovely chokepoint for Dame Ushar to block off, and, ironically, the lack of the magic door was the most beneficial of all.
For, oh, you knew who was coming next. It was all the old hits, and that too was nostalgic.
Magus Grimalkin, storming up the hill, followed by Chaldion of Pallass, Saliss, and even a number of [Senators] and some of the military officers in the city. This was a Level 11 Erin Solstice event, even for her.
However, they had to tangle with the Thronebearers at the entrance to the inn, rather than getting to Erin the regular way. That was new. Indeed, Sir Relz, Noass, and Drassi all came with a camera crew moments after Chaldion.
They got even less than the onlookers did; Wistram News Network had really dropped the soccer ball here. Even if the [Spies], [Informants], and [Watchers] couldn’t get into the inn, the smart ones had a recording of most of what had gone down, starting with Erin Solstice rolling into the Adventurer’s Guild.
The really perspicacious ones had seen her emerge from The Wandering Inn. It was thusly safe to say that every [Spy] who’d decided Erin Solstice wasn’t that interesting was fired within the hour.
The same for any [Spymasters] who’d pulled surveillance early. All in all, Erin Solstice’s stunt destroyed Liscor’s Adventurer’s Guild and also cost over thirty-eight jobs, but you couldn’t blame her for the latter part.
 
——
 
Fetohep of Khelt, for his part, had seen it all. He did not brook incompetence, and a professional [Observer] did not shirk their duty for lack of interest. He watched Erin Solstice disappear into the inn and marked all who followed after.
Some he recognized based on first-hand encounters or pen pal correspondence. Others, by virtue of their names.
The Horns of Hammerad, Mrsha, Gireulashia, Krshia Silverfang, Bird the Hunter, Klbkch the Slayer, naturally. The Thronebearers were a known entity, Lyonette du Marquin of Calanfer was known to him on a political level—but even he hadn’t been entirely aware of the Goblin component of the inn.
“She mentioned that one. Numbtongue, I believe. Flag the Goblin’s face and details for the file.”
Fetohep spoke briefly, and one of Khelt’s servants hurried to note down the moment in the video. The ruler’s fingers drummed on the armrest of his throne. He turned his head slightly, and one of the servants paused the recording as Fetohep gestured.
“Who is the Drowned Man?”
“Seborn Sailwinds.”
“Sailwinds…a relation to Therrium Sailwinds? The Drowned Captain [Pirate]?”
“Y-yes, Your Majesty. A member of the Halfseekers.”
“Ah.”
It was one of those coincidences that entangled Erin Solstice further with events far from Liscor. Was it coincidence? Only if you lacked a sense for the grand scheme of things.
Fetohep calmly noted who was allowed into the inn, but he didn’t direct the [Observer] to try to gain entry. Shriekblade and the Thronebearers were among the inn’s defenses, and they would deter almost any covert infiltration until the inn opened.
Besides—he’d seen enough. The King of Khelt was one of the most sedate and laid back personalities watching the events in Liscor unfold. Because, of course, he understood.
Not all of it. He had been as surprised as everyone else by the quests, but he knew from whence they came. Nor did Fetohep send a [Message] to Erin Solstice.
Not yet. He was now sure she remembered. How much was still up for debate. But it was enough.
“I weary of the recording. Leave me. Inform me only if a significant development occurs. I am not to be disturbed.”
The King of Khelt lifted a hand, and the servants bowed and hurried out of the throne room. They left him alone, glancing back over their shoulders in wonder.
There sat Fetohep, who, two weeks ago, had been the center of the world’s attention. The Revenant who had blazed across Chandrar, humbled a Walled City, and single-handedly held off five Walled Cities before rescuing the Gnolls and reshaping Izril by summoning the ghosts of ancient Gnolls.
Oh, and he’d fought an army of Seamwalkers and possibly averted the end of the world when no one was watching.
That was how his people described the events, anyways. It was also fairly notable that despite all the fallout of the war in the Great Plains, few people had contested that interpretation of things.
Indeed, Fetohep’s return to Chandrar had been amazingly smooth. After whisking the King of Destruction and some Gnoll tribes away, Fetohep had returned home. The Drakes had declined to give pursuit or attempt to block his progress, and the same went for Medain, the Claiven Earth, or any nation between him and Khelt.
He had ridden Sand at Sea back with magical tailwinds across the sea and taken a slower, if constant ride back at speeds only undead could sustain on land. Fetohep had also done a lot of dropping people off.
The half-Elves, including the Herald of the Forests, Ierwyn, in the Claiven Earth.
King Raelt and Jecaina in Jecrass.
Orthenon, the King of Destruction, Gazi, and Amerys in Reim. Trey Atwood as well, and some of the Earthers. A few had come to Khelt when the offer had been made.
The Quarass to Germina, the Hero of Zethe, Doubte, to a spot a good thirty miles from his home for anonymity reasons—a horse had been provided.
Frieke of Khelt, Alked Fellbow, and Herdmistress Geraeri had returned to the capital, and Fetohep had let the Gnoll tribes disembark where they pleased. Many had indeed gone to Reim to join their kin; others had asked to be dropped in the north or along the Zeikhal, and he had obligingly tasked Sand at Sea with placing tribes who wanted to be away from it all where they wanted.
Interestingly, Fetohep had actually offered three entire Gnoll tribes citizenship of Khelt. All three had accepted. Such an influx would normally stun Khelt and be the topic of huge interest, but his nation was still processing everything else. When Fetohep had returned to his palace, the procession had provoked such silence they’d only begun cheering twenty minutes in.
…They were still cheering. Fetohep had not but sat down when news came about the quest being posted in Liscor.
So, now he was back and alone. The Revenant considered the frozen recording, and a few thoughts occurred to him. He was far from the only one to make the same observations Chaldion had about the potential of Quests.
The undead ruler murmured, though his mouth never moved. His glowing eyes flickered behind a worn body turned to dried flesh hanging off yellow bone only visible in places. He still wore the armor of battered gold, stained with salt and blood from another continent, over his royal robes writ with countless names.
In time, he would remove the armor, order his robes repaired of the slightest damage, and ensure any damage to his body in combat was repaired as best it could be. A ruler had to be impeccable at all times, after all.
In time, Fetohep knew, he would do a painstaking overview of his entire kingdom. From the undead buried in Khelt to their dispositions abroad and any damage caused by the Jaws of Zeikhal rising and so on. It might take a thousand hours, but he would not rest, so he would ensure every aspect of Khelt was returned to where it should be.
He would also make such appearances to reassure his people and communicate with his allies. Then, perhaps chase down Vizir Hecrelunn’s location, although Fetohep doubted his ability to control Hecrelunn now. Now that…
Khelt’s rulers were dead.
Fetohep paused and considered that. Oh. Yes, that. Once he got back to normal, everything would return to how it had been.
Except that no ghosts would ever speak to him again. Except that the lands of the dead lay empty. Except that glorious Khelta, Xierca, his Queen, Heroes, His-Xe, Serept…
Except that they were all gone. Yes. That.
“[Innkeepers].”
Fetohep returned to his other projects. He would have to dismantle the ritual they’d used to let ghosts inhabit the bodies of undead as Revenants. It was now a liability, but his [Mages] might learn much from the process, and even he would not lightly discard the materials that had been spent.
“…Settle the Gnolls temporarily. It may be simplest to construct multiple settlements. A city, perhaps, bordering one of the wider flatlands? One city, a township, and two villages. I may also issue a permit for them to form a number of nomadic camps as the People of Zair do.”
Yes, all those sounded like the most pressing projects. Take a look at his [Innkeepers], ensure the Gnolls were adapting to Khelt well, and wait for the living to pester him as they surely would. In many ways, Fetohep’s existence was simpler than many monarchs across the world. His role was maintenance; his ambitions were only for his people, and he worried little about the opinion of a court or treachery or his death.
Then again…Fetohep’s golden flames flickered. When he died, he would not guide his successor. When he died, only oblivion or worse awaited.
Khelta was gone.
The mundanity of his work could only keep the truth away for so long. Fetohep had felt it on the journey back, but that had not been the time, with enemies and allies watching him.
However…the Revenant was all practicality. He had been doing what needed to be done. Only now, as he sat on the throne, did he fidget. An uncharacteristic tightening of ancient muscle. He stared down at a fist on his throne.
It trembled. He had no need to move, but he did. Fetohep stood. He did not ask for Khelta, to check if she was there.
He knew. And so the King of Khelt looked around. At his empty throne room; that had never bothered him.
“Gone. So Khelt is—”
His voice rose, and there was a sound in it, a warble of emotion. Fetohep broke off instantly and turned.
“Your Majesty summoned us?”
A servant appeared at the doorway. Fetohep’s golden gaze pinned the scared young man, but he was doing his job. The job many citizens of Khelt volunteered for.
“…No.”
The Revenant saw the servant hurriedly bow and withdraw, murmuring deepest apologies. He was forgiven; despite Fetohep’s injunction not to be disturbed, when a monarch spoke, someone had to attend.
He was reminded that the few servants working this week were still in the palace. They did not expect Fetohep to speak unless he had an audience or was conducting business.
There was no door to close to the throne room; what need had a Revenant for privacy in death? So Fetohep stood, silent. Then he sat down and stared at his hands on his armrest.
He sat perfectly straight, and you could have used his back to measure one of Drevish’s walls. He put both arms on his armrest and was thus the model of a king, staring ahead, chin elevated the barest hint, not like Terandrians to stare down so openly, just as a king should.
…After two and a half minutes of perfect posing, Fetohep leaned on his left side, adjusted his legs to be crossed, and touched the tip of his chin with two skeletal fingers. The ruler in contemplation; the repose of a monarch passing judgment or thinking long upon empire and state.
Then he performed the Nerrhavian Recline, which was to scoot forwards to the edge of the throne, gripping the armrests, and lean back, as if bored of it all, looking down with the sheer contempt of tyrants.
The posing did not help. Fetohep considered calling for Trey Atwood or Teresa. But he had not demanded either accompany him to Khelt. Unlike before, the issue was not boredom or the desire for their company.
Fetohep knew what the issue was. He stared down at his hands as he returned to his first pose. He could begin inspecting Khelt. Or summon the first [Innkeeper]. Or so many things that could be done.
But first? He looked down at his shaking hands and stood slowly. Then he left his throne room.
The servants in the palace mostly cleaned up dust or checked on matters of state, people requesting an audience, [Messages] for Fetohep, etc. They were largely preoccupied with denying requests for a conversation from anyone not on Fetohep’s list, and since that was a very short one, they were occupied.
None noticed Fetohep leaving the palace. He was far more knowledgeable of its passages than they were, and it was a vast, empty place.
Emptier, perhaps, than it had ever felt before, but the servants put that down to the activity and drama of earlier. If there was something that perplexed them, it was…well, not even Khelt could control the earth completely.
