A few Gnolls at the base of the hill decided not to stand right below her. Erin smiled a bit, and Ishkr awkwardly sat down.
“Can I get you anything, Miss Erin?”
“Erin’s okay. You’ve been here super long. As long as Lyonette, that was when we hired you. Man, that was a weird time. Remember that?”
“Vividly.”
Awkwardly, the Gnoll adjusted his apron and sat cross-legged. He didn’t know what kind of devious plan this was…but the grass was quite lovely, and they’d cleared the damn bear traps someone had left here once. He’d been terrified of walking around here for ages. Erin noticed his hesitation.
“What’s wrong?”
“Ah—nothing. It’s just that there were bear traps around here at one point. Not any longer—”
“What.”
Ishkr explained briefly, and Erin looked around.
“Whoa, that’s bad. I did that? Those Raskghar got in my head. Don’t worry—I can sort of tell what’s around my inn. We’re safe. And you still decided to work at my inn?”
“The pay is good.”
That said nothing, and both of them knew it. Erin laughed.
“Why did you work here? To begin with?”
Ishkr pondered the question and shifted, embarrassed.
“Honestly, Erin? Krshia told me to. She wanted someone to let her know what was going on now and then and make sure you had good help.”
“That Krshia! Well—why did you stay?”
Ishkr smiled.
“Because it was interesting. Besides which, there are worse jobs for a [Server]. You do not shout at me, even when I make mistakes, and you do pay better than some places. The plays helped, and I liked it here.”
“Wow. But you survived, like, Creler attacks and Raskghar. And the moths. And you kept the inn running when I was dead, and I guess you survived this Stitch Witch? And…are we paying you enough?”
Erin was counting on her fingers, and she turned to Ishkr. He politely folded his hands in his apron and saw the people pointing up at him and Erin. It was a bit disconcerting, so he focused on the [Innkeeper].
“You could pay me more.”
She grinned.
“Let’s do that. How—how was it when I was, y’know, dead?”
Ishkr didn’t know why she was asking all this, but he could only answer honestly.
“Quiet. Very quiet. Aside from the beginning when the [Witch] came and the Titan was in the inn…it was quiet. Nothing happened some days. The others could tell you about the, ah, exciting moments.”
“No, go on. Tell me what happened when things weren’t blowing up.”
He shrugged awkwardly. This was the longest they’d talked that he could remember. She’d ask him how his day was, but always in a busy inn. This?
“I—would sweep up, make sure there was food for the guests, and then I’d have days when no one came in. Sometimes I’d poke my head into the garden to make sure everything was the same, but it was quiet. I…just read books.”
“Really?”
“A few. But I think I just took naps or sat there. Thinking. I just kept the inn from getting dusty. It was hardly as heroic as anything anyone else did.”
Erin nodded.
“But someone had to. I appreciate it. I really do. And your sister’s working here now, so I guess this really is sort of like home, right? Your parents…”
She coughed, and Ishkr made a face.
“My sister is, ah, a good worker. Sometimes. She gets into trouble with the Watch, but they’re reasonable about it. Most of the time.”
“Really? Why?”
“She picks fights with them. Her and her…nevermind. It is complicated. And my parents haven’t been able to talk to her. So she comes to me with her problems.”
“That’s a problem. What’s—”
Erin coughed again, and there was a wheeze in her voice. Ishkr saw her face go red, and he stood up.
“Do you need a drink?”
Erin nodded. She saw Ishkr half-rise, then a smile crossed his face. He looked at her.
“Do you have an order?”
Her throat was super-dry, or there was pollen or something. Erin wheezed.
“Anything. Just a drink—”
She coughed, and when she raised her head, Ishkr had a clear cup of deep violet juice. Erin blinked, but took the cup and tasted sour juice. Yet with a dash of sweet; even so, she puckered her lips and took a gulp and felt the urge to cough vanish.
“Waitasecond. Is this the watermelon juice from Wailant’s spitting watermelons?”
“Yes, Miss Solstice.”
“How’d you—do you just have watermelon juice in a bag of holding?”
Erin looked, but Ishkr didn’t even have a bag of holding. He smiled, pleased with himself.
“[Menu: Instantaneous Order]. I believe I gained it after the Titan visited the inn.”
“That’s so cool! Thanks, Ishkr!”
Erin sipped from the cup in relief. She’d all but forgotten they served the juice. Ishkr sat back down, and Erin sighed. She saw him watching her, and after a second, Ishkr spoke.
“…There isn’t a party you had in mind, is there, Erin?”
“Nope. I mean, I could do it like that.”
Erin snapped her fingers and looked at the inn.
“Just crack a window open and I shout ‘movie night’ and we’re good. But I can’t. I…can’t. Listen, it’s okay. I’ll take the heat. Can you get an order for yourself?”
“Not for another…twenty minutes.”
“Whoa, that’s a fast cooldown, isn’t it?”
“Not when it’s rush hour, but it is a helpful thing. If you would like, I can get a straw or ice. It would only take me six seconds.”
“Ooh! You can do the [Garden of Sanctuary] trick too?”
The most adept inn-goers had learned they could maneuver around the inn by entering the garden and moving the door to where they wanted at amazing speed. But their conversation broke off when someone shouted from below.
“Hey! Stop drinking juice! I have a bet on the party!”
It was the same Drake from before. Erin grimaced, and Ishkr half-rose, but Erin waved him down.
“Nah, nah. I have something for this. Lyonette made me take all kinds of artifacts. Here’s the one for not getting shot again…here’s the anti-scrying one Saliss gave me, and the appraisal—aha!”
She slapped a little bit of gemstone on the third ring, and Ishkr’s ears popped as a bubble of silence enveloped them. Erin winked at him.
“Eavesdropping measures. But it probably won’t work on Grimalkin or even Saliss. Or Pisces—he reads lips. So I couldn’t talk about the big stuff.”
So there was big stuff. But then, Ishkr and even Mrsha knew that. He waited for Erin to suggest they go in, but she kept sipping drinks.
“I know they want us, Ishkr. But let’s keep sitting. Is it okay if I ask about Liska? She seems sort of, um, Ryoka-ish? Does she just go around punching people and that’s why she’s in trouble? You don’t have to tell me.”
Indeed, Ishkr did not, and he had never, ever brought it up. Because it might mean trouble, and Ishkr didn’t invite that sort of thing, despite working at The Wandering Inn. So he hesitated.
But it was also Erin Solstice, and she had a habit of defending Goblins, Antinium, and Doombringers. So he leaned over and whispered.
“She…has a female companion. Which is not as much of a problem as it would be in some cities, but it is still Liscor. She does not like people trying to stop her either, so she starts fights.”
“A female c—oh. I get it. A girlfriend.”
“Yes.”
Erin blinked a few times.
“Huh. Thanks for telling me. I mean, I won’t tell anyone. But I thought she did something really bad like breaking windows.”
Ishkr heaved a heavy sigh.
“She does that too, sometimes. Do you know Sellme?”
“Mrsha’s friend?”
“What? No, the [Magical Painter]…the one who causes trouble. They’re an influence on Liska and…”
Ishkr hesitated, because he had a sudden suspicion. So did Erin, and she leaned on her chin.
“Huh. Well, I guess we’re gonna have to watch our windows if Mrsha’s friends come over. Then again—ours are pretty tough to break. But that’s hard, being the older brother. Do you, like, need anything?”
The Gnoll [Server] shook his head instantly.
“Actually, since the Watch comes to the inn, it has helped more. Senior Guardsman Beilmark, Councilmember Jeiss, and Senior Guardsman Relc have all stepped in rather than arresting her.”
“That’s good. But let me know if you need help, okay? And I guess we’ll hire Liska. Keeps her out of trouble, and we need the crew back. Even if Silveran can’t come.”
“…Thank you.”
Ishkr looked up, and Erin smiled. Then her stomach growled, and she poked it.
“You traitor. I was just having a good time! Wait, I never had lunch, and it’s…”
She stared out, and it was definitely getting into the first hours of evening. The sun was still warm, but Ishkr rose. Instead of asking if she wanted to go inside, he gestured at a door at the back of the inn.
“Could I get you anything?”
“Um…I need our menus. I’m not in the mood for fries, y’know? Can you get…”
Erin didn’t really want a snacky food like onion rings, and something more filling like a full steak was also not really a ‘sit outside’ meal.
“I can check for anything?”
“Yeah, yeah. Just a fruit or vegetable thing. Maybe some bread?”
Ishkr vanished, and Erin sat there a moment, kicking her legs. Because of the bubble of silence, she felt the wind blowing on her, the sun warming her chair, but she didn’t hear anything until someone walked through the magical barrier and spoke.
“—rin! Whoa, was that a spell? What’s going on? Everyone’s wondering if you have stomach problems or if you’re getting something really big ready. They’re sort of antsy.”
Kevin came through the bubble of silence, and Erin jumped.
“Kevin?”
A few people had gone to check on Erin, but it was Kevin who’d peeked around the back of the inn first. He focused on the drink and how relaxed Erin was and hesitated.
“I, uh, got the laptop ready. Mrsha wants to show Gire a movie.”
“She hasn’t already?”
“No, I think they were all too busy. Do I boot it up or do you have plans for something else?”
He waited, and Erin considered the question. She took another sip from her drink.
“…I’m not doing a party. I don’t want to, Kevin.”
“Oh.”
Well, what did that mean? Kevin hesitated and then saw a door open. Ishkr had returned with a basket of different foods and a harried look.
“They’re asking where you are, Erin. Should I…? Oh. Mister Kevin.”
“Hey, Ishkr. I was just telling Kevin the party’s off. I guess we should let them know. Kevin, did you know Ishkr can do an instant order?”
“Cool.”
Kevin gave Ishkr a vague thumbs-up, and the Gnoll nodded. They both stood there for a second, then Ishkr sat down, so Kevin copied him.
Okay, so today was going to be one of those sad days. Get the tissues and keep Joseph out of the drinks. That was Kevin’s other take on the day’s progress—until he saw Erin’s face.
She didn’t seem depressed or blank. She just seemed tired, but she perked up as she investigated Ishkr’s haul.
“What is this stuff, Ishkr?”
“Lasica and Imani were interrogating me in their kitchen. I apologize—”
Ishkr had a mismatch of bread, fruits, and what he’d thought was a baguette. It turned out he’d grabbed a block of wood for the ovens in his haste. Erin tapped it against the wall of her inn, amused.
“Unless one of the Fortress Beavers gets here, I don’t think anyone’s eating this. What else is there? Tomatoes, ooh, corn! Is that a squash? Where did we get all this?”
“Oteslia sent a huge basket for Miss Lyonette.”
“Aha. Say, where are the beavers? Are they…?”
Erin’s face fell, and Kevin broke in, hurrying to reassure her.
“They’re at Selys’, Erin. I think they’re sort of her guard…beavers.”
“What?”
Erin turned from Ishkr to Kevin as if they were pulling her leg, but both nodded.
“Some thief broke in, and apparently they broke his legs and sat on him. Selys decided to build them a pool and everything.”
“Beavers. They are big…but beavers? Guard-beavers? I mean, okay. Kevin, what would you eat? A raw tomato?”
She waved it at him vaguely. It was at this point Kevin realized that Erin didn’t want to go back into her inn. He didn’t exactly blame her. Cross-legged, Kevin vaguely inspected a squash.
“I bet you’d have to cut that up and…roast it.”
“I have my super-knife, but I don’t do well with cutting boards, and I’m not slicing off my hands. Corn?”
“Corn’s edible raw.”
And it was still fresh from whenever it had been brought into the inn thanks to the power of the inn’s [Field of Preservation]. Erin knew you could eat corn raw, but she gave Kevin a disturbed look.
“You want me to eat cold corn? Not hot? You boil corn, Kevin. Then you put salt and butter on it…Ishkr, you might have to fight past Lasica and Imani again.”
He groaned, but Kevin protested mildly.
“That’s not the old kind of corn, Erin. You can also grill it.”
“Grilled corn? I’ve sort of heard of that…but what kind of monster grills corn?”
Erin turned to Ishkr, then caught the most offended look she’d ever seen coming from Kevin, no less.
“You’ve never had grilled corn?”
“Nope. Boiled is how you eat corn. What, do you just stick it in a fire or on a grill?”
“Yep. You can do more like add parmesan cheese or other toppings, but…”
Erin made a gagging sound, and Kevin twitched. He was deeply offended, especially as someone who had been a connoisseur of street-vendor grilled corn, which came in many delightful flavors.
“Get me a fire and I’ll make you one right now. I’ll do it in the fireplace!”
“Pssh. Who needs a fireplace? I’m Erin, the crazy Human with fire, remember? Watch this!”
Erin put out her hand and frowned at it. Then she looked up.
“Hey Ishkr, say something annoying. I think I need hot fire, so I need irritation.”
“Lyonette wants to go over the inn’s finances again?”
“Ooh, good shot! No, it’s not working.”
The idea of grilling corn with magical irritation-fire seemed like a recipe for disaster to Kevin. Exasperated, he stood up.
“I’ll just get a coal from the fireplace. Give me one minute—”
“There you are.”
A shadow crossed the world. Everyone fell into darkness, and Erin peered up at the tower of muscle that was Grimalkin. He had found them, and Erin sighed gustily.
“Look who’s here. The fun police got us, Ishkr, Kevin. We’re going away for a long time. I guess everyone wants us back?”
The Drake crossed his arms.
“Strategist Chaldion is wondering. I simply want to investigate. What are you doing?”
“We were making a fire. A regular one, but if you want to go back to talking about Pallass…”
Erin pulled a face. Grimalkin looked at her and then pointed at the block of wood she’d tossed down. It burst into flames, and Kevin blinked as the Sinew Magus sat down in one movement.
