It was strange and a little rude to have someone just walk out of your inner sanctum and treat your inn like her home. Ulvama was already ordering food from Ishkr, and she went over and poked Mrsha after a moment and got a swat from a paw. The Hobgoblin stared at Gire as the [Paragon] stared back.
“Ooh. You tall. Good girl.”
She had to hop up on a chair to pat Gire on the head. Then she sat down and began to chomp on fries.
Okay. Okay, so apparently there was a somewhat rude [Shaman] at the inn now. Erin decided that was okay. She thought she remembered an Ulvama helping Mrsha, and if she was a friend of Rags, she was a friend of Erin’s!
Erin was already getting some things wrong about Ulvama, but then more people were arriving, and she had to deal with the effects of her quest. She was, at least, prepared for that.
“Lyonette, unleash the hordes! But only the, um, ones I know, I guess. I’ll take them here? Form a line!”
Her guests sighed but filed into a line as Grimalkin came bursting through the doors. He’d almost strong-armed his way past the Thronebearers, their Skills or not, but he had less luck here.
“Erin Solstice. I need a w—”
Grimalkin halted, because it was that or run into Klbkch’s sword, one of Seborn’s daggers, and a cupcake held by Bird. The Sinew Magus saw the line of eight glaring at him.
“Back of the line, Sinew Magus. We all want a word with Erin.”
Jelaqua cheerfully jerked a thumb over her shoulder. Grimalkin growled.
“Pallass is—”
“—content to wait. Sinew Magus, don’t make a scene. Hold our place. Miss Solstice, I’m glad to see you well.”
“Chaldion!”
Erin beamed past Klbkch as the Grand Strategist walked in with a bodyguard of five Drakes, who stared at Erin like she had antennae growing out of her head. Then a naked Drake walked in.
“Erin, please. If you love me, don’t let Chaldion have a word all day. If you hate me…do it for the hilarity. I saw your work at the guild. Beautiful.”
Saliss blew a kiss from his claws, and Erin laughed. Her eyes lit up, and she waved at Saliss. He winked around the room, saw Klbkch, and grinned with all his teeth.
“Looks like the inn’s back in business. Do you mind letting Rufelt and Lasica in? They want to come through, but the shiny pots won’t budge. And I am on my best behavior, so I didn’t turn them invisible.”
“Oh! Rufelt and Lasica—I forgot to add them to the list. Erin, I need to be at the door. Who am I letting in besides people we know?”
Lyonette cursed and hurried forwards. Erin hesitated.
“Is Ilvriss in Pallass or something?”
“Nope.”
Lyonette chorused with a few others. Erin hesitated as Lyonette wavered by the door.
“Then—just people we know! I guess Lism if he wants. And, uh—Antinium, obviously! Any of them. And Goblins! And…”
“Wistram News Network?”
“No! Well, maybe Drassi.”
Chaldion calmly added from his seat.
“In a non-reporter role.”
Lyonette waited for Erin’s nod before hurrying into the hallway. Erin was smiling as she looked at Klbkch. And this was familiar too.
“So. Erin. I am pleased you seem recovered enough to post quests. May I ask how you gained this ability?”
Klbkch glanced over his shoulder, and everyone in line pretended not to be listening intently, except for Bird and Grimalkin. Erin smiled. She felt a flutter in her heart, but…she had known from the start.
“I guess I have to explain. I don’t know—”
She hesitated and wished for a moment she’d talked to…to Fetohep?
Yes, Fetohep! Erin’s eyes widened. How could she forget? Fetohep and—
Khelta. Califor. Her face fell, and Klbkch watched as the [Innkeeper] went from surprised to melancholy, then determined, angry, and wary in a heartbeat. In anyone else, he would have been wondering about insanity. In Erin…she took a deep breath.
“I…was dead.”
“No kidding? Dead? Ancestors preserve me, I thought you were asleep!”
Saliss clutched at his chest from a table. Chaldion threw a fork at him, and Ulvama laughed in delight. Erin glanced over.
“Hey! Quiet in the peanut gallery! I was dead, and I got, um, some special powers. Some information. But it’s sort of hazy, and I, uh, just know a few things. Because I may have talked to ghosts?”
She looked around with an uncertain smile on her face. That was what she’d decided to say. It would be common knowledge anyways. She just didn’t add who she’d talked to.
Erin was prepared for disbelief, shock, incredulity, and mockery. However, the guests just looked at each other. Grimalkin muttered one name that pretty much summed it up:
“Khelt. The pieces fit.”
She wasn’t prepared for the lack of incredulity. However, to say there was no reaction was wrong. Jelaqua stopped grinning and focused on Erin. Pisces’ eyebrows were melding with his hair, and again, Ceria…
Ceria met Erin’s eyes and nodded slightly. Erin gulped.
“I have some things to tell you all. There’s a lot to catch up on. I want to hear it all. For now, just know that I have a few more quests I can post. Not all as cool as finding a lost city, but—well, that’s for later.”
Klbkch studied Erin.
“I see. I assume you will not furnish us with information about Mershi?”
“Are you…taking the quest?”
The Antinium considered the question.
“Let us say I am. The Antinium would not be averse to finding the City of Stars.”
Chaldion’s head rose slightly, and Saliss stopped chortling. Grimalkin’s eyes bored into the back of Klbkch’s head, and the Antinium looked around.
“He just said it. Everyone was thinking it, and he just said it. That’s my partner! Stupid as a rock!”
Relc beamed as he sat at a table. Klbkch visibly hesitated in front of Erin, then he turned and gave Relc a thumbs-up. Erin, Relc, and Klbkch stared at the gesture, and Klbkch lowered the hand. He turned back to Erin as if nothing had happened.
“I am…readjusting to Liscor. I may not be able to stay, Erin, but I hope I can call on you in quieter times? With less observation.”
He stared right at Chaldion as he said that. Erin nodded.
“Sure. Um…I can’t tell you about Mershi, Klbkch. I mean, I can totally tell you about it and stuff, but I don’t know where it is.”
“Ah, hence the quest.”
“Yep. Especially because all the ghosts of Mershi who were actually there got got.”
“Got got?”
Klbkch blanked at the slang. Erin elaborated.
“They got, uh, poofed. Not by the s—I mean, no one ever saw their ghosts when Mershi vanished. So no one knows exactly what happened, but I do know where all the searches ended up. The Crossroads of Izril. Which is why I posted that quest. If you want to know about Mershi, I know tons of stuff. Tons of stuff. You know, they have Starpuffs? That’s this cool filled pastry. But yeah. Not about where it is.”
“You know this from conversations with dead people.”
“Y-yes?”
Klbkch stared at Erin. She met his gaze honestly, eyes round and wide. Klbkch nodded. He lifted a finger as someone burst through the doors.
“TELL ME EVERYTHING!”
Fierre shouted, then was shushed and pointed at the line. She joined it, fishing out a notepad. Garia entered more sedately, but flushed with excitement. Klbkch went on after a meaningful pause.
“One last question, Erin. In your time amongst the dead. Did you speak to any Antinium?”
If there had been a pause at his first question about searching for Mershi, this one provoked the kind of silence that you could serve for lunch. Erin met his gaze and shook her head slowly.
“No…but if they died on Rhir, I wouldn’t have met them anyways.”
Chaldion’s head swung from Klbkch to Erin as he nodded grimly.
“That is what I would assume upon thought. Thank you. I will be back shortly. I will have a bowl of spaghetti with blue fruit juice.”
He stood up and walked out of the common room. Erin heard Selys let out a breath and then gasp for air.
And that was her first guest in line.
 
——
 
By the time Lyonette came back, the crowds outside the inn had been removed from pressing at the windows. They were, in fact, reluctantly gathered around the base of the hill. No one was allowed higher unless they passed one of the Thronebearers.
Not that four [Knights] alone were holding off the mob of people who absolutely had something they wanted from Erin Solstice or just wanted to get inside the inn and eat some pizza. The Watch had been mobilized along with Pallass’ soldiers.
Yes, their soldiers. Chaldion had ordered twenty through the door to keep a cordon around the inn, having anticipated their need.
It was causing a bit of friction, especially since Pallass’ army was not Liscor’s Watch. They did not react well to a bunch of heavily armed Antinium marching towards the inn.
“Halt!”
One of the Drakes put up a claw and hesitated. He reached for a speaking stone to talk to Chaldion.
The Antinium did not halt. Pallass’ [Soldiers] bristled and then did a headcount. There were twenty Watch [Guards] who were watching the Antinium marching forwards without reaching for their weapons. Twenty of Pallass’ finest, a Walled City’s standing forces, finest of the fine!
…And the Antinium were Pawn and Belgrade, Yellow Splatters and Painted Antinium. And the ones who had fought against Hectval and pushed back Manus’ strike force.
[Crusaders].
Pawn had, in fact, stopped when asked, but a squad of ten kept walking, as did a group of nearly twenty Soldiers, each one holding a big, big weapon. In fact, one of the smaller Antinium, a Worker with a giant two-handed sword, a zweihander, stomped straight at the [Lieutenant].
“Halt! Grand Strategist, there are at least sixty Antinium—”
The [Lieutenant] jumped backwards as Chaldion gave the order to let them pass just in time. He swore, moved out of the way of Crusader 57, and nearly got kicked in the shins as the Worker lashed out with an armored boot.
“Move, idiot.”
Squad 5 of Battalion 1 marched past the Pallassian [Soldiers], much to the chagrin of Drakes and even the other Antinium. Crusader 57, a known quantity within his Hive, the Aberration, the Worker, the rude Antinium, didn’t leave it there either.
As the outraged Drakes watched, he kept one hand on the zweihander to keep it balanced on his shoulder. He devoted the other three hands to giving them middle fingers as he turned and passed.
“…Is that—a new type of Antinium?”
One of the [Soldiers] whispered as they watched Crusader 57 stomp up the hill. The soldiers watched as Pawn hurried after them and they entered the inn. Then they saw more hopefuls trying to enter.
“Ah, if the Antinium are entering—one side! Wistram News Network is on the—hey!”
Noass tried to push forwards as Drassi was finally admitted past the Thronebearers, without any scrying devices. The [Soldiers] blocked him, and the Drake frowned. He looked at Sir Relz, and the other [Commentator] gave him an encouraging nod. Noass squared his shoulders, kicked the [Lieutenant] in the shins, and raised a middle finger.
“Move, fool—”
 
——
 
“Did anyone hear that?”
Erin Solstice’s second person in line was Seborn. He actually got up to look through a window and started laughing again.
“What’s going on?”
The young woman craned her neck as everyone went to a window. Grimalkin just shook his head; Ulvama began cackling, and Numbtongue guffawed. The two Hobgoblins doubled over as Seborn relayed what was going on.
“The Drake, Noass, is getting shock spelled. This is what I came here for.”
He went back and sat down, and Erin eyed that smile.
“You seem different, Seborn. Did you fall in love or something?”
The Drowned Man took a huge gulp of water.
“Not me, or I’d be carving poems into a clamshell or something inane like Jelaqua.”
“Hey!”
He looked at Erin and calmed down a bit, but the smile still lingered. One eye in Seborn’s face glowed slightly, and half his body was a lobster, but it was amazing how…well, how normal that was. How much Erin had missed it.
“I’m just tired. Like I said. Tired of not having this. It’s good you’re back.”
“I—thank you.”
The Drowned Man nodded as Erin searched for something to say to that. He looked at her.
“So, you know where a bunch of treasure is. Stories of ghosts. Got any sunken treasure chests for me to dig up? I could give you half.”
“Um. No…no, I wouldn’t know anything about that. Plus, they probably moved with the currents.”
The Drowned [Rogue]’s smile grew wider. Grimalkin made a footnote in his journal, and Selys sat up slightly.
“Sure.”
Erin was sweating slightly as she floundered.
“I’m, uh, it’s a lot, and I have to think—”
“I get it. I’m not an idiot like that lot. I’d rather open oysters with my bare fingers than try to get something out of you right now.”
Jerking a thumb at the people in line, Seborn sat back. The smile still played around his lips, but he looked at Erin.
“Just promise me one thing.”
“What?”
Seborn glanced towards the door.
“…When you get a chance, talk to Moore? He needs it, I think. The rest can wait. The tide’s flowing backwards and it’s all sweetwater and that’s fine. But give him a day.”
“Of course.”
And with that, the Drowned Man got up and nodded to Erin.
“Good to have you back. If there is any buried treasure or something to do with the sea, you owe me a chance.”
“Sure. Good to see you, Seborn! I, um—next?”
Erin had the briefest moment of hesitation there. She didn’t have anything for Seborn specifically, but she wondered if he were up-to-date on how to catch invisible squid.
There was so much to do. But it occurred to Erin that Seborn was right. This was not the time. Even if she decided to embark on the highest priority things like finding a dungeon—Erin glanced at Grimalkin and Chaldion.
“…Nah.”
She was beckoning for the third person, who was in fact Pisces, when the doors opened and Antinium marched in. Erin turned, and her mouth opened.
“Whoa.”
A crusade entered the inn, and Pisces looked at the heavily armed, heavily armored Antinium who marched through the doors, formed into ranks, stopped, and stared.
At Erin. She stared back, eyes wide, and what did they see?
She saw Antinium she only vaguely, vaguely remembered from when she’d woken up, part of the hullabaloo. Antinium with no colors, but not regular, faceless Antinium either. Soldiers.
They?
They saw a Human woman, riding across the battlefield as they were thrown into war. They saw General Sserys of Liscor.
They saw a frozen bier and the cause that had led them to fight Hectval in the war. They saw the sky of the Free Antinium and the person who had begun it all.
Crusader 57 spoke into that silence as Crusader 53 touched the Dragonbone mace at his side, looking at her in awe, and Crusader 55 shook like a leaf.
“Where’s our food? I was promised food.”
