Still, it seemed like the earthquake had run through the palace for almost thirty minutes now. A trembling in the very foundations. They were quite relieved when it stopped abruptly. But then—if there were anything to fear, Fetohep would have surely told them.
 
——
 
Erin felt a lot better after posting her quest.
The babble of voices shut off as Lyonette slammed the inner door to the common room. Panting, the [Princess] gave orders like a [Sergeant].
“I want everyone to double-check that all the windows are locked. Second floor, too. Ishkr! Drinks, food for our guests. Ser Sest, help Ushar. No one comes in unless I say so or Erin does.”
The Thronebearers were already securing the windows. Ser Dalimont closed the shutters on a staring Gnoll with his face pressed against the glass. Erin saw him shouting something, but then she turned.
“I hope the guild isn’t, um, too expensive to replace. Maybe I should see about—”
“I’m sure the Council will quote us a bill. Tekshia will definitely do that—but I’ll talk to Pawn or someone later about getting the Antinium to rebuild. We can have it done cheaply with Hexel helping, and it’s reasonable to point out that having a Mythical Quest in Liscor will make it more popular. Besides, they owe you for four months of using your door, so we might not even get that bill, just a reduction in how much we’re paid. You just sit there and think of what you’re going to say!”
Lyonette pointed at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] felt it again. Competence. A disturbing authority coming from Lyonette.
How things had changed. Lyonette had begun being the manager, but she had the inn scurrying around before Erin could give an order. That wasn’t the most significant shift in personality, but then Erin saw some of the people who’d come into the inn with her helping out.
“Watch Sergeant Relc! Back it up—back it up! No pushing or you’ll crush some poor idiots out there! I’m off-duty, but I’ll make you stand back if I have to!”
“Was…was that Relc doing something responsible?”
Erin rubbed at one ear. Then she saw something else terrifying.
Mrsha. The little Gnoll had raced down with the others upon hearing Erin had begun to post the quest. Now, the little rascal, always at the heart of trouble, was looking at Erin Solstice after seeing a Mythical Quest being posted about the lost City of Stars.
And she was currently writing something down in a little book next to Gireulashia, without racing around like a maniac or badgering Erin to tell her everything. She looked up as Erin stared at her, and the [Innkeeper] saw Mrsha heave a huge sigh. The little Gnoll shook her head at Erin and busily dipped her quill into an inkpot, writing with a frown as she dealt with Erin’s outbursts of chaos.
Erin had to roll over, and she saw what Mrsha was writing. She was working on a note:
 
…Suxhel, please convey my strongest urgings to Lehra that she should take her team and visit The Wandering Inn to entreat my [Innkeeper] about this issue, as I believe she can well agree. I can only regret the impromptu and frankly irresponsible timing, but it is sadly irreversible. Please also copy the contents of this update to one Feshi Weatherfur, Shaman Theikha, and other interested parties…
 
And the next note, which was not a [Message] but a little card.
 
Dear Visma,
Please accept my most heartfelt condolences, as I fear we must postpone our tea date to another time at your best convenience. I have been embroiled in something of a ‘to-do’ as I am sure will be apparent once you receive this missive.
I can only apologize once again, as needs must when The Wandering Inn comes to chaos. Rest assured, I will attempt to find time in my schedule perhaps tomorrow to catch you up with all the hullabaloo and nonsense…
 
The writing was the same. The attitude? Erin gazed down at Mrsha as Gire giggled and greedily scarfed down a pawful of fries that Ishkr was already passing around.
And Seborn was still laughing. The Drowned Man chortled as he sat at a table, and Erin turned, glad to see something hadn’t changed!
“Seborn, Jelaqua! Hi! Look, before anyone says anything, I didn’t know the guild was going to fall down. It’s not my fault! It probably had termites. I, um…”
She looked around, and the stares were familiar. Exasperation, surprise, confusion, and mirth. This was The Wandering Inn’s classic.
“Erin, you’ve been back from the dead ten days, and this is the first thing you do? C’mere! I thought you were too fragile to hug, but I’m going to do it again!”
Jelaqua bounded over and, wearing the body of a Gnoll woman, rubbed her cheek against Erin’s. It was rather like being embraced by a dead, hairy fish, but Erin grinned and protested.
“Jelaqua! Aw, come on. Save that for Maughin.”
That just made the Selphid laugh. Seborn stopped chuckling at last as the Gold-rank Captain looked around and grinned.
“Maughin himself might come here if only to be part of the moment! Unless he’s working on his mistress, that is.”
“His what?”
Jelaqua blinked as Erin wondered if a lot had changed. The Selphid laughed.
“Oh—I meant his stupid Adamantium ingot. Sorry. That’s what I call it.”
“Thank goodness. Also, I’m glad you two are here! And that you found all that hilarious, Seborn.”
“Immensely. I have had enough of gloom these last months. Maybe Moore will start smiling again. If he can make it through that lot. You are feeling better?”
Seborn walked over, and Erin grinned weakly.
“Good enough to knock down a guild, at least. I’m, um…I’m back. So I don’t want anyone coddling me anymore!”
Jelaqua saluted with a glint in her eyes.
“Perish the thought. We just held back because we thought you needed time. But if you’re feeling up for it, we’ll start taking meals here again. That’s wonderful. And we do have a lot to catch up on.”
The faint orange glint behind the dead body’s pupils found Erin, and the [Innkeeper] sombered for a moment. That was completely true. Erin looked around and saw her Quest had worked; everyone else was seeing her in a different light.
“Well, Erin. I should have known you wouldn’t give us a month before causing a mess. Grandmother is going to kill you. As for me?”
Selys put her claws on her hips, but she couldn’t hide the faint smile tugging at the corners of her mouth.
“…I’m just glad you’re still surprising us all. What is that new power? A Mythical Quest?”
“Exactly! How did you do it, Erin?”
Lyonette was back from checking the windows, and she turned to Erin as the Horns came over. Ceria was giving Erin a long look, and Pisces was rubbing at his hair, as astonished as Yvlon. Ksmvr? Ksmvr was hiding behind Yvlon as Klbkch stared at him, and Relc came stomping back into the common room.
“Um…it’s complicated. But when I say…things…I mean them. I just—I need to prove it.”
Erin spoke to the group, but Ceria in particular. The half-Elf gazed at Erin and looked away, but everyone goggled at Erin with a mix of confusion and awe.
“But I thought quests could only be posted if you had the reward and you knew…do you have the key to the Armory of Stars or whatever that was?”
Yvlon was bewildered. Klbkch just studied Erin from head to toe. Jelaqua shook her head instantly.
“There is no way Erin just had that in her back pocket all this time. Is there?”
“Wanna bet?”
Erin waved her hands.
“No, I don’t have it! I just—I knew the City of Stars existed. And I sort of knew I could post the Quest because, um, well, if you got to the city wherever it is, the key’s not too hard to find, right? I didn’t add that to the quest rewards, but I guess it qualified? That’s my theory. All I offered was the location. And the free lunch, but that’s posted rewards, so I don’t have to honor it.”
Pisces’ eyes flickered as he opened his mouth. Lyonette put a hand over her head, looking ready to swoon in exasperation. Klbkch slowly lifted a finger.
“Interpreting that statement, Erin. Can I assume then that you know details about a lost Walled City, know the location of the key to their armory of what sounds like artifacts and powerful weapons—all of which are legends which I have understood have no basis in any kind of fact outside of Wall Lord Dragial’s infamous search, which many considered lunacy—and that you may not feed the finder lunch?”
Erin hesitated.
“N—y—well, I just said I don’t have to feed them lunch. That’s the difference between posted rewards and quest rewards. One’s guaranteed. I’d totally make lunch! Great lunch! Amazing lunch! The best lunch you’d ever see in your life for someone who found Mershi!”
She looked around indignantly. Let no one say Erin Solstice didn’t provide free lunch for people who found Walled Cities! Klbkch just looked at Relc. The Drake raised a claw.
“So you know where a lost Walled City is.”
“Yes.”
Selys gaped at her. Pisces lifted a finger.
“And the Crossroads of Izril, a place I have never heard of in modern parlance.”
“Eh, maybe they forgot? It was totally something people knew about. I mean…it was. Yeah, totally. I bet you a [Historian] would know about it.”
Erin couldn’t believe that part. How did you forget about a crossroads? She scratched at her head, but Ksmvr waved a hand urgently.
“And you are also capable of posting Mythical-rank quests?”
“That’s about right. Legendary t—”
Erin Solstice’s mouth ran ahead of her mind, and she bit back the words too late. Erin saw and heard Gire begin choking on her fries at the table. Selys’ jaw dropped, and Lyonette covered her eyes as Pisces’ eyes bulged with the implications. Yvlon just fainted.
The thud of Yvlon going over made everyone gather around her, but Relc scratched at his head slightly.
“Wait, is that really impressive? I get it looked cool, but what’s ‘Mythical Quest’ even mean?”
Selys was exasperated as she bent over Yvlon. Ksmvr helpfully dumped a pitcher of water over the [Armsmistress]’ face.
“Relc! I was told Peslas, a Level 30+ [Innkeeper], can only post Rare Quests. I know there are Heroic Quests and Mythical only because a Level 55 [Innkeeper] confirmed they could post them! And they’re a former Named Adventurer! Now think what Legendary means.”
“Oh. Ohhh. Ancestors! Erin can—and she just—”
Relc threw up his claws, and Erin heard more laughter. Not from Seborn; he was grabbing Jelaqua in shock as Yvlon stirred. Erin looked around, and Bird and Numbtongue were laughing now, leaning on each other.
“See? She is as silly as she was before. Erin is better now. This is very good. I am happy. And I am Bird, and I know silly.”
Bird clacked his mandibles as Numbtongue grinned at Erin. Flushed a bit, she waved back and did a little bow in her wheelchair. Klbkch glanced at Bird, then turned to Selys.
“A Level 55 [Innkeeper] is capable of posting Mythical Quests? Intriguing; I have heard one on Baleros cannot post Mythical quests, and they are also above Level 50.”
“That is interesting. So maybe there’s other requirements. Which means…”
Both turned to Erin, and the young woman lifted her hands.
“Listen. I know you have questions. All I can say is—Mrsha, don’t eat Gire!”
Everyone whirled except for Seborn and Klbkch. Erin Solstice wheeled rapidly towards the Garden of Sanctuary.
“Gotcha, suckers! I’m back! Chaos! Classic me! You’ll never get answers, only confusion!”
She was enjoying herself, and yes, playing it up a bit. However, she’d miscalculated how hard it was to make a getaway on wheels. Erin saw Klbkch walk forwards to grab her wheelchair as she gunned it for the door.
The open Garden of Sanctuary was filled with green, sunlight—and the shouting from outside, echoing distantly through the hole in the roof. Erin raced towards it, shouting with glee.
Then she slammed into the shins of the female Hobgoblin wandering out the door. Ulvama screamed. Erin screamed.
Ulvama screamed louder, holding her legs as Erin jerked to a stop. She rolled around as Erin stared down at the—
“Who the heck is—”
“Ulvama? You okay?”
Numbtongue stopped laughing long enough to check on the cursing [Shaman]. Ulvama glared up and saw the [Innkeeper] staring down at her.
“What? You—look where you’re going! Stupid!”
She got up, kicked Erin’s wheelchair, which provoked a gasp of outrage, and hobbled over to a chair to cradle at her shins. Erin stared, mouth open wide as she looked at the female Hobgoblin.
She was pretty sure she had never met Ulvama in her life. Heck, Erin couldn’t even remember many female Hobgoblins that she’d talked to aside from the brief time the Redfang tribe had come to her inn!
“Who is—who is this? Numbtongue? A friend of yours?”
Numbtongue turned, and a dumbfounded expression crossed his face. Then he recalled with everyone else.
“Ulvama? You’d never have met…oh.”
Lyonette gasped. She herself only had a passing acquaintance with Ulvama, having left to go to Oteslia, but she had at least known Ulvama existed. But Erin?
“When did we get another Goblin? And why haven’t I seen her in the last ten days?”
Erin demanded, bewildered. Ulvama just snorted as she eyed Erin up and down. She winced, rubbed at her shins, and produced a healing potion and applied it liberally. Then she poked Numbtongue, who was searching for words.
“This icy girl? Looks better than corpse. What happen? Everyone started shouting. Ruined my nap.”
She pointed to the Garden of Sanctuary. Which she could apparently enter and leave at will. Erin waggled her hands at Numbtongue, demanding an answer. He tried to start from the beginning.
“Erin, this is Ulvama. She helped bring you back. Sort of. She was…the Mountain City tribe’s [Shaman]. Now she’s…some [Shaman]. She came from somewhere else and helped us find Mrsha. She can cast good magic. And she knows Pebblesnatch! Pebblesnatch is okay.”
“Sh—what? Pebblesnatch? What? WHAT?”
Erin’s scream of delight made Ulvama clap her hands over her ears. She threw a cup at Erin, and Klbkch smacked it out of the air.
“Shut up! I already liked you better as dead girl! I was with Rags. Stupid Rags.”
She folded her arms huffily. Erin recalled that Rags had retreated after their first two days of meetings—possibly out of self-preservation for the Goblins as Chaldion and a number of people who didn’t know or respect the score had been occupying the inn. Rags had promised to come back when it was quieter and Erin was better.
That explained where Ulvama had been, and if her scowl were any indication, Numbtongue guessed she hadn’t been able to secure a spot in Goblinhome.
Or perhaps she had come back for the free food. Erin was at a loss for words.
