So then they had decided another thing, which was to take an item they loved out of their hoards—and Dragons were greedy and possessive, by and large—and gift it. To mortals who had known the Dragons, to others of their kind. That was the origin of Drake wills, if he remembered right. The gift mattered as a way of remembrance.
“…There are none left who remember half the Dragons who died, even the greatest. I would empty my hoard. To whom?”
He laughed at the idea and looked around blankly at things he only half-remembered acquiring. There was little here that…mattered. No. Some things greatly, but not that either.
“In the last ages of our kind, when a Dragon passed, we would reveal ourselves to the nearest mortals and speak to them of who had died. Impart a brief, fleeting memory for a single lifetime, no matter how short. Let their names be heard once more before silence.”
He toyed with the idea of that, appearing before one of the adventuring teams in the High Passes, or a [Shepherd], and telling them of the arrogance of Muzarre, the Dragonlord of Earth. Or perhaps the contradictory nature of the last Knight-Dragon, Yderigrisel, full of honor and bravado at times. Better than most Dragons for the causes he championed, and damned in Teriarch’s eyes for the victory he claimed at the end.
But he had no time for all the stories, and it would not be fair to tell just one. Perhaps that inn would be suitable.
And yet—Teriarch shuddered. He did not remember that young woman, Erin Solstice. He did not know her. But they had met. And that knowledge, the contradiction of certainty and a gap in his self, was most terrifying of all.
All too tempting to curl up and sleep until the moment was long behind him. With every instinct, Teriarch had to fight that urge.
“Not again. Nevermore.”
Slowly, he slunk from his cave. Or waddled. His body felt leaden. His wings flapped, ungainly, and he peered around, blinking irritably in the sunlight.
“Why me? Why not the first Dragonlord of Gems, Saracandre, or haughty Xarkouth. Why not…why not a Djinni, damn it? I may be one of the oldest, but…”
It had all been planned out. He understood that. They had waited for him, scolded him and laughed at him, and sent him back with an impossible mission like he was a copper-a-dozen [Hero] trying to take down a Kraken with a shiny rock.
Perhaps it was simply who had resurrected him. As the Dragonlords died, the spell might have well failed on them, and it was too great a risk to take. Teriarch wondered if it were also that only one name would have really mattered to the person they had to convince.
“Why me? Who are you? What were you, to me?”
All he knew was a name. And though he could guess, there was nothing there. No flicker of emotion, no spark of even the faintest memory.
“Ryoka Griffin. Magnolia Reinhart…”
Nothing. The Dragon shook his head. Then he spread his wings and flew. He did not have the words to mourn so many, nor the time. He had not the elegance—not anymore, nor even did his vast wealth suit the occasion.
What were you supposed to do in these times? When you grieved, but you had grieved before? When even a garden would not showcase your loss? The Dragonlord climbed higher, searching.
And an [Innkeeper] looked around.
 
——
 
Erin had let Crusader 57 down. She knew it. Him and others. The Wandering Inn had food coming out of the kitchens, but contrary to Mrsha-belief, food did not equate to everything.
Her garden didn’t have the statues. And she herself was…well. Erin wanted to hug Crusader 57, stand up, and…
What could she do? That was the question. Erin thought about it, and this was still only an hour after she’d just posted a Mythical Quest.
Everyone still wanted to talk about that.
“Miss Solstice. As I was saying, Pallass is willing to offer…”
“Yeah, yeah, Grimalkin. Shush. Did you actually think I’d go for it?”
“At first offer? No. But I am prepared to offer you—”
Erin looked up at the Drake and frowned.
“Are you going to threaten me if bribing me doesn’t work?”
The [Sinew Magus] closed his mouth, and Erin folded her arms. He slowly glanced over his shoulder, and Erin traced his gaze back to Chaldion.
“…I am representing Pallass, Erin. You understand it’s my—duty—to do all I can in that regard.”
Something was odd about the way he said ‘duty’. Erin studied Grimalkin, and her distraction turned to a moment of curiosity.
Even he seemed different. But she couldn’t chase down that momentary flicker. It was not the time.
“…Can we skip the threats? Let’s say you try again…in two days?”
Grimalkin eyed Erin, then made a note on his pad.
“Very well. It would appear that’s for the best. Especially since I gather you are distracted…I will not waste our time. Thank you, Erin.”
Erin blinked, but he rose and left the table without a word. Chaldion glared, and the two began arguing as he sat back down. He was right, though. Erin kept staring at the [Crusaders]. And Rasktooth. And Gothica.
She had no way to thank them, and she couldn’t tell the others about Khelta and…not with what it would do.
But she had to do…something, right?
Perhaps, though, everyone else felt it too, because Grimalkin was not the only person who decided to leave things for later. Pisces had abandoned what he was going to say when he saw the Antinium come in, and even Seborn and Klbkch had all known the score.
This was the hour of the Solstice Effect™ after all. What would come next? The [Innkeeper] seemed frustrated as she wheeled around in her chair, so, after a moment’s hesitation, someone stood up and sidled over.
“Psst. Erin. Do you need…this?”
The young woman glanced around and saw…Kevin. He had something he was shielding with his back. It was…his laptop.
“Huh? Kevin? What for?”
The [Mechanic] gave her a huge wink. He had a program open on the computer.
“I’ve got a bunch of songs loaded up. Not all your style, but maybe take a look and find something you want? Or the movies! I bet Palt could put one up on the big screen.”
“For what?”
The young man scratched at his head as Mrsha sat up in her chair, interested.
“For…something? Party? Movie-night? I’m just saying—give the word.”
“The word. For the laptop. Okay.”
Erin’s brows scrunched together. She saw what Kevin was getting at. He was expecting something. So was Ishkr.
He had already, with the help of his sister, Liska, begun pulling up kegs from the basement and was counting mugs. He had a wand to start little flames, a bunch of coins for spare change, and some Faerie Flowers, pre-dried, lying in his work kit.
Erin stared at Ishkr, then at Lyonette as she came over.
“Erin, I’d like a heads-up whenever anything begins.”
“When what begins, Lyonette? I’m not—”
The [Princess] held up an overly patient hand and gave Erin a smile as Ser Sest stood behind her.
“I’m sure you’re not. But when—if it begins, I’d just like to know what it’s going to be. Let me handle pricing, and I think we can agree that maybe it should be outside? Or at least Mrsha and the Goblins and Antinium should be separated from the huge crowds. For safety.”
“Absolutely. But what am I doing?”
Lyonette du Marquin gave Erin a long look.
“You tell me.”
The inn was so ready you could feel it. Mrsha was writing down a brief explanation to Gire about what was going on, and even Seborn was drinking very lightly so he didn’t miss anything happening next. Relc rubbed his claws together as Klbkch returned—with Embria in tow.
“Did I miss anything, Relc?”
“Nah, just those Antinium coming through. And Noass getting electrified.”
“Pity.”
Embria nodded. She glanced at Squad 5, then sat down.
“Dad.”
“Hey, kid! Did you see Vok or any of the Gnolls from Cellidel in the crowd? They might not be able to come up. Maybe I’ll get them—oh! Oh, wait, she’s moving!”
Everyone stared at Erin as she slowly wheeled across the inn. She glanced around, and they pretended not to be watching. Erin scratched at her arm.
“I’m going to the bathroom, okay?”
They watched her leave the inn, and Jelaqua immediately put money down against Saliss on whether or not Erin was actually going to the bathroom.
 
——
 
Erin went to the bathroom, but she mainly did it to think. This was her fault. She’d done this too many times. She’d even told them there was a party at the inn! And she could see where Kevin was coming from.
It wasn’t hard. Wave your hands around twice, boot up Shrek, and you had the makings of something already. Or you did something like, uh…getting a stick, a few flat rocks, and having Ceria freeze over the baseball field and invent hockey.
“Actually, what about Hedault? I haven’t seen him in a while, but I bet he still likes skateboarding. And Kevin has got to have, like, eight skateboards. Could Ceria or Grimalkin and Moore make, like, a skate park? Can you skateboard on ice?”
Erin could just imagine Gireulashia doing some kind of ridiculous backwards wavefront triple-axel spin-kick somersault on a skateboard. Yep, and then you’d have a competition and—
“Oh! Skateboarding? That means—I, um, uh—”
Erin nearly jumped out of the outhouse as a loud voice in the stall next to hers rang out. Someone quickly burst out the door and fled. Erin shouted back.
“I know that was you, Drassi!”
Everyone wanted a party, and if Erin didn’t act fast, it was going to start without her. In fact, she thought it made sense. After all that had happened, a Wandering Inn classic was just what you needed for a palette cleanser, right? It wouldn’t solve the world’s ills, but—that was something she could eminently do, and so she owed it to people.
Right?
Just do it. Wait, wait…do I invent a shoe company? Nah. But give them what they want, right? Skateboarding…movie…quest? Do those things work together? 
The thing was, Erin didn’t think it was the right thing to do. It was the easy thing to do, and it had worked every single time before, more or less. Maybe a party would make Crusader 57 say this inn had something cool. But Erin thought she’d let him down.
Back when the Antinium had nothing, a plate of spaghetti meant the world to them. These days, Crusader 57 got camp food, and that was sometimes better than what Erin could cook. She had been very useful to Goblins and Antinium at the start with very little, but that was because they had had nothing at all.
These days, if she offered Bird a fried egg, he’d ask her to put salt on it first and would it kill her to add some ketchup in the form of a bird on top? Erin was afraid that if she did her party, it would be what they wanted, and it wouldn’t be worth it at all.
I had no time to really talk to Klbkch. He has something he wants to talk to me about. And so does Seborn. Moore? Even Grimalkin the Pushy, Grimalkin, left me alone.
Because…they knew they weren’t going to get anything out of Erin today. She just caused a scene, vamoosed, and then she’d do something cool and they’d hear what mattered in five days. Even Tekshia and Zevara had let her go.
And Erin couldn’t tell them about the ghosts. At least not the way she wanted. The Gnolls were dead.
So Erin pushed open the door to the outhouse and spent five minutes getting into her wheelchair. And she knew that it wasn’t the same as she slowly began to wheel back to the inn.
However, the people gathered below the inn all pointed to her, and someone actually shouted up.
“Hey! When is it starting? Do something already! I have the night shift in five hours!”
Erin sighed louder. She wheeled back to the inn, glumly thinking about just posting a Legendary Quest. Then at least she’d buy time rebuilding the inn.
She had her hand on the door and was thinking how to start it off. She wanted to answer their needs, she really did. Then, later, maybe she’d find a way to securely talk to Fetohep. And say…sorry. And talk to Krshia, though that wasn’t her fault. And ask Crusader 57 to tell her everything.
Erin realized she was still pressing on the door and stared at it.
“It opens outwards? When did that happen?”
The world was topsy-turvy. Erin rolled back a bit and realized the issue with wheelchairs and doors that opened into said wheelchairs. She rolled back a bit more, extended her arm to reach out, and gave up. She looked over her shoulder at the crowd and then at the inn. Then Erin Solstice slowly wheeled her chair forwards, past the door, and came to a stop after a minute.
She was still sitting there when Ishkr found her. He opened the door with the intuition of someone realizing that Erin might be having trouble getting into her wheelchair or into the inn, but saw that the outhouses were open. So he studied the crowd and saw them all staring ‘behind’ the inn.
The Gnoll found Erin Solstice sitting on the edge of the grass hill, under the sun. It was fall, but some days were warm enough, and she was gazing down at the Floodplains.
“Look at all those colors, Ishkr. Did you know that the grass changed to orange and red and yellow like this?”
Purple too. Erin was seeing the Floodplains change color for the winter. Ishkr hesitated.
“I’ve lived here for most of my life, Erin. Yes.”
“Gotcha, gotcha.”
The [Head Server] waited, but Erin didn’t say anything else. She glanced up after a moment and added.
“I mean, I saw it last year, but I guess I forgot. Anyways, it looks cool.”
“Indeed?”
It was pretty, but Ishkr was more worried about Erin’s face. She didn’t seem like a woman with a plan, nor did she have the too-bland look she got when she was actually about to unleash havoc. She was just…staring out across the Floodplains. Most of the crowd was on the other side, watching the front of the inn, although some were sidling around to stare at her. Some had scrying orbs, others had Grimalkin-style notepads.
Erin ignored them all.
“I wish we had the magic door. Then I could slip out somewhere else. I guess that’s on the list of things to do.”
“I am sure Miss Lyonette has it on her list. Can I wheel you inside, Erin? Or do you need anything?”
If she had said, ‘Ishkr, get me two mops, a jar of magicore, and a banana peel’, he would have done so at once. But the [Innkeeper] just sat there.
“I don’t think so, Ishkr. They’re all ready for a party, aren’t they?”
“Yes, Erin.”
“Okay.”
She didn’t move. Ishkr was even sure that if Erin really wanted to, she could have used the [Garden of Sanctuary] to get into the inn. Yet she didn’t go anywhere, and after a minute of him standing there uncomfortably, she glanced up.
“Why don’t you take a seat, Ishkr? I’d offer you mine, but this thing doesn’t have brakes. Sort of a design flaw. I might go rolling down and kill someone.”
