His aforementioned cats gave the crowd a smug look, and those present considered the happiness and point of life vis-à-vis the cat theory. However, Seborn decided to weigh in.
“That’s all very well, but I’d die of boredom. If I wasn’t an adventurer, I’d drink myself into oblivion. Even if it means risking my life, I want to do this.”
“The Drowned bastard’s right. I may have quit the life of sea, but I didn’t enjoy peace and quiet until I went through some misery. Besides, there’s always going to be a monster or day when something bad happens. Happiness isn’t the point of living because you’re not always happy.”
Wailant added with a big nod. Selys protested.
“You…could be. Couldn’t you have a great house, do your favorite things all the time, assuming you didn’t get bored and found something new to do regularly, visited friends, pet cats—or dogs—or beavers—”
The former [Pirate] snorted.
“Issat a euphemism? I agree! Got to pet beavers and whatnot. Don’t throw things at me! But no week’s guaranteed happiness. Let me tell you—all you have to do is step on a rake and there goes your happy day.”
He was just lucky his comment passed over the little Gnoll’s head. Mrsha was napping a bit as Gire kept eating, but she woke up a bit to this interesting debate. She began scribbling and tugged at Lyonette’s arm and made her read her response.
“Mrsha says—I’m reading it, dear. Mrsha says, ‘being happy isn’t one day. It’s a long, loooong time. Even if you have days where you step in poop.’ Mrsha! Language!”
The Gnoll gave Lyonette a long, narrow-eyed look as she was scolded for her writing. She took the card back, crossed out poop, and wrote ‘shit’ instead. Pisces chortled alongside Ceria, but people took Mrsha seriously.
“She is correct. Lives can be cut short in moments. You may not agree with the practices of all Walled Cities, but the lifespans of citizens within are longer than average than those outside. Happiness…grief…better to have both than have it all cut short.”
Chaldion spoke quietly, staring into the fire. He’d removed his gemstone eye, and he seemed almost as ready to sleep as Mrsha.
“Then what’s happiness, Grand Strategist? Living a long time?”
Jelaqua challenged Chaldion, frowning, and got another nervous nudge from Maughin, but the leader of Pallass’ military just took his time sipping from the drink named after him before replying. His voice was hoarse when he did speak, and each word seemed dragged out of him.
“Happiness? Happiness is—ignorance. It is not for everyone. Happiness for a city or a people is something the few sacrifice so the many may achieve. It is the luxury of safety. Of victory. It has a high cost.”
“Spoken like a tyrant.”
Saliss snapped back, sitting up from where he’d been lying on his back. Chaldion said nothing; he didn’t even turn to Saliss. Lyonette closed her mouth—she had been nodding slightly. Gireulashia cut off another Saliss-Chaldion argument.
“That sounds like something Xherw would have said. Or Ulcreziek.”
That was a conversation-killer. Right up until Bird raised a hand.
“No, silly, big Gnoll whose name I do not know. That sounds like Niers.”
Everyone studied him. Bird hesitated.
“Niers…Nierseffson…Jealnet. Nierseffson Jealnet, whom I do not know. And is not the Titan of Baleros.”
He folded his arms and smiled. Lie achieved. Pisces looked at Bird and choked a bit, but Saliss bit back what he was going to say and turned to Bird.
“What’s happiness to an Antinium, then?”
That was an objectively fascinating question, and Bird took his time responding. Numbtongue muttered to Wailant.
“Five gold he says ‘happiness is a bird’.”
The [Pirate] began choking with laughter, and Viceria covered her mouth. Bird looked over at Numbtongue and opened his mandibles wide.
“Happiness? I am not that much happier when I shoot a bird, Numbtongue, or eat one.”
“What?”
Everyone chorused. Erin sat up just in time to hear Bird correct himself.
“I mean, I am not much happier because I am a happy Bird. That was not a lie. Yet. I know I should be dead. I was a Worker, and I never saw the sky. I was meant to die fighting something horrible and never eat acid flies. I should be dead, and I am not. Every day I am not dead and know this. If I forgot, I would be a very silly Bird. So happiness is me winning over death itself.”
He folded his hands together over his belly and rocked back, satisfied. Since the ground they were sitting on was the hill and his back-shell was rounded, Bird went over in a somersault. In silence, everyone watched him tumble down the hill like a pillbug.
“Uh oh. Ouch. Watch out below. Whee—”
That was so entertaining that Mrsha and Gire rolled out of the conversation. Wailant put out his hand, and Numbtongue spat into it. It was Joseph who decided to break the silence.
“Antinium are depressing.”
Drassi raised both brows.
“That’s news? I’m not reporting it.”
The laughter went around the people sitting there, but the question lingered. So, Ksmvr turned and brightly looked at his mentor.
“Yvlon, what is happiness to you?”
The [Armsmistress] stuttered and turned red as everyone glanced at her.
“I, uh—happiness? Well, I—it’s—I think it’s not—uh—”
She was lost, and like a friend, Pisces lifted his hand.
“I believe happiness, or the point of existence, is more than just emotion, as Magus Grimalkin says. There are spells that provoke happiness and insanity. If you cast such spells on yourself, are you happy? My answer is no, so it follows that happiness is a lasting accomplishment or…deed that provides it.”
“What, does everyone have to go on a quest to be happy, then?”
Selys shot back instantly, but Pisces just sniffed at her.
“Hardly. That’s a simplistic read on my statement, Miss Shivertail. Happiness can be a child, as Jelaqua indicated, or yes, fame and glory, or a home. I just maintain it has to be linked to something.”
“I can buy that.”
The Drake [Heiress] admitted grudgingly. Pelt tossed another stick into the fire with a snort.
“Spoken like a Human and Drake. Everything has to be something you can touch.”
“Says the master-smith.”
Palt raised his brows, and Imani squeaked as Pelt tossed a bit of ash at them. The Centaur blew it away with a spell, and Pelt glowered back.
“Everything breaks. Even the greatest metals. Craft is invisible, and you may never hold what you make. The deed doesn’t have to be there.”
“Is that happiness, Pelt?”
Erin wanted to know. The Dwarf looked up at her and then away.
“…How should I know? I’ll tell you if I ever find it. You don’t need it to live.”
They were teetering on the edge of other conversations, but Yvlon had apparently found her answer. She stood up as if she were giving a speech, and her voice was slightly tremulous.
“I, um, have my answer. Happiness is a lack of something. In other words, I mean—it’s not being in pain. It’s not being hungry or wanting for anything. If you have nothing holding you back, you’ll probably be happy. You should be.”
Fierre tilted her head left and right. She was sitting as far away from the silver-armed woman as possible. She whispered to Octavia, with her brows raised.
“Isn’t that backwards?”
No. It was just a revealing answer. And for a moment, Erin wished that she had been able to meet Ysara and this Qwera. But then Ksmvr was nodding.
“That is not my answer, but I will write this down in case the question comes up again, Yvlon. I have a good answer. I have it here.”
He rose, and everyone saw what he was holding. The black cat went meow in Ksmvr’s hands. He supported it, stroking its fur gently.
“Happiness is a cat.”
He showed it around, and the purring animal let him scratch behind its ears. Everyone waited for Ksmvr to say something else, but he just sat back down happily.
 
——
 
“Gottem.”
Kevin grinned from where he’d gotten up to refill his drink. The conversation was resuming, and it looked like it was Viceria who was giving her take on the nature of happiness. Ksmvr stepped back, still holding his cat, and Kevin heard another group of people that were listening into the central conversation talking.
“They are discussing happiness. And we’re eating roasted foods around a fire. This feels like when we are on campaign. It’s not very exciting. I was told she sometimes made the inn explode.”
Kevin looked around, and there was Crusader 57. He did seem like he enjoyed complaining, because the rest of Squad 5 elbowed him and, despite his comments, the Worker had eaten eight pieces of corn.
Some of the Fellowship of the Inn and soldiers were sharing another fire, and before Kevin could Kevin his way in—which was a surprisingly familiar thing given that Kevin2 and Kevin3…and Kevin were all parts of the army—someone else spoke up.
“Excitement, sir? That’s not always the best.”
“No?”
Crusader 57 challenged the fellow with a cap on his head. Normen gave a cautious tug of the cap as he, Alcaz, and Pivr all toasted pieces of bread to dip in a bowl of honey. A little bee indignantly stared at them plundering all this honey with their flesh-proboscises as she lay in the little sling Lyonette had fashioned for her across the [Princess]’ front.
Normen shook his head. He had a rather splendid cigar that the Centaur had given him, and he was taking delicate puffs and enjoying himself. He elucidated his point for the [Crusaders] very simply.
“The thing about excitement, sir, is that sometimes, all you remember is the excitement. Which is good enough. But this? You’ll remember this in detail on a cold night and think back to just how it tasted.”
He tapped the slice of bread, which he’d added a bit of cheese and honey to. The [Crusaders] nodded slowly. Kevin sat down.
“Exactly. I mean, it’s great for me too. Hi, I’m Kevin.”
“Oh, another one.”
Crusader 57 twitched his antennae as Kevin gave him a blank look. But the young man was smiling. He looked down, and his face went slack for a moment, then he laughed ruefully.
“What is so funny? Inform me, strange Human whom I vaguely recall. Then we shall be chummy. Friend.”
Pivr fanned his wings gently. Kevin tried to explain what was so ironic.
“A cold one on a porch—or the back of the inn, I guess, around a fire with a snack? It’s just—I’m turning into my dad.”
He glanced down ruefully, and no one got the joke except maybe Normen and Alcaz, who smiled briefly. Kevin took a sip from his mug and changed his tune.
“…I guess he had a point.”
A few more people drifted away from the central fire, mostly because someone had passed really, really bad gas. Ksmvr walked away, chasing a cat who’d fled the stink bomb, and realized Pivr was here when the cat hissed at the Flying Antinium.
“Oh, Pivr. You are here. Many Antinium are here, I note.”
The Flying Antinium nodded cautiously. There were Antinium from the army, from the Free Hive, and the Fellowship. In fact, Klbkch was returning from washing his hands to where Relc was laughing with Embria and some of the Watch and [Soldiers]. He stopped.
“Ksmvr.”
Ksmvr jumped, and all the Antinium fell silent.
“Oh. K-Kblkch. Hello. Good to see you.”
The two faced each other, former Prognugator and Revalantor. Klbkch stared at Ksmvr’s regrown hand.
“You and I have not spoken since your return from Chandrar. I note that Xrn authorized the regrowth of your hand.”
“Yes…and I am thankful for your well-wishes. My team is doing very well. Is the Hive well? Our formalities are concluded, goodbye—”
Ksmvr edged back, but Klbkch folded his arms. He looked Ksmvr up and down.
“I am also pleased to note your new sword school. My sword school. My Skills.”
“Oh. I, um. I’m very grateful for their usage?”
The [Skirmisher] would be sweating if he could. Klbkch was rapidly advancing his [Loomer] class, and his voice was amazingly flat.
“I note you did not inquire as to my preference when inheriting my Skills and abilities that I worked for.”
Ksmvr could have run, but the cat suddenly decided it wanted more petting, so he picked it up. He looked defiantly at Klbkch and spoke.
“I noticed you were not using them, so I decided someone should, Klbkch.”
Oh snap. Kevin’s mouth moved slowly as Klbkch’s antennae went still. Ksmvr wasn’t taking everything lying down—and it was probably a combination of Pisces, Ceria, and Yvlon that was adding to his retorts.
Before anything else could happen, though, another shape came bounding forwards, and there was a gentle woof. A little puppy ran towards the [Crusaders], who all stared at it. Then, before it could beg for treats, a hand reached out and picked it up.
The little dog whined, and there he was. All the Antinium turned as a figure appeared with a dustpan. The dread Antinium. The most hated being in the Free Hives.
Furfur. The animal caretaker was helping shepherd some of the Free Antinium’s pets and Elirr’s cats, and he stopped as he noticed the gathering. What might have happened next was anyone’s guess, but then one last figure appeared.
“What is this? What is this? So many familiar faces. There is Pivr. Where have you gone? We could have used you during the war. We still can.”
Prognugator Dekass walked forwards, carrying an entire lasagna tray in two arms and a pair of drinks—both for him—with his other two. He still had his armor on, the repaired damage from battle shining on his breastplate, and he had a slight limp, but he seemed as happy as could be.
And then—the [Crusaders], the Free Antinium, they realized they were all here. The six legends. The myths of the Free Hive.
Furfur, Klbkch, Ksmvr, Dekass, Pivr, and Crusader 57. The six most hated Antinium in one spot for various reasons.
Ksmvr, who had once nearly gotten Liscor overrun in his brief tenure as Prognugator and who had hurt Pawn.
Dekass, who had been completely objectionable for most of his stay at the inn.
Pivr, doubly objectionable.
Klbkch the Slayer, executioner of Antinium, feared for his cold attitude towards others.
Crusader 57, who could be mean and hurt people’s feelings.
And Furfur, who made animals go take naps.
Clearly, this was a vortex of evil Antinium, and the only question in each Antinium’s mind was—who was in the top five? Did they have to update the rankings?
Of course, even the Antinium knew that it wasn’t that serious of a ranking. It was mostly just…fun. But it seemed at least one of the Antinium was self-aware, because Ksmvr turned to Furfur.
“They call you Furfur. Your name is known to me as a dread Antinium of ill repute.”
The [Pet Trainer] stopped in confusion as the dog barked quietly. Ksmvr met his gaze, and if sparks could fly…slowly, he lifted the cat in his hands as Klbkch stared at him in confusion.
