“And Ksmvr eats the stuff. All the time. Because of his amulet of food poisoning or something—waitasecond.”
Erin snapped her fingers excitedly and looked at Kevin.
“Kevin, no way. Do you think instead of a food poisoning amulet it’s an—”
“Anti-allergy amulet? No way.”
Kevin looked from Grimalkin to Pelt. The Dwarf held up his hands.
“Get Hedault. I’m no [Enchanter]. Maybe it’s the same thing.”
Grimalkin instantly shook his head.
“It isn’t. But perhaps that enchantment is more sophisticated than we thought. Where did it come from?”
“Uh. Albez? Maaaaybe…”
The Drake tapped one claw on the ground meaningfully as Ishkr took a big bite of regular roasted corn and happily chewed.
“Are you saying that you think those adventurers found a regular anti-food poisoning amulet from Albez in, if I recall correctly, Warmage Thresk’s personal stash?”
Erin and Kevin opened their mouths. Erin replied weakly.
“Well, when you say it like that, it sounds stupid. No way. Anti-allergy…”
Kevin leapt to his feet, shouting.
“Shrimp! Damn shrimp!”
Everyone peered at him. Kevin slapped his chest.
“I’m allergic to shrimp! Nothing else—but do you know how tough that makes eating seafood in—in where I live? I need that amulet!”
“Let me try it too!”
“Just get the spell.”
Grimalkin called after Kevin. And Erin felt a tingling on the back of her neck. She gaped at Grimalkin.
“Did…did we just solve allergies?”
He snorted.
“Hardly. Spells like this surely exist already. If you had enough coin, I imagine an [Alchemist] could create a nullifier for you. Even if we isolate this enchantment, unless it is mass-producible—and even if it is—it will end up being a widespread allergy cure for the middle class at most in twenty years’ time.”
“That sounds pretty good.”
“It would be. But it isn’t a cure. It would only save lives at a [Healer]’s if they had a charm like that to prevent such deaths and end up as a net positive for society. I’ll look into it.”
And there it was. Erin looked at Pelt, and he snorted.
“I’m not allergic to anything. Hey, are we going to eat this corn all day or do we go inside the inn?”
“D’you want to?”
The Dwarf considered this as he brushed kernels out of his beard. He scratched at his chin and glanced around. The sun was still high in the sky, the grass was soft, and the act of grilling food was fun enough that Erin wanted to do a sausage or two.
“…Nah.”
Erin smiled and focused back at the fire. She glanced up after a minute and brought up something she had wanted to ask.
“Are the Walled Cities going to attack the tribes, do you think, Grimalkin?”
He was about to answer, but was cut off. Kevin was hurrying back with Ksmvr and Yvlon, and the two stopped when they saw the fire.
“Erin! This is where you were? Everyone’s expecting you to summon a Frostmarrow Behemoth or something! They’re getting imp—are you grilling corn?”
Yvlon walked over, and Erin motioned them down as Grimalkin replied.
“Candidly, Erin? I think the answer is ‘no’. But you would have to ask Chaldion. I could support my reasoning with facts, but he knows the answer.”
Erin frowned. She turned to Ishkr, and the tingling grew into a certainty.
“Ishkr? Can you get him? Oh, and bring back some sausages. No one’s invented marshmallows yet—can you toast sugarcubes?”
 
——
 
By the time Grand Strategist Chaldion appeared through the [Garden of Sanctuary], Ksmvr, Yvlon, Grimalkin, Pelt, and Kevin were all passing around food that Ishkr had snuck out of the kitchen.
“What is this?”
“We’re just sitting around. Chaldion, are the Walled Cities gonna attack the Gnoll tribes after this? If you’re not going to answer, I’ll make you go sit in the inn.”
Erin waved at him, and the Drake—hesitated. But the [Innkeeper]’s eyes were gleaming, and she was sitting up a bit.
But no, she wasn’t running around, and this was not the legendary party. The excited Erin that the naive guests of the inn were still expecting to come bursting through the door—or a wall—wasn’t there.
Yet neither was the depression and magical flame. This was just…a regular fire. However, it was exactly for that reason that Erin was smiling.
“I could discuss that with you later along with your quests—”
“How about now, with everyone?”
The old Drake hesitated. And there it was. Erin had no time in the inn. At least, not with everyone in a line. Here, though? She’d just heard something from Grimalkin that had clearly been bubbling within him. There was no time in a party to ask the long questions.
But they had a lot of time while corn roasted. Well…long enough. Especially because the fire was only large enough to do a few husks at a time, and so Kevin was already making more for Yvlon and Ksmvr.
“The Walled Cities have no interest in fighting the tribes. I believe most are safe from any attacks until the scope of the new lands are explored. The Walled Cities do not want to make greater enemies than they have. They took losses fighting at the Great Plains. They are wary of the Antinium and other forces that may seek Izril.”
Chaldion sat down in the end. Erin frowned at him.
“Are they worried the tribes’ll fight back? Get revenge?”
“Possibly. But I believe that is not a concern, the tribes sieging a Walled City. Not in their current state.”
“…Which implies that the other cities that aren’t Walled Cities may suffer as a result.”
Grimalkin spoke, and Chaldion glanced at him. The Drake nodded once. He turned to Erin and was rewarded with a huge smile.
“Well, we’ll see what happens. I just asked, Chaldion, because if they try that again while I’m awake, I’ll nail my next quest to Pallass’ walls.”
The Grand Strategist actually hesitated a moment before nodding blandly.
“Your point is well taken. Many mistakes were made during those events. In hindsight…”
He trailed off, and everyone looked at him. Because no one interrupted him, Chaldion finished his thought.
“…in hindsight, I believe I would have had that idiot, Dragial, buried in an unmarked grave. Fissival expelled him because they had to, but they never abandoned him. He would be attacking your inn within the month if he were alive and heard you post that quest.”
“Huh. What did he do? Wait—he was the one who led Fissival’s army, right? Who killed him?”
“Us. I knew it. I knew she was up to something.”
Jelaqua Ivirith strode around the corner of the inn and pointed accusatorily at Erin. And then Seborn, Maughin, and Jelaqua joined the group.
“Aren’t we going inside? Where’s the excitement, Erin?”
“There’s no excitement, Jelaqua. We’re grilling corn. And Kevin puts cheese on his. Pull up a seat, and Ishkr can get drinks. Actually, he should take a break. Maybe someone can help…?”
The Gnoll stood up.
“I’m fine, Erin. It’s just drinks.”
“Wh—no party?”
The Selphid seemed crestfallen, but Seborn had already sat down. Erin smiled.
“No party. Just…a picnic. Or is it a campfire cookout?”
Jelaqua didn’t seem to get the difference until she sat down and felt it. It was the tempo. The amount of guests could vary, but the atmosphere was relaxed. Erin had a moment, and in that moment, she had to ask.
“So…you killed Dragial?”
“He was going after Lehra and her team—that’s the Stargnoll. She owns the Blade of Mershi.”
Erin nearly sprayed her watermelon juice over Maughin.
“W—someone found one already? Well then, I guess that quest’s like a quarter done! I thought that would be the hard part! Hey, does it speak to her? I mean, uh…nevermind.”
“Speak to her? I don’t know, but that Wall Lord wanted her dead. He hired her to find it; it’s a famous tale. I guess you never knew it because you were in Liscor, but Lehra’s been famous for, what, two years? There was a huge argument because Dragial always said she stole the artifact. I thought she was sort of a thief—until I met her.”
Chaldion lifted a finger.
“Technically, as he was employing the Ruinstrider tribe when the relic was found, it was his. However, when he saw the relic in her possession, my understanding is he tried to put the Stargnoll and her people to death, forfeiting his claim. He argued otherwise, but his pursuit of Lehra endangered countless lives and ruined cities.”
“And you killed him?”
Jelaqua sat there as Maughin stared at his lover, and her eyes were steady.
“We did. Lehra’s team is new, but that Drake brought an army to try and end her. We learned our lesson with Garen. And we knew it even before that. We might not be welcome in Fissival, but I hope it’s not a problem here?”
She glanced around, and Chaldion and Grimalkin shook their heads. Grimalkin picked up a sausage and frowned at it.
“…Pork. No, Wall Lord Dragial was a talented [Mage], but even when I was in Fissival, he was single-minded. You acceded to his will or he ruined your career or reputation.”
Chaldion merely nodded.
“No objections here, either. Would you like a medal on behalf of Pallass? I can arrange that.”
“Are you…actually serious?”
“Entirely. It would be political and send a message. Salazsar is already formally at war with Fissival, and the mood is against the City of Magic. Moreover, for the Gnolls…yes. Would Beithday work? I could convene a ceremony in the late afternoon.”
“Wait, what was that about a war between the Walled Cities?”
Erin urgently waved a hand as Maughin and Jelaqua whispered. Everyone gave her that look that said it was common news she didn’t know. Since it was clear Jelaqua was getting a medal so Maughin could brag, Erin turned to Ksmvr and Yvlon.
“How are you two doing?”
“Good.”
That was the bland-salad answer, so Erin rolled over and lifted an experimental, melty, half-browned sugarcube up from the metal tray. She offered it on a spoon to Yvlon.
The look the [Armsmistress] gave her was an answer, but Ksmvr tried it.
“Ooh. Hot! But sweet! Hot! Hot!”
He delicately inserted another piece of what was essentially burnt sugar and ash into his mouth, and that was too much. Imani and Lasica came stalking around the corner of the inn.
“I knew it. So that’s where you’ve been taking all the food. Ishkr!”
Imani pointed at the Gnoll, and he jumped guiltily. Erin groaned with the others; it had become sort of a game trying to hide what was happening from the people in the inn. Lasica, on the other hand, just took one look at Erin’s ‘sugar-mellows’ and rounded on the [Innkeeper].
“You are a menace to the world of cooking, Erin. I cannot understand how you ever achieved [Advanced Cooking].”
“Hey! Caramelized sugar is a thing! Pull up a seat, Imani. We’re doing a fire-thing. Grilling corn and stuff.”
“Without a grill?”
The [Chefs] didn’t wait for an answer. Instead, Palt and Rufelt joined them and were sent to get a pan, a metal grille, and more cookery ingredients. Soon, Lasica was telling Erin that, yes, grilled corn was a thing, and real enjoyers put pepper flakes on them instead of cheese.
“Mild, but hot enough that you feel like you’re really getting a mouthful. Look at the colors.”
She sprinkled expertly and handed Erin a piece of corn to sample. The [Innkeeper] blew on it appreciatively and took a bite.
“Yum. Hey, now I feel bad about leaving everyone in the inn. Do you think we should tell them there’s no party?”
Rufelt was grumbling as he put down a host of spices he’d taken from the kitchen, but the [Bartender] still found time to produce a mug with a perfect head of foam. He handed it to Lasica, who took a long gulp, before nodding over his shoulder.
“Frankly, Erin, I think you don’t have to worry about that.”
 
——
 
The occupants of The Wandering Inn were getting restless, waiting for Erin to come back. At first, they didn’t notice the slowly diminishing headcount of guests and mostly just asked anyone who came back in whether Erin was ‘up to something’.
“What? Oh—definitely. She’s scheming. Er, she’s just, ah, getting Grimalkin and Kevin to help her with something.”
“They’re making sure she isn’t too crazy, right?”
Lyonette interrogated Jelaqua as the Selphid came back in. The adventurer nodded, biting her lips hard. She winked at some of the Antinium, and they looked puzzled, but Lyonette didn’t notice.
“Hey. Where’s Erin?”
Numbtongue stopped Ishkr next and got a different response.
“Er, the outhouse, still.”
“Oh. Bad poo? Orange? Red?”
“I—did not inquire.”
It was a game, and the longer you stayed in the common room of the inn, the more you lost. Now, some people who might have picked up on the commotion outside were hampered by the inn’s thick walls and closed windows, which let in no sound nor sight of the picnic outside.
They were also getting false information, but mostly, they were expecting Erin to come back inside like a storm. A few went out to see if she needed help and mostly figured it out, but the ones not in the know waited with growing impatience and anticipation.
The Gnolls figured it out very quickly. Mrsha and Gire began sniffing the air and nudging each other. Gire whispered to Mrsha.
“Are you sure? I can smell it…but why corn? Popcorn? I smell cheese, too. Should we…?”
They slipped out via the garden and never came back. Next was Relc and Klbkch. Relc was putting his feet up on a chair, and he turned his head slightly.
“Klbkch, my guy. I’m not super good at the Watch stuff where we interrogate people. I just do the hitting part. But it seems to me that those stories don’t match up. Erin’s in the outhouse, working with Grimalkin, and Kevin ‘didn’t see her’.”
Klbkch raised one finger as he whispered back.
“In fact, all statements have been false.”
“You knew that?”
“Yes, of course. Shall we investigate?”
“Damn right. Embria, let’s go take a look.”
Their departure meant that a number of Antinium relaxed when Klbkch was gone, but Pawn, anxiously waiting for Erin’s return, realized something was up soon after that.
“Yellow Splatters, let us all go and take a look outside. I believe we are, to use an expression, being punked upon.”
“How do you know that?”
The Antinium regarded Pawn, and the Worker pointed. A smirking little white face disappeared, but it was too late.
“Mrsha gloats. And she does not like me.”
The Antinium began to get up, and even Lyonette couldn’t miss that.
“Don’t go! I’m sure Erin will be right back—Ser Sest, go find her. Let me get you another round.”
She was so busy trying to placate the Antinium she never noticed Pisces and Ceria looking up from their table and following the drift of the inn.
“Hey, Pisces, Yvlon and Ksmvr never came back from searching for Erin.”
“Indeed, Ceria? I note a certain diminishing of the inn’s population.”
