An assassination after all? Khelt’s power might alarm the Quarass, but she had to know his replacement would seek vengeance. Perhaps she had convened a ceremony to name Khelt a Shield Kingdom.
That would be just like her. There were duties Shield Kingdoms had to each other, and while Khelt had petitioned for the honor before—Fetohep would have to refuse her if that were the case.
Fetohep wondered if he should have brought Alked Fellbow and Frieke just in case. Too late now—and he was tired. Bone-weary, so he was perhaps too reckless as he strode towards the doors of the waystation.
“Your Majesty, the Quarass is—”
A shadowy figure materialized. One of the top bodyguards, no doubt. Fetohep did not turn his head.
“—expecting me. I am here.”
To their credit, the bodyguards he sensed visibly or invisibly did not try to stop him. The door swung open, and Fetohep of Khelt strode through, ready for anything. He saw a somewhat full room of travellers, a few stunned citizens of Ger, including bodyguards, and there was a short girl dressed in the rich thread of her office, young, her brown skin and black hair unremarkable in a sea of children.
Only the eyes showed an age beyond ages, and the way she held herself as she turned with…a pair of tankards in hand…and beamed at him.
“Welcome! We’ll be with you in one one moment. Please have a seat. A drink for His Majesty.”
“What.”
The Quarass of Germina put two mugs of Yellat Ale down on a table and beamed at a hooded [Assassin] of Ger.
“Can I get you anything else, Miss?”
“No, your—no—I—this—”
The trained killer was stuttering as she stared at the mug. The Quarass’ wide smile never wavered as she nodded.
“Please, don’t be shy to order more. I recommend you try our lamb kebap—we don’t have any Sariant, which the original calls for, but it is very good. A Jecrassian special, I promise. Don’t forget to save room for dessert!”
Then she swung back towards a terrified [Server] and accepted another plate and drink and whisked it to a second table. Fetohep stared at the Quarass. Then he saw someone gesturing him to a table.
An undead Revenant sat down at a table in the makeshift inn, and he felt like the normal one in some surreal dream. The Quarass had a big smile on her face as she bent over to ask a boy practically her age what he’d like to eat.
The guests were giving the Quarass much the same look as Fetohep. It seemed the waystation was occupied by half her personal guard and people of Ger, the other half travellers.
“Quarass of Germina. What are you doing?”
“Give me six minutes, Fetohep. Would you care for a non-magical drink?”
“No. I have holes in my stomach.”
Literal holes in his body, which meant that going to an inn was an entirely pointless endeavor unless it served the undead-only concoctions. But once again, the Quarass surprised him.
“We do have a Deathbeil Draught on tap. One for His Majesty!”
“You have a Deathbeil Draught on tap. In an enchanted keg with a pewter-bone cup.”
One appeared as a black keg glowing with preservative runes was wheeled out and a cup was poured by the world’s most terrified [Barmaid]. The Quarass winked at Fetohep.
“I anticipated my guest. Have as many as you want. Excuse me—do you need the outhouse? It’s just—”
He knew what she was doing by the time the Quarass sat back down. Fetohep of Khelt lowered his cup.
“An [Innkeeper]? Truly?”
For answer, the Quarass of Ger lost her ‘work-smile’, which was in its way scarier than Fetohep’s corpse grin, and gave him a cold-eyed look of exasperation.
“The Quarass of Ger takes whatever class she must, Fetohep. I will admit—not once in my entire existence have I sought out the [Innkeeper] class if I did not already have it. But I have been an [Innkeeper] before. Twice.”
“Of course you have. Is it purely for Quests?”
The Quarass seemed amused.
“You say that as if you do not know the potential. Finding the City of Stars is a quest. If these quests are unlocked by knowledge alone—I will benefit. I simply must continue this for a day in earnest. Which means I have a few hours before my night shift. Do you wish anything else?”
“I have been sufficiently amused, thank you. Why else did you summon me?”
Fetohep had to admit that the sight of the Quarass waiting tables had made him feel like Erin Solstice were still dead. But that gloom settled over him once more.
For a reply, the Quarass signaled, and someone brought her a mug. She glared at the [Barmaid], who fled into the kitchen. She peered into the mug darkly and eyed her bodyguards, who decided to leave a vast tip and leave the inn.
“Lemon water.”
“Wine would surely not be appropriate for your age.”
“Nor will it be for a decade. Bah. You there. Claiven Wine, one of the tree vintages. I will have it in a clean cup or vessel. It need not be a large cup, but I will drink it with the King of Khelt. Now. Or the next drink you imbibe will be more memorable still.”
The little girl turned in her seat, and a [Server] froze. Fetohep raised one brow, and the Quarass turned as the drink she wanted appeared in front of her within seconds.
“A drastic threat.”
“Betimes one masks them. For every idle boast and claim I make, for all the wisdom I have sometimes doled out, I have in every lifetime backed my words with steel and magic. They forget so quickly. Sometimes examples are made.”
“So speaketh the tyrant of Ger or the wise woman?”
The Quarass didn’t rise to the bait as Fetohep lifted his pewter goblet.
“Both would tell you that proof is necessary. Or have you learned to trade and rule on naught but words? If I recall correctly, Khelt’s words were toothless in Medain and the Claiven Earth until you marched an army north.”
In other times, the ruler of Khelt quite enjoyed a proper dialogue with someone like the Quarass. Now, he had no mood for it and simply nodded.
“Your point is well made, Quarass. Why have you requested my presence?”
For answer, she swished the wine around in her cup. It was not made to hold one of the tree-vintages of a half-Elven nation, which might have been stored in casks hollowed out of a living tree, the wine made of grapes flowering upon vines centuries old at the least.
A rich vintage, for an important moment, just like the Deathbeil Draught. Nevermind the arguably poor [Innkeeper] experience; Fetohep was sure his presence alone would help qualify her for at least one level in the class.
No, the Quarass lost the slightest edge of amusement all of this had put in her voice. She took a small sip of the wine and sighed. Despite her words, she was fairly cautious about her lifespan and body. But she lifted the cup and admired the way the light played across the faintest yellow tint of the wine as she glanced out the window towards the setting sun.
“Would you believe, Fetohep of Khelt, that not twenty feet from where we sit, I first met Khelta when she staked this land out for a kingdom?”
Fetohep’s hand froze with the mug raised. He focused on the Quarass, and she splayed one hand across the table and got a splinter. Frowning, she glared at it and went on.
“I believe I mocked her, at the time. You must understand, I was a rather jaded man, I think. Too tired of watching Shield Kingdoms forget their calling within my lifetime to believe a Necrocracy would ever stand. I was far humbler the second time, but I think no less than six of my incarnations met Khelta. She lived long, and though her corpse never ruled—I learned to respect her will. We all did, the rulers of her age. In the first days, we thought Khelt was something to be pushed around, an expendable army of undead led by a single powerful [Necromancer]. Then she won the admiration of countless nations, until even marauding Giants knew better than to tread across her lands lest a giant of bone rise and do battle.”
Fetohep didn’t say anything at first. He saw the brown eyes flit up a second, focus on him, as if she could read even a corpse’s face, and then the Quarass flicked the splinter away.
She knew. But all the Quarass did was take another sip.
“She was rather impertinent, though. If you were her enemy or put yourself against her, she would remember it and spend no little time humiliating you in the years to come. I have often thought Khelt’s rulers modeled themselves after that in some ways.”
“She—she was imperious. But not among the most strident of—Khelt’s rulers.”
The Quarass smiled. She closed her eyes and thought, and Fetohep understood now. He gazed around the emptying room, save for the two of them—for who else could be part of this but the two oldest? Those who knew. And he was a mayfly to her years.
“No, that would be Queen Emrist and her Scourgeriders. Or His-Xe. Or—and I say this not lightly at all—Hecrelunn, who was practically a ruler in his own right. Intriguing, is it not, that the most passionate of Khelt’s rulers left Revenants?”
“You knew them all, then?”
Of course she did. The Quarass nodded. She looked at Fetohep, and he gazed around the simple waystation. A poor place for either one to be in, but the palace wouldn’t have suited after all, would it?
After all—this was a wake. So Fetohep lifted his cup.
“Tell me of them, then. I knew only their ghosts, and only recently. If I thought of them before, they were beneficial presences. If I remembered…Xierca. She was my Queen.”
“Yes. And a good one, in her way. But too fond of strange plants.”
Fetohep almost jumped.
“The—those damned orchids? You recall them, the garden?”
The Quarass snorted.
“The most heinous of arrangements? Xierca always styled herself as something of a visionary when it came to horticulture.”
“I had to—regrettably—destroy many of them and relocate the rest these last months.”
She actually laughed at that. Then the Quarass began a story about Xierca’s youthful follies, both as a living woman and as the dead ruler. And Fetohep listened. The keg of ghostly liquor and mundane wine emptied a bit as the Quarass and Fetohep sat there. Talking about the dead. And he took heart, when he looked at her.
For when he was gone—even if he couldn’t watch over Khelt—she would remember him too. And then Fetohep knew that she was the most lonely of all. That great, tyrannical, cunning, kind, aged ruler of Germina.
An undead king and a ruler made of a thousand lifetimes drank deep into that night, celebrating the dead, and a Dragon flew. He alone, that Lord of Flame, had no one else to mourn with that knew their names. Not even the Quarass. But though the night was long, he followed his heart.
Despite what might come next, despite not knowing whom he was flying to, despite the wrongs he had committed, he flew, bearing a few things, to meet someone he knew only by name. And he was a Dragon, so he flew fast, but the journey was far. Nevertheless, Teriarch went onwards.
To what would be in this world, at least, perhaps the last true gathering of Dragon and Wyrm.
 
——
 
They hadn’t moved from the hill outside The Wandering Inn, although the sky was growing dark. In contrast, the fire glowed brighter, and it was like a magnet. Though people got up to stretch their legs or go to the bathroom, they returned and sat back down.
And talked. Not all of it was as dramatic as Erin’s words. In fact, it got entirely silly at times. However, these were conversations that you might never hear the people here speaking about, held over a bit of corn or sausage or a roasted banana.
“It’s happiness, isn’t it? Isn’t that the point of it all? To be happy? I mean, there’s other stuff in life when you boil it down to the roots. When I was a little squirming Selphie, I thought I’d be a grand adventurer and then make some new Selphids and tell stories in my later years. What else is there to do?”
Jelaqua was speaking next to Maughin, going after Erin’s question from earlier. So—so it was a philosophical discussion.
What was the meaning of life? Or, alternatively, what was happiness? It was like the fire setting dragged the question out of those present.
“Is happiness the meaning of life? Are you sure?”
The question came from Garia, whose head rose, frowning from a handful of yeasted popcorn with butter she was eating with Numbtongue. The question stumped Jelaqua.
“Isn’t it? Don’t you want to be happy in life? I mean, you earn a job and coins to buy things you want like food, a roof over your head—but if you had all the gold in the world, you might not work. So what else do you do but things that make you happy? Kids, adventuring, leveling—it’s all for happiness, isn’t it?”
“Maybe. It just—seems kind of basic.”
“You’re basic.”
At this, Maughin nudged Jelaqua and murmured.
“Dear.”
“Sorry, Garia.”
The City Runner lifted a hand, and the Selphid relaxed slightly. Garia looked around, a bit embarrassed.
“What do you all think?”
The people sitting around the fire with Erin looked at each other. Erin was dozing a bit, but she saw Grimalkin lift a claw and begin to pontificate.
“I believe the question is inherently misleading, with all due respect to Adventurer Jelaqua. You see, happiness is conflated with purpose. One cannot be happy without fulfillment of some kind. [Mages] used to run emotional detection spells in Walled Cities to understand various policies, the effects of classes, distribution, etc. and they found excessive wealth did not indicate higher levels of happiness. The opposite, usually. The most happy individuals had a certain degree of wealth and levels and purpose.”
The brief lecture made Relc yawn.
“[Mages]. But you need money.”
“I said certain degrees of wealth. Happiness is linked to fulfillment. That is my answer in brief.”
Grimalkin folded his arms. He was instantly countered by Selys, who disagreed in a major way.
“I don’t think you need to work to be happy, though, Grimalkin. Not once have I said at my jobs, ‘gee, I wish I could keep doing this for the rest of my life’. Retired folks are plenty happy not to do anything, some of them.”
“Anecdotal, Miss Shivertail. A completely aimless life is often a void into which vices are piled without restraint.”
Grimalkin shot back, and Rufelt raised a paw next to Lasica.
“I can attest to that. Drowning in your cups is not a good way to go.”
“But I’m not saying that—I’m just saying you don’t need a job. Someone back me up.”
Selys looked about, and the gray-furred paw that raised belonged to Elirr. He and Hexel were sitting together, and he had brought some pets, having arrived late to the gathering. Hexel was scratching a purring tomcat’s stomach much like he couldn’t do for Elirr with everyone watching.
“I will take Selys’ side. My cats do nothing but eat, play, and sleep, and I have often envied them.”
