Catching himself before he answered, Zian narrowed his eyes in thought. Why did this arrogant fool seem so sure of himself? How many times had Rain suffered defeat on this stage? Forget Zian, the runt struggled to win against BoShui and was evenly matched with Fung, barely standing third from last in rankings. Rain was a hard-headed fool who fell for every trick and stratagem in the book. The most basic of feints was enough to trick him into over-extending, and while he never fell for the same trick twice, even a minor variation was enough to secure victory. How Rain stayed alive this long was a mystery, one Zian cared little to solve, but even arrogance had its limits.

Had Rain been purposely losing for months on end? To what purpose? Still, as the fool once said, better to err on the side of caution. “I’ll stay until I secure three victories in a row against you.” If Rain was losing on purpose, then this would ensure his full cooperation in future matches. Though Zian took great joy in defeating the little savage, he would much prefer Falling Rain to live up to expectations as the man who defeated Situ Jia Zian. Only then could Zian salvage his pride and walk with head held high once more.

“Okay. We’ll leave your match for last then, it’s only fair.” Retrieving his practice weapons, Rain ambled on stage and waved Dastan over. As the runt took his stance, Zian fixated on the inconsistencies in today’s Falling Rain. There was no hunger or determination, only a careless impatience reflected in his eyes as if he wanted to get things over with. Calm and collected, he seemed like a different warrior today, cold and analytical instead of the wild and impassioned youth of yesterday. This was the Falling Rain Zian wanted to defeat, a fearless, undaunted rising dragon who was his equal, his rival. This was the Falling Rain who dared to humiliate the Society in front of the whole province and possessed the skills and backing to escape retribution.

Axe in both hands, Dastan also sensed the change in his master and approached with caution, staying just out of range. Though faced against the fourth strongest of their group of seven, Rain’s body was completely at ease as his twin-bladed practice shield pointed at his foe. Rooted in place like an immovable mountain standing on stage, he stood ready to weather the storm of Dastan’s attacks. Strong of arm and bold of heart, the common-born warrior from Sanshu wasn’t an opponent Zian could effortlessly dominate and if not for his status as a slave, Dastan Zhandos would have made for a suitable rival.

How was today’s Falling Rain going to deal with him?

So preoccupied with his thoughts, Zian almost missed the match. Moving without warning, Rain struck out the moment Dastan hefted his axe for a probing strike. A single movement, both parry and slash, and Rain’s victory was assured, his shield blades breaking through Dastan’s hasty defence to rest against his throat. Replaying the brief match in his mind, Zian marvelled at the sheer genius of Rain’s movements, the sole reason for his absolute domination. Having seen it from the side, Zian broke the movement down into four components, toe, heel, slide, and step, the shield remaining locked in place until the moment he was ready to strike. From the front, he imagined it looked like Rain shifted diagonally in the blink of an eye, an illusion which took advantage of the narrow focus many warriors adopted during a duel.

So Rain was hiding his strength all this time, but the why would have to wait. Without a thought for Dastan’s pride, Rain shooed the defeated man off stage and pointed at the other slave. Springing on stage, she showed a rare hint of enthusiasm for today’s match, her warrior’s instincts sensing a challenge in today’s Falling Rain. This time, Zian banished all errant thoughts and focused on the match itself, intent on committing the battle to memory for future review.

Opening with the same step, Rain won the advantage in the first exchange and used his twin weapons to press her back. With the slave as his opponent, Rain demonstrated the versatility of this step, able to use the same strange movement to shift in all directions and confound the slave. When he looked to move left, he moved back, when he appeared ready to charge, he glided aside, all while striking out in a myriad of expert combinations. Swiping the Rushes melded seamlessly into Gliding Wing, Raising the Winds concealed Darting Fang, and Uplifts the Sequoia united with Twitching Tail so well it appeared to be a single move.

Thus, in a dozen heartbeats and five exchanges, Falling Rain emerged victorious against Li Song, a warrior almost Zian’s equal. From start to finish Rain set the pace and had the slave dancing in the palm of his hand, guiding her along as he sealed all paths leading to her victory.

A worthy foe indeed.

Fung and BoShui suffered similar defeats without offering new insight on Rain's strength, and then it was Zian’s turn. Ignoring the all-too familiar chill making its way down his spine, he strode onto the stage and faced his opponent. Taking no satisfaction or pride from his victories, Rain stood in the same initial stance, shield arm outstretched with blades pointed at his opponent, his sword positioned just short of the shield. A hyper-aggressive posture to mask his preference for defence, Zian refused to approach and play his game, gesturing for the runt to come to him.

Even if Zian won today, he intended to return on the morrow, for this was a Falling Rain worth sparring against.

Knowing exactly what to look for, Zian spotted the telltale signs of Rain’s charge and prepared accordingly. Sidestepping left to avoid the inevitable charge, Zian thrust at the area Rain’s chest would appear, waiting for the fool to impale himself on the blunted tip. A powerful move, Balance on Windy Leaf into Pierce the Horizon, but Rain was a fool to think no one would ever develop countermeasures. Victory today belonged to Situ Jia Zian and he ached to know what face Rain would make once he realized he was no match even when giving it his all.

Time slowed as Rain charged across the gap and Zian committed the next moments to memory, watching in excruciating detail as Rain’s twin shield blades smashed the thrusting saber aside with a flick of the wrist. The sword, waiting close behind, slashed out at Zian’s neck and met his second sabre, the left always covering for the right. Using the impact to make distance, Zian stepped aside as the shield chopped into his shoulder and sent him tumbling head over heels across the stage. When the world stopped spinning, Rain’s knee was pressed on Zian’s chest and weapons at his throat.

This match ended with a single exchange, Falling Rain’s indisputable victory over Situ Jia Zian. Ignoring the outrage and indignity, Zian stared in disbelief for several seconds before finding his voice. “Explain.”

“The step was something Du Min Gyu helped me with way back when, but I’m finally getting the hang of it. As for this, I figured someone would notice I use the same charge all the time, so I devised a handful of countermeasures to common counters. A counter-counter if you will. That one was a variation on Mantis Form, Twin Blades, but I have others up my sleeve.” Chuckling, he added, “Just be glad you didn’t step back. I can’t really control that move yet. Broke my ankle and Gerel’s ribs last time I tried it.”

“No you idiot!” Zian snapped. “Why have you been wasting my time and holding back during our spars?”

Withdrawing his weapons and offering a hand to help Zian up, Rain gave a sheepish grin. “I haven’t been holding back, not exactly. In Sanshu, I realized my passive, reactive style wasn’t suitable for the battlefield. To make up for shortcomings,I’ve been trying to be more aggressive. It’s... going okay.”

So startled by the idiotic answer, Zian forgot himself and accepted Rain’s proffered hand. “You’re not making any sense. Why are you using duels to hone a style you developed for the battlefield?”

Wincing, Rain shrugged and changed the subject. “So... see you tomorrow then?” After helping Zian up, he refused to let go and Sent. “How strong would you have to be?”

So worked up over the sheer madness of it all, Zian replied out loud. “What?”

Unperturbed, Rain Sent, “You said you wouldn’t help those people even if you were as strong as Nian Zu. How strong would you have to be?”

Gaping like a fish, Zian had no words for his foolish, indecipherable rival. This was lunacy, sheer insanity. How could he not understand what was being asked? Wrenching his hand away with too much strength, Zian spun a half-circle before catching himself and hurried out the door without looking back. Better to cut all ties now and never return but Zian was a man of his word. He would keep his mouth shut and continue sparring until he won three matches in a row against his rival, but Rain was mad if he thought Zian would have anything to do with his delusions.

Truly arrogant beyond all belief, it appeared Falling Rain harboured intentions to rebel and challenge the Emperor himself.

Utter madness.

Chapter Meme
