The true testament to their defensive prowess is that while every other unit has suffered some casualties, I have yet to lose a single Death Corps soldier. Injuries aplenty, for sure, and those injuries hamper them more than the other members of my retinue, but with their strict, uncompromising discipline, tight-knit formations, and heavy plate armour, the Death Corps are easily the most professional fighting force I’ve ever seen. With Red Unit forming the core of our defence and Lang Yi’s labourers interspersed between the gaps, we’re evenly matched against the Defiled horde despite their overwhelming numbers, and I’m confident the tides will turn in our favour the second Li Song arrives with Tiger Squad.

Until such a time arrives, I rein myself in and do my best to mesh with Red One and Two. It’s easier said than done since cooperation requires communication and none of the Death Corps ever speak more than absolutely necessary, though Red One has offered to ‘serve at my pleasure’ more times than I can count. Either way, I’m slowly getting used to fighting in their style, but our teamwork is still spotty at best. I’ve lost track of how many times I’ve tried to dodge an attack only to crash into someone beside me, and even though Unity’s glaive form looks similar to the Death Corp’s weapon of choice, it’s not balanced properly to be used the same way. When fighting in groups, the Death Corps choke up on their weapons and hold them just below the blade, whereas trying to hold Unity the same way makes my forearm cramp up.

Minor issues in the grand scheme of things, but the fact that I can focus on these little details means things are going well.

The minutes crawl by and stomping feet churn dirt and blood into mud. The Defiled advance slows and the pressure abates, but still they press on. Heedless of their losses, they charge over the sea of corpses and dive headlong into our defences, driving us back through sheer weight of numbers. Having learned better than to try and coordinate an orderly withdrawal on the fly, I do everything I can to bolster morale as the Defiled force us back step by precious step. Despite it being to our advantage to back away, it still feels like losing, which matters more than I’d like.

Seeing two of Lang Yi’s people dragged down and hewn apart, I grit my teeth and choke down the urge to end the battle now. I could do it as easily as turning my hand but I choose not to, which means every death and injury sits firmly on my shoulders. I have my reasons, but no matter how logical or compelling those reasons might be, it never feels good to lose a comrade and worse to be responsible for it. “Stand and fight,” I yell, as if my Oath-bound soldiers had any other choice.

As if to reassure myself I’m doing the right thing, I go over the facts in my head despite knowing it won’t make me feel better. Crazed and mindless though the Defiled might be, their actions are driven by the Spectres urging them on, which means the second I start Devouring, the Defiled tend to break and run. Now this sounds all fine and dandy, but every Defiled killed now is one less Defiled we face later. While it feels like trying to bail a sinking ship with a teaspoon, enough teaspoons working together just might do the trick. Despite my doubts and reservations, I’m doing my part in the war against Defiled, but it’s my soldiers paying the price.

I didn’t free Lang Yi and the others to die for me. Why couldn’t they live happy and fulfilling lives on the island, far away from all this death and misery?

...Because they can’t. There’s an anger burning inside them, an anger I know all too well. Their tormentors are dead by my hand, but they need someone to pay for what they went through. I pray they will one day become whole again, be able to close their eyes and not see the nightmares of their past. I pray they make better decisions than I did, that they can resist temptation and hold onto their true selves.

I pray for them because there’s nothing else I can do, but I know in this world, prayers are worthless.

Jaw sore from clenching my teeth, I endure until Li Song and Tiger Squad arrive to bolster our defences. The pressure eases as they help shoulder the burden, and barely a minute later, the longbows of the Protectorate sing. Moving much faster through the dark fields than the heavily armoured Death Corps, the agile woodsmen unleash volley after volley of deadly arrows into the Enemy’s exposed flanks. As expected, the Defiled are too berserk to break off a force to deal with the unseen Protectorate and instead fixate on the enemies right in front of their faces, leaving Turtle Squad free to fire at will.

The Spectres demand bloodshed and aren’t too particular about whose blood it is.

Things are going exactly as planned, but I can’t help but fret. Jochi is feeding me Daxian’s sporadic reports, and even though it sounds like Rustram's people are doing well on their own, I should clean things up soon and go help. Even though Phoenix Squad is massively outnumbered, Lord of Thunder Lei Gong is almost single-handedly driving the Defiled back. While I’m still annoyed at being saddled with Daxian the Virtuous, the old man is a welcome addition to the team, especially since he remains out of sight (and smell) until there’s work to be done. My heavy hitters in Wang Bao and Ulfsaar’s units are also doing what they do best and slaughtering Defiled by the dozens, but like the song goes, it ain’t over til it’s over.

...Why do I remember song lyrics but not something useful... like say, how to make non-flammable explosives? Or flushable toilets?

The minutes tick by and the Defiled horde dwindles away before my eyes. As the sun rises behind us, I decide enough is enough. Drawing on the bottomless void in which my Natal Palace sits, I unleash my battle-ending ultimate move: Infinite Suck.

...

Yea... there’s no way to make what I do sound cool. Still, it’s the best part about this patrol and one might even say the only good part. Not only do the Defiled hordes bring lots of errant Spectres with them, dead Defiled are like Spectre pinatas, though far less aesthetically pleasing than those of the paper and candy variety. Bereft of their hosts, the murderous spirits wail and screech as I Devour them by the hundreds where they will await my pleasure before becoming Heavenly Energy. Right on cue, the surviving Defiled turn tail and run, leaving me victorious but none too happy because the cold hard truth is unpleasant to stomach.

I’m exchanging the lives of my soldiers for Heavenly Energy.

I wish it were otherwise, but that’s how it is. Fact: I can’t Devour Spectres attached to a host. Fact: Once I turn up the Succ, the Defiled stop fighting and flee. So what do I do? I wait and watch my soldiers die until I feel like there are enough free-floating Spectres to warrant ending the battle. How many soldiers did I lose today? How many of them will make it back to Sinuji or back home to the North? This isn’t a game where I can queue up more faceless soldiers from the barracks, every life lost is precious. While my gains have been substantial, I still don’t know how to use Heavenly Energy and I’m unwilling to waste something my soldiers gave their lives for on experiments and testing.

Not that it matters. I’m not as smart as I thought I was, not even close...

“Cheer up,” Argat says, patting me none-too-gently on the back. I don’t know when he arrived, but he’s covered in blood like the rest of us and I’m grateful for the help. “You won a great victory here, but no one would know it with you looking like you swallowed shi – a fly.”

Cognizant of the message he’s trying to pass on, I raise my voice so my soldiers can hear my reply. “This great victory has little to do with me, for the credit belongs to my brave and stalwart soldiers.” Several of whom lay dead around me. As my words are passed down the line, cheers break out to celebrate their victory and their continued lives, but I find no joy in victory.

For though the battle is over, the day has only just begun. We still have ten hours of westward travel ahead of us, and from past experience, this means the Defiled will be back in greater numbers than before. That’s the way of things out here on the front lines. Sleep and fight, eat and fight, march and fight some more. There’s no end to the fighting, no end to the dying, and at the end of the day, nothing ever changes.

Worst of all, I don’t know how long we’ll be out here. A week of ‘scouting’, a week of resting, another week of ‘scouting’, and then... no one can say. I might be here for another month after, or two or three. It all depends. Will the Defiled keep to this status quo or will they send bigger, more well-equipped war bands against us? Maybe they’re fighting amongst themselves to divvy up the West, or maybe they’re gathering for one massive push and there’ll be tens of millions of Defiled swarming into Central at once. No one knows and only time will tell, but whatever the future holds, I just have to keep playing my part.

Bailing water out of this sinking ship one spoonful at a time.

Chapter Meme
