The soldier mainly wanted clarifying information about what happened to his comrade on Sevona’s island. Zac shared what he knew, which wasn’t much. He neither saw Anton Eilin during his travels in the archipelago nor on Sevona’s island. Zac didn’t even know he’d been a participant in the hunt before seeing the corpse.

In addition, Doklos asked for insights into the invaders, and he purchased Zac’s Signet Ring for another Natural Treasure. It was a great trade for Zac, who no longer needed his identity as a member of the Explorer Guild. The conflict-attuned materials provided by the Imperial Army were top-notch, while his Dao of Conflict was the hardest to source materials for.

“Well?” Zac said after turning to the final attendant.

“Sorry, I don’t have a bribe,” the interrogator said before tossing over an Information Jade. “I figured this was more up your alley anyhow.”

“What’s more up my alley than free money?” Zac scoffed before scanning the contents. “Huh. Bounties?”

“A few Sealbearers decided to take advantage of the chaos at Transformation Docks to enrich themselves,” Severus said, his eyes burning with anger.

“If this is about me making a few—”

“Not like you. You may have pushed the envelope, but you acted within the law. These scum murdered fellow Sealbearers or joined the invaders in slaughtering families in the Transformation Docks. They thought they could hide their actions or pin them on their doppelgangers, but they overestimated their abilities,” Severus said.

“The Mercurial Court has decided not to interfere, citing that the crimes were committed outside their domain. They believe each Sealbearer is a carrier of destiny, so they will let fate take its course. Nevertheless, the Magistrate will use these criminals to make a statement that no one is above the law.”

“Since when?” Doklos scoffed.

Severus gave the soldier a scathing look before continuing. “Duke Grand Dream has granted us permission to perform our duty within Citadel. There are five targets. If you can bring two of them to justice, we’ll provide the item you originally wanted.”

“Really?” Zac said, his eyes growing heated as he stared at the Information Jade.

It wasn’t hard to figure out which item Severus was referring to. Since Great An and the army had provided C-grade Treasures of Death and Conflict respectively, Zac had tried to get a Life-attuned item from the Imperial Magistrate. They’d rejected him since Everit Draom had never shown any inclination toward the Dao of Life, instead providing the supportive C-grade treasure.

“Have they arrived already? How do I cash in the bounties?” Zac asked.

C-grade treasures suitable for Inner Worlds were much rarer than items that could be used in core formations. Their requirements were extremely stringent since even Mortals mostly relied on drawing matter from the Cosmic Sea when forming their Inner Worlds. Zac had no idea where to even begin to look for such an item after leaving the trial, so getting his hands on it now and completing the kit would be a godsend.

Especially when the mission was so easy. Only one of the five listed targets made Zac wary. He was confident in taking out the other four without much issue.

“Three are confirmed to have appeared in the merit hall, but their current whereabouts are unknown,” Severus said, glancing at the soldier. “You should know that you’re not the only one qualified to bring them to justice. Princess Theomore and her attendants are authorized, as is the Imperial Army.”

“You know my track record. How about a down payment?” Zac grinned.

“I don’t have the item. It’s with a senior who’s managing a stall in the market. You can bring their heads directly to her if you complete the mission,” the interrogator said, adding with a sinister gleam in his eyes, “You can probably get a bonus if you bring them in alive.”

“I’ll keep my eyes peeled,” Zac promised.

Zac spent the next few minutes getting an update on the comings and goings of the Mercurial Court. There was not much to say. Things had calmed down after a few months of covert clashes between invaders and merit-starved disciples. The threat wasn’t completely dealt with, but the invaders had gone deeper underground.

One unexpected tidbit was that the Peregrine Ocean had calmed down. For one, it allowed Inner Disciples to delve deeper into its shallows in search of opportunities. Secondly, it apparently made the crossing smoother for the remaining Sealbearers. Only five years had passed, and there were already over a hundred confirmed Sealbearers on the island.

Zac didn’t envy them. While dangerous, the crossing had come with tremendous benefits. Cutting that journey short would definitely lead to lesser rewards. Unfortunately, there were still no signs of Janos, or of Kaltosa Lu for that matter. However, someone was clearly looking for him since there was a bounty out for anyone matching the Centigrade Elemental’s description. Zac guessed it was Astora looking for the [Fateseizer Seal] without making any large waves.

“Anyway, I won’t be back here much for the rest of our stay,” Zac said when he had all the information he needed. “There’s too much good stuff in this place to stay holed up. You can stay here or leave as you wish. I don’t have any arrangements or orders for you all. With this, our Karma is concluded.”

Free of entanglements and with bulging pockets, Zac left without another word.
