With four raid bosses summoning undead minions, they were a constant rising tide that threatened to sweep them away. Three now, she reminded herself, glancing at the enormous pile of still-smoking bones where the Skeletal Wyvern had crashed to the ground – but that hadn’t slowed down the hordes in the slightest. With Basir and the Consecration constantly annoying them, Brena watched them draw together into a convenient clump of moaning, clacking dead.

“Alright. Round seventy-five, go,” Kaitlyn said, raising her bow. It was, of course, not really round seventy-five, but they had all lost count ages ago.

“Hold,” Brena instructed, and the lightning archer kept her bow drawn but didn’t fire. Quickly, she glanced over to Seth and waited for him to wave his rod in the direction of Basir. Immediately, dark flickers of curses spread out from him, infecting the crush of the undead in a sudden rippling wave.

Brena stretched out her hand and summoned her magic and said, “Curses are up. Go.” Chain Lightning sprang forth from her fingertips, arcing across the brambles and grasping roots, tearing through the horde of angry undead monsters with a sudden coruscating flash of lightning that zigzagged from corpse to corpse, leaving afterimages burned into her retinas. The flash lit up the entire tree from the underside in a dazzling instant, followed by a loud detonation that flung chunks of bone and decaying flesh sizzling through the air. A fraction of a second later, Kaitlyn’s lightning arrows ripped through the same group, followed by Hala’s potent arc-lightning javelin.

Brena had a moment’s satisfaction knowing that the lightning casters always struck first, as she paused for a second to wait out her recharge while watching fireballs and blizzards drop on the remains of the undead before more were spawned.

“Mana shield is down!” Calen yelled from somewhere over the far side of the battle.

Brena took to the air on arcing wings of lightning, aiming for a better angle on the undead mage in the center of the crowd of melee attackers. Once she had a high enough angle to avoid hitting her allies, she readied her magic.

You have gained Winter’s Desolate Celerity.

Oh shit! A thrill of excitement shot through her as she unleashed a continuous blast of ridiculously hasted lightning straight into the undead necromancer’s withered chest, rapidly draining her mana pool, trading it all for pure lightning.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
