Holding out his left palm for Goujian to inspect, Wisdom Vyakhya began yet another lesson with, “This is the physical world, one you are no doubt familiar with. Here, we have everything you see, smell, touch, hear, and taste, the trappings through which our mortal shells are encased within.” Offering his right palm, he continued, “And this is the metaphysical world, one which your senses cannot perceive, but is there all the same. You are familiar with this as well, if only by another name.”

Recognition dawned almost immediately, for Goujian had long since suspected this Truth. “The Void.”

“A good a name as any,” Wisdom Vyakhya agreed, before placing his right palm over his left and pressing them both together and interlacing his fingers. “These two worlds exist in two separate planes, yet are interwoven together at an infinite number of points, a concept which even this monk is unable to comprehend. For your purposes, it is enough to accept that this is the Truth, until we can prove otherwise.” Separating his hands again, the Wisdom raised his left hand and continued, “Martial Warriors almost all focus solely on the physical world, because it is the only world they are able to perceive and understand, but as this monk explained before, the two worlds are intertwined in more ways than one. Thus, by focusing on the physical world at the detriment of the metaphysical, this means any Insights gained into the latter are achieved through sheer luck and happenstance. Most don’t even realize they’ve stumbled across an Insight into the metaphysical, which is why so many Martial Warriors fail to pass down their unique skills and Insights to the next generation.”

“So you mean to say that by focusing on both and studying how they connect, one can achieve twice the results with half the effort?”

“Correct.” Offering a rare nod of approval at Goujian’s astute answer, Wisdom Vyakhya took a deep breath and said, “Now let us begin.”

Previously, Goujian found the subjects of mathematics, biology, and chemistry daunting to the extreme, but these next lessons went above and beyond his meagre comprehension. Part of it was because even Wisdom Vyakhya lacked a complete understanding of the metaphysical, leading to a fragmented tangle of information regarding waves and particles that were both present and not present at the same time. Somehow, waves behaved like particles, but particles behaved like waves, both of which behaved differently when observed and yet were also wholly predictable in behaviour. There was so much more Goujian had yet to fully digest, like the presence of natural matrices in the form of numerical symmetry or the presence of more dimensions than length, width, and height, but he persevered through the lessons and eventually grasped the core tenants of what Wisdom Vyakhya tried to impart.

Focusing his attention on the greatsword in his hand, Goujian gave his body time to become acquainted with the cold steel, attuning himself to its physical form while simultaneously attaining an intuitive grasp of its metaphysical properties, ones that went beyond weight, length, and other such mundane dimensions. Not to say knowledge of its physical properties was useless, as every good swordsman knew that no two swords were exactly the same, but having progressed so far along the Martial Path, acclimating himself to a new weapon was now second nature. As the Bloody Confessor, his hooked sword had gained much fame over the years, and there was many a time when he was forced to conceal or abandon his Spiritual Weapon in order to blend into a crowd, so he was no stranger to fighting with unfamiliar weapons. This was a skill borne from countless years of experience, and it served him well here today, for the physical and metaphysical were inseparable. Familiarizing himself with the physical properties would also familiarize him with the greatsword’s metaphysical properties, even if he lacked the ability to communicate his familiarity in any discernible fashion.

Again, a simple concept, but one which hid a myriad of complexities just underneath the surface. If given the choice, every swordsman in the world would choose to fight with their own personal weapon over an unfamiliar one, but few could ever explain exactly why. The physical properties were only a small part of this decision, because even the worst swordsman in the world would be able to wield a similar but unfamiliar sword without too much difficulty, so there must be more to the reasoning. The answer lay in the sword’s metaphysical properties, which could only be perceived through familiarity, as opposed to objectively measured, so Goujian resolved to have a proper sword forged for himself, one more suitable for his current physique than his destroyed Spiritual Weapon.

Alas, there hadn’t been enough time before their departure to task a blacksmith for the job, so Goujian would have to make do with this scavenged greatsword. After a long minute spent familiarizing himself with the weapon, he took a deep breath and deployed his Domain around the cold steel of the sword, not just its physical form, but also its metaphysical one. In his mind, he pictured his Domain as a thread sewn into the very structure of the sword itself, forming a lattice framework sword that existed in both the physical and metaphysical realm, but even he knew this was a faulty conceptualization. There was more to the sword than the physical, but he was unable to visualize anything beyond the tangible three dimensions. Until such a time as he could, however, this would have to do, and while the concept sounded simple in theory, exhibiting such fine control of his Domain was easier said than done, especially considering he had to maintain the Domain framework in the exact physical space occupied by the greatsword at any given moment. It was a feat he likened to simultaneously playing a thousand games of speed chess against a thousand grand-masters without using a board, while also running a marathon by following the exact footsteps of a man faster than himself.

Difficult for a mortal, but for a half-step Divinity like Goujian, a simple enough task so long as he kept focused. His physical improvements were not limited to his muscles alone, for even his organs had been much improved, including his mind, which belied the question of why Vyakhya believed Goujian’s mind was his weakness.

No matter though. The important thing was that Goujian was able to use Chi and Domain in ways he never thought possible before. This Domain Framework wasn’t just a haphazard deployment of his Domain, but a fine interweaving of Chi that brought the metaphysical world closer to the surface of the physical world. This was the means through which Spiritual Weapons and Spiritual Hearts received their near indestructible aspect, for by becoming physical containers for storing metaphysical Chi, these objects and organs were more heavily tied to the metaphysical world than other mundane objects, a benefit his Refined Physique now shared. This was also why the bodily fluids of an ascending Transcendent were capable of destroying a Spiritual Weapon, because those vital fluids were metaphysical in nature, and therefore able to affect other metaphysical objects.

All of which he found fascinating to the extreme, and while Goujian yearned to spend several years sequestered away in study of the metaphysical world, there were more important matters at hand now.

Using this Domain Plating, as Wisdom Vyakhya called it, Goujian turned his borrowed greatsword into a quasi-Spiritual Weapon, not quite as hardy and reliable as a forged Spiritual Weapon, but those objects were crutches he could no longer rely on, not if he intended to see his Path to completion. Granted, it took countless hours of practice immersed within his Natal Palace to achieve even a tenuous grasp of Domain Plating, and he still had far to go. Having seen the variety of haphazard tools used by the Brotherhood in battle, Goujian was certain the monks were also well-versed in the use of this skill, considering how they fought with whatever object lay close to hand. It also explained why Monk Anand’s weapon was so similar to Mahakala’s, not because they were replicas, but because they were one and the same object. This was only possible because the spade had never been a Spiritual Weapon to begin with, merely a tool the deviant monk could use to both kill and bury his foes with dignity, one Monk Anand now used to slay Chosen Peak Experts with near impunity.

Even though he’d fallen out with Mahakala, as the deceased monk’s former Disciple, Goujian found it distasteful to see his once beloved Mentor’s weapon in the hands of another, so he took Monk Anand’s disrespect personally. Leaping into battle with a ferocious roar, Goujian covered dozens of metres in a single bound to clash with this hateful foe. The impact set the rotund monk’s cheeks to jiggling as he fell back for the first time this battle, and Goujian was quick to follow up with another attack. “You are not worthy to wield Mahakala’s spade,” he declared, delivering a series of blows that set Monk Anand reeling. “Leave it behind, alongside your dog life, and I will spare you any suffering.”

Stopping to give the monk time to consider the offer, Goujian stood tall as his foe regained his footing. Taking a deep breath to temper his rage, the ferocious, wide-eyed monk’s expression twisted in fury and indignation, his savagery a sight to behold. “You are not worthy to speak his name, apostate,” Monk Anand spat, settling his body into a spearman’s stance. “This monk will not suffer to hear it cross your lips again.”

Ready with a rejoinder, Goujian’s words froze upon his lips as the monastery shimmered around Monk Anand. The paved stone slabs of the courtyard, the carved rotating columns, the polished wooden walls, and even the smooth, interlocking shingles, none of it changed in any perceptible way, and yet it all became more vivid, more solid, more... real. Were he to place the image before side by side with what he currently saw now, that was the only way to describe it, as if reality were a lifeless painting done by a second-rate dabbler of the craft while Monk Anand had somehow improved upon what was there.

So this was the power of the furious Monk Anand, a man who Wisdom Vyakhya claimed was most likely to become the next Divinity and Abbot of the Brotherhood.

Then, while Goujian was still reeling with the implications of what he saw happening before his eyes, Monk Anand attacked, and the world went dark.

It wasn’t until after Goujian regained his bearings that his memory filled in the missing gaps. A simple charging thrust was all it was, and yet this straightforward attack would have taken his head clean off if not for his nigh-impervious physique. Instead, Monk Anand’s opening attack merely left a bloody furrow at the base of Goujian’s neck and knocked him out for a single heartbeat as his body was sent careening through the air. Tucking himself into a ball, he controlled his descent and flipped about to land heavily on his feet, only to find the deadly spade before his eyes once again. There was no time for thought as Goujian acted on instinct, bringing his sword around even as he lowered his head and prayed. The Heavens were on his side and his gambit succeeded, with Goujian accepting the deadly blow on his hard forehead in place of his vulnerable eyes. The spade bit deep, scraping through flesh and glancing off bone, but his enhanced mind merely acknowledged the pain as a statement of fact rather than allowing it to overwhelm his thoughts and senses. Before Monk Anand could follow through with his killing thrust, Goujian’s greatsword swept across, not to defend but to attack in an arcing blow aimed at taking his foe’s life. Formidable though Monk Anand might be, his body was still mortal and vulnerable, meaning even a glancing blow would be enough to end him. Thus, this move left him no choice but to withdraw instead of pushing forward to claim Goujian’s life.

Cold sweat dripped down his back as he took new measure of the monk, using this hard won lull in battle to reassess the situation. Barely a single second had passed since the beginning of their exchange and he’d nearly died twice. Thrice now, as he just barely managed to side-step and Deflect a third deadly thrust after finally acclimating to his foe’s ridiculous speed. The trick was to concentrate without putting too much focus on one specific point, which allowed his peripheral vision to take in every detail without fail. Monk Anand was fast and powerful, but not so fast and powerful that Goujian couldn’t keep up once his eyes and mind acclimated to the man’s movements. No, in fact, the monk couldn’t be considered fast at all, not compared to Goujian’s true speed, but there was some restrictive force in place preventing him from unleashing his full potential. It was as if his body was being weighed down by the air itself, the stones beneath his feet clinging to his cloth shoes in an effort to bring him down, but even his reduced speed and strength was enough to deal with the likes of Monk Anand.

