Allowing himself a moment to bask in smug satisfaction, Goujian stifled a chuckle as he watched young Gen falter and fall.

Though the young hunter once had promise, Goujian always knew Gen’s tenuous grasp of the Razor’s Edge would be his undoing. While he pushed his limits to progress faster and further than most, he was prone to fits of unrestrained rage and lust, so his downfall was all but inevitable once his luck finally ran out. Promising as he might seem, Goujian believed it was only a matter of time before Gen was left behind by other young talents, such as Yuanyin, Mitsue Hideo, Mao Jianghong, or even the Chieftain of Chieftains Vithar. Against all expectations however, this once future Emperor’s path had come to an early end thanks to hubris and impulse, and Goujian found it fitting to see Gen’s Transcendent form to bear a twisted expression of fear and despair, complete with two metallic tears embedded upon his frozen, metallic grimace, an eternal testament to his cowardly inner nature.

Such a shame for this once promising dragon among men to be ruined by the Uniter’s unsound teachings.

That was the only explanation for it, because as talented as his opponent might have been, there was no way the half-cat slave girl should have been able to defeat young Gen so easily. While the ruined Emperor established his Transcendent Form, Goujian replayed the battle in his mind’s eye and noted all the oddities he couldn’t quite explain. The half-cat’s movements hinted at a superb level of mastery in the Forms, comparable to Goujian’s famed first Disciple Wen Zhong, who himself was considered a prodigy of the sword. However, even as outstanding as she was, Li Song’s skills were still inferior to young Gen, yet for some reason, he’d been unable to muster up a proper response in the face of her all out offensive. Some of it could be attributed to her uncanny ability to chain her Movements together with superb timing and precision, but this alone wasn’t enough to explain young Gen’s panicked reactions and lacklustre defences. Goujian had seen the boy keep pace with some of the finest Chosen of Heaven, and while the half-cat was likely to eventually reach the pinnacle of the Martial Path, at the moment, she was still somewhat lacking when compared to the best of her peers.

So how was she able to overwhelm Gen so easily and topple him off the Razor’s Edge?

“Do not underestimate the girl.” Startled out of his thoughts by the unexpected Sending, Goujian turned his gaze upon Wisdom Vyakhya. Though he stood head, shoulders, and chest above the hunched-back monk, the aged ascetic’s unsightly scowl made Goujian feel like a child again, one who was about to be caned for making a stupid mistake. “Even you with your refined body and decades of experience might have fallen before her blade, for her Aura is formidable and insidious to behold.”

Her Aura? How could that possibly have been the reason for Gen’s defeat? Scouring the battlefield for a glimpse of the half-cat, Goujian realized both she and the Transcendent Gen had both disappeared from view, though the battle continued to rage all throughout the monastery. “Your student is lacking and does not understand. In what way is her Aura formidable?”

“The Dao is boundless and without limit.” Tearing his eyes away from the battlefield, Vyakhya regarded Goujian with solemn gravity. “The world at large sees Aura as a binary function, Imperial or Defiled, courage or terror, an emotional assault which is easily countered by its opposing force, but this is merely the most basic and elementary function of Aura.” Frowning, he added, “Though your time under my tutelage has been sorely limited, surely Mahakala’s teachings were not so lacking?”

Reminded of his brush with Mahakala in Nan Ping, Goujian shuddered at the memory of his former Mentor’s terrifying Aura, one which set him to gibbering inside his tent until Yuanyin’s arrival. “But Gen has an Aura as well,” Goujian Sent, still not entirely understanding how one’s Aura could be considered formidable, “And the Chosen had long since unleashed their own Auras, so surely he must have been well protected. How was it possible for the half-cat’s Aura to penetrate through so many defences and affect him?” The only reason Mahakala’s Aura had overwhelmed Goujian at the time was because he was unprepared to defend against it, but surely things were different with Gen.

“A frog in a well who knows not the heights of Heaven.” Shaking his head in abject disappointment, the Wisdom Sent, “You hear, but do not listen. The Dao is boundless and without limit, yet you refuse to accept that there is more to the world than what you have already experienced. You are akin to a child swinging a stick and pretending to be a Warrior, while wholly unaware of the true intricacies of swordsmanship. With this monk’s help, you have progressed further than most, and few under Divinity can match you in raw strength, speed, and reflexes, but these are not the sole measure of a Warrior’s strength. The body is vital, but so too are the mind and spirit, and whether it be through luck or cunning, the half-cat utilized an attack which targeted Gen’s glaring weakness, that of his meagre mental fortitude. Throughout their duel, she subjected him to an advanced Aura of crippling despair, which is the best explanation this monk can give without delving too deeply into the mysteries of the Dao, though you should keep in mind that matters are far more complicated than this, as it is less of an Aura and more a targeted empathy. Her personal despair became his and he was unable to bear the weight of her emotions, and so a once promising young Warrior has been toppled from his formerly lofty heights, a fate which you might soon share should you be caught unawares. Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

A terrifying prospect, though Goujian felt that Vyakhya gave him far too little credit. How could the trials and tribulations of a young slave compare to what he suffered through? Still, he was suitably humbled by his Teacher’s lecture as prior to this, Goujian wasn’t even aware of the existence of mental or spiritual attacks, or rather would never have categorized them as such. Now that the concept had been introduced however, he recognized the veracity behind his Teacher’s words, for he’d encountered other such mental attacks firsthand. One example was the power of illusion, as wielded by certain powerful Transcendents, and another was the indecipherable chants of the Brotherhood and the Spiritual Tiger Rakshasa’s sub-vocal growls, though Goujian knew little to nothing regarding the mechanics behind these various attacks.

What constituted a Spiritual attack, then? The question burned away at the back of Goujian’s mind, but he knew the Wisdom would look down on him if he asked without first contemplating the issue himself. Now was not the time for self-study however, so all this musing would have to wait until later. First, there was a battle to be won, and though the Chosen of Heaven vastly outnumbered the gathered monks of the Brotherhood, Goujian was taken aback by the overwhelming prowess of these supposedly pacifist monks. More impressive than their actual skills was the atypical manner in which they fought, wielding all manner of tools and objects which Goujian once would have said had no place upon the battlefield, but now he realized how closed minded he’d been. The Dao was boundless and without limit indeed, and upon seeing these monks Reinforce stone pestles, Hone bristled brushes, Resonate rhythmic drum beats, and utilize miraculous Chi skills for which he had no name, Goujian was made aware of a myriad of new possibilities which he’d never known had existed.

And yet none were more impressive than the Abbot’s sole Disciple, whose Martial prowess was easily a match for any Peak Expert Goujian had met firsthand. Standing at the forefront wielding a spade identical to Mahakala’s, there was nothing remarkable about the hefty Monk Anand at first glance. A portly, chubby cheeked fellow whose persistent grin made him seem like the very soul of congeniality, all this changed as soon as he took to the battlefield and exchanged his customary smile for a fearsome, ferocious glower. Unleashing all his pent up emotions, the once jovial monk lost himself in a frenzy of rage and resentment to become an unstoppable force of bloodshed and violence. Though the Wisdom claimed he was not yet a Half-Step Divinity, Monk Anand cut a swathe through the Chosen elites like a farmer reaping his harvest, one burdened by grief and regret for the pain he caused his crops. Truly a conflicted individual, the fearsome monk’s demeanour offered Goujian a glimpse of the Truth, one which was in some way superior to the Truth he himself had discovered, and he yearned to take this man’s comprehension and make it his own.

“Go,” Vyakhya Sent, once again reading Goujian’s thoughts as if lifting them from his mind. “So long as this monk guards you from Mental and Spiritual attacks, then you will undoubtedly emerge victorious in a clash of brawn. Do not let overconfidence cloud your judgment however, and remember to study his movements well, for there are few under Heaven who can challenge you like Anand will.”

A lonely prospect, to have so few peers left to challenge, but such was life when approaching the peak. Only Divinities still stood above Goujian, so he meant to make the most of this opportunity to learn and improve. This being said, he felt ill-equipped to fight Monk Anand with naught but his bare fists. A personal failing, because he knew his refined body should be more than capable of stopping a Honed Spiritual Weapon so long as he took the proper precautions. However, seeing how this was his first battle as a half-step Divinity, Goujian was anxious to achieve victory and reaffirm the veracity of his current Path. To this end, he made a quick stop on the battlefield and picked up a two-handed greatsword, one dropped by a fallen Chosen of Heaven who would no longer require it. Giving the too-light weapon a few casual one-handed swings, he familiarized himself with its use while reflecting on his recent lessons with Wisdom Vyakhya.

“The Martial Path is flawed from conception,” the aged monk had proclaimed during their first lesson following Goujian’s recovery, the first of many throughout their two week-long journey to the monastery. “The Martial Path is wide and far-reaching, encompasses anything and everything which falls under its purview. A grand undertaking, but one humans struggle to understand, for though the Dao is boundless, our mortal perception limited and insufficient to the task, so it is better to work within our limits and pursue a more defined Dao. The Martial Path is too broad for this monk’s tastes, and while the Abbot would claim too much demarcation would only make matters more complicated in the end, he speaks as one who has never struggled to understand the Dao.” Goujian detected more than a hint of jealousy in Wisdom’s Vyakhya’s tone, and he sympathized with the sentiment. The Heavens were prejudiced to the extreme, doling out talent in uneven proportions, but even without talent, great men like Goujian and Wisdom Vyakhya were able to reach the pinnacle of mortality and were now poised to take the next step beyond false Divinity.

What followed was a brief introduction to the various Daos from Wisdom Vyakhya, one he categorized himself and included the Sword Dao, Spear Dao, Fist Dao, Axe Dao, and other such Martial Daos, but also more esoteric subjects like the Dao of Painting, Calligraphy, Music, Sculpting, Cooking, and even Farming. Anything and everything could become a Dao, but many could be gathered together under a single label, so after countless decades spent categorizing the various Daos, monk Vyakhya came up with just over three-thousand distinct Daos to focus on. While Goujian’s first thought was to devote himself to the Dao of the Sword, his gut reaction to this decision was to steer clear from this decision, for he was no Warrior, but an investigator. In his eyes, the sword was merely a required tool to help complement his true Dao, so while he was not adverse to studying the Dao of the Sword, he could not devote himself to the sword and nothing else.

Wen Zhong clearly followed the Dao of the Sword, and Li Song a proponent of the Dao of the Sabre, but to this day, Goujian still had no clear epithet for his personal Dao. The Dao of the Confessor was the closest he could come up with, a Dao that resonated with him and him alone, which Wisdom Vyakhya wholeheartedly approved of. “Fitting for you to lay claim to a unique Dao,” he said, nodding as he considered Goujian’s answer, “For you yourself are a unique individual, with a Path no other could ever follow.”

This led Goujian to wonder why even bother labelling the various Daos in the first place, but he was not so foolish as to side with his teacher’s rival so soon into their relationship. What’s more, even though his personal Dao did not fit into one of his teacher’s three-thousand classified Daos, Wisdom Vyakhya was not wrong to have his students focus on one aspect of the Dao at a time. Take the Dao of the Sword for example, which Goujian studied despite his initial reservations. There was more to Sword Dao than merely how to swing a blade or move one’s feet, for the Dao encompassed more than just the mere physical. A sword was a tool, but the Dao was limitless, and so too was the Dao of the Sword.

