Enraged by his continued survival, the monk’s furious expression was almost comical in its exaggeration, but Goujian was not laughing as he dodged, parried, Deflected, and retreated, circling about the monastery courtyard in a desperate attempt to stay alive beneath the ensuing storm of attacks. Time was on his side, for not only was he acclimating to whatever restricting was in place, but his wounds were also mending as they fought without the need for focused Healing, an added effect Wisdom Vyakhya had Goujian incorporate when refining his physique. Even without these two factors however, his situation was not as dire as it seemed, for his foe was sorely lacking in actual combat experience. Despite his formidable physical prowess, Monk Anand’s attacks were all straightforward and guileless, making him utterly predictable in Goujian’s eyes. After a dozen exchanges traded in the blink of an eye, he finally had the measure of his foe and managed a second offensive strike, sweeping his greatsword low and forcing the monk to retreat. With a casual flip of his wrist, Goujian reversed the blow and charged into the fray, catching his foe off-guard and forcing him back yet again. Having seized the upper hand, Goujian pressed the offensive with a series of spiralling strikes, each reckless strike seamlessly leading into the next to force Monk Anand onto the back foot, a combination he learned from dutiful Wen Zhong.

Good child, good disciple. Even in death, he supported his Mentor and surrogate father, a good son right up until the end.

With their speed and strength so well-matched, Goujian was all but daring his opponent to take an unfavourable trade of blows and gambling on his enhanced physique to emerge victorious. As satisfying as it might be to outsmart an opponent, he would be hard pressed to win in present circumstances without using every advantage at his disposal. Wisdom Vyakhya was right, for aside from top-tier Peak Experts like Nian Zu, Akanai, Gongsun Qi and their ilk, there were precious few Warriors who could offer Goujian any challenge. A shame Monk Anand was not more experienced, and Goujian felt a hint of regret as their duel progressed towards an inevitable end as he outmanoeuvred his formidable foe and set out to deliver the killing combination. A warding riposte followed by a high to low slash, only to reveal it for a feint to follow up with a killing thrust, Goujian read the exchange twenty moves in advance and set out to make it so. Everything played out just as he envisioned, with Monk Anand dodging right from the feinted slash only to realize the trap too late, leaving him no option but to accept defeat as Goujian’s greatsword lanced towards his neck.

With victory in his grasp, the world went dark a second time, and again, Goujian feared for his life.

Awakening as the air rushed out of his lungs, he struggled to understand just what went wrong, but his addled mind could not make hide nor tail of the situation. Laid out on his back and staring at the sky, his body refused to obey his commands and remained limp and unresponsive. The greatsword was no longer in his grasp, his Domain Plating no longer in effect, and moving his eyes made him nauseous enough to almost black out once more. Long seconds passed as he lay there gasping for breath, his chest set aflame with agony from every heave and pant, but he put the pain out of mind while scouring his memories for what went wrong. The killing thrust had been delivered, the greatsword about to pierce Monk Anand’s throat, and then...

The world shattered and rumbled, but only from Goujian’s perspective. The battle continued unabated around him, but the monastery emanated a sense of threat and foreboding that only he could sense. The walls closed in around him as pure, unmitigated rage and rejection emanated from the furious monk, assaulting Goujian’s mind and soul which caused his body to freeze in fright, the primal, instinctive reaction of prey before the predator. Even then, momentum should have carried his attack to completion, but his Domain Plating unravelled before metal touched flesh and glanced off the monk’s robes with nary an impact. No, not his robes, but the very air itself as Natural Law rejected the blade and denied it purchase on cloth or flesh. Then the spade whipped about and knocked the greatsword out of Goujian’s feeble grasp, and in the same motion, Monk Anand advanced a single step and drove his free hand into Goujian’s chest, delivering an Amplified strike that crushed flesh, broke bone, and shattered organs with laughable ease.

A frog in a well indeed. Goujian’s physical prowess was near unmatched, but there was more to the Dao than the Forms could encompass. Only now did he sympathize with young Gen’s plight, for who could endure such a torrent of unexpected emotion without faltering?

Directing Chi to mend his injuries, Goujian pushed himself up on one elbow with great difficulty and scowled at his foe, who stood over him with one hand held in prayer while the other pointed Mahakala’s spade at Goujian’s throat. “The Right Livelihood means to abstain from causing suffering,” Monk Anand intoned, his eyes and tone laced with grim determination. “But you yourself are a source of suffering this monk cannot allow to exist any longer. May you fare better in your next life, apostate.”

As the spade drove down, everything shifted around Goujian, and he found himself several meters away from Monk Anand, whose spade was now driven into the ground. Standing atop the steel weapon as if it were a pliable wooden pole was none other than Wisdom Vyakhya himself, a sight which sent relief and regret coursing through Goujian’s body, glad to be alive but embarrassed for being so weak that his Divine Teacher was forced to personally intervene. “Not even a half-step Divinity,” the Wisdom began, his tone more curious than annoyed, “Yet you are stronger than you should be. How is it possible for you to Manifest your Domain to restrict this battlefield and injure my student without first Shattering the Void?”

Domain Manifestation? Goujian had never even heard of such a thing, but he had no time to ponder the implications while Healing his internal injuries. “Such arrogance, such sin.” Arranging his free hand in a Mudra of intent to argue with conflict, Monk Anand sneered and lectured the Wisdom. “This has always been your greatest flaw apostate, your pride and inability to see beyond your own Path. You believe that your Path was the only Path to Divinity, but all Paths invariably lead back to the Dao, so long as one has the time and determination required to see their journey through to completion. Expert, Peak Expert, Half-Step, and Divinity, these are all vague measures of strength used to gauge one’s progress along the Path, but this only applies to the Martial Path.” Straightening up and offering the Wisdom a glare of challenge, Monk Anand patted his chest and declared, “Your meaningless labels are nothing to this monk, for I do not tread the Martial Path. I seek the Dao, and in doing so, have found inner peace and happiness. What have you found on your Path of betrayal and bloodshed, apostate? Naught but sin and suffering as you compromise your morals and slip further and further from the Noble Eightfold Path.”

“Good, good.” Shoulders shaking with anger and resentment, the Wisdom’s body sank atop the spade as it bent beneath his increased weight. How this was possible, Goujian wasn’t entirely certain, as there had to be more than simple Lightening at work here. Even if this was the Wisdom’s real weight, unsupported by Lightening or even reversed to increase the downward pressure his body exerted, there was simply no way for his slender, frail body to contain so much mass. “You’ve hidden your progress well, as prodigious a young talent as ever, so let this senior here take the full measure of his junior’s strength and see where he sits upon the meaningless measurement of Martial Strength. For the purpose of upholding the Treaty, of course.”

Having said this, Wisdom Vyakhya made no move to attack, but Monk Anand’s expression twisted in exertion as the spade bent even more under the spindly Wisdom’s weight. Seconds passed with agonizing slowness as Monk Anand’s back bent with effort, his cheeks flushed and rage unsightly to behold. His feet barely above the stone slabs, Wisdom Vyakhya shook his head and sighed. “Manifestation is one thing, but you are sorely lacking in control, else this monk would not be able to easily do this.” The stones cracked underneath his feet and the illusion shattered as the world returned to whence it was, lacking in neither colour nor vibrancy, but somehow lacking in spirit and vitality, as if viewed through a thin veil that made everything seem just a little off. To Goujian, it was a rude awakening indeed, but as the subtle weight lifted off his mind and body, he found it so much easier to breathe. Not so for Monk Anand, who staggered in place as he spewed a mouthful of blood into the air, but still the man stood with body bent double and blood dripping down his chin while refusing to let go of his weapon.

The Warrior in Goujian admired his opponent’s unyielding tenacity, even as he took pleasure in the formidable monk’s unpleasant plight. Wisdom Vyakhya could not be said to have broken the Treaty, not when testing the limits of a possible Divinity, and so long as Monk Anand’s life remained intact, any injuries could be waved off as incidental. Whatever this Domain Manifestation might entail, it was clear it had something that could only truly be done by those who Shattered the Void, meaning that even though Monk Anand had somehow accomplished an incredible feat, his results paled in comparison to the real thing. Good news for Goujian then, as he slowly pushed himself to his feet, his injuries not yet wholly mended but still able to continue the fight. “If it pleases you Teacher,” he began, gingerly retrieving his greatsword from where it lay, “Allow this incompetent student to finish what he started.”

Waving a hand in careless approval as he stepped off the spade, Wisdom Vyakhya shuffled away into the crowd without looking back. Or at least he would have were it not for another monk calling him out. “So this is how you mean to reconcile our differences?” The monk in question was the same one who admitted to being used by Wisdom Vyakhya, an ancient, decrepit elder whose wrinkle skin hung loosely from his thin, skeletal frame. “By eliminating all those who refuse to accept your views without question? What happened to you, stranger whom I once called brother? You who were named for Clarity of Thought should have been the most open minded of us all, and it pains this monk to see you fallen so far.”

Snorting in open contempt, Goujian had no intentions of allowing his Teacher to waste his breath on a fool, but as he raised his greatsword to deliver a killing blow, the undernourished ascetic’s gaze fell upon him and drove the air from his lungs. There was no blow or impact, and yet Goujian was concussed all the same, unable to understand how these seemingly harmless monks were able to surprise him time and time again.

“Careful, Brother Dama,” the Wisdom warned, and the fog lifted from Goujian’s mind as his Teacher stepped in to defend him once again. “You have stood upon the precipice of Divinity for so many years, and no one prayed for your success more than this one, but if you mean to act here and now, then this one can only offer his apologies before sending you on to the next life. It would be a shame for one so close to the apex to have his Path cut short before having run its course, and this monk would grieve to see it happen.”

Deflating at the obvious attempt at intimidation, the emaciated Monk Dama spirits rallied as he straightened to full considerable height, which only made him seem all the more gaunt and haggard. “Threats and violence will not sway me from the Right Effort, not when this one’s mistakes are largely to blame. I will do as my conscience demands, and whatever may be, may be.” Raising his gaze to the Heavens, Monk Dama stood in place as two tears trickled down his cheeks, and though he spoke in what sounded like a bare whisper, Goujian heard the monk’s words as clear as day. “For decades, I denied myself the pleasures of the flesh in search of the way forward, abstained from food, flesh, and for a time, even the company of friends until recent calamities forced me out of secluded meditation. So much has changed in the time I spent locked away, and now I look back on those years and wonder why I ever even bothered. What use is Divinity if it costs us everything we hold dear? I have given so much in pursuit of this goal, but now, it seems so meaningless and empty as those who I considered friends and family war amongst themselves. Is this my trial? Must I sever these ties of karma binding me to mortality before I can ascend to Divinity? This I cannot do, for my conscience will not allow me to watch my brothers suffer so, not when I have the means to save them. If their lives are the cost of Divinity, then I will not pay it, because then it would be better to live and die as a mortal, unfettered and free.” The battlefield brightened as the monk glimmered in place, his frail body emitting a soft, golden glow, and beside Goujian, Wisdom Vyakhya hissed in surprise. “Perhaps that is the lesson we are here to learn,” Monk Dama continued, and Goujian’s heart frozen in his chest as the Heavens came alive around him, surging down towards the emaciated monk as he pressed his palms together as a string of wooden beads materialized around his hands and forearms. “That True Divinity is not meant for mere mortals after all.”

