For the second time, the monastery shimmered around them, but this time, the difference was as stark as night and day. The soft golden glow permeated every square centimetre in sight, even somehow illuminating the shadows without casting any more. Plants sprouted from between the stone slabs and blossomed into various exquisite flowers, while fruit-bearing vines formed and matured to ripeness all along the monastery walls. As if this weren’t enough, fallen Chosen and monks alike began picking themselves back up all around them, those who had yet to die finding their bodies whole and unharmed once more. Even the corpses on the ground had their wounds mended by this holy light, but their soulless bodies stayed where they lay, which came as a relief to Goujian because at least now he knew there were limits to what Monk Dama could do. Even though nothing about the bony monk had physically changed, his bearing emanated warning and threat without ever meaning to, a testament to the power he now wielded.

The power of the Heavens themselves.

“And so the Void has been Shattered,” Wisdom Vyakhya muttered, unable to hide his astonishment. The declaration sent a jolt of awareness through Goujian’s mind, and he could only lament at how far he still had yet to go. It was both awe inspiring and underwhelming at the same time, to see someone take that final step with so little pomp and circumstance. A Divinity was born today, but Goujian would not have ever guessed if not for his Teacher’s explanation. Despite the torrent of Heavenly Energy still surging around him, Monk Dama was just as old and decrepit as his mortal form from mere minutes ago, which just didn’t seem right. Where was his renewed youth and increased vigour? Where was his overwhelming power and majestic character? Aside from the strange golden glow, there was nothing that made the wizened old monk stand out, and Goujian took personal offence at this glaring transgression.

Heedless of their thoughts, Monk Dama lowered his head and fixed his gaze upon the Wisdom. “Junior Brother Jorani,” he said, speaking to the confused half-rat standing slack-jawed in the crowd, his clothes still burnt and tattered from Gen’s fiery conflagration, but his skin healthy and whole once again. “I fear this might be the last lesson I can give, so bear witness to my actions and use what you learn as your conscience demands.”

A gilded replica of Monk Dama stepped away from his body, only this monk was younger, healthier, and far more intimidating to behold, his former self cast in golden flesh somehow made whole in reality. Wisdom Vyakhya moved to intercept, only to be blown away by the first exchange, and before the clouds of dust and shattered stone obscured his sight, Goujian saw none other than the Ancestral Mammoth stride forth to meet the golden Warrior Monk in battle, their fists raised and on course to collide in a veritable clash of Divinities.

“Stay your hands!”

Silly to think that mere words would be enough to stop this clash of titans, but interrupt them it did as both combatants took a step back. The gargantuan behemoth of a Defiled Divinity was far more clever than he appeared, a cunning Ancestral Beast who not only survived where few others could, but thrived as well. He knew just how disastrous an exchange between Divinities could be, and was unwilling to commit without first uncovering the full extent of the Enemy’s strength. As for Monk Dama, it was clear that violence was not his first choice, and thus he too took a step back, or rather his wizened body stood in place as he recalled his golden incarnation. Striding in-between the two formidable Divinities with a confidence Goujian admired, Monk Anand shook his head and sighed. “Mentor would never allow the sacrifice of so many merely to save his own life, nor does this monk care to burden Brother Rain with the guilt of so many deaths in his name.” Narrowing his eyes in the Wisdom’s direction, he asked, “Even after seeing all that your actions have wrought, are you still wholly set on this Path of death and violence? You would rather see the Treaty shattered than take a step back and reassess your view?”

“My faith and conviction have never been stronger,” Wisdom Vyakhya declared, but Goujian heard just a hint of doubt in his teacher’s voice, his thoughts thrown into disarray after seeing how easily Monk Dama Shattered the Void to overpower him in a single exchange. “My Path is clear, and if the Brotherhood insists on standing in my way, then my conscience is clear.”

“May the Heaven’s have mercy on your soul, apostate.” Closing his eyes and bowing his head, Monk Anand’s shoulders heaved in silent sigh before turning to Monk Dama. “Senior Dama, if you would be so kind as to guide our guests to the Abbot’s place of convalescence. I believe if either one of them were here, they would agree to this monk’s decision, loath as I am to make it.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Weeping as he accepted the command, Monk Dama’s regret was clear as day, but so too was his reluctance to do violence. This was a man who cherished life, not one who took them, as evidenced by his Healing of friend and foe alike. Perhaps he did it to give everyone a chance to survive the ensuing clash, though as Monk Anand pointed out, everyone present would have likely died if Monk Dama traded blows with the Ancestral Mammoth in the monastery. “Come,” he said, his radiance dimming and flaring out before he and his golden incarnation disappeared from sight, and Wisdom Vyakhya and the Ancestral Mammoth followed suit, alongside the other Divinities Goujian suspected were lurking in Concealment. Only just barely able to catch a glimpse of their movements, Goujian Cloud-Stepped after his teacher in hopes of seeing this through to completion, for he’d come too far to let Falling Rain’s death go unattended, especially considering how easily Monk Anand capitulated to their demands.

Because regardless of what he told himself at night, Goujian would never rest easy until he saw the Undying Falling Rain dead and burnt to ashes, for there was no telling what miracle the man might accomplish next.

Chapter Meme
