“Mr Mushy... you can’t. This might make you stop being you!” Delta said immediately. Mr Mushy tilted his head.This tale has been unlawfully lifted from Royal Road. If you spot it on Amazon, please report it.Mr is only ever Mr. I believe... that a gentleman would do this. Even if I cannot become one... I’d like to act like one... just this once.Delta’s arguments deflated. She could feel Nu’s hard stare in her back but he didn’t say anything.“Please... don’t change too much,” she begged as she hit confirm. Silently, the monster before her raised a single thumb in promise.Then he began to glow with a deep blue aura.---Maestro paused in his third-row choir grooming as they were slightly off key. He turned to stare into the distance.“Well... I’ll be a Mushy’s brother...” he mused.---On the second Floor, Missy paused as she broke up another fight between Stars and Bloods. She blinked as something washed over her.She sat on a rock and sang in greeting as the power rose.“Big… brother!” she chirped.---All over the Dungeon, mushrooms perked up and then went still as an utter rule came over them all.Delta was only aware of the Grove exploding like a techno laser party as Mr Mushy’s plump form was replaced with something a little different.The dying of the light only made Delta stare harder.The bowed head was a deep red cap. Ringed around the edge was a golden crown. The eyes that looked up to meet hers were still a little beady, but there was slight dark marks to show pupils of sorts. Mr Mushy’s bare and youthful face now sported a flowing beard made from fungal threads. His body was cloaked in the deep red of the Firemane’s fur, trimmed and tailored to make a royal coat.On the back was Delta’s symbol.He stretched out one hand and a staff... no a walking stick tapped the ground. It was crooked and knobbly with various mushrooms growing over it.The image was… impressive and still rather cute. It was Mr Mushy still under the new accessories, after all.“You look… pretty impressive!” Delta praised.“I thank you,” came an amused voice. Delta froze as Mr Mushy stroke his beard and admired his stick.“You talk! I mean, out loud!” she pointed out the obvious.“Quite well it seems. Not surprising as I had deeply desired a dignified form before, no?” Mr Mushy nodded sagely as Delta craned her neck to the information box.

“Sovereign… and you’re not crazy!” Delta smiled. Lose the scary, out-of-control fire boar. Get a snazzy cool Mushroom king.Win-win, thank you Sis.“Mother... thank you for letting me take this on. I believe it is, as you would say, a feather in my cap?” He stroked his beard, pleased.Delta felt everything in her life just click into place.“Mr Mushy-” she began but her monster raised one hand.“A new form requires a new name. I would think Lord Mushy would do just fine, but as you are the most important person in my life... you can call me Lordy,” he winked in a pleased secret tone.

Nu’s box dinged in question. Lordy stood up straight.“We are fellow sirs! You are Sir Nu and I am Sir Lord Mushy!” he nodded Nu took a moment to answer.

Delta couldn’t help the relieved smile as the Grove around them slowly rebuilt itself. From the ashes arose life. From the destruction of the fire and charging of Boary came fresh mushrooms and beauty.She felt herself think of the adventurers. Not the best first trip but Delta would have to thank them for helping find a problem that would have arisen later at a worst time.Lord Mushy was talking about the fact Lord was his name and not a title when all around them trumpets and horns blared as Maestro’s power leaked into the room.“Welcome one and all to a very special day. The day that I, your gorgeous Maestro, gained the bragging right to be related to royalty!” he laughed.“Does he not know I am more proud to be related to such a superstar?” Lordy mused.

“In another Dungeon, Nu... in another Dungeon,” Delta promised. She quietly didn’t think about the 3rd floor or any chances of gambling on rare moments...Just knowing her luck, she’d get the dragon and the demon. But also knowing her own track record, Delta was sure she could make the Dragon into a fashion critic and the demon into a chef.It was the small things Delta took pride in.Still, she knew she had some work to do. Figuring out if she had any other ticking boss monsters waiting for dramatic entrances was number one.The second was to correct the issue that her first floor was...A little fire hazardous.Who knew?---The silence between them was loud. Kemy twitched as she sipped her apple cider. Aneya drank some blue cocktail she had in a fancy rimmed glass. It smelled of slime cores and perfume... Kemy wanted to try it when Aneya had her back turned!She adjusted her web ear muffs, carefully feeling the item for any signs of reality degradation. Dungeon items broke down outside their home but thankfully having a class meant that Kemy could slow this process down greatly by replacing the breaking or fading Mana with her own!If she was a tailor master class or something close to it, she could instantly make the item permanent!Still, she did her best as the glossy ear muffs were really really nice.Gonga looked sad as he was forced to drink his ale out of a bucket. He kept breaking or somehow losing his mugs and the bartender had gotten quite irate. Delem went outside for a smoke. A habit Kemy hadn’t seen before from Delem.The act made him... real... and the effect was weird to the girl. Delem had always seemed like the unchanging and relaxing fixture of the group.The silence was only slightly made worse by the woman.Kemy looked up from her glass at the dark-skinned woman with dark red eyes. The red orbs moved from glaring at Aneya to meet Kemy.Maybe… maybe Kemy should say something?“H-h-hi... My name is K-Kemy,” she pushed out and the noise was like a bear trap. The sound wrenching and dangerous. The woman’s nostrils flared.“Kemy. Nice name,” the woman nodded as she drained her giant mug of something in a single gulp.“So, since you’re the only one talking and I can’t help noticing you’ve got a lovely pair of spider-web ear muffs, gonna hazard a guess you folks are the lot that went into Delta’s?” she asked. The way she said the name of the Dungeon with familiarity made Kemy’s warning senses tingle a little.She touched the muffs gingerly.“Yes. We’re the Scarlet Moons, the... uh... adventurers,” Kemy introduced. She saw Aneya had gone from ignoring the threat to actively sizing her up in Kemy’s defence.The woman licked her lips dry of her drink.“Listen, I’m just going to cut to the chase... did you hurt her? Did you kill her monsters and hurt Delta?” the woman questioned bluntly.The bar around them went quiet as the woman raised her voice. A blond man with a scruffy beard and hard eyes stood nearby, watching the scene...and the woman... intently.“Kill them? That place is insane!” Aneya stood and slammed her hands on the table. Kemy put a hand on her arm. Gonga’s massive arms had tensed.Being sent running and licking their wounds had made Kemy’s friends sore and she knew that this was the last thing they needed.Besides, Kemy finally found something she had been looking for since coming to this town.Someone willing to talk about the Dungeon!“Delta isn’t... she isn’t a normal Dungeon, right?” she forced the giant woman to look at her again.Her chest ached, Kemy’s mind pushing that image of the mushroom man in pain. The way it had put itself between her and the boar. The duck that had been sweet.The ghostly spider that could have killed them all.“Delta doesn’t want to kill us, does she? She’s aware but she only has two or three floors. Everything was fine until we made it harder. That’s why everything... was my fault,” Kemy trailed off and stood in a slow motion.“Girl- Kemy... listen,” the woman stood as well to easily tower over her.“My name is Ruli and I’ve been sorta making friends with Delta so sorry if I’m a bit of a... my mother, but if you did something, Delta is most likely going to be fine, she’s a great person to a fault,” Ruli stressed.Perhaps Ruli saw the pain Kemy was feeling or noticed how the rest of her friends were trying to keep her away from everyone else.Kemy shook her head.“I had ideas and... I did something horrible,” Kemy announced and looked at her group as Delem walked back in.“I knew Delta the Dungeon wasn’t acting like what you expected and I saw how nice things were being... I kept it mostly to myself. I didn’t share my thoughts because I wanted to show how serious I was about being part of the group. I didn’t express my truth. I hid it under doubt and now... Delta suffered. I got over excited and I was the one that started the fight in the Grove by deciding I could just take things,” Kemy said calmly.“Hun, it’s a Dungeon, taking things is part of the whole concept. You had some ideas but you know, without seeing more your suspicions was just that... ideas,” Aneya tried to soothe her but Kemy reached inside her robe and pulled out the golden hand of her devotion.“If I find the truth, then I must follow the truth. If it becomes a lie I must better myself,” she repeated the basic core of her faith.She had no evidence to suggest Delta was dangerous. She had more evidence to support the other point of view.But now everything was confusing and Kemy didn’t know how to feel.The warmth of the earmuffs mingled with the lingering smoke in her nose from the burning grove.Which was the real Delta?Kemy wanted to believe the kind and unique Dungeon over the one that would wait for them to drop her guard.But with how she was feeling, the boiling sea of frustration and uncertainty... there was only one thing to do.“Delem, I’m going to do a Seek,” she said and the man’s face turned ashen. Ruli’s anger was gone and in its place was confusion.“In a Dungeon? That is suicide!” Aneya pushed her chair so hard back it toppled to the floor. Kemy’s eyes swung to her and she could feel the power of her faith growing as the decision was made.“Aneya, I am going to seek the truth. I will see you in the morning... or I will meet you at the end,” she said and walked to the door. Her sister in battle and friend sat down with a pained expression. Delem moved aside without a question.They had done this dance before and Kemy was about to leave when the giant woman, Ruli, halted her with a single hand on her shoulder.“Maybe you should take it easy or listen to your friends,” she advised but the woman’s fingers seemed to steam just a little. Kemy bowed her head.“Sorry, I mean no offence but I have chosen my path,” she smiled.“I’m just going to give Delta a chance, is that okay?” she pressed. Ruli removed her reddened fingers and hesitated.“That’s mighty kind of you, but what exactly are you going to do?” she asked as she held the door open for her. Kemy had to admit... she sort of enjoyed the looks on people’s faces when she explained this bit.“I’m going to put on a blindfold and walk in a straight line and hope not to die!” she beamed and skipped out of the tavern.Ruli’s face was going to keep her giggling for days to come.---
