Less than half a second to grab it. Even with her legs on the chair. Mihaela thought about it—and wondered if Shriekblade was around.
She relaxed, and the two nervous City Runners looked at her.
“Guildmistress Godfrey?”
“Hm? Right. We’re done here.”
Mihaela looked up. She’d gotten their accounts of what had happened with Persua and Ryoka Griffin. Their Runner’s Guild…
“Your Runner’s Guild in Celum is shit. And it’s the biggest one around? I’m heading over. But first—explain to me why Runners are telling me they’re earning less this year?”
Fals gestured helplessly around the inn. He was more interesting to Mihaela than Garia. The [Martial Artist] was on her way up. She’d found a path—even if it involved something less focused on running.
The City Runner, though…he had no specialty. But he’d run through a battlefield. He’d journeyed across Izril and gone further than most City Runners, north and south. But he had no confidence.
You could practically see his ego, shattered slightly from being passed by three Runners in the region. Yet he knew running—the society of it, the bones of being a Runner—better than Garia or Ryoka.
“It’s the inn. Not its fault, but we’re earning coppers instead of silver for letter deliveries. Bulk deliveries from Invrisil are done via the door sometimes—”
“So? A letter from Celum to Wales is still a letter. Same for one along the northern route. It has to go from Invrisil or Celum. Even if you start from one of those two areas—the distance is the same. Plus, the door charges a damn fee. The silver to go through it isn’t worth anything but a huge delivery.”
Fals shrugged.
“You say that, Guildmistress, but a lot of cities have refused to pay the old prices. The mayor of Celum, Cetris, negotiated down the prices with the local guilds, so it’s pinching our money pouches. Not a lot of Runners want to do this if there’s more profitable work.”
Mihaela’s eyes narrowed slightly. She put her feet down.
“A [Mayor] dictated to the Runner’s Guild what prices we charge?”
“He’s had a tough year rebuilding Celum.”
“He’s going to have a worse one. Your Guild—all these local ones have taken the prices lying down. Invrisil’s Guild hasn’t.”
“They’re the largest one until you get to Pallass, Guildmistress!”
Garia protested. Mihaela grunted.
“So the ‘small’ Runner’s Guilds are eating the price drops? All because of an inn? Ridiculous. And here I thought I only had to deal with you lot.”
By ‘you lot’, she meant the promising City Runners. Fals, Garia—all the local prospects had been given the Courier ‘test’ by Mihaela and training at the Haven. But this was a problem that went to the root of the Runner’s Guild.
It annoyed Mihaela. She felt old when she stood. Old—and annoyed. Like a headache in the back of her mind that wouldn’t go away. The same when she looked at the Goblin brushing the little cat with a comb and the Antinium.
“Guildmistress, can we get you anything to go? I hope you enjoyed your stay?”
Lyonette approached one last time, and Mihaela grunted.
“The inn is fine. Nice place for a Runner, I suppose. I’d rather sit in a hole in the ground than deal with the Antinium.”
Pawn looked around, and Lyonette’s face froze up. But Mihaela Godfrey, the Courier who had run through the Antinium Wars, didn’t mince words. She coughed—and the [Priest] rose slightly and bowed.
“Guildmistress Godfrey. I am sorry if I have offended you.”
“There’s no fighting in the inn! No killing Goblins—and no attacking Antinium!”
Lyonette moved her Thronebearers in front of Pawn like a shield—and Ser Lormel and Dame Ushar looked like they were quite aware how long they’d stand between Mihaela and a target.
“Guildmistress—”
Garia gulped as Mihaela looked at her. The older woman just folded her arms.
“I’m not going to start a fight. You know me, Antinium?”
“Pawn.”
She didn’t react to the name. The [Priest] bowed again.
“You are Mihaela Godfrey, the Courier of Izril. We know you—like we knew Zel Shivertail and Magnolia Reinhart. Even Workers know. You were the one who ran across Izril during the First and Second Antinium Wars. The only Runner who could never be stopped.”
“Your Prognugator, Wrymvr, tried. And you have the Slayer and the Small Queen here. I’ve outrun them both. Remember that, Antinium. And don’t speak to me again.”
Lyonette swallowed again. Now she recalled it—Mihaela’s permanent cough, which happened every fifteen minutes or less—she had run in both wars. She had injuries that hadn’t healed since then.
Of all the people to come here from the Haven, from the north—more than even the Named-ranks, Mihaela had a true grudge against the Antinium.
“I will remember it. But I would appreciate it if we did not fight, Guildmistress. Are you intending to attack me or my people?”
Pawn sounded—wary and curious. Mihaela stared at him blankly, then threw her head back and sighed. Loudly.
“I will say this once. Just so the annoying [Rogue] sneaking around behind me understands. And so the rest of you do. I am not Deniusth. I am not Valeterisa. I am not an impulsive idiot, nor a thoughtless moron. I ran through Izril through both Antinium Wars, it’s true. When the Antinium were everywhere, I delivered to entire Drake cities and villages across the south.”
She stared at Garia and Fals. Hoping they took something from it. Teaching. She hated teaching—but she’d had to do it. There was a time when she was just a City Runner, and she remembered that. These days…
Children. They really were. It wasn’t just that she felt old, sometimes, when she saw mirrors or statues of herself. It was that the people who looked old—twenty, even thirty—were like children to her.
They didn’t understand running. They forgot or no one bothered to teach them. Someone had to. Mihaela went on, staring past Pawn. It was Hexel she looked at, the scar on the Lamia’s face.
“Everyone knows I ran war correspondence and letters when even [Messages] couldn’t be trusted. Potions and weapons. But I ran regular things too. Food for encircled places. Scrolls and relief for Drakes and Gnolls. You know what I ran into? I met places where Drakes confessed they’d eaten Humans. Or where someone took me aside and told me to run on—because I’d have my throat slit if I slept the night.”
It wasn’t just Drakes—but the Human Runner stared back.
“I had stones thrown at me, and I was mocked when I came in, bleeding, or insults hurled at me for being ‘too slow’ when their local runners, Drakes and Gnolls, didn’t dare take the roads. Not just in war. I’ve run to villages where City Runners’ and Couriers’ bones lined the roads, and they mocked the dead because running ‘isn’t hard’. We’ve been pulled into political games, used as pawns, treated as expendable. And you know what? I still ran my deliveries. Because I am the Guildmistress of First Landing. I can be professional.”
She stared at Numbtongue and Pawn and then looked away. What kind of idiot started a fight in an inn for no reason? What a stupid way to die.
Her little speech provoked a silence, but Pawn just nodded.
“Thank you, Guildmistress, for your forbearance. I know we have done terrible things. But—may I ask if your coughing is related to your injuries? Could I ask you about it? Perhaps…”
He was coming forwards. And that was the bridge too far. Mihaela raised a hand.
“Touch me and you will regret it.”
Pawn’s hands halted.
“I only wish to help, Guildmistress.”
“I am willing to tolerate you. But we will not be friends, Antinium.”
She ground out the words slowly. A little lamb trotted in through the front door—saw the cat—and scampered behind a table, glaring hugely as the cat blinked at Nerry. Pawn met Mihaela’s gaze.
“Is it possible for you to hear us out, Guildmistress? We wish you would like us. Understand us.”
“No.”
Mihaela’s voice was flat. She took a step back, and Pawn gestured around the inn.
“But we are here. We speak. Here is a Goblin—Numbtongue. Here am I. Can you not see we are not monsters or the Black Tide?”
At this, the Guildmistress had to smile. She gave a Pawn a look as dark as the poison in her lungs and coughed again.
“You…do you really think this is going to last? You…and you, Goblin. You have to know they’re watching. They might not touch you here, in this inn. Or your tribe or this ‘crusade’ and the 7th Hive. But they’re just waiting.”
Numbtongue looked up slowly, and the cat wriggled out of his grasp and went after the lamb. He let it, for a second.
“What do you mean?”
Mihaela spat into a handkerchief. She almost felt bad for bursting his bubble.
“You’re only here as long as you’re useful. So long as it’s fun to watch you fighting monsters. Or so long as the Five Families might need some [Mercenaries]. But they see your tribe. And the new Hive. There’s only so long they’ll let you roam free.”
The Hobgoblin saw her eyes on him. Mihaela went on slowly. Ominously.
“When you’re a threat…the Minds of Baleros forgot what happens.”
“Who?”
The Goblin raised his brows. Mihaela stared at him dismissively.
“Find out. There’s a lesson there. There’s war—and there’s annihilation. You’re being allowed to exist because they think you’re not the biggest threat around. But if you unite everyone—every continent—they’ll pull out a spell that’s gathered dust for a hundred thousand years and unleash it on you. If the Antinium had ever begun overrunning the Walled Cities, more forces would have begun entering the war. But the enemy of my enemies…that’s why you exist.”
For now. But once the novelty wore off, once they’d decided on things…Mihaela’s voice dipped low.
“This inn won’t save you. They’ll just turn it to ash. You won’t be here next year. When they come, it won’t matter if it’s day or night.”
She didn’t mean [Assassins]. And the Guildmistress waited for the Antinium to say something, perhaps denial, or for Numbtongue to react. But the Hob and Pawn, who had seen the sky fall and horrors from Liscor’s crypts, just exchanged a long look. They were almost amused.
“We know.”
The Hobgoblin grinned. Mihaela faltered, and Pawn nodded.
“We know. We will be as ready as we can be. But even if we are not, Guildmistress—things are changing.”
She looked at him darkly and wished those words didn’t sound so familiar. The Courier turned on her heel abruptly.
“They’re always changing. What’s new? I’m not telling you this to frighten you. I’m telling you—don’t drag down this place. Don’t bring it down on her.”
Then she was looking at the little Gnoll flashing middle fingers at her from the side. Mrsha hid behind a table, and Lyonette stepped forwards, protectively, in front of Pawn and Numbtongue.
“Guildmistress Mihaela. I know full well you have every right to hold a grudge against both species for—for the past. But they are the guests of the inn. And my family. Please, don’t provoke them. What do you mean, bring it down on Mrsha? On us? The inn is their home.”
Mihaela was breathing badly. She thought her lungs were acting up again—then she realized part of the dizziness—part of the tightness in her chest wasn’t just damage for once.
It was—she looked around the inn and croaked a word.
“Valceif. He was here, wasn’t he?”
Lyonette froze up. Numbtongue looked at Pawn in confusion, but Mihaela leaned over the table. Garia, Fals—their faces turned somber. Mihaela just stared past them. At the Antinium and the Hobgoblin. She didn’t know them. She didn’t want to know them—but there was something she didn’t like.
A kind of understanding. So the Guildmistress spoke, the words coming out like bloody mucus.
“I am the Guildmistress of First Landing. But you’re right. I was the Courier of Izril before that. And I saw war. I suffered for it—and then I kept running. On your long journey, be it Courier or warrior…”
She closed her eyes.
“…You fall in love with people. Sometimes. Those you keep meeting. The ones who are kind to you. Many aren’t. But you meet so many. Sometimes it—clicks. Shelter on a long run.”
Numbtongue felt a jolt, and goosebumps ran up his arms. Now, Mihaela’s gaze was unnerving. She kept speaking, and she was different in countless ways, from species to gender to…but he could picture it. A young woman, coughing and slowing by—an inn? A glowing light in a window lit for her?
“Sometimes you keep coming back. Later, and later—even when I was named Guildmistress. I came back for more than the road, the isolation—and it’s good. It’s grand. It’s also painful—for them. They see you on your longest road, your final road, and ask you to stop. To change. They say—‘you won’t come back someday’. As if I don’t know that. They’re the ones who forgot. They think I’ll change. That I can change.”
She looked at Pawn and Numbtongue and realized she was pouring out too much. But once said—Mihaela exhaled the rest like poison. Grief. She had grieved a year—and it was stronger now.
Let it out. She whispered to the Antinium and Goblin, for they might understand her folly.
“That’s how it ends. The one you love says—they say—‘if you must’. If you have to keep going, go, and come back. But…”
Her voice wobbled, and she was reciting from memory. And the next words were hardest of all to say.
“But…‘but not your son. Don’t kill him too’. Don’t teach him what it’s like to be you, even though he was born with all the talent for it. Even though he understands in his bones.”
Lyonette put her hands over her mouth. The rest of the inn was silent. Mihaela’s head dipped. She looked around—but there was no sign of him here. No chair, no inkling beyond her knowledge that Valceif had ever been here. Had she been hoping for it?
“Then? What happens after that?”
The whisper came from Pawn. The Worker looked at Mihaela, and she jerked, as if forgetting she had been speaking to him at all for a moment. Mihaela’s glittering eyes rose, and the old Runner looked at Pawn. For one moment—not as the nemesis of The Black Tide or the Guildmistress of First Landing.
Just Mihaela Godfrey. She whispered, her voice hoarse.
“We were already split apart when I proved him right. I should have never shown Valceif how to run. But it made him feel alive.”
She looked around blankly, and her eyes focused on Fals, on Garia. They stared at her as if she were a monster, a figure of tragedy, a ghost, a legend…and Mihaela’s head bowed. Her shoulders hunched. She looked at the City Runners and saw the echo of her son everywhere.
