Octavia grumbled, but even she had to admit—the little kitten would race around then come back to Numbtongue. Especially if it was scared of something. And Numbtongue would gather it up.
“Brave little warrior.”
He stroked its head, looking so happy that Octavia gave up trying to hurt his feelings. She mashed the pestle in the bowl harder. Stupid little kitten. Stupid adorably cute Goblin. She had another thought and looked up sharply.
“What are you going to name it?”
“Hmm.”
Numbtongue ignored Octavia’s baleful look as they let it jump around her shop. The [Alchemist] had put away everything remotely breakable, but she hated the cat. Bird had put a standing objection up to the cat as a competitor for hunting birds, but when Numbtongue told him the cat probably couldn’t shoot arrows, he’d been fine.
Octavia, though…the cat had ruined her ingredients, tools, and it would try to pull any loose strings coming off her body. She was meaningfully grinding some rubies into powder as she glowered.
“Cat needs a good name. How—how about Claude? As in ‘clawed’?”
Numbtongue was proud of that pun. Nanette giggled as Octavia groaned.
“It’s a pest, Numbtongue. No.”
“Orangefur Redfang?”
“It doesn’t get two names.”
The [Alchemist] was only placated when Nanette gave her a pleading look.
“Miss Octavia! He’s so cute, though! Look! He doesn’t mean harm!”
Indeed, when she held up the cat—and it was still very small, barely more than a kitten—it tried to lick at Octavia. Then get into her bowl.
“Keep it away from my reagents! The last thing I need is cat hair in my potions! It’ll probably make something explode.”
“Reagents. Reagen? Catalyst. Cattalin?”
Numbtongue tried the two words on for size. He saw Nanette’s face wrinkle up. He looked at the male kitten and had it.
“Reagen Redfang.”
He lifted the cat up and got a ‘meow’. Octavia groaned.
“More like ‘spare alchemy ingredients’.”
She muttered darkly, but when Numbtongue held the cat up, she grudgingly waved a used teabag left and right as the cat tried to snag it.
“He needs a bed! And house training! Miss Erin has to let us keep him, right? She has that Sariant Lamb!”
“Nerry. Where is it, anyways?”
Numbtongue’s only worry was that Reagen would turn out to be an anti-Apista or anti-Lamb cat. That would be a huge problem, and Octavia raised her brows.
“You’re not looking after the Sariant Lamb? It’s fragile. Everyone talks about how Sariant Lambs need love and attention.”
“Huh. Nanette?”
“I feed her, but Nerry only cuddles me a bit. She doesn’t like me because I’m—I was a [Witch]. I thought Miss Lyonette was taking care of her.”
“She probably is. The lamb looks pretty good whenever I see her.”
The witch, Stitch-girl, and Goblin agreed about that. And in the meantime, Numbtongue was realizing he needed a sandbox and some house training—the cat had left a poo before he’d found it. But Erin just thought they had rats.
 
——
 
Pawn came back to the inn on the second day of Mihaela’s run that had shut down five Guilds and counting so far. There were over two hundred Runners clogging the roads—and the Worker appeared back in Erin’s inn with a question.
“Lyonette. Have you seen my book?”
“Your what, Pawn?”
“My book. The Wondrous Sky is its working name. I believe I left it here.”
He wouldn’t misplace something like that, but Pawn didn’t remember picking it up. There had been that outhouse fire, after all. Lyonette agreed to ask the staff and see if someone had picked it up.
“Can I, um—help you at all, Pawn?”
“No, Lyonette. Thank you. I am on my way to Esthelm, actually. I have an appointment. Numbtongue, hello.”
“I don’t have a cat.”
The Hobgoblin jumped and looked around for Erin. But she was out—and he showed Pawn a little pocket Octavia had doubly-grudgingly sewn into his tunic’s front. Reagen poked his head out, and Pawn pet his head.
“It is a very cute cat. Why are you not telling Erin, please?”
“Because she might not let me keep it. But if I keep it for a few days, she’ll have to.”
Pawn didn’t follow the logic.
“Erin would not turn away a pet. She likes you, Numbtongue. And she is fond of taking in people. Like Mrsha. Or you.”
Yeah, yeah, I stole your role. Suck it up.
Mrsha sniffed at Pawn and waved a paw from her table. She was attending to her pet and best friend, Apista. Carefully, Mrsha was attaching a teensy-tiny little leg.
Peg-legs! They secured to the Ashfire Bee’s joints with the most microscopic of threads, and a sweating Mrsha was using a needle to do it—they’d loop around securely, and they were as light as air.
They had arrived, ironically, via Hawk last night. The Titan of Baleros didn’t forget his dues. He’d even attached some experimental wings that apparently a few butterflies had been denuded of, and the Ashfire Bee was squirming to try them out.
The only other reason it was so hard was because Mrsha’s eyes were all watery. She kept sniffing when she saw how Apista’s little legs were damaged. And her wings. She’d cried already, but now that she was putting the replacement wings and legs on—
She’d done so much for Mrsha. And Mrsha was a bad girl, and Apista had gotten so hurt—
But the bee fanned her wings aggressively and butted Mrsha in the paw, as if sensing the [Druid]’s sadness. She saluted Mrsha with a wing. As if to say—
I stung a [Witch] and a [Shaman] in the eye for you. And I’d do it again, little one!
Nothing would do but for Mrsha to hug Apista gently, and the bee fanned her wings happily. Lyonette gently pried Mrsha’s arms away, but she sensed how happy Apista was. And she had to dab at her own eyes. Then she glanced sideways and sighed.
“Careful, Mrsha. And Selys, did you have to take all your pets out for a stroll?”
Lyonette was cautioning Mrsha as Gire worked on another leg of the bee, and she pushed down a curious Fortress Beaver’s nose.
Squeak!
A rat protested nearly being squished, and Selys hurriedly picked up Haldagaz as Rhata began shoving the huge beaver out of the way. The Drake [Heiress] protested weakly.
“They get stir-crazy in my home. Plus, they like Apista and Mrsha. Can I let them run around in your garden?”
“Of course. The Beavers’ den is still there. Just—oh my, Apista, you’re so brave! Mrsha, give her here when you’re done.”
Lyonette wanted to cuddle her bee as she saw Apista fanning her wings excitedly. Selys put Haldagaz on her head. The rat perched there, squeaking as it looked around as if it were used to this.
“I have to admit—the two rats have grown on me too. And the Beavers. This one’s Oakly, that’s Chesta, we have Rum Redwood there—”
“Are you naming them after wood, Selys?”
The Beavers came up to the Drake, and she scratched them on their heads rather like dogs. Selys glanced up.
“Sort of. It’s their favorite kind of wood. Each one had a different one.”
“…Rum Redwood?”
“It was an accident. But apparently they also like drinking.”
Selys eyed the biggest beaver. And he had Rhata on his head. Was the little rat trying to flex? Selys bent down and gently stroked Rhata’s head—then straightened, embarrassed by the unguarded moment. But Mrsha had Apista on her head, and the bee was fanning her new wings proudly.
Lyonette clasped her hands to her heart as everyone applauded the Titan’s prostheses and Apista.
“Can she fly? Oh, she’s trying! We have to write a thank-you to the Titan, Mrsha. And none of your scams or jokes! He even sent a little letter. It must be a joke, right? And these…”
She rolled her eyes at what Niers had sent. The Titan had written to Apista, a little note.
 
Dear Friend,
I have been remiss in sending you anything after your heroism in battle. I was a poor riding companion, but I hope this helps. I prevailed on some friends of mine to build replacement wings and legs—if they don’t work, we’ll try again. Enclosed are some gifts for your bravery, and if you ever come to Baleros, I should like to brevet you to Wing Captain of my Ashfire Air Battalion in a formal ceremony. I’m adding some Garuda and fliers to it.
 
Lyonette had thought that was a joke—until she saw the tiny gemstone medal in the box. And until she’d heard from Dame Ushar that there was a new battalion being reorganized into the Forgotten Wing Company.
The Titan took his jokes too far. That was what the [Princess] thought, even if she agreed that Apista deserved all this and more. But the bee seemed delighted by the tiny medal pinned to her fuzz—
It was just the last part that made Lyonette really think the Titan was having fun. She eyed the box of tiny, individually hand-wrapped cigars and other objects she wanted Mrsha not to see.
“This is the most ridiculous part. I’ll just put it—Apista, stop!”
The bee flew at her to stop Lyonette taking the box away. And someone rescued the entire precious crate from falling.
Palt, the [Illusionist] and [Smoker], lifted a tiny cigar and sniffed it. His eyes rolled up.
“Oh, Fraerling-quality. Apista, great friend—lend me a few of these? Please?”
It was ridiculous and silly, but the proud little bee was flying. And Lyonette was laughing with tears in her eyes. That was…well. That was what pets were. A little tongue made Numbtongue look down. Reagen was licking his hand for attention, and he wanted to sit on Numbtongue’s head like the other animals were.
For some reason, the Hobgoblin had never realized why the Redfangs in his tribe who rode Carn Wolves turned into dog-loving weirdos. He had ridden Carn Wolves…but he hadn’t realized how different it felt to have a connection with a creature like this. Now he had Reagen—there was no way Erin could ever make Numbtongue give him up.
Pawn smiled at Numbtongue.
“You see? Even if Erin does not love you romantically, she will accept your cat, Reagen.”
He watched as Numbtongue’s delighted look at his cat slowly faded. The [Bard] looked up—and then slowly sat back in his chair. His cat meowed and tried to climb out of the pocket. It looked up at its master as Numbtongue slowly put Reagen down. The cat stared up at the Fortress Beavers, hissed at Rhata—then backed up as the rat squeaked authoritatively.
Numbtongue lay down on the ground. Lyonette put her hands over her mouth as Pawn stared down.
“I’m sorry, Numbtongue. But I heard you were being mean to Octavia. Take that.”
One should not have two people they loved so much and chase after Erin. He nudged the Hob with a foot and walked off.
 
——
 
Was it odd to see an Antinium walking around a city other than Liscor? Well, yes, but in Esthelm, both Numbtongue and Pawn had more license to move about. Esthelm, ironically, was closer to Liscor than any other city.
And—Pawn was meeting with his second famous craftsman because of the inn as well. Master Pelt might be grumpy, ill-mannered, and…but he did keep a schedule.
Unless he was late working in the forge in some moment of inspiration. Pawn had had to reschedule once before, but this time, the Dwarf grumpily looked up from his anvil.
“Oh, it’s one of you. Want me to make something fancy for a [Crusader]? No discounts. I’m making quality, and no one gets anything for free. Not unless Erin Solstice can give me fifty ingots of Demas Metal to play with or pull a long-lost ore out of her apron.”
“I am sure she can. But my inquiry is personal, Master Pelt. I would like you to forge something for me. Master Hexel has begun work on my rooms. I have written a book. You must help me with the third thing the [Crusaders] and my Painted Antinium need.”
“‘N what’s that?”
Pelt was picking at his teeth as he carved into the hilt of a sword with one hand, looking annoyed by the entire conversation. But he was paying attention—which was more than could be said when someone came over and asked for something for them. Deniusth had tried, and Pelt had laughed about his request to make a violin bow-sword. Not because it was hard, but because he thought it was stupid.
You had to gain his interest. Even now—he’d make wonderful stuff, but he had to be invested in your cause. Also, you had to pay him well.
“I would like you to forge me a…currency. For the faithful.”
The Dwarf’s hand—slipped. He nearly destroyed his work, but caught himself—and then put his tools down. He raised his head.
“Out of mithril? No.”
“Mithril? We cannot afford mithril. I would like you to teach my Workers or Soldiers how to forge tokens. Currency or icons of faith. Both, please.”
Pawn knew of various instruments from rosary beads to crosses to other implements, and the Antinium needed both. Pelt exhaled—his face had gone pale for a second for some reason.
“I—not coins, then?”
“It does not have to be round. But I would like something to give to Workers, yes. It could be a triangle or star or…I am coming to an expert to design it.”
“I see. Nevermind—why would I do something like this? Get Raekea or a lesser [Smith] to do it. I’ll have one of my apprentices make something pretty out of pot metal. Put your paint on it and we’re done.”
The Dwarf turned grumpy again and angrier still, as if Pawn had committed some error. Again, Pawn didn’t know why, but the [Priest] carefully took several objects out of his bag of holding.
“I wish I could, but no [Smith] other than you can help me. None of them can even understand what I am asking. Because…you must make these icons and coins to be beautiful. This is one thing we wish—but also take what is here and put them into what you forge. Do you see, Master Pelt?”
He placed eight objects on the table, and Pelt frowned at them. He touched each one quizzically, and Pawn went on.
“I am sorry not all are metal. But we did not think of that. Do you see?”
“…Cheap iron. Wood. Can’t tell which kind at a touch. A damn brush?”
Pelt looked over all eight items with a blank expression—but as he peered up at Pawn, he stared harder. The first three objects he looked at were all different.
The first was the double colander-contraption fused together. The two sieves formed the crudest censer and still smelled of cinnamon. It was attached to Pawn’s staff. The second was a club.
Made of wood. Pawn also had a worn paintbrush, so used hairs were sticking together and every which-way. And he had another crude bowl…
“This is all worthless crap. Not a hint of artistry in the lot. What’s the sieve-thing for?”
“Incense.”
“The bowl?”
Pelt jabbed a finger at it. His own eating bowls were better-made.
“We serve our bread during our prayers in it.”
“…The club? Do you beat bread with it?”
“No. I hit Belavierr with this one. And she said it hurt.”
