The [Smith]’s mouth opened. He touched the club again gingerly, and Pawn recalled that the [Apprentice] who’d made and sold it had come screaming to him about levelling six times. Very good for him.
“It’s not enchanted.”
“No. But it is like the other seven objects. Master Pelt. Do you see what I need you to do? I would like you to put what is in here into an icon of faith. Or objects.”
The [Smith] stared for a long time. He lifted the objects up, sniffed them, weighed them in his hands, and his frown grew deeper.
“…There’s something in them, then, that I can’t see. But it is not magic nor any kind of metal I know. You say there’s aught of value, but I have not a clue.”
“Oh. Then perhaps the smith I need is not you. Alas—I will find one better. Or perhaps we will need one of our own.”
Pelt’s head snapped out. Outraged, the Dwarf slammed a fist on his anvil, and the entire forge jumped at the sound.
“A smith finer than me? You’ll find naught! Not in this world. Not—”
He purpled as he was unable to say ‘not any one is better than me’.
“—One man, perhaps. But you’ll never find him. What’s in here?”
He poked the censer dismissively, and Pawn leaned forwards. He put his hands protectively over the objects.
“Faith, Master Pelt, faith. Have you never heard of someone forging it into metal? Or…putting something of one thing into another?”
Each of the eight objects glowed brightly in Pawn’s gaze. Not in light—but in a kind of value only he could understand. Like the glow of some of the [Crusaders]’ personal faith. It shone in Zimrah and in his eyes.
When he said that, Pelt paled. He pushed himself back from the table and stood. Shakily.
“Master Pelt?”
His best apprentice, Emessa, looked up, ready to drag him back if he flew into a rage like when he’d tried to strangle Dawil for breaking the axe. But Pelt just uttered one word. Spat it.
“Taxus. It’s always him. Always a step ahead! How dare you come to me and—”
He jabbed a finger at Pawn as the [Priest] warily stood up. The [Priest] backed up a step.
“I just asked if you knew how to take one thing—”
“Aye, take the nature of it and put it into something else? That was his damn art. Mine was to refine metal! Too much of nonsense you can’t see and feel! Now you come to me and—”
Pelt was rapidly purpling with rage. Pawn tilted his head. He kept his voice light, which perhaps angered the Dwarf more.
“Then can you tell me how to find this Taxus? Because this is what I need. And only a true master can help me.”
For a second, it seemed as if Pelt would come at him with his hammer. But the Dwarf glared at Pawn. As the [Priest] reached down, Pelt snatched the censer up.
“There’s crap metal in here. Give it to me. You can make more, can’t you? And tell if it’s got whatever you need in it? I know my lessons. Give me—give me five days. A week! Anything he can do, I can do.”
Pawn smiled as the [Smith] stalked away. Emessa gave Pawn an impressed look. But the [Priest] hoped for both their sakes that Pelt could do it.
For my people, I shall leave behind book and place and items. There was a method to this all. A method that only Pawn saw at first. He hoped Ryoka would see more and advise him, even if he doubted she would join him.
Pawn bowed to the [Smith] and gathered the other objects up. Then he went on his way. He wondered if there was a great [Composer] of music he could find. Barelle the Bard would have been his first pick. Numbtongue?
…Bird?
 
——
 
Erin Solstice finally spotted Reagen when she was walking into the inn mid-morning of the third day. She stopped Klbkch and Relc—they had all been shopping at that antique store, and Relc had bought fifteen items.
“Wh—cat!”
“Cat!”
“Cat.”
Relc pointed, and Klbkch nodded. Numbtongue whirled, and Reagen clawed at the bit of grass he was dangling, mid-leap.
“You’ve got a cat, Numbtongue! Where did it come from! Wait—why does it have a collar?”
Erin’s eyes narrowed suspiciously, mostly because she saw the looks of guilt or panic on the inn’s conspirators. Numbtongue gulped. Reagan hissed at Relc and Klbkch.
Relc hissed back. Reagen instantly ran for it. It raced into a glowing door.
The [Garden of Sanctuary]. Numbtongue twisted—but that was safe. And besides, Erin was glaring.
“I said you could get a pet—but what’s with not telling me? Huh? Wait a second. I knew that was a huge piece of poo. And here I kept telling Gothica that we might have super-rats!”
“I thought you were gonna be mad. I’m keeping it.”
Numbtongue defensively folded his arms. Erin folded her arms harder.
“Well, of course you can! But now I’m mad you thought I’d be dumb and not let you keep it!”
“Well, you’re sometimes pretty mean!”
“Why are we shouting at each other? Also, hey, Selys, how’s it been?”
 
——
 
Reagen the cat was young. And small.
And arguably stupid. At least, the other cats of Elirr’s shop thought so. Not that they were mean, not exactly, but they were aware the orange tabby didn’t really ‘get’ what was going on.
The kitten had a very limited understanding of the world due to its youth. It knew…the grass was dangerous. There had been a flapping of wings.
A great, giant beak. Then it had fled, eating what it could find—but almost everything was faster and cleverer than it was. Grasshoppers flew away, voles dug down—
And the rabbit it had gone after had contemptuously teleported away three times before Reagen gave up. Then it had smelled food and crawled through a window left ajar.
Naturally, the window had been too high up for it to climb through normally, even with a cat’s ability to jump—but it had seen a little lamb hopping out the windows onto little ledges and used that to get inside.
Obviously, it had gone after the lamb, but as small as Nerry was, the young tomcat had been too small to best the lamb. It had received two hooves in the face for its trouble, and then the lamb had begun shooting fire.
When the green thing had caught it—Reagen had thought it was all over. It had taken a while to realize the big green thing was kindly. It gave Reagen hot food until the cat nearly threw it up, and then took it to the one called Elirr.
Elirr was the only name Reagen knew. But the [Beast Trainer] had reached out and told Reagen it was in safety. That the green one was called ‘Numbtongue’—the word only made sense in how the cat heard it, not in language—and that the big white one was ‘Mrsha’ and it should not go outside and it would be safe.
This was now all that Reagen knew, and it had explored the gigantic structure it was deciding might be a home warily.
It did not like the smell or look of the big bugs, and the green things had a lot of teeth. But it liked this place.
It was nervous of the [Innkeeper]—which is why it had run. Not that Reagen understood Erin’s class or even why it felt she was so big. He was sensing her aura.
The cat was young and wild, and so he ran into the garden, then immediately began exploring this place without really wondering how he had gotten here.
It would search for the green Numbtongue when it needed to, and in time, it might understand more, but it was a silly cat.
So silly, in fact, that when the bee crawled out of the grass, Reagen’s first instinct was to leap and attack. The cat opened its mouth, slashed—completely forgetting Mrsha had introduced Apista—
And backed the heck away from that gigantic stinger. But Apista merely aimed her gigantic stinger at Reagen like a crossbow.
Hold it, little one. Let’s not make any moves you’ll regret. Besides—we can’t fight here.
If the bee could have spoken, that’s what she would have said, probably with a southern drawl. She was even munching on a tiny cigar Palt had made for her.
Reagen got none of this. It was just wondering why it couldn’t bite or claw in this place. The cat froze up as some figures loomed behind it.
This cat giving you trouble, Apista?
A tail slapped, and the cat backed away from the gang of Fortress Beavers. Apista waved a feeler, and the beavers stopped looming.
Giant animals! Reagen was nervous—and backed away, hissing, but the other animals were fearless. In fact—one grabbed his paw and dragged him back.
Rhata was still smaller than a kitten, but she was incomparably strong! The overpowered magical rat gathered with Apista, the beavers; a white rat, Haldagaz, chirruped on top of his own Fortress Beaver.
Well, well, well. Here they all were. It was rare that Selys’ pets got to visit, but Apista was flexing her new wings and her prosthetic legs. The Titan might be slow, but he came through! She sat on the Fortress Beaver’s head as a few more animals came into the garden.
The Spotted One raced around, arfing wildly, but one sneer from one of Elirr’s cats and it slowed down and tumbled to a stop. They headed over—no one had invited Elirr’s cat, but it knew to make its own way.
It could read a clock. Elihas, the cat, The Spotted One, and a few more animals all gathered together. Elihas meowed approval for Apista’s leg, and the bee saluted the cat.
The secret lives of pets. All of Reagen’s fur was on end, and he was backing away from the gathering of what he took to be dangerous animals—but the bigger cat just put a paw on Reagen’s head as the silly kitten hid behind him.
They didn’t speak, of course. What each animal understood varied—Elirr’s cats were by far the most intelligent and might even ‘think’ in words. Only Haldagaz, who got a nod, which he returned, had the concept of language.
Even Apista thought more in ideas than words, but thanks to Lyonette, she was quite adept. The pets gathered around, and she motioned Reagen forwards like a little queen.
So, a new warrior is going to join our ranks, eh? Numbtongue’s brought in a cadet? Come forwards, young one. You know, I used to be a warrior like you. Until I took a [Fireball] to the face.
“Meow?”
Reagen mowed blankly as it looked at the interplay of the other pets. It began to eat some grass as Elihas rolled his eyes and smacked the back of Reagen’s head with his tail. But that was pets for you. Apista calmly began passing around bribes as Haldagaz dragged over a note it needed delivered to Elihas. The cat accepted it—in return for three spliffs and dropped a small bag of raisins in return.
How much they really understood varied, and it was still not really at the level of even a small Mrsha. But it was more than most people even dreamed. There was only one ‘new’ member of the inn who wasn’t attending, much to Apista’s displeasure. But then—
She had no idea what Nerry, the Sariant Lamb, really did around here.
 
——
 
Dead gods damn stupid cats.
Damn cats and inns with staircases and windows and [Alchemist] labs with volatile materials that you could knock into.
At least no one had noticed the mess with that kitten around. It almost—almost made up for wasting three charges in the wand.
Thirteen left. At least no one had spotted the outhouse. It sounded like the [Innkeeper] was having another inane conversation with her pet Hobgoblin. Which meant there was a vanishingly-small chance of even the nosiest Goblin or [Princess] paying attention and poking around where they shouldn’t.
The inn was too full of inquisitive souls. The Named-rank [Alchemist], the Named-rank [Rogue], the Thronebearers, Erin Solstice herself…
—Well, Erin was different. But no one else should be seeing this.
A little figure was panting by the time it finally—finally reached the Earther rooms. It knew the designation from listening in, and the term was apt. Few people came here, and fewer still would find the floorboard pried up and the small spot in the corner of one of the rooms.
It was hidden behind an easel against one wall, where Kevin had tried to do sketches of his home-city and given up. Where the smooth-cut floorboards met the walls, someone had pried up the edges. With great work, the copper nails had come loose, exposing the insulation and subfloor between the Earther rooms and the basement.
A narrow area, padded with hay and other materials to keep the heat in. Each section was blocked off by more cut wood, so a rat wouldn’t be able to have the run of the house. Antinium construction—but this small section was a perfect hiding place. Once the floorboard was dragged back in place, someone could hide in this tiny section, unnoticed by even the most inquisitive Gnoll child.
Perhaps the [Innkeeper] would notice—but that was a chance that had to be taken. Besides—the figure had to lie on her side for a good eight minutes.
…She didn’t think she could drag this to Riverfarm, even if she could manipulate the portal door and call for assistance. The damn book was heavy.
There was a difference in how the lamb called ‘Nerry’ thought, even compared to Apista or Elirr’s cats. She didn’t just think of how long Erin might be up to her antics in the inn, but also whether or not the Hobgoblin was likely to play on his laptop.
She thought forwards and backwards and about herself as well. And what she thought was—the others were going to kill her.
All this hard work to get here—and the damn [Innkeeper] decided to open up her portal door anyways, invalidating the hard work. But—she was still the one with the job. The little lamb kicked the floorboard shut. Then she scraped around.
She had been tempted to steal a box of matches, but she was a highly flammable being, so she went for the little glowing stone instead. It’d die in about a month and a half—but in the meantime, it was a fine source to read anything by. Notes, correspondence—or a book.
…Turning the pages in this confined space was a nightmare. Let alone with teeth or little hooves.
Yet she did just that. She moved, her limbs shaking with fatigue, unable to lift much of anything. She was exhausted, and even if that little cat, Reagen, had been a kitten—it would have been a match, in theory, for the weakest and cutest animal in the world.
Sariant Lambs. Even with a wand, Nerry would be easy prey to a Shield Spider. Everyone knew this was probably a suicide mission. Raskghar, Face-Eater Moths, Hectval—they’d done their homework.
Erin Solstice’s inn was a glorified deathtrap to something that couldn’t defend itself—or at least, run like Mrsha. Yet here she was. And so desperate she’d set fire to an outhouse.
Her hooves were trembling as the lamb read by the dim light. And unlike the other animals, if you could hear her internal thoughts—or translate the words—
Please. Oh, please. She had not conceived of this answer, but it struck her as ludicrously possible. Her desperation was the impetus for anything. A strand to cling to and…
