And this was the truth. Pawn closed his journal and sat forwards. He was doing what he always did.
Believe. Pray. And—
Define the Antinium’s faith. Hexel spread out the blueprints and gave Pawn a narked look.
“So, to summarize your requests. You wanted a specialty design. Something replicable by Antinium techniques—underground and over it—for your, ah, ‘faith’ activities.”
“For prayer. For gatherings.”
Lyonette’s head turned back as she swabbed at a table. Mihaela wasn’t even pretending to hide her interest. As Fals ran in, panting, she pointed at a table.
“Sit there. Where’s Strongheart…?”
“I thought you had one in this inn. Some kind of room here? I saw it—briefly.”
Hexel was referring to the prayer room, which Erin had given the Antinium. And it was nice, designed after the model of her world, churches…but Pawn shook his head.
“That is something Erin gave to us—but it is not ours. This must be ours. Unique to the Antinium. We will make them everywhere we go.”
“And my design will be the basis.”
The Lamia’s eyes glinted. No wonder he’d taken the commission cheaply. But he was working at cross-angles, trying to understand something that Pawn hadn’t fully been able to explain. Nevertheless—Hexel went on.
“You had a few requirements. One—that the building evoke a sense of wonder and reverence, like a memorial or site of reverence. I took from palaces, natural wonders there—second, the place had to be made of mundane materials. Even if it was underground as well—you wanted the motifs to be ‘sky’, ‘gardens’, and colorful. Finally, it had to be defensible. We spoke about your fellowship’s last stand.”
“Chess club. They were a chess club.”
Hexel looked around The Wandering Inn. He fixed on Pawn and nodded. His serious look turned to one of slight kindness.
“I’m sure they were. Well, let’s go over my ideas now.”
Thus, he began to unroll blueprint after blueprint, ‘fast’ sketches that nevertheless looked quite beautiful to Pawn, interpretations of what the Antinium’s faith could be. The [Priest] stared at the images and felt it.
This is what we need.
When had he realized it? Sometime last year, probably. Then, throughout this one, he’d been working in private. He’d had to teach the Painted Antinium how to be, organize in Klbkch’s absence, and do so much.
But faith was what Pawn was good at. He had understood there was a flaw in even his prayers to the Painted Antinium in their barracks. It was good—it was true, and it meant a lot.
But the Antinium’s faith was fledgling compared to the depth that Ryoka Griffin had once told him about.
Cathedrals, entire organizations of faith—services and traditions—a culture unto itself. Pawn wanted it. He wanted more than just faith. It might move mountains—but it would not be so bad to have walls and books, would it?
It would not be a bad thing to have something of their own. Now, he could, of course, do it himself, but it occurred to Pawn that a [Carpenter] under Level 10 was nowhere near as good as an [Architect].
The book—he was writing the book himself because no [Scribe] could comprehend what he wanted of them. And Krsysl Wordsmith had ignored his letter.
Pawn sorted through the pages. He spoke before Hexel even had a chance to lay some out.
“These three will not do. I am sorry.”
“If you’re sure—that’s often a sign the client knows what they want. May I ask why?”
The Lamia didn’t react poorly, but he tugged the pages out of the way. Pawn nodded.
“They are closer to throne rooms. This one is too regal. This one too grand. This one—it is not a happy place.”
The three designs he indicated were all reminiscent of traditional Terandrian architecture. Spacious, designed to emphasize the grandeur. Hexel had left spaces for plinths or altars where someone might stand—but it wasn’t right.
“Hm. I thought we wanted to evoke open spaces. Alright…how about this one?”
Hexel submitted a kind of amphitheater that drew inwards. It incorporated a labyrinth design on the floor, drawn in bright colors, and it looked like an odd gathering spot. Sort of like how Pallass was designed—an inverted pyramid. Only, this was circular.
“It looks like a basin.”
“Everyone flowing together—you enter, descend…I have a Selphid-inspired one, but I think you’ll hate it. It made half the cats in Elirr’s shop puke up their disgusting hairballs.”
Hexel held up another design of the same room—only instead of a graceful basin and labyrinth walk—it was a spiral. A spiral that turned dizzyingly into the center, down and down—Pawn felt vaguely sick just looking at it.
“No, thank you.”
“Thought not. I’m keeping this one for Selphids and Gazers. They love this kind of architecture. What’s wrong with this one?”
“It’s…communal. But not inviting enough. You should be able to walk in and out.”
“Too much ceremony? Hm. Okay—how about a Lizardfolk style building?”
This time, Hexel presented the image Pawn liked the most. It was a rounded design with holes to let in light. And on the ground, Hexel had drawn a bunch of grass, flowers.
“A little sunshine dome. It’s reminiscent of my people’s mud-based houses. Druidic, too.”
“I like it. But it will not do. Sunshine does not filter that far down in the Hive. And this one is too humble if I am making sense. I am sorry, Architect Hexel.”
The Lamia waved a claw. Pawn glanced over—Mihaela Godfrey was speaking to Garia and Fals at a table, interrogating them. She looked over—scowled as they locked gazes. Pawn fixed his attention back on Hexel.
“Don’t apologize. This is part of the process. We’re getting somewhere, though. Okay…Drathians have this lovely motif with these gates leading up to a very temple-esque building.”
“I am familiar. I will not copy them.”
“But take inspiration? The Blighted Kingdom loves pure metals, so they might clash with your natural feeling. As for Chandrar…here are three more.”
They took thirty minutes out of the forty in the time it took for Numbtongue to come back. He had left Mrsha and Gire behind—they were still petting Jeckel, the Wyvern in Elirr’s care. But the angry, frightened cat had turned into one mostly curious by virtue of Elirr’s abilities. He had reassured it that Numbtongue was not a threat and skipped what sometimes took weeks of adjustment by being able to communicate with the animal.
They were, after all, intelligent, even if Elirr had told Numbtongue his newfound stray was nowhere near as ‘evil’ as Elirr’s intelligent animals. If he gained a pet-based class and Skills, that might change.
Hexel was gulping down some blue fruit juice as he rapidly sketched. He and Pawn had gone over twenty-three designs, and none quite worked.
“These will be adaptable—”
“—yes—”
“—but you’re asking for something I’m not seeing, yet. I wish I had [Eye of the Client] or something similar, but it sounds like you don’t quite know what you want yourself. I’ve got a [Quick Sketch] left—let’s summarize. This should be a room that can connect to multiple others. Open. Free. Natural—druidic inspiration was what you liked. Evoking the sky…underground.”
The Lamia was having trouble with that one. He was no subterranean dweller, and even his wide-ranging experience couldn’t encapsulate the claustrophobia of the tunnels Antinium had made. Pawn had described it and the limited amount of things an Antinium could quarry by hand.
“Stone. Not metal. Not glass—which would be very nice. Paint?”
“We can procure paint. But the rest is…”
“Not a lot of options. I might have to insist you produce some carved stone. Alright. Alright…we’ve got ten minutes left.”
“I will pay for another two hours if we need to meet again.”
Pawn checked his money pouch and knew he’d have to apply for the funds from Xrn or the Free Queen. Hexel sketched furiously.
“You’ll need that anyways if I’m laying out the actual specifications and tweaking a prototype, but I’d hate to do more than one or two more design passes…alright. I’m going to need you to work with me here. A circular room, I think. Broad, dome center. What we’ll do is paint the sky you want, or night sky, on the roof.”
He was outlining a dome-like room, and he gave it…six entrances. Pawn was nodding. He could imagine that. A place Antinium could pass through, even briefly. The Hive loved rooms that were so useful. He could place them at intersections.
“Grass might be impossible without light. But you decorate the rooms. Now, for each tunnel…an arch reminiscent of Drathian gates, perhaps. What about a pillar of stone? No—”
“No pillars.”
“Yes, yes. Too austere. Then—how about something simple?”
Hexel outlined a rough-hewn piece of stone, and Pawn sat up a bit. Hexel noticed the look and duplicated it. Only when he placed them around the room did Pawn start to feel something.
He had no idea what the room was evoking—not yet—but the pillars of stone, the room filled with natural elements, the center where you would have a floating [Light] spell or something like Erin’s grass garden and a vision of the sky, even underground?
“You could easily translate this aboveground. Then—you have actual glass or just a view of the sky. Frankly, if we want to cut it down, the Antinium could just build these stone arches. Giant pieces of stone. If you need it defensible, the arches can be collapsed. Entire tunnels, too.”
Hexel was adding defensive security measures, but Pawn was studying the proposed rooms. He could imagine standing there, speaking, or letting Antinium just wander about. A big room, such that they didn’t feel quashed by the walls. Color such as ordinary Workers and Soldiers could never see.
A circle, as when the Workers and Soldiers had stood together outside Erin’s inn. Stone, like the statues.
“Has this ever been done?”
“It’s [Druid]-style architecture. But if you’re asking if I’ve seen it—no. I imagine Antinium could easily build this with access to dirt, stone, and paint.”
Hexel and Pawn stared down at the image. Both seemed pleased by the direction, to start with. Pawn looked around as someone yawned their way into the room.
Joseph had been sleepy—but he had taken a nap, and he was walking around the common room.
“Hey, does this inn have rats? I saw a huge something upstairs.”
He told Lyonette, and the [Princess] groaned.
“Not again!”
She raced upstairs. A Hobgoblin was chasing an excited cat around, and Pawn heard Lyonette’s voice from above.
“Numbtongue, help me find a r—what is that?”
She was brought into the cat-conspiracy as well. But Joseph, circulating the tables and saying hi to people, paused by Pawn and Hexel’s table.
“What’re you guys working on?”
“Confidential.”
Hexel covered the designs, but Pawn decided to show Joseph. They revealed the newest iteration of the faith-based building, and Joseph blinked.
“It will be a place for Antinium. Joseph? What do you think? Is it unique?”
The Earther blinked. And then his mouth opened.
“Oh. Stonehenge.”
It was amazing how fast someone from Earth could ruin your day. Anything you invented—they stared at and said they’d done it first. Pawn deflated.
It wasn’t exactly that, but the design of the stone monoliths, the chamber—it evoked the famous monument from Joseph’s world. Hexel raised his brows.
“Oh, so it’s been done?”
“Is it…a place of faith?”
“Sort of.”
Joseph saw Pawn lie back in his chair, defeated. The [Football Coach] tried to reassure Pawn.
“It’s super old, though. And no one knows exactly what it was used for. This looks really cool. Are you going to build it?”
Pawn sat up a bit. He hesitated. Well…
“Maybe.”
Hexel was continuing to sketch, adding all of Pawn’s little desires. In the center, he placed a huge basin where you’d burn a flame.
“Fissival’s famous plazas…a burning flame in the garden-design. You may need a smokeless flame. Or an illusion. That, or a light spell.”
“I know where to get magical flames.”
Hexel smiled. Then he added more objects.
“Give it music. Nothing grand. Nothing like Terandrian harps—but something where you can play sounds. And on the pillars, around the room—”
“Paint. The Antinium Soldiers and Workers. Can you put…little bowls or something? To put gifts or things for them. And sound—you must not have much sound here, aside from music and talk. No loud noises of stomping from the other places.”
Hexel quietly did just that. Now, Pawn could see it. In every Hive, wherever they went. Somewhere quiet like this, where Antinium could go.
A garden just for them. Pawn’s hands closed around his journal, and he reached into his bag of holding and gripped something tightly.
“Yes. This will do. This is what we need. Architect Hexel, please continue working on this. Then we will build one. It will be worth more to the Antinium than I can provide.”
Joseph laughed slightly, looking from Pawn to Hexel.
“You, Pawn? No one can replace you.”
But the [Priest] shook his head solemnly. He put his hands together and took something from his bag of holding. This too—was a work in progress, but Hexel eyed the leatherbound cover one of the Workers had made for Pawn, and so did Joseph. Pawn addressed the [Coach].
“It must. Because this place will be there when I am dead and forgotten. We must leave something behind. Something for Antinium in the future. For places where I cannot be.”
His eyes shone with conviction. Pawn lifted the book he had written over this long year, and it was heavy with words.
“Faith doesn’t need a voice, Joseph. Sometimes, it can be a place. Or a book. This will do more than a thousand prayers or swords.”
He lifted his greatest work up and showed it to Joseph. The hair on the young man’s neck rose as he looked at something he was familiar with. But this was no bible, no text from his world.
It was Antinium-made. Pawn brushed over the carefully hand-written title, and the words within were the first copy he’d asked an Antinium Worker to make. The original looked much less fine.
The Wondrous Sky.
A book meant for Antinium. And perhaps—more. Pawn showed it to Joseph, and the Earther exhaled.
“Oh man. That’s going to change things.”
He looked at the faith shining in Pawn’s eyes, and he shivered. Pawn placed the book on the table, and the sound was so soft—yet it ran through Erin’s inn for a moment.
Thump.
 
——
 
Mihaela Godfrey wanted to know what was in that book. The Antinium had it on the table, and he kept showing it around. He was offering it to Joseph, that famous boy who could kick halfway decently.
But Joseph didn’t want to read it, and so, disappointed, the Worker let it be for a second.
