Of all the beings in this world, she could understand prayer. So the lamb read, squeezed into the hiding spot, and the Antinium’s words glowed on the page.
For here was the thing. Whether or not Pawn had realized the lamb was stealing his book—he would have probably given it to her anyways. After all—
He had made it for her. Not just for his people. Not just the forging of sacred icons for his [Crusade] or the Antinium. This book was the first of many. It was meant for the Hives and Workers he’d never see.
But the [Priest] had looked across the world as Erin did—and he saw Nerry, even if he did not think of her.
This was how the book began. The title was The Wondrous Sky. It had no author. But it did have an introduction. And here was what it said:
 
To all who might one day turn these pages, I was Pawn of the Free Antinium. I was a [Priest]. My identity does not truly matter, for it does not matter if it is Antinium or any other species who reads this.
But a word of caution before you go on: this book may not be for you. You are free to read it, but understand this. If you are reading this and you are loved and wanted…if you have a place in this world, a people, then—kindly—this text is not for you.
You will not understand all of it. You will think you do, but this is a guide for those without hope. It is meant to be a flame in darkness, a glimmer of sky for someone who has never seen it. This is for the people without hope, without salvation. With no higher power or expectations.
We, Antinium, are one such. Perhaps the True Antinium of Rhir have that higher calling and connection, but not the Workers and Soldiers of Izril, who labored in the darkness knowing nothing of why we died. We were once you—the readers this is meant for. But hear what I have learned and struggle.
‘If Heaven does not exist, we shall build it for ourselves.’ This is our tale and how it may be possible to build something from nothing but faith.
 
Chapter 1: The Origin of Faith
 
In the beginning, there was someone else. We were not the first, nor shall we be the last. They were already here, with edifices and culture and Gods of their own. There is great wonder in each religion, but it is not for us. It was never made for us.
The first day I beheld wonder—and it was wonder which founds faith—was when I looked up and saw the sky. I had never beheld the firmament above, nor the colors I had no name for. The second time, someone played a game of chess with me. And I knew a world beyond the tunnels and work that was my entire life…
 
The little lamb’s eyes burned and blurred. Why was she…? She wiped at her face angrily, and the tears soaked into the soft wool. On she read, hungrily. Hers was a young people. And not a single being, from Wyrm to Agelum to [King] or anyone else, had ever looked at them and seen more than a cute face or, sometimes, their true thoughts.
But even that was barely the surface—not one being ever had known them. Yet this Antinium, this Worker spoke to Nerry as if he had known it all. The very depths of their long suffering and despair.
She could not stop weeping. And it was furious—enraging. Anyone else was unworthy of seeing her torment. But the lamb read on about the only task, the greatest task for her people.
Waiting. Waiting—searching for answers.
From Erin Solstice or beyond even her. The little lamb lay there, the cutest of pets. And the first days of winter rolled on gently.
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
It caught up. And by ‘it’, I mean, a year’s worth of work and tiredness. It always hits me in the face like a snowball and I, like a surprised Eater Goat, stand there.
I’ve talked about writing cycles and how the end of the month often takes me down in terms of quality, energy, and other stuff like mood. Well, the end of a year is tough, too.
Don’t worry, I’ll be taking my 2-week break for the New Year, and I may even combine it with my December break for a huge, three-week block.
But I may take that break in the middle of this month—if I need it. I’d prefer to have a long, extended rest, but when I was writing this chapter, 9.4k words on the first day, it was a mess.
If you go to the stream archive on Youtube, you can see it was written in a kind of fugue-state. I even had Silverstache like an old-timer Westerner until I came to my senses and deleted that. I think I patched it up, but losing your focus during a chapter that you have only one day to edit can be killer.
…Then again, novels are too slow to come out. So I enjoy this, but these ‘short’ chapters are going to be testing my limits. As long as it’s fun to read, though, let’s continue. December awaits. Have you done your Christmas shopping? Do you even respect the holidays? Hope you’re doing well and bundled up. Unless you’re in Australia. Then maybe go naked.
pirateaba out.
 
 
The Silverstache Fugue-Writing for Context:
“Yes! Yee-haw, partner! Octavia, am I doing this right?”
Silverstache ran after the little puppy, and Octavia realized its named was literally ‘The Spotted One’. And that Silverstache was Silveran with a mustache.
“Doing what right?”
“Joseph told me this was how people like me talked. And Kevin says that is racist to Americans because Joseph is from Spain. Most Drakes and Gnolls enjoy me talking so. Partner. I have a hat, too, and boots. I have bought them with my income.”
Yellow Splatters was still chasing after The Spotted One, and the little puppy really did have a lot of black spots on its blonde fur. It was one of those little dogs, who looked old even when they were young with their mop of hair making them look like an old man.
“Silveran, he is running to the stairs! Stop him!”
The [Cleaner] spotted the puppy’s mad dash, and reacted. He drew four fingers and pointed them.
“I’ve got this one, pardner. Stick ‘em up. [Finger Guns]!”
