Without a word, Mihaela pushed herself back from the table. She walked down the common room, in silence, and rested her hand against the door. She turned her head—and her eyes caught the two Runners there. They had known Valceif, if not well. But briefly.
She saw him everywhere, so the Guildmistress barked.
“Guild, City Runners. Celum. Now.”
She strode out the doors and into the magic portal door so fast that Fals and Garia were a minute catching up. Garia wavered at the door—mostly because Liska had gone out to check something.
“Fire! The outhouse is on fire!”
Garia hesitated—but Mihaela just grabbed her arm.
“Come on. Time to teach you Runners a lesson.”
 
——
 
It was just a small fire that, for some reason, had sprung up around one of the outhouses. The inn put it out in seconds of Liska noticing it, and the charred wood wasn’t even that badly damaged.
Erin would blame an outraged Zevara, but the culprit would remain a mystery. In the meantime—Guildmistress Mihaela visited the Runner’s Guild in Celum.
When she walked in, everyone backed up. She had been here once before, and like Ryoka Griffin—her presence was already the stuff of stories.
“Runner’s Guild, turn out! Guildmistress Izeka, [Receptionists], Street and City Runners, line up!”
Mihaela walked into the guild and began shouting. The civilians looked around and then protested as their [Receptionists] abandoned the counter.
“I have a delivery!”
“I have an urgent letter for—”
“Shut up. One side.”
Mihaela ignored them. The nervous runners formed up. The giggling ones and the ones who thought she was all bark nudged each other—until a foot kicked one so hard in the shin they went down. Mihaela barely flickered as she stood there.
She was a legend in this small Guild. But the point wasn’t that. Fals looked nervous as Mihaela eyed the [Receptionists] and the new Guildmistress, who had replaced the old one—and then the one who’d resigned when the guild was avalanched.
This place had seen better times. But Celum’s Runner’s Guild was one of the more active ones in the region. So why did they indeed look like they’d felt the pinch of less coin, less work?
Even the raid of the Bloodfeast Raiders shouldn’t have caused that. When calamity struck and everyone was battening down the hatches and locking their doors—they called for Runners.
“I hear that Celum’s Guild has been going through a rough state of late. Less work for you all. Less coins in your pocket. I’ve been talking—and listening. Not just about how it is to be a Runner now, but why you’re in this mess. And you know what one reason is? Persua. I’m sure most of you know that name.”
Almost every single Runner in the Guild knew her—and even the new ones had heard of her. They shifted, and the [Receptionists]…gulped as Mihaela walked slowly back and forth in front of them.
“She’s still a Runner. She’s up north, and if she causes a hair more trouble, I will personally throw her into the sea. But you know what she did. And you know what? It wasn’t her—it was that someone like her got to get away with bullying other Runners. I’ve heard from City Runner Fals that when some arrogant newcomer, Ryoka Griffin, stormed in, she got her leg broken for ‘taking too many good deliveries’.”
The Guild was silent. Half the older members were sweating. Mihaela looked around.
“You know what? I don’t blame you for Persua breaking her leg. That’s on the staff. If the old Guildmaster were here, I would strip him of his job in a heartbeat—but Lady Reinhart had to do it for me. That’s fine. The incompetent staff who did nothing? Some lost their jobs. But that’s not on you, so I don’t blame you for that.”
She didn’t? The Runners relaxed a bit. Too soon. Garia was nervous, because she knew Mihaela wasn’t all bark. She was all bite, and occasionally she shouted too. The Guildmistress’ eyes narrowed.
“You know, what I blame you Runners for is the fact that the next day, Persua got to brag that she and her friends ran a City Runner into a wagon—and she walked out of the guild in one piece. Not a scratch on her. It doesn’t matter which guild—and you can be sure I’ll be paying a visit to Remendia, Ocre, Wales, and saying the exact same thing. If a guild anywhere in the north heard that? Every single Street Runner and City Runner who participated in that would be sleeping with one eye open for as long as they were within a hundred miles of the guild—and that’s until word spreads.”
Technically, what she was saying was probably illegal by some measure of Watch rules. But Mihaela didn’t care. It was the rule every Runner should know—and the Runners paled a bit, hearing it said. Mihaela stabbed a finger into her palm.
“I don’t care if this Ryoka Griffin is as arrogant as a Terandrian [King]. Runners stick together. You want to know why you aren’t Couriers? Why Invrisil doesn’t have your backs when it comes to the door stealing your work and low pay? It’s because they don’t think you’re a guild of Runners. The reason why Celum’s mayor is getting to set your prices is because they think they can push the Guild around. And you know what? They can and they are. You dug yourself this hole, and now, only when I come by, do you come begging to me to solve this mess.”
She glared around with all the ire of someone who didn’t want this job. But one of the [Receptionists] protested at last.
Miss Stenei, one of the oldest [Receptionists] still remaining—she was thirty-four—had been one of the ones who used to work with the surly Ryoka Griffin. She was still about, and she spoke up.
“But Guildmistress, how are we supposed to deal with the prices?”
“Raise ‘em.”
“But if they don’t like our prices, they’ll go to another Guild—”
“Then tell Liscor, Wales, Ocre—to raise their prices. You don’t even speak to your Drake and Gnoll counterparts, do you? Tell the [Mayor] of this city the prices are up. And if he doesn’t like it, he can hire [Merchants] to do the delivering for him. And believe you me, they’ll refuse him too. Or the [Merchants] will get to do all their deliveries themselves.”
The Runner’s Guild had to take a stand. But—one of the Runners, Fals, was brave enough to raise a hand.
“Not to ask stupid question, Guildmistress Mihaela—”
“I’ll let you know if it’s stupid. Out with it.”
He covered his groin protectively and turned sideways, but he did speak.
“—Er. What if the [Merchants] decide they can do all the deliveries with their caravans and with their own [Messengers]? Or they undercut our prices?”
Mihaela gave him a wide, friendly smile. Her eyes opened wide, and her lips curved up. It was definitely a smile—but all the details were wrong.
“You don’t think they’ve tried before? The Runner’s Guild has a word with them about solidarity. And if they ignore it? That’s fine. Then, I guess we’ll see a lot more burning caravans across Izril.”
The Runner’s Guild was silent. Mihaela Godfrey put one foot on a chair and looked around.
“The Runner’s Guild has teeth. It runs together—nevermind the idiots who’ll risk their lives by themselves. There are always some, but even if they don’t have your back—you have theirs. Couriers stand together. When one calls, the other answers. If nothing else—if you can’t do that, you will never be a Courier in my eyes. That’s the first thing you lack. The second is—attitude.”
She had done this before. You could be sad that the lecture worked the same way or see it as a failing of someone else. The Runners were down—now it was time to throw down the gauntlet. And this time, Mihaela had even more of a spark to set ablaze.
An axe to grind. She stared at Fals until the City Runner began to sweat, but Mihaela spoke crisply.
“I heard that no less than his eminence, the glorious Titan of Baleros came through this way of late. Maybe not Celum, but there are stories about the ‘great Fraerling’ and his march south. Some of you, apparently, even ran with him.”
Every eye swung to Garia and Fals, who blushed and looked shocked that Mihaela was bringing it up. But the Guildmistress wasn’t smiling, nor did she appear impressed.
“There’s one story I heard that’s made the rounds amongst Runners. That the Titan single-handedly managed to run a bunch of Antinium, Goblins, and even a thousand civilians and an army of Drakes nigh on forty miles in an hour. The great [Strategist]—who handed everyone a level and taught them to push their limits.”
That famous tale was true. Fals and Garia had been there. They had lived it. But Mihaela? Mihaela Godfrey just sneered.
“If you’re impressed by that—remember that the Titan didn’t run those forty miles. He used a few Skills, gave a speech—he can’t run a single mile without a potion. He’s shorter than he looks. An hour to run forty miles? I’d be impressed, but Fraerlings have no stamina. [Soldiers] march twenty-five miles a day without Skills. But we’re Runners. Anything they can do, we should be able to exceed. But I don’t see daring Runners here.”
Her eyes swiveled around the room.
“Who here has ever run something like that? Run, not jogged from city to city with naps in between?”
Fals, Garia, and a few daring Runners, City and Street, raised their hands. Receptionist Stenei hesitated—and Mihaela glanced at her. She turned her head and noticed a few civilians watching her, clutching their precious deliveries. Now, Mihaela’s voice was far-off.
“If you listen to the Titan, he’d make it sound like you run that once in a lifetime. As if it’s something to cherish and remember. As if it takes him to make you into [Heroes]. Any single Runner in my Guild, from Street to Courier, could run his [Soldiers] into the ground. Now—come on.”
She strode to the doors of the Guild and kicked them open. The Runners and staff looked at her and at each other.
Who?
Mihaela glanced over her shoulder.
“Come on. Are you going to miss this chance? Half of you want to run with a legend? Here’s your shot.”
She had beaten them up, lectured them, and put the terror of Mihaela into them, but seldom run. With the Courier of Izril? Half the City Runners were almost out the door, but one of the Street Runners, nervous, fourteen, called out.
“Can we come too, Guildmistress?”
Mihaela rolled her eyes at the girl.
“Yes, you. And you lot. What are you doing?”
The [Receptionists] and staff turned. Fals looked back. Mihaela gestured at a surprised Stenei and the others.
“Us, Guildmistress?”
“Runner’s Guild staff are usually former Runners. You—Street or City?”
“C-City.”
Stenei replied automatically, and Fals blinked at her. She had a slight limp as she stepped out from behind a counter. Mihaela nodded.
“Anyone who can keep up—come with me. Do you want to level or sit here? Anyone else—go home. I’m going to Liscor. We’ll stop by Wales first. Then Remendia. Then a few other cities.”
The Runners’ mouths opened as they tried to calculate her proposed route. No one wanted to say it, but—did Mihaela know that going from Celum to Wales to Remendia would have her going back the way she’d come? And—
Did she just say Liscor? As in, ‘Liscor, a hundred miles from here’, Liscor? But now the Guildmistress was stretching, and Runners were following suit.
“Who here has never run twenty-four hours straight? …All of you? Well then, we’ll take it slow. But if you have to stop and walk, stop and walk. But keep going. If you throw up, throw up. If you pass out, get up and keep going. Runners don’t quit.”
She was forming them into a column, like [Soldiers] of her own, but spaced out. A crowd was gathering, and someone pushed forwards.
“Wait! What about my delivery!”
The angry woman waved a letter. Mihaela glanced at it.
“Since Celum seems to think the Runner’s Guild isn’t worth much—have your [Mayor] take it for you. Celum’s Runner’s Guild is closed for three days.”
“You can’t do that!”
Mihaela gave the woman the blankest look in the world. She didn’t even respond. She just turned and raised her hand.
“Runner’s Guild—on me!”
And she did take it slow. She jogged so slowly that some City Runners flashed past her, but she told them to watch themselves, because this was going to be a run that would have them running the next day, through the night. Street Runners jogged next to [Receptionists]—and they did it together.
Not so fast you felt your lungs bursting with blood, not so fast you’d never forget—but at a pace where they could talk and memorize each other’s faces.
Solidarity. The Guildmistress began critiquing their form, answering questions with more than grunts, and she ran on. She guessed it might be three actual days before they got to Liscor and could teleport back to Celum if she bounced from Guild to Guild—and that would be the fastest City Runners.
It wouldn’t hurt them to learn how to work the guild’s desks. And she had to pay Erin for the teleportation fee—but that was all.
For some, age was that hurdle to overcome. Some found stories or put on entirely stupid plays with sock puppets her little boy would have loved when he was that young. Mihaela stared ahead and ran with a Guild following.
Sometimes—you simply showed them how it was done.
 
——
 
Numbtongue actually managed to keep his cat hidden the first night. And the second.
Erin Solstice was so busy running about she never really noticed the way Numbtongue would sneak up bits of meat to his room—and there was an inn full of guests.
Besides, everyone from Calescent to Mrsha to Lyonette was in on it. But the biggest enabler of Numbtongue’s secret new pet was, ironically, Nanette.
She loved his cat and begged and cajoled the rest of the inn’s family to help him present the animal to Erin so it would be kept. Apparently, the young witch had never been allowed a pet by Califor given how they moved. Or doubly rather—she’d been offered a crow by Mavika and refused it.
“It doesn’t even like you, anyways.”
The one person who didn’t like the cat—mostly because Numbtongue had forgotten their argument and then not really been as concerned about that as feeding his new cat and making sure it wasn’t going to run off—was Octavia. Numbtongue looked wounded—and Nanette shook her head vigorously.
“It does. It surely does, Miss Octavia. Look. The cat knows Numbtongue helped it. Numbtongue. Give him to me? See?”
Nanette took the cat gently—and as it wiggled and yowled, she put it down. The cat stared around Octavia’s lab—then instantly padded over to Numbtongue. It butted him in the side with its head until he picked it up. And he looked twice-delighted.
“It just knows he feeds it.”
