Reiss reached out, and Numbtongue hesitated—before shifting control to the most powerful Goblin present. His eyes—turned darker, and when he rose, the Hobgoblin turned and whispered.
“[Detect Life]. [See Invisibility].”
His fingers glowed with a [Deathbolt] spell as he placed the jar of acid in front of him—and held the knife at the ready. The Hobgoblin slowly rotated around the lab—and his eyes narrowed.
“What—”
 
——
 
Octavia Cotton had a total of about three close friends in Izril. Well, more after going south with them to rescue Mrsha.
But she hadn’t spoken to Gna for a while, or Salkis, and she missed that. The camaraderie of the road.
Really, it was Numbtongue. Saliss was her mentor, but she spent as much company in his time as not. But in lieu of finding Saliss when she was so distraught, she went to the only other friend she had.
Yellow Splatters sat there as Octavia related their fight. Her skin was still green, because it would take an age to replace all the cloth. She’d even done her face!
“And he told me I was, ‘stupid for thinking he’d ever like it’!”
“I shall hit him.”
The Antinium Soldier concluded. He stood with a nod, and Octavia grabbed his arm.
“No, don’t!”
“Then what am I doing?”
The [Sergeant] obediently sat back down, and Octavia sniffed.
“Just listen. Don’t hit him. Like you two do when you gamble.”
“That is a game.”
“It’s a game?”
The Antinium Soldier nodded reasonably.
“Yes. We play cards. Then, whoever wins gets to throw a coin at the other. Like our game where we toss one of Mrsha’s balls at the other and must not flinch.”
“Oh, Redfang games. Boy games.”
Octavia rolled her eyes. Yellow Splatters smiled, raising his mandibles.
“It is a funny game. But Numbtongue refuses to play because I have no ‘jewels’. So I do not fear the ball like he does.”
The [Alchemist] snorted about that and actually stopped crying a bit. Yellow Splatters patted her on the back.
They were not in the Free Hive. Rather, they were in a new part of Liscor—Antinium-based dormitories. It was a kind of super-reward that let Painted Antinium and members of the Hives like Silveran, Yellow Splatters, and so on have actual rooms and possessions and access to the city without having to navigate the Hive every day.
Yellow Splatters’ room was filled with paintings. He painted the Soldiers and Workers he remembered and put them on the walls. He also had a lot of the little figurines, and he had bought some tiny brushes he was learning to paint with when Octavia came in. He was, in fact, a [Painter].
“So I am not hitting Numbtongue. What is my role here?”
“Listen. Make me feel better. Take my side!”
Yellow Splatters instantly turned to face the way Octavia was facing. But he also, gingerly, patted her on the shoulders.
“Numbtongue is a bad person today. I will speak to him. He should not make his friend cry.”
“Thanks, Yellow Splatters. I just—don’t know what to do. I didn’t realize it’d make him upset.”
The Antinium stared at Octavia’s green skin blankly.
“I do not know why either. The Crimson Soldier is red. Xrn is blue. If you wore my shell, I would not be angry. But perhaps I would be if you wore Whitepaw’s paint. But I know you like me.”
“Do you think that was why it was? He could have said that! He knows I change my cloth. What if I decide I want long hair and he doesn’t like that?”
Octavia was getting mad now and throwing out examples that Numbtongue probably wouldn’t be upset about. But she was angry. Yellow Splatters nodded thoughtfully.
“If Antinium could change their cloth, they would.”
“Yeah! This isn’t home—we’re not in a Stitch-folk city. I can do what I want! I could—I could put on Revi’s cat ears if I wanted!”
“…Her what?”
Now, Octavia had to explain about how some Stitch-folk altered their bodies in ways even their own people thought were radical and extreme. Yellow Splatters hesitated.
“Yes. These cat ears are…not problems. I think.”
“I’m trying to show Numbtongue I care. I was going to keep the skin tone all week! At least! What if I started a trend? Wouldn’t that help Goblins?”
“Maybe. Maybe we should find Numbtongue.”
The Soldier felt like his unconditional support of Octavia’s position—especially vis-à-vis the cat ears—was weakening. He just felt—
“Why not dog ears? They are the superior pet.”
“What?”
Octavia gave him a blank stare as the Soldier folded his arms. Then she realized that the new Antinium dorms really were different from the Hive. For nothing would do but for Yellow Splatters to have Octavia rise—and come over to another room.
“Silveran. Silveran. Are you in here?”
Yellow Splatters knocked on a door two doors down, and a voice came from inside.
“Silveran is not here.”
Octavia hesitated—and Yellow Splatters sighed. Loudly.
“Silverstache?”
The door sprang open, and an Antinium with a huge, silvery mustache opened the door. He had something in his hands. It was blonde and looked like an old man due to the mop of hair around its face.
It was a puppy.
“This is The Spotted One, Octavia. He is a good puppy. Silveran and I share him.”
“And me, Silverstache.”
The Antinium smiled as Yellow Splatters sighed and ignored that. The little puppy was madly squirming to lick Octavia and to run about. It barked excitedly, and Octavia feared the loud sound would wake up the apartments.
Which it did.
Doors swung open, and Octavia winced as angry…neighboring Antinium delightedly came out.
“It is The Spotted One. And green Octavia. Hello!”
“The Spotted One. May I pet? Who is this green Goblin? I am Super Cleaner. I work for Silveran. Hello, Silverstache.”
“The Spotted One! Say hello to Longboy!”
A long, thin dog raced up to join the first, and the two ran about as the Workers and Soldiers bent over to pet the dogs. One offered them a treat, but Silveran stopped the Worker.
“They have already eaten. We must not feed them. Or…Furfur will not let them stay.”
“Furfur.”
The Workers and Soldiers muttered darkly. Octavia had heard of the dreaded Furfur. Silverstache confided in Octavia.
“He has let us have three doggies between us. But if we give them too many snacks or do not take care of them, we will have our permissions revoked.”
“I hate Furfur.”
One of the Workers glowered into the distance. Octavia, meanwhile, was getting her hands licked by the dogs.
“Sorry, they love [Alchemists]. We smell of all kinds of things. See?”
The Spotted One began sneezing, and all the Workers clustered around to observe in delight. They were having so much fun that Octavia forgot her argument with Numbtongue. Right up until someone came walking along.
“Oh, Yellow Splatters. And Octavia. Hello. This is a rare surprise. Is your skin now green, Octavia? It is very good-looking.”
Pawn of the Free Antinium was walking with his censer-stick and the dread Furfur himself. All the Workers guiltily hid the puppies behind them.
“We are just playing! We are not overexercising them or letting them stay up or overfeeding them—there is no reason for you to be here! Go bother the kitty-folk.”
The Antinium pointed across the complex to the other side, which was presumably where the cat-loving Antinium were. It seemed there were actual differences of opinion between the Antinium living above the Hive.
Pawn, though, just quieted the group with a wave.
“Furfur is just checking in on the pets. They like him. See?”
Indeed, all the puppies ran around him, barking in delight, and Furfur bent over. But the Workers knew that he had the power to take away the puppies. One turned to Pawn.
“He cannot take The Spotted One or Longboy away. Or I will die. They are the only reason living is worth it.”
Several Workers and Soldiers nodded with him. The Worker thought about it.
“That. And food. And music. But I cannot not have the puppies. I thought my life was fine without them, but it was only because I did not know they existed. I will never sleep without a fluffy thing in my lap.”
He bent down, and the weiner-dog lapped at his fingers. The Worker, Excessive Combs, produced his specialty object—a comb—and began to comb the delighted, wiggling dog’s fur. But when the dog lapped at his face, the Worker smiled. He swung around with the dog in his arms.
“It was worth fighting Flesh Worms and three years in the darkness for this.”
Combs had been gloomy about being a Worker—even a Painted Antinium—after all he’d seen. That was, until he realized he could take a little puppy and give it everything it wanted. And that it loved him.
Excessive Combs had never been loved like that. His only fault was feeding the dogs too many snacks, and he glared at Furfur with deep distrust.
Nor was Furfur about to confiscate the dogs, unless it really was for their own good. He was doing a checkup of their health, making sure their fur wasn’t matted, and so on. People needed a Furfur—and as for Pawn?
Octavia hadn’t seen him around of late. He clearly recognized her, green skin or not.
“Have you been crying?”
“She has had a fight with Numbtongue. Who I should not hit, but speak to civilly. It is very confusing. Perhaps you should pray with Pawn?”
“I—don’t know if that’ll help, Yellow Splatters.”
Even Octavia was unclear over what Pawn did exactly. She got his class—but Pawn winced and waved it away.
“I am not the best person to speak to for…this, Yellow Splatters. Why don’t we go back to the inn and find Numbtongue? Octavia can have a talk with Numbtongue. As long as they are not breaking up. Are you? Because I will go away and not witness that, thank you.”
He was quite relieved when Octavia told him she hoped it was a temporary fight. So, back to the inn they went.
“Where have you been, Pawn?”
“Avoiding Lyonette. Suffering. And writing and speaking with Hexel.”
The Worker muttered. Octavia had heard…about the breakup. Erin probably didn’t even know about the relationship. She looked sympathetically at him, but Pawn just stared ahead.
“I have things to occupy me. But it would be good to go to the inn now and then. Especially because I am told our spiritual guide is returning.”
“E-Erin?”
That was an odd way of saying her name. But Pawn just smiled as Yellow Splatters looked intrigued.
“No. I am told Ryoka Griffin is coming.”
“Oh. Oh. Wait—she’s a spiritual guide?”
Pawn nodded sanguinely.
“As much as we have in anyone. I have spoken to many people from Earth. Rose, Erin, Joseph, Kevin, but Ryoka least of all. And she was the first who put us upon our path.”
No wonder they were so lost. But really—Pawn smiled, and so did Octavia, because she wanted to talk to her now-famous friend, or at least, a person she’d known.
She was smiling right until they got back to the inn. Then—she stepped into her shop and saw the broken glass. Yellow Splatters stared in dismay at knocked-over beakers, reagents spilled about, and Octavia saw her entire morning of prep work spilled.
In the center of her store was Numbtongue. He was beaming, their fight completely forgotten. The [Bard] held something squirming up in his hands.
“Octavia! Octavia, look what I found! It was in your shop! Look—”
He held out a young, mangy, striped orange-and-white cat with a ragged ear who kept trying to bite his hands. The Hobgoblin was delighted. Octavia looked at her shop and the beaming idiot. Yellow Splatters raised a tentative fist and glanced at Pawn, who shook his head. Then the [Priest] eyed the shaking [Alchemist] and closed the door.
The second fight revolved mostly around Numbtongue’s delight and Octavia’s ruined shop. And him completely forgetting what the first fight was about.
 
——
 
“You cannot have a cat.”
“Can too.”
“Why do you even like it?”
“It’s hungry. See? And it fights things. I like it.”
“You’re feeding it bits of Erin’s best steak! She’s never going to let you keep it.”
“She said I could have a pet.”
“It ruined my shop!”
“You left the window open. This is a good cat. It doesn’t even want to go, see? It’s hurt.”
“You wasted a healing potion on it.”
Octavia was fuming, but Numbtongue just bent over the singed fur and cuts on the paws. The kitten was digging its claws into his shirt and skin—but it slowly stopped as the wounds healed. And he was whispering to it.
“It’s okay. You’re safe now. I’ve got you. Brave cat. It fought something with fangs and teeth. That’s why it clawed me. See? It’s already calm.”
In fact, once the nervous kitten realized it was not about to be eaten or killed, it fell asleep in Numbtongue’s arms. It wasn’t one of Elirr’s cats, nor was it a pet—it had no collar, and no one in their right mind would have let a cat out onto the Floodplains, away from Liscor.
Octavia had no idea where it had come from. The stray must have wandered away from its mother—or there was no mother anymore. It had clearly gone through some rough times before it had found its way through Octavia’s window.
It looked thin, dirty, and yet it had scratched up Numbtongue’s hands and knocked over all the alchemy supplies in his attempts to corner and grab it. The Hobgoblin already loved it.
“It must have fought off Shield Spiders to get here. And evaded Rock Crabs.”
“Or maybe it fell off a caravan or snuck out the city gates. It’s not even magical.”
“How can you tell? It could be magical.”
The Hobgoblin looked offended, but Octavia just picked up some fur and, glaring, melted it in one of her Sage’s Grass bases. It didn’t produce a reaction.
“No magical fur—not a magical cat. Even the ones that are just smart have a tinge to them. Elirr’s cats are smarter and better than this one.”
“Don’t be mean. This cat is brave. He made it here—he’s the best cat. Like a Goblin.”
Then Octavia figured out why Numbtongue liked the idea of a single cat finding his way to a safe haven. Especially a ‘warrior’. She rolled her eyes. She was so mad about her shop that she was angrier at Numbtongue for not sharing her pain. Her tools! Her stuff! Her reagents—she could replace it all with her earnings working for Saliss, but she wanted to cry. And here this beaming idiot was, sitting and petting the cat.
“Not going to talk about my green skin anymore?”
The [Bard] looked up suddenly, and his face fell.
“Oh. I was going to say I was wrong, Octavia. I shouldn’t have shouted and—”
“You’re unbelievable! I hate you!”
She shouted, and the Hobgoblin winced as the cat woke up in his arms. It panicked—and he held onto it as it squirmed.
“Good cat. Good cat, no one’s going to harm you. No one’s going to harm you~”
