Yet—the Unicorn should have come. With grasses and tonics from the [Druids], with honey from vast beehives, and with more than caution and worry. The Dragonlord slept overlong, and it showed.
He even had poor control of his flames at the moment. Suggesting…he’d been using them liberally.
Was that Wyrm the Unicorn smelled? Great. Another pest. He’d heard one was causing trouble in Ailendamus. And Lucifen. Wonderful. You never forgot infernal stench. And a Titan? And…
A cough made the Unicorn stop dowsing magically again. Teriarch spoke quietly.
“In short—and I will thank you to mind your tongue until after I have conveyed my information—the situation has changed, Taletevirion. Dramatically. I—we are called to war.”
“I’ve heard that before. Who’s calling? A Treant? Some random Human, Drake, or Gnoll girl? Magnolia Reinhart? No—she’s trying to build wall-bridges because she’s bought into your ideas.”
The Unicorn snorted, and the Dragonlord lifted his head imperiously and tilted it away.
“Oh, alright, I’ll be quiet.”
Teriarch paused a good minute, pointedly, before he spoke.
“We are called by the dead, Taletevirion. You did not see…ghosts? When Fetohep warned us of Seamwalkers, did not a single ghost come to you and warn you?”
Then the Unicorn fell silent—and his head rose slowly.
“The Unicorns of the Vale Forest are gone. Their last ghosts told me something was haunting them—last year. All of Izril’s been emptying—I can’t find a single one. What do you know about—ghosts?”
Then he listened. And the Dragonlord spoke.
“Eldavin is my simulacrum—an accident left him with some of my memories and independent will. He cannot be reasoned with, nor do I trust him. Nor was I able to best him and remove his presence. I went to Calanfer to inspire and dare the Terandrian kingdoms to come to the new lands. To level and forge connections. I did reveal myself—just as I met the Wyrm of Ailendamus and the immortal cabal therein to try and make peace and a lasting alliance. That failed, but we have some accord. All this is in service to fighting a power older than your forest, Taletevirion. Something is back—and the lands of the dead have become the first casualty in this conflict.”
He did not say it precisely like that—but if you wanted to summarize the longer explanation with occasional questions, it was essentially that.
When he was done, the Unicorn looked at the Brass Dragon for a long, long time. Not as if he were crazy, but just taking in the magnitude of it all. And here was one who could believe and understand because he had lived through times as dramatic and crazy. What Taletevirion said, after all that, was simple.
“Right. Thanks for telling me. I’m off. See you.”
The Dragonlord saw the Unicorn turn around and trot back the way he’d come. Teriarch coughed.
“You aren’t going to do anything?”
Taletevirion came to a stop. He turned his head back.
“I’m going to raid someone’s wine cellar, get so drunk I wake up next month, and then I’ll see how many charming mares I can meet. Or stallions. Heck, maybe I’ll polymorph myself. I’ll come back, probably, if you’re here in a month or two. To say goodbye. I don’t think I’ll see you in the next millennium. If you’re right—I might not be there myself, so we’ll make it a real thing. Break out all the good liquors. I’ll bring something nice as well.”
Teriarch unfolded his wings.
“Taletevirion. Didn’t you hear what I said?”
The Unicorn exhaled.
“I heard you. I’m done. It sounds like you were called, not me.”
“Only because Izril was already lost before the final conflict began. Even if one had wanted to talk to you—”
“—They wouldn’t, because I would have told them to sod off before I banished them into Baleros. Don’t give me the ‘one last time’ speech. I gave you that when the Treants left. I’m gone. There’s no side left. Soul-eaters? Ghosts? The mortals of this world?”
He threw his head back and laughed, a braying laugh, like a donkey’s, derisive and crude.
“They killed my forest and hunted us all down. I’d have thought you’d abstain as well. But if it was ghosts…”
Taletevirion’s head dipped as he looked at Teriarch.
“…that would do it. Maybe do some laps around the High Passes before you head off to war though, hm?”
He headed towards the cave’s entrance. The Dragonlord looked at one of his few acquaintances, who wasn’t as old as Teriarch—but they were of a kind. They were all like that.
“Taletevirion. What would it take for you to take up arms? You cannot ignore what is happening or hide from this calling.”
He was glancing back across his hoard, and the Unicorn, despite himself, slowed at the entrance. Taletevirion’s hooves came to a clattering halt—and it was unusual because he was normally so quiet.
Gladeswalker. Champion of the Canopied Path. When you were so old and had done so much, you had these endless names. But the silly Unicorn with his libidinous pursuits—
He turned his head back, and one eye flashed brightly, and Teriarch knew he’d gone too far.
“Hide? That is the most hypocritical thing I have ever heard you say, Dragonlord of Flame. Who walks the forests and lands of Izril while you sit in your cave and sleep away the centuries?”
“I only meant—”
The Unicorn came striding back, horn glowing dangerously. He stopped, stomping his hooves and snorting with ill-concealed ire.
“Hiding? Do you know I had pledged to your precious Magnolia Reinhart to lift my horn for war if it came to Izril? If the Antinium of Rhir ventured north, I, foolishly witnessing their destruction of the ‘Hivelands’, swore to defend this land. You accuse me of hiding? Shirking my duties? I will own that I am lazy, indiscreet, and that I will take no sides even if my kin’s ghosts were to beg me. But my ruined forest has regrown.”
He meant the Vale Forest. And yes, it was still one of the world’s largest forests, the largest by far on Izril. But the great trees were gone.
“The Dryads are dead. The Unicorns are gone. All the other species who sheltered under the branches—lost. No more communities of bear and wolf, no more Beastkin. The Corusdeer herds run wild and without purpose. The tribes of ape and monkey are dead; their kin on Baleros still mourn.”
The Unicorn’s voice was heavy and deep. Like a dirge. Teriarch tried to speak. His scales were hot. With embarrassment.
“I only meant—”
The Unicorn looked up at him, and his gaze was empty. Then—he shook his head and looked dismissively around Teriarch’s cave.
“Yet I am still here. My wards have changed, from that folk, from the great aspens and oaks and the will of Treants to little Humans playing under the branches. [Druids] who still remember how to live without cutting down everything in their path. I am here, Teriarch. And I tend to my wards and friends. What few who still remain on Izril.”
Then he looked at the Dragon, and Teriarch realized that was why the Unicorn had chosen to visit. He—even in waking—had not first thought to visit Taletevirion. The Dragon hung his head, and the Unicorn went on gently.
“If it comes, you shall see me at the last. But I am done with making empires. I thought you were. You warned me that the half-Elves would create no more great forests, but I did not listen. We have always remembered the folly of the past, us two. More than your cousins. Why would I make war and call the last of the last forwards again?”
“Perhaps the cause matters enough. Perhaps the foe is horrific enough.”
The Dragonlord’s throat was dry, but he growled the words. Taletevirion looked at him bleakly.
“Spawn from the edge of the world? Worse? Old Ones buried deep?”
“Worse.”
The Unicorn considered that. Then he turned his head.
“—And when will we hold a blade to those unwilling to help us and declare our ultimatums? Destroy an enemy’s camp so thoroughly we slaughter their livestock and salt the earth with flame? I am weary of it. Take my invitation, Teriarch. And know the Vale Forest will have one protector.”
Then he turned around once more and began to walk away. And Teriarch’s eyes burned, for the Unicorn truly had walked every century the Dragon lay sleeping. He was younger—but how many monsters, Crelers and the like, had died to that silent protector?
Perhaps the Vale Forest was the safest of its kind yet left in the world. He would be a mighty ally, though. Teriarch had a vision of the Unicorn of old, challenging a [King] to a duel as three champions lay at his feet, each one disarmed. So he called out.
“A gift, then, Taletevirion. Anything within my power to grant you—is there nothing left you desire?”
His wings took in relics, gold enough to buy the forest the Unicorn called home, even if it was from the nobles who ‘owned’ it. The Unicorn looked over his shoulder. He knew what Teriarch possessed. He thought for a long time, and his eyes sharpened.
“Still got your Dragonthrone?”
“…Yes.”
Teriarch’s voice was instantly defensive, possessive, but the fact that he even acknowledged it…the Unicorn exhaled. It really was serious, then. Even if he looked like he’d been napping. Teriarch was already yawning, but the light of hope was in his eyes.
If he had Taletevirion, a peer to stir him…the last Unicorn looked Teriarch in the eyes and considered the Brass Dragon’s treasures.
“—Then we’ll have the party there.”
He didn’t turn around this time, because he knew Teriarch was going to make him an offer. The Dragonlord tried.
“Taletevirion. If there is any object or favor or debt I can call upon—”
And the Unicorn interrupted him with an almost ironic, sing-song rhyme in his voice—but a deadly serious look in his eyes and a voice like old brambles in the forest, like dead earth under fallow trees.
 
“Dragon. No treasure of yours shall compel me.
Nor favor nor threat impel me spill my blood.
My days are done. No friends to aid nor kin to free.
My worth as warrior and guide I would rather be to stud.
I am no friend of Drake nor Gnoll nor Human nor any other kind.
Only for something new even to Dragons will I ever, ever change my mind.”
 
The Dragonlord looked down, dismayed, and Taletevirion bent a knee, giving the Dragon a too-formal salute with his horn.
“There. A true Geas of the Vale Forest upon myself. Oathsworn upon my horn. Do you have anything to add?”
Though he knew how stubborn Taletevirion was, how weary of this he must be—the Dragonlord did try one last trick. He slowly, slowly, lifted up something odd, flat, and rectangular that glowed with something other than magic.
“Will you not look at this, Taletevirion? It is new.”
The Unicorn’s eyes widened as he saw the odd device—and he trotted forwards as Teriarch lowered it.
“What is…this?”
“It is called—a laptop. A Dell. It has a number of interesting features, including…images…that you may be fascinated by.”
Teriarch sighed as he brought that up, but it was certainly new. The Unicorn’s Geas—his keen intellect focused on the laptop—and he exhaled.
“My, that is new. And this…”
He lowered his horn slightly, staring at the screen—and Teriarch sensed the near-instantaneous spellcasting only after Taletevirion’s horn extended.
A sword of light slashed the laptop in half. As the Dragon jerked it away—the horn flashed twice, and Taletevirion blew both sides of the laptop into fragments that exploded around the cave. He raised his horn as Teriarch’s mouth opened wide. The Unicorn stared the Dragonlord in the eyes.
“Don’t try to play me like an Agelum, Teriarch. Objects have always been worthless to everyone but Dragons and Drakes. A million of Veltras’ children play under the leaves of my forest. They may burn it one day or cut it to the roots. But they are innocent of their deeds of the past and when they age.”
He looked around as the stunned Dragon stared at his broken treasure, and the Unicorn spat.
“—A treasure beyond any you have ever accumulated. I have never forgotten what wealth looks like.”
Then he was trotting out of the cave, fast—so fast he left a trail of wind in his wake—before the Dragonlord could vent his incredible pique. The roar echoed around the High Passes…and then Teriarch lay down. Sulking, he reconstructed the laptop from a fragment.
Wearied, once more, the Dragon slept. The last Unicorn? He went off somewhere to find a drink. He knew an ending was coming, but so what?
It was always coming. He had seen the Creler Wars come and go. He’d seen Dryads die, seen his forest burn. Not for laptops. Not for Dragons or young folk. Teriarch was that noble soul, nobler than even the Silver Dragon Knight. He would fly and die for someone else’s future.
But Taletevirion? There was no future for Dragons. Nor for Unicorns. Not for Humanity or even the memory of the dead. The Unicorn trotted off.
He needed a drink.
 
——
 
Fights were never fun, emotionally-uplifting affairs. Especially when they were between two people who liked each other.
The last Redfang of The Wandering Inn was Numbtongue. Oh, Badarrow was back and Rabbiteater was alive.
But they weren’t here. For all he had hugged his brother and they had gone out hunting and talked—they were somehow separate.
It had taken Numbtongue a long time to understand what that sense of disconnect was—until someone had summarized it for him.
“You’re living different lives, Numbtongue. Different jobs. Different—roles. Even if you are brothers, I felt the same way with my sisters. Even when they came back, they were different. Not always better or worse, but separate.”
Lyonette knew the feeling that Numbtongue had experienced—possibly for the second time in his life. He hadn’t realized it before, but the Redfang Tribe meant that a warrior was only separated from the others during scouting missions or after a battle if they were lost or left behind.
When the thirteen Goblins had been sent to kill the [Innkeeper]—they had changed greatly over their journeys. The five who had made it to the inn…they had been strangers when they met Garen Redfang.
Now, in the same way, Numbtongue felt like Badarrow was different. Closer to a Chieftain, a member of Rags’ tribe.
Different.
He envied Badarrow in some ways. In others, he felt like the [Sniper] had left the one good place they knew. And Badarrow—seemed to think Numbtongue had had it hardest.
“We are Goblins. We have Goblinhome. You…you’re here. With Erin. With ghosts.”
Truer words had never been spoken. Badarrow liked the inn. He liked Erin—but it had too many painful memories for him. He would not stay. He had asked—tentatively—if Numbtongue wanted to go to Goblinhome. Just to visit.
