The answer was no, Numbtongue was almost sure. Erin needed someone to watch out for her. Mrsha needed someone to look out for her. The inn was fun, it had all the things Numbtongue liked.
One of them was Octavia. And Garia came by here. And that had amused his brother almost as much as anything else.
It was an open relationship. Where the relationship was forged of having known people for a while. Like Octavia.
Numbtongue had first defended her from being attacked with Yellow Splatters in Celum. After that, he’d learnt you could sometimes find Octavia starving to death, having not slept for thirty-six hours, and that if you put something in front of her, she would eat it and not die.
It became customary for him to wander into her shop, poke her if she were nodding off into a boiling beaker, or put a blanket on her—or food in front of her as she worked. He’d also sell her gemstones in return for potions, and she later realized she had an unwilling test subject for some of her potions.
That was probably how it started. Numbtongue would come into her shop to practice on the guitar as she worked and then…
Garia Strongheart was different. They had met a bit later and gotten to know each other more intimately.
Mostly—by kicking each other in Garia’s barn or practicing sparring combat. Which was a time-honored way for Redfangs to get to know each other too. Also, Numbtongue would occasionally be found wandering around naked and dead-drunk with Wailant and Viceria in the night.
And people wondered why Garia didn’t visit home that much. Well, she had been stopping by more often.
The point was, Numbtongue made it clear he quite liked both the [Martial Artist] and [Alchemist], and they were aware he wasn’t being serious. Which, to Goblins, meant babies more than a commitment.
Neither one was interested in babies at this point, so it worked out well. At least, Numbtongue thought so.
His ghosts had other opinions, but he ignored them when he could. And he had learned the ghosts could go elsewhere if need be. Which was really—really—really helpful.
There was something about Pyrite, Shorthilt, and Reiss sitting there and running commentary while he was trying to flirt that really threw Numbtongue off his stride. Let alone anything else.
The point was that Numbtongue had quite enjoyed the fall as it began to turn to winter. He enjoyed the cold, fresh air, the changing colors of grass, the new inn, the cities, and…The Wandering Inn being open and Erin not being dead.
He still woke up sometimes and wondered. Then he’d hear her voice and all was well. There were Goblins in the inn, guests and employees, and Numbtongue felt happy.
Which was why his first major fight with Octavia was such a dramatic thing.
 
——
 
“Tada! What do you think, Numbtongue?”
The Hobgoblin had been giving Octavia a gift when she surprised him with one. The thing about Numbtongue was that he quite enjoyed things. He made it his goal to find things to enjoy.
If he found he were cold and there was a nice fire, the [Bard] would obsessively grab some of Erin’s cocoa if he could find it, or hot milk and honey, two blankets, and a shivering Octavia and then sit there in front of the fire for an hour. Just because he could. Plus snacks. And a scrying orb.
If he were mining in the mountains—an actual thing he did and not just an excuse to take Octavia or Garia or someone else out to have fun—he would search for gemstones to give them. Or something fun or useful like a scarf in Invrisil that looked like a river over red soil that Garia used.
Or massages, which he was good at. Enjoyment was something to be cultivated, and Numbtongue was a connoisseur. It was also why Badarrow, Headscratcher, Shorthilt, and Rabbiteater used to make fun of him. For optimizing his good times.
A Numbtongue-gift was thus quite regular. But Octavia had been bundled up in a coat and had a hood up when he came in—and she had been sitting with her back turned until he slyly poked her. Then she turned, threw off her coat—and blanket—and beamed up at him.
That was Octavia, always thinking or chewing on a stirring spoon or a flurry of energy until she collapsed. Her and her light brown eyes, sometimes ringed by soot or lines of exhaustion. And her green skin.
…Huh? Numbtongue looked at Octavia as she threw off her coat, and her skin was definitely green. Not lime green, but a natural green—like a Goblin’s, in fact. Her body was the same—but the skin?
“I’ve been working on it all month! It took ages to get cloth dyed right, but there’s a Stitch-folk [Seamstress] in Invrisil. Who’s ready for a fun evening? I don’t have work and—Numbtongue?”
He stared at her in such a way that her excitement over her surprise faded. When she reached for him, he panicked. Or did something.
“Myeh.”
His arms went up, and he just—jumped back. Octavia’s face fell.
“Numbtongue? I thought you’d like it.”
When he could speak, the Hobgoblin got angry. And he snapped when Pyrite was poking him before he could think.
“Why would you think I’d like that?”
 
——
 
Hence the argument. It lasted for twelve minutes. And Numbtongue told Octavia not to do the skin, and she was upset and told him it wasn’t her intention to make him mad.
She was a Stitch-folk, and this was one of the few times Numbtongue had realized there really was a cultural difference.
Stitch-folk changed parts of themselves as they pleased. They didn’t value appearance as much, because if you had an unlimited budget, you could look like whatever you wanted.
The cut of cloth mattered less than the quality of it, to quote a Stitch-folk saying. So they had little judgment on skin tone. Green wasn’t something they did, but Octavia had pointed out—in increasingly exasperated tones—that she’d changed her own cloth colors and appearance many times.
“Why can’t I do it? I thought you’d be happy—”
“Well, I’m not.”
Twelve minutes later, Numbtongue was still mad about it. He was stomping around The Wandering Inn’s second floor, his room, and he only had his ghosts for companionship.
Pyrite, Shorthilt, Reiss. All three a different kind of Goblin. One, a Chieftain; another, a younger warrior; the third, the Goblin Lord, a [Necromancer].
Each one had different opinions. Sometimes, he saw them often and they were loud in his head. Other times, he could go days without thinking of them. He had their memories—and opinions. Sometimes if he wanted them or not.
“Mean to nice [Alchemist].”
Shorthilt was poking Numbtongue as they walked. The [Soulbard] swatted at his brother.
“She was wrong.”
“Why was she wrong?”
That came from the larger Hob, Pyrite, who sat. But he seemed to reappear every few steps, such that Numbtongue kept passing by him. The ghost was chewing on the memory of thistles, grimacing every few seconds.
It was actually a good question and a Pyrite-question because it made Numbtongue think. He didn’t really realize why he had been so upset by Octavia’s skin tone change.
“Was it because she should not? Or because it was bad? Or because she didn’t ask?”
Reiss was the analytical one, who was a Pisces-esque character of the three. Pyrite was a deep thinker, the Goblin Lord more academic sometimes. Plus, he knew magic and things even Numbtongue and Pyrite and Shorthilt combined couldn’t come up with. Like law and so on. Still, Numbtongue often took Pyrite’s advice over Reiss’. The Goblin Lord’s life had shown where Reiss’ decisions led.
“I…don’t want her pretending to be like a Goblin. Is bad. Not because she wanted to be—be—”
“Mean?”
“Rude?”
“Thoughtless?”
Numbtongue nodded as the ghosts suggested words.
“—That. She wouldn’t. But I looked at her, and I thought—no. Not because she’d be a bad Goblin. Maybe. I don’t know! But because I…”
He searched for words.
“I thought—‘she shouldn’t have this fate’. To have green skin. To be…”
He touched his chest, and he realized that was a lot of it. Some of it was being offended that she thought looking like a Goblin would make him happy. That she didn’t know what being a Goblin was. But he’d also been afraid.
His ghosts looked at each other. Then, Shorthilt nodded at the others and reached out.
“Brother. Give me a minute.”
He meant—[A Minute, Reborn]. Numbtongue’s greatest Skill. And it was so rare for a ghost to ask for that time that Numbtongue instantly agreed.
He reached out—
And Shorthilt took over. Numbtongue’s posture changed. He checked himself, felt at his cheeks, and the true Hob was like a dreamer watching himself from up high. He would remember, when the minute ended—and it was closer to two minutes, anyways.
But he felt Shorthilt’s vague intentions, if not understood all the ghost’s thoughts. Shorthilt took a second to wave at a curious Apista crawling out of Lyonette and Mrsha’s room and grin. He felt pleasure at that. Then he walked towards the stairs heading down to the first floor.
There was a bannister rail that helped people climb up. Nothing that needed to ever be mentioned in the history of Erin’s inn and the stairs. Just a salient point at this particular moment. A staring little Sariant Lamb poked her head out of the doorway as, below, Erin Solstice was noisily hmming and going about her day. It was about an hour before lunch, and the inn was quieter than most parts of the day.
Perfect. Shorthilt calculated his trajectory, took a few steps back—and by the time Numbtongue realized what he was going to do, it was too late to stop. Shorthilt aimed at the stairs—or rather, the banister going down, did a flying leap—
 
——
 
The crash made Erin Solstice jump in her seat. She whirled—and saw a Hobgoblin slam into the floor. Well, he came down the stairs. But she had never, ever seen someone do a flying, groin-first leap into the bannister on purpose.
It looked like it really hurt. Especially because the Goblin was clutching at his private parts and rolling around. He was cursing the air—and for some reason, Erin didn’t think it was aimed at her.
“Numbtongue? You okay, buddy?”
He didn’t seem to hear her. Erin looked at him and shook her head.
 
——
 
Shorthilt stood over Numbtongue. He’d given Numbtongue control back right before impact, and he, Reiss, and Pyrite were clustered around the downed Redfang.
“Can’t punch you, so this is easier.”
“You—you—”
Numbtongue had tears in his eyes from the agony. He was trying to ask why Shorthilt would do something like this—but the Redfang kicked at Numbtongue’s chest. His foot passed through.
“Is bad to be a Goblin? You sound like Humans. Or Drakes. Why you think like that? What bad rot in head?”
He crouched down and poked at Numbtongue angrily. He was angry—and Numbtongue saw Reiss nodding. Pyrite…Pyrite was more sympathetic.
“Is a bad thought. Sometimes you have bad thoughts.”
“Not…wrong, though.”
They all knew what it was like to be a Goblin. Hunted and hated—even this inn wasn’t completely safe. The ghosts were proof of that. Pyrite nodded reasonably, but he took a ghost-thistle out of his mouth and tossed it to the side, where it vanished.
“Not wrong. But not good to hate. Also—not Octavia. She likes you. True?”
“True.”
Numbtongue sat up, wincing, and Pyrite went on.
“She doesn’t know Goblins. She likes Numbtongue. Thinks he’ll be happy. So does this. Then he gets mad at Octavia for something she doesn’t think. Here is good question: is Octavia bad?”
The [Bard] sat there for a while. He knew the answer, of course. He just hadn’t thought of that when he was angry.
“No. Of course not. I should have explained. I’ll go now.”
He stood up, looking to the far hallway. This time, it was Pyrite who blocked him.
“No.”
“Why not?”
The Hob stared seriously at the [Bard], as if he were being stupid.
“Angry Numbtongue shouts at Octavia. They fight. Then he runs off. Seven…eight minutes later, he comes back to apologize and make up. Expects to. As if they did not fight.”
“But now I know.”
“So wait. Until evening. Come back later. Like soup. When it all nice and cooked, not hot and bubbling. But not wait until lukewarm.”
The Goldstone Chieftain smacked his lips. His food analogies…Numbtongue edged around him.
“Good idea. Or I go now.”
“She still crying? She still upset? You’re not mad because of us. Two hours. One.”
The Hob was pointing out a difference in moods, but here, at least, Numbtongue thought he was wrong. He was quite the type to leave someone alone and go off until they were calm and would talk again. It was something Shorthilt agreed with, but then, Redfangs often settled most things as Garen had taught them—with actual combat.
The [Bard] took a huge breath. He strode over to the door, and Pyrite tried to stop him.
“Don’t go. Or I’ll use a minute and eat…Calescent’s death-spice curry. All the plate. And let you poo it tonight.”
The [Bard] hesitated—and then pulled on the doorknob.
“Pyrite, you’re wise. But sometimes you don’t know everything.”
The Goldstone Chieftain frowned and hmmed. He backed up a step.
“Good point. We’ll see.”
 
——
 
When Numbtongue pushed open the door to Octavia’s shop, he called out.
“Octavia? Can we talk?”
He didn’t hear anything inside. But when he stepped through the door, he froze up instantly and decided Pyrite was right.
“Uh oh. She’s super mad. Give me a minute and I’ll cast [Barkskin].”
Reiss observed as Numbtongue’s boots crunched on—glass. He looked down, and three beakers were shattered on the floor. Thankfully, only one of them seemed magical—and it was Sage’s Water. But clearly—Octavia had been more upset than Numbtongue thought.
[Alchemists] might get mad, but they never threw things in their work areas. Let alone reagents and stuff. But several of Octavia’s mixing vials were shattered on the floorboards, and one of her Sage’s Grass water bases.
It looked like she’d tossed more tools to the ground too, and Numbtongue looked around and didn’t see her. One of her windows was slightly open to the cool fall air—he closed it.
“Octavia? You—you mad?”
He looked around the room, but she must have stormed out, because he didn’t see her. The Hobgoblin searched about. Then he bent down.
“Hm. Alchemists don’t break their own stuff.”
Pyrite reappeared, looking warily at the ground. Numbtongue suddenly looked up, and his hand reached for the Dragonblood crystal sword…which he did not always carry around with him inside the inn.
Shorthilt cursed, and instead, Numbtongue reached for his bag of holding and a jar of acid. Then he sidled over to one of the work tables, reached under it, and pulled a knife out of a sheath he’d glued to the underside. The long dagger came out as Numbtongue turned.
“Let me.”
