He was actually singing to it. Crooning—he didn’t even like singing for her without a special occasion! Vengeful, petty—Octavia searched for the lowest blow she could think of.
“Erin won’t let you keep it. She might not want a pet now she’s got a Sariant Lamb and Apista. This thing is dirty and violent.”
Suddenly worried, Numbtongue looked up.
“She’ll let me keep it.”
“Not if it’s a threat to the other animals. Or it causes more chaos.”
“Then I’ll…I’ll train it in secret and show it to her!”
The [Bard] had a brilliant idea. Octavia stared at him as he got up, looking around. Then he opened the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“I’ll take it to Elirr’s tomorrow. Then I’ll show it to her after a week. With a name. It should have a name. What about…Orangefang? Orangestripes?”
Octavia saw the Goblin beaming—and she shouted at him as he hurried into the garden.
“We’re still fighting! I’m furious at you! You can’t come up with good names, you stupid—stupid singing [Bard]!”
 
——
 
In fairness to Erin Solstice, she might have okayed a cat if one had been presented to her, even the new one that had caused so much havoc. But she didn’t think of cats that morning.
She thought of something else. Ideas. Ideas like…time travel, plans, and schemes revolving around this time of year. In fact, she was so lost in thought she’d spent the last two hours here.
She hadn’t even noticed the faint crashing and Numbtongue bumping around Octavia’s shop, far down the hall. Erin was balancing a quill on her nose and sneezing now and then.
“Goblinfriend…something I’d do once I had time…think, Erin. Think like Erin Solstice. No, wait, Erin Solstice in a year or two. Something grand. Something scary. Thiiiinnk—when is Ryoka getting here?”
Every few minutes, she’d look up and get distracted. Erin was excited about the news Ryoka had sent ahead of herself. Apparently, she was already halfway to Invrisil, and she’d use the door to come on through.
Where had she been? A continent away, that’s where. But she’d [Messaged] Erin, and they had so much to talk about. Too much. Erin was looking forwards to it, but she was also conscious of the winter.
The winter. Erin knew it was upon them, but the first snowflakes hadn’t actually fallen. She was wondering if the Winter Sprites would be back, actually. Ivolethe was dead. Or something confusing. But would the others come?
Would the dead gods object to that? Erin had no idea about the fair folk’s relationship with the dead gods, but she worried. And if they didn’t come—what about the snow?
“I need snow for my plan. But when do I spring it on them? And is it a good plan?”
“Hello, Erin. What is your plan?”
Pawn sat down in front of Erin, and she glanced up. She smiled, but absently.
“Pawn! Pull up a seat. Wanna play chess while I think? Sorry, but that’s all I’ve got power for. Big ruminating. Big plans. I’ve gotta be…ruthless. No, not just ruthless, pragmatic. Really ‘Rhavia-type moves here. Have you seen Saliss?”
“I have not seen Saliss. May I ask what this plan is about?”
Erin glanced up. She looked at Pawn, and since it was him—Erin lowered her voice and leaned forwards and whispered.
“I’ve got a kinda big plan, Pawn. The kinda thing on the level of my Mythical Quest.”
“Oh. Really?”
It was a sign of Pawn being Pawn that he didn’t so much as flinch when she said that. The [Priest] leaned over.
“What is it going to be? Is anyone in danger?”
“Not—this time! But I think it’ll really move the timeline forwards. A bit. It’ll be safe, huge, and I think you should be part of it. And Numbtongue. And Rags. And heck, Lyonette can probably make a bajillion gold coins off it.”
The [Princess], who had been trying to ignore Pawn while being cordial—turned her head slightly as she caught wind of that. Erin nodded as Pawn clicked his mandibles together.
“That does sound impressive. What is this plan?”
Erin lowered her voice further. She whispered as Pawn’s antennae waved.
“Goblin and Antinium-themed…Christmas.”
The [Priest] stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] put two hands on her head and opened them up to indicate explosions. She beamed at him.
“Huh? Amazing, right?”
“I don’t quite see the appeal. You have done this before.”
He had quite enjoyed the last one. Erin Solstice just leaned back and folded her arms with a smug look.
“Yeah. But only in Liscor. This time—I’m going global.”
Pawn’s mandibles opened. Erin Solstice waggled her eyebrows triumphantly and looked about. Huh? Huh? Imagine it. All she had to do was invent a holiday. Or rather, bring an existing one into fruition.
“I might need to speak to Fetohep and Drassi and stuff—but it’s the first part of my grand plans. And if I could just get a few more things done, I could do, like, another Quest and…Lyonette, let me know if Saliss gets in! Or Ryoka! I’m gonna pop over to Esthelm and borrow Kevin’s stone, okay?”
She got up and then turned to Pawn.
“Do you want to come with me, Pawn? I’ll just be talking to someone I know, but I could introduce you for a bit. And we should hang out. Where have you been all this time?”
The [Priest] sat there, smiling wanly at Erin. He looked older than she was for a moment.
“Thinking. Writing. Talking to Hexel. I may sadly have to attend to my responsibilities today, though.”
“Oh.”
Erin opened her mouth as her feet tried to take her to Esthelm, but she stopped.
“Are those three things connected?”
The [Priest of Wrath and Sky] nodded. Erin’s brow wrinkled up. She came back over and touched Pawn’s arm.
“Well, if you have work, you have work. But just grab me and tell me you want to talk, okay? Don’t be a stranger. Not you. Not here.”
Pawn smiled widely. He nodded, and Erin headed off as Numbtongue edged around the back of the room, holding something behind his back. Mrsha followed him with Gire, both of them sniffing pointedly. But the Goblin tried to shoo the tiny Gnoll and the giant Gnoll away.
Erin didn’t notice, or if she did, she considered this background ambiance in the inn. She was already down the hallway when her voice floated back to the guests.
“Oh! Mihaela! Hi! Are you here for something to eat? Come in!”
Then stomped in the Guildmistress of First Landing. Pawn looked up as she spotted him, and he ducked his head politely.
Her face froze—and she stared past him at Numbtongue. Then decided to stand there, looking around the inn. Taking it in—or rather, the guests—with hostility.
But even she wanted to visit on her own terms and see this inn. It was, she had been told, the place where her son, Valceif Godfrey, had lost his charm before he was murdered. And what she saw was the Goblin with the cat. The Antinium, praying in his seat and occasionally making notes in a journal.
What she failed to recognize was that they were just as unusual. Even amongst their kind. As strange as a certain Unicorn who’d decided to find something to drink and was scouring cities for something nice and unusual.
 
——
 
The common thread that united Numbtongue and Pawn was simple. They were older than their ages—and old by the standards of their species.
Pawn was 3. Numbtongue…well, Goblins didn’t count age as much, but they reckoned anything above ‘six’ was pretty old. The number of Goblins who could remember the Goblin King of a decade past were vanishingly small.
They were also the last. Not the final survivors, but the last of a group. For Numbtongue, it had been the five Redfangs.
For Pawn—a chess club that came to Erin’s inn every day and played.
Oh, there was still Garry, Bird in his tower, Belgrade, Anand, and more Individuals, more than Pawn could even name at this point, but he was the last one from those days whose role mostly echoed how it had begun.
Bird was now a child of the inn. Belgrade, a commander of more than Antinium. Anand was serving the Queens in the Hivelands.
Pawn was the one who was—uncertain. Even Xrn and Klbkch did not give him direct orders.
As always, he was searching for a path. Forging one by faith and experimentation. Leading the Antinium in his own way.
It was confusing. It was scary. It was hard, and—in that sense, it was no different from the first time Erin Solstice had turned around and asked him his name. So, when you wondered what Pawn had been doing, he didn’t lie when he told Erin it was thinking, writing, and talking to Hexel.
But the truth was deeper than that. He glanced over at Numbtongue as the Hobgoblin slyly showed the two Gnolls his wriggling cat.
“I will take him to Elirr. No telling Erin, okay? Okay? Or Lyonette.”
That was a smart move. He instantly had two allies, and the delighted Gnolls pet the wriggling cat, who was clearly worried it would be eaten by Gire and possibly Mrsha. But it settled down as the [Druid] solemnly placed a paw on its forehead.
“Miss Lyonette? We’re going out to Elirr!”
Gire ushered Mrsha and Numbtongue off, and they ran before the [Princess] could shout that Ser Sest was going too. The Thronebearer went charging off anyways, and Pawn nodded to himself.
He felt a kinship with Numbtongue, for all the Hob and he weren’t weekly gamblers like Yellow Splatters was with the [Bard]. After all—Numbtongue knew how it was too.
He had chosen to pursue relationships, practice his guitar—and apparently—learn to smile after his own devastation. He had become as part of the inn as the floorboards.
But Pawn? He passed his time in thought as Mihaela Godfrey stared about the inn. Lyonette hurried up to the woman and asked if she could do anything—she was disappointed to receive a request for a glass of water and some snacks. Mihaela stared at the fries she was given and ate them. Slowly.
Fry by fry. Her eating speed was about one fry per eight minutes. Which meant even her basket lasted her an hour without depleting noticeably. She was watching—
Mostly, she was watching the inn’s guests, looking out the window at Liscor, and listening. Whenever Lyonette came over, Mihaela would ask her a question.
“The Runner’s Guild? We get…Street Runners quite often. They do grocery deliveries.”
“Hm. And Hawk?”
“He’s…a rare guest. But very welcome here! Uh—he had a relationship with one of our regulars, so—”
“Selys.”
“You know about that?”
Mihaela took a drink of water, and it was refilled from a pitcher with ice cubes. She grunted in satisfaction.
“He cried about it in every Guild in the north. Fine. Tell me about Celum. I hear there was some business with Runners attacking other Runners.”
“Runners attacking—oh. You mean Ryoka Griffin.”
Mihaela’s face soured further.
“Yes. Her. I have the official story from the guild. Do you, personally, know anything about it?”
Lyonette hesitated, fussing with her apron.
“That was before my time. Erin might know, but she wasn’t there, either. Ryoka got one of her legs smashed by some Runners—”
“Persua, Toriska, Claudeil…well, Persua is the Runner who remains. Along with a number of younger ones who weren’t punished. Who else was there? Who else can corroborate their stories? The old Guildmaster resigned. Courtesy of Lady Reinhart, who decided the Runner’s Guild needed outside arbitration.”
If looks could shoot laser beams…the inn would have scorch marks everywhere and Pawn would have three dozen holes in his back.
“Someone who knows…Fals or Garia?”
“Huh. Strongheart did mention that. So they were there, and you know—concretely—that Ryoka Griffin had her leg broken. Anything else?”
Pawn watched Lyonette with the same sadness at seeing her. She was clearly intimidated by Mihaela and stuttered a bit. He wanted to go over and take her hand, but now they were separate.
Sadness.
“Uh…uh…she went running in the High Passes later. But then I heard Persua might have started a barfight? Which Garia was part of.”
“After breaking her leg? And where was the Runner’s Guild in all this? Senior Runners and staff were…?”
“Trying to stop Persua? Ryoka went south after that, and the Horns went to Liscor—she went to the Bloodfields, and the feud might have ended there.”
“No more witnesses. Right. That’s all I need.”
Mihaela sat back. She put her feet up on a chair she’d propped up—and Lyonette decided not to mention it. The Guildmistress stared ahead—then glanced up.
“Thank you.”
“Oh, not at all…”
The [Princess] trailed away as Mihaela raised something to her lips. It turned out to be a speaking stone.
“This is Mihaela Godfrey. Send me Fals and Garia Strongheart. Now. I’m at The Wandering Inn, Liscor. Which one’s closest? Nevermind. Both are to report to me at their top speeds.”
Mihaela sat back and continued eating her fries at the same pace. In the meantime, Pawn finally got to meet with who he was waiting for.
“Architect Hexel! Are you here to talk to Erin? I’m sorry, she’s out.”
“Erin? I don’t think so. My appointment is for—ah, there he is. No, not Erin. Do you have two hundred thousand gold pieces yet? Anything from the chess tourney?”
Lyonette stared at Pawn as the Lamia slithered into the inn. Mihaela raised her brows and sat up a bit as Lyonette bit her lip.
“Actually—not much. A lot of places took in a considerable amount of coin for the tourney—each participant paid a small fee of silver. But few have…remitted the coins to us.”
“Ah. How troublesome. Well, just drop me a [Message] or Street Runner when you need to. How are the wall repairs? Good, good. Mister Pawn, I’m sorry I was delayed. Sealing up the dungeon. We had Children climbing up.”
“Oh. Monsters or actual children?”
“Monsters. I hate the damned things. Now…you’ve bought three hours of my time and we’re on the hourglass, so let’s not waste time in the undergrowth. I’ve used up two hours and fifteen minutes already…”
The two sat down at a table, and Lyonette, perplexed, stared at Hexel as he began placing items down. Pawn put his hands together.
“I hope we can settle this matter within this latest round of revisions, Architect. You are an expensive person to hire.”
“My price goes up with how busy I am. But I love a challenge. And I level from challenging customers. Which you are.”
The Lamia, one of Erin’s rarer guests, was not someone most people talked to. He had survived Drake hostility to get to Liscor, and he was one of Baleros’ talented [Architects]. But how much did you know about him?
Mrsha, arguably, knew more than most people about one aspect of Hexel. But the Lamia was an [Architect]. Not a [Builder], not just a [Supervisor].
He made things. And the fact he and Pawn were working together? What was Pawn up to? Lyonette edged over until he looked politely her way. Then she hurried off.
