Ophiel, clinging to Erick’s shoulder and staring down at Kiri, twittered in harps and flutes, as though agreeing with Erick.

Kiri eyed Ophiel. “… Sure.”

Erick stepped up onto the stage and began conjuring the tables and equipment he would need. Kiri stepped up behind him and began conjuring the blackboards; making sure that what Erick had written was put up properly.

They were mostly through the setup when the rest of the party arrived.

A gold blip in the student seating resolved into The Headmaster, looking as regal as ever in his gold and cream emperor’s clothes.

Beside him, the air blipped red. Ryul, the harpy archmage, appeared. He wore bright gold jewelry around his barely clothed, red-feathered body. He smiled to Erick, as he said, “Hello again!”

Erick smiled back, saying, “Hello. I wondered who he would bring.”

Ryul said, “You have yet to collect on your first bargain of trade, Archmage Flatt, but now I understand I am to be even further in your debt.”

The Headmaster said, “He is a jokester. There will be no official bargains of trade today. This is a transaction. Knowledge of light, for assistance in tracking down and eliminating Messalina, the Life Binder.”

The Headmaster spoke with a partial disdain in his voice, which Erick was sure was intentional. Either he was being purposefully obtuse, to hide his interest, or he genuinely believed that Erick had no real knowledge about light. The Headmaster was a Light Mage, after all. This was his thing. He should know everything there was to know… Or at least that’s the air he was giving off.

Erick countered with, “When we’re through with this lecture, you might not think it such a small thing, sir. This is not just about the blacklights in my dungeon”

The Headmaster’s frown deepened, as he said, “We shall see.”

Erick nodded. He put his hands to the side of the professor’s podium, and began with, “This is a very, very complicated topic, for light is a fundamental force in this universe, so we will get off topic.” He added, “There are four fundamental forces, just so you know. Or at least that’s how many there were before I fell to Veird. After some initial testing, the experiments that I remembered produced exactly what I expected them to produce, so wherever we are, it might be my universe, or it might be someone else’s. I don’t know. Whatever the case, I am reasonably sure that light works on Veird like how it worked back home.” He said, “This discussion is going to get very, very confusing. Take what I say with a lot of skepticism, for I have remembered a lot, but not all of it. Understand that there are experiments that you can do to test this all out on your own. I will be explaining these experiments to you, in this lecture. I encourage you to actually run the tests yourself. Maybe even do a double-blind study. But that’s for later.” He said, “Whatever the case, this is how I am able to make artifact level Stat items and the Light Slime dungeon, so bear all that in mind as I begin this talk.”

During Erick’s speech, the Headmaster lost his frown. Ryul laughed, once, then sat down. The red harpy pulled a shoulder bag around his body, and pulled out papers and pens. A few [Scry] orbs appeared here and there as Erick spoke, but as soon as Erick said ‘four fundamental forces’, the Headmaster smashed those [Scry] orbs to smithereens, and cast a wide ranged [Ward] across the room, turning the view of the night sky above into a dark, murky vista. Erick was sure that if anyone was looking in from up there, all they could see were blobs.

The Headmaster listened to Erick, until he finished his introduction. Then, he asked, “Are particles not a fundamental part of the universe?”

Erick instantly said, “No. They are not. They are—”

The Headmaster looked to Erick’s left, to behind him to Kiri. “Your apprentice does not look so good.”

Erick turned around. Kiri was barely holding it together. She was pointedly not looking at the Headmaster, or at Erick, or at anything at all. Her eyes were open; possibly too open.

That wasn’t supposed to happen.

Erick asked, “Kiri?”

Kiri slowly turned toward Erick. Her greenscaled face was the color of pale seafoam.

Without warning, her eyes rolled into the back of her head as her knees buckled.

Erick caught her with a rapidly deployed Handy Aura, muttering, “Shit. Shit,” as he conjured a bed nearby, off of the podium, and placed her on the soft mattress. “Dammit.” He dismissed his Handy Aura out from underneath Kiri.

The Headmaster was suddenly beside the young girl, beside her bed. Poi was walking down the stairs, rapidly closing the distance between him and Kiri, while Ryul held back, frowning slightly; concerned, but with his eyes glancing back to the diagrams and writings on the blackboards on the stage.

Erick focused on Kiri. She was breathing shallow, but she was still breathing.

The Headmaster flicked a small vial of powder into his one hand, then popped the top with a thumb, before sticking the small vial under Kiri’s nose.

Kiri’s eyes slammed open. She instantly saw the Headmaster and Erick, both standing over her, Erick on the professor’s stage, and the Headmaster on the ground beside her bed, as Poi walked up to also stand nearby. She winced. She looked like she wanted to crawl into a hole and die. She whispered, “Fuck.”

The Headmaster looked from Kiri to Erick, then back to Kiri, “Tell me. Did Erick ask you to assist him in creating his lecture?”

Kiri could not bear to look at the Headmaster, as she answered, “Yes.”

“And your feelings on that?”

“… unknowable.” Kiri rapidly added, “Sorry. It’s...”

Erick breathed in relief. Kiri was okay. Now as for the rest of this conversation? Erick had no idea.

“No need to be sorry.” The Headmaster hummed. He stepped away from Kiri, then looked up to Erick, saying, “That you have shared the secret of your artifact Stat items and the nature of your light slime producing dungeon with your apprentice, and you were about to share it with Ryul, your guardsman, and I, makes me think you need… A great deal more archmage training. I bear some of the blame for this malformed lecture. We are in the midst of a new era of magic, and I had forgotten this.” He said, “This discussion will still happen, but it will not happen tonight, and it will happen in a more secure location.”

Erick felt a lot of ways about what the Headmaster was saying, but the words that came out of his mouth first, were, “What about Messalina and all the parasites she’s spreading?”

“Yes…” The Headmaster paused. He said, “I suppose I must send some Elites to Spur.” The Headmaster said, “The three already on location seem to have been compromised by the Life Binder. I expected them to do better.”

Erick said, “I expected her to find the people who killed her village and then go away.”

The Headmaster said, as though it was no big deal, “There is no way she has not found her targets.”

Erick said, “What!” Erick stepped down into the area separating the student space from the professor’s podium, to stand on the same floor as the Headmaster and Kiri. He asked, “How?!”

Poi, who had taken a step back, frowned. Kiri just winced, still laying on the bed Erick had conjured. Color was slowly returning to her face, a reddish green; she was either embarrassed or angry, Erick couldn’t tell. Probably both.

“Messalina is a pestilence with parasites everywhere, is how!” Anger flashed across the Headmaster’s face. His glowing gold eyes turned darker as he calmed himself. He said, “She is a self-indulgent hedonist. A being who had the power to do so much good, and who chose to do evil. She murdered seven of my arcanaeums—” He blinked long. When he opened his eyes again, they were back to perfect amber; back to normal. He said, “She killed five thousand of my students and tortured them into new bodies, three hundred years ago. I will never forgive her for that. She will die for leaving the sanctuary of her self-imposed exile.” He spoke with authority, saying, “I had hoped that Spur would immediately join me in my crusade against that necromancer, but, like always, it takes a personal danger for you mortals to understand that ancient evils will never stop being evil.” He concluded, “Oceanside will lead the charge against Messalina. You will remain here, and remain uncorrupted by her efforts.”

Erick said, “Thank you for helping, but I won’t stand aside when I can help, too.”

Half incredulous, the Headmaster asked, “Do you not see that you are being corrupted by Silverite, too?” The Headmaster spat, “Spur is a nest of shadows! Just as they choose to profit from Messalina’s wrath they are choosing to profit from endless war against the dark instead of ending the threat of Ar’kendrithyst, once and for all!”

Erick spat right back, “Then let’s kill all the Shades too while you’re in the neighborhood!”

A pause seemed to stretch through the turbulent mana of the room.

The Headmaster opened his mouth. He closed his mouth. He paused. He said, “There is no way Silverite approves of this. Nor Kal’Duresh, or Frontier. They all profit from Ar’Kendrithyst. Every society on Glaquin chooses to live with that dark city, for it makes them stronger. It gets them levels in exchange for death and danger.”

“I’m working on all of that.” Erick said, “But I won’t move unless all my ducks are in a row. Just like you, I suppose.”

The Headmaster asked, “Did you come to Veird to kill Melemizargo?”

The mana in the room had swirled roughshod this way and that, as voices rose and fell and emotions raged, but at the mention of the Dark God’s name, the mana went still. Everyone noticed. Ryul glanced around. Kiri paled, again. Poi seemed to freeze in place.

But Erick and the Headmaster just stared at each other.

Erick did not answer the question, because he did not know. But he did know something. Erick said, “He kills wrought all the time, doesn’t he? His goals don't matter, if his way of accomplishing them is to murder innocents. Besides, I’m pretty sure that the universe you’re in right now is larger than your previous one. It’s just harder to get around, and it’s going to take a lot more than magic to do so.”

Several strange emotions passed across the Headmaster’s face. Disbelief, for sure, but also pity, anger, and others. Erick was pretty good at guessing emotions, and he was usually correct, but whatever the Headmaster was thinking was too deep for Erick to guess.

Erick continued, “And his goal of returning Veird to the Old Cosmology is just weird. Either your old universe still exists, or it doesn’t. What’s he trying to do? Return to a void?”

The Headmaster said, “He is insane. But I am glad to see you are not. I would still urge you to remain here, while my Elites take care of this infestation in Spur.”

“I cannot do that.”

The Headmaster frowned. He said, “Fine.” He looked to Kiri, who was now sitting on the edge of her bed. He said, “Since you have taught enough of this new magic to another to give her a faint, then if you get yourself killed, at least your magic might live on.”

Kiri’s eyes went wide as she stared at the ground, away from the Headmaster.

The Headmaster said, “You are welcome to come back to Oceanside whenever you wish. I am taking your light dungeon and expanding on the location. Easy access to light essences will make killing Ar’Kendrithyst much easier.”

“I will help with that, too,” Erick said, feeling the flow of the conversation finally turn his direction. There had been some sort of hiccup with actually dispersing his half-knowledge of light and electromagnetism, but now it felt like this was what the Headmaster was truly after; at least for now. “I might even take a light slime form and work on [Lightwalk], myself.”

“Then you will expand the dungeon to ten times the size, but it will remain under my control. You will be forbidden from creating a second light slime dungeon for a period of ten years.”

“Then I fully expect you to take care of it while I’m not present, but I, and any who I designate, will have access to the location whenever I need or want, and you will also provide locations for other experimental dungeons. I will also be provided with fifty percent of any revenue produced by any of my dungeons.”

“Twenty percent, and as long as you do not bring danger to Oceanside, I will agree to these terms.”

“Thirty, and experiments bring inherent danger, but I will strive to be responsible.”

“Twenty five, and I want an initial light dungeon created in five days or however long it takes you, before you go back to Spur and get yourself killed by a targeted parasite. Krigea or Apell Calloway will assist you in deciding a new location. In the meantime, my Elites will journey to the cities of the Crystal Forest to begin the process of de-worming the populace and bringing Messalina to justice.” He added, “But I say all this with one major caveat: I cannot promise to help those who are unwilling to accept my help.”

Erick wasn’t happy about not going right back to Spur, but he said, “Agreed.”
