Leo had, prior to that moment, been conscious of the fact that there were mages that could override his magic. In many ways, that was part of the simple reality of being a mage. There would be others that were stronger than you. A novice mage (or a plainroot one, as Leo now understood) wouldn't be able to stop a palewater mage's [Fireball] with a [Quench], even though the latter spell was designed to stop the former; the hierarchy dictated that palewater was superior.

But before this moment, Leo had always thought of this as a representation of skill with magic. He thought of stronger mages as having access to more mana and a greater understanding of their spells, perhaps a stronger core, to fuel their magic. He had not considered that the very underlying quality of mana could be different.

Now he could feel that difference for himself. Palewater was a part of him in a way that plainroot mana never could be. To call it mana manipulation was almost too demeaning. It didn't feel like he was using a different skill at all. Rather, it felt like he had gained mastery over a limb he hadn't even known he had.

Leo tilted his head slightly. He felt the labyrinth shiver around him as his echo commanded it to change and crush him; he felt the walls begin to expand, bearing down on him with force.

He let his one drop of palewater flow into a single spell.

[Makeshift Labyrinth] has evolved into [Labyrinth Domain]!

[Labyrinth Domain] and [Minotaur's Domain] are compatible. Processing spell fusion...

You have learned [Asterion's Gaze]!

It was, Leo reflected, an exceptionally good thing that the spell took effect before he finished reading what the Gift had to say about it. If it hadn't, then his echo might very well have killed him before he could stop its attack. Instead, every part of the labyrinth he could see—the walls emerging to crush him, the spikes he'd failed to notice sprouting beneath his feet—became a part of him.

Once again, he was starkly aware now of the difference between palewater and plainroot. His echo strained against his control; he could feel the mana going into the spell, could feel it pressing the force of its will against his own in increasing quantities of magical force.

But for all that it tried, it took no effort at all for him to brush off its efforts.

"Sorry about this," Leo told his echo. With the immediate danger gone, he found himself feeling almost sorry for his counterpart. None of this was its fault, and it was clearly intelligent enough that he couldn't simply chalk it off as some mindless copy; it had almost managed to outthink him, in fact. If not for the rage it had been created with, it might very well have defeated him before he could gather himself enough to come up with a strategy.

He couldn't bring himself to kill it. Even past the fact that he was uncomfortable with killing in the first place, the fact that it looked like him made the thought... distinctly unpalatable. Instead, he reached out to cage it within the labyrinth, warping its walls and floor so it flowed around his echo.

Making it effectively a part of the labyrinth.

He hadn't been sure this would work, and perhaps it was only the unique circumstances here that allowed it to, but the moment the stone flowed over its shoulders, he could feel it becoming part of his domain. Enough for him to prevent it from casting any spells, at least, which would keep him safe until Cale returned and they could figure out what to do.

Speaking of which, where was Cale? Leo frowned, reaching out with his mana sense to try to find any trace of his mentor. He'd been too frantic trying to survive earlier to dwell too much on it, but now—

His echo let out a bloodcurdling scream, and Leo's attention snapped over, though his reflexive attempt to reinforce his barriers did nothing. There was no power left in him except the mana fueling [Asterion's Gaze].

He needn't have worried. The scream wasn't a scream of rage. Leo recoiled in muted horror as he saw his echo visibly losing cohesion, melting in front of his eyes.

The library around them trembled, and a groan reverberated through the ruins of the shelves, like the entire structure was creaking.

Leo rushed to his echo. "Are you alright?" he asked. He wasn't sure if it could actually understand him, and its eyes were glazed over, but he saw it struggling weakly to look at him. The sight was absolutely going to get lodged into his nightmares. "Stupid question. Just—hang on a moment, let me—"

Was there something he could do? The echo was a part of the labyrinth. Theoretically, [Asterion's Gaze] gave him dominion, and he could try to hold it together...

But it felt like he was trying to sculpt with liquid. The echo fell apart around him faster than he could rebuild it. It didn't help that his own soul was shaking in response to whatever just happened; he could barely keep himself focused on the task when he felt like he was being rattled around inside his own body.

He tried anyway. He stopped only when the echo was nothing more than ruined, liquid magic, pooling in a puddle on the ruined ground, and he tried very hard not to think about what that had looked like.

He needed a distraction. What was causing this? Something was happening in the library, that much was obvious. Another fight. Cale's, perhaps? Did Cale have to fight an echo of his own? It would explain why he'd disappeared, though Leo didn't want to imagine the kind of devastation a fight like that could cause.

For a moment, Leo hesitated. He was pretty much out of mana. It was going to take at least a few hours before he regenerated enough to be useful in any kind of fight.

But he was so, so tired of not being able to do things. And he'd proved himself, hadn't he? More than that, [Asterion's Gaze] was still active. As long as there was anything there he could manipulate with it, he wouldn't be completely useless.

Leo drew himself to his feet, clenching his fists.

Time to find out what was going on.
