Delta was starting to get excited when things cost a little more than normal. Delta didn’t know what or why the sapling cost so much but she imagined a tree overlooking her pond and didn’t think twice before she bought it.With havin it purchased, Delta felt a light bulb click on as she remembered she could… get more information on things before she purchased them.Thankful that no one knew about little slip up, Delta held her finger on the menu.

Delta was impressed by what Hob and Gob had managed to find by sheer talent, skill, hard work and… maybe luck.The egg she didn’t seemed to unlock anything yet but shrugged, if the gobs brought her more, she maybe get something. Until then, she could just make the egg.

Delta tried to ignore how she now had bacon(in a sense), eggs, mushrooms, apples… and fish. She was only a few meats short of a full breakfast.Delta tried to imagine how the poor souls would feel down the line to beat her epic dragon boss and get a hearty breakfast as a reward?Delta would love it but she could she how people might be miffed.The rope was some research. Perhaps into her traps? Or maybe she could make some item for people?Delta looked at her research menu and felt like maybe she should start buying some…

Delta shrugged and purchased them all.Her 81 DP dropped to 41. Delta could’ve stockpile the points and waited until she unlocked some uber epic upgrade but…That just seemed pointless.Hob looked confused as as Delta giggled to herself.

Delta hummed, fingers wiggling as she grew curious..“Wooden sword!” she called aloud.

Delta purchased it and gestured to the space near Hob. She winced as it clonked the goblin on the head and rattled to the ground.“Master...” Hob groaned and blinked a few times at the object.“Sword for Hob?” he whispered and picked it up. Delta blinked as the sword shrunk a little in the gobs hands. Her items came in perfect sizes?Delta smacked herself. Of course they did, otherwise random drops would become hellish.Did they lose this ability outside her dungeon or did all clothes resize themselves? Delta stared off into space at the mere idea.No… wrong size clothes.What heaven was this world? Gob returned and dumped more mushrooms and stones into her dungeon. He cheered and vanished again. Gob was a lot more energetic than Hob was…Her mana pinged to 12 and held.Delta wandered off, dazed. Hob charged into the boss room, showing off his new weapon as Delta walked through. Fran grinned and within a few moments had disarmed the gob without much effort.Delta let them play as she looked at the last thing on her menu that blinked out at her. It wasn’t a new option, it was actually one of her very first ones.Delta could have messed about with the newest upgrade.

Delta could have given the room of nightmares more power… but she decided she needed to be a little more serious. She went to the Mushy just before her Boss room.She eyed the option.

With some hesitance, Delta hit the button and a new menu appeared.

Delta focused on the Mushy before her and hit Greater Mushroom. The mana left her and the Mushy went rigid before cracks appeared all over it’s body. Then a new body burst forth from the shattered shell of its former self.The Greater Mushroom was like a Mushy but also very different. Delta knew this description was useless but didn’t care much as she was too busy screaming at the writhing form before her.She fled to the end of the tunnel. She stared back as the monster, a good two foot taller than her old Mushy, stared back. Mushy looked like a giant mushroom with beady eyes and a maw with acid inside.A Greater Mushroom was like that but someone decided it wasn’t scary enough and made the spongy skin dark red, the small beady eyes large narrow glaring holes, the mouth now having actual teeth and the light green acid was now a bubbling dark green liquid that hissed in the open air.Oh and it now have thorny tentacles it was using to feel about in the dark.Delta peeked around the corner and the Mushy… no it wasn’t just a Mushy. This was something else.It was Great Mushy.Delta knew she should have gone with the spiders… or wait… would they have gotten more evil as well?Delta felt conflicted and fled to her core room, screeching past the Great Mushy who looked confused.In her Core room, she slid down the closed door and sighed. She opened her eyes and began to scream again.On her stone platform, on all four corners of the thing was four giant stone mushrooms.Her menu opened up with a little cheery ring as if trying to surprise her.

Delta got up and ran with a blood-curdling battle cry at the menu which promptly ran away from her, the thing ringing in alarmed panic.---The spiders moved into the forest, new and fresh, the only goal was to return... return to the Queen.

---
