It rests in my chest, with an invisible barrier of stacked and tethered vibrations around it.

Peering into the pool of compacted malice, resentment, and rage that swirls within it makes my whole body shiver. It's far more dense and intimidating than it was back in the Green Zone. Because the dark essence of built-up hatred for tens of thousands of Demons I've slaughtered throughout the ravine has been absorbed into it as well.

However, Miriel's will enhancing the demonic energy of thousands of demons isn't the most potent part. It is that all of these feelings mixed with Royal Vibrations and Corruption that threatened to destroy an entire Zone of the Upper Realm—they are only truly held together by my own bottled-up rage, hatred, and resentment targeted at these Demons.

The close up imagery of this High Noble's hammer slamming into Maria's defenseless body, and her pushing her soul to the limits to give me another chance to attack rush through my mind. It only makes the dark energy churn with more intensity inside my core. The final thing I felt through our connection before I severed it was the backlash and recoil her mind and body felt after using that blinding technique in the sky.

My Demon's Core pulses, and an invisible ripple all over its surface allows for a small wave of this dark aura to flow out.

It feels both hot and cold at the same time, traveling along my energy pathways through my chest, down my arm, and wrapping around my blade in coiling black tendrils of aura. There are countless layers of vibrations that surge through this oily energy, but even I don't have full control over it; nor can I count the layers of vibrations or fully see how it's binding with my soulsword.

My whole body's Celestial Energy Reserves begin to drain, and I feel massive stores of energy being used up. I know this is the only chance I have in this moment, so I need to take advantage of it.

I slice downward and feel the flow of dark energy from my core flood out with an even more intense wave. One of my eyes begins to pulse with this black and purple energy as it starts to soak through half my body.

My vision flickers, and for a moment, all I see is a dark purple core in this Demon's chest.

The strange black waves of Royal Vibrations that tether to my Celestial Fire are so dense and sharp; the sharp and suppressive aura that fills the air is sliced right through.

I collide blade to blade with this Demon's short sword and watch its hundreds of layers of protections split instantly, and the dense white soul weapon shatters under the dark pressure of mine.

I follow through and leave a deep gash all the way down its arm, and through its abdomen, and even slice through a large portion of its thigh before we hit the ground.

The impact with the hard stone below makes my joints and bones ache on the side of my body that isn't covered in darkness. It breaks me out of the trance-like state, and I yell into the void while forcing the energy to stop spreading any further... and most importantly not into Maria.

It is extremely painful, like two parts of my mind are fighting for dominance. The black tendrils are full of greed and anger, yet I fight it off as my will to win this fight with my sanity in tact is still stronger.

We jump out of the way as the darkness floods out of my eye, sword, and body; back into my core.

A ground-shaking thud of a hammer falling from the sky, attached to a Demon's shattered and frozen arm, makes our heads turn.

It is followed by an overwhelming wave of fatigue hitting me the moment the last drop of darkness retreats into my core. Though, in the same moment, our synchronicity of Celestial Energy starts to flow through us again. Both of our tired eyes perk up, but the shaking ground becomes even more intense.

We stare forward and lift our blades as a Demon with a black scar across its body now limps toward us with its axe as its only weapon left; and a one-armed Demon kicks away the remains of its own shattered fist free from its hammer while lifting the heavy weapon up in the air with its only remaining hand.

The white foggy auras that surround their bodies grow, expand, making the air feel both heavy and sharp.

This explosion of aura lets us see outward into the darkness for almost 10 kilometers in a flash of perception... and it isn't what I expected to see like what was on the maps.

Behind the Demons are the stairs that we walked up to get here.

But behind us... there is a massive crack in the flat stone.

All of the cave carvings made it look like a flat square platform at the top. Yet... from the small view I'm seeing, it looks like the entire pyramid has been cracked in half.

It also means we're cornered.

–

Despite the horrific shape we've left these two monsters in, their auras aren't any weaker; and every step closer they take sends pulses of white energy through the floor and air.

Our cycling blue and red energy slowly heals the cracks in our soul armor, and our fatigue starts to lessen. However, the lean demon with a black scar across its body is not going to let us heal all the way.

It grabs its axe with both of its free hands now and charges it up with bright white light.

The swing across its body is so fast, my eyes can barely track it, and the crescent of energy that is easily the size of the demon itself trails a thick aura of white fog behind it.

Even over a hundred meters away, the sharp aura makes it feel like a thousand swords have just punctured every free space on my body. The closer it comes, the deeper it feels like these wounds are being pushed in.

Both of us wince, breathing heavy, with half the strength we did at the start of this battle. We both know there's only one way to win.

Maria steps forward, and I feel our connection of Celestial Energy cycles go dark just like before.

Her Soul Energy core sinks into her chest so small, it completely disappears from my senses... Then, a shockwave of Royal Blue light floods the air. It pushes back the sharp aura of this blade; but I watch her eyes flood out with a sparkling aura of pure source resin. It matches the coloring of her blade as she slices downward through the air.

A slash of ice erupts from her soul sword, increasing larger and larger in size to the point where I don't know when it will stop.

The slash grows even larger than the white crescent coming our way.

At the same time, my arm that holds only Maria's becomes dangerously cold. I've become extremely used to cycling her Celestial energy through my pathways and core, but the aura that touches me now seems slightly foreign.

My fingers go numb, and cracks begin forming in my arm while my eyes widen at the explosion that fills every edge of my ether senses before me.

It is like two ocean waves colliding, but the blue tsunami of ice completely overwhelms the white wave. The whole floor of this pyramid is flooded with blue energy, and the slash flies through the air colliding with the leaner demon first.

It uses its axe to block, but it is still thrown off its feet, flying backward. The intensity of the blast hits the hammer-wielding demons as well. It is slightly further back and has enough time to jump upward and out of the most intense zone of the blast. But even it uses its hammer to defend its face and heart. I can see portions of its armor and skin being frozen and shattered off as it flies backward.

Maria's cycle slows, and I feel her aura start to dull for a moment.

But she turns her head my way with her blue and rainbow-refracting eyes open wide in fear. She looks in my direction, but I can tell I'm not what she is looking at.

It is something coming from the darkness behind me.

Her Core disappears again, retracting and pulsing outward as she shows a painful expression and pivots her stance.

Another wave of blue and sparkling ice pours out from her blade.

I feel the dangerous aura freezing up my arm further, all the way into my shoulder, but I still hold on.

The wave of ice blasted into the sky takes everything out of her, I watch Maria's eyes lose their intensity and her body starts to fall limp. But, she relinks our Celestial Energy connection before she falls toward me.

I catch her with my frozen arm, but at the same time, a sensory overload lights up the sky.

The full-powered attack she just set off into the darkness collides with the incoming open mouth of a 500-meter-long Demonic Dragon.

Its mouth looks like it was about to release a beam of white light, but a sharp crescent of ice slices right between its eyes.

Two halves of a frozen Dragon split apart and hit the ground on either side of us.

The heavy thud shakes reality as a cycle of our remaining celestial energy begins to make the ice in my arm retreat and heal.

The shockwaves and blinding white and blue lights begin to fade.

The axe-wielding demon is frozen in place in a massive jagged crystalline block of ice. Its fear-filled expression is trapped in place as the life leaves its eyes, and half of the head of its dragon slides toward it.

However, behind it, the one-armed hammer-wielder still glows with a hot white aura.

Above it, at the outer edges of my senses, its dragon opens its mouth, glowing bright white.

The Demon runs my way, and a bright burst of white light beams out from the dragon's mouth down toward me as it flaps its enormous wings and reveals the rest of its body.

I know the amount of corruption I allowed to seep out last time isn't going to cut it. I barely sliced through the leaner demon's skin.

The final bits of ice on my arm melt away, but Maria's body is still weak. With our cycle synced up, I can tell even if we had a few more seconds to rest, she wouldn't be able to fight again yet.

I stare up at the beam of pure Dragon's Celestial Energy coming down toward us, and the increase in gravity tens of times over as the hammer-wielder releases its rage, realizing its battle partner just died.

Our celestial energy connection is severed one more time. When I close my eyes, I focus on my Demon's core and allow far more than just the outer barrier of this seal to dissolve.
