“I know, I heard about someone entering the city with a guard. And be careful; the attention of officials isn’t always a good thing. We’ll see you when you get back.” Litil answered with a reassuring smile.

“Right, thanks. I’ll see you both as soon as I can, I promise.” Ranthia answered, trying to pat Clover one last time—only to get bitten.

The more things change…

With that, Ranthia backed out of Litil’s shop and blurred into the distance at top speed. It seemed a bit cruel, but the easiest way to keep Clover from following her was to ensure Clover couldn’t find where she had gone. She’d carefully avoided mentioning where she would gather with the others, and the City of Arts wasn’t so small that a bunny—especially not one under Litil’s watchful eye—could find a small group of thirty or so people in short order.

A few Hunters were milling around near the northern exit, so Ranthia joined them. Aegiomus was already there, handing out preserved fish and travel bread to everyone as they arrived. Ranthia accepted her share, politely refused the squares of Ilan bread, and waited for Anthelleon.

Unsurprisingly, the painfully punctual woman only arrived exactly at the appointed time, leaving them with no time to do anything more than exchange nonverbal greetings while Ranthia fell into step beside her friend. As a loose herd, the twenty-nine Hunters made their way through the City’s protective barrier. Just outside the city, waiting off the road, the pompous official sat astride a two-legged feathered dinosaur that Ranthia didn’t recognize, with two other elves standing near him.

The man was dressed in an outfit that Ranthia could only think of as a battle dress—a knee-length garment of hardened leather, wrapped loosely in white chains. Winter steel, most likely; one of the less popular alloys that elven smiths made. His blond hair had red streaks through it, and his thin, curly horns were painted the same crimson hue. [Warrior – Mantle] level 836, [Mage – Spatial] level 799, and [Warrior – Gale] level 642.

The woman was dressed in several layers of cloth, dyed black, blue, and green. A long, curved sword was strapped to her back, and she had several bangles made from a variety of materials worn on her arms and lower legs. Strangely, her garments included a cape, which Ranthia had never even seen since she left Remus behind—and even then, they’d been relegated to formal dress. [Warrior – Gale] level 947, [Warrior – Mantle] level 909, [Warrior – Arcanite] level 856.

“Elf Hunters.” Anthelleon hissed. Within moments, the phrase had spread to the lips of almost every other Hunter present, before they adjusted their positions and collectively turned their heads to the left to spit on the ground. Only Ranthia and a visibly flustered Aegiomus failed to take part in the openly hostile response.

The elven official began some spiel about how the duo were requested for the skillset they uniquely possessed, but rather than listening to him, Ranthia caught Anthelleon’s attention.

“What in Xaoc’s glory is an Elf Hunter and why is everyone so pissed off?” Ranthia whispered her question.

“Those two used to be Hunters, until they left the Lodge. Elf Hunters go after anyone that tries to escape punishment when they break the laws or rules of any city. Mortals, yes, but most of those that these irredeemable curs turn their steel against are elves. I would have never taken this loathsome job had I known they’d be here.” Anthelleon was a sweet and caring person by nature. Even when someone successfully pissed her off, she preferred to remain quiet and pretend she wasn’t affected. So Ranthia was more than a bit shaken by the open hostility in her friend’s tone and body language.

“Enough. Tythel, Ryondin, I trust that I can—” Aegiomus cut the official off and tried to broker a peace.

“Oh, we don’t use those names anymore.” The male Elf Hunter cut him off. “These days, I’m Blood Chain. And she goes by Rogue Wind.”

…Oh gods. Ranthia desperately tamped down on her urge to start laughing. Of all the juvenile absurdities! Blood Chain and Rogue Wind?! She couldn’t possibly engage with them in good faith. People can’t just take a fascinating or meaningful word or two and create a viable name without coming off as being ridiculous!

… … …

Somewhere down that chain of thought lurked a dire reassessment of Sentinel names and titles.

“Enough, enough! Let us be on our way, yes? I will explain as we journey.” The official guided his mount between the two groups, then set out, clearly expecting them to follow.

The Hunters created a loose wedge to the man’s left as they paced his mount, leaving the duo of try-hard Elf Hunters to stay at his right. The pace wasn’t as challenging as Ranthia would have expected it to be—by her standards, it was practically a light, sustainable jog. Yes, that was preferable to something taxing that would have exhausted her, but it was a fairly sedate pace by elven standards.

As for the explanation, the official clearly had a fondness for the sound of his own voice. To cut through the pomp and excuses, they pursued a wagon that had been stolen by unknown actors. He was cagey about what the wagon was carrying, but allegedly the Unchanging Council itself had “at least some interest, though not an excessive amount” in seeing wagon and cargo both recovered. There were a few things that felt odd about his explanation though. First of all, he mentioned (with a chagrined expression, once he realized what he’d said) that they were pursuing “one of the wagons,” in a direction that it may have gone. Supposedly other groups were handling other routes it may have taken, though she was forced to wonder if they weren’t pursuing other wagons instead. Secondly, the man stressed that they had to find a lead and intercept the wagon before it left the Tympestshard Council’s territory. That much made sense, but he was candid about wanting to keep the Wardens from getting involved. Unfortunately, Ranthia knew even less about the Tympestshard Council’s politics than she had ever known about those in Remus, so she had no idea what to make of that.

Still, the job sounded easy enough, so long as they managed to find a lead.

Watching a gaggle of self-proclaimed experts at tracking compete with one another was a spectacle in and of itself. Half the Hunters were determined to be the first to find any and every lead as they progressed and they embraced silliness to gain every advantage they could. Grown elves crawled on all fours as they sniffed at the ground. Skills activated every few steps. One guy was even licking the road periodically, muttering to himself as though he was getting useful intel out of it. The group had been arguing amongst themselves about whether or not to set up camp for the second night when one of the Hunters announced that he was convinced he had caught scent of their quarry. No one else could detect the scent, but they still let him convince them to abandon the main road to follow the offshoot.

It was early in the next morning before the next—and likely first true—clue was found. A tiny fragment sliced off a piece of poop, most likely one that had landed just outside of whatever Skill was erasing the wagon’s tracks. After all, who else would bother with such an effect unless they were trying to smuggle an entire wagon?

…Unless it was an Aura that was always active. Still, the general consensus seemed to be that they were hot on the trail of their quarry.

“I know this stink. Orcs. We’re after orcs, and we’re not far behind them.” Cormanth announced, as he returned from the woods. He’d suddenly darted off with the urgency of someone with severe digestive distress, but clearly, he’d caught a scent and rushed to investigate.

The news seemed to drain a bit of the tension—mortals were easier to deal with, after all. It also encouraged them to speed up; ideally, they would complete their vengeful hunt before they lost the sun.

“I hear something.” Ranthia whispered, projecting just enough to make sure she was heard by the elves that surrounded her.

Several doubtful sneers were directed her way.

“No, she’s right. I hear it too. Three voices, and the wagon’s noise is being suppressed, but it’s not entirely erased.” Aegiomus confirmed.

That was more than she had gotten, but it was more than a bit surprising that she’d been among the first to notice the out-of-place sound. Sure, her [Companion Bond] improved her hearing, but it was only a level 480 Skill, and she was competing with elves.

Silently (surprisingly so for a group of more than thirty people), they progressed toward the sound. It didn’t take long for everyone to hear the three arguing voices—their sources weren’t shouting or anything, but arguments tended to be hard to miss. Their rushed pace was just a bit faster than those they pursued and the volume increased steadily as they closed the gap.

The road that they were on wasn’t a major one, it was little more than a game trail worn into the light woodlands they were in, north-northeast of the City of Arts. They were well past the mountains, and the trees were thin and scattered enough to allow larger grazers to wander where they wished. Dinosaurs lifted their maws from the grasses and greens they supped upon to warily watch them pass, only to return to grazing once it was clear that the Hunters weren’t bothering them.

Once they passed some unspoken point, the Hunters sped up and began to scatter. Ranthia stuck with Anthelleon and tried to match her friend’s pace, as stealth was sacrificed for expedience. The official fell back, unable or unwilling to match their rush.

The twang of a bow heralded the start of the battle. It felt absurd to attack the orcs without verifying anything, but by the time the first arrows and Skills were in flight, there was nothing Ranthia could do but form her knives.

“They found us!” A guttural voice helpfully alleviated Ranthia’s concerns, even as the orc next to him died in a spray of blood.

There were eight orcs in sight, loosely surrounding a wagon that was slowly trudging to a stop. The opening volley slew five and wounded a sixth, though the orcs rallied with alacrity. To the best of Ranthia’s knowledge, all of orckind had been at war with the dwarves of Khazad until they had been defeated and driven out. What they were doing so far west—or, more likely, east—was a mystery, but it was clear that all three of the surviving orcs had combat experience. Each was triple classed and wearing good steel.

Two [Warriors] charged, while the injured [Mage] unleashed a massive barrage of lethal stones. The barrage arced over the [Warriors] and descended in a deadly hail on the elves with expert timing.

It was too bad they were so utterly outclassed. Each of the orcs was almost level six hundred, with every level earned through blood and conflict. But that was the difference between mortals and immortals. The elves were comparatively soft, yet they wielded at least two level 768 classes—with some among their number choosing not to cycle.

Anthelleon raised her staff and projected a broad pane of Brilliance, covering Ranthia and herself. A few Hunters contemptuously parried each individual stone—including the Elf Hunter woman—while others conjured barriers and other defenses. The barrage had likely consumed every bit of mana the [Mage] possessed, but he failed to so much as draw a single drop of elven blood.

And neither [Warrior] lived to finish their charge. Arrows and other Skills tore through their steel and flesh until they succumbed—their endurance was impressive, but insufficient to save them from Black Crow’s harvest. The male Elf Hunter was the first to reach the [Mage], though instead of taking the man prisoner, he drove his sickle through the orc’s throat.

[Divine Eyes in the Void] pinged, just as the orc fell, gurgling. But Ranthia hadn’t actually required the warning; she was already aware of the (presumed) orc’s approach. The layered stealth Skills were good, even her [Divine Eye] only saw a slight distortion in the air as the would-be assassin neared. They had just made a common mistake—whatever Skill(s) erased the sounds that their body and their passage made also erased every other sound that the wilderness had to offer. The wall of inexplicable, moving silence was as obvious as anything.

Ranthia let her opponent draw near, then activated [Sustained Chaos] and threw a fully imbued knife into the distortion.

Her grey-green skinned adversary shimmered into existence, a stupefied expression on his face as he gawked at her—her dagger buried deep in his chest. A moment later, Jarthrams took the orc’s head with a broad blade formed out of conjured ruby.

[*ding!* You have contributed to the slaying of an orc [See No Death] (Mirage, level 701), [Hear No Death] (Sound, level 685), [Feel No Death] (Void, level 670)!]

“Clear!” Ranthia called out of habit, once she confirmed that there were no other obvious hostiles in the vicinity.

“Well, that was easy! Loathsome villains have been brought low and the deed is done!” Anthelleon beamed. She hadn’t actually done much more than provide defense, yet she was still smiling like she’d singlehandedly bested their enemies.

“We should have kept one of them alive though. We might never know how or why they pulled this much off.” Aegiomus cut in, glaring at the inanely named Elf Hunter that was swinging his sickle idly via the chain it was tethered to.

“Yeah, and this is why we’re here. You damn monster fuckers never pay enough attention.” The man replied, smiling the smuggest and most punchable smile he possessed. But with that, he loosened his grip on his weapon and sent it flying toward the driver’s seat of the wagon.

With a strange, surreal sound, the weapon vanished, leaving a shimmering fissure in midair. An instant later, it went taut and the elf planted his feet and heaved on his chain. The little fissure expanded with a horrific noise—like an unholy halfway point between shattering crystal and ripping fabric—which was immediately erased by an even worse sound.

It was a sound that Ranthia heard in most of her nightmares, ever since the horrible day that she’d inadvertently elicited it. The world seemed to be in slow motion as her dread built. One forceful, accelerated heartbeat revealed vibrant blonde—a vivid shock of color that seemed to leave the rest of Pallos greyer.

