Daniel Hillside, The Harbinger of Cataclysm(lvl 15,000(Cap: 25,000) | Class: Sovereign | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion) - Hey, sorry. I'll lease ten of my super golems right now as an apology. What would be a fair offer for you?

A message popped up within seconds.

Obolis Novas, the Finder of Secrets(lvl 24,629(Cap: 33,000) | Class: Founder | Guild: The Empire) - Well, I can see you've gained a class, a variant of the Ruler class at that. Welcome to the council, and I could help you arrive there with the correct impression if you'd like. Just as well, I pray that your strength will be in our favor.

For the golems, I am willing to pay 1 million credits per golem, per month leased. I can send those payments preemptively if required.

That was enough money to buy quite a few dungeon cores, something I still needed after blowing my fortune on red ones. At this rate, I could chip away at my core fulfillment while helping the guy out. It was a win-win situation.

Daniel Hillside, The Harbinger of Cataclysm(lvl 15,000(Cap: 25,000) | Class: Sovereign | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion) - That sounds good to me. Before that, can we meet up soon for the Blegara transferral? I want to start a siege there before heading over to Svia. With a bulwark made, I think we can gain some serious ground there over time. That helps us both.

Obolis Novas, the Finder of Secrets(lvl 24,629(Cap: 33,000) | Class: Founder | Guild: The Empire) - I shall make it so. Can you have an arrangement now? I'm at my study, and I'm currently busying myself between two other meetings, which are something I'm not particularly fond of. They are an unfortunate necessity given my position.

I looked around, finding myself just loafing around for once. The stars shined overhead, satisfying fatigue washing over me. Yup, I definitely had time.

Daniel Hillside, The Harbinger of Cataclysm(lvl 15,000(Cap: 25,000) | Class: Sovereign | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion) - Here are my coordinates. We can hash this out real quick—also, meetings. I have so many of those nowadays, so I can understand your pain.

I waited for a few seconds before a portal popped up in my vision. Through it, Obolis's personal study showcased itself again in all its glory. Amidst the luster of foreign ores, the sheen of rare armors, and the solemn quiet of his underground bastion, I paced through. On the other side, the fur over Obolis's neck stood on end as I strode in.

He peered up from his work slowly, eyeing me with an air of suspicion. His eyes widened before he returned to his usual, unshakable confidence. Obolis steepled his fingers,

"Well, you appear quite different. I've heard the phrase that a class changes people. You appear to embody the sentiment."

I stepped up to him, "It helped me out, in more ways than one. It took a long time to unlock as well, but it was worth the wait. I'm not the only one making progress, though. You gained a few levels too since I last saw your message."

Obolis raised his eyebrows, "That is inevitable, given my ongoing war with Elysium. Though I am adept in combat relative to most, I never fancied myself as a warlord like some Rulers. I prefer a more economic and informational form of combat. I've found it works well, and it requires far fewer sacrifices and compromises than most battles. That being said-"

Obolis leaned forward, "I find myself in need of a fighter, and soon. When can I expect your help with the ahcorus?"

"A week."

Obolis leaned back before mulling over some information in his head. He nodded, "That's acceptable. Your super golems should act as buffers until then. I would prefer a quicker arrival, however."

At this point, my class's changes showcased their results. I found myself staring at Obolis with ease, no pressure coming my way. Whether from my new awe stat or only from the other attributes, his presence didn't command me as it once had. If anything, I sensed the opposite. While Obolis controlled his body language and inflection without fail, his body reacted like prey.

His heart rate rose. His fur bristled. His eyes dilated. I found signs all over that he was struggling internally while he downplayed the difference my class made. He was one of the few people I could talk to without exerting this passive pressure, so an inkling of sadness crept up my chest. I held it down as I raised an eyebrow,

"How many elemental furnaces could I expect to get by the end of our deal?"

Obolis leaned back, staring at his claws for a second. He calmed himself, and he no longer showed those same signs. I let out a sigh of relief while he tapped his talons on his desk. He stated,

"I can grant you eight."

I tilted my head, "How about ten?"

"I need them for the war I'm waging. They don't grow on trees, as you are already well aware."

I leaned back, "Hmm, I wanted the furnaces before since they multiplied my mana growth. They don't multiply my mana anymore, however. My mana generation exceeds the furnaces now, so I don't need one of them anymore. I need many."

Obolis's eyes widened, "I see...Then what else could I offer you in their place? I can't afford to turn them over, but there are other resources at my disposal."

I raised a hand, "You know plenty of different worlds, right?"

"Yes. I've parsed the stars many times in my pursuits. What do you need to know in particular?"

I spread out my arms, "Can you give me the coordinates for a few worlds close to being terraformed and aren't overly...I don't know how to say this, 'fringed' I guess? I want to convert dangerous worlds, and I'll colonize them instead of taking over established places."

"Ah, you mean like Blegara? The eldritch rule, but not overly so...Hm, you'd probably be searching for a world more infested than theirs, however. Something more like the ahcorus, where Plazia rules deep underground. By freeing those places, you add to the galactic volume of planets instead of fighting for what's already there. Noble, but difficult."

"Yeah, that's exactly what I'm trying to do."

"I can arrange that. I even own several solar systems where those barren worlds reside. I've considered terraforming them myself, but the economics simply didn't go in my favor. That overruled any other reason for colonization. Your golems could act as pseudo Fringe Walkers, however. If you can find the necessary resources, you may be able to feed a planet as well."

I reached out a hand, "Give me ten of those planets and the resources to terraform. Do that, and I'll settle on five furnaces. You can even choose fringe worlds near your own planets. I'll take those, clean them for you, and your worlds will be safer for it. If you have them, I need terraforming information as well. Anti-fringe world procedures and documentation would also help."

Obolis stood before interlocking his hands behind himself. He walked through his chambers, staring at the unfully formed Ruhl to his left,

"I could arrange that. There exists a gas giant in our home system, one rich in oxygen. Harvesting those gases could grant atmospherically poor worlds the option to thrive. Water exists on Blegara, and that will do for now. You could bring life from other worlds as the start of these ecosystems if required."

Obolis shook his head, "I would need further compensation for such a transaction, however. Worlds, as you may imagine, are difficult to come by. Could you guarantee trade deals with us on your settled planets to facilitate the deal?"

"Trade deals like the ones for Blegara, where the albony are first come, first serve?"

He gave me a gentle grin, "You know, I preferred negotiating with you when we first met. Now, it's become quite the ordeal, where many variables are at play." Obolis reached out a clawed hand, tapping the glass,

"But it is interesting to bounce all these possibilities around in my head. I could offer you the worlds for that sort of exchange. If I do so, you'll be required to clear the fringe worlds first for my planet's security. That will make this arrangement feasible, and as you mentioned, I may offer worlds that passively benefit mine as well. It's always a blessing when fringe worlds aren't nearby. The eldritch that spawn can be world ending horrors."

Obolis turned to me, "As you've seen."

I remembered the Spatial Fortress, and it would be even worse if it was uncontained. Pushing that aside, I kept the conversation rolling by reaching out a hand,

"Do we have a deal then?"

Obolis shook his head, "You're not one for chatter. Hmm, I can arrange this. I've also drafted up the documentation for Blegara's transferral to you. It comes with a contract that I had shortened for ease of understanding. Not every individual may be a system lawyer, as you know, so I kept that in mind."

I nodded, "Send it over. I'll read it."

Obolis fiddled with his status, and the message popped up. I opened the documentation, and it carried a hundred-page long abstract detailing the contract. I frowned, "Ok, so this is the shortened version?"

Obolis laughed, "Hah, did you think a contract for a planet would be insignificant?"

"Not really, but maybe the shortened version wouldn't be a half-hour read."

I narrowed my eyes, staring at the document.

"Or maybe three minutes. Huh..."

I spread out ten consciousnesses, and I opened twelve pages at the same time. Pulling them all to reading, I got a grip on the deal's contents within five minutes. Closing out all the abstract, I raised an eyebrow,

"It mentions an embassy in the capital and that the albony there isn't punishable by the laws on Blegara. Why?"

Obolis leaned back, "I see you've been working on your mind as of late. Hmm, the reasoning for that legal practice is the differences in culture. The Vagni carry strange, nonsensical laws. I don't want my citizens to be at their mercy should they break the local customs. In subsection B6, you'll note the albony there are still subject to the Empire's laws, which are more than stringent, I assure you."

"Alright, just making sure."

I reread the document a few times, and my different minds argued back and forth, presenting the pros and cons here. After ten minutes, I came to a consensus - this was the deal we arranged. However, I wrote up an addition to the contract, one written in the cipher. It was a simple yet effective section about good faith, where both of us were held accountable for our earlier conversation.

Now, I wasn't the biggest fan of cipher contracts. My deal with Yawm put me in a terrible position with Schema, but at the same time, I understood their value. The cipher relied heavily on intent, and that's exactly what I needed. I didn't want Obolis to rope me into some ridiculous, fine print using his lawyers. This, er, addendum ensured I wasn't getting cheated, and it saved me a lot of time since I didn't need to reference a lawyer for it.

While I planned it out, I waved at Obolis, "Give me a minute. I need to add something to the contract."

Obolis nodded, "Certainly."

Obolis worked as I ironed out the cipheric inscription in my head. He held a meeting where he spoke about various dealings on his worlds, learned about war fronts, and discussed new leads for expeditions. He still kept pertinent details silent, using the thought based messaging system from Schema. It was interesting seeing how he managed everything, however.

As I finalized the cipheric inscription in my grimoire, Obolis paced up and watched me write. We talked while I etched.

Obolis murmured, "That is by far the strangest grimoire I've ever seen. It's...metallic, and the different colored pages serve different purposes, do they not?"

"They do. One's for cipher documents while the other pages are for normal runic work."

"I imagined you'd be more of a brute regarding this kind of task. You actually carry quite a bit of talent for this, at least as far as I can tell."

I frowned, "Thanks, I guess."

Obolis leaned over towards my ciphering, "You write out the lines, and I can trust them. That, that is a rare thing for me to do, and it speaks to your ability."

I shrugged, "I figured out a long time ago that I was good at runes. I beat out Torix in them despite him being better at 'bookish' stuff. According to Helios, you're quite good with the cipher as well. You made his gauntlet."

"Hm, in a manner of speaking, yes. That was based on other elemental furnaces I'd seen rather than my own work. Beyond that, I can manage simple inscriptions involving most topics, but creating depth with it is still beyond my grasp. I feel this as a mental block more than one in ability."

"Why would you hold yourself back?"

Obolis closed his eyes, "I've seen the cipher's consequences first hand, and I'd rather not deal with them, despite the tempting rewards it offers."

I finished the etching, "Ok, I can understand that. The runes are scary as all hell. I remember Yawm was covered in them, and they warped his mind, body, even his soul. He wouldn't have been as...unhinged, otherwise. I'd hate to have the same happen to me."

Obolis's eyes narrowed, "Yet you carve them into your skin?"

"It's different. I made these. Yawm didn't make his own. He relied on something he didn't understand, and it corrupted him. I'm not letting that happen to me."

Obolis tilted his head, "I supposed that's right, and it's a shame, truly. I read Yawm's story and what happened to him. Yawm was a being of purpose, ambition, and brutality. His inability to show restraint regarding the Old Ones was what led to his eventual downfall. I can understand his mistakes as I almost walked down his same road."

My mana roared through the pages of my grimoire, and I actively cooled it using quintessence while charging the document. Otherwise, it would melt. As I did, I raised a brow,

"So you wanted infinite power from the Old Ones too?"

