Obolis raised his palms to his defense, "I wouldn't word it quite like that. For me, I always wished to be an explorer, even in my youth. To that end, I committed to a path that gave me absolute freedom. I questioned how to go about seizing that freedom many times, and in the end, conquering came out as the only answer. Exploring requires resources, and dominance provides that."

Obolis shook his head, "And so I went about the accession of others. I did so many times and on so many worlds. I now own thirteen, though it'll be twelve soon. As I've gained ground, I've refined my approach, and as I've aged, I learned how to manage these people within my means. When I first began my search for domination, I was dissimilar to my current self."

I finished the runes, a glowing series of symbols floating off the page,

"Ah, I remember one of your titles is the Carnage of Olstatia. I'm guessing there's some history behind that."

Obolis winced, "There is, though I'd rather not speak of it."

I opened my status, the contract opened in view. I squinted at it, remembering the deal wasn't actually written down. Trying out something, I pulled the glowing runes over, and they created staticky ripples in my red HUD. The documentation changed, the additional cipher markings assimilating across all domains. Obolis scratched the side of his head,

"That's quite odd."

"I'll be honest, I didn't know if that would work or not. It saves us some time, though, doesn't it?"

"Indeed, it does." Obolis went silent for a moment, his mind wandering to distant memories. He sighed, "Daniel, I know it may be out of turn for me, but I'd like to offer you some advice."

I raised my palms, "Oh man, don't hesitate. I need all the help I can get."

"There's wisdom in those words, and they apply to everyone. As for my advice, I want you to understand something. You, you're in a similar position to where I was centuries ago. However, you carry more potential than I did."

"Don't sell yourself short."

Obolis smirked, "Your words are hollow, Harbinger. My point is, you're in a position of great responsibility and potential. I would imagine that you feel liberated with possibilities as if there are no horizons that may weigh you down. Before you march forth, know this - our mistakes now will result in regret."

That sounded obvious, so I raised my brow, "I'll keep that in mind."

Obolis smiled, "I believe my point requires more emphasis, hm? To elaborate, I'll share some research with you. Did you know that many unaging immortals die by suicide before reaching a thousand years of age?"

I tilted my head, "How are they immortal if they can die?"

"There are many different kinds of immortals. Most are simply immune to death via several perks that extend your life span by killing eldritch. You have this perk already. You'll be considered immortal like any sentient if you live past a century and showcase no signs of aging."

Obolis walked back and forth, "Schema can keep anyone alive if they continue slaughtering monsters, which is trivial after a certain point. This leads to a certain kind of timeless sentient, one that may die from trauma but not from the unending march of time. You stand at the crossroads between that immortality and true immortality."

Obolis stared at several glowing poisons lined up for display near us,

"I would be horrified by that prospect, as you may be. Eternal life is both a curse and a blessing, as you may never end your existence should it grow too painful to bear. That's the reason most unaging immortals never live to see a thousand years of age - their pain outgrows their ability to cope."

Obolis peered around the room, "And in that manner, that is the outcome I most fear. To die in battle or exploring an unseen path is a noble and becoming death. To end one's life out of regret...It's a sad way to leave this existence. I wouldn't wish it on my worst enemy, even those in Elysium."

Obolis turned to me and spoke with a voice carrying a distant sadness,

"Try to live your life without regret. It's something that you can never be cleansed, and it will follow you until you die. I'm of the opinion that it's worse than being trapped in a cage, because unlike a prison, you may never escape regret. It will follow you with a single-minded pursuit that is unending and eternal like a ghost."

Obolis's eyes went distant, "And those ghosts will drag you down until you can no longer stand."

A silence passed over us, and his words soaked in like poison on exposed skin. Hearing him reminded me of Springfield, Michael, Kelsey, and even my relationship with my father. I carried those failures like wounds, and I beat myself over the head with them from time to time. Peering at Obolis, the unaging immortal probably had far more burdens to bear, and by the sounds of it, they wore him down.

I gave him a solemn nod, giving his warning heed.

"Thank you for the advice. I'm taking it to heart."

Obolis gave me a sad smile, "Good, good." Obolis turned to his status, "Ah, I'm needed elsewhere. Of course." He gestured a hand to me, "This was an unexpected talk, but it's fortunate we were able to have it. As always, it's been a pleasure."

"Same here."

Obolis pointed down his hallway, "You remember the way out, I imagine?"

"I do...Obolis?"

"Yes?"

"You know, I think about it too sometimes. My mistakes that is."

Obolis scoffed, "Oh, you could tell I reminisce from time to time?"

"I can. I do the same. Something that helps me is remembering that I can't know everything. I can only know what I know right now. That means that the decisions and mistakes I made, they were still the best outcomes I could have, given my situation."

I waved a hand, realizing I was trying to give advice to someone who outdid me in experience by orders of magnitude,

"I, uh, I don't know. It helps me sometimes."

Obolis froze in place for a moment. He grabbed his jaw, "I'll keep that in mind. It was good chatting, but I must be on my way. Goodbye."

I walked out of his chambers, reaching the rotating stairway. Stepping down towards the warp, I reflected a bit on what I'd done lately. Hearing Obolis like that made me more thoughtful about my actions. Either way, I reached the warp with my mind racing in many directions.

Our Omega Strain divisions all carried rings, and we numbered over a thousand strong now due to Torix's marketing. My golems numbered in the hundreds, and our gialgathens were now armored. With my class, I'd be unleashing devastation on a regional scale as well. Plus, I could gain a few levels from taking out the Hybrids. That was always a plus.

Knowing all this, I stepped out of the ionized air of the warp-drive. I rolled my shoulders, my eyes widening at the thought of battle. Trying out my new abilities, the prospect left me brimming with anticipation. I gripped my fists as I opened my status. With a quick thought, I sent a guild wide message,

Daniel Hillside, The Harbinger of Cataclysm(lvl 15,000(Cap: 26,000) | Class: Sovereign | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion) - Blegara is ours now, and we're going to retake it, one triumph at a time. We wage war tomorrow, so be ready for blood, destruction, and most of all, victory.

I closed my status while the sun rose in the distance over the hills. Before the day was over, Elysium would know what we were capable of.

They all would.
