rough a dangling vine, only for it to try and snap around his neck and hoist him to the ceiling."Yes! This is more how I like it," Nu grinned as he counted three of these strangler vines in one hallway."Are you a spirit?" asked a quiet voice. Judging by the use of Mana, Nu was speaking with the Dungeon Core."It's an intruder! We should bite, growl… howl!" the same voice said, talking to itself with a deeper tone.Nu was intrigued. He teleported to the core room. Delta's Mana cut through any defenses like a knife through butter, and Nu was only too happy to use it for himself.The Core room was nearly 19 floors down. Nu would have been envious, but a single glance told him how light on content they were.Delta's floors were expansions.This Dungeon's floors were patches.The Core room was a natural cave with a flowing waterfall and lush meadows. Near the back, the core, a deep emerald one, was embedded deep into the skull of some creature.The skeleton had four legs and a long tail, but age and materials taken by the core had rendered it mostly impossible to guess what it had been."It's powerful," the core mused."We die fighting. We die proud," she hissed at herself. A feminine voice…"My name is Nu, and I am from a Dungeon across the sea," he said, making sure he sounded confident and at ease."…We are Trinity.""You'll address us as Trinity.""Intruder-Nu. I Trinity."Now that Nu was close, he could hear the three voices clearly. They weren't separate Dungeon cores or split, but if he gazed closely. In the creature's mouth…Ah… it made sense now."Your first material was compounded. The carnivore was eating a herbivore who was digesting flora. You are the cycle of life," Nu said, and the Core was quiet for a moment."We did. I shall talk to you. The others are less inclined. I am the Trinity formed of the Herbivore. I am softer, the listener… the survivor," the soft voice said simply."You can be called, Herb. I'm not using Trinity for all three of you. There isn't enough black leather and philosophy rants for it," Nu said, and the Core was quiet again."I do not understand," Herb admitted."Stick with me, and you'll learn the important lesson," Nu said and leaned in close."There is no understanding," he said, releasing all his trauma and joy of being a partner of Delta."What do you want?" Herb wisely chose to move on in the conversation."I'm here to help you be a better Dungeon. Turn your pitfalls into spike holes. Your blow darts into a sword launcher, your level 4 goblin into a 60 orc who pays for the battle pass like the whale he is," Nu hissed, glowing blue."What's a whale? Does it bleed a lot?" the deeper voice said huskily. The Carnivore voice."It's a whale, so yes. Your name is now Carnage," Nu said simply."I accept this title of death," Carnage purred."It comes for me next! It will name me!" the skittish voice hissed. This had to be Flora… it had no real actual thoughts going on other than immediate stimulation."If Delta was here, she'd call you… Florida or some such," Nu decided."Rip and tear into juicy soil, take fishies heads, bloom beautifully!" Florida cried.In the kingdom of Florida, Carnage and Herb ruled.--The Trinity sensed something when the NU mentioned 'Delta.' A tinge of respect, fear, and more.This NU must be preyed upon by the Delta. The Delta was the superior lifeform.They wanted to see this Delta now.All three agreed.---Delta flushed and blushed as Yattina, the glass-eyed woman, gushed over her memorial room with big words Delta couldn't repeat accurately."The extended vaulted architecture is very reminiscent of the fantastic 3rd Verluan Era where the artist DeDevilo created similar styles inside dance halls. His works crop up in Dungeons sometimes because a lot of his work was subsumed in a great geoshake of the 5th era. Lim, see this brick? It had to be made by a Dungeon, its geometry is sublime-" she went on and on.Delta had to excuse herself to put a finger in her shirt collar and breath quickly as she tried to induce cool air downwards.Too many… nice words… Delta was overloading.Where was Nu when she needed her ego popped?!---"This Clover Fox has upgrades for a poisonous bite!" Nu said, trying not to wave his arms."Next floor is only 20 Mana away," Herb said simply."It costs 10 Mana," Nu said, strangling a scream. The core glowed."We, the Trinity, have voted. Two against the bite and one for," the core said simply, and Nu glared at them.Nu didn't know how long he had before the Seahagan returned to attack the Trinity once more, but he knew it wasn't a long time."Since I can crush you with sheer Mana alone, I overrule your demomacry and install a tyranny," Nu said, voice deadly quiet. The core was still as stone until it blinked once."We vote as a union against that.""You can't unionize against me!" Nu complained, turning to Doctor who was conversing with a shapely boulder."Can they?" he asked the smart Guardgoyle."Indeed they can; Mistress Delta would even support their developing democracy," he reminded Nu.No, what Delta would do is infect them until she had them all in her pocket or eating out of… her… hands."Can I be included?" Nu said innocently. "As a voter, I mean. Since I'm here to help," he pointed out. The Trinity hesitated."We… see no harm. The cycle includes all," Herb said finally."I vote for poisonous fangs for the Clover Fox," he said instantly, a window appeared, and he clicked the emerald green yes."Two for… two against. This is… a draw. A draw. A draw. A draw. A draw," Herb stuttered."Oh my, I didn't expect this!" Nu cried and quickly pointed to Doctor."Make him vote," he said quickly as a solution.Doctor stared at Nu with a heavy sigh.He clicked yes when the screen came up, the edges glitchy in panic."Order is restored! The purchase has been done and ended!" Herb announced.Nu smiled to himself."Oh, no, little friends… the purchases are just beginning," he promised and opened the menu of the entire Dungeon.
