“Of course we do. Have you never played one before?” Haoyu asked. “How is that…?”

“Tomorrow’s very soon,” Lute said. “Don’t come over that soon.”

“But I have so much free time when I’m not finding lost possessions for people. Chainer training was thirty-two hours every week, more in the final year, and now it’s just over. Sometimes I’m jealous Miyo’s still doing it.”

“How long?” Alden asked. “Was that on top of school?”

<<Too long,>> Emilija said.

“Much too long,” Hadiza agreed.

“I cook that much a lot of weeks,” said Natalie, “but only since I got my skill. I thought you said you started Chainer practice as soon as you could talk?”

“Yes. That’s correct, everyone,” Lute said. “Our family has problems. I am unable to fully escape, because I have consumed the cursed pomegranate of Chainer. However, Roman has slipped away from Aulia’s grasp and must not go back to it. Go enjoy Rabbit companionship, Roman. Have a good time not helping the person who thought Hazel having headaches made her more magical than an actual S-rank who’d been training for years.”

“Have you ever…skateboarded?” asked Haoyu, frowning at Roman. “What about Brute Scouts? What about bicycles? You can ride a bicycle, can’t you?”

Lute shot Haoyu a nervous look. Maybe he was afraid Roman had become too pitiful and Haoyu was thinking of adopting him, because he practically shoved his cousin to the door and out of it.

When the Rabbits were finally on the nonagon and heading toward F-city, Roman leaned toward Alden and said, “Maybe I won’t recruit anybody for Grandma Aulia. Maybe I’ll just have fun.”

He looks like he wants approval. From a total stranger.

“I think you should have fun,” said Alden. “You’re showing up on a hn’tyon’s nonagon with the three coolest new Rabbits on Anesidora.”

The girls all cheered at that. They’d been cheering a lot, hyped up by Emilija for every tiny flight milestone—higher than the highest building on Apex, leaving the coastline, passing over the ferry.

“Most people must think Alden’s cooler than you three, though,” Roman told them. “Because of Matadero and how he went missing on his first summoning and how many videos there are of him with my cousin.”

Figures he’d be a fan of the Hazel blow-up videos.

“How do you all know each other anyway?” Alden asked.

<<Dragons Above>>, Natalie and Roman said in Mandarin at the same time.

At Alden’s perplexed look, Hadiza explained, “It’s a club only S-rank Rabbits are allowed inside.”

“It’s really just a privacy booth with four tables in it,” said Natalie.

<<So she claims!>> Emilija said.

“Roman was the only other person there when I went to see what it was like. We talked for a while about the jobs he’s gotten from wizards. He gets a lot!”

“People lose their belongings all the time.”

“And then we met him on our way to the ferry earlier,” Natalie continued, “and when we decided to come back for you, he wanted to see where Lute lives.”

Roman brightened. “Emilija, I think my cousin has a crush on you!”

Hadiza and Natalie cheered. Emilija reddened.

“I think she already knows,” Alden said. “I hope she knows. He keeps learning Lithuanian words.”

And jumping into hot tubs with his clothes on. And trying to get her to play the harp with him.

“You should go out with him,” Roman said. “He’s short and dramatic, but I think he might be telling the truth about getting a second S-rank skill at selection.”

“Are you trying to help Lute or hurt him!?” Alden exclaimed. “Emilija, Lute is a trustworthy person. And…he’s funny.”

“There’s a rumor Grandma promised him way more life extension treatments than anyone else has gotten, too.”

“He’s smart!” said Alden. “Decent. Amazing musician. Really good at tutoring me in wordchains.”

<<I can make up my own mind without help from you two!>>

“I wanted to hear what else they would say,” Hadiza whispered loudly to Natalie.

******

******

Elias’s Saturday Morning Show,

Episode #473

“Alden Thorn”

Clip Begins At:  6m 18s

Event Recorded: November  19, 2040

******

[A birds-eye view of an apartment building, then the camera travels down and around through an open window. Color fades to black and white to indicate the interior is being reconstructed based on known furniture purchases and the resident’s personality profile. Positioning of characters, expressions, and other details are informed by existing knowledge and audio captured from infogear one floor below on a public street.]

“I want to talk to him!” the man shouted. His hair was oily and tangled. His shirt and the bare legs that stuck out from his shorts were stained with mud. “I want to talk to the person who found them and left them there.”

“I did not indicate that the person was male,” said Drusi-otta. Her hands were loose at her sides and her face was calm as she watched him. On the table beside them lay two wooden boxes, each just large enough to hold the objects within—a jade hoop earring, a driver’s license from Iowa.

“It better have been a little baby girl who found them!” The man shook his head. He paced away and then back. “Just leaving them there to be drowned again! Crushed. But it was Apex. Some Apex fucker left them. Someone who could have done more. Where are their bodies? What if they weren’t gone…what if…what if she wasn’t dead when they found her? How did they know for sure? Why didn’t they carry her to a healer?!”

“The one who found them was certain they were no longer alive,” Drusi-otta said slowly. “Their bodies couldn’t be recovered without putting the living in danger. The area was severely flooded again only a short time later. Your lover and her father were treated with respect by the one who found them.”

“I want them to tell me it was like that with their own voice, then! I want to hear it from another human. Not a wizard!”

“I do not think that should happen.”

“Tell him or her or whoever I want to talk to them! Tell them they need to face me and answer me!”

“No.”

A fist fell through the table with a crack. A jade earring leaped from its box, skidding and rolling across the floor.

The man dove after it, catching it and sliding into a wall. He huddled there, holding the earring cupped in his palm, staring at it.

“We were getting married,” he said in a choked voice. “Next month. Getting married at The Verne on top of Nautilus Needle. She liked fancy places. Fancy things. I don’t know what she ever saw in me.”

******

end clip

******

*******

“I can’t believe they got Nautilus Needle for this on short notice!” Natalie had a squeal in her voice as they waited for an elevator in the tallest skyscraper on Anesidora. Sky Traffic Control hadn’t felt like Alden needed to park the nonagon on top of the building just for the heck of it. “You normally have to book events here a year in advance. Especially The Verne. I read about it online. This is much better than the original location.”

<<That’s not difficult since the original location is now gone,>> said Emilija.

The nautilus shell etched into the elevator doors lit up with specks of gold and silver when the car arrived, and when they stepped inside, the buttons for the conference hall and The Verne—the two locations for this event—were flashing.

Natalie pressed the conference hall button. “Here we go!”

The girls all pulled stacks of cards out of their purses, and as they did, the elevator filled with the smell of…

“Chocolate chip cookies and recess,” said Alden.

“Yes! Recess!” Natalie spun to point at Hadiza and Emilija. “I told you both that my elementary school playground was coming through! We’ve got ‘remember my skill’ cards, Alden. Mine hold the scent of cookies I baked. Emilija’s each have a paint chip missing from the design on the back so she can fix them before she hands them to people. And Hadiza’s are ugly, but in a way that makes them extra gorgeous when she uses her skill on them.”

“You three came prepared.”

“Do you want a card?” Natalie asked, holding one out.

He took it so fast she blinked.

<<You know you can’t eat it, don’t you? It’s paper. Not an actual cookie.>>

Paper is a plant-based material. “Of course I’m not going to eat it, Emilija.”

He looked up at the mirrored ceiling as he pocketed his scented card. For a moment, right before the elevator stopped, he felt very out of place.

They were all so bright and pretty. Even Roman Velra in his own way.

Wonder where Olget-ovekondo’s sleeping tonight. And if Emban slept at all. Stuart’s got to be unconscious; votaries have it tough.

The doors opened. His interface notified him that his event map and schedule were available. Teenagers in bunny ears were everywhere, and as soon as they spilled out of the elevator, Natalie dragged Alden over to a table where the free headbands were spread out.

“They still have a brown pair!” she said exuberantly. “To match your shirt.”

He put it on and let her bend the wire in one of the ears until it met with her approval.

“Just so I’m clear on what you guys want…” he said, looking around the huge room. Info booths for clubs, employers, and services of particular interest to Rabbits filled half of it. The other half was seating and a stage where the next speaker would be talking about essentials for your Rabbit go-bag. This was the more business side of the event, and upstairs in The Verne, the party was going on. The High Council’s Rabbit would be mingling up there until she gave the closing speech, and there would be a bunch of other important Rabbits and friends of Rabbits.

“We’re down here to raid booths, give out your business cards, and get lots of free stuff,” Alden said. “And then we’re heading upstairs where we want the older Rabbits who are throwing follow-up parties over the next few weeks to give you those.”

He nodded toward a girl who was running past, waving a big red envelope at her friends.

<<I got invited to one tomorrow morning!>> she was shouting. <<I got invited to hop to another party!>>

Natalie gasped. “That invitation. That’s for the Holly Jolly Bunny Bruncheon!”

Alden stared at her. “You…can tell by the envelope?”

“There are only forty invitations for that one. Neha said it was the best place to meet the guy who gets imports for all the top restaurants. He’s almost always on II.”

“Got it. So our goal is to acquire as many envelopes as possible. You do understand that even if I get invited to lots of stuff, I can’t go to it all?”

“They’re only invitations. You don’t have to say yes just because someone gives you one.”

“And if I get the Midnight Bunny Boxing Match for tonight, or whatever there is, I’ll definitely skip. Because I’m leaving at 9:30 and going to bed.”

“Are you sure?” Natalie was shaking her head. “I was gonna bet on you in the boxing match.”

“You were? That changes everything.” He scanned the room. “I like my chances against other Rabbits our age.”

“Anyway, yes,” said Natalie. “You’ve got the idea! Um… ”

She leaned toward him, and when he returned the motion, she whispered, “When I’m busy, will you stay close to Emilija and Hadiza? We want to go to a bunch of neat places together, but…especially Emilija?”

Alden smiled. “Finally. My unwanted spotlight has found its purpose.”

“You don’t mind?” she asked.

He leaned closer. “Bet you a thousand argold I can get Emilija more invitations than you can.”

Natalie scoffed. “No you can’t.”

“Take the bet.”

“I’m not going to lose.”

“So you accept?”

“Of course I do! But if I somehow lose, will you accept payment in—”

“Mexican food and cinnamon rolls. Deal.”

“You must have a bottomless pit in your stomach.”

“I’ve been inhaling a potion that has an appetite-increasing side effect for two days straight. I really might eat your new business cards if you don’t guard them.”

******
