These dimensional energy sources instilled the characteristics that eventually changed me into a living dimension. Wanting to know more, I pulled out the portion of a dimensional slicer I obtained from the twisted Sentinel on Blegara. I compared the cipheric markings with Baldag-Ruhls, finding quite a few differences.

Schema's cipher markings were resolute, efficient, and defined. They carried many optimizations that lowered the cost of wielding and using the spears. To me, that made perfect sense. The AI was a master of managing limited resources, after all. Baldag-Ruhl's carapace project did the opposite.

It only operated around maintaining stability and adding growth potential. Since it drew from a seemingly infinite source of energy, Baldag-Ruhl wanted an infinite outcome. That goal gave the armor an insidious nature, one that had an impact on me occasionally but was, in all honesty, very limited.

The final pieces of runes I analyzed were the cipheric incantations over Yawm. Something about the Old One's usage reminded me of a mad scientist; they used wild, insane combinations of runes. On the surface, they guaranteed corruption. At a deeper glance, they promised power, pure and palpable.

And corruption.

If I could find a way to fuse all of their runic qualities, I could become a runic master, the likes of which I'd never seen. Even after my hours of study, that was all I gained from observing and testing sections of their sigils. All the individuals far exceeded my own abilities, but they gave me hints of how to proceed moving into the future.

Optimization for my fundamental runes would come from taking Schema's approach. For larger projects, Baldag-Ruhl's sheer vision would be necessary. A drop of madness from the Old Ones would magnify my inscription's potency. It could all come together and create something heaven-defying.

Closing my grimoire and status, I left my golem production facility at dawn. I headed towards the third floor of Mt. Verner, flowing through a few ducts lining the interior. As I coursed into the library, I pulled off an enormous amount of dust from myself. The ventilation shafts needed a clean-up, and I was the duster.

I hovered a two-foot-tall ball of lint beside me. I landed near several bookshelves, condensing the dust orb into a dense fabric. Keeping myself fifteen feet tall, I hovered another mass of dimensional fabric behind me. It reminded me of a ball and chain, though it gave me freedom rather than taking it away.

Sliding between two tall shelves, I found the others waiting. Diesel stared forward, wearing the same workman's outfit as before. Sleeplessness etched lines on his face, and dozens of satchels held tools that smothered him. He paled from the last time I saw him.

Finding his cause of concern, Plazia rested on a basalt throne in the middle of the room, having moved a few bookshelves to do so. Torix rested on a leather couch like Diesel, and the lich's metal skeleton gleamed darkly in the lamplight. As he approached, he turned to me.

"Ah, Daniel. You mentioned issues with a number of projects."

His fire eyes flared.

"Perhaps we may be of assistance."
