It gestured to a circle made with mosaic stones on the ground. Everywhere else was beaten and bare earth. I sat cross-legged in the ring.

"Thanks. So, about Hod, what was he like before being eldritchified?"

The elders peered at one another, murmuring with guttural tones and noises. Making out what the others meant, the second elder raised dark wings.

"There was never a time before Hod was taken by the monster within him."

The white eyes under his hood narrowed.

"He has always been lost in his shadow."

Chapter Begin

I tapped the ground.

"So he's like Althea, being part eldritch or something?"

The elders murmured once more before the most disabled one of them spoke up. Her voice rasped with each word.

"Hod was the outcome of his parents fiddling with dark magic."

The other elders stared at her before a second elder stood up.

"You speak ill of our protector. Hod brought us to this land. He's the only reason we've survived."

In a wheelchair, the most disabled of them gurgled her words.

"But Hod is not like us."

Her eyes narrowed.

"You all remember what became of his mother when she gave birth to him."

Curiosity spiked in my chest as the wind brushed against the tent, leather bending back and forth. I crossed my arms.

"Unfortunately, I haven't got a clue what happened. Mind offering a refresher?"

She took a staff and pointed it at me.

"Harmana was covered in the same runes you have across your body."

I raised my left arm, a rune etched across it.

"Huh, then it's not really dark magic. It's cipheric, which is worse if you ask me."

She stabbed the staff into the ground.

"It was a defiling thing, and it's a miracle he didn't kill us all."

Flashes of Yawm's twisted body and Elijah turning into writhing flesh flashed before my eyes. I shivered, a cold pulse traveling up my spine.

"You're right about that."

The second elder hissed.

"You...Cease this blasphemy."

I raised a hand.

"I need to hear all of this, so just let her talk for now. I'll let you guys know if anything said is actually blasphemy."

Hint: it wouldn't be.

The elder bowed, his winged hands shaking. The decrepit woman stood, her eyes dim compared to the other Eltari. She hunched, her back like a spine's worst nightmare. She waved her cane.

"Harmana and Ahkam were Hod's mother and father. They bent reality in a corrupted pursuit of power. They created monsters that flooded into our world. They devolved our home planet into the twisted wasteland it became."

The second elder shouted.

"Our world was dying. They gave us food and water."

The hunched lady eltari narrowed her dim eyes.

"Yes, life may have returned, but it was a deformed version of it. Corrupted. Evil. The same could be said for the dark water they gave us to drink."

She raised her staff high.

"I still remember before Schema took away our world's life force. It changed everything. Even the monsters began to die."

My curiosity peaked. I leaned forward.

"Wait a minute."

I thumped the ground.

"Plazia, come here."

Seconds later, insects crawled out of the ground. I waved my hand at everything around us.

"Isolate us from Schema. You need to hear this, too."

The bugs etched cipheric markings that I charged with mana. Combined with my dimensional wake's pressure, we isolated this space from Schema. I tapped the ground beside me.

"Plazia, I'll send you a guild request. You can join because of a few privileges from my lottery. Also, keep a fragment of your mind here. Ooh, and thanks for all the help. I owe you one."

I sent the message, and Plazia accepted. A cluster of bugs huddled beside me before I raised my hand.

"Let's touch base. Dungeons are eldritch havens. From my understanding, Schema punished you for messing around with forbidden knowledge, right?"

The second elder sighed.

"We do not know. Many of our kind had dabbled with the prime language before. We understood it could warp reality and disrupt many things. However, Hod's parents...They evolved its usage."

I put the muddled pieces of their history together. It sounded like they'd been playing with fire for a long time, and eventually, Schema had enough after something devastating happened. Also, the fact they even elicited that kind of reaction meant the Eltari were gifted in the cipher. Interesting.

The second elder waved his wings.

"They tried to push for something more. I think Ahkam was driven mad by it."

I raised a brow. The woman elder scoffed.

"If you ask me, the real insanity was in the mother. Harmana agreed to have Hod born in one of the changed spaces."

I winced.

"She birthed Hod in a room corrupted by the cipher?"

The hunched elder hissed.

"Hod was conceived and lingered within the space the entire time."

I furrowed my brow.

"Like, as an egg or something?"

I didn't understand much about an Eltari's anatomy, and I didn't know if I wanted to fix that. The lady elder tapped her cane on the ground.

"She made the egg and laid it there. This was before the world faded into a shell of itself. Those two used dungeon cores to feed the ritual. It was excruciation to uncover what they had done."

The less crippled elder waved a wing.

"Ahkam and Harmana tested the space using other creatures first. They didn't want to harm their child."

I put my face in my hands.

"It's a space warped by the cipher. If you play with fire, you get burned. In this case, it sounds like they messed around with fire and acid by the sounds of it."

The less crippled elder tapped a wing on the ground.

"Perhaps, but perhaps not. There was nothing normal about Hod, even from an early age, but his differences were initially a blessing. He spoke near his birth, growing faster than the others. He saw through people's minds and understood their intentions. Nothing was hidden, and we considered him a seer who lives in prophecy."

I frowned.

"What's your names?"

The crippled one spoke up.

"I am Shahjk."

The less crippled one bowed.

"I am Monaba."

I nodded.

"It's great to meet each of you, and thank you for your time. So, Hod became more eldritch over time?"

Shajk paced up to me, her breathing painful and wheezy.

"He warped into something unrecognizable, not that he was ever like us. As we all bent and broke, Hod grew taller and stronger. He ingested the poisonous air, turning it to power. It fed on him as well, and the shadow unleashed."

I spread my hands.

"Er, so Other Hod wasn't there from birth?"

Shajk shook her head, her beak still glossy despite age's war against her other features.

"He was born without darkness, a creature of the light. It cast a shadow, one that enveloped him with time."

I narrowed my eyes.

"And after that, Schema's interference began, not before?"

The elders nodded, except for Monaba. He swung a wing, a feather dropping down.

"We don't know that for certain."

The first elder put a wing over his, lowering it.

"It hastened the fall of our world. That much we do know."

I tapped my thigh.

"How old is Hod?"

The woman elder laughed, the sound painful and strained.

"Many times older than you, child."

I stood up.

"Alright then. That's what I needed to know. Thanks, everybody. You've given me a lot to think about."

I jammed my arm into my pocket dimension and sliced it off. I melted, molded, and cooled the limb into rings within the space before pulling out new rings and my grimoire. After charging each set of runes, I floated the arcane sigils onto each ring. I handed them to each elder, and their conditions improved when they wore the trinkets.

Turning to leave, the Mobana gave me a deep bow.

"Let us know if there is anything else you need...And thank you, oh savior."

I smiled back.

"Remember, Hod saved you. Not me."

Walking out of the tent, I assimilated the dimensional fabric I had left outside. Growing much larger, I flew up and out of the village. Peering down, the mosaic across the village gleamed with a glossy sheen.

In a flash, I recognized a pattern across the ground. It mirrored much of the artwork for the village. Flying over the other Eltari settlements, I found other mosaics, each made in its own style. They symbolized their villages, the full marks visible when flying over them. It gave the spattered dotting of villages a surprising harmony.

As individuals, they chose their path, but they all were members of the eltari. It was a beautiful thing.

A pang of guilt crossed over me. I allowed those elders to suffer here for years before coming to help them with basic rings. Another one of my psyches mentioned how the system helped them immensely along with my legacy. In that regard, the rings were a piece of what I could give, not the whole.

Still, I let them rot. I would do everything in my power to stop that from happening again.

Letting that feeling settle down, I headed back over to my golems. I considered what the Eltari elders said. From the sounds of it, Hod could be decades, maybe centuries old. The Eltari's sense of time was different than my own, making that difficult to pin down. It wasn't like they had a clock to verify, either. The closest thing to that was the deterioration of their planet.

If I could get a grip on the time frame for that kind of advent, then I could pin down their ages. The thought of that erupted alongside a spike of anxiety racing through my chest. The Eltari's fallout had unnerved me since I learned about it. It made me question Schema in many ways, but I had always thought the Eltari were lodged in a rift that Schema protected.

I mean, they founded their village around a dungeon core that protected them from devolving. Schema was why that core came about, and it kept them from becoming nearly as monstrous. However, I was never certain of that. It was a blurry spot in the AI's already dubious morality. Based on what the Eltari said, Schema cursed their planet before Hod was born, but it accelerated afterward.

Hm. It was an act of mass extinction, exceeding what Elysium did to Giess since it killed every species on an entire planet and for no discernable reason. I sighed, giving props to Schema. I mean, it was damn hard to out-evil Elysium, but somehow, someway, Schema had found a way.

Why would Schema do that? It made no sense to destroy an entire planet over something so trivial. I flipped the question in my head, turning it into a statement. This wasn't something trivial. To get a better understanding of the situation, we needed Hod to be fully returned. Outside of that, I'd need to inspect some dungeons and see if they couldn't unveil the situation some as well.

No matter how I sliced it, figuring this all out would take some time. Ooh, but I'd get my answers or die trying. Well, after making the golems, finishing my legendary compendium, making Torix's body, securing Blegara, er, uhm...A hundred other things? It was hard to remember them all.

I sighed, unable to handle all of this myself. Before anything else, I had to iron out a system for delegating some of my responsibilities to others. I couldn't do this alone, and I didn't have to. Those thoughts swirled in my mind as I floated beside my golem factory. While in the air, I gawked at several new roads that crossed the forest around Mt. Verner.

Grecian columns lined the roads with statues atop them. They immortalized several guild members, including many of the soldiers I remembered from the battle against Yawm or Elysium. It was a majestic sight. The more I saw, the more that feeling grew.

Every few sets of pillars, a statue would support an archway, and the artwork was sculpted to match one of my guild's followers. From Amara to Plazia, they exposed our guild's top talent. Hod's statue stood half flowing with shadow and half in his goofy gaze. Althea's statue carried her rifle with wings sprouting across her back. Kessiah carried her blood beside her, a patient below her. Even Krog and Chrona lounged about, each of them midway through a tail swing.

After a few of these sculptures, lifelike statues of me stood peering out from the roads that circled the mountain. At Mt. Verner's peak, a bronze statue of myself stood, peering forward. It held one hand up in a fist, standing tall and defiant. It radiated out with quintessant mana, the light-laden wind drifting into the clouds like a bleeding ichor from a god.

It was beautiful, but it embarrassed the hell out of me even just looking at it. Near the mountain's base, the fanciest sets of pillars signaled the entryway to an elaborate stage. Someone constructed a half-colosseum. Flowers, mana crystals, jewels, and precious metals decorated the entire area. Twelve pillars stood behind the stage, each with a plaque and banner.

They were the main players of my guild: Shalahora, Plazia, Krog, Chrona, Hod, Amara, Althea, Kessiah, Torix, Helios, Florence, and the newly appointed Diesel. The executive commanded two architects who whittled away at the project. They worked overtime to get the decorations set up.

I winced at how grandiose it would be, but that's what I made the executive for. If he was shameless, then I wouldn't have to be.

Before I let my growing dread dig deeper under my skin, I dove into my own work. I planned out a few delegations. I'd make a dungeon research team of interested individuals, including Etna. They'd focus on learning how dungeons were established, why they were teleported or changed, and monitoring how corrupted a dungeon was.

On a scale of one through ten, they'd assign values. Ten was a dungeon like L-7, where eldritch literally rained from the skies. One would be a fully contained dungeon like some of the earlier dungeons I visited. The dungeon-finding group would rate and list these dungeons in order of intensity. This would give me a solid set of places to visit for my own curated research should I ever get the free time.

It was doubtful, but hey, why not plan ahead?

