As for Blegara, the planet needed the eldritch rebellions to be put down, but I didn't want to just kill the Vagni and the eldritch responsible for it. Well, most of the eldritch would have to go, but the Vagni were more than redeemable. Instead of eliminating them all, Plazia could dominate the planet via psionics and his general presence.

To make that happen, I needed to talk with the hivemind. I scheduled that after I finished making the golems. Getting to them, I etched in the runes I planned out earlier. The peaceful work preoccupied my mind, pulling me away from all the world's worries. Hours passed as I stayed still, compressing time to get the most out of each second.

I marked the pages telekinetically, not needing to move to write in my grimoire. As time passed, some of my psyches wandered. This...It was a strange life I lived. The compression of my wake gave me many advantages, and it trained my mind in a way few challenges could. However, it made quiet moments like these a torment.

The sickness in my stomach and malaise of my mind never relented, becoming a chronic issue I adapted to rather than dealt with. Finding a way out of my torment required a better understanding of my dimensional wake and its properties. At the same time, I felt the limits of my flesh and bones.

To be more precise, my humanity. I was no longer a human, but my mind thought and perceived reality like one. That, in itself, was a shackle, and I would need to overcome it at some point. It would allow me to unchain myself from limits I didn't know about. Not just the mental barriers but even perceptional limitations, all of it could fade if I took this next step.

I trembled at the prospect. It was a wild thing. Limits, they didn't just hold us down. They anchored us. They gave us a sense of perspective and kept people low to the ground. It's what we were built for and evolved to. Anytime I'd ever seen a human try to step across that boundary, it ended with horrifying consequences.

And yet, it felt inevitable for me. I would develop new senses, create a more efficient body, and craft a mind that exceeded a mortal's psyche. Hell, I already had split my mind into a dispersed cloud of magic pixy dust, basically. I wouldn't stop there, either. This was the tip of an iceberg, one that led deeper than any ocean.

And that terrified me.

I'd seen Yawm devolve into a deformed shade of himself. I'd watched Lehesion become the whipping dog of Elysium, his guilt eroding his will to live. Valgus lost his entire being to his desire for power, and Shalahora had also lost every aspect of himself. Even factions like Elysium extinguished their common sense in the pursuit of influence.

Absolute power corrupted absolutely. I'd heard that quote since I was a child, and I believed it. I would need to be different. Immutable. Unchanging. An unwavering force at the minimum. To make that happen, I devised a plan to maintain my sanity. It required two things - socialization and a reference.

It seemed simple, but every person I just mentioned failed to consider either factor. Yawm isolated himself from his species whenever he became Etorhma's avatar. Lehesion's reincarnation resulted in a mental isolation that caused some crazy disassociation from his species and world. Valgus was the same as Yawm, and Elysium was like an echo chamber of crazy people.

The odd man out, Shalahora, had kept his species with him, so he talked plenty. It was no coincidence that he was the only one out of the bunch who wasn't outright insane. Like Shalahora had, I would foster the other perspectives around me. Otherwise, I'd be driven mad like the others,

and my insanity would be one that never ended.

This plan gave me direction, and it mitigated my fears. That was something I'd uncovered on this journey into Schema's system. Even if I developed my body and mind, it didn't mean I was immune to emotion. I cherished that, knowing my emotions kept me grounded in this insane pursuit.

Listening to my fears, I would keep my personal relationships grounded. In a dichotomy of action, my efforts for self-strengthening would be matched by my pursuit of everyday mundanity. In a sense, I would outsource my sanity to the people around me. After all, it was a burden I didn't need to bear all alone.

That series of thoughts left me feeling good about moving forward with my wake's powers. It also burned through a decent chunk of time as I carved, something I had let several minds do while the others channeled mana and handled the finishing details. Once finished with the etching, I charged and guided the glowing runes onto one of the floating golems.

The markings sizzled into the metal, letting out a deep hiss that echoed in the facility. As the golem sparked to life, quintessence flooded into the markings. It lunged to a knee.

"Creator. It is a blessing to see you."

I raised a hand.

"At ease. Let's head out for a while."

I turned and waved a hand. It followed, and we left out the upper entryway. Instead of going around Mt. Verner, I bolted away from the place. After crossing a hundred miles South, we followed an interstate road before getting off at a random exit.

The dilapidated town rested in ruins. Crushed buildings and forested lawns covered every block. Streets split them up into a nice set of squares like some overgrown checkerboard. No monsters roamed the streets since my guild cleared this place out a while back. We hadn't cleaned this spot out since.

That's why this was an excellent spot to find a test dungeon.

To that end, the golem and I walked the streets. Side by side, we took up an entire four-lane highway. Standing at my full height, I stared at the streetlights. Well, the few left here. Something uprooted them from the ground, taking the power lines with them.

It wasn't that unusual. Many scavengers harvested the wires for the lightweight aluminum. Still, they took great care to pick this town apart. Setting that aside, we crossed many smashed homes before I looked into one. Someone or something had stripped the utilities and machinery from the place. These were metal-starved scavengers.

Minutes later, we walked through the dense cluster of the town. As we did, my golem crushed the ground, and its steps shook the earth. While cool in theory, its thudding stomps shattered windows and destroyed nearby walls. It wasn't a problem when the houses were further away, but these buildings were erected beside the roadside.

They felt every ounce of the golem's mammothian steps, and in turn, the buildings screamed out in agony. As one collapsed, I raised a hand.

"You really need to-"

The golem found a small eldritch nearby. Fueled by an immutable objective, it leaped through the air. It smashed through a house and sent cars flying from its gravitational strength alone. As a truck clapped into a building's roof, the golem crushed a squirrel-sized monster with its fist, releasing a shockwave of bone and blood.

Taking the chunks in its hand, it slammed the creature into the ground.

A house nearby disintegrated. Planks of wood gouged three feet deep into the soil, portions of the grass scrubbed clean. My golem stood from its crater, mana oozing out its runes like a thick fog. Its voice was a dark metal.

"Creator. The eldritch has been eliminated."

I facepalmed at the wanton destruction. I was somehow impressed and horrified at the same time. That kind of overreaction would need to be fixed. After letting it know not to break everything in sight, we walked past a suburb. Nostalgia passed over me, the sights of a bygone past swimming over me like bittersweet memories.

We turned down an intersection to the heart of the ruined town: a strip of shops that used to house the local businesses. I gazed at the miniature buildings, full-sized structures looking like large model houses at this point. Between two buildings, we found the piled-up power lines, the wires coiled around a set of monster corpses.

They were green, poisonous griffons, and something tied various batteries and engine blocks to the rotting bodies. Appliances littered the entire space, and gas cans sat around the area. As my imagination searched for an answer, reality heard its call.

A set of rats crawled out of the buildings, all coordinated and in sync. Their tails glowed a cerulean blue, and they let out a symphony of squeaks wherever they crawled. They swarmed over the restrained monster corpses, electrocuting them. The monster corpses reared to life, their bodies responding to the electrical signals.

Some ooze poured out of them, and the rats feasted on the material. The batteries charged, but nothing happened with the engine blocks. Once the rodents finished feeding, they cuddled up to the car batteries, calling it a day.

I furrowed my brow.

"How did they get the powerlines here?"

Hearing my voice, the rats turned to me. Electricity built around them, arcs of lightning spiraling. They huddled together into a ball while streaks of light sparked around them. The engine blocks levitated into four limbs before wires wrapped around them. The now thirty-foot junk colossus stood, composed of the town's magnetized machinery.

I frowned.

"Ah. That's how."

The terrifying monstrosity leaped over the wires, and I gestured to it.

"Alright, golem, show them what you're worth-"

The golem dashed forward in a blur of movement. It smashed the rats into a pulp with its body, blood splattering everywhere. Violence and force erupted. Shards of bone stuck halfway in the buildings, engine blocks hurled through stone walls, some lobbed miles into the air. The windows shattered near us from their collision's shockwave.

An oppressive panel of gravitation enveloped the entire expanse. The golem used it to fight, and it pulled the remaining rats together. Everything nearby siphoned further into a collapsing point, including the buildings ripping out of the ground. The gravitational well ripped out every bit of the concrete, rebar, lamps, and pavement to a singular, circular bulk.

As magic coursed through the golem, quintessence billowed off of it, a semitranslucent cloud infesting everything nearby. In its radius, wildlife expanded in cancerous growths. With the mana, the golem siphoned all inward. The nearby trees were uprooted, and dirt flew. The golem compressed the mass with overkill energy, thin needles of rat blood spurting out of the hulking orb.

The blood spiraled around the sphere. They were like red rings orbiting a rocky planet. The rings splat against the ground as the golem released its sorcery. The ball crushed into exposed earth, ripping out crags of compressed dirt. The soil crags reached for the air like drowning men.

The golem flew up, inspecting the nearby area, ensuring no monsters survived its slaughter. I gawked at the mass destruction and leveled blocks. The gravitation alone would've killed anyone nearby, let alone the mana or shrapnel. As the golem landed beside me, the ground quaked around us, another crater forming. It lunged to one knee.

"I have done it, creator. All is dead."

I dragged my hand down my face.

"Yeah. Everything. Did you even check the buildings to ensure people weren't in them?"

The golem gazed back. It nodded in slow motion.

"Ah...I am sorry, creator. That...Is advisable for future clearings."

I sighed. These golems caused different problems than my old ones. Instead of dealing with weakness, I dealt with absurdity. The golems were too strong; even with limiters, they'd wreak havoc. The blue cores fixed that issue, but I maintained a limited supply.

Using all of them for this would leave me without any cores for actual cities. Without an obvious solution to the problem, I considered the issue for a while. Nothing came out of the woodwork of my mind, and even having multiple psyches argue didn't help. Getting a fresh perspective, I sent a message to Torix, Plazia, and Diesel, wanting them to meet the following day.

Leaving the abandoned town, the golem and I headed back to Mt. Verner. I stopped golem production and spent my time researching various memories of my cipheric runes. In particular, I paid close attention to the saved image of Baldag-Ruhl's sigils from so long ago. They still boggled my mind after all these years, his inscriptions far outweighing the complexity of anything else I'd ever seen.

From Schema's spear shard to the Old One's scripts over Yawm, nothing rivaled Baldag's work in both scale and magnitude. It was magnificent, and he was a true visionary. Using my memory, I gazed at the incantations. They reminded me of gazing at galaxies, an endless set of secrets all hidden in plain sight.

As that awe passed over me, I parsed through some of what they implied. The most relevant information came from Baldag-Ruhl's perspective. Unlike most of my magical understanding, Baldag-Ruhl associated mana and the mind with a soul. This changed the outcome and product of what he created.

By attaching a changing and developed mind to something, Baldag-Ruhl created a growing potential in whatever he made. My armor was the best example, but even his mana pools worked under the same premise. They soaked in the ambient mana that Schema used to contain his dungeon rift.

In fact, it was more genius the more I looked at it. He evaded the limitations of his situation while enabling himself in the long term. My reading solidified Baldag-Ruhl's status as a world-ending horror if he'd escaped. That's why Schema had isolated his rift and given it a Sentinel guard.

That required an enormous amount of mana to maintain, and Baldag-Ruhl infiltrated that mana like a parasite sucking blood from its host. Hell, the guy might've set up the situation for just such an outcome. I couldn't put it past the hive. His ritual also drew extra mana from an actual dimensional tear to finalize the product.

