“Pleased to meet you.” After an awkward silence, Mila’s elbow jabs into my side. Right, introductions. “This is my betrothed, Sumila, daughter of Akanai, and this is also my betrothed, Mei Lin, daughter of Taduk. This is er...” As I glance at Li Song, I realize she’s wearing Zian’s armour. Well fuck. “This is Li Song, Sentinel of the People.” Please don’t make a big fuss.

Zian’s face twitches he struggles for control, staring daggers at Li Song as she casually plays with her saber’s hilt. She’s gotten spunkier in the last few weeks, though it’s subtle. Holding her head high, speaking out more often, stealing away my bear cubs to play with, I’m happy to see her more lively, though this isn’t a good time for a display. Thankfully, Zian reins his anger and nods, greeting Mila and Lin with a gentlemanly bow. “Ladies, a pleasure to make your acquaintance.”

Another awkward silence ensues as we stand facing one another, neither knowing what to do. Though I wouldn’t say I hate him, we tried our best to kill each other, so it’s a little weird to be exchanging small talk, something I’m not great at in the best of times. We’ve already devolved to alternating between grunts, collar tugging and sleeve brushing, I don’t know how much more of this I can take.

Finally unable to bear it, I open my mouth, feeling like it’s a mistake even as the words spew out. “I’d like to apologize.” With a look of disbelief, Zian slightly cocks his head to one side. “Er, well, during our duel, I said things... err... about your mother that I... uh...”

Interrupting me with a laugh, Zian waves away my apology. “We were on the field of battle and you sought every advantage you could grasp. I don’t hold your words against you, only your actions.” Eyes narrowing, his hands clench around his sabers until the knuckles go white. “Were it not for our current circumstances and your current state, I’d challenge you again. I’ll not ask for details, as I assume you cannot speak of them. When you are hale and healthy, and when circumstances permit, I will find you and regain my lost honour.”

Well fuck. How am I supposed to follow that up? Thankfully, Mila offers an excuse and we turn to retreat, Li Song making a small sound of disappointment as we go. Crazy girl, the last thing we need now is more enemies. After I get home, I’m never leaving again... unless it’s to go back to the village. I’m not thrilled about living at the Bridge, too many soldiers and too many Defiled.

Only meters away, my footsteps falter as I receive a sending. “This lowly soldier is Jukai, here to pass on a message from Young Master Zian. Take care with your actions in the coming days. The Shrike will arrive soon and she will brook no insolence or resistance. Wash your neck and wait, for it will be the Young Master who takes your head, and none other.”

Turning to glance back at them, I see they’ve already returned to their sparring, taking their stances as I leave. Seeing the conviction and determination on Zian’s face, my stomach twists into knots. Make no mistake, I beat him by the barest margins, and though I’ve gotten stronger, from what little I’ve seen, so has he. Another match would still not be in my favour, and even if I won, unless I kill him, I feel like he’d just try again after a few months.

So bothersome.

Once out of sight, Mila pinches my cheek and twists, eliciting an unmanly shriek from my mouth. Stomping her foot, she releases my face and crosses her arms. “Idiot, why did you apologize? Now we have to get him a gift.”

“Er... is that how it works? Apologize with money?”

Rolling her eyes, she pats my cheek and soothes the pain she caused. She's an odd one, but I wouldn't change a thing about her. “Yes, it is custom. Ugh, it’s fine, I have something you can use. I was going to give it to you after we returned home, but you have no one to blame but yourself.” Interlocking her arm with mine, she leans against my shoulder as we walk, Lin doing the same on the other side.

My two little wives, always at my side with love and support.

Life is good.

...Aside from any upcoming genocides. Those aren’t great.

Chapter Meme
