"I don't want you to be a shield," Shiv recontextualized. "I want you to be a guard. You're a Knight, aren't you? Well... If I'm going to have to get you back to your home... I need you to do something for me first. I need you... to live up to your Knighthood. Princess Plum Blossom must have chosen you for something, right?"

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 131 > 133

Rhetoric 4 > 7

Toasty immediately stood a little taller at that—even though a few crumbs fell off his body. "Don't think I am unaware of what you're doing, playing on my pride!"

Shiv nodded. "Yeah! But it's justified! You're the only Knight among us! And no one else is strong enough, or important enough, to stop the Eldritch."

"Oh, you vile human and your snake-tongued ways!" Toasty huffed. "Fie, it may be so. Use me, but do not ever forget. We have struck a bargain. I have done more for you than—"

"Yeah, yeah, I know," Shiv said. "And honestly, I'm going to be very grateful. You do this for me, and I'll let you out of the cage for good."

The Faebread tilted his head. "Truly, you would do that?"

"Yeah, of course. We're going to be in it together now. And if this whole slipgate thing works, no one's going to want you back home faster than I do."

"So mote it be," Toasty said with a rasp of laughter. "This is a service I can see delivered. Very well, I will protect the people you cannot, so long as you remember what you promised and understand that it is by my mercy, through my infinite generosity, that you have managed to strike this bargain."

"And I thank you for it all the way," Shiv said.

That led to the final person Shiv spoke to. A final individual trapped inside a frosted stone dagger. The Deathless said nothing at first. Instead, he reached his Vitae inside the dagger's soul and found Andra. She had been howling in the dark for some time, viciously furious at first, but now morose and slightly demoralized by the seclusion. He wondered if it was how Valor must have felt after being trapped.

As soon as she felt Shiv's presence, she pleaded and threatened. Both at once. While he was almost impressed, he ignored her. Instead, he mended her Cryomancy skill and took an animated skill infusion from that. Thereafter, they enlisted Jessica's help, creating a secluded dimension using Rusty to hide what they were doing. Then, Shiv began making Vitae Golems. Golem after golem. And that was what Shiv ultimately spent most of his time doing. Practicing Golemancy. He had Adam find him a few more low-lives he could drain the vitality out of, so he could continuously top himself up using his Enchained Heart of Life-Giving. But most of that went to making more and more golems rather than animating bread or other foodstuff.

Shiv made over 245 Golems in the two days he had. 245 infused with five skills each: Shapeless Tides, Inertial Overdrive, Pillar of Orichalcum, Vitality Drain, and ultimately Andra's Frost Skill. Because he wished for the Eldritch to taste a little bit of their own medicine.

Golemancy 28 > 35

Vitaemancy 127 > 130

Jessica raised a sharp eyebrow. "Broken Moon, kid. That's a small army you built up there. No wonder you needed so many squatter thugs. What are you planning to do with them? Using them on me?"

"No. But there is another Legend I have in mind. A gray-skinned one. Slight bit bigger than you. Maybe whoever shows up to interrupt our evacuation. There's always something that goes wrong at the last minute. Always something…”

Shiv wanted to be prepared. And Jessica nodded in return, acknowledging his diligence. "Well, it's a good strategy. Frankly, I didn't know you could do this. You're showing me an awful lot of your cards, kid. Not something I would do."

"Did you ever have to play balance of power between the Republic, some Abyssal Lord who ruined your life before it even began, the Eldritch, and a horde of orcs?"

She rolled her eyes. "Alright, I get the point. I'm just saying, maybe you shouldn't trust me that much either."

"Trust you more than I trust almost everyone else here. You're in it for yourself. You're in it for the most selfish, yet understandable desire around. You want your husband and daughter back. Just like I understand you're going to have to intervene in case the Culturist goes rogue and decides to do something weird."

The Giantsbane smirked up at him and puffed her chest out. "Oh, you're confident I can beat him, huh?"

"No, I'm confident that it'll take him a lot longer to kill you than me. I'm gonna be spending that precious time to figure out how I can free Adam from his metamorphosis."

"You know, usually when someone has a plan to be a rat bastard, they don't announce it openly."

"I'm not the kind to hide or lie. You'll get it straight from me, and I think I'm gonna get it the same way from you."

Jessica just nodded.

Despite all the violence that transpired between them, Shiv had a weird feeling, a feeling that he could just understand the Giantsbane. “And Jessica.”

“Hm.”

“When we save Blackedge, you keep your hands off Roland. I have something to settle with him first.”

She sneered. “The fuck I will.”

“Yeah. You will. Because I’ll get the Culturist to put you in time out.”

“Oh, you little Chandler shit. I see how it is. You just love using people against each other, don’t you?”

“Works a little too well. Just keep this in mind when you think about doing something funny.”

Gardener of Doubt 65 > 67

***

At exactly the 48th hour, Rusty began to gleam. A beam of gold expanded out from the dimensional blade, and the mana diffusers were turned into place, flashing into their original positions in ripples of Chronomancy. The obelisk came back a moment later, and the spatial and time mana receded back into the Awakened Sword. Concelhaunt and Kura, however, remained missing, though Shiv could see faint imprints of their bodies slowly emerging as if two forms surfacing from beneath a muddied pond.

"It's ready," Merrielmel called out. He rushed into the room and came to a halt beneath the obelisk. Immediately, his drone spilled out from inside his tasseled robes and the Enchanter began casting spells, twisting the very flow of Dimensionality and guiding it up along the obelisk into the Gate looming above.

"Alright, time to get Hymn," Adam breathed. He turned to face the gathered crowd. "Who's ready to finally finish rescuing my felling town?"

Shiv and all the orcs who were there during the siege of Blackedge raised their hands and cheered loudly. The Culturist lifted a single finger coyly, wanting to be included.

“Calibrating,” Merrielmel cried. He stood at the center of the chamber, and the nearby walls and floor spun slowly. Bits of mana jumped from panel to panel, and Rusty remained embedded beneath the grand obelisk, shrunken from its previous all-encompassing size. “C-calibrating.” The room began to tremble. Motes of static and darkness started raining from the pyramid-shaped diffusers, and the flowing mana danced to the movements of Merrielmel’s thin fingers. “I should be able to get this to stabilize. I usually have Concel with me here, but—but, doing this alone… I think I can… I can…”

“Merrielmel,” Shiv called out. He pointedly breathed in and out deeply, and the Enchanter nodded nervously as he tried to mimic the reaction.

“S-sorry. It’s just that we’re so close. So close. S—”

“Get closer,” Hymn suddenly called out, walking past Shiv and striding toward Merrielmel. The Deathless did a double-take at the headmaster’s sudden appearance—and all the blood and viscera soaking his body.

“Hymn? The hells happened to you?” Shiv asked.

“Got an unfortunate visit earlier. A group of possessed Seekers trying to steal my flesh and hollow my eyes in the name of the Stranger. Typical stuff, really. Except for the fact that the Stranger has cornered Blackedge, and that this was the Stranger’s plan to perform a pincer attack to seize the slipgate and use me to ambush the town from within.” Hymn sneered, and his eyes blazed bright with mana and cold rage. “We’re all but out of time. And also, someone’s been telling the Stranger about our plans—about this little secret project here. So, before we go across, I want to have a brief conversation with our little rat.”
