Cale stared at them silently, his expression unreadable. Leo gave Syphus a frantic nudge, and the golem blinked, looking around at the others. "Oh. I'm supposed to say something?" it asked. "Uh, you know me. If you told me you personally went around stabbing babies I'd probably be fine with it as long as you did it with a cool spell."

Everyone, including Angus and Kazza, turned to stare at the golem.

"What?" it asked. Then it tilted its head, as if it was listening to someone else. "Oh. Sisyphus says you're all worried I'm going to go around stabbing babies. No, that's a waste of time. Babies don't fight back. I'd rather shoot monsters with magic. Which I still need you to teach me about, so yeah, you should come back."

"Syphus," Flia said, rubbing her temples. "If you see someone stabbing babies, please stop them."

"Of course I'd stop them," Syphus said, giving her an affronted look. "They'd be a much more interesting fight than the babies."

"Can we please stop talking about babies?" Damien interjected.

"You were the ones that brought babies up," Syphus complained.

"Patently untrue," Leo said.

Angus kept an eye on the Wanderer as his apprentices bickered, fascinated by the way it changed. First it tightened with dread, like he just couldn't imagine telling his apprentices whatever it was he'd done; then it turned into something far more mortal, a kind of vulnerability Angus had never imagined on a legendary figure like the Wanderer.

And then as the apprentices continued, Cale's expression slowly twisted with more and more incredulity as their bickering went entirely off the rails. Finally, he shook his head and let out a short laugh, interrupting them. There was something heavy in his eyes, still, but his shoulders seemed lighter.

"You guys are ridiculous," he said, though not without fondness. It reminded Angus of when he told stories to the younglings and they began arguing with one another about their favorite characters or legends. "Fine. I'll tell you. You know half the story already, anyway. You just... didn't hear the worst part."
