“So it was Cthirche, wasn’t it?”, asked Rhys. He popped a cup of tea in front of me, the teabag still stewing.

“That it is~” I took one glance at the mug and could tell it was scalding hot, so gingerly pulled the porcelain saucer close with my tentacle to blow on it, and somehow, The tip of my tentacle mimicked the jasperware pattern—a perfect copy! I quickly squirreled the limb beneath the table. “And you’re Rhys, that right?”

“Nice to meet you. Wait, I don’t believe I introduced myself yet?”

“I didn’t introduce myself to you either!”

“But the sentinel said your name. I was there, remember?”

“Oohhh, is that what it was? W-well then, if you know my name, how about giving me yours?”.

He looked skeptical over the cup he raised to his lips, but after taking a long sip, he sighed.

“It’s Rhys. Rhys Gwyn.”

“So, nice surprise seeing a spice shop in a place like this, isn’t it?” I tried to leave the interrogation behind, but Rhys put his cup down with a firm clink.

“Now hold on, lets discuss the other thing, how did you know who I was?”

“I made a bit of a mistake. I thought it was common knowledge. I’m sorry for assuming.” His shoulders sunk into another sigh, but he seemed to drop the questioning.

“Well, what about what you did to the sentinel?”

“It’s not like I lied - I sorta fed him a false positive. Told him it was okay, and gave him an identity. It worked out, he left me alone.”

“But you used those things!”

“My tentacles?” I held one up, squiggling it gently. “Yeah, they’re part of the whole package. Not exactly normal, I guess?”

Where would I even start explaining that? I’m a person from another earth—one who got zapped into .exe format, and when I woke up in some cosmic horror’s video game dream, one of my special moves brought me out to the real world… No that sounds proper barmey even though I lived it. I have a better idea.

I reach out with my tentacle and right click… Invite to party. He watched the tentacle with equal parts trepidation and fascination.

Without a way of interacting with the hud, that might have been the end of that, but I had a second trick.

“I can’t just waffle off a load of loony babble you probably won’t get without seeing it for yourself. Look, you mind if I pop it in you a sec?”

“Hwahh? What? That sounds so wrong on so many levels! I mind— I absolutely mind!”

“Ugh, it’ll go easier if you just say yes, and what have you really got to worry about?”

“Will it hurt?”

“I dunno, it didn’t hurt the robot.”

“Well of course not, it’s a robot! Wait, no… You’re right. It went right through didn’t it, it was like a ghost. Never really worried about all the other ghosts that pass through me…”

“There ya go!” I said, plunging my tentacle into his chest and ignoring his gasp. Didn’t seem to hurt him so much as shock him, so thats a plus. Alright. So with a bit of fiddling, I just accepted the invite, annnnnd enabled his hud. Oh, his eyes popped wide open at that. I guess it worked, so I release my ethereal grasp.

“Well? Do ya get it now? Here, take a good look!” I stood up, and took a few steps back, perching my hands on my hips, and smiling confidently.

“Yeah… So it’s not Cthirche Andrews then?”

“Oh, yeah. The bot wanted a full name - First and last. So I gave him that one. It’s a bit of a long story, but I guess here and now I’m just Cthirche.

“Ahh, so the false positive - You skipped the ID check and just reported that it was successful?

“That about sums it up.”

Rhys grabs his chin ponderously. “If there’s a loose end, it’d be that then. It should have a log of that information on board. It’s possible that the violation could be detected if it’s analyzed, but I don’t think it’ll get flagged otherwise.”

“I’ll take it. We just gotta take it one thing at a time, don’t we?”

“Nothing gets to you, does it?”

“Well, I dunno. See, I was thinking”, my tentacle was still outstretched, so I wiggled it catching his eye,

“My squid bits. I was reallllly hoping they wouldn’t stand out too much here. I thought maybe here they were a normal feature like eyes or a nose, but I don’t quite fit in after all.”

“Right. You’re not exactly inconspicuous. You can’t just turn them off?”

“Thats what I was thinking, well—I can’t just trim them down, but, You know, squids can change themselves to blend in. I can do that!”

I pulled down my hood, showing off the silky, velvety mushroom-like hair. My tentacles that hung from it were one thing, but all together, it was plump and firm like aloe vera, weighty and flexible like a boneless thigh, and rubbery, like, well, calamari. It certainly didn’t look like hair, not unless you scrutinized it from a distance. Without your glasses on.

Ok, how did it go again? I clenched my fists, and closed my eyes, and, tried to picture what my hair should look like. Wiry and red like I used to have? And a bit of blue for some magic—oh, thats purple. Some tone then, and maybe a bit of green to balance out the hues.

I could feel the little bumps and folds of my squid hair rearanging itself as I imagined it. Rhys probably saw the textures loading in and out, like my hair cache was being rewrote in real time. When I finally settled on my muse, I opened my eyes again and brushed the limb aside like flipping a lock of thick, dark, and wavy hair.

“That was amazing! You really can pull it off!” Rhys exclaimed incredulously, and I beamed beside myself.

“No, I don’t think this will do.” A third voice interrupted. A bright eyed young woman was nosily perched over the divider. She reached out abruptly and stroked my tentacle. I shivered at the unexpected touch.

“J-just who are you lady?”

“Sesha! How long have you been here!?”

“Ever since ‘So it was Cthirche, wasn’t it’?, and you didn’t even offer me a cup of coffee!” After she finished with Rhys, she turned her flowery smile back to me, “It’s nice to meet you. I’m sorry for overhearing your conversation. You can blame him, he should have noticed shouldn’t he?”

My pointed expression turned to Rhys. “You should have noticed”. He recoiled.

“Well; it’s alright. You don’t need to be shy. I can be like your big sister, right? It seems like Rhys doesn’t get it.”

“More like aunty.” He quipped.

“It actually feels convincing too. How did you manage that?”

“It’s a squid thing…” I mumbled as she had her way with my new weave.

“Fascinating…”

“Maybe people can stop talking about me like I’m an exhibition?”

“Well! … No. You’re right. I’m sorry. But, we need to talk about this! First, let me just say - You’re being too self conscious. People will judge you—They always do. What will you do the next time they don’t like something about you? Right? So, instead of being weird and fake, just be weird.

I nodded. She had a point… It sounds a bit pipe-dreamy to hope that people would accept me how I am, but the fallout from being a secret monster would be worse.

“Now, the finer details. Rhys, pay close attention yes? Ok, do a jump for me.”

“Well if it’s you asking, big sis, I can’t say no” I sigh. Ok, squat. And, hop! I bounce about 2 feet of the ground. How’s that? It’s been a while since I was a kid on the playground doing hopscotch. Not bad, right?

“You get it now, Rhys?”

“Yeah, I see…”

“Wha? Wait, did I do something wrong?”

“No, not quite. It’s like you had lag? The texture of your hair didn’t follow the movement of your body evenly?”

“Not only that—It takes an effort doesn’t it? You can’t keep it up without wearing yourself out.”

“I’m not really sure, it’s not too hard, but it requires some concentration, yeah.”

“Anyway, it’s cute and it’s useful, I think it’s a fun power. But you shouldn’t pretend to be someone your not. Try to give people the benefit of the doubt. You could always call it cosplay. Make it your brand.”

“Y-yeah! I’ll do just that!”

“So, are you staying the night? I can put food on for you too if you like. Anything you’re not good with?”

“Stay?” I stuttered. I hadn’t even thought of what I’d do since arriving here. Woah, was I really so unprepared for human life?

“Wait, Cthirche—You don’t have anywhere to go?”

“I mean, I was thinking I could go back on the web or something, but I really hadn’t given it any thought! when I got here things were quite chaotic.”

“Well you should stay then!”

“You’re absolutely not going off with nowhere to stay.” Sesha glanced back to Rhys, “I can’t believe you didn’t notice”

Rhys recoiled, “You know it’s not like that—”

“Quiet, little brother,” Sesha laughed. “So about dinner. What’s Cthirche not good with?”
