“What is sin? Murder? Violation of ten rules? Why are all beings sinful the instant they are born? What sin did we commit?”
“Erin did not say. But that is not important. The important thing is that God sent his son—”
“To be killed.”
“Sacrificed.”
“Was it blood magic? I cannot understand why one death absolves an entire species of sin.”
“He is meant to bear our suffering. Bear our transgressions—”
“Yet we still transgress.”
“But now we are forgiven. Any mistakes we make are our own—”
“And if we do not obey the rules of this God, we will be punished when we die. So you have said.”
“Or we may obey and go to Heaven.”
“Which no one has ever seen.”
“We must believe it exists.”
“But you cannot prove it does.”
Pawn glared at Klbkch. The second day had seen him arguing for hours with the Revalantor about these very topics.
“It is something I would like to believe in. Respectfully, it does not harm the Hive in any way.”
“It does matter if this God intends to enforce such restrictions on our kind. If the Antinium cannot kill, then we will all be punished by this God.”
“It doesn’t work that way—”
“Regardless, I will not allow you to worship this God.”
“Why not?”
Pawn stood up, knocking back his chair. Klbkch spoke coldly as he looked at the Worker.
“If this God made Humans in his form, then he is clearly a God for them. But the Antinium never rested in this ‘Garden of Eden’. We were not in the world where his son came to life, and thus we were not saved. We are not his. This God…is not a God for the Antinium. I will give him no power, and you will not either.”
“Power? It is just prayer!”
“That is enough. I will not allow prayer or worship of a God that does not belong to the Antinium.”
“That is not fair!”
Pawn shouted at Klbkch, surprising even himself. But the Revalantor just stood up.
“It is necessary, and it is my order. Talk to no one, and forget about Gods.”
“How can I?”
Pawn’s voice was bitter. Klbkch studied him, and then unsheathed one of his swords. He held the silvery blade out towards Pawn for him to inspect. Pawn looked at the gleaming metal and wondered how many of his brethren the blade had cut to pieces.
“Believe in this. Not something that can be neither seen nor heard.”
The Worker shook his head and pushed aside the sword.
“This is just an object. What I want is something else.”
“What is that?”
Klbkch’s tone infuriated Pawn. It was uncaring. He didn’t care about Pawn; he just saw another piece to be used. No, that wasn’t it. He didn’t understand Pawn. Klbkch was special. He was a Prognugator, a Revalantor, a Centenium, whatever that meant. He was second to the Queen. He—
Was special. But Pawn was not. He could never understand.
“What do I want? Salvation. Can you or the Queen offer that?”
Pawn turned and stormed out of the room before Klbkch could respond.
 
—-
 
That night, Pawn shifted around again and again in his small cubicle, until he realized he was waking the other Workers up. He felt hot, hot with anger and frustration. Klbkch would never understand. But he knew who might.
Leaving his cubicle, Pawn slipped through the tunnels, joining the night rush of Workers and moving through the passageways until he reached one that was growing familiar to him. He entered the large mess hall and looked around.
They were there, all of them. Pawn had grown to know these Soldiers, identify them somehow. Maybe it was the way they looked at him familiarly, or how they crowded around now, abandoning their meals or taking the bowls with them to listen.
“I have told you all the stories of God that I know.”
Pawn addressed the hundreds of Soldiers with a loud voice. He sensed them shifting ever so slightly as he explained.
“I have no more tales to tell you. What I know, you know.”
They didn’t like that. Some of the Soldiers moved slightly, a sign of their agitation. But Pawn only smiled. He’d told them everything, yes, but he hadn’t told them the most important bit.
“There is one thing left, though. One promise that God made to his people, to all people.”
The Soldiers immediately froze in place, a sign of how eager they were to hear. Pawn held his breath, and then told them.
“Heaven.”
The word rang through the large room, carrying more than just sound with it. Pawn’s heart raced just like when he’d first heard that word and its meaning.
“Heaven. It is a place God made. A place to go when we die.”
A place to be happy. To be free. Pawn tried to explain that to the listening Soldiers. He knew they would understand.
“You see, when we die—the Antinium, we go into the Hive. But this Heaven—if we believe and are good, we will go there. And in that place, there is no suffering. No pain. We can be happy there.”
Happy. It was a word that Pawn barely understood. But he spoke of it confidently. It was something he barely understood, but he had glimpsed it, and it had captivated his soul.
“In Heaven, you will not have to eat these meals. You will eat good food, and not have to fight. You will be safe there, and no one will order you about. That is what God promises. That is—that is why it is important.”
That was the promise he dreamed of. A place where he might find his fellow Workers, the ones who had died. A reason why they had died. A place—
A place to rest. The Soldiers stared at Pawn. He looked at them, and saw something in their eyes. Something he’d never seen before.
Passion.
“That’s right. When we die, we will go there. If we believe. If we are good—if we do not sin—”
He paused as those words left his tongue. Sin. Yes, Erin had told him about that. Sin was violating the laws God had spoken. And one of them was not to kill. The Soldiers were built to kill. How could they be unsinful?
And yet, and yet, he could not tell the Soldiers that. They deserved a place there, and Pawn wanted to believe they would.
But would they? He didn’t know. Pawn wavered, and lost track of what he was saying. Shortly, he stood up and addressed the Soldiers.
“I…must go. I know you have duties. But I hope you will believe. And maybe—maybe we will all go to Heaven.”
He left them with that, and retreated to his cubicle. There Pawn sat and agonized.
It wasn’t that he didn’t believe in Heaven, or God. He wanted to with all his heart, and he did. But that was the problem. If he believed in God, he had to believe in Hell. That was what Erin said existed too.
How could Pawn accept that someone who had killed would go to Hell? Would Belgrade go to hell because he had killed? Or would believing be enough to go to Heaven? What about Bird? He’d killed more than Belgrade, and yet, he’d done it to save Erin. Did the undead not count? What did?
And what about the Soldiers? The Soldiers…had to go to Heaven. Pawn knew it. They weren’t bad. They obeyed orders to the letter. How could that be punished?
These were unfamiliar, uncomfortable questions. They made Pawn upset. It was as if Klbkch was whispering into his ears, making him doubt what had been so easy to accept. Before, Pawn had believed in a God, been certain that one existed, but too afraid to ask. Now he was afraid to ask, and he was also afraid—
Afraid that God might be wrong. Pawn wished Erin were here so he could ask her. But he didn’t know. He didn’t know.
And he feared the truth. Or that there was no answer for him. Pawn went to sleep dreaming of such questions and he tossed and turned restlessly. All he wanted was to go to Heaven. He could leave the rest, but he had to know that was true. There wasn’t a single Antinium who deserved to go to Hell. Not Bird, not Anand, not even Ksmvr.
Not even Klbkch.
 
—-
 
Pawn was dreaming. Or he had been. He only knew he was asleep, and then someone was shaking him, dragging him out of his cubicle. Pawn opened his eyes, and struggled to move, but an iron grip had hold of him and someone was shouting in his ear holes.
“What have you done?”
Klbkch dragged Pawn out of his resting spot and shook the Worker violently. Pawn gasped and tried to form words as he woke up.
“What? Reva—”
“What did you do?”
Klbkch hurled Pawn into a wall and pressed him there. Pawn gasped for air as he felt something crack, but Klbkch was already dragging him down the corridor. Pawn struggled to find his feet as Klbkch shouted at him. He saw Workers staring at him as he passed by their cubicles.
“What is going on?”
“Follow me! Move!”
The Revalantor pulled Pawn along, running him down the corridor. The never ending stream of Workers and Soldiers stopped dead as the two Antinium charged down the corridors, and the other Antinium pushed themselves to the walls to give them room to run.
Pawn had no idea what was happening. But he sensed where they were going and his heart stopped when he realized they were headed straight for the Soldiers’ mess room. Klbkch stopped at the entrance and unsheathed his swords, and pushed Pawn through.
“What is happening? What—”
The Worker stumbled into the room and his words stopped. He stared around inside and saw hell. It must have been hell, because what he saw made no other sense.
The huge room was filled with Soldiers. Living Soldiers—and dead ones. The dead lay on the ground, beaten, bludgeoned to death, sporting huge holes in their carapace, huge, fist-sized wounds made by the hands of Soldiers. And as Pawn looked around, he saw dark shapes struggling with each other, hitting, tearing, smashing—
The Soldiers were killing each other.
There was no order to it, no clear indication where violence began or ended. Each Soldier still living—and there were countless bodies on the floor—was going around, hitting other Soldiers with their bowls, using all four hands to pummel each other to the floor. They were treating everything and everyone like an enemy, but they made no attempt to block when they were struck. They simply let the other Soldier tear bits of their carapace off and let the green ichor spill from their bodies.
“What is this?”
Pawn screamed the words at Klbkch as the Revalantor entered the room. Klbkch had both blades raised defensively as he looked around at the bloodbath.
“You tell me. These Soldiers were completely fine yesterday, but they started butchering each other ten minutes ago. Workers tell me you were spotted entering this room thirty minutes before they started this madness.”
“Me? I—yes, but I never told them to do this!”
He would have never done that. Klbkch just stared at him.
“Then why is this happening?”
Pawn had no answer. He stared at the Soldiers. One had taken a bowl and was smashing another’s head in with it. Pawn ran forwards.
“Stop! What are you doing?”
The Soldier took no notice of Pawn. Pawn tried to pull him back, but the Soldier just threw him backwards. Pawn stumbled away and stared around.
“They’re killing each other? Why? Why do this?”
“What did you say? Have they become Aberrations?”
Klbkch’s sword was aimed right at Pawn’s head. The Worker raised his arms.
“I didn’t say anything!”
“You said something. What were you telling them?”
“Just stories!”
“Stories? About what?”
“God.”
The sound Klbkch made was between a screech and a shout. He struck Pawn with the pommel of his sword, so hard Pawn felt his cheek chitin crack.
“You fool. I ordered you not to—”
“I didn’t meant to hurt them! I just wanted to give them hope!”
Pawn cried out as he retreated from the furious Klbkch. The Revalantor looked around at the chaos.
“You call this hope?”
“No! I never wanted this. I was just telling them about heaven, last night. Just heaven—”
Pawn’s breath caught in his throat. He stared around at the Soldiers dying and realized what had happened. His heart became ice in his chest.
“No. Heaven.”
Klbkch looked around grimly.
“Explain.”
“I—I told them that when they died, they could go to Heaven. A place without pain. A place—”
“You told them that?”
Pawn couldn’t look at Klbkch. He stared at a fallen Soldier, his body a mass of holes. No. He hadn’t meant it like that. But he had, hadn’t he? He’d told the Soldiers that when they died they wouldn’t have to fight anymore, to suffer. And they’d believed him. They’d believed him so much that they’d taken the fastest route to get to heaven:
Suicide.
“There are four hundred Soldiers here. If they all die—”
Pawn didn’t listen to Klbkch’s threat. He ran forwards, shouting. The Soldiers were deathly quiet as they fought each other, but the noise of body parts crunching and things breaking was still loud enough.
“Stop! Stop this! This isn’t the way!”
None of the Soldiers looked at him. Pawn shouted desperately and tried to pull a trio of Soldiers beating a fourth one down apart. They ignored him, only shoving him back. He used all of his strength, but they were far stronger.
“Soldiers!”
Klbkch’s voice was a roar. He strode forwards, brandishing his swords.
“Desist at once! Obey my command and stop!”
A few of the Soldiers looked over at Klbkch. He was a commanding presence, but even his twin swords couldn’t intimidate the Soldiers. They were fearless. And even as he spoke, a Soldier rushed at him.
Klbkch immediately ran the Soldier through, but that was what the Antinium had wanted. The Soldier pushed himself onto the blades, letting them pierce his chest. Klbkch cursed as he pulled the blades loose, but then another Soldier ran at him, swinging aimlessly. He was trying to get Klbkch to kill him too!
Pawn watched, horrified as Klbkch cut the Soldiers’ arm off and then beheaded him. The Revalantor fell back, cursing, as more Soldiers rushed at him, letting him cut them down.
“Stop! Stop! You must stop! This is not the way to get to heaven!”
If they did not go to heaven, then they would go to hell. That was what Erin had said. But the Soldiers weren’t listening. They were trying to find relief, relief from their suffering. Pawn understood that. But this—
This was a sin. One of the worst ones. They would all go to hell. They would suffer, not live forever. That was what God had said. Those were the rules.
He couldn’t stop them. Pawn fell to his knees. He looked up, at where Erin had pointed when she spoke of Heaven.
“God. Is there a God?”
How did it go? Pawn’s hands clasped together and he bowed his head. Klbkch saw that and roared at him.
“Stop that!”
He fought towards him, but now all the Soldiers were rushing him. Pawn ignored Klbkch. He bowed his head. He couldn’t close his eyes, but that was what Erin had said to do, right? And now he prayed? How?
Erin had said it was like a conversation. Pawn tried.
“God? Is that you?”
There was no response. Pawn tried. He tried to activate his Skill.
