He tried again after darting back to open some room, aiming for its heart this time around. Nick swore when the same thing happened. The path of the ray was bent inside the monster’s body, coming out the far side without any appreciable damage.

“Whatever it has for vital organs, it has a way of protecting them. Punching holes in its torso isn’t doing much damage. Try taking out a joint and see if you have better luck.” With that, he launched a series of strikes at the voidbear’s face, keeping it distracted while his partner joined the fray.

When the monster was fully committed to attacking Nick, Liz made her move. She darted in without hesitation—movements as smooth as satin over silk. When the voidbear reared up to build momentum, transferring all its weight onto its hindlegs in the process, she hit it from behind with the point of her sword leading the way.

She plunged the tip deep into the monster’s knee—or one of its knees at any rate—then continued to thrust in a flurry of precision strikes that targeted a joint along that limb. Elizabeth unleashed a dozen lunges in half as many heartbeats, then pulled back as the monster’s leg buckled, sending it crashing to the ground hard enough to knock Nick to his knees.

“Its skin and organs are weird.” She flitted back to open some room. “But its weight-bearing anatomy is vulnerable. We should be able to disable the big bastard if we damage its limbs, then we can figure out how to finish it off.”

Unfortunately, that wound up being easier said than done.

Although Liz’s attack had slowed the monster down, it wasn’t limping as much as he expected. “I think it can reconfigure its tissue at will,” she called out. “Slide its muscles and organs around to avoid critical hits and reinforce wounded areas.”

“It’s not as dumb as I thought.” He danced between a pair of claw swipes, then hopped out of the way of the voidbear’s bite. “It’s adapting to my attacks over time.”

By now, Nick had a decent sense of his opponent and was ready to end the fight. He infused Blightbane with pure mana and got ready to let loose. I’ll try to shear off a limb or decapitate it. Let’s see it walk away from that.

He couldn’t line up a slash on its neck, so he waited for an opening and attacked its shoulder instead.

He wasn’t sure if the silvery mana would have any effect, and was pleasantly surprised to discover it did. It seemed the monster was using mana to manipulate its internal tissue. The effect was disrupted by pure mana’s antimagic properties, increasing the damage as his blade passed through.

This time, he felt Blightbane bite deep into muscle, although it stopped when it hit the bone. “Its skeleton is crazy hard. Almost like swinging at steel.”

As those words left his lips, Nick learned an important detail. While the monster couldn’t cast spells, it could still burn stamina. Its movements abruptly sped up—fast enough that he had trouble moving out of the way, even with Force Acceleration.

He thought he was going to dodge its attack with inches to spare, but the voidbear’s claws abruptly lengthened, granting it extra reach that he hadn’t anticipated.

Before he had time to react, the monster cut through his armor, heading for the tender flesh below.
