“Yeah, Gretchen's staying here with us, too.” Ren said. “She doesn't want to leave Dana alone with a scoundrel like me.”

Stella, Denise, Lisa, and Elise all snorted in laughter, and Mrs. Johnson looked at them in surprise.

“Okay, he's convinced me.” Stella said and pushed his wheelchair over to the table. “We'll be back later.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, then Dana and Gretchen sat on either side of him. “Have fun, and don't forget what I said!” He told them as they walked away.

“We won't, you scoundrel!” Denise exclaimed, and that made them all laugh.

“Wow.” Dana said as they disappeared around the corner of the house. “You're this hurt and your nurses left you all alone.”

Ren chuckled and pointed. Dana turned her head and saw two security guards about 20 feet away. One was facing towards them and one was facing the other way.

“Oh.”

“Don't worry. My nurses know what's going on all the time around here.” Ren said and looked at Gretchen. “Go ahead and ask.”

“Wh-what?” Gretchen blinked her eyes at him.

“You've been dying to ask me something since you saw me, so go ahead.”

“I... I don't know what you mean.”

“Eeennnh!” Ren made a buzzer sound. “Wrong answer!”

Dana laughed. “I'll ask if you don't want to.”

Gretchen opened her mouth to tell her to go ahead, then she remembered boldly asking him a personal question in the game. “Are both of them your real girlfriends?”

“Yes.” Ren said. “Now ask the real question.”

Gretchen took a quick breath. “Are you having sex with them?”

“Like I tried to say earlier when my nurses cut me off, I'm too hurt to have sex right now.” Ren said. “But, I have with both of them.”

“At the same time?” Dana asked.

“Dana!” Gretchen exclaimed.

“Hey, it's the next logical question.” Dana said.

“No, not at the same time.” Ren said and smiled crookedly.

“Oh! I see a sly smile!” Dana said. “You have had a threesome!”

Gretchen looked at Ren and saw his nod. “In the game?”

“There, too.” Ren admitted.

Both Dana and Gretchen sat back in their chairs and just looked at him. They weren't sure why this subject seemed so interesting to them; but, they wanted to learn more.

“Will you tell us who?” Dana asked.

“No, since that's not my secret to tell.” Ren said. “I won't cause potential embarrassment to anyone.” He said and smiled. “Except for myself.”

“Is that why you told my mom that you had two girlfriends?” Dana asked. “Because you don't mind being embarrassed?”

“I'm not embarrassed to say they are my girlfriends.” Ren laughed. “Have you seen them? They're both gorgeous and they love me.”

“Then what did you mean?”

“I'm a bit of a sex addict.” Ren said, and they looked at him with wide eyes.

“You're what?” Dana asked, surprised.

“A bit is kind of an understatement.” Ren said, and sighed. “I just love the feel of a woman when... well...” He looked from Dana to Gretchen and saw their surprised expressions. “It's just... you taste so good when I go down on you.” He said. “It gets even better when you squirm and moan...”

“S-stop.” Gretchen said and took a shallow breath and let it out. “Why are you telling us this?”

“You asked.” Ren said, and their surprised expressions didn't change. “It's a little embarrassing for me to admit that I have a problem, and that's what I meant about potentially embarrassing myself.”

Dana and Gretchen looked at each other, then looked back at Ren.

“So, you really are...” Dana started to ask if he was addicted to sex.

“Yeah.” Ren answered before she did.

“Do you really like...” Gretchen started to ask.

“More than anything.” Ren smiled. “I could do it for hours.” He said, dreamily. “The texture when I lick, the taste on my tongue, looking up at a woman's face as she...”

“S-s-stop!” Gretchen closed her eyes and took several deep breaths as she rested her head on the table. Her long brown hair covered her embarrassed face.

“Gretchen.” Dana said and leaned over the small table to lift up some of Gretchen's hair. “Did you just...”

“N-n-no.” Gretchen said and turned her red face the other way to hide it.

“Damn, girl.” Dana said and let her hair go as she sat back down. “Hearing it made you that horny?”

“N-no.” Gretchen lied, and Dana chuckled.

“I hope it was only a small one.” Ren said. “Otherwise, you might need to check your skirt because you're sitting down.”

Gretchen gasped and quickly stood up. “Dana!”

Dana nodded and walked around her and checked her skirt. “Nothing.”

“Oh, thank god.” Gretchen said. “I... I need to go back to your place and...”

“There's 6 bathrooms in the house.” Ren said, and they looked at him. “The main one is through the kitchen and beside the large living room. If you see the workout room, you went too far.”

“We'll be right back.” Dana said and took Gretchen's hand. “Will you be okay?”

Ren nodded and motioned for the security guard that was watching him to come over. “There's replacement pads and sanitary napkins in the drawers beside the sink.”

Dana nodded back and quickly took her friend into the house that was very different from hers.
