Erick smiled wider, saying, “Most things my size can swim. Doesn’t make us fish.”

“No. You fish.”

“I’m glad you like fish, then.”

“Yes. Fish great. Slippy slippy. You fish.”

Erick chuckled. “Looks like you have some good varieties down there, too. Do you know what they’re called?”

“Yes!” And then Yggdrasil opened his floodgates of words, “Rainbow flit. Goldscale slipper. Striped silvertail. Brown cruncher. Red flit. Shortnose hook. Three-eye blackie—”

Erick sat down, asking, “Can you make a lightform to show me what they look like, too?”

“Yes! I do this.” Yggdrasil happily began drawing with light in the air in front of Erick, painting pictures of fish, as he started naming them again. “Rainbow flit. Goldscale slipper…”

They weren’t great pictures, done by someone with years upon years of practice, but they were large and pretty, and Yggdrasil was doing a great job. Erick sat back and watched, feeling better with every passing picture. After about fifty fish, Yggdrasil slowed down. At 65, he had trouble remembering the last one, but it came soon enough.

With a triumphant flicker of light all across Yggdrasil’s body, he announced, “Razor Guppy!” Happily, he said, “And that’s the fish!”

“I’m very proud of you, Yggdrasil.” Erick said, “You know so many fish and you’re so good at lightpainting them.”

Yggdrasil brightened a bit, before settling back down to his normal glow. “I like fish.”

“Where did you learn all the names?”

“Small shadow at candle place. He fisherman. Named fish as caught then I pick fish and he name.”

Erick thought for a moment, then he conjured an image of a man, describing him to Yggdrasil, “Is the fisherman this man? A black incani with black horns and white eyes?”

“Yes. You know?”

“That’s Slip, the captain of the guard for Candlepoint.” Erick said, “He’s the one that makes sure your lake at Candlepoint has the proper fishes necessary to maintain a good ecosystem.”

“What is ‘ecosystem’?”

Erick talked with Yggdrasil for a while, but eventually they ran out of words, and Yggdrasil asked Erick why his stomach was making noises. Erick told Yggdrasil that he would be back later, but he wanted to go get some food to stop the grumbling.

And so, with a lightstep, and as fully clothed to deal with politics and people as he could be, Erick stepped down the beach next to the tunnel to the embassy. The sand got between his toes, for he had lost his shoes way back when he had fallen out of the mana stream. Ophiel alighted on a shoulder, though, making him feel secure enough, and the [Scry] eyes all around him recognized him, so he probably wouldn’t be kicked out for looking like a vagrant. Wherever he walked, people would already know he was coming.

He glanced to the side, and saw the t-station sitting on the beach in the distance. It was the only structure on the sandy land. Erick almost wanted to go inspect it, but his stomach growled at him. Seeing the t-station did knock loose a thought, though; how would he get back to this location? He instantly decided he would have to use the t-station to get back, until he learned [Gate]. [Teleport] was still blocked here, for sure, and he did not fancy a lightwalk all the way through the tunnels of the Underworld to get back here.

To test that theory, though, Erick manually cast [Teleport], doing a small test blip to try and move left one meter. He barely moved a centimeter. So, Spatial Magic was blocke—

This raised another question: how was Tasar doing her Spatial Magic while Spatial Magic was so restricted in the Underworld? Yet another question to ask her, he supposed.

But food came first.

Erick lightstepped into the tunnel near the beach. He flickered forward to the halfway point, then started walking normally to the checkpoint at the far end. Ten minutes later, he reached the miniature garrison that flanked both sides of the tunnel.

Six wrought, each of a different form, but most of them iron, bowed a little to Erick as he walked through. There were no protections on the tunnel. No physically blocking gate, or any spellwork, or any runework, either. All there was was a politely worded stone tablet on a plinth in the center of the path, asking that no one step this way unless invited or with due cause.

Further past the garrison space was the front end of the embassy. Seeing the space in front of him, Erick got the distinct impression that he had walked out of the Vatican, into Saint Peter’s Square; the giant empty space that sat before him seemed a massive, holy structure similar to the one back on Earth. And yet, Erick looked up, and up, and up, and was reminded of what ‘massive’ actually looked like. The embassy’s ‘front lawn’ was three stone football fields next to each other, but the embassy itself looked like a thousand towers and keeps and bastions all done in white, all stuck together in some arcane mess of a well-laid structure.

The ‘embassy square’, or whatever it was called, was comparatively tiny, but well guarded. The path between the front gate which led to the Underworld roads, and the front door of the embassy, was well filled with people, but not a single one of them veered from that path to head to Yggdrasil’s tunnel. No wonder this side tunnel to Yggdrasil didn’t need to be guarded that much; anyone veering off of the main path would immediately be suspicious and turned back just as fast.

Erick turned back to the wrought on duty, asking, “Anyone know if I need money to get food down at the town?”

An iron wrought in the shape of a stern incani woman said, “Money is required down here, same as anywhere. We have money we can give you if you have none. Or you can walk in the main building and get a small payment. Or you can accept any invitation for a meal from any of the people wishing to talk to you, and have them assume the cost of the meal. We also have human cooks inside the embassy which would be happy to feed you whatever you want for free, but eating in the towns will cost money.”

Erick listened, judged the iron woman as competent and reasonably nice, then he said, “Thank you. Very helpful. Are you six positioned here from now on?”

“For the most part.” The woman asked, “Is there anything I can do to make your stay more comfortable? Real furniture, perhaps?”

“No… No thank you. Not right now.” Erick paused, and asked, “What are your names?”

The iron incani said, “Sergeant Kapra, at your service, Archmage Flatt.” She gestured to her people, saying, “This is...”

Erick listened while she introduced her people, but mostly, he knew that Kapra was the one he would be dealing with when it came to moving in and out of the tunnel. Erick nodded to them all after their introductions, and said, “Nice to meet you all. I’m going to get some free money at the embassy, then.” But he would likely just use his Mage Bank account, if they accepted that.

The wrought bowed.

Erick turned and walked across the large, square kilometer of empty courtyard in front of the embassy, looking at people as they looked at him. The people were dressed rather nicely, either in actual clothes if they were fleshy people, or in similar brocade and tassels and layers done up in the metal of their wrought bodies. The people sometimes gave courtly bows, or nodded, as Erick and Ophiel’s presence interrupted their discussions. Erick nodded back, but he had a destination, and he went there.

The entrance to the embassy was as grand as anything Erick had ever seen before, and a part of him truly wished to enjoy the architecture and the opulence and the experience of it all, but he was wrung out, and he was hungry. And he did want a real bed, now that he thought about it; he might need to take up Sergeant Kapra on her offer.

Anyways.

The floor was a checkerboard of cut gold-colored crystal and white marble, while white pillars held up a vaulted ceiling festooned with artistically arranged drips of even more gold-colored crystal. Everything was bright and shining. People were everywhere, dressed up in nice outfits as they sat around in the public space and discussed business like this was a hotel and they were all guests of the state. Perhaps that analogy was more true than Erick had first suspected, but he didn’t know; not yet.

Five meter tall paintings on the walls. Jewelry on everyone.

People slowly realizing Erick was here.

Eyes rapidly moved through the room as conversations around tea tables died.

A guard looked like he wanted to say something to Erick about Ophiel, hovering around him like tiny parakeets, or about all of Erick’s active spellwork. Almost no one around here had active spellwork. Erick was almost mad for at least two different reasons. They were in the Underworld, and death was everywhere! How could anyone walk around without all their spells active? How could that guard think it was okay to ask Erick to drop his?

But the guard who had been approaching him suddenly stopped and glanced to a superior. The superior nodded. The guard backed off, back to the edge of the room.

Erick realized his own worries manifesting in his thoughts so he discarded them as he walked up to the front desk, to a male copper wrought who suddenly looked extremely nervous, but who was also able to discard his emotions in order to get the job done.

Erick calmly spoke to the calm man at the front desk, saying, “I understand there’s places to eat around here. I need some directions. Good food and no fuss. I have no money on me. Do you accept Mage Bank?”

“All places here will accept Mage Bank.” The man asked, “Do you have a particular type of food you desire?”

“Basic food and a lot of it. Meat, cheese, and bread. Beer, too.”

The man brought out a sheet of paper from behind the counter and laid it on the desk, drawing a map of wardlight upon it as he said, “Three locations might be of use to you. There’s The Cookhouse, down the main hallway, over there, located at the world diner’s market, along with twenty other options. In town, we have the Underground Eatery, which serves many of the people who live and work here at the embassy. As of an hour ago when last I checked, you also have over four hundred standing offers for a business meeting of any type you wish, and in such a case the other group will gladly pay for your meal if that is how you wish to meet them.”

Erick took the map, saying, “World diner’s market it is. Thank you very much.”

The man stood and suddenly bowed, saying, “Thank you for taking back Ar’Kendrithyst and for stopping the yearly surge. Tens of thousands are still alive because of you. Hundreds of cities and villages out in the Dark that don’t need to be rebuilt. Thank you.”

At that, the five other front desk workers stood up in unison and bowed. Like a wave passing outward, people stood if they were sitting, or stopped talking with their neighbors, or they stepped away from their tea shop counters, and they bowed, too.

Erick turned, regarded them all for a brief moment, then said, “Ah. You’re welcome.”

And then he started walking away, down the main hallway. Some people tried to talk to him. Erick just shook his head and they stopped trying to talk to him. He had to do that a few times, but that was fine. The floor was cold under his feet as he walked through the place, eyes rapidly turning away from whatever they were doing to instead look his way.

The world diner’s market was a food court, but also twenty restaurants in a mall-like two-story setup. Erick spotted The Cookhouse sitting on the second floor near the middle of the place.

By the time he made it to his destination they already knew he was coming.

The owner, who was a large orcol man with a great big beard, promptly set Erick up in a nice booth in the back of the place, and then started parading food his way, in accordance with Erick’s desires for meats, cheese, and breads. A surprise came out, too, in the form of fries made from the potatoes Erick had created. He bit into those fried sticks of golden goodness and felt temporary bliss, while the owner explained how the fries were a hit because they resembled the spires of Stratagold from the right angles.

Erick drank his beer and smiled a bit, as he ate his fill and was mostly left alone, except when the owner wished to ask his opinion of the ways in which they had cooked the food Erick had created. That started off a whole conversation about food that Erick found a wonderful diversion, and the owner of the place, Rodolok, was thrilled to be a part of. Erick ate quite a lot more than he expected to eat, but it was wonderful, he was starving, and Rodolok was happy to supply.

When the meal was over, Rodolok would not accept Erick’s money, and told him to come back whenever he wished.

As Erick retraced his steps back toward Yggdrasil, he shook his head at whoever tried to talk to him, and mostly, people listened, opting to remain away instead of potentially inciting anger, or any other unwanted emotion. Soon, Erick was back at the tunnel leading to Yggdrasil’s cavern, back at the garrison with the wrought guarding the place.

Erick said, “Sergeant Kapra. I believe I will take you up on that offer of a nice bed. Please have it delivered to the beach at your earliest convenience.”

Kapra bowed, saying, “It will be done.”

And then Erick lightstepped down the tunnel, back to Yggdrasil where he summoned his bed upon Yggdrasil’s branches and instantly crashed—

He switched to his Other Self, [Renew]ed his rad, as well as cycled for a minute, then he switched back, and then he crashed. With a full stomach Erick slept much better this time.

- - - -

Leaves rustled. Birds chirped. Wings flapped. Eyes saw.

And Erick slept.

- - - -

As Erick opened his mana sense and then his eyes, he realized that he felt good and that he was safe, so he paused, and woke up more slowly. Yggdrasil and Ophiel had maintained the various spellworks Erick had asked of them. [Prismatic Ward] held all around him, serving as his last lines of defense, but his main protections were the [Sealed Privacy Ward]s scattered throughout the big guy’s boughs.

And his bed didn’t pop in the night! Or… Day? The sun never set down here and Erick hadn’t actually checked on the time through Yggdrasil’s other bodies. His circadian rhythms were all messed u—

… Did he have circadian rhythms anymore? He was ‘protean’ now; not human. Humans had rhythms. What did proteans have?

Eh. Whatever!

