None of the wizarding supplies in this room were dangerous or fragile, so of course none of them were displayed with barriers between them and the public. To separate objects of learning from the very people who had come to learn about them would imply all kinds of terrible things about the museum and how it viewed its visitors.


Kivb-ee felt guilty.


She felt awfully guilty as her bare feet carried her closer and closer to the polished table with the white auriad on it.


But after careful consideration, this was the only course of action that she thought wouldn’t hurt anyone. The museum’s collection would be less accurate, but that was not as serious as the worst possible outcome she could imagine.


What if someone took Alden’s auriad from him?


Kivb-ee had now realized her own understanding of Avowed wasn’t perfect. Alden seemed to sense some risk to himself. She would trust his judgment.


He was supposed to have an auriad. He did have one. And it was a lovely shade of purple-blue that was also now her favorite color it absolutely was forevermore.


It was his.


He had bled for her. She had smelled it. She had seen it when they cut off his clothes. What if Rrorro hadn’t been there?


Alden was going to be the best Avowed.


And they would both be wizards.


Through our efforts may the way of things grow closer to perfection.


“Oh Kraaa!” she called when she was only an arm’s length away from the loop of soft white string on the table. “You should show everyone that trick you can do with your tongue!”


Heads and eyes turned. She took it on faith that all of the heads and eyes turned. She acted.


Once, she had failed to take a small risk out of fear. Once, she had hesitated to act. It had cost her almost everything. And it had almost cost Alden everything, too, though he would never admit that it was true.


Kivb, her father had said on that last, most awful day. This human is an Avowed. Distinguished Master Ro-den has sent him to help us. Be brave for your sister.


Kivb-ee wouldn’t be someone who hesitated anymore.


A couple of hours later, when they left the Museum of the Empire, she had an auriad in her pocket. It was real. She’d been a little afraid that it wouldn’t be. What if she’d been wrong, and they were much too valuable to be left out on tables even in an important educational location?


What if instead of a real auriad, it had been a fake, like the one she’d left in its place?


It was a perfect-looking fake. She’d tried to make it herself, but she’d quickly realized she wasn’t talented enough to get the sheen right. She’d asked Instructor Dalat-orni to make it for her, claiming she wanted to give it to one of her dolls.


Fortunately, the instructor didn’t keep track of her dolls, so he didn’t realize that she didn’t have an Artonan one.


They took the personal transport ship back to the travel dome. It was a long trip to the other side of the planet, but they would arrive in time for third meal—a quirk that the Quaternary enjoyed every night.


“Instructor,” said Kivb-ee, her fingers still stroking the string in her pocket the way she’d seen Alden do so many times after he’d bonded with his own. Perhaps the more she mimicked him, the braver she would be. “I would like to take a mourning name.”


There was a pause.


“I see,” Dalat-orni said. “That is a very serious decision. Have you thought it through as carefully as you can?”


“I will not live a life that would bring shame to it,” she said. “I wasn’t sure before, but I am now.” 

 
*
