Most adults were more…finished. But the piece hadn’t relied on Alden anyway. Naya would have spent time with him with little prompting. She wouldn’t have been interested in a fifteen-year-old, but she would have jokingly flirted if given enough of a push. It could all be tailored so that, at a particularly bad moment, Karl would see a woman who never gave him the time of day batting her eyes at a higher ranking boy who was making more than twice his salary.


It would be a knife plunged into his insecurities about himself.


Manon couldn’t really plan it out beyond that. But if the pieces around that moment were all correctly placed, she thought it would have ended with Karl starting the fight away from the rest of the boater. He would be fired. The boy wouldn’t be invited back to LeafSong either. The Artonans wouldn’t have been perfectly sure who was at fault for the quarrel, and in the absence of perfect surety they’d simply blacklist both of them from working there again.


Pineda’s job for next year would likely be re-secured. But much more importantly, Bti-qwol would have been blamed for mismanaging the Avowed on campus. Manon couldn’t afford for her to have the position again.


And she won’t be there now. I’m glad it worked out without me having to create such a sloppy three-person puzzle piece on the fly, she thought as she stepped out of the elevator into her apartment. And cutting Karl loose would have been a shame.


She kicked off her high heels and walked across the cold marble in her hose. The apartment had been Hollywood Glam for a couple of years now. Manon—who could find styles to suit anyone—could never seem to find one that suited herself for longer than that.


Most adults were finished. Most C-ranks were content.


She was different. Even the part of her that chose textiles for her own enjoyment refused to be satisfied.


She stepped over to the window to look down on the people below her.


It was lonely, at times. But it was better to be lonely than to be average, wasn’t it?


She shoved a nugget of the fried chicken into her mouth and looked around. She had a team of Rabbit maids clean the place twice a week. It was so flawless she’d probably need to scuff it up a little if she ever tried to sell it. People thought they wanted perfection, but true perfection made them feel their own flaws more.


But Manon liked true perfection. The one object that didn’t fit in with the rest of the place stood out like a sore thumb to her eyes.


It always stood out, no matter how she changed the style of her home.


That was the way it should be. An eyesore. A thorn she refused to stop pressing her thumb against, for fear she’d forget it and enjoy the rose.


She stepped over to the bookcase. The device was on the second shelf. She’d found it in a shop long ago. It had been ugly then and it was now, too. Some Wright’s project, no doubt. It was a fifteen year timer. The sand in the left side of the horizontal hourglass shape slid over to the right, one grain per minute. More than half a million grains per year.


So many individual moments that added up to a pathetic handful of dirt.


The left side of the glass was nearly empty.


Manon stared at it. She ate the chicken. She shoved the pieces into her mouth faster as she watched another grain of sand disappear. She thought of LeafSong. She wished, pointlessly, that the Artonan year could be shorter. It was close to fifteen Earth months.


[Of course there’s nothing to worry about, dear. It’s only a hiccup. I always pay my debts.]


She thrust two pieces into her mouth at once, barely chewing the meat before she swallowed. Her oily fingers dove into the bag again and scrabbled against the crumbs at the bottom.


Blinking, she looked down into it.


It was empty.


Twenty pieces gone just like that. She told herself she’d been planning to save some for later. But she wondered if that was true.


She’d eaten all twenty last time, too.


She felt stuffed. The heartburn would hit soon.


Manon had never had heartburn until she hit fifty. She’d never had a gray hair. She refused to fix either problem.


More thorns to remind herself of what really mattered.
 

If you stumble upon this narrative on Amazon, be aware that it has been stolen from Royal Road. Please report it.

Every few days one of Kivb-ee’s new instructors took her by ship to the other side of Moon Thegund, to Chayklo, the only populated city of significant size. There, they forced her to interact with other children for her wellbeing.


Officially, the trips were for her to have fun. But she had much more fun in the travel dome, examining Rrorro’s feather structures and sticking her head into the back of Kraaa’s mouth to see where the amazing serrated lash of his tongue was stored when it was not fully extended. These were, her honored instructors and Knight Alis-art’h agreed, educational pursuits. However, for some reason, they did not consider them to be sufficient to her socialization.


The Quaternary said that her intellectual abilities and her background meant she needed to spend more time with other young Artonans rather than less. Playdates were arranged with local families and schools.


The events weren’t terrible, but the first couple had gone strangely.


Hopcatch had always been a good game when she played it with her sister. It had been a good game when she played it with Alden, too, though of course his size meant he’d had to bounce with just one foot and catch with just one hand to make it fun and fair for both of them.


When she played it with the children in Chayklo, she always won.


After she realized that they were letting her win at a game she wasn’t particularly good at, she couldn’t even trust her victories in the games where she probably was superior. Of course she could answer trivia questions faster than a class full of her peers, but…what if there was someone who could compete with her and they were staying silent because it was now clear that she would one day bear the responsibilities and receive the dignities of the wizard class?


Before, there had been doubt. Distinguished Master Ro-den—who would remain distinguished in her mind no matter what terrible misunderstanding had led to the removal of his higher title—had not truly yielded to her ambitions yet.


He’d been warming up to the idea. She would have convinced him and earned real approval soon, but then he’d been sent away…


Now Alden, a brave and honorable Avowed, had told Knight Alis-art’h that he believed Kivb-ee had the makings of a true wizard. Even if Knight Alis-art’h didn’t know that Alden himself had embarked on the path of higher onus, she respected his opinion. As was natural.


Kivb-ee was still somewhat perplexed about the fact that the Avowed couldn’t sense their authority.


Avowed were important people. They performed magic. Distinguished Master Ro-den had always treated them like friends on the occasions when he summoned one to the lab. She’d been confident she understood, so she’d never checked her assumptions.


How embarrassing.


Almost as embarrassing as her excitement at winning that first game of hopcatch, before she realized the others were yielding to her.


“I don’t think they enjoy playing with me,” she had informed Instructor Dalat-orni after they walked away from the school that had been the location for their second social adventure. “I think they are nervous around me.”


The instructor had looked down at her and smiled. “It does seem so, doesn’t it? Don’t give it both halves of your attention. They are only afraid because they rarely deal with wizards who are even deserving of the name here. Thegund has been…a small place. For quite some time. On the Mother, the children of your birthclass will not be nervous in your presence. They will often expect more of you, and because of that, it will not occur to most of them that letting you win a game would be anything but an insult. In fact, many of them will be deeply disappointed in you whenever you lose.”


“That sounds bad, too.”


“It’s the way of things. Through our efforts may the way grow closer to perfection.”


“Through our efforts,” Kivb-ee repeated.


“Perhaps you wish to suggest an effort that would make your social hours more enjoyable for everyone,” the instructor prompted gently.


Oh. Was this a lesson?


The right answer was probably not that social hours would be better spent testing Kraaa’s bite strength against various materials.


“I think we should plan noncompetitive activities,” she decided.


“A wise choice. Plan some and show them to me,” Instructor Dalat-orni said. “Consider the comfort of your agemates and yourself.”


Her next playdates had involved practicing formal table manners at a restaurant with the owners’ children and participating in an art-garden program. Those worked out much better.


Magic lessons were also going well. Kivb-ee hoped they were anyway. She was improving faster with teachers available to help and personal advice from Instructor Gwen-lor in every new video. But it wasn’t proper for instructors to tell a student of her level how she compared to others. It was their job to worry over such matters in their own minds, and it was hers to devote herself fully.


If she was in a proper class with a proper partner on the learning cushion beside her—or even better, with Alden—she would have had some sense of relative progress. Comparing herself to the adult wizards who traveled with the Quaternary didn’t offer the same opportunity for understanding her abilities.


She assumed her control and sensitivity remained well below normal. However, Instructor Dalat-orni had begun to imply that they should work with her auriad soon. He had almost finished correcting the flaws in her beginner’s plainhand casting.


Kivb-ee hadn’t been looking forward to this.


She would have to reveal that she didn’t have an auriad. And they would all be confused, since she’d claimed to previously and they’d seen it. Or they thought they had.


Alden wished for his bond with an auriad to remain private. He had told her she could tell whoever she wanted whenever she wanted, but that was only because he was trying not to create difficulties for her.


Kivb-ee refused to make difficulties for him.


She could lie and say she’d given hers to him, but that would be regarded very oddly. She had more lessons available to her now and understood that if she’d given him her auriad and he’d traveled so far away, the distance would have severed it from her violently. It would have destroyed the auriad and wounded her.


Kivb-ee was not obviously wounded. How would she make that story seem reasonable?


Another solution had to be found quickly. And auriads didn’t sprout up from the ground like fungus.


In fact…Kivb-ee had determined after some consideration and study that there were only two unbonded auriads on all of Moon Thegund. And five more in orbit.


There was one here in the travel dome in a spell-locked case. It—like the five on the large ship—was for Alis-art’h or the wizards traveling with her to use if their own auriads were severed. Or if, during the course of the long voyage, they progressed with their casting to such an extent that they wished to bond a second one.


Kivb-ee couldn’t take any of those. She would have, since six spares was an excessive number of auriads for the Quaternary’s group to possess. It was a quantity they would only need if they encountered truly awful problems during their travels.


But she couldn’t open the boxes. And even if she could, she suspected the auriads would be inventoried at the end of the journey. Adults loved to inventory things. At the lab, entire days had been devoted to making sure everything was where it was supposed to be and what it was supposed to be.


That left just one option. Only one on this entire side of the solar system. Her plan to obtain it had already been in motion for three Earth weeks.


Kivb-ee liked to think in Earth weeks with one half of her consciousness so that she always knew what Alden was probably doing. Right now it was Mundee night on Anesidora. Since his last set of videos, he would have achieved his goal of entering an educational program that would help him on his journey to becoming the best Avowed.


He and beautiful, fat Victor the kyat would be living in a school. And they would have access to instructors all the time.


By the time she received his next video, she would be a robber in addition to being a laboratory bomber. She was sure he would not mind.


While Alden and Victor were learning from the human instructors, Kivb-ee was at the local Museum of the Empire with hers. She was accompanied by a group of other children who had been invited along for her socialization. And by Kraaa, who had forced his way into the experience after she had maybe exaggerated the amazing terribleness of the antique weapons on display in the museum.


Kraaa was an important part of the plan. People looked at him a lot whenever he was around, which meant that they looked at everything else less. Two eyes on the griveck Avowed at all times…very silly.


Kivb-ee clenched her fingers as they approached the room where the unbonded auriad was stored. It was part of a collection of magical tools. She had seen it once before when her father had brought her and her sister here.


It’s still there, she thought as they entered the room. It’s still out on the table like I remember.


