Officer Holly had to agree. “I've never seen anything like it.”

“Neither have I.” Artemis said. “It's amazing.”

Officer Holly nodded and watched as they finished the shields, then they made a bow and arrow and a crossbow. The last item took nearly 10 minutes to make, and it looked weird with a large canister mounted in the middle of it. Ren stretched a little when they were done, and he walked over to her.

“Well, we're done.” Ren said. “Are you ready to be amazed?”

“Dazzle me.” Officer Holly said.

Ren took her new armor out of inventory and handed it to her. She took it and equipped it, and caught her breath as it took effect.

Guardian of Protection's Enhanced Armor of Light (Very Rare, Binds on Equip, Cannot be Dropped, Permanent)

This armor is the embodiment of Light itself, and shines with an inner light to show others your true value. When worn, it is as much a part of you as your own hand. This armor is complete and can no longer be modified. Weapons used by the wearer will be imbued with Light to enhance their effectiveness.

Grants: Reassurance Aura (Intermediate), Command Aura (Intermediate), Camaraderie Aura (Intermediate), Sense Undead Aura (Intermediate), Sense Void (Intermediate).

Please note: Auras combine with those of the wearer (if present) to enhance your natural abilities.

Inherent Spells: Detect Undead, Turn Undead, Minor Healing, Major Healing, Cure Poison, Cure Curse, Full Restoration

Stats modified when worn:

Strength  2,500  Dexterity  2,500

Vitality  2,500  Agility  2,500

Endurance  2,500  Intelligence  2,500

Luck  100  Wisdom  2,500

Bonuses when worn:

Protection  1,250%  Defense  1,750% to Armor

Spell Resistance  1,500%  Stealth  +150%

Damage Resistance  1,500%  Concealment  +150%

Empowerment  50%  Speed  +550%

Reinforcement  +75% to Defense  Toughness  +1,500% to Durability

Complete Set Bonus: +75 to all stats, +25% Armor Value, +25% Defense

Normal Information:

This armor has Lightness that grants an 80% reduction to weight and burdens carried, and is less restrictive than regular armor. No movements are hampered, and any penalties to Agility and Dexterity are negated.

Durability: Not Applicable (Maxed)

“Oh... my... god.” Officer Holly said as she looked down at herself. She was covered from neck to toe in white segmented armor. It had gold filigree around the edges, and the chest piece didn't have the normal shaped breasts that other women's armor had. It was a single slightly pointed piece that went right across the chest. She also had a full helm instead of the tiara he would normally make.

“Do you like it?” Ren asked, just because he knew that she expected him to, even though he felt everything she was feeling at the moment.

“Ren... oh, my god.” Officer Holly tried to touch the armor and saw her hands were covered in gauntlets.

“You can store the helm and gauntlets when you want.” Ren said. “I always make them as separate pieces.”

Officer Holly stored the gauntlets and traced her fingertips across the gold and white armor. The inner light of the armor highlighted her skin, and she almost giggled at the sight. Her favorite toy had been a glow worm that glowed with internal light, and now she was one.

“Since you don't know your fighting style yet, I've enchanted each of these weapons the same.” Ren said and handed over the 5 weapons he had made. A broadsword, a long sword, a spear, a mace, and a lance. “They are loaded with Light damage and will help you fight the undead.” He smiled. “You should be able to cut through them like a hot knife through butter.”

Officer Holly stored them and Ren took out the shields.

“These depend on the weapon you use, and what you need to protect yourself in battle.” Ren said, and handed her a small buckler, a large round shield, a tower shield, a medium-sized square shield, and a tower shield with a slit in the middle of it to attack through. “They are also enchanted with Light, and when you activate them, will light up a room and reveal any spirits that might be lurking.”

“Spirits?” Officer Holly asked. “Oh! You mean banshees and spectral knights.”

“Those, too.” Ren said.

Officer Holly realized that he meant actual ghosts and a shiver went down her spine.

“Don't worry. I've only met one actual ghost so far, and the Light enchantments on my arrows helped it move on.”

“Okay.” Officer Holly said. “I have to watch out for ghosts.”

Ren chuckled. “Your armor will take care of that.” He said and tapped her arm with a finger. “When they come within your Aura, they will be revealed in plenty of time to deal with them.”

“Understood.”

Ren took out the bow and a quiver of arrows. “I don't know if you have the archery skill, so here's a bow that gives it to you when you use it.” He said and she stored it, and he took out the crossbow. “This is an automatic crossbow. It shoots normal bolts, and you load them like this.” He hit a little switch and the main cartridge dropped out, and he pointed to the slot. “Just shove them in there, and pop it back in.” He did that and showed her a selector on the side. “You can do single shot, triple shot, and full auto.”

“You're kidding!” Officer Holly exclaimed.

“Nope.” Ren said. “Just hold the trigger and they just keep shooting out.”

“Wow.”

“You burn through ammo fast like that; but, in some circumstances, it's necessary.”

“I can imagine.” Officer Holly said and stored the crossbow.

“Here's 2 replacement cartridges, too.” Ren said and handed them over.

“How much do I...”

“Nothing.” Ren said and waved her offer away before she made it.

Officer Holly stored the cartridges and shook her head. “This... it's a fortune's worth of items.”

“Yeah, it always is.” Ren said and smiled. “Why do you think I never sell this kind of stuff?”

“You don't need the money?”

“No.” Ren said. “Even if I wasn't rich beyond compare, I'd only want the cost of the materials anyways.”

“But...”

“If all I wanted was money, I could have stayed in the starter city and worked every day and made a fortune by now.” Ren said. “Instead, I had fun, went on adventures and gathered materials... and inadvertently money.” He chuckled. “I could give everyone I've met a thousand platinum coins each, and still have tens of thousands left.”

Officer Holly's mouth dropped open in shock, and he laughed.

“Look, here's proof.” Ren said and took out a handful of platinum coins and gave them to her. “I'm going to be busy for the rest of the night, so you can go and have fun somewhere.” He said and gently took her arm and guided her out of the warehouse. “Good luck trying to spend it all.” He said and went back inside. Officer Holly looked at the pile of platinum coins in her hands and shook her head.

“He really is crazy.” Officer Holly said.
