There were points where paths converged—or came near enough that they could have jumped to another if they really wanted to—but they took care to remain on their assigned line. The elk were well-trained and seemingly used to the whole ordeal, but it was still important to remain vigilant. The shifts had no assigned length, they each just remained as long as they felt they were able before they shook the bell-covered rope that had been strung along the wagons. That was the signal for the next driver to work his or her way up to the front to take over, before the relieved driver got to climb back to whichever wagon they were assigned to for rest.

When night fell, luminescent moss that clung to the sides of the pathways provided light—for those that needed it—while the caravan continued its rattling journey across the road of disjointed planks. It was an incredible and clever way to allow people to cross the marshlands with minimal disruption of the delicate environment, but it was also a dangerous mixture of monotonous and nerve-wracking. It was all too easy to imagine that a mere moment of inattention could—if the elk were just a bit less well-trained than they seemed—send the entire caravan into the unknowable depths of the sludge that surrounded them.

Several times a day, Brush ventured out amongst the elk—walking carefully across the wooden struts that the elks’ harnesses were tethered to—and saw to their needs. Their digestive waste was left in the caravan’s wake, but the beasts still needed to be fed and watered, even if the caravan seldom stopped. The beasts had impeccable vitality, yet days of travel remained too much to endure without sustenance. Ranthia offered to help him with the mildly dangerous process, though Brush refused every time.

“This is my duty. They push themselves, so I will do the same.” Brush offered her the most words he’d ever spoken in her presence after she made the offer for the third time.

She never made a fourth.

It felt vaguely miraculous, but nothing ever went awry. Eight days later, the caravan reached the far side of the marshland—the so-called station that served as their destination. An expanse of grasses and small plants, marred by a single, robust tree. There, the elk were given a well-deserved break amidst the lush vegetation while the wagons were once again separated.

There was also a sign, written in High Elvish, outlining the fees that they owed—to be paid in gems or cargo of equivalent value. Yet it seemed as though the giants and treants operated on the honor system; there was no one present to make sure that they left the payment beneath the sign as they were directed. Then again, it would be foolhardy not to pay—it was hard to imagine that the giants would ever allow someone that’d refused to pay to use their paths ever again.

And there was no real means to avoid the area, short of travelling across the world in the opposite direction.

Ranthia helped with the wagons while one of the [Merchants] carefully selected and removed three crates’ worth of goods, which he dutifully stacked beneath the sign.

Sooner than she had expected, they got underway once again.

“I get why [Merchants] would pay the tolls, but what keeps anyone that’s making a one-off trip from just… driving away?” Ranthia finally caved in to her curiosity and posed the question to Elencor.

To her annoyance, the man immediately started laughing—just as riotously as he had when she unwittingly invoked the kobolds’ ire!

The answer took a while.

“There was a treant standing right there next to us! Trust me, the toll’s enforced.” Elencor finally explained, once he caught his breath.

…Oh Xaoc, she needed to start checking trees and other vegetation with [Divine Eyes in the Void] too?! Their world was undeniably larger—and stranger—than Remus had ever made her expect.
