The scale of Pallos felt impossible for Ranthia to get her head around. Sure, she’d seen maps—she’d seen how small Remus was when etched in ink. She even knew that the Tympestshard Council was more-or-less on the opposite side of the planet.

But she was still floored that as days turned into weeks, they were still in the middle of nowhere. The quality of the roads varied dramatically as they journeyed. Some were paved with stones. Others were little more than tracks of dirt worn deep into the terrain like an aberrant scar. Some of the roads were smooth, while others were battered and littered with holes.

But often there was no one else in sight, beyond those that accompanied their three wagons. The three [Merchants] had turned far colder, once she was in their employ. Clearly, they preferred to avoid socializing with their hired help. Beyond them, their caravan included an elf that seldom spoke—Brush, the [Tamer] in charge of the six elk that pulled the wagons—and a single passenger: a faun that seemingly shared no language in common with anyone else present.

Thank Xaoc, Ranthia’s fellow caravan guards were more talkative.

“Pretty much every nation and trading house does what they can to maintain the roads and keep monsters and beasts from dwelling near ‘em. I mean, there are the jerks out there that’ll use a road with overladen wagons that ruin it, but it usually won’t take too long until someone with the classes required to restore it comes through.

“Dirt roads like the one we’re currently on are those that no one’s claimed ownership of yet. In these situations, it’s on us to respond if there’s any signs of predator activity. We do our part to keep the road clear and we’ll mark any terrible potholes too—and hope someone comes along that can fix ‘em up.” Elencor—an elven [Warrior] on his second cycle—seemed to enjoy every opportunity he found to share his wisdom.

“Bandits aren’t an issue?” Ranthia tilted her head as she asked the question, just as Pyra often did. She was all too aware that she was showing her own personality more often than not, but she still made an effort to keep up appearances.

“Out in the middle of nowhere? Not really. A few nations have problems with them off and on; you mostly see it when they form an army for some purpose and then cut the soldiers loose. I mean, it can happen anywhere and we stay vigilant against more than beasts, of course, but I’ll be shocked if we kill anything elvenoid on this trip.” Elencor replied.

“Which is a shame, bandits are great for levels.” Elenera, Elencor’s daughter, cut in. She was still on her first cycle—level 624—and served as a [Ranger]/[Mage].

Shockingly, she was only one hundred and seventy-five, just a few decades older than Ranthia’s true age. For an elf, she had leveled at a blistering pace. Most elves she’d spoken to preferred to avoid taking on excessive personal risk, but clearly her life hadn’t been easy.

Ranthia had yet to hear even eight words out of Brush’s mouth, but he seemed to genuinely appreciate it when she helped him with his elk. He would smile and point at things that she could do to help or pass her a brush to use on the animals.

The beasts were massive compared to the deer that she was familiar with, and each was past level 512—which strongly suggested the quiet elf had some sort of Skill to share experience with his creatures. With their raw power and stamina, the caravan travelled at an incredible pace as it made its way across Pallos, stopping just twice a day. While the [Merchants] ate lunch, Ranthia helped feed and water the elk—using stored hay and nuts when the terrain didn’t offer enough roughage. She ate her own lunch once they got back on the move, often partaking of whatever Elencor had foraged.

By night, they secured the elk and settled in to sleep. When the weather was foul, they sheltered beneath a canopy strung between the three wagons, but when the night was clear, Ranthia favored grabbing her shift of rest under the stars.

Trouble remained rare as they journeyed. The elk were just too fast for many predators to outrun their caravan. When monsters had to be put down, Ranthia and Elencor deployed to meet them while Elenera stood atop the middle wagon’s roof, an arrow nocked in her bow and conjured death ready to go if anything got past them.

Each time, Brush readied himself to cut the elk free if it proved necessary. Ranthia wasn’t entirely sure if he was doing it so the elk could escape from danger, to sic them on the threat, or to prevent the wagons from being damaged if the powerful beasts panicked—she just hoped she wouldn’t have to find out.

Not that monster encounters ever lasted long. Most beasts had enough sense to realize when they were utterly outclassed—it was the only way they survived near the roads. The desperate and foolhardy predators weren’t long for the world and seldom gained the levels required to become threats.

Contrary to Elencor’s words, the first true danger they faced came in the form of a group of eight dullahan raiders. Ranthia was somewhat hobbled between her short swords and the somewhat anemic level [I am the Priestess; I am the Champion] had compared to her former [War Sentinel’s Supremacy], but she still managed to bring down two of the dullahan herself. It was messy though—she took one through the eye and managed to punch through a weak seam in the natural armor for the other; and suffered a nasty gash across her thigh in the process.

In that time, Elencor took down five by himself—without a single scratch. The last had been utterly erased by an excessive bombardment of arrows and spells from Elenera.

Ranthia had somewhat overestimated how much of Pallos’ diverse cultures she would get to experience with the convoy. Each time they stopped in a city or settlement, she and her friends were stuck watching over the wagons or the [Merchants]’ tables.

From that limited vantage, she witnessed a gnoll city—a vast, migratory expanse of canvas, animal hides, and other fabrics that moved with the seasons and their community’s needs. Next, she stood vigil within a “temporary” minotaur city, where most occupants felt some inexplicable need to explain to total strangers why they intended to stay where they were, even if the shimagu threat to their nation was done.

Time and time again, she got glimpses of civilization without the benefit of being able to explore. Even when the caravan stayed in a city overnight, she was expected to sleep wherever the wagons were stowed, along with Elencor and Elenera. At least she wasn’t alone, but she was still a touch grumpy about how little she was getting to experience—she had looked forward to learning more about Pallos’ people!

The worst was when they arrived in a settlement of ogres—actual, free ogres! The city had been protected by one of the grandest walls Ranthia had ever seen, almost rivaling Ariminum’s. The architecture of the city itself was surprisingly robust and utilitarian beneath its vibrant paint, but Ranthia was mostly focused on the fact that the city was in the midst of some sort of festival! Yet their caravan stayed away from the revelry and did some brisk trade with a single [Merchant] before they left, in the middle of the day. What the festival was meant to represent, why the city’s so-called Silver Guard was eager to see them leave, why everyone called the ogres ‘werewolves’, and why their caravan kept moving through the night remained a mystery to her. Even Elencor just shook his head when she tried to seek answers.

At least their overnight journey was blessed by the gorgeous sight of the full moons.

Their faun passenger departed while they passed through what Elencor referred to as a faun “village.” Sure, the population density was low but given the fact that it took them three days to get through what was ostensibly the same village, Ranthia felt somewhat disinclined to think of it as a village.

It was a fascinating glimpse into their culture though, even from the wagon. The streets were beautifully maintained and often flanked by vibrant blooms of cultivated flowers. Each faun homestead was a sprawling affair with fields and/or orchards with nary a fence or boundary to be seen, except when they kept animals. Many faun that saw them stamped a hoof and wiggled in place—their version of waving hello, per Elencor—but the caravan only stopped in designated guest areas, aside from their brief halt to allow their passenger to disembark.

They gave the domain of the harpies as wide a berth as they could, but everyone remained tense. Six times over, harpy scouts were spotted in the skies—and the sounds of distant battle reached their sensitive ears thrice as often. Each time, Elencor and his daughter gravely prepared themselves for conflict, yet it never came.

Unfortunately, they couldn’t move too far to the south either. The thick forests there were alive with strange Mirages, sounds, and ominous lights that danced through the trees. Each time a particularly striking or alarming sight or sound flared up, Elencor would mutter “It’s probably just kitsune” to himself until they were past the area.

By that point, Ranthia had learned how to manage [Divine Eyes in the Void] using [Submind]. Going by her stealthy experiments at night, it cost her roughly four images worth of the Skill’s automation, but that was generally worthwhile. With [Submind] guiding her [Divine Eye], she was able to get the full benefit of the Skill without getting distracted. It even seemed to help with her nausea, not that she could explain why.

When things were quiet, she trained with Elencor and Elenera. They had to keep their contact light—their employers would be displeased if the security detail started injuring itself—but it helped to sharpen them. The father and daughter were surprisingly eager to absorb any lesson she had to teach them like sponges—they were older than she was, but they seemed to genuinely respect the experience she had gained throughout the war.

The only flaw was that Elencor quickly realized that she didn’t usually dual-wield short swords. Still, the elf seemed to consider it to be her business, and he affably promised to keep “this chestnut” to himself. All he asked in return was for her to stop holding back if the caravan or his daughter were in true peril.

Ranthia was more than willing to make that promise. The trio of elven [Merchants] were somewhat jerkish, but she genuinely liked Elencor, Elenera, and Brush—they were some of the kindest elves she had ever met, aside from Avyna. Elencor was a seemingly endless font of stories and knowledge. Brush’s happy smiles were infectious and his love for his elk was unmistakable. And Elenera had a wicked sense of humor once Ranthia got her to open up.

Ranthia had once offered to spend the night with the woman, but Elenera declined after giving it a little thought. It was too bad, but Ranthia never repeated her offer. She was a better person than to heckle a friend, just to get something she wanted.

Though it made her even more annoyed with the lack of freedom to venture out when the caravans visited actual cities and towns—she was tired of quietly tending to her own needs!

Seasons changed as the caravan continued its journey. Goods were acquired, sold, and exchanged as the caravan moved across the map, and Ranthia tried to make the most of the superficial look she got at the world. Pallos truly was beautiful, and the breadth of the gods’ creations was incredible. It wasn’t just the people, but the terrain too. Ranthia witnessed great forests that put any woodland she had ever seen in Remus to shame. She saw rolling grasslands that reminded her of nothing less than a sea of emeralds. She beheld majestic mountains that felt as though their world was reaching its claws into the heavens themselves. There were species Ranthia had never heard about and plant life unlike anything Ranthia had imagined. Xaoc and His fellow great gods truly created something wondrous, even with Seira weighing them down!

Ranthia often prayed to Xaoc as they travelled. He, of course, was well aware of the splendor of the world that He had helped to create, but He still seemed to enjoy her attempts to describe what she saw—and why she was moved. Pallos was so much grander than she ever would have known had she stayed confined to Remus and its petty ambitions. There was so much more to the world than the ugliness of humanity.

[*whoop whoop* Allow me to introduce myself! My name is Genie! Couple of you folks have found me over the years, but here’s a wish that’s going to get all of you interested! This historian-ecologist, Hwinthel, wants to know whenever a species is wiped out!]

What the—?!

Ranthia had experienced more than a few System notifications in her time, but that wasn’t a System notification! Whatever—whoever—it was had used the System as though it was his own tool, yet she had also heard the voice of this ‘Genie’ even as the System carried his words. It was more than just impossible—it was an affront to the gods themselves!

Ranthia looked around desperately, spinning her [Divine Eye] wildly in the process, half-convinced that it was some local threat—some Mirage Skill of absurd power.

“Ha! Been a while since I’ve heard one of those!” Elencor’s voice pulled her out of her own head.

“Hwinthel, huh? Good for him.” The [Merchant] with a single horn protruding from the top of his head commented.

“Peh, what a worthless wish. Who cares if another group of mortals or some beasts goes extinct? That hardly benefits us.” The [Merchant] that hired her groused, undisguised jealousy writ across his face.

Wait… what?

