Some people were still unnerved by seeing Erin of all people dance. Even Pisces had enjoyed skating on the wax floors, but Erin? Really?
“Cara, are you sure this is normal? Is her class influencing her or something?”
Rae, the bassist in Cara’s band, whispered in the Singer’s ear. Cara was smiling, and she snorted as she watched Erin go.
“Her class? Rae, have you never seen a shy person cut loose? It always looks like that. Dead gods damnit…I think she’s got talent. Ryoka said she was good at fighting; I guess that meant she was always coordinated.”
She rolled her eyes, exasperated. Erin was laughing, now. She turned—and Rabbiteater was looking at her.
Almost as if they were strangers. But behind his helmet, the Goblin’s face was gratified. He and she hadn’t known it, but he was glad to learn something else about her.
She would never stop surprising him. In this moment, Erin surprised even herself. But she had one more for everyone.
 
——
 
The Christmas party had been a long time coming, and arguably, it had been going on all day. Mrsha’s belly was already full from eating delicious food all day, and she’d hugged Moore and a bunch of people so many times. Including Halrac and Pebblesnatch.
She was worried she might not have room for dinner. But Erin had promised a party, and the Gnoll stared at Erin as she pointed to her beach-garden.
“Ahem. Excuse me, everyone, but I have a place I’d like to show you. The door will be open tonight. Anyone interested, please follow me. It’s not much of a gift; you may have realized I wasn’t ready for Christmas.”
“Boo! Give me presents!”
Relc shouted, and good-natured laughter followed him. Erin shook her fist at him.
“…But this is something I want to share. It—”
She hesitated and looked uncertain and vulnerable for a moment.
“—It’s the only gift I can give.”
What the heck did that mean? Mrsha had heard that Erin had found the ‘real secret’ of the beach-garden, but Nanette had refused to tell her what it was even when Mrsha tried to bribe her, and Kenva hadn’t found anything while snooping.
Erin had clearly prepared an open-enough space for people to gather. Peggy had set out buffet tables for people to heap plates up, and they had Cara’s mixtape of songs at the ready.
But what was it? What waaaas it?
Mrsha was first in line, shoving with Sammial until someone scolded them.
“Sammial, do not shove a girl.”
Tyrion Veltras glared at him, and his son protested.
“But Father—she’s strong!”
He shoved back, and Tyrion moved to separate the two, but then noticed Erin staring at him. He backed up at once.
“I will remove myself if I’m unwelcome, Erin Solstice.”
Her voice was sugary sweet, but Erin lacked the usual venom.
“Oh…today, I’ll make an exception even for you, Tyrion. This is for everyone. It’s Christmas. Come on, monsters. Come on, Goblins, Antinium, and everyone else!”
The Lord of House Veltras blinked, but then stepped back into line. Numbtongue got into line with Octavia, Garia, and Salkis and spoke loudly.
“I don’t want to stand behind a monster.”
Someone laughed, and Lady Bethal stood on her tip-toes as a huge line gathered. The door was wide enough to let two in abreast, and Erin was making everyone walk into the beach—and then into a second door. But she’d angled it such that Ryoka, who was trying to get ahead in line, couldn’t see more than…grey stone? What was grey stone? Stonehenge? Had she found a Stonehenge super-portal to…were they doing witch magic?
“Oi! No cutting!”
Grev elbowed her, and Ryoka protested.
“Come on, Grev! I’m Erin’s best friend!”
“What?”
Fierre, Garia, and Charlay all shouted, and Ryoka flinched. Grev just wiped his nose with a finger.
“Hah. Says you. No one cuts the line. Oi! Hold it!”
He bellowed as the faeries tried to fly past. They looked at each other—then filed back into line. Ryoka ended up jumping up and down every few seconds, trying to see what was going on.
“Dead gods, Ryoka. Try to look slightly dignified. We’ll get to see it in moments.”
Lyonette strode over, turning her nose up as she lined up next to Ryoka. The Wind Runner heard loud exclamations from ahead, some of puzzlement, and Erin wasn’t saying anything.
“Excuse me, Lyonette. I believe you are also cutting in l—”
Grimalkin tried to remove the [Princess] who had sidled close to the head of the line, and Lyonette turned her head and snarled. He took his claw away from her shoulder. Lyonette brushed at her hair.
“Patience. Also, Erin is showing this to her guests in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. I believe everyone from Niers to Rabbiteater will see it. You could go there to get a look.”
No one moved. Ryoka heard a strange sound, a kind of odd roaring—dull but persistent—as she got closer and closer. Ekirra scampered through the door, and Ryoka wondered what Erin could do.
An experience, definitely. That was what she was going to gift her many friends in place of a tangible gift. But what could amaze them? She had danced. She had done so much this year.
What could an [Innkeeper] do when you expected her to do anything? Ryoka walked through the door at last into the secret realm of the beach garden and stopped.
Her feet were on a rough stone surface. But for the calluses, they might have hurt a bit. She was confused as she turned the corner; she had thought she knew the power of the beach garden.
It was the power to show you a place. Ryoka had walked into a reflection of Erin’s home, perfect except for the body of the original owner who had been there.
But that—wasn’t where she was. She stared down at the rough ground, unlike flagstones, floorboards, or the smooth ground of places like Pallass. This was rougher…easy to lay. Slightly broken up from years of movement and shifting.
Concrete.
Not just any concrete, but Earth-concrete. And up the path that people were appearing in, Ryoka saw the black tar of…asphalt. A parking lot, complete with a few cars.
Then her heart began beating fast. She looked up, and the sky looked smaller. Ryoka’s head whirled around, and Lyonette gasped.
“Where are we? Those buildings…”
She stared ahead, and Ryoka saw a city’s skyline, but short buildings. She heard that sound from up ahead, and five running steps later, she burst forwards and saw it.
A huge river was rushing down a stone channel in front of her. Like Los Angeles’ famous waterway; a huge stream of blue water in the evening light. Water was pouring off a ledge possibly eight feet high; that was the rushing sound that Ryoka had heard. And next to it was a curious section of stone. But Ryoka was staring across the river at the city on the other side.
No city from the world she was in looked like that. To the right there was a bridge, and she saw a passing metal box, a red car crossing the river as she watched. Ryoka’s heart was pounding.
“Home.”
But not her home. She turned and saw Wall Lord Ilvriss standing there as Mrsha splashed a paw in the waters and sniffed her hand. Sammial was leaning over the railing to the left, staring down at something.
“What the heck is this? It’s…a bunch of steps in the water?”
He was pointing down at something, and Ryoka saw, connected to the river, was a series of steps sectioned off that let water flow down from spot to spot. She had no idea what they were for, but then a voice called out.
“That’s a fish ladder. That’s the fish ladder. Every spring and summer, fish try to get up here. But they can’t make the jump, see?”
Erin pointed, and Ryoka turned. Erin was standing on a piece of ground, a ledge from which she had a view of her guests and…her city. She pointed, and there was even a plaque.
“They built that so that salmon could leap up the steps, see?”
Oh! Ryoka did see now. You’d have to be good at jumping, but a fish could summit their way up this area and continue swimming upstream. She nodded—then shouted.
“Erin! What is this?”
More people were entering this reflection, this piece of illusion magic, and Erin’s chest was rising and falling. She looked nervous—but as Lady Bethal looked around and nearly tripped down the slope that led to the waters, Erin lifted her hands.
“Hello, world!”
She waved, and Ryoka turned and saw a second door was open to her [World’s Eye Theater]. And there was Niers Astoragon, fighting for a view as Foliana peered from their section of the dome along with a Selphid and Geneva Scala.
Fetohep was motioning someone over to look. Trey Atwood blinked and glanced sideways; he locked eyes with Cara, and the [Singer] was waving her arms to get Elena’s attention.
The Quarass raised her brows as, in the far mirror, Rabbiteater strode closer so his helmet filled the scrying orb until the Ivory Five shouted at him to move.
Erin’s friends. They were looking at this strange sight, and Erin’s guests were all here.
“But there’s nothing cool here. It’s just a smelly river. Where’s the magic?”
Ekirra whined. Erin turned her head and sighed.
“I guess it’s not that cool compared to some places. Sorry, Ekirra. This is it. This is the surprise.”
…What is? Some of Erin’s guests, like Menolit, had no idea what they were seeing. This was clearly an image, nay, a memory of some place, but it wasn’t as if it were Pallass or the Eternal Throne. Yet Lyonette was already leaning on a railing for security. She understood. And so did the Earthers.
“Erin….where is this?”
The [Innkeeper]’s eyes twinkled with nerves, mischief, and she smiled at Joseph.
“This is…the fish ladder!”
She posed, holding her arms out, and everyone stared at the river. After a second, Erin coughed.
“It’s not the coolest place in my city, but it is one of the places I remember well. Normally, you’d see a bunch of people fishing here. Some even stand in the water, which can be super cold. But here it is. Oh. And this is my city. Grand Rapids. That’s where I’m from. I used to come here all the time with my family.”
Then—they began to get it. Ekirra blinked and looked around.
“This is your city, Erin? Where are the walls?”
“Wait. Her city? You mean…”
Relc blinked. Erin nodded. She took a breath.
“Yep. That’s right. I’m Erin Solstice of the city of…Grand Rapids! I wanted to share this with you all. Now we can eat. If it’s boring, I’m sorry, but—”
She lifted a hand and looked up at the sky. Grimalkin gazed at last into an image of this world he had thought so long about, and it looked…both ordinary and so alien to him that he was shaking.
“Dead gods. She did it.”
“Yes. What happened to caution? Thrown to the winds?”
Teriarch agreed with Magnolia, but the [Lady] slapped his arm. She was staring at Erin.
“Don’t be foolish, old man. It’s her. She’s sharing this with us.”
Yes. Demsleth’s head rose, and Erin spread her arms wider, smiling.
“This is who I am! I’ve lived in your cities and seen your places. Well—this is mine. It might not be much, and if you say my city sucks, I’ll kick you into the water. But I realized I know so much about some of you and I have never shared anything about myself.”
She paused and took a huge breath.
“Shauna and Gregori Solstice. I never had siblings, but I’d walk down the river all the time on the far street. There, see? And there’s a market downtown, uh, there…”
She began to point things out, then laughed. Erin turned, and her eyes were glistening as she looked around.
“Welcome to my home.”
 
——
 
A joke among The Wandering Inn’s guests was that Erin served up sadness and happiness in equal measures. That every door in her inn had something ridiculously funny and exciting or heartbreaking behind it.
The truth was that was what you called ‘wonder’. No highs without a low. A flame wasn’t bright without the darkness around it.
Sometimes—it felt like he was tired of feeling things. A young man walked into Erin’s city, and it struck him so hard he sat down in the parking lot, head drooping between his knees. It was such a strange thing to see Kevin with a bleak look on his face that several of his friends stopped.
Hedault hesitated with a hand hovering around Kevin’s shoulder. He had tried calling out to the young man, but Kevin hadn’t heard him for the last six minutes. At last, a Dwarf stumped over and, in a gentle, ungentle way, shook him.
“You alright, boy?”
Kevin Hall, a surfer, skateboarder, biker, an affable young man from San Francisco, California, who spent all of his time not working part-time at a repair shop trying to surf or have fun and dodge the pressure to go to college or seek a permanent job, looked up, and he seemed lost.
His throat worked, and Pelt leaned over, staring at Kevin, who looked like the world had just been yanked from under his feet. The Dwarf coughed.
“That damn [Innkeeper]. Springing things on us and expecting us to cry. Hah. I wish she could meet some of the people I know. If she thinks she can get stone to cry…want me to shout at her?”
Kevin said nothing. He just kept staring up, and then he said something.
“Kendra.”
“What’s that? Is that your city or something?”
Pelt leaned over, and Kevin whispered.
“No. That’s my little sister. I forgot about her.”
Hedault’s eyes widened, and Kevin stared around blankly. Then he ran a hand through his hair, gripping it so tightly he nearly tore it out by the roots.
“I just remembered her. When Erin talked about her parents. I completely—it’s been a year, and I forgot her. Just like that. Whenever I thought of home—my parents. I have siblings, and I forgot.”
He lurched to his feet, nearly fell over, and Hedault caught him. Pelt’s mouth worked a second.
“That’s not your fault, lad. Sounds like none of you remember your homes.”
“How could I forget them? I’m Kevin. Kevin Hall, and my older brother should have been getting out of jail. This—last year. They arrested him for selling weed, and he never got out. My sister’s birthday. I missed that the month I vanished. My parents? What—do they think I’m dead? What happened to my—”
He was lurching back, now, to Erin’s [World’s Eye Theatre]. Memory seemed to come to him, desperate flashes that were fading away already. He kept babbling.
“2214. That’s my house—quill. Paper. I can’t forget again. Cara? Cara!”
He shouted, and the [Singer] turned. She had that same look of a dreamer waking to harsh reality.
“My family. Do you know what happened to them? Kevin Hall! You said there were records. Am I on the list? Do they—what’s happened to California? Someone mentioned a war!”
Kevin shouted up, and Cara’s eyes flickered.
“I don’t know. I can pull the ‘The List’—the war’s in Ukraine. There were curfews and states of emergency according to Rae—”
“I forgot my sister.”
