“You’re talking about the Room of Vacations? Every student knows about it. It’s locked to [High Mages] because everyone loves it—when they remember. I heard a bunch of Earthers started using it. Frankly, a lot of [Mages] won’t go to a beach even if they know it’s an option. You’re right, Erin; it does exactly what this one does. Although I will admit, all the things in there are fake, so it’s less pleasant. You can tell the sand in here is real. True, you had to import it, but the room in Wistram does not work that way. It just ejects foreign matter before creating the illusion.”
Montressa chimed in excitedly.
“I remember that room. It does more than just beaches! But it’s not adaptive. It can only do pre-set locations. I remember Archmage Naili…”
She hesitated.
“Nailihuaile showed me how to use it and gave me access. She thought an [Archmage] had made it a long time ago. But she said the room’s actually rather useless. More illusion than substance. It’s still really nice.”
“You have a free beach-room yourselves, and you don’t use it? Palt?”
Imani was scandalized, and the [Illusionist] shifted on his hooves.
“Well, we don’t have an Erin, Imani. It’s less fun without the food and company and activities. Come to think of it—that room looks exactly like this one.”
He kicked at the white floor tiles suspiciously.
“Look at that. See how they’re mostly square until they get up to the edge of the dome? Then they’re cut off. But there’s hexagonal tiles in the center…I recognize that pattern.”
Even Bezale, who had quite a fine memory as a [Spellscribe], gave Palt a blank look, but the member of the Ullsinoi faction had an eye for shapes. Now, Erin felt her mind lighting up.
She was coming close to the truth. She stared at the Key of Reprieve and wondered why it had suddenly appeared. These things didn’t just happen without reason. Erin murmured to herself.
“Once. A long time ago, perhaps. Either someone was making this place and that room was an experiment, a prototype. Or someone came here and tried to copy it.”
Rags was grinning as the other [Mages] looked at Erin. The Chieftain nodded.
“A powerful [Mage] owned this room. But there was nothing valuable in it?”
“If they lived at Wistram—they’d have rooms higher up. With respect, Erin. Unless you have a laboratory, even a garden like this needs countless magical circles and setup for advanced spellcasting. I can understand someone not wanting to make their personal garden into another workspace. Archmage, am I thinking about this right? Master?”
Montressa prompted Valeterisa, who was busily writing down everything Erin said. Valeterisa looked up blankly and tapped the side of her head.
“What? I was just asking Feor who made that room. He says he doesn’t know. But we would have dedicated rooms, um…higher. Looped into Wistram’s magic. That’s correct.”
So that explained why Erin hadn’t found a plethora of magical items here. She wasn’t disappointed by that. Rather, she was now sussing out the true motivation for this room.
“If you had a [Garden of Sanctuary], you’d use it for, well, sanctuary. The Dullahan [General] made his a place to contemplate things. To carve those heads. What would a [Mage] want?”
Everyone tried to think and muttered about the uses of this room for training, casting some kinds of magic, and so on. However, Erin was going to a more simple conclusion:
Maybe the room was meant for exactly what I used it for. She had felt guilty at the idea of turning this place into a gigantic beach holiday, but in hindsight…it had been wildly easy. All the functions were set up, so she could manipulate any geography in here at will.
What had she been doing when the key appeared? Erin closed her eyes, then had it. She spoke slowly, and every head turned back towards her. Nanette began hopping on her toes excitedly as Erin’s hazel eyes focused on the key in her hand.
“Home. I lived in an ordinary house. At least—I thought so. When I was watching movies, I’d sit right up close to our TV, and Mom would tell me I’d get bad eyes. There was this huge beige carpet that was fluffy, a throw rug, right here, and we had hardwood floors, but they were scratched up because my parents owned a dog before they had me. And the kitchen was right back there, and the stairs—”
She was laying out the house and closing her eyes now, picturing what only she could see. Ryoka felt a pang once more and murmured.
“Erin—where did you say you lived again? I forgot.”
“Michigan. Well, if you want a city, Grand Rapids.”
“Right. Never been. What’s it like?”
“It’s here.”
Erin held up a hand, a trick any person from Michigan was familiar with, and pointed to the left of it, just below the midway point on her palm. No one else got it; your hand looked like a picture of the state, roughly.
Her eyes were still closed, though, and she felt the key warming between her fingers. Erin took a breath.
“It’s a great city. My house is in some suburbs, and this time of year, there’d be snow everywhere, probably. Some years, there’s none, but I—I just bet I’d be out shovelling my driveway, and right when you come in, there’s a foyer with all the plants indoors ‘cause my mom likes them. There used to be this stupid cactus that my dad kept stepping on. Barefoot. And then the living room and—”
There was no perceptible change around her that she could sense, but she still felt it in her mind. And the gasps from those around her and the cries of astonishment were enough.
Erin kept her eyes closed as Relc shouted.
“Look at that!”
“Don’t go in! Get back!”
That was Ilvriss. Outside, the people clustered around the walls of privacy sand began hammering on it.
“I want to see! I want to see! Let me in!”
Ekirra howled as he raced around, and even Chaldion ordered Shirka to break the walls. Somehow, though…Erin was calm.
When she opened her eyes, she knew what she would see. She lifted the Key of Reprieve and slowly inserted it into the second door, set in the wall. Nanette stared at Erin, beaming, and the [Innkeeper] sighed.
“Secrets within secrets. That’s so Wistram. Of course. What were you hiding?”
She threw the door open, and the light blinded Ryoka for a second. When the Wind Runner lowered her hand, she stared. Then tears sprang to her eyes in a heartbeat.
She had never seen the place that lay beyond. Yet it was instantly familiar. Topical. She croaked.
“Erin—”
“Shh. I get it now. Ah. Aha. So that’s how it works. I guess it was smart to do the beach after all.”
Erin’s laughter was quiet. It was the only sound within the sand walls, because everyone else had gone still. Imani was hugging Palt slightly, and he was staring inside at the most powerful illusion magic he had ever seen. Even Valeterisa was astonished.
“Oh. Oh…how advanced. And how sad. Is that all the owner wanted their magic to be?”
She sounded almost disappointed. As if she had hoped they could sacrifice their heart to magic itself. But this room proved the opposite.
Ryoka was afraid to enter, but Erin walked forwards fearlessly. After all…her feet trod onto a wood floor, then a familiar carpet. She stared down, then pulled off a shoe and sock and wiggled her toes in the thick rug. It felt exactly as she thought it should.
“Yeah. I think I know…what I’ll be doing for my Christmas present. I have an idea. But first?”
Her eyes weren’t running over like some. They were just filled with nostalgia, wonder, and…Erin turned, walked forwards, and found something that didn’t belong in her memories of this room.
The others hadn’t seen it at first; it was blocked by one of the armchairs. Then Montressa leapt back, and Bezale uttered an oath. Nanette gasped, and Erin stopped. She stared down and saw a crumpled silhouette, still partially upright, yellowed ivory gleaming in the light.
Erin nodded to herself and slowly squatted down.
“There you are.”
 
——
 
When Erin Solstice re-emerged from her [Garden of Sanctuary], it was in, as you might expect, chaos.
Everyone was demanding to know what she’d found, but she’d sworn the group who’d been with her to secrecy. The one thing Erin did bring out, though, was rather macabre for Christmas.
A body.
She didn’t seem bothered to handle the remains, though; she’d wrapped it all up in a bedcloth and carried the bundle in her arms. After all. She’d found the original owner of the beach-garden.
Erin had a plan for the Christmas party. What, she didn’t say, but it was going to work. First, though—the body.
She was talking to Lyonette, who held her hands over her mouth.
“I want to bury them. Somewhere appropriate. But I bet I need to make sure they’re put to rest properly, right? Maybe I need to buy a coffin?”
“If those are the bones of a powerful [Mage], you’ll need more than that. Mm. Wistram has a special crypt because dead bodies tend to rise. The garden probably absorbed all their death magic. But if you want to give the bones to me…”
Archmage Valeterisa was chased off in a second with a single glare, but it was actually a fair point. From outside, a certain half-Elf suspected that any [Necromancer] who so much as got a whiff of those bones would be salivating.
Certainly, the [Knight-Artisan of Bones], Ama, looked like she was fighting not to beg for at least a clavicle for herself. She had to know how valuable it was.
Dead gods, even Tolveilouka wanted those bones. He was being very careful as he peered in through a window; he didn’t get too near to the inn, because at least one guardian had already noticed him.
But the Dragon and Unicorn weren’t here yet; he had done his homework and heard Magnolia Reinhart would be appearing—later—with guests. The Five Families were too new for the half-Elf to know, but he’d picked out the association between her and ‘Demsleth’.
I need to get my hands on those bones. If that annoying [Necromancer] that uses the undead rat to spy on this place sees that, he’ll want them too.
A powerful [Mage]’s corpse was valuable beyond belief for any number of professions. He would become a fine undead even without influence. A Lich, most certainly, the more advanced form of Skeleton Mage. But with support and shaping?
There might rise a truly dangerous magical undead.
Unfortunately, Erin seemed determined to put this person to rest with dignity, and worse, she was consulting with the others on the right spot to bury them.
“If it’s dangerous to have them outside, I’ll bury them in my garden. Okay? Or maybe the peaceful one. But if they’re gonna turn up as undead…is there a step beyond, uh, coffins and silver and such?”
Most Liscorian graves had the basic level of protection against the dead rising, but Erin was justifiably worried. As it so happened, someone did know exactly what to do.
“Chop its head off and bury it somewhere with plants.”
Erin turned and looked astonished as Ser Dalimont spoke up.
“…How do you know about disposing of undead?”
He gave her a wintery smile as he gazed at the bones.
“If you recall, I served in Noelictus alongside Her Highness, Princess Seraphel, Erin. Life magic cancels death magic.”
Erin’s eyes lit up as Tolveilouka, Ama, and Az’kerash all began cursing under their breaths.
“I’ll do that! Thanks, Dalimont. And Lyonette—”
She turned as she stepped back towards her garden. Tolveilouka glowered…then slunk to the side. He was definitely being noticed. An undead rat was scurrying his way, the eyes in its sockets blazing with emerald-green wrath, and a shadowy Drake was skulking along The Wandering Inn’s perimeter, daggers drawn, sniffing the air and hissing under her breath.
Just as anticipated.
Inside, Erin pointed a finger at Lyonette with a smile.
“The party’s on. We’ll still open presents in the World’s Eye Theatre, but prepare some tables and chairs and food to move somewhere else, would you?”
“Are you going to tell me where, Erin?”
“Nope. I’ll be back in a second. I should check in about that music. Now I definitely need some. And hey! Maybe I can do a tiny bit of gift making after all. I definitely replenished some of my craft just now.”
Erin vanished, and Tolveilouka paused just past the outhouses. The half-Elf checked himself and decided his undead-hunter cosplay wasn’t going to be appropriate. He began rummaging in his bag of holding.
“Robes, perhaps. In keeping with the theme of magic and such. I have so much Drathian clothing…well, it’s good stuff. Maybe something more formal? This doublet is terrible. No, no…”
What a silly half-Elf. What a ridiculous monster. If he thought he could cause trouble—Tolveilouka winced as a thunderous voice assailed him, though only he could hear it.
“I have warned you once, minion of a fallen [Necromancer]. This place is under my protection.”
Az’kerash, power leaking from the eyes of the skeletal rat, stopped in the snow and grass outside The Wandering Inn. The air around him was trembling with power, and Tolveilouka looked up.
“Oh, it’s you. The annoying one. Begone.”
“Touch this inn and—”
Tolveilouka sighed. He straightened, took two steps forwards before the rat could react—and kicked it.
 
——
 
The impact of Tolveilouka’s shoe meeting the skeletal rat didn’t blow the thing to bits. It was highly reinforced and filled with death magic. But the blow was so powerful that the minor shockwave of sound made Tessa jerk and look around as she exited a window on the second floor.
She whirled and saw a blur streaking through the air. She saw it flying high, high—and realized it was a thousand feet up and not even slowing.
Bird took one wild shot at it, then stared around, trying to figure out what the hell he’d seen.
“Was that—a rat-bird?”
 
——
 
The Putrid One’s finest servant dusted off the tip of his shoe as he sensed Az’kerash’s puppet flying into the sky.
“Have fun on the other side of that mountain, fool.”
He sneered, then spat onto the grass. The day he was threatened, truly threatened, by a rat puppeteered by a distant [Necromancer] half as strong as his master was the day he disintegrated himself. Tolveilouka had allowed the other [Necromancer] to chirp at him, much as one let a dog yap, because it was hardly a threat.
By his own admission, he liked to have fun. Sometimes he made silly mistakes, and he fondly recalled his own memories of his master scolding him for his japes and fumbles.
“—However. I am Tolveilouka, beloved of the Putrid One. Foil me once, send me packing a thousand times. But kill me? No one has. My master has rebuilt me a hundred thousand times, each time more deadly. How they laugh and laugh—”
