“…Sure. And I have your music. Want to hear it? I can replay, but honestly, just record it and have someone play it live over there.”
“Go ahead!”
Cara touched the song crystal, and instantly, a storm of Terandrians rushed onto Altestiel’s ship, demanding to hear the song and buy a copy. Erin listened as the first song began to play.
Antihero, by Taylor Swift. Cara had even copied the instruments with her Skills, and she was a very good singer. With her Skills, Erin had no doubt that she could match most experts on Earth. Or even possibly exceed them?
For all Cara looked grumpy at being rushed to do this, she seemed pleased by the reaction of her fans. Seraphel listened, tapping her foot to the song, and it seemed to resonate with her. The two were friends, and Ryoka, who had come back, panting, with Magnolia and Teriarch, instantly pointed.
“I need that! Damn, if only I had my iPhone. Teriarch, give me another copy of mine. As a Christmas present.”
The old man huffed.
“It is Demsleth, and I’ll thank you not to rush me! Magnolia was the one who kept us from getting here all day.”
The [Lady] rolled her eyes as Ressa carefully handed a few presents to Peggy. The [Maid] had a Rudolph-themed red nose on her face, and it looked so incongruous that Ryoka stared at it.
“I was preparing one of my gifts for my Secret Santa. As I recall, you were late picking up Rafaema.”
“Where is she?”
Ryoka saw people were listening to Cara’s songs, but oddly, she saw Erin standing in the middle of the [World’s Eye Theatre]…a glower developing on her face. She was giving Cara the evil eye.
Demsleth waved a hand back towards the inn.
“Eating, I believe. She doesn’t need to eat at her age, but she keeps complaining about being hungry. Not adept on the hunting itself. She still has to adjust to the rugged life. Young folk. No spine, but she’s doing her best to grow one.”
Magnolia stepped on his foot.
“I do not want to hear that from you, old man. If you had to live off the wild in the High Passes at her age, you’d quit within three days.”
They began bickering good-naturedly, and Ryoka wondered if Taletevirion would show up. Teriarch had stopped in the inn, sniffing the air and wondering if someone ‘unpleasant’ was around, but he had assured Ryoka that whomever it was had scarpered rather than face him, and that he’d maintain safety.
That was one thing. So Ryoka hurried down and joined the cavalcade listening to the [Singer]’s music.
By now, Cara was on her second song, and she stopped the crystal after the second track. There was applause, people demanding a copy, and Cara smiled.
“My [Manager], Abebi, may be able to reserve you copies, ladies and gentlemen. Please give me one second—”
She vanished as Erin nodded to Rabbiteater.
“It’s good music.”
“Yah. But you didn’t like it? You’re scowling.”
“No, it’s not that. It’s just—”
Seraphel was slowly reaching for Rabbiteater’s helmet with a ghostly hand, ready to poke, and Lyonette coughed.
“Seraphel. How do you know Cara?”
Seraphel jumped and turned, hiding her hands behind her back.
“Oh, well, it was in Menorome when we—”
All kinds of things happening at once. But Ryoka didn’t get a chance to tell Erin that Teriarch and Magnolia were here.
“Psst. Ryoka! A word!”
Someone in The Wandering Inn held up a second scrying orb, and Montressa pointed. Cara’s face was reflected in a scrying mirror, and Ryoka bent over.
“Cara? What’s up?”
“Have I done something to annoy Erin? She looked pissed as all hells just now, and I can’t imagine why. Does she not like the songs? They’re not explicit.”
Cara looked confused as she leaned over, having apparently asked Montressa or someone else to get ahold of Ryoka. The Wind Runner glanced at Erin. She did indeed look irked, and Ryoka knew why.
“She’s mad because she can sense you using a Skill on her, Cara.”
Rather than apologize, Cara gave Ryoka a blank look.
“A Skill? Why the fuck would I do that?”
The Wind Runner frowned and held the mirror closer to her face.
“Wait, you’re not using a Skill on her? She thought you were last song too; that’s why she cut the connection.”
“I’m not stupid enough to try to use a Skill on her—let alone a hostile Skill! Maybe if I thought she needed a energy boost I’d use something like when I helped you, but I’m not using a Skill, Ryoka. Swear to it.”
Huh. So what was it? Ryoka whispered back.
“I’ll tell Erin and see what it is. Maybe someone else?”
“Thanks.”
The Wind Runner edged over just in time for Abebi to, at the request of the crowd, play the third song Cara had recorded for Erin. This one was the one from Erin’s favorite artist, or at least, the one she’d mentioned.
Heaven Knows. A piano began to play, and Ryoka reflected that she had to get the entire album and put it on an iPhone. She missed running to music. Maybe Krshia could upgrade a copy of her iPhone if Demsleth made it.
“Hey, I like this song. I think I have heard it.”
Erin’s expression cleared for a second. She smiled, and it apparently struck a chord with her. Ryoka wasn’t sure she would have admitted that. It was a bit too sappy for her to claim as a favorite. She was too cool to tell anyone the truth. Like how she listened to the Pokémon songs on her iPhone.
However, Erin’s good mood lasted only a second. Then she glanced down and raised her voice as she glanced suspiciously at Abebi’s mirror.
“Hey, what’s going on? Is someone using a Skill on me? Stop it!”
She snapped, and Abebi halted the song, and everyone turned to her. Cara reemerged into the mirror next to Abebi.
“I’m not using any Skills, Erin. I promise.”
“You’re not? Really? I guess it doesn’t work on a recording. But I feel someone using it on me.”
Erin was staring at her feet. She glanced around, and Altestiel glanced about as well.
“I believe we’d sense it if someone was trying to throw a Skill on you in this company. Anyone? Using Skills against one’s will is criminal in almost every nation of Terandria.”
Many worried-looking people assured him that they wouldn’t do that. And Ryoka had to imagine that it would have been noticed in this company. She glanced over her shoulders.
The same went for here. Chaldion raised his brows, and even Teriarch shrugged.
“I don’t know if it’s hostile magic or what, Erin, but I can’t tell what’s going on. What does it feel like?”
“It—it’s mental magic. I’m getting antsy whenever the song plays. Abebi, right? Can you play that song again? We’ll see if it happens.”
“Of course.”
Abebi rewound the song crystal and played the song Erin liked again. Ryoka was looking around, worried, and she caught someone’s eye.
“Shaestrel. No messing about. We’ve had enough surprises. What’s going on?”
For once, the Spring Faerie gave Ryoka a blank look.
 
“I don’t know what’s going on. Seriously.”
 
Even she was staring at Erin. Erin was nodding along to the song, and it was growing on Ryoka the second listen. Not exactly the kind of music she’d expect at a club or something, but—
“There it is again! Who’s doing it?”
This time, even Grimalkin began casting analysis spells as Erin looked around wildly. Ryoka tried to use her perspective trick, and everyone tried to sense something, but no one found a thing.
“What’s it feel like, Erin?”
“It’s my feet! If I don’t stop it—look!”
The music was still playing. Erin decided to give in to the effect on her, and when she did, she exhaled—and then jumped.
She did a hop and seemed surprised as her feet left the ground. For a moment, it seemed like the young woman hovered in the air, then she landed, and her heels tapped the ground, a shuffle of leather, and Erin twirled, her other leg tracing a circle on the floor as she spun around.
Her feet crossed over, and she leaned to one side, closing her eyes as she shuffled left. It looked as if she was walking diagonal to the world, and she leaned back on one foot before catching herself by stepping back.
Hop. She looked like…a sparrow, staring down at her feet, and when she landed, it was like her legs had a mind of their own. They carried her left and right, and Erin looked as surprised as everyone at the spontaneous movement.
Her head was bobbing slightly to the music. Ryoka’s mouth was open, and someone on Cara’s side, Thien, commented.
“Whoa. Girl’s got moves.”
“Look! I’ve been enchanted! And my foot! It won’t stop. See?”
Erin pointed down. Her foot was tapping, edging out from her body with each tap until she was almost doing the splits. Then it tapped its way back towards her. All the while, Erin’s arms were crossed, and her face was deadpan, confused. Then Erin’s feet erupted into another dance, carrying her sideways.
Earl Altestiel’s mouth was open. He made a choking sound, and Lord Belchaus had been staring this entire time. But unlike everyone else—the Lord of the Dance’s face was gratified as much as surprised, and then he began to chuckle and laugh.
“You! I’ve been cursed by you! I knew it!”
Erin rounded on him, and the Lord of the Dance held up his hands. He tried to speak, doubled over, and looked over his shoulder. He had a number of his supporters on his ship, and as they caught on, they began to laugh as well.
“Miss Solstice, it’s not me. I think I know what this hostile ‘Skill’ was. You have happy feet.”
Ryoka’s jaw dropped as Erin looked down suspiciously.
“Yeah, they do feel sorta nice. What kind of Skill is that?”
“No, Erin—he’s saying you just want to dance! It’s not a Skill, it’s you! You idiot!”
Ryoka cupped her hands over her mouth, and at last, it sunk in. Erin looked up as Nadel’s dancing sailors and soldiers erupted into laughter. A [Mage] serving with the Lord of the Dance spun around on one foot, arms spread wide, then did a flying leap.
“Happy feet! Dancer’s feet! Lord Bel, did you see how she did that? The [Innkeeper] can do it all.”
“Wh—but I don’t dance!”
Erin protested, and Lord Belchaus raised his brows, looking frankly incredulous.
“No one can do that without a good deal of practice and training. Are you claiming you’ve never had training?”
Now he mentioned it—Erin turned her head, and Ulvama had her head in her hands as Rags, Mrsha, and several others who knew about Erin’s training looked at her. The [Shaman] looked up and mouthed down at Erin.
You are stupid.
Suddenly uncertain, Erin turned back to Lord Bel. Worse, Cara was playing the song again, and Erin’s feet were tapping. She realized—she did want to dance, and one of the Lord of the Dance’s people began doing a kind of tap-dance.
“If you want to dance, I suggest you do. It is a healthy, enjoyable outlet. I never stop myself from dancing when I want to. If you enjoy it, of course.”
The Lord of the Dance’s face was deadpan. Erin just looked confused.
“It’s super fun. But I don’t just break into dances.”
She never had danced for fun like that. But Lord Bel corrected her.
“You mean, you didn’t until now. Has someone been teaching you?”
“Yes. I—sorry, Cara!”
Flustered, Erin ducked her head, but the Singer of Terandria looked so incredibly amused she waved it off.
“I’ll accept your apology—if you show us your moves.”
“But I don’t—that was—does—did it look okay?”
Erin grew incredibly shy all of a sudden, and Lord Bel noticed. He gave Erin a thoughtful look, then shrugged. Handing a cup he’d been drinking out of to Altestiel, he shook out his legs. He had something like a formal suit on for the holiday, but like everything he wore, it was definitely fluid enough to move around in. His slightly high-heeled boots clicked on the decks—then he did a hop.
He landed and copied Erin’s first moves. Lord Bel leaned on one leg, hands in his pockets, and gave her a smile.
“You tell me. In fact, Nadel! Let’s show our fellow Terandrians, and these Izrilians, which nation excels at dancing!”
That was all he had to do. His court erupted into cheers—then a dozen sailors threw their burdens down, and all did that sparrow-hop and copied Erin. In synchronization, they slid across the deck of the ship, and one moonwalked back.
Who’d taught them that? Erin Solstice hesitated, but Lord Belchaus was holding his hand out, and the first person to grab it was Lady Menrise, so he swung the two of them out and seemed to slide across the deck. When he did that…
At first it was little hops, like Erin was on springs. Then she did a sideways boogie, as if her mind were trying to sabotage her. Ryoka realized that Erin was serious.
She probably didn’t have a history of dancing, and so she had movie-dancing or really silly dances in her mind. But someone, a certain [Shaman], had been teaching her.
Whether Erin knew it or not, she’d had months of rather intensive training. Something had been building up, and it was exploding out of her like a grey dam bursting as a waterfall of colors rushed out, each one carrying her in a neverending rush until she stopped, uncertain—and her feet vibrated and flew across the ground.
What amazed those who saw her was—it was nothing like the routines that Lord Belchaus knew. Menrise could dance and actually kept up with him, and his people could dance in unprompted flash mobs due to their Skills.
Yet Terandrian dancing was still based off their culture, which was to say that while Lord Bel had made his dancing performative in Nadel, meant to be observed in groups, it was still based on the concept of having pairs dance together. Male and female, usually.
Erin, though…there was no missing gap in the place where the [Innkeeper] found her feet carrying her. She was swaying, arms and hips, head and body moving with her legs now, but it was a solo dance. Individual.
Something Earth understood more than the limited perspective Belchaus had studied in Terandria. The [Lord] of Nadel looked at Erin and remembered. Chandrar. Izril. Baleros. Rhir—the dances under the sea—
I have so much more to see. So much more to level!
Erin slid across the floor, blushing, red-faced, afraid people were going to laugh at her. Just like children stopped dancing when they became self-conscious.
But no one was laughing. Several people were applauding, and Mrsha began trying to copy Erin, throwing her arms up and waggling about, a one-child rave, completely unabashed by how she looked. Then Erin began laughing.
“But I don’t even like dancing! Except this is a lot of fun!”
“I guess you do like dancing, then?”
Ryoka suggested, and Erin gave her a blank look. Then blinked.
“I guess I do! How about that?”
She looked around, so dumbstruck that Seraphel started giggling and couldn’t stop. Lyonette was still agog, but Erin looked delighted.
