Kevin shouted up, and Cara’s face went slack. His words seemed to trigger memories in the other Earthers. Imani stopped gazing at Grand Rapids and turned.
“I forgot my family too. How—how could I do that?”
“You were focused on surviving, Imani. Don’t blame yourself. After surviving the Crelers—”
Palt tried to hug her reassuringly, but she pushed him away.
“No! I completely forgot them. That isn’t right. How can I forget my parents?”
She looked around, stricken, and Ryoka Griffin called out.
“It’s not your fault, Imani. None of this is. It’s part of their plan. It all is. Even I didn’t remember my parents much. We’re not meant to.”
She looked sick, and the non-Earthers were listening with a growing kind of apprehension. Niers had stopped laughing, and he was looking down and listening with piercing eyes flicking from face to face.
Kevin reached out, not knowing what to look at or do, and Joseph grabbed him. He squeezed Kevin’s arm.
“We’ll get a message back, man. That’s what we’ll do. Somehow—if Cara can find music from Earth, we can find a way to get word back. Maybe through Ryoka or someone.”
They turned to the faeries, but all except Shaestrel had vanished. The Spring Faerie gave them a bleak smile that was too cold. Kevin was shaking his head.
“I just can’t forget again. This is wrong. This isn’t me.”
He was clenching his hand so tightly that his fingernails dug into his skin and began to draw blood. Sweating. Before he could break down, a voice called out from one of the panes in the dome overhead.
“Get a tattoo. Write down everything. They can’t erase that.”
Kevin looked up, and Luan Khumalo stepped out from a gaggle of Earthers. He lifted his arm, and the golden words written on his flesh shone. The older man gave them all a look that said he understood.
His own struggle to remember was written in the sympathy in his gaze. Yet there was a hint of triumph as he looked at Erin. The [Rower] exhaled. Then he pointed.
“She did it. She’s remembering, and so can we. Just because you forgot, it doesn’t mean it’s gone. We can take it back, the memories. And look. That city.”
He stared across the river and smiled for a second.
“When I get back, I’ll row straight down that river. I swear to it. And once we find a way back, we’ll find them all. Think of that. That keeps me going.”
Kevin stopped. He started breathing normally again, though jerkily, and looked up. His fist unclenched as Hedault gently loosened his grip and found a cloth to clean the blood.
“Yeah. Thanks. Who—you’re Luan, aren’t you? The [Rower]?”
“Luan Khumalo. South Africa. Olympian hopeful. I might be past my prime, technically, by the time I get back, but I’ll just win the first Skill-based Olympics.”
He grinned, his teeth flashing with confidence. Cara turned and peered at him.
“Wait, an Olympian rower? Fecking shit, they broke the bank when they grabbed you, didn’t they?”
“Earth’s loss is the United Nations company’s gain. I’m a Courier. Baleros; Paeth. Once I hit Level 50, I’ll come visit Terandria.”
He held up one thumb, and that insane confidence and lack of self-deprecation made Cara laugh in delight. She took a bow.
“Ireland, straight off the streets of Galway. I’m the theatre kid. If I ever get back, the music labels are going to hit me with so many copyright lawsuits that I won’t survive.”
“Can’t copyright another world. Out of their jurisdiction. I studied law, a bit. Trust me, you’ll be able to argue your way out of it. They’ll probably steal your royalties, though.”
That came from George, who was waving out of the King of Destruction’s angle. He looked out and sighed.
“Grand Rapids. I visited it, and I saw the river, but I had no idea about the fish ladder.”
“Wait, you’ve been there, George?”
Kevin was finding a quill and writing, but the voices around him were anchoring him back to home, so he listened as more Earthers pushed their way forwards. George looked embarrassed.
“Sort of. It was a road trip up to the upper peninsula. If you’re talking about Grand Rapids, I thought it was only famous for the Meijer Gardens. That’s a nice place and the only part of it I visited.”
“Hey, I’ve heard of those.”
“Did someone say the Meyer Gardens? I used to go there all the time, too! I thought about that, but the fish ladder is more relaxing. Plus, they have these rooms with bugs in them like butterflies and stuff, and it creeps me out.”
Erin walked back into the theatre, and Luan waved down at her.
“Erin. Hey, Erin. If I visit, do you think that garden of yours would let me show you my home? I’ll show you a real pretty city view. Cape Town looks amazing.”
The [Innkeeper] folded her arms, glowering.
“I’ve had it up to here with city slander. But come by.”
She met Luan’s eyes.
“I’ll see anything you want to show me. The rest of you, too.”
She turned to Kevin, Joseph, Imani, Ryoka, Troydel—and a quiet but determined voice broke in.
“Come to us. We can also show you home. I won’t forget.”
Inkar. She and Rose were standing together in the snowy Great Plains, the yurts of the Gnolls behind them. They waved, and the two were supporting each other such that without the other, both would fall down. But they were calling out to the other Earthers.
“Cape Town? I’ll look for it. We have a way to see home, too.”
Rose promised Luan, and his eyes lit up.
“No way. You’re pulling my leg. Don’t just do Cape Town; that’s because I was talking cities. If you can—”
“Sydney! That’s a real city! Someone represent Australia!”
Daly shouted, and the Australian Earthers drowned out Luan. They began shouting at Rose and Inkar, and Cara shouted back.
“Is that Daly Sullivan? There’s a song about you too! It’s completely shit, but the Melbourne students? You’re famous!”
“We are? What’s the song?”
Cara hesitated, and Daly looked around, and dozens of Earthers stared or waved back. Some were teary-eyed, but others were writing down who they were and where they were from and sending that to the others via [Message] spells. So they wouldn’t forget. So someone would know who they were.
Abebi and Imani had decided to simply call out in Hausa, which both were fluent in, rather than try to compete in English. Cara was shaking her head.
“I don’t want to do it. It’s terrible—”
“How bad could it be? Come on, Cara!”
Dawson shouted to huge cheers, and Cara gave the other Bushranger an exasperated look. But her lips were twitching.
“Alright, but I need someone to beatbox for me.”
“I’ll do it!”
Troydel volunteered, and after about five seconds, he was ejected and half a dozen Earthers took over. Two seconds later, Cara began the freestyle rap, and Daly began laughing.
The laughter helped. Soon, the Earthers were swapping stories, telling each other who they were, so someone remembered. Others just listened to Erin, looked out into Grand Rapids, and Geneva Scala, the [Doctor] and the Selphid [Medic] watching, shaded their eyes.
The sun was setting on the city, and the river was turning dark. But Geneva Scala’s eyes caught the light. For a second, despite the great distance between the two, she pictured herself standing on the bank of the river. She spoke, two voices comingling, the same words, and the Earthers fell silent as they heard her.
“One day, we’ll all go there. And stand there. If I should return, I promise. I’ll visit every one of your cities and homes. If it takes me a lifetime.”
“Promise.”
Ken added softly, and Laken Godart nodded as Durene squeezed his hand.
“We’ll make it to monuments. Places we remember. Every one of us who set foot there will bring it all back. Two connected worlds.”
Kevin nodded. He exhaled, looked up, and smiled, then. He gazed at that city and added.
“I swear I’ll be back someday.”
To the [Kings] and [Strategists] who heard it, the immortals and the adventurers and folk of this world, it sounded like an oath. Words to change you forever and to cling to in your darkest hours. So the night deepened, but the light continued. Guiding them onwards.
 
——
 
That [Innkeeper] told people so little about herself, sometimes. It wasn’t that she was secretive in the way Cara could be, or Ryoka; rather, she showed everything about herself when it came to caring about Antinium—nothing at all about who she was.
Part of that hadn’t been her fault. But today? Everyone was talking about everything.
The Titan of Baleros rested his chin on his hands and almost wanted to look away. He knew how intimate it was to share your home with someone.
She looked vulnerable. But she was smiling. She wasn’t running away; she had done this on her own terms. Erin was standing by the river as Mrsha did a cannonball into it then complained she was wet and it was cold. Erin was holding a hotdog and eating furiously.
They were trying to sound normal, even as they invoked their homes, so she grinned as she waved the food around.
“I also go to baseball games. I’m so hungry—I miss hotdogs and sitting in the summer heat! I don’t even like baseball that much, but I miss it. Is that crazy or what?”
“Baseball. So you people actually play that game. Wow.”
Joseph looked around with a faint smile, and Erin scowled at him.
“You guys don’t have a baseball stadium in cities in Spain? Every city in America has one! Lots!”
He gave her an arch look.
“If we do, I don’t care about them. And so you know, I come from Seville.”
“Ooh, Seville! I actually know that city by name! Fancy.”
“And I don’t know Grand Rapids at all.”
Erin scowled. She whistled.
“Hey! Someone throw Joseph into the water!”
“No. Stop. Erek—!”
An Orangutan appeared, ooking, eager to ingratiate himself with Erin. He was fascinated by this city, and he’d been prying the door open to one of the cars by force. Then he’d had to smash it until it stopped blaring its alarm at him.
Many of Erin’s guests, especially the younger ones, had already gone back to her inn, having gotten an eyeful. But many, especially the older ones, seemed—shaken, and the joking around was a result of trying to deflect from the strength of the emotions just shared.
Wall Lord Ilvriss had to say something as he held a cup of blue juice and looked across that river.
“I wonder if I’m simply a fool after all. One without empathy or the ability to think about others. Surely not someone who can ever replace Zel Shivertail, who thought of more than just his city or side of the continent.”
Watch Captain Zevara was mostly here for the food. She paused, a huge bite of carrot cake raised to her mouth, and decided after an agonizing moment that she had to engage with that premise.
“Wall Lord? How so?”
Ilvriss’ gaze was so forlorn that he seemed alone despite the gathering. The dull roar of water falling across the artificial river in the heart of the city somehow fit his expression.
Despite himself, watching Sammial and Hethon splash about in the shallows, Lord Tyrion found himself listening to a would-be enemy. And he was not the only one.
Ilvriss spoke to himself and the others as he watched Erin standing there and talking to the people watching her from her theatre. She was smiling, but her eyes swept that city she knew so well, and his clawed hand tightened over his cup as he spoke.
“You know, when I first met Erin Solstice, when I heard of the Earthers and began to understand she wasn’t from any place I knew, I treated her identity like a puzzle. Then, later, I had the instinct of Drakes: to secure as many allies or as much knowledge as I could. To treat these children from another world like pieces of a game. Pawns on the board.”
Grimalkin of Pallass flinched as his head rose, and Ilvriss stared at Erin.
“Even when I learned to respect one of them—even then. They came so strangely, talking of wonders and their own kinds of magic. Never speaking of home. Up till now, this very moment, I did not realize the great injustice done to them.”
He gazed upon this city, this place that surely every resident knew or had seen once. It wasn’t the greatest monument, and this city was sprawling and huge; nothing like Salazsar. The buildings were tiny, not a spire or tower to be seen. If he had no understanding of this place, he might even have called it humble.
Yet it was also an alien place, in the steel and metal and even the taste of the air—far more acrid that tickled his lungs unpleasantly. He felt like a stranger, more than he had in any other place. A fascinated one, longing to see more.
A city. Her city. His eyes fixed on Erin, and he understood, then, what she had left behind. Her family. Her friends. Her home.
That was what was missing from the Earthers any other time, he realized. That—gravitas of loss. Even if it was not upon them all, how many of them would, should weep and shout for their families? They were children, and they might never see their homes again. If not weep, then rage, then push themselves into a frenzy to find that way back home.
But so few did until now. They had remembered so rarely when events reminded them of home. Except now, Erin Solstice stood there, the memory of her home written across the [Garden of Sanctuary] made by a lonely [Mage] who had dreamed of the home that existed only in the past and memories. Yet it was not her alone that Ilvriss observed, but them all.
“What a fool I was.”
That was what Ilvriss said, but someone disagreed.
“It’s not your fault, Wall Lord.”
He turned, and there was Pawn. The [Priest] looked across the city, over the rushing waters, and nodded to himself.
He was happy. At last, he had seen the place the sky came from. He was drinking it all in, and Antinium were flooding in solemnly, on a pilgrimage of faith. Pawn replied to Ilvriss steadily, the light of faith in his eyes, but also understanding.
“You were not meant to think of it. I have known Erin from the beginning, and she never spoke of home. Nor her mother nor father nor city. It takes great effort for her to remember. Now that she can, she is free.”
His gaze rose, and he followed a glowing green dot who flew in the air, laughing like the whispering breeze even in the dead of winter. That was the gift, was it? Freedom. What a beautiful thing. Pawn stared ahead, clasping his hands together as he watched the Antinium gingerly patting the water, some daring to even wade into the river and hop out.
“Why do you think no one remembers, Pawn?”
Selys was gazing at Erin, who was laughing at something Niers had said. With tears in the corners of her eyes. And even her oldest friend among the Drakes had to look away a second. Because it hurt. It was a wounding knife, and Pawn nodded.
