“Miss Erin, are you sure this garden has a secret function?”
“No…but most of them do have something. In fact, I’d bet every garden has a trick. I have that hill—do you think the owners wouldn’t do something unique? Some like the Pomle garden only have that sparring room, but that’s because the owner lacked imagination. This one was a blank room. It just had some stuff in it, but doesn’t that sound—suspicious?”
Erin was thinking of the other gardens. Some were for a purpose, like the room she and Rhaldon had been in. Actually—that one was very much like Shaestrel’s teaching Erin about fate. Only, right now Erin felt like she was losing that lesson.
Nanette tilted her head sideways.
“It is…odd. What items did you find in here?”
“Some broken and decaying wands, a spellbook, I think some magical reagent stuff like gems…”
Erin waved it off, but Ilvriss and Rags focused on her.
“Spellbook?”
“What kind of gems?”
The [Innkeeper] fended them off.
“They were all dusty and broken! The spellbook was mildewed so bad even [Repair] didn’t work, so I threw it out.”
Ilvriss clapped his claws to his head.
“Erin! There are [Librarians] who can restore a book from nothing!”
Erin froze, and her new fate-instincts told her that a smart Erin would probably have thought of that.
“Oops. I, uh—I, uh, might have tossed it in the fire.”
Rags didn’t freak out like Ilvriss and even Nanette and Ryoka were doing. She just walked over and began hitting her head into one of the sand walls.
“I feel like this team isn’t very supportive. Can you guys trade out? I’m looking for…something. But what? Who wants a room to just train in? That’s lame.”
Ryoka was trying to puzzle it out with her knowledge of stories as well.
“There was a room like that in a lot of stories. The Room of Requirement, the…hey, Troydel! What’s that room in the manga with Goku that does something weird?”
“The Room of Space and Time which lets you train for a year in a day’s time!”
“Thanks! Nerd.”
Imani shouted through the sand walls.
“How do you know about it then, Ryoka?”
The Wind Runner blushed.
“I’m part Japanese! It’s my heritage!”
“That is the lamest retort—”
“She doesn’t even speak Japanese. Is that racist? She’s a poser, that’s what…”
Erin laughed as Ryoka grew flustered and ran away from the voices muttering, but it made her think of her own upbringing.
“Even I know Dragonball Z, guys. Hey, if Mrsha wants to watch things in the [World’s Eye Theater]—she can watch that. It’s probably like a few hours of watching a guy scream while his hair changes color.”
“That’s so harsh, Erin. Accurate, but…you watched anime growing up?”
Erin pshed, looking amused as she walked around the blank part of the garden, feeling at the walls, frowning as she tried to sense any hidden features. Rags was listening in, as were Nanette and Ilvriss, and they all knew more or less about Earth.
But Erin—thought of home, and a lump rose in her throat as it did whenever she actually recalled Earth.
“It was on the cartoons channels. I’d sit in my living room and watch them all the time when it was snowy. We used to have this huge, fluffy rug that I’d roll myself up in. Mom used to call me a ‘pillbug’. She let me stay up if it was a snow day.”
Ryoka…blinked. The bickering, jesting Earthers outside the walls of sand stopped a second. Ryoka rubbed at her ears and felt like a locked part of her brain suddenly opened. Her emerald-green eyes opened wide, and the next words came out of her mouth unbounded.
“My parents were never that nice. Except—”
She hesitated and scuffed her foot on the ground.
“—I suppose they did care enough that when I was sick, one of them would always stay home and make sure I was okay. My dad nearly died of chicken pox when he was older, and my mother had these terrible fevers, so they had a thing about getting sick. My happiest memories were when I had a little fever and they’d stay up watching a movie.”
Erin half-turned as Ilvriss and Rags turned. The [Innkeeper]’s voice softened, and she looked at Ryoka with mild astonishment.
“I never knew that. You never say anything nice about your parents.”
“Yeah. Well. I just remembered it.”
Ryoka hunched her shoulders defensively and realized she should have corrected Erin. Even she rarely talked about her parents…Rags snorted softly.
“Erin. What’s a pillbug?”
“Oh, it’s this cute bug, Rags. It curls up into a ball if you poke it. I don’t like bugs, but they were the only ones I ever picked up. Well, that and cicadas. They would molt on the trees, and I’d collect shells. I don’t remember when I thought they were ‘gross’. One time I made a chess board with cicada shells, and they broke up and got everywhere.”
Erin chattered absently as her poking around the garden became less focused, and she stood there, staring at an imaginary sight.
“Yeah. There are trees all down my street, and they would have them every fall. Ryoka, did you have cicadas growing up? Kevin? Joseph? Imani?”
“Nope!”
Kevin shouted happily, and Imani called back.
“We had locust swarms, Erin. Not so cute. Don’t cicadas only come every thirteen years?”
Erin pshed with the air of one who knew it all, which indicated to Nanette that Erin probably only knew a bit more than most people.
“Of course not! They come every summer and fall, but they have, like, this super-year every thirteen years when more come out of the ground. That’s when they get gross. Ryoka?”
The Wind Runner folded her arms.
“Hell no. I had no idea you were cool with bugs. I never messed around with them. That’s gross. I had to have an ant farm in my home for a school project, and I hated it.”
Erin rolled her eyes until Ryoka realized there was a silence coming from the people who had been playing outside the sand walls to their left. She realized some of the people playing at the beach were Antinium when one of them spoke loudly.
“Priest Pawn. My feelings have been greatly hurt. What do I do?”
“Pray for her. She is a hurtful Human. You will find more.”
“Guys! I meant ant ants.”
Pawn spoke over Ryoka’s attempts to clarify the situation.
“Ignore her. She is not a bad person. But she clearly has no taste. Ants are delicious.”
“…Is that cannibalism? You’re sorta related, Pawn.”
“People eat monkeys. Is that cannibalism?”
Troydel wondered out loud. Imani made a sound.
“They eat what?”
“I’d think you’d know more about that, Imani. Don’t they eat them in Nigeria?”
Joseph kicked Troydel.
“Now that is racist. Hey, Erek! He said it!”
“Ohshitohshitohshit. Don’t hit me!”
Troydel ran off. Erin, meanwhile, was shaking her head.
“I dunno about eating animals, but we had this great zoo we’d visit all the time. The animals looked happy there. We went there every winter. A sort of tradition. Wow. I’m not gonna cry…but I haven’t thought of that in a long time. I miss all that. Then again, it’d be so snowy that maybe Dad would be making me shovel. For a quarter! He paid me a quarter when I was a kid until I realized that doesn’t buy nothing.”
She shook a fist at the air, and Ryoka had to lean on one of the sand walls to stay upright. She was shaking harder than she had when Cara brought up the date. Because it was one thing to talk about Earth; Earthers always talked about their home. But this? Rags was the one who made the quiet observation.
The Goblin Chieftain stomped over to Erin and glanced up at her. The difference between their heights wasn’t so much anymore, and these days, Rags wasn’t the timid yet vivaciously intelligent Goblin. She tapped Erin on the shoulder and murmured as Erin turned to her with a smile.
“Erin. You’re talking about Earth? Your home?”
“Yeah. Why? Do you want to know what a zoo’s like, Rags?”
The Goblin shook her head. She gave Erin a crimson-eyed stare of puzzlement, then looked at Ryoka.
“You never talk about your home. None of you do. Your world—but not your family.”
Yes! Ryoka stared at Erin, and Ilvriss blinked as he realized the truth of that statement. Erin laughed, confused.
“Why not? I guess it’s because it makes us sad. But I—”
Then she put her hand to her head, and her eyes widened as she realized—she had. She had brought up her parents unbidden—well, not entirely—but she had spoken of them.
Where once that would have prompted nothing but a recollection—Erin Solstice flashed to her fake Earth that Kasigna had made. Yet this was different.
“Who were they? You knew my…parents. Are yours alive?”
 
——
 
Rags stared at Erin, curious. Erin’s heart hurt, and she hesitated. One long second as the beach-goers played and people celebrated in her inn, and somewhere, a kindly half-Elf helped carry a delivery to the front door of the inn, but he didn’t enter and prowled around the side. Lyonette hurried out and gasped as she saw a delivery, a massive one, being pushed in by a panting Garia, Fals, and Charlay.
It was…a statue. It was gigantic, made of bronze but polished until it shone, and it was so iconic that Mrsha raced over and began giggling and went to show it to everyone. It might have been silver, but the collapse of silver mines had made the caster think bronze was better. Silver was too gaudy, and there was an honesty to the bronze. It shone less brightly, but better.
The statue was…of a beaming, short man, too tall to be a Fraerling by far, but shorter than a Dwarf.
He had a magnificent beard, a cap with flight goggles on his head, and as Troydel observed before Erek grabbed him and began slapping the back of his head, he looked like he had some kind of fantastical astronaut’s outfit on.
The Gnome was standing on a rock, so he could better hold a bearded, bald man with a terrified look on his face by the throat. Zineryr was, with his other hand, knocking a trio of women off their feet and stomping on the back of a pitiful [Mage] while a shadow-thing fled in the other direction.
It was beautiful, and even as a statue—the person who had carved and then cast it had worked from life. Zineryr’s eyes shone with mirth, and a laugh was upon his lips.
 
——
 
A Gnome laughed and entered the inn as Erin Solstice looked down at Rags.
“Shauna Solstice. And Gregori Solstice. My mom looks sorta like me, and my dad’s taller. He’s got some Scottish in him, but he didn’t give me any height. He’s a super-nerd.”
“…Unlike you?”
Rags bared her teeth, and Erin nudged her.
“Hey. I like chess. He’s the computer dude, and he plays video games and stuff. And Dungeons and Dragons.”
Ryoka felt her chest squeezing as Erin spoke of her family. Spoke, as if she remembered them and they weren’t lost in her mind. What was going on?
“What’s his job?”
Ilvriss was asking next, and Erin shrugged.
“Lawyer. Worker’s compensation and stuff. My mom’s sort of a housewife, but she doesn’t want to call herself that, and she’s got this huge store on Etsy—that’s this way to sell goods online. Uh, online is…she likes handicrafts. And before you ask, neither of them are good at chess! My dad likes it, but he’s like 1400 ELO at best. But they’re encouraging.”
She paused.
“…They kept wanting me to get a job. Parents. But they were really nice and…”
She wasn’t crying. Her eyes might be overly sensitive, but she was speaking of them, and on this day? It felt right. It was right. And surely they all would have done that.
But no one did. Home, the most precious of core memories, was never invoked by an Earther. Even Ryoka, who had no levels. Yet Erin said her parents’ names where she had said them before only once, and Rags looked up and gave her a smile.
“Someday I’ll meet them.”
“Maybe. But don’t eat any chocolate they give you. They love, like, 90% stuff. Which no one likes.”
Erin winked, and Ryoka felt the wind blowing around her, a gale on the beach. Kevin was lost for words, but Imani was touching her heart, and Palt was galloping towards her, drawn by the look on her face. Joseph was closing his eyes tight, as if fighting to not lose something, and Erin?
Erin stood there and felt it. Not a weight on her shoulders or a shackle upon her tongue, but a lack of it. She stood there, unbounded by that hidden law, and realized what it was.
Fate.
Somewhere, a faerie was laughing at the plans of gods. Just like that statue of the Gnome.
 
——
 
Oh, yes. The statue. Erin had no notion he had even come in at first. She was too busy remembering, and the word reached her slower than you might have expected.
After all, he came in humbly. There was no flash nor herald of his presence. The Gnome strolled into the inn, hands behind his back, looking right and left, a smile on his lips. At first, he took a seat at a table, and only one of the Antinium Workers noticed him and came up to take his order.
That winking, short man would sit there, and gently, the room would notice him. A little Gnoll would scamper up, ready to steal some snacks, and he would end up with her sitting across from him, him stealing fries from her plate as she howled in outrage. Until her mother ran over and he began chuckling.
Playing pranks until the [Innkeeper] noticed him. A laughing little man with the ability to humble Dragons, pausing as he saw the prankster, Saliss, seeing a rival. But terribly kind. He would stand, without Erin’s ability to bring tears to those she loved.
All he wanted was their laughter, and he would step on the dignity of the mighty like Laken and tear his own to shreds because there was a world of pride that could never be ruined, a grace that was better than any fragile grandeur. The Gnome who had walked the lands of the fae as a great guest.
—For a second, it almost felt like spirit was there, and if only he could have come there, like that, Zineryr might never have left.
Somehow, when Numbtongue saw the bronze statue being gently carried into the inn, he felt all of that pass him by. Contained in a single smile.
“Numbtongue? Are you okay?”
“Uh? I’m fine. Why?”
Then he realized he was sitting down. His legs had gone out from under him. He was holding his guitar, but when he looked at that statue…he couldn’t rise.
Something old was calling to him, and he would have wept. Those crimson eyes shedding tears. But the other part of him was saying ‘don’t cry’.
They wouldn’t like that.
Rags had come to a halt in the inn, and Garia’s face was red.
“Can we—put this down? It just came from the [Silversmith], Orreh.”
Lyonette was gratified by the statue, but she was a bit concerned. She didn’t want to cause a fuss, but she had to point this out as she turned to Fals.
“It’s the statue Erin wanted. Just on time. But bronze?”
The City Runner shrugged.
