She took two steps forwards as he somehow stopped the Acid Fly acid from melting him. Tolveilouka laughed—then his hips lifted as she kicked him so hard in the groin that his feet left the ground.
Erin stabbed him in the chest. His flesh was already regrowing, but she threw a [Minotaur Punch] that snapped his head back, then opened her palm, copying how he had infected her, and blew.
The flame of hate was nigh-invisible, and of all the things she’d done, that made him actually wince a second. He scraped at his flesh, then raised a lazy hand.
“I can strike you back, you know. Pain isn’t death.”
Erin ducked back several steps as he took a lazy swing—and Tolveilouka’s carefully-aimed blow for her arm that would have broken it—missed.
She swung under his punch, and he blinked. Even slow—she seemed to slide left and threw a combo of punches and a kick.
[Rhythm Combo]! Another punch, and she dodged back, so light on her feet that he blinked. It was a far lesser version of how he and the Unicorn had fought, but—
“Oh. A dancer?”
[Safety Dance]. Erin was moving faster, whirling left—Tolveilouka calmly kicked her in the stomach, a blur that sent Erin crashing down the hill.
“My, you must think I’m some regular monster come down from the High Passes. If you want to try that…you had better reclaim the spirit of Zeladona again. Hup.”
He squatted slightly, then leapt. Erin was on her back, stomach bruised, and she looked up as he casually dropped towards her. Tolveilouka hesitated.
Why was the [Innkeeper] smiling like that? What he didn’t realize, as a door opened behind Erin and she scrambled through, was that she was ready for this.
Not him. Not Tolveilouka. But it was Christmas.
A week away from the Winter Solstice. Erin was panting as water ran down her body, soaking her clothes.
“You’ll be a good practice run for the real thing.”
“The arrogance of—”
He walked forwards, and the sneering half-Elf was intending to break her legs and see if that wiped the smirk off her face. Then he tried to d—
 
——
 
Dodge?
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer. Champion, first servant of the Putrid One. Greatest of undead.
The world flashed around him. He landed on his back in Erin’s personal garden, smoking. Not smoking like someone smoked a pipe; more with ash and smoke rising off his body.
What remained of it.
There was a huge crater in his chest, smoking black, and the second strike had blown his head off. The half-Elf, or rather, the true being that he was wouldn’t die to that. But he hadn’t been able to dodge the blow.
He’d barely seen it coming. Tolveilouka lay on his back, stunned a moment, and felt pain.
Real pain. He had one thought as he tried to rise—another blow hit him mid-regeneration, and he was forced to roll away onto his feet.
True lightning. Not [Lightning Bolt]. Not even [Grand Lightning]. I forgot how much it hurts.
How? The air, he realized, stank of ozone. It was charged, the tingle of storms in the air. Tolveilouka pulled himself upright and saw her.
She stood in a garden filled with rain, a hat burning, a shining crystal tree behind her. The [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn had her knife drawn, but she had something in her other hand.
“You’re not going to enjoy this. My turn. If I can’t kill you, I guess I need more work. I’ve been preparing all month. Buddy, Tolveilouka? You’re going to have a really unpleasant time.”
He levered himself up onto one arm with a snarl.
“I am T—”
He dodged a lightning bolt—straight into a door that had opened for him. The half-Elf’s eyes went wide.
She has more than one garden? D—
He stopped as he found himself neck-deep in snow. A being made of ice turned, and a fist descended. Tolveilouka caught the Snow Golem’s blow and sensed a door opening behind him. He twisted.
“Where did you get that weap—”
The half-Elf heaved the Snow Golem back, but then he shouted as a blade pierced his side. It hurt! Then there was fire. Green flames, and he was grabbing for her, snarling, and then he remembered he couldn’t spit his bile on her.
He needed to know how his master had died. She was—checking herself, falling into her door, realizing he could catch her.
Using him like a training dummy? He began howling as his body bulged and started revealing his true nature. Then he saw Erin lift a hand.
“Lightning.”
Her first door opened again, and he realized the three lightning bolts were nothing compared to the light coming from that tree. His larger shape was capable of nigh-unlimited regeneration, but it was slower—and he was a huge target.
Tolveilouka howled again. She couldn’t kill him, but some of the blows hurt! He’d never seen an [Innkeeper] fight like this, even the ones he’d slaughtered when they razed cities!
She’s smirking at me. That smile—
“I know you now, [Innkeeper].”
A huge voice echoed from Tolveilouka’s body. His eyes stared at her, running with mucus.
“Your kind. Your kind doesn’t stop even if I murder all your loved ones. You keep biting even if I cut off your head. Do you think you can really kill me?”
He rose, ever higher, a corpulent abomination of rotted flesh that even the Snow Golems backed away from. But Erin just leaned on the weapon she’d produced, and she was panting. But the gardens were coming alive, and her eyes were locked on his.
“Kill you? What am I, an adventurer? I’m just practicing my moves on you. If I could kill you, I would. But you need to know who killed your master. Who ate him and laughed.”
His blood was boiling, and he roared.
“And why do you think you’ll survive once I find out? You think you can remove me from your lists of enemies with words?”
Tolveilouka grabbed at her, and Erin jabbed her knife into his hand as he gripped her. But he didn’t dare squeeze. She looked him straight in the eyes, teeth bared.
“Kill you? Remove you? Why? I’m not playing chess. Chess has no capture moves in the base game. I know how to play othello. Do you know how to play shogi, Tolveilouka? I don’t have to take you off the board if I can flip you.”
There she was, in his grip, a gnat he could kill in a moment. Yet no matter how he raged and howled—he couldn’t close his fist, and both of them knew it. Tolveilouka had never seen such an insolent smile. Not on Yderigrisel, not on that [Paladin]’s face.
He had one thought before Erin hit him with the full weight of her gardens.
…I truly don’t like her at all.
 
——
 
When Erin Solstice emerged from her garden, the small army of worried people stared at her.
“Erin. What is the situation?”
Chaldion snapped. But Erin just brushed at her head and realized all her hair was sticking up. Some of it was burnt, and she was both soaked, smelled like ozone, and panting.
“Nothing. I chased off that suspicious dude. All’s good, guys. Back to the party?”
Absolutely no one believed her. However, the mysterious culprit that had accosted Kenva was gone, nowhere to be seen, and Erin’s first action was to check on Tessa.
When Shriekblade awoke, she nearly took off Saliss’ hand, tearing around, looking for the attacker, but Erin talked her down.
“Tessa. Tessa…come with me a sec.”
She dragged the Named-rank into her [Garden of Sanctuary], and after about fifteen minutes of talking, Tessa came back and sulkily began eating everything in sight.
“Everything’s sorted. For now. Back to that party, guys.”
“No…Erin, what happened. Was it one of the six? Was it—wait, did the suspicious dude have a suit and smell a bit like brimstone?”
Ryoka suspected Ailendamus, but Erin refused to answer. She did turn to Ryoka.
“Listen, Ryoka. It’s sorted. If you want to help, go get Magnolia. She’s bringing Demsleth and, I think, even Rafaema over here. That’d ensure nothing bad happens, right?”
“True…I’ll go get them!”
Ryoka dashed off, relieved that Erin was making sense. She didn’t notice nor pay attention to the slightly-different looking half-Elf who was sitting in a corner of Erin’s inn, drinking. He looked so sullen and miserable that he didn’t even have the heart to stomp the undead rat biting him under the table.
Az’kerash seemed more concerned with appraising Erin to make sure she wasn’t infected with Tolveilouka’s plagues, but the undead had already removed it. He was trying to work out why Tolveilouka had gone from murderous revenge to meekly sitting in the corner of the inn after curing the [Innkeeper], working out defense strategies.
Yet her fight with him…Tolveilouka had to own—if that was how hard the [Innkeeper] was preparing for whatever she claimed was coming in a week, she might survive anything except him. And she claimed she hadn’t even used her ‘trump card’ on him. Which was just insulting.
 
——
 
Erin, though, Erin looked alive. She was in her [World’s Eye Theatre], hyped up on adrenaline, and Lyonette, brush in hand with Nanette, was trying to comb Erin’s hair.
“What happened to you?”
“Just, uh—Christmas preparations. You know how it is, Rabbiteater. How’s things, guys?”
None of the Ivory Five believed Erin one whit. They were enjoying themselves on Altestiel’s boat, and Erin was astonished to see another ship and personage she hadn’t noticed close enough to lower a gangplank.
“Wait. Who’s that guy? Do I know him?”
He looked shy—at least, he was hiding slightly behind Altestiel, and yet his footwork across the moving decks was fluid, and Ulvama turned her head to stare as Lyonette gasped and then checked her own hair with Nanette.
“Lord Belchaus isn’t coming with us for the journey to the New Lands, Erin. He’s a great friend of mine; frankly, he should be in Nadel, but even he couldn’t resist joining the armada. Bel? This is Erin Solstice, the [Innkeeper] herself.”
“Miss Solstice, I am delighted to meet you!”
The Lord of the Dance looked slightly askance at Altestiel’s weak introduction, but he bowed smoothly, and Erin laughed.
“You’re the Lord of the Dance? I remember you challenging me during the chess tourney. Are you not going to the New Lands?”
Rabbiteater sat up a bit; he had known Nadel’s ship was around, but the Lord of the Dance was so popular that he hadn’t had a chance to really meet the man. Lord Belchaus sighed.
“Unfortunately, I am sworn to protect Nadel, and I have too much business to attend to to justify leaving. Altestiel, here, somehow managed it. I don’t understand how he and Kiish managed to leave.”
Altestiel coughed into a fist.
“It was a necessity, Belchaus.”
“You ignored a royal command again, didn’t you?”
The two were clearly friends, and Erin laughed as more nobles tried to get a word with her. Many seemed to think that if they hinted an appropriate Christmas gift to them was a <Heroic Quest>, she’d fork one over, thank you, milord, milady, all impressed to be condescended to by actual nobility.
Rabbiteater was only slightly disappointed that Seraphel’s staff kept them away from that hilarious meeting. Erin was talking to Altestiel.
“I’m just about to get my Christmas party underway. I never did manage to get gifts for everyone…but I do have a small something planned. Even I can’t get all those gifts together in a hurry. But something. Can I call you guys then? I’ll make it so you can see the party.”
“Ab—absolutely. In how long?”
Erin checked the clock and swore.
“It’s nearly six! Half an hour! Well, it’s ready, and all we have to do is get the food set up. We can do that quickly…but I need music! Muuuusic! Where’s Cara?”
Altestiel saw Erin looking around frantically and muttered to Lord Belchaus as Kiish fiddled with a scrying orb.
“Did she just say she got the Singer of Terandria to cater her party? Bel, ask her about that dance quest.”
Bel elbowed him smoothly.
“Altestiel, I’m not going to be a dog with a bone about it. This is a holiday! Relax! Don’t blow around like you always do. Help me make a good impression!”
He cast such a pleading look around that Rabbiteater felt moved to help one of his friend’s friends.
“Psst. Talk chess to her. She likes chess.”
“…Just chess?”
Rabbiteater decided to help. He waved a hand as Erin fussed around.
“Hey, Erin. What’s your favorite chess opening? Belchaus wants to talk chess.”
“Wh—I’m busy, but I do like the Sicilian Defense. Although I keep using the Bongcloud Opening because, uh…say, we’ve played chess before Lord Belchaus, but not on a schedule. I could add you to my list of chess people. There’s always more room.”
“I would be delighted. Not to sound presumptuous, but I do play Altestiel regularly…however, I’ve been into that game you introduced. Othello? Go? It’s very pattern-oriented, and I enjoy the rhythm of play, actually. You’re said to be a master of that, aren’t you?”
The Lord of the Dance instantly lit up. Erin waved a hand.
“No! Me? I play it, but—that’s actually great. Everyone loves chess, but if you want to play Othello, we can do tons of games! I want to train up on that.”
Altestiel made a choking sound.
“Erin! I’d play if you wanted—”
“No, no. Belchaus can be Othello, you can do chess. It works. So you like to dance?”
“Yes. And may I ask if you dance?”
Erin shook her head instantly.
“Nah. I don’t dance. Well—I’ve been practicing for my rehabilitation, but I’m not a—”
She made vaguely tango-like motions, which seemed to be what she thought dancing was. Rabbiteater snorted, and Erin began talking about the other board game—until she remembered.
“Cara! Darn, I am so sorry, but I need to ask if she’s got the songs ready—”
“I have and I do. I was waiting for you to call. Can I just play them now? Tell me you’ve got a way to record them.”
Erin jumped, and Rabbiteater’s head turned as an unfamiliar voice reached him. He frowned, wondering how Erin had managed that, then saw Strategist Kiish holding up a scrying orb.
Oh. Of course. Erin wasn’t the only person who could use magic to talk to people. Cara raised her brows as Erin gave her a steady look.
“Sorry, Cara. Something came up. You did all that fast!”
Cara shook her head modestly. She whispered so only Erin could hear.
“It wasn’t bad. My Skills approximate all the other instruments, so it’s just singing the vocals. It’s really…I’m a cover artist at best, not a musician.”
“Singer! Is this a new album just recorded?”
It seemed Cortese and Menrise were fans of Cara, and Seraphel waved.
“Cara! Cara!”
“Seraphel? Where the hell are you, Erin?”
Cara recoiled as she fiddled with a song crystal that Abebi had helped her make. Erin waved guiltily.
“Uh. Saying hi to other friends? Hey, Cara, want me to add you to the group call like last time to take part in the Christmas party?”
