He slapped his chest and guffawed to himself. Then staggered as a Drake dropped on him and threw a dagger into the side of his head.
Thunk. Tessa saw her dagger go straight into the intruder’s brain. She had orders not to kill unless necessary, but every instinct told her—
The sizzling blade should have cooked his head, and steam rose from the hilt. But the half-Elf just calmly pulled the dagger out and flicked it back at her. He finished his thought.
“—until I stand over the corpses of their loved ones. Then I laugh, and it is far sweeter because of the struggle.”
He moved, leaping at her, and she got him eighteen times, each stab in his throat, groin, stomach, eye—slashing his vitals, but the wounds closed almost as fast as her blades left his body. And then she was trying to get away—but a single arm was around her throat.
Shriekblade thrashed, a blur of stabs that Tolveilouka absorbed. His voice was very soothing as, behind the outhouse, her feet scratched at the ground. He was impressed; one of her Skills fired straight into his chest and opened a hole through his back. But the wound closed, and he whispered in her ear.
“Shh. Shhh…go to sleep. I need bait. Wake up and know you’ve failed utterly and completely. That’s right. Lights out.”
It took a while, and she kept trying to sound an alarm, but he could wait. At last, she did slump, and he decided he’d put her in a bed rather than let her catch a cold outside once he was done.
It was the little details that mattered. The half-Elf slung her over a shoulder, then regarded the inn.
“In. Out. No one notices, no one dies. Well, almost no one. That’s style.”
But first…he went back to consulting his bag of holding.
He had to figure out the right attire.
 
——
 
Something was wrong.
Erin felt it at last as she was digging a hole in the Drathian garden with Ulvama’s help. The [Shaman] had been pestering her for details about Erin’s plan and whether it involved food.
But Erin turned her head and frowned. It was on the barest edge of her inn-sense, near the outhouses.
“…Tessa?”
Shriekblade had vanished. Erin had told her to relax on Christmas, and she’d sensed Tessa stealing snacks from the buffet lines and even talking with Saliss a bit.
However—
She had sensed Tessa’s presence vanish abruptly. Maybe she’d gone off to bully a spy?
Something felt off. Erin couldn’t place it, but her internal sense of danger suddenly spiked. A wisp? No…she wondered if her [Dangersense] should have been going off.
“Ulvama, I’ll be back in a sec. I’m just gonna check on something.”
“Sure.”
The Hobgoblin was digging with Apista and Nerry watching, oddly content to help bury someone. Erin, on a hunch, stepped back into her inn—appearing in the tower with Bird first.
“Hey, Bird. You seen Tessa around? Anything odd happen recently?”
Bird gave her a helpful salute as he wore his Santa hat.
“I never see Miss Shriekblade. Sometimes she steals the seeds I leave out for birds. Nothing odd is happening…although I did see a rat-bird. It flew over the mountain, there.”
“…What? Just keep a lookout. I think we’ve got a snoop or something.”
“If I see a spy, I shall either shoot them gently or call for the Thronebearers, Erin.”
“—Okay. Just be careful.”
Erin looked around, then teleported into her common room. Instantly, everyone flocked towards her, and she took the door to her [World’s Eye Theatre], shouting.
“Not now! Busy!”
If a few of her guests noticed her odd behavior, they might have put it down to stress or the Christmas plans. And no one could keep up with her when she was using her door like that. Erin stood in her theatre.
“I should call Rabbiteater and Cara back…but first? Show me Tessa!”
The theatre’s dome blinked—and Erin narrowed her eyes.
“What the—?”
She saw Tessa slumped against the wall of the inn, on the outside, by one of the windows that led to the common room. She looked propped up there, not like she’d decided to take a nap. And she was visible. The Drake was breathing—but Erin swore she’d seen a flicker of movement that vanished as the image appeared.
“What was that?”
She hesitated a second, and her instant instinct to open a door to where Tessa was made the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door open. Erin did a single step back into her personal garden, and the door flickered to show Tessa outside.
But Erin’s foot stopped just before she walked outside. She couldn’t have said why. It wasn’t [Dangersense], again. It was a sudden suspicion.
Step out and I am in danger. Whether or not her finding Tessa was anticipated, the slumped form of the Drake looked like—
A trap.
Erin took her foot back and balanced in the garden a second. Now, her mind was moving faster.
What in the world could that be? Kasigna’s minions? I swear she summoned the wisps. But that was fast. Facestealer? Something from the dungeon? Raskghar? Why today? Well, it’s Christmas. Who else could do that? Think. Think. Manus? Nerrhavia? 
She didn’t have an immediate answer, but now Erin was frozen in place. She called out.
“Tessa? You awake? Tessa?”
She tried to sound as innocent and natural as possible. But in her mind, she was trying to work out a plan of action.
Chaldion first. Then tell Ryoka to grab everyone and put them in the garden. Who else could fight? Saliss. Grimalkin. Valeterisa, Relc…Numbtongue. Rags’ Goblins…
But what were they up against? If Tessa was down—
Where were Demsleth and Magnolia when you needed them? Yes, she could count on them! If—
The problem was, Erin was trying to catch up to someone, and they had clearly realized she was too smart to walk outside. In that moment of uncertainty, a decision was made.
Erin felt a presence on the second floor, in her rooms, and at last, her [Dangersense] exploded. Every alarm bell in the world blared, and she clutched at her head.
“No. No—”
The door flickered, and she appeared in her rooms where the intruder had slipped through a window. Erin hesitated one second—then leapt through her door. She landed and came face to face with someone she had never seen before.
A half-Elf, skin pale as a sickly moon, wearing the same red robes like blood, exposing his chest, that the Dragonlord of Flame had once seen, was standing in her rooms.
Tolveilouka, first servant of the Putrid One, smiled as Erin stopped. He looked up, and she knew nothing of him save how dangerous he was. To her, he felt like a false flower, a thin veil covering a sea of rot and decay.
Plague manifest. Something about that was familiar. He had a single curved blade at his side, and he even had a flower, a rose, tucked behind one pointed ear.
It was the most pretentious outfit she had ever seen. Erin should have been ringing the alarm, but he had entered in a single moment, and she had gone after. Why?
“Oh my, little Miss. You shouldn’t go peeking into other people’s rooms, even for presents, you know.”
Tolveilouka was speaking to a little Drake girl, who looked wide-eyed and nervous—but only like a naughty child. Kenva, Watch Captain Venim’s daughter, had been creeping around Erin’s rooms, possibly searching for hints about a present. Tolveilouka had been wagging a finger.
“Miss Solstice! I’m sorry! Don’t tell my father! Strategist Chaldion dared me to do it!”
Her eyes filled up with terrified tears, and Erin held out a hand.
“Don’t—don’t cry, Kenva.”
Don’t touch her. Tolveilouka drew his hands back and held them up. Erin looked at Kenva.
“I’m not mad. Just go downstairs and tell Mrsha that Headscratcher’s present is safe.”
“Okay! I’m sorry!”
Kenva ran downstairs. Erin watched her flee out the door, and it shut hard after her. The lock clicked without her touching it. Then she and the unknown half-Elf were in the same room, and he was beaming.
“Innkeeper Erin Solstice? My name is Tolveilouka. Good Missus! I am delighted to introduce myself, albeit belatedly.”
“Hi. How did you get in my rooms? Why are you here?”
Erin was slowly buying time, tracking Kenva dashing downstairs. Would she tell Mrsha properly? Would they—?
The door was open behind her, but he’d moved so fast. How much damage could he cause? She was trying to slowly redirect her center of gravity for the fastest step in the world back. The half-Elf’s smile stretched ear-to-ear, somehow wider than regular lips should contrive to move.
“I just wanted to pay my respects to the great friend and patron of the Horns of Hammerad. I am intimately acquainted with that team.”
—Fuck. That didn’t sound good. Who had the Horns made an enemy of? Someone from Chandrar? Roshal? Then Erin locked onto the disgusting sense of how foul this person was.
Like he wasn’t half-Elven, like the fake Named-rank, Regrika Blackpaw, had been. The sense of plague…her mind flashed to a single story Ryoka and the Horns had been part of.
It couldn’t be. Could it?
She was in a place beyond mere danger. Tolveilouka’s smile never reached his eyes. They were, Erin realized, pale blue; his hair was golden flax. Sort of like Ceria, yet he paid more attention to his looks as his flashy attire indicated.
Yet everything about him was slightly off. The golden hair color, like wheat, perhaps, but a sickly crop before the harvest. Plague in the fields. Skin as if drained of blood.
“How do you know the Horns?”
Erin was waiting for her moment, now. Tolveilouka sighed dramatically.
“You may ask them. I just wanted to tender them some Christmas greetings! Properly! So you know, my full name is Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer.”
Erin jumped backwards. She was right in front of her door. She never made it.
The world spun so fast that Erin was dizzy, stumbling, when she realized the half-Elf had switched places with her. Suddenly, she was standing in front of her bed, and he was standing in front of her door.
He placed a palm against the entrance and looked into her garden. Erin staggered. Had he just swung her around in the instant she’d leapt?
That made him faster than anything she’d ever run into. The half-Elf pressed at the barrier into Erin’s garden, and she felt the pressure.
“I recognize this. How…nostalgic. It only works if you get in. Ah!”
He reached out and caught Erin, holding her up before she could fall into the door that had opened below her feet. This time, Erin punched him in the face.
[Minotaur Punch]! She hadn’t expected it to work, but to her surprise, he took the hit full-on. It was a nasty punch. She felt her fist mash his face, connecting with his cheekbones, and even saw his skin distort as her blow snapped his head back with the force of it.
“I shan’t take up your holidays, Miss. A woman like yourself deserves fine company, and I hope you will quite enjoy the seasons! Now, here is my present. I didn’t wrap it, but I am sure you don’t mind.”
He kept talking as if he hadn’t even registered the punch. He put Erin down, and then she was calling fire to her. Fire and witchcraft.
Too slow. Too late. She should have abandoned Kenva. But what kind of a person did that? Would it even have mattered?
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer didn’t strike her. He didn’t break her neck or cast a spell or draw that sword from his side. He just opened his palm and exhaled.
A faint, cloying breath of air blew across Erin’s face, and she recoiled. She stepped back, tossing pink flames, and he stepped out of the way of them.
Erin stumbled back into her [Garden of Sanctuary], coughing—and then realized she had made it. Tolveilouka beamed at her and bowed.
“Merry Christmas to you, Miss Solstice! I shall see myself out.”
“What? What did you d—”
Erin coughed. She had no idea what he had done, but a cough exploded out of her lungs, hard and fast. She blinked.
“You—”
“Don’t let me keep you from the party. Remember me to Ceria, would you? Tell her I hope she’s enjoying that circlet. Fine work, you know. And Pisces! The spellbook, likewise. Yvlon? I hope she’s gotten her arm back on. Ksmvr…I’ll see him last.”
Twinkle-eyed, Tolveilouka was opening the window, theatrically swinging a leg out. Erin stood there.
“You—what did—? St—”
She was coughing harder now, and something was wrong. Her head felt foggy, and after the third cough, her lungs were heaving, burning as if something were in them. She tried to say something—doubled over. Erin coughed into a hand, and then there was blood.
The half-Elf was watching her, face a seraphic smile.
“You’re not looking too well, Miss Solstice. Careful who you hug. You never know what you might catch on the holidays. It would be a shame if those children got sick. You might want to stay there for a bit. For…three days, I’d guess. Say, would you mind if I nabbed some sweets on my way out?”
Erin gulped for air. Her lungs! She knew what he’d done now; her head felt like it was swimming. Poison or plague. Something like that, but so fast—she reached for a healing potion at her belt and hesitated.
Wait, that made diseases worse—Tolveilouka applauded as she hesitated.
“Good idea! The next thing you’ll do is ask for that silly woman who can only cast [Restoration] or the Antinium. I wish them the best of luck. The Unicorn might have a shot, but I truly doubt it. My master and I made plagues to kill them when they sauntered out of their forests. And the Dragonlord of Flame was never a good healer.”
He was gloating. Erin doubled over in a coughing fit, and her lack of a reply seemed to annoy Tolveilouka. He rolled his eyes, lifted a finger.
“I forgot how much hacking is involved in the first stage. I’m sorry, you were saying?”
The burning pain in her lungs stopped for a second, and Erin looked up at him. She felt a hand on her shoulder, and it belonged to the grave. She had felt this once before, this certainty, and she had the phantom pain of the crossbow bolts lodged in her chest.
Death.
Today? It was painfully fitting. You never knew when…but Erin was staring at the half-Elf, and she did not want to die. She was afraid of it.
She knew there would be no coming back. Not again. She couldn’t let it happen, but she had no miracle cure. Nothing…and there would be no Maviola, no ghosts…
Ghosts. He was so familiar that she had an image in her head. Not of the last gathering of ghosts in Khelt. Rather…before that. A chance encounter as she had fled the six, finding the first sanctuary. But before it had fallen and they had run to Chandrar! Before that—!
The Horns had raided the Village of the Dead. A grave of a famous, forgotten [Necromancer]. The Putrid One. And she had met someone in the lands of the dead. A lonely half-Elf like her—
