A lockpick set, well, two parts of the set, enough to actually pick something, was lying there. A tension wrench and a pick—it’d be hard to get to a door lock at her height, but the inn had lots of locks, and if Nerry wanted to practice…
The bee saluted Nerry with a leg and went to fly off, satisfied. Nerry blinked, then stopped the bee. Grudgingly, she trotted over and nuzzled Apista on the side with a cheek, and the bee flapped her wings happily.
“How cute! Hey, smile you two! I’m taking a picture!”
Kevin held up his smartphone as he watched the two cute pets snuggling. Nerry instantly backed up and spat on his foot.
“Aw. Gross.”
 
——
 
The first wave of presents were between friends, family, and Mrsha lay on her back, a vaguely dazed look of happiness on her face.
This was even better than birthdays, and they got to do this every year?
In fact, even Erin had given a few gifts around, and not just the Wonderball. Somehow, that sneaky [Innkeeper] had actually found time to make a few gifts!
“It’s not as cool as your gifts to me—but I thought it’d be sort of nice. See?”
Numbtongue had gifted her, rather thoughtfully, a full set of new and stylish clothes. He, Lyonette, Selys, Mrsha, and Bird had all gone out to Liscor, Pallass, and Invrisil and conspired to update Erin’s wardrobe. She did wear clothing she got, but she never altered her style without someone getting her things, and so Erin had dozens of new outfits.
Bird had gotten her a huge feather she had tucked behind one ear, and Erin had surprised them with a single object.
It was…a needle on a string. It was faintly gold-looking, being an ornamental bronze needle, and Erin held it up on a little piece of string.
“Erin. You didn’t have to…”
Lyonette seemed more worried Erin had made a stupid gift. She had a dozen needles on a string, and Numbtongue, amused more than anything, held one up.
“What’s this, then?”
“Go ahead and spin it around.”
Erin urged him, and he spun it and noted it kept swinging back and pointing towards the center of the common room. She winked as he blinked at it.
“It’s a needle that works like a compass! This one always points to here. It—it points to the inn. This one points to home.”
She gave him a second needle, this one made of a pale wood, and he held it up. Numbtongue eyed both.
“I don’t see the difference.”
She hugged him tightly, and the Hobgoblin stiffened—then hugged her back, grinning.
Instantly, a bunch of people clustered around, realizing Erin had found a practical little gift after all! One of them shouted.
“I want an inn compass needle!”
Erin was dishing them out, giving most to the Goblins, who grinned, and she gave many to friends. But she had avoided one group—the Antinium.
Because she had something for him, too.
“This is for you, Pawn. It’s—a gift to the Painted Antinium.”
“Oh?”
He turned in his seat as Yellow Splatters, Purple Smile, Garry, and countless Antinium looked up hopefully. The sky hadn’t forgotten them, and in her limited time, she had found something. Or rather—made something.
They were the tiniest of pots, sealed with a little piece of cloth and tied tight to prevent the contents leaking. Each pot was so small Pawn could fit three in his palm, but there were lots of them. He opened one as all the Antinium leaned over—and the bright color shone in his gaze.
Slowly, Pawn dipped a french fry slightly down, and it came up shining a color of blue he had never seen. He turned to Erin without a word, and she explained.
“I just made it. It’s my power to steal colors. This is the color of Grand Rapids. Magical paint.”
The colors were from her home. The Antinium solemnly stared at the paint, and Pawn got up to hug her.
“Thank you.”
Slowly, behind him, one of the Workers tried to eat the painted french fry.
 
——
 
“Thanks for doing this, Cara. Really. I owe you one.”
There would have to be a lot more conversations. Erin already needed to apologize to Orjin—again—and she had enjoyed talking with people.
“It’s nothing, really. Talking with someone who knew Gaeilge and wondering if all the folktales of my home are true—that’s something.”
Cara tried to wave off Erin’s compliments, but the [Innkeeper] insisted.
“I mean it. Ryoka and I both owe you a lot, and I don’t want you to be a stranger, alright? Thank you. I’m just sorry we didn’t involve you in the present-giving!”
The Singer rolled her eyes, trying to sound acerbic.
“Erin. I had a great time, and I’ll be celebrating with some kiddos of my own, soon. Having a drink and a chat with the others—like that Geneva—that’s the real gift. Your inn connects people, and I wish I had that power.”
Erin made a face of mild horror.
“You sound old, Cara. Too old for gifts? How old are you, anyways?”
“Twenty-four. And that’s—”
“Twenty–four? You’re ancient!”
Erin shouted, and Geneva’s head turned, and she gave Erin a flat look. Erin shook her head.
“You’ve gotta be one of the oldest Earthers around! Wow, is this what happens to you when you get old?”
“Erin…we’re practically the same age.”
Cara’s left eye was twitching, and Erin was shaking her head fiercely.
“Nuh. No way. There’s miles of difference between you and me. Lightyears! I’m twenty. Ryoka’s older—but twenty-four?”
At this moment, Erin was making an enemy of every single person older than twenty. Niers was trying to stab Foliana, who was poking him, a huge grin on her face. But Cara?
Oh, Erin shouldn’t have messed with Cara. The Singer was nice, helpful, and really trying to be a positive spirit of good cheer on Christmas. But she did snap. Her eyes lit up, and then she gave Erin the most Nerry-like smile in the world that made Erin hesitate.
“What? I guess I’m twenty-one now, actually. Come to it…but so what? Huh? Huh?”
She was basing her confidence on the assumption that Cara would always be older than her. But Cara didn’t believe in weak blows. She coughed into one hand.
“Well, Erin. I could talk about how years are longer here so, technically, we’re all older by a bit. But I wouldn’t want to argue semantics to a twenty-seven year-old.”
Erin stared at Cara, then snorted.
“Twenty-seven? But I’m only twenty-one…”
She paused. Cara’s innocent look turned into a Lucifen’s smile.
“Not back home you aren’t. Actually, wait, when were you born? Might be twenty-eight. Twenty-nine come 2024. One year away from thirty. But thirty isn’t old. If it was—why, you’d have one year left. I’m no spring chicken myself, but at least I feel young.”
“N-no. That’s just—but I’m not—”
Erin began stammering as the weight of years slammed her like a half-brick to the head. Cara stretched and winked at the other Earthers, who applauded, in awe of someone who could take on Erin on her own terms.
Erin was about to point out that age was a number, that her obvious misconceptions about the nature of time stemmed from her being twenty, which was young, and associating anyone older than her with ‘old’ without really quantifying the number when, in fact, thirty was still a kid. Forty? Barely an adult. Fifty, you were in your prime and—
She had fallen into the same trap. Because as she began to point out how many years she had left, how sprightly she was, and how she could probably do a backflip and was in better shape than she’d ever been, someone padded up to her.
Mrsha handed Erin a note, and the [Innkeeper] read it.
Hey, grandma. Take it easy.
Erin snapped her fingers, and a door opened under Mrsha and sent her plunging straight into the pond of Erin’s personal garden. The Singer of Terandria poured herself a drink, then started laughing at Erin. Like a Gnome.
 
——
 
Secret Santas. What people didn’t know was that the system was rigged. Lyonette hadn’t just done a ‘random selection’; she’d deliberately gone against the system and rigged it in her favor, or upon request. There had been a number of people asking to gift for a certain person, and while some gifts were random…
Mrsha’s face when she opened her present and saw the Cape of Heroes made everyone who saw it burst into a smile. Then she was doing jump-kicks, jumping off balconies, and punching the air before running over to glomp onto Hedault’s leg in a hug.
The [Enchanter] looked slightly smug about that. Though, he grew perplexed as he realized his Secret Santa was Seborn.
“I don’t know you that well. I thought this’d do.”
Seborn handed him a gift, and Hedault, after unwrapping it without tearing the paper, opened a box and blinked.
A huge, fat pearl sat there, freshly secured from a clam. Seborn explained.
“A friend of mine gets them. This is a Purewater Pearl from Baleros. An [Enchanter] might use it, I thought.”
“Thank you. I quite appreciate it. And I can use it.”
The fat pearl made even gem-hoarders like Numbtongue and Selys come over and beg to see it. After all, you couldn’t mine that sort of thing from a mountain. Seborn was nodding, and he was oddly wearing a new set of handsome armor. Wyvern leather dyed dark blue. Not enough to make him noticeable, but enough to be stylish, and someone had even put the flag of his old ship in a corner.
“Who got you that, Seborn?”
“My Secret Santa. Moore. That idiot spent too much on it.”
Erin beamed as Seborn pretended like he didn’t love his gift. She was watching people hand out gifts, and with rare exceptions, everyone had tried hard.
“Wall Lord? This is for you. I hope it’s to your enjoyment. It might be dry, and I do apologize if it is, but I thought it might be something you’d enjoy, and I, er—”
Sest and Ushar stopped Lyonette from babbling as she, embarrassed, handed Ilvriss a somewhat floppy package. He unwrapped it.
“What is this? A book?”
“Not…entirely.”
She looked nervous, as many did, that their presents wouldn’t be well received. At first, Ilvriss thought it was merely useful.
 
A Treatise on Izrilian Politics in the Year of 19 A.F.
 
As, uh, as names went, it was straightforwards. He suspected it was one of those self-published books that hadn’t even gone through the process of bookbinding, but any information or reading on the nobles of the north would be bound to come in handy, right? Especially if Lyonette recommended it.
But then he saw the author of the document and nearly dropped it. The full title read, in spidery writing he suspected was handwritten by the author:
 
A Treatise on Izrilian Politics in the Year of 19 A.F. by Reclis du Marquin.
 
“Is this—?”
“It took some doing, but Father does write them, and they’re very thorough.”
An incredulous smile spread across Ilvriss’ face, and he almost hugged her, then they shook hands. Silly adults. Mrsha was heading over to Moore with her handmade book of illustrations she’d worked on for class, then had a [Scribe] help touch up with some cool-looking artwork.
Her book was going to be a hit. It was the ‘Adventurers of Moore and the Halfseekers’, and it was a somewhat embellished account of how cool he was and all his adventures she’d seen. The half-Giant was already watery, but he had to request a second handkerchief as he took the book and opened it, afraid to tear the pages.
There were many amazing gifts given. Such as the moment when Tyrion Veltras rode in on a horse, dismounted, and tried to present it to Ryoka Griffin. Even Erin didn’t regret letting him in on the party…that moment would go down in history forever.
However, three gifts really left an impact, and that was a high bar at the moment. The first was Grimalkin’s gift to Lady Pryde.
He had a thin box, and she, after Lyonette, Bethal, and several fascinated onlookers like Nanette and Visma had crowded around, opened it with shaking hands. But when she stared at the single object inside, her face fell.
It was…a carnation. A type of flower that, to Mrsha, looked messier than a rose, this one a reddish orange. Unfortunately, since it was so far out of season, even his best spells hadn’t saved it from looking a little mangled.
“A carnation?”
It was neither the yellow that you would expect for someone like Pryde—nor a rose. She gazed at him as she read the note. Bethal read out loud over her shoulder.
“My highest esteem and thanks for our mutual correspondence and efforts furthering the field of physical improvement this last year, Lady Pryde Ulta. It is my sincere wish that for the coming year—wait a second. This is a business letter!”
It read like a project goal and essay combined. If there was romance…no, not even Grimalkin would write that. Pryde sagged slowly, and Lyonette and Bethal had to hold her up.
“That’s it, then. Where’s the drinks? How long does it take you to drown?”
Nanette was staring at the flower, and she rushed over to whisper in someone’s ear. Before Pryde could give into despair…she came dashing back.
“Lady Pryde! Lady Pryde, wait! I don’t think it’s bad! Grimalkin’s just scholarly!”
Mrsha and Visma had been preparing to attack the [Sinew Magus], who seemed to have his back deliberately turned to the outraged group around Pryde. They paused as Pryde looked up.
“How? It’s a carnation…”
“It’s flower language! I just asked—Lady Pryde, Grimalkin must think you know it!”
Flower language! That was just the sort of mistake Grimalkin would make! Pryde’s head turned, and there were two experts on the subject in the room. Both Bethal and Pryde knew it, but even they had little handbooks and didn’t have the encyclopedic knowledge of all of the blooms. Bethal was hugging Thomast’s arm because she thought she knew, but Pryde had to hear it to be certain.
Lady Magnolia was fluent enough, but Ser Sest glanced down as Mrsha charged over, and Nanette had gone to another expert.
Eloise. The [Tea Witch] favored Pryde with a smile as the [Lady of Pride]’s head rose with sudden hope.
“Roses are romance. What—I don’t know—what are carnations?”
Nanette was dancing from foot to foot.
“There are multiple meanings, but the only one that fits is—fascination. Distinction too! The kind of flower you give to someone who stands out in a crowd!”
Bethal gasped, and Lyonette’s head whirled. She saw Grimalkin had his back to them all…but as she edged sideways, she realized the [Magus] who had survived countless battlefields was using a mirror to observe them! He shifted as she saw it, and Pryde’s head rose.
Fascination. Not anything as overt as a rose, but…Grimalkin’s head turned, and he nodded at her.
“Lady Pryde. It’s a humble gift. But I hope it signals my thoughts. If you would—would you care to tour the party together?”
“I—don’t see why not. Present company is dull.”
