His logic seemed to work out. Erin nodded, but Tolveilouka wasn’t done. Then he stepped forwards and took her hands. She kicked him, but he kissed one hand until it punched him in the face. And his smile was filled with writhing maggots as the half-Elf bent forward and whispered.
“And if you win—”
His grin widened and split his face at the edges.
“If you win, then you will have hope. You will cling to life as your dreams and ambitions sprout anew. When you are at your highest, not your lowest, we will do this again.”
The [Innkeeper] gave him a steady look as he released her hand and stepped back. Perfect again, and he even produced a fan and waved it in front of his face, a perfumed scent in the air.
“Goodbye, Miss Erin Solstice! Goodbye! I wish I had a gift, but once more, my aid is a present beyond what you deserve!”
He even blew her kisses, and she dodged them as he stepped backwards towards a door she had opened as far as she could from her inn, behind the outhouses. Erin knew that everyone, including Shriekblade, would be happier when he was gone and the plague in her had vanished, or so he claimed.
This was the best of all outcomes, wasn’t it? A Christmas miracle. There was the slightest chance he was lying, though, so Erin watched as he trailed towards the door and then called out at his back with her final attack.
“Your master vanished without striking his foes a single real blow. They ate his soul.”
Tolveilouka’s foot halted in the air, and she saw him stop dead. Not a single breath. Not an ounce of movement. Then she saw his delicate features twist as corded muscle rose beneath his skin. Erin had seen rictuses of rage; it seemed like every conceivable piece of flesh turned into taut, bulging muscle, and his very face twisted so badly that she would never have recognized him.
Even she nearly took a step back as Tolveilouka’s eyes, filled with red blood and bulging in their sockets, stared at her. After seconds of incoherent sound, he finally spoke.
“Thank you. For telling me. After I eat their entrails—”
Erin met his gaze and spoke before he could finish that thought.
“I liked him. I don’t like you, but he was kind. I have always liked [Necromancers]. Just not the dead.”
The half-Elf stopped, and his twisted features slowly, slowly went back to normal. He stood there, staring at Erin, then shielded his lower face with his fan.
“I wonder how he would have come to this inn, my master. Fare thee well, Erin Solstice.”
Without any more pretense, he stepped out the door and vanished.
 
——
 
Only after he was gone did Erin collapse onto the grass, gasping, and roll into another garden. She lay there for a long time, panting.
If that was somewhat dramatic—a certain Hobgoblin had been having heart palpitations herself, seeing that monster get mad. She felt like her heart had stopped, and she was pretty sure both Apista and Nerry, who had also been there, had been having incontinence problems. Assuming bees even had that issue.
Erin lay on her face for a while.
“Ow. I’m so stiff. Those last two things…am I a bad person now?”
She meant the stick and the kind of carrot she’d offered the half-Elf. Frankly, as the Hobgoblin stepped over and poked at Erin with a toe, Ulvama had nothing to say.
Full marks. Even Nerrhavia herself might applaud if she’d seen it. But Ulvama just paused, then put a knee in Erin’s back.
“Ow. Ulvama! I’m sorry! Don’t kill me—I didn’t realize you were there!”
“Shush.”
Ulvama grabbed Erin’s shoulders, and the [Innkeeper] yelped.
“Owowowowow—hey, that’s not bad.”
Ulvama was kneading her shoulders, and Erin relaxed after a bit. The [Shaman] popped Erin’s shoulder.
“Oooh.”
“Thanks. Ow. I punched him so hard I did that to myself. So anyways. He’s on our side for now. If we survive, I’m in huge trouble. Did—did you see what I did?”
“Made him mad and charmed him a bit? Mhm.”
Erin lay there, staring ahead, in the Drathian garden the two were used to. Her face was sober and even guilty as Ulvama eyed it.
“That’s the first time I’ve ever negotiated with a monster like that.”
“Really? What about old one-eye?”
Erin shook her head.
“Chaldion? Tyrion? I’ve been forced or I’ve needed something, but I’ve never looked someone that—evil in the eye and just let him go. I know he’s killed people. I know he might kill more, but I needed his help and…”
She closed her eyes.
“Does that make me weak? Ulvama? Lacking conviction? Am I turning into someone like him?”
The Hobgoblin [Shaman] thought about that and poked Erin.
“Hmm. Lift your head?”
Erin did, puzzled. What kind of backrub was—?
Ulvama put Erin in a headlock, then slammed onto her.
“Argh! That hurts so much!”
After undoing all of her work, Ulvama then began undoing the huge crick she’d put in Erin’s neck. But she slapped Erin on the back of the head.
“You know, I was Tremborag’s [Shaman]. He was not a good Goblin. Or person. We needed a strong Chieftain. Is it weak to do what you have to to live?”
Erin gave her a guilty look. Ulvama poked her in the head again, but gentler.
“That one is a balanced scale. You balanced it. You cannot stop him. Many people would die to kill him. What else could you do?”
Erin exhaled and nodded. She got up, rubbing her neck and holding it at an angle. But she gave Ulvama a serious look of thanks.
“I’m going to kill him if he tips that scale before we stop needing his help. And if he kills people before I can figure out how to stop him…that’s my fault.”
Ulvama gave Erin a bleak smile.
“Yeah. That’s how it is.”
 
——
 
“What a fine day. This had everything. Wisp dust. Sand. Wet people getting dirt on the floors. And Erin’s gift was very touching. I am most satisfied by this party. Merry Christmas to all.”
Silveran was shaking hands as Antinium filed out of The Wandering Inn, clutching pieces of food for later. They had seen Erin’s city. True, it had too much water, at least from what they’d seen, but she had shared a truly momentous experience with them.
They had been there and seen it, and surely they would level and be better for this day. So Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas indeed! They slapped each other on the back-shell. And to all a good n—
“What about the presents?”
Visma shrieked at the top of her lungs, and the Antinium leaving The Wandering Inn turned. Silveran paused.
“Oh. Right. That.”
Presents! At last, the children who had been dying all day saw Lyonette throw open the room devoted purely to storing the presents. Then she began shouting.
“Saliss! Stop stealing presents!”
A mob chased after the [Alchemist], who was attempting to literally take presents and throw them down Erin’s well.
A monster.
“Alright, everyone! It’s time to give out presents! Someone suggested we give them out in order, and each person should say something that they’re grateful for before unwrapping each gift so we can appreciate what every person got.”
Ryoka was clapping her hands and getting everyone’s attention in the middle of the inn. Lyonette turned red as the Wind Runner listened to the rumbling.
“—Since there are way too many of us, no way! Hand them out and open in your own time! But let’s do the Secret Santas later, got it? Merry Christmas!”
The inn exploded as people turned, shouting for one another and holding out gifts. Mrsha went wild, bounding towards Moore, then Halrac, then Lyonette, looking every which way, and Erin heard dozens of people calling out her name.
“Delivery for Erin Solstice from the Forgotten Wing Company!”
Fals shouted above the din, holding a present. Charlay nearly tripped over her hooves.
“Wait! Wait! I’m doing that from Altestiel, and, uh—”
Now, there were so many presents being unwrapped and heartfelt gift-givings going on that to catalog them all was as boring as listening to a list of levels, Skills, and class consolidations someone got.
So it hardly mattered. But if there were mundane presents, there were high-value presents that got big reactions.
The first of which was not, as you might expect, a Mrsha-present, but rather, a very sneaky young Gnoll boy edging over and trying to hide something in a pile.
“Ekirra! No stealing!”
Visma was having a relapse of her hoarding problem, much to her parents’ worry. He jumped, turned red, and tried to hide something, but she snatched it—then read the label.
“Wait, it’s for me?”
She stared at the clumsily-wrapped gift, then unwrapped it and found a new item, fresh-carved and in stock from the carvers: ironically enough, a figurine of The Singer of Terandria! Visma’s jaw dropped as she stared at a new doll, and Ekirra looked nervous.
Mrsha turned to stare, then saw Visma throw her claws around Ekirra and kiss him on the cheek. He fell over on his back, a look of delight on his face.
What? Where’s my present?
“Mrsha…I don’t think you get what’s going on.”
Nanette whispered in Mrsha’s ear as the girl demanded her share of the gifts. Then Mrsha stared at the two and made a gagging motion. No! Only adults were that stupid! No! Noooo—
“This is for you. It’s, uh—well, I thought it was hard to get you things, but you love the food at our place, so—”
Numbtongue stared at the pile of delicious farm products that Garia had run all over Izril to get. She was nervous, but he leapt up.
“We’ll have a feast! Picnics!”
He hugged her, and across the table from some of the inn-crowd, Rhaldon watched as Octavia fidgeted with her gift: a hand-brewed potion. He wondered if Numbtongue’s clear love triangle would come back to bite him soon.
He, Troydel, and several others hoped it was soon, but then Rhaldon blinked as someone put an object on his head.
“Hey, kid. I’m not gonna be sappy, and I’ll vanish in a second—this is for you.”
Saliss had plans to not involve Saliss throughout most of the party, but he waited as Rhaldon unwrapped his gift. Even the [Alchemist] grudgingly smiled as Rhaldon gasped—nearly burnt his face on Saliss’ gift, which was already active, and looked at him.
“Saliss! Is this an—Everburning Candle?”
“Don’t damage it. They’re more expensive than you think. I thought an Earther would love to mess with one. Alright, where’s Mrsha? I have just the potion for you. A potion that makes you fart huge purple clouds! Use it on your enemies!”
Mrsha solemnly accepted his gift as Lyonette and the Thronebearers tried to grab it from her, but the Drake really had been smiling. And despite himself, he stopped as Grimalkin offered him something.
“This is from myself, Felkhr, and Hedault. It’s not much—”
“Come on, Grimalkin. I didn’t get you anything.”
Saliss lied as he breathed. He waved off the present—then stared in perplexity at what he had just unwrapped.
“Is…what is this?”
Grimalkin looked highly serious as Felkhr and Hedault poked their heads over his shoulder to watch Saliss’ expression. It was really hard to get a gift for Saliss, just like Erin, so they had consulted with Palt, Erin herself, and Octavia to come up with this.
“It’s a list of people pre-approved to trial Felkhr’s flying glider. Both in ‘tandem’ with him controlling it and solo with a lot of protective spells.”
“Gee. For me? I love paperwork.”
Saliss commented drily, trying to figure out what this was. He glanced at the bottom and noted a huge, fat seal from General Duln, Chaldion’s signature—he raised his brows.
“It’s already stamped? Where’s, uh—the names?”
Grimalkin handed him a second list, again deadpan.
“These are the applicants. Senator Errif, General Edellein—you probably know most of the people here. This is in the proposed order.”
The movers, the shakers, the Noasses of Pallass were all here. The list was so long; there had to be over six thousand names on it. Saliss’ gaze slowly flicked to the blank list. Grimalkin had a throat problem.
“The list is already stamped. A clerical error. So once filed, it will be highly, highly difficult to redraw, especially as it will be sent to the Engineer’s Guild and circulated across Pallass’ systems. A number of citizens and soldiers have applied, but obviously, people like Sir Relz and Noass are top billing. It would be a shame if the order was mixed up, but it’s out of my claws.”
Saliss stared at Grimalkin, then turned his head, and Erin ducked her head. But she was grinning, and Saliss put a claw on Grimalkin’s shoulder. The [Sinew Magus] looked genuinely worried.
“If it’s not that funny, I—”
“You are a hero of Pallass. I love you. This is the greatest gift ever.”
Across the room, Chaldion rolled his eyes as several people, including General Shirka, presented him with their own tokens of affection. Saliss was laughing as he went to his flying comrades, and Hedault was presenting the faeries with a tribute of alcohol.
 
“Look at this wise one! We bless your fields!”
“He doesn’t have fields.”
“We bless…your armchair! An entire bottle, for each? Wait, is that a keg?”
 
One of the faeries uncorked a wine bottle and then crawled in headfirst. There were people still watching from the theatre, and Cara stared.
“As ucht Dé! I thought I knew drinking problems.”
She caught herself, cursing as she invoked ‘god’; in Gaeilge, the phrase was ‘from the breast of God!’, a common expression of shock.
 
“Hah. I’d drink from their tits, but I’ll take ambrosia instead. Here’s to ye! Spit in the eye of everything and everyone! Sláinte, girl who knows the tongue!”
 
Shaestrel winked at Cara, raising a tiny mug, and the [Singer] almost fell out of her chair. They began shouting at each other in Irish.
A little lamb was watching the two, trying to learn the language, when a buzzing sound made her look up. Lots of people had food gifts for Nerry, or things they thought would make the Sariant Lamb smile.
The grinch of a lamb cared nothing for any of it—but she did grudgingly look over as Apista landed. The bee was getting bigger, and while she wasn’t the lamb’s size, she was big enough to delicately place a present in front of Nerry.
Shoo, shoo. The lamb jerked her head, but Apista nudged the ‘wrapped’ present to her. It was more a piece of wrapping paper she’d glued together with some secretions. Nerry saw Apista was already smoking a tiny blunt that Palt had gifted her, and, rolling her eyes, she kicked the wrapping paper apart and found…
Eh? She stared down for a second at the mysterious object that Apista had gotten her. Then Nerry realized what it was. Somehow, Apista had found a lockpick, perhaps stolen from one of the less-scrupulous members of the inn.
