“He said silver was too expensive, and—and that it just fit like this. It’s a lot bigger than Master Orreh thought. He says don’t mind the cost. He wanted to make it like this.”
The huge statue was dominating the room, and guests came over, peering at it and chuckling. Some, like Menolit, didn’t get what was so special, but he laughed at the image.
“Look at this fellow! What is this, some kind of fight I missed? Who’s this bearded fellow? He’s bald. Humans and their hair.”
He flicked at Tamaroth’s image, and Ryoka shouted. She had just appeared.
“Don’t—don’t touch that!”
Surprised by her tone, Menolit twisted. Ryoka looked afraid as she saw the images, however caricatured, of the six. At least, some of them.
Cauwine and Laedonius weren’t included, but was this right? She had never met Zineryr, and so it was the others who provoked fear in her. Yet a peal of laughter made Ryoka’s stomach untense.
Visma had come running with Mrsha and Kenva and Ekirra, and at the sight of the statue, she began giggling. The laughter was innocent and genuine, and it made Ryoka’s stomach unclench.
“Is that…?”
Joseph nodded covertly, and Ryoka nodded without a word. She recognized the three-in-one and the shadow.
They had been around the fire. Her face was filled with fear, but then she saw Numbtongue looking at her. He felt something too, perhaps because he was a [Soulbard]. Slowly, he walked over to the statue.
“What’s his name? Oh. It says.”
He bent down and read the title.
“Zineryr. The Triumph of Gnomes.”
He grinned at the simple title. Then he looked up. Numbtongue might have said something more, or touched the bronze statue, but he heard, then, a loud meow.
Before he knew it, an orange furball, annoyed at being ignored by his caretaker, launched himself off a rafter. Reagen, the orange tabby, hopped down onto the only logical place.
“Reagen!”
Octavia shouted in horror as the cat landed on the tallest landing point and the flattest surface he could see. The orange cat curled up and gave everyone an innocent look.
What? What?
He was squatting right on top of Tamaroth’s bald pate. Numbtongue began to grab him, and Reagen swatted at his hand, thinking it was playtime.
“He’s going to scratch up the statue! Numbtongue, your stupid cat—”
Garia was worried as she was responsible for delivering this. Numbtongue glowered at her.
“Don’t call him stupid, Garia. Psst, psst. Reagen—”
And that, of course, was how Erin Solstice found Zineryr. She stopped, in her inn, as a Hobgoblin tried to pry a cat digging its claws into the metal Tamaroth’s scalp. Erin Solstice halted, and her eyes went wide, but before she could cry out or solemnly burst into tears—
A laugh escaped her. A guffaw, and everyone looked up, and Garia sagged in relief.
That Gnome laughed. Just as he had intended, and Erin began giggling, then laughing. Then the faeries were swooping around, shouting.
 
“There he is!”
“The mighty! Undefeated! Godslayer!”
“Hail to the Gnomes!”
 
They cheered, and Erin would have fallen over, but someone was there, and she bumped into another Goblin with a strange look on her face.
“Erin. Is that…a Gnome?”
The [Innkeeper] stopped giggling and saw Ulvama had come out of the Drathian garden she liked so much. Like Rags, the [Shaman] looked shaken beyond words.
Erin’s laughter faded. She walked forwards. Then turned around.
“Yes. Everyone, this is Zineryr, and this statue is absolutely true to what happened in the lands of the dead. He saved my life. He…I wanted to remember him. Properly.”
She looked at that statue and wondered if, in time, it could help replace her memory of what had actually happened. Perhaps it would always serve to show her how it should have been.
That smile was perfect. Erin tried to copy it, then gently put a hand on his shoulder.
“Orreh did an amazing job. Garia. Can you invite him here for the party? This…I don’t know if we should put it in the garden. The common room, maybe, but I don’t want him to get dirty.”
“I can polish the statue. Silvermop can, too.”
Peggy offered. Erin nodded.
“The others are fine. Reagen using that dude’s head as a cat rest is just…perfect. Yes. This is how it was. How it should have been. He wouldn’t have lost to anyone in a fair battle. Bongcloud Attack.”
Then she looked so sad that Mrsha took Erin’s hand. She held up a card.
He looks fun. A really brave guy.
Erin read the note. She wiped at her eyes.
“Yeah. He was as brave as all the ghosts. They all deserve monuments like that. But he gave me hope.”
That was all there was to say. So the guests looked upon the one person that had given Erin a spark in those darkest hours. Thoughtfully, with wonder. With amusement or, yes, fear and apprehension.
But the statue had the greatest effect on one person, and Erin had to go after her. She found Ulvama squatting in the Drathian garden.
“Ulvama? Sorry. Is something wrong?”
“Who—who was that? A Gnome? It’s too old. I don’t remember him.”
The [Shaman] was clutching at her head. Erin didn’t understand why Ulvama was so worried. Rags, Numbtongue, had all clearly felt something thanks to their advanced connection to the heritage of Goblins; Badarrow hadn’t been as affected and just laughed.
“That’s right. He’s one of the Gnomes. I don’t know how old—why? Is something wrong?”
“I don’t remember him. It’s too far back.”
Ulvama’s hands were shaking. She looked at Erin, snapping, and then her gaze was uncertain.
“The—Solstice. You kept saying bad things were going to happen. Everyone knows. But that? That is older than Goblin Kings. What is going to happen, Erin? I want to run.”
Perhaps, of all Erin’s guests, Ulvama had not realized just what was coming at them. Erin realized the [Shaman] was understanding it now as the memory of Gnomes struck the [Shaman of the Old Ways], something that ran far deeper and greater than all the magic and secrets she’d known.
Erin paused, then took a seat cross legged in the grass of the garden. She exhaled slowly,
“If you want to go, Rags can take you to her tribe. Or Laken has his own area for the Goblins, and they’re not necessarily safe—Elia proved that—but it’ll probably be safer than the Solstice will be, here.”
“Yes. Maybe.”
Ulvama’s eyes were hunted now, the same look of a Goblin pursued by killers. Yet Erin hesitated, then came out with it.
“I…wish you’d stay. I need your help.”
The [Shaman] blinked and looked back at Erin. She rallied enough to scoff.
“You don’t need me. You have the tiny [Strategist], one-eye, Rags…”
“Yeah, but they’re not part of the inn’s family. You are, by now. I could use your help, Ulvama. They’re coming. And I’m afraid. Zineryr is there to give me strength—but I’m afraid. He died.”
Erin’s voice cracked. She looked back, and the statue was in her inn. But his ghost?
“He was the last Gnome, and he did everything he could. He beat them! He put his thumb in their eyes, but he told me we had to carry on after him. I can’t do it alone. I never could. So—so if you could—”
She was shivering, and Ulvama stared at Erin. It was hard to say who was reassuring who now, but the [Shaman] closed her eyes. She wavered for one second, then looked at Erin. Ulvama bit her lip, then told Erin a secret. And Ulvama was better at keeping secrets than even Erin.
“Every [Shaman] does this, Erin. Probably every Chieftain. From Tremborag to Rags. No matter how hard I try. Ever since I was small. I cannot remember the First Goblin King. I can only remember four Goblin Kings back.”
Ulvama’s eyes opened. The [Shaman] stared down at her feet and plucked at the grass.
“Every Goblin wants to fix it. Their rage. I thought I could. Then I gave up and tried to live happy. Then my tribe vanished. Now—I see something from the beginning.”
She wiped at her eyes.
“I was always a bad Goblin, and Rags knew me the moment she saw me. But even I…I want to know why. I looked at him, and I felt hope and safe for a second. I want to remember. If I follow you and risk it all. Can you help me find it?”
The Goblin’s voice trembled, and Erin Solstice looked at her, mouth open. That façade of uncaring tough cynicism broke down a second, and Erin put a hand tentatively on Ulvama’s shoulder. She looked back, and that Gnome was smiling at her now, not just laughing. Erin’s eyes shone with determination.
“I promise.”
Ulvama’s sigh was the longest in the world, and she flopped onto her back. She lay there.
“Great. Then I guess I have to stay. If I die…I need to eat more tonight. Smart Goblins die with a full belly.”
Somehow, they were the bravest words Erin had ever heard Ulvama say. She smiled—then she stood. And when she walked back into the common room, that Gnome’s smile shook her to her core.
But even after the hundredth time she looked, after the thousandth—
He still did seem to embody courage to her.
 
——
 
She was breathing too hard. The [Innkeeper] felt like she was under the effect of a Skill again. She knew it was impossible. Her wild flailing around for a Christmas gift, learning the fae’s lessons, remembering home…
It was all heading towards something. Perhaps, in her Erin-way, she’d tricked even herself. After all.
She knew what she was looking for, in the back of her head. As Erin stood in the cleared part of the beach-garden, something was in her hand.
The young woman only noticed it when Rags’ eyes fixed on the object she was holding.
“The key.”
The Key of Reprieve was in Erin’s hand, though she had never called for it. A feather, glittering under a false sun.
Ilvriss was staring at it, and Ryoka was doing that thing where she looked around to make sure this was happening and everyone else saw it.
Always. Did she always have a trick to pull? Maybe…it wouldn’t have worked an hour ago. But this time, Erin felt it.
This was, after all, not her place. It wasn’t her garden, but it was someone’s [Garden of Sanctuary]. And with the exception of the Strongest of Pomle, Collos, each and every other owner had truly needed this place and changed it to become integral to them.
Wasn’t it strange to have a glorified training room? Then again, Erin looked around at the walls of sand, and one parted slightly at the merest thought to reveal Lism and Krshia floating by on a makeshift pair of inner tubes, one feeding the other silkap.
Ilvriss, Rags, and Ryoka stared as the two Councilmembers stared back at them. Erin closed up the wall of sand.
“I didn’t need to see that.”
“Whatever you saw, you were mistaken!”
Lism shouted back. But Erin had mostly wanted to see the water again. With only desire, she could create a current or even a tidal effect. The beach-villas were still there, and the sun felt bright and warm; heck, she had a tan! She thought out loud to herself about all this.
“Home. Strange, how—how easy it was for me to make this beach. Even with all the powers of this garden, it’s not like it’s easy to terraform somewhere. Ilvriss, how hard would it be to create a manual beach like this?”
The Wall Lord scratched his neck-spines as he considered the question.
“Taking aside finding a space for the matter and obtaining all the sand and whatnot—the spells to replicate the atmosphere, the way the water moves, and even, it feels, contain this environment and move all this sand around at a whim? Five Level 30 [Geomancers], some kind of specialist on par with Magus Grimalkin in the area of dimensional bounding, a, uh, [Hydromancer] who can somehow affix this magic—I wouldn’t pay the budget for this.”
Nanette was nodding rapidly as her earnest face screwed up in thought, and she looked delighted to be part of this moment. The people outside, though, were missing out, and Erin requested a drink for her sore throat. Inkpaper handed her a cup of water and someone tried to trot in; Erin slammed the sand walls in front of Charlay’s face.
“Hey! I’m Ryoka’s best friend, Erin! Don’t forget that and let me in! I know tons of [Witches]. I’ll tell on them!”
Charlay kicked the walls, clearly not understanding witch-dynamics. Erin twitched. Ryoka hurriedly patted her on the shoulders.
“Charlay’s a good person, Erin. Just—Charlay.”
“She’s your friend, Ryoka. It fits.”
The Wind Runner’s brows crossed, and she folded her arms.
“I don’t deserve all the teasing I’ve been getting today. Come on, Erin. What did you find out about this garden? Share it.”
Erin relented and looked at the others. Rags, Ilvriss, Nanette, and Ryoka gave her attentive looks. Erin pointed at the unnaturally pale tiles on the ground.
“It really does look like some kind of room meant to simulate stuff. Like fighting another [Mage] or training. But I turned it into a beach, and it’s doing a great job. Why would someone make a [Garden of Sanctuary]—a place that has things you want, or makes you feel comfortable, yes—only into a place to train magic?”
Rags rubbed her nose.
“[Mages] are weird. Quite smart. Not very intelligent.”
“True…”
Everyone agreed to that as several [Mages] outside huffed angrily. Valeterisa, who was trying to bore a hole through Erin’s sand walls to peek through with a beam of fire magic, glanced up at Relc.
“I would make a garden like this. Except mine would automatically feed me and have…mm…more books. Actually, my garden would probably be a gigantic library. One immune to silverfish. What would yours be?”
Relc scratched his head, looking perplexed.
“Dunno. Maybe somewhere relaxing? What about…a room that’s a gigantic puzzle? So you have to solve the room itself, and it keeps changing every time you go in.”
“Oh. That is a splendid idea.”
See? Even they had better ideas for a [Garden of Sanctuary] than what this room apparently was. However, the real kicker came when Nanette frowned and remembered something.
“Wistram has a room just like it, or so I’ve heard. One that makes anything you want. Like a beach. I thought you got the idea from them.”
Nanette looked at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] scratched her head.
“No. I just thought it’d be fun. But you’re right, it was easy. Easier than…huh. Easier than I would have thought, right? I couldn’t do this in another garden, even if I was okay with changing it. Hey! Does anyone remember some kind of beach-room in Wistram?”
She had to open the sand walls further, and Palt, Imani, Montressa, Bezale, Valeterisa, and Relc all hurried in, looking pleased as punch. And all but Relc and Imani knew what Erin was talking about.
Palt lit a cigar up. When Erin glared, he switched to a pipe, and when she didn’t immediately slap it out of his hands, he blew an ostentatiously orange smoke ring.
