Erin cursed as the milk got everywhere. The fighting faeries paused a second, and Shaestrel muttered.
 
“One. Hey, Erin.”
 
The [Innkeeper] turned her head, stubbed her toe, and flinched. The second bolt passed over her ear, and someone lost their temper. One of the Winter Fae winced; it was close.
“What, Shaestrel?”
 
“…Ye got shite on your toes.”
 
Erin frowned, bent over, and the faeries wiped at their brows. Two miles away, someone stared at the window and decided there was no style to long-ranged kills. But that was ridiculous. Either she was a Level 70 [Fool] or…
Tolveilouka grew increasingly more cautious. Even that damn Unicorn and Dragon couldn’t do that. Could they? Was it that annoying [Necromancer]? He decided to sweep the area for traps again. Maybe she was just lucky.
 
——
 
“Thanks, Shaestrel.”
Grumbling, Erin cleaned up the milk spill.
But like a glass of milk flying over her sheets, she had not understood the consequences of her actions. Similarly, if Shaestrel could read Erin like someone calculating how an apple fell from a tree with instinct—how was she to do it to herself?
Viewpoint. It all came down to that. Erin had to toss the sheets in the laundry before the milk got her bed wet, and she came back, sat down, and stared at her chessboard where Nerry was pushing pieces around with her hooves.
“Okay, if she’s doing that and reading my fate or…the near future, why can the other fae avoid her? She’s not letting them sucker punch her on purpose. Under my theory, they should be, like, doing an eternal game of figuring out the best move, or they just don’t have the ability to do what’s optimal.”
She stared at the faerie-brawl, which had resumed in earnest, and one of them heard her.
 
“Hear that? She’s right! I am the Fist of the North Star! Haaaaaah—”
 
She did a dive-bomb attack and actually got one of the others in a haymaker punch. Erin regretted showing the faeries the limited anime she’d seen. She felt like Mrsha, and the fae, were getting too much from them.
Then someone put Shaestrel in a choke-hold, and the two slammed into the roof, rolled off—swearing, Shaestrel retreated, hurling insults.
“They got you good.”
 
“Shut up. Where’s—my muffin! You damn piece of mutton! Damn you!”
Shaestrel began attacking Nerry, who gamely fought back, but the faerie effortlessly dodged her hooves and began trying to choke Nerry out. Erin watched, frowning.
“You can read everyone’s fates but the other fae and your own. They’re not reading you and countering; you’d look cooler like that or like someone feinting a thousand times, which sounds cool but looks lame. They’re…hiding their moves from you. That’s it.”
Her eyes lit up. Shaestrel stopped wrestling Nerry and gave Erin a long, level look as a bunch of Frost Faeries poked their heads up over the windowsill. Erin looked around, beaming, and Shaestrel exhaled.
 
“I mean, it sort of works. It took you almost all month…6/10.”
Erin’s face fell. Another voice chimed in.
“She had to watch us fight and get help! 2/10!”
“Even Ryoka would have gotten it faster if Shaestrel was teaching her! But I think for a mortal she’s smart. 5/10!”
“She can’t make good muffins or cook! 0/10!”
Erin turned redder as they laughed at her, but Shaestrel’s eyes were glinting.
“Shaestrel? What am I getting wrong here?”
The faerie leaned forwards.
“Since you need more hints, consider it in a different way, Erin Solstice. Say rather…say rather it were you not hiding your fate—for how would that help us? A bit, perhaps, but not much. Say rather—it were more clever.”
 
Erin’s heart leapt as her mind flashed to the conclusion.
“Instead of hiding fate—you’re twisting it. That’s why everything can go your way. You’re taking what’s going to happen and nudging it a bit! That’s why I lose! It’s impossible for me to lose! I’m too good at chess for you to beat me without drawing all the time.”
“Well, I dunno about that—”
 
“Shushshush! Be shush! You’re not only seeing the ‘right’ way to win, like Chaldion’s [Path to Victory], but you’re maneuvering me into losing! Is that what I’m learning? Fate itself!”
Erin threw out a hand, and the faeries made ooohing sounds and applauded. They sounded genuinely impressed, and even Nerry sat up. But Shaestrel just sighed.
 
“You’ll be about as smart as Merlin. And again, look how he turned out. You will be surprising at best. Someone who can make a move no one expects.”
Erin stopped and saw the faerie hunched over, sitting cross-legged again, and now Shaestrel’s eyes looked like a foreign sun. She spoke, and Erin’s skin tingled like Ryoka probably did whenever she met a new immortal. For Shaestrel was looking at her.
 
“There is a board in the kingdom you call the lands of the fae. Some come to play on it. The Faerie King’s court plays it for fun; he is the master bar only the Queen who was. Betimes, visitors come, and occasionally one plays with a genius unheard. It is the final game, the game of gods, and even we do not play it to the level some fiends and glorious few can aspire to. After all, ours is but a board, as chess is like to war.”
Erin’s fingers tingled, and she thought she could almost see that board, sitting in the court Ryoka had described as being at the center of things. Yet Erin longed to know what the pieces looked like, read the rules…touch it.
Shaestrel saw Erin’s expression and snorted lightly.
 
“I knew it was the right game to play with ye. If you could visit us like days of old…a hundred years. No, for you, a decade of watching and playing and you might play a decent game. We have not even a year. I had not even a month. Come again, let’s play.”
 
She spread her hands, and Erin saw the chessboard was restored. The [Innkeeper] knew time was passing, but she saw Shaestrel waiting for her, and never had Erin run from a great game. She sat, and the fae looked at her.
“You might sense it, now. Try.”
 
——
 
They began to play. It was…what, 3 PM? 4? Erin felt time pass as she moved pieces slowly, trying to feel Shaestrel moving her, moving the board. She would play, lose, play, and then ask for the board to be reset, experimenting. Sensing, even playing blind.
Shaestrel humored her, and Erin did think she felt it.
An odd sensation, like she got when, sometimes, in the heat of a game, she had a perfect understanding of how to win. Yes, exactly that! The moment of inspiration that all Humanity had felt one moment or another, where their mind connected the dots—that was what Erin wanted.
Yet it almost felt like Shaestrel’s presence on the board was the inverse of that. If Erin felt certainty in how to win—she then sensed Shaestrel undoing everything.
Oh. This is witchcraft on the level of Belavierr. She would call this the threads of fate.
Erin’s skin chilled, but her heart blazed. And Shaestrel nodded.
“I am playing poorly, with all the intent of the world made obvious and none of the finesse or strength. You cannot beat me, but you can hold onto your own fate.”
 
That was what Erin was doing. She felt like she was guarding herself against Shaestrel, preserving her moves in the game of chess from being manipulated. And if that was the case…
“Check.”
Nerry watched as the game turned slowly against Shaestrel. Not because the Spring Fae couldn’t see countless points to victory—but because Erin’s mastery of chess itself left fewer and fewer.
This time, Shaestrel had to play perfectly from the start. The next game, she drew with Erin; neither one had an appropriate move for victory.
“Ach. You drew that only because you play like the greatest of losers, mastering this stupid game. Less of that!”
Shaestrel kicked her king-piece over, and Erin protested.
“Aw, come on! I can’t move you, Shaestrel. It feels like it’d be changing the course of an ocean.”
“Well, of course not. I’m so good a player even the gods themselves can’t use me as a piece easily.”
 
The faerie puffed out her chest, and one of her sisters jeered.
“Yeah, and the god of muffins nearly killed ye!”
Shaestrel leapt up into another fight. Nerry finished eating the would-be god of muffin-kind as Erin frowned at the board. The final piece to the fae’s lesson was not moving fate around for other people; Erin imagined even reading the perfect move was beyond her in everything but chess. No. The feeling she had was—
“If it’s my fate? I thought I couldn’t see my own—ah, of course.”
Erin sighed. She picked up the queen piece and stared at it. Just as she had once with Skinner attacking and everything ending. As she had felt it many times before, when death should have come and a group of Redfangs and Goblins followed her onto the Floodplains.
Even when her luck ran out—that sensation of unreality, of being outside her body, of a moment that was so far from ordinary and normal that it became that element she coveted and used in her magic.
Wonder. That magical moment. Erin lifted the piece up, and her hazel eyes shone a second.
“A wondrous move. Something that surprises even me. If I see what I do, and what I’d think of, and what my opponents think I’ll do—what might Erin Solstice do that will surprise us both?”
Shaestrel and the fae looked over and fell silent. Nerry’s own eyes gleamed, and she watched as Erin Solstice picked up one of the beautiful chess pieces that Altestiel or Chaldion or one of her chess-head admirers had sent her. The dark marble of the queen piece was polished so finely, why—it reflected Erin’s face vaguely. Like a mirror.
And what she saw in those depths made her smile.
——
 
“Feeling better, now? I was thinking, Erin. If…you opened up the Drathian garden, we could have a very lovely time there. It’s not as festive, but it is lovely and bright. Or—another garden. Not the Snow Golem one. If you wanted to put on some event for everyone, I think that would be a wonderful gift.”
Lyonette was trying to help at this point, the only way she knew how, but when Erin came downstairs, she looked calmer.
Erin stressed. Ryoka stressed. Everyone had their breaking point, and Lyonette had seen Erin’s last Christmas. She didn’t want that now.
“I need to do something meaningful, Lyonette. You’re right, I think the gardens are the best bet. But changing one is tough. The beach garden, well, that’s the former mage’s garden to begin with. Because there wasn’t much of anything there…huh. There wasn’t much of anything there. It was just this blank room when I found it.”
Erin rubbed at her chin and looked—different. She seemed normal, but she was thoughtful, like someone constantly second-guessing herself. As if she were appraising the world twice.
To Lyonette, Erin seemed more deliberate than usual, like when she tended to focus on things rather than being silly. But Ryoka gave Shaestrel a sharp look, and the fae looked smug. Erin…
Erin didn’t feel more intelligent, but she had a clear mind, like those days when you woke up and you felt at your sharpest and most incisive. Like all those moments of inspiration were at her fingertips to call upon.
It felt amazing. But it was also scary because she was pushing herself to…not be Erin. Or to do something she might not think to do regularly. No, that wasn’t right. These were all Erin-moves, but she was looking for rare Erin moves. The kind that would help, here.
“Hum. That garden. You know, I think I didn’t do the owner any credit. I turned their garden into my personal beach. Terraformed it. True, their garden was always sorta…empty. But maybe—I’m gonna use the beach a moment, okay?”
Erin strode into the beach and found it had a good number of people, even now. After all—there was a lot of the world who experienced a warmer Christmas than she remembered.
“I bet this is what it’s like for that guy, Daly, or people living in Australia.”
“What is?”
Ryoka followed Erin into the beach, and the young woman waved her arm around.
“Christmas! It’s hot in Australia in winter, isn’t it?”
“Reversed seasons. Yep. Wait, I think that’s how it works. Now I’m not certain…”
Erin was walking along the beach, clearing the water and sand away. She made the sand stretch to the ceiling, cordoning off this area and revealing that blank room that this place really was.
A training ground for a [Mage].
Or so she assumed. The power to move the elements and even call magical examples of fire and so forth from the sky at a command seemed the most [Mage]-like thing imaginable. She was sure Ceria would love to use this room as a training ground, like Pomle’s holder.
But in hindsight, was that bias?
Now Erin was here, she strode around, poking at the blank walls and floor and ceiling. With her was Ryoka, Nanette, Rags, and, because he wanted to be in on things, Ilvriss.
Everyone else was stuck outside, including Lyonette, who shouted to Erin that she had to work her crazy ideas fast; it was 4 PM and she had two hours!
“What? Come on, what about seven? Eight?”
“Erin, we have to have gift openings, parties, dinner—six is the latest!”
“Great. Two hours to do…what? Think, Erin. Optimal move, optimal move…garden, reveal your secrets to me! By the power of the key! Open your hidden areas! Reveal the true owner’s…stuff!”
Erin began raising her arms, commanding the garden to show her what she thought was there. Ryoka glanced at Rags, who calmly poked at the floor and tried to lever up some of whatever this place was made of.
“I missed this.”
Rags watched, and Ilvriss nodded a few times.
“Me too. It feels like a lifetime ago. To be so carefree as to only have to worry about one calamity.”
“Yep. Think she’ll cry again?”
“I don’t believe I was there for that, last time. Why was she crying?”
Rags shrugged in reply to Ilvriss’ consternation.
“Lyonette told me to watch out for it. Happened last time.”
“Huh.”
Ilvriss turned back to watching Erin. The [Innkeeper] was shouting at the sky, red-faced.
“By the power of Khelt, I command you. F-forsooth! In the name of Empress Sheta, open the hell up!”
Even if they couldn’t see her, she still had an audience, and Erin quite clearly heard Kevin muttering to the others.
“Oh come on, she’s doing the Gandalf thing.”
“The what?”
“Mines of Moria, Imani? Joseph, back me up.”
“Nerd.”
“I remember that. Erin, try ‘friendship’!”
Someone shouted, and Kevin turned with a look of displeasure on his face as he realized who had been tagging along despite not being very welcome.
“Dude. Who let you in, Troydel?”
The [Innkeeper] decided she needed more sand to prevent eavesdroppers from having an opinion. Nanette tapped Erin on the shoulder.
