It was possibly the longest day in the history of ever, this Christmas. It was barely 3 PM, and it felt, to some, like an entire week had passed.
That was because—while the adults had dignity and were too good to admit it—the children were not. To Mrsha, Ekirra, Visma, Kenva, Sammial, Hethon, and all the other children waiting for Erin’s Christmas party to begin, this wait on Christmas was intolerable.
Good parenting was letting your children at the presents under the tree as soon as they woke! Or even opening on Christmas Eve! Ryoka found Mrsha banging her head against the wall of the World’s Eye Theatre after Erin took a break from calling people to figure out a better strategy.
“Mrsha, what are you doing?”
“She’s trying to knock herself out so she can wake up when the party starts. I tried. My head hurts.”
Ekirra had a bump on his forehead, and Ryoka stared at them. For all Mrsha’s ability to write diatribes on paper…this was the most kid-thing she had ever seen.
“Guys, it’s just three hours.”
It feels like three days. I want my presents now! Some of our friends are playing with their toys already! Esciht got a kite that he’s going to use to fly like Felkhr!
Mrsha was slightly dizzy, but she flicked her wand, and a magical quill dashed the words onto a card for Ryoka very quickly. The Wind Runner hesitated.
“Uh. That’s highly concerning. Do his parents know about that? Because that’s not good. Who are they?”
What’s it to you, narc? Gonna tell the man?
“Okay, I know Kevin taught you how to say that. Kevin! Stop teaching Mrsha to be anti-authoritarian!”
“Why not?”
Kevin hollered back, and Ryoka had no response. She turned back to Mrsha, who looked smug.
“Mrsha, you’ve got to chill. Erin’s stressed, and remember how last Christmas went?”
“Thanks.”
Erin stomped by Ryoka, and the Wind Runner flattened herself against a wall. She felt like she was getting the raw end of the stick!
“I’m trying to be thoughtful! Mrsha, you’re a year older, which is like one point four years in Earth-terms. Can’t you wait until dinner? Be a little more mature, huh?”
Mrsha’s look of disdain for Ryoka only grew by the second. She slowly wrote on a card and held it up.
Ryoka, were you a good girl when you were young and had Christmas?
Ryoka had to think about this.
“…I think my parents let me open gifts on Christmas Eve after dinner.”
Mrsha folded her arms, and Ryoka sighed.
“I was a spoiled kid. Do you want to be—stop nodding, Ekirra. Nanette, back me up here! Riverfarm’s kids are waiting until dinner.”
The witch adjusted her hat and sniffed in a very Piscesian fashion.
“Riverfarm’s children listen to His Majesty, Miss Ryoka. And it feels like three days because it’s probably been a day and a half.”
“…Huh? How’s that, then?”
Nanette cast a look at Erin’s back. She coughed into one fist.
“[Immortal Moment]. Miss Erin’s been using it every time she has a conversation to buy time. Or did you think she normally has this much time? I counted how many bubbles she blew out of her pipe. She blew two thousand three hundred and six during her first conversation with Niers. Where they played three games of chess?”
Ryoka’s head slowly turned towards Erin. Mrsha threw up her paws. See? Erin was torturing them all to death!
Ryoka debated between going to help Erin or confront her about her indiscriminate time-stoppage. In the end, she decided both ideas might end up with the [Innkeeper] taking out her spite on Ryoka.
New year, new Ryoka. She thought, then pointed.
“What if we play a board g—”
She stopped, then slapped herself so hard and fast that Visma, coming towards them with a new plate of cookies, squeaked and nearly dropped them. Ryoka reeled, but she had deserved that.
“Ryoka?”
Hethon and Sammial paused as they saw Ryoka give herself a high-grade slap. Ryoka caught herself.
“I’m getting old. Dead gods. Forget the board games. Let’s watch a movie. Die Hard! That’s Christmas.”
She led the charge back into the [World’s Eye Theatre] with the children. Ryoka, over Lyonette’s protests, grabbed three drinks and ordered the children to secure as many snacks as possible and drag some blankets out.
“Is this movie child-friendly, Ryoka?”
“It’s set around Christmas.”
Lyonette gave Ryoka a deeply suspicious look, but the other Earthers, with Imani being the exception, assured her it was entirely friendly towards children. Ryoka stretched out and decided to relax. You could waste a week following Erin around. And the movie did appear overhead, so Erin had clearly watched it.
 
——
 
At this point, Erin was truly afraid she wasn’t going to get any presents for anyone. And—seriously, truthfully, it made her upset beyond words.
It was all very well for people to laugh about it and say ‘everyone will get it’. They meant it, but also, Erin could tell they were expecting her to do something unexpected. Something heartfelt and good enough, like a giant stew for all or just…a fun party.
But she hated it.
“I’ve let them down, Shaestrel.”
 
“Yup.”
“They brought me back. In a week, now…the Solstice begins. I don’t know what will happen, but my instincts are telling me it won’t be normal. This was my moment to say ‘thank you’ as much as the beach, and I can’t figure out how. They deserve more.”
“Absolutely. Check.”
 
“Damn.”
Erin moved a piece sourly and stared at the board in front of them. She was in her room, sitting cross-legged on her bed as a green faerie moved pieces left and right, more concerned with munching on a larger-than-life muffin filled with almonds. Glazed, nay, Calidus-level body-painted in syrup. Some was dripping onto Erin’s sheets despite the plate.
It was their custom to play chess together in Shaestrel’s ongoing lessons about…something. Fate, Erin suspected.
Destiny.
Erin always lost, but the act of playing chess calmed her. Was this a good use of the last few hours of her day? Heck no, but it was necessary.
“I can’t help but feel like you know what I’m going to do, or say, and you could really help me out here, Shaestrel, pal, buddy, friendo.”
The Spring Faerie cracked one eye open as she took a bite of the muffin so huge she nearly choked to death.
 
“Hrkgh! Fghre! You wtched Mo Country for Mold Men?”
 
The Spring Faerie bringing up a movie like that was so weird—but Cara had just been dropping albums and songs, and Erin had been doing a lot of reflection today.
She was still chewing on the pipe clenched between her teeth as she played, and so she engaged with the premise.
“Yes, I did. My dad loves the writer guy who did the show. You watched it in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. What’d you think of it?”
 
“I fouht—hkk. Kkgh…”
 
At some point, Erin realized Shaestrel was actually choking and hesitated.
“Is this an act or do you need—?”
 
“Hllllp!”
So Erin carefully flicked Shaestrel on the stomach, and the faerie expelled the piece of muffin straight into the queen piece, moving it forwards. She coughed, exhaled, and spoke.
“Damn the almonds! I nearly died! Also, checkmate.”
 
Erin threw up her hands, and the faerie laughed. It wasn’t even that Shaestrel gloated…okay, the faerie did, and it was annoying because Erin knew she cheated. But Shaestrel clearly didn’t think it was a problem.
“I don’t get it, Shaestrel! This isn’t fair! I have two questions.”
 
“Go on. For saving my life, I offer ye a boon. Wait. Hold on, before you ask…”
The faerie flitted away to get some milk. When she came back, Erin folded her arms.
“Okay. Did you actually nearly just choke to death there?”
 
“Yes. It would have been a terrible death if I had. Died by almonds in this world of dangers. Then again…I doubt I would have died. This body isn’t one for breath or air. Just choked for another ten minutes. Eugh.”
 
Shaestrel coughed, and Erin nodded. The fae could eat more than they should and could feel pain and other things, but she knew they were proxy bodies. It had to suck if that happened, but they were generally good about not getting into trouble.
“So hold on. You choked. But you beat me, again. How can these things be true? I haven’t said what I think you’re doing, but I’m almost certain you’re using fate against me, Shaestrel. You don’t see the board. You’re good, but you’re not playing just chess. If you were, I’d win or draw at least once.”
The Spring Faerie’s eyes glinted, an amber glow of mischief—and faint delight. She closed one eye as she continued eating greedy handfuls of food and drink.
“Oh? Let’s say that’s the truth. And it is not complete, nay, but I will humor it. Then what is your real question?”
Erin leaned forwards.
“How can you choke? If you’re teaching me how to read fate, how can you genuinely choke on a muffin bite—unless you were doing it to checkmate me in the dumbest way possible.”
The faerie laughed, her voice deepened, and while Erin did not see Shaestrel as Ryoka claimed she could be, an imposing woman dressed in the auspices of a court of immortals, she did change.
A stalking marten nibbled on the muffin, then looked at Erin with bright eyes that were intelligent and feral both. It spoke with Shaestrel’s voice but a yowling tone as Erin resisted the urge to pet it.
“Let’s say I was reading something of fate. ‘Tis hardly that advanced. You think of fate as a thing of gods and destiny. But is it not the fate of stones to fall? Many ‘fates’ are simple.”
 
“Oh, like gravity. So most people can see stuff like that. It’s just prediction, right? Ryoka told me that.”
“Ryoka is dumb as Merlin.”
 
“Um…”
The marten scoffed, rolling its eyes expressively.
“All the knowledge of things and he still sleeps with Morgan le Fae! Each time. It is not him accepting destiny. It’s just an old man coming up with reasons to do something stupid. Because she’s hot. You know what we used to call yon crystal orbs? Merlin’s balls! Because after a few centuries of sitting in his tower…”
 
Erin wanted to cover her ears. She reached out, opened the door to the kitchen, grabbed a cookie off a plate that Calescent had just pulled from the oven, and pushed it into Shaestrel’s face, distracting her with food.
“…Stop ruining the stories of King Arthur for me, please. How is Ryoka wrong about what you’re doing?”
Shaestrel shrugged as she flickered back to her fae-form.
 
“She can see the nature of me. She can trust the wind and come before greatness in wonder. But she does not like to move it. You are more stubborn than she. You like patterns. So maybe you get it. Answer your question for me.”
Erin sighed, but she gamely went along. If her theory was right and the fae just had a more advanced version of humanity’s ability to see cause-and-effect…she held up a hand, vacantly, and thought about it.
“You can read me like a book. When we play chess, there’s always that ‘inflection point’ where you start playing seriously. I bet that’s the moment when it becomes impossible for you to win with the pieces remaining. I’ve gone over some games, and there’s always a point where you need enough pieces in the right place or you’d lose to me no matter how good you are.”
Glinting eyes, an undisguised smile. Erin warmed to Shaestrel’s silent approval and went on. She never noticed the little lamb hiding under the bed, furiously listening, but Shaestrel did.
“You see a lot, Shaestrel, but I also think you manipulate me in some ways.”
At this, the faerie waved an admonishing finger.
 
“Ah. Careful how you use that word. To move someone like a puppet is truly the thing of wretched gods. And I would boot ye in the cunt before I was called such.”
 
“Hmm. Well then…it sounds like you’re manipulating me in the way any chess player can. You move a piece, I make a bad move. But it’s more advanced than that because I can draw against a computer. Not always, and probably not Bluesky a lot, but the top chess players can make perfect moves a computer would. Given our games, I should have drawn a lot even if you play a perfect game. But I can’t. That means…okay, let’s switch it to your hint.”
Erin frowned at the muffin, and Shaestrel hesitated.
 
“Y-yeah. My hint. ‘Twas definitely that.”
There was a loud sniggering from the window, and Shaestrel shot up.
“Are you listening again? Get out! Get out before I rip your ears off!”
“Big threats from a tiny mouth!”
“Ooh, she’s going to hit us with her noble hands. Flee, sisters! The Lady of the Spring Court descends!”
Erin watched the scattering blue faeries dodging Shaestrel—one even drop-kicked her—and focused on the board. Then on the faeries. Then on the muffin. Then on her bed.
“Nerry, are you spying on me again?”
She hadn’t noticed, but it was obvious now that she un-focused on the board. Nerry scampered for the door, but Erin called her back.
“No, it’s okay. I mean, I guess. Shaestrel would have definitely hinted for us to eat you or something nasty if you were a threat that shouldn’t be around. Actually…hm.”
The lamb hopped onto Erin’s bed using a chair and began eating Shaestrel’s muffin as Erin stared at her. Erin had missed Nerry’s presence despite having her inn-sense.
 
——
 
There was actually a cunning psychology behind it. You see, most people like [Emperors], [Kings], or anyone with a land-owning class had a kind of ‘eyes in the back of their head’ instinct for danger if they were sufficiently high-level. So to trick their detection abilities, it was wise never to get near them until you were ready for a killing blow.
So many of Erin’s foes had used her door or tried to use it, which invariably got them in trouble. But a truly dangerous foe who thought about how to murder someone—in style—didn’t need to do that. All they had to do was jog from Celum to the inn. They’d thought about the portal door, but one look had revealed a guard and a door-class user, and a hundred miles wasn’t that hard to run.
Even if Erin had focused, she couldn’t detect someone measuring distance, say, two miles out on a hilltop. In the same way Erin’s blind-spot was everything not in her inn or if she was lacking focus…a muffin had nearly killed Shaestrel, an immortal fae.
She stared at the muffin and then her hand.
“Oh. Of course! She didn’t spot the muffin because she’s got no mirror!”
Nerry’s head rose, and her little eyes blinked at Erin, then she got it. Erin leapt up excitedly and got milk everywhere. She backed up, cursing, and a spectral bolt of magic, invisible, passed through her window, shot through the inn, and straight out the other side.
“Aw, darn it!”
