That was what she managed, and Lyonette and Bethal decided not to skewer her for the moment. The two headed off, and Colfa, smiling, waved from where Himilt, Fierre, a flustered Ieka, and one of Ser Normen’s squires were all standing together.
The val Lischelle family didn’t have as many presents to share. Fierre had actually bought a lot of gifts, including some animals from the Silverfang Gnolls. One was a baby ‘yak’ that Colfa was already dithering over names.
The young Vampire was trying to put a good face on the fact that…their family fortunes were deeply depleted. Himilt had nevertheless presented Wailant with a wickedly sharp shaving razor, and Colfa had made homemade treats—including the recipes—for the [Ladies] and Lyonette.
However, Himilt didn’t look beaten down by the holidays. If anything, he seemed to be standing taller than he had before. He had a hand on the subdued squire’s shoulder. When Fierre’s attempts at jollity fell quiet, Lady Ieka feared it would be a dour mood. But all Himilt said was this.
“Here we are. Our farm we have left. Things have changed.”
Bamer nodded, and the helmeted Rivel stared down at his feet. Vampires were on the run—and yet Himilt’s voice rose. He looked at Erin Solstice.
“Yet we are here. Here we are, after it is all said and done. The Floodplains are different. Yet I see a new place for us to tame. The roots that we dig may need to be deep when the spring rains come, yet I have not been as excited for the future as before. So, to all present, family and friends.”
He gently lifted a cup of red wine up and nodded at Ieka, and she flushed as Valeterisa and Relc stopped by. Colfa smiled, her fangs flashing, and Erin Solstice smiled as Himilt caught her eye.
Across the inn, another gathering was taking place, and after a toast, not-Rivel had to stride over. Families were celebrating, but other groups were also standing together.
The Knights of Solstice paused a second, and Normen handed Rivel a drink without a word. It was a Minotaur’s Punch, but something was wrong. The flame on top was green, not pink.
“What happens if you drink that?”
The Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice lifted a cup as Ama eyed it nervously. Her cup had been lit by Vess, and it burned with that heavy pale flame of mercy. Yet the Drake lifted his own solemnly, and Normen answered.
“I don’t know. But I do not fear it.”
“Nor I.”
Embraim held his cup out and gently touched it to Antherr’s. Then to Halrac as the [Bowman] stepped forwards. Whatever they were, adventurers, [Necromancer], Antinium, a former Brother—they held each other’s gazes.
“Soon, some of us will leave The Wandering Inn. And we will have to find a good headquarters. This will always be a home, but not our base. I do not have much of a gift to give you all—but—”
Normen hesitated as someone coughed. He turned, and Lyonette innocently approached with Ser Sest.
Dalimont, an honorary member of the Order, blinked as he saw some presents he didn’t recall putting in the rooms in her arms. She had hidden them in the basement, that cunning [Princess].
“As a matter of fact, Ser Normen, everyone, I happen to have some presents addressed to you. Or rather, they are addressed to the Order of Solstice.”
“By whom?”
Ser Normen had the knightly speech down pat. Lyonette’s eyes were shining.
“From your admirers, of course!”
Then she showed him the first present, and Normen blinked and saw the address.
“A gift from the Fletchsing tribe…”
There was no mistaking the shape in the wrapped object. He slowly tore the paper, and Halrac blinked.
“That’s a Gnollish recurve bow. One of their finest works!”
A bow from the Gnolls. And—as the [Knights] unwrapped the presents, flaming drinks in hand, they realized it wasn’t just one or two presents. Ama’s hands stopped—and she gasped.
“No way. The House of El?”
She tore off a piece of paper, and the unmistakable form of a Kaalblade rose. Ryoka Griffin twisted around.
“Deilan El sends his regards.”
She winked, and Normen realized who had delivered some of the gifts. That sneaky…he stood there and realized they weren’t all weapons, either. There were potions, letters, and Jewel remarked slowly.
“I guess we’d better get an armory soon. Because ours is already stocked.”
Without a word, he took her hand and squeezed it tight. The trust in this Order—he vowed to repay. Then he lifted the cup.
“To the future.”
It might be dark at times, but the flames burned as the Order of Solstice raised their cups. After all, the closer to midnight it was, the brighter they shone.
 
——
 
“Now, isn’t that something?”
It wasn’t always about presents. The holiday didn’t need any at all—but Seve-Alrelious supposed it was how people showed affection. It could be clumsy or ill-done. But not here.
He was sitting with Erek, and the Orangutan was sipping a drink. Seve was wondering how to say it.
We should be on the road soon. They were—he was a Sea Courier. He had stayed for a long time, here, but he had a job. Didn’t he?
His friends flocked around him, napping by the fire. Erek was staring at the party, and Seve tried out the words.
“I think we should go after a bit. I do have to get back to work, and I’ll need to go home some time. Let’s enjoy ourselves for as long as we can, alright?”
Erek sighed and nodded. Seve sat there.
“It’s a good place to visit. We’ll add it to our routes. And the door makes it easy to get here. Well, mostly.”
He had seen a lot of Couriers at this party. Ryoka, Salamani and Ci, even Hawk the Hare. Seve felt a pang at the notion and resolved himself that this would be the last he said of it. Yet, as someone passed by, an [Innkeeper] stopped.
“Seve. What are you talking about?”
“Oh. Erin—just that we do have to go at some point. But we’ll try to come and visit. We have friends all over the world, after all.”
Seve wondered if some of his friends would want to stay here. Erin Solstice looked at him as the Courier gave her a far-off smile. His home was A’ctelios Salash, but the truth was that even he, a member of Tombhome, had become an eternal wanderer. Erin chewed her lip, and her eyes rested on Erek, who was sipping his eggnog glumly.
“If you have a job, I guess you’ve got to go, Seve. But you know…I have one windy girl who disappears, sometimes for entire months. And she always brings back something weird.”
Erin stared at Ryoka, and Seve nodded, not sure where she was going. Erin leaned over.
“If we don’t get rid of her room, we could hardly do it for a cool Sea Courier. If you have to go on a trip, go ahead. But if you want to come back here for the rest of your life? If you pay for a brass nameplate, I’ll put it on your door.”
It took Seve a second to understand what she was talking about, and Erek’s ook of disbelief followed it. He hesitated—and Erin handed him a little needle. It was blue as it turned around, and he held it up. Then it pointed up to his room. Erin Solstice sat there, then put an arm around Erek.
“If you like travelling, well, it sort of sounds like fun. But if you were looking for a home—who says you have to leave? I’ll punch them.”
The Hundredfriends Courier stared at her. Then his friends set up such a clamor that he couldn’t think. He had searched for places he was welcome all his life. But he hadn’t realized that a home could grin at him and tip her hat up and wink.
It never seemed to stop growing. As Erin turned, laughing, and Seve, Erek, and she began to celebrate, Hexel leaned over to Elirr and whispered in his ear.
“Looks like I’ll have to get started on her inn for that new year very soon. I can’t imagine she’ll have room as it is.”
The Gnoll laughed, and the moments kept flowing. Nostalgia, yes. But there was also a feeling of—anticipating the future. Looking forwards instead of fearing growing old. Now wasn’t that something? As people toasted and celebrated and drank, it tasted a bit like magic.
 
——
 
Gift two came from Niers. Fals had done his best, but Erin’s self-proclaimed Secret Santa had a lot of competition, and so Erin ended up unwrapping the gift as the Titan pretended to be engrossed in talking with the King of Destruction.
Not to be fooled, Flos Reimarch had his head in his hands, eyes dancing, ignoring Niers as he watched the present being opened.
“This could be as bad as my gift.”
Ryoka muttered in Rags’ ear, and the Goblin snorted.
“Nothing’s as bad as your gift.”
Rags was quite enjoying her presents, which included a shower of comfortable pillows and stuff for her bed from her Goblins. What had Niers gotten?
It could be almost as bad. Erin seemed like she was bracing herself as she opened the box—but when she saw what was inside, her breath caught.
“No. Is—it’s not the same.”
She relaxed, and everyone craned their head around to see. Erin looked up as Niers, with the bravery of a Tallguard, turned to her.
“I asked, and I don’t know if it’s in poor taste, but I put the best magic in it I could. Paeth sends its regards.”
“What is it, Erin…?”
Ryoka strode over, but somehow, Rags was there first, and Redscar, Badarrow, and Poisonbite elbowed everyone aside so the Chieftain could get next to Erin. Chaldion, who also used bodyguards to fight through a crowd, gave her a grudgingly respectful look, and both saw Erin lift something up. Erin fiddled with a catch—
And then there was light. It shone down, radiant and strong, from the edges of the object she held up with eyes filled with memory—and determination.
An umbrella.
It was not the one that she had used in the lands of the dead, but magic hummed in it with so much force that Hedault had noticed it, and even Teriarch looked approving. An umbrella to chase away darkness. More than that?
A symbol.
She turned, and Niers raised his brows. That stinking Fraerling had read her face and looked confident. Erin took a breath as she swung the umbrella up, then she put a pipe in her mouth and blew a bubble of light. It floated through the inn, and she sighed.
“Well, damn it. I have two favorite objects now.”
The inn broke into cheers, and a bunch of Fraerlings shouted in celebration behind Niers. He smiled and nodded to her as the [Innkeeper] twirled the umbrella and the light shone triumphant.
 
——
 
The party ended with a speech. It had to. It must. Many people didn’t want the night to end, and even with her [Immortal Moment]…nothing lasted forever.
Erin’s speech came as children began yawning, before anyone had to head off, or in the case of Bethal and Thomast, head back to their villa for a private celebration, and she got onto a table.
Not with mug in hand or flaming drink. In fact, she’d taken off her hat a moment and just sat there, legs dangling. Honestly. She had shown them her city, and her guests listened as Erin found the words to speak.
“Christmas. You know, it doesn’t feel like it, but there were Christmases where it didn’t snow. And sometimes, I wasn’t happy on Christmas, or my birthday, just pretending to be.”
Erin looked around earnestly, and even if they had not celebrated this holiday, most people knew what she meant. Mrsha just looked blank as Lyonette cuddled her, and Erin chuckled. Then looked down at her hands.
“I’m still changing. I thought I’d get old, someday, and forget what being young felt like.”
She looked around and met Cara’s eyes. The Singer gave her a sardonic look, then shrugged, smiled honestly, and Erin nodded. To herself and the world.
“It doesn’t feel so bad. Changing. I can dance, now.”
It was a discovery of herself. She turned, and that genuine light was brighter than the umbrella. It was that of someone who had found something else out about their very nature, when they thought, foolishly, they knew who they were.
Erin stood up slowly, and then she did raise a mug filled with the only drink you could give at a time like this. Pink flames rising over Faerie Flower infused liquid. Everyone gazed up at her and remembered the frozen figure, lying on her bier of ice.
This smile was better. It had fire and hope and determination and more behind it. Erin called out as she looked from face to face. Not all friends. A few enemies.
“Everyone, thank you for coming here. Thank you for getting to know me. Here’s to another year when we’ll do this again. Each time a little bit better. It’s a promise, alright?”
She thrust the mug higher into the air, and her hat blazed almost as brightly as her eyes. Tears were running from Lyonette’s eyes, and she saw the same smile and flame the [Innkeeper] had once given to her. Yet this time, there was a confidence holding the world together. Lyonette wasn’t the only one shedding tears. Numbtongue was wiping his face into Mrsha’s fur as she blew her nose on his shirt.
Erin looked at her silly guests, laughing as if she had no idea why half were teary-eyed. She addressed them, her arm quivering with some strange energy as the Minotaur’s Punch slopped and droplets fell around her.
“I wasn’t always happy, you know. Sometimes, the days were unbearably hard. But! These days have made me feel more alive, made my heart feel like it’s actually beating, made me feel fuller and realer than I have before. It can’t be a dream, because my dreams are too pale to compare to these. Each one of you. I want to understand each one of you! Here’s to another adventure together!”
She thrust the mug higher, then tilted her head back and got half the drink on her face. But the cheering laughter roared higher, like a bonfire of its own, and they drank to that.
The [Innkeeper] stood there, laughing and hugging them, then turning, twirling, and fate spun around her. All ever-connected, a road made of clasped hands and promises. A great journey that bewitched the eye and clung to the soul and ignited it like fire.
Erin Solstice. The Wandering Inn sighed and then filled with laughter until it was full to bursting. The souls within made merry until they fell asleep, some leaving, but ever-connected, ever her. Smiling statues captured forever in her soul.
So that was Erin. A voice whispered to her as she fell asleep, with approval, with awe, with the envy and delight of seeing it.
Almost. You did so well.
You’re almost ready.
I want to see what you do next.
Then Erin Solstice fell asleep, and even in her dreams, she was smiling. Wondering how she would change in the times to come. Sometimes—
It felt like she had truly grown older in the most wonderful of ways.
 
——
 
One last thing. The final gift. Everyone was leaving the party, and someone was throwing a tantrum. He lay on his back, failing his arms.
“I didn’t get a gift! I didn’t get my Secret Santa gift!”
“Oh dear, Bird? You didn’t get it? Where is it? Where’s Lady Magnolia?”
