“I do not know who did this. I do not know their names or why it was done. But I do understand this: it was cruel. Whoever did this did not want to face the morality of it. It was wrong and unjust, and a coward knew that they would always stand on the wrong side of this. So they hid the memories away. For we would always take their side if we saw it.”
“Yes.”
That word came from more than one mouth. Pawn looked over, and Magnolia Reinhart leaned on the stone railing, looking across the river. Her face was serene, but she gazed around, then away. And her gaze had the venom of Reinharts, a righteous poison upon her tongue.
The wrath of a viper, aroused. She was not the only one, yet what Selys looked at was Erin.
“She trusted us with this. She’s showing everyone. She did change.”
The Erin she knew gave so much, but never this. This was personal. This was her city. Just like Erin had once come to Liscor and Selys had shown her around, the Drake wished she could walk through Grand Rapids with Erin and the young woman could introduce her to the sights and people there.
Perhaps they would. For now…for now. They went towards her, and Erin called out.
“If we could, I’d get some fish so you can see them leaping up the fish ladder! The koi fish are too lazy; I checked. It’s really cool. And people fish all the time. But be careful; you can die if you get too close to that ledge! The water will push you down, and there’s uneven parts where you get trapped underwater.”
Ryoka stopped wading forwards and pulled Sammial back in a hurry.
“Dead gods, Erin. That’s horrifying.”
“Yeah, well, the city’s going to make this entire place into a bunch of actual whitewater rapids that’ll be a lot cooler. Just you wait. They have a proposal in the works. It’ll happen any year now.”
“…How long has the proposal been going?”
Erin ignored Ryoka’s comment.
“Any year now. So. Anyways. This is my city, guys. Don’t make fun of it or I’ll hit you. I heard you lot muttering.”
She pointed a finger at Ilvriss, who held up his claws, but Saliss shouted loudly as he balanced on one of the railings.
“It’s not even a real city! It’s got no walls, all the buildings are tiny—and what did you call it? Grand Rapids?”
Erin’s shoulders hunched over, and she turned slowly, forcing a smile at him.
“Saliss. Don’t make fun of my city. I’m gonna get mad.”
The [Alchemist]’s eyes twinkled with delight. He, who had so little ammunition against Erin, had just found an entire armory.
“Ooh, what’s the city of fish ladders going to do to me?”
Erin glowered.
“As a matter of fact, it’s actually got a name! Just like Manus or Pallass!”
“Really?”
Everyone turned to her in surprise. Erin puffed out her chest.
“That’s right! It used to be called the City of Furniture because they’d float logs down this river and make…furniture…out of them! It’s not so famous for that anymore. But see…”
She hesitated. Saliss was sniggering.
“Oh my. The City of Furniture. How grand! How amazing! Pardon me; I didn’t know the City of Furniture was where you came from, Erin. I’ll just head back to my City of Inventions. I think the walls are taller than any building in your city.”
“Saliss…”
Erin was getting genuinely ticked off. She pointed at the ground.
“You think you’re special? How many people does Pallass have in it? A couple million? Well, Grand Rapids has a lot of people too! Not millions, but I think it’s like several hundred thousand. It’s bigger than Liscor! And it’s the second biggest city in Michigan.”
“No way. Really? That’s tiny!”
That stab in the back came from Kevin of all people! Erin rounded on him.
“Kevin!”
He held up his hands, backing away from Erek.
“Sorry, sorry. But it is sorta—it’s a cute city. Really. I lived around San Francisco, so…I’m sure this place has culture. How many bars does it have? Three?”
“And it’s not the second biggest in Michigan.”
Joseph pointed out. Erin closed her eyes for a second.
“And how would you know, Joseph? You come from Spain.”
She snapped, and he looked smug.
“I know enough. The biggest city in Michigan is Chicago. Then Detroit. No way this one’s second. It’s third.”
Erin stared at him.
“…Chicago is in Illinois, Joseph.”
He gave her a skeptical look.
“What? That sounds wrong. Are you sure? What’s your capital, then? Not Chicago?”
“It’s Lansing!”
“Huh. That’s less impressive. Wait, what state is Detroit the capital of? The USA is weird.”
“Nowhere! Lansing is our capital; Detroit is just the biggest city.”
Joseph was straight-faced as he sipped on some eggnog.
“That’s really confusing. They should switch that. And Grand Rapids is second? It looks pretty small from here. How many people live in this city?”
“Hundreds of thousands!”
“That seems small given the size of it. I suppose Human cities aren’t as densely packed as a Walled City. The buildings are actually the size of Liscor’s on average. Far smaller than you can get in a metropolis in our world.”
Grimalkin was measuring the heights of some of the buildings with Valeterisa’s light-spell, and Teriarch agreed.
“Look at the state of this road! I can pry up this material with one foot.”
“Stop breaking the concrete! We don’t have magic!”
“We can tell. I admit, it has something of a homey charm to it, but the trash. Has anyone looked at the bottom of that fish ladder or river? So much metal. No place for fish or children to be about.”
The snooty Dragon shook his head, tsking.
“I noticed. Hey, Kevin, I found a bicycle down there.”
Seborn had climbed out of the river with a rusted bicycle, and Kevin groaned.
“Dude. Who did that to a perfectly good bike? Erin, your city has a trash problem.”
“Shut up. Stop bullying me! Ryoka, you like my city, right?”
“What? Yeah. Definitely.”
Ryoka’s fake smile set Erin off. She ran around, chasing her guests, then stomped over to the river.
“I knew I should have showed you our other landmarks. Like this giant tire swing.”
You have a giant tire swing? And that wasn’t your first idea? For shame!
Mrsha and all the children were aghast. Even Imani couldn’t help but join in.
“A tire swing is your city’s monument?”
“Death! Death to all of you!”
The laughter helped. It made this moment less heart-wrenchingly personal, and Erin began naming her favorite places to eat, ice cream spots, where she’d gone to school—and all the Earthers were heckling her and adding in anecdotes of their own.
It came out of them in a rush, and Kevin tried to keep his eyes from watering.
“Mint chocolate chip after a day of surfing. Oh man. In a waffle cone?”
“Kevin. Stop. I’m going to fucking cry. Don’t do it, man.”
Troydel had never felt the agony of someone invoking nostalgia like that. Geneva, meanwhile, was pointing urgently to anyone who’d listen.
“You know, Grand Rapids has a wonderful hospital industry these days. I thought about studying there, actually…Erin’s not wrong that it has a lot to offer.”
Foliana nodded to herself. Then she pointed.
“Ooh. A squirrel. Hello, kindred.”
Menrise spat juice out her visor as Foliana waved at a tiny illusion-squirrel that was staring at her. Foliana looked around as everyone but Niers gave her an uncertain look.
“Kidding. It’s just a dumb tree-rat. Chipmunks are nicer. That one is pretty fat, though.”
She smiled, watching Erin flailing about trying to hype up her city. Then she glanced at Niers.
“She got you pretty good, this time.”
“A blow to the heart.”
He admitted. Niers looked around, and the Earl of Rains and Lord of the Dance were watching Erin. Many of her friends were coming over, and sure enough, Palt was gloomily counting out the bet’s proceeds to Chaldion.
“How did you know she’d manage it? Wonder and heartache this time.”
The Grand Strategist snorted.
“Heartache? Hardly. I expected nothing less of her, as I said. That woman always has another dagger to stab with.”
He looked at Erin, and Saliss shook his head as he jostled Chaldion, nearly sending him tumbling down the slope.
“Old man, how can someone with an eye of [True Sight] be so blind? Do you think she thinks of things like you do, even now?”
Chaldion’s good eye glinted as he caught himself, and he sneered at his grandchild.
“Whether she understands or not what she’s doing, the result is the same. She knows what she is doing, and it’s effective. Or don’t tell me even you fell for her act?”
His look of contempt grew until someone clapped her hands and an entire flotilla of pointed hats, most lower to the ground, passed by.
Agratha! She and an entire gaggle of [Witch] apprentices had been let in, and she raised her voice.
“Did you hear that, everyone? That is a classic example of someone who goes too far in rationalizing the world until they can only look at things as examples of emotional manipulation. That’s a very Belavierr-like thing to do. Don’t let it happen to you. And remember! This is a holiday in an inn with a buffet. Fill your hats and pockets!”
The teacher-witch passed by and floored Chaldion so hard that Saliss fell into the river laughing. And for that? Niers fell off his own podium guffawing.
You couldn’t predict this kind of thing! Not only that! There was Emperor Laken with the foulest scowl in the entire world on his face.
“Laken, come on.”
Durene was trying to cheer him up, and the [Emperor] snapped half-jokingly.
“Argh. I can’t see it! All I smell and feel is a city. I hate Erin’s entire inn so damn much! If we conquer it, maybe I can finally see this entire beach!”
His voice was a bit too loud with genuine longing, and Tessa, who had found an inner tube, raised the fist of anti-authoritarianism in case there was trouble. However, a booming laugh from one of the parts of Erin’s theatre interrupted Laken.
“Not if I conquer it first! Do you see that, Orthenon? This garden has no limits!”
The King of Destruction himself was beaming. Then he added in a low voice.
“I think we’ll skip this city, though, if we ever do launch an invasion of Earth. I’ve seen better.”
Laken’s head turned in the vague direction of his voice.
“Durene? Who is that?”
His [Paladin] was petrified, and Gamel stuttered.
“Th-the King of Destruction, Your Majesty!”
“Who? Oh, the has-been. Can you find me King Fetohep? I’d like to pay my respects.”
Bam. That was the sound of Flos cracking a walnut he’d been breaking apart to snack on. Laken wore a self-satisfied smirk.
The shade. The pettiness. The…genuinely heartwarming dialogue at times. But who cared about that?
“Elena. Say the word and I’ll get you back. Promise.”
Cara was calling out to her, and Elena was shaking her head.
“Cara—it’s been a long journey. I’m fine. I told you, I had to try to get them out if I could, and I ended up taking care of all the kids instead. Just like you and Seraphel once did with me. Now? I’ll tell you, but is it safer in Terandria or here? At least he seems to like us.”
Cara chewed this over as Elena pointed at the fuming King of Destruction.
“Fair point to you on that. Let’s talk…”
But her eyes and Elena’s were straying back to Erin. Erin, who had shown everyone a piece of her heart. And now that they saw what she and the others had lost, their perspectives changed once again.
They thought they knew that [Innkeeper]. Yet today, they learned she had a city. They learned Erin could dance, and she hadn’t known that either. Perhaps it didn’t change how they saw her. Or perhaps…perhaps you saw her in a new light.
Another lonely seeker looking for a home where one had been torn from her. Someone else unjustly burdened by the world, a toy in a game they had never asked to play. A kindred spirit. Nerry gazed up at Erin, and the [Witch] nodded down at the Sariant Lamb.
 
——
 
Erin excused herself from the inner garden for just five minutes. She was keeping a tab on her inn and noticed someone appear in Bird’s tower. He was probably there because he was avoiding Taletevirion, who was trying to talk hoof-treatments with Charlay, who was wondering who this old, silver-haired Centaur was and hoping he wasn’t flirting with her, and Demsleth, who was trying to hotwire one of the illusory cars with Kevin, Erek, and Seve.
Erin opened the garden’s door under the intruder’s feet, knowing it wasn’t Bird. Bird was, as ever, fearlessly singing his latest song to Cara, who was actually writing down the lyrics.
By the time she stepped into her personal garden, Tolveilouka was there. He gave her an ostentatious bow; he’d changed into what looked like a Santa outfit. Although he’d once again chosen one that exposed as much skin as possible.
“I believe I shall take my leave. The Solstice? I am going to help you as much as I care to, in the name of my master. That is more than most beings can do, so consider yourself grateful, Erin Solstice.”
She put her hands on her hips, eying Tolveilouka. Even for her, she felt like this was a fast turnaround.
“Don’t tell me I convinced you with my view of another world.”
Tolveilouka had a boiled egg that someone had put a spicy ‘hat’ on that was carved out of a pepper, and it had a jacket of red mayo and little flakes of pepper that looked like a Santa outfit. Calescent had begged for permission to put out the eggs, and few people had dared try them.
Tolveilouka was mid-bite when his chewing stopped.
“…Another what?”
Erin gave him a blank look. The half-Elf’s head slowly turned and regarded her. He began coughing, and Erin exhaled.
“Wow. You’re not very bright, are you?”
The snarl that came from the undead was bit back. His eyes were flickering, and he drew himself up grandly, dabbing at his mouth with a red handkerchief.
“—In the name of my master, and because he spent his grand existence on a worthless, pathetic, unattractive speck like you—”
“You have no taste. How would you know?”
“—I shall give you my aid. You have my word, as if you could stop me if I changed my mind.”
Another bow, as if he were some kind of butler in a Terandrian court. Erin stared at his hand just below his throat and the other held out.
“Why?”
She had to know. There was a not-inconsiderable chance she might have to ask Teriarch to defend the inn. However…Tolveilouka’s smile seemed genuine.
“Why, because there is no joy in striking someone braced for the blow. I understand, now, why I was so fruitless. I have seen men and women prepared to die. You have that look. From what you have said, two things happen. Either you die, despite my considerable strength, and I see this ‘enemy’ and their strengths and get my wish. But if not? My master would wish me to battle, and so I honor him.”
