“I think your friends are coming to save you. I am on a bit of a time limit. Some of your guests might get a bit stroppy with me if I don’t make my exit. I know it’s sudden, but any final comebacks? Remarks? ‘This can’t be happening’ or ‘what’s going on?’ are rather banal, but acceptable. I’ll take a scream.”
She had one shot. Erin’s mind connected the dots, and she spoke, her body growing hotter, feverish with each passing second, as she felt her mind literally beginning to cook.
“You…you’re his servant, aren’t you? The Putrid One?”
Tolveilouka paused, then actually pinched the bridge of his nose delicately between two fingers.
“Belated recognition is…well, I can’t fault you if that’s how fast your mind works. Let’s go with that.”
He turned, and Erin croaked.
“He found respite before they killed him. That’s all he wanted, at the end. To rest. If you’re taking revenge for him, I think he forgot all his hatred and grudges. The Horns didn’t kill the Putrid One. Zacheales didn’t die at their hands.”
Tolveilouka’s body froze as he swung himself out of the window. Below, a clamor was beginning, but neither he nor Erin cared. Her [Immortal Moment] was active, trying to buy her time before whatever was in her veins took her out of consciousness. And he?
His head froze, then swung around, twisting unnaturally far. It did a nearly one hundred and eighty degree spin, and his eyes locked onto her.
“What.”
Erin was on her knees, now. Did he say three days was how long she had? She felt like she didn’t have three hours. Then again, he might not have meant she’d be conscious all three days.
“I…”
Tolveilouka strode back into the room and put his hand on the door.
“What did you say? How did you know that name? No—you looked it up. Of course. But so few knew—a Skill. Answer me. Or else this will be twice as painful!”
He made a gesture, and whatever link he had to the plague made the symptoms abate. The half-Elf was pressed against the barrier to her garden and looked ready to smash his way in. Yet he was surprised when he stumbled forwards.
Erin gasped as she got to her feet.
“Come into my garden. You’re his servant, aren’t you? You were one of his regrets. The Putrid One? I met him in the lands of the dead.”
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer hesitated at the entrance to Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary]. He knew what it was, and for a second, even with the plague in her veins, she was glad to see the look of sudden paranoia flash over his face.
But the name of his master made him take a step inside. The grass wilted under his feet, and he had her by the throat in a second.
Yet who had just grabbed who? Because Erin had a gleam in her eyes, and he looked disconcerted; he made up for it with a crushing grip around her neck.
“Start talking. My master is—was—dead. Trapped in stasis after his wounds. He was healing—there is no way a measly insect like you could have met him.”
“He was dead. Guess I was, too. I met him when I was a ghost.”
“A—”
Anyone else would have probably scoffed at that, well, before the changing of the era. But Erin knew that Tolveilouka was a being of the past. The wisps, all these ‘new’ things come again? He had lived their times, and the mention of ghosts made him pale.
“No one can walk the lands of death and come back easily. [Spirit Shamans], [Warlocks]—even in my time, half came back eaten or not at all! Empty husks. I have peered a thousand times, and the veil was just dark. How did you do it?”
“Someone froze me in ice. Stop killing me, and I’ll tell you. Better yet, I’ll show you.”
Erin gasped. Whatever plague effect was in her, he was forcing it back. The half-Elf hesitated. He eyed Erin’s face, which had begun to develop red blotches, and lifted his hand. The symptoms nearly fully abated.
“You’ve been infected with a killing disease. Even here, you are at my mercy. Talk, and pray to [Paladins] I like what I hear. If you’re truthful, I might give you a swift death.”
He thought he was in control, still. So many had come with force, and like them all…a group of faeries who had been biting their fingernails watched from the top of the dome, laughing now.
Nothing was ever certain, even now. But true power was the ability to take one chance out of a million and seize it. Now, Erin was coughing, and fate swirled around her.
“He told me his name. And I can prove I met him.”
“Anyone can look up a history book. Your tales about ghosts could be just that. This…I’ve known charlatans who could fool Gazers before. It is only prolonging your fate if you lie, and believe me, I came here in amusement and dignity. I can be properly vengeful.”
Erin didn’t dignify that with a reply. She just pointed, and Tolveilouka’s head rose as he saw that hill of statues. Once more, he hesitated as he saw the mists, and then he gazed down.
The [Innkeeper]’s hazel eyes were blazing with fire, and her hat was aflame. The [Witch of Second Chances] looked Tolveilouka in the eyes.
“Welcome to my garden. You’re going to suffer.”
 
——
 
With each passing second, Erin understood more of the half-Elf. With each frozen moment, he began to believe she had met his master.
He was a monster. One look at him and Erin put together things she’d heard about. Sabotage, by a half-Elf at that village of necromancers, Rheirgest. Flames in fields. Plague…
The Horns had nearly been killed by him, and nothing and no one had laid him low.
Yet he was on his knees. Clinging, yet unable to touch, huddled beneath the statue of a weary-looking half-Elf who sat on a bench, staring into the distance. Just as she had first met him.
The Putrid One.
His name was Zacheales. At least, his real name was. Perhaps, like Tolveilouka, he had changed it. Or maybe that was just the half-Elf’s full name as it had ever been.
Erin didn’t know. She had not talked to The Putrid One long. But he had been there, spilling his regrets to her, and she had forged some small connection.
Enough so that he had found his death in opposing the six, buying her time to escape.
Yet Erin was aware that it was not him that she had to contend with, but his servant. Tolveilouka’s face was a mask of tears as he knelt there, and yet Erin had no sympathy for him.
“You tried to kill the Horns. You’re the one who’s been spreading misery around everywhere. Ylawes said, before he left, he saw a half-Elf who’d been fighting a bladesman. You know Teriarch.”
Tolveilouka didn’t answer her.
“Master. Master. Was it for her? Is this worthless lump of flesh telling the truth? For her? What happened to your promise to return? I waited an age—is she lying? Should I eat her brain? Kill her and have her corpse speak the truth beyond doubt?”
His head twisted around, and he gave Erin a stare with two bloodshot eyes. Erin just pointed at the statue.
“Do you believe that or not? I met him. The proof can’t be denied.”
Tolveilouka lurched to his feet as Erin retreated a few steps. The plague wasn’t cured from her veins, but she was checking her bag of holding, and the Key of Reprieve glittered in her mind. She knew, outside, her friends were panicking, but she had to settle this here.
He’d cut a hole through her entire inn, all her high-level friends or not. Tolveilouka hissed as he clawed at his face, opening up huge red gashes.
“This is a trick. I have seen tricksters—it is not impossible for them to fool me! Everything I see says this is real, but so what? Tricks are the common practice of those without my power.”
“Sure. Keep believing that, buddy.”
Erin gripped something in her bag of holding. Tolveilouka drew himself up, panting.
“No…let me think. Let me think!”
He shouted and worked his fingers through his hair. The amount of mental anguish he was going through made Erin suspect he hadn’t had to use his head for novel cogitation for a long, long time. Tolveilouka was muttering to himself, biting his thumb—the actual thumb—hard and ripping chunks off.
“Gross.”
“Is it a trick? It could be. But everything sings of him—even if it was a trick. Master! This is you, too well!”
He turned to the statue. Then looked around.
“This damn [Garden of Sanctuary]. You can’t lie with it. No, is this real? You met her and died for her. Respite? If you’d just held on, then maybe…”
His hands trembled as he went over and touched the other half-Elf’s cheeks, holding them gently. A great sob erupted from Tolveilouka’s chest, then he swung back to Erin.
Gollum. That was it. He reminded her of that famous character, alternating between adoration and hatred in the flicker of an eye. She was just waiting. This could go very bad. Because even if she knew his master…
“I see. You did meet him?”
“I did.”
She never blinked. The [Witch] waited, and Tolveilouka drew himself up slowly.
“I should like to hear all the details. I may get it from you, after all. After I kill you. I have promised to do so, and the Horns of Hammerad deserve to suffer.”
“You’re back to that? What happened to the part where he tried to save my life?”
Erin reminded Tolveilouka of the facts, and he hesitated, swung his eyes guiltily to his master, and lifted a finger.
“That could be a lie. And even if you’re telling the truth…so what? My beloved master, Zacheales, whose name you do not have the right to utter, is still gone. I know it. You know it. There is no denying this fact, and I doubt your claim that he gave up his life wholesale, just to help you. You, who he barely met?”
That was, unfortunately, true. Erin knew that the Putrid One had likely been trapped in a world of despair, and the temporary hope and reminder of his life had given him the will to spend his last moments opposing the six dead gods.
Worse, Tolveilouka was debating with himself and rationalizing what came next.
“You and I are fundamentally different, Erin Solstice. You may think I would turn and hug you and throw myself behind you for merely knowing the greatness of my master. But I have the ability to kill people I like. And people my master likes. So you knew him. So he helped you. The Horns disrupted his tomb, and for that, they, and by proxy you and every living thing, should die. As we had always wished.”
It was sort of amazing how fast he rationalized murder. However, it made sense as well, unfortunately. Even him standing in her garden felt like he was contaminating it. He was a murderous monstrosity, and Erin knew it.
This was no noble Redfang, but a true undead creation who reveled in death. His pretense towards style and fashion? She had seen him as she was dying, seen how he looked at Kenva.
His mistake was thinking that Erin was some noble heroine from bygone days. She was not. She was an [Innkeeper]. Ryoka might like immortal monsters, for all their faults, because they were their nature.
Erin? She saw Tolveilouka turn, and clearly, he was now debating taking her prisoner or killing her and raising her as some kind of zombie-Erin. Imagine that.
But Erin just walked backwards slowly, down the hill, and Tolveilouka followed.
“Did he have any messages for me? What was his…waiting like? Why did he seek respite? You might as well tell me. I am going to kill you, but in deference to the fact that you do know him…wait. The statue. If you die, the statue disappears!”
He clapped his hands to his head.
“…Alive, then. Maybe if I take you prisoner and cut off your limbs or something. I wonder if I can find a jar.”
That last comment, whether he knew what it meant to Erin or not, was enough. The [Innkeeper] stopped in the center of her garden. The wind was picking up, and she pulled something from her bag of holding.
A knife. Tolveilouka eyed it without any sense of danger, but Erin Solstice wasn’t smiling as she pulled out a green jar of acid.
“You really are a monster, aren’t you? The Putrid One told me he wasn’t a good guy, but I never knew what he did. Not really. His enemy, the Silver Dragon, wasn’t the best either. But you? You’re disgusting.”
Tolveilouka made a snarling sound.
“That wretched Dragon-Knight was tormenting my master in death? Wait. House Byres. I’ll raze it twice! But first—I sense you’re stalling for time.”
“No. I’m just getting ready. There’s something you seem to be forgetting, Tolveilouka.”
The half-Elf paused suspiciously.
“And what’s that? Bring your little friends in, by the way, and I’ll just murder them. I’m considering it anyways to wipe that smirk off your face. I am the greatest servant of death in this world.”
“Maybe. But you don’t know who killed your master in the lands of the dead, do you?”
Then she saw his eyes widen. The half-Elf stiffened, and all the hair on his body actually rose up as his pupils dilated.
“Wait. What? I thought he just—”
He saw Erin smiling at him, and a snarl twisted across his face into a rueful smile.
“My, you seem to think you have all the cards. Very well. Let’s talk after all. Do you have a chair? Shall we picnic on the grass? I have some wine and a blanket here. Let’s hold hands and sing elegies to my master, then. Should I get a present for your party?”
Tolveilouka actually pulled out a pale linen cloth, mocking Erin. The [Innkeeper] felt the air growing heavy. Nay, charged. Her eyes were beginning to glow, and yes…
She was ready. Erin calmly walked forwards, hefting the knife.
“Nah. That’s what I do for people I want to be friendly with. You? I’m going to kill you now. You’re just a monster. And I don’t serve monsters in my inn.”
She lunged, knife aimed at Tolveilouka’s face, and he caught her kitchen knife before Pelt’s blade could hit him. He was so strong he effortlessly held her hand and laughed.
“Feisty. I admire the attempt, but why do you think I’d entertain that when I can just do this? Nice knife, by the way.”
He snapped his fingers, and Erin suddenly went weak. She felt the plague in her veins, but before it took her out, she gasped.
“You’re not going to putrefy me before you find out why your master helped me. Or who killed him as a ghost. Careful with the sickness or you might damage my memories of him.”
The undead hesitated, and the plague stopped burning Erin’s insides. She saw him grimace and gave him a huge, beaming smile.
Then she threw the acid jar point-black into his face.
“Argh!”
Even Tolveilouka recoiled, swearing, as steam rose from his melting flesh. Some splashed on Erin, and she scrubbed at it frantically as her skin burned and melted. She saw Tolveilouka, flesh melting to bone and revealing fat and organs inside, cursing.
“My clothing! You—”
