Sensing more Concealed Half-Demons lingering about, Peace and Tranquility set out to hunt them down, bringing with them a portion of my Manifested Domain to kill anyone and everyone who might interfere. Elongated shards of Honed Domain affix themselves to the blades of my weapons as they sweep through the Concealed would-be killers to attack without touching and leave only the dead and dying in their wake. Appointing two Natal Souls to control my weapons and be on the lookout for more interference, I turn the bulk of my focus towards the Barrier barring my way. A moment of study is all it takes to identify this as another form of Manifested Domain, one vastly different from my own and belonging to an individual far more… not necessarily powerful, but certainly more substantial than I. Not to say my foe isn’t stronger than me, because he or she most definitely is, but not solely because of their substantial Domain. The best way to explain it is to imagine the metaphysical world as a dense layer of liquid, and to compare and contrast how much metaphysical matter each of our respective Manifested Domains can displace. If I can displace a bucketful, the person keeping me away can displace… a lot more than a damn bucket, that’s for sure, more than I can even measure, but somehow, I know it is less than the Demon Divinity I faced down in Meng Sha. Significantly less, which is reassuring to be sure, but at the end of the day, it doesn’t matter if it’s a shark or a whale stopping me from saving Alsantset, because I’m not strong enough to force either one to get the fuck out of my way.

Blobby is though, so I ignore Buddy’s mournful howling as I give even more of myself over to the Elemental Spirit in hopes of saving my sister. A move I sense will have repercussions beyond my understanding, and Buddy senses the same, but I am more than willing to pay any price to do what needs to be done. Although the Heavenly Tear was not born from human emotion like Spectres, I suspect Blobby’s been around me long enough to harbour a desire for them, not just to consume emotion-laced Heavenly Energy, but to create emotions like a living, breathing creature. Much like the Spectres, I can sense Blobby’s yearning to become real, to take form in the physical world and be more than just a Spirit, but to possess a body, mind, and soul all of its own. If I were to guess, this started way back when he first tried to eat ‘Baledagh’, or more specifically, the Natal Soul I imprinted all my anger, hatred, and despair in, as well as a whole suite of other emotions to make him just real enough to pass for me. Not an entirely Balanced Natal Soul like the ones I’ve come to rely on, but close enough to give Blobby a taste of what life would be like, which is why I was always so… adverse to his presence. I could sense that underlying hunger, that yearning, that desire to consume, and things were only made worse when he finally got a taste of my Natal Soul General who valiantly sacrificed himself to undo Zhen Shi’s foul working in Meng Sha.

And now, like a shark who’s scented blood, Blobby is on the hunt for more, and though I could technically feed him as many Natal Souls as I can create, I can somehow just tell that a Natal Soul is not enough. A Natal Soul is not alive, not really, not entirely. It’s a copy of me, yes, a spirit that thinks, acts, and feels just like me, but at the end of the day, a Natal Soul is lacking that spark which qualifies something as a real, living entity, that je ne sais quoi which separates humans and animals from plants, microbes, and minerals. Not a body, mind, or soul, but something more, the very stuff of life itself which I have no frame of reference to even perceive. Taddy has always said he can Heal anything short of death, and this is why, because life is more than just a warm body, active mind, and personified soul. All three are necessary, but only part and parcel of the whole, with more still required before it truly constitutes life, an integral ingredient I suspect even the Energy of the Heavens itself, the twinned powers of Creation and Destruction both, are unable to supply.

What that missing component might be, I neither know nor care except to say that whatever it is, Alsantset is fast losing it to blood loss before my eyes, but I refuse to let her die. Spurred to action by my unbending Will and Intent, Blobby engulfs the unseen Barrier in our Manifested Domain, but the obstruction holds firm. Whereas I would have gathered our Domain and Honed it into a single blade in hopes of piercing through, Blobby is an Elemental Spirit of Water and thus has a different approach in mind, insofar as he can be said to have thoughts. Rather than cutting, crushing, or smashing the Barrier, Blobby lets our Materialized Domain wash over it in a cyclical flow of Energy that has no beginning or end, like water adhering to and flowing over a smooth surface. A wholly natural and reasonable manner for water to behave, and then he takes it a step further by introducing agitation into the equation, creating an untold number of eddies into the current of flowing Domain. These eddies heave and sway, surge and roll, rise and fall like waves in the ocean, and in doing so, they scrub and scrape at the Barrier beneath it, eroding away its power in an almost gentle and indirect manner.

This is the strength of water, one powerful enough to turn jagged rock into smooth stone given enough time and effort, but with Blobby firmly in the driver’s seat and thoroughly motivated by my Will and offerings, the sturdy Barrier blocking our path will soon come undone, even if it is far more substantial in presence. The reason being is water, by nature, conforms to the shape of its container, so as soon as a single dent is made, my Domain will settle in and turn that dent into a furrow, that furrow into a crack, that crack into a crevice, and so on and so forth until it finally reaches Alsantset at the other end. Though most of the Barrier still remains, I don’t need to break the entire thing down once my Domain is able to reach my sister, so I kneel down and cradle her head as I set to Healing her with everything I have, all the while praying that I am not too late.

Not much time has passed in reality, seconds maybe at most, and as I feel my Fountain of Healing Keystone set about its work, I take a moment to study my surroundings. Mostly because I’m too afraid to watch out of fear my sister will still die, but also because it won’t do her any good if someone smashes her head apart while I’m in the middle of Healing. The first thing I notice is Taddy’s familiar and comforting presence standing firmly behind me, one which is not overbearing like the owner of the solid Domain Barrier, nor is it feeble and faint like Vyakhya’s prior to his Demonic transformation. Taddy’s strength is difficult to gauge, but his emotions are a different story, wracked with concern and anxiety as he watches over my work, because as much as he wants to help me, even a Medical Saint can’t take over for another Healer once the initial Healing process has begun. A matter to do with the inviolability of souls, because while Alsantset has accepted my Chi into her body, mind, and soul to allow it to Heal her, having a third-party interfere risks throwing her natural defenses into overdrive. I would equate it to the body rejecting an organ or an auto-immune disease, wherein the immune system mis-identifies something as a threat and takes steps to destroy it, even though whatever it is might well be keeping the body alive. Translate this over to the mind and soul, and that’s what would happen if Taddy tried to take over, which means I’m all on my own if I’m to save my sister’s life.

Trust in the Fountain of Healing. That’s what it’s for, Healing heroes who have been injured in battle, and in my eyes, there is no greater hero in the world than my older sister.

The next presence I sense is also familiar, though not quite as comforting as Taddy’s, for though the Abbot is gentle and kind-hearted by nature, he has long since withdrawn into a cold shell of detached distance in order to sever his ties to the red dust of the mortal world. Because he seeks to ascend to a higher plane of existence, he has long since rationalized all suffering in this life down to trials and tribulations, meaning he sees no meaning in our struggle and no end to our suffering besides the Path he himself has chosen to take. In doing so, he has disregarded one core tenet of the Dao, that all Paths lead to the Peak, because he believes it a fallacy and delusion both. All Paths might well eventually lead to the Peak, but he thinks it impossible to do so within a single human lifespan, though his conviction is beginning to fade as he watches me progress along my Path. That being said, he emits a general sense of unease and disappointment, not just because of all the death and bloodshed around us, but also because of my current actions, which he feels are… wasted effort.

Not because Alsantset is doomed. I refuse to believe this. My sister will live. Full stop.

No, the Abbot sees my actions as meaningless because it will not change anything in the long run. I hold such power, but I use it to kill and fight, and thus he sees it as all too natural for others to try to kill me and mine. The twinned powers of Creation and Destruction used to hit one another harder, a waste in his eyes and he worries he will never be able to convince me otherwise. Not in the short term at least, because while he has accepted that life is suffering because life is impermanent, I believe life is precious because it is fleeting and transient. The fact that it can be lost is what gives it such great value, so who cares about the next life when you still have this one to hold onto? I do not care to gamble on my next life and would rather spend my time trying to make this world a better place, but damn me if it isn’t so much harder than I expected. I don’t care about the Abbot’s agenda however, only whether he cares to fight, and judging by how his hands are pressed together in silent prayer rather than beating his fish drum to accompany Luo-Luo’s transcendent musical tune, it appears as if he’s made his choice to stand apart now that Vyakhya and the traitor monks have all been dealt with.

There is a third Divinity also stationed nearby, one unfamiliar to me as I have never met this individual in question, but a quick glance and a minor effort of Will is all it takes to see through her Concealment, mostly because she isn’t really trying all that hard to hide. An Ancestral Tigress stands nearby watching Alsantset intently, no doubt my sister’s birth mother who I assume is a member of the collective Divinities hailing from the Saint’s Tribulation Mountains. Though grief emanates from her in near palpable waves, it is not the grief of a mother mourning her child, but the grief of an individual facing the consequences of her actions. Heartache is not the foundation of this grief, but regret and frustration both, leading me to believe this Ancestral Tigress is more upset with herself than she is with the fact that my sister is dying. This pain is what she deserves, but she wholeheartedly believes she could have avoided it, and while I am abhorred by her lack of love and empathy, I sadly also understand why she feels the way she feels.

Because in the eyes of a Divinity, my bold, heroic older sister is someone who should never have been born in the first place. There is no malice in it, only instinct, for though the Ancestral Tigress’ human side yearns to love and connect with Alsantset, her bestial nature sees the half-tiger demi-human as a weakling and a runt, hence the selfish nature of her grief. This end was inevitable, and thus, the Ancestral Tigress wishes she’d never developed a fondness for the child she should have killed in infancy.

Well too fucking bad for her. My sister is awesome and has a better family than any Ancestral Beast could ever give her, so nothing of value was lost.

There are several other Divinities clustered around me, some friendly, and others unfriendly, though none really stand out enough to draw my attention. Most importantly of all is the fact that I cannot sense the presence of the sinister bastard who tried to stop me from Healing my sister, which I suppose is a good thing since I’m teetering on the brink of Balance as it stands. Buddy’s non-stop howls have faded into the background of my consciousness, because as heart-rending as his mournful bellowing might be, I cannot turn back just yet. Not until Alsantset is Healed enough to open her eyes again, and as things stand, I am reluctant to even remove the spear pierced through her abdomen for fear of losing her altogether. She’s hanging on by a thread even as I pour everything I have into my Fountain of Healing Keystone and pray that it works its magic.

