Why isn’t this working? I Healed Dad from worse, what with the poison and all, while Alsantset’s injuries are…less fatal. She should be recovering and opening her eyes soon enough, except that’s not the direction we’re headed in, and I can no longer deny it through distraction. My Keystone is staunching the bleeding and mending broken organs, flesh, and bones, but my sister is still slowly slipping away in spite of all my best efforts to keep her alive and well. It doesn’t make sense. She fought a nameless Peak Expert, a Half-Demon sure, so how could his spear do so much damage? I’m not talking about physical damage, because if that was all there was to her injuries, then she’d be fine and dandy by now. No, the fact that she’s still getting worse means there’s more to her injuries than I can see or sense, meaning she must have been damaged in some… metaphysical way. While I don’t know how to fix that, I shouldn’t fucking have to. The Energy of the Heavens should know how to fix her, but they aren’t doing it, and I have no idea why.

Buddy’s howl reaches a peak in both pitch and volume as the colour drains from the world around me, for I can feel my sister’s life force flickering like a candle in the wind. That’s the problem, isn’t it? Her life force, that ineffable quality which separates the living and the non-living I mentioned earlier, it’s draining away because of a wound neither I nor the Heavens can mend. Why? What makes this injury so different from others? Because of the Half-Demon’s Chi working? No, it’s even simpler than that, as my eyes are drawn to the dark, unholy weapon still embedded within my sister’s gut and I sense an aspect about it that is faintly reminiscent of Anathema. I didn’t notice it before, not because I overlooked it, but because it is only now leaking this sensation, one which wasn’t there before. I should’ve guessed it sooner though, as I saw in the Central Citadel that these unholy weapons caused injuries that were difficult to Heal, and I also knew Anathema played some part in the creation of Half-Demons, so why wouldn’t Zhen Shi also use it in their weapons as well? It’s the weapon that injured my sister so, inflicting a wound which I cannot see or sense, yet one that is threatening her life all the same as I scramble to try and understand it.

It makes too much sense to ignore. This has to be the reason why my Healing efforts aren’t working, and why Taddy has yet to offer any advice. This is also why Zhen Shi has been holding back his Half-Demons throughout this entire conflict, because he’s saving them to use against the Imperial Clan. Not just because they’re stronger than your standard Martial Warrior, but because the elites of the Imperial Clan are built different, and these Half-Demons are tailor made to counter them. I don’t mean the Death Corps Guards, and maybe not even the Royal Guardians, but those noble elites who benefit from the full knowledge of the Dao and therefore cultivate not just their bodies, but their minds and souls as well. It wouldn’t surprise me to learn that Shen ZhenWu was following a Path similar to my own which is why these spears were made to do more than just pierce flesh and bone. Maybe it’s an evolution of Wraith poisons, the same stuff that sent Shen ZhenWu fleeing for the Eastern Province. Through the power of Anathema, the power of Destruction itself, this spear embedded in Alsantset’s gut is capable of inflicting damage to the very essence of life itself, which is why my sister is dying.

So there’s the why, but it doesn’t explain why I can’t Heal her. If the power of Destruction is killing her, why can’t I use the power of Creation to fix what ails her? The answer comes easily even though I wish it were otherwise, because it is always easier to destroy than create, and to create the essence of life itself is likely something only a literal God can pull off. I am no god, just a mortal cast adrift in this world of trials and tribulations, but I’ll be damned if I let this hateful world take my sister away from me.

Inappropriate as it might be given the circumstances, a meme fortuitously springs to mind, in which a pink, pointy-headed blob in swimming trunks emphatically declares, “We should take this life essence over here, and push it somewhere else!”

Make sense right? I’m alive. I’m breathing. I’m young and hip. Stands to reason I’ve got life essence to spare, so why can’t I just use that to Heal what ails my sister? The moment I consider it, my mind is made and my Will directs the Energy of the Heavens to make it happen, while Buddy falls silent with a mournful whimper. Retreating inwards to my Natal Palace, I hold my dog close and console him as best I can, because even if it costs me my life, I will save my sister or die trying. It’s not what she’d want, and I’d be leaving a lot of people and pets I care about behind, but I refuse to give up on her, the same way she refused to give up on me. So long as there is life, there is hope, and I would rather cling to hope and lose my life than give up hope and live on.

The Heavens do not roil and the world does not shake, and in truth, I don’t really feel any monumental changes taking place, just the Energy of the Heavens surging through me as I neither succumb nor surrender to its whims, an effort made all the easier with Blobby directing things from his end. Seconds pass in tense apprehension as the battle rages around me, my flying sword and shield making short work of any enemies who approach while Gerel and Naaran oversee my safety, both of whom are just overflowing with regret. Dad would be here too, but he’s thrown everything he has into the battle and is unleashing his fury upon Mataram YuGan, so much so that he doesn’t even have it in him to be anxious or afraid just yet.

And he won’t have to be, because my sister draws a deep breath, and I can feel her strength rekindle from deep within, a flame which grows until it is strong enough for me to remove the hateful spear from her flesh. From there, it’s only a matter of seconds before she’s able to lift her head up and look down at her mended torso, one covered in arterial blood and splattered organs and bodily detritus, but none the worse for wear. Glancing up at my tear-stained eyes, she blinks in mournful heartache. “Silly child,” she whispers, heaving a sob for she somehow senses what I’ve lost. “Why?”

“Because you’re family, and I cannot stand to lose you just yet.”

A bark of laughter pierces through the din of battle, and I move to defend Alsantset without thinking, standing before her with Unity in hand. There was no need to do so however, for Gerel and Naaran both are ready and waiting as well, their anger burning as they stare at the amber-eyed Half-Demon standing on the battlements before us. “Family?” he scoffs, his lips twisted in a hateful sneer of ugly derision. “Pei. She is no family of yours, boy. Just a half-breed tiger bitch birthed by the depraved union between man and beast.”

Despite being a Half-Demon, I can sense his emotions the same as anyone else’s, and he feels nothing but contempt for the people before him. Not just Alsantset, but Gerel and Naaran as well, while harbouring maybe a smidgeon less for me, but only because it’s intermingled with disappointment. He thinks me a fool for Healing her, because he knows what it would have cost me, and he sees that as weakness and stupidity. Two things he abhors above all else, it seems, but he’s still begrudgingly willing to reconcile.

Knowing this and having long since guessed the rest, I offer him a scoff in return, because no one scoffs better than me, because I have ridicule locked down pat. “What would you know of family, Defiled? We have no ties of blood, but she is still my sister and saviour both. Without Alsantset, there is no Falling Rain, it’s as simple as that, but I wouldn’t expect you to understand.”

“Oh? So they’ve told you then?” Removing his helmet to better show off his features, the Half-Demon flashes a sneer so hateful it’s a wonder no one has rammed their fist through his face just yet. It’s easy to see the similarities once you know to look for them, not just the amber eyes, but the cold arrogance and natural disdain, as well as physical features too like the shape of his nose, the set of his cheeks, the jut of his jaw that makes him look like he’s always clenching it. “No,” he continues, studying Gerel and Naaran’s reactions as they both spike with alarm and regret. “They have not told you, but you know all the same, for you are a clever child, and blood speaks to blood.” His lips stretch into a smile that doesn’t touch his eyes, one full of dark delight and cruel amusement which makes me hate him all the more as he extends his hand out in a symbolic offer to both me and Gerel. “Come, my children. Cease your foolish struggles and leave these pretenders behind. Join me, your father, and together, we shall overthrow the dog Emperor who has abandoned you so.”

If not for his armour and a few extra lines around his eyes, I might well have mistaken him for Gerel, and far too many people have mistaken us for brothers for it to be a mere coincidence. I knew there was a reason I hated Gerel, because I hate myself and he reminds me too much of me, except better in so many ways. Ugh, I guess this means I’m actually related to that psycho blowhard of a loner, but on the other hand, I almost can’t believe I didn’t see it sooner. We look alike, we’re both anti-social, we both rock a mean man-bun, the list goes on and on. That being said, in light of recent developments, I find it difficult to control of my emotions and try not to let anything show on my face, because I only have one shot at this, and I cannot fuck it up.

Breathe in. Breathe out. You got this. You’ve heard it a thousand times before, so all you need to do is channel that out and make it real. Breathe in, and…

“NYOOOOooOOOOooooOoooOooOooooooo!!!”

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
