Kevin gunned it over a hill. His face went slack. He kept going and caught five seconds of air until he nearly crashed his motorcycle. Only the experimental, automatic airfoil mechanism saved him by arresting his fall and angling his motorbike so it didn’t tip over. Pisces stared at the other Goblins running with Rags. He took another step and [Flash Stepped] into the side of the same hill as Kevin. He recoiled, leapt back up the hill as Yvlon jumped out of the motorcycle, and Kevin sat up. The man’s face was pale.
“W-was that—?”
Someone was turning ahead of them. A Goblin clinging to a bicycle. He was screaming as the others dragged him off the bicycle and towards the inn. Pisces stood on top of the hill, and he stared.
“Rags?”
It was the spitting image of her, but there was their Rags, older and changed, running ahead of the other Goblins. This was a younger Rags, before she’d transformed. And there was another Rags running with flashy hair next to her. And—Kevin stared at the screaming Goblin.
“That’s Rianchi. He’s dead. What’s going on?”
The two men paused there, and a figure charged up the hill and sprinted ahead. Retired or not, Yvlon Byres moved so fast that she left afterimages in her wake.
“Run, you idiots!”
Yvlon Byres had no idea what was going on, but she knew where. She charged, and they followed.
 
——
 
The Goblins rushed ahead. This was not their world; they didn’t know these people. They couldn’t waste time. They could not be entangled.
It was really hard to run with tears in your eyes. Student Rags was almost blind, and Chieftain Rags kept swiping at hers. Rianchi was screaming as Goblin Lord Rags just carried him on her shoulder. Even Redscar refused to look over his shoulder.
They saw a huge figure standing in front of the Painted Antinium, who had drawn their weapons and were aiming at the half-Giant raising his hands high overhead.
“Let me in! I need to speak to Pawn! I know him, damn you! This is important!”
Lord Moore was thundering with fury. When he saw the Goblins coming his way, he beckoned.
“Rags! [Move Earth]—”
The entire hill rolled towards him as the Goblins stumbled. The Painted Antinium swivelled to face them, but they clearly recognized Goblin Lord Rags. Root Mrsha was waving her arms frantically, and Dyeda screamed.
“Rianchi!”
They ran forwards and embraced each other as Dyeda tackled him. She hugged and kissed him and then felt at his face.
“Are you hurt? Did the [Hero] hurt you? Why are you crying?”
“He—he—it’s him!”
Rianchi’s eyes were streaming as he pointed at the roaring motorcycle coming their way. Dyeda focused on his finger, and then her own eyes began to fill.
“No. No—”
“Inside the inn!”
Goblin Lord Rags bellowed at them all and strode for the Painted Antinium. They lifted their swords, but a voice bellowed from the inn.
“Let them through! No one else!”
Moore turned and barrelled towards the inn. Dyeda was screaming.
“Kevin—Kevin!”
There was shouting as the motorcycle’s roar grew louder, and then they were inside the inn. Dyeda and Rianchi were last to enter the trapped hallway, dragged in by all three Ragses. They whirled and saw Antinium everywhere.
They were lined up down the hallway, weapons drawn. But they let the half-Giant, Goblin Lord, and the guests from the other world stride down the hallway and enter the common room.
Pawn was waiting in the center of the inn with a terrified Visma and Adult Mrsha. When she saw them, Adult Mrsha shouted.
“Guys, watch out! Pawn’s gone crazy! He’s going to use the [Palace] to—”
She fell silent as someone [Silenced] her, cutting off her magical collar and seizing her arm so she couldn’t write. Pawn turned, hands clasped in prayer, and Moore and Goblin Lord Rags halted. They gazed at Pawn with that same expression everyone else had.
Wariness. Even fear. But Pawn ignored them completely as he beckoned.
“Ah, two. This makes sense. Come, little Mrsha. You must be so worried. Why did Liscor even arrest…the Mother of Graves. Of course. Come, Goblins and Mrsha only. We are going to your home. To speak.”
“Pawn. You have to stop. We can bring Erin back. There is no need for this.”
The Goblin Lord panted, raising her hand. The Painted Antinium turned to her, and their fervor grew more intense until it was a weight on the world. Pawn stood there, unmoved.
“If so, then I shall withdraw. But I desire to know what is happening. Come with me.”
Both younger Ragses peeked at each other and then at the Goblin Lord. She gave them an uncertain nod, and the Chieftain closed her eyes.
“The Titan is still out there.”
But the [Prophet] was right in front of her. She opened her eyes and met Root Mrsha’s and nodded.
They knew what they had to do.
 
——
 
<Primary Dimension — The [Palace of Fates]>
 
When he stepped into the [Palace of Fates] this time, the ground began shaking. Ten Antinium warriors stood behind Pawn as the Goblins and Roots Mrsha stumbled through the door, held open by the giant Antinium. Roots Mrsha ran into Lyonette’s arms.
No one spoke; every eye was on Pawn, the center of the quaking.
“Pardon me. I believe I am levelling up again. Or perhaps something even greater? The ground always shakes when I do. Ah, you may not know it, but classes of faith level up when we are awake.”
His presence was warping the air. He had come humbly before, they realized. For all he had brought an army.
He was the highest-levelled being among the Painted Antinium. Pawn stood there as the Goblins joined Lyonette’s group.
Chieftain Rags maneuvered towards Mrsha, who stood closer to Pawn than most; everyone else was forced back by the Antinium. The girl just waited, eyes wide. She met Rags’ gaze, and they nodded at each other.
They had caused all this. Now, they were reaping the worst consequences of their actions. Rags clutched at her side as she panted. The Painted Antinium eyed her, but Mrsha was allowed to stay closer to Pawn, so they let her stay as Pawn waved a hand.
“Pawn…your Erin will live. Just go back.”
“My Erin is alive. She has never died. I see it now. I thought I knew faith, but I was blind. Ha. Ha-ha. It is always as I never expect. That is how I know it is Erin. She is alive. In this world. In many worlds. Painted Antinium, bear witness. Our Goddess lives.”
“She lives! Let Heaven come to Earth!”
The Antinium struck their chests, and the shaking grew worse. Chieftain Rags felt sick. She spoke.
“She’s not…don’t call her that. She’d hate that.”
Pawn’s eyes were shining. Light was pouring down from above, despite the ceiling. Motes of it were rising from the ground as well, and he replied steadily.
“She might, it is true. I wrestled with that long. But what Erin Solstice is, and what she desires, have never been the same. She cannot die again. She will guide us all to a better world.”
“She might.”
Rags actually allowed for this. If you gave Erin the power of…one of them, she might actually make the world better. Certainly, she would cause chaos. The Goblin took a breath.
“—But. Erin was never perfect. I can’t imagine a worse god.”
Of all things, that stung Pawn the most. His head swivelled to Rags, and she felt like she was being baked in the fire of his ire. She lifted a hand and saw the light shining through her flesh and bones.
“She would be selfish. She would care for us when so many deities care only for themselves or take no sides. She would fight and change and love. There is no one who would take greater interest. No one.”
The Goblin whispered.
“Yes. She wouldn’t be able to stop or die. She’d break from it all. You…are so incredibly cruel, Pawn.”
He wavered. Just for a moment, she saw it. Mrsha put her paw in Rags’ hand, and the Goblin Chieftain turned her head.
“Rags. Stop the Titan. Your Skill is better than mine. Redscar, protect our people.”
Student Rags was watching Pawn. She turned her head, confused, and her eyes widened. Redscar blinked. Then he drew his swords.
“No—”
He leapt forwards too slowly. Pawn was facing Rags, replying; she didn’t care what he said. She moved, casting the only spell that mattered.
[Apista’s Jetfire]. She copied Student Rags’ jump and shot forwards with all her weight and force. Mrsha was right next to her.
[Other Me’s Skill – Desperation Headbutt]. They caught Pawn off-guard; he hadn’t expected Mrsha to do that after she’d refrained from fighting. He’d trusted her.
Silly Pawn.
Rags’ foot struck Pawn and he stumbled—he was so tough—Mrsha’s headbutt hit his robed chest and he fell over. The three of them tumbled backwards towards the door.
“No—”
Pawn reacted instantly. He knocked Rags back with a single, flailing hand. He was so incredibly strong. And faster—he swung around, grabbing the door frame to steady himself. The Antinium’s grip tightened on the wooden frame. Then the door he was holding—vanished.
Pawn fell forwards with a cry of surprise, as Mrsha and Rags slammed into him again, from the side. He tossed Mrsha off him and she rolled, a ball of wild fur. Pawn struck Rags so hard she lay on the floor, her armor dented in, before trying to get up. He reached for the door to steady himself, to prevent being shoved in. Pawn’s hands groped behind him, then he turned.
Where was the door? Where were his people? The highest-level Painted Antinium should have been over Mrsha and Rags already, yanking them away.
There was no one behind him. No door, no Antinium—
The door to his world had vanished. Pawn saw unfamiliar doors around him and realized he stood on a red carpet, not bare marble. A different part of the [Palace of Fates]. They’d teleported him—
The three of them weren’t in front of the door leading to his world anymore. They were in front of another open door, one which led to another world.
A battered, broken, and burnt door with a root sticking out of it. It made Pawn—uneasy. He backed away from it, then stumbled; Mrsha had grabbed his robes. She yanked as Rags grabbed Pawn’s legs and heaved up with an [Ogre’s Strength].
“Stop—”
Strong as he was with his levels, he was still only an Antinium’s weight. Pawn went over on his back shell, and Rags kicked him towards the door. Mrsha yanked it open and pushed as Pawn flailed, swearing.
He sat up, kicking at Rags, and then got to his knees. Pawn crawled onto his feet, away from that strange door.
Mrsha threw all her weight onto Pawn from behind, shoving him forwards. He plunged forwards and saw the door appear in front of him. Open.
He nearly ran into the door and halted, swaying. The two were using the same trick as the [Garden of Sanctuary] against him here. Erin’s trick. Pawn recoiled, stepped back—they slammed into him from behind.
He went face-first into the door—
 
——
 
There was nothing in this reality but the empty ocean. An ocean…and a floating raft.
The Antinium’s head jerked over the dark waters where he hung, half-forced through the door. Were they trying to drown him?
He had hold of the doorframe from the [Palace of Fates], and he began to push himself back through. He was stronger than the desperate arms trying to make him let go.
Pawn was wrath. He was death to his foes. Did they think he needed the Painted Antinium? He was the highest-level of them all. The bishop turned, his eyes glowing with heaven’s light.
—He caught sight of someone on that raft. Someone lying there, head raised, gazing his way. The Antinium’s strength faltered. He halted.
“Pawn?”
A voice whispered, hoarse and cracked. Pawn saw discolored hair, burned skin. Eyes blinking hazel at him. A young woman whispered, and the priest felt his class tremble.
“Erin?”
His grip wavered—then he tore himself back, throwing himself through the door—
 
——
 
—The Worker tumbled out of the door as he threw Mrsha and Rags away from him. Mrsha hit one wall and bounced off it.
[Other Me’s Skill — Bounce Fur]. She landed, panting, and Rags yelled at Pawn.
“There’s your god, Pawn! Give her everything you think she deserves! Stay out of our world!”
Mrsha howled. Pawn backed away from the ruined door as the hallway spun crazily around him; more doors were appearing, all open. They just had to push him into one!
The two girls charged; the holy Antinium was off-balance, mentally and physically. His voice was trembling, and he flailed at them.
“N-no—that wasn’t. How—?”
His faith. His class. It was wavering. What he’d seen in that door was what he had desired so long. But wrong, because it was not the picture he had clung onto. He had seen a woman.
Just a woman. Not the figure in his heart and faith. He was weakening; Mrsha bit one arm and lunged. Rags heaved as [Apista’s Jetfire] exploded under their feet.
Another door opened. This time, they pushed as one, and Pawn fell through it, flailing.
“sToP—”
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 1 — “Better Days”>
 
They crashed into Lyonette’s room, fighting and shouting. Pawn threw the two girls off him and howled.
“Enough! I am so close! I will not be—”
The inn was shaking. There were voices from below, cries and shouting. Rags leapt to her feet and drew her sword. She slashed at Pawn, trying to chop at his leg.
He swung his club and shattered the shortsword that Erin had given Rags. It wasn’t even a strong blow, but it sent Rags crashing into a wall so hard she cracked it. She fell, stunned, and Mrsha leapt for the root. They just had to remove it and—
“trAItoR. I thought you were my guiding light. Are you the final test? Do you think I will falter this close to the promised day? Do you know how long we have suffered? How long I’ve waited!?”
Pawn grabbed Mrsha, tore her back, and threw her down. She made a dull thumping sound and went still. Was she—?
Rags got up, death in her heart. She drew the crossbow from Future Rhir and fired it.
Pawn had been hunting for the root. The bolt struck him in the back. His Ring of Protection failed; the bolt blew apart, and Rags saw his back shell open up.
A chunk of his innards and green blood struck the walls. The [Prophet] jerked—he turned, stumbling.
“[Restore…Thy…Flesh…]”
His flesh began to knit before her eyes. The Worker straightened, and Rags fumbled for another bolt.
Dead gods. She stumbled back as he swung that club wildly—then pointed.
“[S-S-Summon…]”
He trailed off, jerking, as his body regenerated. Rags grabbed Mrsha, pulling her away.
“Mrsha. Mrsha?”
The girl wasn’t moving, and she felt…too floppy. Things were shifting in her body. Rags ripped a healing potion from her belt and poured it over the Gnoll. She ducked behind the doorframe of Lyonette’s room as feet pounded on the stairs.
“What the fuck is going—you’re back.”
