The Antinium had been pouring into the doorway, then…halted. Pawn didn’t answer. He snapped at an Antinium who stood next to the door.
“Find out who or what that is. Can you kill it?”
He turned to an Antinium who was spitting blood onto the ground. The Worker stopped when he realized he was spitting on The Wandering Inn’s floors.
“Yes, Bishop, if we draw blades. Not with fists. But the damage that man could do—”
“Peace then. If they are so untrusting, ten it is. The One Saved, do you understand what is going on?”
“No, Bishop. Only that what we desire, our Goddess’ cure, remains inside.”
The Antinium who’d been holding the root was a giant. He knelt there, and Pawn eyed him, then swung around to Mrsha.
“What happens if he lets go?”
Mrsha had no idea. She’d been stunned to see more than one person passing through the door! Holding the Faerie Flower roots was a—a loophole! She vividly recalled her root turning to dust. Pawn read enough in her expression and turned back to The One Saved.
“Listen to me, The One Saved. You are to keep holding onto that root. Upon your grip, Heaven and Her rebirth rests. Let nothing force you to let go, understand? The rest of you are to kill anyone threatening him.”
“By Her will.”
The Painted Antinium chorused. Pawn pointed at his subordinates.
“Arm yourselves for battle.”
“With the past, Bishop?”
The wounded Antinium hesitated, and Pawn shook his head.
“Not necessarily. To safeguard this place. No one is to speak of it. Do not let anyone here, not even guests of the inn. Not—Lyonette.”
He hesitated as he said that, then kept going.
“—Two Ragses, not the Rags of the present. One Mrsha, one Dyeda, one Rianchi, and one Redscar. Gather them, and I will make sure they are the right ones. Move.”
He glanced at Adult Mrsha, and she felt her captors let go of her. She stumbled forwards.
“Pawn, I know how to cure Erin! I—you don’t have to go there! Just let them go back, and we’ll resurrect her!”
The Antinium stared at her, and many clutched their relics. They began praying, and Pawn glanced around before drawing close to her.
“You are certain?”
“Absolutely. Just—don’t do what you normally do when you think it’s a chance. They’re us, Pawn.”
She saw in his multifaceted gaze only conviction. Conviction—and nations aflame. She had seen him burn them to find what he thought were Relic-class cures. She was trembling, and Pawn whispered so only her ears could hear.
“Good. But what if it fails?”
“It won’t. I think it won’t. I was told—”
Fear twisted up in Mrsha’s stomach, and Pawn patted her arm.
“I have faith. But just in case, I will not let this door close. If there is more than one, if there are other worlds, then I will ensure her flame never dies again. She has enemies in this world. I will not let them take her twice. With this—”
He glanced at the hole in the air, now visible as the place where The One Saved’s arm ended—Pawn murmured.
“We shall never fail our charge.”
He glanced at Mrsha, then walked away, and she realized, belatedly, that her younger self had been right. This was a disaster.
At least the Goblins knew it.
 
——
 
When all three Ragses saw the Painted Antinium surrounding The Wandering Inn, and more marching out of the city, they knew something was wrong.
Goblin Lord Rags drew to a halt, panting, as they emerged from a hidden tunnel in the Floodplains.
“This is bad. I think he’s found this…door. Pawn. He’s—you’re sure the cure will succeed?”
She turned her hungry, luminous eyes to the four Goblins, Chieftain Rags, Student Rags, Rianchi, and Redscar. Rianchi flinched, but Chieftain Rags just nodded.
“I’ve told you exactly how it was done. Your Erin will live. Believe that. Aren’t you good at that?”
She met her older self’s eyes challengingly, and the Goblin Lord shifted her gaze away.
“Faith is hardest when it may be fulfilled. Because then it’s just waiting. I—Pawn is a zealot. That means he won’t stop. Look: he’s summoning the rest of his crusade. This is not good, not at all. There were already eyes on us after our standoff with Rhir; this will attract the attention of the entire damned world.”
Summoning? Student Rags stood on her tiptoes and then felt a chill running down her spine. The air was glowing around the inn. There were twisting lines of light and distant shapes; motes of light becoming solid images. A group of marching Antinium formed out of light and dust, streaking across the world…
“What the hell is that?”
“One of his Skills. [I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky]. With it, he can traverse entire continents; wherever his faith takes him. Soon, he’ll have an entire army here.”
“If we’re going to break through, it’s now then. Those Antinium have [Swordmasters]. Gonna be hard as that [Hero].”
Redscar grunted. He lifted his blades, and Goblin Lord Rags eyed him and Redchild, who was nodding and lifting her own swords.
“…I forgot how sword-minded you were. No. They’ll likely let us through. At the very least, they’ll take us to Pawn. Come on. Tribe of Dreams, you are to stay behind. Gothica, prepare for anything.”
“Fine.”
A voice that sounded dark, like dark liquorice dipped in chocolate in a lightless room at midnight, spoke. Gothica, the Lady of Shadows, stood as the Goblin Lord pointed.
“Come. Let’s try to salvage this.”
Five Goblins emerged onto the Floodplains of Liscor to find, well, chaos. Liscor was under full lockdown, and Rianchi’s ring began vibrating.
“Uh—uh—it’s not my fault! It’s just—”
“Give me that.”
Goblin Lord Rags snatched the ring and began expertly using it. She flicked ‘screens’ of colored pages of data into the air for everyone to read. Everyone read the headlines. In order, they were:
 
City-wide Announcement: LISCOR UNDER LOCKDOWN. INFESTED INDIVIDUAL DETECTED AT GATES. REPORT TO YOUR SHELTER IMMEDIATELY.
City-wide Announcement: Lockdown is lifted. Infected individuals confirmed cured; no other cases reported. The Council will issue a statement at 13:00 regarding the situation.
City-wide Announcement: LOCKDOWN. HOSTILE ARMY-CLASS MAGIC DETECTED. REPORT TO YOUR SHELTER IMMEDIATELY.
City-wide Announcement: Lockdown lifted. The gates have been closed for your safety on the eastern sides. Do not approach the area.
 
Student Rags tried to figure out what ‘hostile army-class magic’ meant and swallowed.
“Okay, that sounds bad. Could that be Dyeda and Mrsha?”
Everyone gazed at her, and Student Rags held up her claws.
“Oh come on, we were all thinking it! If anyone could cause a Solstice-event here…”
“My Mrsha can do the same. Dead gods, there’s live reporting as well. This is about my tribe and the [Heroes]…rain and the inn? The Witch of Sorrows. Of course! An eighteenth birthday—aspat!”
The Goblin Lord Rags was muttering as she paged through the feeds. Then she double-tapped on something and groaned.
“Okay, this is bad. The rest of the guests are arriving.”
“You mean friends of the inn? Why’s that bad?”
Student Rags peered, then jerked back from a miniature television feed! It was playing a recording of events, and a little ‘live’ icon in the upper right told her it was probably happening right now.
She saw a familiar-looking Drake, albeit rather better dressed and with more poise, standing with dangly earrings hanging from her neck-spines, holding a microphone in front of a familiar place.
The Portal Station in Liscor. Drassi was speaking rapidly.
“—word on the Painted Antinium, but right now, it’s driven teleportation traffic to a standstill, except for some people! Here comes—yes—the Archmages of Wistram have just arrived!”
A figure emerged from the station of Wistram. An Archmage of Wistram. Student Rags gasped. Wait, she knew who this was.
“Ceria?”
A fiery-haired young woman strode up the stairs, a trio of flying brass orbs glittering with electricity following her. Each one was covered in small, moving barriers of colorful magic, and the Archmage’s hair flowed behind her, defying gravity.
Her robes were black with blue lining that stood out. There was an icon on her back and drawn in miniature on the right hand side of her robes. It was an image of a woman holding a city over her head.
Chieftain Rags blinked. Redscar squinted at the woman as she turned and put her hands on her hips.
“Is that Ceria? She colored her hair.”
Student Rags struggled for words as the Goblin Lord turned her head and laughed.
“No, idiot. That’s—”
“Archmage Montressa du Valeross, the Archmage of Barriers, has arrived! Personal friend from the old days. And if I don’t miss my guess, the reason she’s looking so pissed is—yep—brace for it. Brr! The Archmage of Frost has arrived.”
The entire image turned pale, and the ground turned to ice. Drassi visibly shivered, and the Goblins realized she was bundled up on purpose. She continued narrating as someone floated up the stairs.
“Archmage Ceria Springwalker, the Archmage of Frost, former member of the Horns of Hammerad, Named-rank adventurer, and cold-hearted, backstabbing traitor. Sorry, that’s me editorializing. Here she is, which is surprising because I’m almost positive she has no heart anymore. Note the circlet and amulet? Relics.”
A glowing, bone-white circlet was hovering over the half-Elf’s head. She seemed…older. Not that much older, but her frozen expression had given her the sense of age. She was floating over the ground, and a green flash of light drew Student Rags’ eyes to her neck. But the circlet was a bit more visible. Especially because it had edges of multi-colored light raised into the air like a crown.
“Okay, that’s bad.”
“That’s Ceria. Don’t trust her, and don’t let her know about the door. Let’s beat her to the inn.”
The Goblin Lord turned off the image, handed the ring to Rianchi, and they began to run again. Student Rags puffed as she ran.
“What happened to her?”
“Lost her morality. Then she found the amulet in Chandrar. Lost her emotions. But mostly, I think—”
The Goblin Lord glanced back at the image floating behind Rianchi as he rode his bicycle. She shook her head.
“—Ksmvr died.”
The pace of the Goblins faltered, then they kept running. Another world’s concerns and history playing around them as Montressa and Ceria greeted each other coldly. They were heading to the inn.
Everyone was.
 
——
 
A party of adventurers had slowed when they saw the Painted Antinium, then picked up their pace. They refused to sign autographs, and the lead rider leapt off his horse so he could move faster.
He had a short beard and felt like he was too stolid-looking, but aside from that, he felt like nothing had changed, except everything. A disaster, though—
Pisces Jealnet, the ‘Good Necromancer’ of Izril, knew disasters. He began running, leaving his team behind. The Horns of Hammerad might be Named-rank, but only as a team. He was the only actual Named-rank among them these days. Pisces shouted for them to catch up, and even then, the golden bell at his side never jangled.
“What’s going on? Where are you, Mrsha? What the hell’s going on, Moore?”
No one was answering his calls! As he ran, Pisces saw more old friends appearing. One of them actually rode down on a magical carriage dropping out of the skies. It was pulling an entire wagon behind it, and the figure screamed.
“Pisces!”
A familiar, pink carriage descended, and Imani pulled at the reins as her mobile restaurant hit the ground—hard. Then she was racing after him as she rode Magnolia Reinhart’s former vehicle. A stipulation of her purchasing it had been to keep its iconic shade of pink. Imani leaned over the side, yelling at Pisces.
“What’s going on? I saw Pawn’s Antinium were gathering—”
“No clue. I think it was the Witch of Sorrows! I saw rainfall—stay back. We’ll handle whatever it is. Dead gods, I just saw Montressa on the news!”
Even Ceria. He wanted to laugh or cry. Imani pointed over her shoulder.
“I passed by an entire column of [Riders] with Lord Tyrion, Lord Hethon, and Lord Sammial all in tow, and Ryoka nearly flew after me! If there’s trouble, you’ll get help!”
“Noted! I—there’s Moore!”
They all saw the figure leap out of Liscor, and there was no mistaking Moore’s signature method of transport. Pisces zoomed in on him instantly.
“He’s headed for the inn. And he has a Gnoll girl under one arm. And a Goblin? What the hell?”
“Rags’ tribe again?”
“No clue. Imani, get back, I—”
Pisces was about to say something to her when he saw someone else zooming down the road from Esthelm and stumbled. The roar made Imani twist, and she swerved her coach left so Kevin could pull alongside them. He was in one of his prototype motorcycles with a side-car.
“Holy fuck, it’s everyone! What’s the fire? I brought reinforcements—oh shit, Pisces. Stay cool, Yv.”
A haggard woman sitting in the side-car glanced up. Yvlon Byres locked eyes with Pisces Jealnet, and the former member of the Horns of Hammerad started. Her arms—spiked—but retracted before hitting Kevin or anyone else.
If Pisces had aged ten years, Yvlon appeared like she’d aged forty. Her hair was uncombed, and she looked bad. Not only thinner, but just haggard.
Retirement’s killing her. She must be just sitting in front of his grave all day. She hadn’t tried to murder Pisces, which told him it was a significant day.
“Mrsha’s in danger. Where is she?”
Yvlon croaked, ignoring Pisces, and he pointed.
“The inn. Kevin, fall back.”
“Like hell I will. Yvlon can’t drive for shit. I have a top-grade protection ring—let’s go!”
Imani peeled away, and the motorcycle roared off the road as Pisces leapt from hill to hill. He was ready for anything, or so he thought.
Vengeance from Belavierr, which was why he had convinced Ceria to come back—she’d promised to help Mrsha, and she did honor that if nothing else. That ludicrous hope that Mrsha would actually fulfill her vow.
Plain nostalgia and a desire to gather. Pisces had been ready for trouble coming for Rags’ tribe, Pawn to cause an issue, or just fights, like Yvlon and himself.
This…he should have known he’d be surprised. Because he was not ready to see a quintet of running Goblins. Obviously, he and Kevin spotted the taller Rags at once and sped towards her.
“Rags! It’s us! What the hell—”
