Her cheeks puffed up, and she blew purple fumes over the Thronebearers, Lyonette, and Mrsha. They recoiled, Dalimont and Ushar clapping hands over their charges’ mouths, but the purple smoke flowed backwards, then compressed into a tiny orb.
Viscount Visophecin lowered his hand. He was standing down the hallway, and he pointed a finger at Nanette. A streak of black magic blew a piece out of the floor of the [Palace of Fates] as she rolled sideways. She countered with a jet of water, and Visophecin stepped backwards…
And his personal gate spell failed to activate. He twisted down and left inhumanly fast and glanced at the neat hole that had pierced his skin across his right arm. He pointed at Lyonette and her group.
“[Threefold Arcane Barrier]. Retreat, now.”
They ran backwards as Nanette crawled forwards another step, then hissed. Water barriers caught another bolt from Visophecin; the ground underneath her superheated, then sizzled as her waters overwhelmed the fire spell. Visophecin stepped left, grimacing in surprise as her [Water Jet] spell pierced his magical barriers with ease.
He flicked his gaze to the Order of Solstice, then conjured another barrier to protect them as Nanette shot what looked like venom. He was defending the entire hallway.
“Rhisveri! Hostile spellcaster with barrier-piercing magic. Rhisveri!”
Visophecin raised his voice and tried a lightning spell this time. The [Witch] blocked that too; she used another pillar of water to catch the lightning and conduct it back at him in an orb he dodged.
…And the entire time she kept crawling forwards. She didn’t rise to her feet. Visophecin didn’t understand. He wasn’t sure if he should kill her, but he was rapidly assessing that he might not have a choice in the matter if he wanted to refrain from deaths on his side.
This firefight in the [Palace of Fates] was leaving holes in the hallway, blasted by the water or Visophecin’s magic. Everything but the doors was taking damage; it was just marble and stone, conjured by Mrsha’s image of the [Palace of Fates], but there was no injunction against violence. Not here, nor the [Pavilion of Secrets].
“Where…Mother? Do you see this?”
Nanette was panting, babbling, and she wriggled suddenly, kicked—though Visophecin could not see her lower half. She came forwards another foot, and then he saw why she was on her belly, crawling.
When her legs appeared…a chitinous hand was grasping her right ankle. Then an arm came through, then a head.
Two people sprawled into the [Palace of Fates]. Pawn. Nanette—kicking at him and finally getting loose as Pawn, disoriented, stumbled. But as he caught himself and stood, Visophecin saw a massive arm holding onto one of Pawn’s hands—and then there were three Antinium pulling through the door, each one clinging to their [Prophet].
“What?”
Even the Lucifen was lost for words as Pawn and two Soldiers—and that massive arm belonging to The One Saved—exited the door leading to the future. The [Prophet] caught himself as Nanette sprang upwards. He raised his club. She flowed away, body turning to water and surging forwards, spraying a jet of water at a shocked Asgra.
The Goblin flinched, and Visophecin’s sword intercepted the jet of water and panged to the ground. Nanette made a watery, hissing sound, then shrieked. An orb of black-and-red fire lifted off the ground, and her watery body swirled around inside of it, trapped. Visophecin tripled the containment spell, then turned.
He locked eyes with the leader of the Painted Antinium. Pawn stood there, head tilting from side to side, feeling at his body, staring not at Visophecin, but at a little girl and [Princess] hunkering between two [Knights].
Mrsha had her wand aimed at Nanette; Lyonette was holding a sword, face bloodless, as the two Thronebearers shielded them. Pawn eyed Lyonette, then Mrsha.
“Ah. Aaaaaaaaah.”
He raised his mandibles, and his voice took on eager, excited tones. Visophecin didn’t understand Antinium, but he did not like the quality of Pawn’s voice. It was…what Visophecin would have termed manic, passionate, vindicated, and self-righteous all in one. Like the Agelum in their moments of zeal, but worse.
Fervor. The Antinium raised all four arms higher.
“It is today.”
“The door. Close the door.”
Someone spoke; Visophecin saw more people running in the direction of the fighting. He realized it was a Gnoll whose voice penetrated Visophecin’s confusion. Ishkr.
More Antinium were coming through the door, pulling themselves along the root—and that giant on the other side was holding it. Antinium armed for war. Visophecin didn’t hesitate. He pointed a finger.
“Release.”
The orb containing Witch Nanette hurtled forwards and hit one of the Antinium so hard they went flailing backwards through the door. It exploded, showering the Antinium beyond with the Witch of Sorrows. That stopped the others. Visophecin charged forwards, recalling his sword to his hand with a spell.
There were only three Antinium. One was wearing robes and held a club; two were in painted armor; Soldiers he assumed. One held a morningstar and shield but had sheathed both to enter the door. The other held a wand of all things.
Visophecin slammed into the wand-carrying Antinium and heaved. The Lucifen was far, far stronger than he appeared. The impact hurtled the Antinium backwards, through the doorway, and Visophecin was relieved it had worked without them holding the root. He swore the Antinium had been pointing his wand at him, though. They were quick.
Two left. Visophecin grabbed the one with a mace by one arm and heaved. The Lucifen’s feet slipped. It was like trying to throw a hill! The Antinium seized his arm and began to shove. Visophecin pivoted, as Uziel had once taught him, and put his body-weight into the throw.
As a younger Lucifen, he had once thrown an ox after grabbing it by the horns and killed the creature, an immature display. As a stronger adult, he gripped the Antinium’s arm, and the Soldier didn’t move. The Antinium’s arm bunched as he gripped Visophecin tighter and—
Visophecin only had the warning of his feet leaving the ground before he was flying. He caught himself with a [Featherfall] spell but still slammed into the marble walls of the hallway with enough force to damage him—if he were Human. He dropped down and saw the Antinium drawing their mace.
“Bishop, get behind me.”
“Aah. Is this what it means? Surely…that is my beloved. So young. And Mrsha. I see, now, I see…”
Pawn wasn’t paying attention. He was praying, all four arms clasped together, staring upwards at the sky. Lyonette was shouting something; Visophecin blurred into motion, and the Antinium Soldier did likewise.
He was at least Level 40. The Lucifen felt a shock as he realized even under a [Haste] spell, his opponent was reacting as fast as he was. No matter.
[Midnight Shard]. The Lucifen’s favorite spell which pierced barriers and armor. Visophecin aimed three—all at the ‘Bishop’—and cast two more spells as the mace wielding Antinium, predictably, shielded the other.
[Slippery Icy Floor] and [Orb of Force]. He sped the second spell up in his hand and flicked it like a discus at the Antinium. The Soldier had…blocked…all three [Midnight Shards] with his tower shield, and Visophecin felt slightly alarmed.
Even Gold-rank adventurers can’t reliably do that. The Antinium saw the [Orb of Force] coming his way, and his feet slipped slightly on the floor that had turned to ice. He set his shield, which didn’t matter; the orb was pure momentum and would knock both Antinium through the door—
The mace wielding Antinium grunted.
“[Reflect Spell].”
He swung his mace and bounced the [Orb of Force] back even faster at Visophecin. This time, the Lucifen defaulted to his [Gate] tactic and forgot it wasn’t working. The orb hit the wall behind him as he ducked just in time—the explosion sent him skidding forwards. The Antinium raised his mace, pointed.
“[Spear of Radiance].”
Visophecin twisted faster than he’d ever moved in his life as something flashed past his head. He didn’t know what that brilliant light was, only that it was not a [Light Spear] spell. It—hurt his eyes. He rose, shaky, and Pawn glanced down as the Lucifen and Antinium [Crusader] regarded each other.
“Do not harm—”
The [Crusader] lunged forwards in a Skill-based charge, fast as a leaping panther. Visophecin fired a spell point-blank into the [Crusader]’s chest.
[Ray of Strength Drain].
He grabbed the arm holding the mace as the Antinium collided with him and felt the crushing force of the leap nearly take him off his feet. Had Visophecin tried to use an attack spell or block the Antinium, he would have surely failed.
As it was, he went skidding backwards until his feet found purchase on the slicked marble floor, and he began to heave the weakened Antinium back. The surprised [Crusader] had felt the ray spell and struggled to strike Visophecin, then bit him with his mandibles. Visophecin shoved him back towards the door, ungainly, like a child in a wrestling match. But he couldn’t just hurl the Antinium away.
“[Locked in Glorious Combat]. Oh, Heavens. Give me strength.”
And then the Antinium was overpowering him. He activated no strength Skill, but something made his grip crushing as one hand seized Visophecin’s skull and tried to mash it.
Faith. Another hand struck the Lucifen across the chest; Visophecin was pushing, casting magic spells.
[Midnight Shards] hammered the Antinium’s breastplate but failed to pierce the armor. [Ray of Strength Drain] failed to work again. Visophecin cast a spell on himself as searing pain radiated from his skull.
[Lion’s Strength]. [Stoneskin]—
The [Crusader] bit Visophecin on his cheeks, and the Lucifen tore his head free and headbutted the Antinium. The metal helmet the Antinium was wearing rang, but the [Crusader]’s head still snapped back. He clicked—and Visophecin headbutted the Antinium again and again. He threw a punch that sent the [Crusader] skidding backwards; the Lucifen’s eyes were glowing red, and he was getting bigger.
The Antinium fought back, punching, blocking with all fours arms, but Visophecin was faster, suddenly, equally strong, and the equalization caught the Antinium off-guard. He tried to plant himself and spoke.
“[Holy—]”
Visophecin fired a [Force Orb] with all his strength at point-blank range. The explosion ripped the two apart, Skill or not, and he went sprawling, tumbling backwards. He sat up, clothing torn, and saw the Antinium vanish through the door, exactly where Visophecin had angled him. The Lucifen pointed and croaked.
“[Blackflame Wall].”
That stopped the figures trying to get through for a second. He rose, abandoning his Warform. He’d almost needed it. Almost—for one Antinium?
One left. The other Antinium hadn’t moved throughout the entire rapid brawl. He had stopped praying, though. He let Visophecin get up, his suit in tatters, and Pawn’s mandibles clicked softly.
“I see your true face, stranger. What a strange thing thou art. I quite dislike you.”
“Stop! Stop fighting!”
Lyonette called out as Visophecin conjured a hidden spell into being. The Lucifen let her run forward, though her Thronebearers were shielding her.
“Lyonette. You are Lyonette, aren’t you? My beloved? You look so young.”
The Antinium turned to her and spread his hands. She halted, and her mouth was open.
“P-Pawn?”
There was a luminous quality to the air that came from no visible source. Visophecin gritted his teeth.
“Stay back, Princess Marquin. He is dangerous.”
She hesitated, eying him, and Pawn glanced about, speculating out loud.
“This is a Skill. A place back in time, or perhaps, alternate reality. The things those silly Earthers speak so much of. I do not truly care. My Mrsha was here. This…is how Erin Solstice lives, is it not?”
He turned, gazing around, and the expression of horror on Mrsha’s face was now echoed across the hallway. The Order of Solstice were badly burned but healing; the inn’s staff were paralyzed with shock, especially the Antinium. When Pawn saw Rosencrantz, his smile grew wider.
“I—yes! She just went through the door. She knows how to cure your Erin. So—Visophecin, don’t attack him. Just let him—if you wouldn’t mind stepping back through the door, we can explain everything on your side, Pawn.”
Lyonette was hesitant, as if she sensed the danger too. Pawn tilted his head.
“Why must I leave?”
“This is not your world, Antinium. Begone.”
Visophecin knew Rhisveri had wandered off to find ‘his’ world during the wait. What was taking him so long? Pawn’s antennae stopped waving, and he glanced at the door burning with black flames.
That arm was still holding onto the root, despite the flames scorching the metal covering it. Pawn stepped over and touched the flames. They went out, revealing a smoking arm. He grasped it, and the chitin regrew under the armor.
Visophecin had no idea how. He had never, ever, seen a Skill that healed so conveniently. Pawn’s head turned to him.
“How harshly you treated my flock, ‘Visophecin’. I do not remember you. Then again, given how you met the Witch of Sorrows, that is to be expected.”
“Nanette? Was that Nanette?”
Pawn nodded at Lyonette as Dame Ushar pivoted to keep herself between him and Lyonette. He stared at Ushar inquisitively too.
“Thronebearers of Calanfer. They were such a nuisance, but they showed up long after Erin had died in my time. Is this one obstructing you? Doubtless, my Painted Antinium have ensured the Witch of Sorrows will no longer threaten anyone. If you are in danger, speak it, and I will remove these [Knights].”
Lyonette stopped then, and her face grew a shade paler.
“That was Nanette. You—don’t kill her!”
Pawn saw her start for the door, still reflecting the inn beyond, in chaos, Antinium surrounding a single giant with a frantic Gnoll trying to get closer. Pawn glanced towards the door, and the first [Crusader] began to step through again.
“I had forgotten how kind this time was. So you know the Witch of Sorrows in this world? Do not worry; this one is naught but a monster. She dies. Now, let us indeed speak—”
The [Crusader] emerged, sword drawn, and Visophecin hit him with a battering ram made of light. The Lucifen blocked the doorway—again. But this time with a one-way barrier spell made of the strongest magic he had. Then he threw a [Force Orb].
Dame Ushar had already dragged Lyonette away. Pawn saw the [Force Orb] coming and caught it—
He crushed the spell in one hand without it detonating. Visophecin shot a [Midnight Shard] at the Antinium’s leg, and Pawn sighed.
“No.”
