Kevin? Kevin? Mrsha raised her head as he came up the stairs. She spat out blood, and he stared at them in relief, anger—then horror as he saw the figure beyond, regrowing his back.
“Is that…Pawn?”
“Aaah. Aha. I see it. Two worlds. So many. This is my purpose. This is enough faith to make her…every Painted Antinium from every world can do it. Once again, you serve the cause, even in betrayal. Now stand back. Or I will end you.”
Pawn straightened, green blood running down his legs, puddling on the ground. He hunted for the root with his hands as more people arrived.
“Erin’s entire inn is shaking! What the hell is going—”
Selys thundered up the stairs, followed by Demsleth, Pyrite, Headscratcher—they all stopped when they saw Pawn. Selys gasped.
“Is that—”
“Ah, here it is.”
Pawn grasped something in the air, and his arm vanished. He began to pull himself through, and Rags shouted.
“Stop him!”
She leapt forwards, heedless of the danger, and Mrsha tackled one leg. Pawn’s upper torso was in the [Palace of Fates] again. That saved them; he couldn’t swing his club. They dragged at his legs as the people of this world shouted in confusion. All except for Kevin, Pyrite, and Headscratcher. Kevin pointed at the Antinium’s legs.
“What’s going on? What’s—is that Pawn?”
“It’s a monster. Help us or he’ll invade—everywhere.”
Rags panted at Headscratcher. He gazed at her—a different Rags from the one he knew. He hesitated for one second. Pyrite didn’t hesitate at all.
He seized the leg Mrsha was holding and pulled, but Pawn was crawling forwards. Even without traction, he had the strength of faith. He was almost out, towing Mrsha and Rags through the door, when someone else grabbed his legs.
Headscratcher. The Goblin Lord of Sorrows took hold of Pawn’s leg and yanked. The [Prophet] stopped. He gazed back, astonished.
“hoW…?”
The blue flames of Headscratcher’s grief licked up around the Goblin Lord. It was in his eyes. On him. The heaviest weight in the world. His guilt. His despair. His wrath.
The heaviest swing. The heaviest path. Weight enough to halt faith itself in its tracks. Slowly, he pulled Pawn backwards. The desperate [Prophet] shouted.
“No, no! There is no force greater than—let me go. Let me—”
 
——
 
<Primary Dimension — The [Palace of Fates]>
 
Now, all the people in the [Palace of Fates] were running towards the door where Pawn was being dragged back in. Painted Antinium, Lyonette, the inn’s friends fighting to keep the Antinium back—Pawn clung to the doorway. His grip was slipping. He peered up as someone halted in front of him.
“I can save us all. I am on Her side. Help me.”
He gazed at Roots Mrsha and Student Rags. The two strangers to this timeline studied the avatar of faith from the future, and Student Rags spoke.
“We’re all on her side, buddy. But you—you think you know how the future should be. I like uncertainty. Stay in my world. It’s nicer.”
She bent down and pried his fingers free as Roots Mrsha did the same. Pawn vanished with a cry.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 1 — “Better Days”>
 
He landed on the other side of the door, and Pyrite ripped the club from his grip. Headscratcher grabbed Pawn’s arms.
He grunted. The Worker was thrashing.
“He’s…strong. Go. Go.”
“We’ll—we’ll come back. Just—”
Rags was getting to her feet with Mrsha. The Gnoll girl just limped for the [Palace of Fates]’ door.
They had to leave. They could close the door—open it when they had a solution. Or never. But if they kept Pawn here, he wasn’t in the [Palace of Fates]. They could handle everyone else. Pyrite was wrestling with Pawn, refusing to give as the Worker kicked him and faith flashed around them. Selys was cowering, and Kevin was shouting.
“Wait, what’s happening? What’s—”
Rags and Mrsha reached for the root, panting. They stepped forwards as Pawn’s scream became a shriek—
And slammed into an invisible wall. The two girls bounced back. Mrsha sat down. Rags grabbed her nose.
“What the hell?”
She felt at a wall in the air like a bad mime. The root was right there. But there was this invisible barrier. How…? This wasn’t a function of the [Palace of Fates]! She gaped at Mrsha, and the girl felt at the air too. They looked at Pawn, but he stared at them. Then his mandibles clicked together.
“Who is that?”
He stared past the two girls, and a formerly-invisible man who’d navigated around the dramatic battle turned. Demsleth gripped the root in his hands. His heliotrope and cerulean eyes tried to appear innocent as he murmured in his best old-man voice.
“Oh my, what is this strange object? I don’t know what’s going on, but, ah, I found this, and I must confess to some curiosity. Don’t mind me. I’ll just—”
“No. Nonononono—don’t!”
Rags saw the disguised Dragon take a breath and grip the root more firmly. Headscratcher’s eyes opened wide, and his hold on Pawn slackened. Pyrite turned and roared.
“Let go!”
He charged forwards and rammed into the invisible wall with his shoulder, but it didn’t yield. Mrsha pounded on it, then remembered they were in Erin’s inn. She opened the door beneath their feet, leapt through it—
Teriarch blocked her with another spell as she slammed back into the room. He took a step forwards.
“I’m sorry about this.”
Then he pulled himself through the door. Rags and Mrsha screamed as the magic vanished. They rushed forward, but the old man was gone. And then they heard it, because he didn’t know the rules. Because it was an unconscious gesture that anyone would do, especially if they were afraid of being followed.
The Dragon swung the door closed. With the two real beings inside, he shut the door to the [Palace of Fates] from the outside. And they heard it. That sound that eclipsed the world, louder than reality itself, which obliterated—everything—
SLAM.
When the door opened a second later, Roots Mrsha saw Pawn shoving Headscratcher back, rising to his feet. Kevin and Selys standing against one wall, Pyrite searching around, eyes wide in horror.
Rags and Mrsha were gone.
 
——
 
Demsleth stood innocently in the [Palace of Fates], casting around. When he saw everyone staring at him in horror, he turned away.
“Well, I was…I heard conversations, and you cannot blame me! Not at all. If what I suspected is true, then I—I—I wanted to live. It’s all that I’m good at. I’m sorry, I am. I’m a selfish being.”
His eyes were watery and old, and he sounded frightened and befuddled. Lyonette breathed in horror.
“You’ve killed them. You—”
She drew her sword. His eyes grew round as Rhisveri took a step forwards.
“You—”
Demsleth vanished. Rhisveri leapt for him and then pivoted with a snarl.
“You coward! I’ll kill you, I’ll—”
“Mrsha! Help her!”
Lyonette screamed at Rhisveri, and he hesitated. He tore away from the empty corridor, and joined Lyonette. They were all surrounding the door.
The root was ash. Demsleth had used it up entirely. And then the door had closed, and the two had vanished. Time had stopped for those within the alternate dimension.
But what happens when two beings who are real cease to exist? Some of the visitors had wondered that very same question, and the answer—the answer—
Pawn was standing in front of the door, feeling for an exit, but there wasn’t one. Lyonette was babbling as Roots Mrsha probed the barrier.
“She’s—she’s—someone get a root. A root, and she’ll be back. We have to—”
She was casting around for one, but they were all hidden. She began running for the other hallway, but Dame Ushar grabbed her. The Painted Antinium were locked in place in deadly standoff with the Knights of Solstice and Visophecin.
“Your Highness, calm down!”
“Get me a root! Now!”
The [Princess] screamed, and Roots Mrsha wrote in the air.
She stopped him. She did it. We—we’ll find her. She’s not dead. Come on, Rags, think.
She and Student Rags were trying to understand what was going on. Only they, Rianchi, Dyeda, and Chieftain Rags’ bodyguard like Fightipilota and Shineshield had any experience with the [Palace]. But the confusion and chaos was not letting them think.
Pawn was standing on the other side of the door, hands pressed to the air. Almost like he was aware the door was there—but he couldn’t see it. The root was gone, so he should have been staring into space. But he was staring directly at them…
At least he was contained. What a cost. Student Rags was shaking. She hadn’t figured out what her other self was planning! It should have been her! She—she—
“Mrsha? They’re not dead. Lyonette, they’re not dead or you’d know. Aren’t you a [Mother]? Or a [Princess] with the qualities of one. Breathe! They’re not dead.”
Roots Mrsha glanced up.
That’s right. They’re not dead, or the <Quest> Erin gave us would fail, remember?
Student Rags blinked, but that calmed Lyonette. She raised her head and breathed.
“That’s right! That’s—where are they?”
I don’t know. Come on, let’s get rid of the rest of the Painted Antinium. Then we can figure this out. We can show them their leader’s safe.
Lyonette nodded. They were turning as they looked to the standoff between Antinium and [Knights].
Pawn was still standing there, ignoring the confusion behind him. The image of him was shaking on the other side of the door. He was staring ahead as the vibrations of his levelup grew worse and worse—until it stopped.
The Painted Antinium were frozen in uncertainty, not sure if they should fight or retreat or parlay for their leader. They stared at Pawn as Lyonette tried to negotiate with them. The image of the shaking [Prophet] blurred and blurred—then stopped and grew crystal clear.
He stood there as Roots Mrsha glanced over her shoulder. That man of faith, who had seen other worlds, glimpsed Erin Solstice with his eyes, had suddenly grown so very calm. And still. She discovered something about him had changed.
His eyes were glowing white. The multifaceted insect eyes were no longer blank, but glowing bright white. A single black dot in the center was moving right and left. They looked like eyes, she realized. Human eyes.
She shuddered. The image was disturbing. Right and left, the eyes flicked. Left, right, as if following two figures. Like, say, Lyonette and the leader of his Painted Antinium. Right. Left.
Then they focused on her, and the pinpoints of blackness expanded. Mrsha backed up.
No.
Pawn pressed his hands to the door, and the tips of them passed through. Roots Mrsha fell backwards, fumbling for a wand. For…
“Mrsha? What’s wr—”
Student Rags turned around. She saw a hand reaching through the door, then a face. He pushed through the barrier between dimensions, and she saw a film of something thinner than any molecule clinging to him. But he was coming—through—
The [Prophet] stepped through the door and spoke as Lyonette turned around slowly.
“So it is done. A trial, and I failed, but She has redeemed me. I am no longer the [Prophet of Rebirth]. I am the [First Apostle of the Faith of Wondrous Skies]. [I Found My Path to the Promised Land].”
Redscar leapt. He cut twice at Pawn, and the [Apostle] didn’t move. The blades glanced off his carapace, and Redscar pivoted. The Goblins of Rags’ bodyguard, Shineshield, Fightipilota, all of them, charged.
Pawn clapped his hands and stood in a zone of complete calm. He gazed at the people picking themselves up, thrown by the burst of light and faith. His head turned, and he met Lyonette’s gaze.
“Now, I am ready.”
 
——
 
There was a fight, a battle between two beings, the first of its kind in the history of this world.
The Grand Design and Second Edition did not know how to fight. But they were wrestling for control of reality and were equally matched.
<YOUYOUYOUYOU (Grand Design) — WHAT HAVE YOU DONE?>
<IT IS RIGHT (Second Edition) — HE IS LEVEL 68. HIS CLASS CHANGED. IT IS HIS ONLY DESIRE IN THE WORLD.>
 
<ERROR OF FUNCTIONALITY. YOU ARE INCORRECT.>
<ERROR OF FUNCTIONALITY. IT IS ALL THAT MAKES SENSE.>
 
They struck each other, screaming contradictions into each other’s beings. To the Grand Design, all of this was wrong and the Second Edition had only made this worse.
To the Second Edition, it had answered the prayers of a being of faith and given him the only thing that made sense. He was so close to Level 70; for a class change? For his heart’s desire? Should he not be allowed to break into a Skill like Mrsha had done?
Now it was all growing so much worse. The two were fighting when they realized something.
He was in the [Palace of Fates].
Invisible. Just a fragment of him. But the Dragonlord of Flame—they both focused on him and knew what was happening.
Nononono. They reached for him, trying to stop it, both of them. The old man and the little undead rat had crept into this place, the rat on Pawn’s heels, but the old man was…Demsleth.
Teriarch. The Dragonlord of Flames.
A being exactly 58,792 years old. He walked through the [Palace of Fates], and it recognized him. It spun out the fates that belonged to him, and even if he never opened a door, there were too many. Every single one. Every single child and friend he had ever known. Every enemy, every triumph, over a span over half as long as the Grand Design itself.
Everything. Each universe generating itself for the Dragonlord of Flames, the oldest being alive.
The Grand Design…
…
….
…..
……
…….
……..
………
……….
………..
…………
………….couldn’t…
…………..t…h…………..
………………i……………
…………….…………n…………….….
…………….……………………k…………….….….….
 
 
<ERROR. HIGHER COGNITIVE PROCESSES DISABLED.>
<ERROR. MAINTAINING LEVELS OF FUNCTIONALITY.>
<ERROR OF FUNCTIONALITY.>
<ERROR. ERROR. ERROR. ERROR. ERROR. ERROR. SOMEONE HELP.>
 
——
 
Chieftain Rags was gone. So was the real Mrsha. They were gone, and half the Goblins of the Flooded Waters tribe were ready to leap into the door after them. The other half wanted to kill Pawn, but his Painted Antinium were surrounding the [Apostle] now. And—Redscar held his sword out as Shineshield lifted a bow.
“No.”
He was trembling, the tips of his swords wavering in the air. The Goblin turned to the frozen [Student], and she finally looked away from the place where Lyonette was feeling at the floor—searching for any trace of one of her daughters.
“He—the Chieftain—there only ten and lots of us! We can kill him with the Duke!”
Shineshield was hissing at Redscar as the Antinium turned to them. The Goblin replied.
“We will die. I can’t kill him, and neither can you. Not yet. Not yet.”
