That stopped the Redfangs. They lowered their weapons and cast around. Lost. Their eyes fell on the young woman just standing there, lifting a hand.
Student Rags. She was panting for air, but she was glancing towards the hallway. Pawn wasn’t paying attention to her or the Goblins. And the [Palace of Fates] could be manipulated to gain distance incredibly quickly.
“I’m taking charge. Rags told me to stop the Titan. 2nd Army has deployed to face it, and so has the Dragonlord of Flames. Redscar, you’re with me. Everyone who can fight as well. Rianchi and Dyeda will stay here and report back. Understand?”
They all turned to her, and she feared they’d revolt. Student Rags looked around, her eyes wide, panting.
“My Skill is better. I’ve been trained for this. The Flooded Waters tribe needs a Chieftain. If that Titan wins, everyone in this world is in danger.”
“And what about him?”
One of the Goblins jabbed a finger at Pawn. Student Rags…Rags’ eyes flicked to Pawn. She answered softly.
“Redscar is correct. There is no way to stop Pawn. We cannot do it. So—we kill the Titan. Then we come back with the Dragonlord of Flames and as many Goblins as we need.”
Everyone they could grab. Valeterisa. Relc. Pelt, Saliss—everyone they needed. The Redfangs’ tense postures turned deceptively relaxed as they nodded. Redscar was the one who tipped any uncertainty into conviction.
“We will be back. I will be back. Lead us, Chieftain. I need to take a nap on the Wyvern.”
His eyes were sharp, and Rags realized he had to have counterlevelled…she had no time to rest. The Goblins began to edge away from the Antinium, tensed to run, but the Painted Antinium seemed not to care. No—one of them glanced at a pointing [Crusader] and waved.
Purple Smiles. Rags turned and ran, vowing that she would return.
I will protect your tribe, Rags. Or die trying.
She wished that didn’t sound so…dark. Only one Goblin failed to dash after Rags.
Fightipilota. She saw the other Redfangs turn, and the [Wyvern Rider] pointed a finger down.
“I’ll stay here. If the Chieftain lives, I’ll wait for her. You don’t need me. Shineshield can fly Wyverns.”
Her jaw was set, and she kept glancing towards the door where Rags had vanished. Redscar nodded.
“Take care of Rianchi and Dyeda.”
Then they were all running, streaming out of the [Palace of Fates] and into The Wandering Inn, shouting and waking the snoozing Wyvern outside and flying up into the rains pouring down over The Wandering Inn.
Rags flew through the rainstorm, teeth bared, heart thundering in her chest. This was it. She flew, fear in her, danger behind her, and a monster ahead, until she saw that golden light and the waiting Dragonlord of Flames.
Then she felt it—that spark of hope.
 
——
 
“Bishop…Apostle. Is it alright to let the Goblins go?”
One of the [Paladins] was uncertain, despite Purple Smile’s orders. Pawn replied absently as he studied this Lyonette.
Lyonette. So beautiful, younger, different in noticeable ways—more strident and opinionated, if anything. He wished she could understand his perspective, but his Lyonette had only begun to understand faith after she had lost so much.
He spoke for her benefit and that of the shaking, poor child who stood there. The ‘other’ Mrsha, who looked thin and despairing. So afraid of him.
“Of course it is alright. I have said it time and again, but apparently, no one listens. I am not the enemy of The Wandering Inn in any time. What is this threat they go to face? Perhaps it is one we may combat. Then again—”
He glanced at his people and his doorway, still held open. Pawn shook his head.
“—No. Fighting multiple battles that are not necessary is dangerous at this point. Until that door is absolutely secured by the Painted Antinium, we should not overextend. Much. Lyonette, if there is a grave threat that comes against the inn, I swear to you, it shall die.”
Her face was white as a bedsheet, and Dame Ushar and Ser Dalimont were supporting her as if she might fall over at any second. Lyonette’s voice was controlled as she replied to him with utmost tact and poise.
“Apostle Pawn, I thank you for your generosity. It seems I must take you at your word. However, I caution you: Erin Solstice in this world has many enemies, and you would do well not to add to her burdens. She is not here, if you had thought to meet her. She is, in fact, upon another continent and in danger. Hunted by her enemies!”
She’d just lost her daughter, or had her vanish into the aether, but Lyonette was still sharp. Pawn admired that.
Don’t hug her or she’ll definitely stab you. It’s the same look as the last time she did that. And this time, she has a sword, not a fork.
He sighed. His heart was filled with joy and revelations, worry—for he must not fail twice—and salvation, within reach for all his people.
And wrath.
Not towards the ‘real’ Mrsha and Rags, for they were children and had done what they thought was wise. Not for Lyonette, despite all the troubles she had caused.
Only for Erin Solstice’s enemies. Those who stood in the way of her and happiness. Strange; Pawn had hated so many foes this last decade, but he had forgotten what it was like to know his beloved [Innkeeper] was alive. Pawn chuckled to himself, though it was not humor he channeled.
“Enemies. Of course she has enemies. How naïve of me.”
“Yes, so you understand you are placing my world at risk. That is why my daughter opposed you. It is why she never told me. And I am proud of her. She has sacrificed everything for this. Remember that, Pawn.”
She was falling apart, tears in her eyes and refusing to weep them lest she fail to seize any chance to save Mrsha. Pawn again resisted the urge to take her hands. He clasped two hands together and raised the others, spreading them outwards in prayer.
“I shall remember. Yet you must know to whom you speak, Lyonette. I am Erin Solstice’s greatest ally. I am the First of the Faithful, her warrior and prophet—excuse me, apostle—of her faith. The Painted Antinium are the wrath of her inn. You tell me she has enemies…what has happened in this world? I shall ask the entire story of you. Who last strove against her?”
The [Princess]’ laughter was ugly, meant to hurt him. She could be so hurtful. Her voice awoke a little being in Pawn’s heart. A tiny insect; a real one. That was how he thought of it.
A wretched, petty thing made of his hatred and resentment and fury against the injustices of the world. It began to crawl out of his heart, drawing on his faith. Upon his will to undo all that was sinful and wrong.
“Who last, Pawn? It was the Winter Solstice—you have no idea. No idea. She fought a dead god, Pawn.”
“…What?”
His head turned. Root Mrsha was tugging at her mother’s arm urgently, but Lyonette kept beaming.
“She fought a hundred thousand Draugr. She fought—death, a woman, three women in one who command death. Then do you know what happened? She won. She won, and as she was at her most unguarded, someone kidnapped her. Roshal. They put her on a ship bound for their city, and they made her a [Slave]. I still have nightmares wondering what they wanted to do to her.”
His thoughts of the Painted Antinium vanished. His plans vanished in a blaze of white light. Pawn’s mandibles opened and closed, trembling.
“Roshal…?”
“Then she escaped. She was burned and dying before she went to sea. She fought [Pirates]. Fought the nations of Terandria who were trying to destroy her ship, everything and everyone. Then they rained down spells on her until she vanished into the ocean.”
Tears were running down Lyonette’s cheeks. But she kept smiling, viciously, as she fed the little bug in Pawn’s body. It was crawling up his throat, now, growing with fury.
The Painted Antinium could tell. They had seen this before. Purple Smiles reached out—then he raised a hand.
The Antinium moved backwards. Pawn was trembling.
“Is she alive? Is she still hurt?”
“What do you think?”
The [Princess] was staring Pawn down as someone touched her shoulder.
“Your Highness, perhaps this isn’t the moment…?”
Ser Dalimont was eying Pawn. Lyonette shoved his hand away.
“You wanted to know what was happening to our Erin, Pawn. Tell me, are you going to make her life worse? Tell me!”
She flung it at his face, and the [Apostle] opened his mouth. The insect of his rage never left his body. There was nothing there.
He was the craven, pathetic insect. A being of spite and lesser emotions made manifest. Unworthy—they were all unworthy. But faith made him far more than his lesser self. Pawn whispered.
“No. Thank you for telling me of Erin Solstice’s sacrifices, Lyonette. I will ask you to tell me all of it. Soon. I remind you I am still not your foe. Did you think I would come here thusly? Despoil this world with the blood of the people my Goddess loves? No, no. Is there any Painted Antinium who would forfeit their place in Heaven?”
He swung around, and the faithful retreated from him, shaken. Pawn’s eyes were glowing again. The Worker turned back, and Lyonette’s own vindictive hatred faltered. Pawn could see her now, see her very convictions—but no faith. He could see the Eternal Throne upon her, just as he saw the lines of connections and meaning flowing between all beings.
He could see Root Mrsha’s connections to her world and this one, Ser Dalimont’s loyalty to Lyonette, and a long link that trailed across the sea. And if he gazed up—
He could see The Wandering Inn. A network of friendships, dreams. Enemies and allies, chance meetings and relationships, the most complex net in existence. Pawn blinked with his glowing eyes as the pupils once again grew wider.
“No. We hail from a world of despair. We are hers. Of course we would never be her enemy in any way, shape, or form. But we are also her warriors. You say my Erin Solstice lives, Lyonette. Be it not the same world, it matters not. She has enemies? Then they die.”
He realized the [Palace of Fates] was shaking again. This time, it was not his level up that was doing it. Pawn clicked his mandibles.
“This is not the time to send a crusade. Not yet. But for the enemies of Erin Solstice, for this day, I can spare one Skill. I must. Or the sickness of my contempt will kill me. Let them know. Let them be reminded no action is without consequences. If they have pitted themselves against a mere [Innkeeper], then they shall know who they truly face.”
“Pawn—what are you doing—”
The [Princess] was shielding her other daughter with her body. Pawn smiled as he lifted his censer overhead like a flail.
“Rejoice. Ten years ago, you stood in the shadow of Pallass, of great foes like Tyrion Veltras, and faced them with courage and her miracles. Now comes their equal in flame and sky. Bear witness, Painted Antinium. Her foes shall suffer the first blow. [Summon the Cohort of Heaven]. Kill them.”
His radiance grew until they shielded their faces and cried out, so he made it cease. Lyonette and the others stood before him, even the one called Rhisveri, uncertain, afraid. But they saw no avenging cohort. No beings emerging from the air.
“What—did it—?”
Pawn didn’t reply. His gaze was still heavenwards, and he saw motes of light appearing, streaking across the red, twisting lines of hatred linked to The Wandering Inn.
He saw them and sent his warriors against them. For even in death, there was Heaven. And what was Heaven if there was no chance to right the wrongs of the world? Pawn whispered as the [Princess] began to tremble with real fear.
“There is nowhere in any world to hide.”
 
——
 
It wasn’t even mid-morning yet. Everyone was tuned to the news of 2nd Army. If some people wondered if Erin Solstice was behind this, if they suspected this was a Solstice Event—well. They had no proof of anything else. They had no eyes into the [Palace of Fates], and they made their own plans.
Her enemies did not plot. They continued on as they had.
Her enemies.
Who were Erin Solstice’s enemies? It was a question that a mindless, overwhelmed agent of the world had to sort out. The Grand Design defined enemies as it had established ages ago.
An enemy was someone who hated you, or vice versa. Who would see you suffer or dead. [Soldiers] could fight each other and not be enemies, except in the moment.
Someone who did not qualify was King Nuvityn of Erribathe. His heart held black rage for his son’s killer. But it was tempered by the desire to see justice done. To be her enemy was to preclude judgment, which he had sworn to give her. And she? Erin Solstice didn’t know who he was.
Her enemies wanted her dead. They knew her name and had set plans in motion. To many of them, she wasn’t the end-goal, just another obstacle in the road. For a few, it was personal.
The Slave Lords of Roshal wanted Erin. Some wanted her as an ally, a pet, broken and humbled, or just to be removed as a threat. For Yazdil, it was personal. For the others, a matter of business, pleasure, cold calculus—
They were in their new abodes, scattered across the rebuilding city of Lailight Scintillation, each one having claimed a new bastion to work from. Each one as their personality dictated.
For Andra, it was the tallest spire in the city she could lay her hands on, which had a commanding view of everything she intended to own. Pazeral took a street-level residence that extended underground with access to the roads and streets; in his way, he viewed this as greater control than height. He could reach out and take whatever he wanted.
Shaullile had put herself in the heart of the bureaucracy she was taking control of in the city. The Emir Yazdil had his palace, personal and customized and utterly private.
Thatalocian lived in a bunker, a bastion underground, as he had before, to be protected against threats, the humblest of all the five abodes.
He was writing numbers which made no sense out onto a paper. Something was wrong. The numbers were in disorder. He glanced up, once, as his pot of black ink, so much higher-quality than what he’d had in his time, trembled.
The black liquid moved, as if drops of ink were falling into them from his quill tip, but he was so sparing…
Another [Slaver] would have ignored the faint signs. Thatalocian, in his stone room, lit by a single candle, knew what a quake felt like. He knew nothing else would move the stone enough to cause the ink to ripple.
So he spoke.
“8-1-1-4-5. 8-1-1-4-5.”
He wrote the same series of numbers down. Rhythmically. The numbers getting bigger and bigger, more jagged, as his flesh mottled and swelled. A hunched figure snapped the desk and chair as he rose.
“Haade the Ogre! Sound the alarm!”
