Nanette fired a huge jet of water into the center of the cloud. There was a cry of pain, but when Mrsha reappeared, there wasn’t a hole in her chest. She lifted one bloody paw; she’d blocked the spell with a shield made of hardlight. But the pressure of the blast had still nearly broken her arm.
“Nanette, stop!”
“No.”
It was such a childlike response. Nanette took a step, and the rune of lightning that Mrsha had drawn exploded. It sent the ragdoll figure of the [Witch] flying and tumbling across the ground. She was hurt from the spell—badly. The Witch of Sorrows had no defensive barriers aside from the water itself.
Her left arm was scorched down to the bone. But she rose, as if she couldn’t even feel the pain. As if it was inconsequential. Water swirled over her injury, and the liquid became flesh.
“Mrsha. My new mother wants you to suffer. Die, die, and today, die. She gave me a gift for my last birthday. A Tier 7 spell.”
A scroll was in her hand—she was firing those jets of deadly water at a running figure, who was dashing towards the inn. The scroll glowed as the [Witch] peered at The Wandering Inn.
“[Hellfire Pillar].”
The scroll was bright red, and the vellum began to burn as it hung in the air. A rune of flames grew, so hot that it began to turn the rain to steam, and overhead, the skies turned brighter. Nanette laughed in delight, clapping her hands together as the Gnoll turned.
“No!”
Mrsha screamed and raised her wand, a foolish thing to do. Nanette had waited for that moment. She flicked her wand out, a segmented one made of yellowed bone, the tip of it a finger of someone who had loved her.
Mrsha fired a bolt of [Grand Lightning] at Nanette and dodged left. The explosion threw the [Witch] down the hill in a jumble of broken bones. She got up at once and heard the scream.
Mrsha had dodged the two [Water Jets] conjured by Nanette’s wand. The three that had appeared behind her caught her in the back and shoulder.
Ragged holes in her body. Blood. And above them, the swirling fires of the Tier 7 spell were gathering. The rune refused to be dispelled as the frantic Gnoll tried to cast more hostile magic at it. Laughing, Nanette got up. This time, she switched tactics.
“[Rain, Fall Like My Tears]. [Water Pierces All Barriers].”
Tiny little droplets struck the young woman and tore pieces out of her fur. They left pockmarks of blood, and she ran, trying to escape the radius of Nanette’s spells, screaming. She had a healing potion, but she bled.
And the inn? Nanette tilted her head up, waiting for the spell to burn it to ashes—before she killed Mrsha. Belavierr had been very explicit in what she had told Nanette. Not that the Stitch Witch was allowed to hurt Mrsha directly or even indirectly. She had promised her first daughter, Wiskeria, to leave Mrsha alone for thirty years. But every promise had a loophole.
The [Hellfire Pillar] finished forming overhead. Light so bright it became a second sun burned away even Nanette’s rains for a while, and she saw Mrsha keep running. The Gnoll was howling—and Nanette clapped her hands together and kept laughing.
Then the swirling mass of fiery death winked out of existence. Before it could streak downwards, it just…vanished. As if the vivid sky had swallowed it.
The Witch of Sorrows stopped laughing. She peered up at the sky, cocking her head in bewilderment. She circled the place where the scroll had activated.
“What is this? What happened? Did my mother play a trick on me? That monster. She won’t get her wish, though, and I thought she wanted this so dearly. What is…”
She broke off. Her quarry was escaping. Mrsha slipped through the front door of The Wandering Inn. She was bleeding badly, but she’d heal in a minute. And the city was blaring alarms.
Its green protector was coming. And other beings of power were soon arriving. Nanette hesitated, then decided to finish the job. Water gathered around her feet and carried her up the hill in a rolling wave. She entered the inn and heard Mrsha running ahead of her, screaming.
“Visma! Get in the [Garden] and don’t come out! Run! Run—”
Mrsha had conjured the entrance in the common room for Visma. She was almost at the [Garden of Sanctuary] herself when the walls began to drip water. She reached for the garden door, and spikes of water shot out and nearly pierced her face. Mrsha threw herself away and turned. There was only one place to run. Where—where was—?
She was scrabbling at the air when a pair of water jets, thinner than needles, punched through her knees. Mrsha dropped, screaming, and the [Witch] ducked her head as the water carried her into the common room.
“There you are. Silly Mrsha. You know you can’t beat me.”
They were over ten levels apart. Mrsha reached up for something, and the water swept her wand away and sent her sprawling. Nanette was tilting her head right and left.
“How did you turn off my spell? It wasn’t Liscor. I don’t know. How strange. What are you reaching for, Mrsha? There’s…dry air here. Strange. How very curious.”
She took a step forward, eyes locked onto the air, then remembered her job. Nanette drew a dagger of black diamond from her belt and stepped over Mrsha. Her eyes were huge in her head as the young Gnoll woman rasped up at her.
“Please, Nanette. I don’t want to kill you.”
Mrsha’s paws sparked with lightning, and her eyes were huge in her face. She said the same thing she had said last time. Nanette laughed. She cackled.
“Kill me? You’re still listening to her. The Wind Runner. I’ll kill her next, don’t you worry. But first—my mother told me to kill you and eat your heart.”
She bent over as the water dragged Mrsha’s limbs down, anchoring her to the ground. Mrsha was panting.
“Please. Please…I know you’re just messed up. Please don’t. Don’t kill her, Pawn.”
Nanette froze, her knife held between her hands, pointed downwards. Mrsha was staring past Nanette at that glowing doorway into the garden. And she seemed truly terrified. Nanette whispered.
[Spikes of My Hatred]. The water exploded into filthy shards of edged liquid, which could pierce mithril. They shot up from beneath Mrsha, but never stabbed the Gnoll girl. She rose, as if the magical edges of liquid were a bed of flowers. And Nanette saw it.
A glowing blue halo over the Gnoll’s head. Then she felt a bright light upon her back. It filled the interior of the inn, and she turned her head. She pointed her wand.
The water barrier separating her and the [Garden of Sanctuary] exploded inwards. Then…
There was a voice, and there was light. All-encompassing light which left room for nothing else but the absence of it. Only light and darkness.
And water. It rushed through the darkness, towards the being who stood in the light, and he spoke. The waters were separated, and he walked upon the ground, between two roiling seas.
Green grass followed him, blooming with every step, wildflowers, and then there was that eternal sky. The [Witch] saw the Antinium raise a hand, and she screamed.
“Die!”
She raised her wand, and a spear of light exited the [Garden of Sanctuary] and carried her off her feet. It pinned her onto the floor, and she screamed, writhing. Pawn spoke, half-turning to the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Enough. I said leave her to me. Tend to Mrsha’s wounds.”
The [Witch] was trying to pull the spear out of her shoulder, but it burned with more pain than she had known. A weapon of faith, such as her mother feared. She gazed up, weeping tears of agony, and saw them.
Antinium. They were in the [Garden of Sanctuary], emerging, warriors of faith and fury, surrounding Mrsha, healing her, helping her up—shielding a terrified Visma.
The Painted Antinium. Hiding with cunning few suspected of them. Pawn kept walking forwards, and he had a single object in his lower left hand. His club.
“I shall take a penance that I did not realize the [Witch] had appeared, Mrsha. I only noticed the spell. That you are alive is Her Will. Now be at peace; I shall remove this threat to your life. Next shall be the Witch of Webs for this sin.”
Him, him! Her mother had warned Nanette about him! She had never struck at Mrsha when the Painted Antinium were anywhere nearby. Nanette could not remove the spear, so she ripped rightwards, shattering bone and flesh to get away. She staggered upright.
“[Tidal Wave: Acid].”
She pointed, and a clear wave of liquid surged towards Pawn. The [Crusaders] reacted, but Pawn smiled.
“Funny.”
He split the wave in half. He didn’t do anything—he just lifted a finger, and it split. The water struck the inn, creating hissing steam from where it met wood, and that bothered Pawn. He turned.
“Protect the inn.”
That let Nanette back up again—the water was mending her injuries, but the Antinium didn’t seem to care. She tried again.
“[Splinterspray Shatterbolt].”
She fired a single shard of ice, like an [Ice Spike], which split midair and kept splitting. It turned into a spray of Tier 4 spells capable of piercing magical armor—Pawn spoke, then.
“[Shield of the Faithful].”
A miasma of golden light surrounded the Antinium and the inn, and the icy [Shatterbolts] cracked and kept exploding throughout the inn, leaving clouds of frost and fragments of ice. Some hit Nanette, but the Antinium didn’t take any damage. She lifted her wand, arms shaking from so many powerful spells cast so fast. Her final attempt was a [Jet of Water] spell, as vast around as Pawn, which should have hit him with enough force to punch a hole in the Antinium, the inn’s walls, and even hit Liscor’s walls.
It split.
“How?”
She stared at him as he walked forward, and Pawn answered calmly.
“Splitting water is a very traditional part of faith, Witch Nanette.”
He raised his club, and she brought up a shield of water to block it. The club went through the water shield and crushed her shoulder and snapped bones and four of her ribs. She fell, shrieking, and someone screamed.
“Pawn, no! Please!”
“I am removing this threat to your life, Mrsha.”
The [Prophet] stood over the Witch of Sorrows and seemed impressed she wasn’t dead. He glanced at Mrsha, confused more than anything, as he put a foot on her back.
“She has tried to kill you at least six times. You tried to remove her yourself. What has changed?”
He tilted his head, and the young Gnoll woman stared at Nanette—and saw the little [Witch] who had asked to be taught how luck worked. The girl…her sister in another timeline. She choked on her words, and Pawn shook his head.
“You are to become an adventurer. They make such harsh decisions constantly. Perhaps you are truly not ready.”
So saying, he raised his club and swung it down at Nanette’s head. He smashed through her skull, and the splash of water struck his vestments. Pawn blinked and raised his club; there was no blood on it, just colored water.
“Oh, very good. She truly is the Witch of Webs’ apprentice.”
His head swivelled, and the [Priest] spoke.
“Where…? Ah, there.”
Nanette was crawling towards the door, disguised; she reappeared as Pawn pointed and the camouflaged puddle of water revealed her. Pawn waved a hand, and walls of light blocked the doors and windows. He strode forwards, casual. She gaped over her shoulder and began pleading to the air.
“Mother? Mother, help me! Mother?”
There was no response. Not from her new ‘mother’, if she was even listening. Mrsha was struggling, shouting as she tried to break free of The One Saved’s gentle grip. She activated a [Siege Fireball], glanced up, and figured out he’d let her blow his arm off before he let go or hurt her. So instead she sprayed him with a grease spell. The Antinium didn’t react—but his hands did slip.
Pawn swung his club at the babbling Witch of Sorrows. She ducked, and he followed the swing, attacking efficiently, but without the speed of a high-level warrior. She backed up, eyes darting around.
“Mother…there’s something strange here. Mother?”
She stumbled against a chair, reached up for the air. Pawn raised his club, and Nanette—grabbed the root. She pulled herself up through the air, and her torso vanished. The [Prophet] wavered.
“What?”
“No!”
Mrsha screamed. Nanette leapt upward with a cry of delight.
Into the [Palace of Fates].
 
——
 
<Primary Dimension — The [Palace of Fates]>
 
Everyone was gathered around the door or inspecting the others and trying to come to grips with the [Palace of Fates] when the [Witch] appeared. She hauled herself through the door one arm at a time, crawling forwards, and brackish water spilled forward around her.
Her torso appeared, then her upper body, like some monster out of a horror film. Like, well.
A bad [Witch].
Nanette lay there, panting a second, as Lyonette slowly turned. She’d been kneeling, trying to speak to her anguished daughter. She blinked.
“Wh—”
Dalimont threw himself forwards, and the jet of water went through his shoulder as he knocked Lyonette aside. Dame Ushar lifted a shield, and the second jet went through her shield—but didn’t penetrate her armor. She staggered as Mrsha recoiled, mouth open.
“Spellcaster! Spellcaster!”
Ushar’s shout roused the hallway of people. The Order of Solstice was fastest on the draw along with the two immortals. Older Nanette was blinking, shuddering from her passage through dimensions. But it didn’t matter.
She peered at the Order of Solstice and spoke.
“[Tidal Wave: Acid].”
The charging [Knights] saw the wave of colorless acid rise up. Durene tried to arrest her charge, eyes wide. Antherr leapt forwards, spreading his arms apart. Ser Normen shouted.
“Shields! [The Bonfire Rages]!”
A blast of green fire burned away some of the acid as the wave came at them. Vess and Ama screamed.
“[Light Wall]!”
“[Bone Wall]!”
Barriers rose, melting as the acid surged around them in a loose current, dissolving through the wall, striking armor—Vess screamed and ripped at his right arm; acid was eating through his leather gear! Durene was howling; her arms and armor were smoking. Antherr swung his greatsword once, sending water spraying away, then sank to his knees, covered in acid.
Of them all, only Jewel had dodged fast enough. She had leapt back, pulling some of the inn’s staff away. A barrier of bone had stopped the egress of the acid wave; Ama’s magic had shielded the rest of the hallway. Steam was rising as Normen clawed at his face. Jewel reached for her belt.
“Healing potions. Healing…”
The [Witch] was crawling forwards, still on her belly. She unleashed another spell in the same moment as her [Acid Wave].
“[Toxic Mists].”
