“Hm. I can sense we are at an impasse. I never fight you when you get strident in my time. I wonder if I should have.”
Another pair of Antinium entered the [Palace of Fates]. The last person standing besides Lyonette and Mrsha was a panting Duke, holding his jaw. Rhisveri was utterly confused.
“It hurts. Why does it hurt?”
Pawn’s smile didn’t match with his rather satisfied tone.
“Ah, a being of magic. A projection. We have met your kind before. [True Damage]. Keep [Paladin] Zolet back. Zolet, keep your damage Skill active on that man. Take him down.”
The [Crusaders] advanced, throwing punches, jabs with the economical movements of trained warriors. The Wyrm took a punch to the stomach and doubled over. He threw a fist which sent one of the Antinium staggering back, but they were Level 40 [Warriors]. Higher.
And it hurt. Lyonette saw his face contorting with agony.
 
——
 
It hurt. Rhisveri hadn’t felt this kind of pain since he’d dueled his own brother to the death. Duke Rhisveri was a scaleless man with flesh—each punch felt like it was tearing up his body.
It didn’t destroy him; it just transmitted the actual pain he should feel to the Wyrm. His main body was contorting in the palace of Ailendamus, writhing about and crying in pain. But he had to—
He threw a fist and watched his noodle-like arm curve in the air. He hit an Antinium, and their feet left the ground.
That hurt too. The shock of the impact radiated up his arm, and his fingers ached. Rhisveri was feeling everything a Human man would. Another punch struck his chest, and he almost gagged with the pain.
He had no armor, no coordination—he could move his body around adeptly with practice, even use it in war, but he had never…brawled with Duke Rhisveri’s body. Arms? He was a Lindwyrm. He had two tiny, little claw arms that didn’t work like bipedal species!
Unfair. These [Crusaders] weren’t [Knights] like his Order of the Hydra. They were here to win, and they thought they were about to see their hearts’ desire come back to life. They fought to take Rhisveri out; they knew he was dangerous. So it was six-on-one, punching him from all sides. The Duke was flinching from the blows, hissing in anger, turning—another blow sent a different Antinium stumbling backwards, armor and all.
They were so high-level, and there was one more thing: Rhisveri had never been a man, never made the mistake of having a body. He was completely unguarded when one of the [Crusaders] strode up and kicked him between the legs so hard his feet left the ground, and he hovered for a good three seconds.
He did black out, then, which was a mercy. The pain woke him up. The Duke sat up blearily; someone had him in a headlock, and they were pinning him down. He shifted, and the tangle of Antinium moved.
“Stop this! Stop hitting him and just—stop bringing your soldiers over!”
“You have nothing to fear from me, Lyonette.”
“Then why are you giving me reasons? I said get off him!”
Aura. It shifted the Antinium clinging to Rhisveri, but didn’t move them. The Duke was trying to get a foot under him, but the Antinium didn’t want to let him do that. Lyonette’s wrath did not move the Antinium, nor her voice.
Her elbow coming down on one of his captors’ heads—did work. The grip loosened, and Rhisveri pushed himself up. He punched blindly around him, flailing. When he could see again, the [Princess] was punching a Worker in priest robes trying to grab her.
Lyonette had joined the fray.
Yeah, that’s going to do nothing. But he appreciated the heart. The Duke muttered.
“How…do you…?”
He threw an uppercut, which appeared lazy and weak. It clipped the head of a [Paladin], who turned, stumbled slightly, but threw a spinning backhand that obliterated Rhisveri’s world for a second. And more were coming.
“This is our world! Do you think you can just walk in here and—”
Lyonette headbutted a [Priest], which hurt her as much as her opponent. The [Priest] twisted her arm, and Pawn reacted to that.
“Don’t—”
“Aaaaagh!”
Peggy jump-kicked the [Priest], and he went flying. Rhisveri, stumbling, saw a hand grab one of the Antinium still trying to kick him in the nuts. The warrior spun around, and Elia Arcsinger threw an amazing right hook and broke her forefinger. But she kept going, grimly throwing an elbow into the Antinium’s face.
She was late, but the Named-rank [Archer] had come with everyone else. She and Bird had trailed behind Rhisveri. He ran too fast. And they’d been in the bathroom.
“Oh, come now. This is ridiculous.”
Pawn was getting annoyed. He pointed, and another wave of Antinium came forwards, led by the one wearing Galuc’s form. One Goblin and two Antinium blocked his path, a Worker and a Soldier.
Rosencrantz, Goldbody, and Inkpaper.
“Stand aside, little friends. I do not want to hurt you. I am gifted with the form of our hero.”
The [Paladin] grabbed one of Inkpaper’s arms and leveraged it, sending the Hobgoblin down to his knees in agony. He grabbed Rosencrantz bodily as the Worker kicked and punched.
“You—are—not being nice! This is my inn. Get out, get out! [Conjure: Inn Supplies]!”
The Worker shouted. He threw a bucket, which bounced off the Galuc-Antinium’s face. Disapprovingly, the Antinium rumbled.
“You do not know what we can be. You are children.”
“And you have no right to wear Galuc’s face.”
A flying Antinium drew the mighty Antinium’s attention. His head turned, and Bird kicked him in the face. The Antinium stumbled.
“Who—?”
Bird landed on the Antinium’s head and twisted both antennae before buzzing off the [Paladin]’s head as he swatted at her. Rhisveri swiped another Antinium off his feet. He saw the backhand [Paladin] raise a fist.
—That was a Skill. The punch sent Rhisveri rolling head over heels until he hit a wall and cracked it.
“Do not harm the others. The Duke is fine.”
Pawn cautioned the others, and one of the new Antinium sprinted towards Rhisveri, boot ready to kick him in the face.
A blur took the warrior off his feet. The other Antinium reacted instantly, and a figure got off the unconscious warrior. She spun, caught a fist, and threw an elbow that dropped a second Antinium. One of the [Paladins] grunted.
“Vampire.”
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle’s eyes were flashing as she raised her hands in a very good-looking pose. An Antinium went to grab her from behind, and Numbtongue kicked the Soldier’s leg out from behind. The Hobgoblin grunted as he shoved the Antinium to the ground.
“This is crazy.”
That was his line. Rhisveri sat up. He got up and saw Lyonette was backing away—but the inn’s staff were here.
Peggy and Rosencrantz, Colfa, Elia, Bird—they were making a last stand against a similar number of Antinium. Mostly because all of the members of The Wandering Inn were pinned to the floor. Mrsha was on her feet, standing next to Pawn, refusing to fight. He was patting her head as he called out.
“Lyonette, please stop. Don’t force me to strive against you. And who…is that Antinium?”
He didn’t recognize Bird, which Rhisveri was confused about. Or maybe it was the blows to his head. That spinning backhand [Paladin] was walking towards the Wyrm, slightly unsteadily. The Antinium raised his fists and then fell forwards on his face. The other four advancing on Rhisveri glanced at their friend, then kept coming.
Pawn was so focused on the nonlethal battle that he was surprised when someone tapped him on the shoulder.
“For someone who lived in our inn, you’ve forgotten we never back down. How about you take a turn?”
Pawn’s head spun as Ishkr punched him. Instantly, every Painted Antinium whirled, but the [Prophet] just shook his head out.
“Ishkr. I never truly lived in the inn, as you were blessed to do. I envied you, but Erin has always asked more of me.”
“No. You never asked her. Come on.”
Ishkr backpedaled as Pawn held up a hand, then threw a swift punch. The Antinium stepped forwards, and Yelroan hit him with a chair from the inn. This time, Pawn did get mad as the chair broke, and Yelroan swore.
“I don’t know you eith—”
Ishkr and Yelroan jumped Pawn with a shout, and then it was just Rhisveri. Lyonette was darting around him as a four—five—six Antinium and one Wyrm brawl began again. She was throwing punches, trying to pull them off him.
They kept coming from the door. She was shouting.
“Get off him! Get off—Rhisveri!”
“Can’t remember how it goes. I hate arms.”
He mumbled at her. Duke Rhisveri’s nose was bleeding badly, probably broken. He kept ‘healing’ his puppet. It was just a thing of mana.
It was just pain. Lots of it. Lyonette gaped at him, and then she raised her hand.
“[Boon of the Princess]!”
The Wyrm’s puffy eyes opened slightly as a voice spoke in his head. Bright and crisp and all-seeing.
The Grand Design (Second Edition) turned off a requirement that only the levelled could receive Skills. Because it saw her thoughts. Because it agreed, it said:
 
[Temporary Skill – Advanced Proficiency: Boxing assigned!]
[Temporary Skill – Brawler’s Footwork assigned!]
 
Rhisveri felt a sense of…certainty. He understood, suddenly, how to move, and he actually ducked a punch straight into a flying knee. His head came up, and then?
He was alone.
Yelroan and Ishkr were lying sprawled on the ground. Colfa was biting at four Antinium pinning her. Lyonette was backed against a wall, and Peggy, Rosencrantz, Goldbody, Inkpaper, all the Antinium and Goblins were down.
Numbtongue, already bruised and battered, went down, swearing, punching at an Antinium whose armor and carapace shrugged the blows off like nothing.
Elia and Bird were both being held against the floor by the Galuc-Antinium.
“Someone get—get Todi! Get Captain Earlia! Call for—mmfph!”
A hand fell over Lyonette’s mouth, and she was a struggling, furious [Princess] held in one of the [Crusaders]’ grips. Rhisveri was being punched from all sides, and Pawn glanced around, sighing, as another Antinium ducked into the [Palace of Fates].
“Bring her over here. Now, will you listen? You there, go back and admit our Mrsha. And our Lyonette and anyone from this world. Let’s have a reasonable discussion. The rest of you are to secure this place—”
Someone walked up as Rhisveri reeled and mashed his nose in again. Noses. He hated them. He kicked back, the first time he’d done it, and an Antinium flew and hit the Order of Solstice’s captors. They tried to get up, failed.
Something like…this. Someone poked Rhisveri’s eye out, and he screamed. He headbutted the poking Antinium, bigger than he was, in the chest and punched another in the face. His fingers jarred with the impact.
Headlock—Rhisveri ran backwards until he hit a wall, and the hands came off him. Another Antinium took the moment to run after him and kick him in the stomach so hard the Wyrm vomited in his real body. He came off the wall, jabbing until the figure retreated.
Now it was eight on one. The Antinium had to stand back to let their comrades hit him. Rhisveri threw a punch and hit the six-armed Soldier at the same time as he was hit. His head twisted around in a way that would have been fatal for anyone but him.
Like this. Yes, just like this. This was how Tolveilouka had beat him down, right? No—faster. He could barely see through one eye; the Wyrm was controlling the body on instinct, mana signatures. He turned and threw his next punch faster.
Faster. Merciless. Just—keep—punching—until you have them against a wall and you smash their skulls in.
They didn’t let him do that. They were doing that to him. Someone tried to sweep his legs. He threw a knee, and they grabbed his legs. Then they had him on the ground, and they were stomping on him. He flailed, pushed himself up, and sent them flying in a shower.
Found the nearest Antinium and punched them in the chest. They rolled down the hallway on their back shell, skidding by the screaming [Princess], who stopped shouting to stare at the Antinium that kept sliding a dozen feet, three dozen, sixty before finally stopping.
Then the [Princess] saw the Wyrm turn and headbutt an Antinium at the same time as they kneed him in the balls again. His opponent fell down and lay on their back shell, twitching. They had a helmet on, but the Wyrm…
The Wyrm ate six punches and threw one. An Antinium spun around three times and straightened. The [Crusader] shook their head like a dog. Then they began wandering around. They fell down as the others dogpiled Rhisveri again. And he stood up, threw them off him, and—
Pawn’s head slowly turned from Lyonette.
“Hm. You—go.”
The image of Galuc let go of Bird and Elia and strode forward.
 
——
 
“Taletevirion! Taletevirion, help!”
Asgra finally found the Unicorn. The Goblin had been running from hallway to hallway until she found him. He was sitting in front of an archway of twisting vines. A door set into the vast trunk of a tree.
To the Unicorn, there were no hallways. Just a vast forest, and the doors of his heart were set along the tallest tree in Asgra’s dreams. She halted, and the urgency made her scream.
“Help! There are bad Antinium attacking us!”
“Mhm.”
The Unicorn was staring at something. At an image of himself, a younger Taletevirion. Asgra grabbed his arm and stopped.
Taletevirion in the door was dead. He was lying in a pile of his own gore, a Unicorn whose life was fleeing his body as he stared at his entrails, and [Knights] thundered past him.
“It was so easy. A hundred thousand times. Just like this. Now what came next?”
The Unicorn sat there on a vast toadstool for a seat and studied another door. Countless doors were open, showing…his deaths. But that was not what interested him. It was what came after. He didn’t even look down as the Goblin tried to pull at him.
“Please. Please. They’re bad.”
“Are they killing you? I sense no blood.”
“No. No…but they…”
The Unicorn turned away, his silver-eyes lost in this [Palace of Fates]. And he alone used it as it had been meant. A door called to him. He stood and saw the image of a single blooming seed upon it.
“Leave me alone, girl. You have all you need. You have a Wyrm.”
Asgra stared up at Taletevirion, and she didn’t know what he meant. But the Unicorn just turned his head as he sensed the life-forces of the fighting to his right. He shook his head.
“How silly. You don’t need me.”
 
——
 
He’d never felt such pain before. The Duke stood from the crater in the ground the Galuc-Antinium had punched him into. Then he threw a punch back, and the giant rocked, taking a step back.
“Do not falter, Caneduc! You are the will of the Painted Antinium!”
