A [Priest] shouted, and the warrior lumbered forwards under a Skill. Which wasn’t fair—he swung Rhisveri into a wall. The Wyrm pushed the fist off himself and hopped. Bloody-faced, he headbutted Caneduc in the head. The Antinium recoiled.
Not yet. Not quite yet. Just like this. Rhisveri was a mess. He couldn’t see. Both his bodies were hurt; he was writhing around in Ailendamus, ignoring the immortals asking what was wrong. But he was—
Throw a punch like that damn half-Elf. Faster, faster. And keep punching. Up, down, left, right until he’s not punching back. Then kick him.
The Painted Antinium moved aside as a vast shape crashed backwards. They turned—the form of Galuc shrank until a Soldier lay on his back shell, immobile.
“Form ranks. Permission to use Skills, Bishop?”
“Settle this without blades.”
They came at him, and he only had two arms and two legs. They had lots. Bastards. He lost track of how many blows he took.
Punch. An Antinium fell down and didn’t get back up.
Kick—he hit them so hard they spat blood out, and Pawn raised a hand.
“[Mend All Wounds]. Just—”
The [Prophet] stopped as another Antinium backflipped over his head. The Wyrm grabbed another and threw them, and Antinium went flying. He cast around, staggering, and realized Colfa was on her feet.
There were no Antinium left to hold her down. Rhisveri waited for her to tackle an Antinium again, and she just stood there against one wall, staring at him.
“A little help?”
He growled and didn’t understand why she gave him a startled look. The Wyrm raised his fists and staggered forwards. The Painted Antinium drew back. They were eyeing each other, hands on their blades. One drew a weapon, and Rhisveri lifted a finger.
“Ah. Are we doing that? I can do that.”
He was bluffing. He didn’t want to know what being stabbed felt like.
The blade snapped back into its sheath, and they charged him. Rhisveri pushed, and a clump of Antinium went skidding backwards, then they slammed him off his feet. They were so—strong—
Get back up. The Wyrm saw one of the Antinium guard against his punch. The Wyrm did it again, just like the half-Elf had once hit him.
Magic. Concentrate the mana in this silly body’s magical circuits. Until it was overloading—it didn’t matter. Push all the magic in his soul into his arms, his legs, his body—and swing a fist.
 
——
 
The Wyrm was blazing like a second sun. Mrsha’s eyes were wide as she stood beside Pawn. He had no magical training; he couldn’t see what she could. But even Mrsha and Lyonette could see every magical circuit glowing in Rhisveri’s body.
Like a network of veins and arteries of pure magic. That pathetic man—the Wyrm of Ailendamus had a bloody nose, messed up hair.
When he raised his arm and drew it back, the Antinium fell back. The Wyrm swung so slowly—he must have thought he was punching underwater. And it was slow; the Antinium trying to block his fists was stepping backwards, or tried to.
But the air was rippling behind Rhisveri. He swung his fist, and Mrsha saw the air distort.
Magic met faith. The Antinium vanished. Mrsha felt something pick her up, and Pawn caught her before the wake of Rhisveri’s blow pulled her after the Antinium. She swore she saw a tiny dot flying down the hallway in a perfect line.
The Antinium picked themselves up as the Wyrm caught his breath. He raised another fist and clearly wondered why they were backing away from him.
“Mrsha. Who is that?”
Pawn hissed in her ear, and Mrsha was genuinely dumbfounded. She realized…she really didn’t know.
 
——
 
Empress Sheta appeared where the Antinium had landed; she’d given up on flying.
“Two thousand feet or thereabouts. Not bad.”
So there were still Wyrms left. Even funny ones like that.
 
——
 
Keep going. More magic. More magic in his fist. It was so damn heavy—so he had to punch faster. Harder. Rhisveri charged into the group, throwing punches.
 
Faster—faster—he punched an Antinium off their feet and hit them again in their Adamantium chestplate.
One. Their feet left the ground, and they were jumping back. 
One-two. No, it was the momentum of his punches. A bit of spittle from their mandibles hung in the air as Rhisveri punched. Faster. 
One-two-three-four—the piece of spittle was still hovering there.
He got in seven punches before they flew away, so he turned and found someone else to punch. He just had to keep fighting—
Then they stopped hitting him. Which he was grateful about. Rhisveri realized they’d stopped when someone approached him. He nearly punched Lyonette, but halted.
“Wh—oh, it’s you.”
She flinched and gave him a wide-eyed stare. He knew he had to look like a fright. Pathetic.
“I can still keep going. Come on, let’s…”
He didn’t so much walk at the Antinium lined up around the door to their future as side-shuffle like a drunk zombie. But they didn’t come at him. A lot of them were lying down, and Pawn…stood there, greatly unhappy. Or so Rhisveri assumed. His mandibles were down.
“Enough.”
He took a step forwards, and the Painted Antinium stirred.
“Bishop, get back. That is—”
Pawn had his club in his hand, and Rhisveri saw the Antinium visibly hesitate. He was glancing at the staff of The Wandering Inn—who stood behind Rhisveri—at the Wyrm, and his tone grew frustrated for the first time.
“Enough. This is pointless, and violence does not befit this day. Fifty.”
“Five!”
Lyonette called back, sounding breathless and disbelieving. Rhisveri stopped his offensive shuffle, glancing at her. She was holding him by the elbow and whispered to him.
“Just stay standing. Please, Rhisveri?”
“I can still keep fighting.”
He muttered, and Pawn twitched.
“Twenty. I will not risk—”
“Ten. Whichever ten you want, but it will be ten. Or we continue however it goes, Pawn.”
The [Prophet] was staring at Rhisveri. The Duke wiped his nose.
“I hate noses.”
The silence from the [Prophet] was long and ominous, and the light took on a harsh, painful edge, so much so the other Painted Antinium shifted away from him. But at last, Pawn nodded.
“It’s the least attractive feature of Lyonette’s face. Ten, then. Let’s discuss this civilly. Withdraw. Get me Purple Smiles and nine of our highest-level…nevermind, I will go myself. Hold this ground no matter what.”
Rhisveri stood there stupidly, not really getting what had gone on. He saw Antinium helping each other through the door. Only the big one’s arm stayed there. Ten Antinium formed a line around the door, and Rhisveri gaped at Lyonette.
She was hugging him.
“You did it. Thank you.”
“Huh? My face hurts.”
She was wiping his face with the sleeve of her shirt and demanding a cloth and potion. He tried to tell her he didn’t need healing and it wouldn’t work, but she insisted on cleaning the blood off. Rhisveri sat there on the ground as people crowded around him.
They were all giving him space, but they insisted on clapping him on the shoulder, like Ser Normen. He wished they wouldn’t. It was too touchy-feely for him.
Rhisveri decided he hated brawling.
 
——
 
Hello, little Miss Mrsha. Are you well?
Someone handed Mrsha a notecard, and she blinked at it. Then up at the person who had communicated in her method.
Everyone was patching themselves up after that incredible throwdown—the inn’s staff were getting up and backing away from the Painted Antinium, who were getting their wounded members on their feet or healing them.
Rhisveri’s punches had done 90% of the damage the Antinium had suffered. They were actually retreating through the door to their world, but a few fresh Antinium had arrived. Mrsha wondered how many of the Painted Antinium there were. She had a feeling it was more than enough to overwhelm the entire inn, and possibly all of Liscor.
The first of the newcomers hadn’t been at the brawl, for which Mrsha was profoundly grateful. He handed her the card, and she looked up, then hugged him.
Purple Smiles. You didn’t punch anyone?
I was delayed.
One of the [Paladin]’s antennae twitched at Mrsha as he waved a hand, and then they began hand-signing at each other. Mrsha was the only non-Antinium on the Painted Antinium’s side of the corridor. Even Lyonette was staying well back, though she was watching her daughter anxiously.
“[This is crazy.]”
“[Yup, crazy. You are very young and cute. I am sorry it became violent. Pawn believes in things strongly. Some call him ____.]”
“[I don’t know that word, Purple Smiles.]”
He paused to write on a notecard, and his writing was almost as good as hers! She wondered if she’d taught him how to write.
Fanatical; overzealous and single-minded. Obsessed.
“[Oh.]”
“[But I would not call him that. I hope this can all be solved peacefully. Pawn may listen to you. He would listen to Erin if she were here.]”
Mrsha…wasn’t sure about either thing, but Purple Smiles believed it. He seemed earnest and good, if more eloquent than the silent Soldier she remembered. Actually—he’d been pretty suave back then.
“[What happened to everyone, Purple Smiles? Are you the only old Antinium left? Where’s Bird or Anand or Yellow Splatters?]”
The question made Purple Smiles pause, and Mrsha’s heart sank as she saw the answer. Don’t ask what you don’t want to know. But then Purple Smiles turned his back to Pawn and answered swiftly.
“[Do not talk about Yellow Splatters to Pawn. Try to convince Pawn. You must, Mrsha. Bird and Anand are dead, may their souls rest in Heaven. But not Yellow Splatters.]”
“[Why?]”
The Soldier had no words he could hand-sign, so he wrote slowly, after a moment. He handed Mrsha a card, and the hair on her body rose.
Yellow Splatters is the First Sinner of the faith. He was condemned to hell for his blasphemy. He claimed Heaven did not exist. It is forbidden to speak of him.
The girl stood there, and then peeked at Pawn behind Purple Smiles’ back. The Bishop noticed Mrsha and waved her over, and she came at once.
Pawn stepped away from the Soldier who’d been punched two thousand feet away. The Antinium was unconscious, but fully healed, and Pawn rubbed at one shoulder. He was visibly and audibly angry, but he patted Mrsha on the head.
“At least one person can be trusted. Watch the others, Purple Smiles. I shall go back through the door momentarily to…restrategize. But first—you there. Ser Normen. You are not the man I remember. Come here. I had intended to do this in due time, but Her gifts are not to be put aside, even with strife between us.”
He beckoned imperiously, and Normen strode over, heedless of the hissed warnings from the others. The one-eyed man faced down Pawn, expression set.
“Yes?”
“Where did you gain those wounds? I recall you as a simple guard. A [Thug], but one who fought well to defend the inn. You perished during the…Mother of Graves’ actions.”
Mrsha felt a weird chill down her spine when Pawn said that, and Normen’s face didn’t move. His eye narrowed further.
“I fought the Bloodfeast Raiders after Miss Solstice elevated me to a [Knight].”
“Ah. Then you are blessed. I would hear of her deeds—but it seems to me we are not on friendly terms.”
“No. We are not.”
The Order of Solstice were blazing hot, and Normen spoke between gritted teeth.
“Meeting you is a fine lesson, sir. Next time we meet, we’ll be more ready.”
“You speak as if we are enemies.”
“The bruises on my face suggest we are, sir.”
Normen was edging closer, Pawn’s Antinium turning to him, but Pawn was unmoved. He lifted a finger.
“I quite dislike this version of you, Ser Normen. But I have said again and again I intend to show good faith. You are a sterling example of that. Hold still and I shall restore your flesh.”
He reached out with a finger, and Normen swayed back instantly. Mrsha’s eyes went round.
You’re going to heal him? Can you do that?
“It is harder to heal scars than fresh wounds, but of course. Do you object, Ser Normen?”
To Mrsha’s surprise, the [Grandmaster] of the Order of Solstice objected, very much so. He backed away, shaking his head.
“I will not be healed by you.”
His good eye blazed green and hot, and Pawn made a clicking sound of annoyance.
“Do not be stubborn. I offer you pure healing and you refuse?”
Normen’s jaw worked, and he glanced over his shoulder at his fellow [Knights]. Jewel hadn’t heard the discussion, but Mrsha felt like she’d have definite opinions on Normen turning down free healing. The [Knight] whispered back, his voice intense.
“My scars are who I am. I failed to stop the raiders, and I was burned. Sometimes, you fail and deserve the marks. I am these scars. Take them away from me and I will take off my hat.”
His hand fell to his mace, and Pawn just stared at him, incredulous, as one hand scratched at his head. The Bishop’s voice turned acerbic.
“I…see. Truly, this is the best of timelines. If you are a man of such conviction and will never regret that choice, I see no reason to argue with you. But let me ask you this: would you at least consent to an eye? Because I assume, with my limited understanding of a warrior’s machismo, that having one eye impairs some of your abilities.”
Normen hesitated. His hand rose to the burnt socket of his left eye, which you had to admit, might impair his depth perception and vision, but really added to his intimidation factor. He glanced back at the [Knights], at Mrsha, then gave a grudging nod.
“Just the eye.”
Pawn reached out and tapped the [Knight] none-too-gently in the socket. Normen swore and recoiled with an oath. Then he froze and lowered his hand.
A second flint-and-violet eye stared out of his face. Mrsha’s jaw dropped, and Pawn lifted his hands.
“Praise be Erin, who has compassion on even those who are too stoneheaded to receive more than a free eyeball. I didn’t even touch your scars. Now, if you will excuse me, I need to tend to my flock. I will be back momentarily.”
He turned to the door that led into his world and strode through it. Normen stood there, eying—with both eyes—Mrsha, and then he walked back to the others. They blinked at him, then a cry of surprise and delight rose from the Order of Solstice—
Mrsha stood there. Such were his wonders. Such was his wrath—she saw Purple Smiles giving her a thumbs up and wished she could return the gesture. Then Mrsha was waiting. Pawn passed through the door, and she distinctly heard him mutter—
“Unbelievable.”
Which you had to admit was really funny coming from him.
 
——
 
<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 2 — “Ten Years Later”>
 
Pawn emerged through the doorway, and Mrsha sagged in relief—then alarm as she saw Antinium emerging, shells cracked, looking like they’d fought a damn war.
“What the hell’s going on? What happened?”
