The [Midnight Shard] swerved and missed him. Visophecin fired two more, then a spray of flames. Both curved, and the flames parted around Pawn. The Antinium regarded Visophecin.
“You seem to believe we are enemies. I am giving you one chance. That was it.”
His club-hand had a ring on it. Visophecin discerned what it was.
A Ring of Protection?
The Lucifen leapt for Pawn. He grabbed the Antinium, spinning to throw him, and the Antinium was not nearly as strong as his [Crusader]. Visophecin was braced for a blow from that club. He felt Pawn swing it once and—
It felt like his entire body was aflame. His very soul was laid bare in front of piercing light—agony worse than any wound he had ever taken. 
How long he writhed, he didn’t know. The Lucifen realized he was screaming, then, screaming and burning. Set aflame in gold and agony. He tried to put them out, tried to speak, tried to act, but he could only burn. Something opposite to all he was was slowly destroying him bit by bit.
The worst part was that in the midst of that torment that lasted an age?
He longed for it, that glorious, distant light.
 
——
 
Viscount Visophecin was aflame. A single blow was all it took; a light tap, almost, from Pawn’s club. It had ignited him like a match doused in oil, and he writhed, screaming on the ground, mouth open but never making a sound.
If Lyonette du Marquin had any doubt that Visophecin’s instincts had been right or that this…future Pawn was as terrible as Mrsha clearly feared, it was gone when she saw what the Antinium did next.
He seemed surprised as she was by the way the Lucifen had gone up in fire. But then he stood over the immolating figure, curious and distant, as if the suffering mattered not at all. He spoke sidelong to her.
“Curious. [Holy Rebuke] normally does not work that well. But perhaps it is a mark of faith? Or who he is.”
“Put him out. You’re killing him.”
“In time. He will survive this, and I have grown tired of his attacks on my people.”
Pawn watched as a hand curled near his boots and uncurled, and Lyonette’s voice rose.
“Put out that flame!”
The Antinium turned, seemed both surprised and pleased, but he did not rock back in the face of her aura.
“Ah, Lyonette. You are as beautiful as you were back then.”
He held out his four hands, and she stepped back behind Dame Ushar. Pawn caught himself and lifted a finger.
“Of course, you are a beautiful woman today. Distinguished, dignified, not matronly despite the word being a compliment. And eternally young, nay, youthful and radiant. You haven’t changed a day since I met you.”
He coughed into one fist, then glanced at Lyonette.
“The future you is somewhat peculiar about her age. Despite merely turning thirty. I suppose he has had enough.”
He waved a hand, and the Lucifen collapsed. Lyonette covered her mouth with her hands. Visophecin was burnt on every visible part of his body. He resembled—Ser Normen after he had been burned alive.
And Ser Normen himself was here, setting himself with Jewel and Antherr in a line between them and Pawn. The [Priest], or whatever class he had, peered at Normen.
“I don’t know you. Who…no, I don’t recall a burned man. And is that Empress Durene? My. How strange.”
“Who…is this Pawn? Where did the [Witch] go? Step back.”
Normen’s voice was hoarse with pain, but his green flames were glowing bright, and he stared at Pawn with the same wariness as the others. Lyonette turned.
“Mrsha?”
What did her daughter think of all this? Mrsha held up a card, and Pawn sighed.
“Mrsha. Hello! Is what I think true? You are all so hostile. I swear, I do not wish to harm any of you. We all love Erin Solstice, do we not?”
Antinium were emerging through the door. One leapt through with a spear in hand, and Pawn caught them before they could attack.
“Hold. Hold. These are all friends. Do not attack.”
The [Crusader] instantly lowered their spear, and Lyonette stared. They were not an Antinium type she recognized. The head was the same, but this was a taller, ganglier Antinium, proportioned like a Human or Gnoll or Drake. And he spoke.
“By your will, Bishop. What shall we do?”
“Send through the faithful. Send one back to tell the others to hold the inn. Ensure Mrsha is safe. Admit no one else. Recall the entire crusade here. Kill the Witch of Sorrows—”
Another cry from the [Princess].
“No!”
“—if she is not already dead.”
“She may have escaped, Bishop. It will be done.”
The Antinium stepped back and grabbed the next Antinium passing through. It was slow—the process must be disconcerting, and those coming through had to haul themselves into the [Palace of Fates] for the first time, breaching that invisible barrier between worlds. But every second that passed, another Antinium was joining the others.
I didn’t know this could happen. Mrsha clearly didn’t. This—this is very, very bad.
No matter what this Pawn said, his actions made Lyonette exceptionally nervous. But it was Mrsha who came forwards with a smile and a note.
Hey, Pawn, this is all crazy. Adult Mrsha was here, and we just sent her back. Is she okay? You need to check on her. She knows how to bring Erin back. Your Erin. You hafta stop bringing Antinium through, though, or you’ll break the door forever. Your Mrsha’s going to revive Erin.
When the Antinium saw that, they froze like Mrsha had [Paralyzed] them. Pawn himself stood there, antennae frozen, then he sighed.
“At last. At last.”
Several Antinium fell to their knees, and Mrsha waved the card urgently.
But you have to go back or the doors will break!
She was so earnest, so calm, that Lyonette was proud of her daughter, despite all of it. Pawn almost turned back to the door right then and there, but he halted. He glanced back, studied the card, and then eyed Mrsha.
“Interesting. You want me to leave very, very badly. Do you fear me, Mrsha?”
What? No. The doors—
Pawn glanced at the door as two more Antinium emerged, big ones. The Order of Solstice didn’t back up; more of them came forwards, looking to Normen and Lyonette.
“It seems fine to me. And if it breaks, what of it? Faith moves mountains. Not that I have had to do that yet. Hah. Hahaha. That was a joke.”
His attempt at humor elicited no response. Normen growled.
“You’re bringing through a lot of warriors. Tell them to halt.”
Pawn glanced at the [Knight], then shook his head.
“No. I don’t think I will. I believe, Mrsha; I have faith with all my heart. But if I am here, I would be a fool to turn around when it appears this door can be shut and, possibly, locked. Here I stand in a hallway full of doors. And in the past. I stand here, and I see the value of this place. What is it called?”
The [Palace of Fates]. If you are trapped here, what will happen, Pawn?
Mrsha was at her most earnest, serious, reasonable self Lyonette had ever seen, which told the [Princess] how terrified the girl was. And that—Lyonette figured—was the problem.
Pawn knew Mrsha. The Antinium replied calmly.
“If I am trapped, then I will preach the faith, the truth, and the way of Erin Solstice, our Goddess of the Inn, to this world until the door can be opened again. If I am trapped, I will go to her and see her. For there is an Erin Solstice in this world and countless beings who do not yet know the faith. Even my own self does not understand yet. And the Erin Solstice of this world does live, does she not?”
Mrsha said nothing. She gazed wordlessly up at her mother, and Lyonette felt a pit of actual fear open in her chest. This well-meaning…high-level stranger smiled, and he spread his arms.
“Yes. This changes everything.”
Into this moment, Lyonette du Marquin made a decision. She spoke carefully.
“Pawn? I am your Lyonette of the past. This is Mrsha. Dame Ushar is my trusted [Knight], and that is Normen. You knew him. We are all friends of Erin Solstice.”
“Normen. Of course! What happened to you? Let me heal you.”
Pawn reached for Normen, who recoiled, and Lyonette spoke louder.
“Normen? These are Pawn’s Painted Antinium. We are all allies. You understand this, Pawn?”
He turned to her and tilted his head.
“Of course.”
The [Princess]’ lips thinned in a smile.
“Good. Then stop bringing them over or you will disrupt this Skill.”
“I cannot do that, Lyonette.”
“Very well. Vaulont? Normen? Push them out of here, now. No blades! Duke Rhisveri, help! Asgra, find Taletevirion! Close the door to the [Palace of Fates]!”
Everyone moved as Lyonette shouted. She saw Normen hesitate, lower his mace, and charge with the Order of Solstice. Lyonette pointed, screaming for Ushar and Dalimont to help.
She knew it was a bad idea. She had just seen Visophecin lose to three Antinium—but there were a dozen here already, and if she had waited, she was certain Pawn would have brought countless more over. Hundreds. Then he could be nice and reasonable, and she could try all the diplomacy she wanted—but she was sure he wouldn’t leave until he had everything he wanted.
And she had one card up her sleeve Pawn had never encountered in his timeline:
Duke Rhisveri.
 
——
 
When Rosencrantz had run down the corridors screaming the alarm, Rhisveri had been the first person he’d found. The Duke had been staring through a door at a Dryad. Just…a Dryad, no great immortal. There had been a time when her people were numerous as could be. But only one in the world mattered to him.
He hadn’t replied until the Antinium had screamed at him that Lyonette and Mrsha were under attack, then he’d turned and run.
When he’d seen Visophecin, lying blackened on the floor, Rhisveri had been about to cast a spell to turn all these Antinium to dust. Only a single [Message] had stopped him.
Above Level 50. Too strong.
Visophecin. So the Wyrm had waited, listening, understanding what was going on, and gathering his strength. He was no simulacrum, but he was ‘Duke Rhisveri’, made of mana as the real Wyrm gave him power.
Across the ocean in his world, the Wyrm was coiled in the middle of the biggest spell circle he had, projecting all his mana to the Duke, all his focus. When Lyonette gave the order, the Duke cast a spell.
No swords.
“[Hand of the Spectral Giant]. [Aegis of Debilitation], [Mass Paralysis]!”
Giant, glowing orange hands appeared and began grabbing Antinium up and hurling them towards the door. Rings of red light encircled others, draining them of their vitality, and thin rays of green light struck the Antinium and Pawn.
They fell or went flying as the Order of Solstice charged them bare-handed. Rhisveri saw half a dozen topple over, and Pawn—
Stiffened, then touched the Antinium around him with his four hands. They got back up.
Two of Rhisveri’s six magical hands exploded as an Antinium threw a spear through them. Another Antinium grabbed Durene and halted her charge, to her incredulity. A [Priest] raised what looked like an amber amulet high overhead.
“[Holy Word—]”
It felt like someone had kicked Rhisveri in the face, even across the ocean. The Wyrm himself recoiled with a cry and realized everyone but the Antinium were on the ground. He forced the Duke up, cast another spell—
Searing pain. This time, the Wyrm actually screamed out loud, and the Duke grabbed that spear of light in his shoulder. It hurt! It hurt so badly—
“No wounds! Do not hurt them or be condemned to hell!”
Pawn thundered, and the [Crusaders] halted. They grappled with Normen and the [Knights]; Rhisveri lifted his hands, hesitated as he saw the Antinium grabbing odd relics of their own, and decided to just—
He punched one of the Antinium, sending them reeling backwards, shoved another across the ground with inhuman strength. Then an Antinium with bare fists walked over to Rhisveri, dodged a shove, and threw an uppercut.
The Great Wyrm of Ailendamus jerked, and his main body’s head rose, went up and over. He landed on his back as the worst pain yet exploded in his head. It felt like someone had just…punched him in the jaw.
That’s impossible. I turned pain off after Tolveilouka. H—
A second punch of blinding pain. Rhisveri threw the Antinium back and saw Normen tackle the figure. All the [Knights] were tossing punches, shoving, and—losing?
Losing.
They were outlevelled. The Antinium were throwing off Rhisveri’s enchantments, and even the ones who weren’t direct [Warriors] were just—strong. And they hadn’t even begun using their Skills.
The one wrestling Durene was evenly-matched until Pawn spoke.
“Activate your Aegis, [Paladin].”
The struggling [Paladin] backed up as Durene forced him back, teeth bared. The Troll girl with her [Enhanced Strength] was winning. Then she felt her opponent rising. Her eyes went round, and her arms trembled as two of his arms grabbed her shoulders, the other two her sides.
The biggest Antinium she had ever seen in her life, taller than her, lifted Durene up in a bear hug. Then he tossed her like a child.
“[Aegis of the Martyr: The Form of Galuc]. Stand down or suffer.”
The giant boomed down at the [Knights] of Solstice, and the Antinium of the past beheld a giant in the form of a Soldier or Worker, a massive beetle’s body, and four arms, legs like stumps, the mightiest being they had been made in the image of.
Galuc of the Centenium. He picked up Sillias in one hand as the cat clawed at him and crunched the cat into pieces. Ama shrieked and pointed her wand at the giant.
A [Priest] blinded her with a single word. Then the second Antinium grew two feet, and another pair of arms sprouted from their back. They locked down Ser Normen’s arms, no matter how hard he struggled, lifting him off the ground.
Lyonette’s side was losing. Each Antinium grabbed a [Knight] of Solstice, Dame Ushar, Ser Dalimont—three of them bore a blur of motion to the ground.
Vaulont the Ash had knocked two Antinium through the door and one clean out in a surprise attack, but this time, the Vampire assassin hadn’t managed to turn the tides. Lyonette cast around.
“Vaulont? Someone get—Todi—?”
Not everyone was here yet. Elia was missing, as was Bird, but in this nonviolent altercation or even in a violent one—! She took a step back as a [Templar] approached her, but the Antinium halted.
“We do not harm the Bishop’s beloved or chosen of the inn. We are the faithful, Councilwoman Lyonette. We await Erin Solstice’s return. Please, do not fight us.”
The [Templar] seemed confused, as if this was all some great misunderstanding and they were just trying to subdue the situation. Which—they were, from their perspective.
But Pawn. The Antinium just stood there, and she swore if he had eyebrows, he would have raised them.
“You see? Well, you are more reasonable than this ‘Visophecin’. But why do you fear me so, Lyonette?”
“Stop bringing your Painted Antinium through.”
