The alarm was already ringing as the [Numerologist] turned. He raised one huge fist, which could crush lesser men in moments, wearing the form of the greatest Ogre he had known. Then he heard screaming.
His [Guards]. Lesser [Slavers] in their own right, pathetic and ill-spirited compared to the fine men and women he had known, assigned to him. They shrieked in ways that made Thatalocian’s skin chill. Men and women screamed as they died. But the cries of pain, of mortal death, were not the same as the screams that emerged when one died.
These sounded like a Seamwalker’s get was butchering them. Thatalocian drew a staff from the desk, written with numbers, and raised it overhead as he opened the door to his quarters. When he saw the first figure coming down the hallway, the [Numerologist] froze.
The ghost of the man who had survived the age when magic itself had died saw the first glowing figure breach a corner of the hallway. The checkpoint he had insisted be built, staffed with [Slavers] and magical and physical defenses, was being torn apart by a dozen of them.
Beings of light, mandibles open and screaming like insects—with wings. Wings, mouths, eyes, and arms.
Too many of each. A blinking, Human eye stared out of the summoned visage of a Worker with six pairs of insectile wings. Thatalocian saw lips moving, yelling, on the Antinium’s body.
The being of Pawn’s Heaven ran forwards, and it had eleven mouths, each of a different kind, six wings, four arms, and fifty-nine eyes. Each one stared out of Heaven’s gates with wrath at the enemies of Erin Solstice.
A screaming [Slaver] died as a foot caved in a skull. The heavenly Worker passed by a cowering [Slave], ignoring the spear trying to stab it; the magic barely had any effect, and this being had no fear of its death. It ran down the corridor at Thatalocian.
It’s her. He knew it. He had warned the others! Thatalocian swung his staff up, and all his own faith in numbers, his conviction born of an age of despair and chaos, met the Worker’s blade. The being recoiled and came at him as three more sped around the corridor.
How does she know about the Wishing Well? Fool! Fools!
“13-21-12-4-18—”
He began chanting another number, one even more vicious and frightening than Haade. Thatalocian was roaring, and he heard a howling voice in his ear and realized it was not just him.
It was all of them.
 
——
 
Shaullile was fleeing as Antinium overran the representative chambers. The [Slavers] who had been debating one of her new measures were dying.
She didn’t think—she ran, triggering her escape spells. She was yelling, having flashbacks.
This was just like how she had died when they rebelled. Stitchfolk.
She teleported into one of her own emergency safe rooms; like Thatalocian, she had them aplenty. She was no fool. The Drake was shouting for reinforcements to get to her now.
“Send the [Assassins]! Send the [Gladiators]! Get me—”
The Antinium didn’t breach the door. She’d teleported half a mile away and fifty feet down into the ground. It didn’t matter. When the first hand rose out of the ground, Shaullile shrieked.
She teleported into another safe room. They were rising from below when she threw the door open and ran into the streets, still shrieking.
Black-clad [Assassins] leapt at the Antinium and found themselves grappling with those terrifying beings from Heaven. Their poisons did nothing. Their magic barely did anything. Only blade and sinew mattered, and their foes kept coming. They kept—
 
——
 
Lord Pazeral was swinging a blade around, howling curses. Emir Yazdil had unleashed his loyal [Slaves] as he backed away from the Antinium butchering his guards, fighting even the Djinni under his control.
All four [Slave Lords] were well-protected and powerful in their way, with artifacts and Skills. The last of them was Lady Andra, who sat in her tower, white-knuckled as she sipped from a cup of whiskey with a shard of Everfrozen Ice in it.
She had paid for Roshal’s finest security. She listened to them screaming orders over the communications spell, fighting, calling for reinforcements.
Dying.
Several of the mercenaries ran—she began triggering death-runes in the bracelets she’d forced them to wear. The [Slave Lady] stared at the door, rich Ironbark—trembling as the fighting reached its zenith outside.
One of them made it through. Andra sat back in her chair as the Worker, screaming with eight mouths, charged her. A shackled Djinni leapt through the door and threw a spear as a [Battlemage] and half a dozen [Archers] loosed.
The Antinium crashed onto the carpets, pinned by the spear, struggling to reach her. A second volley nailed it down, shattering the Chemath Marble tiling underneath; Andra tried to estimate the costs as she saw the summoned being’s body warping. She sat back in her chair.
“Status report. Trace that Skill and—”
She glanced down as the Worker, still thrashing, raised one glowing hand. Its mouths moved, and all of them curved upwards in a smile—Lady Andra saw the Antinium glow.
“N—”
The explosion looked like the sky opening.
 
——
 
“Hm. Only one. Perhaps not even dead. I cannot tell, but they were in range of the explosion.”
That was the only comment Pawn made after six minutes of absolute terror. Roots Mrsha was shaking.
What did you do? Got who?
Pawn turned and smiled down at her as the Painted Antinium around him clasped their hands together and raised them in prayer.
“A woman in a tower, protected by a Djinni. Do you know her? I believe it was Roshal.”
Roots Mrsha hesitated. She peeked at Lyonette, who seemed ready to continue the vomiting trend.
Good. Who else did you attack?
“The Blighted Kingdom. A [Pirate] at sea. A man—strange, I don’t recall his name. Perhaps a Skill. It must mean he isn’t dead. But the explosions caught most of them.”
“Explosions?”
Lyonette breathed faintly. Pawn smiled at her.
“Well, yes. [Summon the Cohort of Heaven] was a Level 50 Skill, one of them. [Show Them the Antinium’s Sky] was an upgrade at Level…58, I want to say. Hold on—”
He held up a hand.
“I think the Blighted King is screaming something at me. A shame I cannot hear, only see through the cohort’s eyes. He looks as old as I remember.”
 
——
 
Admiral Maxy’s ship wasn’t burning. That vision of the sky didn’t burn. It was just sinking, despite all her Skills.
The Bloodfeast Raider’s hideout was half-obliterated. Korizan Reeles was blackened; his outer layer of skin had literally turned to ash from the neck downwards. He was staring ahead, white-knuckled as he held a sword, and suddenly, The Wandering Inn was on his mind again. Top of the list, you could say. But it wasn’t a target he was confident in destroying if he felt like it.
Are you laughing at her now? 
The attack had even reached the Blighted Kingdom, though it had not made it far. His Majesty of Rhir was in danger of another heart attack—he was screaming at the Antinium that Nereshal had frozen in a time bubble.
“—destroy you! You and all the Demons!”
“Your Majesty—”
They were trying to evacuate him. Only when Othius caught his breath did Nereshal whisper.
“It’s not the Antinium of Rhir. They have too many forms. Those were Izrilian—”
Then, the Blighted King saw the Antinium smile. He flinched as the sky bloomed, and Nereshal contained the explosion.
“Kill—kill the [Innkeeper]. She must have figured out we were activating the [Clown]. Do it now! How did it reach us here?”
Only the Deaths of the Demons had the power to breach so many protective spells. Even level 50 Skills had failed to reach them. The Blighted King was ranting, raving at Lord Hayvon, who was giving crisp orders.
“Double the guard and prepare for summoned foes capable of detonation. Magic had no effect; rotate in Her Majesty’s bodyguard and recall her from the front! I will accompany His Majesty. Find out who or what used that Skill and make sure the Earthers are safe.”
“Damn them! Make them ready for war! We cannot fail now!”
Othius screamed at Hayvon. He realized a fragment of the Antinium Worker was still ‘alive’. It was hanging in the air, contained by Nereshal’s time spell. Othius spat at it, a globule of faintly green-black phlegm that caught and hung in the time dilation.
 
——
 
On the other side of the world, Pawn nodded to himself.
“[Paladin] Purple Smiles? I think our point is well made, don’t you?”
The Soldier nodded as Pawn paused, then slapped his thigh, amused at his little joke.
“We are the Painted Antinium of Erin’s Sky. We do not make points. Your Skill.”
The [Paladin] put his hands on Pawn’s outstretched arm.
[Miracle: Witness It, Twice].
Pawn raised his arms. And the second wave shot into the world. He swore he could hear the Blighted King scream. Then he peered down at the others.
They were standing there; Lyonette and Mrsha held each other as even the Knights of Solstice gaped up at Pawn with that same expression in their eyes. The same gaze as those who witnessed Erin Solstice’s wonders. Disbelief. Realization this was real.
The [Apostle] wagged a finger at them and chuckled.
“Rejoice. The best is yet to come.”
 
——
 
Demsleth turned his head as he trailed through the [Palace of Fates], eyes wide. The hallways kept growing around him, doors appearing—it was as if the Skill was trying to keep up with him.
He knew these doors. He recognized some of the signs, ancient sigils he had once forgotten. The Dragonlord had begun to piece together what this place was, even before going through the door, by eavesdropping on the conversations. But to be here…
He stumbled. Then fell flat on his face. The old man lay there, panting for air, and when he raised his forehead, it was covered in sweat.
“Oh. Oh…I see. A mistake.”
Demsleth croaked, and he was…Demsleth. The watching Harpy Queen didn’t understand, but he did. The only other being that got it was, in fact, the rat.
It was an undead rat, confusedly wandering the hallways, bumping into the doors, recoiling, squeaking…then trying to focus. Demsleth had nearly attacked it because he knew who possessed it, but everything was different.
He was fake. He crawled over to the rat and stared at the green light coming from the eye sockets. The presence inside the rat was confused. Of course it was. It was only a bit of the Necromancer.
“An amateur’s mistake, really. You…you and I are just constructs. Pieces of the whole. Do you understand? It truly is another reality. Our mana flows—we’ve been cut off. You can barely think, and I—”
Demsleth gazed back over his shoulder. He whispered to the rat.
“The door. You see? We have to go through ourselves. But that Antinium is guarding it. He could kill you or I. He’s not as strong as you, but he has an army. They might close the door on us forever. Or—or something else. There must be a way to reopen it. But we’ll have to do it together. Truce?”
He held out a trembling finger to the other immortal, who was young but understood. The rat gave Demsleth a long look, then two tiny paws took his finger and shook it. Demsleth sighed in relief.
“No matter what—I will survive.”
Then he began plotting how to slip through again.
 
——
 
Another being was coming to the same conclusion for different reasons.
“Show me your hair again, my second daughter.”
Nanette was badly wounded. Burned beyond instant healing—trembling with the damage to her watery body.
Belavierr paid no notice. She sat, inspecting the bits of white fur that had been absorbed by the water of Nanette’s body in her flight from the strange place she had found herself.
It was not the color of the hair that mattered; that was of some interest, but Belavierr was performing a spell. A Tier 8 spell, ludicrously complex, if not so mana intensive, to investigate the bit of fur.
Another test was merely to hold another piece between her fingers and study it with all her craft and mastery of thread and stitchwork. Both things told her the same thing.
“…This does not exist.”
“It does, Mother. They hurt me. You lied. You said—”
Belavierr shushed Nanette. Her new, talented daughter was fine. She would live, wounds aside. Anything that did not slay you was a method to power. Suffering was power.
She was already well enough to try to stab Belavierr with the new dagger she’d found somewhere. She kept plunging the blade through Belavierr’s chest, then tried to slit her throat. She wanted to kill the Stitch Witch, of course; she had been promised that. It was an easy promise. Power gave you the ability to do anything.
But until she was so powerful, she was a motivated, fast-levelling daughter. Belavierr kept telling Wiskeria to be more like Nanette.
Right now, though, even her daughters occupied the Stitch Witch’s head not at all. She studied the fur, the most disturbed she had ever been in her life.
“This…tell me again what you saw, my beloved daughter.”
She reached out, and Nanette tried to dance away, then froze as a hand gripped her head and twisted it back to her. Nanette realized the Stitch Witch was utterly, seriously intent on her.
“W-what is it, Mother? What was that place?”
The Stitch Witch calmly and quietly began to pack up everything that mattered to her, everything of value, and summoned every bit and piece of her craft and power she had ever accumulated. She said one word.
“Reality.”
 
——
 
Then it was quiet. If you were counting, a screaming pair of consciousnesses barely able to keep up with the world, this is what you might categorize—slowly.
 
Real Mrsha and Rags—vanished. No location known.
Roots Mrsha, Lyonette, inn staff, Order of Solstice—in the [Palace of Fates].
Future Pawn and Painted Antinium—in the [Palace of Fates].
Better Days Kevin, Halrac, Headscratcher—entering the [Palace of Fates].
 
They were all coming through.
Lyonette du Marquin stood there as the remaining Mrsha produced a Faerie Flower root. Gingerly, she inserted the root into the door where Mrsha and Rags had vanished. They did not reappear.
—But a furry paw took hold of the root and did not let go. Ishkr, an Ishkr from the world of the Winter Solstice, took hold of the root and people began to climb through the door.
Kevin Hall was the first to walk into the [Palace of Fates]. He stared at another Mrsha, another Pawn, and a sea of faces who turned to him and—flinched.
He flinched too.
 
Student Rags, Redscar, Flooded Waters tribe Goblins—flying to combat the Mortemdefieir Titan.
 
The Dragonlord of Flames was making his stand in this world.
In the future, the Painted Antinium were surrounding The Wandering Inn, and television cameras was focused on them as Erin Solstice’s old friends and family gathered in front, wondering what was going on.
 
Future Belavierr—moving towards The Wandering Inn.
