<Temporary Dimension: Alternate World 2 — “Ten Years Later”>
 
“—done it.”
Mrsha stumbled through the door, and the first thing she did was pivot and turn around. But there was nothing behind her; just the empty inn. If she stared at the tiny spot in the air, just past one of the chairs, she could see the root, but only if she focused.
I’m back. I made it. I have the knowledge to revive Erin and…younger me sucks. She’s not the me I remember being. She’s so…different.
Strangers. They actually felt like strangers. Mrsha had always known she’d been a bit of a brat who thought she was all that. She ran around, punching and kicking and pretending to be her heroes and calling herself all kinds of names.
What had she used to say she was…? Oh yeah, ‘Mrsha the Great and Terrible’. Dead gods, Ekirra and Visma had made so much fun of her that Liscorians had begun catching on, and she’d had a few years where everyone gave her nicknames.
Then, of course, the Mother of Graves happened, and that stopped that.
Mrsha’s eyes opened wide, and she came to a dead standstill. She whirled around.
“—The Mother of Graves. I forgot to tell them.”
That particular bit of trauma was often repressed in her head. The [Thought Healers] called it a ‘self-preservation mechanism’, but the dread, the terror, the horror of that period came back at once. Mrsha reflexively reached for a vial of the cure that she always carried with her.
“I have to tell them! I have to—”
She caught herself before she grabbed the root. Wait, first things first. She should grab all the intruders here, then tell them. When you were in the thick of trouble, you prioritized the biggest threat first. Pisces had taught her that.
Speaking of which, Pisces is coming and Pawn and…I need to get them out of my world now, or this is going to actually be three Crelers with a cat in a sack.
Remembering it was her birthday made Mrsha go running again. She was at the doors of the common room when she opened it, and someone slammed into her.
“Aaaah!”
Mrsha punched Visma off her feet, saw her friend, and then raced over.
“Visma, I am so sorry! Let me just—I have a bruise balm!”
“My face! You bitch, you punched my face off!”
Visma was rolling around and holding her cheek, and Mrsha was trying to see how bad the punch was.
“I didn’t punch your face off! I thought you were—where the hell are the Goblins? And younger me? You had a job!”
“I had a job? You didn’t tell me what was going on! What’s happening? And where are the Painted Antinium?”
Mrsha was slathering a blue poultice that helped reduce swelling and cure bruising when she felt her fur prickling in anxiety.
“The Painted Antinium? Here?”
“They should be. I—oh. No. Nevermind. They just appeared in the Floodplains, Mrsha! They nearly attacked the Reinharts and Rhir’s [Heroes]! I think they were defending Rags’ tribe. I saw some of them hovering in the air—the [Heroes], I mean. I actually got a picture. It’s blurry, but I sent it to Drassi, and she said it’s the best one we’ve got—”
Mrsha began shaking Visma.
“Visma. Visma. Stop focusing on your stupid job! Where is Rags? Where’s Pawn?”
She searched around, because he was the last person she wanted to see, and Visma snapped.
“Excuse me for taking pictures! I don’t know! Okay, the Goblin and the girl who looks like a younger you ran into Liscor. They locked down the entire city, Mrsha. I couldn’t get in, and the Watch told me—they inspected me because someone was infected. You don’t think…?”
Oh no, oh shit. If it was younger her—
“W-where is she now? The younger me?”
“I think Lord Moore took her into custody. That’s what everyone is saying. They just lifted the lockdown and issued an all-clear notice. The Council will give an update in thirty minutes.”
Mrsha was flipping between ‘this is a disaster’ and sudden relief so quickly she began to get why the younger version of her was so upset. She breathed again.
“Okay, I’m going to send a text to Moore. If he’s got them…Rags? Both Rags and Redscar and, uh, Rianchi?”
Visma’s mouth dropped open.
“There are two Ragses? Redscar? Didn’t you say he was dead? If it’s the Goblins, I don’t know; they vanished into the High Passes.”
Well, fuck. The only way to contact Rags was via an encrypted ritual spell. Mrsha paced towards the doors, speaking rapidly.
“Okay, contact Moore and Rags. Get everyone here. You get to stall anyone who shows up. This time, do it properly. No one enters the inn. Tell them—tell them to meet at Moore’s place, okay? That means Pisces, Ryoka, anyone. Even Ceria.”
Visma squeaked.
“You—you want me to stall them? An [Archmage]. What am I going to do, selfie her to death? Mrsha, what is going on? You owe me explanations! Tell me now or I won’t help! I’ll tell your mom!”
Mrsha whirled around in place. The young woman was breathing hard, her eyes alight, and she was shaking. She still looked slightly battle-worn from her match with Grimalkin, but then she said it. She said it at last.
“Visma. I—I know how to bring Erin back. Seriously this time. It’ll work. Today’s the day. I’m in a Solstice event, just like the old times. This is it, but I have to get those people back and out of here. But she’s going to live again.”
Her eyes were filling with tears, but she was fighting them back because this was not the time. Visma’s eyes went round.
“Seriously?”
“Seriously.”
“You’re sure? It’ll work? Not like—”
“I have it on the greatest authority I’ve got. I believe. I believe that this will work, and all of Pawn’s stupid religion doesn’t have more faith than I do at this moment. Help me, Visma.”
The Drake swayed on her feet, then her features firmed. She twisted her ring, hit a few buttons, and began to speak into it.
“Ekirra? Get over here now. Right now. I don’t care what you have to do—run! Go get everyone you have to, Mrsha. I’ll keep everyone out of the inn—uh, if I can. They’ll have to shove me aside to get through!”
Mrsha grinned as a squawk of sound came out of Visma’s ring and she began to shout at the [Soccer Player]. The young Gnoll woman strode for the doors and threw them open.
Her city, familiar and splendid, stood before her. Mrsha inhaled the air and figured out it was smoggier, a product of the times, maybe. She felt her ring beginning to buzz as angry texts and missed calls came in—a lot of them from her mother and Moore. Even two from Pisces.
 
Pisces, Captain of the Horns of Hammerad — I’m on my way via Esthelm, on foot. We got held up by the Reinharts. Everything alright?
Pisces, Captain of the Horns of Hammerad — Mrsha? You there?
 
She was typing a response as she saw more messages popping in, then decided to hell with it.
“Ring. Call Lord Moore. No, not Lemure, call Lord…Moore. Okay, cancel call. Go to ‘L’. Moore…cancel call. I hate this thing.”
It was a special day, silly things aside. Even without the [Palace of Fates], it would have been important. Mrsha’s birthday was a moment for those who had known Erin Solstice to gather, perhaps to rally for another great attempt. It was a moment of hope and significance, because it was her eighteenth birthday—a coming of age.
Such days mattered. Just like the witching hour or certain numbers had significance, like thirteen being unlucky or how the twin full moons could be moments of power.
An eclipse, a celebration, a Solstice…or even the day when someone transitioned from child to adult. These days mattered, you see, because of belief. You could argue that the ninth day of the fifth month of the year had no real value to anyone, or, if you so desired, you could look at great rulers who had shared that birthday, tragedies long-forgotten that tarnished this moment.
The truth was that it didn’t matter. It was Mrsha’s eighteenth birthday, and because it mattered to her, it had a weight in the world that manifested in this gathering.
[Witches] understood this.
Mrsha was striding down the hill, distracted by her ring, ebullient and slightly irritated. She brushed at her face as a sprinkle of water struck her fur.
“Great. Rain.”
You’d think the Floodplains would run out of it, but even after the rainy season, it would just keep raining. Mrsha glanced up as she activated a minor weather spell to keep the rain off her fur. She gazed up at the blue skies and clouds—more vivid than ever, a sign of the Painted Antinium’s passing.
No black clouds. Mrsha slowed, and the water tap-tapped down on the inn. She halted, and her damp fur began to rise.
“Oh no. Not today. Not now.”
It was raining. The sky above the inn was as blue as could be, but the water was forming in the air and falling downwards. Not high in the sky, either; a mere thousand feet overhead, Mrsha could see the water pooling on an invisible surface, a round dome in the air. Then it fell. Conjured from some vast, invisible sea.
She knew this. The young woman drew her wand and swivelled slowly. Her throat was—suddenly—dry, and she fumbled with her ring. It was still trying to call Lord Moore. She disconnected the call, then hit a glowing red button on the right side of the display.
She hit it again as a popup asked her if she was sure. Then, she heard a faint ringing sound. It sounded so distant.
“Hello, Liscor Emergency Services. We have your location, Miss Mrsha. What is your emergency?”
Mrsha spoke to tell the operator as her head searched around. Her breath drew in as she saw the thin figure standing there. Rain was falling around her tattered hat. It ran down her loose robes, a [Witch]’s robes, frayed with holes at the edges. Mrsha saw the unkempt brown hair was turned upwards along with too-thin, pointed chin.
Eyes closed. She didn’t fit the world. She was an anomaly standing there. Her very presence seemed ominous. They had met before.
“Nanette.”
The Witch of Sorrows finally opened her eyes and focused on Mrsha. Her eyes were brown and too-huge in her face. They seemed to be the only part of her still left alive. Everything else had worn away. Her figure was one Mrsha knew: starvation had left her naught but skin and bones.
She smelled like dampness, like water. Like tears. And blood. She smelled wrong, and those eyes filled with malice. Brown, like upturned earth from the deep veins of the earth. Brown, and deeper brown, like a hole into the heart of the world.
Rings of color narrowing around her pupils until those black pits dragged you down. Water was running from Nanette’s eyes, dredged from the depths of her soul. There were oceans there, of grief.
“It’s today, isn’t it? Is it today? She’ll be ever so angry at me if I forget. I’ll let her down, which is just as well, but she promised me a gift if I do my job.”
The [Witch] spoke to herself. Mrsha began casting barrier spells as fast as she could, ignoring the operator’s voice. The scar on her neck was aching, and she was sweating.
This was worse than Grimalkin. Oh, so much worse. Mrsha hoped Visma had noticed the rain. She prepared a [Flash Step] spell and cast another spell into her paw.
[Lightning Bolt]. Not [Siege Fireball]. Fire was virtually useless against the [Witch]. Mrsha flicked a stone to the ground, hoping that Nanette didn’t notice it. She kept babbling to herself, a mix of nonsense and clarity, as she took an unsteady step forwards.
“Yes, I think it’s today. You’re so happy. Delighted and afraid. I remember delight, like a sweet treat that fades away faster than the sugar on your tongue. Hello, Mrsha. Happy birthday.”
“Witch Nanette—leave. This is my city. You—I have friends coming. You won’t be able to kill me.”
The young Gnoll woman was covered in a cold sweat. Her display against the Sinew Magus should have let her feel confident. But not against Nanette. Not…
The Witch of Sorrows blinked those unsettling, familiar eyes. She smiled.
“It’s your happiest day. I was sent here to hurt you.”
“Belavierr promised to stay away from me. She swore to Wiskeria. Begone.”
Mrsha tried to push with her aura, but it was beyond fruitless. Even Lyonette could barely make a [Witch] of Nanette’s level stumble. The rain was growing worse. Now, they could barely see, and the obscured figure lifted a hand.
“She didn’t send me. I’m here of my own accord. I’m just doing something that would make her very happy. Oh so happy. Mrsha, do you know what happened since the last time we met? I levelled up.”
The Gnoll leapt forwards, fist pulsing with lightning. She threw a punch—lightning roared, and water sprayed across the ground. Mrsha vibrated, then vanished as water struck the place where she had been. Then she reappeared several feet away, rolling—clutching at her side, and Nanette was lying on the ground. The [Witch] rose upwards as Mrsha’s blood ran onto the ground.
“Hee. Hee. That hurt. Let’s do it again.”
Her side was badly cut. Mrsha fumbled for her emergency healing potion as she kicked away, repositioning. She hurled [Light Arrow] spells, trying to cover her position, but nothing worked.
Nanette controlled the water. The moment the rain had begun falling on Mrsha, she had been in the [Witch]’s trap. When she had tried to punch Nanette, the water had become sharp as glass, tearing her barrier apart.
The lightning bolt could have hurt the [Witch]—if it had reached her. But a wall of water had taken the spell and merely knocked the [Witch] down. And she had cut Mrsha’s side open with a blade-hand of water. Mrsha had tried to follow it up with another spell and strike, but the water had begun to enmesh her, drowning her in a prison of liquid.
What had saved her was the [Teleportation] spell she’d primed with a lodestone. If she hadn’t escaped, she’d be dead.
Every barrier spell on Mrsha was gone. Water was drenching her fur, weighing her down, and Nanette could use it to stab into her flesh. Mrsha whispered.
“[Fire Resistance]. [Flash Fire]. [Earthen Wall].”
Steam baked off her just in time. Three drills of super-concentrated water pierced through the wall spell. She twisted, and they missed her by inches.
She couldn’t throw illusion spells or reposition easily in this rain. It could just erase or detect illusions. Nanette was a perfect counter to so many spells.
If the [Witch] had one weakness—it was her frailty. The girl was panting already, unsteady; it had thrown off her aim. More jets of water blasted through the earthen wall spell, and her finger tracked Mrsha, who was running with a new barrier spell keeping the water off her. The water was digging into the barrier, turning into spikes like Yvlon’s arms. The barrier spell collapsed, and another jet of flames turned the water to steam.
“I know you’re there~.”
