He ripped holes through my consciousness, his full force unleashed. I never brought out this kind of intensity from the guy before, but I still stood my ground when faced with Torix's mind. I shifted, turned, planned, revised, and disciplined my approach. I worked out my old plans, keeping the best of them, and I improved those approaches, using feints, flanking, and multi-faceted attacks.

We ended up entering a flow to our combat, one that let us lose track of time. By the end of our sparring session, I found myself more taxed than after receiving a complete beatdown. Taking damage was much more comfortable than flexing all these new, mental 'muscles,' so to speak. It left me with a slight, dull headache, one numbed by my pain tolerance.

Finishing up our spar, we leaned against a wall nearby. Torix gave me a nod of approval, "Now, that was an actual match. You've yet to beat me on equal footing yet, but I must say, that was a good attempt. The best so far, in fact."

I rubbed my temples, massaging out some mental fatigue. I'd recover quickly, and even being a little tired, it felt good to face a challenge like this. Torix waved a hand, "So, have you completed the class requirements yet?"

I shrugged, "Eh, maybe. I'll check."

I opened my status, and I found a surprise waiting for me.

Congratulations! By fusing the unique skills Knowledge Maker, Bulwark of Logic, and Congruent Mind Strains, you've created the mythical skill, A Manifold Mind. 92 Skillpoints rewarded!

A Manifold Mind(lvl 13) - You've honed your mind in many ways, exceeding your peers. Now that mind exceeds expectations. A Manifold Mind allows the creation of multiple consciousnesses, each of them close to full power. Effectiveness and the number of minds increase with higher skill levels.

It was one of those skills I wished I'd made years ago. Holding multiple minds working at the same time, well, that was godly stuff. It contained a mystique about it I couldn't match with most skills, let alone at the mythical level. Even if it acted only as an evolution for Congruent Mind Strains, that was still better than most legendary skills.

Why? Because it would save me so much time.

I showed Torix the skill, and he leaned back in awe, "Now, normally, your mythical skills aren't precisely the kind I'd envy. After all, they tend to be the smashy sort. This one, however, is very different. That is the exact kind of skill I'd like more than any I currently have. Given my mind's limitations, I'd love to see what I could accomplish with that ability."

Torix pressed his hands together as if giving a prayer, "Please, use that to its fullest extent. It would be a shame to see it go to waste."

I grinned at the skill, "Oh, I will. In fact-"

I got to work, thinking up several minds doing different things. One of them hummed the furnace, handling the meditative effort. The other one let me continue talking with Torix,

"I was already firing my furnace, but now the conversion is better. It also distracted me some, so I can give you more of my full attention."

"While that certainly sounds useful, it does beg the question - what else will you use it for?"

I peered up, thinking of fighting, "Well, I know I have a lot of different styles of combat I can use. Normally, I'm limited to using one or two at a time, like gravitational fighting or elemental casting. This will let me use several attacks at once. If anything, this is like a multiplier for my abilities in general."

Torix stared at the empty, concrete room, "It worked wonders during our mind magic battle. Normally, I give you quite the thrashing before your relentlessness overcomes my skill. This time that came to pass as usual, but with far less reliance on the unyielding aspect. I can't imagine what you'd do in combat with that skill. It sends a shiver up my spine imagining it."

I opened my dimensional storage over my forearm, like a shield, "I'll use this more, along with its reversing capabilities. I have a few other tricks up my sleeve too. My ambient auras, pressure-based abilities, gravitation, telekinesis, even my enhanced senses, I could really tear a battlefield up if I used all of it all at once."

"It sounds rather absurd in practice. I'll enjoy seeing that used on Blegara. That being said-" Torix leaned close,

"Let's see the class, shall we?"

I smiled, putting all my points into the Sovereign tree. A message popped up.

Congratulations! You've unlocked a rare class variant - The Sovereign.
