“I am.” An older woman said and walked over. “What is it?”

“I have... please, don't be shocked by this.” Ren said and pointed to the enormous covered cart. “I have a few thousand ghouls that might be saved with your healing skills.”

“Did you say a few thousand?”

Ren nodded. “They aren't too happy about the accommodations, either.”

The healer sighed. “If you can build a place for them to rest...”

“Consider it done.” Ren said. “Give me a minute.” He looked around. “Where do you want it?”

“The field two streets over.” The healer said, and Ren disappeared from her sight. “Where did he go?” She leaned around her assistant and didn't see anything. “Did he use Invisibility or someth-AH!”

Ren appeared in front of her. “It's built, and I added enough cots for them all.”

“Wh-what?” The healer looked at him like he was crazy, and he chuckled.

“I'm really fast now.” Ren said. “Can you heal them?”

“Did you make a spot to put them if they can't be turned back?”

Ren nodded. “I'll stay close by to make sure they won't attack.”

“It's going to take a while to assess so many of them.” The healer said and started to walk down the street with her bag of supplies. “Can you spend an hour just standing by and doing nothing?”

“If that's what's needed, then yes.” Ren said and Princess pulled the cart up beside him. “I can also provide you with Mana, Healing, Regeneration, and anything else you may need.”

The healer chuckled. “What do you need us for?”

“You're the only ones I know that have successfully healed nearly fully turned ghouls, and brought them back to themselves.” Ren said.

“They won't all turn out like that, you know.”

Ren nodded. “I know the risk.” He said. “Anyone not savable gets tossed back into the cart and I bring them back to where they came from.”

“Well, then.” The healer said as she approached the once empty field to find a huge ward had been built. “Wow.”

“Ma'am?”

“Yes, yes.” The healer said and opened the door. “Bring in the first two.”

Ren opened the top of the enormous cart and a ghoul jumped out at him. He caught it by the throat and crushed it's neck, then tossed the body aside.

“We're running out of time.” Ren said and grabbed two more. They hissed at him, and he filled his Reassurance Aura with calmness. “I'm sorry, he was completely gone.”

The two ghouls calmed down, and he brought them into the ward. They were checked by the healer and her assistant, who nodded. They were put on the closest available cots, and Ren brought in two more, then two more, over and over, until the cart was nearly empty. Out of the 1,500 he had brought, only 150 of them were just a bit too far gone to help. Ren put them back in the cart and closed it, locked it, and went to the healer and her assistant.

Ren gave them each a Bracelet of Unbelievable Magic to increase their Intelligence and Wisdom by 105 points, their Mana production by 1,020%, and it gave them 10,200 Mana. He gave them each a Minor and Major Healing wand, a couple of platinum coins, and asked them what else they needed.

“Just time.” The healer said. “Come back in a few hours and we will have an update for you.”

“Thank you.” Ren said and left the ward, climbed onto Princess' saddle, and they ran up into the sky with the enormous cart behind them and disappeared from sight.

*

“Did we just see that?” The assistant healer asked.

“I didn't see anything except someone that wanted to help these poor people.” The healer said. “It's odd to be working on High Elves; but, they are still sick.” She said and smiled. “Go and gather the things we need.”

“Right away.” The assistant said and left at a run.

“Word will spread quickly about us doing this.” The healer said absently, and went back into the building Ren had built for her.
