Song’s timely arrival saves me from more small talk because Luo-Luo is too busy shrieking at Aurie’s spirited charge. Her ear-piercing wail sends the cattle scurrying away, but Aurie pays her no heed and sprints even faster. “Stop Aurie,” I say, but the big baby ignores the command to pounce over and repeatedly boop me in the face. Delighted by his adoring affection (and amused by Luo-Luo’s hilarious screams), I keep him away from Luo-Luo while calling for Song to help. With a clap of her hands, the animals skid to a halt and scamper to Song’s side, where they sit prettily like trained show-dogs waiting for a treat.

Why don’t my floofs ever listen to me?

After imposing on Song to help Luo-Luo onto Mafu, I run over to give my fur-babies a proper greeting. Even though I saw them yesterday, I had to kick them out of Yan’s room for happy-fun-times and they’re still not entirely convinced I’m sticking around. All of them, even grumpy Jimjam, are being extra affectionate, swarming me in a jumble of fur, fangs, and claws. The bears gurgle like stalled motorboats and Aurie Mwar’s, Myarh’s, and Myawp’s up a storm, filling me with more joy than I could ever explain as I give each of my fur-babies a hug and a kiss.

...Okay yea, now I see it. I thought they were being over-dramatic, but I can see how it totally looks like I’m being cold and aloof to hurt Luo-Luo. I’m not though, I don’t trust her and love my floofs. While I feel bad for her, certain actions must be taken to guard against temptation and avoiding physical contact is one of them.

Clingy as always, Banjo climbs onto my back while Baloo curls up in my arms, the two of them nuzzling for all their worth as if to make sure I’m really here. Too enamoured to push them off, I activate my Reinforcement Keystone and set the sparkling star to bouncing at maximum speed, which supplies barely enough strength to move beneath both bears’ weight. Smiling in fake nonchalance, I ask Song to grab the zither before setting out and make small talk with Luo-Luo. “It’s a shame we never got a chance to hear you play. Another time, perhaps.”

See? I can be nice.

Almost prone on Mafu’s back, Luo-Luo’s shy smile and protruding butt are an enticing sight as she sleepily snuggles against the warm fur. “If Lord Husband so desires it, then Luo-Luo would be happy to perform a piece later today. This one has business to attend to in the afternoon, so after dinner perhaps?”

“Nah, let’s wait until tomorrow morning,” I reply, taking a shaky step to see if I can handle carrying both bears. It’ll be difficult, but the camp isn’t far so I think I can do it. “The cattle sleep early and it’ll be harder to see their reactions in the moonlight.”

“Lord Husband wants Luo-Luo to play for cattle?

“Yea. Moomie’s herd is okay around people, but they’re not really bonding with anyone. I figured a little music might help make them less indifferent to harmless strangers and more appreciative to the company.” Wanting in on the fun, Aurie springs onto my shoulders and I freeze in my tracks, my bones buckling beneath over a half-tonne of floof. “Aurie, off please.”

As per usual, Aurie ignores the command, and just as I’m about to beg Song for help, Luo-Luo interrupts and says, “Li-Li, why don’t we ride ahead and let Lord Husband enjoy a nice stroll with his pets? We’ll start the lunch preparations, so don’t worry and take your time.” By the time she finishes speaking, Mafu is already dashing off and Song isn’t far behind, drawn away by the thought of eating lunch that much sooner and leaving me struggling beneath my furry burden.

A quiet whimper slips out as I fall to my knees and my floofs grumble at the unexpected jolt. With a curious “Mwar”, Aurie pats my head twice as if wondering why I’m not moving. “Off!” I command, unwilling to throw him from my shoulders because I’m worried he’ll panic and claw me to shreds. “Please Aurie? You’re too heavy, I can’t carry all three of you unless you learn to Lighten.”

And then, by some miracle, all three animals Lighten and I’m no longer being crushed beneath their weight. My jaw dropping as quickly as my encumbrance, I stare at the animals in conflicted admiration, because as marvellous as this is, I now know that even my pets are more talented than I am. Aurie pats my head again and I stagger back to camp in a bewildered daze, unable to make heads or tails of the situation. Blackjack knowing how to Lighten is one thing, but how did Aurie and the bears learn too? When did they even form Cores? Did they all figure it out individually or did someone teach them? Can they do anything else, like Hone or Reinforce? Are they going to live forever?

It’d be great if they did...

Amidst the cheers and jeers of my retinue, I arrive at my yurt sweaty and exhausted, barely able to handle the combined burden of the three Lightened animals. Stoking the fire with intense focus, Song greets me with a frown and points to the side, sending Aurie and the bears scurrying to join the other wildcats and rabbits in a cuddle puddle. Without skipping a beat, she points at the ingredients laid out around the fire before going back to work, ignoring me as I settle in beside her. It's amazing how far we’ve come in the last two months. Before, she would’ve shifted aside and kept me in her sights, always vigilant and guarded in my presence. Now, not only is she more comfortable, she’s even confident enough to give non-verbal orders without worrying about being punished or abused, which has the added upside of not making me feel like a horrible person whenever we’re together.

Progress, woo!

Judging by the ingredients, Song wants pork broth noodles and pan-fried mutton dumplings, but considering this is Luo-Luo’s celebratory lunch, I figure she might want to weigh in too. Unfortunately, the person in question is curled up with Mafu and fast asleep, her luscious lips twisted in a pout as if ready to cry in her sleep. Studying her out of the corner of my eye, I try to make sense of this beautiful, dramatic woman and figure out where she fits in my life. Drawing a complete blank, I instead turn my attentions to steaming up some red-bean buns for dessert, which I assume she’ll enjoy on the sole basis that everyone likes red-bean buns.

Seriously, what do I know about Luo-Luo? Pros: she’s smart, hardworking, and evidently, an incredibly talented Martial Warrior. Cons: she’s cunning, manipulative, and doesn’t love floofs, aside from Mafu, who has somehow gotten even fatter in my absence. She’s gorgeous, which is good, but her loyalties are suspect, which is bad. She says she wants to help me ‘soar through the Heavens’, but what happens if she’s forced to choose between me and the Legate? How can I trust her if she’ll spill everything she knows at the wave of a fan?

Yan wanted me to be nicer, so what I need to do is figure out how to do that without succumbing to Luo-Luo’s feminine wiles. Cold and aloof is too mean, but any warmer and I’m worried I’ll lose all self-control, so what am I supposed to do?

Go back to the front lines, I guess.

Sadly, not a viable option, at least not until I fix the mess I created by staying out there for so long...

“Hub-bbbbbbbbyyyyyyy!!” Shouting at the top of her lungs, my darling wifey Lin rides into camp with her braids and white scarf streaming behind her. Leaping off her quin into my waiting arms, I spin her about and marvel at the beautiful young woman she’s become. Though still dainty and delicate of frame, her facial features are leaner and more mature, though her mannerisms remain unchanged. Bringing her in close for a hug, she wraps her arms around my neck and squeezes tight, always happy to see me and never shy about showing it. “Hiya. I missed you.”

“Missed you more.”

“Good.” Leaning back in my embrace, Lin puckers up for a kiss and I happily oblige, planting a quick peck on her pursed lips. Cupping her plump cheeks, Lin’s eyes disappear into her toothy grin, so overjoyed she can barely contain it. Smiling so hard my cheeks hurt, I twirl her about again because I can’t stand still, so utterly enchanted by her endearing demeanour and soul-soothing smile, a breath of fresh air after a suffocating encounter. Don’t get me wrong, I love spending time with Yan and our morning was both enjoyable and enlightening, but I don’t deal with conflict well and once the topic of Luo-Luo reared its ugly head, my easygoing half-deer lover turned stubborn and intractable as a bull.

Gesturing to put her down, Lin’s smile turns mischievous and she says, “I missed your cooking too. Noodles and dumplings, you’re the best, hubby!” Patting my cheek in encouragement, she adds, “When we’re done eating, I’ll show you all the commands I taught the floofs, ya? They know Clap and Bow and Wave and Jump and...” With Lin’s lovable smile and lighthearted stories to ease my mind, I ignore Yan’s questioning look regarding Luo-Luo’s pitiful demeanour and set to cooking a delicious meal for everyone to enjoy. With no Defiled to watch out for and no life or death decisions to make, I set aside my worries for the first time in two months and enjoy this peaceful, trouble-free day.

Because Mother knows, I’ll have precious few of those in the months ahead.

Chapter Meme
