Passenger autocar, on the way to Bellharbour

That had been a really nice two days off, Karline remarked. Pits, even if she didn't have free boarding in an incredibly comfy bed, just getting to eat Niala's meals three times a day would have made it worth it.

Truth be told, she was also beginning to think of Riverwall as her home; the place she went back to rest.

And, yeah, sure, being a family friend to two very powerful, very rich people who kept a room ready for her whenever she needed it might have played a bit into that sentiment, but that wasn't all of it.

Well, ok, it might have been most of it, but she also found the town charming in its own right, and now, with all of the new development, the place would probably end up having all the amenities she could ask for.

She just had to make sure David kept her secret. But, in the case he didn't, she knew where to get a new identity, and had ample enough emergency funds to buy passage across the inner sea and toward Sonnel.

She wondered if the Sonnel Empire had something like Free Couriers. It would be a shame to have to give up the profession, especially now that David had gifted her a whole cloth-load of arcane tools and gadgets, and that her Courier reputation was soaring.

Two seasons ago, when she'd gotten her first private posting, she'd been elated. She'd found out that her service had been recommended by one of her clients, who had noted her professionalism and thoroughness.

She still remembered that specific job; the noble lady had, out of desperation, put up a posting to find where she had lost one of her wrist bands. It had been in her family for generations, and she had wanted to gift it to her eldest daughter as a wedding gift, but it had gone missing.

It was an open posting, which meant any number of couriers could take it up. These often paid the most, but they also had the most competition, and it wasn't always fair.

Still, it had reminded Karline of David's heir hunt story, so she was curious to see if the same approach could work.

And, to her mild surprise, it had. While every other courier had asked questions about the wristband's last known location, who could have taken it, and so forth, Karline had gone and just talked to everyone in the mansion.

She did feel like she was playing in the mud while everybody else was racing ahead, but she stuck to it, and, eventually, she got a break; just talking with the people, she'd heard many of them remarking on how their colleagues were always misplacing things, and nobody remembered where those things were.

Things like recording orbs, mana burners, spare parts for the mansion's mana system, and so forth.

Stuff that was worth a fair bit of coins, but which people all assumed had been misplaced or taken by someone else.

The wristband, however, was a lot more valuable, so either the two cases weren't linked, or something had changed for whoever was stealing from the mansion.

So, she kept talking to the staff, identifying and targeting the ones who were especially gossipy, and, once again, it paid off. She learned that the majordomo, an older, kind-looking man, had a sickly wife. Age and a weak metabolism had brought her low, and the man had remarked several times on how costly her treatment was.

And then, recently, his wife had gotten a lot better.

She had really hated where the case was going, but she had to find out if her fears were founded. She had confronted the majordomo, and the man, maybe because of the guilt, had eventually slumped and told Karline that it was true. He revealed that his wife's health had taken a turn for the worse, and the treatment was worth a small fortune, so he'd picked up a piece of jewellery that he had never seen the Lady wear and sold it off.

However, he had vehemently denied having pilfered anything else from the mansion, and Karline had been inclined to believe him; he didn't strike her as a thief, only a desperate husband.

So, she'd gone back to the rumour mill, and, finding nothing, had expanded her net, going after the friends, families and neighbours of the staff. It had taken a full two days, but she'd landed another lead; one of the maids had a turbulent marriage. The neighbours had told her how often the man would come back home drunk, and how thugs visited the couple every few weeks, sometimes threatening them.

Karline had dug and eventually found out that the man was deep in gambling debt. She had all the ingredients for another case, though she didn't like the implications any more than the first.

Still, she had cornered the maid and, through a mix of veiled threats and hopeful promises, she had gotten a confession; yes, she had been stealing things that would get overlooked to keep the collection thugs at bay. The woman had broken down after that and cried, saying she didn't know what to do anymore.

Both of these stories sucked.

It had left a bad taste in her mouth, but she had to report them to the noble lady. That was her job, after all.

But she wasn't going to simply throw these two people under the autocar just so she could get a reward.

The noble lady, from what she had learned by talking to the staff, had seemed like a decent person. Karline had asked for, and received, an audience with her.

There, she had explained, without giving names or too many details, what she had found. Her wristband had been sold to pay for someone's treatment, and another one of her staff had stolen other things to reimburse a debt.

The lady had been both elated at learning that she could go and retrieve her wrist band from the merchant it had been sold off to, and surprised at learning they had another thief in the mansion.

Karline had then asked for leniency for those people. She had offered to take a reduced reward to offset their actions and to ask to simply let them go instead of having them thrown in jail. She felt it was the best she could do, given the circumstances.

She was quite surprised when the lady told her that she would not only give her the full reward, but also add a bonus on top, as well as agreeing to not bring the case to court.

In the end, the maid was simply let go, and the majordomo was reprimanded, but also offered to have his wife's medical treatment taken care of by the noble family's healer, in exchange for a pay cut, in thanks for his many years of loyal service until now.

The lady had then personally chided him for not coming to her with his wife's situation, and had warned that any further deviation from the lawful path would see him in jail. The man had deeply apologized for his foolishness and vowed to never stray.

The wristband was bought back and offered as a wedding gift to the daughter as planned. Karline had even received an invitation to attend the event, which she felt she had to accept.

While it had been a bit nerve-wracking to mingle with so many nobles, the food had also been delicious and unlimited, and the lady had taken her around a few of her social circles to recount the tale of the “Courier who found the hidden crime.”

Not long after, her first private posting had shown up, and many more had followed. In each of them, she had applied the approach she had learned from David, though with her own style of investigative work, and had gotten amazing results.

In fact, thinking back over it, she hadn't really failed any posting, private or not, since that particular one. She was even getting a reputation as the courier who found problems you didn't know you had; her thoroughness had a tendency to uncover things.

She was quite happy with her performance and the resulting wealth and recognition it brought her, although lately, some of her private postings had been a little bit strange. They had been almost like puzzles, with incomplete, cryptic, or even incorrect instructions.

Her clients, when she had brought up the issue, had been quick to dismiss it as simple errors, but her instinct was telling her that, somehow, these strange postings were linked.

And the last one she had gotten kind of confirmed it. The reward was incredible: a hundred princes and a new cargo cloth, but the instructions were two words only: Find me.

She had almost rejected the posting, but her curiosity and the offered challenge had won in the end.

And now, here she was, heading toward the town where the posting had originated, to try and find who had posted it.

She wondered if David had ever had this kind of private posting before.

LONGWATER port town, Bosun's Secret tavern.

Anton was at his usual table, a small one set in a nook between the stairs going up and a support beam. It was secluded just enough that people didn't pay it attention, but open enough that he had a good view of the rest of the tavern's common room.

The acoustics of the room also made it so that he could hear just about everything spoken above a whisper from where he was.

Convenient.

It was, of course, as designed, but nobody really had to know that.

He appeared as he commonly did: a bookish scholar just enjoying his evening while reading whatever latest book he'd found, and taking notes about it in his notebook.

The book was real, though he wasn't really reading it, and the notes were about the rumours he was hearing from the loose-lipped sailors and travellers. All written with a cipher, obviously. It was his job to be secretive about things after all.

He was what his organization called a string, as in a string in the wind, waiting to catch on to something. One of a few assigned to Longwater, they had personas they each held up and used to simply listen. Whatever interesting bit of information they caught was passed on to the sniffers, who, beside their unenviable title, were perhaps the most numerous members of their organization. These people followed up on rumours and hearsay to find out if any of it was founded.

It usually was, but only to a certain degree.

All of this information, the rumours and their investigations, was then collected and sent to one of the compiling centres, where the morsels of data were pieced together into larger pictures.

In this way, his organization could discern and deduce the currents hiding behind the facade of the world.

That's where the namesake of their organization stepped in. They went after these eddies and dove deep, finding and bringing back the truths.

With this information, the council then decided if any actions were necessary. He was the first to admit that, from the outside, this all sounded nefarious, but his organization didn't care for control. All they wanted was to make certain the nobles and other people in power didn't step out of bounds.

History showed that such a thing was necessary, and every few seasons they uncovered more ploys and machinations which cemented the righteousness of their actions.

And so was Anton keeping his ears open for interesting rumours tonight, as he usually did. He had, however, a second task right now; he was waiting for an up-and-coming free courier to find him.

That was her final test from a string which had begun a season ago. So far, she had made a very good showing of herself, and no matter what happened, she would be offered a place within their organization.

The result of this final test would decide which place.

From what he knew, the woman was in town, having successfully navigated the pitfalls and false leads they had set up along the way, which was already a good sign. At this point, she really only had to find him, though they also had one final trap; he had a colleague out in the dining room, and the tavern staff knew to point him out to anyone who asked the right questions.

The test was thus to see if the woman could see past the answers she found, because in their line of work, truth was never certain.

But as the bells rang, and the evening turned to night, it appeared that today was not the day. That was fine; even if completing the posting within a shorter span would land her a higher score, she didn't have an actual time limit, and she had gotten to Longwater a bit faster than they'd expected her to.

Anton looked at the wall clock, saw that it was getting late, and nodded. He closed his books, stuffed them in his satchel, and left the tavern, tipping the staff as he always did.

He walked back home, a small cottage in the residential district near the town's campus, and made his way inside.

A few seconds after he closed the door behind him, someone knocked.

Frowning, he looked through the peephole and saw a middle-aged woman with a scarred face. He couldn't see any obvious weapons, but that didn't really mean anything.

He retrieved the small, concealed dagger from his boot and cracked open the door. “Can I help you?”

The woman gave him a thin smile. “Hello, Anton. I was hoping you'd be home by this time.”

He squinted. “Do we know each other?”

She shook her head. “No, not at all. My name's Maryse. I was just hired to ask you a few questions. Won't take long, if you don't mind?”

“And what kind of questions, exactly?”

Maryse shrugged. “Looks like mad rantings, if you ask me, but I was told to ask them as I read them, so... please? I've got a few handfuls of bits waiting for me if I come back with answers. I don't even care if they're the truth.”

Anton let his gaze linger on the woman for a while. He sighed and dipped his head, but didn't open the door further. “Go ahead, I'll answer if I can, but please keep this short.”

She smirked, “Oh, not even going to invite me inside, huh? Good choice, never a good idea to invite a weird stranger into your home so late in the day.” She said while she retrieved a wad of paper and a pen. “Anyway, first question: Amos Dumar?”

He wasn't quick enough to keep his eyes from widening in surprise. Amos Dumar was his true name. Not a noble, but from a recognized family. “Who?” He chose to act dumb.

Maryse shrugged and wrote his answer down. “No idea, just asking questions. Second one: Did you know that one of the Bosun's Secret's kitchen staff brought their daughter to work for a couple of weeks, but she was never told to lie when asked about you?”

Anton's face scrunched up before he could stiffen it into a mask. “I don't know what you're talking about.”

Maryse nodded and scribbled. “Don't... know... talking 'bout.” She looked up. “Right, and, last question: Did you really have to make the test in Bluehills require me to dig up a mud pit?”

This time, Anton didn't even bother answering and just stared.

The woman smirked. “Wow, ok, those questions are a lot more fun than I thought they'd be. I'll just write your final answer as “Silence” then.”

She shoved the paper and pen inside a pouch and gave him a wave. “That's all, thanks, Anton. I'm off to go get my drinking money.”

And then she was gone.

That woman had to have been sent by Karline. The questions were a test of her own. Prudent and methodical, a good trait to have for his organization's line of work.

He closed the door and made his way to his living room, but someone knocked on the door again. With a frown, he turned back and peeped outside, finding a young woman waiting. She seemed to be wearing the same clothes that Maryse did. Again, no obvious weapons.

He cautiously opened the door. “Yes?”

“Hi. I found you,” the woman said, holding up a courier posting- the one that read find me.

He squinted at the woman. “You must be Miss Karline.”

She dipped her head. “I am. So, did I pass?”

“Ah, hum, yes, you did. Congratulations, I wo-”

She cut him off. “Great. When do I get paid?”

His mouth hung mid-sentence for a few moments. “Hum, at the courier way station. I will give you a signed note, but first, I wo-”

She shook her head. “Payment first, I'll hear your job offer afterwards.”

“Why would it be a job offer? I just wanted to congratulate you.” He said with annoyance.

Karline rolled her eyes. “Oh, please, you don't put up a series of puzzles disguised as postings for me to solve just to congratulate me. You want to offer me a job, and it's probably something secretive at that. Problem is, I'm not sure I want to work with someone who's so easy to read.”

Anton narrowed his eyes. “Excuse me? Easy to read?”

“Yeah. The story about the worker's daughter was a lie. I just wanted to see your reaction. It confirmed my suspicion about the tavern's workers being told to lie; you really thought there'd been a leak. Your organization shouldn't have you facing potential recruits.”

“I...” He shook his head. “I don't need to be hard to read, I just collect rumours.”

Karline angled her head. “Ah, so you really are part of an organization. I wasn't sure.”

Anton's mouth opened to speak, but words failed him, or maybe he was scared to reveal anything else. He mechanically closed it shut. He retrieved a folded slip of paper from one of his pockets and handed it to the irritating woman. “Present this to the Wayman at the waystation. They will give you your payment. After that, I highly recommend you come see me, at least hear what I have to say.”

Karline took the piece of paper and fanned it a few times as she looked at him. “What's your organization's name, anyway?”

At that, Anton smiled. He loved this part. “Miss Karline, have you ever heard about the Scourers?”

She blinked. “Oh, the precursors to the Free Couriers?”

His smile shattered. “...You've heard of them?”

A puff of air escaped the corner of her mouth. “Yeah, a friend of mine is a huge history nerd, kept telling me stories about them. They're still around, then? And you're a member? And that's the job offer?”

Anton's mouth curved downward. “Go get paid, come back tomorrow. Good night.” And he then closed the door.

Karline stood there for a second before turning around and walking back to her inn.

She had a satisfied smile on her face. Being able to give some payback to whoever had put her through this stupid week-long test was exactly what she had needed.

Now to figure out if she was interested or not...