The beams smashed into six heavy-duty barriers. I hadn't modified the sequence at all, so Emilia and Kevan expertly diverted the energy and even managed to reflect some back towards me, which I dealt with using a barrier of my own. Ambrose was doing his filtering trick again, and I could sense him holding the energy in reserve. Lynus and Jerric were struggling to make the adjustments necessary for their barrier to hold up under such a sustained barrage. To my great satisfaction, Jerric's barrier held for a few seconds longer, although both of them were engulfed in the beam as their defences failed and they were blown back against the arena barrier, their arena-generated personal barriers registering fatal damage. A moment later, they dropped to the floor as their focus on the anti-ensorcelment sequences broke.

After a minute, the beams petered out. Lynus and Jerric both turned to stare at Devon, who was still standing.

"Hoooly shit!" Devon cried out, looking down at himself in amazement. The barrier around him was badly cracked, but he had shaped it into a spike that deflected most of the energy, and he had leaned hard into maintaining its integrity.

"Nice one, Dev!" Jerric cheered.

"You're on washing duty!" he crowed, but a moment later he fell prone as his focus slipped and the ensorcelment took hold. "Ahhh shit!"

"Clear the field, guys," I managed to say through gritted teeth. It was getting really hard to shape the last array.

The three of them brought up the Minor Control Sphere to create an opening in the arena barrier and quickly slipped out. That left Kevan, Emilia, and Ambrose.

"Alright, here it comes. Last one and we're done."

I half-expected some sort of jibe from Kevan about being worn out so soon, but he was regarding me seriously.

It was finally ready. The arcana I had been amassing all this time was like a lump of white-hot coal in my stomach. I applied a frame-shift to it and the air around me came alive, charged with power that was ready to lash out. The three of them knew what to expect, and all of them conjured the decoy orbs that would draw lightning away, holding them in reserve for the moment when I allowed the energy to snap out from me.

But it didn't come from me. With a sudden, violent sizzling, Kevan found himself engulfed in a bolt of lightning that fell on him from above. When it dissipated, Kevan's shield registered fatal damage, and he was prone.

Emilia gasped, but she was quick to envelop herself in her grounded shield, producing one spike in every cardinal direction and one more to guard her against strikes from above. But my bolt erupted from the ground beneath her feet, shattering her shield from within and sending her flying up two metres. Her arena barrier registered fatal damage, but she was still quick enough to recover and perform an elegant landing. At the last moment, her focus slipped, and she went prone as the ensorcelment took effect.

Now it was just Ambrose and me. He wasn't grinning any more. I realised that I hadn't seen him this serious before. It wasn't just a look of concentration — there was a steadiness in his eyes and a kind of professional composure that reminded me very much of Kant. It was... battle-readiness.

There was a lot of arcana left, and no other targets to use it on, so I put all of it into this last burst. It was getting hard to concentrate now and I was forced to gesture. My right hand came up in a claw, and sparking forth from the very air around him, a crackling sphere of lightning materialised and rapidly snapped inwards.

But just before he was engulfed, I realised with a thrill of horror and excitement that there was, quite suddenly and unexpectedly, another presence in the arcana; another person attuned to its strings.

There was a blinding flash as the sphere of lightning imploded. I felt a great flexing and stretching in the fabric of the arcana, and then, all at once, the air was clear and the presence in the arcana was gone. Even my hold over the ensorcelment had been broken. And Ambrose was standing there, unscathed, panting slightly.
