When the last guest finally departed, he fell in beside Yuzhen, Eccentric Gam, and Ouyang Yuhuan to follow Baatar and his family back to the manor, a slow and almost comical procession thanks to Rain’s plodding gait and the overstuffed, lethargic Divine Turtle nodding off every few steps while escorting him home. Why they didn’t arrange a palanquin for the boy, Nian Zu couldn’t say, but after taking five minutes to travel the few hundred metres back to the manor, his patience was all but spent. As soon as everyone bade the Divine Turtle goodnight and he felt the tell-tale suppression of a Sound Barrier close in around him, he asked, “Well?”

Stony-faced as always, Baatar merely shook his head, but Akanai was not so polite. “Hmph,” the formidable woman snorted, fixing him with an icy stare. “You should not have meddled in Bekhai affairs.”

Not the thanks he expected for blindly jumping into the fire, but it would take more than ingratitude and a glare to cow Nian Zu. “Meddle? You all looked ready to commit murder and treason, so had I not ‘meddled’ then we would likely be locked in a battle to the death.”

“How fortunate for you.”

“Are you mad, woman?” Unwilling to back down, Nian Zu cautiously eyed his surroundings and readied to fight, not because he believed his life in danger, but he saw no sense in taking chances. “I command over a million soldiers here in the citadel, while you have less than fifteen-thousand. Even assuming each of your warriors are worth sixty of mine, when the dust settles, I’ll be left with an army larger than the one you started with.” Not to mention the many forts and forces scattered between here and SuiHua, or the countless Peak Experts who would be obliged to help hunt the Bekhai down if they were declared traitors, but Nian Zu felt his point had been made.

Also, Baatar looked positively ready to rend him to pieces over his disrespectful tone, though oddly enough, Akanai’s husband Husolt paid no mind to the proceedings, exchanging hushed words with the Medical Saint Taduk who stood protectively over Rain with a scowl on his face. That was one to watch out for; few remembered that Healers could end lives as easily as they saved them, and in his field of work, the Medical Saint was second to none.

“Putting hypotheticals aside,” Akanai said, ignoring Nian Zu’s point, “Your interference was neither needed nor appreciated. The Bekhai protect their own, and your meddling has ruined everything.” Jerking her thumb at the boy, she explained, “Now he thinks he will survive this journey to the front lines, but I am not so optimistic.”

“And committing open rebellion is any different?” Mother in Heaven, had it truly come to this? The Bekhai breaking ties with the Empire and Imperial Scions murdering one another in wartime? Then again, Rain likely didn’t count as a ‘true’ Scion in the eyes of the Eastern Nobility, but they would still have to account for his Patron, the Legate. What had the boy gotten himself into? “Tell me everything,” he demanded, finally accepting he didn’t know enough about the situation. “Did the Legate turn on the Bekhai?”

“No, we owe him a great debt,” Baatar growled, his wife’s hand on his arm doing much to calm him. “Our problems stem from Yang Jixing, the Prime Minister’s son, an empty-headed fop who means to take Zheng Luo away.”

...

Of all the half-witted, short-sighted, mule-headed reasons to rebel, this one had to be the worst. Or best, depending on how one looked at it. Fighting over a woman, truly the downfall of many great men. “...I hate to be callous, but is giving her up not an option?”

“Of course it is.” This time, it was Sarnai who spoke up, while the consort in question withered away in fright. “But Rain asked if she wanted to leave with the fop and she said no. Since that is the case, then the girl stays, end of discussion. Jixing does not seem like a man accustomed to disappointment, but I look forward to teaching him a sound lesson on the subject matter.”

Thankfully, Ouyang Yuhuan saved him the trouble of pushing the issue and voiced his thoughts for him. “All this for an Imperial Servant. Is it truly worth it?”

“She is not just an Imperial Servant,” Sarnai replied, her glare brooking no argument. “Zheng Luo is my son’s consort and my first daughter-in-law. She is of the Bekhai, her children will be of the Bekhai, her grandchildren will be of the Bekhai, and we will fight to the death to keep her safe.”

...Stubborn and incomprehensible, but honourable and steadfast.

In the face of Bekhai integrity and Zheng Luo’s teary joy, Nian Zu could do naught but accept things as they were. Luckily, this was merely a spat between the younger generation and nothing more serious, which meant it should be a simple enough affair to protect Rain from Imperial machinations. With the Legate overseeing battlefield command and Yuzhen handling logistics, all Nian Zu needed to do was keep an eye on their ‘allies’ and ensure Rain wasn’t placed in harm’s way. How difficult could it be?

Though he didn’t hear the courtyard doors burst open, he felt the gust of wind which accompanied it and he turned to face the possible threat. Marching in at the head of his former retinue, Dastan Zhandos strode forth with weapon drawn and expression grim, pushing Nian Zu and everyone else in his way to stand before Rain. Dropping to their knees, the dozen or so rebels from Sanshu presented their weapons to Rain hilt first. “Our lives are yours,” they said as one, their voices determined and unwavering, each one unable to outright ask Rain to kill them due to their Oaths, yet proving their fealty and dedication through their actions.

How Falling Rain could be so beloved by his people yet so antagonistic to outsiders was a mystery to be sure, but seeing the fervent devotion in the eyes of these convicted traitors proved Rain’s worth, for few officers could inspire such feelings in the soldiers under their command, much less slave soldiers who once sided with the Defiled.

However, in response to this touching display, the boy groaned and rolled his eyes. “Don’t be fucking stupid. What would killing you accomplish?” Taken aback by the admonishment, Dastan was not alone in his confusion, as Nian Zu and everyone else present save Yuzhen and Zheng Luo turned to Rain for clarification. Doing a poor job of hiding his disdain for their ignorance, Rain explained, “Killing them does nothing. Sure I won’t have to go to the front lines anymore, but Jixing will just find another excuse. He dropped all other charges, which means putting me on the front lines was his end goal, and since the Legate allowed it, I’m certain he wants the same thing, albeit for different reasons. Why else would he assign Brother Biao to my Honour Guard? I don’t need a Peak Expert to guard me if I’m sitting safe in the citadel, so like it or not, this is happening, and I’d prefer it if my Domain-wielding friend were alive to watch my back.” Shrugging, he added, “Besides, doesn’t the Emperor favour young talents? Dastan and Sahb are slaves and rebels, but they’re still ridiculously talented, so killing them won’t just look cowardly, we might even be punished for it.”

...Ordinarily, Nian Zu would have lambasted anyone who dared call him ‘fucking stupid’, but considering he’d been ready to end Dastan’s life himself, the criticism was quite valid.

Swatting Dastan’s axe handle aside, Rain scowled and said, “You done kneeling and being dramatic yet? I’m headed to the front lines tomorrow, with only you guys, my Honour Guard, and Nian Zu to protect me, so you should probably get some rest and let me do the same.” Holding a hand up to forestall all arguments, he turned to his three betrotheds and said, “No, none of you are coming with me.” Turning to the half-cat girl, he added, “Well... except Song, because she has to... Sorry. No Khishig guardians either, so Jochi and Argat can stay here. We’ll need people to guard Song though. Yes, even you have to stay Grandpa Du, what will you do if they get their hands on... what’s his name. You know... Kai’s kid. Anyways, anyone who comes along will just become a target to exploit, and the fewer options we leave Jixing, the easier it’ll be to guess his next move.” Turning to Zheng Luo, he asked, “How goes the whole forgery thing? And I was thinking...”

It was an incredible thing to watch, this young, crippled hero taking charge in a courtyard filled with no less than four General officers and multiple Peak Experts and Experts, but in Nian Zu’s eyes, it seemed oddly fitting. Even if the boy never regained his Martial Strength, his mind was still sound, and he could learn to be much like Du Yi once was, a brilliant and devious strategist who played his enemies against each other and always came out on top.

...Granted, Rain wasn’t quite so brilliant and nowhere near as devious, but he had plenty of time to learn with Nian Zu, the Hero of the Northern Wall, standing by to protect him.

What else was an irrelevant old man to do if not make way for the future?

Chapter Meme
