I was excited to see what a boosted pentaclysm could do, but I decided to start small with a few more basic slashes. Save the best for last, as they say, otherwise I’d just be bored for the rest of the day!

Lightning Claw was the first one I wanted to Overdrive. It was already my fastest ranged attack, so I had high hopes, and it did not disappoint.

{Elemental Swipe}! {Overdrive level 1}! Lightning Claw!

The bolt exploded off my claw and slammed into one of the dummies with a sharp crack of thunder that made even my puppy ears ring.

The dummy wasn’t exactly torn apart, but a round, smoking mark had been burned into its chest where the bolt struck.

Terra Claw, I was also very interested in since it could also have some practical applications if I ever needed to dig.

I swiped my paw at the ground in front of me and aimed at a few dummies that were close together.

{Elemental Swipe}! {Overdrive level 1}! Terra Claw!

The resulting rake in the earth was easily distinct from the smaller ones from me and Fox’s days of training, like mini trenches, and the spray of earth that shot up and pelted the dummies had them bopping back and their limp dummy arms swinging. I couldn’t help grinning at the result.

Checking my reserves and mana, I thought over how to spend the rest of my resources before Fox came back. I could, of course, refill my reserves easily enough, but I still wanted to do a little test run for how I could plan out my resources for such an occasion when I couldn’t just recharge my elements whenever I wanted.

Elemental Reserves

Earth 20/30

Fire 15/30

Wind 30/30

Water 30/30

Electricity 20/30

Vitals

Health: 720 / 720

Mana: 540 / 930

Stamina: 570 / 638

Okay, so Elemental Cocktail usually used two of each, so that would mean 4 of each with Elemental Overdrive. Before going for a pentaclysm, I decided on another old favorite.

I reared my paw back and slashed forward.

{Elemental Cocktail} Ice, Wind, and Electricity! {Overdrive Level 1}! ICE MISSILES!

The results of this attack were instantly recognizable!

The simple slashes had definitely gotten stronger, but this was different. Instead of just powering up the attack, Overdrive had changed it.

A swarm of ice missiles appeared before me. The base form only had a handful, but this one had dozens. They zipped through the air somewhere between a group of confused flies and a swarm of angry bees. But as they zeroed in on their targets, they became much more focused and slammed down with incredible force, whacking the dummies this way and that, and one of them was even pulled off its supports and thrown to the ground.

HELL YEAH!

I wished someone were here to stand in witness of my incredible power!

If that was a group of real humans, they would have been in serious trouble!

But that just left my ultimate attack to test.

Pentaclysm.

The thing about Pentaclysm, though it was powerful, it didn’t fire off as quickly as other attacks, and furthermore, it only fired in a straight line. If my aim was a little off it was an attack that could easily be wasted on a miss, and likewise, since it was delayed it could be dodged by anyone paying enough attention. Unlike the Ice Missiles, which were always guaranteed to do at least some damage. But Pentaclysm, when it did hit, saved my tail more than a time or two back in the caves, most of all against the Earth Tyrant when I sent one blasting right down its stupid throat!

Now the attack was going to be even stronger.

Okay, here we go, I thought, itching with excitement as I raised my paw.

{Elemental Cocktail}! Harness the power of the five elements! {Overdrive level 1}! PENTACLYSM!

A sphere of mostly white light, but also swirling with a dim rainbow of colors just beneath its surface appeared before me mid-slash, just as it always did. But it was bigger this time. It was definitely bigger, and it let off a wobble of sound. Then, all at once, it flattened into a beam that shot like a bullet towards one of the dummies.

The resulting shockwave had me turning away just slightly, but I kept my sight forward as I watched the dummy turn into a dark silhouette amidst the beam’s light. Behind it, I heard the crack of a tree branch snapping, and when the light finally cleared, my mouth hung open at what I saw.

D-Did I just do that?

Half a branch hung by a thread from its thicker base, smoking and scorched around the point of impact. It swayed in the wind, once, twice, then snapped free and fell to the ground with a rustle. Beyond it I could see more damage to the forest beyond, and I realized I’d have to be careful while using the Verdant Empire’s training ground! If I practiced a level 3 overdriven Pentaclysm there might be a good chance I’d blast a hole straight through one of their walls!

Finally, my gaze came closer to what my actual target was.

It was like someone scooped half of the dummy away. Its torso ended in a rounded curve that was still smoking, and the rest of it was simply obliterated. There was nothing left of it!

Well… I did still have 270 mana left to play with. That meant two more powered-up Elemental Cocktails or Elemental Slashes.

But man, after using Pentaclysm, any other mixture of elements I could think of just felt like it would be boring in comparison! I wasn’t even interested in blasting off another barrage of ice missiles!

So…

Another big-bad wolfy smile spread across my muzzle.

Why not just play with Pentaclysm a couple more times?

I always was a firm believer in the unspoken rule of variety. But, you know, sometimes when something is just too good, why limit yourself?

But what should my next target be?

Could I aim for the base of a tree and see if I could topple it in one go?

Yes.

Yes!

I very much liked that idea!

I prowled around the flat training ground, eying up my potential victims, that is, the trees just along the edge of the forest area.

The very thick ones I would be unlikely to be able to fell with a single Overcharged Pentaclysm—at least not at this level. But I didn't want to undersell myself either!

This one’s too big, this one’s too small… and this one… is juuusssst right!

I grinned as I eyed up the target I’d decided on.

Okay! Here it goes! Let’s make sure we’re on target and—

I raised my paw.

{Elemental Cocktail}! Harness the five elements! {Overdrive Level 1}! PENTACLYSM!

The sphere wobbled in front of me and then flattened into its incredible beam, shooting across the field, kicking up dust in its wake, and then slamming into the tree! This time, the shockwave was actually far more powerful, and I couldn’t help squinting my eyes as my head turned away and my fur rustled.

When the light cleared and I got to examine the damage—

I was…

Disappointed.

I huffed as I stared at the scorched circle in the middle of the tree. It was a lot of damage, don’t get me wrong! But the tree was still standing!

Such a let down!

I prowled over to it to get a closer look and sniffed at it. The scent of smoke, sap, and cooked bark filled my nose.

Okay, fine. Maybe trees were a little tougher than training dummies. Who knew?

I huffed, thinking maybe I should have chosen a thinner tree after all. I did manage to snap a reasonably thick branch off of that first tree that caught a stray pentaclysm, but I should have known getting closer to the trunk of a tree would be a bit different.

Then, the tree creaked, and my ears perked.

Oh?

I placed one paw next to the blackened wound and pushed.

It creaked again, and I put my other paw up and pushed harder, this time bracing my hind paws into the dirt and really putting my shoulders into it!The tree creaked noticeably louder, but I didn’t actually feel much give. Still, a slow, wicked grin spread across my muzzle once more.

I may not have brought about a decisive end to this battle, but the war wasn’t over yet, and I had enough mana left for one more Pentaclysm!

I giddily trotted back a few paces and eyed up my target. I wanted to be sure I landed this second pentaclysm right on top of the first for the best chance at felling my sturdy opponent!

I took a deep breath, envisioning the attack in my mind.

{Elemental Cocktail}! Harness the five elements! {Overdrive Level 1}! PENTACLYSM!

The sphere formed, wobbled, and flattened. My ears tucked back as I watched, dipping my nose against the shockwave but forcing my eyes to stay open as I watched the tree turn into a silhouette amidst the simultaneously white but colorful beam!

But before my vision recovered from the light, the creaking of the tree caught my ears first.

Is it going to go?

I saw it sway, but it was still standing, though each creak was a little louder than the last. I could hear how it was beginning to fail to hold itself together. It might even topple all on its own if I left it alone for long enough, or a strong enough gust of wind came through. But with the walls surrounding the training field, such a gust was unlikely, and besides—why would I give all of my glory to a stupid gust of wind!

I dug my paws in and bolted forward, running with all of my strength and then just lunged, throwing my whole body at my stubborn woody adversary! I tucked sideways and slammed into it with my shoulder, and instantly I heard the creaks growing louder and closer together.

Oh, still haven’t had enough, have you?

Well, I might not have enough mana for another overdrive, but let’s see how you like this!

{Elemental Swipe}! Galing Claw!

My swipe sent forth a blast of wind, and the tree visibly swayed much more than before, and the creaks turned into audible craaacks!

Alright, one more should do it! And according to my puppy math, I should have enough mana for another interesting cocktail, even if I couldn’t overcharge it! I decided on earth and wind to give it the blunt force with the little extra kick it might need to finish the job!

{Elemental Cocktail} Galestone!

I raked my claw against the ground and aimed upward. I tore up the ground into stone bullets that shot at the smoldering wound with much more speed and precision than a Terra Claw.

As the stone slammed into it one after another—

Finally, the tree gave! It swayed forward once, and then swayed back, but never swayed forward again.

It just cracked and groaned and finally, with a rustle of leaves, it fell back into the arms of its brothers! Luckily, it wasn’t close enough to the base of any of them to completely stop its descent, so it just snapped off some branches that were innocently standing by before finally giving a final crash as it slammed into the forest floor!

I jumped up, placing my paws upon my felled opponent and roared to the sky.

VICTORY IS MINE!

And listen guys, I know I’m being a little childish here. But screw you! Have you ever knocked over a tree before? Well, you should try it, because it’s FUN!

And, as it turns out, it wasn’t all for naught, because several system messages popped up in front of my face.

Achievement! TIMBEEERRR!Through a series of entirely unnecessary acts of violence, you have felled your first tree!

+8 Strength

+6 Vigor

Hey! Those gains really were not bad at all! Strength and Vigor were my lowest attributes, after all, so it was nice to get a little boost to them!

I swiped it away and then was surprised to see the next message.

Elemental Overdrive Leveled Up! 1 > 2

+5 Attunement

My tail wagged, very happy to see that. Though, I had to wonder how these things tended to work. The thing is, I hadn’t used the Elemental Overdrive on my last attack. Did that mean skills were not leveled up solely based on how often you used them? I supposed that made sense, because thinking back on Fox’s advice on using skills as often as I can to level them up, it typically didn’t work that way in practice. I really only leveled up my skills when I achieved something with them, I supposed.

My best guess is that you did get some progress towards a level up just by using a skill, but there were probably also some hidden bonuses at work depending on how they were used. That might also explain why I hadn’t managed to level up my Veilform skill yet despite how much time I’ve spent as a human since arriving here in the Verdant Empire.

After all, I have yet to use the Veilform skill and the Path in general for their intended purposes. I’d only used them for the sake of being able to communicate with humans easier.

Well, as excited as I was to see what a level 2 overdrive could do, I was now pretty much out of mana, and Fox hadn’t returned yet. Though I was a little worried about just how much mana a level 2 would drain, because clearly mana resources would be a problem going forward even just with the level 1 version of the skill.

But luckily, I wouldn’t have to wait long. After going back to the statue to charge up my elements, then returning to the now decimated training field, I sat on my haunches and waited. But soon after, I heard an impressed whistle.

“Damn kid, going overboard much?” Fox called.

I looked over with a smug grin, which faded slightly as I saw she wasn’t alone.

Rin Zaoh was walking at her side, her metal fingers resting on the hilt of her sword as usual. Her red eyes seemed to sweep across the training ground, and for a moment, my tail involuntarily tucked down. This place had been pristine before I started training here, and now it was an absolute mess.

But my worries vanished as she smiled. “I see you are making good use of the training ground. I’m glad you’ve found it beneficial.”

My tail wagged slightly at that.

“I hope you do not mind my intrusion,” Rin continued. “Since I had planned to speak with you later today anyway, I thought I might as well come observe your training for a time. Oh, and I have something for you.” She reached into her clothes and pulled out a blue vial. “Fox mentioned you would be needing some mana potions. I happen to always keep a few on me. You may use as many as you like.”

Fox took the mana potion from her and brought it over to me. “So did you manage to level up your overdrive?”

I gave an affirmative yip, then opened my mouth as Fox uncorked the mana potion.

It was a little humiliating having to be fed like this, and by Fox of all people, but it was a necessary sacrifice as I wanted to test my level 2 overdrive as soon as possible!

It tasted chalkier than a healing potion, and I didn’t feel the same rush of life coursing through me as with a healing potion. Though, my head did feel a little clearer.

I turned to try to decide on my next target when Rin spoke up.

“Might I make one more request?”

I looked back at her and my tail folded down once again as I heard the smooth slide of steel as she drew her sword.

“If you don’t mind humoring me. Please try hitting me with your strongest attack. I’d like the chance to see firsthand just what you are capable of.”

As my eyes met her red-eyed gaze, I felt my fur bristle slightly. “I understand your hesitation,” Rin said. “But I assure you, I would not ask if I believed myself to be in danger, and I believe it could be enlightening for both of us.” Her lips smiled softly as she then walked towards the training dummies, sword loose at her side. She took position between two battered dummies and a trench I’d carved into the earth.

She then lifted her sword slightly, angling it in front of her. “Aim as you did before. Please, do not hold back on my account. Just pretend I am once of those trees.”

Do not hold back, she said. Easy for her to say! If I accidentally vaporized the High Regent of the Verdant Empire, I was pretty sure that would put a bit of a damper on future diplomatic relations. I could already imagine the achievement.

Achievement! INTERNATIONAL INCIDENT! Through reckless magical stupidity, you have murdered an important political figure! Reward: Public execution and everyone hates you forever!

My ears twitched as I looked at the sword in Rin’s hand. She was asking because she wanted to see what I could do. Maybe because she was measuring me. Maybe because she wanted to know if I was worth all the trouble they were going through for me. Or maybe she just wanted to know what kind of monster she was trying to groom into her super soldier.

And if I was being completely honest with myself, there was a part of me that wanted to show her.

Not because I wanted to hurt her.

Because I wanted her to understand.

I was not just some puppy they were dragging around.

I was not helpless.

I was getting stronger.

I took a few steps back, then a few more, putting distance between us. Rin did not move. She simply waited, her long hair shifting faintly in the breeze, sword held in one hand, metal fingers resting along the grip.

Fox trotted off to the side, wisely removing herself from the direct line of fire. She, after all, knew firsthand what a pentaclysm could do even in its base form.

“Whenever you’re ready,” Rin said.

I swallowed.

Okay.

Fine.

She asked for it, after all.

I planted my paws against the ground, focused on my mana and my elements. Earth. Fire. Wind. Water. Electricity.

I envisioned my attack, staring down the High Regent who seemed far too calm for what I was about to do, and finally, I lifted my paws, swallowed down the last of my hesitation, and swiped.

{Elemental Cocktail}! Harness the power of the five elements! {Overdrive Level 2}!

PENTACLYSM!
