As my eyes met her red-eyed gaze, I felt my fur bristle slightly. “I understand your hesitation,” Rin said. “But I assure you, I would not ask if I believed myself to be in danger, and I believe it could be enlightening for both of us.” Her lips smiled softly as she then walked towards the training dummies, sword loose at her side. She took position between two battered dummies and a trench I’d carved into the earth.

She then lifted her sword slightly, angling it in front of her. “Aim as you did before. Please, do not hold back on my account. Just pretend I am once of those trees.”

Do not hold back, she said. Easy for her to say! If I accidentally vaporized the High Regent of the Verdant Empire, I was pretty sure that would put a bit of a damper on future diplomatic relations. I could already imagine the achievement.

Achievement! INTERNATIONAL INCIDENT! Through reckless magical stupidity, you have murdered an important political figure! Reward: Public execution and everyone hates you forever!

My ears twitched as I looked at the sword in Rin’s hand. She was asking because she wanted to see what I could do. Maybe because she was measuring me. Maybe because she wanted to know if I was worth all the trouble they were going through for me. Or maybe she just wanted to know what kind of monster she was trying to groom into her super soldier.

And if I was being completely honest with myself, there was a part of me that wanted to show her.

Not because I wanted to hurt her.

Because I wanted her to understand.

I was not just some puppy they were dragging around.

I was not helpless.

I was getting stronger.

I took a few steps back, then a few more, putting distance between us. Rin did not move. She simply waited, her long hair shifting faintly in the breeze, sword held in one hand, metal fingers resting along the grip.

Fox trotted off to the side, wisely removing herself from the direct line of fire. She, after all, knew firsthand what a pentaclysm could do even in its base form.

“Whenever you’re ready,” Rin said.

I swallowed.

Okay.

Fine.

She asked for it, after all.

I planted my paws against the ground, focused on my mana and my elements. Earth. Fire. Wind. Water. Electricity.

I envisioned my attack, staring down the High Regent who seemed far too calm for what I was about to do, and finally, I lifted my paws, swallowed down the last of my hesitation, and swiped.

{Elemental Cocktail}! Harness the power of the five elements! {Overdrive Level 2}!

PENTACLYSM!
