“Don’t misunderstand me, Selys. I’m not poor. I had my job as Guildmistress, and that earned me money. I could live, and I still live quite comfortably off that. But I used to have money. And take it from me, adventurers spend money like a…Eater Goat shits.”
“Grandma! Wait, how often is that?”
“Often. And the wealthier they are, the more money they spend. That goes for most rich people. It’s rare to meet someone who can make more money come in than go out who’s new to the game. So don’t spend everything at once. Or if you do, hold onto that armor. Never let it slip away. You made your choice to keep it; never offer even a part of it, no matter what they offer you.”
After that, Tekshia finished her third cookie. Selys sat at the table, tail moving back and forth restlessly.
“So you think I should keep making money off the armor?”
Tekshia nodded.
“That would be wise. And I would tell you to spend a lot of it on artifacts. A better vault, somewhere with wards, perhaps on security—at least on some protective charms! You know what most adventurers wear. Get that. After that? You should leave Liscor.”
“But it’s my home.”
The Drake snorted.
“So what? It’s one city. Do you know how big Izril is? You’ve never been to another city in your life, girl. When I was your age, I’d visited three Walled Cities and at least two dozen other cities!”
“And broken fifteen hearts and gotten married twice.”
Selys rolled her eyes. Tekshia raised a fist. Selys edged her chair back.
“I may exaggerate. But there’s a reason those arrogant idiots in Pallass look down on Liscor. If they ever come to Liscor, we’ll kick the scales off them in a back alley, but they are right.”
She pointed at Selys with a yellowed claw.
“You’re rich, Selys. You should go to Pallass. You should accompany that deranged girl, Erin Solstice. She’s more of a child than you are. She might need a rich friend, and you need to find out how to make that armor earn you money. Rent it to the Flamewardens for now; their leader will pay well to wear it. Most Drakes will, if only for a few days.”
“And will this be my life?”
Tekshia paused.
“Only if you want it to be. You don’t have to keep the armor. You don’t have to be rich, girl. But shouldn’t you find out what that means before you give it away?”
She was right. She usually was. Selys looked at her grandmother. She was a bit teary, but she didn’t know why. She nodded.
“Okay. I’ll do that. Erin wants me to come with her anyways. I’ll spend money and…make connections. Wall Lord Ilvriss was talking about it. I’ll visit the Flamewardens. But you have to do one thing for me, Grandma.”
Tekshia eyed her suspiciously.
“…Give you more days off?”
Selys laughed. She stood up and went over to the portrait. She unhooked it from the wall and showed Tekshia it. The Drake stared down at the sketch.
“Grandma, you have to find a [Mage Artist]. Or whoever drew this.”
“[Sketch Wizard]. I think that’s what he called himself. Why?”
“So you can get another [Mage] to do this. But do it in color. Or do a memory. They can do that, can’t they?”
Tekshia’s eyes widened. She took the portrait, inspected it.
“They can. It’s very expensive, but Wistram [Mages] can do it. Some of them. I think some of Fissival’s [Mages] know the spell. Idiots becoming [Battlemages], [Summoners], [Necromancers], and [Illusionists]. If they really wanted to earn money, they just need to learn that spell and make it cheap enough for old folk. But it’s possible if you have enough gold.”
Selys gulped.
“Then do it. I want to know what my parents said. What they were like. I’ll pay for that. And I’ll earn whatever it takes…”
She felt a lump in her throat. Selys looked down and saw Tekshia’s eyes were moist. The Drake blinked rapidly. She glanced up at Selys and then down at the portrait.
“You want to know what they were like having sex? Because I walked in on them twice when I was—”
“Grandma!”
Selys laughed and cried. Tekshia smiled and stood up. She hugged her granddaughter once. Briefly. For such a tough Drake, Tekshia was surprisingly reticent about physical contact. Then she nodded.
“Make at least twenty thousand gold pieces first, you precocious granddaughter. That’s probably what it would take to lure a [Mage] all the way here and get what you want. For now…”
She walked over to the pile of gold on the floor next to the magical vault. Selys expected Tekshia to give her another pearl of wisdom, but the Drake just bent. She had a bag of holding at her side too, a good one from her adventuring days. She casually shoveled some of the gold into it.
“I’ll take this. And this. And some of this. The old folk and I could use a night at Wishdrinks. Don’t bother coming to work tomorrow; I’ll make Warsh cover your shift.”
“What? Hey!”
Selys blinked as Tekshia nimbly hopped up and headed for the door. Selys blinked at the bare patch of her floor.
“Tekshia!”
The old Drake was already out the door as her furious granddaughter appeared in it. She laughed up at Selys, more like a [Witch]’s cackle.
“That’s Grandmother to you, Selys! And give me some of that cloth you bought! And if you didn’t buy anything nice, buy more!”
She speed-walked away as Selys shouted insults. The Drake [Receptionist] caught her breath, and then smiled as she closed her door. Her neighbor stomped on the floor to let Selys know to keep it down. Selys ignored it. She looked around and saw a Tekshia-sized gap in her apartment.
The old Drake had been bossy, mildly condescending, rude, and she’d stolen at least a hundred gold coins. And somehow, after her visit, Selys felt a lot better. She looked at her vault, slapped the lid shut, lifted it, and ran out the door to find a new apartment.
 
——
 
Selys was learning a lot of things today. She knew about speed, but now she was learning a new equation: money = speed. It was a simple formula, but the more money you offered people, the faster you got places. New apartment? Money up front worked wonders. [Merchants] having lunch? Farri and Humric were at her service!
Something else Selys was learning was the effect gold had on friends. Or maybe silver was a better analogy. Because on some, money cut and divided, but the silver shone through. Whereas other relationships tarnished. Or turned black.
It was another easy thing to spot. Some friends were poor friends. They came up to Selys and said things like—‘hey, I know Mica, Warsh, and Lellia said those things. But I want you to know that I would never’—and so on and so forth.
The true friends just apologized. Best friends, or oblivious ones like Erin, never brought it up to begin with. Or in Drassi’s case, had brought it up all along and never lied about her intentions.
The final thing Selys learned was that she was mildly out of shape. She was so tired from running around the city and lugging the twenty-pound safe about that by the time she threw her safe in her new apartment and turned the spelled key in the lock, she had to go lie down. Or buy a stamina potion. She didn’t own any, but her new home was conveniently located near the eastern gates. Near to The Wandering Inn and a certain Market Street.
Selys dragged herself over there and saw the street was bustling. [Stall Keepers] and the lower-level [Shopkeepers] might not have permanent dwellings or fancy mobile caravans like the [Merchants] on Trader’s End did, but a lot of money still went through this street, albeit in smaller denominations.
Selys spotted the familiar stall and Gnoll at once. Krshia was a face to remember in Market Street—she might not be the Gnoll rubbing shoulders with Farri and Humric, but she was a [Queen] of the low-level earners. Which would make Lism the [King]. It was a loveless marriage.
Someone else had gotten to Krshia before Selys. Or rather, someone else was hovering around Krshia, talking fast as the Gnoll tried to conduct business with her clients. Octavia ducked as Krshia irritably swatted at her. Selys slowed down to listen.
“Krshia, friend! You know we’ve had a long and profitable business relationship, right? Well, I have an opportunity for you! I hear you know Gnolls. Well, I could use a few er, bulky lads to help me out! Just for a day or two! It’s nothing underhanded, probably, but for the sake of our relationship—”
She stopped as Krshia turned to stare at her.
“We have been working together for little more than a month, Octavia Cotton. Little time to call each other business partners, yes? Not enough time for favors.”
“Yeah, but—come on, Krshia. Think of our business! You can earn a lot of money! If my potions were to, er, vanish suddenly, that’s coin down the drain! Think of it as an investment.”
Krshia shook her head as she handed another Gnoll some change.
“One of your potions was defective. You need to quality-check your batches, yes?”
“True, yes! But—”
“You stink of desperation. I will not risk my fellow Gnolls on something that smells and sounds illegal. Go ask an adventurer. Or hope Erin Solstice is inclined to help you. But that might be a mistake.”
Krshia shook her head. She turned her back on Octavia, and no matter how much the [Alchemist] pleaded, Krshia ignored her. Octavia gave up and passed by Selys, muttering to herself.
“Lousy Gnolls who think they’re above underhanded…no, no, positive, Octavia. Erin will help out. She loves helping out! I just need to phrase it like…hey, watch it! Busy people are coming through!”
She walked around Selys, irritated. The Drake ignored her. Although it was the [Alchemist]’s creations she had come here for. Krshia smiled as Selys approached her counter.
“Ah, Selys. Good afternoon to you.”
“Hey Krshia. Can I get a stamina potion please? Uh, not a defective one.”
The Gnoll grinned at Selys.
“I tested these myself after the defective one was discovered. They are fine. That is twelve silver coins.”
“Twelve? That’s cheap…can you make change for a gold coin?”
“Hrr. Of course. But a cheap potion is cheaply sold. Miss Octavia makes them in bulk, and I will admit, they are effective. If crude. You only need drink half for a good effect.”
Selys popped the vial Krshia gave her. It was indeed a small amount of liquid compared to a full-sized bottle, and true to the Gnoll’s word, the stuff was vile. Selys had tasted bad potions, but this was on another level. She gagged, but got it down. And when she did—
“Gah! That’s strong!”
It was like being smacked around by a pot’s worth of tea. And about as pleasant. Still, Selys felt her tired body perk up instantly. The taste probably had to do with that as well. She corked the vial and fake-retched a few times deep in her throat to try to get the taste out. Krshia offered her some water from a flask.
“Here.”
“Thanks. Ancestors, but that’s foul. Good price, though.”
The Gnoll smiled as Selys tilted the flask down, letting water splash into her mouth.
“Mm. True. But I hear that is the least of your concerns today. Someone has been spending coin. Quite a lot of it, yes?”
“You heard that already?”
Krshia smiled at Selys’ dismayed expression. She tapped one ear.
“One simply has to listen. And it is a topic of much gossip, yes? And important for any [Shopkeeper] to know. But I wished to bring it up out of more than just idle chatter. Will you speak with me for a second?”
Selys lowered the water flask, perplexed. Then she had a surge of apprehension. But Krshia was older. She wouldn’t try and take advantage of Selys. Right?
“Of course.”
She stepped to one side as Krshia abandoned her stall. A customer heading towards her growled in disappointment. Krshia waved in apology, but apparently this was more important than business. Which only made Selys more wary. The Gnoll took the water flask back and drank.
“Mm. Thank you. So how shall I say this most simply? You know that I am of the Silverfang Tribe, yes, Selys?”
“Of course.”
It was in Krshia’s name. Or rather, she used her tribe’s name rather than having a formal last name like Drakes and Humans. Krshia nodded.
“Well, I am a…highly placed member in my tribe, for all I live in Liscor. You see, I am still a Plains Gnoll at heart, for all that I live in the city.”
That was an important distinction. And Selys wasn’t surprised by Krshia’s admission; she’d seen and heard from Erin how much sway Krshia had. She looked at Krshia, trying to get anything from her brown eyes or her tail. Krshia grinned, and Selys turned red as she saw the Gnoll could tell what she was doing; the trouble with Gnoll tails was that they were so short!
“I apologize. I do not mean to alarm you, yes? No doubt many people have been badgering you. Let me be more plain: I came to Liscor with some of my tribe to build ties. But also to prepare a gift for the Meeting of Tribes. You know what this is?”
“It’s…the biggest event among Gnolls, right? Some annual gathering?”
“Yes. But not annual. It happens every twenty years. Sometimes it is even missed. But it is an important time. The fortunes of a tribe may change, or great worth may be acquired at the Meeting of Tribes. Which is why all seek to present a gift better than any other.”
Selys nodded. She was trying to think ahead of the conversation. Why did Krshia want her help? Selys drew a blank, so she just waited for Krshia to explain.
“The Meeting of the Tribes is still a ways away. But I think the Silverfang tribe will have much to speak of. And a worthy present to give.”
“Oh. Good. I guess that’s a feather in your cap.”
This time, Krshia blinked. She frowned, perplexed.
“A feather…in the cap?”
“That’s right. It’s a Human expression. I heard Halrac using it. Apparently [Hunters] put feathers in their hats to show what the biggest animal they killed was. Posturing, you know?”
Krshia grinned.
“Ah. I see. Gnolls do not wear hats, mostly. But I know [Hunters] who made headbands or other apparel out of feathers. It is a good expression. There is another feather I would add if I could, Selys. But it is not an easy feather. And yet it would be quite a big one and good for the city. Will you hear me out?”
Selys wanted to say ‘I’m doing just that, aren’t I?’ But she knew that was rude, and she wasn’t her grandmother, so she couldn’t get away with it. She nodded politely. Krshia took a moment. Then she spoke softly, glancing towards the roof of the City Hall, one of the taller buildings in the distance.
