The Drake waiting outside impatiently pointed at the City Runner, the same Gnoll woman who’d taken Humric’s delivery, and the Gnoll stepped back. Tekshia Shivertail waited as the lock slowly turned in the door.
“Grandma? Are you—”
Tekshia kicked the door. Selys, who’d been leaning against it, went flying. She screamed as she hit the ground, rolling like Tekshia had taught her as a hatchling. Tekshia Shivertail, retired Gold-rank adventurer and Guildmistress of Liscor’s Adventuring Guild, walked into Selys’ apartment. She stared at the gold on the ground, sighed, and raised her voice.
“City Runner, bring in that vault. Selys, stop sniveling.”
She waved the Gnoll in, whose jaw dropped as she saw the gold piled up on the floor. Selys yelped.
“Grandma!”
“Stop whining. You’re going to move apartments anyways. You’ve complained about how small this one is for years in my earhole. Give the City Runner a tip; don’t offer her gold, what are you, flea-brained? You’ll have Street Runners expecting a handful of silver just for delivering a letter five feet! Now, attune yourself to this damn vault and start putting the gold inside. Why you haven’t done this already I have no idea. You have as much sense as your mother. More than your father, I suppose. Get moving!”
Tekshia Shivertail did not wait to see Selys move. She went into Selys’ kitchen, brewed some tea, and came out to find Selys doing what she’d told her to. The City Runner was gone, only slightly disappointed by a six silver tip for running for five minutes. Selys was shoveling gold into the magic vault.
Tekshia, an old Drake with dusky purple scales, watched her granddaughter working as she took a seat on Selys’ bed. Selys paused to rub at her back; gold coins, even if they were alloyed, were heavy in bulk. Only then did Tekshia speak.
“You’ve finally gotten the bug, haven’t you, my dear?”
Selys glanced up. Tekshia clarified.
“Hoarding.”
The [Receptionist] turned red.
“Grandma! I spend money! And I’m not hoarding, I’m just—”
She paused, realizing that denying she was a hoarder while she had gold in each claw wasn’t the most compelling of arguments. Tekshia smiled, and her stern face relaxed a bit. Normally she had a glare that could cut through wood. But she did smile. Then it snapped back into a look that frightened rookies working at the Adventurer’s Guild, both [Receptionist] and adventurer alike. To Selys, it was just how her grandmother’s face was normally.
“Hoarding isn’t just about gold, girl. It’s about owning things. Or did you think Dragons just sat on gold? No. They covet treasures. We do the same things. We fill our homes with everything we want. You’re starting it; I do it now and then. But I’m not rich any longer. And you just came into your wealth. But you’re caught between wanting to keep your gold and spend it, aren’t you?”
“I spent some of it.”
Selys sulkily pushed more gold into her vault. It was rearranging itself, piling up in miniature as Selys watched. She could easily pull it out, and it would organize the coins by denomination as well as categorize jewelry and other valuables. Tekshia snorted and kicked the vault, which was metal but carefully painted to look like plain wood, with one foot.
“This? This is cheap, girl. You should have paid for one worth at least two thousand gold pieces. Probably four just to be safe. The next time you meet the [Merchant] that sold you this, make him trade it in.”
“Four thousand? Grandmother, that’s more than half of what I have! I think!”
“You’ll get more. Don’t be stingy when it comes to protecting your treasure. And you’ll need it to store everything you buy. Or did you think [Thieves] only went for vaults? Smart ones will rob everything but the vault, even if they’re barely Level 10. And thanks to your idiocy—and your stupid, gossipy friends—the city knows you’re rich.”
Selys winced.
“Grandma, I only—”
“You didn’t think. And I suppose it’s a credit that you didn’t realize how much you had until now. Actually, I take it back. That’s not wisdom, that’s just stupidity.”
Tekshia reached out and flicked at Selys. The Drake recoiled.
“I…I just got it a week ago. I had no idea what to do with it. I went to work! You saw me! And I didn’t steal any of this—”
“Of course you didn’t. Do I look like an idiot? You got it from renting out the Heartflame Breastplate, the treasure of our people, like a cheap toy!”
The old Drake glared at Selys. The [Receptionist] winced. Tekshia sipped from her cup. Loudly.
“Well done. I would have never thought of that. Are you a [Heiress], by any chance? That’s the only class I can think of that fits. If you are, level up as much as you can. I’d like to live in a mansion when I finally retire.”
“A mansion?”
Selys’ jaw dropped. Then she realized what Tekshia was saying. Selys sat back on her tail.
“You’re proud of me?”
The old Drake shot her a stern glance.
“You’re more addled than I thought. Drink some tea! And why wouldn’t I be proud? You made money. True, you had to use a legendary artifact to do it, but you didn’t sell it. You own the Heartflame Breastplate, and somehow you turned that fact into thousands of gold pieces. Even if you nearly got all of it stolen. Still, you’ve got more money than I ever dreamed you’d have. I always thought I’d be richer than you even with what remains of my savings. Huh. I guess I got that wrong.”
Selys blinked at her grandmother. Somehow she found herself sitting among the scattered gold pieces, sipping from one of her cups. Her grandmother still had a lecturing tone, but the words were…positive. That was rare. Selys felt a kick in her stomach, a good one. She took a breath.
“I guess I need to let you know I’m quitting, then.”
It was hard to imagine. But on the other hand…Selys would like sleeping in. And she’d have more time to visit Mrsha and talk with Erin. She almost smiled at the thought. Tekshia did not. She scowled at Selys.
“Quit? What gave you that idea? And refill my cup, would you?”
She thrust out her tea cup. Selys blinked at her.
“Grandma, you said yourself! I’m rich! Why would I work a job?”
“Because I said so. You’re not quitting until I get a better replacement.”
“Grandma!”
The old Drake sighed. She sprang up from the bed with more agility than she had any right to. Selys shot her a look as Tekshia refilled her cup herself, grumbling about unfilial granddaughters.
But not every granddaughter had a grandmother who could still do backflips and outrun Street Runners, even if Tekshia complained of aching bones and body. She looked back at Selys, her tail very calmly lying on the bed. That was another feature about Tekshia; when she didn’t want you to, you couldn’t read a thing about her from her tail.
“I still need a [Receptionist]. And you’re my best one. Maybe you can consolidate the classes. Either way, you’re not allowed to quit. But I will let you work the day shifts. Six hours instead of nine. If I can hire some replacements, you can work the odd day. Actually, if you’ll pay their yearly wages, I’ll give you as much time off as you want.”
“But that’s not fair! I’m rich!”
“And I’m your grandmother. You can’t quit now, when all these adventurers are traipsing about my Guild and you’re one of the few people who know how things work. Besides, once you run off to spend your fortune, I won’t see you anymore.”
Selys was about to protest, but then she saw Tekshia’s face. Her tail never moved, but the old Drake’s face was less guarded. It was a sad look. Tekshia looked around the room. Her eyes found something on the walls. A little portrait, framed and covered with glass. Expensive, but Selys had bought it the first year Tekshia had begun employing her.
The illustration was a sketch; the kind of thing that was a prelude to a proper portrait. It showed two Drakes. It wasn’t any scene out of life, although the details were accurate as far as Tekshia had always said. The [Artist] had drawn it from a memory. Tekshia’s. The Drake looked at it. So did Selys, but whatever emotions she felt were old. Incomplete.
She envied the look in Tekshia’s eyes, and all the gold lying on the floor would have been a small price to pay to make that picture complete. To hear a voice. Wait—
Tekshia stood up and walked over to the portrait. She glanced back at Selys, sadder and older than Selys ever wanted to see her. Tekshia reached up and half-touched the portrait, claws gently skating over glass.
“If your uncle could see what you did with the armor, he’d be proud, I think. So would your parents. At last, someone in the family who figured out how to get rich by being smart, not being a warrior and risking their tails or sponging off of Zel’s fame. I suppose this counts in a way, but he gave this to you. Don’t let anyone steal it.”
Selys looked up at her parents. Her voice was smaller as she stared at the gold on her floor. And now it looked more like metal. Like trash, covering the plain, worn, wooden apartment she hated, but which felt like a home.
“Grandma, what should I do? Really? I didn’t sell the armor because Uncle Zel gave it to me. But what should I do with…?”
She waved a claw. Tekshia took a seat at Selys’ little table and sipped from her cup. She glanced at Selys.
“Learn to be rich. Don’t run from it. And don’t pretend you’re not. What’s the point of doing that? Don’t be guilty either. Don’t think you have to give it away, or do your friends favors. It’s yours. You earned it, by luck, by chance, but it’s yours. Keep doing that. Don’t squander your fortunes. I did, when I was your age.”
Selys scooted forwards on her bottom. She frowned at her grandmother.
“What, you did? You told me you weren’t rich.”
“I did? I must have lied.”
“Grandma—”
The old Drake hunched her shoulders, and her tail wrapped around her chair’s leg.
“You were probably too young. And it’s an embarrassing story. What did I say, that I quit and just had enough to live in my means? That was a lie.”
Selys shook her head. For a moment, she forgot the gold around her. As she absently flicked a gold coin from underneath her bottom, she looked up at her grandmother, and she could have been a little hatchling staring up at her grandmother in Tekshia’s apartment a decade ago.
“You told me you lost it all when the Necromancer attacked the city.”
“Ah. That’s a good lie.”
“But it is a lie?”
Tekshia sighed.
“Yes. It is. I suppose you’re old enough now. I might as well tell you since it’s a mistake you shouldn’t make. Sit up. Don’t slouch. Let’s see. There’s enough tea. Do you have anything to eat?”
“Um. I have crackers with a fishy paste. It might have gone bad. Or—oh! Erin gave me some cookies the other week. They’re a bit stale—”
“Those. Now.”
Selys obediently got her grandmother the stale cookies. Tekshia shot her a look.
“You have enough cookies to eat that you leave some to get stale?”
“I’m too tired from work to think about eating most of the time, Grandma. And I’ve been going out recently. Well, I was, with Warsh, Lellia, and…”
“I see. I see. Well, give them here. You may have one too, I suppose. Not that one! Mm. These are good.”
“They go well with milk, apparently.”
“Do they? I don’t like milk much. Milk tea isn’t for me. And I don’t trust it. It comes from cows. And those great, stinking things are disgusting. They have parasites, you know. Ever see a Creler burst out of a cow? You’ll never forget it.”
“Grandma, please. Your story about how you were wealthy?”
“Yes, yes. I was getting to that. Now, where should I begin?”
Tekshia chewed on a cookie, thinking. At last, she began, and Selys leaned forwards at the little table, wondering when she’d grown taller than her grandmother. But the crackling voice was just like she remembered.
“You know my career. I wasn’t the best Gold-rank; hah, I could never get close to Named Adventurer status no matter how hard I tried. My teams came and went; I wasn’t the best adventurer, but I wasn’t the worst. I made a name for myself.”
“Tekshia the Spearmaster. Yes, Grandma.”
“Don’t interrupt! Yes. Tekshia the Spearmaster. It should have been Spearmistress, but I heard too many jokes about that. I earned that class. Not like that Relc, who got it from killing a [Spearmaster] in battle. So I was good. But I knew I was getting older and, frankly, I got tired of the adventuring life. Too many days hunting Trolls in bogs. So I quit.”
“Just like that?”
The old Drake looked annoyed. She chewed her cookie furiously and sipped more tea.
“No, not ‘just like that’. It took a long time to make my decision. Years. But I did it in the end. I retired from Gold-rank adventuring. And I was rich. I didn’t feel like it at the time. Adventuring is like a tunnel. No, wait, a staircase. Tunnels are idiotic. You keep chasing higher and higher, saving up for the next artifact, saying ‘if only I had real armor, not this steel crap’, or, ‘if only my spear were tipped with adamantine, not just enchanted’. And then when you quit, you realize how much gold you spent on just a potion.”
“How rich were you?”
“Richer than you are right now. By quite a lot, young lady. And I spent the money I had, too. I spent a lot of it on parties. Drinks, food, a fancy house, travelling…what adventurers normally do. Some of my old friends got into trouble. I helped them out. Some of the less-successful adventurers could use some gold. I had gold for years, even when I was pregnant. Even when your father was growing up and married your mother. Even when you were born. I wasn’t as rich, then, but I had investments. I was still one of Liscor’s wealthier citizens come the Second Antinium War. And then I…er…donated the rest to Liscor’s army.”
“You did what?”
Tekshia looked defensive. And uncomfortable.
“It was a different time! After the First Antinium War, when we held the walls and we could count the number of officers that survived? I had [Majors] and [Colonels] knocking on my door, very nice young Drakes and Gnolls. Always in need of gold. Always so thankful, as were the high command. And between all of it, the donations to the city, the rest, I suppose it ran out. That was an unpleasant day. I had to sell a lot of my gear to pay off the debts by the time I broke even.”
She watched as Selys put her face on the table. Tekshia was blushing, but she cleared her throat and Selys looked up.
