“Ashfire Bees, huh?”
Selys shook her head as she left the Adventurer’s Guild. She’d put in her time; it was past midday, which meant she’d been working for nine hours. That also meant she’d been at the Adventurer’s Guild since before dawn, but that was the life of a [Receptionist].
“Yeah. It was surprising. I didn’t know it would be so—tough—”
Maviss, walking out besides Selys, had to cover a huge yawn. She wasn’t done yet; it was just her halftime lunch break. She shook her head, her tail lazily trailing in the street behind her. That was Maviss for you; she’d spend all the time in the world working on her scales, but she’d drag her tail in mud if she was sleepy.
“Sorry. I didn’t know the Horns and the Silver Swords would struggle so much.”
“Swarm monsters surprise adventurers. Unless they’re prepared or well-rounded, they can get into lots of trouble. That’s why we’re told not to recommend nest assignments to teams with all-[Warrior] makeups. Not unless they have magical items or artifacts.”
“Mhm. I don’t ever recommend things to the teams that come in. I’m too tired.”
“Well, you’ve got four hours left. Don’t fall asleep just yet. I’m off.”
Selys was decidedly unsympathetic. Maviss shook her head, yawning again.
“How do you do it, Selys? I couldn’t do the overnight shift.”
“Years of practice. Besides, it’s Guild policy. A [Receptionist] has to be on call at all hours, even if the Guild has times when it’s closed.”
“I guess that makes sense. But we barely have enough to cover all the shifts! Ever since those two newbies quit…is Tekshia going to hire more?”
Selys grimaced. The tip of her tail slapped the cobblestones.
“She’s looking. But we need more room in our budget.”
“Whaaaat? But all that treasure from the dungeon—”
“We’re not operating under Human laws, Maviss. Liscor’s Adventurer’s Guild gets a budget. Our cut goes to Liscor’s treasury, not the Guild vaults. Which we don’t have. We get a safe, and the money from the Raskghar and other dungeon expeditions will probably go to fixing the gates, the walls, paying for soldiers who got hurt or died…”
“So you’re saying we won’t get replacements.”
“Let’s just say ours isn’t the most lucrative job around. Although it beats some. We’ll get more people in, and if we do, Grandma will give us vacations. Once they’re trained.”
“Wonderful.”
Swish, swish. Maviss’ tail was picking up dust. Selys glanced at it. As Erin had learned, you could tell how Drakes and Gnolls were feeling depending on how their tails moved. It did vary from person to person, but some signs were universal. And Maviss’ tail said she wasn’t really upset so much as very, very sleepy.
“Get some tea or you’ll fall asleep at the desk. You’re the only one working until Warsh comes in.”
“Yes, mom. Hey, do you want to have lunch together?”
“Sorry, I had a big snack an hour ago.”
“Oh. Then I’ll see you tomorrow. Hey, is it three thousand—”
“Bye, Maviss.”
Selys walked off. Maviss called something at her back, and Selys waved a hand. She wasn’t mad, really. But she knew that telling Maviss exactly how much money she had would be trouble. Not least because all of it was stored in the bottom of her dresser in her apartment. Any [Thief] would jump at the chance to rob Selys. Because Selys was rich.
A week ago, Jelaqua had walked into Selys’ small apartment and given her a share of the treasure she’d earned from the dungeon. It was the Drake’s cut of the profits for letting the Halfseekers use the Heartflame Breastplate. It wasn’t a third of the Halfseekers’ take like Selys had initially tossed out as an offer, but it was still a percentage. And that percentage had appeared in the form of enough gold to knock Selys out.
Literally. She’d woken up to Jelaqua pouring water on her face. Selys had gotten a cold from that, but the sight of a pile of glittering gold pieces had alleviated her suffering. Mostly. She’d turned into a Level 8 [Heiress] as well, but she hadn’t gained a Skill. Another mixed blessing.
As for how much money Selys had, well, the answer was that she had a good bit more than three thousand gold coins. Maybe as many as six thousand, and it was actually starting to worry her a bit. Her apartment floor might actually cave in from the weight. So Selys’ first job on the day off was to store her money.
The problem was that Selys didn’t know how much a bag of holding cost, she didn’t know how to carry that many coins with her without one, and she didn’t know how much money she had. She knew how much Jelaqua had given her, but some of Ilvriss’ money had joined the pile quite recently.
He’d rented the Heartflame Breastplate after the Halfseekers and before he’d left in secret to return to his home, he’d sent one of his aides to pay Selys the fee. Which was more gold than she’d earn in a year. But on top of the money Jelaqua had given her, it had seemed almost paltry, more money to join the pile. Selys had stared at it and tried counting. She’d made fifteen stacks before she just gave up.
That was the thing. Selys might have been a Drake, a member of a species descended from Dragons, but she’d realized that having a lot of gold was really like having a lot to eat. It was great if you were hungry, but once you were full, it just looked like…stuff. And now she was rich, money had lost its value for her.
“I’m no hoarder like Grandma can be. But I don’t know what to do with what I have. Look at that.”
Selys paused on her way down the street. The area around the Adventurer’s Guild catered to their kind, so there were [Shopkeepers] selling goods made by [Blacksmiths], [Alchemists], [Fletchers], [Carpenters], and more. Some shops were multi-purpose; others carried a specific set of items, like the shop she was walking past that had every kind of weapon on display. Selys saw iron mixed with steel weapons, all fairly sharp, as well as a small selection of potions in bottles. A Gnoll was browsing as the Drake [Shopkeeper] tried to close the sale.
“I could buy a dozen of that shop’s best steel weapons. Eight times. And I’d still have more money than Maviss ever had in her life.”
Selys shook her head. She walked by another shop, and her eye caught a gaudy protective charm. Something to deflect blows? It was probably only good for a hit or two from something small; deflection charms were usually weak, according to Tekshia. And the bad ones were poor at sensing what was an attack; you could deplete them by stepping too hard or jumping.
But she could buy it. She could buy a magical artifact with the gold she had. Most Silver-ranks wouldn’t have as much gold as Selys before they hit Gold-rank. With this, she could actually become an adventurer. And she had the Heartflame Breastplate—or rather, it was being stored in the Watch Barracks until Selys could find someone to rent it. She could practically become a Silver-rank adventurer if she outfitted herself. If she wanted to…
Selys had once wanted to be an adventurer. Before she’d learned how dangerous that was, and how unglamorous. Her grandmother had talked her out of it, really, by telling Selys stories of her past. And Selys had to admit, she wasn’t talented. Her uncle, the famous [General], had taught her a few claw-fighting tricks.
Her grandmother had taught her how to use a spear and a sword. Selys had learned, but she’d never grown adept at any of those fighting styles. She wasn’t talented, which Tekshia had said could be made up for, but it meant Selys was disadvantaged. That had been enough for the young Drake girl.
And the adult had seen war. Skinner’s attack just proved what Selys knew: it was not for her. So no adventuring. But what else was money good for? Fancy things like Maviss had said? Jewelry? Magical items? All of that appealed to Selys, but now that she had money, she didn’t have anything she wanted to spend it on that much. She’d rather have the gold than regret spending it.
“Oh no. I am hoarding.”
Selys groaned. That was one of the classic symptoms! Being a miserly Drake who couldn’t spend so much as a copper coin. She struck her head lightly with the heel of her palm, then heard someone shouting her name!
“Selys! Hey, Selys! Are you off work?”
The Drake looked around. She brightened up as she saw three of her friends, Mica, Warsh, and Lellia, coming towards her. Mica was a Gnoll [Clerk], Warsh was a Drake [Receptionist] working at the Adventurer’s Guild like her, and Lellia was a [Spinner] apprenticing in a [Tailor]’s shop. Selys hung out with them quite often, but she knew a good number of people her age in Liscor. Some, like Drassi, were old friends, or co-workers like Maviss. But this group Selys had known since she was running around the streets as a hatchling.
“Warsh, how are you doing? Hello, Mica, Lellia. You dyed your fur?”
She looked at Mica. The edges of the Gnoll’s dark fur around the side of her face, normally a dark brown, were blonde. The Gnoll preened and smiled as the three stopped in the street to chat.
“That’s right. I got the edges dyed yesterday. What do you think? They look good, yes?”
“Yeah. Very…attractive! I like the way it stands out. But won’t it get you in trouble with your boss? I mean, at the store?”
Selys eyed Mica. The Gnoll was a [Clerk], who, like a [Receptionist], [Waiter], and so on, could fill a lot of jobs. Mica was employed running the counter at a [Shopkeeper]’s store that dealt in produce, which was one of Liscor’s only exports.
The city mainly imported goods; it was subsidized in no small part by the army’s mercenary work, and the area had some natural resources, but nothing dramatic like Pallass’ ore mines or Oteslia’s huge agricultural industry. However, shops like the one Mica’s employer ran were important; they had preservation runes and could store food for a long time.
They were the closest things to the grocery stores Erin talked about. Some didn’t even bother with stores; they kept warehouses and let other [Shopkeepers] buy from them in bulk. That was how business was done in Liscor; artisans didn’t sell their goods personally like in Celum and northern cities. They went through [Shopkeepers], and thus they could rely on middlemen to handle the cutthroat business of business while doing their work.
“Oh, that old place? The owner pitched a fit, so I quit. I hated working there anyways. He was always telling me to sweep up after myself. As if I can help shedding! And I never got any fur in the food.”
Mica waved a paw in disgust. Selys nodded, but she wondered if that was a good move. [Clerks] weren’t exactly in high demand in Liscor. At least, at the level Mica was at—Level 14—they weren’t. She was a Level 6 [Washer] and a Level 3 [Sweeper] too, which didn’t exactly help out much.
“Well, if you’re happy, that’s fine. Hey, I’m off work. Maviss’ pretty tired, Warsh, so I wouldn’t be late, or she’ll rip off your tail. I was going shopping.”
“Hey, why don’t we come with you? I could buy some trinkets.”
Lellia eagerly offered, and Warsh and Mica nodded. Selys hesitated.
“Well, you probably won’t want to go where I’m going. I’m checking out the [Merchants]—the pricey ones, you know? So…”
The eyes of all three of her friends sharpened. There were [Traders] and [Merchants] in Liscor, but only a few dealt in expensive objects and demanded gold. Warsh looked at Mica and Lellia.
“Why don’t we come with anyways? I have a bit of gold.”
“Yeah!”
“If you want.”
Selys awkwardly motioned, and the other three fell into step with her. It wasn’t that Selys didn’t want to talk with them—it was just that it was going to be awkward buying a bag of holding with them in tow. And it was also strange that they were all here. Mica usually had her job, which made sense, but Warsh slept in until it was his shift on a working day. As for Lellia, she didn’t get out nearly as much as the other two.
“So, how have you all been? I mean, since the other day?”
They’d had a huge party at the Tailless Thief just the other day. Selys had spent far too much and woken up with a terrible hangover. Mica pointed at her fur.
“Besides this?”
“I just helped sew up a few dresses. You know.”
Lellia dismissively flicked her tail. Warsh, walking ahead of Selys, grinned.
“Is that fun? Nothing interesting happens anymore at work. Just those Gold-rank teams coming in and going out, always covered in mud. Except for the Wings of Pallass. Those are some sleek Drake ladies, and the Garuda is—”
He cut off as the other three all glared at him. Warsh coughed, blushing slightly.
“What about you, Selys?”
She waved the question off.
“Oh, nothing much.”
“Aw, come on. Nothing? What about your crazy Human friend?”
“Erin? I haven’t talked to her in a bit. She’s in Pallass.”
Lellia oohed appreciatively.
“Why didn’t you go with her?”
Selys made a face. That was what Maviss had said!
“I don’t want to. Her door can’t take many people and besides, what does Pallass have?”
“Um, everything? It’s a Walled City, Selys.”
“I guess. And Erin did invite me. But it was the way she said it! ‘Pallass has cooler things than Liscor, Selys. It’s way more exciting. Come on, you can meet so many cool people there!’ Can you believe that?”
Warsh looked at Mica. The Gnoll raised her brows.
“I can.”
“Totally.”
“What?”
Selys looked at her friends. Lellia laughed.
“You’re like my Dad, Selys. Liscor isn’t better than Pallass! If I could have gone, I would have.”
“What’s wrong with liking Liscor?”
Selys blushed a bit and grumbled as her friends laughed. First hoarding and now civic pride? She was turning into an old Drake! She quickened her pace and turned left. It wasn’t far from the Adventurer’s Guild—the street she wanted, Trader’s End, was just a bit north and east of her position.
There was no need for Selys or her friends to ask directions where they were going. They knew Liscor by heart, and so they came to the wide street quite quickly. It was like and unlike Market Street, which Erin frequently visited. In truth, the Human girl had never come here. And why would she? Unless she were exploring, Krshia could handle all of her immediate shopping needs.
