Selys and Krshia exchanged a worried glance. The Gnoll coughed.
“I understand this is an issue, Watch Captain. But my proposal would help the city. Would you consider it?”
Zevara shot them an amused glance. She sat up.
“Consider it? I’m halfway towards agreeing. If the Council wants to threaten my job, let them try. I’ve been petitioning them for more money, and they haven’t agreed. The Watch needs a full upgrade to everything, from weapons to armor to magical items. The siege and the dungeon prove that. We can’t rely on adventurers forever. If you can get me that money, I’ll help you take this to a democracy. And Ancestors help us all if that happens.”
Selys sucked in her breath. Krshia hesitated.
“That…may be a problem. Liscor is not unlimited in its wealth.”
The Watch Captain nodded.
“I know. But I need that budget. And I understand the Adventurer’s Guild needs more money as well. And your proposals to expand Liscor would solve a lot of domestic issues. If the problem is money…”
Both her eyes and Krshia’s darted sideways to Selys. The Drake [Heiress] held up her claws.
“Hey, I have money, but not enough money to pay for an entire city. We’d need someone with a lot of gold. Like, a lot. Or find a new way to get the city enough money.”
Krshia’s ears drooped slightly. Zevara sighed. Then, suddenly, she opened her eyes again. She spoke very slowly.
“I…do know someone who has a lot of gold to spare. But you and I would need to talk with him.”
She looked at Krshia. The Gnoll frowned, and then raised her eyebrows. Her expression cleared and she almost smiled.
“Ah. I think I know who you mean. That ties in nicely with my plans.”
Zevara’s voice was too-cool as she steepled her claws.
“Doesn’t it?”
Selys looked from face to face. The two older adults were giving each other that self-satisfied knowing look. Selys cleared her throat.
“Who do you mean?”
Krshia answered for Zevara with a low growl.
“Klbkch.”
Selys’ eyes bulged.
“Klbkch?”
Zevara reached into the cabinet behind her and rifled through the files. She extracted a piece of paper and stared at it, hiding it from Krshia and Selys’ view.
“His Hive, I mean. Yes…they could do a lot. I think.”
Selys wavered, trying to keep up with this sudden idea.
“Would he agree?”
Zevara looked up. She bit her lip.
“I can only ask. But before I do that…this is a risk, still. The army won’t like the idea of any kind of election. They might try to interfere. And the Council could well try to replace me if we can’t force an election. This is a risk. I might need to think on it. Give me a day or two, please.”
She looked up at Krshia. The Gnoll nodded, but Selys spotted her place to come in. Because she was on fire now. She’d found a use for both her money and what influence she had. She raised a claw. Both Krshia and Zevara looked at Selys. The [Receptionist] felt silly and lowered her claw. Then she pointed at Krshia before turning to Zevara.
“I don’t think we should wait. The Council usually replaces itself during the spring. Well, the election could take a while, so let’s do this now. Krshia, I’m on board with you. I’ll give you four hundred gold coins to jumpstart your campaign. And if Zevara agrees to help…I’ll let her borrow the Heartflame Breastplate for two weeks.”
Krshia’s eyes went round. Zevara’s eyes went even rounder. She half-rose from her chair, then sat down. Selys eyed her with satisfaction. The Watch Captain opened her mouth, caught herself, then coughed.
“Four weeks.”
“Three?”
Zevara nodded tightly. Selys smiled.
“Deal!”
She saw Zevara nod, but she had the distinct impression Zevara had just made a triumphant fist under the table. Krshia looked from face to face, grinning with pleasure. Zevara coughed a few times and cleared her throat. Then she rifled her papers unnecessarily.
“I’ll schedule an appointment. Klbkch’s off-duty for the next two days, but he might be able to fit in a meeting in his other capacity. I just need to wait for him to leave his Hive. As for other people to talk to, Olesm would be one. And perhaps…Erin Solstice. Unless, dead gods, this is her idea, isn’t it?”
She paled suddenly. Krshia and Selys both grinned and the Gnoll shook her head.
“No. For once it is ours. But Erin Solstice might help.”
“Or hinder. Still—damn, it’s a shame Wall Lord Ilvriss isn’t here. Because you could send her into the City Hall. We still could as a last resort. Although the Council might have my tail if I let her loose on them.”
The Watch Captain was frowning. So were Krshia and Selys, thinking the problem through, and what to say to Klbkch. But it was we now. They were in it together.
And as Selys watched the two older women she respected in the city besides her grandmother, she felt a buoyancy in her chest. She stopped worrying about the money in her apartment and, suddenly, wondered if she could persuade Zevara to hold off on the Heartflame Breastplate so she could lend it to the Flamewardens for a bit. After all, they might need more money. And the breastplate would look best on Zevara if she stood next to Krshia while they got her elected.
Suddenly, the world opened up. Selys realized something. This is what she wanted to do. Her worry, her confusion over becoming an adventurer, of how to use what she’d been given, disappeared. Because she wasn’t an adventurer. She didn’t want to be one. This was who she was. Why change that?
She was no [Mage]. She couldn’t change the weather, and she was no [Warrior] to swing a sword and bring down a monster. She couldn’t play a [Bard]’s song and captivate an audience or lead an army like a [General], at least not herself. But she could do all those thing indirectly.
She could hire an adventurer. She could bribe a crowd or fund a campaign. She could hire a damn army, or at least some [Mercenaries]. And she could make it rain gold. Or silver. That was probably more cost-effective. Selys looked at Zevara and Krshia, then she cleared her throat. They looked at her. A Gnoll who led her tribe in Liscor and a Watch Captain of a Drake city. And they waited for her to speak. Selys had a big smile on her face as her tail swished back and forth excitedly.
Swish, swish.
“Hey, do you know if I can buy land in the city? And, uh, how much does that cost? Also, Watch Captain Zevara, can I hire the City Watch? Or do I need to talk to adventurers? Because I could really use Relc’s help…”
After all, the breastplate was just the start.
 
[Heiress Level 11!]
[Skill – Everything Has a Price obtained!]
[Inheritance – Shadow of His Name obtained!]
