But by the same token, it meant Erin didn’t really know Liscor, for all that she’d lived in the city for so long. And if she had, perhaps she wouldn’t have so flippantly written Liscor off, at least in Selys’ opinion. The Drake inhaled the smell of spices, saw the huge caravans, a rolling wagon parked in the street, a few [Merchants] sitting and drinking with customers at small tables, [Guards] watching passersby with care and boredom written across their faces…this was Trader’s End.
“Pallass is more exciting, honestly, Erin…”
The little street wasn’t a one-way street. Nor was it filled with [Traders]. They tended to be crowded out, unless Liscor was blocked off. But with the spring had come [Merchants], and they liked to have a place to conduct business. So any caravan selling up-scale goods would stop here for a day or two, and any wealthy socialite or someone with extra gold to spare might visit. Selys had only bought from this street once before, but she liked to visit.
And if Erin had ever known of this street, or come across it by chance, she might have met more of her kind. For there were Human [Merchants] aplenty. At least, in the spring. In the winter, it was true that few Humans visited Liscor; Drakes took the opportunity to come north from the Blood Fields. But with the aforementioned fields being active in the spring and summer, it was time for Humanity to pour in.
“There are even more [Merchants] than usual. Think they’re here because of all the adventurers?”
“Of course, scales-for-brains. Why else would they make the journey? They’re not going south. And look, some are selling fabrics from the north! That looks like a Balerosian print! Selys, come see!”
Selys looked over. The first [Merchant] Lellia was pointing to was indeed selling bolts of fabric, ready to be cut out by a [Seamstress] and sewn into a work of art. The patterns were indeed beautiful and colorfully dyed—a waving, blue and red pattern separated by a white stripe. If you looked closely you could see there was a second pattern in the blue and red: smaller triangles of darker thread that looked magnificent. The [Merchant] was pointing it out with evident satisfaction. Selys gulped. That would make a great dress, and it was high-quality cotton, practical for wearing, not just fancy to-dos. But if you wanted to turn that into a dress for nights out…
“No touching, please, ladies!”
The [Merchant] had two big [Guards], both Gnolls, blocking the bolts of cloth. He was a Human with a bit too much weight and an older man’s paunch, but a quite thick and glorious head of hair and a shining jade amulet that spoke to anyone with an eye for trinkets. He was dressed just as colorfully as his wares, and Selys bet he’d done it to impress. Drakes liked flash, and so more than one female Drake was crowded around. A few Gnolls too, eying the fabrics the man was showing off.
“Please, buying customers only!”
He gently but politely shooed off a few Drakes with questions, calmly noting the cut of their own dresses and jewelry. His wave took in Selys, Lellia, and Mica, who’d joined the group. Warsh rolled his eyes. The [Merchant] had a little cup of wine in hand and a carafe of the stuff at his table but no client—it was a tactic Selys was familiar with. He’d invite someone who could probably pay to sit down and drink with him. At the level of a [Merchant], business was as much being social as it was having something to sell.
“Selys, what do you think? Wouldn’t that look amazing on you? And it’s not a tricky cloth. My teacher could whip up a dress in a few days! What do you think?”
Lellia was urging Selys to investigate the cloth. And it did call to Selys. She wondered what the price was. A hundred gold coins? For the entire cloth bolt, maybe. It couldn’t be two hundred, could it? And she could sneeze two hundred gold pieces out and not blink! Having the dress made would be even cheaper. She hesitated. But she didn’t have the gold on her, which reminded her why she’d come.
“Miss Gnoll, would you like to inspect my cloths? I have quite the selection! More still in my wagons! Please, come and have a drink. Ladies, please, a few steps back for my guest!”
The [Merchant] had spotted a rich-looking Gnoll in the back. He waved, and the [Guards] came forwards, parting the onlookers and escorting a Gnoll who was wearing a very light, very stylish sarong-style dress, with a cut shirt that let her arms breathe around the shoulders and sides while still covering her arms and the rest of her body. It was a look Gnolls could pull off better than Drakes and Humans; they had hair to hide what would be too much flesh or scale to modestly reveal. Lellia sighed as Selys turned away.
“I’m not here for clothes. Maybe I’ll take a look later. Warsh, do you see anyone selling magical goods?”
“Who isn’t? But there’s a few of them selling goods for adventurers. Want to see? They’ve got a fancy magic sword! It’s freezing the bucket of water solid!”
Mica called out after him.
“Is that all boys like? Gnolls and Drakes. You’re a [Receptionist], Warsh!”
Selys followed the Drake down the street. She saw there were more [Merchants] with magical items gathered around there. One of them, a Human in his late thirties, was lounging against the side of his wagon, taking his ease. The side of the wagon had unfolded, displaying a trove of objects of all kinds. Bags of holding, never-dip quills, cooling stones, rarer potions…there was a harried, younger [Trader] doing the work of answering questions in front of the display and four [Guards] standing around the wagon. Selys stood on her tip-toes to look. Mica poked her gently.
“What do you think? Will you buy anything? What did you come here for?”
“Uh, maybe. I don’t know, though. That’s a lot of gold to spend, and I didn’t bring any…”
“Oh come on, Selys. You’re loaded! You can spend some, yes? And then why don’t we get some cloths like Lellia suggested? We can have her master make them into dresses and go to a party. Why not tonight?”
Selys frowned. Were there bags of holding in the wagon? Then she looked at her Gnoll friend, confused.
“Dresses? But that’s way too expensive, Mica. And you just quit your job.”
“Well…but we could go together. Why not? At least let’s go for some drinks after this. Come on.”
There was something—off about the way Mica was speaking. Her tone was wheedling. Selys half-looked at her, and something in her head lit up. Did Mica think…?
Unbeknownst to Selys, the [Merchant] yawning as he sat by his wagon sat up suddenly. He couldn’t have heard Selys or Mica speaking. They were too far away, and he wasn’t listening. But he sat up nonetheless, and his eyes locked on Selys. He got up as Selys turned to face her friend.
“Mica, do you want me to buy you a dress?”
“What? No. I didn’t—it would just look good on you. And me and Lellia, yes? Right?”
Mica laughed, but her tail, which Selys had been watching, suddenly went very still. Lellia, who’d been pointing out an item to Warsh, looked up. Selys stared at her Gnoll friend as he spoke, slowly.
“But you can’t pay for something like that. So I should pay for it?”
The Gnoll girl smiled widely and nervously, as she spoke quickly.
“Only if you want to. I mean, it would look good.”
Selys nodded slowly.
“It would. But that’s one fabric. And three of us dressed the same might look…tacky?”
Lellia came over, shrugging and looking overly-cheerful.
“Just a bit! But hey, it would be really cool, wouldn’t it?”
Selys looked at her smile and took a breath. She forced a smile onto her face.
“Yeah, but if we were doing it, wouldn’t it be better to have three dresses? Each one different?”
“But I can’t afford that. So…I mean, it would be up to you. But it would look really good at a party, wouldn’t it, Selys?”
Mica grinned hopefully. Selys nodded, and inside her stomach began to twist.
“It would. But for what party? We had one just the other day.”
“But the Tailless Thief is open all the time, Selys. And Peslas was a great host. Why not visit there again after this? Or—we could visit one of the bars. There’ll be a great troupe at the Wishdrinks tonight. We could go dancing there, with you, us, and some of the others. They’d all be down for that.”
Warsh cut in, and Lellia and Mica nodded excitedly. Lellia leaned on Warsh’s shoulder, speaking faster and gesturing at the [Cloth Merchant]
“I bet my teacher could even cut some dresses out and sew them up if it was a priority order, Selys.”
The Drake [Receptionist] looked at her friends. Wishdrinks was a very expensive pub, which was to a ‘bar’ what the Tailless Thief was to an ‘inn’. A hangout with attractive, younger Drakes and Gnolls entertaining you rather than a place to sleep as well as eat regular meals.
It was very upscale, and not only were the drinks fantastic, you could dance, eat well, and have a great night out. If you had money to spend. Selys had never been there. And she suspected the others hadn’t been there more than once or twice at a bigger party.
“I don’t know.”
“Aw, come on, Selys. Your day off starts now! And besides—no, wait. What if we all went to Pallass.”
Lellia looked around. Warsh and Mica’s eyes lit up.
“Pallass?”
“Why not? Selys’ friend has a door, right? And we’ve never been—I mean, I’ve never been there! I bet there are tons of fancy places to visit!”
“But you need to ask to go.”
“Well, we can all put our names down. No one else is going to Pallass, right? And it’s free.”
Selys’ stomach was twisting over and over again now.
“But Pallass is expensive. I hear it’s way more expensive, especially for a really high-level establishment. Some don’t even take new customers. You have to know the owner.”
“Yeah, but money’s not a problem, is it? I mean, if it’s to visit Pallass…”
The copper penny dropped. Only, since it was Selys, it was a gold coin and it clunked. All three of her friends were looking at her. At her.
“I have to work. What if all of you went?”
Mica snorted.
“What would be the point of that? Come on, Selys. You can afford to take time off—or quit your job! You keep talking about how much your grandmother makes you work. Just walk back into her office and tell her you quit! Then you can join the rest of us and have some real fun, yes? Besides, you have enough money—”
“Uh, Mica—”
Warsh had noticed the sudden change in the way Selys’ tail was wagging. Her face remained the same, but her tail had stopped dead in the street. And it was beginning to curl up. But Mica, in her excitement, kept going.
“We can get dresses, go to the Tailless Thief tonight—or visit Pallass! Why not? It will be fun. And you should come. You have to come! We told everyone—”
“Mica.”
Lellia had spotted the same thing. She stomped on Mica’s foot. The Gnoll yelped, then she looked down.
“Oh.”
The three friends fell silent. They stared at Selys. She was clenching her claws so tightly she could feel her scales grinding together. She spoke levelly as she could.
“I like my job.”
No one said a word. Selys went on, looking from face to face.
“I like working with my grandmother, no matter what I say. And Warsh, you have to go to work later today. So I’m not drinking. I’m not going to a party, and I don’t want a dress. I’m not in the mood. Okay?”
She met Warsh’s eyes. He didn’t meet hers. Selys was going to leave it at that. She was going to, but Mica burst out despite Lellia’s silent signals.
“Aw, come on, Selys—”
The Drake whirled and shouted in her friend’s face.
“I’m not spending my money for you, Mica! I’m not buying you a dress and I’m not paying for you and everyone we know to party! I thought we were friends!”
The Gnoll backed up. Selys took a gulp of air and realized people were staring. Lellia looked astounded. Warsh was turning red. Mica looked hurt, guilty, and then angry.
“I thought we were friends too, Selys. What’s wrong with spending some of your money? You told us you inherited it and you have more than enough to spend!”
“Mica—”
Lellia was trying to pull the [Clerk] back, but Mica was taller and stronger than her. Selys glared. What had she said at the Tailless Thief?
“It’s mine. I choose how to spend it!”
“Well—fine! Maybe you should just keep it yourself, you hoarder!”
Lellia and Warsh gasped. Selys felt her face turning crimson. She pointed a claw at Mica, who’d realized she might have gone too far. She raised a placating paw, too late.
“Selys, I didn’t mean that. I only meant—Warsh was saying—”
“You and Warsh can go eat your tails. And you, Lellia. If I see you—you know what? No. As far as I’m concerned, all three of you can—”
Selys never got to say the rest of what was boiling away in her stomach. Someone reached out and, before she could speak, very quickly, but firmly, grasped her on the shoulder. It was just a touch, but instantly Selys felt a cool, calming feeling run through her. Her words died unspoken, and a man, the same Human [Merchant] who’d been sitting against his wagon, stepped forwards.
“Why don’t we leave it at that? Miss Selys, good Drakes, Miss Gnoll, I think this fight won’t do more than create grudges if it goes on. And this is a public street. Let’s say you agree to part ways, for now. I think that’s wise.”
He looked around. Warsh, Mica, and Lellia stared. So did Selys. The [Merchant] was shorter than the first, middle-aged [Cloth Merchant], about Selys’ height. But he had more youth and energy about him, even if he was wearing a traveller’s garb. And his touch was still calming Selys down. He smiled at her friends.
“I think Miss Selys here will benefit from some time alone, don’t you?”
“Uh—right. Yes. come on, Mica.”
Warsh grabbed his friend. Lellia did too. They towed Mica back. Warsh half-turned. He hesitated.
“Sorry, Selys. I didn’t—”
Then he turned and left. Selys looked around and saw at least two dozen Drakes and Gnolls staring at her, along with several [Merchants] and [Guards]. She turned crimson. But the [Merchant] only twisted his head around and whistled.
“Febin, get one of those tables. And a chair. And something to drink. Not wine. A juice. My guest and I will have a talk. In the shade over there.”
He pointed at a tree whose roots were trying to overgrow the little triangle of soil it was planted in. Selys found herself seated, and in a minute, sitting across from the Human. It was only after he’d offered her some refreshing apple juice and she’d taken a cup down that she could speak.
“Thank you. I think.”
“My pleasure, Miss Selys. It is Selys, isn’t it? My name is Farri Sightly. I’m a [Merchant].”
