“I have a proposal which no one in the Council has seen fit to acknowledge. I cannot even speak to a Council member formally to suggest it. You see, many issues plague Liscor. Fewer now than there were a few weeks ago. And in fact, these are smaller problems. Solvable problems, unlike siege or war. One you are familiar with. There is a housing crisis in the city, and the dungeon has yet been mostly a drain on the city’s profits.”
“Oh, I know about that.”
Selys made a face. She’d paid far more than she’d expected for her apartment, and it had only been achieved by negotiating for a room at the previous owner’s expense. She felt a bit bad about that, but her old apartment was open, and she hated her upstairs neighbor. She was a Gnoll with acute hearing, and she and Selys had been the bane of each other’s lives. As for the dungeon—Selys knew about that indeed.
Krshia nodded.
“I would solve both by expanding Liscor and placing a small fee on the dungeon for adventurers.”
“Expanding Liscor?”
Selys blinked at the idea. But Liscor’s walls were enchanted! And they were tall, and sturdy! You couldn’t just add onto the city, could you? But Krshia seemed to think so. The Gnoll was nodding.
“It is a foreign concept to Drakes. They think of their cities as permanent. But someone built the cities. They can be expanded. Humans do it all the time. And yes, it is sometimes careless, and they often lack walls. But a wall can be built, yes? And the coin for that could come from the dungeon.”
“How? It’s hardly raking in the profits, aside from the Raskghar haul. And adventurers do not take kindly to upping the fee they pay on huge treasure hauls. We can’t change those even if we wanted to; the Adventurer’s Guild has a code.”
Krshia nodded amiably.
“Very true. But a city can regulate the dungeon’s access, yes? What if Liscor charged a few copper coins for each entrance into the dungeon? That is very nominal even for a Silver-rank team. And this dungeon is so far filled with monsters. Who uses the parts? The adventurers bring some things back, but they leave much. Insect organs, moth wings, spider shells, all of it is useful, isn’t it? And once we know what can be obtained, we might find more uses. I propose to create a list of monsters in the dungeon. An organized inventory of the monsters in the dungeons and the harvestable parts and a system to request materials.”
Selys blinked. That was a great idea! Why hadn’t she or Tekshia thought of it? She nodded.
“We could…do that. Other cities have a system like that in place. Pallass probably does it. But…”
She grimaced, realizing why she hadn’t thought of it and Tekshia hadn’t brought it up if she had.
“…That’s a lot of work. Too much for us right now. We’d have to create a list, interview adventurers, check out bestiaries, consult [Alchemists], and so on…it’s fine if we had more staff, but we don’t. And Krshia, I hate to say it, but even with this amount of coin, it wouldn’t be enough to fully hire enough [Builders], let alone [Enchanters] and so forth to fully construct a new part of the city or even smaller villages on the nearby hills.”
Selys hated to rain on the [Shopkeepers]’s parade, but Krshia was nodding even before she finished.
“It would not. But Liscor is not entirely poor, is it? And what makes a city thrive is an industry. So far, as I understand it, much of Liscor’s wealth comes from its army. It has no…specialty. But a city that thrives off of a dungeon can be richer. Moreover, more space and more need for adventurers besides treasure will drive growth. More merchants will visit the city, more people who cater towards adventurers. It is already happening, but Liscor is not adapting to the problem.”
The [Receptionist] knew Krshia was right. She rubbed at her neck spines.
“I agree. But what’s the problem? You can’t bring this up with a Council member? I don’t know if I can help. I barely remember who…oh. You want Grandmother to help? I’m sure she can get you a meeting…no?”
The Gnoll was shaking her head.
“A proposal is only so much, Selys Shivertail. What if the Council disagrees? What if they do not see my vision? And are they the best fit for the job? I hear that during Liscor’s siege, they did very little. They left it to Watch Captain Zevara, to Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
“That’s true. I heard the same rumor. So what?”
Krshia Silverfang grinned. She spread her paws wide.
“Well, do you not see it? I am saying that if the current Council is inept, why not allow me to join it? The Council selects its own members every few years. By my reckoning, this is the year for it. So let me be the first Gnoll to be part of Liscor’s Council. And let me not be alone.”
Selys blinked. A Gnoll? Gnolls had never been on Liscor’s Council. They hadn’t even been that common in the city until…recently. Until after the Second Antinium War when they’d begun appearing. Krshia and her clan. She looked at Krshia.
“No Gnoll’s ever been on the Council, Krshia. The Council is all Drakes. And they pick their replacements. Or the Guilds do, or something.”
Krshia nodded.
“That is true. Liscor has no election. Which is why I would like to change that. With your help and others. I have thought long about this and it is my decision: Liscor must have a vote. Give the city a chance to choose its leaders. And if that happens, I will ask to be elected part of the Council.”
She said it so plainly, as if she were stating facts, rather than trying to overturn Liscor’s governing system. Selys looked up at her. Krshia spoke plainly, gesturing at Selys and the City Hall in the distance.
“If I can find a way onto the Council, I would try to implement these proposals. A new dungeon tax and expanded powers for the Adventurer’s Guild and a formal request system for raw materials that might attract artisans into the city. Expanding parts of Liscor or even creating new villages to lower the rent issue—as well as establishing a maximum fee that a tenant may be charged.”
“But how—”
Krshia forestalled her, raising a furry finger.
“As for how, aside from the dungeon, I would request Antinium aid for building at low rates. They already make building cheap, yes? I do not expect the Hive to help for free—perhaps for concessions regarding the size of their Hive or allowing more Antinium aboveground? And—ending the bounty on certain monsters, such as Goblins. Would that not save the city money?”
That last part made Selys draw breath in sharply. She looked at Krshia and narrowed her eyes.
“You want Erin’s help, don’t you? You’re serious about this.”
“Have I given a sign that I was joking?”
Krshia returned Selys’ glance full of serious confidence. Selys crossed her arms warily.
“Did she talk with you about this?”
The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] grinned toothily at Selys.
“Believe it or not, some ideas can be my own, yes? This is a small…campaign. But I have the support of many of the Gnolls in Liscor, and I believe that if the Council were pressed to hold elections, I and perhaps other Gnolls might win the seats.”
They could do it. If they made it an election, they might do it! Selys knew Krshia was well-liked, and the Gnoll population in Liscor was at an all-time high. And Krshia’s ideas were good! Despite inner cynicism at the idea, Selys began to grow excited. Liscor’s Council would never allow it. Much less the army. But if they could do it…!
Then Selys had a thought. She looked at Krshia, confused.
“What do you need me for, Krshia?”
The Gnoll shook her head.
“Not much. Money is useful, but I and some of my friends are willing to put money behind our mouths. If you could donate a bit of gold, we could fund more gatherings with free food, perhaps rent a few taverns.”
Ah, so that was it. She’d gone about it in a roundabout way, but it came down to the same thing. For a second Selys got mad. Then she calmed down. It was a reasonable request. And this was coming from Krshia, for a cause Selys liked, rather than to buy a friend a dress or go partying. She was about to say yes. Then she hesitated. Her grandmother’s words echoed in her mind.
She didn’t have to give money for free, did she? Selys looked up at Krshia. The Gnoll was watching her. Carefully.
“I like your idea, Krshia. But I can’t just give money away for free. Say I do help you. I have some conditions.”
The Gnoll nodded slowly. She seemed ready, wary, but ready.
“Speak. What would you have, Selys?”
Selys didn’t know. And then she did. Of course, hadn’t she been moaning just this morning about it? She took a deep breath.
“If you win, I want a bigger Adventurer’s Guild. Twice as big, with more staff, more money for us as well. We can take on those roles you want if we have more money to buy updated bestiaries, hire trainers…”
Krshia’s brows crossed.
“That is an expensive proposition. I already have more things I wish to give Liscor, and I do not know Liscor’s budget, Selys. I would not wish to go back on my word.”
“I get that. But we need this for the dungeon tax and that monster parts request system, Krshia. And look at it this way. Grandma might back you if you agree. She’s been complaining to the Council for decades about the problem.”
Krshia thought about it. She muttered to herself, too quietly for Selys to hear. Then she looked up.
“I agree.”
Selys smiled in relief. Krshia held out a paw.
“I suppose this makes us allies. Working together towards a goal. Although you may simply give me money, and I will do what I can.”
The Drake grasped Krshia’s paw firmly and received a crushing grip in return.
“Agh! Too strong, Krshia! No way. I’m in this. I like your idea. And I think I can help you out even more. You need to force the Council to make this an election, don’t you?”
Krshia nodded heavily.
“This is the most complicated issue. I have discussed it with some others, but it is hard to convince the Council to do something they do not have to do. We were thinking of gathering support. Unless you have an idea in mind?”
Selys grinned. Now this was a job she could handle. Not as an [Heiress]—okay, partly as an [Heiress], but also as her main class. A [Receptionist].
“I can do you one better. Come with me. Uh, that is, if you can let your shop…?”
Krshia waved at the stall.
“No one will steal from it. Unless we’ll be gone for hours, it is fine, yes? Very well. I may need to hire someone to help me run my stall soon, however.”
She followed Selys down the street, calling at a Gnoll to tell her she was leaving. Selys saw the Gnoll wave back and wondered how many Gnolls would vote for Krshia if she asked for it. She glanced back at Krshia’s shop. It looked more prosperous now; it seemed the Gnoll had recovered some of her fortunes.
“You have enough money coming in now?”
“Oh yes. Business has been good. Better than it was before now that I have new Skills. And if that Octavia could provide me with more potions, and better quality, I could even think about opening a shop.”
“That’s great.”
Selys meant it. Krshia laughed, baring her teeth.
“So says the Drake with a legendary artifact and more gold than I have earned in my life.”
Selys blushed.
“It was luck. I didn’t—”
A paw touched her shoulder gently. Krshia smiled without rancor.
“Stop. Do not apologize for fortune. It was merely a joke.”
The Drake hesitated. Then she kept walking. She appreciated what Krshia had said. She’d sounded like Tekshia. But still, how did you start a conversation up after a line like that? Eventually, Selys remembered Octavia.
“What was Octavia asking you for, Krshia? It sounded like she wanted some…help.”
Krshia shook her head.
“That one manufactures her problems like potions. I do not care to get involved; I know a bad investment when I see one. Where are we going? The Watch Barracks?”
She’d spotted the iconic building down the street. Selys nodded. She led the way inside. There was a Drake at the desk. He looked up as Selys walked forwards.
“Can I help you, Miss?”
“Selys Shivertail. I’d like to see Watch Captain Zevara? If she’s not busy.”
The Drake sighed. He looked tired and disinclined to be helpful.
“The Watch Captain is very busy, Miss. If you’d like to wait, I can let her know you’re waiting. But I doubt—”
He cut off as Selys leaned over the desk. She grinned at him, a mimicry of a certain smile she’d seen Erin use now and then. But Selys had her own way of getting what she wanted now.
“Hey. Tell her it’s Selys. Selys Shivertail. The owner of the Heartflame Breastplate? Wall Lord Ilvriss returned it to me a few days ago.”
The Drake sat up. He blinked at Selys, and she saw his mouth open a bit. Some of the other [Guardsmen] glanced up. Krshia, standing beside Selys, grinned. The Drake stared at Selys, then he stood up.
“One second, Miss Shivertail?”
He was gone for half a minute. Then he came down the stairs, and Selys and Krshia went up. That was the thing about being a [Heiress]. And being rich, for that matter. Suddenly, everyone had time for you.
Still, time was not infinite, at least in Watch Captain Zevara’s office. The Drake made that very clear with a glare that made Selys’ stomach do a flip and fall on its back. She didn’t know how Erin was so flippant around Zevara. The Drake was impressive! Not only was she Oldblood, but she had Selys’ respect, not least because she was a female Watch Captain. Those were rare.
Selys admired Wing Commander Embria too, although they’d never really had a chance to talk. But it was weird. She was Relc’s daughter, and that was hard to fathom. Zevara cleared her throat.
“How can I help you, Miss Shivertail? Miss Silverfang?”
She was perplexed, but she heard Selys and Krshia out silently and patiently, tapping one claw on her desk and frowning. When Krshia had finished her outline—with Selys’ new idea included—Zevara leaned back in her chair.
“You want an election. Like…a democracy? That’s unheard of in Liscor. And only Pallass elects its Assembly of Crafts. Miss Krshia, do you think this really has a shot?”
The Gnoll frowned.
“If I did not think so, I would not have brought it up, Watch Captain. But I acknowledge it will be difficult. And yet—the election is the thing. If the Council can be persuaded to hold one, I believe I can win.”
She met Zevara’s eyes firmly. The Watch Captain frowned. She exhaled a plume of smoke. Selys noticed the window was open; it probably had to be with Zevara around.
“An election. You think I can…? Well, I actually can. Or at least, I can make it a big enough issue that the Council has to acknowledge it. But that opens every seat up on the Council. And my position as well—assuming they’d even agree to it.”
