He offered a hand and Selys gingerly shook it. Farri pointed back at where Selys had been shouting.
“I noticed your fight. I stepped in before you could ruin that friendship. I hope you don’t mind.”
“Some friendship.”
Selys slumped in her seat. Farri smiled.
“I think your friends will realize how they acted when they have a chance to think. That young Drake boy already did, I think. Credit to you for realizing what they were after, but don’t hold too much of a grudge. Money tests friendships hard, and I hear it’s worse among Drakes. It’s plenty bad among Humans. Trust me. I speak from experience.”
Selys looked up sharply.
“What did you hear?”
Farri took a drink of juice.
“Nothing specific. But I already knew you were rich before you started shouting. I just had to take one look at you to know that. Fresh wealth? Inheritance or some kind of windfall? You’re no adventurer.”
He tapped underneath one eye. Selys blinked at him.
“You have a Skill?”
“[Evaluation of Wealth]. A handy Skill for any [Merchant]. Or [Thief]. It’s not the most common Skill, but I’d watch your purse, Miss. Or make sure your money’s in a safe place. You have a freshly come glow about you, and that speaks of new money.”
That was exactly what Selys had been worried about. She stood up.
“Thank you. For stopping me and the drink. But I don’t want—”
“Please. Sit.”
Selys hesitated. She wanted to go, but the man’s voice was soothing. And she found herself sitting down. Only when she’d done that did she glare at him.
“That’s a Skill too, isn’t it?”
He coughed, embarrassed.
“Er—[Prolonged Negotiations]. I’m surprised you noticed.”
“I know my way around Skills. And [Merchants]. Fine. I can’t leave. But I’m not a rookie about to be fleeced, you know.”
He looked shocked and a bit hurt.
“No, no, that’s not me! What kind of low-life do you take me for? I’m purely here as someone hoping to make some lucrative sales. Because something tells me the cost of some juice and a few words will earn me at least a few hundred gold coins. It’s the big sales I’m looking for, Miss. And that means cultivating relationships with potential clients.”
He looked meaningfully at Selys again. She hesitated.
“Well…I did come here to shop. But I don’t have any coin on me.”
He nodded.
“That’s a common occurrence, Miss. Or did you think most of the rich customers walked out with bags of holding stuffed with thousands of gold coins? If they’re stupid, they do, but most learn to deposit their gold at the Merchant’s Guild and arrange payment there. Or, if your money’s elsewhere, the Watch will help you collect it and pay me without asking for more than a small fee. The City Watch in Drake cities, that is.”
“Really? I had no idea they do that.”
Selys blinked. She looked at Farri and hesitated. She knew it was partly because of his Skills, but she was feeling more and more inclined to trust the man with every passing second. So she took a deep breath.
“Okay. I am looking for a bag of holding. But…that was to hold the money I have.”
He smiled, and Selys could have sworn she felt his delight in her trust in him. She told herself it was a Skill. Skill, and charisma, which you needed if you wanted to be a [Merchant].
“Ah. A bag of holding would help with that. But it’s still vulnerable. As I said, it’s safe to place money in the Merchant’s Guild…although there are fees. But if you wanted to protect your gold, could I suggest a box enchanted with the holding spell? I sell magical vaults too.”
“Really? Aren’t they really expensive?”
Selys had heard of magical vaults, but in her mind they were always huge, warded rooms filled with treasure. Farri shook his head.
“There are always degrees of enchantment. Some nobles have huge vaults crammed with so many wards they can’t even fit a compression spell inside—for fear the magical goods will corrupt the compression as well. But if you just deal in gold, I can sell you a very small, very easy-to-conceal vault that looks as plain as anything. Thieves will have trouble finding it, and if they aren’t attuned to the lock spell…I have all kinds of varieties, from lethal to noisy to incapacitating. Would you like me to show you some examples? And while I’m at it, I can sell you some very cheap bags of holding. And anything else you might care to see.”
He gave Selys a very soothing smile that made her want to trust him. She knew it was a Skill. She knew it, but she still stood up and followed him over to his wagon.
“I guess I could take a look…”
[Kings] had been made into [Beggars] from that line alone. But while Farri might have been a high-level [Merchant], he was true to his word. Better to have a client that might come back again than earn a reputation as a [Swindler]. His prices were fair, and Selys bought too much. A magical vault, a small bag of holding, a quill that could automatically refill itself from the matching inkpot, a talisman that kept away bugs from her house, a little cooling stone, and a very bouncy ball that bounced away from you until you said the retrieval word…
“You’re willing to give me the bag of holding? Just like that?”
Selys blinked down at the bag of holding, a little blue satchel with bright yellow ties. Farri gave her a winning smile as his apprentice [Trader] dutifully packed up the goods she’d bought and set them aside.
“I can pick a client, Miss Selys. Trust goes both ways. If you ran, well, the City Watch in Liscor are good at their jobs, and we [Merchants] usually have our own ways of getting even. Besides which, a bag of holding isn’t the worst of risks to take. I’ll be staying at the Firehearth Inn after evening. I’d advise you to request a [Guardsman] accompany you when you transport the coin.”
“I will. And I’ll come to your inn. Um. Thank you.”
“A pleasure. And if you have any other needs, please let me know. You see, I don’t often come by Liscor. But I’m always willing to change my route, and if—”
Farri was trying to lay on the charm, giving Selys a handshake with his other hand clasping hers gently, smile in full bloom. But here at least he failed, because the [Cloth Merchant] from earlier sidled over and, with great delicacy and powerful hips, bumped Farri out of the way. Selys blinked as Farri swore and nearly fell over.
“Miss Selys, was it? I do regret not spotting you earlier. Can I tempt you to sit down and peruse some of my fabrics? I’d love to sell you a sample—and for a first-time customer, I’d let you have the first purchase at a, say, twenty gold coin reduction? Humric Mames, at your service. [Cloth Merchant]; my wares come from Baleros and Chandrar and String-people buy from me as well as the nobility.”
Selys’ jaw dropped. Farri turned, glaring. He strode back over.
“Don’t listen to that fool, Miss Selys.”
He tried to shove the [Cloth Merchant], but Humric was impossible to budge. He crowded Farri out. And he wasn’t the only one.
The [Merchants] visiting Liscor might not have all had Farri’s eye for wealth, but they still had eyes. And the new addition to the list of Liscor’s elite hadn’t escaped their notice. They crowded around, but Humric was like a rock. A rock that moved and could careen into his fellow [Merchants], sending them sprawling while his [Guards] gave him the chance to make his pitch to Selys. Which Humric did, speaking at a very rapid pace as he tried to guide her to his wares on display.
“I’ve been travelling to Liscor quite often. But what with the dungeon and this latest business…still, it’s a profitable run. And if I come back, I’ll be sure to bring back an inventory from Invrisil. I can even procure items from First Landing. Perhaps you’d like to make a request? I’d be delighted to find whatever you need. And there are a number of delectable new items. The latest fashions from Terandria, or perhaps some of Baleros’ latest…?”
Selys knew it was a Skill. She still bought three bolts of cloth. The first, the blue and red pattern, heavily discounted. The second, a black-and-gold bolt of silk for her grandmother. And the third, some very fine yellow cotton she wanted to make into a dress. And Humric smiled all the while. In the background Farri fumed, and the other [Merchants] tried to get Selys’ attention. It was the quick [Merchant] who got the first sale. But it was the man with the [Hip Bump] technique who closed the second deal.
 
——
 
“Oh Ancestors, what have I done?”
Selys sat in her apartment, head in her hands. She stared down at the pile of gold hidden away in her dresser. And in the back of her wardrobe. And underneath her bed. Gold—not pure gold, which was heavy and less shiny—but gold coins winked up at her. Selys stared at them, at the neat rows she’d arranged. She slowly pushed them into the plain, brown bag of holding and stared at it. The blue bag of holding was on her dresser; the brown one had come separately. As had the red one emblazoned with Humric’s initials.
Selys took a great deal of care to keep the brown bag of holding away from the other two. Bags of holding did not play well together, and she’d been warned to keep these three out of proximity and to finish as quickly as possible. Lesser bags of holding could handle being close together for a while, but the stronger the enchantment, the shorter the time span before something…happened. So Selys opened the door and held the first bag of holding out.
“This one’s to Mister Farri. Trader’s End.”
“Got it. Do you have a personal seal, Miss?”
Selys blinked at the Street Runner waiting for the bag. He was a short Drake, quite young, and practically bouncing on his feet. She shook her head.
“I don’t. Er, I could get a standard one—”
“No need. I’ll get Mister Farri’s seal, or he can send someone to testify. Thanks!”
The Street Runner took the brown bag of holding and raced down the apartment steps. Selys watched him go, then turned. A Gnoll woman was waiting patiently by her door. She’d stepped aside to let the Street Runner go.
“Sorry. I’ll get the other bag of holding done soon.”
“No need to rush, Miss.”
The Gnoll City Runner gave Selys a lazy smile. The Drake tried to return it; she hurried back in and counted.
“One, two, three, four, five…ten…twenty, thirty, forty…”
It took her a while, but she got the red bag of holding belonging to Humric filled and handed it to the City Runner. The Gnoll didn’t ask for Selys’ seal. She just nodded.
“This will go to Merchant Humric within five minutes, Miss Shivertail. If you have any complaints, you may testify at the local Runner’s Guild. You may also confirm the delivery by asking for me or my fellow Runner, and we will provide a full summary of our delivery on request.”
“Oh. Thank you! I, uh, that’s fine. Thank you. Really.”
“It’s an easy service.”
The Gnoll grinned at Selys. She touched a paw to her brow and took off. She didn’t bother with stairs; she just vaulted from the second story and landed on the street before taking off with a long, loping stride. Selys watched her go.
City Runner and Street Runner. That was the difference. Humric hadn’t bothered to make Selys do the footwork, and Farri had copied his example. But it was a mark of the difference between the two; Farri had sent a Street Runner with a plain bag of holding, while Humric had paid for a City Runner to deliver Selys’ gold and sent one of his personal bags of holding. And it made a difference; somehow, Selys found herself liking Humric’s expansive, aggressive style more.
He’d gently bullied her into buying some cloth, all while plying her with wine, grapes from Chandrar, and insulting Farri and the other [Merchants] to their faces while they looked on. And to top matters off, he’d given her this easy way of paying and receiving her goods, and had his [Guards] escort Selys away from Trader’s End before she could spend any more money.
“A [Merchant] doesn’t just treat his clients like a friend, Miss Selys. Oh no, he treats them far better!”
Selys laughed to herself as she remembered that. She walked back into her apartment. Then she panicked again.
“Oh no. What have I done?”
She’d spent so much. More money than she’d spent in…all of her life? Yes! Definitely! But then Selys stared down at the pile of gold. She peered under her bed. She checked the wardrobe. She sat down.
“One, two…three hundred. A thousand over there…”
Her money pile hadn’t…decreased that much. Selys had spent a lot. But she hadn’t spent that much. The most expensive item she’d bought had only been, what? An eight hundred gold piece vault? Yes, and the bag of holding was only six hundred and sixty gold pieces. The cloth had been cheap. Selys stared at her gold piled up on the floor. It shone at her.
“I could go back there and buy more cloth from Humric. I could buy those ten bolts he picked out for me. And it wouldn’t even…”
The Drake stared at her bag of holding. She stared at the gold. She grabbed the bag of holding, shoveled some gold into it, walked out of her apartment, looked at the little key in the lock, then ran back in the apartment, grabbed her dagger, and locked the door. Then she hovered at her window, staring out anxiously until a Street Runner passed by.
“Hey! Hey you!”
The Gnoll girl did a double-take. She looked up, and Selys waved at her frantically.
“Up here!”
“I’m on delivery, Miss! Urgent! It’s fresh fish!”
The Gnoll girl complained. Selys threw a gold coin at her. The Gnoll immediately raced up the stairs.
“How can I help you, Miss?”
“Another gold coin if you get my grandmother. Tekshia Shivertail. Tell her I want her to come over now. It’s an emergency!”
“Do you have a s—”
“No, I do not! But it’s two gold pieces. Oh, you also have to tell Mister Farri in Trader’s End I want my magical vault now. If you do the delivery, it’s a third gold piece.”
The Gnoll’s eyes lit up. She didn’t ask for a seal again; after all, you only needed them as proof of deliveries completed. If the customer was fine with handing money out in advance or on completion, Runners could skip that step. They only registered with the guild so packages could be delivered and handled by the people there. The Street Runner took off like lightning, abandoning her delivery of fish. Selys waited by her window, watching her stairs like a hawk. Then she realized a [Thief] could come in through her windows and was trying to block all of them when someone rapped on her door.
“Who is it?”
“Me.”
Selys hurried over to the door. She knew the voice, but she was in full paranoia mode by now.
“Who’s me?”
“Me, you idiot. Let me in.”
