Koltis was old, or at least it hadn’t burnt down in a long time. All the standing houses were at least three-stories tall and they loomed over the main road like crones over a cradle, dark and pitted by age. Conical roofs designed to ward off snow only increased the vertiginous feeling brought not by height, but by the suffocating narrow paths packed with a crying, laughing, haggling humanity. Stalls and carpets covered every spare finger of available space that wouldn’t result in active trampling. Viv was compelled to slow down to a crawl. Men and women with dangerous eyes watched her pass from windows and balconies. It smelled very strongly of perfume and sweat, of fresh pastries and piss. The heady scent overwhelmed her after so many days outside. Reflexively, she made sure that all of her pockets and saddles were closed, not that she expected to compete with people of the thief path. The slow pace gave her the time to see what people were hawking and the variety was something to behold. There were toys, small enchanted stones that produced a variety of effects, knives, umbrellas, and simple tools. The farther they went, and the more elaborate the goods were. A blacksmith was offering a discount on training blades, unadorned and heavier to build muscle. A handful of jewelers sold pendants and rings under the paranoid gaze of bodyguards. Viv could see and feel mana from a lot of those, some of those she didn’t recognize.

“Defensive rings, milady?” the daring salesman asked, seeing her interest. “A compass ring? A cold seed ring for your lover?”

Viv gave the man a half-lidded smile. Truth be told, compass and no-kids-no-STDs rings sounded quite useful but she could not hide her eyes or hair color from up close. Not worth it. Not stopping for anything.

They arrived at the square after far too much time. It was less crowded and guards had multiplied, the official ones that is. There had been plenty of thugs. No one stopped her from going in. She supposed that the expensive cloaks, spare horses and obvious hired muscle gave off the right vibe. The bank looked suspiciously like the one back in Kazar including the small columns and austere exterior. The only concession to the town’s esthetic was the use of dark tiles that decorated every roof in town. A dark-skinned young man in a pristine white doublet grabbed their beasts and bowed, inviting them in without a word. Viv left a folded Solfis in his special saddle and walked in through reinforced gates.

The interior of the bank was an exact copy of the one she had visited in those last days before the departure down to the wood used for the welcome counter. It was the same warm tones, the same dim light and understated charm. It even smelled of wax and wood like its Kazaran counterpart. The only difference was the size, as the Koltis office was significantly larger. Several coffee tables occupied the open space leading farther inside, surrounded by chairs and separated by wood screens to afford several groups their privacy. They were currently empty. A dark-skinned guard in shiny mail with a white tabard took a step forward with a genial smile. He has a straight sword by his side, sheathed for now.

“Welcome to the Manipeleso Bank and Exchange, Koltis branch. May I ask your business?”

“I wish to inquire about guides. My final destination is Helock.”

“I assume that you are already one of our valued customers. May I see your chit?”

Viv grabbed the pendant from her neck, but the guards stopped once he was close enough to see under the cloak’s hood. He retracted his hand.

“That will not be necessary, after all. Mr Manipeleso has been expecting you. Please, follow me. Your mounts will be taken care of.”

Without waiting for an answer, the guard made a sign to his partner who started the complex task of securing the gate behind her. It seemed to involve a large amount of locks and enchantments. A beautiful woman stood and bowed as she passed her by. Just like the guards, she had the dark skin of a northerner.

Viv followed a set of corridors to another reception room in warm tones, lit by lanterns giving a warm light. High windows gave a modicum of daylight as well. She half-collapsed in an elegant chair made of curved woods and a soft pillow. Marruk did not relax, but took her position by the door. A moment later, the desk woman knocked and brought a floral infusion with a set of cups and sliced fruits. She was soon followed by a burly pair of soldiers carrying a folded, silent Solfis. Viv had a sip of the infusion and liked it, exchanging a smile with the woman who had remained. It only took a couple more minutes before the master of the place arrived. By then, Viv had removed her cloak, leaving her exotic traits fully on display.

“The Calamity herself. It is such an honor to welcome you in my humble abode,” the man said with a winning grin, one Viv could not help but return.

“My name is Zan Manipeleso, head of the Manipeleso Bank and Exchange, Koltis branch. We have much to discuss.”

Her host had a perfectly trimmed beard and a shaved skull. He was very handsome in a patriarch kind of way, a bit old for her taste but impressive nonetheless. A white robe covered his muscular chest, much broader than she would expect from a man of finance, and his hands showed the scars she had seen in Marruk and other professional fighters. Keen eyes surveyed her but his smile felt genuine, wrinkling crows feet. Viv noticed the grey on his temple as well, enhancing the feeling of respectability he exuded.

“The pleasure is mine,” she replied amicably, “although the fact that you expected me is a concern in itself.”

“Oh, do not worry about this. Tom Manitaradin has given us an account of the recent events, as you can imagine. Your arrival here was expected provided that nothing went wrong on the way.”

“Ahem.”

“And nothing has, it seems. How exciting. Right, before we begin, let me cut to the chase. Your arrival has necessarily been noticed by local cartels, especially because your eyes and hair are quite recognizable by those who pay attention. We will evacuate you via our secret route tonight so that you can flee north. I apologize in advance for the upset if you expected to relax and visit the place, but I fear that any delay would give our opportunistic friends the time to lay a proper siege, or to try and kidnap an employee, perhaps. Greed often blocks the path of self-preservation. In the meanwhile, please give us a list of supplies you would like to acquire and I will send runners to purchase them for you, for a very modest fee.”

Viv frowned at that, but to her surprise it was Marruk who intervened.

“What you pay with the fee will be offset by what the northerners save through bargaining,” the Kark reluctantly admitted. “They are very good at negotiation.”

“Quite, Mistress Marruk.”

“Hold on, I understand that the ‘loyalists’ would want my head, but I thought this was neutral territory?”

“It most certainly is. However, Koltis’ sovereign after Count Serril is profit and we have received news a couple of weeks ago that concerned you. It appears that Constable Toreno has taken a keen interest in your person.”

Viv blinked.

“I have no idea who this is.”

Zan’s smile widened, then the man chuckled, which turned into a full belly laugh that lasted for a couple of seconds and left Viv a bit baffled.

“Ah, forgive me this outburst. Constable Toreno has taken over the royalist faction. By the way, using loyalist clearly identifies you as a southerner, which you should avoid doing so close to the frontier. The neutral terms would be royalist, as I mentioned, and separatist. Using the term rebel is regarded as a major faux-pas among certain circles. It amuses me that you would not know the identity of the man pushing so hard to save his side.”

“Why is he interested in me, then?”

“I am not certain but I can surmise that it relates either to the brazen execution of the de facto crown prince, or to your mysterious ability to heal what was considered as beyond help.”

Viv realized that she had not considered how momentous her regrowth spell construct could be. She should have.

“Constable Tarano has offered a thousand gold talents for your capture alive, or a hundred and fifty for information that could lead to it.”

Viv swallowed not to spit the content of her cup. That was… enough to buy one’s own barony.

“Neriad’s, errr, unmentionables. Really?”

“Quite so. You can understand the urgency of the situation.”

“I’m surprised I wasn’t shot down in the streets.”

Zan’s eyes twinkled in the intimate light.

“I think you can answer this question yourself. It is said that you matched Eteia in a duel.”

“Briefly.”

“Then you can understand that even the most addled bounty hunters know that they cannot collect if they’re dead. Besides, dear Tarano made it abundantly clear that your corpse would get no reward beyond a noose. It takes quite a bit of planning to take down a caster of your talent without killing her, and even more when they have your instincts… and entourage. Nevertheless, some will try soon enough. That is why we will make sure you are out before it happens.”

Viv blocked the benevolent aura coming from her gracious host for a moment so she could ask the real question.

“Not that I am not grateful, but what do you get out of this?”

“Ah, yes, the motives.”

If the man was offended by his question, he gave no signs of it.

“First, the smuggling cartels always maintain a delicate balance between two secret wars. I deem it a bit too soon for the next one to start so competitive violence would be inadvisable right now. By removing you from the city, I put a lid on an untimely eruption of bloodshed. If you cannot believe anything else, believe this. Second, the Manipeleso Bank and Exchange has taken a great interest in your performance. We do so love an underdog. Not to mention the enticing prospect of reclaiming the deadlands, which would, as I am sure you are aware, require a large amount of capital to jump start. Third, our noble institution is present in every nation of this continent including Halluria because of our reputation. For us, reputation is everything…”

Zan’s elegant companion interrupted him with a few whispers in their tongue. The mighty banker sighed deeply, and for an instant the mask fell to reveal intense regret. It disappeared again so fast that Viv thought she might have imagined it.

“Speaking of which, I have a regrettable business to attend to. Please, consider it a token of our commitment.”

The original pair of guards came in without apparent prompt. They carried between them the very same attendant who had collected Viv’s horses back outside only a few minutes ago. Perspiration pearled on his skin and he looked terrified.

“Uncle, I…”

“Shhhh,” Zan said without mirth. “My dear Rel, we tolerate a bit of theft and some insider trading in our recruits, if only so they expect it from their subordinates, but we have one golden rule. One rule that we never, ever break. Which one?”

“I…”

“Which one, Rel?” the powerful man hissed between clenched teeth.

“Protect client confidentiality.”

“That is correct. Nol, which one?”

“The bloody knives, sir.”

“Rel, not only are you without honor, but you are also without brains. Everyone in town worth a damn already knows she’s here. This secret is worth nothing.”

“I am sorry, uncle.”

“Yes, my boy. So I am.”

It happened very quickly. The banker’s large, scarred hand closed around his subordinate’s throat like a vice and twisted. The younger man barely had the time to gasp before the telltale crack of snapped bones silenced him forever. His body fell like a puppet with its strings cut in the waiting arms of the guards, who pulled him away. He was still gasping for a breath that would never come when the door closed behind them.

A part of Viv thought that it was a nice touch to remove poor Rel before he could stink up the room with his loosened sphincters. She took a sip of tea.

Another part was screaming in her head. That was fine too.

Marruk rumbled something in Kark. It was obviously not very diplomatic because the man froze in his tracks and the atmosphere grew heavy indeed. Viv belatedly remembered to use her fucking skill.

[Death dealer, extremely dangerous, one who conducts business on the edge of a blade. Close quarter combat specialist, slayer of men, slayer of Kark, smart, merciless. Very fast]

Viv turned to Marruk, whose hand hovered over the handle of her nasty flanged mace.

“Could you please not?”

//I agree with the Heiress, long may she live.

//Please return to the main objective.

Solfis’ voice helped the banker calm down. Viv hadn’t dared using her intimidation because she felt like Zan knew he would die and was considering gutting Marruk anyway.

“Yes… As Miss Marruk said, the hungry dogs do tend to devour each other.”

He gave her a venomous smile and the stout Kark reddened with embarrassment.

“Sorry about this,” Viv said on behalf of the proud woman. She knew that Marruk had been rude but on the other hand the banker’s people and Marruk’s tribe had been at war for a long time and things had gone genocidal. It was like asking a Jewish soldier to be patient with Nazis or something. Viv gave herself a Godwin point and a scolding for that shit comparison and wisely decided to move on.

“I understand. Now, if you will excuse me, I must see to tonight’s preparations. Lan will assist you with everything you need.”

The large man left in awkward silence. The elegant woman, Lan, stood and clapped her hands once in a preppy gesture that dispelled some of the mood.

