“I am sure you are tired from your journey and you have a long night in front of you. I have taken the liberty of preparing the guest quarters where you can relax and bathe in preparation for your departure.”

“That sounds great. Please, lead the way,” Viv replied genially.

They walked deeper into the complex with the pair of guards still carrying Solfis. It felt weird to Viv but she supposed that no one in their right mind would want to watch him unfold. Except her, of course.

“So, I wanted to ask if it’s not trouble, Lan. I cannot help but notice that Mr. Manipeleso shares his name with the bank. Is this a common occurrence?”

“Oh yes, Mr. Zan Manipeleso belongs to the main branch of the family. In fact, he is related to the current head. They are second cousins, I believe. Mr. Manitaradin whom you met belongs to a secondary branch, although, if he were to compete for leadership, he could be accepted in the main one with sufficient merits.”

Viv asked a few more questions which led to a lengthy explanation. Apparently, the family was actually a clan and they owned the bank fully. She got the impression that competition to become boss was extremely fierce, but that they were united when it came to outsider interference. Lan finished answering while Marruk was moving inside the guest quarter they would be using, which was spacious and had two beds.

“Please give me a list of supplies you would like purchased at your soonest convenience. The cost will be deducted from your balance plus a finder’s fee that depends on the haggler’s skill.”

“Hm, truth be told, not sure of what this city can offer.”

“I will be happy to assist an outlander, Miss Viviane.”

It took some time, but Viv finally got a comprehensive package that included food as expected, but also a variety of enchanted objects that Kazar couldn’t produce due a lack of qualified workforce. The enchanters they had acquired had focused exclusively on weaponry.

Viv’s logic was that she could paste anything as long as she was conscious, so she had to work on staying in that state. She purchased a ring that would vibrate and ‘poke’ her if she was ever poisoned as well as a set of wide-spectrum antidotes, as well as a magical helmet. Those would set her back a solid twelve gold talents, which was what a knight captain earned in a year (before taxes). The helmet was cool though. It looked like what Achilles would wear in a Hollywood remake of the Iliad but without the massive crest. It was also dark grey and had the welcome feature of limiting incoming light. A side effect of that enchantment was that her iris looked black instead of green as long as she kept it on her head. There were also soaps and a hair dye she used just after her bath. Her hair was long enough to reach her shoulders now, so even the helmet wouldn’t cover it properly. A compass joined the collection, and then came the difficult choice of buying magical prophylactics.

She didn’t intend to bonk anyone during her trip.

But well, better be prepared just in case.

“If you use it, you must keep it on for at least three days afterward. A week is safer,” Lan told her during an embarrassing conversation. Eventually, she was ready and went to bed for a nap. She woke up at nightfall and had a light dinner with a sulking Marruk.

“Sorry about earlier,” the Kark mumbled.

“I understand your reaction… Just…”

“I know. It was stupid and served no purpose.”

Viv thought that the matter was close, but when a soldier came to tell her that the time had come, Viv thought the Kark would smash his head in.

The newcomer was not one of the guards she had seen earlier, but a man wearing dark leather armor enchanted to the gills. He had long dreads decorated with ribbons and other trinkets Viv found curious but she didn’t comment. A variety of knives hung from a bandoleer across his chest. The design of his armor was rather specific and reminded Viv of her old scout armor, the one she had found in Harrak. He seemed to sense the tension and retreated after delivering his message.

“What was that about?” Viv asked as they finished dressing.

“He is a Dark Blade. You will forgive me if I react to the uniform his associates wore the night they murdered my mother in front of me.”

“Oh.”

“Yes. Oh. Let’s get out of here before I do something everyone will regret.”

The pair followed the Dark Blade out of their room and then down a flight of stairs leading to a passage so long Viv felt like they ought to have left the city already. They emerged later in a barn and Viv realized that she was, in fact, out of the city. Four different horses awaited with Solfis and their usual saddles, as well as six Dark Blades on light mounts. The fields outside were empty but Nyil’s moon shone clearly on the forest in the distance and the white dragonette landing with an excited squee. They left at a gallop.

“I just want to get to Helock,” Viv whispered under her breath. “Nothing more.”

Behind them, unseen men yelled in alarm.
