“I did!” Ali had lost count of how many she had deconstructed – several dozen at least. She made her Grimoire appear and flipped the pages open to the brand-new chapter imprinted with the ‘Bone Elemental’. Presumably, it included the Spitter Drone as part of the imprint, otherwise, she would have expected the title to be a little more specific. However, predicting her Grimoire’s behavior was not nearly an exact science yet.

She channeled her mana into the Grimoire for several minutes before an enormous white monster suddenly appeared, towering statuesquely over her.

Piercer Scorpion – Elemental – level 28

“Hello gorgeous,” Malika chuckled. It stood gleaming in the magical light that still illuminated the shattered battlefield, majestic in stature, vicious-looking, heavily armored, and dangerous. Then it collapsed in a heap on the ground with a loud crash.

What?

She stared at the large pile of unmoving bone in surprise, but no mana flowed from her, and she had gotten no notification of a reservation increase. It was dead. No, she peered closer. It’s like it was never alive, just a puppet created from bone.

She tried again, making a second one – but it, too, appeared to be dead on creation.

“What’s wrong with this?” Ali grumbled in frustration. Nothing like this had ever happened before – her Grimoire, other than the random variation, had always been an extremely reliable skill.

“I think your magic is wrong,” Mato answered cryptically, bending down to poke the corpses with his large finger.

“What do you mean?”

“You are a nature mage. Nature is the magic of life, creatures, and plants,” he answered. “These things are not. They are pure constructs of bone affinity mana. If I had to guess, I’d say your nature mana is incapable of giving them life.”

“Elementals are creatures born of a particular mana affinity,” Calen said thoughtfully, “I think Mato has it right. It’s the same reason you can’t cast Fireball spells with your nature mana.”

“But I can create Fire Mages,” Ali objected. She had been so excited about making the scorpions, she didn’t need problems with mana affinities getting in her way.

“When you make a Kobold, you’re creating a living creature with nature mana. It is the one creating the fire mana,” Calen answered. “It might be a little indirect, but it works. A fire elemental is more like a Fireball than a creature. That’s probably why this doesn’t work. At least, that’s what I think.”

Ali frowned, “I was looking forward to making an army of them. I guess I wasted an imprint?”

“Maybe we can find you some nature elementals?” Malika said. “Although, that seems unlikely down here. Don’t rush it – whatever you do, Ali. Don’t get rid of it yet.”

“Nature elementals would be nice,” Ali admitted, shaking her head unhappily. “Well, I guess I’ll keep this for now until I find something good to replace it with. Does anyone want that wyvern corpse?”

“It would probably be inconvenient to sell,” Malika said. “We’ll probably make a lot more money with those fancy Eimuuran swords we found.”

“Ok, I guess I’ll deconstruct it, then,” Ali answered. At least it was something productive she could do – and she wasn’t about to gain a worthless imprint for Skeletal Wyverns after deconstructing just one of them.

Ali walked over to the enormous Skeletal Wyvern corpse draped across the landing and half the battlefield. She studied the surges and swirls in her mana for a few minutes as her Deconstruction spell ran its course. As soon as it finished, the great pile of previously undead wyvern dissipated into the surroundings, briefly lighting up the landing and the walls surrounding the atrium with an explosion of mana motes. From within the cloud of mana, a sizeable uneven spherical chunk of off-white bone fell clattering to the ground. It rolled about, coming to a stop against Ali’s feet pulsing with an intense concentration of bone mana. Ali yelped and skipped backward, but it just lay there on the ground.

Lesser Bone Essence.

To her surprise, the moment her mana pool filled from her deconstruction, she felt a sudden precipitous drop as Sage of Learning sucked away a large chunk of it, followed by the soft ringing of chimes.

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Summoning (Piercer Scorpion).Domain Magic analyzed: Attribute Enhancement (Strength).Domain Magic analyzed: Enrage.

“Uh, I did… something,” Ali said, creeping up to the mana-dense bone sphere on the ground, simultaneously trying to understand her new notifications.

“Again?” Mato said, grinning widely. Ali frowned at him.

“Ooh! An essence!” Malika exclaimed, darting in, and picking up the uneven sphere of solid bone which was just a little smaller than her head.

“What is it?” Ali asked.

“A powerful crafting component,” Malika said breathlessly, examining it closely. “I’m not sure if there’s anyone in Myrin’s Keep who could even use something this potent.”

“Good thing we have Weldin,” Calen observed. “We can probably trust him to find a buyer. Do you think it might be worth enough to cover some of our potion costs?”

“Oh yes,” Malika said, her feet tapping as if she wanted to dance. “I can get a couple of gold for this! More than enough.”

As the others discussed the essence, Ali’s attention returned to the other notifications Sage of Learning had triggered. Domain Magic? Analyzed? Where did it go? Her Grimoire hadn’t responded, so it was unlikely to be in there, but she looked anyway. Nothing… Just in case, she opened her Sage skill description, but she found no clues lurking there either. She racked her brain trying to figure out what exactly it was that her skill had ‘analyzed’ but nothing came to mind.

“Hey, I got something new,” she said, turning to her friends for inspiration and sharing the ‘analysis’ notifications with them. “I don’t know what it is, though.”

“Those are all the wyvern’s biggest abilities!” Calen said.

“Oh, you’re right,” Ali said, reading them again. Somehow related to the domain? There was one for the enrage, one for the ridiculous strength, and one for summoning Piercer Scorpions. “I don’t see the bone spear skill though. Or the regenerating bone armor.”

“Hmm…” Calen said.

“I still don’t know what it’s for,” Ali said, but Calen had at least pointed out the obvious connection between the monster’s abilities, the domain, and her notifications. Still, the puzzle would bother her until she fully unraveled it. It must be something encoded in its mana. After all, she had got it by deconstruction and her Sage skill.

“While you’re figuring that out, why don’t we go down and check out the bottom floor,” Malika suggested, making the lesser bone essence vanish into her ring’s storage enchantment. When the others groaned, she said impatiently, “Come on, you lot! We’re not going to go through all that just to miss out on some loot, right?”

“Coming!” Now that all the monsters had been cleared from the library, they had free rein to explore. At least, until the dungeon decided to respawn everything. Ali left the puzzle of the Domain Magic and the obscure notifications for later, ignoring the depressing thought that they might have to do all this again if the dungeon respawned the Skeletal Wyvern, and hopped on her barrier and flew off to join her friends as they descended the spiral stairs. She had never been allowed into the lower levels of the library and, as she floated beside everyone, her eyes gobbled up everything as she tried to imagine what it might have looked like in the past.

Eventually, she alighted on the ground of the bottom floor and stepped out into the middle of the atrium. There, towering above them, beyond even the reach of Calen’s light magic, stood an enormous spire of accreted bone. While it was pure white according to her mundane vision, her Arcane Insight told an entirely different story.

Vast quantities of dense, dark mana billowed from the spire, filling the entire atrium with a cloying pressure that made her skin crawl.

“This was the Skeletal Wyvern’s roost,” Calen explained, stepping up beside her.

“I think it needs to go,” Ali said. The spire gave her the creeps. Perhaps it was just the density of the uncomfortable bone affinity mana, perhaps it was the sheer affront of having something like this in the center of a space she had held to be sacred, reserved for study and knowledge. Either way, she was certain.

She stepped up to it, ignoring the scattering bone critters, placed her hand on the enormous pillar, and released her deconstruction magic into it.

I hope it doesn’t fall on me, she thought as her magic channeled for quite a lot longer than it normally took. But it was just the extreme size that was taking the time, and eventually, the entire spire dispersed into a cloud of golden motes of light, with an audible popping sound.

Imprint: Bone completed.

She sighed in relief as the bone monument vanished, opening up the space in the atrium. As usual, Ali dismissed the bone imprint that had been offered several times already. There was certainly more than enough bone around for her to learn it if she ever needed it.

Just as she was about to turn around, there was a profound ripple through the dense bone mana, and deep within the fundamental weave of the domain – in the binding between bone and death – something tore. It wasn’t even just a little tear, the fabric of the domain ripped, showering the atrium with dark sparks that flickered and vanished. The giant ripple shot out across the atrium, up and out of sight as the entire thing simply… unraveled?

Rooted to the spot, Ali stared at the darkly shimmering mana as it unbound and dispersed. The atrium echoed with a sudden skittering and scrabbling as thousands of bone critters fled. There was still a substantial amount of structured death and bone domain mana seeping out through the walls, indicating that the dungeon was still alive. But the mana throughout the atrium and above lay in tatters, like an immense wound that bled unstructured mana.

“You broke something, didn’t you?” Malika asked, standing beside her and staring out into the darkness.

Calen whistled softly. “You don’t say.”

“Seems so,” Ali answered, not quite sure what she had done, nor what the impact would be. But she was afraid it wouldn’t be good.

“I think I broke the dungeon’s domain.”
