“Oh, crap!” He pulled out the shield he'd gotten from the temple, rolled out of bed and ducked behind it. Fly, Teepo! Fly!

A few seconds later, the swirling fire collapsed to a single point of light, then exploded. The bed, building, 30 feet of ground, trees, road and bushes disappeared in a flash of light and Ren was thrown a hundred feet into the air. Thankfully, the shield combined with his Shock Absorption and Block abilities allowed him to survive the blast, but he lost half of his Health in the process. He equipped his armor while flying through the air, and twisted himself around almost enough to get the shield under him. Ren impacted the ground nearly 150 feet away and lost another quarter of his Health.

T-T-Teepo? Are you okay? Ren thought, and rubbed his head. “Ow.”

“Y-yeah.” Teepo said, and flew down to land on Ren's shoulder. “I was far enough away that I only got the shock wave.”

Ren stood up and staggered. “Damn.” He said, and sat back down.

“Ren! Look!”

He looked to where the room used to be, and a 30 foot ball of fire was there. Ren stood up and ran, and ignored the pain he was in. He got to the ball of fire, and couldn't see inside. He took a deep breath and stepped into the swirling mass of flames.

“It really is like liquid jello.” Ren said and pushed his way to the center. “Teepo can you see in here?”

“A little.” Teepo said. “To the left. A little more. Okay, we're in the middle.”

Ren knelt down, felt around, and found a small form. He picked it up and carried it back out of the flames, guided by Teepo. Once outside, Ren looked down to see a baby.

“Whoa.” Ren said, then the baby's color turned from yellow to orange, then started to go to red. “No!” Ren turned back towards the ball of fire and held the baby in his arms, then stepped halfway into it, covering the lower half of the baby with fire, but leaving it's face out in the air. The baby's color changed back to orange, then slowly flickered yellow.

“It's not enough.” Ren said. “What does fire need to eat?” His eyes widened and he took out a piece of lumber. It burned up instantly, and he scowled. “Dammit, now what?” He thought. “Air! Fire needs air to breathe!”

Ren put his finger in the baby's mouth to check for any obstructions, then performed CPR. A few seconds passed, and the baby started crying.

“That's it! Cry!” Ren said and held the baby up. “Daddy's proud of you!” He froze at his words and then he looked at the baby. She had the same color eyes as him.

“I'm... I'm a father.”

“Wwwaaaa!” The baby cried, and Ren saw her color had become a little more yellow.

“Now what... oh! Oil!” Ren held the baby in one arm and took out a flask of oil. It immediately burst into flames and the flask broke apart. “Goddammit!”

The baby stopped crying and giggled. Ren looked at her and smiled.

“Was it the flask you found funny, or me cursing?”

The baby grabbed a finger on his hand.

“Me, huh?” Ren said. “Okay.”

He took out another flask of oil, it burst as well, and Ren let a string of curses out that the baby found absolutely hilarious. He held her out with both hands and smiled.

“Daddy's little girl likes a potty mouth!” He said, and did a raspberry on her tummy. She laughed and laughed as he did it over and over. The ball of fire shrank slightly and Ren kept the baby half in it. Once he had a moment to think about food, he smacked himself in the forehead and the baby laughed again. Ren turned the shield around and absorbed the Grip of Earth enchantment from it, then enchanted it with a double Wind glyph (8 runes total). The baby's color went instantly to bright yellow and Ren laughed.

“Yes! There we go.” He said, then watched as the baby grew into a toddler, and the ball of fire shrank a little more. It was down to 28 feet across, and Ren didn't know what to do when it was gone. Over the next 2 hours, the fireball continued to shrink as the toddler grew into a child. Ren told her stories to pass the time, and Teepo helped with stories about her mother. 6 hours later when the child grew into a teenager, Ren had his hands full as he tried to keep her in the fireball. It was now down to 25 feet across.

“Honey, please.” Ren said, trying to convince her to stay in the fire. “I don't want you to starve.”

“Daaaaaaad.” She rolled her eyes. “You don't need to babysit me. I'm almost as old as you are.”

Ren concentrated on his Command Aura. “Get back in here, or I'll turn off the shield.”

She huffed. “Fine.” She walked back into the flames. “There, happy?”

Ren walked to her and gave her a hug. She was almost as tall as him now. “Your mother didn't say anything at the time because you came along so fast; but, I promised myself that I'd take care of you until you could take care of yourself.”

“I can take care of myself.” She said, indignantly.

“Not yet you can't.” Ren said. “Let me show you some things.”

Over the next week, she grew into a fine young woman. Ren was surprised his Health bar didn't drop, even though he hadn't eaten the whole time he was there. He'd taught her the basics of everything he knew about fighting, construction, blacksmithing, and everything else she wanted to learn. She couldn't enchant, though; however much she tried. She was now slightly taller than her mother, and the fireball was down to only 5 feet across.

“Dad, why are we staying in the fire?” She asked. “I know it's to feed me, but I can eat when I want now.”

Ren smiled. “If you want the truth, I don't know.”

She looked at him with surprise on her face. “You... you really don't know?”

Ren shook his head. “I've told you the story. Your mother and I never got to talk about what would happen afterwards.”

“Then why...”

Ren took her hand. “If you want to know what I believe... I think this is the last gift your mother could give you.” He said. “Teepo and I found you in the center of it.”

“You called?” Teepo said and flew over.

“Uncle Teepo!” She said and held her hands out for him to land. “What did you see this time?”

“You wouldn't believe it!” Teepo chittered in laughter. “I saw fire!”

She snorted a laugh, scratched his carapace, and Teepo's back leg twitched back and forth.

“I'm not doing that for you, Teepo.” Ren said and laughed. “You're enjoying it way too much.”

Teepo chittered in delight. “Guilty.”

She chuckled and held Teepo out to Ren, who put Teepo into the hood. Ren looked at the fireball and sighed.

“What is it, dad?”

“Your mother... her gift is almost gone.”

“Dad.” She got a serious look on her face. “I never asked you this before; but, did you love mom?”

“I'll tell you the same thing she told me.” Ren cupped her face. “If she'd found me years ago, everything I've done would have made a difference for her, possibly saved her, and made her time here more bearable.” He said. “If that had happened, I'm sure I'd have loved her just as much as I love you.”

“Oh, dad!” She said, and hugged him. “I'm sure she'd have loved you, too.”

“I know she would have.” Ren said as he was engulfed in her arms, then chuckled because his head fit under her chin. “You're getting too tall for me to hug you properly.”

She laughed as she let him go. “Would you rather I knelt?” She asked and went down on one knee. “How's that?”

Ren took her into a hug and kissed her forehead. “Yes, honey. That's perfect.”

“You're going to have to leave soon, aren't you?” She asked, and looked up at him.

“I'm sure something is going to happen when the fireball is gone.” Ren said. “I don't know what, though.”

“Should I be scared?” She asked.

Ren laughed. “You're the daughter of the Goddess of Fire. You don't have to be afraid of anything.”

“But... but what about... water?” She asked, then shivered.

He stroked her face. “I told you how to handle that.” Ren said. “Go hot. Burn for all you're worth! Water is only wet because you let it be. When you're hot enough, it can never touch you.”

“But...”

Ren grinned. “Watch.” He let her out of the hug, stepped out of the fireball, and walked several feet away. He pointed his Water Spray ring down the road and activated it for a second. Water gushed out for a moment, then instantly evaporated.

Her mouth fell open. “DAD!”

“What?”

“You... you...” She swallowed. “You had that on you this whole time?”

Ren walked back over to her. “I don't need to keep it, but it's come in handy a few times.”

“You could have killed mother... or me... at any time.” She said in shock.

He took her into a hug. “I'd never do that.” Ren said. “If I could have found a way for her to return to where she came from, I'd have done that.”

“But... if you did that, then I...”

Ren shook his head. “Don't second guess things that have already happened, or things you can't change.” He said and smiled. “Look to what you can do, and what can be done.”

“But...”

“I met your mother, we shared a wonderful time together, and here you are.” Ren said. “A fine young woman. Strong, independent, and willful.”

She shook her head. “You can still tell me what to do.”

“Only because I care about you and you care about me.” He said. “Just remember that no matter what happens, I'll always be ready to help you if you need it.”

She smiled at him. “Thanks, dad.”

“And you're not allowed to date until you're at least 200.”

“Daaaaad!”

Ren laughed. “I'm joking; but, you know how it is. You can't invite people here without them being immune to fire, and you can't go visit the other realm without everyone trying to kill you.”

She sighed. “I know, dad.”

He stroked her face. “Don't worry, I'll think of something.”

“He always does.” Teepo offered. “It's not always good, though.”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, wood and oil burns when engulfed in fire. Go figure.”

She laughed as she remembered him doing that several times as she grew up. “I can't believe you used to curse like a sailor at me.”

“I distinctly remember a particular young lady that loved a potty mouth and couldn't stop laughing.” Ren said and smiled.

“I've matured a little since then.”

Ren nodded. “My little girl is growing u-.” His words were interrupted when the fireball shrank quickly. “Stay in it!” He said to her and she walked to the center. The fireball shrank down slowly, until it came to a point of light about an inch across. When it stopped shrinking, Ren sighed in relief.

“Now what?” She asked.

“Take it.” Ren said.

“W-what?”

“If I'm right, that's the gift your mother left you. Take it in your hand.”

She looked at Ren for a moment, sighed and gently put a hand under the point of light. When she touched it, it glowed for a moment, then entered her chest.

“D-d-dad. I feel funny.”

“It's okay, honey. Don't fight it.” Ren said.

She closed her eyes and took a deep breath, exhaled, and was engulfed in a bright glow. A moment later, the glow faded and she opened her eyes. They were no longer a copy of his own, and glowed just like her mother's did. The fire under her skin turned from a bright yellow to a bit of orange and yellow tips. She was also nearly 6 feet tall.

“Oh... oh, my.” She said. “Mother... she loved me...”

“Of course she did. You're a part of her.” Ren said. “A part of both of us.”

“I know.” She said, and looked around with her new eyes. A few foxes and bunnies came over to her, and she held a hand out to them. They changed to liquid fire and slid up her arm. The flame flowed over her body and formed itself into a blouse and pants.

“Is that better, dad?”

“What?”

“I was naked in front of you all this time, and you never said anything.”

“I guess she left you her memories.” Ren came over to her, and gave her a hug. “I honestly didn't notice.”

“She really regretted not getting to spend more time with you.”

Ren smiled. “It was enough to make you, so she was happy at the end.”

His daughter smiled. “She really was.”

She let the hug go and held a hand out. Ren took it and she led him down the yellow fire road to the point he'd first entered the realm.

“Thank you so much, Dad.” She let his hand go, and gave Ren a kiss on the cheek. “Thanks, Uncle Teepo.” She kissed his carapace, then smiled as Teepo chittered in delight. She waved her arm and a portal appeared.

Ren motioned for her to bend close and he kissed her forehead. “If you ever need my help, or want to talk, or just want to scratch Teepo's back...”

She laughed and stood up straight. “I'll send a portal right away.”

Ren smiled, and bowed to her.

“Dad!”

“What?”

You're my father! You don't have to bow!”

Ren grinned. “I have to pay the proper respect to the Deity of Fire, honey.”

She grinned and took him into a hug. With her hand behind his back, she formed a small bundle of fire and tucked it into his cloak.

“Bye, Dad. Bye, Teepo.” She let Ren out of the hug.

“Bye, Fire Dancer.” Ren said, walked through the portal.

*

“Hey! Who turned out the lights?” Lara asked.

A portal made of fire appeared in front of her in the darkness, and Ren stepped out of it.

“Ren! Where were you?”

“Sorry, Lara... ah... Sage of Ages.” Ren said. “I didn't realize I'd be gone that long.”

“What are you talking about?” Lara asked. “I just got back from delivering your books, and you weren't here.”

Ren stared at her. Teepo! Then that means...

“The last week and a half was only a few minutes here.”

Ren sat down in his chair in shock. No wonder time wasn't kind to Fire Dancer!

“Are you all right?” Lara asked.

Ren nodded. “Yeah, I'm fine.” He said and sat there for a few minutes.

“It's already been 2 weeks since we left there, Ren.” Teepo said, sadly.

I know, Teepo. Ren thought. I know. He took a deep breath, sighed, and looked at Lara. “Thank you for all of your help, Lara.”

She snorted a laugh. “I kind of don't have a choice now.”

“What do you... oh, right.” Ren said and smiled. “I'll try to not bug you too much.”

Lara sat down and grinned. “Yeah, that's not going to happen.”

“What do you mean?” He asked.

“Sage of Ages, remember?” She said and laughed. “Every little bit of info you want, you're going to bother me with it.”

Ren chuckled. “Okay, I promise to limit myself in that regard. Is that better?”

Lara closed her eyes. “Yeah, that's more reasonable.”

He looked at her. “Can you tell the future?”

She pointed a finger at him and opened her eyes. “Ha!”

Ren rolled his eyes. “Sorry.”

“That's okay.” Lara said. “It was a logical question; and no, I can't see the future.”

“Then what...”

