Four hooded figures came into the library and fanned out.

“I'm tired of waiting.” The lead figure said. “Find him.”

They looked through all the areas they could see, but there was no sign of him. The lead figure went to the reception desk and stood in front of Rosie.

“Where is he?”

“Who?”

“The little pip-squeak that came in here 2 hours ago.”

Rosie shook her head. “I'm sorry, I can't help you.”

The figure turned to the other three. “Go in the back and search.”

“You aren't allowed to do that.” Rosie said. “That's a restricted area.”

“Like I care about your restrictions.” The figure said and pulled out a sword. “I have her covered. Go!”

Rosie stood up. “Did you just pull a weapon out while INSIDE THE LIBRARY?!?”

The hooded figures stopped moving at Rosie's bellow.

“This is a place of LEARNING!” Her face turned beet red from anger. “Leave now, or I'll MAKE you leave!”

The hooded figures laughed, then started moving towards the hallway.

“You're BARRED!” Rosie shouted.

The front door of the Library flew open, and the hooded figures were grabbed by an invisible force. They were unceremoniously dragged to the door across tables and chairs, then tossed out into the street. The 4 figures landed in a pile, battered and bruised. Rosie came over to the doorway, stood with her hands on her hips, and glared at them.

“If you can't behave like civilized people, then you won't be treated like civilized people.” Rosie said. “The soldiers have been notified of your transgression, so I suggest you don't stick around. Unless you want to see what happens next.”

The figures sorted themselves out of the pile and stood. The sound of rattling armor could be heard approaching from just up the street, and the 4 figures ran the other way.

*

Ren and Teepo appeared in an area neither of them had ever seen before. Everything was fire. The land, the trees, the bushes... everything was made of fire. Ren turned around and the portal had closed.

“Well, I guess we won't be going back that way.”

“Don't worry, Ren.” Teepo said. “Fire Dancer is really happy!”

“I'd ask you were we should go, but since neither of us have been here before...”

“Just walk straight ahead...” Teepo chittered in laughter. “...and follow the yellow fire road.”

Ren looked down and sure enough, he was standing on a yellow fire road. He knelt down and ran his hands in the fire.

“It kinda feels like liquid jello.”

“What's that?” Teepo asked.

“It's a type of dessert Adventurers eat sometimes.”

“They eat fire?”

Ren chuckled. “No, the fire just feels like the melting dessert.” He thought about it. “Actually, there are fire-eaters, but it's just a trick.”

“Whew! I'm glad.” Teepo relaxed. “Fire Dancer wouldn't be happy to hear about Adventurers eating her creations.”

“No, I wouldn't.” A loud disembodied voice said. “I would be displeased if they did.”

Ren started walking down the road and saw various creatures through the trees. Rabbits and foxes mostly, but the odd thing was, they were made of fire. They still moved and acted like real creatures, but their bodies were fire instead of meat and bone.

“Neat.” Ren said.

“I'm glad you like them.” Fire Dancer said.

“You made them all?” Ren asked.

“I did.”

“Did you make this realm for yourself?”

“Of course.”

Ren came to the end of the road, and about a football field away, was a mountain of fire. It shifted slightly, and Ren saw a good portion of it move, then a humanoid shape stood up. It took a step and the ground shook. It crushed trees and bushes and animals alike as it walked the short distance to where Ren stood. When it was close enough, he guessed it was about 200 feet tall.

“That is so cool!” Ren said.

“You... aren't afraid?” Fire Dancer asked, surprised. “I'm the Deity of Fire, and you're not afraid.”

Ren shook his head. “I'm immune to fire.”

“I could still crush you.”

“I have no doubt that you could kill me at any time that you want.” Ren chuckled. “That's not why you brought me here, though. Is it?”

The behemoth fire being bellowed a laugh. “No. Like I told your little companion, I'm dying.”

Ren took in a deep breath, then sighed. “I felt really sad when he told me that.”

“You did, didn't you?” Fire Dancer said. “Why?”

“Teepo told me how you came here, and what happened to you... and now, after all this time being trapped and not able to go home, you're dying.” Ren said. “I can't help but feel sad.”

Pieces of the fire being's body started to fall off. When a piece would hit the ground, it would become a bunny rabbit or a fox that would run away, a bush, a tree, then one big piece became a wolf that stood there and growled at Ren. He didn't pay it any attention, however. A boar was next, and when it took off, the wolf chased it. Large boulders appeared then rolled away, pushed by some unseen force. A bear and 2 cubs were next.

Ren stared in awe as nearly an entire forest and part of a mountain was born from the fire being's crumbling body. When all of the pieces had finally fallen off, what was revealed was a woman. Unlike all of her creations, the fire she was made of was under translucent skin and burned a bright orange. Her eyes glowed brightly as she smiled at him. She was 5 foot 5, perfectly proportioned, and was also completely naked. Ren dropped to one knee and bowed his head.

“I didn't realize you weren't wearing clothing.” He said and blushed a little.

Fire Dancer laughed. “I couldn't wear clothing if I tried.” She said, in a pleasantly female voice. “They would burn up instantly.”

“I could try to make you something...” Ren offered.

“It's quite alright.” Fire Dancer said. “Please stand and look at me.”

“But... I'll look and... I don't want to offend you.”

She put a hand on his face. “You could never offend me, dear one.” Fire Dancer said. “I brought you here to thank you.” She said and lifted his face to her. “That was an ingenious idea to spread the knowledge of me so quickly.” She kept lifting, and Ren had no choice but to stand before her. “I only wish it had happened years ago, when it might have saved me.”

Now that he was close enough to examine her, Ren saw that pieces of her were missing. A small chunk from her arm, a finger from the hand touching his face, one of her ears, and a piece of her shoulder. Ren couldn't help himself as he touched those parts of her.

“You're not dying.” Ren said, and a tear came to his eye. “You're being eaten away.”

Fire Dancer had a surprised look on her face for a moment, then she smiled. “Yes, dear one. That's exactly right. The longer I've been trapped here, the more I wasted away.” She sighed. “I tried to make a place for myself, and it worked for a little while; but, time has not been kind to me.”

“Goddess?” Teepo whispered.

“Yes, little Disciple?”

“Is there nothing we can do?” Teepo said. “Ren is a great Adventurer, and he's done so many amazing things!”

“Your devotion to me has kept my flame burning for many years.” Fire Dancer smiled. “Your use of the friendship you have with this man to help me, was more than I could have asked of you.” She shook her head. “To achieve so much in so short a time...”

“Is there nothing I can do?” Ren asked. “I'll do anything in my power to help, if I can.”

Fire dancer looked at Ren, tilted her head, and smiled coyly. “I believe you just had a similar deal with the Sage of Ages.”

Ren thought about it for a moment, then his eyes widened. “Oh.”

“I've been waiting centuries for someone to achieve Affinity with me.” Fire Dancer said. “Even someone at 99% would burn up instantly when they stepped into this realm.”

“That's happened before.” Ren said.

She nodded. “He was so close; but, he was impatient and getting on in years. He decided he couldn't wait any longer, and opened a portal himself.”

Ren took her into a hug. “I'm so sorry.”

Since he was 4 foot 7, and she was 5 foot 5, his head fit right under her chin. Fire Dancer was surprised at first, then she hugged him back. “You mortals and your customs.”

“I can't help myself sometimes.” Ren chuckled. “I'm a hugger.”

She laughed, and ran a hand through his hair. His eyes widened as she played with it a little, then ran her hand back over it to settle it down.

“It's so soft and fluffy.” Fire Dancer said in wonder. “I've never touched hair before.”

“You haven-” Ren stopped mid-word, and he grinned. “Right. Fire Goddess. Burns everything.”

Fire Dancer laughed. “Teepo, is he always like this?”

“Yes, Goddess.” Teepo said. “He treats everyone the same.”

She cupped the side of Ren's face. “If only I'd found you years ago.” She said. “Having someone like you by my side would have made all these years more bearable.”

Ren sighed. “I'm sorry, but I'm engaged to be married.”

“I know. Teepo has told me all about it.”

“Then what...”

“A new Fire Dancer must be made. One that can survive here.” She said. “I will not allow everything that I have created to die with me.” Fire Dancer looked at Ren, pleadingly. “Please, Ren. Save them. Save them all.”

“Oh... oh my...”

“I'm not asking for a commitment, dear one.” She chuckled. “Only for a share of your affections.”

“But...”

“Ren! Say yes!” Teepo urged. “She's a Goddess! Save her!”

“Teepo.” Fire Dancer said, and Teepo quieted. She reached into Ren's hood and picked Teepo up. “This is not a decision to be made lightly.” She looked at Ren. “If you wish, you may discuss it with Nathalia.”

“But...”

Fire Dancer let Ren out of the hug and waved an arm. A portal appeared 30 feet away. “Go to her. Talk about it.” She said and put Teepo back in the hood. “I've waited centuries for you. A little while longer won't hurt too much.”

Ren stared at her, as she put a hand on her thigh. He moved the hand aside gently, and watched as another small piece of fire within her shrank away, and left a space under her skin empty. He nodded and walked over to the portal and stepped through it. He was in pitch blackness again, and when it vanished, he was in the old bedroom in House Neram. Nathalia was there, asleep in the bed. Ren walked over to her and knelt.

How in the world am I going to explain this?

“Tell the truth, of course.” Teepo said. “You told her you wouldn't ever lie to her.”

Ren sighed and woke Nathalia up. He explained what was happening, and what the Goddess of Fire was asking of him, and Nathalia's eyes nearly bulged out of her head.

“You... you've been asked.... by a Deity... to... to...”

Ren nodded.

“Do you love her?”

“No.”

“Then you have my permission.”

“But...”

“Ren.” Nathalia said. “A Goddess... an ACTUAL Goddess... wants you to save as much of her as you can. I wouldn't be able to live with myself if I let all of the Fire die in this world.”

Ren took in a deep breath. “Nathalia...”

She kissed him deeply, and Ren's body reacted almost instantly.

“There.” Nathalia said. “You're ready.”

“But...”

“You better be thinking of me the whole time.”

Ren smiled. “I'd rather keep my experiences with you, my own personal Goddess, separate.”

Nathalia caught her breath. “Ren! I just got a...”

He kissed her, and she wrapped her arms around him. A minute later, he broke the kiss and stood. “I'll be back tomorrow, My Love.”

“I'll always be here waiting for you, My Love.”

Ren turned around and the room blacked out again.

“Ahhh!” Nathalia let out a startled scream.

“It's just the portal, Nathalia.” Ren said. “The light will return when it's closed.”

“O-okay.”

The portal appeared and Ren stepped through it.

*

A moment later, the darkness dissipated and Nathalia sighed.

“The things he gets wrapped up in.” She said, and shook her head. “I swear, trouble finds him wherever he goes.”

*

Ren appeared in the fire realm, and he walked over to Fire Dancer. “My future wife is fine with me 'rescuing' a Goddess of Fire.”

Fire Dancer smiled. “I'm glad that she's a practical woman.”

“Nathalia is definitely more than I deserve.” Ren said. “I'm really lucky I have her.”

“Almost as lucky as I was in finding you.” She said. “To think you achieved what so many others have tried and failed at.” She looked at him. “You're amazing.”

“You shouldn't have said that.” Ren said. “Now you aren't going to know what to say when we're finished.”

“When we're finished?” She asked, perplexed.

“Can you make a bed please?” Ren asked. Fire Dancer made one, and Ren asked for a small building around it.

“Are you trying to make a private space?”

Ren nodded.

Fire Dancer smiled. “This is all me, you know. Parts of me. I created it all.”

“I know.” Ren said. “I'd like a bit of privacy anyway.”

She shrugged and made a room around the bed.

Teepo

“Standing guard.” Teepo said and flew to the roof of the building and landed. Ren picked Fire Dancer up in a 'princess carry', with one arm behind her back and one under her knees.

“What are you doing?!?” She exclaimed as she wrapped her arms around his neck.

“I'm going to rock your world.” Ren said, carried her into the room, and shut the door.

10 hours later, Fire Dancer didn't know what to say.

“I can't... you... how...”

Ren laughed. “See? You should have saved the 'amazing' comment.”

Fire Dancer laughed. “Yes, you're right.” She said, then looked down at him. “You can keep going, can't you?”

“If you want me to, yes.”

She put a hand on her abdomen. “I'm sure you've achieved what I had intended, dear one.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow and Fire Dancer chuckled. “That's so cute!” She said and kissed his eyebrow. “Now that the work is done, though...”

“There's a saying where I come from.” Ren said. “All work and no play...”

Fire Dancer grinned. “Oh, I like that thought!”

After another 5 hours, Fire Dancer asked him to stop.

“I... I think...” She gripped her stomach. “...yes, it's time.”

Ren looked at her with concern, and she gave him a kiss on the lips.

“Thank you very much, Father of Fire.” She said, and Ren dismissed the popup without reading it. Fire Dancer screamed as the fire under her skin burned hotter, and swirled around like a firestorm. It turned a deep red color from the bright orange it was, then slowly collapsed down into her abdomen. She stopped moving and her eyes stopped glowing. The fire inside of her kept getting smaller and smaller quickly, and Ren stared at it because he realized what it was.

