Yeah. Ren smiled, ran out of the alleyway, then went up the street to his business. He went inside and then up the stairs to the apartment.

“Ren!” Anabelle exclaimed, and threw herself at him. She still wore just the maid apron and socks.

“You can stop that now.” Ren said. “You aren't under Lord Eric's orders anymore.”

“What are you taking about?” She asked. “I love you!”

Ren chuckled as he walked over to the basic fireplace he'd made in the living room, and activated the fire stones inside. She stumbled behind him, trying her best to hold him still. Ren took out the first scroll, and tossed it into the flames. It burned up instantly, and he took out the next one.

“How do you feel?” Ren asked, and tossed the next scroll into the fire. “Any better?”

Anabelle shook her head and he threw in the third scroll. Anabelle's ankle burned slightly, and she slipped her sock off of it.

“What are you doing?!?” Anabelle asked as she tried to stop Ren from throwing her main contract into the fire.

“I'm tempted to order you to stop fighting me...” He smiled. “...but, I'd rather just have you back to normal.” He tossed the last scroll into the fire.

“Nooo!” Anabelle yelled, and tried to go into the fireplace to get the scroll back. Ren caught her before she could hurt herself, and she collapsed onto the floor in front of the fire. “What did you do?!?”

“I'd say that I freed you, but you aren't going to agree to that view, are you?”

Anabelle shook her head. “Everything... everything was so much easier while I...” She sighed. “I didn't have to think about anything.”

“I'm sorry.” Ren said. “Despite your willingness to do anything that the contract said you would do, I still want you to do things with your will, and mind, intact.”

Tears came to her eyes. “But, I can't!” Anabelle said loudly. “Ever since I was a young girl, I couldn't think straight.” She said and cried. “I couldn't even find a job when I lost my family.” She sighed and wiped her eyes, and the fire burned her contracts to ashes as her ankle bracelet faded. “If Lord Eric hadn't found me, or told me about the contracts and how they could help me...”

Ren put a hand on her shoulder. “You really need the extra guidance?”

Anabelle nodded. “Without... without the compulsion to do things, I... I'll lose my... um... I can't... I don't know what...” She shook her head. “It's going away already!”

Ren took out a piece of parchment, and wrote out a contract for her. He added in a few things that were in the other contracts; but not everything, as some of it was pretty nasty. He also added in that she didn't have to give Ren any money, or have sex with people for money. He passed it to her to read, and she signed it without even looking at it.

“You should have read that.” Ren said, and Anabelle sighed as she hugged herself, then cried. He took her into a hug, and let her cry. After several minutes, the tears eased and she sniffled. He passed her a scrap piece of cloth, and she wiped her face off with it.

“Thank you.” Anabelle said. “I knew when I first met you, that you were a good man.”

“How could you tell?” Ren smiled. “You were a little busy trying to stick your tongue down my throat.”

“I wanted you so bad!” She grinned. “You'd given me so much money that I didn't know what to do with it all.”

“You gave most of it to Lord Eric.”

Anabelle nodded. “It was our agreement.” She said. “Free room and board, and I got to keep just enough for spending money.”

Ren sighed. “I didn't believe him when he said you had agreed to it all beforehand.”

She smiled. “It saved me from... well, from dying on the streets like the trash that I am.”

Ren stood up, and helped her stand as well. “You are not trash, Anabelle.”

“No?” She asked. “I just need a piece of paper, and this...” She held up her arm, and showed Ren the Bracelet of Enforcement that had appeared there. “...to help me keep my marbles, and from wandering off somewhere.”

Ren took her hand and kissed the fingers, as if he was greeting one of the Minister's wives. Her eyes widened at the gesture, because she knew exactly what it was used for.

“Wh-what are you doing?”

“I'm greeting a lady.” Ren said. “And my new store clerk.”

“Your what?!?”

“I'm opening my business today, and I need a smart and capable woman to run the place when I'm not here.”

Anabelle's mouth dropped open. “You... you're going to trust someone like me with that?”

“Sure.” Ren said. “I've got you under contract to do it, too.”

She looked at the rolled up parchment in his hand, and laughed.

“You sneaky bugger!”

“I told you that you should have read it.” Ren said and grinned. “Now you'll have to do actual work for me, and not try to seduce me every time you see me.”

Anabelle wrapped her arms around his neck and much to his surprise, pressed her nearly naked body against him.

“Why can't I do both?” She asked, and kissed him.

Ren pulled back and broke the kiss. “Because the contract specifically states that you don't have to do that kind of thing anymore.”

Anabelle ran a hand through his hair. “I don't have to?” She said and smiled. “Not shouldn't or can't?”

Ren's eyes widened as he discovered the loophole that she so easily found.

“Anabelle...” Ren tried to say, and she kissed him again. He tried to back up, and hit the wall. She grabbed his hands and pulled them inside her apron to cup her breasts. She moaned into his mouth as she moved his hands around. Ren turned his head to the side, so she couldn't kiss him, and she kissed his ear instead. She licked along his ear to the tip, and Ren shivered as he couldn't stop his body from reacting automatically from a sensation that was eerily similar to another part of his anatomy. His ear twitched, and Anabelle opened her mouth and sucked on the pointed tip like a lollipop.

“By the gods...” Ren said, and closed his eyes. I've never felt anything like this before!

Anabelle stopped sucking for a moment. “You'd better take those pants off, or you'll make a mess in them.” She said, then sucked on his ear harder, moving it in and out. Ren opened his eyes and turned his head towards her, and his ear popped out of her mouth. Anabelle grinned as she kissed him on the lips, and reached down between his legs. At some point she had let Ren's hands go; but, he had kept massaging her breasts without her urging or prompting.

I guess I was more turned on by Jhulune than I thought I was. Ren thought.

“I think it's more because Anabelle is an expert, and has had years of practice.” Teepo chittered in laughter.

Wh-what do I do? Ren thought as Anabelle knelt in front of him and worked him through the thin fabric of his pants.

“Either stop her, or have fun.” Teepo said. “There's not really any other choice.”

Ren nodded. “Anabelle, please s-”

His words were cut off as she slid his pants down and tasted him directly. She worked him over expertly, just as Teepo had said. After only a minute of direct stimulation, and because it felt so good, he went. Anabelle held him close and stared up at him, then her eyes widened as he kept going. She took as much as she could; but, she had passed her limit a moment before and tried to pull away. Ren grabbed her head and held her there.

“You started it.” He said. “You better finish it.”

He felt her smile around him and she relaxed. He stopped going a minute later; she stopped pleasing him, then she stood up.

“This way, My Lord.” Anabelle took his hand and put it between her legs. She was soaked, and she used his hand to please herself. She bit her lip as she went, then she turned around and got on her hands and knees.

“Please, My Lord.” Anabelle pleaded, desperation in her voice. “I've lost count of how many months it's been since we met at the party in your honor.” She said. “When you paid for me... I... I haven't... since then I... I've been a good girl...”

Ren could see the tears were back in her eyes.

“P-p-please...”

Ren joined with her, and she cried.

“Thank you, My Lord!” Anabelle said. “Oh, god! Thank you!”

What did I get myself into? Ren thought, as he pleased her.

Half an hour later, Ren left Anabelle exhausted on the couch, and tucked her under the blanket. He went downstairs and started up the forge. He threw a few high quality iron ingots into the smelter and let them simmer as he built shelves, and racks, and partition walls. He checked the smelter, added more ore, and stirred it. Ren made a dozen comfy chairs, and three couches. He built a display for one of the windows, with a couch, two comfy chairs, and two training dummies made of wood, in it.

He hung several swords and shields on the wall, and took out one of the crates that had the armor suit Tee-one had made. Ren used his portable dye station to make it a white color, instead of the mottled gray used in the dwarf army, then set the crate to be easily seen. After being tempted to put a set of bra and panties on one of the training dummies, he hung it on the wall instead. He went back to the forge, then used the molten metal to make two of each bladed weapon, tool, and item that he had the pattern for. They were hung on the walls and placed on shelves. Once that was done, he hung various types of bows on the racks. He made a couple more training dummies, and did use them as mannequins and made several outfits he had adapted from Lord Neram's designs.

Ren went behind a partition wall and set out a couple of each lingerie outfit, bra, and panties, and hung them on the walls. He made a couple of crossbows, and hung them on the wall beside where the bows were hung, then realized he would need a counter for Anabelle to stand behind and take orders. He made her a counter and a nice chair to sit in, and placed it in the best position to see all of the wares in the shop. Ren was tempted to close off the forge area, but decided against it. If he was going to be spending time working here, people will want to see him actually working.

Ren smiled as he made several small shelves behind the counter, and put a couple of every potion he had on him, and added a list of the potions he could make. Then he took out several stone bricks, and enchanted them with single runes and concentrated on Anabelle. He made another list, stating what could be enchanted, then decided to make a tiny icebox for the display. Once that was done, he made a coffee table, a sitting desk with a mirror, a cabinet, and a bed. He put them in their own area, and went back to the counter and looked around.

“I think that's everything.” Ren said. I won't offer the wands yet. He thought. I don't want to overwhelm the market.

“You should probably make a sign for out front, once you get the windows in.” Teepo suggested.

“Ha!” Ren said. “I knew I forgot something.” He made a sign out of wood, and added the House Neram crest behind it. He went outside and cut the holes for the two large storefront windows, then mounted them into place. One showed his living room display nicely, and the other showed off the forge and weapons. Ren took out a ladder and climbed up to hang the sign above the door.

“There, it's done.” Ren said, as he looked at the sign that said the name of his business.

Master Of All, Jack Of None

Ren walked inside and went to a workbench, and took out the pattern for a woman's conservative suit and skirt combo, and made one in red for Anabelle to wear. He stored it and ran up the stairs to the apartment. He found Anabelle getting dressed in her maid outfit.

“You're not going to need that.” Ren said.

She turned around and beamed a smile at him. “Would you prefer I only wear the apron to serve the customers?”

“Despite the fact that a lot of them would appreciate it; no, not the apron.” Ren chuckled. “I want you to wear this.” He took out the business suit, and she stared at it.

“It's beautiful.” Anabelle said and took it. She put it on, and it shrank to fit her perfectly. “Thank you, My Lord.”

“You can call me Ren.” He said, and she shook her head.

“I can probably drop to 'sir' when we are in public; but you are, and always will be, 'My Lord' to me.”

“Anabelle...”

“The contract states that I can call you anything I wish.” Anabelle smiled. “My Stallion.”

Ren shook his head. “Okay, 'My Lord' is much better than that.”

Anabelle chuckled. “I knew you would see things my way.”

“Come with me, please. I want to show you the storefront, where you'll be taking orders, and what's for sale right away.”

“Of course, My Lord.” Anabelle said and walked over to him. She swung her hips seductively, and Ren raised a single eyebrow at her. She chuckled and put her hands on her hips. “I'll tone down the sexiness if there's women in the store.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and smiled. “I'm sure they'll appreciate your efforts.”

“I don't care if they do or not.” Anabelle said. “I only care if you appreciate it.”

“I do.” He said, and she hooked her arm in his.

“Then show me the domain I can rule with an iron fist.” Anabelle said, and laughed as they left the apartment and walked down the stairs.
