Not so much a problem when there were technically only two Living Martial Warriors who’d mastered the trick, Mitsue Juichi himself and his traitorous great-nephew Hideo, but then little Rain came out of his three-month coma and unleashed a Mountain Collapsing Stomp on his first try. How many foes he killed using this initial attack, Akanai could not say, for the Enemy had seen fit to bring their dead away with them, but what she did know was that the boy had dealt a near fatal blow to her pride.

Thus far, they believed the boy only utilized the Mountain Collapsing Stomp a single time, but the trail uncovered by Naaran and the pup was far and wide-ranging indeed, proving beyond the shadow of a doubt that Rain was capable of Cloud-Stepping as well. Add to this his ability to Conceal and remain unnoticed even when slipping out from under the watch of trained Sentinels here to guard against just such an intruder, and Akanai feared the boy was far beyond her capabilities to contain. Though there was no doubt in her mind she would emerge victorious from a battle against him, she could not remain guarded and vigilant at all times. If the worst had come to pass and he was truly Defiled or lost to them, then how was Akanai supposed to protect her beloved family and keep this calamity from spreading to the Empire at large?

It didn’t help that she truly believed this was Rain before her, and not some ancient, body-stealing monster of legend. To think the reviled Zhen Shi was still alive when he should have long since passed away even before Akanai was born, but she believed Rain when he revealed the true mastermind behind the Enemy. She trusted him, which made this decision all the more difficult, because even though he was not in his right mind and could potentially bring disaster down upon them all, she wanted to believe everything would work out. Hope was all she had left, and although the pragmatic side told her this was not enough, she could not bring herself to do what she knew needed to be done.

End Falling Rain’s life, and the rest would sort itself out. Leave him be, and he could snap at any moment, or worse, accidentally hurt or kill someone which might put him over the edge. Twice now, he’d demonstrated his inability to control his strength, first shortly after he woke up and followed directions to squeeze Taduk’s hand, and again when he stepped in to keep Naaran from defending himself against Song. Both times, he left bruises on the recipient’s arms, though Taduk had Healed his markings away so quickly she almost failed to see them. It was unmistakable with Naaran however, where the boy’s seemingly effortless hold left hairline fractures all along the man’s fist. Rain would not be the first Martial Warrior who suffered from being unable to control his own strength, so even without malice, he was capable of great harm. A Peak Expert’s strength constrained only by a stunted mind, one unable to string together a full sentence or contain his own emotions, a terrifying combination to consider. What if he went to hug sweet Tali or Tate and squeezed just a little too hard? Or if he turned around without looking and backhanded someone in the ribs? What if they did something to anger him, and he lashed out on reflex? What if someone startled him and he reacted to defend himself? What if he got it into his mind that someone was an enemy or a threat?

At the very least, she ought to bring him away and isolate him, but how was it possible to constrain someone with his capabilities? Falling Rain was now a Cloud-Stepping, Mountain Collapsing, Domain Concealing Warrior, and were this anyone else in his place, Akanai would have ended the threat to her family without needing to think twice. Night turned to day as the sun rose over the horizon, but despite struggling with this singular decision for several hours now, she still could not bring herself to act. Not just because Mila would never forgive her, or because Du Min Gyu would likely turn against her in rage, or because the pup and his wife would likely never speak to her again. For them, Akanai could bear their hatred and do what needed to be done, because she loved her family with all her heart and would do anything to protect them, but therein lay the problem.

Because Falling Rain was her grandson, Grand-Disciple, and son-in-law, whom she also loved with all her heart.

The birds were the first to stir, and even Akanai had to admit they were an adorable bunch, blinking sleepily as they puffed up their feathers and shook themselves awake. The rabbits were next, as prey animals were always cognizant of noise and possible danger, even ones as pampered and spoiled as these. Where the birds knew well enough to stay away, the rabbits had yet to learn she was not as indulgent as others, and a handful hopped over to nuzzle her shins in hopes of receiving a pre-breakfast treat, while the rest greeted one another amidst a flurry of morning groomings. As the rabbits were not the stealthiest of beasts, their antics woke the others, but the bears and wildcats did little more than blink and glance about, wholly relaxed and as still as could be until all the smaller, more fragile animals were out of the way. It always amazed Akanai to see such powerful predators treat what might well be their next meal with such tender care and affection, especially the large, ponderous, ungainly bears. Banjo and Baloo were always so delicate with the birds and rabbits, nuzzling them ever so gently while minding their claws and fangs. It was honestly a miracle none of those rodents had been squashed to death underfoot, or underbelly perhaps would be the better term, given their penchant for burrowing beneath other animals as they slept, but these bears were the epitome of the phrase ‘gentle giant’.

Aside from Mama Bun and the Guardian Turtle who slept like the dead, the last to wake was Rain, or perhaps he was simply the last one Akanai noticed, lying ensconced within his pile of pets with not even a hint of a smile to be seen. The only real emotion he’d physically exhibited was a singular soft smile, one he broke out when she brought his miraculously reformed sword back to him. One of the others had found it sticking in the ground amidst a smattering of grass, dropped there after Rain’s battle against the Wraiths. The rest of the time, the boy’s expression was a mirror of Song’s, frozen in callous nonchalance and indifferent neutrality.

But his eyes and his Aura, those told a different story altogether.

Love was not enough to describe, for it was warmth and affection, gratitude and appreciation, care and attachment, a plethora of earnest and adoring sensations delivered all at once. Underneath all this was a melancholic cast to his Aura, but though she felt its presence, she was unaffected by it in any direct way. All of the wistful dejection she sensed was directed inward, reserved by Rain, for Rain, and Rain alone, but he was unable to contain it. In this single burst of Aura, the boy was saying, “Good Morning”, “I love you”, “Thank you”, and “I’m sorry”, all at once, an outpouring of genuine sentiment which let her know the state of his mind.

Du Min Gyu was right. There was nothing wrong with Rain’s mental state, for he was as rational as ever. The problem then lay elsewhere, though where, Akanai could not say, and even Taduk was at a loss on how to proceed.

Time then. Time and care, and hopefully, the boy would recover on his own. A baseless hope, unsupported by any facts or logic, but hope was all she had.

An outpouring of understanding emanated from the boy, and his eyes told her everything she needed to know. There was love there, again, yet also resignation, mixed with fear, shame, and self-recrimination. “We both know what must be done,” he was saying, not in so many words, but there was no mistaking it. “I love you, and I am sorry I must ask you to do this, but no one else will.”

In a few simple emotions, the boy bared his mind and soul to her, revealing a scared, anxious young man who was terrified of what he might do. He knew her thoughts and shared her fears, but worst of all, he agreed with her assessment. The depths of his concern outstripped even her own, because he would never forgive himself if he hurt someone he loved. Though he was proud of his accomplishments, he didn’t understand how he did what he did, nor was he aware of the reason why he left the manor without alerting anyone to fight his foes in complete secrecy. The boy was as lost as the rest of them, full of questions with no answers to be found, but he now posed a threat to his family and knew what needed to be done. The only way to keep everyone safe was to eliminate the threat completely, and he would do anything to protect the people he loved.

And it was this love and devotion through which the Father attacked him, drove him to the depths of dread and despair. “I cannot be restrained,” his fear told her, spiralling out of control behind his calm, soulful eyes. “Not as I am, a Warrior lacking the ability to consciously control his body, yet wholly capable of unleashing devastating attacks like the Mountain Collapsing Stomp.”

And thus she had confirmation of the one fact that had been worming its way through Akanai’s mind all night and kept her from acting even though she never consciously acknowledged it. “You are not in control.” A blessing and a curse, for he had good intentions, only poor execution.

Affirmation, sympathy, regret, and contrition came flooding out from him, a puzzling mix of emotions containing a jumbled message Akanai had difficulty putting together, but her heart sank when she finally deciphered his meaning. It was yet another request to kill him and remove the threat, but he was also apologetic for having to burden her with the request. Mother Above, Akanai had known the boy loved to blame himself for everything, but now, she knew he truly believed he was at fault. If only he’d been stronger, if only he’d not been crippled, if only he’d made a different decision so very many times, his regrets were too many to list and almost entirely unfounded. It was as if he believed there was a perfect path of actions and decisions he could have made to avoid all the hardships he’d ever encountered, and that his failure to adhere to such perfection was the reason for so much suffering in the world today. This was hubris and self-persecution to a degree Akanai hadn’t known was even possible, and she pitied him for the depths of his pain and delusion.

There was a time when she suspected he sought death on the battlefield, and though he never admitted it, she was now certain this was the case, only not in the way she expected. The boy did not seek death as an escape, but because despite all the good he’d done, the lives he’d saved, and people he’d touched, Falling Rain truly and wholeheartedly believed the world would be a better place once he was gone.

Oh this poor, sweet, loving child... how foolish could one person be?

Placing her ax-lance to one side, Akanai picked her way through the grooming rabbits and puffed-up birds to kneel at Rain’s side, taking his hand in hers and stroking his hair like she did whenever little Mila woke from a nightmare. “You are not in control,” she repeated, her heart breaking as he smiled in welcome of death, having longed for this reprieve for so long. Alas, he would have to wait a little longer, at least until after Akanai passed of old age, and preferably after his children started families of their own. “So your father and I will work with you until you are able to reclaim it. Days, weeks, months, or years, it matters not how long it takes, because your family will be here by your side, helping you every step of the way. This is one path you need not walk alone, child, so do not be afraid to lean on us a little more.”

“Your grandmother speaks the truth.” Smiling as he padded over to join them, the pup nudged Baloo out of the way and sat down next to the boy, almost flattening a rabbit hidden beneath the bear’s ponderous bulk and proving he had less spatial awareness than a mere animal. “Your Mother-in-Law as well,” the pup added, grinning as he misread her glare. “A woman of many titles, though I find the first far more fitting, considering the love and affection she has for us both.”

It took long minutes before their words reached the boy, but it was evident from his reaction when they did, as the outpouring of love, devotion, and gratitude was almost too much to bear. “Oh Rain, my son,” Baatar began, touching his forehead to Rain’s in a heartfelt gesture. “I see you have forgotten what I told you the day after we found you, when you tried to thank me for bringing justice to those slaves. There is no need for thanks or repayment. You are one who was lost to us, but now, you are returned, and I will fight anyone who tries to take you away.”

The last was meant for Akanai’s ears, and perhaps also for Rain’s benefit, showing that the pup had been listening in for longer than he let on. Offering a sheepish smile to show there was no ill-will, he held the boy a little longer before continuing on. “Much as I would love to stay and watch over your recovery, I fear my presence is needed back at the Citadel. Your Consort as well, but we will both return before the day is done.”

“Careful.” Perhaps it was merely wistful thinking, but it felt like the boy was responding verbally more often now, despite this being his first word of the day. Clinging to the pups wrist, Rain struggled to get the next word out, and it was clear he still had so much more to say. “Danger.”

