Where there is life, there is hope, but hope alone was not enough to sustain a life.

Turning the phrase over and over again in her mind, Akanai sat on the divan with her ax-lance laid out over her knees. Rain lay on the ground before her, asleep in a pile of all his pets, having come here of his own volition after his bath. The bears were only all too happy to cuddle up beside him, unable to do so on a bed now that they were so large, and the crowd only grew from there. The wildcats, rabbits, turtles, and birds were all huddled around him, basking in his presence as they rested peacefully together. Mila, Yan, Lin, Zheng Luo, and possibly even Song might’ve joined him if Akanai hadn’t sent them all back to their beds, leaving her alone with the boy to contemplate his fate, one which lay squarely upon her shoulders, and hers alone.

The decision was simple, for she had many reasons to end his life, and hope was all that stayed her hand. A dangerous thing, to rely solely on hope, a lesson hard-learned in Akanai’s youth. Although hope was vital to hold fast to on those darkest of nights, hope alone would not fill her belly or shield her from the elements, nor would it do anything to stop the would-be murderers and rapists of the world. Unfortunately, there were all too many hopeful fools out there, men and women who relied solely on optimism and nothing else when tackling the trials and tribulations of the Mother Above, only to cry and complain if matters did not work out. They were the sort to build their homes on a flood plain and lament loudly when the inevitable deluge took everything away, or spoil their children and wonder why the second generation was so lacking in comparison to the first. These same self-entitled fools were prime targets for the Father’s foul minions, for their whispers promised exactly what those optimistic simpletons longed for, all the reward with none of the work. What they did not realize was that the only thing those empty promises provided was enough rope from which to hang themselves.

For the Father offered nothing but sweet lies and temptation in return for an eternity of damnation, yet even though humanity had been at odds with the Enemy for untold millennia, men and women still threw themselves at His feet in hopes that their outcome would be different from the countless billions before them.

Little Rain said it best himself, plan for the worst and hope for the best, a surprisingly sensible outlook coming from one so young. Then again, he’d been given precious little time to be young, and this mindset might well have saved his life in the mines, or at the very least, helped him keep his soul and sanity intact. Much as she admired him for enduring where so many others would have faltered and fallen, she would be lying if she said she had no reservations regarding his continued existence. When the pup brought his little foundling home, Akanai had advised him to do the humane thing and end the boy’s life before his soul was too far gone to save, but to call Baatar stubborn was akin to calling water wet. The man embodied obstinance like no one else, none save perhaps little Rain himself, and even though the pup expected he would soon have to put the foundling down, he could not let go of hope and disappoint the optimistic, wide-eyed Alsantset.

Perhaps this was Akanai’s bias as a long-lived demi-human showing, but she believed the pup and his daughter would soon come to regret their choice of companions. Not to say Akanai believed they should have done otherwise, but the sad truth of the matter was that Alsantset and Baatar were all but destined to become grieving widow and widower. Akanai had seen her half-beast friends lose many a human spouse after a long life spent in love, and she would not wish that sort of pain and misery on even her worst enemy. The pup and the girl both married young, which meant they each would have at most a hundred years of happy marriage to cherish, and four-hundred years of loss to manage. Most said it was enough, that they would not trade their happy memories for anything, but Akanai saw many of her friends live out their lives in lonely sorrow and she was not so sure it was worth it.

Yet even knowing all this, Akanai had betrothed her precious daughter to a human boy, because she knew how rare true love could be. A shame the boy was likely to die before even a hundred years, for despite little Rain’s adherence to caution and prudence when it came to matters of planning, he was deeply in love with courting death and taking impossible risks in the heat of the moment. Akanai saw it firsthand when the boy charged a Demon with little more than a basic spear, and this was but the first of many examples to draw from. Would little Mila come to regret loving Rain after his passing? Likely yes, but Akanai saw the budding love between them and could not help but draw parallels to her courtship with Husolt, so she hoped against all hopes that her daughter would find happiness without heartbreak.

So perhaps Akanai was not so wise at all, merely a fool like any other. She was fortunate to have found someone to hold hands and grow old with, but little Mila’s path would be far more difficult than her own.

It was all part and parcel of the duality of Akanai’s nature, her human and half-caribou heritage, the latter of which she’d only recently come to embrace. Which part of her was the one screaming at her to kill Rain now then, as she stood guard over his peacefully sleeping form? The human, or the beast, she supposed it didn’t really matter, as both came together as a whole to form the person who became Akanai of the People, Daughter of Sumila, Wife of Husolt, Mother of Baatar, Mila, and Li Song, Founder and Chief Provost of the Sentinels, and Peak Expert of the Empire.

A woman who could not, in good conscience, murder Falling Rain, not even for the greater good.

And so all she had left was hope, hope that her worst fears would not come to pass and everything would turn out for the best, but as far as she could tell, she was standing upon the riverbank with no end to the storm in sight. Despite Du Min Gyu’s blind optimism, the pup’s unfounded hopes, and her idiot husband’s easygoing demeanour, Akanai was not so sure it was safe to leave Rain unchecked, and her fear only grew as the pup’s periodic reports trickled in over the course of the night. As far as he could tell, the sizable cavity was where Rain initiated the attack, unleashing a powerful opening blow even Akanai could not match. The Mountain Collapsing Stomp, Mitsue Juichi’s signature attack, and while Rain’s results paled in comparison to the Living Legend’s, it was still enough to topple the walls of the manor Rain had built for Alsantset and Charok. Granted, this was assuming the boy targeted a load-bearing structure with the intent to bring the building down, but given his current mental state, it was impossible to predict how he might behave in any given circumstance.

What worried Akanai the most was the source of Rain’s newfangled prowess. While the boy had yet to wholly succumb to the Father’s foul lies, if one often walks by the riverside, one’s shoes will eventually get wet. Since his escape from the slave mines, the boy’s life had been one constant struggle with Balance, one Akanai did little to help with. It was sink or swim for him, and in those early months, she would have preferred the boy sink and be done with it. In fact, she put the pup’s foundling out of mind until Rain sparked little Mila’s interest and reminded Akanai of his existence. During their first meeting, she watched him Demonstrate the Forms and was certain his results were the fruit of his own labour, because if little Rain had been Defiled, then he would have been a much more talented Warrior. Still, she saw that he was polite, a quick study, possessed good instincts, and was devilishly clever, perhaps even too clever for his own good. Most importantly was his ability to persevere, persisting in their punishing spar where so many others would have long since given up. He had pluck and resilience in spades, but as Old Sumila used to always say, “The true measure of a person is how they handle hardship, for only then will they reveal their true colours.”

And so, Akanai forced Rain out of his comfortable little rut and brought him out into the world, because she thought that if he were to snap and break then it would be best if he did so sooner rather than later. At least that’s what she told herself, so that she could sleep easier at night. In truth, she’d grown fond of the boy after their first meeting, because he brought to mind memories of a happier time. There was little of his parents in him, and in fact, she would daresay he was more like the pup and Sarnai than anyone else, but this was a blessing more than curse. The Sentinels might not survive if history should repeat itself, which was why so many of her Warriors kept their distance from Rain, but he possessed a certain charm that made it all but impossible to resist. One only needed to look at how easily he won hearts and inspired loyalty in everyone he met, turning hated foes into stalwart allies and former rivals into steadfast friends.

And what Akanai loved most of all was how much he reminded her of Old Sumila, working himself to the bone to help others in need without expectation of thanks or gratitude. Take his earliest business endeavour, selling medicines to Shen Huo. With Taduk’s connections, Rain could have easily partnered with an established pharmacy and made coin hand over fist with all the prescriptions he’d uncovered in his teacher’s dusty library, but instead, he employed the less fortunate families within the village to produce his medicines and let them keep the lion’s share of the profits, while taking only a pittance for himself after factoring in the cost of shipping and spoilage.

Of course, the boy then wasted that pittance on alcohol and women of ill-repute, but Fung shared much of the blame for introducing Rain to such vices at so young an age, a character flaw Akanai meant to hammer out of her Disciple.

This wasn’t the end of the boy’s charitable acts either. While fighting alongside the army, he befriended a band of crippled vagabonds who were now some of his most loyal subordinates. While patrolling the countryside around Sanshu, he took part in a Purge and almost rebelled because he could not stand seeing so many innocents suffer, and was now best friends with several of the Officers who went through that experience with him. After looting Yo Ling’s hidden island base, Rain used his ill-gotten gains to build a single school for the Empire, and now funded an entire network of schools that fed and educated children all throughout the Northern Province, all because he saw how the People looked after their own and wanted to spread this to the Empire at large. Most recently, he saw fit to populate the Western border with millions of civilian workers and ensuring they were given everything they needed to not only survive, but also thrive in a time when most citizens of the Empire were literally being worked to death by their noble employers and overseers.

Indeed, if Old Sumila were here, she would most certainly call Rain a ‘good lad’, the highest praise she had for anyone, including her beloved children. At most, Akanai had only ever been a ‘mighty fine lass with a few rough edges’, though Old Sumila loved her all the same.

This made it all the more difficult for Akanai to come to a proper decision regarding Rain’s fate, for Baatar and Naaran uncovered many clues which only raised more questions. They found shards of dark poisoned blades scattered all about the plains, signifying Rain had fought a hit and run battle against Enemy Wraiths, yet when questioned about who he fought, the boy was unable to decide if they were friend or foe. Was that why he came out here to meet them, in order to pledge himself to their dark cause? How else could they explain his meteoric rise in strength and comprehension? The herbal baths only refined his physical body, and did nothing to advance his understanding of the Dao, yet somehow, more than a year after he was crippled, Rain had made great strides along the Martial Path and might well have risen to the rank of Peak Expert. How could he have done so without succumbing to the Father’s lies? Surely this comprehension had to be a reward for his betrayal of humanity, for how else could they explain it?

Natural talent, is how.

As outrageous as this might sound, especially considering Rain’s late start to his journey, Akanai wanted to believe this was the result of the boy’s staggering latent capabilities. Despite his lack of a working Core, he was the one who first uncovered the secret to the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, though he did not know it at the time. A simple working of Reverberation and Amplification, he called it, carefully building up power using precise timing and momentum within the body before unleashing it all in one go. The boy likened it to sitting on a swing, but Akanai felt a more apt comparison would be a stone in a sling, building up speed and power as it whirled about only to be unleashed in a single direction. After hearing the description, she spent many a long day working to add this skill to her arsenal, for she coveted it greatly after seeing the havoc Mitsue Juichi wrought upon the battlefield, but alas, the Mother did not see fit to bless her with Insight.

