“Yes, the Wraiths.” The boy had fallen asleep before they could question him about them, and Akanai could not bring herself to start in on it so early, but the pup never was one to mince words. “Worry not, son. Now that we know they are here, they have lost much of their advantage.”

Refusing to let go of his father’s sleeve, Rain clung gamely on until he comprehended the message and said, “...Wrong.” Unable to convey anything further, he pursed his lips in clear frustration, adding a second facial expression to his repertoire.

“They still have the advantage, of course, as they hold the initiative, but worry not. You may be the Undying, but I, your father, will not fall so easily.”

Still, the boy refused to let go, only to utter, “Wraith.”

“Yes,” Baatar replied, with the patience only a parent could have. “The Wraiths are a danger, but one I am well prepared to defend against, and that is all we can ask for.”

“No.” Comprehension dawned upon Akanai as she followed the boy’s lines of dialogue. “What he means is that there is danger, but we are wrong to assume the danger comes from Wraiths. Is that so, boy?”

“...Yes!” The utterance was accompanied by a burst of triumph and satisfaction at having finally made his point clear, and Akanai took pride in his accomplishments beside him.

“This is what he meant when he said he did not know who he killed, ally or Enemy.” Thinking back on everything Naaran reported, Akanai pieced together the rest of the boy’s dialogue. “He sensed a threat to his safety, and went out to meet it, only he is unsure if he fought Wraiths or assailants disguised as them. Likely the latter, else our foes would not go to all the trouble of removing all evidence of their presence save for the blades themselves. How many did you find again?”

“Five, and parts from possibly nine more, though some of the shards could have all come from the same blade. As each Wraith carries two, he fought at least seven assailants, but until he can confirm their numbers, we should assume there were at least ten, else there would be no one left to clean up.”

They’d already tried to get the boy to tell them how many foes he fought, but numbers seemed particularly difficult for him to share, which Taduk claimed hinted at a disconnect between the boy’s mind and mouth, reaffirming the Healer’s suspicions that whatever problem plaguing Rain was at least partially physical, rather than entirely mental. The issue lay in Healing the right thing, as the medical community had a lacklustre understanding of the human brain, and a mistake might well kill the boy outright. As resilient as he might have proven himself to be, they were not so desperate as to risk giving the boy a stroke or brain tumour just to speed his recovery along, as it’d only been a year since his Core was shattered and three months since he fell into a coma, no small amount of time to be injured so grievously, but their previous estimation had Rain’s full recovery measured in years, if not decades. In contrast, a few more months spent in this semi-communicative state did not seem all that bad, but alas, Rain was impatient as ever to get back into things.

“More.” It’d been so long since he last spoke, the pup had already left, but Akanai picked up on Rain’s meaning quickly enough. “More than ten,” she mused, so sure she didn’t need to ask him for confirmation. Wraiths were hardly the best combatants, their tactics largely reliant on attacking from stealth, so it wouldn’t surprise her to learn if Rain fought off a dozen all by himself. Things changed, however, if one assumed his foes were not Wraiths, but rather Martial Warriors masquerading as Wraiths, because unlike the Enemy, the Empire had no shortcut allowing their Warriors to Conceal without lengthy Training. If every single assailant had been a Concealment capable Warrior, it stood to reason they were all Domain-capable as well, and while technically, one could not be called a Peak Expert without knowing how to Conceal, given how it offered little to no advantage in direct combat, most Martial Warriors left mastering this skill for last.

Meaning it was entirely within the realm of possibilities that Rain fought off more than ten Peak Experts by himself.

Unable to hold back her smile, Akanai sat back and watched as Rain unconsciously groomed his pets, the movements so ingrained in his body that he could do it all without thinking. On the first day he woke, they tried to get him to Demonstrate the Forms, but he proved unable to do so, yet watching him now, one wouldn’t think there was anything wrong with him. There was a connection there, one Akanai had yet to make, because there was no possible way he spent more time grooming his animals than Demonstrating the Forms.

Then again... perhaps the numbers were closer than anyone would care to admit...

“Is there anything more you can share regarding your battle? Something to point us in the right direction?”

Akanai had to rephrase the request a few more times, until she finally got a response. Anger and annoyance, followed by self-recrimination, but again, this was directed within. Pushing himself to his feet, Rain held her hand and led her over to the manor door, where he retrieved something from the ground outside. Handing it over to her without a word, he stood and waited for a response, one which came in the form of an uttered curse.

For in her hand was a blood compass, one which pointed directly at Rain, which meant his assailants could only have been dispatched by one of three groups: the Imperial Clan, who pioneered this technology and safeguarded it jealously, the Imperial Army, whose highest Officers had the ability to requisition said compasses through official channels, or the Society, who earned the privilege of learning these secrets when one of their members married a high ranking Imperial Prince. That hadn’t lasted long after said noble took a drunken tumble off his bedroom balcony during his honeymoon, but knowledge given could never be taken back, not even by someone as powerful as the Emperor himself.

Enemies masquerading as allies. That was the warning Rain had been trying to share, that there might well be a traitor in the Citadel, someone so close to them that they were able to acquire Rain’s blood. The last part was debatable, considering Akanai knew nothing of the requirements for making blood compasses, and Rain bled so much he left copious amounts of it behind almost everywhere he went, but regardless of the circumstances, the boy was right. The pup was in danger, and not from Wraiths, but possibly from his closest allies instead.

“Watch over the manor,” Akanai said, speaking not to Naaran who stood watch nearby, but Sarnai’s Mentor lurking in the shadows. “I must speak with the pup now.”

The Mother help her, Akanai only hoped she was not too late.

Chapter Meme
