Shiv stating things so plainly made Adam look nauseous. The Deathless felt a bit bad for his friend, but he kept going. There was no point in letting discomfort cow him. There was no point at all. The System didn't care if they were uncomfortable. The System didn't care at all. It only wanted one thing, and that was for everyone in existence to eventually kill each other. It wanted him to kill Uva, it wanted Adam to kill him, and so on and so forth.

"We keep trying. We keep fighting. And look where that might get us! The Great One is in the same position we are. Yeah, sure, they're powerful, but why are they lying dead in pieces? Having other people siphon their skills, or Edicts and Canons or whatever, using their abilities to make themselves fake gods? Is that what we can look forward to? Being strong enough that we don't die completely? Just strong enough that we stick around forever, so that someone can use our comatose body to power their own desires? To make up for where they're lacking? Is that what's waiting for us beyond Legendary-Tier? Because if it is, the System can fist itself using both hands! I'm not going down that road. I'll do whatever it takes to keep our people safe and to make sure that this world is less shitty of a place. But I'm done just running around mindlessly killing things. I'm done getting myself stuck in other people's pointless fights and suffering for their grudges and dumb bullshit. I'm done with all of that. From now on, I'm not hitting people as a first resort anymore! Fuck that! That's what the System wants. And I'm done with that out of spite alone! From now on, I'm gonna cook for people as a first resort. I'm making them food. Enough of this blood, enough of this misery, enough of this Great One shit, all this fighting. For what? For what? Is this the life you wanted, Adam? Is this how you want to live?"

The tired expression that spread across Adam's face immediately told Shiv he was right. This wasn't what Adam wanted. This wasn't what any of them wanted.

Valor, meanwhile, considered Shiv, his expression unreadable. "I understand your dissatisfaction, Shiv. In fact, when I was younger, I tried to turn away from the System as well, though perhaps my alternative path was more unhealthy compared to yours."

"Huh? What did you do while you were feuding with the System?" Shiv asked.

"Music, mostly. I traveled the land as perhaps the most depressing bard to have graced Integrated Earth. I was not particularly good with the strings, or good at singing, or good at drums, or good at the piano, or good at composition. This simply worsened my mood at the time, and thus I achieved one of the worst Master-Tier Skill Evolutions of Musical Proficiency: Depressed Troubadour." Valor looked away from Shiv, and the flames behind his eyes shrank, making it seem as if his attention was going somewhere distant, somewhere far into his long-lost past. "Instead of spreading joy and happy melodies across the land, I decided that everyone should feel as I did. I do not like to remember these days, but it's… possible that I spread my musically contagious sadness and inflicted a great period of malaise upon the Abyss."

Shiv imagined an incredibly dour skeleton, walking from town to town, city to city, strumming music and singing hopeless whimpers until the will of those around him was destroyed. As silly as that sounded, it was also another solution against the System's ways: If you could absolutely cripple someone's mood, then why would they fight you? Depression was also a useful weapon—one that Shiv considered wielding.

"Do you still have any of that musical skill? Because, you know, it might be interesting to learn some of that too…"

Shiv smiled at Valor. The elder lich looked like he would rather eat his own head.

Shiv had never played any instruments before, never sang, and never really even hummed to himself. Shiv found it distracting. And the one chef who did like jaunty tunes was thrown out of the kitchen when repeatedly singing the same bloody song about a mother losing her son to some kind of monster drove Georges into a near-psychotic rage.

Valor visibly shivered as Shiv continued to smile at him. "Absolutely not. I haven't yet regained it, but even if these pieces of me contained my—well, I wouldn't even call it musical talents, more like a cultural and psychological poison. They are too dangerous and too vile a thing to share with another. It was a mistake to tell you about this to begin with."

A moment of silence passed. Everyone was staring at Valor now. Shiv felt a tickle in the back of his mind, the same kind that manifested every time someone was being dishonest with him. "So, are you saying that because you really think the skill is that dangerous? Or are you just saying that because you're embarrassed and you don't want to play music in front of us?"

The statement proved piercing. It struck Valor like a blade which hit bone. The ancient Pathbearer cringed as his face turned to glass in Shiv's vision. "N-no," he stammered, "absolutely not. It's simply too dangerous a skill to be passed on to someone else. It is also dishonorable and unnatural. E-enough about my sordid history! We need to focus on the matter at hand right now."

Shiv's smile dimmed. "Yeah, I know. The five of us here are the only ones we can really trust when it comes to being on the same side. Everyone else has some kind of other agenda relating to awakening or using the Great One, which will cause System knows how much destruction. The only reason you dragged us out here to talk about this stuff is that there was probably an uncountable number of people scrying at us using Divination and other means at any given moment."

"Correct, but—"

Shiv kept going, not letting Valor interrupt him. "But nothing. You're probably right about the whole Great One mess. With how many people are trying to mess with their soul and steal more of their matter for their own, I wouldn't be surprised if the Great One suddenly comes back to life someday and just punches the planet in half. But I'm done with that shit. I'm not going to be killing the Great One just because the System wants to set up a new and entertaining brawl. No, I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to let the System… I'm not gonna let the System finish. Oh, I'll level, alright. It's like I said. I'll level all of my skills—and then I'm not gonna start any more wars with them. If anyone fights me, I'm gonna smack them, and then I'm gonna make them eat my food. I'm going to make some kind of kitchen prison where people I beat up are made to eat my food until they give up."

“I’m sure you will,” Uva replied, elongating her neck to lay her chin on Shiv's head, which he found just slightly off-putting and somewhat attractive.

“I will! I’m going to! It’s what I’m going to do.” Shiv sniffled. Part of him wanted to rage. More of him just didn’t give that much of a shit anymore. “The Great One just makes it all seem pointless if we keep doing this. We’re just fighting for fighting’s sake.”

He looked at the surrounding ruins and sighed. “Even the ancients managed to make something of their world before it all went to hell. They died. They broke. But they did something while they were still alive. We still haven’t made cities large enough to match theirs. People are living on the streets, starving, getting killed by monsters and other shit. The hells is everyone climbing the Tiers for if we’re just running in place for the System? And don’t say power gives someone the ability to choose. Just look at the Ascendants. Look at Veronica. Look at you, Valor. Your own son ruined you. Where are we going with this? What are we doing?”

Silence lay claim to the world once more. No one had anything to say to Shiv; he suspected they agreed, but what else was there to do? The System yearned for death and war, and all of Integration existed beneath its heel.

But I might not, Shiv thought to himself.

Udraal created me to break things. I should have been the System’s dream, but I never die. I don’t end. I’m a tumor for existence. So it’s trying to adapt. It’s doing everything it can to involve me in all these other conflicts. But I don’t need to bend. I can do something that matters. I can choose if I want to keep going this way. I can choose. I can help other people choose.

Shiv smirked. Through the haze of frustration and tiredness, there was hope. Things didn’t need to spiral always and forever. Things could and should get better. He knew it in his heart.

“Valor. I’m not playing along with all this stuff anymore. I don’t care about anyone’s schemes or plots or grudges. I’m going to do what I always wanted to do. And I’m going to start by fixing the Curse Maiden put on me. I’ve killed enough people for a while. I’m going to get back to cooking.”

“But… the Frost Giants—” Adam started.

“I’ll cook for them,” Shiv said, entirely deadpan. “They can think about invading the Republic after they try some actual food. If they still want to fight after, they can start that, and I’ll put a proper end to things. But no more than that. Everyone keeps fighting to get what little power they can. And it doesn’t seem to be going anywhere. I’ve seen the mistake. The System wants war. Well. I’m doing peace out of spite.”

“Peace often is only an absence of force, ensured through the monopolization of violence by the state,” Can Hu declared.

“Then I’ll try to be the state,” Shiv said. He thumped a fist against his palm. “I’ll make sure everything works right.”

The Penitent’s glowing eyes flickered with uncertainty. “Pathbearer Shiv… I fear that a great many tyrants have repeated variations of this exact statement uncountable times.”

Shiv remained unshaken. “They’re different. They weren’t me.”

“I believe they have spoken countless variations of that follow-up phrase as well,” Can Hu added.

“Could they come back from being dead?” Shiv asked. “Because I can. I will. I’m going to die as many times as it takes to get this right. I’ll keep trying.”

“I now fear the potential of you becoming the single most dangerous dictator in all of Integrated Earth’s history,” Can Hu said. “Most people do not envision becoming a monster; they only excuse their monstrous deeds for the sake of their higher dreams.”

“My higher dream right now is kidnapping a certain Tarrasque and making sure no one gets to kill it. Because the System wants that thing dead. And what I want… is for the System—and Udraal—to eat shit.”

“I’m not sure about the logic behind this philosophy, Shiv,” Adam muttered, seeming genuinely confused. “You—you do seem—”

“Let’s go have an adventure somewhere fun,” Shiv declared. “Logic’s boring. And it also doesn’t matter. The System’s gonna do what it’s gonna do, and I’m going to do what I’m going to do.”

A Glimpse of Perspective: Mayhaps… there is freedom in aggression and spite?

Whatever. I’m going to live despite what the System wants. I’m just going to do things and handle whatever else comes my way. There are going to be problems anyway. But I’m not going to respect the System’s strife. Felling things are pretty much all meaningless to me by now. I’m not growing in power just to increase the size of the explosions I can cause. That’s fun, but I want my explosions to mean something.

Shiv stepped away from the pre-System bomb and reached out with both arms. He scooped Valor, Adam, Uva, and Can Hu close, lifted them up, and began walking away from the ruins—indifferent to the miseries of the place, uncaring of the lacking mana in the atmosphere.

“Shiv,” Adam grumbled, shoving weakly against his friend. “Shiv. What are you doing? Shiv. Put me down.”

“In a bit.” Shiv sniffled. “Decided I want more hugs. So I’m getting more hugs. I’m also going fishing later. Do you want to go fishing, Adam? Maybe we can put a lake or something inside the Gate. That might be nice. Or a river running down the middle…”

Adam tried to speak but found himself inhaling a mouthful of Valor’s hair. “Pff—It… it might look nice, but I don’t think that’s our main priority—”

“Don’t worry. I’ll deal with it. You can tell me how it looks later. I’ll start work as soon as I can. But I’m going to grow a kitchen first.”

Uva cocked her head in confusion. “Grow?”

“Yeah. Courtney should be used for something other than fighting too. I’m going to have her turned into a flying restaurant or something. That’ll be pretty nice, I think. I’m going to take her across the Abyss and the surface and stuff. I got a bunch of unused kitchen appliances from Monster Mystery Meat, and they deserve to be used.”

“There’s still a reward out for your head,” Adam said. He was almost pleading with Shiv now.

“So?”

“People will come and try to kill you?”

“What’s that change?” Shiv chuckled. “I have people coming to kill me anyway. I’ll deal with it. Or maybe I won’t in the end. But at least I’ll be doing something worthwhile instead of something pointlessly stupid. The Ascendants want more power, but they rotted their minds and turned on each other. Udraal wants to fight the System, but he’s just causing more horrific tragedy and telling himself it’s science or something. Great One probably wanted something too before they got cut down. All the plots and lies and schemes… Whatever. I want something. I want to be an actual person. So I’m going to be Chef for a while. I’m going to cook.”

And Shiv’s smile grew ever wider as a feeling of indifference-born-peace settled over him. “And the rest of Integration is just going to have to deal with that.”

