Valor bounced up and down with every step Shiv took, but the ancient Pathbearer’s eyes remained fixed on his disciple, the green glow of his eyes growing brighter. “Ah. I see it now. You will try to cleave to no will but your own now.”

“Eh. Nothing that complicated, Valor. I’ve just seen enough of the game to know that power for power really isn’t a reward. Power’s meant to help you live your life. And I think I’m going to start doing just that—and I’ll try to do the same for everyone else if I can. I’m just… done being scared of consequences, is all. They’re coming either way.”

“Could we still consider using that mana-nullifying bomb on the Tarrasque?” Can Hu suggested. “I understand that you are in a fugue state right now, Pathbearer Shiv, but I think it wise to keep our strategies and options open.”

“You guys can do whatever you want, and I’ll help you. But me personally? I told you what I intend to do: I’m going to beat the shit out of the Tarrasque… and then put it somewhere where no one can kill it.” An image of a tame Tarrasque with his face churning a lake-sized cauldron of soup flashed into shape within Shiv’s mind. “Wonder if I can do that,” he mused.

“Do what?” Can Hu asked.

“Thinking about what skills I’ll need to train a Tarrasque to become a cook. It’s a bit like me, right? It talked about cooking before. I think it has the potential…”

Uva and Adam stared at each other with uneasy expressions. A Psychomantic tendril connected their minds together as they briefly had a dialogue about Shiv. “I’ll let you reach into my mind and see if you can drain away any madness,” Shiv said. “I don’t think you’ll find anything there, though.”

Tentatively, Uva sank a strand into him, and she cringed. “Oh, Composer. You’re actually going to do this. You’re just going to go around cooking without a care for what the world and the System might throw at you.”

“Yep,” Shiv said. And admitting that made him feel all the better. “Whatever comes. We’ll handle it. And we’ll live. We’ll have adventures. And it’ll be great.”

Thus, the Deathless returned toward the sparkling glow emitted by the archway in the distance with friends and family in tow, indifferent to the savage nature of his existence, unburdened by the countless conflicts on the verge of igniting around him. And in doing so, found himself evermore the Pathbearer than the boy he was before.

Incensed, the System offered its taunting question once more.

What will you do to see him returned?

Nothing, Shiv replied. The answer was mostly for himself. I’ll bring him back if I can. I’ll mourn him if I can’t. But I’m done thinking I’ll gain anything but more blood on my hands from playing your games. Don’t talk to me again unless I’m due another level.

Almost begrudgingly, a following text appeared before his vision while a faint feeling of defiance and satisfied outrage leaked over from across the breadth of existence.

A Glimpse of Perspective 55 > 68

Act I End
