Someday, someone will try to kill you, and they will be entirely justified in the attempt.

Time will change you. Time will see you become someone you could have never imagined being. Terrible people will encounter a series of events that will shape them toward virtue. Perhaps they will suffer loss and learn from their ill ways, or perhaps they will simply grow tired of doing evil.

But more often, it is a fundamentally decent Pathbearer that learns the wrong lesson. And so often it is just that, a wrong lesson, followed by a wrong decision. When you live long enough, you will inevitably encounter a moment where a single choice you make determines the fates of so many others. And you will choose wrongly. That will traumatize you. That will linger inside of you like a scar, and you will not react the same way the next time, even if what was a mistake before now stands as the right path.

And so one mistake propagates another. One mistake becomes two. Two mistakes become four. A scar in your memory determines the path of your future. A life you take makes an enemy you did not wish to have. But you cannot make things right. You cannot give back a life you have taken. You cannot fix something you have destroyed. And for all your good intentions, for all your desires to serve the greater good and make a better world, your failure will cause the inverse. And afterward, you must come face-to-face with yourself and make a decision.

How selfish are you? How much do you think you should pay for the sins of your past? Who are you when you have fulfilled your own ideals?

Many Pathbearers cannot answer this. Many Pathbearers are broken by this. Many Pathbearers deny and delude themselves, thinking they can avoid this.

You cannot. You will not. There will be a point where you find yourself forced to do something monstrous to survive, when you make the wrong choice, when you hurt the wrong people. And then, if you live even longer, these events will shape you in turn. By the end of the century, you find yourself casually performing acts you could have never dreamed of before, thinking in ways that are utterly alien to the person you once were.

There are many kinds of death, Pathbearer. Agelessness does not equate to immortality. Live long enough and see the person inside your heart destroyed. See them destroyed by your own hand.

What happens after, what you do with the ruins, that is up to you.

-Valor Thann

293

Indifference

"You are taking this a lot better than I expected you would," Valor said. "All of you are."

"Emotional numbness and physical exhaustion combined with wonderful sedatives," Uva deadpanned, barely opening her mouth to speak.

"I'm keeping my screaming internal," Adam groaned.

Can Hu, meanwhile, was less concerned about itself and more worried about Shiv. "Pathbearer Shiv, are you sure you're well? Your mental resilience is known, but currently, your emotional state is far lower than previously recorded baselines."

"Well, I did the worrying, begging, feeling bad, and emotional breaking down shit with Georges. He still died. It didn't matter. You can feel whatever way you want, but if you're not powerful enough or capable of changing things, it is what it is." Shiv shrugged and let out a bitter laugh. "Don't know if I was seeing things earlier, but a notification popped up before it suddenly winked out. I can't pull it up again like all the other ones. It somehow sounded like the System was trying to make a bargain with me, asking me how many people I'd kill—shit, how many worlds I might destroy—to get Georges back."

Four sets of extremely worried eyes fell on Shiv.

"Are you sure you saw something?" Adam asked.

"Nope," Shiv replied casually. "I could definitely be having mental issues, or some other weird shit could be happening. Could've been a hallucination for all I know. After all the hell we went through, it wouldn't surprise me either way. But just to assume the worst possible case, I'm going to guess the System is actually talking to me directly."

"And did you give it an answer?" Uva almost sounded worried as to what he might admit.

Once more, Shiv just shrugged. "Nah, didn't say anything to it. Frankly, even if it offered me Georges' life right now for free, I'd tell the System to go fuck itself."

Shiv felt the collective worry of his friends climb another notch. Adam winced visibly. "Shiv, are you sure you're feeling well? Understand that you've been through a lot. We've all been through a lot—"

"I would tell the System to go fuck and fist itself, no matter how I'm feeling right now," Shiv said resolutely. He stepped away from the reflective surface of the pre-apocalyptic weapon and allowed the deprivation to tear into him once more. The pain came, but Shiv just didn't give a shit. "I think I've learned one thing after all we've been through: The System doesn't care. It's going to try to kill you eventually. It's going to try to take everything from you eventually because it just wants you to keep fighting. Is it going to give Georges back to me? Yeah, sure. I'm sure I'll resurrect him, and then he'll die for some other bullshit reason either today, tomorrow, in ten years, in twenty years, in a hundred years. And the System will use that to yank me along into some other bullshit fight, into some other stupid grudge that I had no part of, into some other crisis or war that's been going on since before I was born between people who are so lost in their own sauce they can't even tell why it started."

He took a breath. "If there's any way at all to get Georges back, it's going to be by my hands. As long as the System's dangling that gift in front of me, I'm not going to take it. It's a false gift. It's a poisonous gift. It's a sack of shit hidden inside a thick, creamy film of fondue. And I'm not eating through any fondue to lick up shit in the end. I’m done doing that."

"What an incredibly vivid metaphor that I will simply refuse to visualize," Uva muttered.

Unrelated to her reply, a surge of rage and momentum crawled over Shiv. He wanted to break things. He wanted to smash this place flat too, to destroy what remained of these ruins in hopes of spiting the System, in case it truly mourned for this place for whatever reason. He didn't. An epiphany went off like a bomb inside Shiv, and it went off hard. He could feel however he wanted or didn't. He could suffer whatever the world inflicted upon him, but all that boiled within didn't need to determine how he reacted without. And another epiphany followed that one. Everyone was just playing the System's games, fighting, struggling, dying, running after the carrot or cowering beneath the stick. All that misery compounded on top of more misery on top of more misery on top of unending misery.

Valor spoke of the Great One as if they were a god above gods. Shiv didn't feel that way. If the Great One was so great, why were they still caught in the same cage? Why was the System still trying to build up Shiv so that he could eventually ruin that stupid thing's life, or they could finally finish him off in a cataclysmic brawl that would almost certainly leave all of Integrated Earth as ruins and mass graves?

What kind of reward was that for all his effort?

What was the point of being a Pathbearer if everything ended up broken and dead around you? Yeah, fighting was fun. Yeah, evolving felt great. Yeah, he had his Path, he had people that cared for him, and he was going on adventures now. But he wanted more than that. He wanted to be and do more. He was already a Pathbearer. Now he wasn't going to be one mired in misery and blood.

His childish, petulant tantrum against the System calcified into a philosophical, sophisticated form of spite. He wasn't going to play by the System's rules anymore. Oh, he would still level. He would still improve. He would still be a Pathbearer. But he was going to do things differently now. Shiv was done betraying himself. He was done reflexively fighting and butchering everything the System sent his way. And he was tired of seeing so much death all around him.

It's time for some changes, Shiv declared to himself and the others. His mind was clear, and his resolve was true. "I'm done with this shit. I'm done with this System. If you can hear me, if you can understand me, get this: I'm done killing people for you. I'm done wrapping up your loose ends. I'm done making the world a worse place."

The Deathless turned and glared at the smooth, reflective surface of the warhead. "Valor, I got a question for you. Were you planning on weaponizing this bomb and using it to kill the Tarrasque?"

The ancient Pathbearer suddenly looked up. "I—"

"Well, we're not doing that anymore. In fact, I've decided that no one's killing the Tarrasque. Ever. That thing is going to live until the end of time if I have anything to say about it."

"What?" Adam squeaked.

"Oh, no, he's having a mental break." Uva sighed. She walked towards Shiv with her arms open and waved for him to come down from the nest of debris. "Come now, dear. Come here. You'll be fine."

Shiv didn't do anything to dissuade her. He did want a hug, and he wasn't going to screw himself out of one just because he wanted to argue how clear-minded he was. He slid down the small hill of concrete and metal, and Uva wrapped herself around him. Shiv gently patted her back but continued his rant. "No one's touching that Tarrasque unless I want them to. It's just another piece the System uses to lure people into getting involved in stupid fights and getting themselves killed. And this war is dumb bullshit too. There's not gonna be a war between the Jotun and the Republic. We're gonna solve that as soon as we can. And I'm going to make sure as few people die as possible."

"I'm sure you will, Shiv," Uva said. Her voice came out muffled against his chest. "I'm sure you will."

Valor frowned slightly as he looked into Shiv's eyes. "Your intentions are noble, and I understand why you are feeling this way, but I do not think there's any easy solution to the Tarrasque problem. My son clearly intends for you to slay the creature or to discover greater power within yourself during your struggle. On top of that, he would also see the Tarrasque used to destabilize the Republic and distract the Ascendants."

"Right, I forgot. Fuck Udraal too. But also, Udraal's right. Not about everything, but he's definitely right about the System. Every part of the System is bullshit. Every single thing the System wants is bullshit. For every dumb thing Udraal has done, and every twisted thing he's done to me and everyone else, I agree with him on this. The System is dumb and bullshit. It does absolutely nothing but force people to die and kill."

"Look at this!" Shiv said, turning around. Uva clung onto him, spinning without letting go. She dangled from his body like a zipper more than a person. Meanwhile, Shiv gesticulated wildly at the ruins surrounding them, and at the reflective bomb before them. "Look at this, Valor. You took us out here. You had to put us in a place that gives people cancer so we can hide from the System because it can't stop tipping the scales and forcing more people to fight for its amusement. Your son's a piece of shit. And I mean that with full offense. I'm sorry to say it, but he is a piece of shit. But he's also right about the System. Just look at where we are right now. Look at the ruins we're standing in. Even without the System, people ended up destroying themselves. Maybe they destroyed themselves because the System got here, but you know what? Something tells me that's not the case. Something tells me that just genuine human stupidity caused that. All that power, all that sophistication and advancement, and it went nowhere. I didn't turn into a Pathbearer to go nowhere. I wanted to be a Pathbearer because, to me, that meant freedom. That meant living life the way I wanted, that meant helping people, that meant hurting bastards who really deserve hurting.”

He let out a slow breath and lowered his arms. “But right now, that's not what's happening. Right now, I can't cook. I can't do anything artistic because I got Cursed by a deranged goddess who's tied to another dead god that's not fully dead but is also connected to Adam's sister, who my soul might have digested to create my Path, or whatever the fuck. And on top of that, part of the reason why she was created at all was because the Starhawk was trying to screw over his comrades. I guess this happened when he was still capable of being kind of a prick. But you know what? Let's take this a step further. Let's ask ourselves why he thought it necessary to do something that screwed over his fellow gods. They all used to be companions, right? They went down into the Great One's embrace together and came out changed. Together. So, what happened in the meantime?"

Shiv swept his gaze across the others, waiting for someone to give him a response. "I'm not being rhetorical here, guys. I'm genuinely asking. What do you think happened?"

Can Hu emitted an electric hum. "Perhaps the passage of ages created a bulwark between former friends and lovers. This happens many times. People change, and sometimes the slow erosion inflicted by time creates differences that eventually become irreconcilable." Its words were measured, wise, but ultimately missed the point.

"Strike," Shiv declared with a growl. "The System is determined to put people against each other. It did it to the Ascendants. It did it to Roland and half the people who fought alongside him. Let's not forget that he and Jessica used to be friends or something. Now her daughter's dead, probably because he killed the poor girl just to make sure the Starhawk's will was realized."

