“Fantastic. Absolutely fantastic. This changes… everything. Everything! Naila! Naila, my love. She’s here!”

A tired dark-skinned woman walked in from behind the panels. Viv noticed a portly lady carrying a small bundle left behind — possibly a maid. The newcomer was a powerful red mage, something Viv had felt before entering the tent. She was also stunningly beautiful though tired, dressed in rich clothes with the large bosom of a new mother. She also had the deep pockets under her eyes that came with the role. The idea of bringing a baby to a dragon frontline was… but then, what did Viv know? She’d never birthed a child.

A pang of bitterness clutched at her heart because that, too, Emeric had taken from her. Even if he hadn’t meant to. She pushed it away. There was nothing she could do about it, and reality was waiting. Always.

“Hello,” Viv greeted.

By now, the ambassador had his mouth open so wide Viv could have shoved an entire egg in it, but she didn’t take advantage. Queen Naila was next in expressing her surprise.

“No… I mean yes… I cannot believe it!”

Tears of joy and relief streamed down her cheeks. Viv thought they were perhaps a little premature.

“She managed to maintain secrecy,” King Jei explained.

He grabbed his wife in a half hug, not caring about the context. Viv still wasn’t sure why luck had whispered in her ears that this was where she was meant to be, but the locals certainly had high expectations of her.

“Ahem,” King Jei said after a while. “I apologize for the overt display of emotions, however, I believe the situation warrants it. First things first. Ambassador, I imagine you are here to strike a defensive deal between our two nations?”

Recovering instantly, the diplomat bowed.

“That is correct, Your Grace.”

The king looked embarrassed.

“It is my regret to inform you that two days ago, the Sheem army reached Ravinport by land, and conquered it. The city has fallen.”

“No…” the ambassador gasped.

“I received the word from… special scouts. I am terribly sorry.”

Probably air mages, Viv thought.

“However, the city was prepared for war, and I have heard news that a flotilla of soldiers and mages fled the citadel before it could fall. The losses were heavy and the land is occupied, but your people’s leadership has survived thanks to your preparedness.”

Bes gave Viv a glance. He was starting to suspect something. Not about her status, about her nature. Too many coincidences.

“We hope the ships will reach our shores now that the storm is fading. Our own fleet is watching. The Sheem know that they do not have the advantage on the sea, so they are coming by land. Their army is already making the perilous journey to the Salt Mountains, following your path.”

He looked down, wearily. Queen Naila took the lead in the following lull since the ambassador had yet to process the terrible news.

“We were on the verge of considering surrender but with you here… and since they do not know… How confident are you that you can fend off the dragon?”

“Would you say it’s an adult dragon?”

“I am unfamiliar with dragon sizes…”

“It is a young adult,” her husband confirmed.

He gave her an apologetic look.

“It was in the scout reports. That is what their inspection returned. I did not believe it to be a vital detail to share with you, love. Sorry.”

The queen waved his concerns away.

“A young adult then.”

Probably someone about as strong as Meadow. The placid green dragon had always refused to spar with Viv but she’d faced dragonfire before and she had a few tricks up her sleeve.

“I believe I can take it, yes.”

“What?” Bes blustered. “Are you not an arcanist?”

Viv hesitated, but the cat was out of the bag.

“No.”

“Keep the medallion on for now, please. We were hoping that you could chase the beast away and then support our army as we repulse the Sheem. Would you… consent to that?”

The two looked on. Viv knew that they were supposed to swear allegiance in return for her help with the dragon, but as expected it was a poisoned apple. She would need to enter the war on their side as well if she hoped to keep her gains. It was a little devious on their part, but she understood they were desperate. And besides, she was here voluntarily, pushed by fate and instinct in what appeared to be a dangerously foolish endeavor. No need to get angry at this junction. She already had enough anger for the dragon.

“The oath would be of little use if I just left afterward now, would it? And besides, I bear bad news. It appears the Sheem are allied with Nero Olleander, sovereign of the Shadow Lands.”

The royal pair exchanged glances.

“We have had news of strange ships of unknown designs treading our waters, but I would have never imagined…” King Jei started.

“Perhaps they are from an unknown part of the Shadow Lands, yes.”

“They might be allies, but our spies report no presence of a Shadowland army. We should be safe for the next battle.”

“Then I must face the dragon.”

Naila nodded, a little nervous.

“The creature has mocked us. It ignores fortified places while burning villages and the likes. Two weeks ago, we made the mistake of stopping our chase.”

“It burnt Barrier in retaliation,” Jei added. “It also destroyed our best defenses and many talented soldiers. We are at our wit’s end. We have tried to bring it to battle, but it ignored us.”

“Is there a way to get it closer?”

“It has consistently attacked caravans. I believe that it will attack another, should one be spotted. It is playing with us…”

“The convoy sounds like a good idea. Before we do that, I will take your oath… in private.”

“We will not fail you —”Jei began.

“Do not say her name,” his wife interrupted. “the camp might have spies.”

“She is right. If the dragon attacks out of sight of anyone, you can keep my existence a mystery until the Sheem arrive. When will they come?”

“The presence of elementals is delaying them. We have a week, but no more.”

“Then I’d best be off, but before I go, I have a request besides the oaths.”

“Anything you desire.”

“I’d like a bath.”

The king and queen blinked a few times, but then they laughed. It was a brittle laugh but it did feel liberating, and Viv found herself smiling as well.

“I will be on that convoy,” Bes said.

Viv admitted, she wasn’t expecting that.

“Are you serious?”

“I am now a diplomat without a nation. If I must lose all I know, at least, I would like to see the truth with my own eyes.”

Viv shrugged.

“I have no objections. Let’s begin the preparations right away.”

***

A short caravan trudged alongside the ‘life road’, a stone path drawn across the desert going south to north. Sometimes, singing dunes crossed its path and the road, against all logic, swerved around to avoid them. It was composed of only three carts, yet the dust they lifted was so much, it was as if the drivers had the paths of roof cleaners instead. It was more than bait, it was a provocation to a creature that had preferred to strike unannounced before, yet it was such an insultingly small one that a curious, extremely arrogant creature with no predator would naturally seek it out. Despite being so blatant about the trip, it still took most of the day for anything to happen.

Every minute of the trek had shelved months of lifespan from Bes’ harried heart. At the false arcanist’s insistence, she had taken the central cart alone while Bes sat at the back alongside Sin. The sturdy Janar sometimes turned to meet young lady Gar’s reassuring eyes. He had also taken it upon himself to drive the horses, a mercy, because Bes had never done it in his life.

The first cart moved under the command of a lone scout, a volunteer who had lost everything at Barrier. Young Sai had been clear to everyone that they should leave the carts behind and run back ‘half a league or so’ when ‘the battle started in earnest’, whatever that meant. He had long since stopped to try and make sense from the unseemly disorder his life had become.

Bes took a gulp of water. How foolish was he being right now? He did not dare contemplate. If he stopped, he would run back screaming all the way back to his family’s hidden estate, likely dying on Sheem spears on the way. No, he wanted to see this through.

A dragon: the stuff of legends, of Ilim the Wanderer who outsmarted one according to Viziman children tales, of Eron of the South, who — the Paramese claimed — had killed one in single combat. Nonsense! And yet there was one here who pretended she could do the same? He had to see it with his own two eyes, and be a witness to history. That, or die a preposterous death… but the royal couple believed in her! He wanted, so much wanted to believe.

Bes massaged his neck. He felt a pressure there, as if something pushed on his spine with a heavy hand. It was most likely the collected anxiety. Or so he told himself.

Until the pressure increased, then increased. Sweat pearled on his brow, despite the cool temperatures so far today. An oppressive feeling clamped his chest. He gasped, turning to Sin.

The stalwart soldier was sweating as well. His hand had covered Gar’s, who had gripped his virile shoulders. The two of them were wide eyed and sweaty. It was an expression that surely mirrored his own.

It was coming. The Bane of Barrier. The Black Scourge.

The Dragon.

A shape masked the sun for the barest of instants, then wind pushed sand in front of them. Bes saw it then, the scales, the claws as long as daggers. He could not look up. He could absolutely not look up from the sheer terror. The thing swooped and then heat made the sweat evaporate.

There was darkness, then three dull impacts, and then, silence. It was suddenly cold again.

He looked up. He saw nothing. Nothing but lingering embers floating away in the refreshing wind.

“Keep us moving, chop chop,” Sai said from the central cart. “At normal speed.”

What?

“What?” the head scout asked.

“I said, let’s go again. Normal speed.”

And against all odds, the horses accepted. The carts moved again. It was so surreal that Bes felt detached from his body, a mere spectator in a cosmic farce featuring godlike calamities and madwomen. Despite his disbelief, the short convoy resumed its slow pace for around fifty of his panicked heartbeats before a dark shape swooped down, the incredible weight returning with a vengeance. With wings extended until they covered the narrow valley between two dunes, the dragon landed in front of them.

It was as tall as four men, as wide as a ship with its sails unfurled, and as for the length, Bes could not see it, but he did see its tail flick out like a black dart.

CLANG.

A strange shield, like a transparent honeycomb, appeared briefly around them. Sai Jaratalassi stood from the stopped cart.

The two of them seemed to stop there. Bes didn’t dare move. Had he not needed it so badly, he would not have dared breathe either. Images of vivid clarity soon assailed his mind with such strength, he could not push them away. They were alien and terrifying.

Interest. Amusement. Query: nature? Purpose?

Sai’s mind returned a series of images. To Bes, they felt much more coherent, or at least they adapted to his human psyche with considerably more ease.

I am here to stop you.

The dragon guffawed. Bes knew it because he felt his dark joy like thick tar upon his mind, but it sounded like a hiss, and it was loud, and when the dragon’s teeth peeked from behind his serpentine jaws, the heat became less bearable.

But the arcanist was not done.

Tell me, why would you unleash your wrath on these people? What caused your anger?

The dragon moved its head forward. It was enjoying itself.

Unknown human: speech capability. Surprise. Delight. Anticipation of murder. High expectations. Anger? No anger. Human anger when killing insects?

As the dragon spoke, Bes’ trained diplomat mind sorted through the images to make sense of the creature’s speech as his skills worked to their limit to make him understand that alien language… if one could call it that. Form of communication might be more adequate.

I feel impatience that they cling here. I showed many times that I was setting my territory here. Humans breed and expand. They can expand elsewhere. I want those green spots.

They made the green spots via engineering.

Bes noted that the engineering image was a particularly complex one. By now, Sai had the dragon’s full attention, and it didn’t feel amused anymore.

So?

You killed the humans and their spawn, and burnt their fields, because you coveted the green spots they made?

Yes?

They did not steal your eggs? They did not intrude upon your domain?

They intruded upon my domain when I decided this was my domain. I told them to leave in a language they understand.

There was now a new emotion radiated through the strange, sympathetic link established between the two, and its bleed through shocked Bes again. It was an emotion he had never expected coming from Sai. That emotion was… disappointment.

I see.

The dragon’s eyes narrowed. Of course, Bes knew the dragon would have eventually killed them for their transgression, but now he realized the creature might make them suffer first.

But then, the dragon recoiled. It hissed and bared its teeth. This time, it was not conveying joy.

You, mother? What is the meaning of this? Anomaly! Blasphemous. Merciful vanquisher? Unthinkable!

Did you really slaughter men, women and children because of greed?

