Greed? Greed is for taking from other people. I do not answer to you! I do not respect you! I do not see you as entities. You are things. I take, because I can take, and you leave, because you must. We are not equals. You are not worthy of my consideration. We will never be equals. There is no discussion to be had.

Would you say that the powerful dictate the rules, and that the most powerful takes all at their leisure?

I do not say this is my belief. I state this is an immutable truth.

… So be it.

The pressure on Bes’ shoulders disappeared. It was as if the presence of the dragon had been suddenly removed, as if they were seeing it through glass. He blinked, and by his side, Sin did as well.

What are you to speak with me with such ease? To bear the name of mother, of mercy, and of victory? Are my senses deceiving me?

Slowly, Sai Jaratalassi reached for her neck. She removed the medallion.

The world around Bes breathed out deeply as if from the release of a great tension. Things that had been pulled tight were released now with immense relief. The woman didn’t grow taller, didn’t widen, but suddenly she was more present. She was more… impactful. The colors around them dulled ever so slightly while her wavy dark hair suddenly shifted to the color of old blood. Her skin whitened to a deathly pallor.

Twin spikes of pure darkness emerged from her shoulder blades, eventually resting on the ground like half-formed wings. A wave of intimidation and leadership so powerful it was like a gust suddenly hit his mind and washed away the terror of the dragon with a fresh one, a man made one, a fear that wasn’t born from essence but from achievements. The rivers of blood, the moving armies one must gather to gain such a mantle…

Even though he knew it was a bad idea, Bes couldn’t resist.

[Ascender: one side of the coin. Half-elemental. Peerless battle caster. Merciful dragon slayer. Mother of a dragon. Political power: sovereign. Danger level: disaster.]

What the fuck.

Even the dragon stepped back when the woman’s reply came.

For you, I am The Hand that Strikes Down.

Fire glowed in the creature’s throat though, once again, the woman showed no fear.

You are a fool if you think you can bear a name like us! You are twice a fool if you think you can defeat a dragon!

Just so you know, in order to be merciful, one first has to win so completely as to have a choice. Mercy is a choice. And for you the answer to that choice will be no.

Eyes like pools of liquid void split by emeralds turned to Bes.

“You guys should probably start running now.”

It was the best suggestion he had ever received in his entire life.
