There is no time for thought or deliberation as I roll and dive about the sands, avoiding a flurry of kicks and stomps that might well squash me flat.

Say what you will about Zhen Shi, but from what I’ve seen thus far, I’m not too too impressed by his Warrior prowess. Though he’s fast as lightning and hits like a truck, his Movements are exceedingly simple and straightforward, just regular, unsophisticated strikes which prioritize efficiency and effectiveness above all else. Now, this isn’t exactly a terrible thing, because if this were a test of the Forms and his familiarity with them, he would score full marks, able to always pinpoint the most direct and practical method to render me unable to fight back. Without Pong Pong radiating his Aura of Deflection to subtly sap away the lion’s share of the force and momentum behind each of Zhen Shi’s attacks, I would’ve died a dozen times over, but if my foe were even half as competent as Gerel is in combat, then this fight would’ve long been over and done with.

Zhen Shi’s decision making reminds me of how Zian used to fight, always picking the most optimal response in any given situation. It doesn’t matter how fast his attacks come or what tricky angle he approaches from if I can read his target in advance, which is a simple enough matter once I start leaving openings for him to strike at. A foot left just a bit too far out, an arm raised too high, a wild swing that I almost overcommit to, I repeatedly offer these obvious weaknesses only to avoid the all too predictable attack which follows. It feels like Zhen Shi has a pre-determined flowchart of actions that he put together a few centuries ago and has never deviated from the plan since, like a robot that takes the optimal route each and every time, and thus is easily avoided. All I need to do is stay on my toes and always be moving, dancing back and forth while threatening him with Sword Force which I am slowly growing more and more familiar with each exchange.

A minute ago, I needed a meme or a chant to help me Visualize my Intent, but now, the Sword Force is flowing freely, with Peace and Tranquility emanating an air of menace which clearly has Zhen Shi’s guard up. I can hurt him if I connect, but he’s a man who prioritizes caution over all else, not because he’s afraid of death, but because he’s overly confident in his prowess. He doesn’t just want to defeat me, he wants to capture me alive, which is just arrogance at its finest. I’m not complaining though, because I’m pretty sure I’d already be dead if he wasn’t being so careful.

A fist clips my shoulder, a foot slams home into my knee, a heel comes down upon my foot. Despite all my bluster about easily reading him, it’s still no simple task avoiding all his blows. The strikes come fast and hard as Zhen Shi aims to immobilize or incapacitate me with his pin-point attacks, but between Pong Pong’s defenses, my Materialized Domain Defenses, ability to Heal on the fly, and clever feints and positioning on my part, I’m able to slip away with only bruises and fractures rather than the crippling injuries I might otherwise have suffered. It’s not exactly glowing praise, but it’s better than losing outright as I scramble and skirt across the desert sands to delay near certain defeat. I spend more time on the back foot than I would like, and at times am even forced to Cloud Step away to keep ahead of my foe, but a second passes, then another, then a third as I evade capture and draw out this battle between us.

Seconds paid for in blood, sweat, and pain. Despite Healing faster than I’ve ever Healed before, the injuries are stacking up as Zhen Shi targets my ankles time and time again. When my full focus is on avoiding a broken foot, he switches it up and goes for a palm strike to the chest, one which breaks my ribs anew even after Pong Pong’s Domain Deflects a good ninety-five percent of Zhen Shi’s strength away. The difference is all in the timing, because while the Deflection diffuses the speed and momentum of his previous attacks, my foe has caught onto the precise limits of Pong Pong’s Domain Deflection and gauged the best time to Amplify his attacks for maximum force upon impact. All he has to do is wait patiently until his strike is about to physically connect, which sounds simple in theory, but considering he’s only in control of the variables on one half of the equation and has a margin of error measured in milliseconds at most, it’s fairly impressive to say the least.

A minor change in timing, yet a significant one that gives Zhen Shi strength enough to pummel me into oblivion, and the next dozen blows follow suit as he aims for my chin and throat in a renewed effort to knock me the fuck out.

All the while, Buddy sits in the sand and whimpers in a general sense of worry, and an inability to understand why I’m still fighting if I don’t have strength enough to win. According to his doggy logic, now that I’ve realized I’m no match, I should either run or submit and hope for the best, neither of which is really possible. Zhen Shi is much faster than I am, and is very carefully herding me ever westward as we fight, so even if I could get away, I’d only be running into danger and the unknown, meaning my best to ensure someone comes to my rescue would be to stand and fight. Pong Pong shares Buddy’s concerns, but that’s because animals prioritize immediate survival above all else, and neither my turtle nor my dog understand that I’m being led around by the nose.

The stakes are high and all the chips are on the line, so I cannot just turn tail and run. That would only lead to inevitable defeat once I am exhausted and isolated from my allies. I need to escape from Zhen Shi’s clutches and head back to Shi Bei to seek support from my family and allies, but I don’t see any way forward from here. All I can do is slowly give ground before my foe until he inevitably lands one good hit to subdue me, a future which is set in stone unless I can come up with a way to change things. Frustrating doesn’t even begin to describe it, as there’s nothing I can do except fight the good fight and scour my brain for a meme to help me. That being said, I don’t think I even have time to meme against Zhen Shi, because that requires a moment to breathe and focus, but the aggression continues to pile on as he slowly but surely drives me into a corner and brings our match close towards its inevitable conclusion.

With me beaten and broken and him free to flee from the Empire and spend a lifetime torturing me for all my secrets.

Ha. Can’t wait to see the look on his face when he discovers I have no idea what I’m doing.

Zhen Shi’s foot hooks around my ankle mid-air just as I’m about to Cloud-Step away, resulting in a face first plant in the sand for yours truly. Rolling with the impact, I keep enough momentum to leap out of the way of his follow up stomp, one which slams into the sand a hair’s breadth behind me and possesses strength enough to launch me aside on a wave of sand. That’s what I get for allowing myself to be distracted mid-fight, for not giving it my all and preparing for my loss. It’s self-defeating, thinking like that, and the odds are stacked enough against me that I really shouldn’t be getting in my own way.

“Think positive,” I tell myself, as I block a punch with the side of my face, one I should’ve been able to avoid if I wasn’t so distracted by my own thoughts. “Be optimistic. Things could be worse.” The follow up knee to the chest does little to brighten my mood, but as I sail through the air like a sack of rice, I cling fast to hope even as the world dims around me.

Of course, I’d be more optimistic if not for the fact that my brain urging me to be optimistic is a big part of the problem. I’m always overthinking, overanalyzing, and over-internalizing everything happening all at once, because that’s just who I am. An inquisitive and curious mind who spends too much time inside his own thoughts, which isn’t always a bad thing, but it does have its downsides. The thinker in me would be happy with my memetic combat abilities and move on from there, because the problem has been solved and no longer worth consideration, but in practical terms, memes leave much to be desired. Coming up with the right meme is more a matter of luck and happenstance, because while I have a massive library of memes hidden away in my memories, they’re not all applicable to combat. Nor are they organized in any way, shape, or form, which adds even more time to the already lengthy process of Visualizing and/or Verbalizing the memes themselves. Against Zhen Shi, I barely even have time to react, much less think of and utilize any meme against him. By the time I’m done calculating the best course of action, it’s already too late to act, which is why I’m getting the shit kicked out of me at this very moment. I need to cut out the thinking part and just act, which I know is possible because I’ve trained for this before, know how to fight and how to respond in any standard situation. I need to stop living in my head and just do it, but this is easier said than done. How do I change my whole personality to become more aggressive and domineering?

Well… by doing what I’ve always done when I find myself in over my head. Duh.

I am Falling Rain. I am Amigui. I am Rayne. Three names which all apply, and each one brings something different to the table, but while I have made my peace with who I am, there is still more to me than I care to admit. No matter what name I go by, I am a man driven by fear, so here and now, it is time to finally rise above them. Who I am is important, but now I must take that information and improve upon myself to become the Warrior once more, a man who will no longer be constrained by his fears and doubts. Forget victory, I just need to survive and make it back to my loved ones alive, so I Visualize the man I wish I could be, and proceed to act with courage and confidence which I do not truly possess.

Fake it til you make it, baby!

My eyes snap open to find Zhen Shi’s hand clamped around my neck as the world whizzes by. I haven’t been unconscious for long, not even a full second, but the speeds we’re travelling at is alarming to say the least. The tension in his fingers tells me my foe is aware that I’m awake, and our sharp and sudden descent tells me he’s about to slam me into the sand once again. Moving without thinking, I bring Tranquility up and around with a flick of my wrist, and the blade passes mere millimetres away from my nose before biting deep into the meat and bone of Zhen Shi’s forearm. The weapon was only Honed and fails to sever the hand entirely, but it’s still enough to force him to release me, and this time, instead of preparing for the rough landing ahead, I seize upon this opportunity to retaliate instead. Need and Purpose gives birth to Will and Intent as Peace surges with Sword Force and exits my hand to be Guided at my opponent’s unguarded mid-section. The weapon pierces through the Runic Robes and Domain Plated defenses both with laughable ease before plunging deep into Zhen Shi’s belly with a spray of blood, and I savour this minor victory with pride.

Give flesh, break bone, the mantra flashes through my head as I crash into the sands below, but the impact merely drives the air out of my lungs, which is all too easily ignored. Bouncing back to my feet, I take a moment to check on Mama Bun who’s still floating safely along behind me, her paws planted and head held high as she enjoys every second of the ride. Turns out, Blackjack’s not the only one with a need for speed, and I fear Mama Bun will soon be hounding me to take her out on thrill rides through the air, but that is a burden I will gladly bear. Seeing her joy brings a smile to my face even as I trade Tranquility for Unity in hand, because now that I am the Warrior once more, I feel confident enough to wield my glaive again.

Who cares if I’m better with the sword? A glaive is just a sword with a longer handle and more reach, so quit thinking about how to fight and just fight.

The Movement comes naturally to me as I Cloud-Step towards my foe, charging shoulder first with glaive lagging behind. There is no need to eyeball the distance and account for the timing beforehand, because I’ve practiced this Movement countless times before as part of my daily practice. I don’t have exact numbers for how fast I’m moving or how long it takes to swing my weapon, nor do I need them, for the rhythm and timing have long since been baked into my muscles through practice and repetition. Everything comes together as I unleash a wide, scything swing, one which I have no name for and is delivered using every last centimetre of range afforded to me by the length of my glaive. An attack which touches upon the acme of perfection, it would score high marks in any technical analysis, whether it be for speed, power, timing, targeting, or anything else, but my opponent evades harm by falling a single step back, an outcome which would have made Falling Rain sigh with regret.

But the Warrior? He’s thrilled with his success, because he knows that his foe has given up the initiative and opened themselves up to an all-out offensive.

