Hack, slash, chop, and thrust, the attacks I perform are reminiscent of the Movements, but all tailored to the situation as needed, my body and mind making all the necessary adjustments on the fly. This is part of what it means to be a Peak Expert, because prior to this level, a Warrior is no different from a musician following notes on a page. It doesn’t matter how well they play the notes, how perfect their rhythm and timing can be, because so long as you’re still playing off the page, then it’s all been seen before. To become a Peak Expert, you need to learn how to make music yourself, to take the Movements of the Forms and make them your own in a way that no one else can replicate.

And the results speak for themselves as I drive Zhen Shi back a second step, then a third and forth as he retreats before my frenzied assault with Peace still embedded in his gut, for the Warrior holds no fear in his heart. Should my foe choose to make this trade, then I might well come out worse for it, but Zhen Shi’s arrogance drives him to overestimate his value and underestimate my own. I can take these risks because I know he’s unwilling to risk further injury, not even to remove my sword from his body, so as long as I remain on the offensive, then I dictate the pace of our fight. One I keep dynamic and uncertain for as long as I can, because only then can I keep him on the back foot. There’s no time for thought or consideration as I bring the fight to my foe, my glaive singing as it whirls through the air in a series of loops, spins, slashes, and thrusts. Part sword, part spear, part staff, and part axe, Unity is all of these things and more in its glaive form alone, a versatile polearm that suits me well.

Which I have Mila to thank for, because even after accounting for all my weird ideas about Spiritual Spring-loaded Rifles and transforming states, she still somehow managed to design a functional, perfectly balanced weapon that suits my style to a T.

It’s not all sunshine and roses however as Zhen Shi adapts with alarming alacrity and starts making moves to blunt my offensive, but his thinking is too rigid and simple for a Warrior of my experience. I am no mere young Talent valued for my promising potential, but a veteran of a thousand battles who’s been punching above his weight class for as long as I can remember, whereas Zhen Shi has spent his life pulling strings from behind the scenes. Sure, he understands how to fight from a technical standpoint, but there are some things you can’t learn from a book, and his lacking practical experience is starting to show.

Take my sword for example, which he’s left stuck in his flesh. Not a terrible decision, because it means I can’t Materialize my Domain and use it to attack him from blind angles, or even Hone the blade and cut him up from within due to the inviolability of the soul which extends throughout his physical self. In truth though, he should really remove it as soon as possible, because I only need to grab hold of it to complete the circuit as it were. Thing is, he’s confident enough to believe that he can prevent that from happening, and I can use that against him. No matter how I proceed, I make sure to leave myself plenty of opportunities to reach for my sword, opportunities he must defend against, which in turn buys me plenty of chances to commit to a different avenue of attack instead. There’s also the fact that he wants to keep me from escaping East, so he has no choice but to stand and fight every time I charge in head first. Every time he tries to circle around, I feint as if I’m about to make a break for it and he has to react, because even if he knows it’s a feint, he can’t take the chance that I’ll actually run. I’ve also noticed that if I attack using the same move twice, he defends the same way both times, which makes it even easier to anticipate his actions the second time around. All this information and more filters through my mind as I fight with everything I have, happily trading blows wherever I can to try and inflict more damage upon him. Poor trades in the end, for the cut to his forearm has long since Healed, and aside from Peace still embedded in his belly, he has yet to take any significant injury, but the chance was there and I could not pass it up. The bruises are nothing, and few broken bones of only minor consequence so long as he's unable to grab and hold me, meaning that even though I look like I’m losing the overall fight, the pressure on Zhen Shi continues to grow.

Because we both know I only need to land one good hit to kill him, whereas he’s still handicapping himself by trying to take me alive. I may be bloodied, but I am unbroken, and I will not give up the good fight so long as I still draw breath.

Unfortunately, even the Warrior within me knows that this cannot last forever, that there will come a time when I begin to tire. Already, I can feel the strain on not just my body, with my lungs heaving, body aching, and sweat pouring from exertion, but also my mind and soul both. My head tingles with an oncoming headache, and outside of what is needed for battle, my thoughts grow foggy and indistinct. Buddy’s concern continues to rise because he sees the signs too, but all he can offer is a bit of emotional support as he circles about the sidelines and whimpers in heartfelt worry. As for Mama Bun and Pong Pong, they are both unflappable as always, even as I slip up and underestimate the strength of Zhen Shi’s resolve as he closes in for an unforeseen trade.

My glaive scythes through flesh and bone to take Zhen Shi’s foot off at the ankle, but he accepts the injury without blinking and launches a basic straight punch aimed at my chest. Only the speed of my reaction keeps my ribs intact as I angle away from the blow to mess up my opponent’s timing amidst Pong Pong’s Domain Deflection, but even then, the strike hits hard enough to fracture my recently mended ribs. The pain is nothing, a minor distraction easily ignored, but as the follow-up elbow slams home into the side of my head, the world goes dark once more. Consciousness returns just in time for me to crash into the sand, and it’s all I can do to keep my eyes open as my body digs a furrow across the desert.

A single counter. That’s all it takes for our roles to reverse, and I’m back to fighting on the defensive once more, rolling aside to avoid the all-too-predictable stomp that comes every time he throws me into the sand. It’s like a wrestling move, the slam and stomp, one he just can’t resist trying every single time even though it has yet to work even once, and it’s grown so familiar that I even manage to sneak Tranquility in between us to block the follow up kick that was the next logical step. Too predictable, but also too strong as the kick launches me back through the air, eating away all the precious metres I’ve gained since beginning my offensive. Now we’re back where we started more or less, but rather than take advantage of his momentum to finish me off, he’s finally seen fit to remove my sword from his flesh in a spray of arterial blood.

“Foolish little worm,” he utters with a sneer, his belly wound mending before my eyes with little to no effort at all, though his foot remains severed and missing. It doesn’t seem to affect him however, standing firmly on his remaining foot whilst hovering high overhead, never once wavering as he looms over me in his standard power games. “You struggle and persevere without knowing your fate is already sealed, for you still draw breath by virtue of this Sovereign’s mercy alone.”

A surge of doubt and despair passes through me, but I recognize his effort to bring me down and let the emotions roll off me like water off a duck. “Mercy has nothing to do with it,” I retort, calling Peace back to my side before sending it high into the air alongside Tranquility. With Unity in hand, I take my stance and smile to show my steely resolve, which infuriates him to no end, because he knows the truth just as well as I do, except he refuses to accept it. “Your greed and stupidity are why I still draw breath, because I hold the answers to questions you didn’t even know enough to ask. All your best-laid plans have gone to shit, and now you’re desperate to put this disaster behind you, but your pride will not allow you to slink away in defeat. You need a victory, no matter how small and inconsequential, so once you are safely hidden away from your failures, you can tell yourself your efforts were not all in vain. How does it feel, to have failed so thoroughly that you’re now desperate enough to claim that capturing me makes all your efforts worthwhile? Does that not sting? The oh so wise and venerable Zhen Shi reduced to begging for answers from a child. Ha. Pathetic.”

The meme slips out without even meaning to, and it slaps harder than I ever would’ve expected. Gone is the calm and collected puppet master as he charges forward in a rage, eyes wide and jaws clenched with fury and denial. The blows hammer home before I even have a chance to respond, highlighting just how much my foe has been holding back all this time. Even with Pong Pong to help me defend, I’m helpless to act against the dizzying combination of punches and kicks. How many strikes I endure, I cannot say, but by the time I can make sense of my surroundings once more, I find myself face first in the sand with a mouthful of blood and broken teeth. My arms are broken, my left ankle shattered, my ribs floating about my chest cavity and my lungs punctured and deflated, but in spite of all the pain and suffering, I lift my head and laugh. “Touched a nerve, didn’t I?” I wheeze, barely able to even speak for lack of teeth and air, but he understands me well enough. “Be angry all you want, but you cannot deny the truth.”

The subsequent beating is worse than the first, or at least I assume it is since I black out immediately, only to come to with a gasp soon after as Zhen Shi lifts me by the back of the head so he can glare into my eyes. “You are nothing and no one,” he screams, frothing at the mouth as his body quivers with rage. “Who are you to criticize me?” My smile catches him off-guard, and I can see the gears turning in his head as he realizes why, because now I know that he no longer sees himself as ‘This Sovereign’. My Orated attack dealt a deep blow to his confidence, else a few words would not have enraged him so, and now I realize that he hasn’t been holding back just because he wants me alive, but because he also doesn’t trust himself to go all out.

Except now I’ve pushed him just a little too far, and he might well have snapped, so all I can do is accept the pain as he brings my face down to meet his knee in a smashing introduction. The blackness returns and I sense Buddy and Pong Pong’s concern, but Zhen Shi’s rage is blinding as he no longer holds it all back, a blazing furnace amidst a sea of flames which he unleashes without hesitation. The incoherent screams are frightening to say the least, but amidst all the pain and agony of the flurry of blows is an unyielding sense of control and purpose. Even after losing it, he’s still able to hold himself back, never hitting the same spot twice as he pummels me within an inch of my life and not one single millimetre more.

Helpless though I might be to defend myself, I keep my smile throughout it all, and not just because I’ve mastered how to disassociate from the pain. I smile because I know that even if he kills me here today, I’ve broken him in ways he cannot simply Heal away. I’ve wounded his pride and shaken his confidence, dealt a blow to his foundations and forced him to admit inferiority to a child he thought beneath him, a truth he will forever be unable to deny. That is the crux upon which his rage is built, a single seed of doubt that bloomed into an unrestrained hatred which has now taken root inside his heart. Until he answers all the questions plaguing him with doubt, he will never be able to move forward from here, which means it is not hubris or arrogance which drives him to capture me alive, but desperation.

All of which is revealed to me through not words or actions alone, but emotions unrestrained. A minor drawback of refining one’s body, mind, and soul, the increased difficulty of containing one’s emotions. I was never good at hiding my feelings, which is why I struggled to do so in the wake of JiangHu. Not just because my soul had grown too powerful for my body to contain, but also because my emotions were closer to the surface than they were before. As for Zhen Shi, he’s much better at controlling his emotions, a creature of logic and reasoning so long as it serves him, but one who has given into rage and is struggling to keep it all together.

Zhen Shi and I are similar in many ways, most of them unflattering, but I notice that even a man as brilliant as he doesn’t always have the right answers. Sometimes, he has to operate on faith, just believe that he has it right and move forward from there, which is something I’ve struggled with all my life. It doesn’t matter what answer I arrive at, because I am always left with even more questions than I started with, but I think Gerel had it right. I lack faith, faith in myself and faith in my purpose, for I have always believed that this world was not my own and I have no place within it.

Except I do. I am Amigui, the stillborn, the boy who survived in spite of the odds. My brother died so that I could live, and so I must continue to live in honour of his memory, meaning I cannot die here. I must endure. I must survive. I must fight until my dying breath, which means I can never stop fighting.

In this battle, I am not Rayne, Amigui, Falling Rain, or even Baledagh. Here and now, I am, first and foremost, the Undying Savage.

