The world comes into focus as I peer out from half-lidded eyes. My laboured breaths send sharp pains shooting all throughout my body, and it would be easier to list off what doesn’t hurt than what does, but I cling to life and hope itself as I set my wounds to mending with the Usable Heavenly Energy delivered unto me by my close brush with Demonification. Holding me by the ruined collar of my tattered robes, Zhen Shi heaves with rage and fury still left unspent, but he sees my injuries and knows I will not survive if he does not rein his anger in. A truth which feeds the fires of his fury, and I can sense the struggle within as he contemplates ending my life on a whim. The Spectres encourage the impulse, spur him to indulge in vengeance and bloodshed, but the logical, rational portion of Zhen Shi’s mind remains firmly in control. If I die, his best chance of finding answers goes with me, though I doubt he’d be so restrained if he knew how little I actually understand. The thought makes my smile stretch even further, and Zhen Shi all but recoils at the sight of my bloodied, bared teeth, because he cannot fathom how I can continue to smile in light of all my horrific injuries.

It's simple really. I am suffering, but so is he, and we all know misery loves company.

There is no meme that springs to mind as I harness my emotions, no picture to tell a thousand words. I realize now why my earlier attack failed to do away with my foe, because my memes are a coping mechanism that allow me to view my emotions through the lens of humour and levity. My choice of song was apt and emotions weighty and effective, but I dulled the edge of my own attack by treating it all as a joke, because that is the only way I know how to approach my hidden pain. I’m done joking now as I reach deep down and tap into the raw, unfiltered emotions of my past, but I reach not for the despair I know so well. Zhen Shi will be guarded against it, ready to shake it off and reject it, so I must look elsewhere for a different avenue of attack, one my foe presents to me on a silver platter. The anger of injustice, the rage of a beaten slave, the fury of a vengeful man returned for blood debts owed. These are the weapons I craft within the landscape of emotion, all my repressed ire and outrage which I have always left untouched, because I know how useless anger can be. Beating Gortan to death didn’t make my nightmares any better, nor would it bring my brother back from the dead, so I never had much use for anger.

Until now.

Rather than a wave of hatred or torrent of rage directed towards my foe, I set my anger to simmering and let it slowly build up instead, feeding into Zhen Shi’s resentment and indignation and letting him stew in it for long seconds. The last of my usable Heavenly Energy sets my flesh to mending and bones to knitting as we lock eyes upon our battlefield, one which takes place not upon these desert sands, but deep within the landscapes of our minds and souls. This is not a direct confrontation like the one we had in Meng Sha, nor is it a clash of Auras, but rather a collaborative effort in which I see him not as my foe to oppress and overcome, but as an ally to support and bolster instead.

I always found it strange how Aura was able to differentiate between friend and foe without effort, but now I see that it all has to do with intent. I am not attacking Zhen Shi with my anger and resentment, but rather using it to ‘help’ him come to terms with the anger inside him, the same way the Spectres ‘help’ their host connect with the darkness hidden deep within. This wouldn’t work if Zhen Shi wasn’t already half-way consumed with rage, but he’s too far gone to see the threat. Let your anger out, don’t hold it all in, give in to your hatred and indignation, because that is the only way you can ever be free of it. This I know now, a truth which should have been obvious all along, but one I ignored because I thought it easier to ignore my sorrow and pretend like it didn’t bother me. It did, in more ways that I ever knew, and if I’d come to terms with my emotions before my crusade to the West, mastered my emotions and mastered myself, then I might well have killed Zhen Shi in our first exchange.

The Spectres surge within him and I sense the struggle for control playing out, with his emotions pulling him in all directions while he fights for calm and control. I see fear flicker across his eyes as he comes to terms with what’s happening, realizes my part in spurring the Spectres to action which gives rise to further doubt and despair. A moment is all there is, a single moment of pure rage in which he almost gives in to emotion, but a moment is all I need. Earlier me would’ve stopped to think this through, hesitated for fear of the unknown, but the Warrior and Undying Savage both know that this is the only way. Focusing on his eyes and nothing else, I throw myself at him not physically, but mentally and spiritually, surging into the Void and his Natal Palace both, entering into his Domain using the same openings he left in his defenses to facilitate the movement of Spectres.

And there he sits in all his glory, radiant golden robes and all, though where before the Spectres were contained to his embroidery, now they are set loose within his soul.

Even as I watch, Zhen Shi reaches out with his Will and drags a torrent of Spectres back into his golden robes, only for another group to break free from within, and I sense his growing fear and frustration as he struggles to appear as calm and collected as can be. “Foolish worm,” he intones, radiating a sense of poise and composure as fake as my air of confidence and competence, making us both liars in a battle of self-delusion, but he doesn’t stand a chance against the king. “To think, you even dare set foot within this Sovereign’s Domain, where you are powerless to resist.” Utilizing his Will to lock me in place, Zhen Shi uses his Authority to hammer home the point and show just how much power he wields, but I know better than to give in. “A most timely gift you’ve delivered, and this Sovereign will accept your surrender, though you deserve far worse than death.”

“Ha.” A single laugh is all it takes to command his undivided attention, with whole hosts of Spectres breaking free from his robes in this brief moment of distraction. “So what if I’ve stepped foot within your Domain?” Spoken with the confidence of an idiot who doesn’t know any better, I flash Zhen Shi my best smile and pray that I’m right. “Your Authority was granted to you by the Heavens above, but I make my own Authority, seized for myself in defiance of natural law.” The seed of doubt within Zhen Shi bears fruit once more as he succumbs to doubt and dismay, allowing me the opening I need to strike. An effort of Will is all it takes for my Runic Armour to materialize around me, not merely a Domain Plated Defense like in reality, but cold steel and empowered Runes as real as I am here in the Void. Peace, Tranquility, and Unity appear alongside me, and I take my sword in hand once more and ignite the light of hope within. “I do not respect your Authority, nor do I recognize this area as your Domain, for my Domain exists wherever my Sword can reach.”

Raising my sword to my lips, I kiss the hilt and smile, before adding, “And you are standing well within range.”

Again, there is no meme or chant, only a single moment of directed focus and unyielding Will as I Visualize my attack and Materialize it into existence. A wave of my hand sends out a blinding blade of light, one which slices through Zhen Shi’s soul from top to bottom and inflicts a wound which I know cannot kill him. Here in the Void, we are creatures of pure spirit and mere blades not enough to mortally wound us, but I don’t need to kill him myself, not when there are so many Spectres ready and waiting to tear him apart.

For my blow was not aimed at Zhen Shi himself, but at the spiritual restraints he crafted within his Runic Robes to keep the Spectres in check. His expression flashes through a dozen emotions, doubt, denial, rage, rejection, terror, and finally resignation as he gazes upon the billowing mass of Spectres surging around him. It matters not the strength of his Will, for without the constraints of his Runic Robes, the sheer weight of emotion contained within is too much for Zhen Shi to handle in his current state of mind. Even I’ve never faced so many Spectres at once, not even with Blobby there to back me up, as Zhen Shi has been at this for a long, long time and picked up quite the collection. Waving goodbye with a shit eating grin, I retreat from the Void and return to my still mending body, where I have nothing left to do but to sit back and watch the show as Zhen Shi goes toe to toe with millions upon millions of Spectres who all hunger for vengeance.

I didn’t win, but I didn’t lose either, and more importantly, I’m pretty sure I’ve spoiled Zhen Shi’s chances for victory too. I doubt fate would be so kind as to have Zhen Shi Demonize and become easy pickings for Blobby, but a man can dream, right?

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
