That night Erin cooked up a storm. She had far more visitors than usual; Drakes and Gnolls came into her inn in large groups, mainly to eat something quick after a day of playing in the snow.
Erin was only too happy to put her skills to the test. And it did seem like [Advanced Cooking] gave her an edge; she had many happy customers.
Soon though, her inn was quieter and there were less guests. That probably had to do with her evening crowd.
Ryoka sat at one table with Klbkch, talking quietly and giving casual death-glares to anyone who walked too close. She was in deep conversation with the Antinium, and he seemed just as engaged. That was nice. Ryoka had made a friend!
There were more Antinium in the inn too, though. Klbkch had brought them. They were all Workers, except for Bird. He was now their…guardian, or minder Erin supposed. But she was disappointed Pawn wasn’t there.
They’d all come for the bees. Klbkch had been interested in the wriggling grub, although the Frost Faeries had carried it off in the end. So Erin had decided to use one of her harvests.
“Tonight I’ve got a special on bees! Big bees! Hot!”
Every single order from the Antinium was for a bee, so Erin opened the jar and gingerly extracted the dead bees the Frost Faeries had killed.
At this point Lyonette, who’d spent the rest of the day recuperating, had to go into the common room and serve drinks rather than watch Erin cook. She’d been surprisingly helpful today, in that she’d been actually helpful. She’d served drinks to Drakes, avoided annoying the Gnoll customers, and she hadn’t dropped any—she’d only dropped two things!
Erin was happy about that, but at the moment her attention was a little focused on the bees. She gingerly pulled them out of the jar, staring at their curled up legs and wondered if she had chosen the wrong kind of clientele.
But no, the Antinium were her guests! They were nice and they were polite—
Even if they did like to eat bugs.
She could handle it. Erin could handle the bees. Her [Advanced Cooking] applied to them, oddly. Slicing through the chitin and frying it up in a pan wasn’t disgusting. It wasn’t. It was horrific, but Erin didn’t throw up.
And when she was done, she had some steaming bees that she could drizzle honey and cheese on, couldn’t she? And it would be delicious.
Erin stared down at the glistening fried bees on the plates and shuddered. They still didn’t look good to her. She turned as Lyon appeared in the kitchen.
“Oh hey, Lyon. The Antinium’s food is done.”
The girl turned pale as she stared at the bees.
“Do I have to…?”
“I’ll carry them out. Don’t worry.”
Erin took two plates in each hand and walked out. After a second she saw Lyon grab a plate and, holding it out far in front of her, she followed Erin. Wow. She was trying! Why?
Maybe she was realizing that she should be more grateful for her job, and that it was better to be helpful than not. Maybe Lyonette had had a change of heart and wanted to be useful! Or—she could just be helping out so Erin didn’t make her go out on any more harvesting trips.
Either way, it meant the bees reached the Antinium quicker. Bird sat up when he saw the dead bee on his plate and clicked his mandibles together. Even the other Workers stopped playing chess for a second to stare at the food.
“This looks quite delicious, Erin Solstice. Thank you for preparing it for us.”
“Oh, it’s just something I had lying around. There’s a nest of bees around here, you know.”
Bird nodded.
“They are considered a Silver-rank threat. Without mages they are practically impossible to kill.”
Erin looked at the other Antinium as Lyonette handed a Worker a plate and fled. Bird delicately broke off a wing and began to nibble at it. Erin tried not to watch.
“Uh, where’s Pawn? I thought he’d be with you.”
“He is thinking. And speaking to the Workers in the Hive. He has duties below. What he does is important.”
Bird spoke solemnly. All the Workers nodded at once. Erin blinked.
“Oh? That’s…good. I’ll get the rest of your food. And then maybe we can play some chess!”
“That would be most welcome.”
Back in the kitchen, Erin saw Toren. The skeleton was standing over a pile of dishes. He was still a bit wet from his activities outside. He’d been pulling sleds up the hill for nearly eight hours straight. Erin was a little proud of him, and of herself for thinking up the idea.
“Hey Toren, help Lyonette carry the plates out, will you? I’ve got to make more food.”
The skeleton turned. He stared at Erin and then walked over to the plates. He knocked Lyon’s hand aside and grabbed two and walked abruptly out the door.
Erin frowned at him. If she didn’t know better she would have thought that was rude. Lyon sniffed as she rubbed at her hand.
“That thing bothers me.”
“Who, Toren? He’s probably just tired. Or something.”
Did skeletons run out of mana? Erin resolved to ask Pisces more when he came back. She sighed and picked up the pan she’d been using to cook the bees. Then she stared at it.
It wasn’t precisely messy, but bits of the bees had been broken off as she’d fried them. And certain internal fluids had leaked out. Slowly, Erin put the pan down. She carefully tied a piece of red yarn to the handle of the pan she’d used and pointed it out to Lyon.
“This is the bug pan now, okay? Bug pan.”
Lyonette nodded weakly.
Erin put it in the pile of dishes for Toren to wash. Then she got to cooking. She was hungry, and she had a good feeling about tonight. She’d invited Krshia to come over later, and Mrsha and Selys really seemed to have bonded.
“Lyon? Go ask Selys what she and Mrsha want. I’ve got hamburgers, and I can make pizza—ooh! Tell Mrsha I’ll put a little honey in a bowl for her, will you?”
Erin hummed happily as Lyon walked out the door. Today was a good day. And tomorrow would be even better! She looked at Toren as he walked back in.
“Hey Toren, we’re going to go out tomorrow and get more stuff! Get ready because we’ll be running around all day!”
The skeleton stared at her. Erin turned back to her cooking and hummed happily. The skeleton stared at Erin’s back for one second and then picked up a plate with a bee on it. He walked towards the door and then tripped. Deliberately.
 
—-
 
I look up when I hear the crash of breaking ceramics, but it’s just Erin’s pet skeleton. Toren dropped one of the freakish bees Erin was cooking for the Antinium and now it’s rolling across the floor.
That’s the thing about Erin. Yup. I don’t consider myself squeamish, but I’d never touch one of those gigantic bees, let alone cook the thing. But Erin can fry them up without a second’s pause.
 
“Aha! Free food!”
 
From overhead, one of the Frost Faeries jumps down from a beam in the ceiling. She grabs the bee and she effortlessly flies it back up overhead. The group of faeries sitting above the other diners begins to tear it apart and I look away.
Klbkch stares up at the Frost Faeries. He can’t see them like I can, but everyone saw the bee flying through the air.
“The Antinium have no knowledge of these Frost Faeries. I am intrigued that you are able to see them and talk with them.”
I nod. Intriguing isn’t even close to the word I’d use.
“They implied there was a glamour or some kind of illusory magic on them. I think Teriarch can see them, but no one else I’ve met has been able to.”
The Antinium nods. He and I are sitting at a table in one corner of the room, away from any potential listeners. I’m wary of the Gnolls, but they seem engrossed in their own conversations so I try not to stare too hard at them. The key to talking in secret is not to look like we’re discussing anything important, after all.
“They are regarded as natural forces by the citizens of Liscor. That you are able to pierce their spells may be another result of your coming from another world.”
“It seems that way.”
I look up at the faeries. They’re an odd bunch. They’re still devouring the bee—happily, I can’t make out any of the details in the shadowed rafters—but they aren’t everything I expected of them. They’re surprisingly caring when it comes to children, and while they obey rules and bargains made, they can break said rules and interfere to help people as well.
Odd.
“I’m going to try and speak more with them. But it’s hard to get a faerie to tell you anything. Trust me on that one.”
Klbkch nods.
“I wish you luck. But I believe we were discussing your theories on leveling. I have news.”
I look back at the Antinium, all my attention instantly focused. Yeah. This is the real reason we’re sitting together. Now that I have someone I can trust—besides Erin—I have countless things I want to ask of him*.
 
*I’m still not entirely sure I can trust Klbkch, of course. He has a past—and of course he is still loyal to his Hive. But he makes a good case for himself. If he wanted to, he could easily capture either Erin or me and force us to tell him everything. On the other hand, if he wants our cooperation, well, better to be a useful chess piece than a disposable one.
 
“What have you learned? Does your Hive’s data match my theories?”
Klbkch nods.
“I have reviewed several hundred individuals with high levels, and their cumulative level rarely approaches one hundred. More than that, individuals with more than two classes rarely surpass Level 30.”
I sit back in my chair and exhale.
“Correlation, if not causation.”
“I am unfamiliar with these terms.”
“It means—”
I try to explain to Klbkch the basis of scientific theory. He nods.
“That sounds accurate. Even if there are nuances to what you propose, there is a high likelihood that cumulative levels factors into the leveling process rather than age.”
“And that means…”
I pause. What does that mean?
“It means we have to tell Erin. And that I have something to give to Krshia and the Gnolls.”
“But no one else?”
“Are there any Antinium you’d tell?”
Klbkch shakes his head.
“My people rarely level in any case. Only the Queens level and they almost exclusively level in the [Queen] class. I could inform other Prognugators, but that would likely lead to every Hive quickly learning this information. I may inform the Individuals, but I will observe them before doing so.”
I frown at Klbkch.
“Why don’t the Antinium even level up that much? Is it because your species is a hive mind?”
“So my Queen has speculated. Even Soldiers do not gain levels in the [Soldier] class that often. She believed that this was due to the Antinium not making their own decisions, hence her desire to create individual Antinium.”
“Sounds like this information doesn’t help the Antinium that much.”
“Indeed. I suggest you use it to placate the Silverfang tribe. If you believe it is worth the information spreading, that is.”
“Hm.”
Is it worth it? But Selys knows now, and once someone knows the information will eventually spread. And we need the Gnolls, Erin and I. At the very least, they can’t be an enemy. I think of Brunkr and—no.
“I’ll tell them. But you and I need to speak more.”
“What would you like to speak about, Ryoka Griffin?”
I stare at Klbkch’s face.
“Everything. I—Erin and I—we’re living in this world ignorant of everything that’s occurred. We don’t know geography, history, or any kind of politics. I want to know how magic works, how things like healing potions are made, what kind of dangerous people exist in the world…”
“I will tell you some of what I know. But I fear I may not be able to answer all your questions in that regard.”
“Why?”
Klbkch taps the table slowly.
“To begin with, my Hive has its own sources of information which it does not share with other hives. And though we have accumulated knowledge, much of it is…specialized.”
My heart sinks.
“Meaning you don’t pay attention to world events?”
“My Queen does, and I hear conversations. But I believe only the Queens look beyond this continent. Most of what my Hive knows of are locations of mineral deposits, fertility of soil, monster lairs and dungeons and so forth.”
I sit back in my chair and frown. I pinch at the bridge of my nose as I think.
“I see. Damn.”
“I have much information that will be useful, however. It has occurred to me that there is another facet of the leveling system that may prove crucial.”
My eyes snap open.
“What?”
The Antinium nods slowly.
“I believe I had informed you of my levels? I possess a wide variety of classes, that will prove detrimental to me leveling up. However, there may be another way to address the issue. I may be able to merge my classes.”
What? I stare at Klbkch.
“You can do that?”
“I am aware it occurs in some rare cases. Two classes may merge to create a new, hybrid class. For instance, a [Warrior] and a [Strategist] class may merge to form a [Commander] class.”
“But—wait a second. You have the [Commander] class, don’t you? And the [Swordslayer] class. Why didn’t those two merge?”
“I can only speculate. But I received my [Swordslayer] class long before I became a [Commander]. Moreover, the [Swordslayer] class is an advancement of the [Warrior] class. It may be that the classes become…”
“Incompatible?”
“Yes. Or I simply may have wished to retain my purely combat-based class rather than focus on a leadership role.”
“I get it.”
I nod and sit back in my chair. Merging classes? What other secrets does this system hold? Prestige classes? Are there certain classes that can only be met by fulfilling rare conditions? Klbkch studies me for a second and then speaks.
“Class merging is rare, and up until this day I had regarded it as a somewhat negative phenomenon.”
Right. While a unique class might be useful, two classes would be thought of as better than one, right? Double the skills. But if it helps with the level cap…
“Here’s a question for you, Klbkch. How much of a difference between Level 20 in [Swordslayer] and Level 44 is there? How strong were you back then?”
In short, how dangerous is a Named Adventurer? I’ve seen Gazi fight, but was that only because she had her enchanted eye?
Klbkch pauses, and then he sits back in his chair. He opens his mandibles, and pauses. I look up. Toren’s stomping over to us. He shoves a plate with a dead bee onto the table in front of Klbkch—so hard it nearly flies off the edge—and then turns and walks back into the kitchen.
“Ah.”
Klbkch inspects the food as I try not to stare at it. Is it just me or is Erin’s skeleton acting oddly? Can skeletons think? Damn. I should ask Pisces about that.
“Pardon me. I will eat as I speak if that is not rude.”
