Ceria’s impish look grew, and Yvlon and Pisces made a garbled noise until she headed off, past Erin. The [Innkeeper] gave Ceria very much the same look.
“Huh?”
 
——
 
There was a lot she didn’t know about. Case in point—Erin walked into Octavia’s shop and stared at the Drake lying on the ground.
“Um. Saliss? Do you have a moment?”
“Sure. What’s up?”
The Drake kicked his feet until he shuffled around so his face was pointing at Erin. Still staring at the floorboards.
Erin squatted down as Octavia glanced up.
“You okay? Thanks for protecting the inn.”
“Hey, don’t worry. I’ll bill you at market price for all the potions I used, how about that?”
Erin hesitated, and Saliss grinned.
“I should. But I won’t. Don’t worry about it. What’s the word on Albez? Asking me what to do?”
He was perceptive. Erin Solstice sighed and sat cross-legged on the floor.
“Octavia, can I ask a favor? Saliss, you want food?”
He cracked an eye open, and the [Alchemist] nodded.
“Oh, of course! Can I get you…?”
“Give me one of those hot sandwiches with the things in it you had for breakfast.”
“A grilled pastrami on rye, Octavia. Can I get, um…fries? Calescent’s spicy fries.”
“Sure thing.”
Octavia hurried out, and Saliss glanced up.
“Not exactly subtle. So what do you want?”
Erin bit her lip.
“I…what do you think about the Albez thing?”
“Silver-ranks and Gold-ranks stealing from competitors to the north? I wouldn’t have been that stupid. Deni’s been retired for a while. First, he underestimated the most dangerous Goblin tribe in the north. Next, he forgot that adventurers are hungry and poor, and he’s an ass. Eldertuin’s solid, and Viecel’s crazy like me and Tessa—but a different kind. That answer your question?”
It did, a bit. Erin glanced over her shoulder.
“And Colth?”
Saliss’ eyes sharpened.
“Colth’s a real Named-rank in his prime. Not too old. Grew up with legends. You want to know why Mihaela Godfrey’s here? Because she’s retired. She’s still dangerous, grouchy, and competent—but if she was in her prime, she’d be running deliveries as a Courier and kicking [Generals] in the face. Colth’s not as good as she was—but he’s the best. Notice how his first instinct was to kill Facestealer?”
“Yours wasn’t?”
Saliss shrugged. He put his head back down.
“My potions are too weak. But he’s got a better handle on it. I’ll listen if he needs a favor. Next question?”
Erin sat there.
“…If I asked you for a favor, Saliss, a sorta big one that might get you in trouble. And me—how can I pay it off?”
“Been speaking to [Witches] lately? Or the old man?”
Saliss’ head rose, and his eyes glinted. He looked at Erin, and she showed him the wicker bird on her finger.
“Been cursed? Nevermind. Erin—we don’t do favors. Not us. Just give me something. Anything from your gardens—because I need it. But say it.”
That was why she liked him. And of all of the others, she trusted Saliss. More than Grimalkin. Frankly, more than almost anyone. She didn’t know why, only that she thought, despite his secrets—she knew Saliss.
“Okay. I’ll have as much help as I can get—what do you need?”
“Whatever those bastards stole from Albez. I can’t let them have it or Deni sell it.”
“Oh? Well—that actually works. Because I need you to go into Pallass and move my portal stone. Without being stopped by Sergeant Kel or Chaldion. Right now. And do it within about forty minutes.”
That was how much time she thought they had. Saliss’ head rose slowly, and his neck spines seemed to rise.
“And where would you like me to move it, Erin?”
She knew the spot.
“There’s a place a good ways outside Pallass. Where Pallass Hunting does its work. It’s in this nice glen—there would be pretty private. And you can hit the road not far from there. If…Pallass didn’t know it was there, anyone popping out’d be pretty far away. Then I need you to move it back to Pallass.”
Saliss stared at her. His lips moved soundlessly for a second.
“Right back on the 8th Floor?”
“Yep.”
“In the checkpoint with Desk Sergeant Kel, the most friendly and relaxed of Drakes, and the Old Man’s lenient policies towards anyone who comes through on a whim?”
“Uh huh.”
“After placing it far outside Pallass’ walls?”
“Do I keep saying yes?”
Saliss just looked at Erin. Her stomach was twisting, but…she met his gaze. The Named-rank adventurer whistled.
“…How badly do you want them to level? What’s in those new lands?”
Erin bit her tongue. She didn’t answer, but Saliss swung himself up into a cross-legged position. He thought for a while.
“Deniusth might try to kill you. But let’s say we send those thieves straight into the new lands. How do you explain why you did what you did?”
Erin held out her hands and shrugged.
“Leave that to me. I’ll take all the responsibility, Saliss.”
“Humor me.”
Erin Solstice met Saliss’ eyes, and he saw her worried look turn into a colder look of—anger.
“Deniusth’s team—or he and the other Gold-ranks—killed six adventurers in cold blood. Even if they were thieves, I don’t trust him, and I don’t think that was the right call. And the rest? We need levels, Saliss. We need levels.”
It was the worst thing she’d ever done consciously. Far, far worse than plotting to destroy a Raskghar camp or…Saliss gave Erin a longer look, then nodded.
“Corn against Seamwalkers. Give me twenty minutes.”
 
——
 
Liska Coresh Silverfang had always thought Erin was sort of…boring. She knew Erin was the ‘crazy innkeeper’ who spat blood and caused trouble, but Erin hadn’t ever really impressed her in person.
She was fun-ish, and she was certainly nice and had powerful Skills, but she had always seemed to be, in Liska’s estimation of the world, sort of a law-abiding, boring person.
Much like Ishkr, her brother. This?
This was crazy. When Erin told Liska what she wanted to do and had Liska move to a series of rooms inside the inn, which Liska hadn’t known even existed, the Gnoll was alarmed.
“Wh—we’re really doing this, Miss Solstice?”
Erin was dumping items onto a table. She had a list of Lyonette’s prices, and she turned.
“Yep. Wailant! Where’s the rest of the food?”
“Coming. This is crazy, Erin. I love it. It’s crazy—but that Violinist is going to kill you.”
“He could try.”
“Larra the Haven will kill you, then.”
Wailant grunted as he placed a pack full of, ironically, dried cornmeal on the table. Erin gave him a slight smile.
“No, she won’t. I think she might take my side, actually. Especially if I pay her.”
“Oh. Maybe Viceria’s right. Maybe I am a bad influence.”
Even Wailant looked askance, but Erin just nudged him.
“Nah. Seborn is worse.”
“You little—we’re having a drink tonight, Miss Innkeeper. Alright, that’s the last pack I’ve got.”
The room was crowded, and Liska was about to pee. She had to run to the restroom, and she felt the door was fully-charged.
Her new Skills as a [Door Gnoll] let her sense its ambient mana levels like Erin. Liska had all kinds of cool powers.
Like knowing which entrance of the door had people waiting. The ability to calm down a crowd. And the power to…
“[Conjure Stool].”
Liska sat down as she hurried back into the private rooms. Erin glanced at the plain wooden stool.
“Uh. Is that your new power, Liska?”
“I’m a Level 6 [Door Gnoll], Miss Solstice.”
“…Cool. Can you do two?”
“No.”
The [Innkeeper] smiled. Then they went back to waiting. Erin seemed far, far more composed than Liska. Her leg jiggled as she sat at the edge of the table, but Liska was about to be incontinent with nerves.
When the adventurers did arrive, they came in a storm.
“The door! The door! We’ll pay for—there!”
They came riding horses hell-for-leather, some in battered wagons showing damage from spells and arrows. More than one was looking over their shoulder even as they slowed, but they charged for the door while carrying—
Treasure. Some was in bags or even chests of holding, but Liska saw one of the Distinguished Staves holding a beautiful staff—and the area around the orb seemed so still, so calm—
The leaves were falling from trees outside the route near Wailant’s farm. One flew into the proximity of the stave as the [Mage] holding it ran—and the leaf fixed in place.
Time magic. Erin looked at the staff as the adventurers came to a halt.
“Miss Solstice! Let us through to Liscor, please! Or—Invrisil?”
“Anywhere, we’ll pay!”
“I have one place I’ll send you. And if you want—come on through. But before that, we’ll negotiate.”
Erin Solstice called through the door. Wailant was standing to the side, a hand on his own blade, but the Gold and Silver-ranks started. Erin glanced at Liska, then walked through the door. She shut it, and Liska gulped.
This was part of the plan—but it was still incredible that Erin did it. Liska waited, standing up from her stool, and paced around the room. The laden tables were filled up—she passed by jars of green acid, Erin’s travel foods, mana candies, Scaleguard Sandwiches, and bags of animal feed and provisions. Even camping supplies that Erin had asked Liska to buy as many of as possible.
When she finally felt Erin tug on her [Portal Door], Liska swung it open. She was almost certain Erin could do it herself, but the [Innkeeper] walked through with the first teams.
“Put anything you got that’s alchemical or enchanting-related on the tables.”
“Miss Solstice—”
“No buts. That’s the fee. Not all of you are even paying it.”
Erin pointed at a rough-looking man, one of the Waterborn Raiders, drenched in sweat. His eyes flickered to the door, and Erin raised a finger.
“Harm Liska or me, and that door will never open. Colth is still in this inn and the Horns and Grimalkin of Pallass. He’s big. Plus, Shriekblade is standing right behind you.”
The Waterborn Raider went white, and he whirled. Tessa tapped him on the shoulder, and he whirled again and backed up.
Liska’s nerves actually decreased as she recalled that Erin had a Named-rank as a bodyguard. The Gold-rank adventurers traded looks as more filed in.
“All of it?”
“All of it. It’s not useful where you’re going, is it? How many artifacts did you get? How many books? I’ll take any books you want to offload, too. For a price. Anything you want here—well, you’re all one buyer, so decide what you want.”
Erin indicated the supplies. The adventurers stared at her and then the supplies. Bird’s arrows, gear—one of the raiders whistled as he picked up the jar of acid. He almost opened the lid, but Erin snapped at him.
“Don’t do that. And don’t get it on your skin unless you want it melted. Hurry. I thought they were right behind you?”
The teams glanced over their shoulders, and Liska backed up as someone led a horse through the door. Erin called out.
“Pick what you want—come on through now if you’re coming! If you’re going to surrender, Wailant will give you a drink.”
“All the way past Pallass? And then to the new lands?”
It seemed to hit some of the Silver-ranks only now. Erin Solstice saw one of them turn to her.
“Can’t you send us somewhere else? Just around Liscor or…”
“The [Portal Door] doesn’t go anywhere else, sorry. And what would you do if I did? I’ll be letting Deniusth and the others through, and they’ll follow you. Like I said—if you want to give up everything you stole, stay at Wailant’s farm. I’ll transport you to my inn, and then Larra’s Haven, and the Named-ranks and Gold-ranks won’t touch you, you have my word. I can’t promise you’ll be adventurers after that, but they won’t kill you.”
And the rest? They looked at Erin’s overpriced stocks and then her map that showed a path across the trade routes to the New Lands.
“We’re going. This staff…I’ll find the half-Elves or another continent. Damn Deniusth. He didn’t even promise us a spellbook.”
The leader of the Distinguished Staves was in his fifties, but he calmly walked over to the table, began selecting gear, and tossed down some of the loot he’d stolen from Albez. Leaving his life behind.
“Captain Geith—my family.”
“Should have thought of that before you pissed off Orchestra.”
Wailant was sympathetic, but only a bit. He nodded at the other wavering adventurers.
“I can take a letter, but you’d better write quick. Free of charge, even.”
He said that as if Erin wasn’t collecting a good portion of the gear. It was the largest door tax that Liska had ever seen. She’d heard Erin complaining about Magnolia’s mandatory tax to Invrisil.
After today…Liska didn’t think Erin got to complain again.
For all of their talk, it was fast. The adventurers grabbed almost everything, and the only delay was taking through some of the animals—turning them around and sending them to the spot where Saliss was waiting outside Pallass. Liska heard him speaking to them.
“I’ve got free advice and people to talk to. Don’t be stupid, and don’t go to a Walled City. Hey, Geith. Nice staff. Good luck.”
To Liska’s surprise, she saw Erin Solstice shaking hands with the Waterborn Raiders and every adventurer who went through. Thieves or not—she took the hands of the Captain of the Waterborn Raiders.
“Don’t die out there. And if you ever do manage to make it back to Liscor, without bounty or someone after you—come here and tell me what happened.”
“You’re…alright, Innkeeper Solstice. Funny. I thought you were different.”
Erin Solstice looked the Captain of the Waterborn Raiders in the eye.
“I don’t approve of stealing, Captain. But it’s your choice. The new lands…Deniusth isn’t that charming. No matter what, it’s going to be dangerous. Good luck.”
Then they were heading out, and Liska saw only seven adventurers remain, a tiny fraction of the ones going through the door. Erin could send roughly two hundred people to Pallass. By the time she closed the door, it had just enough juice to send Wailant back and deliver the seven adventurers to his farm for that promised drink.
“Pretend they’re not there, Wailant. I bet you Deni’s going to be coming for my door. He probably won’t even think they’re at your farm. Liska, is there power to let him through?”
She could check, but Liska, amusingly, seemed to be better at estimating relative to distance and place, thanks to her class. Erin just knew her door was ‘low’ and she was busy, so the Gnoll focused and answered for her.
“Just—just six more, Erin.”
“Well, let him through, but not his team. And Halrac and any captains. If Deni wants to kick up a fuss—Tessa, don’t kill anyone.”
“Yes, boss. Can I kick him?”
