“Tough—but not exactly the fastest foe about. It relied on its aura, but we never got hit.”
“One hit would have been your last. Yvlon nearly got killed, and it was missing her.”
Yvlon’s arm had a chunk torn out of it. The [Armsmistress] was gulping down food, and she shook her head.
“I’ve never seen anything so tough. Even the Adult Creler was weaker. It killed the Frostmarrow Behemoth—”
“Always nice to know there’s something worse out there, eh, Pisces? No wonder we’re not ready for a <Mythical Quest>.”
Ceria grinned sardonically as she put on a shirt and looked over, but Pisces was bending over a shaken young woman sitting with streaked white face paint. Erin blinked—who was this?
“Is that a [Necromancer]?”
She blurted it out, and Grimalkin looked at her sharply—as did Zevara and Tekshia. But Pisces was comforting Ama, who had lost Rodden. He turned as Erin approached.
“Erin, this is Ama. She’s a—friend of mine from the past. I hope she’s welcome here?”
“Hello.”
Ama looked up warily, but Erin bent down kindly and offered her a hand. Ama took it and realized she was a mess of snot and tears and face paint. She searched for her mask, but Erin just took her hand and squeezed.
“Of course she is. Any friend of Pisces—well, friends—are welcome here. Ama, right? You’ve been through a lot. I’m…sorry. Just sit there, and anything you need, we’ll get, okay?”
“Thank you.”
She seemed gratified by the welcome. Erin just looked bleakly at Pisces. Someone had died, and she wasn’t here.
Really, in this moment, Erin wasn’t the principal actor of the moment. Colth, the adventurers—even Lyonette was as the [Princess] helped serve tables and restore order. Erin nodded to Rags, who was watching, and then looked around.
“Did anyone else get hurt? I thought I heard Saliss and Tessa fought?”
“I didn’t. It never got to the inn. Saliss lived.”
Tessa appeared, and Erin saw the Drake pointing. She looked over, and the [Innkeeper] sighed.
“Well, at least he’s alive. Saliss, you good?”
The Drake was lying face-first on the floorboards, much where she’d last seen him. He raised a thumb-claw, and Erin turned.
“Well. Now, will someone explain Albez to me?”
She felt like she was playing catch-up. And that was before the Titan’s students hurried in.
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights was getting tired of having to remember so many people. First the Titan’s students, now all the adventurers—at least they weren’t staying.
“We could stay and help deal with Facestealer—I mean, we will. But the Titan’s called us back to the academy.”
“You’re going back to class? What about Calruz?”
“I’m rendering my judgment—but frankly, I’m inclined to let Liscor adjudicate the matter. His behavior in the dungeon and out of it and his class are all at odds with Captain Ceria’s testimony. It is not the answer he wants, but I am not prepared to execute him.”
Venaz was speaking to her as he put a hand on his diamond greatsword. Now there was a fine weapon.
Saliss wondered if it would have harmed Facestealer. Then again—the Blade of Mershi hadn’t. He lay on the floor and appeared dead.
It was a sign the inn was getting to know him that no one paid much attention to Saliss. Ishkr put down a drink on the floor, and the Drake grunted thanks.
“Amateurs.”
Ishkr paused, and Saliss’ head rose.
“Not you. Them. Bunch of sprouts not ready to be corn or some farming analogy. You get it.”
Ishkr hesitated—then nodded. He walked off, and Saliss put his head down after taking a nice long sip of the blue juice. Nothing like possible poison to make a drink taste sweet.
That went for the Goblin Chieftain who kept eying him. She was intelligent—but she fit right into the mold with the Titan’s students. Saliss hoped they left rather than join whatever Colth had planned.
Colth was corn. Baby corn, but pretty tough corn. So were Viecel, Eldertuin, and Deniusth’s team, for all they had…ticks. Did corn have ticks?
The point was made in Saliss’ mind, but someone always needed clarification. In this case, it was the timid [Alchemist] who came over and poked him a few times.
“Master Saliss, Master Saliss, I’m halfway done with your latest batch. But I need you to, um, check my work? Please?”
“Drag me.”
He lifted a claw, and Octavia hesitated—until Numbtongue grunted, got up, and dragged Saliss into her workshop.
 
——
 
Octavia Cotton had been apprenticing under Saliss of Lights for a while now, albeit with a long hiatus for Erin’s death and her adventure.
She still hadn’t gotten used to the honor. Or Saliss’ ways. He lay on the floor, making her place bottles and items down and raising his head to grunt at them.
“Good. Good. That looks iffy…it’s nice having an apprentice do boring work. You ready to kill me yet?”
He meant because Octavia had been pulling up to seventeen-hour shifts to get through his massive backlog of alchemical items. The younger [Alchemist] tried to smile.
“It’s—intensive, Master Saliss. But I am learning and levelling!”
“Good. I don’t have time for this. I’m very busy, as you can see.”
Saliss put his head down, and Numbtongue stared at him. The Hob wanted to listen to the preparations for Facestealer, so he motioned to Octavia and mouthed, ‘you okay’?
She nodded, and he retreated with a look at Saliss. Even the [Bard] was fooled, but Octavia was not.
Saliss did joke and pull pranks, but never when working. He was very careful about teaching her personally how not to injure herself, and if she was working on something dangerous, he’d make her use his personal lab, which she had access to.
Frankly, she felt like between him and Xif, she had actually lucked out. She knew Saliss was very thoughtful—so Octavia squatted next to the Drake, who was just lying flat on the floor.
“Master Saliss, may I ask a question?”
“That’s one. You get two more. Call me a Djinni. Don’t forget the collar.”
That was probably a joke. Even so, Octavia chose her words carefully.
“Master Saliss…why are you lying on the floor if you’re so busy?”
“I’m thinking.”
Alright, Octavia supposed she deserved that.
“…What are you thinking about, Master Saliss?”
Then he didn’t answer, and Octavia feared he’d not respond—but Saliss’ head rose, and his eyes were sharp as he gave Octavia a look.
“[Battle Simulations].”
The Stitch-Girl blinked at him, and Saliss put his head down.
“Remember how I told you I used to be Chaldion’s student? You can get rid of anything you want—but some of what I got was useful. It’s nothing strong like…this annoying metal kid I once met. But it works.”
“What are you simulating, Master Saliss?”
The Drake grunted.
“After today? Facestealer. But I’ve been figuring something out. First that [Witch]. Xrn. No, damn it. Seamwalkers and that war—Sserys is a great benchmark. The Shark Captain’s still a rookie. More like almost-corn. Lots of almost-corn. Even you.”
“Me, Master Saliss? What’s the corn about?”
Saliss was making no sense, but Octavia tried to follow his analogy as the Drake spoke.
“Eldertuin has a [Farmer] friend. Never met him. He probably knows more about it, but I’m just looking around. Corn and not corn. I’m corn. I’m weird corn, but I’m definitely corn by now. Grimalkin’s corn, if weak corn. Erin wasn’t corn—now she is. Not battle corn, but she’s like Larracel. But the rest? You could argue Relc was retired corn. But those students of the Titan aren’t full-corn yet. Nor is that Goblin, Rags. Maybe one or two of her lieutenants are—but the real corn isn’t developed.”
He was talking about levels. Or…Named-rank adventurers? And he thought she was on her way? Octavia was excited until she realized what Saliss was saying.
“Numbtongue?”
“Haunted not-quite-corn. How’s your relationship?”
Octavia blushed.
“It’s fine. He takes me food and makes sure I wake up. Puts a blanket on me and tells me to stop.”
“Now that’s a great relationship. Good.”
“Master Saliss?”
“Hm?”
“Why are we corn? What does that make monsters?”
The Drake was silent a moment.
“…I don’t know. I didn’t think the metaphor through. But the point is, I’m realizing the inn’s got some good plants. And I’m corn. And corn doesn’t beat Seamwalkers.”
Then Octavia felt a lurch in her stomach. Saliss glanced up, and he spoke.
“My battle potions are weak. My acid’s weak. It barely did any damage to Facestealer. I can kill an army—but I can’t kill Belavierr. I need to upgrade them.”
Saliss of Lights, considered the adventurer with the highest firepower on the continent—if not the world—was saying that? The [Alchemist] put his head down.
“Here’s the thing, apprentice. Crafter-fighters have a different problem than [Warriors]. All they need is a Relic-class blade. Find one. Me? If my best potion can’t scratch this new caliber of foe—I need to invent one better. Or discover it. That’s clear.”
“Does that mean you’re headed to the new lands, master?”
That seemed like the best place to find anything new or old. Saliss just laughed.
“What am I, good at camping? No. It’s a waste of time. I’m getting back into the laboratory, apprentice. And you and I will have to work harder. I need…more powerful reagents. Damn it. I hope those Albez thieves got something. Maybe I should rob them, but—that’s it.”
He pushed himself up suddenly.
“Albez. That damned [Chronomancer] had to be a multifaceted polymath, didn’t he? They’re all pretentious—all I need is to compare his inventory with mine. Reagents, Octavia.”
She knew what he meant. That was the fuel for most alchemy, like Sage’s Grass. Saliss glanced up.
“Old-era alchemy might not have had easy-access healing potions, but they had stronger stuff. Potions of Regeneration, Ryoka’s damned Haste Potion—we’re missing the booster. Probably Unicorn testicles or something. Of course, finding that’s one half the puzzle. The other half is formulas, but I need to do it. Otherwise, I’ll be throwing water at [Witches], and contrary to popular belief, that doesn’t melt them.”
Octavia understood. Saliss sat there, and Octavia saw him exhale hard.
“The new lands aren’t for me. I’ll be here, so you’d better prepare for more lessons, apprentice. Because I need your help. And…”
He looked up seriously.
“…we will both be needed. You, me, Xif, and every [Alchemist] in Pallass.”
“For creating new potions?”
He shook his head.
“The Eir Gel Reef is gone. I don’t know what happened, still—but the world’s out of our supply of healing gel. We have to find a solution.”
The two [Alchemists] looked at each other, and Octavia gulped. If there were no more healing potions…Saliss of Lights looked ahead, past Facestealer, at a battle only his class was ready for.
“It’s gonna be an ugly winter and next year.”
He sat there—expression grim and unusually tense. Until Erin Solstice came to ask him for a favor.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice had listened to the reports about Albez. She knew the adventurers were coming.
Maybe they hoped to beat news of their thefts at Albez. Some of them were certainly attempting to bribe her. No less than eight [Message] spells were promising her gold if she let them through and didn’t let Deniusth or the others after.
They were in hot pursuit, but the thieves had a good march on them. Even so, Erin guessed it might be a half-hour’s difference between the two groups at most.
“The easiest thing is to not open the door. Let them sort it out. We’ll hunker down—Viceria’s putting barriers up, and we’ll let them run for it. I’d think about offering some space, but not with Named-ranks out for blood.”
Wailant had moved his door off his property due to the increased traffic, but he had liked the proximity to the inn, and so he’d put it at a local crossroads five minutes from his farm. Now, he’d moved it further so the adventurers wouldn’t endanger his farm.
“I’ll let you know what I decide, Wailant. What do you think about the thefts?
The [Pirate] gave her a sardonic look.
“You mean, what do I think, was it right or wrong? I know I’d probably try to swipe a little something, even if I didn’t do a big theft. That many artifacts? I bet you a Silver-rank team’d get gold and spit rather than a single wand. But hey, I don’t moralize when I stab someone in the ass, either.”
“Good point.”
Erin walked back through her door and stopped for a moment. Travel was out due to the Facestealer attack, so only a single Gnoll was sitting there, chewing on a hamburger. Erin glanced at her.
“Liska? How are you doing?”
The Gnoll jumped.
“Er—fine, Erin. I mean, Miss Solstice. Doing my job!”
“You’re not nervous from the attack?”
Liska tried to grin, but her eyes flickered, and Erin knew she was rattled.
“Me? No. Someone’s got to stay and keep Ishkr safe. Besides—it never got the inn. You want me to go somewhere else?”
“Not just yet. I’m just thinking. I’ll be back. Just—thanks for helping.”
“No problem. Do we get a hazard bonus?”
Erin didn’t answer that last one. She headed into the inn and asked where Saliss had gone. She thought about Grimalkin, but she didn’t want to jeopardize their relationship after they’d just started talking. Ceria was groaning.
“Guys, let me know when Deniusth and the others are here. Want to meet in the Haven? I hear they’ve got crystal healing beds.”
“I can ask Larra to give you a room. And she does have healing. Let’s meet there, alright? Pisces, how’s your friend?”
Colth nodded at the others. Erin heard Pisces murmur a reply.
“Ama will be heading back. She’s upset—we can pay and thank her later. I don’t think she’s up for an attack on Facestealer.”
“No, and her undead won’t do much. We’ll talk. You lot take some time off. If you want to chat—I’ll be in the Haven.”
Colth smiled at Pisces, and the [Necromancer]…Erin eyed Pisces and wondered why he was looking at Colth like that. There was a lot she didn’t know about. Sometimes it was fine. Ceria rubbed at her ribs.
“Well, I’m going to see you later. I’ll be going on a little date.”
“Oh, again? Have fun, Captain Ceria.”
Yvlon and Pisces nodded along—then the two of them turned back from Colth and stared. The bug-eyed expressions on the two non-Antinium members of the Horns made Ceria grin.
“What?”
“Yes, what?”
Ksmvr looked at Yvlon and Pisces, and the [Armsmistress] pointed.
“You—you—wh—”
“I’m not allowed to have private time? Can you believe these two, Ksmvr? I don’t bother you two on the dates you definitely have.”
