Erin punched forwards, out of her bed, and landed in a tangle of flailing limbs and sheets. She rolled around—then realized she was tangled up.
“Uh.”
“Miss Solstice? Everything alright? Can I come in?”
“I’m decent! Just—can you get me out of this?”
Normen the [Knight] opened the door to find Erin being slowly strangled by her sheets. The [Innkeeper] was glaring as the Brother hesitated. But all Erin said was—
“Bad dreams. Hey, can you hand me that little wicker bird on the dresser? Oh, and my knife. Is Grimalkin below?”
“Yes, Miss Solstice.”
“Good! I’m taking him and Tessa. I’ll be back late. Mrsha can come with Nanette if they want.”
Today…was a day of reckoning. Erin stared at the ceiling, like a cloth sausage, as Normen untangled the sheets.
 
——
 
“Deni.”
“Colth, Eld. Morning.”
“Deni.”
He ignored her until Mihaela put him into a headlock. The Violinist broke free and snapped.
“This is not the time, Mihaela.”
“Well, say hello to me. Are you still mad about that [Innkeeper]’s trick?”
Mihaela had heard everything. Not that she’d seen the fun—she had been auditing Invrisil’s Runner’s Guild—and Celum’s. She’d heard some bad practices had cropped up. Like the Wind Runner getting her legs crushed by hostile runners?
Like Ryoka or not, a Runner’s Guild had to have principles. And Mihaela did actually do her job. Garia Strongheart had been there to see her gently dispense wisdom.
Mihaela dispensing wisdom was kicking a hole through the [Receptionist]’s counter and asking where the old Guildmaster lived. Then she tested all the City Runners who thought they were Couriers.
However, she was sorry to have missed the Albez dig, if for no other reason than she could have halted the thefts. In truth, Mihaela was on Deni’s side.
But what an odd move from Erin Solstice. No one had described her being quite that underhanded. Even Larra seemed taken aback.
Deniusth was not happy. Nor were most of the adventurers, but Deni was the one to watch. He was—impulsive.
“You’re going to take on Facestealer? Let me know when. I’ll warm up—and I need to borrow Larra’s healing beds if I’m going to move about.”
Mihaela coughed. She’d take a double-dose of her tonic. Colth nodded, and Eldertuin looked around.
“I’ll find Valley. Knowing her, she’s forgotten—oh, wait, there she is.”
Valeterisa emerged from her suite, practically being pushed out the door by the young [Mage], Montressa, who bowed, flustered, to the group of friends. Even Deni was astonished by a dressed and somewhat cognizant Valeterisa.
“That girl is good for Valeterisa. Who would have known? I would have thought any of her apprentices would starve to death when Valley locked them in a broom closet and forgot.”
“Bad joke, Deni.”
His glower returned. The Violinist began walking down the hallway, and he answered Mihaela curtly.
“I’m going to kill this ‘Face Stealer’ or whatever it is since Colth is calling in a favor. Why not? If I get a cut of whatever loot we find from this Stalker-corpse—well, I’ll do it for gold because I remember my debts. I’ll even be polite to Erin Solstice. For now.”
Mihaela glanced at Colth. He was looking more serious today than ever, which made her feel like stretching and getting ready. Colth didn’t take things lightly. But Deni’s words were too ominous to let go.
“Deni—she played like a Reinhart, it’s true, but you did murder a few adventurers.”
“Thieves. She let them go, and now she’s trying to pay us back with our own treasure!”
“I know. I’m just saying, don’t fight with her. She’s backed by two Named-ranks on her own, and this isn’t the point. The New Lands are.”
The Violinist glared at Mihaela.
“Orchestra won’t forget this. Nor will any of the teams. Larra wanted to make peace? Well, Erin Solstice has earned a grudge, and I—”
His rant was cut short as Colth turned and, unexpectedly, grabbed Deni’s arm. His sword-arm, his playing arm.
“Deni, do me another favor. I have at least two. Erin? The inn? Drop it.”
“Let go of me, Colth.”
Deni jerked away as his team emerged from their rooms. Mihaela saw Colth’s grip tighten, and Deni stiffened in surprise. Colth leaned over, and his usual friendly demeanor and obsequious attitude…
“Drop. It. We have a job to do.”
He let go, and a long silence followed as Mihaela eyed Colth. That was—Deni yanked himself away and stared at Colth along with everyone else. Valeterisa looked up and murmured.
“Now Colth is bullying Deni. How the times have changed.”
Strange things. Mihaela excused herself and walked off to prepare as the adventurers began to head to The Wandering Inn. She wondered what was up with Colth. Then again—he was younger, he was at the prime of his adventuring, and he might just like Erin Solstice. Or the Horns.
Or maybe he had a goal that was different from the others. They were all adults. They had their problems. Mihaela sighed as she began to stretch. If there was one thing that united them—it was a purpose.
Monsters died.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was, perhaps tactfully, not at the inn by the time the adventurers began to muster up. Breakfast was laid out, and the Horns were ready—although they were not the principal actors here.
Ylawes Byres was just grateful for a nice bed and wash after a few days of camping at Albez. Of course, Orchestra had actually had a shower in their magical accommodations, but he had been camping.
Once more, though—Ylawes Byres was not at the center of this adventure. He accepted it this time with better grace. He hadn’t been chosen.
Falene was on a shortlist, and Dawil had been—until Colth learned his axe was broken. Ylawes had not been on any list, anywhere.
The Horns were included, all four of them, even if Ksmvr and Yvlon would be getting supporting roles at best, and Pisces and Ceria were only there to fuel spells. Colth was not apologetic about any of it.
“I want top Gold-rankers only in our specialist slots. Every [Rogue] we can get and some lineholders—but the rest will just clutter our attempts. No Silver-ranks. No gawkers at the pits, no one goes down. This is a Named-rank mission, and if anyone fouls us up, I’ll call the Adventurer’s Guild down on their heads, got it?”
The Ultimate Supporter was in his element, and he had maps and fallbacks. Ylawes listened for a while and then went over to find Vuliel Drae and Nailren’s team.
“Good morning, you all. Are you staying here?”
Insill waved at him, and the Silver-rankers smiled but were subdued.
“Well, no one’s entering the dungeon. We thought we’d rest a bit—not that we did much at Albez. Hunt Shield Spiders, maybe.”
“There’s a job working for Menolit’s adventuring group. Just saving idiots who run into Hollowstone Deceivers.”
Nailren was debating it, and Ylawes looked at them. Now that the chance for treasure was done, they were back to being Silver-ranks. Straining to get to the next level, for their big break.
He…knew how they felt. Ylawes pulled up a chair as Falene walked away from the planning.
“I am not needed, Ylawes. Hello, Anith, Nailren, everyone.”
She looked annoyed as Dawil sat with more equanimity than the others.
“Can’t fault Colth, Falene. I guess we’re staying to see if they pull it off—then to the north?”
“House Byres, Dwarfhalls Rest—then we’ll see about these new lands.”
Nailren glanced up as Ylawes agreed.
“You are going too, Captain Ylawes?”
“After a visit to my home. And the new Dwarven settlement.”
“I forgot Erin’s door makes it so easy…hrr. Buying some good gear there might make the difference. Maybe I should visit.”
“Dwarfsteel? We could use our haul from the Village of the Dead raid and gear us up, Anith.”
Dasha nodded. It was a good compromise, Ylawes knew. If you couldn’t afford enchanted gear, Dwarfsteel or other high-quality weapons were excellent stopgaps. He had been hoping they could reinforce his armor, himself.
“What if we went with you to Dwarfhall’s Rest, Captain Ylawes? If you’re going.”
“If you’d like, I could invite you to House Byres too. We welcome guests.”
The Silver-ranks perked up at this. Ylawes thought it would be a nice break from all the drama he’d been engulfed in. They were tentatively making plans, but all eyes were on Colth and his crew. They wouldn’t be able to see what happened when Colth left, but Ylawes Byres felt a pang.
It’s really not a place for the Silver Swords, is it? He had felt like they were the premier Gold-rank team taking on challenges no one else would, even if that were arrogance. Now? He felt like a Bronze-ranker again. But perhaps that was fine. After what he’d seen at Albez, Ylawes would frankly admit that he had no desire to team up with Deniusth or even most of the northern teams, even if Eldertuin hadn’t been as culpable as the others.
This was their battle.
So where was his?
 
——
 
Erin Solstice walked along Invrisil, humming. She had a knife at her belt, two acid jars in her bag of holding, and she’d taken a backup wand too. Mrsha swaggered along next to her with her kilt—red today—and her own wand in her holster.
Nanette had a wand too, but she refused to brandish it. She was counting her allowance that Lyonette had given her.
“Are you sure it’s alright to give me so many coins?”
She had been dismayed by the amount of money, but Lyonette had told her to buy as many books as she wanted—for the inn would use them too! The spoiling of Nanette had begun—but Erin had a task before going to the bookshop again.
The three dangerous women of various ages…were not what was clearing some of the pedestrians in front of them. Mrsha’s swagger actually decreased her walking speed, so she kept having Grimalkin nearly walk into her.
“Mrsha, please walk faster.”
The Sinew Magus didn’t look as ‘tough’, but he was surveying the street and Erin’s moving bird-charm. The little Gnoll glanced up and decided he could swagger for both.
Watching Grimalkin walk was an exercise in anatomy. It always was. He made even the biggest people look twice, and the Sinew Magus wasn’t even the most dangerous person in the group.
Tessa, fully visible, had both hands on her daggers. The scarred Drake was so menacing that half the criminals who saw her decided today was a day of rest. A peaceful holiday.
“Tessa, you don’t have to glare and hold your daggers.”
The Named-rank replied out of the corner of her mouth.
“This is my first big job. You told me there might be danger.”
“Yeah, but—I don’t actually know how much. Don’t hold the daggers, please?”
“Mm.”
Shriekblade let go of her daggers, but she stared so hard at a little baby in a stroller the baby stopped crying and played dead. They were on the hunt for Nerrhavia’s curse upon Erin.
…However, once more, Erin felt like they were going in circles. She cursed as they came to a street, and everyone looked at the little wicker bird tugging left.
“Hey. This is like—a nearly complete circle.”
“One more left and it will be. Perhaps we should speed up?”
The swagger-speed intensified, and Erin hurried down the street…only for the frantically-tugging bird to suddenly go still.
“Damn.”
Mrsha nodded at the bad language. Erin was too annoyed to not curse.
“This is just like last time! Is it someone running away from us?”
“I don’t think so, Miss Solstice. Or else the bird would tell us to keep going. I think something is vanishing. May I see the charm?”
Nanette peered at the little bird as Grimalkin and Tessa looked around. The [Rogue] actually leapt into the crowd, vanishing, and came back to report.
“I didn’t sense anyone. They’re either higher-level than me or it’s something else.”
“I think…we’re falling behind whatever it is. Or we’re being deliberately kept away.”
Erin Solstice growled.
“Sounds about right.”
“Who are we up against, Miss Solstice?”
Grimalkin lifted a claw as she hesitated.
“If it is secret, don’t mind me. But it might be helpful to know what we are trying to accomplish.”
He was being—careful. Polite. Erin sighed.
“Grimalkin, of all the questions I think it’d be bad to answer—this is one of them. Let’s keep going.”
The bird would reactivate soon, if yesterday and today were any indications. Grimalkin nodded, and they walked on. Mrsha pointed at a stall selling roasted chestnuts and tugged Nanette over. Erin stopped so they could buy some.
“Get some for Tessa! So…not going to ask, Grimalkin?”
She looked at him. The Sinew Magus was so loudly not asking anything she could hear it. But the Drake coughed.
“I—am trying to be a good friend of the inn, Erin. Of yours. It occurs to me that pressing you at every opportunity has been unwise and unkind.”
“Sometimes I deserve it. You didn’t even talk about me doing the Albez thing.”
He shrugged fractionally.
“Frankly—that was the kind of thing I would have advocated for. Because you did it…you had to have good reasons.”
He gave Erin a long look, and she appreciated that he got it. Erin scuffed at the ground.
“Yeah. No excuses. I did it because I thought I should. It definitely wasn’t nice.”
She waited, but the Sinew Magus just nodded.
“What else is there to say? I have noted your <Quests>. I imagine everyone has asked you about that. I—I do respect your privacy, Erin. I have theories, of course, but I will not attempt to force you to answer them.”
He seemed awkward, and the [Innkeeper] glanced up at him as Tessa tapped a young woman with a crystal hand on the shoulder. Well, she didn’t look like she had a crystal hand—or that she was right behind Erin until Tessa grabbed her.
“Get lost. Try it again and you bleed out.”
Erin and Grimalkin turned as someone fled. The [Innkeeper] looked up at Grimalkin and smiled faintly.
“Lay it on me.”
The Sinew Magus hesitated. He spoke as he watched Mrsha pointing at the chestnuts she wanted.
“—These are not questions, but my line of thinking. When I heard you posted a <Mythical Quest>, after I ascertained the phenomenon and the legitimacy, of course, I had a few thoughts. I won’t ask how you know how to post it. Or why it mirrors established <Contract> Skills and rare Skills of that nature. However—I considered the psychology.”
Tessa was already lost, so she decided to ignore Grimalkin, but Erin listened as the Magus lifted a few claws.
“You, Erin Solstice, do not act without foresight. Some might think that was simply a way to show off or—thoughtless. I do not. Why post a <Quest> to find the City of Stars? And why post a secondary quest to find the Crossroads of Izril? The two are certainly related. But it must be that this will be a net boon to all.”
“Sounds reasonable.”
