Erin suspected that Numbtongue or Earlia could get you an actual ruby gemstone that cost less than the fake ones on display. Grimalkin picked up a vase as ugly as sin and nearly dropped it. He caught it just in time, and Doren nodded.
“Between the day-sales and breakages, we make a lot. So my family doesn’t have to work. Each generation, one of us takes over the business. Guess who’s been working here every day?”
“D-do you get breaks?”
“Weekends. I used to work the entire week. Oh, and there’s another fun requirement which means only the family can do this job.”
His eyes—his eyes had once been bright, faintly red, and Erin imagined they bloomed like excited flowers in a younger boy’s gaze. They had the deadness of working customer service for four decades in a business you didn’t own for your family.
There was a depth of despair and emptiness there that even Belavierr would fear. Especially because it turned out that Doren was the most mundane person in this shop.
“I don’t have a class.”
Even Pryde and Grimalkin turned at that. Erin’s jaw dropped.
“But—why?”
Doren leaned over the counter.
“Cormeng didn’t have one. So the shop only lets someone like me open it. Get it? From the day I was a kid—well, I make good money. I can open at eight, close at six, and get weekends off. I am so happy.”
His eyes made Erin’s gaze slide sideways, and she had stared down Xarkouth. There was something off here. Even in the stores in her city—she hadn’t seen this kind of despondency. It was a job, so why…?
“You said you used to not get weekends off. What happened?”
“I collapsed.”
She stared at him, and he avoided her gaze.
“Why…why work like this if it’s not something you want to do? You don’t enjoy this. I can tell.”
“Someone’s got to. The store will be unused, and my family depends on me.”
“So let it—”
“It’ll go to someone else. Appear in front of them. We can’t let it leave the family or someone else without levels will get it. This. Is. Important. I’ll retire and someone else gets to take over the business. I’ll have plenty of time to enjoy it all.”
When? She looked at him as he struck the counter for emphasis, and Erin held back that word. She tried to ask something else. Tried to—
“But if Cormeng made this shop—he cast magic! Without levels!”
“Yep.”
“Can you cast—”
“No.”
“S-so, how’s the job? I mean, how’s your personal life? Got any hobbies? Got a…kid?”
Doren gave Erin a bleak smile. And now he seemed to be regretting talking to her at all because he was looking in a mirror he didn’t want to stare at.
“I sit in this shop for eight hours, five days a week. What do you think? All the attractive women are throwing themselves at…”
He gestured at his form, and to his credit, it was mostly his sedentary job. And maybe he was losing hair in the center of his head and it was spreading out in an unfortunate way, but you could do something with that. It was probably the, uh…
Despair. In fact, he gave Pryde such a long look that Erin really did feel bad for him. She bit her lip.
“I’m sorry to hear that, Doren.”
He looked at her, surprised, and shrugged.
“Thanks. But there’s worse jobs. I’ve never had to worry about being stabbed by an angry customer. Just—how would you make this better?”
He showed her the store. Gestured around at it and Erin saw his family perching on one shoulder and that promised day waiting for him. Doren confessed softly.
“It’s fun at first. It really is, and you put a lot of work into it. My aunt told me it was fun for her too. Then it becomes a job—but you can’t run away from it. Day-by-day is fine. The scrying orbs? My aunt read thousands of books. This is fine. How would you make it—”
A sound interrupted his voice.
Crash. Mrsha and Grimalkin stared at the pot, and Doren sighed.
“…That. Let me get the price.”
Erin would have loved to have a longer conversation with the man, and she hoped she would. But the crash had reminded her she was on a mission. She turned back to Doren.
“You…didn’t happen to have any weird guests about a week or so back, did you? Some—odd people? A woman, maybe?”
He did stop, then. The Sinew Magus was offering him some silver coins, and Doren glanced up sharply.
“This shop is neutral. We don’t tell tales about our customers. We don’t get high-level people inside if we can help it. You shouldn’t have found this place unless you knew about it. Magnolia Reinhart somehow found out, and we’ve had the [Ladies], but we keep to ourselves. We don’t want trouble, Miss Solstice.”
“I get that, but—did you? Because I think she left something in here that’s been bothering me.”
Slowly, Doren went back to the counter with the dustpan and tossed the shards into a bin. He looked around and lowered his voice.
“We closed shop permanently in that city. If she did something—take it out. Cormeng’s store can’t keep out…high-level folk. I don’t want to know who that was, and I’m not asking questions. Please.”
He gave her a pleading look, and Erin wondered who…or what he’d seen. She nodded.
“Can I poke around? I won’t be long.”
“We have three floors. And there’s no back rooms—it’s just more rooms. If you need to squeeze past the shoe racks, go ahead. You can walk for about five thousand feet that way.”
“Ancestors.”
Grimalkin muttered. He had trouble navigating some of the displays—this place was cramped to the point of being claustrophobic.
“Miss Erin? Do you need us to come with you?”
Nanette looked up, but Erin pointed to Tessa.
“I’m fine. I’ll go ahead and look—Mrsha, don’t buy all the cheap jewels. They’re fake.”
But they look so cool! Mrsha decided to follow Erin as the [Innkeeper] walked into the antique store.
Here was what Erin knew of such places. They had things people didn’t want to buy.
Oh, you could find tons of stuff you might theoretically buy. Like look at all these sofas! Actual sofas, some in good condition, some worn—chairs on end, tables, furniture, even dressers!
Now, before you thought about finding a high-quality Terandrian dresser that a [Lady] had once used, remember where you were. These were not the kind of items you could just refurbish a bit and have thousands of gold pieces of quality on-hand.
The dream was finding such a chair or some antique you’d take to an [Appraiser] on a network and earn tons of money for, right? That was what Erin recalled of thrift stores in her world.
Here was the thing. If it were here? Someone had already found it. Erin had remembered tons of collectible cards in the big thrift store she knew in her city. Plausibly worth a lot to collectors? Big signs from old company shops, and, oh—yes, clothing galore.
Something else that both that shop and this one had?
Dolls.
Too many of them. All in the old style of those creepy, staring faces shaped a bit too realistically—and yet not quite the real thing.
The worst ones smiled at you. Erin shuddered at one in the semi-permanent light.
“I bet you’re super creepy at night.”
“I don’t go in here at night.”
Doren called out from the desk. Even Tessa seemed weirded out. She hunched, trying to avoid a row of old toys that Mrsha was theoretically interested in. Theoretically as in—the moment she looked at them, like an old push-wagon, she was not interested in them. Tessa bumped into a doll and stared into a smiling Drake doll’s face.
She punched it.
The costs of this visit were adding up, and Erin was still following the wicker bird. It was pulling her in two spots now, and she eventually stomped past a row of urns before swerving.
“Wh—no way! I think I found it!”
Mrsha was staring blankly at a piece of paper on one of the walls. It was of different kinds of gemstones, one of those encyclopedia-something things. She wondered…who would ever buy such a thing. Did you frame that and hang it on your wall like some loser?
Maybe Numbtongue would want it. Oh, and here was one on plants, for Octavia. Like everything, it was semi-valuable, but you weren’t going to buy it.
In the same way, Erin was hunting along rows of pots and vases that looked good.
Sort of.
Not really.
They were the kind of craftsmanship you could admire and never want to put in your home. Not gregariously ugly and not good. Erin came to a stop in front of one that looked almost like the others. She frowned at the creamy vase. It had some nice coloration ruined entirely by the motif it was going for—fish scales. The potter had been good enough to do the effect in the vase—big enough for some rather large flowers?
So you had a cream-color, carp-style vase that weighed…Erin oofed.
“Ten pounds? It’s solid. And hey…there’s something in here.”
She nearly dropped the vase and yanked something out. Erin almost threw it at once, and Tessa, who had drawn her blades, ready to attack a scorpion, stared.
“A finger.”
Mrsha’s head snapped around, but it wasn’t a finger. It was wax. And it looked uncannily like Erin’s finger. The [Innkeeper] stared at it.
“What the—”
“It’s a curse focus!”
Nanette had a dress in her arms. She pushed forwards excitedly and somewhat alarmed. Erin prodded the finger, but it didn’t hurt.
“It’s like voodoo magic. Does it—is it harming me?”
“It’s probably how you’re being cursed, Miss Erin. You should destroy it at once.”
“Any particular way?”
“Crush it?”
Erin clenched her fist. The wax was delicate and weak. As soon as she began deforming the wax, the charm stopped moving towards it. And Erin felt her finger, which had been the source of Nerrhavia’s unwanted curse—stop tingling.
Her middle finger kept going. Erin looked around.
“Wow. That was simple. There must be another one here.”
She put the vase back and followed the charm. But now, Erin was thinking. What…what was going on?
Nerrhavia had been haunting her dreams for a week. Annoyingly—after the first few dreams, she’d just appeared and harassed Erin. That was really annoying, and so was the feeling of her fingers from the curse. The occasional lick was bad enough, but now that she was here, Erin had just destroyed the charm.
This was a lot of work for no payoff. Erin’s paranoia mounted, but she hadn’t sensed any duplicity from Doren. If this were a trap, it was a stupid one.
So what’s going on here? Nerrhavia was supposed to be really smart.
As she hunted, Erin saw Nanette, Mrsha, and even Tessa finding things they might buy. The Named-rank adventurer had found a fake sword.
“You like fake swords, Tessa?”
“No.”
She tried to hide it behind her back. But the purely ornamental sword…the Named-rank showed it to Erin.
“It looks nice.”
“Yeah, sort of. Why do you want it?”
“To hang it somewhere? That’s what you do.”
Erin opened her mouth. She supposed Tessa had a point.
“Well, I don’t like thrift stores. So there’s not much for me to buy. I used to play card games, y’know. I had that phase. I would go to this store and buy them, but there’s never anything valuable here.”
Mrsha and Nanette looked at her, and even Tessa listened. Erin strolled through memory lane.
“My city had one big store, you see. And when I went there, I’d hunt for ages for a good card or something rare like a real gem. But you never find it. Because it’s a thrift store.”
What about my treasure?
Mrsha held up a fake pink diamond. Erin sighed.
“Yeah, I did that too, Mrsha. And bought stuff like Nanette. But…oh, I think we’re here.”
She came to a stand of dresses and rifled through them. Erin stared at the dresses and saw one that was dirty-pink and had a bright green thread lining the pockets. That was the only beautiful thing in the entire dress—the brown buttons did no favors. Erin shuddered as she reached into a pocket and pulled out another finger.
“I just don’t get this. There! Curse done!”
She threw the finger down and stomped on it. The curse vanished, and the bird went still. Erin wondered if Nerrhavia might appear in her dreams tonight. She doubted it.
But this was too easy. Think, Erin, think!
“At least buy something, Erin. The dress is, um…there are some dresses that look nice.”
Nanette urged her, but Erin shook her head. She was turning away from the dress. This store was depressing. It was like the opposite of her inn. The depressing store, and Doren—she wished he had a bit of magic.
“Doren, I’m done.”
When she made her way to the counter, the man looked relieved.
“Thanks. Was it anything—dangerous?”
“Nah. Just a prank. Say, you should come to my inn sometime.”
“I can’t—”
“Oh, right. Location. Well—come to Liscor. Do you serve Liscor?”
He checked a list.
“…No. It’s not impossible, but it wasn’t good business, I heard. I could.”
She gave him a big smile.
“Think about it. I’ll bring you some food, special delivery.”
He looked at her, and the man shrugged.
“That sounds nice. Maybe I will. But don’t make a fuss. My job’s fine. In fact—now that you cleared up that woman’s trouble, I think we’ll go back to normal.”
His eyes slid sideways, and Erin looked at him. She wondered if he’d ever go to Liscor. She suspected he was lying to her face. Erin gazed at Grimalkin and Pryde, and the two were discussing going to Pallass.
“…have my estates. Your company could stay there.”
“Intriguing. I will find an inn.”
“I see.”
“However, I may visit.”
Doren followed Erin’s glance. And even without her Skills, she sensed a wave of jealousy and despondency off him. Yet Erin looked at Pryde and Grimalkin, and she wanted to smile. As much as Mrsha and Nanette were doing as Pryde glared at them.
It was a good thing. Erin looked around the store and called out to a Drake gazing blankly at all the fake jewels.
“Excuse me, where are you from?”
“Huh? Oh—I’m just—down the street. Tyss Street.”
“Tyss Street where?”
The Drake gave Erin a long, long look.
“The city? Dessieth District?”
“What city’s that, exactly? You know, you’re in a magical shop.”
“I’m what?”
“Miss, please.”
Doren looked aggravated as the Drake freaked out. He glared at the [Innkeeper] as Erin explained, and she was definitely banned along with everyone here. But Erin concluded by introducing herself, and the Drake gobbled.
“You’re—you’re the Human on the scrying orb? I’m in Liscor? But I’m all the way down on the coast—”
“No way. Are you east or west?”
“I—we were the northern-most city on the west coast. The Hivelands are north of us. Cabbenest.”
“No way! I’ll look you up later! This is so cool!”
Erin and the Drake turned to look at Doren. He glowered hugely and raised his voice as the other customers looked around.
