Erin had, in fact, taken virtually nothing of the ‘door tax’, and a lot of the items, alchemical especially, were in Saliss’ claws or elsewhere. So she could argue she’d done very little of this in self-interest, just someone else’s interest.
In fact, Chaldion of Pallass was there in the morning, and it seemed he had decided Pallass could help recompense the losses.
“And it just so happens Pallass is doing this because Saliss of Lights has all the alchemical items he needs?”
Even Halrac had sour grapes with Erin, but the Grand Strategist was upfront as he handed a bag of gold over.
“In a sense, I’m indebted to Miss Solstice. She has done the more good in the name of alchemy—”
“—And Pallass—”
Revi muttered. Chaldion ignored her.
“—Than there would be if everything were auctioned off like the Village of the Dead raid. This is less…profitable, but I will consider this a favor for all the teams inconvenienced. In fact, Miss Solstice, would you care to have a cup of coffee and discuss the issue this morning?”
Erin stuck a tongue out at him. She had been drinking with Wailant last night after talking to most of the Gold-ranks, and she had a full day of activities. Not least going to Invrisil with Grimalkin and Nanette and Mrsha on the hunt for her curse!
“I’d love to, Chaldion, but Halrac’s right. You coulda been here earlier, but you only seem to turn up when it benefits Pallass. Or the Drakes. Not much love for the northern teams?”
The [Strategist] faltered.
“They are historically employed by the Five Families in times of war and occasionally as hostile combatants, Miss Solstice—”
“Yeah, but that cuts both ways, don’t it? Don’t expect me to always get Pallass’ back! Or tail. Being biased isn’t good. Why ask me for coffee? What about my friends? Even poor Keldrass?”
The Drake jumped as Erin pointed him out and tried to shake his head, but Chaldion protested.
“I believe I’m a regular of this inn.”
“Oh yeah? What’s Yvlon’s middle name? What’s Bird’s favorite food?”
“Bird?”
“What kind of Bird? See? You only talk to me. You’ve never even said ‘hi’ to Mrsha. Pssh. Fake friends.”
Erin’s bullying of Chaldion left the Grand Strategist speechless. Mrsha held up a frowny-face notecard, but she was slightly delighted by Erin’s new attitude. Chaldion looked around, floundering.
“I think I’m quite sociable, Miss Solstice. I am pressed for time, but I know a number of guests.”
“Not me.”
Saliss raised a claw, and Chaldion glared at his grandson.
“—I would have a drink or conversation with anyone here. Even—Pisces.”
Pisces’ head turned in his seat as Chaldion pointed around, and the [Necromancer] pointed at himself.
“Me?”
“Sure. Suuure.”
Erin snorted, but her ribbing of Chaldion was light. Mainly because he was passing out gold and the adventurers were getting ready for their hunt. Colth had the lead, and Erin had decided not to linger in the inn. She would trust him to succeed—plus, Nerrhavia was getting on her nerves.
 
——
 
So Erin left the inn to the adventurers and business as usual. Similarly, there was one other duo of adventurers who had an appointment with trouble, though. An implacable force, perhaps. A guardian of old ways. An executioner, a judge and arbiter.
Klbkchhezeim the Slayer.
He sat in an office in the Free Hive. Once, it had been the only place with a desk in it, where only he was allowed. It held his work-gear, what records the Antinium needed to write down, and it was a kind of sanctuary.
A…unique place, for he was one of two True Antinium in the entire Free Hive. A sad, lonely journey.
These days, lots of Antinium had seats. There was a reading room, a room of paints, the Painted Antinium’s barracks, and he was no longer alone.
Somehow, Klbkch felt more alone. Despite having met Wrymvr, the Grand Queen again, despite the new Individuals, he felt less connected, less sure, and more tired and old than he ever had been.
Naturally, he blamed the new Antinium for this. They just weren’t as good as the old ones.
When he had been first created at the advent of the Antinium species by the First Queen, there had been a lot of improvements needed. Mistakes, costly ones, entire revolutions in their design.
But they’d been amazing Antinium. Shaped by the First Queen, not carbon-copies of Galuc. As good as Galuc was—the Antinium in Klbkch’s day could have swept Izril, and those weren’t even modern Antinium.
He had, privately, expressed these feelings to the one person besides the Free Queen worthy of his commentary. Well, besides Relc. And maybe Anand, if he were here. And Xrn, obviously, but—
He had talked to Erin. And do you know what she’d done? She’d laughed, patted him on the hand, and told him he was old.
Him. Klbkch! Yes, he was…but the implication was…she had said it like it was a failing.
“You’re old, Klbkch! Be nicer to the new Antinium or I’ll get mad. You don’t remember what it was like to be young.”
And he had assured her he did and remembered all his forms and his inadequacies and that even with all of them, he was simply holding the Painted Antinium to real standards. And she had called him old. Again.
Right now, Klbkch was mad. He was already irked by the Free Antinium’s new direction, but he had been changing bodies, among the Hivelands, and gone since his control had effectively been revoked. The Free Queen had assured him she had everything in hand.
Now they had a 7th Hive, even if it was more theoretical than practical. They had [Crusaders]. They had lots of Painted Antinium and a new group that had come from Liscor’s ‘Fellowship of the Inn’ as they kept calling themselves.
And guess who had to clean up the entire mess? Not Xrn. Oh, no. Klbkch sat in his office in this new Hive, as he had since the [Crusaders] had started coming back.
He had a cup of water in front of him for hydration and a piece of half-eaten bread since he could digest it. Bread. No butter on top. It was perfectly nutritious…although Klbkch had, for some reason, decided to buy bread instead of the nutritional paste the Antinium ate. The stale crust was there if he was hungry. Which he was not.
Klbkch also had sheets of paper, and he selected another and began to fill it out as the Antinium in front of him fidgeted.
“Designation.”
“Fuck you.”
“Designation.”
One of the other Antinium nudged the Worker.
“Lord Commander of the Centenium, Greatest Ant alive.”
Klbkch wrote down ‘Crusader 57-8’ on the piece of paper as one of the Workers whispered to him.
“Class.”
“[Crusader]. You blind?”
“Level?”
“Higher than your mother.”
Klbkch paused.
“I do not have a mother.”
“That’s what she said. Last night.”
Crusader 57 paused, and it occurred to him that the insults he’d been learning in Liscor’s army didn’t really work here. The Revalantor sighed.
“Level.”
“Level 21 [Spitfire Crusader].”
“Any unique Skills or abilities to report? I am going to note ‘verbal insults’ here preemptively.”
Squad 5 nervously waited for Crusader 57 to come up with a new insult. Klbkch listened and did not rise to the numerous personal attacks on his character, body, and non-existent family.
He would have dealt with this situation far differently a few months ago. But instead, Xrn had told him he had to be…gentle with these Workers and Soldiers. While unhelpfully not writing down any details about them whatsoever.
“Squad 5 is in service to the new 7th Hive of the Antinium under Prognugator…Centenium…Queen Xrn. As this is the case, I will not discuss your future within the Free Hive, and you are exempted from any further reports. You are dismissed.”
“Your face is dismissed. And ugly. Too afraid to fight me, Klbkch?”
The Revalantor’s head rose, and Squad 5 pulled Crusader 57 back. Klbkch spoke quietly.
“That would not be a concern if I were inclined to waste the Free Antinium’s resources.”
Crusader 57 just laughed at Klbkch.
“That’s supposed to be scary? You’re weak, Klbkch! Weak! Come over and fight me! You won’t! You’re useless! Let go of me, Crusader 53. I’m going to crap on his desk…”
Crusader 57, despite the unpleasant dialogue, was one of the more expeditious such meetings. Klbkch suspected the Worker had seen him execute an Aberration before. If Crusader 57 turned out to become one himself…and the signs were there…well, it wasn’t his problem.
“Next.”
He’d forgotten the last part. But since Squad 5 had run, Klbkch let it slide. The next—duo—to come in made Klbkch’s hands twitch towards his side.
“Goblins are not permitted in the Hive.”
“We are sorry, Revalantor Klbkch. But he is my brother.”
“That Goblin is not your brother.”
“He is. I am here.”
Klbkch stared at Infinitypear and Rasktooth and twitched. Then he decided that since he had 259 more Antinium to go—he was going to let this slide.
“Designation.”
“Infinitypear and Rasktooth.”
Klbkch slowly, and deliberately, wrote only the first name down on the new sheet.
“Class.”
“[Adventurer].”
This time, the quill slowed a bit. This was not the typical [Crusader] group. Adventurer? Klbkch realized Infinitypear was going to mandate a second page of notes and sighed as he dipped his quill in the ink pot—but he had to admit, it was a rare class.
This was more the kind of thing the Free Queen and he had wanted from the start. Well, the [Crusaders] too, but unique classes? He nodded.
“Level?”
“I am Level 13. Rasktooth is Level 4.”
“Hmm. Low-level. I thought you participated in the Meeting of Tribes war. Most of the other Antinium, especially Battalions 1 and 6, leveled far more.”
“That was not an adventure.”
“Unique Skills?”
That meant all of them. Klbkch wrote them down, asking for details, and then glanced at Infinitypear.
“Unique gear?”
“I have a spear Guardsman Relc gave me.”
“Adamantium spear…owned by Spearmaster Lulv.”
Klbkch underlined that a few times and noted Infinitypear’s name down on a separate ledger. Perhaps they should take it from him. Yes, he’d order Infinitypear to turn it over after this interview.
He’d been tempted to make Crusader 53 do the same, but he was a fighting soldier in Xrn’s army. Klbkch drummed his fingers on the table.
“As you are not part of the 7th Hive, and you are technically Painted Antinium, you fall under Pawn’s authority. However, you are a resident of The Wandering Inn—so you are to be classified independently of these two authorities unless you place yourself under the command of any body. The Free Queen or other Hives also being acceptable. Is this clear?”
“Must I do this, Revalantor Klbkch?”
“No.”
“Oh, good. Why am I here, please?”
At least this Worker was polite. Klbkch spoke the same words again, waiting for the blank look or questions.
“Every new Individual must prove its usefulness to the Hive and submit a plan of improvement or jobs. I will cite you Silveran, who has not only leveled in a class at commendable speed, but operates a business which provides other Antinium with jobs and earns a profit, which he remits part of to the Hive. His use to the Hive is commendable and an example—you must submit a proposal now or later to justify your activities. Or else you will be assigned to another group.”
Pawn had lobbied against this, as if this were a democracy—and his Painted Antinium had a lot of leisure, but he was allowed to do that given his command. However—Infinitypear was not Pawn’s. The Worker sat there, and it was Rasktooth who raised a hand.
“Infinitypear must get a job?”
“Yes.”
“Oh.”
Both Antinium and Goblin looked at each other and nodded. Klbkch wondered if he should just say it like that and then wondered how much time he had wasted with his other explanations. Unfortunately, it was clear Infinitypear might be one of the hard cases.
“I do not know what I can do, Revalantor Klbkch.”
“Then I can assign you to an appropriate role as a fighter or…”
“I do not want to do that, Revalantor Klbkch. Respectfully.”
Klbkch paused in tugging out a list of names. He looked up, and if he could have glared—his mandibles came together.
“You must provide some worth to the Hive. That is my role here. Assigning you a task that will either produce something of value or let you level. Or both.”
“Oh. Can he level instead of work?”
“That…is acceptable. Do you have a proposal?”
Klbkch waited patiently as Rasktooth and Infinitypear whispered. Then they turned to him.
“I want to adventure, Revalantor Klbkch. With Rasktooth. We will go explore many places.”
“Where?”
“Izril? Baleros? Everywhere. The sea and High Passes and…”
The two grew excited at the thought. Klbkch just shook his head. He stabbed the paper in front of him with a quill, hard enough to embed the tip into the wooden desk.
“I am looking for actionable proposals. Not…fantasies. You are combat assets for the Hive, if lower-level than some of your peers.”
“But we are [Adventurers]. We want to adventure.”
Infinitypear was getting stubborn. Xrn had so many rules. Klbkch’s hand was messing up the quill.
Don’t snap at them, Klbkch. Don’t shout at them, Klbkch. Don’t throw anything at them or I’ll blast you with lightning, Klbkch.
When he was an Antinium, everything was in service to the Hives. The Queen! There was no need for this because they were united. Klbkch ground out each word as he looked at Infinitypear.
“You must have a plan of action. Something you want to do and a goal that is clearly definable and within reach.”
“But what if I do not know what I want to do or what will happen? I wish to stay with my brother.”
“He is not your brother. You are Antinium.”
Klbkch slammed his hands on the table and stood. Rasktooth and Infinitypear rocked backwards in their chairs, and the Antinium outside Klbkch’s office stirred as the door trembled a bit. Klbkch stared at Infinitypear—and another Worker would have turned into a trembling ball by now. But Infinitypear protectively held Rasktooth.
“He is my brother. You are wrong. We are [Adventurers]. I think you do not know what that is, Revalantor Klbkch. Respectfully.”
Klbkch stared down at Infinitypear, and for a second, he was so furious he nearly drew his swords right then and there. For a second. Then—he stared at Infinitypear and Rasktooth, who had a clawed hand on his dagger.
And the spear. The spear Relc had given Infinitypear and the Worker was holding across his chest. Klbkch looked at the duo—and something in his brain seemed to—click.
A duo. One with green skin, the other with bug-shell. Not green scales—but close enough. Klbkch calmed down as the new chemistry in his body put him into an ice-cold, reflexive state. The Silent Queen’s adjustments.
