Some other way, then. Snatcher just had to be clever. Lure them into a trap? Drag something into a trap, yes. But how? Maybe…maybe…
Maybe a tool. Yes, there were tools here, hidden behind all the traps. A lovely tool.
While it thought, it roamed. With the heads on sticks, poking around corners.
Seeing for it. Monsters never saw it. Even the other beings only saw those staring heads—and they fled.
Insects, terrified spiders, Children—all ran if they noticed the staring, rotted heads. Snatcher only took a few, if it was bored.
It had all of them in its collection. Hundreds of one species, sometimes. It craved more.
The blue one. The woman of thread. Another half-Elf, a Dwarf…the white Gnoll…
It was creeping through corridors where the Raskghar had been, looking for that Minotaur again. Another good head it had so few of—and the ones of old had begun to turn to dust, despite its best of efforts, despite the magic that should have preserved them. Well…even the magic had begun to die.
Only when Snatcher was prowling around the empty Raskghar camp, turning over ruined cots, looking to see if they had hidden in one of the hidden trap doors, did it sense something odd.
He lifted a slab of stone up and stared down into the tunnel—then Snatcher sensed them.
Auras. Flickering, so faint—it turned around.
Were they there or not? Slowly, Snatcher shuffled around. Then, it heard a voice.
“—now—”
Snatcher had no head to raise—but it saw the dark, almost pitch-black camp of the Raskghar suddenly bloom with light. A dozen [Light] spells rose.
[Illumination]. Snatcher didn’t raise its claws to shield its face. It turned—and then it sensed them. A dozen plus presences.
Snatcher turned—and the first spell hit it full-on.
 
——
 
“[Support Casting: Intensified Magic]. [Spellbreaker’s Magic].”
“Link. Pump mana in—Typhenous, now, now!”
“[Burning Spells]! [Accelerated Spellsling]!”
“[Valmira’s Comet]!”
The first spell hit Facestealer as the adventurers dropped their camouflage Skills. It had noticed them too soon. But they were mostly in position. Colth stood with Typhenous, Ceria, and three other [Mages], all Gold-rank. Two were part of Orchestra and Variable Fortress.
Top-level [Mages], who cast through Typhenous. Or rather, let him have the first swing. Colth called it ‘benchmarking’.
So the first spell was a known Tier 4 spell boosted by as much mana as they could pump into it without overloading the spell matrix and with Skills giving it enough firepower that Ceria wondered if it could have blown one of the giant Shield Spider mothers to bits.
It had a commendable speed to it as well. The normally-slow comet hit Facestealer like one of Typhenous’ fastballs when he played baseball. Ceria saw the glowing, red center of the comet turning to blue trailing fire strike the monster as it turned—then the world flashed.
“Eat shit!”
That was her additional comment. Ceria waited as Colth turned and chatter broke through her speaking stone.
“Did we hit it?”
“Sealing off the other corridors—[Stone Wall].”
“Some monsters lurking down our end. We’ll take them out.”
That was Halrac’s voice. It was followed by a dim explosion until his speaking stone went dead. The other teams were cordoning off this area.
A perfect spot to ambush Facestealer. They’d been dogging it for a while, and Colth had observed that few monsters liked to stay in its vicinity. Only the Crypt Worms and suits of armor ignored it—possibly because it had no interest in things without heads.
This was almost perfect. Valeterisa was speaking without much fear in her voice.
“I am still preparing. Where is the Chest of Holding? Oh, here it is. Yes, yes, Montressa, casting. Hold up your barrier. Have we killed the monster yet?”
“Wait.”
Colth cut all the voices short, and everyone paused. In the brief moment where the spell engulfed the room in dust and light—Ceria squinted into the cloud. A [Mage] blew the dust back as Ceria aimed her wand at—
Facestealer.
He stood there, swiveling right and left, his hide scorched by the comet. That was all. Ceria didn’t even see the scars from Colth’s blades and Saliss and Lehra’s attacks from yesterday.
“[Valmira’s Comet] has failed. Benchmarking higher. Tier 4 magic is almost completely useless. Not nullified.”
Colth spoke calmly, and Facestealer slowly turned. He focused on the five adventurers, and Colth locked ‘eyes’ with the monster.
“He’s coming. Phase 2.”
When Facestealer charged, he was so fast it took even Ceria off-guard, and she had seen him fight.
Fast. Just like how fast he could swing. The lumbering monster ran at the adventurers—but Ceria was already raising walls upon walls of ice.
It would barely slow Facestealer down, but that wasn’t the point—
The monster seemed to sense something, and it slowed as it raised a huge claw. This time, it was too slow to move.
“[Piercing Shot]!”
Halrac and a dozen adventurers volleyed behind Facestealer. Enchanted arrows and bolts struck it in a volley, the air flashed, and some of Ceria’s walls cracked, but Typhenous had a [Forcewall] behind them.
“Stumble, stumble, damn you—”
Colth was muttering, but Facestealer just held up a claw—then turned back. It raised a claw, punched through six feet of ice—and Colth smiled at it.
That same demonic smile that Ceria thought was the most honest one he had.
I’m going to kill you.
All the kinetic force of both the comet and arrows—against all logic—didn’t make Facestealer move. He should have. It would make their lives so much easier, but either he was so heavy he should be sinking into the earth and cracking the flagstones of the dungeon or something was letting him resist pure physics.
It didn’t matter. As Facestealer turned, Halrac lifted his bow. He’d been entrusted with something. He launched one single arrow, and Facestealer whirled—lifted a claw—
“Vortex arrow! Run! Run!”
The [Mages] ran, and Typhenous beat everyone but Colth. Ceria felt her ice walls disappearing as the vortex tore chunks out of the magic. It sucked away magic, and it was the first Relic-class item used so far.
The first. Dead gods.
“Halrac, tell me you hit it! Tell me it’s dead or hurt! We’re heading to Phase 3!”
Colth was running, leaping over a painted trap. Ceria slowed, but nothing was coming behind them—so far. Yet she heard Halrac’s terse reply.
“It’s not dead. But it didn’t like that.”
“How not dead is—”
Whumph. The sound of Facestealer slamming into a wall was followed by the dust—and the blur of it moving. Ceria had never seen anyone of that size move that fast.
It slammed into the corridor the [Mages] were running down, and the half-Elf saw that Facestealer was…
Torn. No, its hide was. Colth’s brand upon it that was letting them track it was twisted slightly, as was its brown-black, matted hide. Actually, it was fairly pristine now—even the dirt had been sucked away.
It looked like someone had taken Facestealer’s skin and twisted it across its body. That—Ceria wondered what that would feel like if you did it to skin.
She bet it hurt. But that was not what you wanted to see after a vortex arrow from Rhir hit a monster.
“Dead gods damn it. An Adult Creler would flinch at that!”
Orchestra’s [Mage] screamed. She stumbled, and Facestealer ran. This time—he wasn’t just charging like Yvlon running at full tilt. He had a blur, he was moving so fast. A horse’s speed? Faster?
“Oh shit!”
Ceria bent down. She grabbed the woman, and Facestealer was on top of them. He ran through a series of magical spikes that shot up and shattered on his body. He swung a fist as Colth turned.
“Ceria!”
 
——
 
Facestealer punched through Ceria and the [Mages] and actually stumbled. It swung wildly, at Colth, Typhenous—and they vanished. A few objects clattered to the ground.
Speaking stones. Snatcher stared at them and heard a voice speaking.
“It can’t tell the difference between illusions backed by aura-faking spells. Interesting.”
A trick? Facestealer rotated left and right as Ceria exhaled. She hadn’t thought you could use illusions on it! But Colth had speculated that if they used fake auras…
Now the monster seemed confused. It held still—then began to lumber back the way it had come. Warily. As if it knew it was now in trouble. Just how much trouble?
“Phase 3. Can’t harm it with a vortex arrow, can’t blast it with a Tier 4 spell…before we bust out our best tricks, let’s see if it has any conventional weaknesses. Valley? Now.”
A wall of stone rose on the far end of the hallway. Facestealer whirled as Ceria watched via the scrying stone they’d stuck to a wall. It began to stride towards the wall—then Valeterisa, the Archmage of Izril, cast her magic.
“[Tidal Wave]. [Floods of Gaarh Marsh]. And [Mithril Wall], thank you, Montressa.”
Facestealer saw the first wave of water coming from the wall. It held up a hand—began to approach—and then seemed to sense how many protective layers were behind it. It began to run back the way it had come. But now—
The Raskghar camp was ideal for this. It was a huge, domed room, and if you blocked in all the entrances, it was enclosed. The dungeon itself was just a box. And so Colth had asked Valeterisa to flood the box.
Even now, the monster didn’t fall as thousands of pounds of water poured around it. It ran into the center of the Raskghar camp and saw no exits. No hallways. They’d all been sealed off.
“It’s slowing. Anchor it down!”
More spells hit Facestealer as one of the walls slid up. It whirled towards Typhenous and a band of [Mages] including Pisces. They had tripvine bags, [Sticky Web] spells—one even cast [Slow].
“They’re not really working—”
“Other side! [Archers]!”
Halrac and his group shot [Rope Arrows] and more delaying tricks. Facestealer took a step—and a strand of mithril rope from one of the top Gold-rank adventurers jerked it back, snagging it. It halted, began to tug, reached down—
And the tidal wave engulfed it.
The entire room became a blur and chaos as it filled. Ceria saw a flailing shape in the dark—and Colth whispered.
“It’s not…floating. It sinks? Can we use that? Is it going to—?”
Facestealer was anchored to the floor. But even as it tore the mithril rope away—it didn’t float. It was probably far too heavy. It flailed around in the water, then stood there.
“Oh come on. It has to breathe.”
Someone, Deni, Ceria thought, said that. Yet she saw no bubbles of air as Facestealer stood there. It turned…and began striding towards where one of the magical walls was. It was slightly slower underwater, but it—it—
“It’s not in distress. Valley.”
Colth wasn’t giving up. Valeterisa was already on the case. Facestealer turned back as the Archmage of Izril pressed one hand through a magical barrier on the far wall. It looked at her, and she stared innocently back.
“I was told even Xrn couldn’t kill you. Fascinating. You are so terrifying I feel like running away. [Grand Lightning].”
The jolt that ran through the flooded room was more a feeling than a sight. Ceria actually saw Facestealer twitch. Valeterisa paused as it began striding towards her—fast.
“Uh oh. Ah, ah…[Blue Lightning]? [Transmutation: Water to Acid—]”
“Valeterisa, run!”
The Archmage of Izril stopped casting magic and hurried away as Colth cursed. The magical water and spells didn’t seem to be hurting Facestealer. But wow—it was getting pissed.
It punched through the protective walls and then turned as the water vanished. This time, Facestealer just turned and waited. It paced back into the center of the room and picked something up.
Just a lump of stone from the walls. But like before, Ceria knew how fast and hard it could throw it.
“It’s waiting. Phase 4, Colth?”
“…Wait.”
The Ultimate Supporter was crouched, masterminding the phases of attacks. His first three plans hadn’t been ones he’d sold the adventurers on as being the ultimate stopgaps—but they had assumed they would have borne a bit more fruit than this.
Even so, the Named-rank just waited as Facestealer turned. The other adventurers were getting antsy, but Colth was not.
“How does it think? Does it get mad? What does it do when—ah.”
Facestealer turned. It had apparently lost patience, and it charged after Valeterisa. Colth nodded.
“It’s time. Orchestra? Give it hell.”
“Earplugs!”
Typhenous grabbed Ceria’s arm, and she was already stuffing wax into her ears. Facestealer didn’t see the Archmage—she’d already teleported to safety with Montressa. What it did see was a group of performers. They sat at one end of the hallway as it halted—then ran at them.
But they were already playing. They had been playing for a while, and all one of the [Mages] had to do was cast what few buff-spells you could add to a musical attack.
[Loudness]. [Doubled Echo]. There wasn’t that much auditory magic most adventurers knew, but the acoustics of the narrow dungeon? Orchestra’s leader, Deni, looked up.
He’d been having a bad day. His teeth bared as he aimed his violin, and a trumpet swung up, drumsticks fell, and Orchestra struck their note.
[Combined Skill — Onslaught Performance: Louder Than the Sea’s Roar].
Even with their protective Skills. Even far from the center of the Skill—Ceria still went deaf. She felt the vibration go through the dungeon. Constrained by the magic. Shaking down corridors, killing the closest monsters from the sound alone.
Sound and force and—
A Skill. A Skill so powerful that even Snatcher felt it. A Skill from adventurers. It passed through the tunnels, and the warden of the steeled ones raised its head. It even reached the city within, and the thousands looked up.
It…reached Mother.
And she listened. Listened, but did not move. For Facestealer? Snatcher?
It bled.
It was upon its knees.
 
——
 
It bled red. Oozing blood through the ‘eyes’, the jagged holes in its body.
Snatcher was bleeding? It ‘looked’ down and felt itself bleed. So loud. Louder than anything it had heard since Mershi was lost.
Like the sound of the City of Shields dying.
It—it hurt. Adventurers. Real adventurers.
Pain.
Mother had heard it. But Mother…she was not like Snatcher. It was the last of the guardians.
In its way, it was stronger than her. She hid down there, hid because even she could die. It?
It had forgotten, until the blue insect, until this—that it could die too.
PAIN.
