It disturbed Snatcher, but it was no longer dangerous. The Skill ran out. More bugs in armor blocked Snatcher’s way.
They could not harm it. Death, death, death.
It charged them, claws reaching to pluck their heads. To teach them—
“—[Weapon of Faith].”
A mace rose, glowing, and a [Templar] set himself. Snatcher wavered. And a mace that shone with more than magic struck its claw. The [Crusaders] charged, and Snatcher wavered as the blades of a new kind of warrior hit it.
The [Templar] rained blows on Snatcher’s arms and body as it backed up—then stared at the gleaming Dragonbone. At the sudden—
Snatcher ripped off his head. The [Crusaders] froze, and one raised a shield empowered by f—
A claw tore through it. Snatcher threw the bodies aside as the Antinium broke up. They stared at it, and Snatcher roared, for it had given itself a mouth.
Bones gnashed. It turned, green blood covering it. Now—its fury reached a new zenith.
THIS? THIS? YOU THINK THIS IS ENOUGH?
I KNOW THIS TRICK.
A [Crusader] with a bow launched an arrow made of faith—and it snapped on Snatcher’s contempt. Then they felt it, and their powers quailed.
MOTHER. MOTHER. MOTHER!
Bugs, fleeing in disarray. The two warriors, one dragging the other back. Any more? Snatcher looked around and saw a half-child with flaming breath leading worthless soldiers.
Who else? Who else would dare? Did you not see the dead? The monster’s outrage grew, for they did not see it. They did not know it, and so they did not cower or run or beg. And that was its largest fault, its greatest weakness.
 
——
 
It had—forgotten.
Forgotten they would never stop.
Oh, many of them would. Many already had.
Ylawes Byres stood at the gate that was opened a crack to give Zevara’s Watch a retreat route. Klbkch was standing over Relc as a [Healer] bent, checking on the Drake.
“What are you doing? Standing there?”
Klbkch turned guiltily, but it was not him that Ylawes was addressing. Ysara no longer needed to prop him up. The Gold-ranks and Silver-ranks stared as the [Knight] looked around.
“Where’s Dawil? What are you doing? We have to get out there.”
Falene emerged, supporting Dawil. The Dwarf’s armor was rent down the chest, but he was alive.
“Lad…”
Ylawes turned to him, but the Dwarf just raised his hammer.
“Next time, we’ve gotta duck. What’s our plan?”
The [Knight] turned, and for all Falene shuddered—she was right there. But when he looked around, the other Captains and adventurers stared at him as if he were crazy.
“You want us to take that thing on? Byres, Orchestra couldn’t bring it—”
“Are you adventurers? That is our responsibility. Who’s with me?”
Spit flew from the [Knight]’s mouth, and he felt himself shaking. He turned to Ysara.
“Lend me your sword.”
“Ylawes!”
He turned and stared at Facestealer. And he—
He was not the only one.
 
——
 
Waters were pouring from the heavens. Waters without end—Zevara was trying to drown the bastard, not knowing it had been tried. Or just delay the monster.
“She’s activated a failsafe. She can’t do that!”
“Shut up.”
“But—”
“[Senators]—out of here.”
Chaldion of Pallass growled. He watched as a small lake formed around the inn—but the monster was just walking underwater.
The Watch Captain hadn’t done that for the Face-Eater Moth attacks. It was one of her few safeguards against an Antinium attack—a Tier 6 spell.
Maybe she didn’t care. Maybe she thought Facestealer was a greater threat.
“Grand Strategist, we are ready to sortie. But the door is down. Do we have permission to engage?”
Chaldion was sitting outside the door on the 8th Floor as General Duln waited. The [Strategist] exhaled as he smoked a cigar. His third one. The door was down—and he suspected they were inside the garden.
“If it opens—do not engage. Give me a window to use [Path to Victory]. Keep Saliss alive. And the [Innkeeper].”
“Yessir.”
He was waiting.
 
——
 
They were waiting for him. And the cost? It weighed in their bones, like Mihaela Godfrey, running for the surface.
Tekshia Shivertail leaned on her spear as she stood at Liscor’s gates. Waiting for the monster to approach as the Watch fell back. She doubted she could do better than Relc—but was she fleeing?
The Dwarf stood at the door in Esthelm, and his voice seemed to rumble like the High Passes above. He smoldered with a weary guilt and flame.
He was no warrior—but Master Pelt of Esthelm called out as Kevin and his apprentice, Emessa, tried to reason with him.
“If it takes a master of steel and stone, I’ll slay that creature of bone. I fear no monster, and I have held living flame. Tell them, my grandfathers, the day I redeemed my name!”
He struck the door, but it was silent.
“Open it, [Innkeeper], and set one wrong in this world to right!”
No matter what the cost—the Dwarf raged and waited.
 
——
 
Did Snatcher feel it? A thousand foes, gnawing at its shell, its stolen bones? It was turning as the [Crusaders] regrouped in the Hive’s hidden tunnels.
The Silver Swords were exiting the city, and two teams broke from the silent adventurers to join them.
The Pride of Kelia and Vuliel Drae. They were Silver-rankers—but they struck each one of the Beriad like a blow to the heart.
That was honor. That was—
Adventurers. Ylawes Byres carried his sister’s sword, and his shield-arm would not work, but he called to the monster as the Antinium watched.
“Turn, monster!”
Facestealer stopped at the entrance to the inn, and one sinuous head made of lengths of bone turned back. It looked nothing like the old form. Here was a creature to creep through windows, squeeze into houses at night. A monster of nightmares. It regarded Ylawes with little interest, but the [Knight] screamed, his voice hoarse and breaking.
“Turn around! By House Byres and Izril, we will see you dead. Turn around by Liscor. By the Five Families! By—Yderigrisel, I swear I will cut you down.”
A hand froze on the opening to the inn, a flicker of recognition made even Facestealer halt. As if it recalled that name and was…offended.
That [Knight] deserved an army at his back. But the [Crusaders]’ faith broke upon that thing—as if it were armored in more than mere bone. As if—they had felt—it had faith of its own, twisted and dark.
“Queen Xrn, Queen Xrn, please lead us to battle.”
The Beriad and 3rd Battalion were ready—but they were holding back as Artur and the other leaders beseeched the one individual who could harm Facestealer. Who had—and who watched the fighting above.
“No. I forbade Klbkch to enter battle. He disobeyed. You may do battle. I will not.”
Xrn’s voice was touched by the colors swirling in her head and black rage at Facestealer. But she held back.
“Why?”
Artur was confused, and the Small Queen stared at him. Her eyes shone with beautiful, magical light—and a colder confidence than Olesm had yet reached. She pointed with her staff at the monster.
“Level well.”
 
——
 
Cold ice. A [Knight]’s fury. He charged across the open ground at Facestealer, though the monster’s aura tried to stop his limbs.
He was not alone. Dasha was running behind Dawil, and Anith and Falene’s spells rained down along with Nailren’s arrows, but Facestealer snapped the ropes and nets without even slowing.
Nevermind that reinforcements might be coming. Ylawes did not go for that. He did not go in hopes of inspiring or for the glory or levels.
He went because he had to. And two teams joined him. The [Knight] ran—and the [Innkeeper] saw him.
She stopped, gasping for breath in the street as she tried to get back to her door, and saw him standing at the edge of her inn. Erin Solstice’s magic and hat and inn couldn’t slow that thing down.
It knew her garden. Her aura clashed with Facestealer’s, letting Vuliel Drae and The Pride of Kelia move—but it was like a mountain. An old, buried mountain of sins.
Ylawes. Erin cried out and raised her hand. You idiot. You—brave fool. She did not always like him, but he?
He deserved more. So she threw up her hand and shouted to the sky.
“[Boon of the Guest: Yderigrisel]!”
Mrsha slammed into Erin from behind, and Grimalkin and Pryde turned in confusion. They didn’t know that name, perhaps, but—Erin strained and felt a void where she should have felt the Skill working.
He had never been a guest at her inn. But she had been his guest. 
“No—no—damn it—[Boon of the Guest: The Silver Dragon-Knight]. Come on!”
She slammed a fist into her shin. Then Erin’s head rose. Falene was glowing with Lyonette’s boon, so Erin shouted.
“Dawil—[Boon of the Guest: Pelt]!”
A Dwarf gasped as his hammer rose—but it swung and bounced against the monster’s armor without doing a thing. He backed away and reached down to his belt, which hummed—
And he drew a blade remade. For a second, for a battle. The Dwarf stared at the axe—and threw. It cut into that bone and shattered again—and Facestealer went for the Dwarf. It seized him up as Falene shouted and hit Ylawes as the [Knight] charged it.
Down the [Knight] went, tumbling down the hill, helmet dented, and he rose before he came to consciousness. Facestealer was raging at the things chipping what should not be damaged. Dawil’s head jerked under a claw—
“[Oil Spray]!”
He slipped out. Insill ran as Pekona slashed and dodged one of Facestealer’s claws. It was…weaker in this form, although it slashed so fast with another claw it ripped out a strip of her flesh and left it dangling. The monster advanced as she stumbled back, and someone stabbed it in the face.
And again—the metal tip of the conical spear left the tiniest dimple in the bone. But it did mark it.
“Run! Run, brother!”
Infinitypear lowered the spear and ran as Rasktooth shot his hand-crossbow into Facestealer’s armor—then threw an acid jar. Neither did much, but the monster pursued them before it was struck by Ylawes.
The adventurers were relieved by a sudden army of [Crusaders]. They charged up the slope but did not surround the monster. They attacked, raining crossbow bolts, letting the Beriad and 3rd Company hammer it—and fell back as the monster lanced through their armor. Green blood…
“Ylawes, Ylawes, slow down.”
The [Knight] nearly fell over as the adventurers rallied. He was almost aglow with battle fury—but he halted.
“We can’t—we can’t kill it.”
Maybe Pelt could, or a higher-level fighter, but the cracks in the bone armor needed to be expanded. Prying a chunk loose? All but impossible with Facestealer’s every blow rending all but the toughest armor.
“Where are the Named-ranks?”
In the dungeon. Ylawes shook his head. He gazed at the inn and realized Erin’s door must not be working if everyone were in the garden.
“That death-death-death-death head monster! Facestealer. No one kills it! Not Raskghar, not Minotaur, not traps, not everything in the empty nest! It kills everything.”
A voice was urgently telling everyone that. Ysara had said the same, and Ylawes ignored it—until he saw Infinitypear and Rasktooth. The Cave Goblin was babbling.
“Dungeon only way. You hide and run, and it go to trap room and gets stuck. Never seen it change. Except when it kill too many. Can’t be killed.”
“What? Trap rooms?”
Then Ylawes remembered—Numbtongue had trapped it once with the Redfangs. It had broken free but—
Facestealer was not going to relent. It was forcing back the [Crusaders], who retreated, healing up, and Ylawes—Ylawes’ eyes flickered.
“Wait. Wait…I remember something from the dungeon. I have a—plan.”
Dawil and Falene, panting and wiping blood from their eyes, looked at him. Ylawes had read Colth’s warnings—the Named-ranks were still fighting their way back up in the dungeon. But time? Maybe they could buy time or even—
“You—”
He whirled, and Infinitypear and Rasktooth jumped. What were they doing here? Ylawes stared.
“Who are you?”
“[Adventurers]. We fight. That is bad-bad monster. Killed many of my people. Can’t be killed. It killed Stalker. All that? Just bone. Armor.”
Rasktooth saw the other adventurers look at him, and Ylawes realized that Colth had neglected one thing with his adventurer’s bias. He hadn’t asked the one expert on Facestealer. More than Calruz. More than Numbtongue…
“Does it have a weakspot? Never mind that—you—you came from the dungeon. How well do you know it? What’s your—name?”
Ylawes floundered. Rasktooth gave him a bug-eyed look.
“I am Rasktooth. This is Infinitypear. I know every part of the dungeon where I was.”
That—wasn’t perfect, but Ylawes looked at the monster. He wasn’t as—clever as some Captains, he knew. He had a straightforward approach to things, which people mocked. But he did have more experience fighting monsters than even most of the northern teams.
This was a giant Elemental—well, a Creler-type monster right now. But he had noticed one weak spot just now and from Colth’s testimonials.
“I was in the dungeon too. I remember seeing—do you know where this is?”
He spoke, and Rasktooth nodded instantly as Dawil raised his brows. Anith looked incredulous, but Rasktooth was confident.
“I know where that is. Every Goblin.”
“How far away is it from—”
“Not far. You want to take it there? It never goes.”
“Ylawes, we can’t lure that thing! It’s after Erin’s inn!”
That was true. The [Knight] turned.
“Falene, draw it off. Can you?”
She obligingly shot a shower of fiery bolts into Facestealer’s back, and it ignored the spells. Ylawes banged on his shield, trying to draw it away, insult it.
“In Yderigrisel’s name—face me, monster!”
This time, the monster just turned—then went back to Erin’s inn. It was pounding on the portal door now, as if sensing that Erin was trying to keep it closed. It punched through one of the walls, exposing the hidden kill-rooms in the hallway, and then lurched back towards the common room.
Towards the garden. Facestealer ignored the Antinium. It ignored the Silver Swords. It wanted to start with the garden—then kill everything attacking it. Then the city.
Then—
Facestealer halted. Its sinuous head turned, and it broke off from the door. It turned—and then began to crawl out of a hole in the inn it had chased Ishkr through. Ylawes followed it.
What? Something had drawn Facestealer off. He looked over—and saw the figure. Ylawes Byres looked at the Silver Swords and then the other adventurers.
“We have to stop it. Or—follow me.”
He began running back towards the crack in the earth, and to his amazement—they followed. Silver-ranks, chasing down a boss monster.
Adventurers.
