“It doesn’t matter. No one can leave except via the spot they came through. And before you try it, you can’t do anything funny like trade items. This is not that kind of shop.”
Erin Solstice looked at him, and the man gave her an actual glare with fire in it. As if—daring her to bring something special into his shop. The Drake looked just as disappointed, and so Erin stuck out her hand.
“Well, even if that’s true, I met someone cool. Who’re you, Miss?”
“Arensspe?”
“Oh! I’m Erin. See—we met each other, Doren.”
“I’m sure the world will remember it.”
He sneered at her. Erin’s eyes narrowed. She looked around, and Magus Grimalkin was writing down an inn for Pryde. Erin snatched his journal.
“Grimalkin, lend me that quill and a page. Doren, how much for…that sign?”
He glanced at a large sign with the name Gorbel’s Sailing Salts. It was huge, wide, and propped up on the wall.
“Eighteen gold pieces.”
“Eighteen gold—it’s—fine. Here.”
Erin slapped the gold on the counter. The man looked frankly shocked and glanced at the sign.
“You want help bringing it out?”
“Nope. Just leave it there.”
“But—”
“I bought it. Just leave it there. Now…how do you, uh, spell Arensspe?”
Erin conferred with the Drake and then stuck the piece of paper to the board. Mrsha and Nanette oohed, and the other clients—including the ones just coming in—noticed the tacked on piece of paper. Doren stared at it then Erin.
 
Erin Solstice of Liscor and Arensspe from Cabbenest. 
“Come visit my inn! I’ll give you a free meal!”
—Erin
“I thought this was a normal store. Are Antinium really living in Liscor?”
—Arensspe
 
“What is this?”
The shopkeeper looked nervous—and confused. But Erin just beamed at him.
“It’s proof I was here. And that you had two really cool, ultra neat guests!”
Arensspe stared at Erin.
“I’m a [Net Weaver].”
“Two amazingly cool guests. And I’ve left a message for people. If anyone tells me that they saw it—why, they might come to my inn! Or Cabbenest, wherever that is!”
“We mostly deal in fish. It’s a pretty boring city, honestly.”
“The point is that we were here. And that people should know they met interesting folk. Or what was the point of coming in here? Cheap jewels? This stupid stuff?”
Erin gestured at the pile of fake gemstones that Mrsha had in a basket and was going to buy. Arensspe was warming to the theme and nodding, and behind her, a man exclaimed.
“Wait, I’m not in First Landing is what you’re saying? Dead gods, I just saw the Wind Runner and now the [Innkeeper].”
Erin and Mrsha’s heads rotated so fast they nearly cracked. A Drake was rubbing at his eyes.
“I’m in Zeres! Wait—let me write something down!”
People wanted to mark they were here. Erin looked at Doren, and he stared at her. He looked at the signboard.
“What are you doing? Are you trying to give me something? I don’t want it. This is a quiet shop.”
His hands were trembling on the counter. Erin Solstice stopped then and looked at him. She was reminded of the adventurers’ faces, because he had something similar here.
“…If you don’t like it, take it down when I leave. Honest, I’m not going to bully you into keeping it. But I think it’s neat. I think this shop is cool. I just don’t want you to feel like it’s—a prison. Besides, there is something cool here. Behind the junk.”
She looked around Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop, and Doren gazed at her. When he looked up, perhaps it was like he had first come to this place, as a very young boy, and wandered through the shelves. He looked at the signboard and then at Mrsha’s jewels. Slowly, he began sorting them.
“I don’t know why that woman came here. Or what led you here. But there’s nothing valuable here.”
He lifted a fake pearl, and Arensspe pointed to it.
“Except that. That’s a pearl.”
Erin and Doren looked at it. Erin shrugged.
“Yeah, it looks nice. No wonder Visma will like it, Mrsha. But it’s way too big to be the real thing. Unless there are giant clams…okay, but it’s purple.”
“Yeah.”
The [Net Weaver] stared at it. Doren was about to price it at fifteen silver. Slowly, his hand paused over the register, and Erin’s head swiveled back.
“Pearls aren’t purple, right guys?”
Grimalkin and Pryde turned to look at it. Mrsha hurriedly slapped down a gold coin and grabbed the pearl.
Great doing business with you, buddy.
Doren held onto it.
“I, uh—think I’ll hold onto that sale. Give me that—”
Erin Solstice stared at the pearl. Which, but for Arensspe’s comment, would have been a literal gem in the rough. Grimalkin made an offer on it at the same time as Pryde—one for magic, the other because it looked good. They stared at each other as Mrsha, howling, tried to claim she’d already bought it.
Then Erin looked back into the store. Her neck tingled, and her fingers too.
Nerrhavia never does anything without a reason.
“I, uh, think I need to go find something to buy. Two things. I’ll be back soon.”
She returned later, as the shop began an auction over the pearl and people talked and put their names on the board, with a dress stuffed into a vase. Pryde looked over at Erin and grimaced.
“Your taste is about as good as Bethal’s.”
“Hey!”
Erin juggled the two items as Doren checked them, gave her a suspicious look, then sold her them for a gold piece and two silver. He’d already gotten the pearl, so she kept her face straight as she wondered…if she should ask Saliss or someone to take a look at these.
When he got back from adventuring.
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights stood in the dungeon of Liscor. He hated dungeons.
Dungeons were not controlled environments. Dungeons were where his potions and Skills did the least good, sometimes.
Dungeons were selfish places, and the monsters living there didn’t threaten many people. Dungeons were for treasure, and the Named-rank Adventurer had better uses for his life than to risk it in some hole.
“—but you’re an exception, aren’t you? Hello there. I’m Saliss of Lights. Do you remember me?”
The adventurer closest to Erin Solstice—they both thought they resembled each other—glanced up. He was still naked. But then, so was his opponent.
Steam was baking off Facestealer’s brown hide. It was charred—but the mark of Roshal still burned. It wouldn’t come off. It was etched in the skin, and only cutting it loose would stop the tracking.
People had done worse to escape Roshal. Saliss’ lips curled. Colth.
This dungeon, Roshal’s brand staring him in the face, and the lumbering figure wading through lava—even if it was magical? Saliss had been having a bad day for a week.
Maybe this would make him feel better.
“Clear the area! Saliss is heading in!”
Colth the Supporter was a clever kid. Nine different schemes had damaged Facestealer—enough that Saliss could see that pale yellow-white bone underneath the hide. If memory served—even Xrn hadn’t been able to do more than that until the monster damaged her head.
Well, Colth’s plans also revolved around him adding to the Skills of everyone he partied with. Saliss felt more settling on him.
[Support Skill: Enhanced Concoctions]. [Support Skill: Retreat of the Skirmisher].
The Drake tossed up a vial.
“I’m going in.”
He flicked it forwards, and Facestealer charged. It swung its arms wildly, running at Saliss so fast he suspected it could catch someone on horseback.
Faster than it looked, and it had tricks. It was still trying to paralyze him, but Saliss was immune to that. What made his scales prickle with danger was the certainty that the monster was only trying to get away, to lose them in the tunnels. What happened when they backed it up?
—Colth’s plan. Phase #10 was Saliss. And it was just Saliss. The Drake grinned as he threw the first vial.
Facestealer actually caught it, a tiny fastball delicately held between two massive claws. The glass should have shattered at a child’s touch, but the monster grabbed it and began to throw it back.
[Remote Detonation]. The vial exploded. The liquid covered Facestealer, and it halted. It—tried to remove the liquid for a second, then resumed its charge at Saliss. He saw a claw coming for him.
“Saliss—”
[Flask: Directional Force]. He aimed it at Facestealer and then broke the Alchemist’s Fireball on his chest.
The explosion didn’t hurt. It was just fire. But the kick sent him flying like a ragdoll, away from Facestealer. So fast that even the monster couldn’t keep up. Facestealer swiped, missed Saliss, then noticed the jars glued to the walls, ceiling, and fl—
The spark was its body and the liquid. Or rather, those were the catalysts. The other jars activated, and Saliss looked up as he heard the chatter.
“What was—”
Ah. Ah, I really don’t like you. Saliss ignored the voices as he watched one of his nastier concoctions engulf Facestealer. But he already felt like it wasn’t going to kill it.
I made this one to kill Wrymvr the Deathless. It’s not going to work on him either. Not yet.
The [Alchemist] had seen that no spells, not water, not Valeterisa’s lightning, no elements had gone through Facestealer’s hide. Pure force like the Vortex Arrow had—and sound had been the real weapon against it.
He suspected that Facestealer’s organs—or whatever it was—was protected by that bone shell and hide. Proof against elements and even death-magic like the stuff Pisces used. Saliss could try to compete with Valeterisa, and he could probably generate a bolt of lightning in excess of her best spells.
…But why bother? He wanted to kill this thing. In theory—even Wrymvr, even a top-tier monster like Facestealer—
Well, he was pretty sure it didn’t enjoy this. Good use of six thousand, two hundred and twenty-nine gold pieces.
The jar contained a soluble dust from the Izrilian city of Port Isle, famous for its odd, twisted dimensional properties. The Fabledust could be used for a lot of things, mostly killing yourself or being lost forever. [Mages] had never managed to make it that useful except in small, small quantities, and it was very useful then.
Saliss had put far too much in that jar, turned it into a liquid you couldn’t remove that clung to you—and then started a warp-reaction on Facestealer. But he’d gotten it wrong. So in theory—
Facestealer was aglow with that changing light of Port Isle, a brown like no color Saliss had ever seen, not turgid nor mundane but a deep color with more depth than any tree’s bark, basking it in color—
Trying to pull it halfway across the continent. Silly Saliss. He really should have made the reaction work. All his experiments showed that this generated enough pulling force to yank mithril chains in half like they were made of string.
Crack. Crack. Crackcrackcrackcrack—at first, Saliss thought it was working. Then he realized the monster was being held against the Dungeon’s wall and that the dungeon itself was breaking.
Not Facestealer. But it was off the ground, and the adventurers were gasping. It was the first time the monster had done more than stumble.
“Come on, break, damn you. What are you made of?”
Saliss began throwing alchemical items. Big boom. Big boom. Big—
Thwoom—
The third explosion kicked him without a potion nearby. Saliss landed, looked up, and saw both his alchemical creations fizzling out. He stared through the smoke of his reactions and saw something stumbling forwards.
…Well, it looks unhappy. Saliss primed a Frost Wyvern flask made of their dead corpses. It had about the same cold as that damn Wyvern Lord. He stared grimly at the lumbering monster as it looked at him and then tried to run the way it came.
“Got any more bright ideas, Colth?”
 
——
 
Snatcher was beyond fury. It was going to kill them, all of them. All the intruders and—
It ran.
It ran from the naked Drake. It tried to flee towards the city, towards Mother. The other, lesser defenders were attacking, but only when Snatcher was among the many would it be safe.
Right now, it was being hunted.
That last—attack—had hurt. Hurt, but not as badly as the sound.
They hurt Snatcher.
IT COULD DIE.
Yet not easily. Not yet. Snatcher ran because it knew this was their battle. On their terms. Its fury was mixed with fear, but it took more to kill Snatcher.
Falling stars could not. Foes without end could not.
They didn’t even know how it had been made.
If it could just—get away—then it would have the chance to kill them all. Pick them off, one by one. All it had to do was hide—
Snatcher ran. It could sense the naked Drake pursuing it, but warily—and they were blocking off more tunnels. It turned left and sensed more chains, more blocking spells.
They had no idea what it could do.
[Reconfigure Aura: Haste].
“Dead gods! It’s—”
How were they finding it? Four times now, Snatcher had escaped them, using monsters as distractions, slipping away into the darkness. Each time, they came after it, laying a trap.
How…?
That smiling adventurer. Snatcher remembered that sigil it had seen. It felt not the wounds on its hide.
But—
ROSHAL.
It remembered a trick of old. And Snatcher realized it had to be tricky itself. So long it had been that it had forgotten danger. Forgotten—cruelty. How to fight foes as great as it.
How to wage war.
YOU DO NOT KNOW MOTHER. YOU DO NOT KNOW WHERE YOU STAND. YOU—
They couldn’t even catch it, now. Snatcher charged towards the city, gloating. They had some tricks, but they were weak. It was going to get away. Get aw—
Then it heard a cough and slowed. Snatcher had no head to turn, so it swiveled its body about. And it had not sensed her—
Mihaela Godfrey jogged next to the monster. She stared up at it, her white hair blowing with the speed of their travel, and Snatcher swung.
 
——
 
The Courier of Izril was on the ground. Colth ran as Deniusth, Eldertuin, Viecel, and the other top-level adventurers raced past the Horns.
Ksmvr was slicing up Face-Eater Moths as he heard Colth shout.
“Phase 13! Skip the rest—support Mihaela! Get into position! We’re using the Flying Fortress formation.”
The Named-rank adventurers surged forwards as Facestealer slowed and attacked Mihaela. She? She dodged.
“You run like crap. [Wall Run]—[Mithril Axe Kick].”
The Guildmistress of First Landing leapt back so fast she made Snatcher feel slow, even with the aura. She ran up a wall, kicked off it—and her foot connected with Snatcher’s head.
It—didn’t stumble, and the impact made Mihaela grimace. She pushed off it and felt like she was trying to push off a mountain. It swiped again at her, and she landed.
“Nothing?”
