And who were the duo running towards the chasm, sliding down the ropes? [Adventurers] too. A Goblin and an Antinium, being chased by Facestealer itself as the disbelieving Liscor watched. The monster abandoned the inn. It abandoned the fight.
It just went after the two. Or rather…one of them. There it was. There she was. Plain as day. I found you—and this time—
Facestealer chased the beautiful head. It was whole again, which was even better! That lovely, lovely…blue-painted Antinium head. Rasktooth was blue too, with the paint dyes, and he looked at Ylawes as the [Knight] charged at him.
You sure? The [Knight] raced past Facestealer and shouted as it lunged.
“Let go!”
The Antinium and Cave Goblin looked down the hundred plus foot drop—and the [Knight] jumped into the pit, face-first.
“Oh fuuuuu—”
Dasha wasn’t that committed and slowed down, but Insill and Larr ran into her, and she went careening into the pit. Nailren’s team halted, but the Gnoll leapt after Anith and Pekona—and Falene shouted as Dawil plunged after them.
“[Mass Featherfaaaaaaaaaaa—]”
 
——
 
Snatcher landed after the adventurers. And the blue insect. She wasn’t casting magic. She was weak. She looked…different…but it could not resist.
This was all her fault. It blamed her. It wanted her head. Such a beautiful head. Such a beautiful color. And the inn—
The inn bothered Snatcher. It reminded it of great dangers, so it retreated from the above. It felt the grudges and hatred of dangerous things up there.
DAMN THEM.
It would creep up in darkness instead. Use the monsters. Use Mother’s tricks if it had to, and tools. It was not going to relent until it had enough heads to fill every part of its vault, the entire nest it had cleared—and all the other three as well.
Until heads lined every part of this dungeon. Snatcher did not fear the adventurers. They had failed.
They had all failed!
THEY COULD HURT IT NOT.
Already, the Dragonbone of its shell was knitting. Already—and they had used their best against it. Snatcher was annoyed as it crawled after the adventurers. They were racing through the dungeon, its home, as if to escape it.
It knew every corner and aspect and trap. The only problem was—Snatcher was slower in this form, meant to creep and bite and claw.
It shifted back to the one it liked so much, which could run amazingly fast. That took time—and to Snatcher’s displeasure, these adventurers did not run into traps.
They navigated this dungeon almost as if they knew it. Leaping around dangerous, hidden sigils, avoiding ambush sites and dead-ends. Even taking shortcuts—
That little green thing. The Goblin. It clung to the blue one’s head, pointing and screeching as Snatcher ran. A strange group.
A beautiful dog-person with black fur. A wonderful head such as Snatcher had never had once.
A woman with one hand and a blade from far-off lands older than even its city.
A boring Drake with black scales, and a Gnoll with a bow, a woman with a beard.
A second Gnoll, a [Chieftain], loosing arrows at monsters to keep them back.
A Dwarf with a broken blade that had cut even its armor.
A half-Elf from the Isle of Mages, a child in magic, but a child of magic, everfair.
And that [Knight]. That [Knight], racing behind the two, the Cave Goblin and the blue one with the spear, shouting the name of a traitor, bearing the shield—like that fortress of a man—of the trespassers, the ones upon the shores to the north. Newcomers claiming this land as their own.
They came to a halt as Snatcher slowed, in a room with many exits but no way out. It had caught up, and its [Aura of Haste] was beyond them.
It was beyond them. Snatcher advanced around a circular room it remembered…though it had changed. A dais of stone stood in the center, and beyond it, the [Knight] stood. He looked around. As such fools did, he spoke.
“…We fight. We have done all we can. You are all the finest adventurers…”
His voice trailed off. They turned, then. And Snatcher looked at them. It saw nothing of value.
Nothing brave, as they charged, spreading out. It threw the first Gnoll into a wall hard enough to crack bones, broke a sword in twain with a single swipe. It stood as the half-Elf threw spells into its claws and looked around for the blue one.
Where was she? Where was…
Snatcher saw Infinitypear slowly scrubbing the blue paint they used on the Antinium figurines off his shell. The ordinary, mundane brown-black of the Antinium’s carapace registered in Snatcher’s gaze at last, like the fake layers peeling off a decidedly not 1st-edition unique item in the world’s most debauched collector’s hands.
Then it raged—and Ylawes Byres raised his sword.
“Force him back! Force—”
They charged. A screaming Cave Goblin and a jabbing spear, knocked flying by one enraged hand. A broken-armed [Knight]—Snatcher swatted the woman with a beard and stepped back. It reached out for the fallen Antinium’s head to squeeze—
And tripped.
Crack. The sound was faint, and Snatcher minded it not because it was not its body. Except…it tripped.
It—
Was it a blow from a Giant? No. Was it a great spell from an [Archmage]? No.
Those things harmed it. But no warrior here had that power. So why was it—
Falling? Suddenly, Snatcher’s arms were flailing and Snatcher understood it not.
Something fell around it. Bits of wood. Bits of fake wood, a Skill—dissolving as the fake floor vanished. But what had it f—
Then Snatcher recognized what engulfed it. It touched Snatcher not—but it was sinking. Sinking in…
Water.
And it realized it had been fighting in one of the dungeon’s well rooms, that deep well which it had never paid attention to for it drank not. But it fed Mother’s creatures and Snatcher—
It was sinking in the center of the well.
 
——
 
The vast, deep well had no bottom that Rasktooth could see as he dragged himself on his front over to the lip of it. No one had ever seen the bottom, and it was so wide across it could feed thousands of disgusting monsters.
Even the larvae and other monsters had fled Facestealer’s wrath—but the great monster of the dungeon had not noticed that the well had vanished in its avarice and then rage.
Mostly because…a Drake had covered it up with a fake floor.
Insill.
Insill—the [Rogue]. He stared down at the sinking shape, incredulous.
“That worked? That w—”
“Back! We bought time. We have to leave.”
Ylawes Byres had seen better days. Everyone jerked up, and Nailren grabbed Larr.
“On your feet, brat.”
Dasha was unconscious, and Pekona gave up slapping her awake and just hauled her up with Anith.
“How—how long do we have?”
Anith was speaking around a mouth bruised, and he felt like he’d lost at least one tooth. Ylawes looked little better, and his face was puffy, his arm broken and his armor ripped up. They looked at Rasktooth.
“How deep does the well go?”
The Cave Goblin frowned.
“When big horned man—Calruz—came—he made Raskghar dive. Then he tied stone to rope and tossed.”
“And?”
The Cave Goblin shrugged.
“Too deep. More than thousand feet. More than Raskghar or Cave Goblin dives.”
Everyone stared down into the well. Ylawes Byres blinked. He peered down—and Falene threw a light spell down, down…
“It can’t swim. It’s sinking like a rock. Do you think it—”
Facestealer was still visible as it sunk, and they saw it flailing. Flailing and flailing and…suddenly, Ylawes realized something.
“Does anyone have [Dangersense]? I do.”
Rasktooth lifted a claw, and so did Larr.
“Is it going off?”
The other two looked at each other, and Rasktooth tapped his head. Ylawes felt some danger from the dungeon—but the sirens blaring every second in the back of his mind? Larr’s jaw dropped. Slowly, Falene stared down.
“[Eagle Eyes]. It’s…still sinking. How far down does this well go? Did the Raskghar see anything?”
Rasktooth innocently smiled.
“Minotaur horn man sent four down. One went one hundred. One went two hundred. One went a thousand. With amulet that lets them breathe water like air. The last one never came back. Well goes down, down, down. Like all the water above. Down.”
Everyone looked up, and Ylawes Byres remembered.
“The Floodplains…flood every spring. I always wondered where the water goes.”
“Sometimes, dungeon floods. Goes down here.”
“What, through the wells? But where do the wells go?”
Dawil looked incredulously at Rasktooth, and Infinitypear decided he had better stand back from the well. The Cave Goblin stared down—then spat into the well.
“Looks like—very far for stupid monster.”
The adventurers gazed at each other. Wait—Facestealer wasn’t even visible now, even by Falene’s eyes. Dawil fished around and found a stone.
“Falene. Can you track this with a simple spell?”
“Sure.”
She tossed it down—and they waited. Falene counted. Everyone began bandaging their wounds. Dasha woke up, and Ylawes Byres sat down, despite the danger, and fished around in his bag of holding on a hunch.
“One thousand…two thousand…three thousand…”
Then Falene gasped.
“Eight th—it’s gone.”
“What was that?”
Dawil looked up, and Falene Skystrall shook her head.
“It’s out of my range. It was going down slowly and then—something pulled it down. Something fast.”
Everyone stared into the well, and Rasktooth whistled.
 
——
 
Snatcher was in the water, but the water hurt it not.
It did not need air. It had been made to protect Mother. To guard this city.
This…
City of Graves.
And they had made it to destroy Dragons. It had done that. It had survived Mershi’s wrath. So it did not fear the water, but it tried to flail over to one side of the stone walls sloping down, down…
They had dug down deep when they made this place, to protect it from siege. Down and down, they said, to find out where the water went.
Snatcher cared not. Even when they had made it listen and obey—their questions were not its. In time, they had all simply listened to Mother.
It was nearly over to one of the well walls. It would take it a long time, days, perhaps, to climb. It had sunk fast, as heavy as it was. Snatcher reached out a claw.
That [Knight] died. They all died. This group especially. It would take their heads and then all the others. It would wake Mother. It would—
The claw missed the stone wall. Snatcher saw it end—and stared as the last enchanted bricks vanished. Then it looked around and saw something so few ever had. And it remembered…
When they saw what it had done, when they hated us all—they buried us. A fitting end for our deeds, in this warm, dark grave. And we waited, and Mother waited.
The Walled City of Graves had sunken into the earth, and it had not cared. But the parts remained, and the builders dug deep, deep, and built a place in readiness for the day they were found. Yet this…
They had dug so deep, these wells, thousands of feet. To answer the question where the water went. And Snatcher saw the answer. It saw…no wall to grab onto. It looked around, and the current began to pull it. Faster. Faster…and then it panicked.
Then it feared.
What is this? What is—
It descended into a place only clever Gnomes and dead gods had ever known. Deeper and deeper.
Down.
Down.
Down.
Downdowndowndowndowndowndowndown—
 
——
 
Ylawes Byres stood at the edge of the well. And he sensed no more danger. Falene had done her experiment again…and whatever this well led to, it was so fathomlessly deep her magic could not explore it.
“I think we won.”
It was Dasha who said it, and no one believed her, even her. But then they sort of felt it.
An incredulous—relief sweeping hold of them. Ylawes looked at Infinitypear, and the shaking Antinium poked the well. Then he tossed another stone down and watched it go.
“You fucking idiot.”
Larr looked at Nailren, but the [Chieftain] just looked down the well.
“You idiot. You can’t swim, and that’s how you lost?”
He tossed in more stones and watched them sink. The Dwarf looked down and then snapped his fingers as he realized something.
“Dead gods, it’s like the Earth Elemental. Lad—is that what you thought of?”
“The what?”
Anith looked up, and Ylawes nodded shakily.
“The first monster Dawil and I ever beat was an Earth Elemental. But we had—bad gear. I’d chipped my blades on it, and Dawil’s axe was lodged in its chest, so we ended up tricking it into a pit. Then we threw rocks at it for eight hours. You don’t have to beat a monster. I thought we could just send it down and buy time for the other adventurers by covering the top. Or turning the water to ice or something.”
“We did it? We did it?”
Pekona was staring at Ylawes, but Falene exhaled. She looked around—and to everyone’s surprise, whooped. The half-Elf punched the air and fiddled with her broken glasses.
“Take—take that, Ceria! Our team beat the monster Named-ranks couldn’t!”
She put her hands on her hips and looked around. Falene’s face was flushed, and suddenly, Dawil began laughing, but not at her for once.
“We did it! We did it! We’re going to level up!”
Insill shouted, and Larr grabbed him.
“We’re? You’re going to level up! You trapped a boss-monster—”
Everyone began shouting—until they realized that this was the dungeon. They lowered their voices, and Ylawes Byres stared into the well. He wobbled—and his bones ached and he was pretty sure someone had to help him back to the entrance or he’d pass out.
But between that moment of victory, incredulity—he hesitated.
For he did not know his path forwards, but he looked at the Silver-rank teams—and Rasktooth and Infinitypear—and felt a kind of certainty dawn on him.
But first—first—he did this for perhaps the last time. The last time until he figured things out. Nevertheless—he felt right.
Slowly, Ylawes Byres took out something he always carried about. A tradition, really. It was a small bag of powder, bright silver dust. Dawil blinked—and Ylawes dumped the entire bag into the well.
“It’s not connected to Liscor.”
He turned to the Dwarf. Dawil glanced at him, and Rasktooth spat again. The adventurers looked at each other, and a few more tossed in rocks. Ylawes slowly raised a middle finger and wondered what Mrsha got out of it.
“That is for you.”
He told Facestealer, wherever it was sinking. Then he looked over. Someone was clambering over the lid of the well.
“Pekona, Insill, make sure I don’t fall in. I’m going to piss in the well. No, wait. I can think of something better.”
Larr was unbuckling his belt. Anith dragged him back.
“You idiot, that’s disgusting. And too far.”
 
——
 
That was how Mihaela Godfrey found them. Larr, squatting over the well, and half of them lapsing into unconsciousness. She stopped, listened—and made them repeat everything five times.
