The body did not matter. It had taken the trophy that mattered. Mother did not matter, even if she was in more danger than she had ever been. All that mattered was vengeance.
It was running. Moving as fast as it could as the adventurers slowly tracked it down. How long would it take them to close in?
Forty minutes? They took some time to regroup. Then more, to enter the city and cause a diversion and break the many off. An hour and a half, then? Its bones would not re-knit that soon.
But it would have its vengeance. Now…Snatcher ran as fast as it could. It would have—
SUFFERING.
 
——
 
They were tracking him through the streets. Across the city. Colth the Supporter lifted a finger as the roar of battle in the distance made Deniusth turn back. Eldertuin hefted his shield as the [Supporter] pointed, and Mihaela took up a position. The Gold-rank teams were staying behind to secure the corpse and draw off the horrific beings in this place.
It was close. Hiding down one of the streets with a small group of the red, fleshy things. They…they seemed to wander in packs. Or eat something. Mihaela’s stomach was lurching.
She felt like something had gone wrong. They should have boxed in Facestealer after the last ambush. They had wounded it, possibly given it a fatal weakness, but they were in this city, and she could tell Colth had not wanted this.
He’d still planned for it, even enough to secure Stalker’s corpse, but they had only Orchestra, Variable Fortress, himself, and Mihaela.
Valeterisa had been ordered to stay at the Haven. Larra was helping rain spells down with the Gold-ranks, but this was a gamble. And Colth did not gamble like Viecel.
“We move in now. Eldertuin grabs with Saliss.”
Saliss nodded. He had his transformative tonic ready, and Lehra Ruinstrider was shaking with nerves. She, Mihaela, and Colth had a more dangerous job than that.
Rip out one of those bone chunks, and Deniusth and Orchestra finished the job. Saliss had lent Colth a bunch of acid and poisons to hopefully filter through that gap in the armor. If he had to, Viecel would make his biggest bet. If Facestealer reached this ‘Mother’ or if it had another trick—they fell back.
“See it?”
Halrac was taking overwatch on a building, but he didn’t have an angle on Facestealer. It might know they were there. The [Bowman of Loss] loaded the second and only other Vortex Arrow the teams had into his bow.
“Ready?”
There was no point to asking that. Mihaela looked at Colth, and he rose with an expression she hadn’t seen before in his eyes.
A Named-rank adventurer. He leapt out of cover as Eldertuin raised his shield. Deniusth played a note on his violin as Orchestra rose—but they were all slower than Mihaela. She raced around the street corner and stopped.
“Death or glory!”
Viecel howled. He lunged as Colth lifted his blades. Then slowed. The fleshy, monstrous people of the street looked up. Halrac’s arrow never landed amongst them—but one of Orchestra’s [Mages] unloaded a [Fireball] into their group.
The fire and their screams were followed by several more spells. Mihaela saw three dozen forms recoiling, being cut down by more arrows. She didn’t so much as raise a fist or foot. She—and the other adventurers—were looking for Facestealer.
And they saw him. Saw…
Part of him. Colth’s face had gone still. That smile of a man courting death was on his lips—but it had frozen there. Deni, Viecel, Eldertuin—the adventurers and Mihaela Godfrey stared at Facestealer. Or rather—
His hide.
It looked like a cloak of rags. Bloody, filthy—charred with damage and covered in red. It was draped like a gruesome mask over one of the red, naked monsters inhabiting this place. The brand of Roshal was glowing upon the hide.
“It ripped off its skin?”
Someone whispered in horror. Colth spun on his heels. He looked around—then seized his speaking stone.
“Horns! Fall back!”
“We have Stalker’s body—”
“Facestealer’s removed its skin! It could be right on top of you! Fall back! Everyone, back!”
Suddenly, the voices were filled with panic. Colth looked around, and Mihaela saw Deni trying to activate a teleportation scroll.
“Colth—teleportation’s not working this deep.”
“Where is he? Where is—”
Halrac loosed mundane arrows as the Named-ranks fell back, shouting at the Gold-ranks to regroup. Mihaela was tensed, ready to run as soon as she heard screams.
But they never came. The adventurers surged back around Stalker’s corpse. Mihaela barely glanced at the massive beast. They had gotten it untangled from the pillar, and it was so large they would have to drag it back or cut it up somehow; the largest bag of holding they had wouldn’t have fit it!
That was secondary. Their entire goal in this dungeon—the Horns were looking around, and Ceria’s ice-fortress was glittering as the half-Elf held back the lesser monsters.
“Where is it? It should have jumped us by now.”
Yvlon said what was on everyone’s mind. If this was an ambush—was it going to unleash something?
“No monster hordes—if it uses the Shield Spider nest or—”
Seborn was glancing about, left and right. Moore stared at the red-bodied citizens of this place throwing themselves into a killing zone fearlessly. But there weren’t more than usual—if anything, they seemed to have been cleared out by the distraction.
Ceria’s pale eyes gazed at the monsters, the lack of an ambush—and then at Colth. He had retrieved Snatcher’s hide. He stared at it, and Ceria wondered how pissed off you had to be to remove your own skin.
How…mad…her eyes kept flickering. What would she do if she were intelligent enough to figure out how to escape the tracking spell? Hide, bide her time to strike back?
But what if she was crazy enough to attack Liscor on her own anyways? And all—all the most dangerous people were right here—
Ceria’s head snapped up. She whirled.
“It’s not here. We have to go back. Now! Warn them! Warn the inn! Get Larra to Liscor now—it’s going after Liscor and the inn!”
All the adventurers looked up. Then Mihaela began running, but they were buried in the dungeon. And Facestealer?
Facestealer had been running for a long time. Now it was climbing. Climbing and climbing as its bloody body rose once more.
My skin. Take my skin. Take my skin. Crack my bones.
I will have your little ones. I will creep into your homes.
A claw of bone rose over the edge of the pit, and it heard the horns begin to blare. Snatcher rose—and part of it rejoiced at that sound.
I WIN.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was in Invrisil when the alarm sounded. She was far from her inn. And it was quick.
Oh, it was fast. Everyone in the inn was still listening to the scattered reports from the adventurers. The last Lyonette du Marquin had heard, Facestealer was wounded and they were pursuing it into the inner city.
She was keeping herself distracted, waiting tables and reading a proposal sent to parents asking them to volunteer their children for a new initiative in Liscor.
When she heard the horns from the walls and the ringing of gongs, she felt her stomach lurch. Then she felt it.
As a claw touched the grass—the [Dangersenses] of every single person in Liscor began to scream. Scream—but it was too late.
“Facestealer is coming! It’s coming—”
Ylawes Byres looked up from a plate of fries. He slowly reached for his shield and sword. Everyone else was frozen.
“What? What’s that? Colth is below with the others. They can’t all have—”
The Captain of the Solar Strikes laughed. A number of Gold-rank teams were in the inn, as well as Silver-ranks. They got up and looked outside.
What they saw was a repeat of a nightmare the inn had had. Only this time—a bad dream grew into a far more horrific reality.
Facestealer was standing, facing Liscor. Ylawes saw the cracked bone of its head, but it stood there, yellow-white bone drenched in crimson. It was smooth, unnaturally smooth—as if the bone had no joints.
As if that were just another protective layer. Two staring pits were its ‘eyes’, and it stood there, arms spread, as spells and arrows rained down around it.
As if mocking Liscor. For a minute, it stood—then it turned towards the gates. To the inn. As if choosing which one to go after first.
“Falene. Dawil…”
Ylawes’ voice had caught in his chest. The Gold-rank adventurers had frozen up—but they moved first. They stared at this monster, which had eluded the Named-ranks. What did you do when it taunted them so?
Of course they went. Ylawes Byres drew his sword. He put his helmet on with one hand—and the Silver Swords charged onto the grass with the other teams. He charged the monster—
And he thought he heard it laughing.
 
——
 
It knew it. It knew it.
IT TRICKED THEM.
These were not like the smiling adventurer. All the dangerous ones, the woman made of speed, the man holding the shield of the trespassers—the Gnoll wielding the memory of stars—
THESE WERE EASY.
Snatcher, Snatcher! The song rang through its head. How they sang and wept of it. For these?
It saw the first warrior slow. His chest was emblazoned like the sun, and he held a glowing mace. He charged…and fell over. Like a toy.
That was so simple. This Human couldn’t even ignore…paralysis.
Snatcher bent down and plucked a head like a grape. It heard the voices then, screams. Arrows lashed it. Spells struck it as if to pierce its shattered bone.
Oh, they had shattered it.
BUT THEY KNEW IT NOT.
Its bones. It saw a [Knight] wearing armor stumble, then raise a shield. He shouted, and Snatcher struck his shield with a fist. The man crumpled—until a Dwarf struck It from the side, shouting.
These ignored its paralysis. Thanks to the half-Elf bombarding it with weak spells.
It could not even feel them. Snatcher ignored both man and Dwarf. It bent down and pulled the head off another. A Dullahan screamed at it, screamed in horror, and Snatcher put him in the bag. Dullahans were the best. They still lived, sometimes for a long, long time.
It ignored the [Knight]. It ignored the Dwarf. They struck it and knew it not.
They knew not Snatcher’s purpose.
They knew not the Mother.
They knew not its city.
They knew not its sins.
THEY DID NOT EVEN KNOW HOW IT WAS MADE.
Snatcher was ebullient. It stood there and let the man with the sword strike it, shielding his face. Yes. Strike me again and again. Strike me.
THEY MADE MY BONES OUT OF THEIR ANCESTORS.
It stood there until the sword tried to touch the crack in its head. Then Snatcher lost patience. It raised a hand and brought it down, and the [Knight]’s shield bent despite his Skills. But he tried to rise, sword flailing.
Snatcher seized him up and saw just a man. Just a man behind the helmet, a boring little man without magic, one of many. So Snatcher threw him. It turned and threw him over the walls of the city and then looked to the building on the hill.
The little people were fleeing. Snatcher hit the Dwarf too hard and watched him bounce over a hill. The half-Elf fled, and the other ‘adventurers’ ran, sobbing, away. Snatcher decided it would be all of them, inside.
SANCTUARY.
It hated that place. This time—it would enter.
 
——
 
…Thought he saw past the crack, and he was afraid to know. Terrified. Ashamed.
The world was spinning. He thought he saw a Drake staring at him below…on a wall. Then the [Knight] realized he was flying and tried to raise his—
He hit something. A roof, and the stone broke as well as his armor and body. He hit it and hit a canopy and hit the ground and lay there.
His helmet was dented. People were screaming, calling for the army, the Watch.
“Ylawes! Ylawes!”
Someone found him. The man had forgotten his name, forgotten his class—he looked up at a stranger and remembered she was his sister.
He forgot why he was supposed to be at odds with her. She grabbed him as a golden Gnoll appeared.
“Something threw him. Something threw—”
“It’s a monster. The monster. It’s Facestealer—get inside—”
“The Watch and army is coming. Where—where are the [Crusaders]?”
A babble of voices. Ylawes tried to speak and ended up throwing up. There was too much red there. Someone grabbed a potion and forced it into his mouth. He spat half it up too—and then remembered.
He had been in a fight.
“It’s Facestealer. Where—where’s—”
“It’s headed to the inn! Sound the alarms!”
Ylawes looked at Ysara and found she was holding him up. He looked around.
“Where’s my sword?”
He knew where his shield was. Bent around his broken arm. His sword? His sister and Qwera looked at him incredulously.
“Ylawes, don’t be mad. That thing—we need an army. Where did the Named-ranks go?”
“Tricked.”
She didn’t understand. There was no time to explain. Ylawes tried to stumble towards the gates. He found they were closed and looked around.
“I have to—they’re fighting.”
“Who is?”
Ylawes Byres stared at Ysara. She helped him up the walls, and the [Knight] looked out.
“The adventurers. They’re…”
He looked out and saw Facestealer. It was walking towards The Wandering Inn. What Ylawes didn’t see—were adventurers.
The Solar Strikes were half gone. But there were more Gold and Silver-ranks. They were…
Standing far away. Some were banging on the gates, demanding to be let in. They weren’t fighting. Ylawes looked around and saw Falene running their way. Where was Dawil?
“I have to stop it.”
“You’ll die. You’re not a match for it. Named-ranks aren’t.”
Ylawes looked at her sister.
“I have to stop it.”
The brother and sister looked at each other, and once more, they didn’t understand each other. Ysara Byres tightened her grip on her brother’s shoulder.
“You won’t be able to do a thing, Ylawes.”
He gave her a blank look as vomit dribbled from a corner of his mouth.
“That’s not the point.”
 
——
 
Numbtongue stood. He saw the Thronebearers rising and pulling Lyonette towards the garden’s door.
“The portal—”
“Get to the garden. Now!”
It was coming. So fast that Liska appeared as Ishkr dragged her into the common room. They had seconds. The Hobgoblin stared down at the Dragonblood Crystal blade.
It won’t do any good. Take my hand.
Reiss whispered. Numbtongue didn’t. Not yet. He looked around, and a figure appeared.
“Normen, let go, let—”
“Crossbows won’t work. Bird’s been shooting at it all day.”
A flurry of voices. The Hobgoblin set himself at the door. He had seen the adventurers run. And they were allowed to. It was a very practical thing—but this was his inn.
His home.
He was just glad that Erin wasn’t here. And Mrsha.
Panic. Lyonette was looking at the guests, but she was ushering them into the door. Menolit, the regulars and guests. Into the garden.
