But he was still Klbkchhezeim of the Centenium. He always had been, though the body changed. And when Infinitypear said that…
Slowly, Klbkch sat down. He adjusted his papers, filed most of the finished ones, and picked up the glass of water. He sipped, took a bite of the bread, and then spoke as Infinitypear and Rasktooth watched him.
“You are incorrect, Infinitypear. I am quite familiar with the role of an [Adventurer]. Your ignorance is forgiven, because this knowledge could not possibly be rendered to you.”
Rasktooth poked the Worker’s shoulder and whispered to Infinitypear.
“He rude.”
Klbkch ignored that. He turned to the dirt wall behind him, upon which was tacked a map of Izril. He stared at it—and imagined a place far from Izril. A continent more deadly, and a land with no sun where even light sometimes vanished.
He felt as he had when he spoke to Anand and indulged the feeling rather than put it away. After all—he had time.
“…When I was first created by the First Queen of the Antinium, at the dawn of our species from the wild species we had been, she gave me my name. Klbkchhezeim. I was one of the first Centenium created. Eighth. Two had already fallen, and my role was to be independent. She designed my body to go for weeks alone—I stalked through the areas around the Hives, slaying foes. Hence my name. When new areas opened, I was the first Antinium there. I encountered magic and other creatures and learned how to deal with both.”
Rasktooth and Infinitypear—and the Workers and Soldiers outside Klbkch’s door, which was open a crack—looked at each other. Infinitypear raised a hand timidly.
“You were the eighth Centenium ever made, Revalantor Klbkch? Were Centenium Xrn and Wrymvr before you?”
“Them? Ha. Ha. Hahahahahahahaha.”
Klbkch laughed like Relc and Erin did and felt like he was getting the hang of it. He looked over his shoulder.
“No. Xrn was created with the greatest achievements of the First Queen, at the end of the hundred Centenium she ever made. Wrymvr is older, but his eternal regeneration and Xrn’s magic were products of the culmination of her knowledge. He is among the oldest—but the first ten Centenium were made slowly, each one taking an age to be created. More Centenium appeared later as the Hives grew.”
“Oh. So you’re a big brother.”
Rasktooth happily replied. Klbkch…stared at him. The Goblin looked uncertain until Klbkch hesitated.
“That is not how Antinium view such things. But functionally—would that confer some degree of authority over those two?”
“Yep.”
“Intriguing.”
Klbkch turned around again and decided to remember that. He went on, though, indulging himself in old memories.
“There would be years when I did not see another Antinium—before we expanded. With naught but my blades, I cut down threat after threat. I was one of two Antinium to learn the art of swords and teach it to the others. You see, Antinium learned all these things and adapted, grew. The swords I bear are borne of that knowledge, and they, like my body, were refined by True Antinium techniques.”
“You taught Antinium things?”
“True Antinium—of course. I would instruct War Queens and the greatest Antinium how to fight in combat. My role changed. As we delved deeper, grew to know what lay above and beyond, the Antinium Hives grew more powerful.”
“How long ago was this?”
Rasktooth waved a hand because he felt like this was pertinent information. Klbkch hesitated.
“We did not count time in the Hives in the same way, having no days or nights to mark it. By your standards, by estimations…the Creler Wars were six thousand years ago. The Hives had already been expanding, powerful by then. But we unearthed them—or rather, they were unleashed upon us. I remember that. So we are older still.”
Rasktooth’s mouth fell open, and he pointed at Infinitypear. You never said! But Infinitypear had not known.
“You’re really old, then?”
The Worker tried. Klbkch turned his head.
“The body has changed. I have not. My blades have changed. I have not. I remember different eras. I taught Mirrex the Bard the art of swordsmanship when he was made. I was old, then. I have seen the death of the First Queen. I was at the dawn of the Antinium.”
The Goblin and Antinium sat there, entranced, as Klbkch continued. He touched the swords at his sides.
“Adventuring is lonely. It is a journey into the unknown, knowing you might not come back. There is a joy to it, such as finding a species that bears no hostility to you. I once delved into the waters surrounding Rhir and nearly drowned. I sank into a nest where…”
…Where the deep waters seemed to glow with rays of light that reached down even here. He was drowning, sinking—but it was a beautiful way to die.
It would take him long, for neither the pressure nor the lack of air could kill him so fast. Klbkchhezeim sank past a strand of…some great plant, so huge that it could shelter hundreds of Antinium upon one broad blade. And underneath, trapped in some bubble of air, was a hanging ecosystem of its own.
A kind of land under the plant’s broad aegis. He could not reach it—and the Centenium saw broad bulbs he thought to be infection or eggs upon the plant. Until he realized they were giant…beings with shells. They poked their heads out, and he felt a mind of such complexity only the First Queen could match them.
Then—his fall into the depths slowed, and the rays of light twisted as the curious beings down there sensed his drowning. And they lifted him up—and he encountered the first ally of Antinium.
 
——
 
“They were the ones who taught the Antinium to master their control of minds and form the Unitasis Network.”
Klbkch turned his head and saw the two [Adventurers] staring at him—and a crowd of Workers and Soldiers peeking through the door. They fled when he stared at them.
“What happened to them?”
Rasktooth’s voice was quiet, awed.
“They fled the Crelers when they first emerged. A peaceful people. No doubt as strange to the rest of the world as we are to them. That is what it means to be an adventurer. That was the lesson I learned as well—to walk with blade in hand, but to look into the mysteries I found. Wisdom and blade. Not everything must die. Nor is what is strange a threat.”
He missed those days, he remembered. When it was simpler. When the First Queen was alive, and he…he wondered what the rest of the world looked like.
When he first saw the sky—how long ago was that? When the First Queen herself stood upon the land and met the one who called himself a ‘Demon’ of Rhir.
An age passed, and he had no eyes to blink. So he saw it all. Then Klbkch looked at Infinitypear and Rasktooth.
[Adventurers].
“I want to see that.”
Infinitypear stared at the images that Klbkch had conjured. Rasktooth was nodding. The little Worker patted his knees excitedly as he rocked in his chair.
“We can go in the water. I will learn to hold my breath or swim. But it is far. And we cannot buy a hat. And we have to have a job.”
His antennae drooped, and Klbkch looked at him. Slowly, the Revalantor sat back down.
“Indeed. You have no body made by the First Queen. The magic of Drakes and other people is some small replacement, but only Relics would match the might of Centenium. Nor do you have my levels. I was Level 40 in one class and decently strong in another. And that, despite the inefficiency, places me above Named-ranks of this era with my body of old. For my body was a work of art on its own.”
The Worker and Cave Goblin looked at Klbkch. It sounded like he was telling them how hopeless their dream was…but something was different from his brusqueness of earlier.
“You would have to begin from the first point. Find artifacts, level. Learn the lessons you do not know. You hold that spear without mastery, Infinitypear. And Rasktooth cannot walk.”
“I can carry him.”
Klbkch was writing. His pen gently scritched on the parchment.
“Of course you can try. But even I did not always go alone. In these days, adventuring seldom comes with the class. Yet—they too know some of it. Adventurers often operate in teams of more than two. And only one Antinium and one Goblin have ever become adventurers. Numbtongue’s rank is more of a formality, so I exclude him.”
Rasktooth exchanged a quick glance with Infinitypear. Klkbch kept writing, and now he was doing sums.
“It is not inexpensive to become an adventurer. Their initial startup is compounded by the cost of healing, transport. To the Hive, they are a risky proposal which often loses money. Which ends in death. Knowing that—would you two still pursue that class?”
“Yes.”
“Yah.”
“I changed my answer. Yah. Yah.”
The Goblin and Antinium smiled at each other. Klbkch looked up reprovingly, and they stopped, but then he nodded. He finished writing.
“Very well.”
Hmm? They looked at him blankly. He said it as if something were decided. Klbkch lifted the piece of parchment up.
“I will consider that a plan of action. The complications abound—but if Guildmistress Tekshia accepts your position as Bronze-rank adventurers, the Hive will allocate a budget to your team. Miss Solstice will no doubt have thoughts. If you manage to party with other adventurers or complete requests or clear areas, monetary rewards and assistance from the Hive may be permitted.”
He showed them the piece of paper, and Infinitypear and Rasktooth saw that Klbkch had written in the Goblin’s name and levels below Infinitypear’s. They looked at each other.
“Bronze-rank adventurers?”
Klbkch had no eyebrows, so he raised one antennae instead.
“That is what you are intending, isn’t it?”
The duo sat there, and suddenly, it all made sense. But could they do that? Were they allowed?
Klbkch didn’t know. They might be hunted the moment they left Liscor—but he had been hunted too. If they wanted it…
Rasktooth grinned first, a mouthful of teeth, then Infinitypear lifted his mandibles. Klbkch did not smile, but he nodded.
“It seems all is in order. Next. Ah—wait, one more thing.”
He halted the pair as they rose. The two looked back warily, and Klbkch lifted another piece of paper and read from the notes Pawn and Xrn had given him.
“Before you go, ‘have I offered you a helpful and useful service today? Did I at any time make you feel uncomfortable or afraid?’”
The Goblin and Antinium traded glances. Rasktooth answered for Infinitypear.
“You scary.”
Klbkch filled in the form and noted how most of the answers seemed to congregate on one side of the little chart. He steepled his hands.
“I see. Dismissed. Next!”
The data pointed one way, and Klbkch calmly ignored it. It was just data. He felt more content after speaking with the duo, though. And life was not eternally hard.
Relc was waiting for him after this, and the two had agreed to visit an Adventure Room, whatever that was, if Zevara didn’t need them on-duty at all times. Besides…Klbkch saw the door open, and he perked up.
“Ah. You.”
He knew the timid Antinium who froze as he saw Klbkch, but the Revalantor motioned him into a chair, even pulled it out for him.
“Would you like a glass of water? Sustenance?”
He had been waiting for this Individual for the last four days. The nervous figure shivered—but Klbkch just sat back down eagerly.
“I have had eighty-two complaints about you. And I note your position is highly contentious within the Free Hive. I understand your job makes other Workers and Soldiers upset. Let us discuss a budget…Furfur.”
He smiled as the Worker perked up a bit. Klbkch had broad discretionary powers that Xrn and Pawn had given him. He intended to use them.
Purely for the betterment of the Hive, of course.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn rose for a new day with more alacrity than before. It wasn’t that things were happening. Things were always happening.
But there was a sharpness in the air that had Ishkr polishing the bar tops by the time Liska raced in. The Gnoll clutched at her side.
“I…I ran here. You were still putting on your shoes!”
“Too slow.”
Ishkr looked at his younger sister, and her eyes narrowed.
“Oh, are we doing this? You want to do this, Ishkr?”
“I don’t know what ‘this’ is. I’m just doing my job.”
“I’ll do it alright. I’m on to you.”
Ishkr rolled his eyes, but Liska glowered—until Ishkr nodded at the door.
“Get ready for the Haven’s guests.”
“I know, I know.”
She stomped off since she could already sense Colth and the others waiting. However, Ishkr called out to her.
“If you see Barnethei—the other [Innkeeper]? Colorful coat, sometimes a hat? Don’t let him through.”
She turned, surprised by the injunction.
“Why?”
Ishkr grimaced.
“He’s troublesome. Hopefully he just stays away this time.”
That was background, of course. By the time Lyonette came downstairs, the two siblings were already moving around Goblins and Antinium showing up to work. Peggy was dragging Inkpaper out of Erin’s new, and tiny, library.
Gothica was being evicted from her cellar hideout by an Antinium called Rosencrantz. And yes…there was no Guildenstern. No one had volunteered to make it a duo act.
It was a good morning for most—even if everyone seemed to be waiting for Erin Solstice to show up. She had pulled big, big moves off last night, and the Thronebearers looked like they had all been sucker-punched. Even the inn’s family, who felt they should have known better…
Well, Mrsha had gone back to her old ways and put on a huge fake mustache, and she sat at the breakfast table with her paws folded. Mrsha the Godfather…the Godmother? Mrsha the Bad Guy sat there until Bird took her mustache.
“That belongs to Silverstache. Shame on you.”
Yet Erin did not immediately appear. Even as Grimalkin showed up and nodded to Nanette, who was feeding Nerry, the Sariant Lamb namesake glanced up and frowned with her cute little face.
She wondered what Erin was dreaming about when she’d peeked into the [Innkeeper]’s room. It sounded like a bad dream.
 
——
 
A hand patted Erin Solstice on the head. A beaming face smiled at her, and her mask was simply her face, painted with so many delicate layers of color that moved and shifted with affection, like a piece of living art.
“Well done, my little [Innkeeper]. My tyrant-to-be.”
Erin Solstice took a swing, and Nerrhavia glided back. She was a ghost, applauding Erin lightly, swinging forwards to seize her hands in an all-too-real grip.
“Stop showing up in my dreams!”
“Make me.”
She was taunting Erin. Why? This wasn’t Nerrhavia. At least—well, it was. She annoyed Queen Merindue to no end, and she was petty and spiteful, but why—
“Nerrhavia!”
 
——
 
