They were fleeing, the ones with sound. Fleeing backwards—but they sounded triumphant. Snatcher could have gone after them. But it got up—and turned. Then—it began to run. Run backwards, towards the other protectors. Towards the nests. But there were more of them—and now Snatcher felt it. Amidst rage, amidst the sudden warning, the intelligence that told it that this was a trap and it had to escape—
It was being hunted.
 
——
 
“You didn’t want to watch the adventurers at work? Named-ranks?”
Lady Pryde was odd. Odd, despite being a [Lady] with a literal ego-aura and who thought working your quads was a valuable use of time.
She was odd because she was sort of…normal. In that she said normal-ish things.
Like, why wouldn’t you want to go see Named-ranks? When Erin had asked why Pryde had gone with the Haven, the woman had given her a strange look.
“Why would I not accompany the north’s most famous inn?”
If anything, it was strange how she was treating Mrsha and Erin and even Tessa—and by proxy, Nanette. As if they were important, because to Pryde, they were.
“You sure we’re not wasting your valuable time, Pryde?”
“You are the Titan’s chess partner. This child was at the Meeting of Tribes. Named-rank Adventurer Tessa—this is fitting company for me. Despite your lack of my given title. Mrsha, girl, come here.”
Pryde beckoned—then lifted Mrsha up so someone could stare at them. Mrsha gave Pryde a blank look. The [Lady] posed cooly, and the [Artist] bowed.
“I have an image, Lady Ulta.”
“Very good. Miss Solstice? We could find a chess board to sit across.”
She was an attention seeker! Mrsha was horrified—then impressed. If anything, the reason Erin wasn’t mad was because Pryde was blatant about it.
“Fame is a resource to be cultivated. I am not Wuvren, who has a dozen suitors dancing upon a finger. Nor am I Bethal, who can somehow muddle her way to success. A [Lady] should mind any number of qualities about herself. Paying for fame is simple. Aren’t you Calanfer’s Sixth Princess’ daughter?”
Mrsha stared at Pryde, and heads turned. The [Lady] saw Erin, Grimalkin, and Nanette staring at her.
“Isn’t she?”
“Wh—you can’t just say things like that!”
Erin looked around, but Pryde exhaled. Loudly.
“It’s hardly a secret. That was at the top of the dossier I paid for when I looked into your inn.”
“Who’s selling info about—well, maybe Lyonette is a bad liar!”
She’s my mom. You’re right.
Mrsha handed Pryde a note, and the [Lady] nodded. The Gnoll girl smiled a bit. Pryde gave her another look and then Magus Grimalkin a nod.
“Interesting company you keep, Magus.”
“They will never cease to amaze, Lady Ulta. Do you have other motives for being in Invrisil at the moment?”
“Besides visiting Pallass and watching the Haven go? House Ulta is considering the new lands of Izril—but I want to make sure my people aren’t attacked by Pallass or the Walled Cities. I came to negotiate. It’s difficult—Pallass has me on a waiting list to go through, and they are slow to respond. Appropriately. I wouldn’t give them passage through the north.”
Her eyes glinted with vexation despite the reasonable words coming out of her mouth.
“I could introduce you to Strategist Chaldion or an appropriate diplomat.”
Pryde tilted her head.
“I’ll take you up on that, Sinew Magus.”
Oooh. Mrsha saw Nanette brighten up. She followed the little witch’s gaze. Then Mrsha beamed.
Ooooooh. Pryde glanced at both of them, and they looked away innocently. Grimalkin didn’t quite notice. Erin…well, she was glancing at her little bird.
“Darn it. Dead again.”
“What are we doing, exactly?”
Pryde was getting impatient now that she had more things to do. She listened as Erin explained the gist of it. The [Lady] frowned.
“A curse. Was it Belavierr?”
“No…how do you know her?”
“We kicked her out of the north.”
Nanette’s head swiveled around with Mrsha and Erin’s, and they stared at Pryde. The [Lady] had to explain, briefly and entirely unsatisfactorily.
“Magnolia led the [Ladies] to deal with her. Maviola El was there—the last time I saw her in person. It happens.”
“It does not just happen.”
“To you, perhaps. I am a [Lady] of Izril, and that comes with requirements that most people are privileged not to know of. If it is a [Witch]…Magnolia should know.”
“It isn’t. At least, I’m pretty sure it’s not. But the curse is in a bunch of cities. Including Invrisil, Oliyaya said. And we keep wandering the streets and nearly getting to it, but it never shows up.”
“Odd. Multiple cities…and it vanishes. It almost sounds like a diffused spell, but who would go to this much work? Either that or the curse is somehow all these places simultaneously.”
Grimalkin pondered. Pryde, though, looked sharply at Erin when she heard that.
“Just which places is this…thing you’re searching for? All cities? Not towns?”
“Yeah.”
“And you’re looking for something here that keeps moving? A location?”
“Maybe? Why? Do you know what it is?”
Pryde folded her arms. She stared ahead.
“…It’s unlikely it’s the exact same one. But Magnolia once took me there, and Bethal can’t stay away, the addict. I know what it might be. No wonder you can’t find it. You need an invitation.”
“An invitation? To what?”
Pryde didn’t answer. She looked around and then found one of the magical street lamps that provided illumination at night. Some places used actual lanterns—this one was graffitied by people like Grev’s gang, and they often had fliers put up.
Seldom for adventuring work, but things analogous to Erin’s home. Lost animals, job offers…Pryde began yanking pieces of paper off as she hunted for something.
“It changes if it moves from cities, but if it is here—last time we had to look at fliers in [Butcher] shops. You, children, Sinew Magus, look for an odd piece of parchment.”
Her personal escort, Erin, Nanette, Mrsha, and Grimalkin glanced at each other, and all began searching other fliers and pieces of paper in Invrisil. Erin had just pushed aside a flier asking if anyone had a 1st-edition autograph of Jasi and would they consider selling it when she saw something odd.
A brighter, more colorful piece of parchment was half-rolled up behind the mundane paper. It was expensive—and out of place because someone might well steal it just to re-use it. Unlike the tattered notes, this was an advertisement.
 
Come See Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop!
Buys and Sells Items of All Value*.
(*No refunds, no violence, no trickster or thief classes allowed.)
Served over 120 different cities across Izril and Terandria!
Come While Open!
 
The letters, accompanied by little dazzling brooches and magical wands, were splashed across the garish page. Erin was pretty sure this was what Pryde wanted.
“Hey, is it this?”
The [Lady] dropped a piece of parchment and walked over. The instant she saw it, her face turned to one of disgust.
“That’s it.”
“What is it?”
Even Grimalkin hadn’t ever seen something like this before, but Lady Pryde assured him that he might have walked past it.
“It has visited Pallass and the Walled Cities before—not that you can use it like Erin’s inn. It’s hardly that powerful. It’s more…”
She snapped her fingers, trying to explain, and Nanette clapped her hands in delight.
“It’s a magical travelling store! Like Shellbazaar, the emporium at sea! Mother told me such places still exist!”
“What? A magic store?”
Erin grew excited instantly. Now it all made sense! And no wonder they hadn’t found it! Pryde nodded.
“You have to find a flyer, and then you’ll happen across it. Finding it deliberately is, according to Magnolia, more trouble than it’s worth. Only Bethal’s been able to do it. And I think it was because the owner gave up.”
“What kind of person owns it? A Djinni? Should we be prepared for trouble?”
Grimalkin was wary of this store. Tessa gripped her blades, but Pryde gave him a strange face. She looked at Erin’s wicker bird.
“I don’t know about a curse, but the owner? Well—I think he has a knife.”
Erin waited.
“An enchanted knife?”
“No.”
“Is he…high-level? To own a store like this?”
Pryde considered the question.
“Nope. It’s a hereditary store.”
“Do we need more money? Preparations if we only get one shot?”
The [Innkeeper] pressed. Pryde checked her coin pouch as Mrsha nervously held up her own money and Nanette searched her allowance. The [Lady] glanced at Erin.
“I doubt it. It should be right down the street when we turn the block.”
Sure enough, when they turned the street, wedged in one of the alleyways was an odd shop, built into the brickwork. It had a big metal door and a sign saying ‘Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop’.
It even had a little pig with a wand coming out of its mouth for a logo. Erin liked it—until she noticed the worn brickwork. And the slightly-rusty sign. Then she frowned.
This didn’t look like a Skill. Her [Garden of Sanctuary] might have had an ordinary door, but as Pryde walked up the steps and opened the door, Erin heard a mundane, jangling bell. She peered at a very old dustmat that might add more dirt than it lost, and someone called out.
“Hello. We’re open until six tonight. Please bring anything you want to the counter.”
Erin turned, and a bored man at the counter with a balding pate and a mustache that should have probably been waxed stared at her. She stared back.
“Are you Cormeng?”
He grimaced—he had an actual pinstripe suit, white and red. But it was old and worn, and any charm from the unique garment looked sad. The Human answered with a very, very tired voice as Mrsha sniffed the air and began sneezing for the dust.
“No. That’s my great-grandfather nine times over. Welcome to the store. And before you ask—no, I don’t know where anything is. If you have something to sell, I’ll appraise it, but it’s coppers and silvers, not gold unless you can prove it’s valuable.”
He had a dusty scrying orb with a crack he was watching, and Erin realized he was listening to Drassi’s broadcast. The man added as Erin looked around and realized what this place was.
“And if it’s valuable, why would you take it here?”
Then Erin looked past him and into the aisles into that Mrsha and Nanette stared with delight, Grimalkin and Pryde, with a kind of apprehension and awe of their own. But not the awe of a magical shop of wonders.
Erin stared at racks of old, very worn clothing. At gemstones on display and more jewelry than she could imagine that appeared fancy and rich—until you realized it was all cut glass. At old farming tools, rusted with age, dolls of every shape and size across hundreds of years, signs, actual signs for the buildings they belonged to were long since gone, a thousand useless maps and illustrations crammed into a bin, decidedly non-magical books like the 4th book in a series with half a torn cover, a shoe with dirt on it, fake decorative items like one of those snowglobes—without the water inside and the snow—
Erin realized what she was inside, and she stared around the largest pawn shop in the entire world. A thrift store without end, which served a few customers wandering around with the cheap jewelry in hand, willing to fork over some silver for a curiosity they’d lose interest in within the week.
“I hate this place.”
Pryde shuddered and didn’t bother to lower her voice. Mrsha and Nanette? They were delighted by the spread and bouncing to look around. The man at the counter, who tended to this store like eight generations before him, glanced up. Erin winced, but the dour shopkeeper nodded.
“Imagine working here for forty years.”
 
——
 
The shopkeeper’s name was Doren. And he was actually more fascinating than a lot of the goods inside his store.
For instance, the current owner of Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop was not actually Doren.
“It’s a family business. Cormeng made this place—with magic. He enchanted it to teleport to all the places he’d been, and he was a world traveller. That’s why it exists after he died.”
“Clever. I can sense some subtle magic here. So the actual shop is probably somewhere else. A pocket dimension, maybe. And can you go anywhere you want?”
“Nope. Just where the store actually is.”
“So you can’t portal around?”
“Nope. I can’t leave the store. I’d just end up outside where I came in. Cormeng didn’t want trouble. The store doesn’t let in [Thieves] and whatnot…no violence, no tricksters. Hence the flier.”
“Do you have security?”
He gave her a blank look. The man was worn down by his job. Apparently, he’d been twelve when he first started doing this, which made him fifty-two years old.
“No. It’s just me.”
“What if people try to hide things and steal them?”
He gave her a bleak look.
“I guess they get free stuff. What a fortune. We actually buy the fake jewelry even if no one sells us enough. Anyways, we make a profit. A large one, in fact.”
“H-how?”
Erin gazed at the trash. And it was trash. Some of it was appealing trash like the fake geodes or sparkly stuff. Mrsha already had an armful of junk she wanted. She had five bracelets with gaudy gemstones Visma would love, and Nanette was trying on clothes for size, measuring them. Erin groaned.
“Nanette! Don’t buy clothes. Someone else wore them.”
“So? They look nice! There’s fashions from all ages and all over, Miss Erin! I could get a hat and dress. If you think Miss Lyonette’d be okay with it.”
Erin thought it was fine—but the truth was, she knew thrift stores. She’d visited a big one—and while Cormeng’s Emporium was far larger, she did see a number of Invrisil customers walking around. And Drakes and Gnolls.
They didn’t seem to realize the significance. Erin turned to Doren excitedly.
“Wait, if you’re in multiple cities at once, you have guests who’d meet and mingle from different cities, different continents, even! What kind of things do they do?”
He gave her another blank look.
“Buy things? We’re not an inn. Your inn.”
He knew who she was! Erin protested.
“But what if you had a meet-and-greet—”
“That’s not the point. Cormeng’s shop is meant to be low-key. Important people don’t even come here—unless someone gives away the secret.”
He half-glared at Pryde, and she waved at him.
“Bethal’s the one obsessed with cheap junk. How much has she spent here?”
“Probably a hundred gold pieces. Cormeng is actually very popular, you know. It might only sell cheap glass—”
“—But it’s way overpriced, yeah.”
