“Indeed,” Mora confirmed. “The Kin strip the caverns of biomass overnight, convert it to Tel, and then the Guilders reap the rewards at little risk to themselves. Each of the three parties we have encountered has some way of keeping the things off them while they move from cluster to cluster. I would applaud them were they not disrupting our food supply, and I would put a stop to it if not for the legality of their claim. The Entente has jurisdiction within our facilities, but the wild depths are free, as the saying goes. We have told them of the side effects of their little farming operation. We have directly asked them to desist. We have even lodged an official complaint with the Guild. I shouldn’t need to tell you how unlikely any of those paths are to lead to success.”

“I see,” Ameliah asked. “These are bronze Guilders we’re talking about?”

“Yes,” Mora said. “We can give you full reports on each of the teams. To be clear, and since you’re mercenaries and I feel like I have to say it, I don’t want them killed. Persuade them to stop, preferably by clearing out the Kin so there’s no reason for them to stay. Will that be a problem for you?”

“We should be able to manage that,” Rain said, smiling as he swallowed his last bite.

“And if they attack us?” Ameliah said.

“If they’re dumb enough to attack a pair of silvers, what happens to them is their fault,” Mora said, getting to her feet. “Now, I said I’d reward you, and I’m not so naive as to try and convince you that the job itself is the payment. You’d have seen the situation yourself the moment you set foot bottomside. Do this for me, and I’ll pay you each ten GranTel and five Light GranCrysts. Obviously you can keep whatever you scavenge. Just as obviously, I never asked you to do this.” She extended a hand to her side in an unexpected, two-fingered Sadiiri salute. “Do we have a deal?”

Having managed not to choke at what felt like an absurdly generous reward, Rain glanced at Ameliah. She’d already thrown out two fingers to match Mora and was wearing a hungry grin. He quickly copied her, grin and salute both.

HELLS yes!

While Ameliah went with Mora to her office to get the rundown on the Guilders, Rain followed one of her underlings toward their library, taking Dozer with him. He made a show of stepping carefully to avoid disrupting the omnipresent Light enchantments with his armor, unwilling to reveal that his superb domain control made such caution unnecessary. As in the city above, casually walking around in metal equipment was frowned upon in Threecore. Thanks to his mercenary persona, nobody was going to call him on it, at least.

Upon arriving at the library and having a brief chat with its curator, Rain proceeded to plunder the house of knowledge for every scrap of information available. Primarily, this was in the form of zone codices, of which he scanned dozens by flaring Winter and flipping through the pages as fast as he could without damaging them. Once he’d had a chance to digest them properly, he and Ameliah would be much better prepared for what awaited below. He’d also scanned what few works of fiction the Entente had out on display, not that he could say when he’d be able to justify the time to read something for fun. By the time he finished everything that had been out in the common area, Dozer had fallen asleep in his helmet and the librarian was giving him the stink eye.

Rather than push his luck, and sensing that Ameliah had just left Mora’s office—presumably on her way to the barracks—he decided to pack it in. Tucking Dozer in his upended helmet under his arm, he instructed the underling to lead him there as well.

The walls here were warded. While his anchors didn’t care about such things, the curtailed range from each origin point made keeping track of relative positions tricky. Thus, it came as a mild surprise that the old barracks turned out to be just down the hall.

Rain blinked upon entering, finding something he hadn’t expected but, in retrospect, should have. Darkness. The barracks was dusty from disuse, though Purify was rapidly seeing to that. An aisle ran between two rows of alcoves carved into the stone walls, and thin, closely spaced ropes dangled from floor to ceiling to block spawns. The four fledglings plus Genn had taken the bunks closest to the door, cluttering the aisle with their gear. Interestingly, though the ropes in the alcoves should have been sufficient, the occupied ones were also dimly illuminated by tiny Light Plates built into their ceilings.

“Will there be anything else, Silverlord?” the Entente underling whispered.

Presumably, he had a name. Rain would have asked. Mouse had not.

“No,” he replied curtly.

“Then may your repose be serene and without disruption,” the underling replied formally, retreating and making Rain feel like an ass. Before he could turn to mutter so much as a ‘thank you’, the man was already marching down the hallway.

Nobody feels the need to guard us? That probably means the Entente has a way of knowing where we are in their section of Threecore. Part of the warding scheme, maybe.

Checking Ameliah’s anchor again, Rain pressed forward through the ropes, parting them with an arm as he shut the door behind him. Going a few darkened alcoves past the others, he selected one on the right side and bumped Purify up a touch as he deposited Dozer and his helmet by the pillow. He found a small control near where his head would rest, and a probe with Mana Manipulation revealed that it was both a battery and a tactile switch for the Light Plates. Having no need for a night light like the natives, he left it alone.

By the time he got himself situated and made sure the ropes were still hanging properly, the door opened again. “Down here,” he whispered, extending a hand into the aisle.

Ameliah quietly made her way toward him. As he waited, he found he was a bit tired, actually. Exertion aside, it had been a while since he’d slept. Not for two days since they’d left the Bloodmarsh. It was hard to believe how far they’d come in that time.

Upon reaching him, Ameliah clambered into his alcove rather than claiming her own, an arrangement with which he had zero complaints. It was a bit snug, but that only made things more comfortable as he wrapped his arms around her.

“Hey,” she whispered, smiling in the darkness.

“Hey,” he whispered, smiling back.
