“Have some more faith in your compatriot, Xue.” Arilitilo smiled, politely, saying, “I’m sure whatever tactics Riri uses will benefit us all.”

“I am thankful to have this opportunity entrusted to me.” Riri bowed in her chair, briefly, then raised her head. “This merchant’s daughter will ensure that the gains of Star Song are legendary.”

- - - -

Ezekiel and his people met Xue and Sikali at the edge of Star Song’s mountainous mansion. After a few pleasantries, they followed the Loremaster and the Enforcer into the complex, going left when the previous night they went right. They journeyed past magics and physical barriers that had been thrown open for Ezekiel’s arrival.

While they walked, Ezekiel asked who they were meeting, exactly, and Xue gave a concise rundown. By his tone, Ezekiel could tell that the man had lost almost all of his previous fear. This was good.

It also meant that Erick had been found out, completely.

This was to be expected, but Ezekiel would keep up appearances until circumstance demanded otherwise.

In minutes, they had arrived at a wide stone courtyard, open to the east. The area had understated elegance, with simple, yet sturdy grey flagstones. A curving grey stone railing separated the space from a wonderful view of other mountainous mansions, and the city of Eralis in the distance, which dominated the horizon. Further up the mountainside were smaller cabin-like spaces, sharing the view. Cultivated trees laden with pink flowers, like leaves upon willowy branches, occupied almost all of the edges of this comfortable space. Five stone tables were here and there, each with simple stone stools.

A barely-there magic held between the rest of the world and the courtyard, and from what Ezekiel was seeing of it, the purpose was to obfuscate the courtyard from sight and sound without marring the view.

Of the people in attendance, Ezekiel recognized most of them, and of those he did not know, Xue’s descriptions earlier had been enough.

Patriarch Zalindi was there with his dark blue skin and bald head. He stood central to the gathering on the other side of the courtyard, to the side of a central stone table.

Elder Arilitilo, with her purple skin, stood next to Loremaster Riri, with her large tan horns. Both of them looked ready for something, but Ezekiel wasn’t quite sure what.

Tadashi stood off to the side away from almost everyone else. He looked okay, or at least his pink skin seemed healthy enough, even if his obvious joy at the moment was heavily tempered with fear. His obvious brother stood with him; Wabi Diligent Scribe, if Ezekiel remembered correctly, and he probably did. Wabi was less fearful than his brother by far. Ezekiel didn’t know much about the man, but he was still of Diligent Scribe, which seemed like a problem, or a complication, seeing as how no one else from that branch family was here, as far as Ezekiel knew.

There were four alchemists from Star Song also in attendance, but they mostly stood behind and away from Tadashi. Xue had mentioned them, but not by name.

There was also Elder Mirizo, of Enforcement. He had been in attendance last night, but Ezekiel had not actually had a chance to speak to the man. He would likely get that chance today. Elder Mirizo was supposedly all about politics and getting things done, but Ezekiel had noticed that when Xue mentioned the man, Sikali briefly let her anger show. But they were here now, and Sikali’s face was once again a mask.

Xue and Sikali stepped out of Ezekiel’s way, moving to the side. Sikali went to stand with Mirizo. Xue went to Arilitilo.

Ezekiel stepped down into the courtyard.

Patriarch Zalindi spoke, “Welcome back to Clan Star Song, Ezekiel Phoenix.”

Ezekiel gave a tiny bow, as was appropriate for a Scion, even though every single person in the courtyard knew he was not. “Thank you for having me.” He straightened, saying, “Last night I offered an idea; today I am here to put words into action.” He pulled out a ring from his belt sash and held it out in the open. “To that end, we have this.”

Zalindi nodded, then gestured to a nearby table that held a bound book and several small folders of loose papers. “A comprehensive study of Antirhine as well as our current notes on the solution which Tadashi has created and our Potion House has attempted to understand.” He gestured to Tadashi, and to the alchemists behind the man, saying, “And though you suggested we use the ring on Tadashi, for he was the one who has most understood what he has made, we have more skilled alchemists than just him.” Zalindi gestured to where Xue had taken a stance with Riri and Arilitilo, saying, “And we have more areas of study than alchemy which could use the blessing of your ring. For a suitable recompense, of course.”

Ezekiel paused. He gripped the ring.

He considered.

Yes; he wanted them to recreate chelation therapy as fast as possible so that it could not be taken away from the world by an act of concerted killing. This was a point in favor of unlocking Intelligence in everyone here, or at least more than just Tadashi.

No one was able to unlock the New Stats through simple rings like Ezekiel was able to do, and had done. He knew this because the New Stats had gone far and wide when Candlepoint was still trading out the Stat fruits, and yet, only his artifact-level rings, made with a true understanding of light, were able to actually unlock the New Stats in a person. Other people could make rings of the New Stats, for sure, but they were made in the old-school way of enchanting, and they broke down rather fast, with half-lives measured in minutes.

This meant that unlocking Intelligence for the people here would be limited in scope, for a while. They could probably make rings of Intelligence, but they could not unlock the Stat for others. … Which was sort of a problem, but not a large one.

Maybe; Clan Star Song was a good Clan, from what he had seen and heard, but he had only been here for a few days. How they treated him was not indicative of how he judged if a person was good, or not. How a society treated people who couldn’t give them anything was a much better metric, and by that metric, the Highlands were failing.

Yes; he could get a lot of resources and power out of them for doing this.

Yes; it was better than giving them the Periodic Table, and that could come later, anyway, if his ‘Maybe’ from before cleared up into a full-blown ‘Yes’.

No; … he couldn’t think of a good reason not to do this, besides obstinance. He forced himself to consider why not to do this, but couldn’t come up with—

Oh. Wait.

No; these New Stats weren’t real. They were Wizardry, and they were from Melemizargo. Ah. Yeah. That was a great big ‘No’. Hmm.

Yes; other people might come to him with more trade and he could get even more stuff.

But what did he want from these people besides what he was already going to get from them?

Three seconds had passed while Ezekiel thought; while he eyed the others in the Courtyard. He made up his mind swiftly enough, and said, “Okay. I’m going to interview your chosen Alchemists and vet them one at a time. There need not be any subsequent exchange for this particular increase in the unlocking of Intelligence. But depending on how your people answer, they might not gain this boon.”

Every single alchemist except Tadashi, and to a lesser extent, his brother, looked like it was holiday time and they had gotten double presents. Tadashi was stoically reserved, like he knew he wouldn’t get Intelligence, and he likely wouldn’t. Wabi was a mix between his brother and the others, with a lot of empathy apparent for his brother.

Unless Wabi turned into a secret asshole, then Ezekiel would offer Intelligence to him too, simply because of that empathy right there. The jury was still out on the other four.

Zalindi nodded. “Our Alchemists will accept your judgment.” He half-turned to the Loremasters and Elders at his other side, asking, “What say you, regarding the other half of my inquiry?”

Ezekiel asked the indicated people, “I would have to know the offering on the table.”

Zalindi looked to Loremaster Riri.

Riri stepped forward, and said, “Our offers are myriad, but your offers are limited. We would ask that you increase your offer to the permanent granting of a Ring of Intelligence, as well as all the others.”

Zalindi was stoic.

Other people seemed scandalized, though they tried their best to hide it.

Ezekiel smirked. Riri knew she was not getting her demand. She was merely shifting the Overton Window in her favor, and by doing so, when she came down from her heights, she would appear reasonable compared to her starting zone. Other people might have called this simple bargaining, but if anyone around here were to call this ‘bargaining’ then they were deluding themselves. Riri’s request put this conversation firmly into the category of shifting how the world functioned around here, and that was firmly political.

Ezekiel said, “Not for all the magic in the world.”

Two could shift the window.

No one had sat down yet. No one had given out tea. This was not the true way to hash out a deal. And Riri knew this. It was all part of the plan, for sure.

Which is likely why Riri lightly smiled, then asked, “Would you care for some tea and cookies? We can also set up an interview space for your questions for the Alchemists.”

“Of course,” Ezekiel said, having already seen what was going to happen next. His mana sense reached into much of this part of Star Song’s mansion, after all.

Riri gently clapped her hands, and people started moving. Servants came out from behind a boulder and into the courtyard, carrying trays of tea and snacks. Paper dividers were positioned around a stone table to the side, making a semi-private area. Ezekiel would be putting up a [Sealed Privacy Ward] anyway, though. Did they think he would allow his interviews to be spied on that easily? Ah. Whatever. A few servants grabbed Ezekiel’s papers and book and bundled them in a paper wrapping, sealed with twine, then handed them over to Julia. At the same time, Julia, Paul, and Tiffany, were given their own set of tea and cookies at a table to the side of the courtyard, where they had come into the courtyard. The Alchemists were made to stand near the interview area on the other side.

Patriarch Zalindi, Elder Arilitilo, Loremaster Riri, and Elder Mirizo sat on one side of the central table.

Ezekiel sat on the other.

Riri poured them all a sweet-smelling plum tea, handing out the cups in the proper, deferential order to the Patriarch, then Ezekiel, then the Elders, then herself. They all sipped, and it was good, but Ezekiel was mostly focused on the cookies.

They were chocolate chocolate chip cookies. They were dark throughout with morsels of goodness within, and they smelled wonderful.

Riri handed out the cookies next, in the same order. Everyone took one bite.

It was so good, Ezekiel took a second bite, then held his up, and smiled, saying, “Chocolate is taking off faster than I thought it would. It hasn’t even been two months since its creation.”

Riri said, “It is a luxury food as of this moment, but it is easy to grow, and the taste is divine. The style of the treat was taken from a little shop in Spur known as ‘And Dessert!’. I believe it is your flagship store?”

Ezekiel smiled. Riri had certainly done her homework. He said, “Ratchet and Arial both do good work. Arial’s children’s store, ‘Meat! Bread! Cheese!’ does rather well too, with the potatoes for the fries. Spur is a great place.”

“One made all the better for your arrival and continued support.” Riri said, “You bring prosperity wherever you go, and so we are thankful for your arrival here in Eralis, in this time of change. Have you gotten a good look at our fair city and culture?”

Ezekiel wanted to continue to smile, for Riri was a personable woman and the atmosphere of this place was rather friendly. But he forced his smile away, and said, “I’m not leaving Spur.”

Fully expecting this, Riri instantly said, “And we would not ask you to. But perhaps, when you get your [Gate] network up and running. Would you consider a [Gate] in our fair city?”

Well wasn’t that an interesting turn of events.

“Aye.” Ezekiel said, “That’s a fair possibility. I’m still on that Quest, though, so if you should happen to know any [Gate] secrets, let me know, and you’ll move Eralis to the top of the list.” He asked, “Does this mean you would be open to trade with Candlepoint? That’s likely where the Gates to the Stars will be located in a hundred years, but we might end up having [Gate]s before that.”

The calm atmosphere of the courtyard was the only thing that kept the excited, fearful, calculating, or otherwise surprised looks on peoples’ faces from turning into actual gasps or, worse yet, interrupting words. Even Zalindi and the other two Elders were unsettled.

Riri, however, was perfectly calm. “I would be delighted to speak of trade on a global scale, but for now, we have some smaller trades that we wish to conduct for smaller items.”

Ezekiel said, “I cannot permanently part with a ring. That is not an option.”

“Understood.” Riri countered, “Then in exchange for the unlocking of Intelligence for several people, I am willing to offer you the locations of a Nacreous Weaver and a Primal Blood Weaver for whatever usage you deem fit, as well as the knowledge of how to weave magic out of those threads. Weaving knowledge will come from me, while other enchanting and Blood Magic knowledge will come from Elder Arilitilo and Loremaster Xue, both of whom are particularly good with blood.”

