“I don't want you to regret making this connection.” Ren said. He took a deep breath and concentrated on it, and he felt it open up a little more. “Don't let this physical form fool your heart.”

Xuunah looked down as Ren eased his hug and leaned back, and she saw how wide their connection was. “H-how...”

“Sharing so much with you last night might have been an oversight on my part, but it won't be anymore.” Ren touched her face, and she looked up from the light to stare at him in the eyes. “I'll give you as much as you want, and you don't have to feel guilty about it.”

“B-but...”

“You're going to be spending a lot of time with me, and I don't want you to hide in your closet every time I have sex.”

“Ren, I...”

“I know you can't copulate without breaking your solemn vow.” Ren said. “That was why you had such a hard sentence when you returned to the Light Realm.” He smiled. “However, I've become quite good at finding loopholes in things.”

“Wh-what do you mean?” Xuunah asked.

“Well, like I told the Dark Elf healer, I've recently learned there are a few things people can do without actually having sex.” Ren said, and he felt her shock.

“R-Ren, I...”

“No, you don't have to participate at all.” Ren said. “But, you also don't have to stop yourself from enjoying the feelings, either.”

“Wh-what?”

“You just spent years in a pocket realm to atone for something you didn't have to atone for.” Ren said. “Nowhere in your vows does it say you can't experience, or keep, those feelings.”

Xuunah looked at him with wide eyes as she thought about her solemn vow. It took her several minutes to sort through everything, and then she realized that he was right.

“I've been acting foolishly, haven't I?”

“Of course not.” Ren said and gave her a quick kiss on the lips. He felt her tremble at the sensation, and she sighed at the emotions and feelings he still poured into her. “You only acted the way you thought was appropriate.” He let her out of the hug and deactivated his Restoring Hands. “Now you know you don't have to do things that way if you don't want to.”

Xuunah took another deep breath and let it out. “You've made your point.”

“You've been doing things that way for thousands of years, so I'm a little surprised one revelation was enough to convince you.” Ren chuckled. “Plus, if I wanted to really make a point, I would have kissed you like you deserved for putting up with my antics.”

Xuunah smiled. “I don't think Nathalia would be too happy about that.”

“I love her so much, and you are a part of that now.” Ren said and a pulse of light went from his chest and into Xuunah, which made her gasp.

“G-Great V-Vasalor.” Xuunah whispered as she felt how much love he had for Nathalia, and she really was a part of it now.

“Oh! That reminds me.” Ren said. “Who is he?”

“What?”

“Who's Vasalor?”

Xuunah opened her mouth to start explaining, then closed it. “It's a long story.”

“I guess it can wait, then.” Ren said and took two steps down to the ground. “I've got to get to work.”

“I'll try and tell you some of the tale the next time you take a break.” Xuunah said.

“Take a break? What's that mean?” Ren laughed as he opened the warehouse door, and Xuunah laughed at her unintentional joke as they both went inside.
