Harrak had to be a priority for at least half of the continent’s spy networks by now. With so many people moving in, it would be impossible to stop them all.

“What do you think, Abe? Are you happy to get your old home back?”

The old man shook his head, locs clicking in the still air. He didn’t look happy.

“This will take time away from the delivery of justice. It will take resources away from pushing back the deadlands.”

He sighed.

“I spent my worst years in this place. Without your and Enttiku’s support, I would have spent my last ones there as well. It is not a place of happy memories.”

“Oh. Sorry, that was callous of me.”

“I appreciate the thought, Viviane the Outlander. And yes, I will lead this project so long as Sidjin and Rakan manage the more… complex arcane elements. I was never much of a researcher myself. I understand why such a construct might be necessary. I am merely saddened… that it would prove necessary.”

He turned to her.

“Do you know something I do not?”

Viv hesitated, but not for long. She could trust Abe.

“Judgment said we would need the Master Core. Dragons are sensitive to fate mana, a hue we cannot perceive. In a way, he can peer into the future. If he believes we will need the master core then we probably will. If we end up in this sort of situation then I’d rather stack all the odds in my favor starting right now.”

“A wise decision. You can count on me, Viviane.”

“You will need workers. I will have them carefully selected and vetted. They will also be oath-bound to secrecy.”

“You know there are ways around that. Let me handle the oaths. I am close to Enttiku. She will allow it.”

“Even if it is for this project?”

Abe’s crimson eyes carried only sadness.

“Viv, you didn’t think I would have accepted without my goddess’ express consent, did you? If even she approves of this project, then you can be sure secrecy shall be kept. I will request her guidance for this matter. And one last thing?”

“Yes?”

“Do not make me regret this.”

“You guys should trust me a little more.”

Five years later, year 885 of the restored Harrakan calendar. The in-between.

Viv hovered in front of the planet-sized cowled figure that was the goddess of death. Her own shape in the in between was vaguely humanoid with anchors coming out of her back, as hazy reflections of her physical self. Neriad had said that it was because she was still defining herself. He claimed it was a good thing.

Few good things about the current circumstances though.

“Well that was horrifying. Damn.”

Even as just a soul, her emotions still filtered through in waves of disgust and revulsion. That poor harrien.

“Ok so it’s normal for me to experiment on small animals because the target must have a soul and I needed to know if it worked. Nevertheless, fucking hell. Wow. I didn’t expect that.”

I respect your right to defend yourself to the best of your ability.

I also acknowledge the fact that some of the foes you face are so abhorrent and powerful that you would develop such weapons.

Nevertheless, I am going to do something drastic, though I am loath to intervene.

The voice sounded ancient and all-encompassing, yet it was also filled with empathy and support. A strange combination. Motherly, almost.

Before we do so, I believe another setting would be better.

If you will allow it.

“Of course.”

Viv was pulled into a real world, or at least that’s how it felt to her. It was like when she joined Neriad and Efestar for beers and movies on some rare occasions. Were those real places? Or just imaginary constructs brought together by divine mana? She wasn’t sure, but she was curious.

This one was strange too. While Neriad preferred a glass house next to the sword-covered field where he trained, there was nothing grandiose about Enttiku’s retreat. Viv was now sitting inside of a mud hut of modest size, the place toasty despite the cold fall visible through windows. Herbs and plants dried on walls dotted with many alcoves hiding primitive statues, but also strange tools, masks and other beautiful decorations. Water gurgled in a misshapen teapot in a fire in front of her.

A woman in a coarse dress and furs leaned forward, grabbing the pot with tattooed fingers. She was of middle age with very dark smooth hair held in a sensible ponytail, with some silver at the temples. Her face was rugged, squarish, and wouldn’t have been called pretty by any stretch of the imagination, but it also radiated a sort of magnetic confidence that made her demand attention. Amused eyes found Viv. As she poured tea in an earthen mug, the woman smiled. The tattoos extended to her neck, Viv realized.

“Welcome to my humble abode.”

“Wow, I’m honored.”

“I suppose you could be, though I have invited a lot of dying people here before. Try some!”

The liquid was earthy and flavorful in a sort of cozy way. It was most definitely magical.

“I summoned you here as a courtesy and apology, dear, if I have to be honest. As you know, it is my role to guide the souls to the mysteries of the afterlife.”

“Can you answer a few questions about the afterlife?”

“People always ask me that and my answer is always no. Believe what you will!”

“That’s a copout.”

“The prerogatives of an old and powerful deity. Now, for the serious part. Your change spells are incredibly potent, but they also have… very problematic implications. Some that I hadn’t foreseen. Using them on a human could… precipitate events that would be disastrous for the world, although, it would only accelerate them I suppose. Nevertheless, it is too abominable a spell to use lightly. I am sorry to say I will have to censor it.”

She gave an apologetic smile. Viv raised a hand.

“Look, even without outside intervention, I would never have used that thing lightly. I only ask that, should my people and myself be in real, mortal danger — and by this I don’t mean just in the course of a difficult battle — you will lift the ban.”

Enttiku gave Viv a long, hard look. Viv waited.

“Very well. You can pray and should I agree, I will temporarily lift the ban. Do not abuse my trust, young one.”

“Never.”

“I believe you, yet I must warn you all the same. Now, let us relax and talk about more pleasant affairs. Have you considered using rotating portals?”

“Yes but it’s super fucking hard.”

“I'll let you in on a little secret, it won’t make it simple, but at least it will make it possible. As an apology.”

Viv bounced excitedly. Or at least her soul did.

“A private lesson from an ancient goddess? Count me in!”

What felt like a long time later, Viv was back in her body. The first thing she saw were the remains of her experiment.

“Shit, that’s going to live in my core memories.”

She annihilated the remains before sitting down, a little nauseous.

You have been censured by Enttiku. The change-based offensive spell you designed may not be cast without her express consent. Should you break that edict, you will be cursed, and will die.

“Well at least it means I did something cool. Only cool kids get the rules changed because of them.”

Viv spared her spell array one last glance.

It was pretty simple for something so fundamentally revolting. It just used a few very rare runes and a shit ton of mana.

“I really hope I never have to use it…but if I ever do, I hope I’m angry enough not to think about it too hard.”

Thirteen years after the death of Semeryss (year 893), mountains in northern Harrak.

Viv hovered up the mountain as fast as she could. She could feel her daughter’s distress in her soul, that deep panic that pulled at her mind like icy fingers. Arthur had gone to an unexpected dragon conclave, an event that normally happened only every century or so, but was fifty years early this time. It must have been momentous for Arthur to be called. Now, the dragoness’ fear spread, stronger than it had ever been.

Viv hurried. Something terrible must have happened there. Arthur had been gone for two years as well, leaving her financial empire in the hands of capable servants — except recollection which she had placed under Gale’s responsibility. It was a long time for something wrong to happen. The fact Arthur hadn’t flown all the way down to New Harrak meant that she probably couldn’t. She’d had no choice but to stop there. Maybe she was wounded? Sick? Did dragons even get sick?

She landed in the snow. A gust of frigid wind pushed her hair back. There was a cavern here, a natural thing that magic had enlarged. Discarded bones of some sort of large feathered beasts were piled by the entrance, hastily devoured by an uncaring predator. It was a bad sign.

“Arthur!”

Viv moved in with determination. Her eyes adjusted to the darkness. As she walked deeper through a wide corridor, the temperature increased until it reached an almost intolerable level.

Arthur was there, at the center of an artificial cave, curled on herself. Fire mana was thick here, a power expenditure that must have been a drain on the poor thing. She looked fine from afar.

Daughter!

Arthur raised her head. In her normally malevolent eyes was an expression of impotent panic that made Viv’s heart ache.

Daughter, what is happening to you.

Mother, I am scared.

Mother.

Viv rushed towards the poor thing just as she raised a wing, revealing three suspicious colored globes.

Mother.

EGGS!

Viv stopped in her tracks, then facepalmed so hard she almost broke her nose.

***

“I’m a fucking failure of a parent.”

Mother.

“I thought I was doing a good job with hygiene and ethics and everything and I completely, completely forgot about sexual education. Now my ‘teenage’ daughter has been knocked up and I only have myself to blame for my utter incompetence.”

Mother!

“And here I was going to write a book and dragon care and rearing. Hah! What a joke I am. What an absolute travesty before the gods. I am a complete loser.”

Motherrrrrr.

Stop being so dramatic.

“I’m a moron and a disgrace of a mom.”

MOTHER!

“Do you even know who the father is?”

Of course I do!

Sun-reflected-on-a-shard-of-Obsidian

He is from the fire-breathing bloodline, black of scale like a north sea pearl.

We were flying together, and then we did the mating dance and then… one thing led to another…

“A shorter name? An older man? I’m going to give him a piece of my mind.”

Mother.

He lives on the other side of the planet.

“That motherfucker.”

Mother.

Among dragons, it is the choice and the duty of the mother to care for her spawn.

Or not.

I was merely surprised and concerned.

But we can totally make it work.

“Where did you say he lived?” Viv said, making a tally of all her forbidden spells and which one could possibly turn a giant flying lizard into a coat and handbag combo.

MOTHER.

EGGS!

THREE OF THEM.

“Ok ok ok. Shit this isn’t going to simplify the line of succession.”

Harrak is secure in the presence of the empress’ daughter and soon-to-be-born grandchildren!

This is a cause for much joy.

Now please mother, I need you.

“Right. Right, we need to safely transport them around the mountain edge. Bring them to your Evil Den of Capitalism.”

Not the bank.

I shall build a nursery.

I will acquire and train many minions, mother.

I only need help with the transport.

“We can build some sort of box, fill it with feathers, fire-enchanted stones and gravity runes on the outside. Carry it by turn.”

Arthur nodded her head, the sinuous neck bobbing through the air.

Yes!

Yes, that will work well.

My instincts are pushing me to stay put but there is little food here, and I am concerned.

But with your help, I am sure I can feel safe enough to move.

“Yeah it’s also the father’s job to make you feel secure.”

Mother, we are not humans.

Also, Koro would disagree with you.

“That she would,” Viv conceded, thinking of the spear-wielding temple guard exhibitionist. “Alright. Let’s head back.”

I must select proper borglings for my spawn to bind with.

Like we did!

“The gods dammit this is going to lead to an entire new branch of the government. Well, it’s going to take a lot of time for them to grow so let’s worry about getting them home safe first.”

***

Viv gently petted the scale of her second official granddaughter, whose names were not fixed yet, as they ranged between ‘her-sinuous-adorability’ and ‘Second-spawn-scourge-of-the-Great-One-who-Dared-Defecate-in-the-Gold-Vault’, according to her mother’s mood. In any case, the dragons were supposed to pick their own names and she was too young yet. She was black and she had a personality. Right now though, the little hellion slumbered and since she was quite hot and toasty, it made for a nice lap cover.

In front of Viv was her desk in the green zone, the reclaimed sector of the old capital centered around the Treasury. It smelled a bit dusty but was otherwise serviceable. On that desk was something Viv would have never expected in a thousand years. It was a letter. A letter written over a thousand leagues away on a beige piece of paper so thick and oily it might survive an extinction event. The script was in Viziman, one Viv had learned only a couple of years before and only for commercial purposes. Now her eyes followed the willowy script with a mix of suspicion and disbelief.

“Empress Viviane the Black Witch of Harrak, Pacifier of Enoria, Bane of Halluria, Liberator of Glastia, Reclaimer of the Deadlands, and Vanquisher of Dragons. Greetings.”

Any more buttering up and they’d turn her into a Breton pastry.

