What Matt didn’t understand was the viscounts and barons who shared that expression. They would be the last ones to experience any economic benefits from something like Aura rifts without him making it available to everyone.

It would be expensive, but the dukes, marquess, and counts could afford both the price of such a discovery, and the price of keeping a low Tier rift on a higher Tier world. The lower nobility might eventually afford the secret, but they wouldn’t be the ones to benefit. They had to know that. They were immortals with centuries of experience. But the expression that said they wished the invention wasn’t given away for free was almost universal.

Cooper clapped Matt on the shoulder with a smile. “A laudable goal. Truly an exemplar of what the Empire should stand for. Come to my guild some time, guild leader Moore. I’d be happy to share what little we did learn in our stint of aperology, in the name of helping the lower Tiers. Clearly the research would do more good in your hands than in our vaults gathering dust.”

Matt wanted to say the man leered and tried to imply some threat, but the offer, made in front of so many people, had to be genuine, or the hit to Cooper's reputation would be massive. There also wasn’t any attempt at coercion or to rope Matt into the Hasabar league, which was something he and Cato had planned for.

Cooper moved to the side and started chatting with a couple of corporation leaders, one of which Matt recognized from a small, but well known alchemy corporation for Tier 45 and 46 delvers. They didn’t deal with mass production, or even large scale production, instead making custom made potions. But that didn’t change the fact they were incredibly wealthy and well connected, as evidenced by them talking to Cooper as equals.

Matt’s attention was pulled back to the Winiatas as Kiri smiled and bowed slightly. “We shall take our leave, but I’m sure that the moment my fathers are free of their ducal duties they will be pounding at your guild's door.” As she straightened, her smile turned rueful. “A shame I’ve already been conferred as the next duchess, or I'd be there as well. I’ve been inundated from a young age with the science and have cultivated a love for it.”

Matt let a genuine spread smile across his face knowing it would probably be the last one he smiled for the rest of the party. “While most of our efforts will be on low Tier rifts, you are welcome to come by anytime you are in the region if you have some free time from delving.”

After Kiri and her fathers left, Matt was nearly crushed as the dukes with lesser standings than the Winiatas competed with guilds and corporations to reach him first.

Through it all Matt smiled, shook hands and repeated himself over and over.

No, he wasn’t going to be the one to control who got an Aura rift first. No, he didn’t have the time to set up an aura rift on their planet personally. Yes, he expected more aperology inventions to come in the following years, just as he said with the growth rifts. No, he wouldn’t be restricting the guilds or corporations from using this knowledge. Yes, his guild would be one of the ones looking into travel mana.

That last one surprised him, as the Marchioness who brought up Zack's new mana type shouldn’t have known about it this early.

It wasn’t a secret; the mana type had been used in the war, so samples were out there, but as far as Matt knew there weren’t any non-military institutions that had been given access to the mana type so soon. From what he understood, it was one of the things that the Emperor was going to announce during his open court.

After Marchioness Flora mentioned it, it sparked a firestorm as one guest whispered what little they know about it.

Hearing a dozen wrong things being mentioned, Matt raised his voice wanting to squash the number of ludicrous things he was hearing. “Ascender Light was kind enough to donate the mana type to the Empire. And while I won’t mention much before the Emperor does, I can say I assisted in its creation, and I therefore know it's an incredibly finicky and temperamental mana type. Converting existing transportation infrastructure is going to be almost certainly impossible. It will take an entirely new methodology of enchanting to do anything. Engines will need to be built with the mana type in mind from the ground up, and like all new things, it will be inefficient until it is iterated upon a few dozen times. I’m sure there are guilds here who are in a better position to develop the type of items you are interested in.”

Matt hadn’t missed the fact that Cooper hadn’t been at all surprised at the mention of travel mana, but he didn’t know if that was just the man's body control concealing any potential reaction, or if he had already known. He suspected it was the latter, but he couldn’t be sure that wasn't his bias towards the man and his guild showing.

A baron who he had just talked to asked, “What does your guild intend to do, then? Why bother with it?”

Matt was grateful for the question and nodded to the baron, who looked inordinately pleased at the gesture. “My intention is to turn our services to applications below Tier 5. Trains, buses, and boats mainly. Maybe flying swords or the like, but that's a distant secondary goal.”

There were a number of displeased looks at that statement, but Matt held up a hand wantonly to placate those who were seeing their own possible profit vanish. “As I said before. My guild isn’t meant to produce anything. If we happen to create something first that is useful I have neither the time or the desire to deal with mass production and the infrastructure it requires.. You are all welcome to produce anything my guild creates locally and sell to your neighbors. I won’t ask for royalties or exclusivity clauses.”

That seemed to mollify most of the crowd, and Matt made a mental note to give Cato a raise. He had been right that a number of nobles of all ranks, guilds and corporations would be upset at the idea Matt was trying to squeeze them out, and him making it clear he was only interested in the design aspect of inventing realm changing things greatly reduced their outward hostility.

Judging by the number of people who bothered to come and chat with him, only five or so percent of the Empire's nobles were interested in merchant endeavors. If they were smart, they could capitalize on Matt’s inventions and make a fortune or ten. As much as he had tried to downplay low Tier economies earlier, their combined economic value was massive when the scale of the Empire was taken into account.

Even if all of these corporations, guilds, and nobles started manufacturing low Tier travel mana compatible engines, they would have an endless market, as they were just a small percentage of the Empire and all of their neighbors would want those same items. If they had a monopoly on those items, they would milk it for all it was worth and keep the prices sky high, but that was why he wanted all of them producing his creations.

Matt was sure that the first guild who created a higher Tier travel mana engine that was faster or at least more efficient than the standard engine, probably the Hasabar league or a subsidiary of them, would do exactly that. But he didn’t care if the higher Tiers spent their fortunes to save a few percent of efficiency. They were immortals, and could always wait twenty thousand years for a few more iterations of the travel mana engine to come out at a tenth of the price and twice the efficiency.

It was the low Tiers who would benefit more from cheaper transportation.

Matt just had to hope that Titan’s Torch was the first to create such an engine. The lowest hanging fruit was undoubtedly going to be similar enough that the first to create it was going to be the one to earn a patent, and if they needed to reinvent the wheel with a different methodology, it would put them behind the curve.

Hearing his answer, Marchioness Flora turned her nod into a respectful bow as she faded back into the crowd as if she had never been there.

Matt was sure she had her own agenda and reason for bringing up the travel mana, but whatever it was, she had put a ticking clock on a low Tier travel mana engine.

With him explicitly mentioning his altruistic interests in the project, he could only hope that people left the market to him. It was a pipe dream, but Matt could still wish.

The entire incident only served to remind Matt why he hated politics, and gave him a better understanding why Aiden just drowned his problems and why Lila ate people who pissed her off.

Thankfully, he was distracted by something positive: the mention of someone he wanted to see.

“You said Shadi had arrived?”

The duke he was talking to nodded. “I saw her filling a plate with food not an hour ago. Even chatted with her a bit. She’s been in seclusion for a long time, so it was nice to catch up.”

Matt looked over his shoulder to Cato, who vanished as he went to see if it was true.

Shadi was the owner of TrueMind, which had earned her an invite, but she was also someone Matt had just been wanting to talk to. It was also amusing that her seclusion, if it had truly just ended, had been longer than Matt was alive. He had heard the same thing about the company's CEO back when he was a tiny little Tier 3.

Cato returned just as he was repeating his intention to create ideas, not items, to a fellow duke, and that if the man wanted to get an advantage, he should simply position himself in a way to rapidly capitalize on the inventions. Because Matt would not be giving him or anyone else any advantages for any prices.

He had said so thousands of times, which should have made his position clear, but it seemed like every fifth noble asked for the same thing, and they were only mollified when he restated his intentions to them.

That was at least better than the people who tried to convince him to keep his guild's inventions to himself and only share with a select few. They were always in said select few, but most tried to imply it was only a temporary measure to ensure a smooth product launch. Though really, they were just trying to convince him to capture the early days of the market before making it free. If Matt needed money, that was a method he might actually consider, but he didn’t, so he politely declined.

He didn’t think that hard work shouldn’t be profitable, but short term for an immortal could be mortal lifetimes, and Matt found that too wasteful.

It took almost a week of chatting with the various interested parties before Matt found himself without someone else wanting to talk to him, and he immediately made his escape following Cato’s directions.

Matt found his target where Cato had found her a week earlier. The owner of TrueMind sat in one of the alcove lounge chairs with a table piled high with every delicacy the venue offered.

She also looked like shit. Her coppery skin was sallow, and her spiritual perception felt feeble. Or at least as feeble as a Tier 45’s spiritual perception ever felt.

Matt stood at a polite distance for almost five minutes while he watched Shadi plow through plate after plate.

When it became clear she either didn’t notice him or was ignoring him, Matt coughed slightly. When that didn’t work, he pulsed his spiritual perception which finally woke Shadi up from her fugue.

Blinking, she looked over to him and surprised him with her question. “Who are you?”

“Matthew Moore.”

There was a long moment before she recognized the name, and Matt started to grow genuinely worried.

Still, the interruption seemed to do her some good as she patted the seat next to her in the alcove.

“This is your party then. Take a seat. I owe you that much at least.”

“I don’t want to impose if—”

Shadi waved him off. “It’s fine, kid. This is a big day for you, I’m sure. Taking over a noble house or something?”

Matt raised an eyebrow at the question. He was over politicked in the last week and suspicious of every word, but Shadi seemed to genuinely not know what was going on which couldn’t be a good sign.

A guest dying at his party would look awful for all three of them, even if there was nothing they could do to have prevented it, but Matt was also worried for her.

He might not know her, but he knew and liked her company. That was enough of a reason for him to act.

He was about to look at Cato and send him to go get a higher Tier healer that was on call when Shadi’s eyes focused.

“No, you're the Ascender kids right? I heard Danny say something about that. Hey, congratulations, that's impressive. Guild too, right? I heard people complaining about you giving away something to do with rifts. Seems pretty idiotic, but who am I to judge?”

Matt leaned forward, using his Domain to shift the plates away wanting to inspect the woman in front of him. While he hadn’t figured out how to activate his Domain Meld again, just creating it had empowered his Domain and it was now strong enough to move objects even in the Capital system.

“We can get to my achievements later, are you ok?”

Shadi barked out a laugh that startled a number of guests. Matt activated the privacy bubble around the alcove as she spoke. “Ok? I’m far from ok. Ten thousand years of research and not only do I have nothing to show for it, but my own personal [AI] was fried in the final testing. I am anything but ok.”

Her eyes were bloodshot as she looked at him. “Repeated failure is brutal, kid. It eats at you until you have nothing left. Ask me how I know.”

The TrueMind CEO leaned back into the lounge chair and sighed as she shoved her hands into her face.

“Is there anything I can do to help?”

Shadi barked a laugh and pulled her hands away from her face. “Are you serious?”

“Yes?”

