Chapter 345

Matt, Liz, and Aster let the crowd chatter for a few moments, just long enough that the lower Tiers watching could fully process the information. However, that was more than long enough for the higher Tiers to look at him like they wanted to turn him upside down and shake the answer out of him at the delay.

“So soon?” Sciath hEachaidh, scion of the second strongest draconic noble family, called out with clear disbelief in her voice.

Matt took the time to nod to acknowledge her comment and noted that she had advanced all the way to Tier 26 since he had seen her last.

It took Matt aback to hear a decade referred to as ‘soon’, but he was still getting used to immortal timeframes being measured in centuries.

“The product needs a little more refining before I’m happy to publish our findings, but the Emperor has already given us the ok to release the information.”

“Will you be giving us the method to make it?”

Kiri Winiata was a shorter woman standing only five eight, but her presence was amplified by her dark skin covered in multicolored tattoos that slithered across any exposed flesh. It fit her snake bloodline and her reported Talent of being able to materialize her drawings into reality. From what he remembered about her from their coming of age party, she was polite and quiet. But more importantly, her family was one of the few who dabbled in aperology and were well regarded by Rusty.

They were one of the main powers he wanted to pull onto his side with this maneuver, so he was happy to answer the question.

“The critical resource is a unique mana type we have access to, and the Emperor has stated that the Imperial government will be the ones to control the mana type until a price has been established with the other Great Powers. Once that has been settled, it will be released for copying along with the instructions of how to create said rifts. Said negotiations are estimated to be finished before the end of the decade, but if they aren’t, the mana type will be made available to your respective Kings so that the rifts can still be spread. Even if it would be slower than what we would all desire.”

Kiri nodded silently in response, but Matt didn’t miss the look her fathers shared at the news. If Matt wasn’t way off the mark, he had the Winiata house interested.

Now, it was just time to reel them in. “I understand that this will be disruptive to collective interests, but I have no intention of profiting off this discovery. Titan’s Torch is not, and will never be a guild seeking a profit. Anything we develop or discover will be made available to the open market for those interested and capable to do the producing. As for the aura rifts, if you wish to take advantage of them, you are free to do so to the extent you find most suitable. I’m sure you all have a low Tier world or ten that you can set up aura rifts in if you wish to create a local farm, or you may spread them throughout your fiefs. More importantly, Titan’s Torch has other products coming in the coming decades. I might not be Talented in aperology, but I have a knack for it.”

Letting an easy smile spread across his face, Matt continued after he was sure he had everyone's rapt attention. “As for a hint of our upcoming products, we have a semi reliable way to make rifts produce growth items.”

That caused another small uproar in the crowd, but before it could grow too much, Matt added, “It's not as developed or as refined as I would like it to be as it requires the rift to be full to function properly, so there is no date on the release. But once we finish the aura rifts, that will be our highest priority.”

Marco Winiata spoke up even as the barons, who controlled the lowest Tier worlds, were still processing the fact they were the ones in the best position to take advantage of the aura rifts. Let alone the idea of rifts that regularly produced growth items. “You came up with the aura rifts yourself? Are you looking for assistance and collaborators, or do you prefer to work alone?”

“I was one of the leads in the project, but I had help from a higher Tier assistant. Aperology is a personal passion of mine, but I’m in no way an expert. Anyone who wishes to assist in aperology or a few other projects targeted at mortals are welcome to look at the guild, our mission statement, our contracts, and apply if you find it aligns with your own desires or ambitions.”

Marco nodded before stepping back, whispering to his husband and daughter even as he opened the floor to other questions.

Before anyone else could speak, Matt said, “I’m more than happy to chat more with anyone who desires to talk in the Altro room, but I think we have taken up enough time of the uninterested as it is.”

Only a portion of the crowd shifted to the side room, but that was still millions, as everyone else moved forward to try and chat with Aster, Liz, or split off and moved to mingle with the various other guests.

Matt did notice that he had almost all of the guild leaders and corporation directors moving to follow him, and he resisted sighing.

Most of them looked affable and chatted amiably with their fellows, but a few didn’t bother with such pretenses and openly scowled. Matt made note of them, but knew the truly dangerous players were the ones smiling and pretending they were happy at the announcement. The issue was that most of the people here would be more than happy at the abundance of aura rifts, making it impossible to distinguish the two.

This was the start of Matt’s guild in a very real sense. If he could secure the assistance of most of the people here, he could solidify his guild’s standing and make their next centuries far easier. If he messed up and pissed these people off, he’d have an uphill battle even before he ran into those whose interests he really wanted to bulldoze.

As he reached the center of the room, Matt took note of how the edges of the room expanded as the hall stretched to contain the multitudes flooding in behind him.

The first to address him wasn’t one of the Winiatas, but instead was an older looking man with gray-streaked dark blue hair.

He stepped forward and proffered a hand, and Matt had to force himself to not to punch the man in the nose. It wouldn’t have done anything productive, the man was Tier 46, but it would have made Matt feel better.

Cooper of Illvos was old. He had reached his Tier at least three hundred thousand years ago, but rumors said he was far far older than that. He had been a fairly unremarkable figure when Agatha took over the Empire a little more than sixty thousand years ago, but he had taken her economic shakeup by storm. He was strong enough and positioned well enough to be the first one to take advantage of the increase in economic freedoms for non-nobility.

He had created a high Tier guild and in less than a thousand years and produced dozens of runes based on rarer, but still useful, skills, which brought the guild immense wealth. Instead of being happy with what he had, Cooper had spent his wealth setting up feeder guilds all based around runes. Then he started buying out, crushing, or absorbing all of his competition into a group of allied and contractually bound guilds. His guild was officially just another member, albeit a core member, but he was the undisputed leader of the Hasabar League.

The Burning Hearts guild, the guild which had tried to monopolize the [Bandage] rune during Matt’s Tier 10 Pather tournament, was a peripheral member of the league, even if he hadn’t known that at the time. Not that Matt would have done anything different even knowing they were backed by a super conglomerate of guilds.

It was a bit of an open secret that Coopers league had access to runes that didn’t exist outside the guild, which were kept to those who paid exorbitant fees, or those who subordinated themselves to the guild.

Some of the rumors could only be that. A healing rune that could revive the dead couldn’t exist, but it wasn’t impossible that the guild had a life saving rune of unheard of potency. The same went for the rune that created mana instead of spending it. Essence might be an unlimited power source, but mana was very much not.

The rumors about their catalog were as long as the guild was old.

The Hasabar League had been on a path of consolidation that seemed unstoppable until just a little while ago in fact. Thanks to a dispute with Tur’stal’s predecessor they had slowed or stopped their outward expansion to almost nothing. Despite that, the League was still one of the largest guild coalitions in the Empire, and probably the wealthiest if even half of the metrics Cato had gathered for him were accurate. As for the outcome of the fight, no one was sure, and even with Matt’s access Cato hadn’t been able to find anything definitive out.

He planned to ask Tur’stal during the Emperor’s open court, but he thought he had a good idea what had happened. Or rather, Cato had a good idea that he agreed with. His seneschal, and most information brokers, suspected Georgios had allowed the kingdom and the Hasabar League to fight it out long enough to weaken both of them, before stepping in and picking up the pieces while forcing all sides to play nice.

Matt knew it wasn’t fair, but from his Folded Reflection life where he was Georgios’ prisoner, he believed the man was willing to do exactly that. He wanted to dislike the maneuver, but letting one's opponents weaken each other was the second or third lesson taught to any prospective businessman or noble, and he couldn’t fault the strategy. He just had a dislike of anything Georgios was involved in, even if it wasn’t fair or truly logical.

Pulling himself out of his musings, Matt took Cooper’s hand and shook it.

The man laughed a big and boisterous laugh. “It's nice to meet you guild leader.” He winked at Matt like they were old friends. “A title which is easy to get but hard to earn. Though today, I’d say you earned it with flying colors. A truly magnificent display. Aura rifts. Truly a wonder. I had an entire guild dedicated to aperology forty or so thousand years ago. Agatha asked us to look into it, but it was a losing proposition. I think we spent a few trillion mana with hardly anything to show for it. In the end, we concluded it was just better to find a Talented person and have them do what you want. I’m impressed that you managed to make headway in that field.”

Matt took a moment to study the higher Tier man and didn’t bother to hide it. It was probably an eternity at a Tier 46 perception speed, but he didn’t rush.

Cooper seemed perfectly sincere, and if Matt was just meeting him for the first time without knowing his history, he would undoubtedly be taken in by his charming smile and genuine compliments. He was on guard, but he also knew he couldn’t throw away all pretenses of civility, even if that was where they would undoubtedly end up.

There was always the chance the man truly was sincere, and Matt’s information and biases were wrong. That was about as unlikely as him Tiering up a dozen times in a row via inspiration and creating his own Authority right here and now, but it was possible.

“Thank you. It's a bit of a hobby of mine. And I can’t claim any real credit. Most of my progress was thanks to a few unique mana types I got my hands on. I’m sure we did little but reinvent the wheel otherwise. I had no access to aperology information and therefore had to learn a lot on my own.”

“Ah, so it was before you completed the Path then. That’s even more impressive.”

Matt hadn’t meant to reveal the timeline. It wasn’t necessarily a secret, but the older man's perceptiveness was a harsh reminder that he needed to be on his guard while swimming in these waters.

“Astute observation, but yes. I found myself with a touch of freetime after the vassal war and on a planet with practically nobody there. Flush with my winnings and with a few handmade formation plates, I started experimenting in an effort to change up the rifts we were delving day after day. The rest, as they say, is history.”

Cooper laughed, but they were interrupted by the Winiatas approaching together. Marco’s husband, Elliot, spoke with a deep voice that rumbled Matt’s chest. “It’s where my own aperology ambitions started. I was Tier 6—”

“Tier 7.” Marco corrected with an indulgent smile.

“Tier 7, flush with the inheritance of my ascending grandfather and had little more than that when I started researching aperology. It's the truest science. Everything in cultivation revolves around rifts. We delve them, they convert mana to essence and create wonders for us. I only wish we could have created something of such magnitude. Aura rifts are a magnum opus, but yet you start with it. Not that I can complain about what it's brought me. It's how I met Marco, after all.”

Kiri spoke up the moment her father paused. “I don’t suppose you are willing to enter into a mutually beneficial research agreement?”

Every eye in the room refocused on Matt as Kiri asked what they were all thinking.

Matt chose his words carefully. “I’m more than willing to have help, but the purpose of my guild is first and foremost a charity. Unless the Emperor decides something can’t be shared, I intend to share our discoveries, and my intention is for low Tier inventions, preferably Tier 5 and below, so there won’t be too much value in those inventions. Better to just release it for other people to make and use.”

There was a wave of grumbles that rippled through the room as everyone imagined themselves getting access to the things his guild might create and using them to claw ahead of their peers.

