For the first time she really looked at Matt. “Who are you kid?”

“Matthew Moore.”

“Do you know how little that narrows it down?”

Matt chuckled at the comment. It was snarky in a way that reminded him of Allie or Aster.

Shadi tapped her temple. “Sorry, I’m still absorbing a brand new [AI] skill shard so I can’t just look you up. I wasn't feeling up to it until just a few hours ago. Can you tell me what I would find if I did look you up?”

His laugh turned into a wince as he thought about losing access to one of his oldest skills. His AI skill had been with him since he had taken the implant back at his PlayPen, and even after it had merged with the [AI] skill, it still had all of the modifications he had made to it. Losing it would be devastating.

The loss of a core skill also explained why Shadi was in such bad shape. She hadn’t mentioned the specifics on how she lost it, but any skill detonation that deep in one's spirit would be near lethal.

“Matthew Moore Né Alexander Titan of Lilly. Ascender, hobbyist aperologist, and the idiot who is trying to give away aura rifts for free, as well as someone who feels he owes you a favor.”

Shadi winced at his slight rebuke. “Sorry. I’m bad company. Frankly, I’m only here to freeload some good food. I’m not exactly pleasant company. Actually, before you go, how do you feel like you owe me a favor? If you are a baby Ascender I’m ninety nine percent certain that I don’t know you. The last Ascender I knew of was Lila. Impressive that we got another one so soon though, so congratulations.”

“Third Ascender since Lila, actually, but...” Matt paused and laughed at Shadi’s widened eyes.

“You're pulling my tail?”

“I’m dead serious. Waters, Light and Shadow, and then my team. We just fought a war over that very fact.”

“I can't believe it. Fuck, this is what I get for going head down for so long.”

Matt could hardly comprehend the idea of working on a single project for ten thousand years, and had to ask. “What were you working on?”

Shadi held up a hand. “I’m willing to share but back up. You feel like you owe me a favor? While I’m not one to look a gift horse in the mouth, I will give it a poke to make sure there aren’t any soldiers inside.”

Matt ignored the reference he couldn’t place and explained his history with TrueMind and how much the early AI had helped him, combined with the company investing in Lilly even before it became known he was an Ascender.

Shadi just waved him off once she understood. “You don’t owe me shit then. If you feel you owe someone, call up my second in command, Geoff. He’s been running the company day to day for the last millennia or ten while I wasted my time.”

Cato nodded without Matt even having to say anything, but Matt corrected Shadi's statement. “I still feel like I owe you personally. I’ll extend the same offer to Geoff because I’m grateful that the opportunity for a subsidized AI was even available while I was at the PlayPen, but more than that, I’m grateful that my home world was given such an economic boon by TrueMind opening a production facility there. Let alone while also refraining from taking advantage of the relative poorness of the planet. And if nothing else, you put the right people in charge and so you deserve a little credit. So, if there is anything I can help with, let me know. It's a genuine open offer.”

Shadi looked at him for a few moments between snacking on a variety of foods scattered about before slowly nodding.

“Thank you. And I apologize for crashing your party. I just saw the portal in the C suite and walked through.”

“You technically were invited, and one extra person means little here. You are at least one I’d like to chat with.”

Shadi chuckled as she tossed a crab leg into a bowl. “I feel that. Now that I’m out of seclusion, I’ll have to host my own version of this soon, but I'm trying to not think about that right now. As for your earlier question about what I was working on, how much do you know about AI and formations?”

From there they started talking about formations and integrating non skill based AI. Shadi seemed impressed that he was able to understand the basics of the conversation, but that was all Matt was able to understand. As she went into more esoteric applications of both formations and AI, he started to get lost, but he was able to understand the gist of her issue.

Shadi and a team of researchers had spent the last ten thousand years trying to change how artificial AI were integrated with formations. There were Natural Treasures that bestowed a facsimile of intelligence to things like buildings or floating islands, which allowed one to just enchant like normal, so long as they didn’t interfere with the actual spirit of the intelligence and end up with an area that could run on its own. The downside was that said Natural Treasures are rare and expensive enough to be out of reach for all but the incredibly wealthy.

The second option was to have someone with an [AI], the full skill, in their spirit link into the formations and have their [AI] do the work of controlling the formations. That required a dedicated person to efficiently act as the core of the formation which wasn’t practical long term for most projects that needed large scale formations.

Both were less ideal than a dedicated artificial AI, which could learn and adapt to what it was embedded in. In theory they would also be vastly cheaper than either of the other two options, if not for the expensive, not to mention fragile, custom made housing and specialized interfaces required to interact with even the simplest formations in lieu of an operator's spirit.

Shadi and her people had been trying to redesign artificial AI’s core structures to simplify and smooth that integration. According to her they had been just a hair away from success for the last two thousand years after a multitude of failures for the eight thousand before that.

The team had come to the conclusion that their issue was the lack of an old enough artificial AI, and so Shadi had sacrificed her own AI, which had never been integrated with the [AI] skill, to the cause.

It had failed.

“It’s going to take some effort, but we are so close.” There was a fire in her eyes as she looked at Matt. “If you are serious about pursuing aperology, take one piece of advice from me. You are going to fail a lot. It's going to hurt, it’s going to start to feel personal, but don't give up. I know I look like shit, but in a decade, I’ll be scratching at the doors to get back in the lab trying again. Now tell me about your guild. Aura rifts? I don’t know the faintest thing about aperology, but I could use the distraction, so fill me in.”

Matt smiled and started to respond, only to be distracted by an AI message coming in, despite the fairly restrictive notifications he’d set up. “Oh, and Cosmind wants me to tell you hi?” he asked, a bit confused. “And she also says I should talk to you about mental integrations. Is that part of what you were working on?”

Shadi chuckled. “Every time. Tell her I’ll send her my new AI address once it’s properly installed. And no, mental integrations are more about personally integrating yourself with your [AI]. But that’s enough of that particular headache, please tell me what’s new and exciting in the world of rifts.”

“So, how familiar are you with Felran architecture?”

“I’ve heard the term, but remind me?”

“So, when you want to make a rift you need mana and essence. But, on top of that…” Matt eagerly chatted with someone bright enough to follow what they’d been dealing with.
