Tala watched the woman bob stoneward before rising back up at the edge of the city, effortlessly using the artificial dimensional structure of the city to her advantage for quick movement.

Tala frowned. She’d hoped to talk with that woman about Reforging—as she’d talked to basically every Reforged she could—and maybe get a friendly spar, but apparently, it wasn’t meant to be.

The other Paragons were in deep discussion, but they still gave bows of acknowledgement toward Master Grediv along with Tala and Rane as they left as a group.

Master Grediv sighed, coming over to Tala, Rane, and Eskau Meallain. “Well, that went better than expected.”

“Oh?” Rane seemed skeptical.

“Oh, absolutely. These conclaves sometimes yield nothing but argument, but this is simply too large and important an issue for people to attempt jockeying for personal advantage, at least not right away.” He gave a wry smile. “I expect at least a decade before any more selfish plans begin to manifest, and hopefully by then, we’ll be at open war, and it won’t matter.”

Eskau Meallain huffed and shook her head. “For all your supposed ‘benevolent’ leadership of humanity, it sounds like you all are surprisingly self serving.”

“By selfish, I meant those which benefited their own cities or interests more, not which were truly detrimental to the greater goals of our society.” Master Grediv shrugged. “Regardless, I see no profit in arguing with you. We are who we are, and our citizens have a better quality of life than any surrounding society. That seems like a rather ringing endorsement from my perspective."

The elf rolled her eyes but didn’t argue further.

Tala cleared her throat. “Well, we have much to be about, then.”

Master Grediv gave them a shallow bow. “Very well. Please let me know if you need anything. Eskau Meallain is now solely in your custody.”

“Eskau Meallain, come with me.” With that, she willed herself, Rane, and Eskau Meallain back into Ironhold, feeling her authority wrap around the woman like a set of ephemeral chains.
