He took the instrument. And then—began to copy Numbtongue. Not improvise, but he began to play the same background beat. The Hobgoblin blinked. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. Bird just nodded.
“Do you have a flying potion?”
“I wish. I have one that makes you float, and another for weight and stuff, but no flight.”
“Oh. How sad.”
“How?”
The Hobgoblin stared at Saliss, almost outraged. The [Alchemist] winked. Then he turned.
“Hey, Octavia! You want to get in on this?”
The Stitch-Woman eyed the band on the stage. She was hung over, but the [Alchemist] had a number of hangover cures. They made you pee like nothing else, so she’d been visiting the outhouse. She paused.
“Master Saliss?”
The Drake winked again at Numbtongue as he showed the vial to Octavia.
“Careful. I can’t make more of them. Not my focus. Acquiring the vital essence of talent is something other [Alchemists] specialize in. With Skills, usually. Or I dunno, dunk someone in a solution and let it take some of their skill.”
“And you can play? Play this.”
Numbtongue demanded urgently. Saliss copied his bass line. He nodded as Bird and Mrsha began laying down the beat on their pots. The Worker began to test his voice.
“Me, mi, me, mi.”
“Talent Potions are rare. But Blademaster Draughts exist. I’ve heard the best [Alchemists] can brew Luck Potions. Or [Witches], who can make you literally drink…life. [Witches] are really scary. I hear stories about them.”
He paused and looked around meaningfully. All five stared into the empty fireplace. Saliss’ eyes still gleamed with the memory of last night.
“Strange how an [Innkeeper] has that rare power. Well, Xif and I both got some of that fire. She gives it away, you know. For free or too cheap.”
He glanced at Octavia, and then back at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin paused.
“That’s why she’s better.”
He glared challengingly at Saliss. And again, the Named Adventurer just smiled.
“I know. That’s why you give back, even if you’re not asked.”
The Goblin watched him. And Saliss casually took his place on the stage.
“We doing this? Octavia, get up here! You have to play! Is there another guitar? Anything with strings works with this potion.”
“What? Me? Are we giving back?”
Octavia raised her brows as she took the talent potion. Saliss grinned.
“What? Nah, this is just fun. Here, drink up. Ready?”
Numbtongue paused. But he had a bass line. A drummer. A singer. And what did you need beyond that? Reluctantly, he nodded.
Bird took the center of the stage, next to Numbtongue. The [Bard] kicked it up a notch. Mrsha rearranged her pots for maximum efficiency. And they began to play.
At first, the music was quiet. But the band didn’t believe in quiet music. As Numbtongue launched into the first pop and rock songs, his guitar began to pick up in volume.
“Go louder.”
Not only that. Saliss began to sing along as he picked up the words. And he and Octavia could play the bass that Numbtongue taught them. Mrsha began hammering on the drums.
At some point, Bird began singing as loudly as he could. Numbtongue was playing hard on the guitar. And the music went through the inn.
Another fact about the [Grand Theatre]. The room had great acoustics. Erin Solstice woke up in her room and wondered what that sound was coming from below her. She heard the rest of the sleepers on the second floor waking up in confusion.
“What’s that? Where am I?”
Olesm was lying on the floor in the hallway. He raised his head as Erin stepped out of her room. She nearly went for the garden, but the sound was coming from downstairs. Erin staggered down the stairs as Lyonette came out—all three [Mages] had just hit themselves with [Deafness] spells and rolled over.
“What on earth…?”
In the early morning, The Wandering Band played. Mrsha, the heart and soul of the band, who’d obviously dragged them all together, whaled on the drums, keeping mostly to the beat.
Numbtongue and Bird were singing in the front, backed by singers and bassists, Octavia and Saliss. And it was the Hobgoblin who hit a solo riff as Erin watched.
Electricity flashed from his claws and the guitar strings. Mrsha’s fur stood up on her body, and the guitar screamed, like no instrument in this world ever had before. Saliss grinned as he played the bass.
“Yeah! This is music! Have you heard the Queen of Pop?”
The impromptu concert was shaking the dishes on the tables. Erin put her hands to her head.
She still had a hangover, by the way. She stared at the Hobgoblin as he spotted her. He grinned. And Erin, loving, caring, seeing her family having fun with some cool people…shouted.
“In the garden! Not here!”
The music came to a halt. The band stared at the angry mom. Erin was in no mood for it.
“Out! Garden!”
“Wow. What a jerk.”
Saliss sniffed. Erin turned bloodshot eyes on him. Then she stomped upstairs and went back to sleep.
 
——
 
This was the band of legends. And even if they had to play in the meadow, it was alright. They had instruments, space, a potion of talent—
And the music. Heck, with four people who could sing, they could even play Bohemian Rhapsody.
If Erin had taught Numbtongue that. She had not. But the band played in the Garden, and when the rest of the inn was finally on their feet, they found the band was still playing.
In the rain. Or rather, watching it come down. It was drizzling outside. The rain poured down through the opening in the dome, and the band stood next to the downpour as it wet the hilltop with the Sage’s Grass.
“Huh. They’re good.”
Erin stared as she sipped from a cup of hangover tea. Indeed, a crowd had come down to watch the after-show performance.
The extra bit. Beza, Montressa, and Palt. Lyonette, Olesm. And Wailant and Viceria, who’d been too soused to even get to their home.
“Damn, but that Hobgoblin can play. What’s with the lightning?”
Wailant was enjoying the music. Numbtongue was in rare form. And the [Lightning Chords] were sending jolts of lightning all over the place.
A…lot of jolts. Erin felt something stirring in the inn.
“Whoa.”
The [Bard] was playing faster, in a solo. Erin felt a charge in the air. She stared up at the sky, looked at the lightning filling the air. She had never seen Numbtongue conjure so many bolts of electricity. But then she sensed something building—
“He’s not going to—”
Lyonette murmured. Saliss looked up as the skies sparked.
“Huh.”
He moved as a bolt of lightning shot down through the opening in the Garden of Sanctuary’s dome. The Named Adventurer dropped his guitar, reached into his bag of holding, and withdrew a bottle in a moment.
He threw the bottle before the lightning bolt struck. Mrsha saw the glass jar flash through the air. And the bolt of lightning twist. Touch—
The explosion made even Numbtongue pause. The flash and sound made everyone duck. But then—they gawped.
A bottle filled with a bright, eye searing light was lying in the grass. The light blazed, and then—suddenly—the glass turned black. Opaque, hiding the bottled lightning.
“Gotcha!”
Saliss snapped his claws. Everyone stared at him. Even Numbtongue. Octavia stammered.
“How—?”
The Drake turned. He picked up the bottle and tucked it into his bag of holding. The Drake [Alchemist] winked, as if defying physics were an everyday trick.
“In case you forgot—I’m the best naked, dancing [Alchemist] this world has ever seen. And I really like this inn.”
He nodded to Octavia.
“I’ll teach you to do that when you’re older. But it’s a long way to the true top. For me, too. I still have to figure out how to do that for rainbows.”
He laughed. And turned.
“Sorry, Numbtongue. Just wanted to get some for free. Don’t mind me.”
“Sure.”
The Hobgoblin had stopped playing. The Drake Named Adventurer had literally stolen his thunder. And lightning. But now, he glanced around.
The Sage’s Grass glowed red in the meadow. Wailant and Viceria had planted it all. The Hobgoblin walked carefully between the glowing plants. And then, casually, he began to riff on the guitar.
Solo. His claws began to move, playing a slower beat. And then faster. Faster. Erin saw Numbtongue’s fingers begin to blur. And she felt it again.
Power. In the inn. It was gathering around the [Bard]. Electricity became his strings, and it began earthing around him.
Above him, the skies turned black. The charge in the air made Mrsha back up. Saliss blinked upwards.
“I only really needed one—”
Another bolt of lightning fell. It hit the ground just outside the inn, scaring the daylights out of a Rock Crab. Then another bolt flashed down. Another. In quick succession.
“No way.”
Erin stared at Numbtongue. He wasn’t supposed to be able to do that! He could only call down one bolt every few minutes if he played constantly! But this—she felt it again.
And she realized. He was just a conduit. The Goblin looked back at her and Saliss. And she realized he’d felt it first, before all the other [Mages]. Before her, even.
Lightning cascaded down, around the inn. An electric, drumming beat. And it came from the guitar. But the power behind it—came from the grass. From the very air.
Magic ran through the inn. The guitar strings flashed as power ran down through them, and the Hobgoblin laughed in the storm. For a minute. The lightning crashed as he finished, and the guitar sang like thunder.
Then Numbtongue lowered the guitar, panting. He looked around. And Erin saw the Sage’s Grass glowing bright.
“Whoa.”
Montressa stared at Numbtongue. Palt slowly blinked about.
“There’s so much ambient mana—dead gods. It could charge the door.”
“Ever seen a Sage’s Grass field, kids? What do you think it did? This charge’ll do more than fill the door, even if that’s most of where it goes. But show em, Viccy!”
Wailant laughed. His wife smiled. She drew her wand and flicked it.
“I’m not good at telekinetic spells. But I can do this.”
She pointed. And Erin saw Mrsha, trying to make a little mudball…float. Bird inhaled as the Gnoll floated by his head, waving her arms and shouting silently. And then she tried to swim in the air. Viceria obligingly floated her through the rain, over the Sage’s Grass.
Everyone was stunned.
“Oh…Bird? You could fly. Bird? You could—”
Erin looked at Bird. He was passed out in the grass. Numbtongue spun as Mrsha soared around his head. He could feel the magic draining fast. But it was possible. And it was all around him. He closed his eyes, basking.
Saliss paused as he inspected the Sage’s Grass. The other guests, Wailant, Viceria, and Erin and Lyonette stared up at him. Mrsha waved as she floated. The Hobgoblin nodded as he slung the guitar’s carry-strap around his shoulder.
“Door’s done. Good magic.”
Then he went and took a nap while he leveled up. Later that day, Bird flew for fourteen seconds.
 
[Goblin Soulbard Level 32!]
[Song – Harmony of Mana obtained!]
