The show then focused on Onscreen Ren finding his 10 crew in a quick montage, and then the quest popup appeared and the group of soldiers and players were on their way. There was yet another montage of him enchanting everything on the soldiers as they walked to the quest's destination, and then the players when they saw what he was doing. They agreed to give him their junk drops in exchange for enchantments, and then the questing group was in front of the cavern.

After overhearing that the soldiers would be going inside after a full night's rest, Onscreen Ren took out a bedroll from inventory and got inside, then the screen faded to black as the episode ended.

*

“A lot happened in that episode, and not a lot happened in that episode.” Ren said, and Lisa chuckled.

“I thought it was going to be like that.” Elise said reservedly, and tried not to overreact to Ren's damage as she pat Stella's knee to get her attention quietly. “According to the notes, the episode was going to end with you arriving at the town's square.”

Stella wondered what Elise wanted, then saw her discreetly point to Ren's hand. She took the hint and went over to Ren's recliner to examine his hand, and discovered the sprained wrist.

“When they realized how little was in the episode, they added the rant and the quick journey to the cave.” Elise said and held in her tears as Stella quickly walked over to the small booth at the back of the room to get some supplies to wrap Ren's wrist. Lisa had watched everything, and didn't say anything out loud; but, she leaned in closer to Ren and kissed his neck.

“You're so brave and strong.” Lisa whispered to him.

“That's because I've survived all of my worst days so far.” Ren said as Stella came back, and when Lisa leaned away, he looked at Elise. “This is not even a footnote on that list.”

“Ren...”

“Things happen, sweetheart.” Ren said as Stella carefully wrapped his wrist and hand after wiping it clean. “We've discovered another limitation on my body, at least.”

“B-but...”

“Please, don't think less of me because of this.” Ren said and smiled. “I love you.”

“I hurt you.”

“No, I was hurt while trying something.” Ren said. “Now we know distractions are bad when that happens.”

“Ren.” Elise said and closed her eyes for a moment and took a breath. She opened them and stared at him. “You're so brave... and strong.”

Ren smiled as Elise repeated Lisa's whisper. “When certain things happen, all you can do is smile and move on with your day.”

“But...”

“I refuse to let pain rule my life, Elise.” Ren said. “It doesn't dampen my passion, or lower my will to be with the ones I love.” He said and held out the hand with a sprained wrist. Elise gently touched the palm of the hand and Ren closed his hand on her fingers. It hurt; but, he didn't let it show. “You're a part of my life, and I will fiercely defend my right to be with you, no matter what happens.”

Elise used her other hand to touch his face, and Ren saw a tear roll down her cheek.

“I choose to be happy, Elise.” Ren said. “I want you to choose to be happy with me.”

“I... I do.” Elise said and kissed him. It was a restrained kiss, but it had more feelings in it than their normal kisses did. She broke the kiss and pulled back, then wiped the lone tear away from her face.

“That's so sweet.” Barbi whispered, and that made Stella and Ren chuckle because she had been saying that all day.
