“I love you, and I'll do everything I can to make you happy.” Ren said. “We're also good friends, and I like having you around; but, I won't ignore women who care about me in real life. How would they react if I told them that I won't hug them or kiss them with you around, because you're uncomfortable seeing me do it?”

Elerlyth opened her mouth to respond, and she sighed. “Yes, I know it's unreasonable.”

Ren put a hand over himself and turned around. He put his other hand on her arm. “I hope you know that I wouldn't do anything past kissing, holding hands, or hugging someone in public.” He said. “I don't mind a little excitement; but, having an audience that isn't into it is not something that I want to experience.”

“I know.” Elerlyth said. “You're not an exhibitionist.” She looked down at him. “Not normally, anyways.”

Ren chuckled. “I would have asked you to take your top off to have the Blue Screen Protocol go into effect, but I don't think I'd be talking too much if you did.”

Elerlyth smiled. “I'm having a hard time trying to argue against you, too.”

Ren grinned. “My dastardly plan has worked! Mwahahaha!”

Elerlyth laughed. It wasn't because it was funny, but because she knew Ren had no such thought when he had stored his clothing.

“Ren, I'll try to not let you showing affection to others bother me.” Elerlyth said. “Mind you, that's a lot easier to do in the game than it is in real life.”

Ren nodded. “Yes, because you don't think the NPCs deserve to be treated normally.”

Elerlyth frowned. “Where did that come from?”

“I've seen how you treat Anabelle.” Ren said. “Like she's below your notice.”

“Ren.” Elerlyth sighed. “I...”

“Don't deny it.” Ren said. “I may not be concentrating on my Spider Aura right now, but I'm pretty sure I can tell when you're going to lie.”

“All right, fine.” Elerlyth said. “I don't see them as people, okay? They don't matter as much to me, because they don't really matter at all.”

“Why?”

“Why what?”

“Why don't they matter at all?” Ren asked.

“Because... if one dies, they get replaced with another.” Elerlyth said. “They perform assigned tasks and that's it. No variation. No creativity.” She sighed. “They don't really matter.”

“I'm just going to completely skip reminding you all about Nathalia and how she's changed, and evolved, as both a person and as a game character.” Ren smiled. “So, the one I'm going to point out to you instead, is Anabelle.”

“What do you mean?”

“You know what she was at the mansion.” Ren said. “You know she used to have sex for money. That was all she did. She was technically a maid, but she never had to perform maid tasks. She was given a strict set of rules, and left to her own devices most of the time.”

“So?”

“Look at her now.” Ren said and smiled again. “She's running one of the most successful businesses in Aurora. It's only a starter city with a limited population, and yet we're still selling furniture, weapons, armor, and items.” He chuckled. “I figured there would be a boom at the start, then things would peter out and I'd have to close down or change everything in the store to keep it fresh. I haven't had to do that yet, and it's been almost a month real time since we've been open.”

“It... it's been almost 4 months game time?”

Ren nodded. “I opened just before the first episode of the show aired, and we just watched the fourth weekly episode.”

“The time is going by so fast.” Elerlyth said, surprised.

“It's going to keep going by just as fast.” Ren said. “That's why I don't want to waste any time.”

“Like I'm doing to you now.”

Ren moved the hand from her arm to cup the side of her face and rubbed her cheek with a thumb. “If I had thought this was a waste of time, I wouldn't have taken my clothes off to give us privacy.”

Elerlyth looked down at him, saw that he wasn't excited, then looked back at his face. “And what if I asked you to have sex right now?”

“It would have to be a quickie.” Ren said. “Even if we didn't have a quest to go to, I don't have an unlimited amount of time right now.” He said. “I'm staying in overnight, though... so, if you want to level up then, I'll make sure we have some privacy.”

“With 5 other guys around?” Elerlyth laughed. “There's just as much chance of privacy tonight as we had today at your place.”

Ren laughed, too. “Hey, this is me we're talking about.” He said. “I've got something special that's just itching to be used.”

Elerlyth looked down again, and Ren laughed.

“I didn't mean that.” Ren said. “So, can you handle it if I kiss Anabelle goodbye?”

“Yes, I can handle it.” Elerlyth said.

“I'm glad.” Ren said and equipped his clothing. “Despite what some people say, having air flowing around my naughty bits isn't a freeing experience.”

Elerlyth laughed again and hugged him.

“I have a quick errand to run before we leave.” Ren said. “Do you want to wait here for a few minutes while I go and visit Issac?”

“What about my armor?”

“I can do it on the way.” Ren said.

“You can?”

“Sure.” Ren said. “I just have to fill my large crucible with molten metal so I can set the diamonds in place.”

“You're not going to reforge the armor pieces?”

Ren shook his head. “It's a waste of time without Tee-one here.” He said and walked towards the apartment door. “Going or staying?”

“Staying.” Gloria said. “You wouldn't delay leaving on a quest to go and see Issac the Enchanter if it wasn't important.”

Ren nodded. “I'll be right back.” He said and left the apartment at a run.
