The two Antinium in her stall jerked with surprise as Krshia chortled and then roared with laughter. She nearly doubled over as Pawn stood in front of her stall. He looked hurt, insofar as she could read Antinium expressions. Krshia tried to control herself, but it was nearly a minute before she could stop laughing.
“Apologies. I am sorry, Pawn. Truly. But your story was amusing to me, yes? Ah, it is good.”
“Is it? I do not think laughter is an appropriate reaction, Miss Krshia.”
Pawn stood up, his antennae vibrating with hurt. He wanted to go, but Krshia waved him back.
“No, no! I am sorry, yes? But Pawn, your problem is amusing. I cannot help but laugh. And I do have good advice to give you, I think. Better advice than Erin’s.”
“That is surely not possible.”
Reluctantly, Pawn turned back to face Krshia. He looked indignant, more indignant at Krshia calling Erin’s advice bad, in fact. He stared challengingly at Krshia as the Gnoll wiped water off her wet fur. She resisted the urge to shake herself; it was a faux pas even among other Gnolls.
“I do not mean to insult Miss Solstice, Pawn. She gave you good advice, yes? The best she could give. But I think she was wrong. Erin is smart, but she is young. Why not let me give you advice as I see it?”
Pawn tilted his head questioningly.
“What do you mean? Is there something you think I should do that could be different?”
“Oh, everything. Everything!”
Krshia chortled again. She wondered why Erin had not seen it? No—perhaps it was a thing of youth. She leaned forwards and smiled at Pawn. So small! She looked at Purple Smile and saw his mandibles rise slightly. She grinned back and leaned forwards to whisper to Pawn.
“There is a better way to resolve this. The best way, I think! It may go wrong, but such things happen. And if you listen to me…you say Lyonette spoke of balls, yes? Because she is a [Princess]?”
Pawn started.
“I never said—that is a secret!”
“Hmm. Yes. One I know. Do not look shocked! Gnolls hear much. And that is part of my plan. Why don’t you do this?”
The Gnoll spoke, and Pawn listened. After a few seconds, he began to object.
“That is exactly what Miss Erin said not to do!”
“But it is what I am saying to do. And who is more right? I think I am. But listen and then decide. The first thing you should do after that is…”
The rain fell, and Krshia grinned. She was suddenly in a better mood. Today had been exceedingly dull. And wet. And miserable. But this made everything worth it.
 
——
 
Lyonette was miserable. She mopped a table, cleaning the surface and watching her dull reflection stare back. She didn’t need to keep polishing, really. The new [Barmaids] and [Waiters] were doing great work, and it was a slow day anyways. The Players of Celum weren’t in yet and it was raining still, so only a few Gnolls and Drakes had braved the weather to come in. There were more Humans in the inn right now, honestly. And they were being well-tended to by Drassi. So Lyonette had little to do but clean. Still, she felt awful, and she needed to talk.
“I shouldn’t have yelled at him. Not at Pawn. He didn’t know what he was doing. I should have just told him to stop!”
She glanced up and reached for a bucket. She dipped the dust rag into it and squeezed. The soapy water wet the cloth, and she industriously polished the table again. Erin insisted on using soap with everything. It was important, she said. Lyonette stared at the wet table as she drew the cloth around in wide circles.
“It’s just that it’s my life. I snapped when I heard he was trying to change me. He didn’t ask—he was doing what he thought was right, but I’ve made my peace with it! You know?”
There was no response. Lyonette frowned.
“I liked him coming over, I really did. But he showed up every morning! When I was feeding Mrsha breakfast! And he was just so insistent! If he would have just come later, we could have talked. We’re friends, after all! I think. Anyways, why am I feeling guilty? He should apologize. Even if he is sitting and doing nothing. Do you think Erin really helped him? She says he’s okay now, but is he really?”
No one answered. Irritated, Lyonette glanced up.
“Are you even listening?”
“Mhm.”
Sitting across the table, the young man with brown, disheveled hair looked up briefly. Pisces delicately flipped onto the next page of the spellbook. Lyonette glared at him.
“I said, are you listening? Pisces? Hello?”
The [Necromancer] sighed. He looked up from the charred spellbook recovered from the Ruins of Albez and gave Lyonette a bright, completely fake smile.
“Indubitably. How could I not be? Please go on with your riveting dilemma.”
Lyonette debated flicking her wet rag at him. Pisces was not the person she would have chosen to talk to, but he was the only one who was here. She began rubbing at a piece of crusted something on the table.
“Well? What do you think?”
“About what, pray?”
Pisces ducked as Lyonette flicked her rag at him. The water splashed the cover of his spellbook. He looked up reprovingly.
“I am a paying guest.”
“So? I have a problem, and you’re not listening!”
Lyonette snapped. Pisces rolled his eyes and closed his book.
“I have been listening. I simply fail to see what your issue is. You had an altercation with Pawn. And now you feel guilty for wounding his feelings, despite the fact that it was he who was causing you inconvenience. Have I appropriately distilled the essence of your agony?”
The [Barmaid] opened her mouth. She hesitated.
“Well—yes. But it’s not that simple.”
“Isn’t it?”
Pisces carefully cleaned one fingernail, flicking the dirt onto the table and ignoring Lyonette’s glare as he spoke.
“Pawn came to you every day, facilitating often meaningless conversation which you enjoyed despite the inconvenience of it at times. His fault was in attempting to help you against your will.”
“Yes!”
“And you wish to repair your relationship with him now.”
“That’s exactly right.”
Lyonette felt relieved. She leaned over the table.
“So what do you think I should do? Go visit him? Wait for him to talk to me? What should I say?”
The [Mage] raised his eyebrows and swept a lock of hair out of his face. Pisces sniffed and smiled superiorly.
“I believe that you are rather missing the point.”
“What? How?”
Pisces gave Lyonette an enigmatic smile.
“Consider the events as an impartial observer. I regard your squabble with Pawn as indicative not of his social failings, but another, larger issue at stake. One which you should be aware of.”
“Which is?”
The [Necromancer] rolled his eyes to the ceiling innocently.
“I would hardly like to say. I do wonder if Erin noticed, though. I doubt it.”
“Noticed what?”
Pisces only gave Lyonette a smug smile. She resisted the urge to throw the bucket at him. This was why people didn’t like Pisces. She was about to demand answers on threat of pain when she saw the door to Liscor open.
“Welcome! How can I—”
She broke off the instant she saw the Antinium in the doorway. Her first instinct was to think it was Pawn. But it wasn’t. The Antinium was too large. It was a Soldier, one with a purple smile painted across his face.
“Purple Smile?”
Lyonette hurried towards him. Her next thought was that he was leading a patrol and coming here for food, but he was alone. She had never seen the Soldier by himself! She stared at Purple Smile as he looked quizzically at a little towel rack that Erin had installed by the door. He wiped his feet on the rug and waved at Lyonette.
“Hello! Can I help you?”
Purple Smile nodded. He raised all four arms and pointed. At Lyonette. She blinked.
“Me?”
The Soldier nodded. Two of his arms shifted and pointed through the open doorway, into the streets of Liscor. Lyonette stared at him.
“Go into Liscor? Why? What do you need?”
Purple Smile didn’t respond. Of course, he couldn’t. He just pointed at Lyonette’s chest and then gestured with his other hand, beckoning. The third and fourth hands mimed walking.
It really was amazing how he could convey what he wanted with just his hands. Pisces stared in interest as Lyonette looked around.
“I could come, but I have work—Erin’s in Liscor, though—what’s this about? Is it something to do with Pawn?”
Purple Smile raised all four hands and shrugged. Lyonette stared at him. She wavered and then ran over to Drassi.
“Hey Drassi, I need to go out. The Antinium want me. Let Erin know when she gets back?”
“She won’t be back from her outing with Selys for a while. Do you want me to get someone to tell her?”
Drassi looked concerned as she peeked over Lyonette’s shoulder at Purple Smile. Lyonette shook her head.
“No, just let her know. And look after Mrsha?”
The Gnoll was in her room, reading a picture book that Erin had bought for her. It was expensive because of all the illustrated drawings, but the Gnoll had been delighted and engrossed by it. Drassi nodded.
“I can do that. Are you sure, though?”
“I think this has something to do with Pawn. I’m going.”
Lyonette hurried to grab a cloak. She nodded to Purple Smile.
“Are you taking me to Pawn?”
Again, the Soldier shrugged. He held open the door as Lyonette followed him out and then stepped into the rainy street. Their departure went largely unnoticed in the quiet inn, but Pisces, sitting at his table, had seen everything. He smiled and flicked something under the table. A small, undead Shield Spider scuttled across the inn, unnoticed. It shot out of the door before Purple Smile could close it.
“Lead on.”
Outside, Lyonette followed Purple Smile through the rain. Neither one noticed their little follower. The tiny Shield Spider scurried after Lyonette, moving fast to avoid the water that threatened to sweep it into a sewer drain.
Sitting in the inn, Pisces sat back and closed his eyes. He could sense the Shield Spider moving, just as he could sense his rat-hunter Bone Horrors scouring Liscor’s sewers. He took direct control of the Shield Spider, letting it scurry in the shadows as it followed Lyonette and Purple Smile. They were headed straight for the entrance to Liscor’s Hive. Pisces smiled wider as he heard Lyonette asking Purple Smile anxiously about Pawn. He murmured to himself as he tapped his lips with one finger.
“Well now, this should be interesting.”
 
——
 
Lyonette strode through dark, claustrophobic dirt hallways. She walked through crowds of Antinium who paused to stare at her. She felt like an intruder. Because she was. This was foreign ground. Alien. But she followed Purple Smile as he led her down into the darkness because she was worried.
About Pawn. Something must have happened if Purple Smile had come for her. Lyonette couldn’t imagine what. Was Pawn hurt? Had Erin not helped him? Or—
Lyonette turned another bend in the dimly lit corridors. There was virtually no light in the Hive. No torches, lanterns, or any fire. The only illumination came from some kind of strange glowing mold that the Antinium seemed to cultivate along the walls. It gave off a soft orange radiance, but the darkness was everywhere. Lyonette shivered. She tried not to give into her nerves as Purple Smile led her down a corridor. Then she saw light. She stepped into a brighter hallway and then saw an opening. She turned and saw the chamber.
It had been a barracks. It probably still was, as the rows of alcoves against the far wall were clearly meant for Soldiers to sleep in. But instead of the cramped, tight chambers where Antinium slept next to each other, someone had hollowed out this room.
And decorated it. On the far wall, in between the sleeping spots meant for Soldiers, were painted symbols.
A cup of brown and silver. A paw print in white. A picture of a bee on a plate, clumsily drawn. A smiley face.
Clumsy pieces of art. But all the more precious because they stood out on the plain earthen walls. Lyonette recognized them. They were the same symbols that adorned the Painted Soldiers. But each one was—she covered her mouth.
“I haven’t seen them. Any of them.”
Purple Smile gazed at the painted symbols. Each one was different. Unique. And Lyonette knew, knew that she hadn’t seen any of the Soldiers to whom they belonged. She understood then. That the wall was more than art. It was a memorial to the fallen.
For a second, that drew her attention. Then Lyonette stepped further into the barracks and had a shock. She’d thought that it was empty. But the light that burned from two lanterns had only concealed the room’s visitors in the shadows. They stood in rows along the far walls, silent, dark silhouettes.
Antinium. Workers and Soldiers alike, standing to attention. They stared at Lyonette as she stepped into the room. The breath caught in her chest. She was afraid. But she forced the fear down. Hadn’t she seen them eating? Hadn’t she known them? The silence was unnerving, but these were people. She knew that. So she took another step into the room.
And then she saw him. He was standing in between the two lanterns that he had hung from poles planted on the floor. He stood awkwardly in the center of the room. Pawn. Lyonette stared at him. The Worker was looking at her as Purple Smile took a position next to the doorway, next to Yellow Splatters.
“Pawn? What is all this?”
“Thank you for coming here, Lyonette.”
The Worker bowed awkwardly to her. He was standing very straight, and the other Antinium were focused as much on him as on her. Lyonette felt her heart pounding, but she didn’t know why. Pawn opened and closed his mandibles a few times.
“I regret calling you here without letting you know why. This is highly unusual. I did not ask Revalantor Klbkch for permission, but I think it had to be done. I hope you will not be angry. I wanted to apologize.”
“Oh. I’m…sorry too. I shouldn’t have yelled at you.”
Lyonette felt awkward. And terrible. And confused. Was that why Pawn had called her here? Surely not. The Worker was fidgeting. And as Lyonette moved closer, she saw there was something behind him.
“What is that, Pawn?”
He ducked his head, and Lyonette caught a flash of something bright. Yellow? The Worker cleared his throat a few times.
“I wanted this to be a surprise. It is an apology and—I hope you will like it.”
He stepped to one side. Lyonette’s eyes widened. She opened her mouth.
“What is—no!”
Pawn had moved to reveal a…stand. A piece of wood, shaped to hold something. A dress stand. Meant to hold a dress. And it held one, a long gown of yellow. It was not elegant. It was not rich or made of silk. But it was a dress. And it was beautiful in its own way. A dress for someone to wear. And Lyonette understood.
