Ren could feel her feelings, and he looked at her intently. “I made an offer to your daughter to fight for her rights, and she refused because she said that the High Elves weren't ready for that.”

“Oh, they are not.” Yllana said. “Her father was the High Lord 200 years ago and had taken me as a lover.” She smiled warmly. “It was such a scandal when we were discovered 50 years later that he was deposed from the throne, removed from the rightful line of succession, then beheaded.”

Ren stopped walking. “That's horrible.” He said, and Yllana turned to face him. “I'm so sorry.”

Yllana reached up and touched his face. “You really are sorry, aren't you?”

“I am.”

“That's so sweet.” Yllana said and caressed his cheek. “You aren't flirting yet, and my heart is already fluttering.”

Ren smiled. “M'lady, I don't even have my Prince Charming title active.”

Yllana tilted her head slightly. “Can you activate it?”

“I don't think I should.” Ren said. “With my current stats, it's probably... very powerful.”

“Then I must feel it, M'lord.” Yllana said. “Standing beside you like this has been making my skin tingle.” She said. “If you can induce even more feelings in me...”

“I don't want to take the chance that you will become enamoured of me.” Ren said.

“Even if I am besotted with you, I pledge my Honor that I will never show it after your attempt.” Yllana said, and Ren felt her emotions turn completely serious. “I challenge you to do the same.”

Notice!

You have been challenged to an Honor Duel. Since they usually involve some kind of political intrigue, using emotional influence is an odd choice of weapons.

If you do win her favor, she will become a powerful ally in the High Elven Kingdom. If you fail to influence her with your Aura during the duel, she will gain half of your current Honor.

“Why are you doing this?” Ren asked.

“I cannot answer that until you answer the challenge.”

“What happens if I refuse?”

“Nothing.” Yllana said. “Well, nothing here between us.” She smiled. “You are an Adventurer, and I know you have different requirements for things; so, you will know that you refused and I can assume something might happen to you because of it.”

“So, I can accept and try to compete, or refuse and I might not have anything happen.”

Yllana nodded.

“Can I cast spells?”

Yllana chuckled. “It's not combat, M'lord.”

“Is Charm Person considered a combat spell?”

“Yes.”

“What kind of combats have you been in that Charm Person can be used?”

“Very personal ones.” Yllana said. “What is your decision?”

“Can I leave and talk to someone first?”

“No, it's considered the same as refusing.”

“You aren't leaving me much choice.” Ren said, and she chuckled.

“Everything we do is choice.” Yllana said and unwrapped her arm from his and stepped back. “We choose to get up in the morning.” She said and her eyes started to glow. “We choose to meet people that will change the way things are.”

Yllana's Aura popped into place, and Ren could tell that it was an Importance Aura. Her hair became more lustrous and started to float a little as she became much more appealing and drew attention to herself.

“We also choose to offer up what we have to those we believe are worthy of the gift.” Yllana said.

“Then I only have one thing to say to you.” Ren said as he activated his Prince Charming title.

Yllana gasped as the effect hit her, and her serious emotions changed to both desire and longing. She hadn't felt anything like that in a century, and her eyes widened as Ren smiled confidently.

“I accept your challenge.” Ren said, and then activated his own Importance Aura.
