“The Malefic One modified and improved all the internal formations of his Order, meaning I can’t teleport around without it being instantly noticed. Even if I could, I wouldn’t be able to enter your residence without being allowed entrance first, seeing as the Malefic One has truly gone all-out with the formation covering your place,” Artemis responded. “I just wanted to tell you that I’m done with preliminary meetings and have some time to stop by for a very brief visit... assuming you’re done with your meeting.”

“We spoke, and things are cleared up,” Jake said.

“Great, in that case, there’s no issue with me stopping by?”

Jake briefly looked at Meira. “Would it be alright if Artemis comes by now?”

Meira looked confused for a moment as she responded. “This is Lord Thayne’s home. I don’t believe I have a say.”

He took that as a yes and gave the positive to Artemis. Using the token, he allowed her entrance, and a few seconds later, the aura of a Godqueen descended upon the living room.

Meira was quick to her feet and stood ready when the god appeared.

Artemis took a moment and threw Jake a smile before looking at Meira.

“This one humbly greets the Mistress of the Hunt,” the elf bowed deeply.

“Chosen of Duskleaf,” Artemis nodded in acknowledgment before glancing at Jake again and throwing him a telepathic message.

“I take it she knows?”

“Yep,” Jake confirmed.

“And?”

“As I said, all cleared up.”

Artemis looked at Meira again. “It’s a pleasure to meet you... Miss Dawnleaf, was it?”

“That’s correct,” the high elf bowed again. “And the honor is all mine.”

The Godqueen observed the C-grade a little longer as Meira stood there, giving Artemis a bright smile in response. The two elves looked at each other for a few moments before Artemis nodded.

“Alright. I’ll have to head back now,” the Godqueen said before quickly turning to Jake, who was still sitting down. Before he could even stand up, she leaned in and gave him a kiss before whispering in his ear. “See you later.”

With those words, she was gone, leaving behind a very confused Jake, and it didn’t help that Meira stood there with a look of understanding on her face, as if that sequence of events made perfect sense.
