ATTENTION, Pathbearer! Your strife rating has exceeded minimum safety thresholds. You are in grave danger. The System has its eye on you. If you continue to venture into the high-risk districts of the Twelve-World City, expect to face countless dangers and extreme threats!

However, it does not need to be like this. If you head to the great Elsewhere Basin District, you will find the Servant-Emperors of Nautapolis and the cities they carry upon their backs. If you are willing to stay for a spell and if you have the wealth and means to purchase a temporary citizenship, your strife can be lowered by a considerable degree, and your every whim will be looked after, so long as you abide by the rules of the contract.

The Servant-Emperors of Nautapolis guarantee the safety of all Pathbearers who dwell upon their colossal shells, rated as the most secure locations for a Master-Tier or lower to start a family without fear of plague, war, or sudden death, and all twelve of the Servant-Emperors possess the Kingdom of the All-Seeing skill, ensuring that even the most hidden threats are detected and promptly dispatched without fail.

Though space in the Shelled Cities is extremely limited, you seem to have an account at the Bank of Mythenmost—a remarkable achievement for a mere Master-Tier! As such, your local Preservers' Lodge and the Farwalkers strongly suggest that you take a relaxing, alleviating vacation into the safest realm in all Integration!

Treat yourself before the System treats you.

(Disclaimer: Upon entering into a contract with one of the Servant-Emperors of Nautapolis, your privacy will be forfeited, and all weapons must be surrendered. Furthermore, a seal will be placed upon your soul in the form of a Blessing that will transform into a Curse upon breaking any local law. It is strongly advised that you do not break any of the local laws, for the Servant-Emperors will not grant mercy to those who perform acts of subterfuge. You will be noticed, and you will be stopped. Do not make things uncomfortable for your fellow guests. This has been a message from the Prefects.)

—Cities of the Servant-Emperors of Nautapolis: The Safest Realm in All Integration (Travel PsyAdvertisement in Chorus)

425

Kingdom of the All-Seeing [III]

Once more, Adam returned to the start of his Delve. He found his reflection staring back at him as before, but something had changed within and without his body. Inside his head, it felt like a brood of burning needles was trying to wriggle its way out from his brain matter. Outside, however, the world began to change, starting with a layering of unattuned mana that crusted over the mirror, usurping Adam's reflection.

What followed was at once disturbing and uncanny. The crust burst open, and a wall of eyes stared back at Adam. In a strange instant, he found himself staring at his own reflection again. But then he realized it wasn't a reflection at all. This was his true self. He had grown a layering of visual sensors that allowed him to peer out from the mirror. But he could hear from it as well. Everything his gaze rested upon grew laden with these new, bright, and piercing eyes, their cores burning like orbs of incandescent mana while their outer irises glowed the color of a vivacious sky.

As the agonizing bloodthirst built within Adam, so too did his infectious Awareness spread. It crept across the entirety of his bedroom in a moment and then continued exploding forth. Information greeted him, and information proved to be the vector of his expansion. Everything he heard became laden with the eyes of his Kingdom of the All-Seeing. Every footstep outside was bestowed with his mana. Everything he saw, furthermore.

It took less than twelve seconds for his Awareness to spread and subsume every square centimeter of Starhawk's Perch, within, without, between every crevice, and then deeper into the soil underneath. It grew along the structural supports like moss. It covered the frescoed glass that he'd burst through before like an additional sheath of reinforcement plating. It crawled higher and further, expanding out like a fungal infection from the castle itself. And it went beyond dead matter. All that was sound carried Adam's Awareness as well. Everyone who walked, who sat, who talked, who could gaze further became catalysts for Adam's growing kingdom, and it was from their Awareness that he siphoned even greater sources of power. Their sight, their hearing, their senses of smell and touch: it all further fueled Adam's new evolution.

It had taken him twelve seconds for him to swallow Starhawk's Perch. It took half that time for him to drown all of Blackedge in his senses.

It wasn't just sight, taste, and sound. He could feel everything as well. There was a level of tactile Awareness that wasn't there before. He could press his senses, run his fingers across every texture of matter that existed within his town. But then he went further. He felt the faint coolness of the sky, and he realized then that a layer of eyes was being painted over the canvas of the firmament above as well.

As he focused on his spreading Awareness, however, he didn't feel overwhelmed, namely because his full consciousness was gliding through the expanse of his kingdom. All that information wasn't flooded into his mind at once; the skill gave him time to process, allowed him the choice to direct the critical mass of his focus.

It was hard to describe his present state. Though there was a bud of pain threatening to bloom inside his brain, the torment grew ever more distant as he focused on his broadening senses. A sublime state of flow took hold inside of him. It wasn't like he stopped hurting, but the hurt was separated from his present thoughts. He sank down inside of him, as himself. As his Awareness drowned the world, so too did Adam drown within his own mind. A trance came over him. He embodied all his eyes at once. He was the totality of his Awareness, and no other thoughts intruded. While he was in the state, he viewed his kingdom and studied everything that moved, everything that was.

While he learned, his senses crept across the horizon, carried by the wind, by the light, by all that could be seen, heard, felt, smelled, and tasted. Soon, Adam’s capacity to witness and imbibe information was beyond even the great Abyssal chasm yawning below Blackedge, passing through the dead city of Lost Angeles west of the town and into the vast wilderness leading east.

Adam glided through the world. He manifested over the world. He became a glove that wore the world. Though he couldn't affect anything directly, he could still feel. He could see. He could smell. He could taste. He was a traveling organ that sensed and savored. Time grew ever slower as his meditative trance granted him all the focus he needed, all the eternities that were required for him to sift through the sea of impulses and feedback that made up the patch of existence he consumed.

He didn't even need to invoke his Divination skill this time. Whisper was already discovered the moment Adam's Awareness crept into the dungeons, and he pierced the spatial veil that the orc used to shroud himself, a bubble that separated the external reality from the internal. It was a potent skill, a fusion of Stealth and Dimensionality, but the barrier containing it was merely a thin threshold, a light membrane that allowed things to cross over at its user's volition.

After all, for Whisper to pull you into his silent world and slit your throat, he had to allow matter to cross over, and Adam's senses were more than merely visual or auditory.

As the Paragon noticed the orc, so too did the orc notice him. The eyes that spread out from Adam gleamed bright, and he learned then that his manifestation of external awareness was visible to everyone else.

Outside Adam's door, Rose was just about to knock when she found herself coated in blinking orbs of azure incandescence. She flinched back, halfway in horror, more out of curiosity. “The fuck's that boy doing now?” she muttered to herself.

At that statement, he snapped out of his trance and emerged. Most of his kingdom collapsed. As he kept his Awareness locked on Whisper, he suddenly realized the depths of his skill. He wasn't going to suffer the immensity of all he tasted, all he felt, all he saw or heard. He could keep patches of reality focused upon. He could channel his Awareness, then pose a focused spotlight on specific areas while the rest of his eyes closed, but they closed slowly, and Adam could still feel the rest of his kingdom waiting for him to bid those eyes to open once more. For he knew if they shut entirely, they would be lost and need to be reopened. That was a problem for later. Right now, there was an orc to slay and a god to face down.

He didn't leave his room this time. He summoned his bow and ignited an arrow. The Shard of Exalted Flame cleaved straight down, piercing through layers of stone, wood, and steel until it struck Whisper. It detonated inside the orc, and Adam strode, his soul and arrow as one. As he emerged from Whisper, leaving the orc's Magical Resistance shattered and the itch inside of him seared clean, Adam noted in surprise that the Challenger didn't emerge from the darkness this time.

Adam stood alone. His presence burned away the shadows, and he found himself the only Divinity in the bowels of Starhawk's Perch.

A series of disbelieving chuckles escaped the downed orc. He lay shaking, as if something fundamental had been shredded from his soul. His eyes looked up at the Paragon, and no longer were they the sickly yellow tint he knew, but azure bright, mirroring Adam's own, sole eye, bereft of the Divinity besides. “That was a wonder. You are a wonder. But what wonder are you, Adam Arrow? What are you?”

The Paragon didn't reply. Instead, he felt the encounter come to an end as the orc vanished from his gaze. Reality shattered. A period of peace followed. This time, however, Adam knew what was coming and prepared himself. He didn't wait for the encounter to start. His Kingdom of the All-Seeing was already expanding, and every eye snapped open once more as he immediately plunged down into a meditative trance.

There, in that state, he couldn't think sophisticated thoughts. Everything he had was committed to viewing, to watching, to observing. He couldn't know and consider the weaknesses that he had laid upon himself, how exposed he was, how undefended, how unreactive, but in that instant it didn't matter either. For the second encounter was one that needed total surveillance, and total surveillance it offered.

When the Encounter started, Adam ended it. It took less than a second. His kingdom stretched beyond Blackedge, and everything within Blackedge was observed. Previously, he couldn't see inside the people. He couldn't place his hand upon their brows to feel the heat swell around their temples, to feel their bodies stagger and shiver as they walked up steps, as they suffered the exhaustive toils resulting from the mere act of strolling.

There were seventy-two infected in total, scattered all across the town. Most of them were concentrated in the patio behind the castle, mingling among the wedding guests. Isabella stood among the patient zeros. Of course.

When he rose, he shot her without a moment's hesitation and felt the sting of regret only in the aftermath. The others were cut down with greater ease. Some of them were scattered among the residential clusters. People he had to eliminate post-haste, for the close proximity of the population there would cause a chaotic spread he just couldn't control. Everyone he struck with his divine aura combusted and died, just like before. Yet the explosions inside of them weren't so intense, for the plague that ate at them was not at the height of its festering.

Even so, a burden of flame and ash lingered in the aftermath. Adam traversed the town, manifesting in the flames he'd cast and sweeping through the rising bonfires in the guise of his Hydromantic form. The waters that made up his Physicality dashed the fires before they could consume wood and rise to greater heights, and with that, he shot himself skyward, materializing over Blackedge in a flash of ascending wings, painting the sky with a new star of azure light before night could ever dream of encroachment.

Sinking down into his Awareness was an addicting thing, made even more so by the fact that it served as a means of respite from the pain that constantly clawed at his flesh. That scream for him to dive down and butcher and bleed and sink his teeth into meat and taste blood and savage and slay. It wanted him to be a reaver, to defile the very idea of his Heroism, to shatter his Domain and make a mockery of his virtues. But Adam refused. Adam sank and drowned himself, only to surface momentarily as he made every subsequent decision thereafter.

This new skill was more than Awareness. It was the acceleration of his thoughts. It was lifetimes lived in a trance of peace and contemplation, of quiet observation. It was that trance that guarded him, that gave him the greatest foundation to endure the torture of the crown.

When the third Encounter arrived, Adam was ready. His Divination had failed him last time, and his Awareness surged blind, seeking the horizon, though he didn't know which. Now he expanded in all directions. He became all directions, and he traveled, carried by all impressions, and so the distance became nothing at all. It was like every curve in the distance, every landscape, was just another patch of existence he could paint with his growing eyes.

