He found Vicar Sullain just as he loaded into the Delve. He resided atop Flamecrown Castle of all places, so far inland that it felt like a century before Adam finally got there. When he did, all of Adam's localized eyes locked onto Sullain at the heart of the Republic as the Vicar invoked a chain of crushing wards that spiraled around him and swelled wide. He was in the process of creating a magical fortress. Stones erupted beneath him, and spiraling strings of serpentine flame began to coil about him, creating an animated series of constructs to guard his person. Then he began shaping that spell which had devoured Blackedge in a sea of falling magic. A chain of Dimensionality, widened until it became a chasm, a sea of parting static between his two foremost hands. Adam realized then, breaking from his stupor, that he needed to strike his enemy down now, before the Vicar had the chance to bring his magical dominance to bear.

As Adam surfaced, it felt like he was drowning in the opposite direction. Instead of being spared of misery in philosophy or sensation, now he was returned to his mind but drenched in an ocean of pain where once he knew only bliss and focus. He needed to suffer. He needed to dip from one surface to another. He needed to cross as he survived this, as he used what he had to overcome what was already inflicted upon him.

The shards he fired came in an endless salvo. He invoked These Arrows, My Memory as the past instances of him began shooting as well. One became ten, became twenty, and then more, until the streams of his incandescent projectiles slashed through the storm, scythed off dimensions, and traveled, bearing the power of a nascent god. The first among his arrows pierced through the Vicar's wards like daggers would a curtain.

The interwoven shapes of attuned mana weren't yet concentrated nor crystallized, and Adam caught Sullain unaware, instead of the things being the other way around. Rivers of incandescent flame tinged with an azure glow and fueled by righteous intent struck the Vicar one after another. Adam fired with such frequency across space and time that there was no separation between his arrows. Each one was stacked against another. Each one struck Sullain one after another.

The Vicar responded, quailing back like a serpent struck by a falling hoe. His metallic body twisted and writhed. He tried summoning shields, batting the magic aside, but the first of Adam's arrows impacted Sullain and burned him in more ways than one. Though his Magical Resistance was potent, he still suffered, for his soul was stung. For his nature had been polluted by sin, and before the God of Heroism and Tyranny, sin would see itself made ash.

“No! No! I am not ready! I cannot let you do this! I will not! I will not! I will strike you down! In reality! In this hell! I will not be denied my revenge! Even if this is a lie! Even if I am a lie!” Adam heard Sullain's desperate screams as if the Vicar was right beside him, and he might as well have been, for Adam's Awareness was coiled around him, forming a cylinder that painted the sky above, that dotted Sullain's coiling body, that coated the outer edges of the volcano curving up, that painted the clouds passing by. Everything within that section of the world was a part of Adam. He could feel Sullain as if he had the bastard seized by the throat.

With that feeling in mind and a proper victim to sate his itch, Adam descended, flinging himself out from one of his arrows, emerging in a burst of flame as he exposed himself to Sullain. As he joined in the fight in a frenzy of bloodshed, a berserk state took over Adam, a berserk state that wasn't even made necessary by the skill.

He was fury. He was wrath.

Tendrils of incandescent water coiled out from him as he wielded his weapons, falling and lashing, striking Sullain in a whirlwind of slicing limbs. He tried to conjure spells to dash at Adam, used his Hydromancy to pry him apart. He failed to muster himself as the manifestation of the Paragon burned his soul to the quick. Between the pain and the panic, Sullain's shaped spells collapsed one after another, rendering him only capable of flinging the barest of cantrips.

Even so, the Vicar was an Omnimancer, perhaps the finest magical mind on Integrated Earth. A rainstorm struck Adam. It was a rainstorm of paltry, thin droplets, nothing compared to what he'd faced before. Yet even that almost proved enough. Patches of Adam's Hydromantic form were blown away. Blasts of concentrated Pyromancy threaded thin openings through him, pierced a clean gap through Adam's abdomen.

Adam combusted, becoming the phoenix as he slammed himself down upon the colossal Vicar. He drove his body against his enemy once, thrice, and ten times more, returning the pain he suffered in a Phoenix Riposte: detonations of fire were scarred upon Sullain's presence, but it was his soul that suffered the greater hurt. Burn scars lined his mana, and he faltered and waned, grew weaker as Adam's onslaught continued.

Between the Shards of Exalted Flame, Herald of Deepest Fathoms, and Phoenix Riposte, Sullain crumpled, crashing down on the edge of the Yellowstone volcano. Adam rode him all the way, clinging tight to him using his watery limbs, firing arrow after arrow at point-blank range. Echoing instances of where he once was in the past unleashed their salvos before vanishing.

“Mercy! Mercy! Do not kill me! Get away! Spare me! No more! No more! Do not burn me like you burned my home! I do not deserve this! I do not!”

The Vicar's desperate cries of revenge turned to curdled screams. His colossal vessel, nearly a kilometer long, fell and blasted a furrow down the upper half of the volcano, sending glass and stone flying in all directions. Shrapnel chipped through Adam but passed, as his form was fluid. He rejected any solid damage, and he struck a final blow as he sank his sabre deep into Sullain's forehead and continued pushing further. In his other hand, he shaped his Shard. It burned bright, and he brought it down without even firing it from his bow. More of the same followed, and he began excavating the outside of Sullain's skull. Blow after blow, impact after impact, fire crawling deeper and deeper until the Vicar’s metallic head was pitch black, until his cries became incoherent, until Adam's itch went sated and numb.

For now, only for now. But before he could bring down a final impact to make right what was already wrong, he hesitated.

Adam returned to himself. The frenzy of violence that took hold inside of him broke, and he stared upon Sullain. His skull melted, the man inside exposed. Within the colossal serpent was Sullain as Adam remembered him within the Rubix Well: a withered old man, shattered of his greatest skill, scarred spiritually, ruined fundamentally and irrevocably. He looked out from that chasm of melted glass, his flesh falling away from his bones, coming undone in horrific hives of burn wounds, but his eyes were still bright, still filled with fear. His jaw quivered, and he begged and pleaded, even without words. Adam saw him for the pitiful, broken thing he was.

And Adam remembered, and Adam recalled, Vicar Sullain was already dead. He fell, as pitiful as this creature before him was about to fall, but this clone, this effigy, was not Sullain, not nearly. The true Vicar had slain fifty thousand orcs of Master-Tier and dozens of True Heroes besides in a magical duel before Shiv finally brought him down. Vicar Sullain faced Roland Arrow for months before he finally managed to inflict a near-fatal blow on the town.

Vicar Sullain had been a wretched monster, but above all, he'd been what the cruel hand of fate had made of him. His life was a tragedy unparalleled.

And this pathetic facsimile wasn't Sullain. It wasn't even close.

Adam lowered his Shard, still burning in his hands. He held it by its haft as he deactivated his Herald of the Deepest Fathoms, allowing his Hydromancy to recede back into his flesh. His one real eye met Sullain's gaze. The broken Vicar stared back, his mouth quivering, and his lips shuddering. His eyes rained tears, but they evaporated before they could ever get to his cheeks. He nodded at Adam and bowed his head. “T-t-thank—”

“It's not for you!” Adam hissed, but he wrestled his rage under control before it could overtake him again. In that moment, two things roared inside him that urged to sate his lowest, most base desires: to pretend this was the Vicar and to hurt him as Adam had been hurt inside. But it was something higher, something truer: dominance. Peace. He had defeated his enemy, but he had shamed himself in doing so. He had lost control. Sullain could have been pinned down. He could have been overcome with greater ease.

The mists around Adam began to swell and expand, and far above, above this reality even, something loomed: that palm he brought down upon his bedroom to protect his mother and those few he managed to spare during his last attempt.

He could have used that to pin Sullain down. He could have used that to bring a surgical end to things, to silence all force and violence besides his own. Instead, he fed the violence. He betrayed his Domain.

As Adam looked down, he realized he was bleeding. Parts of him had burst and ruptured, but the damage started from within. It was his soul that was cracked, and that's why there was so much pain, so much more pain than before.

But the Paragon found himself dulled to such a thing. There was always pain. There was always failure. But that was the past and present. What mattered was the future. What mattered was what he did now.

“You're not him, you realize this?” Adam spoke the words more for his own sake than Sullain's, but the false recreation of his dead enemy nodded vigorously as he continued trying to form words. It was then that Adam saw how badly burnt the man's throat was and realized he couldn't muster the power of language even if he wanted to. A bitter laugh escaped the Paragon, and he looked away. “I see the System's game. I see what it's doing. It's tempting me in so many ways. This is about more than my skill. This is about who I am. It wants to break me, or it wants me to break myself. I see you. I see you.”

Adam's rage became something higher. It became exalted. It went from fury, the kind that curdled in your stomach, of a fire that needed to spread and destroy, to something colder, something higher, something absolute. It was one faith directed upon another. It was one faith created in opposition to a present existence, to his present existence.

The System was his enemy. The Challenger might be one of its greatest avatars, but it was the System that wanted this, that made it all possible. It was the System that drove all this strife, all this death, all this struggle, as if there wouldn't be enough of that even without its vulgar hand intervening, giving people incentive greater than even the material to betray their friends, to butcher millions, to slaughter each other for power.

It was codified into the levels. It stained everyone's soul, and Adam was no exception.

Mana. Magic. Legend. That near-inexhaustible fuel derived from ruin and conflict.

But where it wanted war, where it fed chaos, Adam wanted order. Adam wanted to know what it was like just to enjoy a measure of peace, just to gaze at the horizon and marvel at the real world's beauty in tranquility and serenity. He wanted that without worrying about what horrors lingered in the dark, what other dreaded monster he was going to have to kill—that might well finally see him and all those he loved and cherished slain too.

But for that reality to be made manifest, he needed to govern himself. He needed to be his own ruler.

Loathsome as the voice carried by the mists was, it was right about one thing: He had to be the one to hold his own leash. He had to be the one to dominate himself if he wished to turn that dominance upon the world. He should have grasped some of this; Adam realized that now. Shiv's pursuit of virtue was an internalized attempt to structure order, and Adam needed to do the same, but not only for himself, for everyone. A vision came to him, a vision that connected to a dream both he and Shiv shared nearly a month ago back at the academy: a gate eternal, a place of peace and respite. There would be no gate eternal so long as Integration was the way it was, so long as people were the way they were. His mist, his Divinity, needed to spread.

The Challenger was but a facet. The Challenger was but a puppet. A distraction.

Adam needed to choke all that was wrong to death from the inside. He needed to become invincible and anathema.

Something caught him by surprise. The third Encounter ended, and the fourth was to follow. Adam repositioned himself, firing a shard that carried him back to Blackedge. When he arrived, the town remained as it was. Only now did the sun slowly begin to sink. Only now did the moon grow clear on the distant horizon as a patch of clouds parted. Adam waited and waited, wondering what he had to face next, but inside there was a feeling, a guess, and it solidified as the objective for his fourth Encounter loaded.

Initiating Encounter (4/5)

Encounter 4 Objective: Defeat the Deathless assassin before he claims your life.

A tired sigh escaped Adam. “Of course. I get it. I'm the System's weapon, molded to suit the design of your final death, and all that drivel…”

