Twilight arrived, with night about to descend, but from above a patch of quicker darkness spread. It gnawed at Adam's senses, filling his very veins with dread. As he turned his Awareness upward, sinking into that trance which allowed his great kingdom to spread, he found his gaze smashing against that impenetrable midnight. To his horror and disbelief, he couldn't see through it. It was as impenetrable and unknowing as actual dark was before his awareness ever evolved, before he obtained his original Path.

A long-distant memory assailed him now, of him as a child, looking down a long and dark hallway, holding a candle, wondering what lurked beyond his sight and his hearing. Crying out for his father when the dread became too much.

He wanted to do that again right now for some reason. It was childish. Pathetic, even. But the urge was overwhelming, all-consuming. Then he realized that he was carried by the dark. The dark was more than just shadow, more than unknowing, more than sound-dampening and sensation-quelling. It was the manifestation of fear of nothingness. It was dread, and from within it, the Deathless would soon arrive.

Where Adam's eyes swept through the world and swallowed everything, it glided and spilled away from the expanding tendrils of black like water, unable to breach the film of oil. Even eternity after eternity, even as his trance ran on, he couldn't find a way through. He couldn't find a way to see without other ideas and options.

Adam surfaced from his subconscious state and used his Divination to see if that would grant him a path out of this crisis. It wasn't so. It gave him insight into his enemy, but the System screamed at him, wailed that the Deathless was here, that he was coming. Yet it didn't tell him exactly where Shiv was. It didn't imprint his location upon space, a set of coordinates for Adam to shoot at. Instead, it represented the Deathless as he would be in the eyes of the System: a colossal flame sweeping across Blackedge, a flame that was great enough to swallow continents, soon worlds.

The flame hit Blackedge first, consuming the town in a devastating blaze of figurative proportions. Then darkness followed. Everything went black and blank. Adam tried to push back. His courage allowed him to slash and shred. He fired his arrows, attempting to pierce the nothing that drew close, that swallowed, that sealed away all that was around him. It was like he was trapped inside a silo, and the space he was allowed to see narrowed from an entire world to that of a few meters at most—and closing.

The Paragon's breath quickened. His heart hammered fast and hard, but before despair could truly find a hold inside his mind, there was one more thing he could do. One more thing that might just see Shiv stop before he struck.

Adam acted. He called upon his Zone of Absolute Dominion once more. A palm slammed down, unleashing the fullness of the skill without anything held back. It struck the dark, held the shadows in place, and parted the dread from Adam's soul, like a hand ripping away moss clinging to a body.

Suddenly, Adam could think, see, and feel again. Adam could breathe again, but a thumb’s width away from his face, manifested in a shroud of gleaming gold and broken mana, was Shiv—pinned beneath his crushing palm at the very last moment.

Yet it wasn't Shiv as Adam knew him. Instead of his friend, Adam saw something sharing the odd design of his eyes: rings surrounded by and filled with dark pools. The creature wore Shiv's armor. It moved like him. It had his skills, but it wasn't him.

Shiv's skin wasn't gray, he didn't have tusks, and his irises weren't yellow. Shiv wasn't an orc, though he'd come close that one time, when he was separated from his friends. He nearly fell before Adam ever did.

The Challenger-claimed Deathless sneered at Adam in a disgustingly familiar expression. “Neat trick, you lucky son of a bitch. Didn’t see that palm coming. Didn’t see it at all.”

Adam swallowed—but his face hardened. He felt his mists waning ever so slowly, but for now, he was the only one with authority within a hundred meters. His vapors warred against the dark and became an impenetrable bastion against whatever this skill was.

But his Awareness failed. Even with how overwhelming it was, it failed him. But it didn’t seem to be a problem of potency, but rather his fear—it felt thicker and harder the more his fear grew.

Then that’s not a problem of Awareness, is it? Adam assuaged himself.

But… something still felt lacking.

“Well…” The false Shiv tried to shrug. “Put me down then, Arrow. Finish me off like the System—what the fuck!” A sputtering growl of surprise escaped him as Adam drove a jet of accelerated liquid through his own head.

There was no point in conversing with this cretin, but there would be a use to him in battle: Adam was here to Delve for a Legendary Skill—and he wasn’t going to come out of this with the second-best choice.

He needed the finest skill possible; he needed something that pierced through all shadows, that defied distance and all limitations he could imagine and beyond.

And he would do this as many times as it took to achieve that.

Again, Adam thought to himself, even as his itch began to return. Again. As many times as it takes. However much it takes.

If he was going to ever rip the System down and shine in place of its foulness, he wasn’t going to uncover that path by debasing himself with weakness and surrender—not even to the slightest extent.

Where the Challenger stood as Adam’s first and unwanted worshiper, Adam took himself as his first and final slave.

Phoenix Riposte 155

Vectors of the Eternal Ascent 284

Herald of the Deepest Fathoms 188 > 190

Zone of Absolute Dominion 250 > 254

These Arrows, My Memory 220

Shard of Exalted Flame 221

The Dark Flees the Dawn 3 > 7
