“Ok, Havok, attack,” he said. At least it’s good for drilling formations. Havok charged forward, his shield glowing brightly, casting a radiance across the crumbling ancient brickwork, and slammed into the two slimes. Aiden charged in behind him, but really, the slimes would be dead in a few moments due to Devan and Kaitlyn’s potent damage. He loved his Ice Swordsman class, but on a pure damage comparison, he couldn’t hope to match the Wind Blade and Lightning Archer.

As expected, the two slimes died, and he gained no levels or skills from the minimal experience.

He was about to lead them forward, when the temperature suddenly dropped, causing flurries of snow to appear as the moisture flash crystallized out of the damp air. Pain lanced through his leg as a spike of ice pierced it through the back of his knee, and he stumbled, falling awkwardly to the ground. A rapid sequence of swishing noises and thumps ensued, followed by the shouts and screams of his teammates.

Stunned, he pushed himself up from the now completely frozen ground to look around, feeling the pulse of holy magic as Havok’s healing reached him.

“None of that!” an angry voice snapped, followed by a flurry of ice lances that pierced through Havok’s armor, pinning his body up on the brick wall.

A tall, white-robed figure strode past him, firing a stream of ice darts at Havok while he healed himself against the damage.

The Town Watch? What are they doing here? He saw the badge on the man’s robe, and then recognition dawned. Roderik Icecrown. Fuck. Technically Aiden was a noble, his father having been born into some obscure family that claimed a noble line. The Kingdom of New Daria was progressive, but holding an office like mayor still required at least some tenuous blood connection to the royal line. But he would rather not be associated with a monster like Roderik. He was the embodiment of everything that gave the nobility a bad name – arrogant, uncaring, sadistic, and entirely self-absorbed.

Havok’s shield magic dropped, leaving the sewer lit mainly by the aura of ice magic Roderik was emitting. He’s almost out of mana, he’s going to die. Aiden reached out and dragged himself forward, clutching his sword.

“Oh no you don’t,” Roderik barked, firing another ice lance that pierced through his thigh, pinning him to the ground, without letting up his stream of ice darts until Havok stopped healing.

“Ok, now that you’re out of mana, let’s have a little chat about Aliandra and her dungeon, why don’t we?”

Oh no, Aiden thought, realizing instinctively what kind of ‘chat’ it would be.

“You’re going to tell me how to find her,” Roderik said, advancing on the weakly struggling Havok, still pinned to the wall, his blood trickling down the brick to stain the mossy ground.

“No. Havok not help. You bad.”

He doesn’t understand the danger he’s in! Aiden knew what kind of man Roderik was. Resisting him would simply make him angrier.

“Tell him, otherwise he will kill you,” Aiden shouted, desperate to save the plucky little Goblin who had quickly become his firm friend.

“Miss Aliandra is friend. Havok not betray. If Havok tell, then he kill Havok and Miss Aliandra.”

“There you are, Roderik,” a loud voice called out from down the tunnel as a group of Town Watch marched toward them. “You’re hard to follow when you teleport like that.”

“Stay out of my way.”

“Sure, but why are you messing with that green scum, this one on the ground is the mayor’s son.”
