"Alright, alright," I wave back, Father and Master. "Give me some room."

The two men hop back like frightened cats, giving me enough room to activate my skills.

This is a good chance for me to test out the limits of my leg strength. Instead of running, I bend my legs and prepare to jump straight up without a running head start.

I push off the ground with tremendous force, trying to get as much air as possible. The ground gets farther away as I use Measurement to gauge how high I can jump.

As soon as I feel my body start to drop, I activate Air Walk and leap higher into the canopy. My initial leap propelled me eight feet into the air, and I don't need to use Air Walk again until I've climbed another ten feet, reaching nearly eighteen feet above the ground.

I was right; my skill provides a much more stable footing for me, allowing me to jump higher.

Father and Master shout in surprise as I use my skill again and break through the opening in the canopy. I lose sight of the ground as I climb higher and higher with each step.

With my sixth step, I estimate I'm close to sixty feet into the air, and I can clearly spot our village. The view is fantastic, but I'm burning through my mana, and I still need to see how far forward I can jump while using my skill.

I tilt my feet and push off the barrier at an angle, launching myself forward, more than upwards. The wind rushes past my face as I start sprinting through the open sky.

I circle around the place I came out of the trees while keeping in mind how many steps I've taken and how much mana I have left.

After my fifteenth step, I reluctantly decide to go back down. I wish I could spend the rest of the day up here, but that's not possible. Yet.

As I descend back towards the ground below, I promise myself to practice Air Walk every chance I get. I felt my skill level during the testing, and even though it was insignificant, the mana cost did reduce by a fraction of a point. If I can get Air Walk up to a high enough level, I'm sure my treks through the sky will become much longer.

I have to use my skill two more times during my descent to break my fall, but I touch down right on top of the footprints I left behind when I took off in the first place.

Both Father and Del stare at me in silent amazement. I'm not sure how well they could see me above the tree line, but it must have seen enough because they're frozen in shock. "I still need to practice more, but I think it's a good skill," I haphazardly say while retying my hair. Some strands came loose when I was running, and I'm not too fond of it when it covers my eyes.

The casual dismissal of what I just did is enough to bring the two men back to Yurilia.

"That was the most amazing thing I've ever seen!" Dad exclaims.

"I have to agree." Master, who is much more used to seeing me do the impossible, isn't as surprised as Father but is no-less impressed by my new skill.

"It will be cooler when I can use it more continuously," I tell them as I move to finish up our work.

Dad and Del follow my example while returning my earlier questions tenfold. “What is that supposed to mean?” Dad inquisitively asks, filling in the last pothole.

I explain while helping Master finish loading the last bits of wood into our cart. "I was only up there for a few minutes, and it cost me almost 650 mana."

“Is that a lot?” Dad asks, unaware of just how much mana I have and how taxing my skills can be.

“Staying up in the air cost me 63% of my mana pool. So yeah, it’s a lot,” I tell him.

“Is it worth it?” Master asks from my side.

I look at Master and grin one of my biggest smiles. “Every second of it,” I happily proclaim.

While we finish with the last parts of expanding the trail to Del's house, I explain how I discovered my new skill and how I fell on my face the first time I managed to use it.

"Sounds like you," Master jokes as we push and pull the cart back towards his clearing. Master is in the front pulling the cart, while Dad and I work together to push it from behind.

The three of us laugh as we roll into Master's clearing. We park the cart next to a large pile of wood that's sitting off to the side. The pile represents all the work we did over the last two days; while most of it will be used in the forge, the unburnable stuff will be saved for construction. Off the top of my head, I can think of a few places in the mine the large logs would come in handy.

It's easy for the three of us to unload the cart, and when everything is done, I stand in front of Master and Dad. "Thanks for helping me clear the trail. I know you were busy, "I smile at Dad. "And I know you don't want people coming to your house," I turn and smile at Master. "But despite everything, the two of you came to help, no questions asked." I politely don't bring up the fact Master complained most of the time.

“Anytime, sweety,” Dad wraps his arm over my shoulder and drags me into a quick hug.

I look at Master to see what he has to say, but he decides to pretend he only came for himself. "Well, I had to make sure you didn’t cut down all the trees between my house and the village.”

I smile, knowing Master came because I asked him to, whether he wants to admit it or not.

I wait to see if Master and Dad will share a handshake or something acknowledging each other's help, but the moment is ruined when I sense someone closing in on Master's clearing. "We have company," I warn them.

The three of us turn towards the trail just as Braddon comes flying into the clearing, looking excited. He glances at us and says only two words before running back down the trail. "They're back!"

It doesn’t take me long to realize what he meant, Sandra and Richard finally made it back to the village!

Dad takes an extra minute to process what Braddon just said, but his face lights up like the sun when he comprehends his son is back home. Dad doesn't say anything as he takes off towards the front of the village.

I'm about to join him when I remember I was just thanking Master, and it would be rude of me to run off without saying anything.

I turn to apologize to Del, but he waves me off first. "Go see your brother; I'm fine."

“You could come too,” I offer.

Del shakes his head. “Too many people; besides, it isn’t my family returning.”

“Thanks, rest day tomorrow?” I ask as if I don’t already know the answer.

“Take all the time you need.” Master walks over to his bench and plops down.

With that taken care of, I turn and activate Double Step. I fly down the renovated trail and pass Braddon and Dad when I hit the village. The trail to Del's house is already close to the village's entrance, and it isn't long before I spot the crowd of villagers gathering around the cart pulled by a nearly dead bivol.

Every villager and their mom try to get close to the cart to congratulate the duo on making it home.

Everyone knows why Sandra left to study in Drey, and people are excited to see the village's first mage. Magic is the thing every villager secretly yearns for, and many think it can do anything; that's why people who know magic are regarded so highly. Like Anastasia, she can only use a small amount of healing magic, and that's enough for her to be treated better than everyone else.

I move up to the crowd and ask for people to make way, but everyone is too preoccupied with Sandra and Richard to pay attention to me.

Fine, I’ll do this the hard way. I use the same method I used to get through the group of people trying to get out of Drey.

I put my hands together and hold them out in front of me like a snowplow and slowly take a step forward. I don't push hard, but people have no way of holding their ground against me with my stats. With each step I take, the two people directly in front of me are forced to the side.

A few people turn to yell at me for pushing them, but once they see who I am, their complaining stops fast.

Soon I'm at the front of the crowd, and I see Mother and all of Sandra's family, minus Braddon, are already here smothering the couple with love.

I can vaguely hear Dad shouting at the crowd to let him through behind me, but unless he starts bulldozing his way through like I did, I don't think he's going to make it through that mess of people.

“Aaliyah!” Sandra notices me and motions for me to join the group hug. I don’t need to be told twice.

As I hug my best friend and Sarette who refuses to let go of her daughter, Mother notices that I showed up. "Aaliyah, where's your father and Braddon? I thought the two of you were working together?"

“I think Dad is stuck outside the crowd with Braddon.” I point in the direction I last heard Dad’s shouting.

Camden, who's standing nearby, smiling at his happy wife and daughter, chuckles. "We should probably move this reunion elsewhere." Camden climbs up onto the unmanned cart and uses his skill that amplifies his voice. "I want to thank everyone who showed up to congratulate my daughter and Richard's safe return. It means a lot to our families that you care so much. But this cart needs to be moved and this poor bivol taken to the stables. Please make room for us."

The crowd reluctantly starts to part in front of the beast. Almost as in a trance, the bivol starts slowly walking forward as soon as it has the room. I'll give the beast one thing; it's persistent.

Thanks to the new opening in the crowd, Dad and Braddon are able to join everyone. We all walk as a group through the village until we arrive at Brother's house. He uncouples the cart, saying he'll unload everything later.

Next, we take the zombie bivol to the stables. The weird beast obediently walks into the enclosure and stands perfectly still in the middle, content not to do anything.

“I give that thing a day before it drops dead,” Braddon says what we’re all thinking.

"I don't know. He brought us all the way from Drey; he's stronger than he looks," Sandra points out to her brother.

“Anything looks stronger than that bivol,” Braddon jokes.

We all laugh and start walking towards the headman's house. Sandra and Richard start telling us stories of their time in Drey, which we all attentively listen to, even as we file into Camden's house and into the drawing-room.

Sarette serves tea, and everyone enjoys each other's company.

"It sounds like you guys had a good time," Camden comments after one of Richards's stories involving renovating a merchant's shop.

“It was fun,” Sandra tells her dad. “Plus, we got to know each other better after living together for five years.”

Camden tries really hard not to let his face cramp up while Mother and Sarette share a smile between the two of them.

“So, does that mean you’re ready to have your wedding ceremony?” Sarette eagerly asks her daughter.

Sandra and Richard hold each other’s hands, both blushing and nod in agreement.

Mother and Sarette squeal at such a high pitch I’m surprised the china didn’t shatter.

“This is wonderful news; we’ll have to start making your wedding cords!” Mother looks so happy. Wedding ceremonies are much more spiritual in this world. The bride and the groom stand in front of their families while a person of power, usually the village head, conducts a ceremony binding the couple together. Each side of the family constructs a colorful tassel used to wrap the couple's hands together, signaling their bond to each other and the gods.

It’s expected for the women of each family to sew the tassels, so I have a feeling I’ll have to set aside some more time for Mom in the future.

"We have to celebrate!" Sarette exclaims. She stands up and leaves the room, only to come back with a bottle of wine and enough cups for everyone.

I secretly glance at Sandra and see that she’s looking at the bottle of wine like its poison.

"You don't have to break out the wine yet, Mom." Sandra tries to convince her mother to put the alcohol away, but just like my mother, Sarette doesn't change her mind that easily.

"Nonsense, this a joyous occasion, our families will finally be united. Oh, we should have the ceremony during the new year's festival! That way, the whole village will have to attend your wedding!" Sarette becomes more excited the more she talks.

“Food is tight, but we’ll only need one feast if everything is celebrated together.” Sarette continues to talk as she starts pouring cups of wine and passing them out. “I know you haven’t attended your first new year’s festival yet, but I don’t think anyone will mind if you have your first drink now.” Sarette happily hands me my own cup of wine.

I stare down at the dark red substance wondering how it's going to taste. I wasn't that much of a drinker in my past life, and I distinctly remember hating the taste of wine.

At least I’m not the only one not excited about the beverage.

Sandra takes the offered cup from her mother, and I can see her trying to think of a way out of this situation. Richard isn't much better; he looks like he's about to start sweating.

"A toast to our families finally being united," Sarette holds up her glass, and everyone mimics her. Sarette takes the first drink, followed by everyone else.

I sip my wine, seeing if it tastes good, and I'm happy to find out it isn't that bad. I'm no wine expert, but it's very fruity, like juice with a kick.

Everyone but Sandra drinks their wine with a smile. It doesn’t take long for Mother and Sarette to notice something is up.

“Why aren’t you drinking, dear?” Mom asks Sandra.

Sandra sets her cup of wine on the table without saying anything. Now everyone in the room is aware something is fishy.

“No!” Sarette shouts, looking at her daughter in disbelief. Slowly everyone realizes what’s going on.

