"So, which is more fun, helping your mother clean your brother's house or clearing trees with your old man?" Dad gives me a goofy grin as he drags the tree trunk he just fell over to the cart.

"Honestly?" I ask Dad with a straight face, looking like I'm about to drop a major truth bomb on him.

Dad freezes as he's lifting the lumber into the back of the cart, not expecting my reaction.

I can't hold my straight face for long, and I quickly smile at his duress. "I'm just messing with you, Dad. I've actually enjoyed the time I spent with both of you."

“I’ve enjoyed it too,” Dad mirrors my grin.

"And I suppose I'm the third wheel in all of this." Dad and I turn to see Master grumbling as he drags over a small tree.

“Kind of hard to forget about you when you complain every five minutes,” I quip.

"Then next time, don't drag me out of my clearing against my will for two days."

“I dragged you here?” I raise an eyebrow at Master.

Maser Del doesn't take the bait and instead focuses on the tree he's dragged over. I watch as Master lifts his axe over his head and swiftly brings it down, cleanly cutting branches from the tree with each beautiful swing.

Dad sees me watching Master Del, and not wanting to be outdone, starts cutting up a nearby log. The poor timber stands no chance against Father's skills, and soon Dad is matching Master's pace.

Boys, having to compete over everything.

…

Feeling left out, I contribute by helping load everything they're cutting into the cart Master and I usually use to haul ore from the mine.

While I’m loading everything, I can’t help but compare each of our stats and skills. Dad’s level was around 35 back when he showed Richard and me his stats. He said he grew to level 42 a while ago, so maybe he's 43 or 44 now. Dad was already a Strength build back when I was little, and I'm sure he's already put more points into it.

“Hey, Dad. I’m curious, what’s your Strength stat at these days?”

Dad pauses working and turns to me before glancing at Del, who's watching us out of the corner of his eye. "You know that's personal information, Aaliyah."

“And who’s he going to tell?”

“Hey!” Master sounds a little offended.

"Oh, I'm sorry, are you going to tell everyone in your knitting club," I cut off Master's whining with a lot of sarcasm before turning back to Dad. "Please, I'm trying to judge where I'm at stat-wise. I've gained a lot of levels in a short time, and I want to compare it to other people. You invest most of your points into Strength, don’t you?”

Dad sends another quick look at Del but gives up in the end. "I used to put the majority of my points into Strength, but your mother said she didn't want to outlive me, so she's made sure I put most of my points into Vitality these days."

I'm surprised to hear that; I'm sure Dad is still stronger than me. "But it's higher than 150, right?" I ask.

Dad nods his head. “My Strength is 168 after my last level up. Why, have you passed me already?”

He's only 16 points higher than me, but being a beast of a man who chops down trees all day, it's understandable that his overall Strength seems higher than mine. "Not yet," I grin at Dad.

"That's good to hear; I get to keep my pride as a strong father for a little while longer," Dad playfully jokes.

I laugh along with Dad, but a few things have become clear to me thanks to that bit of information. Strength is the most common stat villagers and commoners invest in after Vitality. But according to Mom, people spread their points out more, unlike focusing on one stat as Dad does. The average villager is only around level 35, meaning I'm probably 50% stronger than the average field hand, and that isn't factoring in that not everyone chooses to invest as heavily into Strength as some people do.

But how strong am I?

I was able to get my physical stats up to the high 20's through stretching and exercising every day before I started increasing them with my free points. That said, I wasn't pushing myself like pro athletes back on Earth. If I'd have to guess, I'd say a trained athlete would have around 50 points in Strength and Dexterity depending on what sport they were training for.

If I'm going off numbers, I would be three times stronger than the pros back on Earth. But physical condition can’t be measured on a linear scale. If a basketball player was suddenly made three times stronger, would that equate to him being able to jump three times higher? Would they be able to go from jumping 2.5 feet to 7.5 feet, or would they go higher?

Then you have to factor in skills. I can run at incredible speeds for an extended period of time, not just because I have high physical stats but also because my running skills help as well.

I can take Dad as an example. There is no way Dad has a higher Strength stat than Master, yet he can keep pace with him because most of his skills are geared to felling trees while Master's aren't.

“Think and work at the same time!” I Flash Step away from Master who suddenly appeared next to me and shouted in my ear.

“Don’t sneak up on me! I almost swung my axe at you,” I grit my teeth and threaten Master.

“I didn’t sneak up on anyone. You were so caught up in your thoughts you didn’t notice me walk up to you.”

"No," I say in disbelief. "Was I?" I turn and ask Dad's opinion, only to see him coughing into his hand, trying not to laugh at me.

Damn it, I wasn’t paying attention, and worst of all, both Master and Dad caught me red-handed.

Del and Dad share a rare moment of camaraderie over my embarrassment and start laughing together. I huff in annoyance and move over to a tree lying on the ground in the distance to get away from the two laughing men.

I take my time chopping up the tree to regain my composure and wait for the nearby laughter to die down.

It isn't long before the moment passes, and the two oversized children go back to ignoring one another. This might be the one time I'm happy they still aren't on regular speaking terms. The two will make small talk when Mother invites Master over to keep her happy, but if they don't have a reason to speak to one another, they won't say a word to each other.

I shake my head in disapproval. People think women are the ones who hold a grudge the longest, but obviously, they've never seen two hardheaded men fight before.

It's said to say, but I've given up trying to get them to repair their relationship. I already consider it a win that I can get the two of them to work together when I ask for a favor. Plus, as Mom likes to tell me, it isn't my job to fix everything. I did my best; now it's up to the two of them to decide whether or not to bury the hatchet.

Carrying as much wood as I can, I walk back over to the cart and throw everything in the back.

“What were you thinking about?” Dad asks me as he walks up next to me and throws his own load of wood into the cart.

It doesn't sound like he's trying to make fun of me, so I tell him the truth. "I was considering how a person's Strength stat and their skills play into their overall strength."

“You should’ve asked,” Dad smiles at me. “I could’ve saved you some time and told you it’s pointless to ponder someone else’s abilities. Even if you know a person’s stats, skills, and physical condition, the only person who can tell you their limits is the person themselves. Everybody is different, and there are too many factors in what makes us, us. Does that make any sense to you?”

“You know it does,” I nod with a small smile.

While Dad and I are having our moment, Master walks past us carrying a tower of logs and branches. With a small grunt, he easily flings the wood into the cart.

After seeing that feat of strength, I got to ask. "Hey, Master. What's your Strength stat at?"

Master pretends not to hear my question and moves to pick up more lumber.

"Oh, come on," I beg in a whiney voice that I know he hates. "You heard Dad's, and you know mine. You can't throw everything around like it weighs nothing and expect me not to be curious."

Master stops picking up the wood and looks at me. He sees the burning fire of curiosity in my eyes and drops everything with a big sigh. “I’m only telling you because I know you won’t leave me alone until I relent.” Master pauses for dramatic effect. “My strength stat is 420.”

"Holy shit," I swear aloud as my jaw hits the floor. Dad doesn't even say anything because he's just as surprised as I am. I mean, come on; Master's Strength stat is almost triple my own!

Wait! That number doesn't make sense! Master has to have a decent amount of points invested in Dexterity, so are the rest of his stats close to zero? "Are you messing with us?" I narrow my eyes at Master.

Del frowns, "I tell you one of my stats, and you call me a liar!?"

"But what you said doesn't add up," I defend my reasoning. "The rest of your stats would have to be trash if you invested so heavily into Strength. I've seen your work, and I know that you can sense when I'm approaching you. Unless your level is a lot higher than you sad it was, something is off."

Master rubs the back of his head. “This is why I didn’t want to say anything.”

“But?” I want to ask more when Dad puts his hand on my shoulder and shakes his head.

If someone asked me what my biggest character flaw was, I'd have to say it's my curiosity. I know it's rude for me to pressure Master to answer my questions but what if he has some secret to boosting his stats or something.

I try to hold myself back, but I'm practically shaking with curiosity and excitement.

Dad looks surprised to see me acting like this, but that's because any experiments I do at home are usually while he's out working. Mother has seen me get sucked into my work when I'm trying something new, and Master has seen me like this more times than one could count.

Master relents and gives me a hint. “If you must know, I have more freedom to distribute my points unlike you humans do, especially in regards to Vitality. That’s all I’m going to say on the subject.” That's the hint Master gives me before he returns to work.

While Master hauls the rest of the lumber, Dad uses a shovel to flatten out some divots in the ground. Even if we removed the trees, a large cart filled with goods would have a hard time traversing the trail if we left the ground uneven.

I go through the motions of helping my father, but my mind is occupied thinking about what Master told me.

What did he mean about freedom and Vitality?

Vitality is the most crucial stat; the more you have, the safer you are. Every person focuses on Vitality to keep themselves safe and to live a long life. Was Master suggesting he didn’t put many points into Vitality? Everyone needs extra Vitality to live longer.

No, humans need extra Vitality to live longer.

Master isn't human; he's a stone kin, a race that naturally lives longer than humans. My parents taught me always to put a few points into Vitality each time I level up to increase my overall lifespan. My Vitality dwarfs my other stats at a staggering 243. If I didn't put as many points into Vitality, I could also have a Strength stat of 300.

Maybe I should change how I distribute my points in the future? My Vitality is already high enough, so I could focus more on Strength and Dexterity? It’s working fine for Master, and his Vitality is probably around 100.

I stop shoveling when I realize the problem with my master's Vitality. Sure, he already has a longer lifespan thanks to his race, but that doesn't help Master in regards to how much damage he can take. Just because he naturally lives longer doesn't mean he won't die if he's stabbed in the heart. In fact, Master is the epitome of a glass cannon.

I worryingly glance at Master, and we make eye contact. His expression is easy to read; Master doesn't want me to say anything about his weakness. It's no wonder he wanted to remain silent; Master has the same Vitality as a level 35 villager. If Del made one wrong move during the goblin extermination or while fighting the chameleon spiders, he would've died before ever making it back to the village for treatment.

Dad, heedless of my internal plight, decides now is a good time for some small talk. "Why the sudden interest in people's Strength?"

I'm thankful for Dad's sudden interruption; I need the distraction. Master decided to distribute his points as he did, and worrying about the past is pointless. I make a mental note to act as the vanguard next time something happens, but until then, life moves on as it always has been.

“Are you spacing out again?” Dad playfully asks when I don’t immediately respond.

"You wish," I smirk back at him. "I was just thinking about something important, is all, but I did hear your question. The reason I'm concerned about my Strength is that I learned how to fly during my run to Drey, but it relies heavily on my Magic and Strength stats." I casually continue working.

“You what!?”

“You what!?”

Father and Master echo one another. Both men drop everything that they're doing and crowd around me.

“Did you say you can fly!?” Dad excitedly shouts in my face.

"How is that possible?" Master tries to play it cool, but I can see he's interested too.

“It’s not really flying,” I tell them. “It’s more like running through the sky.” I take great joy in downplaying my accomplishment and the fevered looks I get in return.

“Show us,” Dad demands, looking like a child attending the circus for the first time. Master eagerly nods along with the suggestion.

Well, I have plenty of Mana and Stamina, and I haven’t had a chance to use my new skill since I unlocked it. It doesn’t take long for me to talk myself into showing off my skill. And thanks to clearing the trees, there’s a break in the canopy I can aim for.

