Funny thing, in this world, almost all forms of science are stuck in colonial times but not medicine. Healing magic has allowed mages to study the human body and what ails it to quite a degree. And the fields of medicine mages have studied the most are poisons, pregnancy, and childbirth, the trifecta of reasons a noble is most likely to call on a healer.

Needless to say, it has long been known that alcohol is not good for a pregnant woman.

Camden stands up and is the first to ask. “You’re pregnant!?”

After Sandra nods, a lot of things happen all at once. Camden's face goes through every emotion possible, briefly stopping at anger when he looks at Richard before settling on happiness for his daughter. Mom and Sarette rush over to Sandra's side, asking the usual questions like how far along she is and all that good stuff.

“I noticed my mana acting weird, so I saw a specialist a few days before we left Drey. She said I'm only four weeks along," Sandra explains before looking concerned at her mother. "You aren't mad, are you?"

“Why would I be mad?” Sarette asks, concerned.

“Because we’re not married yet,” Sandra tentatively explains.

“Oh, honey,” Sarette smiles at her daughter. “The two of you love each other, right?”

"With everything," Richard smoothly replies, causing Sandra to turn a deep crimson.

“Good answer,” Camden growls.

"Ignore him; my father was just as grumpy when I told him I was pregnant for the first time," Sarette reassures Sandra and Richard. "I can tell by how much you two love each other, that it doesn't matter if you're married yet. Though, it does give us more of a reason to celebrate your union."

It's beautiful watching such a touching moment. I'm about to wipe a tear from my eye when I notice Mom staring at me. "Why weren't you surprised?" She asks me, and the room goes silent.

"What do you mean?" I try to act clueless.

“Everyone looked surprised when Sandra nodded to Camden’s question, everyone but you.” Mom, Sarette, Camden, and even Dad look at me accusingly.

I can’t tell them I noticed part of Sandra’s soul doing something weird in her uterus when I met them in the woods.

I take too long to think of an answer.

"You knew, didn't you?" Mom sounds sure she already has her answer.

Well, shit! This is what I get for keeping a friend's secret.

Worth it.
