“That'll do for now.” Ren said. “I'll replace it soon.” He stepped back away from it and saw the front of the battlement walls. “Whoa.” Ren said and stared at the masterful work that he beheld. When he'd told Barnar to go all out, he figured a few things, here and there; but the entire wall was covered in filigree, leaves, swirls, figures dancing, columns, and even decorative arch supports under the edge of the battlement. In the middle of each section was Ren's Maker's Mark, which was now House Neram's Crest. Ren grinned and walked around the side to see it was done as well.

“This looks great!” He said and ran to the other side to see it was a clean white wall, making it about halfway done. “Way to go, Barnar.”

Ren ran up the road he'd made and saw the pile of silt was getting near the roof of the workshop, and it covered a good portion of the land beside it. There was also a huge pile of iron ore. Ren frowned.

That's a lot more than three quarters of a ton of ore. Ren thought. That's 3 full tons, or my name isn't Ren. He filled a slot with iron ore chunks and walked around the workshop to look on the other side. When he got there, he saw about 3000 planks of lumber. Ren stored enough to nearly fill a slot, and went into the workshop. He checked to see that all of his stuff was there, and noticed a crate of diamond crystals was missing.

Ren stored everything, looked over at Dorcot's desk, and saw where the missing crate was. Ren walked over to the desk and saw over 60 diamonds of all different cuts. They were on the shelves, in the open drawers, and crowded on the workbench's top. Ren pulled out some lumber and made a half-sized crate, then put all of the cut diamonds in it. He took out the crate he'd modified before and opened it to take out the few cut diamonds that were in there, and added them to the new crate. Ren stored the old crate and it stacked with the other crates he had, freeing up a slot and stored the medium crate of cut diamonds. Ren made another medium crate, and left it next to Dorcot's workbench. Ren noticed the long middle drawer was open as well, and looked inside. There were hundreds of small diamonds, worth 1 gold coin each.

“Dorcot must have worked for 3 days straight.” Ren said and stored the diamonds. They filled 4 slots, making it 396 diamonds, that included the 22 he had before. “Damn, that's awesome work.” Ren said and grinned. “I owe him 336 gold so far.”

Ren walked over to the huge stack of bricks that he'd left on the paving stones and squinted his eyes. “I'm going to need to angle it, I think.” He said. “But if I do that... I'll need a chute. No, two chutes. One big one for the length of the opening, and one for the other side.” He went to the forge and turned it on. He waited for a minute for it to get hot, then put in a few chunks of ore. When they melted, he threw in several more and skimmed off the impurities. Now that no one was around, Ren flung the end of the skimming tool out the 20 foot opening he'd left in the workshop's wall. The molten impurities spread out in the air and hit the gigantic pile of silt, then hissed as they cooled. Ren added more ore, and kept skimming and throwing the impurities into the silt. Ren stirred the molten metal and let it sit for a while.

“Okay. Floor mold.” Ren said and took a pile of bricks and made the shape he wanted. It was just a long flat square, about 22 feet wide and 5 feet long, to cover the distance to where he needed it to go. “I could probably make it in sections, but where's the fun in that?” Ren smiled and checked the molten metal. “Almost time.” Ren ran back to the house and into the stable. Ren crept by Princess and knocked lightly on Ruck's cabinet. Ruck opened it and Ren motioned for him to climb on. Ruck did so, and Ren left the stable. Once outside, he ran back to the workshop and the forge.

“I need your help pouring again, Ruck.” Ren said as Ruck climbed down and gave Ren an 'okay' gesture. Ruck climbed up the wall behind the forge and stepped across to stand on it behind the smelting apparatus. Ren nodded, and Ruck poured it out slowly, and Ren used the skimming tool to spread the molten metal over the whole mold. It had taken almost all of what had been smelted, but the mold was filled high enough and Ren told Ruck to stop. Ren went back to the smelter and slowly filled it with ore again.

“Take a break, Ruck. I've got to build the biggest almost-forge ever.”

Ruck lifted his hands in an 'I don't know' gesture and Ren chuckled.

“Well, it doesn't have to be as hot as a forge, since I'm not smelting, but it has to be about 20 feet wide to hold enough to be worth the time using it.”

Ruck made the same gesture again and Ren smiled.

“You'll see.” Ren went over to the opening and stored all the remaining bricks. He then built a 21 foot long wedge-shaped ramp out of wood, to go from a foot from the opening he'd left in the wall (that was about 4 feet off the ground), to a spot 10 feet away (about 2 feet off the ground). It completely crossed the 10 foot paving stone road Ren had built the workshop over. Ren then modified his forge recipe, making it 20 and a half feet wide and 11 feet long, so the 20 foot opening on one side was facing the 20 foot opening in the wall, and the other side faced into the shop. He used up most of the stone bricks he had left to build the giant oven. It took a while to enchant, but Ren eventually finished and looked at the floor mold.

“That looks cool enough.” Ren said and slid a brick out of the way and lifted the huge piece of steel. He piled a few bricks up as a makeshift anvil, and bent up a foot of steel on each side, so that one end faced out, and the other end fit inside the end of the oven facing the wall opening. He put it in place and nailed it to the wall, and braced the end by the oven with planks and nailed it in place there, too.

“Whew. Okay, half done.” Ren went to the floor mold and adjusted it so that the sides tapered down from 22 feet wide on one side to only 4 feet wide on the other, and it was 1 foot long. “Ruck, ready to pour again?”

Ruck gave a 'thumbs up' gesture and Ren smoothed out the molten metal into the floor mold.

“That's got it. Thanks, Ruck.” Ren said and Ruck stopped pouring. “While we wait for that to cool, I better work on something else.” He took out his Portable Leatherworking Crafting Station and opened the Drying compartment. He took out the giant boar pelt and felt it. “Nice and dry.” Ren recalled the sewing pattern for his own cloak and repeated it exactly, right up until he got to the hood part. He stopped sewing and went to the smelter. He picked up the long thin mold and filled it, then waited for a minute and opened it. The molten metal was just starting to cool and he took out his hammer.

“I really should have bought an anvil.” Ren said, then slapped himself in the forehead. “Dammit, I do have an anvil. The one I used to defeat Tegwen.” He opened his inventory and searched. “Where is... ah, there it is.” Ren said and pulled out the anvil and stand. He'd missed it because while it was attached to the stand, it became harder to see in the single inventory slot. After a quite a few hammer blows, Ren finished what he wanted and held up a metal arch.

“Nice.” Ren said and took out a wind stone to try and help it cool. “Not good enough.” He looked in his inventory and smiled. He made a small crate without a top, poured in 2 of the 6 oil flasks he had left, and dipped the metal arch into it. It sizzled for a moment an Ren took it out. “That's better.” He took it over to the giant boar cloak and set it inside the hood. “Just 2 more things.”

He went back to the forge and used the stirring tool to pick up a good dollop of molten metal, went back to the cloak and put a drop on the underside of the boar's tusk, held it against the metal band, stuck the hot end of the tool on the other side of the band to partially melt the metal, stored the tool, and then hammered 3 nails through the metal and into the horn. Ren went back to the forge and got another dollop of molten metal and used it on the nail heads. He spread it out and used the wind stone to cool it. He repeated the process for the tusk on the other side and stepped back to let it set.

After about 10 minutes, Ren checked the floor mold and saw it was done and popped it out. He went to the anvil and bent a foot up on the short ends of the metal piece, so it would fit in the opening on this side of the oven and then funnel down into a 2 foot opening. Ren secured it with nails by the oven, then built a small brace for the 2 foot wide end of the chute to rest on. He nailed the chute to the brace, then nailed the brace to the floor.

“Well! That's done.” Ren said and looked at it. “It's quite the odd looking thing.”

“An angled forge?” Teepo said. “Yeah, that's really odd.”

Ren chuckled. “There's a method to my madness.”

“Then impress me, oh great maniac.” Teepo chittered in laughter.

“Just watch.” Ren said and concentrated on the oven. “Activate.”

The whole 20 foot wide and 11 foot long oven lit and hit Ren with a blast of heat.

“Holy crap!” Ren said and stepped away to rub his face.

“You definitely showed me your madness there.” Teepo chittered in delight.

Ren laughed and took out some cloth and sewed up a large sack, about 3 feet long and 2 feet wide. He set it on the floor, placed the open end under the chute, and went outside to the silt pile. Ren took out his shovel and shovelled a huge pile onto the chute on this side. It slid down the smooth metal easily and into the oven. Ren kept going along the whole length of the 20 foot chute and the silt slid easily into the oven.

“The silt has already been crushed to get any traces of iron ore out of it” Ren said and stopped shovelling. “It really is mine waste, but it's full of the stuff that's perfect for making something I found the recipe for.” Ren said and went back inside the workshop. He stayed back from the opening and watched as the silt slowly rolled down the incline and was baked and dried. The resulting powder rolled down the chute at the end and into the sack. It was almost full and Ren made another sack to replace it, then made 2 more as the next one filled up, too.

“What recipe was that?”

“I checked to make sure the recipe for mortar was the same, and it was.” Ren sewed up the top of the first sack and replaced the second with an empty. “The next step up from mortar...” Ren said and sewed up the top of the second sack.

“...was cement.”
