He was exuberant when the Herald chose him as her Disciple, but the thought of embarrassing her good name terrified him, especially on his first solitary mission. Even though his father's guards had strict orders to not intervene unless his life was in overwhelming danger, he also had a team of healers along with him in case of life threatening injuries. How was he to grow strong with these safety measures always in place? The psychological pressure of a life and death environment was simply unattainable under these circumstances, perhaps why Huushal and Rain improved faster than he did.

Setting aside his worries, he hurried to see Rain. The three of them had travelled together for the majority of their journey to Sanshu, not only because of their brotherhood but because they were all unwelcome in Shen Yun. They didn't dare to step foot inside a fifty kilometre radius of the city, travelling through rough terrain to bypass Situ Jia Ying's territory.

A rival of his father's, the woman reportedly backed the Ong family in their failed bid to take Shen Huo, although there was only conjecture. Were Fung to enter the city, he was likely to meet his end in a dark alley and made to look as if he suffered an accident. Huushal and Rain had it worse, Jia Ying publicly vowing revenge against the Bekhai for ransoming her son's life. To top it off, when Rain returned to the Bridge, the expensive Runic Armour was prominently displayed on his slave's lovely frame, as if scorning to wear it himself.

Of course, Fung knew it was because it didn't fit Rain, but the Society Adherents saw it as an outright insult, raising tensions between the two factions to a record high. Thankfully, Zian seemed content to ignore the 'provocation', refusing to even acknowledge Rain's presence in their meetings.

All in all, their journey was largely uneventful, and Rain broke off a few days prior to reaching the city to explore the surroundings. Eager for a hot bath and comfortable bed, Fung and Huushal chose to hurry ahead to the city and gauge the political climate before the Society arrived. Who knew that Rain would find success so quickly?

Greeting the ladies Mei Lin and Sumila cordially, he stepped up and clapped Rain on the shoulder, grinning as his friend filled out paperwork. His calligraphy was appallingly awful, but only those pampered buffoons from the Central and Eastern provinces put great stock in things like that. The true mark of a warrior was in swordsmanship and leadership, what use was writing? Still, he took the opportunity to poke fun at Rain, striking at the few flaws he had. “By the Mother, you might as well give the brush to your cats and ask them to write for you, your brushwork is completely illegible.”

“Ha, can you imagine? I bet people would pay a fortune for a beautiful painting done by a cat.” Smiling in good humour, Rain continued to write, his tongue between his teeth as he concentrated. “Hang on, I'm almost done. If I knew I'd have to fill out this much paperwork, I'd have just set them free and left their loot behind. It's not worth the hassle. I really need to learn how to write someday.”

Glancing over the list, Fung's eyes widened slightly at the value of his reported findings. Gems, jewellery, herbs, horses, and more, it seemed bandit hunting was a lucrative venture. “You'll need to tell me how you subdued all these bandits, your troops don't seem injured at all.” Could it be that he had a healer among his retinue? With the Medical Saint Taduk as his teacher, it didn't seem too far-fetched.

“A ruse, mostly. Pretty simple in fact, I'll tell you later, but no time now.” Waving forward a few unkempt bandits, he grinned deviously. “I had a few bandits oath-bound to service, nothing like slavery so be wary of them. They can't run away or attack us, but they might leave out details or something, so verify everything they say. They know the local bandits and have given me a list of places we can strike. I intend to head out after finishing here and Huu's getting his retinue ready, do you want to come too? We should work fast and take out as many of the easy targets as we can before the other Officers arrive. These bandits are fat sheep waiting to be sheared, and better we profit as opposed to the Society. We split everything three ways, including command. Majority rules, sound good?”

Hiding his smile, Fung gave the order to assemble his retinue, inwardly shaking his head. Not even taking a single day to rest after a long journey, Rain's Khishigs were a pitiable bunch. No matter, two days of rest was plenty for his own people, and he was eager to raise his own name. So what if it was spoken alongside the Undying Savage and the Ravenous Wolf? Rain and Huushal were formidable warriors, and it was his honour to fight beside them.

Soon, a third name would join theirs when the citizens spoke of them, the Young Magistrate of Shen Huo, Disciple of the Herald of Storms, the Unstoppable Tempest, Tong Da Fung.

Chapter Meme
