"Oh?" the girl said, tilting her head. "My dad is a Patriarch and quite wealthy too! This sounds fun!"

Zephyrine appeared at Ao Lingxuan's side a second later, seething with rage. "Ao Lingxuan? Just what do you think you're doing?" she hissed.

"Calm down, sister, it's just a bit of fun!" Stella said.

"A bit of fun?" Zephyrine snorted. "I don't even know the value of these Yinxi Coins, but by the way these humans are behaving, I can tell they see you as a free meal. You're disgracing our name and bloodline," she said venomously.

That seemed to tick Stella off. "I am the Princess of the Ashfallen Sect. I can do whatever I want!"

Zephyrine clicked her tongue. "Arrogant child. How can you act like this at your age?!"

"Now, now, let the girl do as she pleases," Ao Lingxuan said, slowly pushing Grand Elder Vokar out of his seat and casually wiping his stacks of chips off the table. "Princess Stella, was it? Are you able to act with the full authority of the Ashfallen Sect and Ashfallen Trading Company?"

"Of course," she said, sticking her nose arrogantly in the air.

"Then, how about a bit of a bigger bet than those before? I will bet five million Yinxi Coins, but only if we play a game of my choosing."

Stella seemed to contemplate his bet for a moment, and then looked... disappointed. "Oh. Only five million? I was hoping for more to really make things interesting."

"Ten million?" Ao Lingxuan offered. That was his entire personal wealth, and he would have to call in some old debts to gather the funds. It was the most he could reasonably offer.

"Nah, still boring," Stella said, stroking the squirrel idly. "In fact, I might just call it for today if even the Patriarch of this place can't entertain me."

Ao Lingxuan's eye twitched. "Fine, name your price." Ultimately, his victory was assured as the game was going to be rigged in his favor, and this dumb girl had lost every round leading up to this.

Besides, he didn't care about the bet. All he wanted was to further humiliate Zephyrine.

"Mhm," Stella hummed, seemingly bored as she inspected her nails. "What about," she glanced up and met his gaze, "we bet our souls?"

The room went silent.

"Are you INSANE?!" Janus roared from her side, and Zephyrine seemed genuinely one step away from tearing the entire sect down. Ao Lingxuan was equally in disbelief. He had never met such a fearless person in his life. Their souls? Just who could make such a bet on a game that was obviously going to be rigged?

"Scared?" Stella said, seeming disappointed again. "As expected of someone who would lose to my sister." She stood up, her chair scraping on the icy floor as she rose. "I guess this will be the end of my gambling fun then."

"No hold on," Ao Lingxuan said, gritting his teeth. "Fine, I'll do it. Let's bet our souls." The ludicrous words almost didn't leave his mouth, and he was in shock that they did. He just bet his soul, of all things. But if there was an ultimate way to get back at Zephyrine, it was having her little sister chained at his feet like a stray wolf, whimpering for scraps. He was already savoring the scene right now. His mind began to wander. Perhaps he would even let his Grand Elders ravage her in the streets, just for fun.

However, his dreams fell to the wayside as Stella grinned and sat back down as a seemingly new person. That dumb, empty-headed glee she had shown before had been replaced with a calculating gaze. It instantly put him on edge. Something was wrong.

"Rules of the den, no backing out now," Stella repeated his own establishment's rules back to him like a heavenly decree as she leaned on the table. "We bet our souls on a single game. The winner takes the other for all they are, right down to their soul. Those are the terms you have agreed to, are they not?"

He slowly nodded.

"Great," Stella smiled like a spawn of hell. "Now, Ao Lingxuan, what game will we play with our very souls at stake? The choice is yours to make."
