Ren put on the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and asked Donan to tend the molten metal in Ren's forge. Ren walked over to Sally's shop and went inside. The bell rang when Ren opened the door.

“I'll be with you in just a minute.” Sally said from the back room.

Ren stood there and looked at the shop. It had been a while since he'd been in there and Ren smiled. Ren had spent a good portion of his early game time right there at that table. Sally came out from the back room.

“What can I do to hel- REN!” Sally exclaimed and rushed over to take Ren into a big hug. Ren hugged her back and they just stood there for a few minutes, not saying anything.

“I missed you! Aimus was by weeks ago and told me all about what happened.” Sally said and let Ren go to hold him at arms length. Sally examined Ren from head to toe and smiled. “At least you look fine after such an ordeal... and you rescued a damsel in distress!” Sally beamed. “That's my little Ren!”

Ren laughed. “I didn't do it alone. Aimus was there, too.”

Sally waved that away. “He distracted it from eating you, yes... but you finished it off.” Sally lifted one of the front paws still attached to the cloak and looked at it closely. “You still haven't attached the claws?”

Ren stared at Sally. “What?”

“Aimus said he gave you the claws. I figured the first thing you would do would be to put them on the paws.” Sally said.

“I can do that?!?” Ren said, surprised.

Sally nodded. “This cloak is really strong, even stronger than our special fabric.” Sally explained. “You could just sew them in...” Sally slipped her hand inside the paw and poked a finger out through one of the dire wolf toes. “...but they might not stay attached.”

Ren stood there with his mouth open. Ren had completely forgot about the dire wolf claws Aimus had given him.

*(Author's Note: Technically, so did I, because I missed adding them to Ren's published Inventory. :) )*

“So... what are you doing here?” Sally asked. “It's not just to visit an old woman, is it?”

Ren shook hmself out of his shocked state and smiled. “I came to get a good look at your spinning wheel.”

Sally smiled, too. “You know where it is. Help yourself.”

“Thanks, Sally.” Ren said, gave Sally another quick hug, and went into the back room. Ren spent a good 20 minutes examining the spinning wheel and it's design. Moving all the parts and checking to see where things were supposed to fit and how the spinning wheel really worked. Ren spent extra time at the foot pedal and the mechanism that let Sally spin that big wooden wheel so fast. Ren stood up after he'd seen everything and received a popup.

Notice!

You have learned the plans for making a Spinning Wheel.

Ren grinned and went out to the front of the shop.

“Find everything that you wanted, dear?” Sally asked.

Ren nodded. Sally was sitting behind the main counter and was working on another piece of clothing.

“Need any help?” Ren asked.

Sally shook her head. “I could do this in my sleep.” Sally said and they both laughed. Ren didn't doubt her in the least.

“Thanks for letting me just come by out of the blue like this.” Ren said and stood beside Sally at the counter.

“You're my student. You can come and go as you please.” Sally admonished Ren.

“I know, but that doesn't mean I don't appreciate you letting me do it.” Ren smiled.

“It's always nice to see you, Ren.” Sally said and ruffled Ren's hair.

Ren hopped up to give her a quick peck on the cheek. “Bye, Sally!” Ren said and left the shop. Ren didn't see Sally's face had flushed a bright red color.

Ren went back to Donan's shop and went inside to the big bench that had been uncerimoniously shoved under the tool rack after Ren and Donan had built the big forge. Ren hung up the random tools and cleared off a good section to work in. Ren got a big sheet of parchment from Donan and set it on the bench, just so Ren could have a better surface to see the spinning wheel pattern. Ren opened the pattern and the system overlayed it onto the paper. The parts were wood, obviously, but Ren didn't think would alone would keep the saw from turning when the foot pedal was pushed. Ren substituted metal rods instead, got rid of the spool holder on the end, as it was in the way for what Ren wanted.

The foot pedal was attached to a wooden pole attached to the big wheel, and when pushed, the wheel's own weight would help it keep spinning. Ren kept this idea, but added a smaller wheel and pole. Ren drew on the parchment, showing a small wheel, then drew a larger wheel next to it and a same size wheel inside that, and attached the rod in the same spot on both wheels, so that when one turned, the other turned as well. Ren smiled and drew a smaller wheel behind the first, and a small wheel inside the first, then attached poles to those. Now, when the smallest wheel turned, the inside of the middle wheel turned, but faster, and then that wheel turned the big wheel, the actual saw blade, even faster. Ren made the foot pedal into a hand hold and a lever instead, added braces to hold everything together, and a hand hold for his other hand. Ren stood back and looked at the result. It wasn't pretty, but it should work like a charm.

Notice!

You have made a new pattern: Hand Powered Circular Saw

Notice!

Your innovation and adaptation has made you that much smarter.

Intelligence +2

Ren grinned and got to work. Ren made the saw blade first, as it was the most difficult part. Then the wheels, the braces, and the rods connecting the wheels and holding them in place. It was all made of crude steel. Ren had thought of using wood for some of the parts, but he wanted it to last, and be easily repairable. When Ren was done, he examined it.

Hand Powered Circular Saw

This improvised and dangerous tool can cut wood at an accelerated rate, compared to regular saws.

“What the hell is that?!?” Donan shouted.

Ren turned around and showed Donan what he'd made.

“It's something that's going to make it so much easier to gather timber.” Ren said and grinned.
