Ah, well, if he hates me after this, I guess I get that, too, but man. Someone needs to shape this kid up, and if no one else is gonna do it, it’s got to be me. He’s worthless to me as he is now. The way I see it, I either shape him up so I can use him, or abandon him altogether.

Plus… isn’t it refreshing to see a rich brat struggle on his own like the rest of us, every now and again? He was too trash to say things like “oh, once I got to know him, he wasn’t that bad… I just couldn’t hate him.” Sure, he really believed that Ryota wasn’t that bad and probably didn’t deserve it. But even so, it didn’t change the fact that, at the end of the day, he was a spoiled brat who had all these problems because he was a spoiled brat who no one had ever challenged, whether he was personable and friendly or not.

Maybe Rhys was too petty. Maybe he was holding grudges from another world and another life. Maybe Ryota really needed to shape up. Maybe it was a little of all three, and he was too embarrassed to admit it. But, at the end of the day? This was what Ryota needed. And no one else was going to give it to him. The rest of them were too scared by his title and power to do something like this, but that was exactly how people ended up as mine-owners who really wanted to go to space.

As someone who’d previously been bullied a lot, Rhys understood deeply that bullying existed for a reason. If he hadn’t been bullied to hell, he would’ve been a worse person than he was. Didn’t mean he liked bullying, or thought it was good, but it was a necessary evil; an evil that existed in society as a part of human psychology that forced people, mostly children, to abide by the group’s rules, spoken or otherwise. Without bullying, more people would become completely ostracized; after all, adults didn’t put up with bad people, they simply abandoned them. Worst case, a person without any examples of bullying around them became a bully or abuser themselves, without a bully to show them what not to do. He’d gone to public school and interacted with homeschooled kids. He’d seen it all.

A better, gentler world didn’t make people better or gentler, it just made them more unaware of their flaws… I say, as a sweaty fatass with unpopular opinions and unpopular hobbies who didn’t shape up even after he got bullied. But at least I knew what other people didn’t like about me, dammit! I knew which parts to hide when I wanted to pretend like I was normal!

It was the Emperor’s new clothes all over again. Being coddled into being blind about your flaws wasn’t a good thing. Ryota knew how to smile and connive his way into being friends with just about anyone, and Rhys appreciated that, but he needed more than that if he was going to stand on his own. And Rhys intended to make him stand on his own.

Well… all that was his opinion, anyways. Opinions were like assholes: everyone had one, and everyone’s had its own stink. No one’s smelled good, and no one’s smelled the same as anyone else’s, either, but everyone was free to have their own stench. He’d never claimed his smelled good, but it was his. Anyone who claimed theirs smelled good shouldn’t be trusted, especially not around bleach.

Hold on, what am I talking about again?

“Get back here!” Ryota snarled, charging, but before he could reach, Rhys cackled leaped backward, fading into the forest. From here on out, the real training started.

“I hope you can last, Third Prince,” he called out, and completely vanished.
