Maximum Clarity boost is capped by the active Focus boost from Empire of Will

Range: 5 meters

Cost: 100 mp/s

Free Skill Points: 0

It took a gentle hiss from Snek to shake Rain out of his stupor. He looked around in startlement, shifting the windows aside to find the tiny avatar staring at him from outside the elevator. Unlike an actual elevator, this one’s doors had remained obediently open for him while he’d been lost in thought, drooling over possibilities. Embarrassed, he coughed, updating Empire of Drive to show as maxed before dismissing the windows and stepping forward to greet himself.

The memory synchronization process wasn’t jarring, not like he’d expected it to be when he’d first started experimenting with splitting his mind. Between one footfall and the next, he discovered everything he’d written in the report for the council as well as Ascension’s status, which Snek had checked through Detection. ’Discovered’ was perhaps the wrong word. It was more like remembering something he’d been deliberately not thinking about than getting new information. He didn’t need to digest it. He already had.

“Speaking of digesting, any chance you feel up to reading the zone codices?” Rain asked.

Snek, who’d floated up to his shoulder and was busy wriggling under the blanket-cape, took a moment to settle himself, then shook his head, his tongue flicking out to tickle Rain’s neck.

“I know; they looked so dry,” Rain replied, his boots clomping on the white deck plating as he made his way down the well-lit hallway.

The atmosphere here felt electric. Charged—as if with possibility. He’d come to believe it was the invisible potential of his unspent skill point lingering in the air, not having found a physical manifestation. Doorways on either side of the hall were labeled with the names of his skill trees in golden text, but the skill cradles within were blocked from view by heavy security bulkheads.

The Warden had stopped him from using his abilities once. She’d also told him that the mind followed the soul. Bolstering the station’s security was a step to stopping such funny business.

Like everything else, it was a work in progress.

Passing the last labeled room and reaching the end of the hallway, Rain stopped in front of a doorway that was as yet without a door. One of his essence-tank backpacks rested nearby, still partially full of potential leftover from yesterday’s construction. Drawing some out, he formed a simple nameplate bearing the word ’Miscellaneous’, then fixed it above the entryway using black text. While the other rooms were threaded through with system stuff coming from his specializations, this one was not. It was built of plain, low-rank essence, colored a flat white. The two skill cradles inside were dark, though not empty. The scant shards of meaning within the glass orb were very much there, just inactive. The plates below read ’Ice Bolt’ and ‘Soften Steps.’

There was also a small table to one side, upon which sat a metal frame holding a skill shard under a magnifying lens—a shard that liked to light up when he talked to Dozer.

“Right,” Rain said, clapping his hands, then rubbing them against each other. “Let’s get ready for some Unity.”
