She knew why Denise walked fast for someone who had been on her feet since the wee hours of the morning, walking with such purpose that Eppie, with her height disadvantage, had to actively pace behind, all the while watching the street.

The commercial part of Broadway wasn’t so bad. A few homeless here and there, graffiti everywhere, art tags and something else Lana had only known through YouTube videos. There were murals. Not the kind that was organised by the city, but spray-painted prayers with strange symbols like stars in blue. She wasn’t sure what they were, but she was certain it had nothing to do with the local Jewish community.

The liquor store.The beauty shop.The pawn shop.The porn shop.The convenience store. A video store with the door kicked in, its windows duct-taped.

There was genuine art here and there by local artists as well. However, it seemed to her that the local community both loved and hated the magnificent messages about hope or God or unity. There were graffiti tags over the art, then the art merged with the tags, then someone tagged over the tags. It was all very confusing. There was a rawness here, the kind that Fox and Friends showed during prime time as proof for one argument or another.

Past the shops, dog barked continuously from somewhere unseen. Two boys on bikes circled the intersection, doing wheelies, but thankfully keeping to themselves.

"Hey, Dee."

The shout came from a group of men outside a shuttered tyre shop. Denise didn't break stride. Eppie was too afraid to stop.

“DEE—! Wassap? Who’s your friend?” “She looks yummy yum!” “Where’s Simone gone, girl?”

"Still got the night shift!" Denise shouted at air. She didn’t look, while Eppie did her best NOT to look. Denise walked with the economy of a woman who had been doing this daily for a very, very long time.

Eppie kept herself on the outside, so that Denise walked between her and the men, then she felt ashamed.

The first block finally ended. Like hostile NPCs guarding their turf, the leering men watched them go.

Denise lived at the second-to-last house on the second block. Overhead, utility poles threaded wires across the sky in every direction, giving the place the ambience of a giant spiderweb. Eppie felt her fingers tighten on the tote. She had never noticed, ever, that in Lana’s neighbourhood, there were no utility poles. Everything was underground or hidden in greenery. There were even flower gardens on the public sidewalks.

The Goodes' house was a faded pastel, wood-framed, one-storey bungalow, the roof was slightly convex, sagging, and the only spot of happiness was the bright yellow someone had painted on the security bars. There were no toys on the front lawn, no basketball hoop or abandoned tricycles. The grass was tall, but there were no weedy flowers. In the middle was a lemon tree. There were no lemons.

Their neighbours echoed the aesthetic. All of the homes were fenced. Not nicely, as one might imagine white pickets from a Norman Rockwell pin-up. Instead, there was an insidious order to the barriers, a visual metaphor about how the neighbourhood felt about its denizens. Chain-link fences enclosed the front, with signs, boards, and mailboxes hanging from them. Behind the fence, thick bars enclosed the windows, security gates enclosed the doors.

Denise had her keys out before she reached the gate. Even in daylight, Denise checked the surroundings before opening the wire-loop. She looked back at Eppie with a look that was warm, exhausted and unguarded. “Come on in.”

“CORA!” she called out. “Renée! Look who’s here!”

The door opened. From inside the house, she heard a children's programme playing.

“MUMMY!” Cora came barrelling out of the door.

Renée stood by the steps, far more reserved, looking at Eppie with confusion and suspicion, then finally, horror.

She knows. Eppie felt her chest constrict. Oh my god. Simone told her sister.
