The house itself was recessed quite far from the street, and the golden late afternoon sunlight highlighted a lush and dense garden full of trees, well-tended bushes, and a soft trickle of water. There was a low wooden fence with a small gate, upon which an elegantly painted sign read: Eliyen’s Herbs and Essences. The fence and the sign were grown through with climbing roses blooming in delicate shades of red and pink, looking for all the world like they had chosen to grow in a way that didn’t obscure the sign, rather than having needed to be trimmed back.

Ali entered through the gate and found herself on a narrow path of moss-wreathed flat brown stones meandering through the garden, curling lazily around trees and bushes, and even a small waterfall with a pond that tinkled merrily. Every open space was covered with a tiny herb, shrub, or flower, filling the air with a complex medley of aromas and scents. Everything seemed to just grow haphazardly like it had simply been tossed into the air and grew wherever it landed. And yet, the master planner’s intent came through clearly as every bush and flower conspired to create a harmonious whole.

“Are you getting some ideas for your forest?” Mato asked, his voice and broad grin breaking her entranced spell.

I was staring. Ali realized that she had been so taken by the garden that she had even stopped walking. A little embarrassed by her distraction, she resumed heading down the path.

“It’s really beautiful,” she admitted.

“Yes, whoever made this is extraordinarily skilled. As far as I can tell, every plant here is useful for some tincture or potion. Or cooking.” He pointed out a few herbs he had noticed as they passed. At least half the plants Ali could see had some kind of mana affinity, and even those seemed to blend elegantly.

The house itself was covered with climbing roses and a wisteria grew across the wooden doorway providing a beautiful purple archway. An elegantly handwritten sign – in both Common and the flowing script of Elvish – hung on the door: Open: please come in.

As Ali opened the door, a soft rush of wind set a cluster of chimes to ringing delicately in the open room. The wind was clearly magical, but the chimes were simply delicately crafted metal tubes, hanging from a string. It was like stepping into a greenhouse, the room was filled with planters across the windows and attached to the walls where others might have installed decorations and shelves. Hanging from the ceiling were more plants and every open space had pots growing something. The lush growth filled the room with an invigorating verdant scent and the soft perfume of flowers.

In the far corner of the room stood a spry Elf, tending to an unusually blue fern with a watering can. Her skin had the same green hue as many of the plants, and her long hair spilled in a soft wave of grayish silver down her back. Her dress seemed to be made entirely from living leaves and rustled softly as she moved about. She glanced up as they entered.

Herbalist – Wood Elf – level ?? (Nature)

It was odd seeing a Wood Elf in a Human town, but Ali presumed customs must have changed remarkably in the many intervening years since she had last seen one of their kind. The fact that she identified as using nature affinity magic was no surprise at all. Wood Elves had always had a strong cultural connection to forests, trees, and nature in general.

At least it used to be. Ali had to keep reminding herself that many things had changed from what she remembered.

“We’re looking for Eliyen Mistwood,” Ali said, addressing the Elf with the traditional bow that was customary in her time.

“I am Eliyen.” Her voice had a soft quality that seemed to linger in the air after she had spoken. The plants seemed to rustle and shift throughout the room, as if eager to catch the remnants of her voice with their leaves.

“Your garden is beautiful,” Ali said retrieving the quest posting she had taken from the guild board.

“Thank you, dear,” Eliyen smiled at her.

“We saw this quest at the Adventurers Guild and thought we might be able to help.” Ali handed her the script.

“Aah, yes, thanks for taking our request,” Eliyen said, handing the quest notice back to Ali. “Basil will go with you to harvest the mushrooms – all you need to do is protect him from the Kobolds in the area.” She turned away and called out toward a back room, “Basil, customers!”

“I’m coming.” There was a hurried scurrying sound from the back room, and a thump before a studious-looking, flustered young man appeared in the doorway with a surprised look on his face.

“You’re her! Aliandra!”

Ali immediately recognized Basil. He looked more serious and studious in the light when he was not terrified and fleeing from Goblins. Ali cast Identify.

Human

He still identified as being without a class, but he seemed old enough. He must be approaching his class unlock soon, surely?

“Basil, you’re forgetting your manners,” the Elf chided softly, a hint of a smile on her face. “These people are here for your Stonecap gathering.”

“S… sorry.” Basil shifted awkwardly, clearly fighting a rising flush in his face. Collecting himself a little he added, “Thanks for saving me the other day.”

“You’re welcome, Basil, it’s good to see you again.” Ali smiled at him, and she could tell when he began to relax. “What can you tell us about these mushrooms you need?”

“Yes. The mushrooms.” His confidence reemerged now that he was on familiar ground. “Stonecaps are an earth affinity mushroom. We use them to make armor potions. Since the Goblin war, demand has been high, and we’ve already run out of Stonecap essence. Normally Eliyen sends me to these caves in the mountains north of the farmland to gather them, but there have been lots of reports of Kobolds having moved into the area.”

Ali winced inwardly but gave an encouraging nod.

He added, “The ones we are after are brown and grow underground, directly on rock. I usually just wander the caves and collect about ten mushrooms. They go quite a long way. Here, this is what the essence looks like.” He pulled out a large vial with a small amount of a tar-like black substance collected into a blob at the bottom. “The extraction process uses a complicated, three-stage Glumnur-keyed filtration mechanism –” he caught Eliyen’s slight smile “– ah, well, I suppose you don’t care about the details that much.”

Ali enjoyed hearing him ramble on about the mushrooms, even though he was clearly sharing the information because he enjoyed talking about it, rather than focusing on what they would need to complete the request.

Mato shifted, transforming into his Wolf Form, startling Basil. He sniffed at the Stonecap essence vial before transforming back. “It has an earthy scent,” he said. “I think I will be able to help search for them when we get there.”

“Sorry to make you all fight the Kobolds so I can collect mushrooms,” Basil apologized.

“It’s ok,” Ali answered. “We got a request from the farmers to take care of the Kobolds anyway, so it will be good for everyone. How about we meet at the city gate in an hour? I have a few things I need to prepare before we can head out.” Ali wanted to collect her minions and find a way to smuggle them through the city without causing too much alarm. One Kobold healer had attracted quite a lot of attention: she was more than a little concerned about the reaction she would get walking through the town at the head of a small army.

Probably I can use the hole Seri and I made…

It was on the way back to the guild that she recognized him. Malika had been walking along with her friends, idly listening to Mato’s latest story and just enjoying their company, when the well-dressed merchant emerged from the storefront of a small-time commodity trader right across the street. She couldn’t help but notice the very same merchant she had pickpocketed to afford her shrine fee the day she had taken her first steps to sever her ties to the Town Watch and Jax Hawkhurst’s criminal empire. It was the sharp pang of guilt in her heart that did it.

He no longer wore a visible money pouch, and there was a brand-new, expensive-looking ring on his finger that had not been there before.

“Give me a moment,” Malika blurted out, eliciting a cascade of surprised looks from her friends and she dashed over to intercept him before he vanished into the bustling crowd.

“Excuse me,” she said, as she approached. He turned his head sharply, regarding her with a guarded look.

“What is it?”

“You probably don’t remember me,” Malika said, and then took a deep breath, committing herself to what she had to do. “My name is Malika. I stole two large silver pieces from you at the class advancement ceremony in the Town Hall. I didn’t have the money to pay for the shrine, then, and I thought… well… I wanted to apologize and return your money.” She retrieved two large silver pieces from her ring and offered them to the merchant.

The man glowered at her admission, a red flush of anger flooding his cheeks, but right as he was about to say something he paused. “Wait… you’re her!” he exclaimed, his face suddenly flipping to an expression of surprise. His hand paused a few inches above the coins offered on her palm.

He’s going to call the Watch. It was a normal reaction, she supposed, considering she had just admitted to a crime. Why couldn’t you just keep your mouth shut, Malika? And yet, she had felt guilty enough about robbing him that she had felt compelled to say something.

“Thank you,” he said, his hand falling back to his side.

“I’m sorry, what?” Why is he thanking me for robbing him?

“Your name is Malika? You and your friend were the ones to help the alchemist?” He moved closer and whispered, “You killed Adrik and Edrik?”

“We… did,” she admitted, still confused by the man’s unexpected response.

“Well, thank you both. I can sleep easier at night now that I don’t have to worry about a visit from those two. Please keep the coins – that way I can tell all my friends I helped you get started! They’re going to be so jealous.” He grinned broadly and winked at her and then walked off, leaving her staring after him in surprise.

“Can you imagine being so awful that an entire town is happy you’re gone?” Mato asked soberly, as her friends joined her on the sidewalk.

Malika grimaced. “Tell me about it.”

From her other side, Calen put in quietly, “It’s good to take out the trash, Malika, but even better not to return to pick it over later.”

Startled, she considered his words for a moment before recognizing their wisdom. They really are gone forever. “Thanks, Calen.”
