“So, not only enchanting, but pyromancy too? And I doubt the sword and shield you wear are for show… a good supplement to have in case the battle gets physical eh?” Gormir asked. “I imagine a pyromancer who has some ability with a sword and shield would be a difficult foe for anyone.”

“Hah! Being referred to as a pyromancer would have offended me once upon a time, but I’ll take the praise for what it is now. In truth, the sword and shield are my bread and butter,” Orodan corrected. “I grew up poor and magic was seen as the trade of the wealthy. The honest work of fighting face-to-face is my real specialty.”

“Truly? I’ve often asked the warriors and battlemages on campus but… does that not frighten you? The prospect of fighting up close and getting hurt?” Gormir asked as he released another cockroach for Orodan to continue working on. “I profess, I’ve only fought three times in my life and all three were against weak monsters during travel and I was accompanied by party members or escorts who helped in dealing with the matter. Though, I did use a modified pre-charged spell rod to burn a wolf during one of those.”

“Hmm… well let me ask you a question in turn then. All these books and remaining cooped up in a workshop all day, does that not bore you? The idea of remaining sequestered away and toiling towards theory work your entire life?” Orodan questioned.

“I suppose I see your point; I do enjoy working on the bounds of Enchanting. In the same vein, I can understand how someone might enjoy the dreadful gruel of physical punishment and bloodshed. Whether you do it out of a sense of duty, or because you’re good at it, or due to being one of those frightening folk who actually enjoy battle… who am I to judge?” Gormir asked. “I hope you do not think any less of me for being a reclusive peruser of scrolls and artifacts.”

Perhaps the young Orodan Wainwright might have seen it that way… but he’d grown out of such judgmental and narrow-minded arrogance.

“Not at all. Where would society be without enchanters and alchemists around? Now then, back to these cockroaches… I don’t understand why I’m failing…”

“Let me query you this Mister Wainwright. When you channel the flames into your own flesh, how does it feel? Surely you have some protective spell working in tandem? An enchanted item maybe?”

“No? I just channel the fire through my arms and form it into an enchantment. Why?” Orodan said.

“…what?” Gormir asked. “And your flesh does not burn?”

“Of course not, well it does, particularly at the maximal power I can exert, but that’s because…”

“Has someone finally seen the obvious?”

Fire Resistance. Of course.

How had he overlooked such an obvious but important detail? Enchanting his own arms with Draconic Fireball’s flames and weaving inscriptions was radically different from doing the same on these roaches, not just for the sheer resilience and strength of his cells, but also because he had Fire Resistance.

These cockroaches were dying very quickly from the moment Orodan’s flames entered them no matter how low and sustainable he tried to keep the fires from his Candleflame spell.

But if he had to somehow cultivate Fire Resistance in other living targets before being able to use Elemental Living Enchanting on them, then Body Enchanting would remain altogether too time-consuming and inaccessible. At least if he tried enchanting others.

“I see that look on your face Mister Wainwright, the natural question of how you can surmount this obstacle might be closer at hand than you think,” Gormir said, looking at his notes. “You mentioned that your Elemental Living Enchanting skill also has a will of its own, does it not? Perhaps… leveraging that will towards not burning the cockroaches… mayhap that is the key you are looking for.”

“Indeed… that is a good observation,” Orodan remarked, having made up his mind.

“Then, you shall focus on understanding how to influence the living will of your enchantments, yes?” the enchanter asked.

“Indeed.”

“Then er… why do you uh… why are you looking at that cockroach so menacingly?”

“That would be because… it’s time for it to get some good training.”

Quickly identifying the most reasonable method for solving this problem Gormir Eltros had helped Orodan already. Of course… since when was Orodan known to be reasonable?

“Training? What do you mean by that Mister-”

Orodan grabbed the cockroach in the palm of his hand and brought it nearer to his face as he stared into its beady little eyes.

An imperative… no, a commandment, left his lips.

“You… you’re going to train Fire Resistance.”

[Commandment of War 54 → Commandment of War 56]

And before his very eyes, a bug that he’d often been likened to himself, one that wasn’t sentient and had no capacity for thought or feeling… began to quiver in fear as the immensity of the task, the charge Orodan had laid upon it.

The cockroach’s beady little eyes gained a sharp level of awareness. Of itself, of the world around it. And it felt, and it understood.

His Commandment began to draw out not just its innate talent and resilience, but also the potential sentience and sapience it could eventually attain. However, developing sentience in something so small was energy intensive. There was a reason why every little bug or unseen living thing didn’t have the capacity to think or feel the way a sentient being did. Often, as in the case of the cockroach in his hands, higher skill levels needed to be acquired and the body and soul made stronger before a bug could feel, let alone think.

And before his eyes Orodan could see that the cockroach’s body was suffering under the strain of possessing a soul which was too strong for it. His drawing out of its sentience had disrupted its natural bodily balance. A problem of his own creation that he would rectify.

He sent out a thread of connection between himself and the bug. His Blessing, granted unto a most unexpected recipient.

“Focus. Stabilize your body and soul.”

To the side, Gormir Eltros was utterly flabbergasted and could only stare on in fright as Orodan Wainwright began training a cockroach to become more resistant to fire.

“T-this…!”

“Even by your standards this is a bit…”

Of course, training the cockroach to acquire Fire Resistance wouldn’t be the only thing he did. Gormir was right that focusing on the living aspect of the elemental enchanting was the key forward. If he managed to have a say in the living will of the fire that he weaved the enchantments with, not only could he possibly make the flames more bearable for other living things, but could also instill in them less desire to burn his own flesh whenever he amplified attacks with it.

[Fire Magic Mastery 67 → Fire Magic Mastery 68]

[Mana Manipulation 67 → Mana Manipulation 68]

Exceedingly small, almost to the point where the untrained naked eye would be unable to see it. This was the fire glowing off the tip of his finger. It was the single smallest Candleflame Orodan had ever conjured, an entirely different method of working flame that he hadn’t ever tried before which came with corresponding gains.

The cockroach, whose insectoid eyes now carried a hint of determination, strode towards the flame…

…and began throwing quick peppering thrusts with its front legs towards it.

It was a ridiculous sight. A man holding up a Candleflame almost small enough to be invisible to the naked eye, and a cockroach with newly gained awareness and determination attempting to punch it with its forelegs.

“Oh? Practicing your unarmed combat in tandem? I approve of the multitasking,” Orodan said, nodding in respect at the roach. “But your jabbing technique could use some improvement, here, let me show you how to throw a proper punch.”

And as the only other inhabitant of the room was subject to the utterly insane sight of a man demonstrating proper fist fighting technique to a cockroach with alternated sessions of helping it learn to resist fire… Gormir Eltros could only question why the hells they had stuck him with the madman that was Orodan Wainwright.

#

The sight of all that efficient training and the repeated number of surprises in the day had caused Gormir Eltros to call off training for the remainder of it. They would reconvene tomorrow, after Orodan’s planned meeting and presentation to the Republic’s council. He felt the man was being a bit dramatic, but he’d gotten his practice in, and his newest student decided to remain within the workshop of Gormir Eltros, who had been told that she’d developed sentience and was not to be mistreated.

The Master-level body enchanter of Bluefire might have thought him ridiculous for attempting to train a cockroach to resist fire, but the level in Teaching and another in Candleflame spoke for themselves.

In any case, Bluefire and Karilsgard could wait until tomorrow when the academy opened once more and the council convened to receive his new weapons and finalize the arrangement between him and Bluefire.

Now, as Orodan passed people, many of whom knew him, he found himself back in Ogdenborough, specifically near the Castarian’s Boot Tavern. The area was bustling with activity with foot traffic being abundant.

The Castarian’s Boot Tavern was of course within Eversong Plaza, formerly the territory of house Argon. Even back in the day the tavern had a high level of foot traffic. Of course now with recent events involving the ancient machine, that had swelled further.

He spotted squads of county militia patrolling the area alongside soldiers of the Republic military. These well-armed and armored men and women were clearly a cut above the county militia. An insurance policy, in case Novaria or any interested third parties with malicious intentions came trying to unearth the secrets of the ancient machine once more.

More importantly though the town's economy was now thriving without the corruption of house Argon the locals had access to far more jobs and local opportunities of course it need not be said that old man Hannegan was among those who benefited from this happenstance

And as usual, Old man Hannegan had a scowl upon his face as he ordered workers about. There were far more workers than he expected too. What was formerly a small and poverty-stricken town was now a flourishing place with a bountiful economy surrounding it due to the recent destruction of the ancient machine under Mount Castarian.

“I see you’re hard at work. No rest for an old man like you, eh?” Orodan asked, a rare smile on his face. “Shouldn’t you be resting a bit more at your age?”

“Old man? Who are you calling an old man?” his favorite foreman asked, growling at him while shaking a fist. “Orodan… I was wondering when I would see you again. Where have you even been? You didn’t even come by to help me with the lumber this morning.”

Which was something he regretted a bit as the assault by those Embodiers had thrown his usual loop routine off. He’d faced their assault, slain the harpies and then quickly dealt with the ancient machine before heading directly for Velestok.

“Apologies. My usual routine was disrupted by something unexpected. Moving forward, I assure you that won't happen again,” Orodan promised. “I've learned a few new tricks since we've last met. I'm looking forward to trying them out on that warehouse of yours. Well, that’s for next time though.”

“You haven’t worked with me in a few years brat, you even remember how to hoist a beam and haul bricks? Besides, the warehouse is in limbo now, government paid big money to free all available workers up for helping out here. The aftermath of whatever happened yesterday is what I’ve got my hands full with now,” the old man replied. “Noble houses and their games… don’t know what happened in that tavern last night, but the council’s paying big coin for us to help clean things up and build infrastructure. For some reason they want me and the crew to unearth some tunnels. Didn’t surprise me when they confirmed what I’d been saying all along, that the tavern leads to the other side of the mountain.”

Typically, after Mount Castarian and the ancient machine were dealt with, the subsequent flow of traffic and attention from the Republic necessitated the movement of old man Hannegan towards the important work of securing the mountain and helping establish more infrastructure.

This was nothing new. Still, he fully intended to begin helping with the warehouse once more from next loop. He’d learned a great many skills while on Lonvoron, and was itching to put them to use.

“There’s more beneath that mountain than just tunnels, but that’s not why I came here. I’m looking for work old man,” Orodan said. “Looks like you could use a hand with this tunneling the Republic wants done.

Old man Hannegan frowned at him.

“What do you mean, Orodan? You're a member of the county militia. What are you doing, going around asking to work with me again? Just yesterday I had an angry Sergeant Woodgard come by and ask where the hells you were. Don't tell me you skipped out on duty. What's gotten into you, boy?

“Nothing's gotten into me,” Orodan replied. “I just have a desire to work on some of my other skills. Fighting will always hold a dear place in my heart, so you need not worry about me having a sudden career change.”

Of course, as he said this, a familiar troop of the local county militia came by and noticed him speaking to the old man. Among them were Parthus Edrosic and Corporal Bistrid. It was his troop.

“Oh? Hey! There he is corporal! We found Orodan at last!” Edrosic exclaimed.

