[Draconic Fireball 79 → Draconic Fireball 80]

Draconic Fireball was a spell meant for wide area destruction and devastation. It was in fact the very first pyromancy spell Orodan had learned. However, what it wasn’t normally meant for, was compression and then channeling through a medium, which in this case was an ordinary iron sword.

Immediately, Orodan learned his lesson as the metal began to warp, uncontrollably tremble, and was on the verge of exploding.

[Elemental Living Enchanting 13 → Elemental Living Enchanting 14]

With a screech, the sword utterly exploded, the collateral damage stopped by his palms coming together and compressing the building-destroying eruption within his hands with physicality alone. He should have expected this, but it was a good reminder of the fact that Elemental Living Enchanting needed the material itself to have a certain level of strength.

Orodan was a warrior with a body forged through battle and violence. Yet even his powerful form barely survived the backlash of fully empowering and enchanting himself with a living element and then striking in tandem at full force. Naturally, if his body couldn’t tolerate such cosmic force, what hope did regular metal have?

“Experimenting, Mister Wainwright?” Gormir Eltros, who was reviewing notes and working on his own projects in the same chamber asked. “I don’t think you’ve paused to rest, neither physically nor mentally, since we’ve started.”

They were in the middle of a break from Orodan trying to grasp the proper theoretical foundations of Body Enchanting. A break he’d decided to experiment during.

This was the arrangement he had with Bluefire and the Republic. Unrestricted access to the academy’s libraries, knowledge and instructors, while he simply helped enchant weapons with Elemental Living Enchanting from time to time. Of course, what better place to set up and learn Body Enchanting than right inside the personal workshop of Gormir Eltros himself?

The man was ordinarily rather reclusive, but the thought of exchanging knowledge with a fellow Master-level enchanter who had a never-before-seen skill was too tempting to pass up.

“Every moment of time or thought should be devoted towards something.”

“Would that not burn you out?” Gormir asked.

“I said every moment should be devoted towards something, not necessarily training. The question of what to devote that time towards, can only be answered by the individual,” Orodan replied. “This fire can only be pushed so far, or rather, the material can only sustain so much…”

“It surprises you?”

“No, even a blind man would have seen this coming. The strength of a material can only be pushed so far,” Orodan explained. “It’s interesting, that this skill doesn’t directly give me any elemental power but rather allows me to enchant things with the elements I can already use.”

“Why not try another element then? Or are you still going to doggedly pursue fire? I can respect that single-minded perfectionism, the refusal to move on until you really have it in hand,” Gormir said.

“Aye, better to perfect something and get a good handle on it first before I move onto other things. Not only does the element matter, but the spell I use does as well. Not only would using Candleflame to weave the elemental enchantment make for a less destructive process, but it would mechanically alter the enchantment a bit. Furthermore, I could use raw Fire Magic Mastery to just use basic magic flame manipulation, but that too has its benefits and drawbacks.”

“Oh? This is quite fascinating, do explain further,” Gormir spoke, taking notes.

“The Draconic Fireball is meant for wide area devastation. With it, I could annihilate entire mountain ranges at full power. Naturally, this results in a rather volatile but powerful enchantment… if the metal can survive it of course,” Orodan elaborated. “Candleflame on the other hand isn’t a spell meant for destruction, not intrinsically. It’s meant to conjure and sustain a flame in my hand, a steady source of heat and illumination. This makes any fire weaved enchantment using it as a base far more stable and sustainable than one made using Draconic Fireball. And of course, Fire Magic Mastery is the true blank slate method of all these, just pure manipulation of magic fire, not quite good at anything but not quite bad either. Lacks punch and specialization though.”

“And all these methods… do they result in any noticeable difference for the end product? Couldn’t you achieve the same end goal no matter the base if your proficiency in the skill was high enough?”

“That is the end goal, yes. Right now, if I want to make the most powerful fire-weaved enchantment I can, then nothing but Draconic Fireball will do. Similarly, if I want something subtle and sustainable that will survive for many years without needing a recharge, then Candleflame is currently the only way to make that happen. Needless to say, being able to make high-power enchantments with a Candleflame and sustainable ones with Draconic Fireball is a goal of mine,” Orodan said. “And then… there’s the living nature of this enchantment. It has a will of its own, derived from mine of course, but that adds another layer of complexity to the matter.”

“A complex skill Mister Wainwright…” Gormir muttered.

“Mythical skills are rarely simple.”

“Of course it’s Mythical rarity… that comes as no surprise,” the enchanter said shaking his head. “Now then, I suppose I’ve taken enough of a break, shall we return to looking into body enchanting?”

“Aye, let us continue. I’ll admit, even with my existing insights in Enchanting and this new Mythical skill I have, understanding how to enchant living flesh is harder than I thought,” Orodan said. “My own is easy enough, but to work upon the body of another… is a different matter.”

“Your progress is already leagues beyond what I expected… enough to almost make me jealous Mister Wainwright. Now come, let us have a look at these cockroaches once more, you must first seek to understand their composition and…”

And so, time passed as Orodan worked with Gormir Eltros to understand just how body enchanting worked.

Orodan could already enchant his own body. He had done it during the final stretch of the battle against the Prophet, by imbuing himself with the full power of an overcharged Draconic Fireball and then directing all those flames to form the enchantment for an explosion. The combination of that fire-weaved body enchantment and a Smite of Abrupt Deliverance… had been truly cataclysmic.

Three entire star systems had vanished under the unfathomable raw power he’d delivered. Of course, the strike had nearly killed him too, but it had also defeated an Administrator. Weakened and bereft of Mantle and System as the Prophet had been. Orodan had grown strong, but he would need to grow stronger, especially if he meant to reliably unleash such power many times over the course of a battle.

Learning the concepts and theoretical foundations behind the Body Enchanting skill would not only allow Orodan to grant greater power to others, but it might also improve his own enchantments of his body.

Still, it was no easy skill to understand, even with his keen mind and relentless drive to learn. Finally, as Orodan channeled fire into another cockroach which exploded into ash, he had to admit that it was a tougher skill than he’d thought it would be.

“I have a decent enough understanding of how a cockroach’s anatomy functions, as well as the composition of its flesh, but it still seems to react poorly to my attempts at infusing it with fire…” Orodan muttered.

“Hmm, your dogged insistence on learning the concepts of Body Enchanting through that Mythical skill of yours rather than through regular enchanting might be quite the steep hurdle,” Gormir said. “We can always learn the basics through regular enchanting first and then attempt it with your Elemental Living Enchanting, Mister Wainwright.”

“We could… but that would simply be too easy,” Orodan said with a grin. “And I’m not the sort to do things the easy way.”

Gormir looked taken aback by the declaration but remained silent. If the enchanter had any opinions on Orodan’s training philosophy, he kept them to himself.

Another hour passed as Orodan worked. Although, his Mana Manipulation and Fire Magic Mastery gained a level each as he attempted different methods of inserting the flames into the cockroaches’ bodies.

“You know, I’ve been meaning to meet with you for a long, long time now, Gormir Eltros.”

“With… me?” the Master-level enchanter asked, surprise evident. “I must profess Mister Wainwright, I have not heard of you before your introduction, which is exceedingly odd when you’re such a powerful individual. But besides that, I’m not that famous of an individual myself. Your ability to enchant with the very elements is far superior to the mere art of Body Enchanting. Why, there are at least two Grandmaster enchanters in Novarria who also ply my trade but I’ve heard of none who are capable of yours. It begs the question of why you would have sought me at all.”

“Then would it surprise you to know that I’ve been meaning to meet you for thousands of years now?” Orodan replied.

“E-eh?! How is that possible? Surely you jest?”

Well, technically it was the truth. After all, he’d been in the loops for quite some time now if that stint of madness where he empowered the loop mechanism itself was taken into account. And since he’d wanted to learn body enchanting long ago in his early loops… technically Orodan had been meaning to meet the man for thousands of years now.

“Not really,” Orodan replied. “Consider it a grand application of chronomancy. Though, only partially by my hand.”

“Chronomancy? How can that be? None of the chronomancers I maintain contact with have spoken of such disturbances, nor have the dragons of the Time Wind declared any alterations to the currents of time. Unless, you are a reincarnator and you speak of time metaphorically?”

“Not in the slightest. I speak quite literally when I say it’s due to time. I’m in a time loop.”

“You… you’re in a what?” Gormir asked, utterly surprised.

“A time loop. Every time I die, I return to this day over and over. Long ago, when I was far younger and weaker, I heard of you when attending the Bluefire Academy. I sought your knowledge of Body Enchanting and the possible methods of learning soul-powered enchantments.”

“I know the theory of what a time loop is, Mister Wainwright. Certainly there’s enough speculative fiction and academic theory craft surrounding the concept,” Gormir Eltros replied, though his face took on a serious edge. “My question is… why are you telling me about it? Something about you tells me you’re not the type to make idle jests.”

“I am not. What I’ve told you is the truth,” Orodan replied. “As for why I’m telling you… why not? Almost every loop of mine I have gone around revealing the truth. I have little time for secrets and dancing about. Tried that in the last long loop and it went as poorly as could be expected.”

“I still think it was comedic, watching you skulk about as though you were being subtle,” Zaessythra said.

Orodan rolled his eyes at her comment and took in Gormir Eltros who was looking rather nervous, as though on the verge of having a panic attack.

“Mister Wainwright… if this is not some grand jest, I must again ask why you have bothered to tell me of all this. I’m but a Master-level enchanter of the Republic, hardly anyone qualified to hear such cosmic secrets!” the man said. “Do any of the elders know about this? The Gods? Are they the ones responsible for these time loops?”

“Adeltaj Simarji knows, the Gods do not know this loop, and no they are not responsible. This is something well beyond their power,” Orodan casually replied.

“Well beyond their power? But that’s preposterous… nothing is beyond the Gods,” Gormir said, sounding as though he was attempting to convince himself as much as he was Orodan. “This must be some elaborate scheme, right? A big practical jest? Come now Mister Wainwright, are such things not below someone of your power and station?”

“Whether you choose to believe it or not, that’s the truth. Setting the matter of the time loops aside, I’ve been meaning to study Body Enchanting under your tutelage for a while now,” Orodan said.

Gormir still looked disbelieving and Orodan wasn’t intent on pushing the issue when the notion had already caused the man a level of distress. For now, they both chose not to speak of the time loops, even if Gormir clearly looked as though he was in deep thought.

If anything, Orodan wasn’t too surprised. He normally associated with Grandmasters and combat specialists who knew the ins and outs of power and the hierarchy of the world. Even if they logically had a difficult time believing the notion of these time loops, most beings Orodan met were more believing of the tale after they witnessed his sheer might and improbable abilities.

But for an enchanter like Gormir Eltros who’d never seen any combat and spent the entirety of his life within the sequestered walls of civilization? The notion seemed far more outlandish, and even though he was a Master-level enchanter at Bluefire, the man’s faith in the Gods and their superiority was far stronger than a more world-traveled person’s might be.

The silence was eventually broken by Gormir.

