“Indeed, we’re mere landed nobility, ascended through opportunistic trade deals and good fortune. A merchant house, ascended through merit and hard work. Not like many of the more arrogant nobility from military houses that you might be used to,” the man said. “I’m only in Ogdenborough to help supply the military and this expedition to unearth the tunnels beneath the mountain. I wonder what they even want down there…”

“A gigantic machine capable of wiping out the entire county?” Orodan suggested.

“Heh! Well a sense of imagination is a good thing to have,” Gerace replied. “But I digress. Tell me, Orodan Wainwright, what’s your aim in helping Gregory here? I doubt someone like yourself needs the money. whatever Gregory is offering you I’ll double it, no I’ll triple it.”

“I don’t know why you’ve got your eye on me, but as I’ve mentioned before money isn’t what interests me. Skills do, as does the prospect of broadening my horizons and bettering myself,” Orodan said. “Come on old man, don’t we have tunnels to excavate? Unless you were planning on getting drunk? Rather inadvisable for your liver at your age.”

Old Man Hannegan of course turned red.

“My liver’s been handling drink since before you were born you blockhead!”

“Eh? Are you admitting you’re old?” Orodan teased.

Which of course caused his long time friend and mentor to angrily shake his head as the two of them made for the tavern’s back door which connected to the tunnels beneath the mountain.

“Orodan Wainwright, before you go… just keep in mind that House Stenguard deals in a rather diverse array of things,” the man said. “If it’s skills you seek, we might have a number of ventures that interest you.”

Not the worst idea. Definitely something to keep in mind given the sheer number of tries he expected these two weeks would take. Given the fact that all of the universe’s Embodiments of Cleaning were coming after him… Orodan had no delusions of being able to beat them within any reasonable number of loops.

But for now, mining awaited.

#

[Mining 29 → Mining 30]

[New Title → Mining Apprentice]

An entire hundred meter stretch of caved in rock before him… gone.

Of course, if Orodan hit hard enough he could likely break Alastaia itself, but raw force wasn’t the aim here. Skill and control were.

The pickaxe in Orodan’s hands wasn’t doing too well from the devastating blow he’d struck. He’d decided against empowering it with soul energy, chiefly because he felt that attempting to also preserve the pickaxe during these strikes was important to developing the Mining skill.

After all, good mining technique wasn’t just about hitting the rock at the point which would cause the most damage, but also about putting the least amount of stress on the implement he was using. But… given the splintered mess of a wooden handle in his hands lacking a pick head entirely… Orodan still had a ways to go.

Good thing Old Man Hannegan’s crew had plenty of pickaxes on hand.

“Right, your crew can get back to it now old man,” Orodan said, moving to the side and beginning to polish a raw garnet he’d mined from a sub-tunnel earlier.

This was his training within these tunnels.

Every fifteen minutes, after meditating on what a proper pickaxe blow was supposed to be, he would get up and dedicate his all towards clearing as much of the tunnel in a singular swing of as much technical perfection as he could manage. Of course, it was rendered more difficult by his self-imposed requirement of preserving the pickaxe as best he could, and his other requirement that he not cause a single bit more damage than necessary besides clearing the cave-in.

No new tunnels, no destruction to the surrounding subterranean pathways and no overt detection of quakes or tremors by the regular people on the surface. Control and discipline were the key factors here.

And in-between each swing of the pickaxe? Orodan would work on polishing the raw gemstones and valuable jewels he found occasionally dotting certain sub-tunnels which weren’t officially mapped. There’d been a monster or two in these places, but most of them had monstrous instincts which told them to flee at the sight of him.

“R-right… of course… Orodan,” Old Man Hannegan muttered, still looking frightened and unsure of whether it really was him.

“I’m not possessed. And calling the Cathedral to come check would cause an escalating chain of fights ending in me killing a number of Gods,” Orodan replied.

Indeed, the old man had been in for the shock of his life when Orodan had delivered the first blow of his pickaxe, clearing almost a hundred meters of rock. Furthermore, the soldiers of the Republic accompanying the work crew had immediately used their communications amulets to report the incident to their superiors. He had little doubt that someone would eventually be coming by to meet him and possibly with an offer for joining a noble house. Of course, Orodan’s goals in this loop were of a different bent. Joining a noble house was not in the cards. Mainly because the Republic intended on making him the founder of one.

Now, as Orodan continued polishing the raw garnet in his hands the old man could only look on, speechless.

“That look on your face doesn’t suit you,” Orodan said. “The old man Hannegan I know isn’t the sort to be so easily flabbergasted.”

“Can you blame me? Look at all the things you’ve done. Annihilating a hundred meters of rock with a singular swing, slaying elite level monsters and even polishing gemstones like some damn jewelsmith," old man Hannegan exclaimed. "It feels as though you've been possessed by some powerful demon… or maybe you're a reincarnator."

In some loops, if Orodan displayed abilities still within reason, the old man might simply wonder if he’d been blessed or awakened a Bloodline. But then, there were times like this, where the level of power he displayed was so far above what poor Old Man Hannegan knew of his baseline that the only quick conclusions reached were that he was either possessed or a reincarnator, both possibilities implying he was no longer Orodan Wainwright.

“I’m neither a demon nor am I a reincarnator,” Orodan corrected. “I’m still the same bullheaded fool you’ve always known. Who else but Orodan Wainwright would suddenly quit his militia job just to work at excavating tunnels alongside you?”

“Well… when you put it like that, you do still have that same stupid look in your eyes,” the old man said.

“After all this time and everything I’ve been through, it’s one of the few things that hasn’t changed about me,” Orodan said, pausing his jewelcrafting for a brief moment as he gave the man a serious look. “I suppose you’ll want to know how I acquired all this power.”

“It isn’t adding up. Just two days ago you had to put in decent effort to unload the lumber from my cart, you looked a little winded from your run too. But now you can just swing a damn pick and wipe an entire cave-in? Not even a Blessing or a Bloodline would explain that!” the man exclaimed and then looked Orodan up and down. “And I can’t see any fancy enchanted treasure either. I’ve known you as a talented lad, but still an Apprentice. To clear that tunnel… I don’t think I know even an Elite who could do it so easily in a single swing.”

“Heh! True enough! Let me be direct then. I’m in a time loop,” Orodan bluntly declared.

“A… a time loop? What is that?”

“Then sit down as I tell you, and at the end of this, I have a proposal…”

And so he explained everything as he worked, alternating jewelcrafting and mining. And if the workers who were part of Old Man Hannegan’s crew overheard, Orodan cared not, for this loop was due to end in less than two weeks. He told the old man about how the loops started and how he became stronger. He also spoke of his various enemies and the need to grow stronger to face them. The Gods who stabbed him in the back, the Eldritch Avatar, his journeys beyond Alastaia where he met otherworlders and the domineering Administrators. And finally, he explained the truth behind the System and the Eldritch Boundless One, and his goal of eventually solving the problem by purging the corruption and offering the universe his own System if they so chose.

[Jewelcrafting 54 → Jewelcrafting 55]

He finished perfectly polishing and cleaning the raw garnet. Not bad. In doing so, he felt not just the improvement to Jewelcrafting, but the small insight added to his comprehension of Cleaning. This way, he hoped to slowly build up his understanding of cleanliness, brick by brick, through cleaning different things and exploring other crafts.

Even the mining he was engaged in that had gained another level throughout the conversation, wasn’t a whimsical pursuit. Through understanding it, Orodan hoped to better hone his sword and fist.

Cross-training and borrowing insights from other skills to add to his main ones. This was Orodan’s aim and one of the ways through which he hoped to improve his martial prowess over these two week loops. Hells, he’d even forced his Transcendent Combat Mastery to remain suppressed this entire time for he wanted to understand Mining and Jewelcrafting purely on their own merits first.

Having multiple skills work together in tandem in order to achieve a greater result was nice, and might even gain him plenty of skill levels. But as Orodan had learned when becoming System-less for the first time, skill levels were but a crutch. And his combination of multiple skills via Combat Mastery would only become better if he first painstakingly earned insights in each skill in and of itself in isolation.

His training ethos aside, the primary recipient of his tale didn’t look very accepting of things. Or rather, the old man seemed quite overwhelmed.

“Orodan, this is utter madness that you speak of. I stopped being capable of comprehending your tale past the descent of this ‘Eldritch Avatar’ you speak of. Other worlds? Administrators? Some unfathomable creature which controls everything we know and love? This is all far too much for me!”

“Hmm, perhaps this is a bit much to expect you to grasp right away…” Orodan muttered.

Of course, a random miner who was nearby chimed in.

“That’s alright sir, I’ve been listening this entire time! I think this tale of yours is amazing! In fact, I’d like to be the first to write a book about it all!”

“…what?” Orodan asked, befuddled at this random man who had paid rapt attention. “Who in the seven hells would read something like that? You’ll have an easier time selling glasses to the blind.”

“B-but, but…”

“Enough of this nonsense Orodan, your tale is utter lunacy! How can you expect me to believe all this?” the old man asked and then sighed. “Look… even if what you say is true, and I truly am willing to believe the time loop part, what about all these other fantastical things? And why have you even told me all this? On the slim chance that you aren’t just some demon possessing the body of Orodan Wainwright, and this is all true, what part does old Gregory Hannegan of Ogdenborough play in all this?”

[Mining 31 → Mining 32]

Orodan’s pickaxe shot forward, the speed of it causing the air to tear and a sonic boom to erupt outwards. The pick was only two-thirds destroyed this time too. But more importantly, the eradicated rubble from the cave-in was now gone, revealing a shattered giant double door leading into a familiar chamber. One he’d fought and died within in his early loops.

And within it…

“By the Gods… what is that thing?” Old Man Hannegan asked, his eyes wide as he gawked at the metallic creation within.

“That, Mister Hannegan, is the ancient machine beneath Mount Castarian. What the Republic and Novarria had their little spat over and what House Argon tried betraying their homeland for,” Orodan explained. “But this isn’t the original ancient machine, no… this is…”

“A bit… off?”

“Huh?” Orodan exclaimed, surprised. “Explain.”

“Whoever built it, or rather, looks like someone tried building over it a bit, it just looks a little off is all,” the old man clarified. “More than a few parts… not that there’s anything wrong with the construction itself, but the organization is just a little bit off, and there might be a thing here that seems mildly inefficient, and another bit here that might be hard to perform maintenance upon.”

Orodan could only lower his head in shame and not meet Old Man Hannegan’s gaze. In truth, at the beginning of this loop, after he’d slain the enemies under the mountain and sent Baron Viglas Argon packing, he’d also knocked the Republic’s Masters out and tried his hand at reconstructing the ancient machine to the best of his ability.

Needless to say he failed. It was a great improvement; with his learned skills from Lonvoron he’d done far better than he’d ever managed in the past. But it still wasn’t enough. He’d then caused a cave-in to block the place from the Republic and went about the rest of his business.

Of course, for even Old Man Hannegan to spot the oddities in its attempted reconstruction… just how bad a job had Orodan done?

“Nevermind that… I shall let the architect know of your displeasure,” Orodan said, his voice sullen. “But I’m curious now, how can you notice these things? You’re not exactly an engineer, blacksmith or enchanter.”

