“Right, but I’ve worked alongside them often enough and for long enough that I can tell when something’s just slightly off. Bah, I’m just an old man past his time, don’t mind my ramblings about this,” the man said. “These things you’ve told me… they still weigh heavy on my mind. It’s like I’ve aged ten years in the span of an hour. Even in this time loop of yours you’re still causing me headaches you damn blockhead!”

Orodan smiled at the familiar descriptor.

“And that’s where my proposal comes in. Old man… I might have a way to transfer people’s memories across these time loops,” Orodan said, pulling out Fenton’s orb. “This, it was given to me by someone I came to care for quite a bit.”

“I see… it was that boy on that world of metal and steam you spoke of, right?”

“Oh? You were listening?” Orodan asked.

“I might not have understood a quarter of the convoluted concepts you told me, but to hear you took on a student does rekindle some hope in me that you won’t forever remain a stone-headed fool who can only charge in one direction,” the old man said with a smile. “I’m sorry for what happened to him.”

“He died a warrior, of his own choice,” Orodan solemnly said. Though he left unsaid that Orodan blamed his own lack of strength for Fenton’s death. “But with this orb he gave me… I can bring your memories back to the next loop. Will you not join me?”

“And be subject to world-ending terror? From what you tell me lad, you’re now thousands of years older than I am. Why would I want to encounter the sorts of foes which give even you pause?”

“By my honor you won’t have to fight anyone. And the memories are only taken from the time of capture,” Orodan explained. “If I simply capture your memories now and then return them to you in the next loop and simply capture them again before any disasters, you can continue living in blissful ignorance of anything truly terrible.”

“But… why me? I still don’t understand why you’re bothering to approach ‘old man Hannegan’ when there’s bound to be hundreds of powerful allies that could help you.”

“Because, old man… I don’t need powerful allies. Matter of fact, I don’t strictly need anyone’s help with this orb,” Orodan said. “But I do need to see if this thing works, mainly because my student wants me to ferry his memories back. And if I’m going to ferry anyone’s memories back, I’d rather it be someone I trust. An old man who gave a stupid street rat a job and a chance when no one else would.”

“Tch… you damn idiot, don’t go getting me sentimental now…”

“Well? What do you say?” Orodan asked.

“I say… that the Republic’s soldiers seem to have arrived, and in quite some force too,” Old Man Hannegan said, looking quite worried at their numbers.

Orodan however, cared little for these interlopers, nor did he consider the beating he was about to lay upon them to be any form of good training.

#

The High Spire of Karilsgard was the building from where the Republic of Aden’s elected council ruled the nation.

“Are you the Mister Orodan Wainwright I’ve heard so much-”

“Master Gormir Eltros of Bluefire has spoken highly of you! Might I introduce-”

“I see elder Adeltaj Simarji is with you? Allow me to-”

“Orodan Wainwright? Didn’t the military report that one of their response forces was assaulted by-”

“Hey wait! I wasn’t done talk-”

“Is that a… cockr-”

[Teaching 81 → Teaching 82]

Orodan put out the miniature flame he had emanating from the tip of his finger and bade his newest student to go inside the lapels of his militia uniform where she would not be seen. Thankfully, he had cleansed her of the natural filth which tended to accumulate over the course of her previous lifestyle.

His Domain of Perfect Cleaning, now at the Embodiment-level, gave him a rather unerring intuition for whose personality he would really detest and a vague idea of how they operated. Prior to now, he hadn’t really been in an environment where he felt it utilized, but in a building full of rotten nobles and wealthy officials with an overinflated sense of self-importance… it was quite handy right from the get-go. He wasn’t normally the sort of man to brush people off but certain sorts he preferred to stay well away from since they were neither direct enough to get to the point or spoke in circles as though they were playing silly games.

Having grown up in the dregs of society, he knew the sort of person that was happy to smile to his face and then work against him from the shadows. Better to avoid such people altogether, Orodan would never get along with them.

Personally, Orodan felt that the building was full of incompetent officials who’d secured their positions through nepotism or corrupt politicians pretending to care about the people. The number of real leaders in this place could be counted on one hand, and he hadn’t run into any of them yet.

He had been inside enough times by now across his loops to know the layout, and Adeltaj Simarji who he’d come with showed no surprise at that fact as Orodan strode directly for the chamber of the council.

The ornate double doors leading to the chamber were shut and the capital guards looked resolute in not letting anyone pass. The duty of guarding the main doors for the council chamber was a ceremonial one with a lot of prestige to it. It was no regular capital guard, but a commander herself who stood stoically before them. Orodan gauged the stern-looking old woman as a Master peltast of decent strength for her level.

“Hold, the council is still seeing someone… er, Elder Adeltaj Simarji?” the commander asked, recognizing the old man accompanying Orodan. Her tone changed. “Apologies my lord, Count Rohanus is within as well but did you wish to attend too? Allow me to direct you to the council member entrance.”

“That will not be necessary,” old Adeltaj denied. “My friend here has important things to discuss with the council and they are awaiting him.”

“I would not dare bar you my lord, but please consider that another speaker is currently on the floor, I believe it pertains to the matter of newly acquired strategic assets for the Republic.”

“That will be fine, their discussion can wait, or rather… if they’re discussing what I think they are, it’s closely related to my friend here,” Adeltaj said.

The commander wasn’t stupid and had no interest in denying a Grandmaster who had every right to interrupt the council if he so wished. Whatever social mores that would be violated, the Council and their associated houses could deal with.

The woman opened the double doors and marched in, her voice booming in announcement, likely used to heralding important speakers taking the floor.

“Pardon the intrusion. May I present, elder Adeltaj Simarji and company.”

The capital guard commander swiftly exited and shut the double doors after that for announcing the reason why they’d entered was beyond her station.

“A-ancestor? You are here…”

“You look as though I’ve caught you stealing honey from the hives Rohanus. Don’t look so surprised boy, you’re not in trouble,” Adeltaj snarkily replied causing Count Rohanus to bury his head in his hands in embarrassment.

The High Burgher himself sat atop the highest chair and the man’s eyes quirked upwards in surprise at the impromptu entrance.

“Elder Adeltaj? I believe your acquaintance was scheduled to take the floor before us a half hour later… no? I was not aware you would be joining as well, but we are honored by your presence,” Sarvaan Ilsuan Arslan said and then shook his head. “As it so happens your timing is fortuitous, we shall be glad to hold the next discussion now. Not like this back and forth bickering for the past hour was getting us anywhere.”

If anything, the High Burgher looked relieved at the interruption.

“Back and forth bickering? Your trivialization of a most sensitive issue at this critical juncture is not humorous Lord Sarvaan,” spoke a Master-level noblewoman wearing the sigil of noble house Altamari. “The recent phenomenon near Ogdenborough cannot be ignored.”

“But we are not ignoring it in the slightest. Of course, what you and your faction have truly been pushing for is the matter of its ownership,” the High Burgher replied.

“As we absolutely should. Our coalition is concerned that our nation’s security might be threatened if we allow the ailing House Firesword to retain control of such a place. As our scouts and multiple readings have now confirmed, it’s a site with higher readings than the energy well at Anthus,” the Altamari councilwoman spoke. “Which is unfathomable and already drawing increased monster activity. While the soldiers of the Republic maintain brave vigil they cannot remain forever. The long-term ownership and responsibility must be determined.”

Of course, a familiar face who’d done much for him in his early loops was not happy about these words.

“Ailing House Firesword? For how long have we held onto Volarbury County without any assistance from the rest of the Republic? For how long have we safeguarded the remainder of the county from the traitorous House Argon’s schemes? Which other county of the Republic has an unprotected shoreline subject to raiding by Guzuharan scum?” Burgher Ignatius spoke, his face red with indignation. “In spite of all these maladies working against us, time and time again has House Firesword and Volarbury County prevailed. Certainly, we have done so without any assistance from your lot… Altamari.”

“My lot? My lot has a Grandmaster backing them, alongside more than one Master. You, however, are a mere Elite! Your house has no Masters and Elder Arvayne’s affairs with Agathor keep him preoccupied,” the Altamari scathingly rebuked. “House Argon’s traitorous schemes were dealt with by a yet unknown third party, not by House Firesword. These are worrying times, a zone of strategic significance has emerged just outside Ogdenborough and an unknown party also helped excavate the tunnels beneath Mount Castarian and then assaulted a responding military force. We have had far too many alarming security incidents occur in a short period of time and we cannot allow a house with no Master-level individuals and weak leadership to steward such an asset near the border. Lord Sarvaan, I simply wish to remind the council today that House Altamari and its coalition members are in far better position to safeguard this critical asset than House Firesword is. Novarria is ever watchful, and this may be further excuse for them to make aggressive moves.”

Harsh words, but true. Besides Arvayne Firesword, Burgher Ignatius was the second strongest member of the house, and only an Elite. Not even a particularly powerful one either. Just south of Ogdenborough was Jerestir, which was on the border between the Novarrian Empire and the Republic of Aden. And Orodan’s hometown also bordered Mount Castarian, on whose other side was Novarrian territory.

Naturally, this meant that Ogdenborough was a border town, and such a location made it vulnerable.

“Your coalition which involves the Cathedral and House Aeronsul?” Burgher Ignatius sharply asked in turn, angry. “Why not allow the Republic’s military to directly maintain care of such a national asset? The Cathedral need not concern themselves with such affairs. Why, I believe Lieutenant-General Tegin Carrotfoot, a decorated hero of the Republic would be up to the task.”

At this, the Altamari and Aeronsul council members clenched their fists. Orodan knew that the Lieutenant-General was somebody who detested the Cathedral and they in turn were cautious about allowing more power than necessary to enter the halfling general’s hands.

Still, this political discussion tired him and was a waste of time. Regardless of what Orodan did in each loop, the factions of the Republic continued moving and enacting their own plans.

Politics and skullduggery were not his forte.

But blunt honesty and straightforward directness were.

“I can make more of those if you’d like… as long as House Simarji and House Firesword are granted joint control over them.”

Pindrop silence permeated the chamber of the council after Orodan’s words.

Adeltaj could only sigh.

“While the support is appreciated… did you stop to consider that House Simarji might not want such trouble upon our heads?” Adeltaj asked.

“Ancestor! We definitely want trouble of that nature!” Count Rohanus immediately countered, standing up from his council seat.

“And have you considered boy, that the one handling all the Grandmaster-level disputes during such trouble would be me?” Adeltaj politely asked with a saccharine smile. “I’m getting far too old for this…”

“You’re only seven hundred…” Orodan reminded the old man.

Of course, the rest of the council didn’t look too happy about Orodan’s casual words.

“Why to House Simarji and Firesword?!”

“What sort of unsubstantiated claims are these?!”

“Have him thrown right out for wasting our time!”

The voices were many, and they were angry. Though most of them came from the section of council members affiliated with the Cathedral, which included Houses Altamari and Aeronsul.

Finally, the chitter and protests came to an end as Sarvaan Ilsuan Arslan himself intervened.

