“Wainwright?” Bistrid muttered as she walked up, a hint of questioning in her gaze. “Not like you to miss any shifts Wainwright. What happened?”

“Or rather, what’s about to happen as he’s punished for desertion and that perfect record of his is finally tarnished,” Edrosic said with that same jesting tone and casual demeanor that had always irked Orodan in the past. “He might finally feel human like the rest of us!”

“With him? The only punishment they render might finally involve sending him off to Trumbetton, or some other more dangerous place in the county for some experience, both of which he’d certainly be fine with. Disciplinary measures are meant for lazy louts like you, Edrosic,” Corporal Bistrid shot back, causing the man to act as though grievously wounded. “Ignore this fool’s barking Wainwright. Why did you miss your shift yesterday? It was an all-call given the political incident which occurred, everyone was called in even from their days off.”

“The council didn’t even make an announcement for Liberation Day, which was quite unprecedented,” Edrosic added and then snicked as though recalling something funny. “You should have seen Sergeant Woodgards’s face though… he was so red.”

Orodan simply shook his head.

“That’s nice and all, but you can consider this my formal resignation. I’m quitting the Volarbury county militia.”

For now anyways.

Yes, they had an oath of service that they took to protect the county, but it wasn’t a binding one and simply stated that militia members had to protect and serve the people of the county and act with due diligence and valor throughout the course of their duties. Unlike the Republic’s military or the capital guard, the militia for each county was considered a civilian job.

It was a paramilitary organization in charge of the safety and security of the county, but it wasn’t a sworn service with binding terms which one had to serve out. Since Orodan had simply announced his resignation, the punishment for desertion would be considered a civilian one rather than criminal. Fines and the requirement that he either return his equipment or reimburse the cost of that and his basic training.

Bistrid looked quite shocked, as did the remainder of Orodan’s troop who didn’t really talk much to him. Frankly, besides Botterson and Edrosic, nobody in the barracks spoke much to him for fear of his reputation and tenacious drive to train which pushed most away. Even Bistrid and Sergeant Woodgard only interacted with him in the context of spars or discussion regarding his duties.

Orodan didn’t see what the big deal was. Plenty of people resigned from the county militia either because the life wasn’t for them or because they found better opportunities in a more prestigious organization.

Edrosic however, was the most affected.

“W-what? You? Quitting the militia? But fighting is all you live for? How will you…”

“At ease Edrosic, you act as though quitting the militia means I’ll never fight again,” Orodan replied. “While I’m not about to jump into an adventuring party, there are plenty of fights ahead of me. Sooner than you think too.”

“But… without you… who’s going to motivate me to become stronger? Damn it Wainwright, I thought we were friends!”

Now that came as news to Orodan. He had only two words.

“…we are?”

Edrosic looked crushed, and Orodan could swear he saw the man’s soul dim noticeably.

“You truly are a villain Orodan. Look what you’ve done. He looks like a kicked dog,” Zaessythra remarked.

In his defense, Orodan didn’t even know that Parthus Edrosic considered him a friend. From his perspective the man was a somewhat irritating and lackadaisical individual who failed to put the appropriate effort towards training or anything in life. Hells, Edrosic didn’t even try to jockey for promotions, work on any notable skills on the side that would allow him to make a career change or even dream of anything big. All he had ever heard his fellow troop member talk about was one day making enough money to move out of Ogdenborough.

On one hand, Orodan certainly preferred him over those sniveling slimes who politicked and schemed to get ahead, at least Edrosic was a simple soul. Yet on the other, he had no common interests with the man at all.

“Now wait a moment… I don’t mean to brush you off. I’m just uh… confused. The people I associate with are few and far-between. Could you at least tell me why you consider me a friend?” Orodan honestly asked.

There was no sugarcoating it, besides Old Man Hannegan, Orodan had nobody in Ogdenborough he considered a friend. Which was why Edrosic’s admission came as such a surprise. Furthermore, from the feeling he was getting off the man’s soul, it wasn’t like Edrosic was lying or attempt to falsely butter him up either. The confession of friendship was genuine!

“You… you really don’t recall all those times I was in trouble and you bailed me out?” the man asked. “We even shared our first kill together!”

“You were there when I stabbed… hmm, nevermind,” Orodan stopped himself, not bothering to tell his fellow troop member that he’d taken a life well before joining the militia. “I honestly can’t recall what you’re talking about. When did I bail you out?”

And for someone who was making big claims about all the fights they shared together, Orodan did recall Parthus Edrosic turning tail and running at the very beginning of the time loops. Still, that was Orodan’s fault for standing his ground and fighting in a battle he had no business being in.

“How can you not remember? That time when we fought off an entire wolf pack with our troop alone, or that time a herd of acid slimes came by and we had to fight them off. You fought like a madman, cleaving wolf skulls and splattering slimes in both fights,” Edrosic explained with vigor. “I admit it, I'm not the strongest member of the militia. Hells, I'm barely middle of the pack. But looking at you, it made me want to do better each day, even if it was by just a little bit.”

Orodan was baffled. It was with complete honesty that he had to admit he never knew Edrosic thought of him as a friend. But what was this justification for it?

“Edrosic… have you stopped to consider that those times you thought I saved you were really me fighting for myself?” Orodan bluntly asked. “I truly don’t mean to sound harsh, but I also will not lie.”

“That’s fine Orodan! I figured that’s what the matter was, I’m not stupid you know? When I say you’re my friend, what I mean is, you’re the friend I need to help give me the kick in the rear to do better… even if you don’t know that you’re doing it,” the man said with a goofy smile. “From the day I met you, your gaze has been set towards ambitions someone like me has no business considering. But even if you don’t know, even if it was from the shadows… you helped make me better. I was bottom of the barrel in basic until I saw you acing the class and beating everyone in spars you know? You propelled me to at least reach the middle rankings by the time graduation came along. Spared me from having to work that horrid jail.”

“Quite the character this man is. I don’t mind him.”

And if he was being honest, even if the answer had been different before the time loops… Orodan didn’t mind him now either.

“A strange definition of friend you have, Parthus,” Orodan said, amused. “I’m still leaving, that part’s set in stone no matter what you say.”

“Heh… that’s alright Orodan. With the shock of it now passed, I can accept this… not like I was in any position to stop you anyways,” Parthus said. “I’ll just bother Old Man Hannegan here about what you’re up to, and with that knowledge in hand… I’ll better myself.”

“I don’t think the old man will enjoy being badgered by you on the regular, but do as you wish.”

“Say, where are you headed off to anyways? Adventuring work? The military?”

“Just helping the old man tunnel beneath Mount Castarian. But in less than two weeks I’ll be facing enemies invading our world in search of my head,” Orodan replied with a smile.

It was no surprise when Parthus burst out laughing. Even the normally stoic Corporal Bistrid had a smirk on her face.

“You actually cracked a joke! The Orodan I know never cracks jokes!”

“Right, well I’ll be seeing you Parthus, take care now.”

And with that he left Edrosic behind. Old man Hannegan was waiting for him by tavern entrance.

“Well that took you long enough. Rather colorful fellow you work with there, or… used to work with,” the old man said. “I didn’t want to step into your affairs, but did you really resign from the militia Orodan? You’ve always wanted to be a warrior right? Why the sudden change?”

“Nothing about that has changed old man. The county militia is hardly the be all and end all of combat,” Orodan replied. “Now let’s get to tunneling I’m sure you have plenty of rock that needs to be mined before we can reach the area the Republic wants unearthed.”

“Well all right then, if you’re offering a hand I won’t turn you down. Always good to have someone with a bit of heft in their arms,” old man Hannegan replied. “Not my business what you choose to so with your time.”

The hustle and bustle of alcohol and jubilation could be heard as the two of them entered the Castarian’s Boot Tavern. Compared to the secretive and exclusive establishment this place used to be, the Castarian’s Boot Tavern was now a different sort of joint. Commoners, merchants and various folk from other towns inhabited the first floor, and Orodan could sense plenty of the second floor rooms occupied by larger groups who wanted a reservation. Drinking and merriment were aplenty and the overall mood and morale of the townsfolk here was a stark difference to what he remembered the beginning of the loops.

Understandably so given that the Republic’s desire to see the tunnels unearthed meant the creation of many jobs and the infusion of wealth into a formerly poor town.

“Hey Gregory! Who’s that you got there with you?” one of the less inebriated patrons asked. “Gathering more workers for the tunnels?”

“Orodan here offered me his help of his own volition in fact.”

“That so? He certainly looks like a big man. Is that a militia uniform? Is this a part-time job for you?” the man asked. “I suppose I’ve seen stranger things than militiamen trying to diversify their skill set; that drudgery can’t pay well, can it?”

“A gold coin a year isn’t a horrible salary,” Orodan said. “But money isn’t what I’m here for, rather, the old man here runs a tight ship and working with him is a good way to sharpen some of my skills.”

“One of those sorts who seek to better themselves through odd pursuits I see. I can respect that, Gregory and I used to apprentice under a man who held the same mindset,” the patron said.

“I still think you’ve lost your marbles Orodan,” old man Hannegan replied. “Don’t know what would possess you to work with an old codger like me again. But we can always use more workers, and I’ve never known you to be the type who acts aimlessly.”

“At least you’re not getting worked up about how the Burgher’s going to punish you for poaching me,” Orodan replied. “But then again, with the recent mess I doubt Burgher Ignatius Firesword has the time to care about a resigned militia man working someplace else.”

“Right you are, with how bad the Republic wants the tunnels excavated I doubt House Firesword has any room to complain even if they wanted to. Oh by the way, Have I introduced you to my friend here? Orodan this is Gerace Stenguard, we used apprentice under the same master carpenter back in my youth. Gerace, this is Orodan Wainwright, used to be a militia man but quit today and wants to work with me for some Gods damned reason.”

“And weren’t those the days? I still remember that old madman telling me to saw a dozen wooden boards in a minute while blindfolded. He would throw rocks at my head during the process too!” Gerace replied to the old man and then shook Orodan’s hand. “Orodan Wainwright is it? If you’ve quit the militia, why not come work for me? A strong warrior with a doughty sword arm is always welcome in the Stenguard Company.”

“No. My goals carry me elsewhere for now. And guarding caravans isn’t in my interests.”

“Worth a try. Keep this one close at hand Gregory, I get the feeling he’s no ordinary man,” Gerace said. “Wainwright, Wainwright… I feel like I heard that name floating about before I left Karilsgard for here.”

“You might hear more in the coming days. Rather well-informed for someone drinking in a shoddy tavern in the poorest town of the Republic aren’t you?” Orodan asked. “Let me guess… you’re a noble?”

“You’re an observant one,” Gerace said. “What makes you think that?”

“I’ve heard the name Stenguard once upon a time, a number of the goods at market bear your house’s seal,” Orodan answered. Although it bore mentioning that the goods from House Stenguard were of the more expensive variety whereas Orodan oft skipped that section whenever getting groceries at Fodgarton’s before the loops. “Basic training for the militia made knowing most noble houses in and around Volarbury County a necessity. Never know when you run into some blueblood with a chip on their shoulder. Leadership didn’t want the grunts getting into trouble with their benefactors.”

