“Order! This is an elected council, not a flock of clucking hens! Act like it!” the High Burgher roared, banging a gavel down upon a designated spot. The man then gave Orodan a serious look. “Now then, Orodan Wainwright. You were supposed to come here to discuss your inclusion into the Republic’s ranks of noble houses merited by the Mythical-rarity skill you bear. There is also a recent incident where eyewitnesses claim a man by the name of Orodan Wainwright, matching your description, assaulted a unit of the Republic’s army. Yet despite all these pressing matters which you must answer for these outrageous claims of yours are akin to oil being thrown upon an already burning stack of timber. I will ask you two simple questions… are you the one responsible for that zone’s creation? And are you the one who assaulted our soldiers beneath Mount Castarian? We’ve received word that the machine has also been modified, was that your doing as well?”

“For all your questions, my answer is yes. I am the one who disabled the ancient machine under Mount Castarian and ruined the schemes of House Argon. It is also I who created that special zone near Ogdenborough through the activation of my Celestial skill. And it was also I who laid a beating upon your soldiers when they attempted to arrest me.”

Adeltaj’s face was buried in his hand as the old Simarji shook his head in resignation.

“You were not joking about how direct you are, were you?” the old man asked.

Orodan simply smiled.

“This is ridiculous. Why are we entertaining this notion? What in the seven hells is a Celestial skill?” a council member affiliated with House Aeronsul asked.

“We should arrest him here and now!” another barked.

“Allow me to get this right High Burgher,” the Altamari began. “Putting aside the alleged criminal charges against him, not only is this Orodan Wainwright the strategic asset we’ve heard of who possesses a new form of enchanting, but he is also the same individual who put a stop to House Argon and Novarria’s schemes? And he then went and caused the emergence of the special zone too?”

“Councilwoman Altamari makes a good point, these are many bold claims, especially for a singular individual. And yet… for a single individual of great power to have done all this does sound reasonable,” the High Burgher muttered, looking at Orodan. “But… who even are you and where did you come from? The only record we have of Orodan Wainwright-”

“Ogdenborough, former private in the Volarbury County Militia, yes? A mere Sword Apprentice?” Orodan finished for the man. “You would be right.”

“Then.. how…” the man muttered, his eyes running through multiple possibilities.

“A more important question is why we’ve received the strange request for their to be no Chosen of Agathor, Eximus and Ilyatana here. Where do your loyalties lie stranger? I’d heard that this meeting was to discuss granting you the rank of nobility for your merits, but if you cannot abide by the laws of the Prime Five are you even fit to mingle among us within our Gods-protected nation?” the Aeronsul asked.

“Gods-protected nation? We are a republic of humanity ruled by our own laws first and foremost,” Burgher Alarduin Rockwood muttered in disapproval of the descriptor. The man wasn’t alone in his disapproval either as many of the council members seemed to be at odds with the Cathedral faction. Doubtlessly many of these were allies of the Anthus conspirators.

But Orodan had little time for this drama.

“I am glad you asked. Let me lay it all out then. I am Orodan Wainwright. The Gods whose representatives I asked not to encounter? They are my enemy. And I… am the time looper.”

“Here we go… and I was enjoying taking in the architecture of the building too,” Zaessythra remarked.

The entire council chamber listened with rapt attention and in disbelief. He didn’t bother giving them the full story, for he cared little about the overwhelming majority of these sycophants.

“Preposterous! We cannot allow the follower of an enemy God to become nobility! Commander, have the capital guard seize this man!” the Altamari demanded.

“A time loop? No chronomancers have mentioned anything amiss with the flows of time,” the High-Burgher said.

Adeltaj however stepped in.

“I would strongly recommend against that, and I would very strongly advise against trying to send any further people after him either,” the old man spoke, a look of resignation on his face. “This will go poorly for everyone involved and dump a whole load of work upon my lap.”

“Elder Adeltaj? Are you in the league with this heretic? You would betray the Republic?” the Aeronsul pointedly asked.

“No, he is not in league with me. I speak for myself when I say that any Chosen and lackeys of these three Gods will face a reckoning at my hands if they come before me,” Orodan resolutely declared. And even if they didn’t come for him, on principle alone he intended to rescue his mentor Arvayne Firesword no matter what.

“Enough of this heresy, Orodan Wainwright! You have spoken out against the Gods for too long and dared insult our lady Ilyatana far too many times in my presence!” the Aeronsul council member spoke, his eyes beginning to glow with divine power. “Goddess! Your humble servant beseeches you come unto me!”

In hindsight, he really should have expected that the Aeronsul, wearing priest robes embroidered with copious amounts of holy imagery depicting Ilyatana, would be a Favored.

But Orodan had had enough of the Gods.

And his restraint was at its end. Especially considering the volatile grief still within his heart at the loss of Fenton Penny.

It was a poor idea and something he ordinarily wouldn’t have done, but he considered Ilyatana a fair target. And so, Orodan let go of the self-imposed restraint he held upon his Embodiment-level skill, allowing the natural aura of it to pour outwards.

This aura, he directed in full against the source of power which dared to come down and empower the council member.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 160 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 161]

[Reality Alteration 60 → Reality Alteration 70]

He did not see her, nor did he hear her. But across the divide between dimensions Orodan could clearly feel that his power had done something very, very final in the context of this loop.

His simmering anger and grief beneath the surface had needed an outlet, but the shock at what his skill was truly doing hit Orodan like a bucket of cold water in the night.

Against the harpies, he hadn’t truly seen it, hadn’t understood the impact of outright cleaning something out of existence. Yet as his Domain of Perfect Cleaning shot out and utterly wiped Ilyatana out from time, space and reality… he saw with growing horror how everything else around him, the people, the animals, the things… anything which was a reminder of her and had been done by her hand.

Became undone.

The council member’s robes which held the fanciful imagery of Ilyatana? It outright vanished. The staff the man wielded which bore her holy energies? Before his eyes it became a staff of Halor.

Around him in the unseen parts of the fabric of existence, the river of time and the tapestry of fate began to truly shake and re-weave themselves into something harmonious upon the sudden non-existence of a God with thousands of years of history and impact upon the world.

The harpies he’d wiped from existence were young, their impact minimal.

But to erase Ilyatana as though she’d never existed? This was a different thing altogether.

“By the System… this is utterly strange. Even the building’s murals are changing… I get the feeling I’m not supposed to be seeing this,” Zaessythra muttered.

And she was right, even the very architecture of the High Spire of Karilsgard changed. Where there had been motifs of five Gods, there were now four. Furthermore, his Vision of Purity went far, and it could see beyond just the physical.

All across Karilsgard, no… across hundreds of miles and even further, things were changing. Orphanages sponsored by Ilyatana became those under Halor’s name. Priests and priestesses of the Goddess of Fate were suddenly people who had different careers all along.

It was… terrifying.

He watched as a man went from priest to struggling laborer in an instant as the timeline, the tapestry and the fabric of reality itself warped to make it so that Ilyatana’s absence changed his life. Another woman, one he’d fought a few times, went from being the High Oracle to living a life as an adventurer.

And most shockingly of all… dozens, hundreds… thousands of people, began to disappear. And in their place an almost equal number reappeared. With time affected so drastically, would the same people and the same souls have even come into being? How many lives had been saved thanks to Ilyatana’s existence and that of her followers?

Orodan and Zaessythra within his mind, watched on in horror as reality snapped back into place, making the necessary corrections alongside the righting of the river of time, in order to account for the Goddess of Fate, one of Orodan’s most hated foes, having never existed in the first place.

He abhorred this, he hated thinking it, but even as his blood and soul boiled from the admission, he was forced to confront the truth. That this was real cleaning.

The erasure of something from all time, causality and reality.

And it was something… he swore then and there to never do again. Not lightly, not without being in full control of the consequences.

He hated Ilyatana, yes, but she didn’t deserve this. All the people affected by her existence didn’t deserve it either. He would rather just slay someone honestly with the blade, not inflict this existential erasure upon them!

Worst of all, he didn’t even have the time to dwell on the immensity of what he’d done. For the people within the council chamber were all too eager to remind him that they knew nothing about what had just happened.

“Now then, as my God Halor has decreed, your abhorrence of Agathor and Eximus, while concerning, shall not be a problem. We of the Prime Four are tolerant of differing faiths for the Republic of Aden is a nation built upon many faiths,” the councilman of House Aeronsul said. “Orodan Wainwright, while I do not condone you assaulting the soldiers of the Republic, I suppose I can understand why you did it. In light of your unique skill and as thanks for thwarting House Argon’s schemes under Mount Castarian, I propose that we grant him clemency for this.”

This man… he had just been ready to have Orodan arrested moments ago. And now he was a staunch supporter of his?

“I concur. High-Burgher Sarvaan, I lend my support as well. With an enchanter of his caliber on our side, the Republic can only prosper. Although this matter of a time loop merits further discussion,” the Altamari councilwoman said, further baffling Orodan.

“Excellent, then we are in agreement in granting Orodan Wainwright the title of nobility. Your thoughts on this, Mister Wainwright?” the High-Burgher asked, the hammer on his back now replaced by a lance.

“A noble? Who has the time to care about such things right now? Can you not see what has occurred…?” Orodan muttered, for once quite afraid of what he was capable of.

But the truth of it was, no, they could not see. Nobody in the chamber of the council knew what had just occurred.

“Ridiculous! I do not assent to this! A new noble house requires more ceremony and screening than just some snap decision made on the spot!” Burgher Ignatius Firesword said, stern and unforgiving. A complete reversal to the friendly man he knew who was all too happy to see the common folk succeed.

It was as though he’d entered an alternate reality. One of his own making.

“Enough!” the High-Burgher shouted, shutting Burgher Ignatius up. “The public are still wondering who assaulted that military force beneath the mountain. The look of it would be disgraceful if we were to reveal that Orodan Wainwright is a stranger who was simply let go after assaulting our soldiers. No… here and now, noble house Wainwright is established by my order, with Baron Orodan Wainwright as the head of house and founder. Consider it an executive decision of the seat of High-Burgher.”

Baron Orodan Wainwright? He would have been sickened if he had the time to care about such things. Not now, he needed to see the full extent to how things had changed, and if these changes could be undone.

“Baron? You’ll have to do better than that if you want to court a World-Queen such as myself,” Zaessythra said, trying to draw his mind away from the gravity of what he’d done and calm him a bit. “Well… former World-Queen I suppose.”

But more importantly, his gaze shot to his right and then to his left.

The sudden disappearance of someone in particular hadn’t been the first thing he noticed, but the absence was quite glaring now.

Even Zaessythra was shocked into silence, the implication quite clear to her.

“Where… where is Adeltaj Simarji?”

Orodan’s quiet voice rang through the council chamber.

“Adeltaj… Simarji?” the High-Burgher asked.

“Yes, Adeltaj Simarji. You know? The Grandmaster of House Simarji and the hero who helped complete a Quest?” Orodan asked. Though… he already knew the answer.

“Oh? I was not aware you had an interest in history Mister Wainwright. We can peruse the library at Bluefire or even arrange a visit to the Kingdom of Shivenduran one of these upcoming days if you wish,” Sarvaan Ilsuan Arslan spoke. “After all, I too have meant to visit the tomb of Adeltaj Simarji, famed ancient hero of the Eastern Kingdoms who gave his life fighting a terrifying depths worm several hundred years ago.”

