“Hmm... I need time to decide.” Decisively indecisive, Taduk calls it a day and we head back to shore, where an early-morning nap awaits. I don’t know what it is lately. When I first arrived in this world, I rarely slept more than four or five hours a day, and if I did, it was usually because I was injured or overworked. The past forty eight hours haven’t been all that strenuous, and while I’m not exactly exhausted, I feel sleepy and lethargic all the time. It’s not all too surprising if you assume I’ve been sleep deprived for all these years, but I doubt that’s the case. It could also be mental fatigue, my brain overworked in recent days because of everything going on, or maybe it’s a defence mechanism to keep me from breaking down into a quivering pile of tears and snot once I realize how fucked up my life is. Who knows.

Whatever it is, napping isn’t the worst thing in the world. The whole world’s going to hell in a hand basket, so I might as well sleep through as much of it as I can.

“I don’t get you boy, always frowning and fretting.”

Guan Suo’s random statement jolts me out of my fugue and I turn to the grumpiest Red-Panda in existence. Noticing our surroundings, I belatedly realize we made it back to camp without me noticing, with Taduk and Guard Leader nowhere in sight. Already back in her groove, Ping-Ping’s head lays upon her dirt pillow with my hand on her beak, apparently looking melancholy enough for Guan Suo to interject. Puffing away at his pipe, he pulls it out of his mouth and points at Ping-Ping while smoke leaks out of his nose and mouth. “Don’t see why she’s so enamoured with a sad sack like yourself. Every time I look at you, you’re sighing about one thing or another. Really puts a damper on my mood.”

“Well sorry for troubling you.”

“Oh it’s no trouble.” Laying in the grass with one hand behind his head, he rests one foot against his knee and resumes smoking. “Found it strange is all. Legate crowns you number one talent in the Empire and you’re acting like the world’s coming to an end.”

“Isn’t it?”

Guan Suo lifts his head ever so slightly to shoot me a quizzical look, and I shrug in response. “I came here to defend the Empire from the Defiled, but so far, all we’ve done is hand out gifts and fight amongst ourselves. Any day now, an army could come marching in on the horizon, and we’ve done shit all to prepare, still fighting amongst ourselves. I’ve almost died twice now, yet haven’t seen a single Defiled, but I’m expected to fight alongside these people? Now, I find out there’s two weeks of contests and challenges scheduled, an entire twenty days of games and nonsense, so forgive me for preemptively mourning the loss of Central.”

“Huh.” Resting his head once more, Guan Suo says, “Never pegged you for a quitter.”

“I’m not, but everyone seems perfectly content to attend banquets and perform dances while the world burns to ashes around them, so why should I care about Central’s fate when no one else does?”

“Idiot.” Guan Suo’s succinct statement is followed by a long draw on his pipe. “You ever stop to think why the Legate arranged all this?”

No, not really. “Er... To raise morale?”

“Got it in one. Smarter than you look, boy.”

I can’t decide if that’s a compliment or an insult. “...Still, as vital as morale is, there are more important things to focus on, like troop deployments, supply lines, c-”

“Wrong.” A ring of smoke billows out of the grass and into the air. “Guess you’re not so smart after all. You’re too focused on the Defiled, when instead you should focus more on the Enemy.”

What? “Aren’t they the same thing.”

“The Defiled are not the Enemy, merely tools turned to the Enemy’s cause. The Demons are our Enemy, and their favoured weapons are fear and despair coupled with deceit and false hope.” There’s no hatred or emotion in his words, uttered with the passion one would give a grocery list or instructional pamphlet. “I’ve been around long enough to know, every time the Enemy scores a major victory, the Empire sees large numbers of commoners turned Defiled. They lose faith in their stalwart defenders and give in to the Enemy, happens every time there’s an incursion or raiding party. This time, we lost an entire province, hence the need for all this spectacle. Guarantee every city across the Empire is doing the same, sparing no expense to keep people happy and distracted with ‘games and nonsense’.”

Huh. Makes sense. The preparations gives the commoners something to focus on besides their imminent doom, and showing off our greatest champions gives them something to believe in. It’s a literal battle between hope and despair. If left to their own devices, how many commoners would turn Defiled? Even one percent of the population would match the Empire’s total Martial Warriors, which means keeping morale high isn’t just vital, it’s virtually a requirement for victory. There’s no point laying down lines of defence if the Enemy takes root in the hearts of the people we’re supposed to defend.

Okay... maybe this world isn’t as stupid as I once thought.

“Besides,” Guan Suo continues, probably to keep my spirits up, “Just because you weren’t asked to lend a hand doesn’t mean no one’s working on defending the province proper. You seen the little scamp around lately, or her pup you call a Mentor? No, because they’re busy doing their part, so quit your moping before I give you something to cry about, got it?”

Mother in Heaven... how did I not see this before? The similarities don’t end at the red-panda ears and tail, no it goes so much deeper. So cold and hostile on the surface, yet possessing a soft, sweet, gooey centre, like (his presumably half-sister) Mila, grumpy old Guan Suo is a grade A, certified tsundere.

So adorable. I really wish I caught a red-panda now...

Maybe on the way home, after we defeat the Defiled and send the Enemy packing. For now, I’ll have to settle with cuddling quin pups.

Now, where’s Zabu hiding his adorable babies? I demand a snuggling!

Chapter Meme
