Ten.

She woke on Day 28 to the sound of Brecca repointing.

Not the gathering hall. The threshold stone's retaining wall -- the low ring of dressed stones that surrounded the base of the threshold stone where it met the earth. Wren had surveyed this wall in her first week and dismissed it as structural: a retaining barrier, functional, unremarkable. Brecca was pressing clay into its joints at dawn with the focused intensity of someone who had seen something better and was trying to remember how it felt.

Wren watched from her bedroll. Brecca's hands moved differently this morning. Not faster -- the speed was the same. But the quality of attention had changed. Each joint received a longer assessment before the clay went in. Each press was followed by a pause, a re-evaluation, a micro-adjustment. Brecca was not repointing. She was practicing toward a standard she had carried back from the ridge.

She did not announce this. She did not explain it. She worked.

Wren went to the threshold stone for the dawn vibration. Thirty seconds, steady, the crystal lattice singing. She pressed her palms flat and felt the [Foundation Stone] vibration enter her hands and the bond receive it in the full, dense chord of three nodes -- threshold stone, prayer-notch, healer's house -- all distinct, all present, the cluster's voices resolved and rich after two days of compressed transmission.

She had missed this. The thread from the ridge had been enough to know the bond held. The chord was enough to know what holding meant.

She opened her journal and looked at what she had written the night before, in the last light: survey notes from the expedition. Three pages. Structures numbered, features catalogued, drainage network sketched in cross-section with Brecca's measurements annotated in Wren's hand. The well, the central foundation, the garden terraces. Each one a line item in a plan that she could feel forming the way she felt a compass bearing form -- incrementally, inevitably, the organizational instinct doing what it always did.

She turned to a fresh page. She started writing a return expedition plan. Structures to examine at Journeyman resolution. Foundation stones to mark with Detail Notation. Drainage junctions to map. The well's filtration properties to test systematically. The ghost-elm ring's resonance to compare against the wild grove's. Two days, maybe three. Supplies for four. Equipment: compass, journal, Brecca's trowel, sample containers for --

She stopped.

She heard her mother's voice: *I hope you let them need you without turning it into a project.*

She looked at the plan. The plan was good. The plan was necessary. The southern settlement was the largest discovery of her life and it deserved systematic documentation. She was a Wayfinder. This was what Wayfinders did.

She also heard what the plan did not contain. No space for Theron's silence at the drainage grid. No line item for Brecca's thirty-second reverence. No column in the survey for the way the well water had tasted or the way the river's sound had changed the air or the way the foundation stones had felt against her palms -- not what they contained, but how they felt. The plan was a project. The place was not a project. The plan was necessary and the plan was insufficient and both things were true.

She closed the journal. She would come back to the plan. But first she sat with the stone and felt the vibration and did not organize anything.

---

The morning passed in domestic rhythm. Brecca at the retaining wall, then the gathering hall's west face, then back to the retaining wall. Theron at the drainage channel -- but not clearing silt. He was standing at the channel's south end, looking at the junction where the stone lining met the tree line, his flat-stone trowel in his hand but not in use. He was studying the terrain.

Wren found him at midday.

"What are you looking at?"

"The gradient continues." He pointed south, past the tree line, where the ground sloped toward the ghost-elm perimeter. "The original builders did not stop the channel here. They stopped maintaining it here. The channel continues -- under the roots, under the leaf-litter. I can see the depression."

Wren looked. She could see it too, now that he pointed it out. A faint line in the forest floor where the ground dipped a centimeter lower than the surrounding soil, running south toward the perimeter in a gentle curve.

"You want to extend it," she said.

"I want to clear what is already there." He crouched at the channel's end and pressed his hand against the earth. "This is not maintenance. This is recovery. The channel was always longer than what I cleared."

Wren thought about the integrated drainage network at the southern settlement -- the sub-surface grid beneath the central clearing, the watershed design that captured every drop and directed it to the garden terraces. One channel was one sentence. Theron was learning to read the paragraph.

"The southern settlement's drainage was a network," she said. "Interconnected channels running beneath the foundations. Brecca mapped the grid. It was -- larger than a single channel."

"Yes," Theron said. He did not look at her. He looked at the depression running south. "I know."

He said it the way he said everything that mattered: without emphasis, without explanation, with the quiet certainty of a man who had walked a market street his grandmother described and found the well exactly where she said it would be. He knew. He had seen. And now he was back at Varethen with a flat-stone trowel and a single channel and the knowledge that the single channel was the beginning of something, not the whole of it.

He started clearing.

---

She used Detail Notation on the threshold stone at mid-afternoon.

She had been sitting with the stone, palms flat, feeling the [Foundation Stone] vibration at close range -- the full, dense signal she had carried for four weeks, now re-experienced after two days of distance. The vibration was the same. But her perception of it was not. Journeyman Surveying changed the resolution of her attention the way a lens changed the resolution of light. Details she had felt as texture now resolved into structure.

She activated the technique. The resonance mark settled onto the stone's east face, where the mineral banding caught the afternoon light, and the mark interacted with the [Foundation Stone] signature in a way she was not expecting. The mark did not sit on the surface. It sank. Not into the stone -- into the signature. The Wayfinder's notation merged with the Foundation Stone's vibration and the merged signal was -- different. Richer. As if the mark had given the signature a vocabulary it had not possessed before, a way to express details it had been holding without words.

She pressed her palms flat and read the stone through the merged signal.

The mineral banding. Twelve dark layers on the east face -- she had counted them in her first week. But now, through the Journeyman lens and the Detail Notation's merged signal, each layer resolved into composition. Not just dark and light. Iron-rich. Silica-dense. Calcite-threaded. The twelve layers were not decorative. They were geological signatures, each one marking a period of the limestone formation's history, each one carrying information about the conditions of its deposition. The stone was not just four thousand years old. It was a record. A geological journal, written in mineral bands, readable to anyone with the perception to see it.

And in the seventh band -- the widest, darkest, iron-richest -- she felt something she had not felt before. A resonance that was not the [Foundation Stone] signature and not the natural geology. A faint echo of the quality she had felt in the southern settlement's central foundation. Intention. Someone had touched this band. Someone had deepened it, the way the southern foundation stones had been deepened. Not at the same scale -- not the massive, pervasive reinforcement of the clearing's blocks. A single touch. A single moment of intentional attention, applied to one band of one stone, centuries ago.

The threshold stone had been dressed by masons. But one of those masons -- or one of the people who came before the masons, or after -- had done something more than dressing. Had left a fingerprint of the same quality that suffused the southern settlement's heart.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY
  Varethen -- Threshold Stone (East Face)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Geological/Resonant: Mineral banding resolves at
  Journeyman tier. 12 layers = depositional history.
  Band 7 (iron-rich) carries trace intentional
  reinforcement consistent with Southern Settlement
  central foundation signature.

  The thread connects. The tradition is older than
  the masons who dressed this stone.

  +55 XP
  +2 Surveying proficiency

  Cumulative XP: 1889 / 2573 (Level 6)
  Surveying: 65 (Journeyman)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

*The thread connects.*

The southern settlement's foundation stones bore intentional reinforcement at massive scale. The threshold stone bore a trace of the same quality in a single mineral band. The tradition -- whatever it was, whatever class or skill or mode of attention produced it -- had been here. At Varethen. Not at the southern settlement's scale, but present. A single fingerprint connecting the two sites through something deeper than chisel marks and drainage engineering.

She sat with her palms on the stone and felt the discovery settle into her understanding the way a stone settles into a foundation. Not an answer. A thread. Another thread, running between the places, connecting them through the substrate and through the stone and through the hands of whoever had touched this band and left their intention in it.

---

Brecca found her at the threshold stone.

"You are doing the face again," Brecca said.

"Discovery."

"What did it find?"

Wren considered how to explain mineral banding and intentional reinforcement and the connection between two settlements through a single iron-rich layer. She looked at Brecca's hands, which were covered in clay from the morning's repointing.

"The stone has layers," Wren said. "Twelve bands. One of them has the same quality as the foundation stones at the southern settlement. Someone touched it."

Brecca crouched beside her. She placed her hand on the east face, on the seventh band. She held it there.

"Show me," she said.

Wren activated Detail Notation on the seventh band. The mark merged with the existing signature and the stone's surface shimmered faintly -- visible to Wren through the bond, visible to Brecca through whatever quality of perception let her see the cleaned-spot shimmer at the well.

"There," Brecca said. "The stone is -- warmer there. One band. Warmer than the others." She pressed harder. "Like someone held their hand here for a long time. A very long time."

"Yes," Wren said. "That is what I feel too."

Brecca sat back on her heels. She looked at the threshold stone the way she had looked at the southern settlement's walls: with reverence, with hunger, with the specific anxiety of someone who understood she was in the presence of a skill that exceeded her own.

"I am going to keep repointing," she said. "The retaining wall. The gathering hall. All of it."

She said it like a statement of purpose. Not a plan, not a task. A declaration. She was going to keep working on the walls because the walls were where she met the tradition, and the tradition was older than the masons and deeper than chisel marks, and Brecca Vane, fifteen, classless, was going to keep pressing clay into joints and reading stone with her hands because it was the only language she had and it was the right language.

She went back to the gathering hall. Wren watched her go.

---

She wrote to her mother that evening, at the fire.

Theron was extending the drainage south, visible in the tree line as a silhouette crouching and digging. Brecca was at the gathering hall's north face, having circled the entire building in a single day. The three-person fire was quieter than the four-person fire. They were waiting for Hadley without saying they were waiting.

Wren took a page from the back of her journal -- the loose sheets her mother had packed, good paper, the kind you did not waste on survey notes.

*Mum,*

*The garden drainage sounds right. Tell Dad I measured a six-degree gradient here and it works. He will know what that means.*

*I have been to a ruin south of where I am staying. It was a town once -- three hundred people, a well, a drainage system that would make Dad's eyes water. The walls have stood for three hundred years without anyone touching them. Now someone is touching them. A girl named Brecca, fifteen, who reads stone with her hands and does not know she is remarkable. She walked three days to get here because I sent her a number she did not understand. I should have sent a sentence. I am learning.*

*Theron Blackroot is here too -- he has been clearing a drainage channel his grandmother's mother helped build. He does not talk about what it means. He just clears.*

*You told me to let people need me without turning it into a project. I am trying. I think I am getting better at it. I still have the rosemary. It does not smell as strong as it did. But it smells.*

*There is something in the stones here that I do not understand. Someone did something to them a long time ago -- made them more than stone. I do not know what class or skill could do this. I do not need to know yet. I am learning to sit with questions.*

*Tell Dad: the map is bigger than he thinks.*

*-- W.*

She folded the letter and put it in her journal. Hadley would carry it when he came back. If he came back tomorrow, the letter would be in Millhaven by Day 32. Home by -- she did not calculate. The distance between here and home was not a number.

---

Hadley arrived on Day 29, mid-morning, alone.

She heard him first -- the trail-narration, the running commentary that was Hadley's way of processing terrain. He came through the tree line lighter than he had left, carrying fresh supplies and the particular energy of a man who had walked fast because he had news.

"Maret is coming," he said. He dropped his packs. "Not today. She said three days. She has things to bring."

"What things?"

"She did not specify." Hadley sat on his pack and pulled his boots off with the exaggerated care he gave everything that mattered. "She asked me questions for two hours. About the stone. About the pulse. About the drainage. About Brecca." He set his boots side by side. "About you."

"What did you tell her?"

"I told her everything I know. Which is a lot, because I pay attention." He paused. "She said: 'Tell the girl I am bringing what she needs. She does not know she needs it yet.'"

Wren sat with this. Maret Osk, who made you earn her stories, who did not give information without first understanding what you would do with it. Coming in three days, carrying something Wren did not know she needed.

"She asked about the southern settlement," Hadley said. "When I told her what you found -- the size, the foundation stones, the drainage -- she went quiet. For Maret, quiet is loud." He stretched his back. "She said: 'They found it.' Not 'she found it.' They."

"She knows about it?"

"She knows something about it. She would not say what." Hadley looked at Wren with the careful attention she had learned to recognize as Hadley being precise about imprecision. "I think she has been waiting for someone to find it. I think she has been waiting for a long time."

Wren looked south. The ghost-elm perimeter was visible through the trees, the bark-shimmer steady in the morning light. Beyond the perimeter, beyond the ridge, the southern settlement sat in its river valley with its foundation stones and its three-hundred-year silence. Maret had been waiting for someone to find it. Maret, who gathered lore for forty years. Maret, who made you earn the stories.

Three days. Day 32. Four days before the pulse.

"She is cutting it close," Wren said.

"She is cutting it exactly where she means to," Hadley said.

---

The fire that evening was four again. Hadley cooked -- dried fish from Millhaven, fresh greens he had foraged on the return trail, salt. The meal smelled like the first meal he had cooked, the stew on the night of Brecca's arrival, and the repetition was its own kind of comfort. The settlement's domestic rhythm absorbed Hadley's return the way it had absorbed Brecca's arrival: without ceremony, without disruption, as if four people around a fire was the number the settlement had been designed for.

Wren gave Hadley the letter. "For my mother," she said. "Next time you go north."

He took it and put it in his journal -- he kept a journal too, she had discovered, though his was less survey notes and more weather observations and trail conditions and the occasional sketch of a plant he could not identify. He did not ask what the letter said. He understood that some things were between Wren and her mother and the distance between them.

Brecca told them about the retaining wall. She had found a feature in the jointing that she could not explain -- a pattern in the clay binding that was not structural but decorative, a series of thumb-impressions pressed into the wet clay in a repeating sequence. Deliberate. Not functional. Someone had marked the wall with their hands, the way the healer had marked the threshold stone with daily contact. A signature pressed into clay by someone who wanted the next person to know they had been there.

"Like the niche," Wren said. "Hidden until you do the work."

"Like the niche," Brecca agreed. "Except the niche was empty. This has someone's thumbs in it."

Theron looked at his own hands. He did not say anything. But Wren saw him look, and she understood: his grandmother's mother had been a mason. His grandmother's mother had pressed clay into joints. The thumbprints in the retaining wall might be his.

The fire crackled. The insect chorus counted in its post-pulse register, stronger each night, the forest's voices recovering their pattern. The ghost-elms hummed. The drainage channel, now extending south past the original terminus, carried a thin trickle of groundwater toward the tree line. The settlement held. The settlement was growing.

Wren opened her journal and wrote:

*Day 29. Eleven. Hadley returned. Maret coming Day 32. She said: "They found it." She has been waiting. Three days.*

She paused. She did not write about the pulse. Seven days. The number was there. She carried it without writing it down.

She closed the journal. The margin count went up. Ten. Eleven. The numbers climbed. And to the south, through the limestone, the thread held.
