Heaven’s above, how many younger hidden talents were out there? Jing Fei was the same age as Sumila and Rain, yet she’d already learned how to Send, not to mention her deductive skills. Ridiculous. “I don’t know what you mean,” he Sent back, knowing one of Mother’s favourite ploys was to pretend she knew everything and wait for Zian to incriminate himself.

“You’re not fooling anyone. Every time you call him ‘Patriarch’, you act as though you’ve swallowed a lemon, and you barely blinked when I called him by name, a grave offence. The Patriarch is never to be named for he is father to all members of the Situ Clan, or is that not what your people preach?”

Dammit. “Enough of your bothersome questions woman. Begone.”

“Oh?” Sitting up, Jing Fei gave him a pointed look and Sent, “Well... perhaps I’ll bother someone else with my questions then. I’m sure someone can explain why my beloved doesn’t show his Patriarch the proper respect.”

Grabbing her by the arm, Zian pinned her against the carriage seat, his free hand clamping over her mouth to keep her silent. Complying without a hint of struggle, Jing Fei sat and watched with muted amusement while Zian’s breath grew ragged and short, wondering how handle this prickly situation. It’s as if their roles were reversed, he at the mercy of her strength instead of the other way around. Raising a single eyebrow in question, Jing Fei Sent, “Well? What do you intend to do? Silence me? Threaten me? Beat me into submission? Come now, enough dithering about, are you a man or mouse?”

At a complete loss, Zian asked, “What game are you playing woman? What is your goal?”

“I am but a humble concubine,” she answered, her voice filled with bitter disdain. “My life is tied to your own, my death to follow yours, my happiness wholly dependent on your mood. What goal can I have but to support you to the best of my ability?”

Blinking in confusion, Zian slowly released her, keeping a hand on her wrist while trusting she wouldn’t call for her guards. Not that it mattered if she did, her guards were given to her by him. It never occurred to think how this radiant, brilliant, accomplished woman felt about becoming his concubine, a position little better than a slave in the eyes of the law. She was so fearless and bold, he thought... “Why did you agree to become my concubine?”

“Like I said, my family was in dire straits.” Shrugging, she looked away, sighed, and Sent, “We gambled everything on becoming a Magisterial family and would have if not for the Bekhai. I don’t know why they chose my Ong family to make an example of, but make an example they did. In one masterful stroke, they annihilated the entire DuGu family and ended DuGu Tian Sha’s family line, a hero’s legacy ending in two generations. They showed the province what would happen to those who aided my family, and after Rain’s ‘glorious’ victory over the Society youths, Mother-in-law was the only one willing to shelter my family. I held out hoping to become your legal wife, or even a second or third, but she wouldn’t have it and I have my little brothers to think of. I’m too dangerous, she said, and she’s right. I’d kill you in a heartbeat if it could help my family.”

Mother in Heaven, why was this making him want her more? She just admitted she’d kill you, yet all you can think of is how beautiful and delicate she looks. There was something deeply, deeply wrong with him, but introspection would have to wait. He didn't even know she had brothers, he truly didn't know this woman at all. Scratching his nose, he Sent, “If it makes things any better, knowing Rain and the Bekhai, I sincerely doubt they planned to make an example of you.”

“No,” Jing Fei replied, her tone terse and glare murderous. “it does not make things better.”

Awkward. Removing his hand to give her space, Zian shrank into a corner and stayed there, doing his best to remain inconspicuous. At least the Bekhai had sense enough not to set foot inside the Society, boarding their ships northwest of the Headquarters to avoid tensions. After a moments pause, Jing Fei snorted in contempt, slid over, and linked arms with him, resting her dainty head against his shoulder once more. “Mother above, I thought you were a dragon among men. You certainly act like one between the sheets, so why are you so timid now?”

This woman... One minute she would be sweet and charming and the next she’d turn into an antagonistic shrew. He wasn’t sure which one was the real Ong Jing Fei, but truth be told, he didn’t care. He was enamoured with both sides of her, caught in her trap the moment her poison coursed through his body and he fell into her embrace. She didn’t love him, he was merely an ends to a means, a shield to shelter her family, but what she failed to realize was he was now part of that family. Perhaps in time, this could turn to love, but for now, this was a coupling of convenience.

Zian could be patient. For a gentleman to find love, ten years is not too long

Taking her hand in his own, Zian told her everything about his father and his plans for vengeance. “I have no proof, but Rang Min benefited the most from my father’s death, so he is suspect. What do you think I should do, beloved?”

“Hmm,” she murmured, studying his face for a long moment. “So hopeless.”

What?

“It’s impossible for you to hide your enmity,” she explained through Sending. “You’re a terrible liar. So, since you can’t play nice with the man suspected of killing your father, then you might as well not bother. Do what you must, play the part of proper young patriarch, but no need to hide your suspicions.”

... “But I told you, he’ll kill me if he thinks I've turned on him.”

“Not if we make you indispensable.” Her eyes shone with expectation, coming alive at the prospect of work to be done. “Let him suspect, he won't act immediately. In the meantime, we must find out who Rang Min intends to replace you with. His son GuLong is the obvious candidate, but who else? Best to kill them all at once, it’s harder to poison someone who is on their guard. Treat me coldly in public, we’ll make a big scene of it later. That’ll make it easier for the handmaidens and other concubines to sympathize with me. They always know more than they should and have less sense than needed, which makes them a font of information. Also...”

Watching her ambitious plans take form, Zian shuddered with excitement.

Or fear.

He still couldn’t tell.

Chapter Meme
