But that was before Jack heard the crunching of grass disturbed by the rise and fall of a leather boots in the form of two thumps that sounded out in remarkably quick succession, hurriedly followed by a muted groan of the bow as its wood flexed to its limit, the low-pitched vibration of the already drawn bowstring as it reached maximum tension and the sharp breath of a hunter exhaled when he knew he had his mark ---- all before his visual acuity had registered the importance of Trent having kept his arrow tensioned.

The question had shifted from one of morality to another of survival. Jack’s body, mind and soul were in unison as he answered, his movements smooth and without an ounce of hesitation.

Jack was already sidestepping Trent's immediate line of fire the moment he had taken the first step in retreat and by the time it came to his second, as Trent was angling his bow where he remembered Jack’s chest to be a moment before, Jack had already committed to a lunge that slid past his drawn bow with a speed and fluidity Jack would be hard pressed to repeat even if given another hundred tries.

The glow ensconcing Trent's arrow-tip winked out seconds after it flared to life.

The arrow Trent was on the verge of releasing slipped out of his grasp, but the force behind it was only a quarter of what he’d intended.

A burning pain unlike anything he’d experienced before erupted in his abdomen.

He angled his gaze downwards, confronted by a flower of blood blooming in the center of his abdomen… with Jack’s sword lodged deeply in his flesh.

“H-how,” Trent stuttered, his eyes full of disbelief. There was no way Jack should have seen it coming, it had to be impossible! Trent was certain that Jack hadn’t foreseen the two quick steps he had committed to without warning, already pulling back his drawn bow into aim as he did so. It had taken him maybe half a second more to call upon his corrosion and that should’ve been it. Barely two seconds to react to a ranged attack and yet…

“It didn’t have to be this way, Trent,” Jack’s response was uttered barely above a whisper, his voice quivering with a deep sorrow, a sorrow that could be compared to a young child losing both his parents on the same day. A sorrow that Jack was no stranger to.

In that moment, Trent felt like he’d finally met the real Jack— the man behind the facade of composure.

That was his final thought.
