… And so, by following the steps laid out before you, you should expect a return of mana along the conduits so inscribed, in accordance with that outlined by Rudimentar’s Formulae; a 1 mana per second drain. Once this milestone has been achieved, further refining of the Enchanter’s Spell Imbue is thus achievable. There are many ways to go about refining your Imbue, but each spell is different, thus each refining is different.

This humble author will also note, at this moment, that the problems of multiple drains upon your grand rad supply and the enchanting matrix, are multiple and complex, with each added stove top further compounding the problem. But since we are focusing solely on the Grand Stove, which, at first, means a single grand rad, a single stove top, we will leave the complexity of multiple tops for later.

Here are some of the larger problems that you are expected to overcome:

(0) Complexity, Culture, and [Prestidigitation] vs [Heat Ward].

While [Prestidigitation] is a simple spell, it is also one of the most varied Basic Spells in the Script. But this is not a tome on [Prestidigitation]. This author cannot help you with understanding how to work [Prestidigitation] to produce heat. What I can warn you against, is that using any sort of [Heat Ward] at all, including strange shaped [Heat Ward]s and passing it off as a Grand [Prestidigitation] Stove, will likely cause you a great deal of Health problems induced by the rich and powerful; your potential clients. [Heat Ward]s set low enough so that they only heat the metal of the cooking pan, will not save you from the wrath of a mistress who is facing the wrath of their Chef who needed a new stove, only to get a [Heat Ward] monstrosity. The simple reason is this: [Heat Ward]s produce solid areas of heat, but [Prestidigitation] produces rising drafts of heat, and the necessary Shapings to make [Heat Ward] function like [Prestidigitation] vastly increases the strain on the grand rads in that sort of stove.

But plain [Heat Ward]s are good for boiling water, and are a lot easier to integrate into an existing design. Include a few boiling stations in your final stove designs if you wish, but be sure to label them clearly and let your patron know what they are buying.

(1) Heat

This is a tome on using [Prestidigitation], the greatest of the smallest spells, to produce heat. Varied, rising heat, of, in the beginning, a single burner. But heat causes problems in enchantments; burned conduits, seared Imbues, and much more located in the troubleshooting sections of this manual. The designs in this manual ensure that you will not have as large of a problem as some enchanters, but keep in mind—

Erick looked up from his book, ‘Enchanting the Grand Stove’, as Poi walked into the room.

Poi said, “She’s ready for you.”

Erick set his bookmark and closed the book, setting the tome aside as he got up from his chair, saying, “Okay.” He stood up and stretched a little. He had been sitting for hours, reading, but with his younger-feeling body, he could be stationary for as long as he wanted and not feel horrible afterward. Erick recalled a time not too long ago, when doing anything for too long left him aching and stiff. Magic, the Script, all of it was pretty darn great. Except for the monsters. He could do without those. But today was not a day of monsters. Today was a day of spellwork. And yet, there was a sadness, as Erick said, “Let’s get this over with.”

- - - -

A dull yellow orb, maybe a handspan across, floated on the orange sands of the Crystal Forest. Ophiel hovered ten meters away from the orb. Aside from the two [Familiar]s, the area was rather unremarkable. The only strange thing about this part of the desert was, that while the sun beat down from above, faint clouds marred the otherwise perfectly blue sky.

Those clouds were a result of Erick’s weather adjustments, roughly 190 kilometers to the west, at Spur, but the spillover from the spells he cast north of Spur had been rather dramatic, in the way that a single dot of paint on an otherwise pristine canvas is dramatic. The clouds that sometimes appeared in the Crystal Forest usually only formed at night, if at all, and always vanished in the light of day. But thanks to Erick, minor clouds had begun to appear and remain all throughout the day, with slight, if unexpected regularity, anywhere within 300 kilometers of any [Weather Control] spell.

[Weather Control] altered the sky in a Super Large Area, which was about ten kilometers from the central casting point, but the spell did not simply take an arbitrary part of the heavens and change what happened there without having any effect past that edge of direct influence. [Weather Control] changed the actual weather in a location, meaning that its influence spread far and wide, affecting a great deal more of the surrounding skies than just at the initial casting point. According to Erick’s short experiments, that further spread seemed to be one of the major ways that the spell lost power, and eventually decayed into nothing. If the spell didn’t spread out, needing to change the rest of the sky in order to support the choices at the casting location, [Weather Control] would likely last a full month, like the spell said it could.

… But Erick was not here to look at the sky. While keeping an eye on his ongoing spells was important and actually quite nice, sort of like watching a garden grow, he was here for magical experiments of a slightly different sort.

Erick and Poi and another Ophiel, held together though Erick’s blip with a small application of Handy Aura, appeared in a white flash exactly where they were supposed to appear. The Ophiel on site cast itself into a dense air, surrounding Erick and Poi in dense air.

The yellow orb huffed a short, slightly perturbed laugh.

Erick said, “Hello!” then said, “The cat barks, the dog bites.”

The yellow orb completed the phrase, in a scratchy, feminine voice, “And the books are all covered in jam.” She said, “Stupid phrase.” She added, “Dumb meeting. Idiotic bargain of trade. Moronic to the core! This is dumb. I cannot believe that the Arcanaeum agreed to allow you, someone who let a WHOLE NEW BRANCH OF MAGIC out into the world— that they’re going to give you one of the Script’s most highly guarded spells.”

Erick didn’t expect the diatribe, but perhaps he should have. “The bargain has been struck. Dispense with the knowledge, please. I probably have to go out and stop another Ballooning Spider drop either tonight or tomorrow.”

Poi spoke up, “Killtree is expecting the horde in ten hours.”

“In nine hours, then,” Erick said.

“There are only five of us who know how to make this spell. We might have hundreds who can cast it, but only five of us know how it actually works.” The yellow orb seemed to turn toward Poi, adding, “Usually, a Mind Mage wipes the memory of our workers after they learn the spell. But apparently, there’s going to be six of us, now!”

Poi added, “Killtree just moved up their timetable. 6 hours.”

Erick glared at the yellow orb. He wasn’t mad, but it was getting there. Erick had been warned that this would be a confrontational sort of meeting, but he had hoped that it would have gone better.

Wind blew across the desert, curling sand up and into Erick’s shoes.

The person behind the yellow orb said, “You know they’ll come after you if you share this, right? People will come after you if you don’t share this, too. But you can’t share this. [Duplicate] ruins lives and kills kingdoms. [Duplicate] will ruin your life, too, because [Duplicate] will copy any material, non-magical thing. Gold. The perfect enchanting gems. Rare metals.” She stated, “This spell is a massive godsdammed deal, and I don’t think you properly understand just how big of a deal this is. You even got your guard quipping at me.”

“I am aware of the spell's enormity.” Erick said, “The Headmaster already told me all of this. So why are you telling me this, too?”

“Because I want to talk you out of it.” She said, “Every other month, one of our duplicators gets found by someone that shouldn’t know of them, or someone they trust fucks them over hoping for a gold fall. We rescue copyists all the time, and almost every single one of our people has been branded a Slave at one point or another. Even me.

“But it doesn’t have to be that way. I could come and copy anything you want copied, whenever you want. We already do the same every time the Wayfarer’s wants to try again for [Gate]. It’s not a problem—”

“No.” Erick rhetorically asked, “Do you think you’re the only one with special magics?”

The yellow orb backed up, saying, “Okay. I said my piece. You know the risks. My conscience is clear. But I will ask again. Do you still want to learn [Duplicate]?”

“Yes.”

The yellow orb, which Erick began referring to as ‘Yellow’, said, “Fine.” She asked, “Got your dish?”

Erick pulled a small, ornate tea cup saucer out of one pocket, and the matching tea cup out of the other. The two dishes were originally part of a paired set and had been popped out of a mold some time ago. Looping green glazes of varying colors adorned the exterior. This one, and its pair, had belonged to an old couple, for a long time. They had passed away recently, but one of the sets had been lost in the tempest that was normal for death from old age. One of the kids stole one pair, or it went into a box it shouldn’t have, or something; the point was, was that the other half of the paired set was gone for good. That was the story Erick had gotten from the people when he had bought the cup and saucer for entirely too much money, a day ago, but it was the only item that fit his parameters. It only cost him 5 gold, either way. Well before that cup and saucer, though, and at a few other locations, he also bought some much needed paintings for the house, and decided that he needed to get more stuff to put on the walls.

A simple antiquing jaunt into the city turned into a day long event.

Oddly enough, Teressa had loved their antiquing excursion. She had bought a nice green vase, that now sat in the foyer, and a nice forest painting, that now hung in her room, along with a dozen other smaller things. Kiri had bought a painting of a lake, that now hung in her work room on the third floor, and that was enough for her. She went home, not even seeing the cup and saucer that Erick bought, which was probably a good thing.

Poi tolerated the experience.

Erick held the green saucer and cup up, saying, “Yup.”

Yellow said, “Summon a stone pillar to make it easier on you, then set the piece on the pillar.”

Erick lifted a waist high, rock pillar out of the ground, with [Stoneshape]. He set the cup and saucer down on the flat top.

Yellow floated closer to the cup and saucer; inspecting. “Hmm. Good choice. An older style, for sure. Many, many [Mend]s have been spent on this item. Good.” She pulled away.

A thin beam of fire lanced through the item. If Erick had blinked, he would have missed it. Two perfect halves clattered away from each other, Yellow’s spell having sliced directly through the center molding line of the cup, saucer, and handle. Erick was slightly taken aback at the unprompted spell use, but he was inside the thick air of his [Prismatic Ward], so it was fine.

He asked, “What was that?”

“The bargain was for [Duplicate], not for the spell I used.” Yellow said, “Now take both halves, one in each hand, and shift to [Lightwalk], bringing them with you. It doesn’t matter how you hold them, they just need to be one half in each hand.”

Erick frowned at Yellow, but did as instructed. With cups and saucer halves in each hand, he shifted into light.

Yellow said, “Now you [Mend] both at the same time, casting the spell in two different places at the same time. Some people never get it, but others get it their first—”

Spells on Veird had something that Jane had once referred to as a ‘Global Cooldown’, of 1 second. So casting the same spell in two different spots at the same time was literally impossible, according to most normal thinking. Combining spells was the only way to get around this normal obstacle. This truth held true for everyone, including Erick. But he had been practicing with Spatial Magic for a while now, and that was all about the impossible stretching of the ‘rules of the Script’.

But Erick did notice a discrepancy between Spatial Magic’s ‘wave function collapse’ phenomenon, that put someone or something in multiple locations and collapsed them back down to the location of the caster’s choosing, and what he was expected to do, here. In this instance, Erick’s spellwork was expected to be in two locations at once, and truly cast the same spell twice, in two different locations.

Those two schools of thought were diametrically opposed to each other.

With all that in mind, Erick cast.

The lightform halves in his left hand vanished. The lightform halves in his right hand became whole.

Yellow giggled once, then shut that down, as she said, “Maybe this won’t be so easy for you. Some people never get it.”

Erick shut off his [Lightwalk] and set the whole saucer back down on the pillar, then stared at the floating yellow orb. Yellow flickered deeper yellow. The saucer and cup collapsed into halves, once again, and once again, Erick picked them up, exactly as instructed, and did what he was told to do.

He set the single, whole cup and saucer, back down onto the pillar, asking, “Is this really how this works?”

Yellow said, “Some people never get it.” She offered, “I can help you remake [Gate], if you wish.” She split the cup and saucer in half again, as she sincerely said, “I apologize for giggling at you; that was unconscionably rude.”

