Teressa, Kiri, Jane, and even Poi, a little, were caught off guard by that. Poi asked to shut down further conversation about Melemizargo, though, so Erick didn’t speak more of that possible-Truth. He returned to talking of Elemental Mystical, and what he had learned on his Worldly Path. He was finally getting a chance to talk to his people about this stuff, and this was stuff they needed to know.

The conversation went well past lunchtime and eventually ended up in the front yard of the house, upon the bare, glowing branch of Yggdrasil, with Erick’s daughter, his apprentice, and his two guards standing behind him. For it was time to make magic.

[Crystallize Diamond] was a spell Erick had made a while ago, and which served as the basis for all the Stat Rings Erick had gone on to make. The only problem with the spell is that Erick needed to run [Cleanse] at the same time to negate all the toxic particle effects that his magic created in the pursuit of perfectly aligned carbon. The fix for this was, of course, Elemental Mystical.

Erick added [Airshape] too, though, in order to move more air through the space, and to make the resulting diamond grow even faster, and to hover in place while it was growing. Erick just liked the idea of a hovering, growing diamond, and what was magic for if not for having fun?

One by one, Erick channeled the sounds of his spellwork through his hands, and then handed them off to Ophiel to bring the song to fruition. And then, he held up a hand with his fingers loosely cupped, and cast.

A breezy song of static clarity threaded through the air, drawing power and wind through Erick’s fingertips like the gathering of a very tiny storm upon his palm. A diamond began to form above his hand, starting off as a tiny speck of almost-nothing, and then rapidly blossoming into a perfect tetrahedron. In five short seconds, the diamond grew to half the size of his pinky finger’s nail, but it was just getting started. Erick dropped his hand away, and the diamond continued to float in the air, growing and growing with every passing second. He instinctively felt he could cancel the spell at any time, but there was no need. The spell was working perfectly.

After twenty seconds of growth, a blue box appeared.

Manifest Perfect Diamond, instant, close range, 85 mana

Create a diamond, or cause a targeted diamond to grow in a specific way. Results vary.

Spell ends after 10 minutes, or when desired shape is reached.

“Ah ha!” Erick showed off the spell, and had an Ophiel open up a [Cleansing Aura]. When no thick air spilled away from the still-growing diamond, Erick said, “And no thick air! Works just like I said it would.”

“You make it look so easy.” Kiri chuckled. “Ah. Okay. I can figure this out. Thank you, Erick.”

Jane scrunched her face at her father, though, asking, “Were you… Worried that it wouldn’t work?”

Erick tensed. “Maybe. Still working out these Benevolence kinks, and they seem to show up when least expected. I almost expected something odd to happen… And you know what? Let’s just see what happens when oddities are introduced.” Erick held up a hand—

Kiri and Teressa went wide-eyed. Poi grimaced. Jane just looked curious.

—and sent a jolt of Benevolence into the still-manifesting diamond. Lightning struck, and suddenly the diamond was twice as large as it had been. The size of his thumb-nail, now. He retracted his lightning and stared at the growing diamond with all of his senses, and wondered…

He sent a continuous jolt into the manifesting diamond, trickling mana into the spell, and the resultant product. Ten mana. Twenty mana. Erick didn’t stop, or slow, or speed up, for this seemed to be a quick enough rate, for the diamond seemed to drink in the power Erick gave it, coming alive with its own brilliant white iridescence, growing to the size of his thumb, now, and then even larger—

The diamond and its spell shattered, bursting white shards and dust away from the epicenter of a splash of lightning.

Erick rapidly captured most of those shards and some of the dust inside a sweeping grasp of light, bringing them back to a single space. He held the mess up, inspecting it. The dust looked completely inert, but the larger shards seemed… Brighter? Hmm. Ophiel’s [Cleansing Aura] was still going, but none of the shards turned to thick air; they must have been normal diamond—

A spark of Benevolence flickered out of the largest diamond shard and vanished on the wind.

… What did that mean?

Jane said, “I’ll leave you to figure that out, dad. I can’t wait to see what sort of new Stat Rings you make, but I’ve still got a room to sort out.” She waved behind her as she walked away.

“Let me know if you want help!” Erick glanced over to see Jane walk away, but he was mostly focused on whatever was happening here with this diamond. “I wonder if it means anything… Maybe the Benevolence interacted with the Mystical? Or… Hmm.”

Kiri stood beside Erick, looking at the shards of diamond in his palm. “Adding strong magic to delicate magics usually messes up the more delicate spell. The point where that happens is called the Interruption Point. I think you just reached the Interruption Point in [Manifest Perfect Diamond].”

“Hmm...” Erick said, “I don’t think I’ve encountered that particular theory, but it makes sense. I wonder what did it, though. Specifically, I mean.”

Kiri started, “I don’t know enough about Mystical, but the smaller Particle Magics are highly prone to being called ‘delicate magic’. The Arcanaeum Consortium published their first Particle Magic book four months ago… I think you were at Songli?”

Erick perked up. “Oh! Do you have that book?”

“I do!” Kiri said, “And a lot more besides.”

Teressa and Poi took that as their cue to leave, too, both of them walking back into the house, following Jane… Who was still stuck looking for the front door. Her hands were out and fumbling through the empty air, and Erick almost wanted to help her find her way, but Teressa got there first, and offered. Jane told them that she was perfectly capable of finding the entrance to the house.

She just needed a moment.

Teressa smiled and walked past Jane, into the house, vanishing from sight the second she crossed the threshold to the porch.

Jane just stood there, dumbfounded and looking embarrassed for half a moment, before she, too, found the entrance. She was just a half step too far to the left, and that was an easy enough fix. Poi followed in after her.

And Erick turned his full attention back to Kiri.

They talked of Particle Magic and Chelation and alchemical news, moving from the front yard to the porch, and then to the library where Teressa brought them coffee and cookies. Erick thanked Teressa for those, and then he continued to talk magic with Kiri.

Poi made dinner. It was fish and sauces and rice. It was simple, and it was wonderful.

Erick got to bed at a normal time, and that was nice, too.

- - - -

Erick grumbled, tossing over in bed while ‘twilight’ shone brightly through his windows. Perhaps too brightly. The curtains were half drawn, keeping away most of the light, because light wasn’t strictly necessary to be able to see one’s surroundings. Even through barely-open eyes, Erick could still mana sense everything around him as much as he wanted. But as he lay there, blinking and being annoyed, the light seemed even brighter.

It was a sad fact of life on Veird that Erick was still not comfortable sleeping in anything but total dark, and yet, sleeping in total dark simply wasn’t an option.

The dark was uncomfortable because Erick knew who lived in the dark. He could have shut the curtains all the way, but he didn’t want to invite that dragon into his life. Not right yet. Otherwise, he would have been perfectly comfortable in pure darkness. It wasn’t like the dark actually hid anything to his Perception enhanced eyes, or to Ophiel’s eyes either.

Seeing that Erick was moving around again, Ophiel fluffed up on his perch upon the headboard, his eyes glittering in the calm light of the room. He twittered very quietly, almost experimentally, wondering if Erick was getting up. It was rather early to get up, after all.

Erick also wondered if he was going to get up, or if he could force himself to sleep some more.

For a while, he just lay there, bleary-eyed and wrapped in comfortable blankets. What time was it? He had no idea. Back in Ar’Cosmos Fairy Moon had gifted him an ‘electronic clock’. It was a green stone, like a brick of jade, that projected glowing numbers into the air itself. He really liked that clock. It reminded him of his alarm clock back on Earth, but with green numbers instead of red.

Erick wanted that fairy clock.

Next time he saw Fairy Moon, which would probably be too soon, Erick would ask for that clock.

Ophiel twittered again, a bit quieter, but more insistent. Are you getting up? Are you getting up? Is it time to sing songs yet?

“Yup yup.” Erick sat up. “I suppose that’s enough sleep for tonight.”

Ophiel trilled in quiet happiness as he landed upon Erick’s shoulder. Yggdrasil’s iridescent [Scry] eye, which had been hovering on the other perch of Erick’s bed, took his place on Erick’s other shoulder. And now he was fully awake.

Might as well take advantage of the extra hours, right? It was time to get back to proper work; to prepare for what was to come. Erick flipped his covers off and swung out of bed.

There was spellwork to be done!

… Even if it was still hours to twilight. All that light outside of his room was not actual twilight. It was Yggdrasil, being his normal, happy and bright self. Erick wasn’t about to ask him to turn it down, either, but he was absolutely sure that Yggdrasil was brighter these days, and by a lot. Like, noticeably a lot.

- - - -

Well dressed for an excursion into the desert at night, and with [Conjure Armor] robes to boot, Erick stepped down the stairs toward the first floor landing. Kiri’s couatl-shaped [Familiar] hung out on a little pillow beside the main staircase, tucked into a small alcove like a little defender. Sunny shimmered in rainbow hues as Erick passed, while Ophiel twittered in small violins in response. And then Sunny returned to her cat-like nap, and Ophiel turned his attention back toward Erick’s destination; the front door.

Beyond an archway near the foyer, was a reading room. Teressa sat in the side room, doing what the room was made to allow, while also being on nightwatch. It would probably take everyone a long while to realize that nothing was going to happen at night inside this house, but they were all worried, and Erick couldn’t blame them.

Teressa glanced Erick’s way as he passed, first freezing with worry, and then rapidly thawing. She had been rather engrossed in her reading, it seems, but she came out of it fast enough, a dozen thoughts flitting through her head. Primarily, she looked to the space where Erick’s fairy necklace lay upon his chest. She didn’t like that thing. Even with Ophiel betraying where Erick went, that little necklace prevented her from seeing all of Erick’s actual worldline.

She dispersed her worries fast enough so that she could fake a proper tone, though, asking, “What’s upPP—” Her voice cracked. She tried again, “What’s up, Boss?”

“Out to do some magic, and then off to talk to some people. I’ll be back. Don’t worry about me.”

“… Do you want—” Teressa had started with a half-hearted attempt at offering something, but then she realized that that would have been improper for so many different reasons, not the least of which that she was a guard, and she should be ready to guard whenever asked, and even when not asked at all. So she stood, saying, “Let me wake up Poi and I will go with you. You need a spotter, right?”

Erick grinned, saying, “I would like a spotter. Thanks for offering.”

Teressa nodded firmly, then began moving, out of the reading room, into the foyer then past Erick, saying, “I’ll get the rod of [Greater Treat Wounds].”

“Might want to pick up your shield, too. Never know what’s out there at night.

Teressa paused in realization that maybe she could actually defend like she was used to, and then she resumed walking, saying, “Of course. This is my duty.”

Erick tried to contain some of his joy; Teressa wasn’t fully comfortable with him yet, but she was getting there, and faster than he had expected. It took Poi apparently a year to come around to the idea that Erick was a Wizard, and that this was not automatically a bad thing, but then again, Poi had been there first, back before it was obvious what kinda person Erick truly was. Teressa had only found out a few days ago; well after she had already formed opinions that were, apparently, based on lies.

But she was adjusting well.

Erick happily watched as Teressa continued on, to grab the rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] from the kitchen, conjure her usual fully-enclosed armor, and then tuck the rod into a compartment on her back. With a quick cast of grey magic, she empowered the adamantium shield that she had gotten from Enduring Forge, and commanded it to float upon her back. A knock on Poi’s door was enough to wake the guy. Poi grumbled awake and then dispelled his brief annoyance, understanding what was happening without being told, and Teressa rejoined Erick in the foyer of the house.

Erick asked, “How did you guys get one of those rods, anyway? I thought we had run out?”

Teressa’s fully-encased armor was a sight to behold, making her look like a tank from Earth, but in person form. Her helmet was completely solid, too. She seemed truly imposing in that conjuring, but her voice wasn’t so solid, as she said, “Ah? Kiri needed one, and… Well she’s made some money, and commissioned several from Oceanside for the Army. Bulk shipment of twenty-five, for the cost of 10.”

“Still like 250,000 a piece, though, right?” Erick suddenly realized that he could…

He had no idea how hard it was to make one of those rods.

Teressa nodded. “Yup. But she paid in rads, so they cut the cost a lot.”

Erick realized something. “You know? I never did find out why it cost so much to put the spell into an item. I’ve heard people talk about how the items require a lot of skill to make, but nothing definitive.” He had some ideas, but nothing concrete.

