He turned his gaze out to the darkened crystal forest, beyond the lights that Ophiel had conjured into the area to illuminate the successful experiment. It had been good that they had found a proper target for [Reincarnation], though doing so wasn’t exactly hard in this area, so close by the massive water source that was Yggdrasil’s lake. Water was life, after all, though most things out here subsisted on killing mimics or each other to get their required water.

Erick said, “I plan on changing this entire ecosystem, Teressa. This is going to kill many, many different animals that already live here. Maybe I should reincarnate most of them into something better suited to an actual forest? Or should I let the sand mice and the brown snakes and even the shadowolves be naturally overtaken by forest cats and root eaters and spiders of all sorts?”

Teressa stood a bit straighter. “I. Uh. Hadn’t even considered that. But. Yeah. I guess they’re all going away, anyway. Aren’t they? I guess… the Soul Magic has me worried more than it should.”

Erick shrugged, saying, “Soul Magic should worry you. It should probably worry me more than it does, too.” With a casual gesture, Erick opened a [Gate] leading to the northern coast of Yggdrasil’s lake, cast some [Force Platform]s under the dobers, and then sent them on their way through that ring of lightning to their probably-temporary home. Ophiel had already been preparing the space while Erick had been talking with Teressa, and so there was plenty of space and water, with some trees for shade, and some small dog houses, too. “But you’ve surely seen more mangled Soul Magic than I, both in the Guard of Spur and in the Army inside Ar’Kendrithyst.”

Teressa breathed out, “Whoa yeah. That’s… Those are some horror stories. Makes your new [Reincarnation] look downright Saintly because you can just—” She froze. She said, “You can just erase the Curses they put on people, can’t you?”

“All Blessings and Curses and everything. I suspect I will mostly use it on half-dragons who wish to rid themselves of their various abnormalities and emigrate to this land, but I could set up a soul-healing hospital, too. If Rats were still here, I’m absolutely sure I could heal him of his troubles, too. But all that is for later.” Erick began turning off the conjured wardlights around them, then opened another [Gate] to their next destination. “Ophiel will watch the dobers wake up slowly, but I’ve got to meet with the governors of Candlepoint. Do you want to come for that?”

“Of course!” Teressa said with sudden fervor, as she glanced at the city of Candlepoint, sitting beyond the ring of lightning. “I’m right with you, Boss. Always will be.”

Erick smiled again, and led the way.
