Teressa brightened. “Oh! Kiri actually found this out! When a person casts [Greater Treat Wounds] the Script helps them with that spell, but the [Greater Treat Wounds] that gets put into an item requires the enchanter to actually be able to use Elemental Healing and Destruction how they’re supposed to be used to Remake [Greater Treat Wounds] from scratch. It’s because magic cast through the use of rads takes on the qualities of those rads, and there’s…” Teressa frowned a little, underneath her helmet. “I don’t really understand it all, but rads make for good enchantments that anyone can use, but making Healing Magic out of those rads is very difficult, because making true Healing Magic is exceedingly difficult.”

“I’ll have to run some experiments with runic wands of [Greater Treat Wounds].” Erick nodded, then gestured to the right. Ophiel zipped to the door, opened it, and fluttered out of the [Fairy Stronghold] several meters before Erick cast [Gate], opening a lightning-ringed hole in the world, that led to the dark sands of the Crystal Forest about a hundred kilometers north of here. And then Ophiel flitted through, leading the way. “Only a bit to the north; not too far away.” Erick stepped forward, out of the house and toward the [Gate].

Teressa had paused for a moment, likely feeling any of a hundred disconnected emotions, but then she rolled her shoulders, getting herself in the mood to move. She followed.

- - - -

The dune-filled desert was cold at night, and slightly more active than it was in the daytime, but that was normal. Sand mice tussled with a brown snake to the left, about twenty meters out; it was a life and death struggle for the mice to eat the snake, but it was a very small battle that would likely play out like it normally did. The venomous mice would eat the animated-plant-type snake, while the gibbous moons lit the land in enough light for most animals to easily see everything that happened around them.

Erick and Teressa could see everything around them rather well, too. Either through mana sense, or through enough moonlight to read by, the night was dark but it was not filled with terrors at all.

Erick half expected something horrible to happen right after they had stepped out of the [Gate], but nothing had, and so Erick had closed that [Gate] behind them. Now, they walked upon the sands. They had only been out here for a minute so far, but Erick hadn’t said anything yet, because…

“I’m not quite sure what I’m looking for, exactly, Teressa,” Erick admitted.

Behind him, Teressa offered, “Uh? What are you looking for, at all? I thought we’d drop right next to the target.”

“Perhaps I have come to think that the world would bend in odd ways to fit my needs… I think the Worldly Path fucked up my sense of… I’m not sure.” Erick tried out, “Of what should happen when one does something strange?”

Teressa smirked. “Your sense of Fate.”

“That works.” After a moment of thought, Erick decided to just tell her, and see how she reacted to his plan; her reaction would be a good reaction to what he should expect from the rest of the world. She might not be a good test case, though, since this magic was probably too close to her own trauma with her original adventuring team who were turned to shadelings by the Witch, but… Erick went for it, saying, “I explained some of this already, but here’s the full story: While I was in Ar’Cosmos, there was a magic I helped them to make. It started with [Baleful Polymorph] and my [Renew], and then came a whole lot of runic workings to form the resulting magic into something new.

“What this spell does is take the base of a person’s soul and works out from there, continually rebuilding the soul in a certain direction and discarding everything aside from base level power, granting a person a new Familiar Form that is completely new. The result is devoid of all medical issues or soul issues. It’s a complete [Reincarnation]. It’s what Melemizargo has done for some of the shadelings in Candlepoint. It’s what I’ve helped Redflame in Ar’Cosmos do for his people, in order to… That explanation is a mess and a half, but short version: Some people have dragon essence and soul problems, and this spell solves those problems by ridding the soul of everything that is not the base soul. The mind follows the soul, but the body comes along for the ride.” Erick said, “Rats— Xendross could have used a spell like this, and thus never would have needed to go with Messalina to get her to do… Whatever she’s done for him. I honestly do not know.”

Erick finished speaking.

The wind blew calm, and cold.

After an initial hitch in Teressa’s breathing and steps, she resumed walking, catching up to Erick and retaking her defensive position behind him.

Erick continued, “I need to make [Baleful Polymorph] first.” He turned to the left briefly, saying, “I could turn one of those mice into a fish, and then back again, but I need a person-level spell; not [Baleful animal-morph], or whatever might result from that sort of experiment. I went over a lot of this with the dragon Redflame and that was one of the lesser versions of this magic that I am trying to avoid. You will likely meet Redflame one day. He’s the guy who makes Ar’Cosmos; the land of the dragons. Anyway. There are ways to do this without having a person for a test subject, and that is what I am on the lookout for now. [Baleful Polymorph] isn’t an ethical spell, strictly speaking, but I can work this magic against a mindless monster, and that should be fine. Some magics are necessary to have, after all. A mammal-type monster would be better than a crystal mimic, though… But I haven’t seen any shadowolves yet. Or sandwolves. I guess we keep looking.”

The night was quiet after Erick stopped explaining.

He had already explained a little of this before to Teressa, but now they were here, and the time was now.

And then Teressa asked, “Why not make a [Benevolent Polymorph]?”

“A good suggestion!” Erick smiled as he glanced backward at Teressa, happy that she was participating, even if she was obviously unhappy with the nature of the topic. He turned back forward, saying, “[Baleful Polymorph] isn’t good or bad, actually. It’s only called ‘baleful’ because it causes a lasting effect against a subject. Usually, the spell is used to force a target into a physically weaker body, but that’s not what the spell actually is. However, the end goal of this morning’s magic is to include Elemental Benevolence in the working, through the addition of [Renew] and a Blessing-type of magic, all in order transform the [Baleful Polymorph] into [Reincarnation].”

Almost reverentially, Teressa said, “You really are going to be… resurrecting people.”

“I hope to stay out of the resurrection debate.” Erick said, “This spell won’t work on dead people. It will grant a person a whole new chance at life, though, which is the point. A healthy start. A whole soul. The removal of all curses or blessings. I imagine that this spell can even be used by a common person if they wanted to reset their Script Status back to level 0. Might even be able to turn monsterized people back into normal people, too.” He reiterated, “Won’t bring back the dead, though.”

Teressa’s steps faltered briefly, but she steadied herself and kept walking. She looked outward, over Erick’s head, at the horizon ahead, not wanting to look directly at him, for even though she knew that Erick could see past her solid helmet, she did not want to betray that she was crying. Tears of joy rolled down her face, as she breathed out, “Ahh.” She softly said, “You plan on offering this to the shadelings, to turn them back to people.”

“I do. Eventually. No one needs ever experience what you went through with the Witch, ever again. Capturing and containing such dangerous monsterized people for transport back to here, so that I can bring them back to themselves, will be a problem.” Erick said, “But that is a problem of logistics and power; something to be solved once the actual solution has been made.”

“Ahhh.”

Teressa fell silent again.

The only sounds were the soft wind rushing across the dunes, sand underfoot, and the jostling of Erick’s clothes, but there was nothing from Teressa except for a soft, quiet cry. If Erick didn’t have mana sense on the large woman, then he would have thought her an illusion, for her armor was [Silent Armor], or something close to that. He did not interrupt her moment to ask her those specifics, though. He would have in any other scenario, for he was rather sure she had created her current [Conjure Armor] spell after they had parted ways at that teleport pad at Enduring Forge; it looked like an upgrade from her previous armor.

And then the tears slowed, and stopped.

Erick said, “Your armor looks new, Teressa. Looks good!”

She chuckled once, then said, “Yeah. Made it a month ago. More durable than what I had before.” She added, “There’s a dying trio of shadowolves in about 110 meters to the left. Looks like they went after a crystal mimic and lost. Looks like it happened several hours ago, too. They’ve been dying for hours now.”

Erick perked up. He ignored the crystal mimic not twenty meters in front of them, and turned to the left, saying, “Let’s go rescue some puppies, then!”

“… Puppies, Boss?”

“Well—” Erick digressed, “I hope they remain normal wolves for a while when I’m through with them, or they might turn into monsters again or maybe even become spirit beasts. You know of spirit beasts?”

“Oh! I’ve heard of those before—” Suddenly a little wary, Teressa asked, “You’re going to turn them into people?”

“… I think we have different ideas of spirit beasts.” Erick explained, “Spirit beasts are monsters that accrete their cores properly, thus avoiding one of the underlying insanities and murderous natures that makes a monster a ‘monster’. Spirit beasts are not people, in the strictest sense of the word. They’re just monsters with all the power and smarts of a monster, but without a monstrous nature.” Erick hummed a moment, then added, “Which… I suppose now we’re getting into the philosophical territory of ‘is a very smart monster a person’? And I honestly can’t answer that. Soulwork is all sorts of ethically dubious, at best, but since I’m likely going to have to deal with the worst sorts of soul mages in the near or far future, I need to be prepared with my own expertise in the field, and so, monstrous soul experimentation.” Erick said, “If I accidentally make a person, then I’m going to treat them like a person… And I hope I don’t make a person until I actually want to make a person.”

Teressa frowned a little, but she said, “Okay?” She rapidly added, “You don’t have to justify yourself to me, Boss. I know who you are.”

Warm fuzzies blossomed in Erick’s chest… right beside his core.

Erick said, “You do know me, Teressa, but I know that me wearing this necklace and hiding myself has been uncomfortable for you. I can go for a while without wearing it, if you want to actually see for yourself what’s going on.”

Without waiting for confirmation for or against his offer, and while Teressa was just beginning to say ‘no’ Erick took off his fae necklace. He slipped it into a pocket of his robes, letting Teressa get a good look at his core, and the lightning in his body, and all the rest of him. Words failed her as her breath hitched, but she kept up with his pace, walking a good three meters behind him across the dunes.

“There’s the Perfected Body, thanks to Rozeta; got that after we parted ways at Enduring Forge and I went to the Core.” Erick said, “And then there is my own core.”

Teressa breathed quickly and shallowly for a little while, not saying anything as the two of them continued toward the dying shadowolves. Slowly, her breath evened out. Eventually, when they were almost to the scene of the battle, she said, “Okay. That’s different.”

“Are you okay, Teressa?”

“I’m good. You can put it back on now, though.”

Erick put the necklace back on, right in time to crest the next dune, and to see the battle which had taken place between a crystal mimic, and several shadowolves.

The mimic lay scattered across the valley between two low dunes, its large, white-blue clear-crystal spires having been torn apart by what appeared to have been at least seven shadowolves. The shadowolves were similarly broken and scattered, their darker, red blood mixed with the blue blood of the mimics, but all of it simply looked like scattered ink under the moons’ light.

As he looked down at the dead monsters, and the three barely breathing shadowolves that remained alive, Erick was reminded of just how weak and wretched these shadowolves truly were. They were like wolves, of course; big dogs with thick fur and powerful jaws and powerful legs, but this shadow-variant was anything but healthy. Each and every shadowolf Erick had ever seen, including the ones who almost killed Erick and Jane back when they were being shown around the Human District of Spur that very first time, was emaciated. Sometimes bone even poked through in the holes of a shadowolf’s skin. More often than not, this particular breed of monster was only alive because it was half-shadow, and it could survive being gutted by a very large monster and forever have its abdominal region exposed to the world, or it could lose half its face, or part of its ribcage.

It was no wonder that these three monsters had ‘survived’. The mimic had either crushed, or pierced and ripped apart, every single shadowolf that tried to kill it, for whatever reason. Normally, this doesn’t happen. Normally, wolves can take down a mimic and feast for a night or two. But that didn’t happen this time.

And so, three barely-living shadowolves lay scattered around the body of their enemy, and all their allies. One was missing its lower half. Another was missing half of its chest. Another was missing half of its head and most of its left side. They’d die once the sun came up and exposed them to actual light, but for now, they hung on in the shadows.

“Well. Time to fix this.”

