Erick began casting spells, cleaning up the battle and placing the survivors into three Force boxes. They yelped and they snapped and snarled, but they could barely move. With a triple tap of [Greater Treat Wounds] and a general application of [Merciful Ether], along with some lightwards cast by Ophiel to illuminate the procedure, Erick soon had three mostly-whole shadowolves hovering in boxes, inside bright lights that would ensure that they wouldn’t be getting away. A few more [Greater Treat Wounds] brought these shadowolves up to ‘fully healed’ status.

And then a small application of [Undertow Star] stripped away all the Health and Mana that they had managed to hold onto. They didn’t care, though; they were fast asleep, and would remain that way as long as Erick wished. The [Undertow Star] had been necessary, though, in order to make them truly vulnerable to the magics Erick was about to cast.

Making [Baleful Polymorph] wasn’t going to be the hard part about this experiment, though. Erick had had thorough discussions about that spell with both Redflame and Inferno Maw. But to ensure that he got this part as right as possible, Erick held out a hand, and channeled the sound of [Polymorph] through his palm.

It was the sound of a different path than the one he was on, like being on a concrete sidewalk, and seeing/feeling that just over there, just beyond sight, was a forested path, or a path through the residential neighborhood, or the market. It was a lot more different than the sound of [Teleport], which was just a branch in the current path. [Polymorph] was the sound of something else.

With his other hand, Erick channeled the sound of [Force Bolt]. That one was an old, well known sound; the sound of reaching out and touching something else. Of imparting power to a target.

Combined, such a touch would transform another into something else.

Erick pointed, and cast.

A sparking Bolt of white light struck the first shadowolf, and the shadowolf transformed.

A wolf became a doberman. Erick smiled. Perfect! That was exactly—

A blue box appeared.

Baleful Polymorph, instant, close range, 500 mana + Variable Cost

Inflict a new form upon a target.

Large deviations require more mana.

Erick handed Teressa the spell, though the large woman just let it hang there in the air in front of her instead of taking it. She seemed scared of it, while also trying not to appear scared of it at all. That was fine.

Erick was already turning back to the would-be dogs, saying, “It worked, but there’s a lot more work to be done. That spell box barely tells any of the truth of this particular magic. For one, it doesn’t actually grant a Familiar Form to the target. Any sustained healing efforts would eventually turn the target back to their original form, or, if the target has [Polymorph] themselves, then they can break out of this magic by simply transforming back into their usual Familiar Form. Notice the rad still inside this one’s chest? Monsters, like this one, can break out of this type of magic through normal accretion. This [Baleful Polymorph] is the weakest form of this magic. Actual malicious forms of [Baleful Polymorph] will have some sort of Curse to them, to prevent these easy fixes, or to allow them to work on monsters. For my purposes, though—” He smiled, and felt really good about what was to come next, as he said, “I’m going to give these little guys a brand new chance at life as proper guard dogs. Not sure who is going to get them, right now, but maybe we need some dogs, eh? Would make nightwatch a bit easier, for sure.”

Teressa glanced at the blue box still hovering in front of her, but she also looked to Erick, and to the dog and the wolves. She had so many emotions upon her masked face, and in her posture. Enthralled, worried, hopeful, scared, and everything else all at once. Not really because of Erick’s explanation, either, but because she could already see what was coming next.

Erick channeled [Renew] through one hand, and [Baleful Polymorph] through the other, and then he handed off those spells to two Ophiel who took up their song and danced in the air around the would-be doberman.

The healing thrum of [Greater Treat Wounds] and [Regeneration] came next, to allow for the melding of Familiar Form and Soul. Ophiel took those sounds and enhanced the chorus of Erick’s magic.

The second-to-last puzzle piece was a spell that already surrounded the target; [Merciful Ether]. Erick had Ophiel take that static, but also [Cleanse]ing magic, and add it to the song. It was necessary to keep the target asleep and numb to the pain of a transformation like this, and to let them wake up on their own time.

And then he added his own Benevolence.

Lightning poured out of Erick’s veins, like the sound of a power granted. A catalyst imparted, that would jolt a soul from their current path, and guide them to another, better present. Iridescent lightning flickered from one hand to the next as Erick spread his arms wide. With a thousand lessons gained during his time working with Redflame and Inferno Maw on the Renewal Tank, guiding a thousand smaller intricacies of Healing Magic and Soul Magic, Erick stretched his Perception as far as he could see, and he prepared his lightning strike.

He spoke,

“A new chance for a life.

“A soul passed through translation.

“Different dance, different strife,

“A new [Reincarnation].”

Iridescent lightning lanced from Erick’s hands, striking the wolf that was currently a dog, fracturing the world around her into a stained-glass mirror that continued to break and fold and shift under Erick’s power. It was a glimpse into every possible way for the soul to have been. Erick mostly saw the death and destruction of the wolf as she fought to kill any of a hundred different monsters or people, but he also saw the wolf transform into a Primal Wolf and become a mother to a thousand more wolves, to continue the cycle of shadowolves hunting and killing anything and everything they could. That was the usual outcome for a shadowolf; a life of constant fighting and avoiding death and eating and producing more of their kind.

Erick would not have it.

Lightning broke that path, spreading out to the edges of Fate, to pluck a new possibility out of the mana, to guide the wolf to a new destination; a destination of Erick’s own creation. It was a blank destination too full of chaos to properly see, but Erick saw enough to understand what he had chosen.

Her fate had her living on the coast of a lake, raising puppies and getting fed food from a kind stranger. And then happenstance moved her to a house where she barked at intruders and warned of monsters. She had a home, food, and less pain and more joyful days far removed from any sort of fighting at all, where she saw her puppies grow into fine dogs themselves.

It held a far away death, when all her hairs were grey and she spent most her days fat and happy sleeping by a fire at night, while the cold desert winds blew outside. She had always been cold at night, out there on the sands. She was, perhaps, most happy about that change in her life.

The lightning detached from Erick’s hands to soak into the sleeping dog, reaching her rad, and then shattering that innermost part of the monster. The stained-glass world folded in on itself, into the dog, imposing a Reality upon the reality of the monstrous animal. The dog yelped, but the [Merciful Ether] kept her asleep. Lightning curled around her rad, dissolving it into ever smaller pieces, releasing the monster from the core like a container of bright, dark ink dropped into a tub. That ink rapidly settled back into the body that it inhabited.

And the body changed.

Erick and Teressa watched as a wolf became a dog. It was not instant. But it was not slow, either.

A good thirty five seconds passed without a blue box appearing, but that notification came soon enough, and well before the lightning inside the creature actually subsided. Erick ignored the box for the moment, to watch iridescent crackling here and there atop the sleeping dog. Everywhere the spell sparked, the soul seemed to fit the body just a bit more, and the body shifted to match.

And then suddenly the dog shrunk, turning younger. The shadowolf had probably been rather old, perhaps? Erick wasn’t sure.

When it was over, the doberman looked like a juvenile dog sleeping soundly in her Force box, on her side. She seemed to be having dreams of some sort; kicking her legs like she was running, while she nipped at some invisible thing, her jaws no longer looking like they were ready to rip open a warrior’s armor, but she could still catch smaller prey without problem. She was fine, and that was good.

Erick glanced at his two notifications. The first was normal enough, but it was the spell for [Reincarnation], so…

Holy fuck, right?

Erick was impressed that his spell had turned out so well. That blue box brought a wide smile to his face, and a giggle out of his throat. He had done it! He could save anyone from any physical or spiritual malady!

Reincarnation, instant, close range, 5,000 Mana

Bestow a new life upon a target.

May their new form fit them better than the one that came before.

The next box was a bit more concerning.

Hello, Erick.

This is Rozeta.

Congratulations.

Please be responsible with this magic.

This particular ability is something that very few people have ever been able to achieve, and is mostly constrained to the realms of shades and gods, or more specifically, my father, and less specifically, in a very long Quest chain that my registrars can bestow to those who truly do want to start over, but which rarely works. Most can never walk all of those required steps.

“Ah. Hmm.” Erick read over the larger of the boxes again, and then handed them off to Teressa because Teressa looked concerned. Upon reading them, Teressa was suddenly much more concerned, but Erick just said, “Looks like it worked!”

While Teressa was still having a minor crisis of faith or other such emotional occurrence, Erick [Reincarnation]ed the other two shadowolves into dobermans…

He probably didn’t want to call them ‘dobermans’, since appending ‘man’ onto the end of that particular breed would likely lead to uncomfortable questions later, if the word never got fully translated from English into Ecks. So for now…

“I’m going to call them dobers.” Erick said, “It’s a type of dog breed back home on Earth. Friendly dogs. People-oriented. Does well in hot climates, but even if it’s not that hot next to the lake, these guys should do well on that side of the wall. They are still wild animals, after all.”

It took Teressa to come back to the moment, but she did, because the dogs reminded her of something, but just what did they— She perked up. “They look like a smaller version of the wardogs of Nelboor.”

Erick looked at the dogs. “Ah. So they do. Huh. Well, these ones probably aren’t suited to war now that they’re not monsters.”

“… Will they be, uh… Safe? Inside the wall? Now that you took away all their power, I mean.”

“Oh? Well. I’m sure they will be fine inside the wall. Sand mice are all over the grasses and such near the coast, and those will make good meals for the dogs. Lots of room to run and live. Some small trees for shade. Plenty of water.” Erick explained, “This particular magic is very, very abusable, for I could have made them unable to eat anything but plants but left them with a taste for meat, but I didn’t do that. No; I worked the magic correctly. It helped a great deal that [Baleful Polymorph] and [Polymorph] operate in the function of ‘picking another life’ and inhabiting that life. If you pick a form that is a real form that actually does exist, then the mana takes care of most of the smaller bodily intricacies.

“[Reincarnation] takes that whole process a step further, gifting the target a new Familiar Form and allowing their soul to replenish and repair and fully inhabit the new body. But it’s sort of like how some orcols can get their head cut off, and if they get healed fast enough and well enough, then they’ll be loopy for a while, but they’ll be fine, eventually.

“They still have their memories. The soul remembers what the body forgets.

“And so, these guys are still wild animals who will be smarter than a dog should be. There will be an adjustment period for they won’t have the power that they are used to having, but the only real issue they will have will be if they don’t recognize each other as the same packmates they always were. Once they pass that difficulty and are able to work together once again, they should be fine foraging on their own, as dogs, instead of as monsters. I’ll stick around to ensure that they can make it to that point, but…” Erick said, “They’re still originally monsters, and they would be dead without this intervention… So I’m fine with leaving them to their own devices now that I’ve rescued them to this point.”

Teressa stared down at the dogs. She wasn’t convinced. These were clearly dogs now, through and through, and dogs did not do well outside of protected pet-friendly spaces.

Erick decided to offer, “Do you want to look after them?”

“What? Me?” Teressa balked, but it was completely false. She actually did want to take care of the dogs for some reason. “No no.”

“… Are you sure?”

Teressa stared at the dogs. “They’re young, right? So they need a little care. Even if they are wild.”

Erick nodded. “They are wild dogs. I’m absolutely sure they’d do fine on their own. There’s nothing dangerous on the lake-side of the wall, and there is a lot of space for them to roam.”

“Yeah. But.” Almost shyly, like she was sure she was stepping over a line, but she knew she had to step over that line anyway, Teressa asked, “You made them like they are… Shouldn’t you look after them more than dropping them off at the lake?”

“A valid criticism. It is for that reason that I will be looking after them for about a week or two.” Erick said, “But I’m going to be making a lot of opportunities for a lot of different people and otherwise, and I’ve long ago learned that just because I help someone through bad times once, does not mean that I need to be there for them forever.”

“… Ah. That’s true, too.”

Erick grinned a little, knowing that Teressa wasn’t paying lip service by acquiescing, but also that she was both bold enough to still question him and his motives. She had never done much of that, but when she did it was always with just cause.

