After a short walk, they were already in a part of the market that looked like everything had a few minutes ago. The crowd parted for them and Lind-otta, but it was a normal crowd. And even if their silent, visually distorted presence created a minor interruption, everyone went back to playing and shopping as soon as they’d passed.

“It’s always just one layer deep,” he said.

“What is?”

Lind-otta’s question made Alden realize how odd his comment must have sounded to people who weren’t inside his thoughts.

He recalled the surreality of his first day back at school after his parents had died. Even as a young child, there’d been something so strange about running out the door toward recess with everyone else—peak school day excitement that had been real to him, but thin. Like a fun sticker he knew could be peeled away at any time to reveal something ugly.

“The problems,” he said. “Right now we’re only one layer away from a man who lost his fiancée. And Anesidora’s only one layer away from wherever the worst place on Earth happens to be today. And Earth is one layer away from chaos…I meant something like that. I was just thinking.”

[Lute: Okay?]

Alden was sure he meant, “Are you okay?” based on his furrowed brow.

[Alden: Yeah.]

Better filter myself a little more.

“You are like my Esh in good ways, too,” said Lind-otta. “Stop here, and look at me for a moment.”

Alden stopped walking.

“We enjoyed our trip today.” Her voice was warm, and her gaze was soft.

“I’m glad you did,” said Alden. “I know I interrupted it.”

“We enjoyed the rising of a sun that shines on many imperfections, and when we go on other trips to places that are much darker, we will remember that all of this is, as you put it, only one layer away. You can’t fight every darkness or bask in every light. Accept this, so that you can choose the right battles for yourself and fight them at full strength.”

“How do people know what the right battles are?” he asked.

“How hard was it to earn Alis’s commendation?” she replied.

He swallowed.

“I see. And would you do it again?”

“Yes.”

“Would you endure that same struggle for a different outcome?” She sounded curious. “If it would remove a terrible ambassador from Earth, for example, which might save innocent lives as well over the coming years.”

Lind-otta waited.

Alden made her wait such a long time that Lute started waving at him from behind her.

“I can’t lie to you about it, Hn’tyon Lind-otta,” he said finally, “and I don’t want you to hear the truth.”

“Why?” she asked. “Do you think I have never answered no to such a question? I have many times and will many more. I’m sorry you are ashamed of your answer, but it’s good that you know what your answer is. Not every battle is yours, Alden. I believe you’ll recognize the ones that are when they come.”

She started walking. “You both did well today, regardless of the unexpected outcome. You showed Servin-ith a less <<curated>> Anesidora and a less controlled Bash-nor. Both of which she needed to see. Especially if his temper is that close to the surface. If he can’t be diplomatic with a Grand Senator standing at his shoulder, then I don’t know what circumstances would improve his behavior. Perhaps he’s one of those people who loses all perspective when he’s in a position of power. Esh and I were stunned when he decided to <<nip>> at a man who Servin-ith was trying to calm. Her pride is different than his, but she’s got no less of it.”

“Do you think she’ll fire him?” Alden asked.

“Yes. And astonishingly he doesn’t seem to know it yet. He should have been apologizing to everyone instead of complaining about your efforts to protect him.”

“He did make me regret it.”

“Don’t,” Lind-otta replied. “The amusement Esh felt when he saw you defending Bash-nor with that food toy was delightful. After his initial alarm.”

The pig was still safely preserved under Alden’s arm. It had a happy face. “I think that guy was a mid-rank Brute of some kind. We got in front of him fast.”

“I get half credit since the pig is mine,” Lute said.

Lind-otta smiled. “Show me something bright in this place,” she said, “and then I’ll leave you to enjoy the day as you were before you decided to help Zeridee-und’h with her battle.”

******

******

Alden and Lute sat at the back of the ferry, on the uppermost deck, watching F-city recede through windows so clear that it felt like they were looking through an opening in the side of the boat instead of glass. The seats were just a little too small for Alden’s taste, but they were well cushioned, and they would heat up if you asked them to. The two cases of mover discs he had bought from the Fetunan imports store were serving as footrests. One would be Jeremy’s Christmas present. Alden was going to experiment with the enchantments on the other set until he completely figured them out or destroyed them.

Haoyu’s skateboard had been purchased, and Lute’s gift to him would be the custom paint job on it since the only way to get the store’s art guy to paint a “party badger” design a few days before Christmas had been barter. He’d wanted the cotton candy pig and a picture of Alden holding the pig in front of some of his skateboards to prove it was authentic.

That was how Alden and Lute discovered the incident was rapidly spreading around Anesidora. Lute was currently on the internet, watching whatever was happening to their reputations in real time.

“Are you sure I can’t tell you what I’m reading right now?” he asked almost desperately. “Because— ”

“I’m sure,” Alden said. “I told you not to look.”

“It’s not like most of it is bad. Most of it isn’t really about us. The pig save was funny, and people think we— ”

“Shhh…I’m texting my foreign friend.”

He knew it couldn’t all be good because Emilija had already sent a message suggesting he put her to work tonight deleting rude comments and messages on his Trime account.

[Alden: Stuart, I’ll be back at my dorm soon. It took longer than I thought. I know the time is wrong for you, so if you’re asleep we can talk when you wake up.]

He was debating whether or not to send a message to Boe. Something like, “FYI, that doesn’t count as an act of heroism. It was like that thing that happens when a doctor hits your knee with the little hammer. My arm shot out to intercept that guy on its own.”

I’ll save it for when he hears the news organically, Alden decided. Rushing to tell him about it makes it sound like it was a bigger deal.

“Why do you have self-control?” Lute grumbled.

“It waxes and wanes. I’m sure I’ll have to look and see what everyone is saying about us tomorrow, but the longer I delay, the greater the chances are that someone else does something really bizarre and steals the spotlight.”

“So you admit you’re bizarre.”

“You were right there with me.” And having him there had made it all more doable.

I’m going to have to buy him that giant stuffed pig after all, aren’t I?

Lute swiped away whatever he’d been looking at. “Lind-otta seemed nice.”

“I think she is.”

“That thing you said about layers…”

“I was in a weird mood right after what happened.”

“Me too. The first thing I thought about was how the ambassador could take revenge on that guy…can I tell you the news about him at least?”

“Bash-nor? Sure.”

“He’s gone.”

“That fast?”

“Yeah, that fast. There was no explanation, and they didn’t even let him give a goodbye speech. Servin-ith gave one for him. If I wasn’t in the know, I’d think the guy murdered somebody, and the Artonans were trying to sweep it under the rug. But that thing you said about what’s going on one layer away… ”

“Yes?” Alden asked.

“It was good,” said Lute. “Real. It made me think of Haoyu.”

Oh, thought Alden.

Haoyu’s mom was expected back early Saturday. Sometime tomorrow, he should get a call from her, confirming that she was safe and that she would indeed return on the planned day. This was a tension Haoyu often lived with and rarely mentioned, the same as when his father had been with the battle group at Matadero.

“You’re right. That’s one layer away.”

“I want to go back in time and throw all those die dice I made into the ocean,” said Lute, pressing his combat boots harder against the top of the mover disc case so that it rocked.

“If you get time travel powers when you become a hyperbole, tell me,” said Alden. “But for now— ”

“My ears turn off automatically when you try to jinx me into a hyperbole.”

“But for now,” Alden said more loudly, “let’s just help Haoyu distract himself until she’s back.”

“I want to slap a Peace of Mind on him, but he won’t let me.”

“Every time you offer, you’re probably reminding him that he’s stressed. We’ll think of something else.”
