Chapter 360

The rift was dark and oppressive, filled with smoke that caused no end of interference with Matt’s spiritual perception. There was also a pervading aura of fear, the entire area almost dreamlike in quality. He half-jokingly checked to see if Sien had followed them into the rift, but of course, she hadn’t. It all just felt a little too in theme for her favorite rift for there to be zero chance she was pulling a fast one on them.

Now that they were out of the public eye, flashes of light came from his teammates as they began donning their gear and casting their buffs, feeling out the respective spells to ensure everything was working as expected.

For Matt, that began with pulling his newest set of armor out of storage. Sadly, it wasn’t the hyper-awesome set of power armor that he’d used in the war, but a new set he’d commissioned for himself now that he was Tier 26. In theory, if they were to start a new war right now, he’d go back to using his power armor. But with centuries of peace for the Empire ahead of them, that wouldn’t be happening. The maintenance of the armor made it impractical to use in normal delving, and it wasn’t technically his anyway. He could push that fact if he really wanted to, but… eh. He had used others' old weapons and armor and that was only possible if the Empire had them ready to loan out.

Anyway his new armor was fine. He had a deep rock obsidian breastplate that enhanced armor skills, silver nickel bracers, a gold dust helm that enhanced self-buffs, and feather walker boots that enhanced movement spells.

With his armor secured, [Cracked Phantom Armor] was his next step, the blue light seeping out of his skin and hardening into a solid mana construct. He’d long since optimized the first layer of the spell well enough that he looked like some kind of abstract mannequin, with a blank face and unremarkable limbs. Atop that, the second layer of the spell pushed its way out in the form of a more typical set of Empire armor. Then Matt activated his Tier 25 Talent, and the blue mana became glittering crystal. He didn’t know exactly how the mana crystal around his joints stayed flexible enough that he could move just fine, but he was glad it worked.

Talents were weird like that.

The armor clinked faintly as he ran through his stretches, making sure his body was still in peak condition before he started cranking up the mana running through [Regeneration]. He’d had it running the entire time, of course, but only at a low rate. Still, there hadn’t been anything unexpected, which meant his body was working just fine. He stretched his arm out a good ten feet, flexed his hand into a bladelike shape and locked it there with the aid of his Rubberfruit, Chameleon Vine, Lockjaw Crystal, and of course, his Stygian Gossamer, making his knife-hand nearly impervious to meaningful damage.

He released the minor body-morph and fired up [Archmage’s Presence]. Power erupted from Matt’s core, but was constrained by his armor to not spill out into his surroundings but it made him feel like he could crush anything put before him.

Everything the spell touched was instantly magnified, and the world began to move in slow motion as his senses sharpened tenfold. His perception was so finely tuned that he could feel [Cracked Phantom Armor] redoubled in durability as subtle flows of mana shifted into more optimized patterns, then reinforced even more by [Archmages Presence] directly. At the same time the enchantments on his armor gleamed brightly as they worked overtime, and his body surged with power.

As he flexed, he made sure to feed some mana to the invisible runic tattoos across his body. They might have only been Tier 25 in potency, but they’d still been made by some of the best tattooists in the Empire, and if he kept throughput low, then he shouldn’t burn them out too quickly.

[Barbarian’s Hide], [Ranger’s Sight], and [Sharp Mind] were next. While their ostensibly primary effects of boosting his durability, senses, and mind cultivation were entirely subsumed by [Archmage’s Presence], those three had upgrades that Matt found useful, as they enhanced his resistance to debuffs and magic, helped him see directly through some obstructions, and further hardened him against mental effects respectively.

[Flight] lifted him a few inches off the ground and Matt quickly rotated his personal gravity around him to ensure everything was working as expected, flickering his personal weight to get a sense for the respective mana costs. It wasn’t likely that anything weird would come up, but rifts could have odd effects and Matt wasn’t going to let himself be caught off-guard.

Next, he started [Afterimage]. It didn’t do that much most of the time, but leaving a trail of illusionary bodies could do a decent job of drawing attention away from the rest of his team, and as their only truly dedicated tank, even minor distractions could add up. He could also hand control of the illusions off to Aster or Zack if need be, who had their own respective tricks they could pull with a bunch of illusionary Matts.

With his personal buffs taken care of, Matt withdrew his trusty growth sword. He hadn’t used it in the war, but he had personally enchanted it with runes in all of its forms. Thanks to a bit of shenanigans with an [Overcharge]d [Sword Twin] and its ability to create four copies of the blade, he’d melded the best of its five forms into a single longsword that had the potency of dagger armor-piercing and the spell empowerment of a glaive, all further empowered. He swept the re-merged blade through the air, feeling out its weight and adjusting his [Archmage’s Presence] strength boost until it had the right heft to it.

[Reinforce Mana] capped it all off, and to save time, he simply used [Barrage] to cast it on all of his active spells at once. For the most part, it just improved their efficiency to variable degrees, but [Cracked Phantom Armor] also got the benefit of its crystal being physically tougher. [Sword Twin] would also be physically stronger if he un-melded the blades, but he wasn’t sure if that would happen in this rift.

As he continued testing of his other skills, he felt magic from Aster begin to wash over him as she cast her buffs. [Tailwind] made his limbs feel lighter, [Swift Strides] gave him the sensation of stored power in the balls of his feet, [Strike With The Wind] empowered his blade with a layer of cutting winds, and [Cracked Ice Canopy] created a bubble of ice over his armor. Around him, the air grew thick with shimmering colors, thick snowfall, fierce winds, and mana-scouring skills as she layered dozens of battlefield control spells on them. It would have been entirely impossible to see through it if she hadn’t used a particular application of skills built on [Uncertainty Principle], to make the skills seem illusionary and transparent to her allies alone.

Liz signaled to him that she was ready for his buffs by landing a phoenix body on his shoulder, and he narrowed his mana regeneration aura down until it was focused exclusively on his wife. That particular trick, started by Folded Reflections decades ago, had blossomed into an incredibly potent focused buff that dramatically improved not only mana regeneration and physical capabilities, but also mana control for large-scale workings. He’d flicker around its target as needed simply as a matter of course, but Liz was his default for many reasons.

Even as he noted that thought, a cavalcade of buffs landed on him from Zack. While the man wasn’t much of a support mage, he had a number of interesting and unique buffs that he could provide, though Matt wouldn’t say he was especially good at using them to their maximum.

Once he felt he was in perfect sync with Liz and Aster, then he’d drill more with Zack. That might be a few centuries away, but he was immortal. He had time.

To cap off his preparations, Matt directed his Domain to reinforce his defenses and activated his repulsive armor, then started feeding [Tribulation Strike] into his sword, making the blade crackle with lightning.

The others finished their respective preparations a few moments later. Aster’s illusionary fox self hopped up onto the back of a lumbering ice elemental, Liz’s five human bodies broke apart from their ritual-casting circle, Allie had practically turned into a two-dimensional shadow, and Zack was surrounded by a blazing spell array, focusing his spells in ways Matt didn’t fully track. He’d heard about the spell array, as it was Zack’s favorite bit of loot from his buy-out, but this was the first time he’d seen it in action.

The moment they left the safe zone near the rift entrance, they were attacked by… something. It was made out of seemingly ordinary gray smoke, though a simple golden feather launched from phoenix Liz killed the monster, which spoke of how little physical durability it had.

What was more interesting was the absence of essence flooding into Liz after she killed it. Something flowed into her, but it wasn’t anything good. It was dark and smoky, like the monster themselves, and felt more like a curse to Matt. But it wasn't quite that either.

Seeing Liz’s joy and everyone else's irritation, Matt didn’t worry about it and instead quipped, “Okay, I’m ready to hear how this works.”

Allie cackled as she dragged Aster and her golem behind her as they flew into more of the dense dark smokey fog. “Kill!”

Matt rolled his eyes at the response.

Instead, he tried to spread his spiritual perception out but found his range incredibly limited. Instead of being able to cover planets, he found himself limited to a mile at most before his perception started to break down, and over the course of another mile, it completely fell apart. At their Tiers, a mile was practically nothing.

The aperologist in him noted this rift must have had a lot of shadow mana influencing it, which only made him eager to explore their first Sect rift. A favorite of Sien as well, which told him the rift might have hidden depths or a more ethereal aspect.

Not particularly worried about a simple rift, Matt charged up a [Breach] and then [Barrage]d it to send out three massive projectiles that cut swaths of clarity through the smoke and clouds, just wanting to get a feel for the lay of the land.

It was in the small moments where the projectiles passed that Matt got a view of the actual rift they were in, and it wasn’t what he was expecting.

The rightmost revealed area had been wide open fields of trees, as contradictory as that sounded. The middle shot revealed a desert of sponges filled with cactus made from coral. The leftmost shot revealed an ordinary building interior, and Matt immediately darted into the pseudo illusion before it could fade and be replaced with something weirder.

As he entered its range, he felt the rift try to bind and restrict him in subtle ways, but that was easier said than done. It didn’t want him to fly? Good luck. It wanted to limit his power? His power, by definition, knew no limits.

Interestingly enough, the rift seemed to sense it wasn’t able to make him conform to its rules, and thus changed the layout around him. The typical office building of dark smoke twisted, and when it stopped swirling, Matt found himself in a cave layout.

He was impressed when the walls of the cave system were entirely impenetrable to his spiritual perception, but he didn’t let that slow his reactions to the demented goblins that lunged at him from thin air.

Their bodies were wispy, but his blade cleaved them in two as if they were real, flesh and blood Tier 28 monsters, and they died all the same despite not having organs to rupture.

Curiously, instead of essence flowing into him as the bodies discorporated, the smoky substance spiraled into his spirit and weighed him down, restraining his cultivation. “Is this like a rampage rift?”

“Nice warm-up, wouldn’t you say?” Phoenix Liz called back. “But it gets better!”

Darting forward, Matt activated [Mana Beam], letting the beam play on any monsters that were outside the immediate range of his blade, but that just wasn’t enough. [Mana Beam] had plenty of damage, but it was line of sight limited, and in this convoluted cave system, that just wasn’t far enough.

Instead, Matt switched to just increasing his physical speed to the absolute limit. [Cracked Air Slide] already sacrificed mana efficiency for speed, and in the decades he’d had it, Matt had pushed it even further. It was to the point where only his old Herald of Winter bonus finesse to air spells even let him steer to any appreciable extent. But with his mana regeneration entirely unimpacted by the rift’s limits, he could keep fighting just as surely as before. That was a good thing, as while each kill and its corresponding restriction wasn’t instantly crippling, Matt was racking up kills at a ferocious rate, and he could see how other cultivators struggled with such a rift.

That was one of the defining features of a rampage rift– once you started killing, you needed to keep killing faster and faster, until it was downright impossible to do so anymore and you triggered the second phase of such a rift. There was always a limit to how fast the rift could force one to go, but it was rift dependent, and sometimes not even those stronger than the rift could manage. Matt had more faith in himself than that and killed to his heart's content.

As Matt entered a wide open cave, nearly a thousand goblins greeted him, each holding some weird mana cannon-like object, but one distorted and twisted into something that should have never functioned.

