They activated their constructs the moment Matt entered the room, but instead of dodging, he activated [Bulwark] and crystallized the mana he fed the spell. The spell's blowback caused the cavern to fill with smoke and debris, but he didn’t wait for the room to clear to launch his counter attack.

Matt hadn’t realized how much he missed fighting.

This wasn’t like the war, where there were consequences measured in lives for each and every action. This was a good old fashioned slaughter against monsters. Clean and simple.

Laughing, Matt pointed with his left finger and swept it across the room. [Mana Beam] cut a swath right through the arrayed goblins, but instead of continuing, Matt switched to [Cracked Dragonflame].

Those goblins who hadn’t been cut in half by the [Mana Beam] were washed with flames of blue that crystallized into solid mana, trapping them under the weight of Matt’s endlessness.

Their end came just a moment later when Matt punched the newly formed crystal, shattering it and everything inside.

The wash of negative power was like putting on weighted clothes, but instead of resisting it, Matt leaned back and reveled in the pressure.

Taking a deep breath, Matt slowly let it out, feeling the curses starting to tick down to their second phase now that he hadn’t killed something in a moment.

“Faster! If you don’t speed up I’ll beat youuuu.”

Unwilling to let this opportunity to challenge his wife pass, Matt launched himself forward down the tunnels, slaughtering everything he came across. All the while, the smokey shackles grew denser and denser over his spirit until they covered it like a swarm of locust.

By the time he reached the end of his little illusionary rift and found a ten foot tall hobgoblin, Matt was feeling very nostalgic. Instead of just overwhelming the boss and its dozen monsters, he decided to return to his beginnings.

Flicking the blood off his blade, Matt got into a ready stance and stepped forward, left, then shifted right with a flourish, and just like that, the hobgoblin boss had lost three of his subordinates.

Knowing he was on a timer, Matt lunged forward, stopping just short of the hobgoblins maximum range, letting his sword get swatted to the side from its slash. Going with the movement, Matt brought his blade down in an overhead chop that pushed through the monster's upraised sword and cut deep into its shoulder.

As the boss dissipated, Matt frowned slightly. He hadn’t intended to kill it in one blow, but the nature of this rift, all out attack in exchange for zero defense, didn’t let him relive any nostalgia.

As a newer and larger shackle appeared on his spirit, Matt found the world of smoke twisting around him until he appeared on a platform with Allie.

She was dancing around, her daggers flashing, killing monsters as they came in from the roiling darkness held at bay by the platform they were on.

“Finally! Yall are too slow. Just kill the boss and move on!”

Matt wanted to complain that he hadn’t known what was going on, but considering he had deliberately set that up, he thought it was smarter to keep his mouth shut.

Instead, he just focused on killing any monsters that entered the platform so as to keep his shackles from solidifying.

He had beaten Liz and that was the only thing that mattered even if it did mean he had a pouting bird on his shoulder.

Zack, Liz, and finally Aster arrived just a few moments later, but instead of the next phase of the rift initiating, they were left killing random monsters as they drifted in.

Aster kicked Allie as she danced by and gestured around them. “Okay miss know it all, what’s next? This is fun and all, but should we continue on? Or should we let the shackles manifest? Sien said she explained the full rules to you.”

Allie popped to her feet and dropped the act, even as her blade danced around the battlefield, cutting down wisp monsters the moment they formed. “Eh, Sien said it was kinda up to us. Most people who make it to this stage choose to let the shackles manifest so they can fight the boss and get essence. They can then do that up to five times to fully clear the rift.”

“And the alternative?”

Allie nodded to her partner's question. “We need to continue killing on this platform until we exhaust the rift's supply of monsters. Considering this is a Tier 28 rift, that might take a while with you slowpokes.”

Well, that sounded like a challenge, and Matt wasn’t about to back down.

Turning, Matt looked to Zack, whose small smile would have been the equivalent of a manic grin for anyone else. It was good they were on the same page, even after a decade apart.

Matt let a mana stone crumble in his hands, just in case there was somehow someone spying on him, and unleashed massive amounts of mana into their surroundings.

Once the area around their platform was saturated, Zack twisted the affinity, kickstarting a cascade. But instead of dropping his connection to the mana, Matt kept throwing mana at the problem, like someone trying to outrun speed wobbles on their flying sword by accelerating through. There were only two possible results, you outran your problem, or spread across whatever was under you.

And Matt was nothing if not fast.

The resulting explosion lasted for almost an entire minute, and was bright enough to dissipate the surrounding gray smoke like fog under the morning sun.

Once the attack settled down, Matt felt thousands of shackles cinch down onto his spirit. And from Zack’s small wince, he must have encountered the same.

Turning to the pouting Aster, Matt winked. “Your turn.”

She instead turned to Allie and shook the teleporter by her ankles. “Something impressive fall out.”

“I’m not a jack in the box! I’m a precision fighter, not an AoE kinda girl. Stop shaking meeeee.”

Aster turned to Liz, who turned away whistling. “How many clones do you have stuffed inside you right now? Can you throw a few dozen out there?”

“I could, but any blood that goes out there feels icky, so I'd rather not.”

Aster opened her mouth to say something, but nodded and gave up. “And I'd rather not sit around with our collective thumbs up our asses for the next week, or however long it takes for monsters to trickle in. Fine then.” Glaring at him and Zack, she imperiously waved. “On with it then, minions. Chop chop. But don’t hog all the kills.”

Zack’s newest toy, his spell array, helped him use all sorts of external focuses to influence his spells even more than he already could, giving him a frankly absurd amount of versatility in his casting. But even without that, they’d had plenty of ideas for combining Matt’s overwhelming power with Zack’s exacting control during the war, lots of which they hadn’t been able to try at the time.

But rift monsters, unlike soldiers, weren’t up to date with the latest in countermagic.

Matt fired a massive [Mana Beam] at Zack, who intercepted it with his fiery spell array, filtered it through a dragonscale, and unleashed a massive, elongated snake-dragon upon the monsters around them, laying absolute waste through the physical embodiment of Matt’s ludicrous power.

That wasn’t sufficient, or at least using only that would have been boring. So over the next day, they tried out a bunch of their more outlandish combos. Some, like trying to turn Matt’s [Tribulation Strike] into gravity, literally blew up in their face, but others were much more promising.

Fortunately, with the final monster’s death, the shackles fell off their spirits, relieving a tremendous amount of spiritual pressure on him and Zack alike.

Taking a deep breath, Matt was about to say something when a plethora of blackness rushed out of all of them to form a massive humanoid figure that had to be a mile long.

Its form twisted and blurred, going from snake-like, to a bird with comically small wings, to a humanoid figure, to a many armed ball of nightmares, before it finally settled on a normal sized humanoid.

Instead of being wispy like all of the other monsters they had fought in the rift, this creature had a serious weight to it in Matt’s spiritual perception.

The monster looked at them, its head cocked to the side like it was inspecting an interesting ant, but instead of stopping there, its head continued to rotate until it was upside down, complete with the cracking of breaking bone and tortured flesh. From the mangled throat, a pair of fleshy fingers ripped their way through the smoke and tore themselves free, like a demonic baby bird to reveal a humanoid with no skin.

“Ok, that was kinda awesome.”

“Agreed.”

“Yup!”

“I thi—”

Liz’s comment was cut off when the boss monster pointed its left pointer finger at them in a very reminiscent move, and Matt immediately threw himself forward, [Bulwark] materializing and solidifying in its wake.

The creature’s [Mana Beam], despite nearly coming apart at the seams from Aster’s [Dispelling Winds], punched right through Matt’s first line of defense, and might have gone straight through him if he didn’t raise his hand in time. But even as it broke through [Cracked Phantom Armor], it stopped on Matt’s invulnerable left hand. Even with the stygian gossamer protecting him, Matt could feel the energy prickle his skin and begin to faintly burn. It was the first time the rift had actually presented an actual threat.

And it felt fantastic.

Matt started pushing upstream through the [Mana Beam], but the moment he did so, the monster moved in a flash.

Now wielding a naginata that was clearly a mix of Liz’s spear and Allie’s dagger, the fleshless creature appeared behind Zack, its blade already mid-motion and just a hair's breadth away from taking his head off.

Zack never turned around and instead blurred forward, travel mana carrying him away. But instead of cleanly escaping, the monster blurred with him, its blade creeping forward and still aimed at his neck.

Were he entirely alone, Zack might have some difficulty escaping the deadly blade. But Ascenders weren’t so easy to kill, and Zack certainly wasn’t alone.

A fresh blast of sparkling cold air slammed into the monster and bound ribbons of white around its limbs, just as a pair of daggers drove into its empty eye sockets.

Smooth armor that Matt recognized as an imitation of [Cracked Phantom Armor] sprang up to ward off the blow, actually managing to deflect Allie’s blades, but vanishing shortly after she was turned aside. Allie wasted no time, turning the deflection into her new angle of attack and teleporting to attack alongside a Liz.

Liz darted forward with her spear moving to take the creature in the lower back, but instead of blocking, the creature created another hand out of its back and tried to grab the spear from Liz’s control.

Liz responded by throwing herself into the attack, discorporating the spear into the feathers it was made from and turning into ichor. The boss’ claws swatted at the semi-liquid body of Matt’s wife, only to find its flesh burning and melting under Liz’s far more caustic form of life.

Matt lashed forward, timing his blade to arrive a moment after a pair of wood aspected [Wind Scythe]s landed.

They didn’t quite manage to cut through the Tier 28 monster’s version of [Cracked Phantom Armor], but they did enough damage that Matt’s [Tribulation Strike] punched a hole in the monster's chest and obliterated a portion of its side.

His disappointment that the fight was going to end that quickly was quashed as the flesh of the boss started to knit back together in a very familiar way.

Unable to contain himself, Matt laughed. It was good to be able to cut loose like this.

He had never considered being able to fight against an amalgamation of all of them, not just at their Tier, but at a Tier disadvantage.

Ignoring the blade that cut through his chest, Matt brought his blade across on the boss’ flank, wanting to see if it would trade with him. It did, which was a mistake.

Liz drove her spear into the monster’s neck, and Allie plunged her daggers into the base of its neck, an apparent weak point in [Cracked Phantom Armor] Matt made a note to adjust immediately. Meanwhile, Zack sent dozens of [Mana Bolt] of different elements at the boss and Aster created chains of ice around its limbs, restricting its attacks.

They landed a dozen blows in quick succession, and each of them penetrated deep into the creature, but each wound inflicted was healed just as quickly as they appeared.

Allie cursed as she dodged a [Mana Whip] made of crackling mana that the boss cast. “This is your fault, Matt!”

“Sorry, not sorry.”

And really, he wasn’t. This was turning into a great fight.

Slipping left, he dodged the naginata just to thrust a [Mana Charge] and [Tribulation Strike] infused blade at the monster.

The blow had enough power behind it that Matt actually felt the blowback through [Sword Twin], his growth blade absorbing the detonation into itself, but taking a good bit of strain in the process. He’d need to improve the enchantments meant to mitigate that, because he was apparently outgrowing his own growth sword.

It wasn’t his fault his Talent grew so quickly.

Deflecting another blow, Matt stepped forward and took a [Piercing Blow] that was aimed at Zack. It punched a hole in his chest, but his flesh knit back together in moments, and it didn’t stop him from unleashing a flurry of blows at the boss.

Alas, the novelty wore off relatively quickly.

While the boss undeniably was copying their respective styles, that didn’t make it anywhere close to a cohesive threat as it drew from their respective specialities.

