Matt was also pretty sure that the boss had taken from them unequally, depending on the amount of shackles they had gathered in the rift. That meant it was taking more from himself and Zack than the others, leaving it disappointingly torn between two incompatible styles of magic, only further diluted by the tidbits it copied from the ladies.

That was never more apparent than when it went to restrain Liz. Instead of just moving in for overwhelming power, it tried to use one of Aster’s ice skills despite only having shallow copies of them, as her role as a support meant she had less total kills before the end. It also didn’t seem to have any of Aster’s wind, winter, or aurora spells, which Matt wasn’t quite able to puzzle out why. Aster used those just as often as her ice spells and it seemed to be copying based on usage but there had to be a hidden metric he didn’t understand.

The same went for Liz’s powers. Instead of taking advantage of her amazing abilities, the boss simply tried to create new limbs, but even then, it never maximized the advantages such an ability could have given it. It barely took anything from Allie, or at least nothing useful. While it did teleport once, it was so blatantly telegraphed that the most it managed was to practically trap itself, all of them attacking it right as it appeared. Though, even it could learn from such a painful mistake.

Once they’d figured out its limits, the only reason the fight had lasted more than a few seconds was the massive difference in Tier, but that had never stopped Ascenders.

Allie landed the final blow with a tricky series of strikes that all seemed like they were going to hit its limbs, but with small teleports that led the blows directly to the boss’ brain. The boss, for all its copying abilities, didn’t have Matt’s Talent and simply didn’t have the energy to heal through that much concentrated damage on its brain.

Matt was going to make a quip, but was shut up as an avalanche of essence hit him, and he was busy directing the essence before it overflowed from his spirit. A Tier 28 rift's worth of essence was a lot even when split five ways, and it moved him noticeably deeper into Tier 26. He’d still need hundreds, possibly thousands, more delves before he got anywhere close to finishing the Tier, but the simple fact he could actually notice a difference was already fantastic for a warm up rift.

If a full clear was always like this, he could see why it was a favorite of Siens. Anyone with enough power could clear the rift in hours, instead of days or weeks, like some of the larger, more spread out rifts might take.

Once the stream of essence ended, Matt wiped some of the blood and charred remnants of his clothes off of him before calling it a lost cause and just using [Create Water] to form a mini shower for himself and clean his own viscera away.

Liz had things so much easier, as any ichor that she couldn’t trivially reabsorb into herself had flashed into golden plasma long ago.

Aster tried to steal his shower, but he had been in enough water with her to know she preferred it frigid. To save himself that pain, he quickly let her have it.

With a fresh set of clothes pulled out of the house, he moved over to join Allie, Zack, and Liz, who were watching the rift distortion.

“I wonder what it will be?”

Allie poked at it without disrupting the membrane, which would have condensed the reward. “Gotta be something good, right? We did the perfect run, just like Sien said. I swear if we just get mana stones, I’m going to dissipate this rift.”

Allie leaned in and started whispering mean things at the rift distortion while Matt and Liz tried not to laugh.

How Allie would replace the rift's lunch with plain cheese sandwiches was a mystery, but he didn’t doubt she would do something if the rewards were bad.

When Aster came out of the shower area a few moments later, they all waited around while the rift distortion flickered and pulsed.

This was a tradition they had established when they had been advancing through Tier 25 during the war. Matt and Allie were firmly in the camp that believed that dispelling the reward at the right time mattered just as much as anything else, and so they had come up with this tactic to maximize their luck.

Matt moved forward, but when Allie didn’t follow, he retracted his hand.

A moment later, Allie moved but Matt wasn’t feeling it. Almost a full two minutes passed before Matt was feeling it again, but this time Allie was moving with him and they dispelled the reward distortion together.

Three items tumbled out of the rift distortion and a cackling Allie scooped them up before anyone could get too good a look at them. That was also part of the process, but one that only Allie enjoyed.

The gremlin liked to inspect the shinies before sharing.

The first thing she proffered was a thumb sized piece of smoky quartz embedded in a surprisingly nice looking necklace.

“Pretty necklaces, but I can’t tell what the enchantment does.”

Zack took the jewelry and inspected it for a moment before passing it over to Matt to do the same. “I believe it will boost the wearer in their tailoring skill. Doesn't seem to have a lower limit, which is actually kind of interesting. Or that's how I’m reading the enchantment.”

Matt nodded because that was exactly what both his experience and [AI] said the item did.

Kinda useless for them, but they cou—

Aster snatched it and put the item on, twisting and showing it off. “It matches my tiara.”

Everyone ignored her preening to look at the next object. It would still be sold, just once Aster got bored with it instead of immediately.

Allie surprised them by proffering both items with a smile. “Rocks! Two of them, but I can’t tell what either does.”

Matt took one of the rocks as Zack took the other.

With it in his hand he noticed that it was more pumice than rock, but the description still technically held true.

He probed the natural weave of magic and tried to parse the effect, but was still in the process when Zack tossed his rock to Liz.

“I believe that this is a universal alchemic neutralizer. Not exactly expensive, but useful.”

“Oh, that’s cool. Any chance the other one is the same, Matt?”

Matt shook his head. “It's definitely not that. In fact, I think I know what this does, but I’m not sure I believe it. It's kinda random as hell.”

“Oh?”

Allie butted heads with Aster as they both leaned in to get a good look at the rock.

“I think it's a portable volcano.”

“What?”

Even Zack looked confused at the suggestion, and Matt could only shrug. “That's what I’m reading. Maybe I’m wrong, but… I don’t know how else to describe it. It might also be able to absorb a volcano, but it's a really strange rock to be sure.”

Allie poked it with a finger like she expected a volcano to appear on his hand.

Liz shrugged. “I’m sure someone will pay out the nose for something like that, right? The Sects love mountains. Maybe we can sell this to a sect without one?”

“I’m not sure a volcano is the same as a mountain.”

“I’m with Liz on this one. Close enough, right?” Even Matt looked at Aster weirdly after that comment.

Allie just rolled her eyes and tossed it to Zack after teleporting it into her hand. “Have fun, buddy.”

Her partner snagged it in his spell array and began running bits of mana through it, seeing how it reacted to the tool. Something that powerful would probably do something interesting, but whether it was something unique or useful remained to be seen.

They exited the rift to see Sien mid-sip of a cup of tea, which she quickly set down as they strode out. “An impressively rapid showing. Was thy attempt entirely successful?”

Allie immediately started preening. “A perfect full clear.”

“Fascinating, and truly well-accomplished. You have very nearly overcome my personal record.”

“Wait, what do you mean almost? No way we didn’t beat your record.”

“Perhaps someday my greatness will be surpassed by the likes of you, yet it is not this day.”

Allie immediately started mocking the older Ascender, which got her shadow to reach up and start trying to strangle her, but that didn’t even faze her.

“Now, have any of you regained your appetites as of yet? The next rift will not be prepared for some weeks yet, and in exchange for Matt’s provisions I wish to present Sect cuisine for thy consideration. There exists a nearby delver’s bistro with weeklong courses, which I insist we visit in the intervening time.”

Never one to turn down new food, Matt readily agreed to Sien’s offer.
