Something in either her expression or her tone made it through to him. She looked…shaken. Using his precious moment of clarity, Rain fought against the hunger, swallowing his large mouthful with some difficulty. He forced himself to drop the chunk of half-cooked meat, though it went against every demand of his body. With the dregs of mana that he’d regenerated, he used Purify, cleaning the blood from his face and hands.

“I—“ he began, not sure what he was going to say, but before he could find out, a bestial roar reverberated through the jungle, vibrating the very leaves with its volume.

“Shit!” Ameliah swore, spinning around as she hunted for the source of the overwhelming sound. She turned back to see Rain with his hands pressed against the side of his head, a look of pain on his face. “Which way?” she asked, signing it as well in case his eardrums had actually ruptured. She was about to try again with Message when he pointed.

“There. Three of them.”

“Three of what?” Ameliah asked, following his finger.

He just shook his head.

“Shit,” she swore again. Thanks to Rain’s…episode, he was out of mana. She pointed at his feet. “Stay there!” she yelled. “Let me handle this!”

The snap of a branch whipped her head around, and she hurriedly worked to free herself of the coil of rope that was still slung over her shoulder. Through the trees, her eyes caught a flash of motion, and then seconds later, an enormous, hulking shape came into clear view. “Hababa!” she shouted in recognition, not needing the system to tell her the name. She’d never fought one, but she’d heard enough second-hand stories about the enormous, hairless apes to recognize them immediately—second-hand stories, because first-hand witnesses were dead, more often than not.

Hababas were reaper class. For their level, they were stronger, faster, tougher, and smarter than they had a right to be. This one was level nineteen and over four meters tall. Its grayish skin was stretched taut over its muscles as if its hide was two sizes too small. Each of its four arms was thicker than her entire torso, and its too-small head sat on a thick, stubby neck nestled between its four bulging shoulders. Two of its hands held weapons—tree-trunk clubs with stones lashed to the ends. It was using its other two arms for support as it barreled toward her, running on its knuckles and tearing through the underbrush like it wasn’t even there.

She had barely taken all this in before two more of the creatures appeared behind the first. They were both level nineteen as well, and every bit as large. One of them was unarmed, while the other had a colossal falchion gripped in one hand.

Okay, that’s bad. The sword was taller than she was.

“Why do they have weapons?!” Rain yelled, stumbling to his feet.

“Stay there!” Ameliah screamed at him, reaching for her skills. Fire surrounded her as Shrouded by Flame took hold. To catch the monsters’ attention, she lashed out with Firebolt, sending blast after blast as quickly as she could. Dealing damage wasn’t her goal; she just wanted their attention. With Quicken Evocation doubling her cast speed, she managed to get six shots off in three seconds as she sprinted away from Rain.

Her fire splashed harmlessly against the monsters, doing no damage, but from the feeling of her hair raising on the back of her neck, she knew that it had worked. The lead Hababa grunted furiously, making a sound much like the ones she and Rain had been imitating before, only so loud and deep that she felt it rattling her bones. No, it wasn’t just loud. It was an attack—some sort of skill, just not a strong one.

Shit, not strong by MY standards. I need to get them out of range of Rain. Fast.

She bit her tongue as her foot snagged on a vine, and it didn’t break immediately, not having been within the range of Rain’s aura. She kicked out, tearing it from the ground, then resumed her flight with much more difficulty thanks to the living underbrush. Just as she considered leaping for the branches, her eyes widened as the shadow of one of the Hababas passed over her. Apparently, the monsters had had the same idea.

She swerved, dodging the falchion and blasting the sword-wielding creature in the face with a Fireball for its trouble. It reared back, raising its arms defensively, and she was pleased to sense that its health had dropped, if only slightly. Good. Not too much Heat resistance. I can deal with this, even if there are three of them.

Turning, she sprinted through a gap between the trees, trusting her flaming cloak to protect her clothes from the thorns. The plants slowed her progress but couldn’t stop her, branches snapping and roots tearing from the ground as she forced her way through, just as the monsters had done before. She checked over her shoulder to make sure they were still following, and her eyes widened as she saw one of the tree-trunk clubs headed directly for her skull.

Brace!

The defensive skill activated just in time, multiplying her Force resistance, itself already multiplied by her passives. Instead of a broken skull, she instead received only a few thousand damage and some assistance getting out of the underbrush. As she tumbled high through the air, she used Airwalk to push herself higher still, just in time to avoid a collision with a tree.

Well, that could have gone better.

Clenching her teeth, she used Airwalk again, giving herself some spin to bring her pursuers into view. A snap of her fingers lit all three of them up with a Triplicate Cast of Combustion. It didn’t do much in the way of damage, but the flames would blind them long enough for her to come up with something more potent. Completing her rotation, she searched along her trajectory until she spotted a branch within range, then kicked herself toward it. Her aim was off, and she hit it a bit low. Nevertheless, she managed to clamber atop it without falling.

Shit!

Knowing she didn’t have time to look back, she leapt again immediately. She felt the wind of the falchion behind her back, and there was a thunk of metal striking wood, then a crack as the branch gave way. A surprised grunt from the monster was followed shortly by the sound of an impact as it crashed to the ground along with the severed limb.

Dodging an attempted swipe from the club-wielding Hababa, Ameliah guided herself to a higher branch, landing perfectly this time. She spun, searching for a target, then lobbed a Fireball at the sword-wielder, which was glaring up at her angrily. To her surprise, it blocked, moving the blade in the way of the flames and drawing them harmlessly into the metal.

Ameliah frowned. “Fine, then.” She kicked off the tree trunk, aiming for a large gap between the trees where there weren’t that many branches. The Hababas would have trouble following her, she hoped. Once she was more or less in the center of the gap, she jumped again, reversing her direction, then again, bouncing back and forth in free space. She’d seen people stand absolutely still with Airwalk before, but she knew that this would be the best she could manage. It would have to be enough.

As the monsters screamed at her from the closest branches, she began to chant. As with the frog yesterday, she used all of her metamagic, including Quicken Evocation. She didn’t have time to use an uncompressed incantation, even if it would have saved her a bit of mana.

“Tryrim mi-gon, fyr ji-hen. Tryrim mi-gon, fyr…”

Sweat dripped from her forehead as she kicked herself out of the way of one of the Hababas. Apparently, they could jump further than she thought. Somehow, she managed to keep her chant going, despite the disruption. The concentration required to keep control over Airwalk was growing by the minute, and trying to cast at the same time was basically insane. Had she not spent years of her life practicing exactly this kind of thing, she’d never have managed it.

Just as she finished the last syllable of her chant, she felt something wrap itself around her ankle, then jerk her sideways through the air. She whipped herself around, punching at the monster that had snagged her. As her knuckles made contact with its skull, she triggered the spell around her wrist, activating Brace with the same thought.

The Triplicate Fireball detonated immediately. The blast hit her harder than the club had, catapulting her straight up toward the canopy. Astoundingly—or not, given everything else so far—the monster she’d struck didn’t die. Instead, its health was merely quartered. It crashed to the ground with a heavy thud.

These things are ridiculous.

Feeling a breeze on her skin as she neared the top of her arc, she looked down at her foot. Beneath her protective flames, her boot was gone, along with her pantleg below the knee. She clicked her tongue, then somersaulted, kicking with her bare foot to retake control of her trajectory. Interestingly, her footing felt a bit more certain than it had through her boot. She filed the revelation away for later, being a bit busy at the moment.

The club-wielding Hababa had clambered after her, and it had just launched itself at her from a nearby tree. She dodged easily, predicting its trajectory. She was getting a feel for their capabilities now. Letting herself fall back into free space, she began chanting again, intent on repeating her previous technique. Her eyes found the sword-wielder, which was hanging from a branch and watching her with disturbing intelligence.

She didn’t like that.

Just because they were monsters, it didn’t mean they wouldn’t be able to predict her the same way she was predicting them.

Once her spell was ready, she launched it, but as she had feared, the monster had learned. With a massive show of strength, it flung itself up over the projectiles, too quickly for Guide Sending to track. It flipped itself over in midair, then kicked off a tree trunk with both feet, sending its sword straight toward her stomach like a bolt from a ballista.

Once more, she dodged, relying on her bare foot and the improved control it gave her. Here’s something new for you. As the Hababa passed beneath her, she dropped a blob of magma on its back.

Magma Catapult was hard to aim at the best of times, but the monster had come close enough to touch, making it difficult to miss. She didn’t wait to see how effective the spell was. Instead, she spun herself around and kicked herself into a dive for the ground. She shot straight past the surprised club-wielder, heading toward the injured Hababa instead, which was only now picking itself up.

“Tryrim fyr ji-hen! Tryrim fyr ji-hen! Tryrim fyr ji-hen!”

The triple Fireball struck the monster before it even realized it was under attack, and the last of its health vanished. Without Overcharge, the force of the blast wasn’t strong enough to arrest her momentum, and she elected to just touch down rather than waste more stamina on Airwalk.

That’s one.

Looking up to face the remaining two monsters, she calmly resumed her chant. It would take them a bit to get all the way back down here. Soon enough, the pair landed, one heavy thump after the other, and she raised her arm. They shied back, and she smiled as she fired. Her target managed to get out of the way, but that was fine. She had their measure now, and she had already started chanting again. The monsters, of course, came for her eventually, but she was able to take advantage of her smaller size and better maneuverability to keep ahead of them, even on the ground. With only two of them to deal with, things had become much more manageable.

After a few more misses, she finally landed a good hit on the one with the clubs, but the sword-wielder prevented her from finishing it off. She had to dodge away from its attempt to bisect her, which ended with its sword lodged half-way through the trunk of one of the massive trees.

Winded, Ameliah fell back. Chanting wasn’t the best thing to be using when you were running all over the place. Breathing was important.

The Hababas, meanwhile, appeared to be struggling. One was on fire, and the other was finding itself unable to free its blade from the tree. After a few seconds, the one with the sword used its sonic roar, though she was sure it knew by now that it was harmless to her. It slammed its fist furiously into the tree, then spun, abandoning its weapon as it rushed her.

That suited her just fine. She’d already begun chanting again. Waiting for the perfect moment, she leapt straight up, then stepped on its head with her still-booted foot as she took aim at the still-flaming club-wielder. Her spell struck true, killing it instantly.

Ameliah landed in a crouch on a branch, allowing herself a smile as she looked down on the final monster, the one she’d just used as a springboard.

I think I’m getting the hang of this Airwalk thing. One left.

Her satisfaction didn’t last, as she realized that the Hababa was doing something new. Instead of racing after her, it had begun to…dance. There was no other word for it—two stomps, then two fists slammed against the ground, then the other against its chest, then a roar. It began to repeat the sequence, and Ameliah frowned. She activated Mana Sight fully, then cursed.

What is this horseshit? It can cast too?!

The hairless ape kept dancing, building up speed as she watched. With one last mighty roar, it stood to its full height, raising all four arms over its head. Shimmering emerald flames sprang to life in its palms, and it locked its burning eyes onto her.

Unfortunately for the Hababa, Ameliah hadn’t let her surprise distract her from her own preparations. She had no interest in finding out what its magic did. Her Triplicate Magma Catapult descended on the stationary target like a tidal wave, swallowing it completely beneath blinding magma. Moments later, there was a puff of green fire from below the molten surface, making a pathetic burping noise.

After ten seconds, the magma vanished, the spell’s duration expiring, but not before the molten rock had done its work. The Hababa’s health wasn’t fully drained, but it was close enough. It dropped to its knees, then collapsed, dead, its skin completely burned away.

“Woah,” Ameliah said, laying her hand against the tree trunk to steady herself. She canceled Shrouded by Flame, in dire need of some cool air. Her heart was beating hard, and she was drenched in sweat.

I haven’t been in a fight that tough for years, not counting… She aborted that thought, wincing at the memory.

She wiped the sweat from her forehead, which was starting to throb with a headache. Okay, those lived up to their reputation. That was a lot of mana I had to use. If there’s more, we’re in trouble. She shook her head, then sent Rain a Message. [I lost track of you. Make some noise.]

