His third attempt was marginally more successful. He reached the first branch he was aiming for, then the second, though he only barely managed to grab it with his fingertips. If not for his grip strength accolade, he was sure he’d have ended up eating dirt once more. He considered the next branch he’d planned to use, then frowned. It was a bit further away than it had seemed from the ground.

Okay, I’ll call two jumps a win. Time for plan b.

Rain shimmied along the branch until he reached the tree’s trunk. It was a big one, not even close to narrow enough for him to get his arms around. He pulled his mattock free from his belt, then hammered its spike into the wood, activating the enchantment as he did. The tree’s bark was tougher than it had any right to be, but the metal spike bit into it with no trouble. With the handhold this gave him, he hauled himself up the trunk, grappling it with his free hand and his legs tightly. With some difficulty, he removed the pick, then reset it higher.

I don’t need a rope, thank you. I can do it myself.

In this way, Rain made his way up, one swing at a time, becoming more confident as he went. The grip strength accolade was like magic in the way it helped him stick to the tree. By the time he reached the canopy, Ameliah had navigated her way over to him, and she offered him her hand to pull him up to stand on the branch beside her.

“That was everything I thought it would be,” she said, smiling as she steadied him.

Rain flipped up his visor, then stuck his tongue out at her as he slipped the mattock back through its belt loop. Their heads were truly in the leaves now, which were densely supported by a wide network of smaller branches. Reaching out, he grabbed one of these, testing it with his weight. As expected, the curiously strong wood held, barely even flexing despite being thinner than his wrist. He tightened his grip, then let his legs swing out over empty space. “Ook, ook,” he said, scratching at his armpit with his other hand as he swung himself around to look at Ameliah.

“Are you supposed to be an ape or something?” she asked.

“Ook,” Rain said, nodding. He gestured toward the branches invitingly. “Ook? Ook ook ook?”

Ameliah rolled her eyes, then smiled. “Ook,” she said, grabbing a branch next to his. She jerked her head toward deeper trees, then began swinging effortlessly in that direction. “Ook ook.”

Rain laughed, reaching up with his free hand to close his visor. With considerably less grace, he began swinging after her.

“Humans.” Tallheart snorted, then looked back down to his anvil. The entertainment was over, it seemed. That meant it was finally time to get some work done.

Sanity quickly prevailed, and Rain and Ameliah began simply walking along the large branches, as had been the original plan, reverting to simian antics only when required. Neither of them had infinite stamina, and they couldn’t afford to play around. Every so often, Rain would drop an iron token to the ground, creating a trail of breadcrumbs. He’d have used Tel, except he was pretty sure that monsters ate them or something. In any event, he’d be able to find them with Detection when it was time to head back.

They soon fell into a rhythm, making good progress despite frequent monster encounters. According to Tallheart, each biome hosted a constrained set of monster types, normally less than twenty, with only one or two common types from the region. It was similar to how things worked on the surface, but the divisions were sharper in the depths and didn’t vary with the seasons.

For the Ashen Jungle specifically, Deepcats seemed to be the only overlap with the previous, untyped caves. With a few exceptions, there didn’t seem to be much of a difference between the jungle floor and the treetops in terms of what would spawn. The rank was the same, somehow, despite the height of the trees.

Also interesting was the fact that they had yet to find slimes of any description, whether in the trees or on the ground. The blobby monsters had been a constant since Rain had come to this world, apparently being the hallmark of the entire continent. Their absence was striking, and both he and Ameliah were waiting for a dangerous variety to show up at the worst possible time. Lava Slimes were a thing—because of course they were—and according to Ameliah, they were no joke.

As they progressed through the suspiciously slime-free zone, Rain worked to fill in dossiers for each monster type they encountered, including their approximate health and resistances. He had counted twelve varieties so far, two unique to the ground, two unique to the treetops, and eight that had appeared in both places. Getting full information on the rarer ones was difficult, obviously, but for the common types, he soon had enough data to concoct a mana-efficient strategy for dealing with each variety.

Deepcats, for example, had low health and weren’t resistant to Heat. Ameliah could simply snap her fingers and Roy Mustang them with Combustion for a measly twenty mana. Their agility was useless against a spell that merely required line of sight. Fungiform Flamepuffs, on the other hand, called for a different approach. They were stupidly heat-resistant, unnaturally fast, and came in enormous packs, making single-target spells almost useless. Fortunately, they self-destructed when exposed to even the slightest Cold, sending their burning spores everywhere. The strategy for them was a simultaneous dual-aura pulse—Refrigerate from Rain and Purify from Ameliah—nice and easy.

For most other things, Rain would simply use Refrigerate, though it was hard on the jungle. Technically, Ameliah could kill a Fatbird with less mana, but Dynamos were essentially immune to mana overuse. She wasn’t. Her spells were reserved for alpha-strikes on tanky things that would have taken Rain more than a single mana pool to deal with. Flamewood Tortoises were a good example. They had around 400 Cold resistance, 1,000 Heat resistance, and a whopping 30,000 health at level 15. They couldn’t climb trees, though, so they weren’t as much of a problem today as they had been yesterday. Rain and Ameliah had bypassed a half dozen of them already, judging them not worth the mana to bring down. Their goal was to see how far the jungle extended, not to fight their way through it.

As for plants and animals, the diversity of them put the monsters to shame, like something out of a nature documentary. The animals were small for the most part—snakes, birds, big-eyed rodents, that kind of thing. Clearly, the most effective survival strategy in the monster-infested jungle was avoidance, not confrontation. There had been nothing dangerous to a pair of awakened so far, with the only significant obstacle being one particularly angry bird.

About three hours into their journey, they’d run across a darkly-colored parrot-looking thing, normal-sized, but fearless, fierce, and utterly unconcerned for its own safety. It hadn’t taken kindly to them trying to cross near its nest and had kept dive-bombing them with such enthusiasm that Rain had needed to cover it with Force Ward so it didn’t hurt itself.

Ameliah had named it the ‘Valbird.’

Now, hours later, there were two new problems, unrelated to either animals or monsters.

First, Rain was starting to run low on iron tokens. Tallheart had minted hundreds of the things, but apparently, that hadn’t been enough. The jungle was even bigger than they’d thought. They would have to turn back soon unless they wanted to risk getting lost.

The second problem was that he was starving. He’d been ignoring his hunger for over an hour, too embarrassed to say anything given how much he’d already eaten. Now, however, the food hallucinations had finally grown too frequent to ignore, and he was being forced to admit that something was really, really wrong.

“Ameliah, stop,” he said, coming to a halt near where one of the large branches met the trunk of its tree. He didn’t feel up to tackling the gap to the next one.

“What is it?” Ameliah asked, already having made the jump.

“You didn’t bring any food, did you?”

Ameliah raised an eyebrow. “No, I didn’t. You said you had it taken care of.”

“I thought I did,” Rain said, shaking his head. “I packed lunch for two, but…I ate yours a few hours ago. Sorry.”

Ameliah snorted. “I thought I heard a suspicious amount of snacking back then. Those accolades are really getting to you, huh? Well, come on. Let’s head down, then. I’m hungry too. It shouldn’t be hard to find some fruit or something.”

“Meat,” Rain said with a shake of his head. The hunger was so bad, he was starting to feel a bit faint. “I need meat. I was trying to ignore it, but…”

“Idiot,” Ameliah said. “You should have said something sooner.”

Rain nodded. “I know.”

He looked away. He had been hungry before, and he knew what it felt like. Several times during the worst of his depression, he’d gone days without eating, once even for a whole week. The effort of going to the store to restock his fridge with frozen dinners had simply been too much. His eventual return to food had been prompted by routine rather than hunger. There were only so many days in a row he could call out sick without losing his job, and once he was back at work, the mechanical cycle of work, food, sleep would reassert itself.

That had been nothing like this.

He could honestly say that he’d never felt as hungry as he did right now. His body needed food. It was DEMANDING it. There was the physical side—cramps twisting his empty stomach in a way that his freakish pain tolerance did nothing to mitigate—and then, there was the mental side.

Hamburgers. Ribs. Bacon. Mmm.

No! Rain screwed his eyes shut, slamming a fist against the tree trunk.

He jumped as Ameliah laid her hand on his shoulder. He hadn’t heard her making her way back to him. “Are you okay?”

“I’m fine,” Rain said, opening his eyes. “Just hungry. Really, really hungry.”

“You know, I don’t understand this,” Ameliah said, picking a leaf out of her hair. “Your stats aren’t that unbalanced. The accolades shouldn’t be affecting you this much.”

“They are,” Rain said, swallowing some saliva. Stupid memory. Stop reminding me of things I can’t have. He shook his head. “I should take them off.”

“Don’t,” Ameliah said. “You need as much health as you can get.”

“Do I really? I have my armor, and—“

“And you’ll still die if something bops you on the head,” Ameliah interrupted. “Hunger won’t kill you.”

“I don’t know,” Rain said, pressing his hands against his stomach. “I haven’t started losing health yet, but seriously, I think I might be dying. I can’t think about anything other than food.”

“Don’t be dramatic,” Ameliah said with a sigh. “Fine, take them off, but put the 500 health ones on instead. The...Icy Cellar? That was the name, right?”

“Oh yeah,” Rain said, scratching at his ear. “I forgot about those.”

“You forgot?” Ameliah asked, raising an eyebrow. “You? Okay, this might be more serious than I thought. Swap them, then let’s go get you something to eat. What are you hungry for?”

“Everything,” Rain said honestly. Detection pulsed as part of its normal sequence, and he whipped his gaze to the ground, his eyes frantically searching for the source of the signal he’d felt. There! Convenient timing. He moved along the branch, lining himself up. It was a Fatbird, seemingly unaware of his presence. Dimly, he was aware of Ameliah saying something, but it wasn’t important. With no warning, he flung himself off the branch.

“Hey!” Ameliah shouted.

Rain didn’t respond. His eyes were locked onto his target.

Force Ward.

He crashed through a bush, then slammed heavily into the ground. The Fatbird squawked, whirling around to face him, but he paid its surprise no mind.

Refrigerate.

Cold brought death to the jungle, a curtain of frost expanding out from him in a shell. He turned to face his prey, letting the spell work as he broke himself free of the bush. Its branches snapped easily, the water inside freezing and splintering them apart. The Fatbird was charging for him now, but its steps were growing slower by the moment as it fought against the icy wind.

You have defeated [Scarlet Fatbird], Level 8

0 Experience Earned

Immolate.

Rain compressed the radius as he approached, melting away the snow that covered the dead or dying underbrush. Stopping next to the Fatbird, he crouched down, then reached for his belt knife.

With a crunch of snapping twigs, Ameliah landed beside him. “Rain, what the hells are you doing?”

“Hunting,” Rain said, pushing his spell higher. The dead foliage around him would start to burn soon. It was only Heat resistant due to the presence of Heat-aspect mana inside it. Immolate would eventually burn all of that up, and then it would be just like anything else. The Fatbird’s flesh was no different. Already, he could smell a delicious aroma as it started to cook.

He had to swallow again. He was drooling.

Ah, screw waiting until it’s done. I don’t have enough mana anyway. What’s the worst that could happen? Food poisoning? Hah, what a joke.

With his knife, he stabbed into the side of the bird, carving through the thick fat with some effort. Gripping the feathers on one side, he pulled, widening the gash and hacking a chunk of fat free from the organs within. Disgust warred with hunger as he dropped the knife, fumbling to remove his helmet.

Hunger won.

Immolate was actually decent for cooking. It raised the temperature of things evenly once the magic had had a chance to penetrate. It hadn’t had nearly enough time in this case, but Rain found that he couldn’t bring himself to care. He dropped his helmet, then grabbed the chunk of fat, lifting it to his mouth. I can deal with a bit of pink.

“Uh, Rain?” Ameliah said.

He didn’t look up, too consumed by the flavorful juices as they struck his tongue. The leaves around him were burning now, but he didn’t care. His mana ran out moments later, and Immolate stopped, but that didn’t matter either.

“Okay, no,” Ameliah said, laying her hand on his shoulder. “I’m fine with eating a little raw meat, but that’s basically just a lump of fat. I’m not squeamish, but…Rain, stop. You need to breathe. Rain?” She shook his shoulder roughly, but he shrugged her off. “Rain! Depths, what’s wrong with you?”

“So good!” Rain said, his mouth stuffed like a chipmunk’s. He wiped the blood away from his chin as he looked up at her, still chewing. The monster flesh, repugnant to him only yesterday, tasted practically divine. It was exactly what his body wanted.

“Rain, you’re scaring me,” Ameliah said.

