 have...” Marrow hummed as in the projection, the crystal was slowly squeezed by a boney device like long fingers, slight cracks forming in the crystal’s surface.“24 hours? I think that’s fair,” Marrow shrugged the dragon’s body, a weird display. Delta blazed orange, doing the same thing to Marrow as she did to the skeleton and the spider queen, but Marrow merely glowed a blackish-green in return, throwing Delta back with a backhand of soul.“Let’s not be uncouth. In a direct soul battle? You’re strong, I love that about you, but you’re so unrefined,” Marrow said and Nu moved in, trying to attack her from the side; but she was near impossible to even get close to. It was like Delta, but backward. If he got too close, Nu could be consumed to serve Marrow as if she was some...Dungeon thing.“Give Alpha back before I wreck you,” Delta said, voice dark as she climbed to her feet, her mana swirling around her like a storm. Marrow went to chide her again before the claw that had thrown Alpha into the Dungeon and was still mostly in the Dungeon proper exploded into bone shards and dust.Marrow let loose a scream, backing off in confusion and rage as her pieces were fizzled to things so small that even Nu struggled to sense it. It was then that Nu saw something in Delta that he had only seen glimpses of before.Her pure Dungeon side. It was like a cloak that settled over the avatar of her Dungeon Core. The small things of microexpressions, tells, habits, and even fluid motion of her hair and clothes all came to a complete stop as she took a step forward. Shards of Delta’s door began to spin around in the air above Delta, who leaned forward, her body a single flat plane.“24 hours? Kind of you, but I’ll be along promptly,” Delta said, tone flat as she raised one hand, the shards instantly slammed together into a giant orange wooden stake with Delta’s protective runes inverted on the side.The stake pulsed once, orange light leaking out of the cracks of the held-together weapon. It exploded forward with pure mana catapulting it and the thing speared through the dragon skull, carrying it into the hallway beyond, pinning it to the door like a bad omen to those beyond. It shook and spasmed as the orange light spread through it, destroying it from the inside out.Marrow’s black shadow and rune fled off the beast like an inky infection, vanishing like smoke into the darkness.Nu would be impressed if he wasn’t suddenly worried by the rage in Delta’s eyes. Her voice gazed on the castle beyond.“Knock, knock,” Delta said quietly, her voice vibrating every mote of mana in the dungeon simultaneously.“Who’s there?” Nu asked simply; trying not to upset her more. Delta put her hands on the remnants of the protective door, melting it down to reuse energy.Delta’s hair began to move in motion again and the empty coldness retreated before she exhaled.“Orange,” she looked up at his screen as her monsters began to surround her in ready support.“Orange who?” he sighed knowing he should have let her stay a murderous Dungeon with no morals for ten more minutes.“Orange you glad I’m done playing nice with this kid?” she said, smiling without any humor.Nu was sure she was done playing nice before Alpha had his soul ripped out his body; now? She was now approaching ‘rude’ which was a new low for Delta.“What’s the answer now? Negotiations? Invasion? Hacking her soul?” Nu listed. Delta thought about it then answered.“No, Nu. Today, I have chosen violence as the answer. I’m going to unleash everything I have and cause enough war crimes to get a convention named after me,” she promised as she held up her hand, and something formed.It wriggled as it fell to the ground sniffing.The little pig looked at them, the cheerful mushroom on its back shiny.Then two more were made... then five... then ten...Nu backed off as the pile kept growing. Some variants appearing like Piggleshroom’s with laser mushrooms on their back, some with a burning mushroom that turned them red and aggressive, some with combos Nu would need to research. The pile grew until it was bigger than the surrounding trolls.Underneath it all, as if channeling the voice of a god, the unseen form of Delta let loose a warcry.“Critters do not contribute to MONSTER NUMBER LIMITS!” she yelled as the pile began to surge towards the opening of the door.The swarm moved in crying oinks, somewhat gripping each other as a rough giant pig hoof made the first step forward. The writhing mass of cuteness and oinks began to sort themselves in delight, shaping the pile into something more, but ever in flux.The ones with the Starlight Mushrooms clustered near the eyes and twin laser beams of about twenty Piggles were unleashed in twin howling bursts. The amalgamation opened its mouth where the ember Piggles gathered, all of them unleashing their normally tiny embers into a single ball.Then it happened.Delta pulled out her trump card.From the ceiling, watching mushrooms dancing with Maestro’s music began to cluster, forming a secondary body of Maestro, smaller, but one he could fully possess. The clump gathered then fell onto the already massive critter mass.“A copy body with none of his powers, but full intelligence is considered a critter, but I don’t need anything but his mind,” Delta said as the roots and thing began to rise off its front legs, the mass reshaping itself.“I... am alive!” Maestro’s voice sang as the thing became some demonic pig gentleman with a cane made of Piggles.“I’m... not... done,” Delta hissed at the darkness beyond the door.From the dining room, clearly using the kitchen dumbwaiter to get down faster, a black carpet of spider critters rushed into the garden.They were led by the dancing royal spider nobility of wicked weaves and friends.They joined the mass, webbing weak parts together as the majority of the tiny forms pushed out of Maestro’s back forming four more chitinous legs, the things as sharp as any blade. After a moment, Maestro smoothed down his spider-silk armored tux, the Piggles were strung together, and all the legs were in the best place to propel Delta’s monstrosity in any direction.“Well, it’s nightmares tonight,” Dozer the Guardgoyle announced bluntly.“What is this thing?” Doctor oozed in delight, holding his plague mask cheeks with delight.Delta looked haggard from the effort of breaking every rule she could in rapid succession.“The System said it can’t classify it as any one thing so I guess I get to name it,” she said with a grim tone.Then she smiled and it was unkind.---“Symphony of the Nightmares. A little ditty for Marrow to make sure she learns why you don’t hurt people I promised to look after,” she decided, telling Nu.“Then let us sing into the abyss,” Maestro declared, the giant form of writhing Piggles and Spiders making each movement echo with the sound of moving flesh against flesh, oinks with chitters.“24 hours? Marrow, you idiot... you should have just run,” Delta summed up as the form moved into the pseudo-Dungeon space beyond, holding together through sheer webby-mushroomness.The first wave of skeletons rushed it, trying to stab her Symphony’s feet, but the skeletons’ forgot something or simply didn’t notice. Delta’s Symphony didn’t have one mouth...The giant stilled as countless Piggles and enlarged spiders turned outwards, stubby teeth and fangs visible on every inch of her creation.Delta’s war song had a choir.Now, if she just got this mass close enough to Alpha... also Hero, who was protecting Alpha from Marrow’s corruptive influence...Then the real monster would form.Marrow wanted to play?Delta would play. Delta would play hard.But just in case?Hob and Gob were already running to Durance for Ruli and Quiss. She would not risk Alpha’s soul on her cobbled together no-thought plan.And, just because it was Alpha? She was already using Hero as a beacon. If it came down to it? Delta would contract him through Hero... and respawn him. Where she would put him? She didn’t know, but she had access to that dead Dungeon, if nothing else.Then Marrow would be contracted. Then Delta would destroy her.Then Marrow would be respawned. Then Delta would destroy her.Rinse and repeat.Delta hoped her human side came back quickly from wherever her Dungeon rage had pushed it. Sociopathy was a little too easy to settle into.
