“This isn’t good,” Hero said as he eyed the ante-chamber to the throne room- a large round chamber that could easily fit scores of people or monsters. Alpha would agree, but he was busy trying to maintain his holy aura against the giant beast and its mistress, the sheer decaying power of the undead in charge was smothering. His golden aura flickered like a dying candle compared to it.It wasn’t merely evil or dark. For one, evil wasn’t contained to mere necromantic or shadow arts; Alpha had learned that when he had to fend off a half-broken tree creature that was devouring people. It was bursting with life and power of the earth, but it was also evil.In return, he had been tended to and welcomed into the home of a friendly necromancer who did funeral services and allowed final goodbyes in times of sudden death. So, Alpha knew evil didn’t belong to specific arts or practices alone... just as good didn’t either.Darkness, shadows, and even death had gentle ways about them; just like light, life, and holy could.But here? The necromantic energies were laced with hate, disgust, glee at every wound Alpha took... this was evil. It was also backed by something blacker than itself—a void that gnawed at Alpha’s being, a dark chill under all this frost-touched death.Together, it made moving forward a bit of a hassle since every foe he battered down simply returned after a few minutes; even Hero’s powers of mushrooms could only take down so many in a sort of prison-like manner.It became apparent that this Princess that Delta had warned him off had been keeping her best toys close to her rotten heart.The skeletal dragon’s massive patchy yellow skull turned, empty eye sockets staring at them as a childish giggle emanated from the room beyond.“I’ve never seen anything larger than a bear animated before,” Alpha admitted to Hero as he took a step back in preparation to either charge or run.“Wouldn’t surprise me,” the little bug admitted, “this thing is absolutely leaking powerful magic. The bonus of being of the Dungeon, I see these sorts of things...” Hero admitted.Alpha felt this was a boss. It wasn’t a ‘Boss’ monster, however, as it lacked the same energy that different dungeons could attribute to a particular monster. Still, in theory, a giant monster guarding the final chamber was a boss.Alpha was apt in slaying such things on request.“Should I end it?” he asked Hero quietly, gripping his sword tightly, causing it to glow.“I think you’re worth more alive than dead,” Hero argued.“Not to me,” a bratty voice said before, atop the dragon’s head, between its two horns, a pooling of shadows and mist shaped itself into the form of a girl. Her soft pink dress looked like it had just been freshly woven and stitched on to her body by a platoon of servants, flowing in the image of untarnished innocence.Her white-gloved hands had ornate silver bangles near the elbows which glinted when she moved her hands. Alpha swallowed back a grimace at the face curtained by bouncy blond curls. He saw she had been a beautiful girl of royal features- barely visible cutting cheekbones and sapphire eye color.The left side had all that humanity torn away, as if in rage, to reveal the naked skull underneath; unlike the other undead, her skull was deep ebony with a glowing red rune branded into the side.“I am Princess Mharia, She of Settled Darkness,” she said, curtsying; somewhat by habit. Before she lifted her head, Alpha already let loose the most powerful holy slash he had in his arsenal, bisecting her through the neck and through the other side. The moon crescent flew into the ceiling, exploding the glossy black onyx stone walls, leaving a mess of dust.Mharia brushed her dress despite it remaining clean; no wound visible from the attack. Afterward, she reached up and plucked the frozen golden line across her neck. She dropped it to her side with a tittering noise. The attack, after falling some distance from her form, shot off as if nothing had happened.“First, you are quite rude. I haven’t had company in the longest time, and you just tried to behead me as if the peasants were revolting,” Mharia said before she stepped off the skull and began to float to the ground slowly.“Two, your attacks lack...” Mharia waved a gloved hand as if searching for the right word, “passion. If there was any less spine in that attack? It’d be immune to necromancy despite how I stopped it dead in its track,” she smiled brightly, the thing warped as her skull-side tried to follow the expression.“Lad, run,” Hero hissed, but there was a cracking noise as boney-fangs as large as the dragon claws slid across the way out, forming an intersected bone barrier.“And, finally, as all good things come in threes,” Mharia stopped between Alpha and the Dragon, tilting her head. “You’ve come from the direction of big sister Delta; you must simply be my guest and tell me how-” the girl said, her voice chirping like a bird. She suddenly gurgled as Alpha’s sword buried itself into her open mouth with a flash.Alpha... didn’t remember moving; but he felt that hot bubble of anger at this thing claiming Delta as her sister. They were nothing alike. The skull cracked and the hands spasmed before the figure collapsed into a dark cloud before like a phantom, Mharia reformed unharmed inches away, two dainty fingers on the tip of his blade.Her tone was flatter now as she spoke.“I forgot pain was a thing,” she said before rolling her shoulders.“Now that was passion. But why the anger? Hm, scion of the Two?” she asked lightly, dancing away from Alpha as he twisted his blade at her with a jab. Alpha narrowed his eyes but with a forced measure of breathing; he didn’t rush into attack as the demon girl danced between her pet dragon’s claws.“Delta isn’t your sister; she would never feel as foul as you do,” Alpha said calmly. Mharia tapped her chin as if speculating.“Oh no... this will simply not do,” she sighed as if deeply let down by Alpha. She lifted her dress slightly as she began to shuffle towards him, her voice becoming delighted.“Don’t tell me you think those thieving Two designed Dungeons? Don’t tell me they’re taking credit?” she giggled.“It’s not cute to tell such ugly lies,” Hero said, his tiny insect self having been silent as he eyed up the dragon. Mharia eyed him with clear interest but shrugged.“The concept, at least. Where do you think you are? Some old stinking castle that I was stuck with? Oh, you foolish boy, open your senses. A final chamber, having to face rooms of monsters that rebirth themselves, a big pet with myself in the doors beyond on a throne of power!” Mharia stretched her hands to the sky as if inhaling fresh air instead of the stale wind.“So, you’re the crappy prototype, the older dungeons are the beta, and Delta is final release; I don’t see how this changed why I’m going to destroy you,” Alpha said coldly.Mharia seemed to test the words aloud.“Beta... release... hm, I don’t know these words exactly, but I will,” the girl turned and the skeletal dragon raised her up with its claw, its joint spinning unnaturally.“Let me ask you this; Warrior of the Two. Do the Two, the Sun, in particular, seem that creative? Able to see people and work with them? They weren’t to me, not when I was on the surface. They were forces of nature; not caring deities,” she said, then pointed at him.“Do you think they really changed all that much when they stole the One’s design off us?” Mharia inquired.Then she smiled and it was the most wicked thing Alpha had seen since he awoke in this world. He worked under Perhal; so this was no small feat.“Delta is my sister; far more than she is yours. Her existence links her to me, to us... to him and through her? The world will be changed. It’s a war between the One and the Two to see whom can control that chaos in the end,” Princess Mharia declared.“Ah crap... don’t tell me Sis and Bro installed Delta on EvilGod hardware...” Hero hissed.“It doesn’t matter. Delta won’t hurt people. She won’t corrupt. She won’t do anything this cult approves of,” Alpha said simply as his glowing aura began to blaze. Mharia made a sound of annoyance, flipping a pink fan open as if to protect her face.“You don’t get it, do you boy? She’s-” Mharia began before something in the shadows, the air, the stillness of the silence between words suddenly pulsed and the girl grasped her voice as if something was gently squeezing her throat.At that moment, Alpha felt cold fear fill his veins as a single word echoed around them.“No.”It was spoken by a man with a polite tone, but Mharia’s single human eye went panicking before she was released. The presence faded and the girl rubbed her throat, scowling.“Fine,” she spat at the air before she turned to face Alpha once more.“Regardless of Delta’s actions; you, my little soldier, will be my guest,” she snapped her fingers at her dragon who had been watching.“Smokey-wokey... crush some legs and the bug. Keep the boy alive,” she instructed the beast. There was a beat and Mharia slowly turned on her pet, face wretched with rage until she saw the thick growing vines that had been snaking into its ribcage, blooming a carpet of mushrooms with a strange glowing tip.The dragon shook once but was quite stuck.“Oh, Marrow?” Hero called, sounding smug as his light flickered harshly, showing he had spent everything he had in this form to do this one task. The girl’s head spun on her neck, cracking the spine in fury as she simply didn’t bother moving her body as well.“Mushrooms are an extant form of life and death, you smug little brat,” he yelled as the Starlight Mushrooms inside the dragon began to reach their critical mass of charging.“I’ll consume yo-” Marrow screamed, the rest of her skin falling away to reveal the black lich beast underneath as the pink dress rotted.The Starlight Mushrooms exploded, filling the ante-chamber with blinding light.---Nu felt... sick. He wasn't sure if it was the human body he was practising or just the idea of being human instead of a screen...He didn’t know why as Delta got her little army ready to clear out the rest of the rooms connected to the garden. It was almost premonition in essence; a feeling of something... bad on its way.“Right, so we’ve dealt with the lab, the zoo, the pit, the access to the kitchen, the forge... what’s next, Jack?” Delta asked, oblivious to the tightening of Nu’s non-existent stomach. Before Jack could answer, the entire Dungeon floor shook violently as a shockwave travelled through it.There was a silence before something large began to move towards the large double doors. Nu tried to gather a sense of the other side by what little rooms were claimed, but it was a jumbled mess of Silence essence vs Delta’s mana, like static in his mind.Delta had no such issues. Nu could see it by the way she turned, almost rotating in the air that she could see exactly what was on the other side.“Move back,” she commanded to everyone, Jack especially given his Contract stage. Delta’s tone was that serious one. Nu knew it was the tone that meant ‘I’m about to explode a soul with sheer anger or adopt something violently’.This story originates from Royal Road. Ensure the author gets the support they deserve by reading it there.Another pause and Nu was getting a clearer image as the thing moved deeper into Delta-claimed land. A large four-legged skeleton with folded in boney back protrusions. It stopped before the double doors and Delta tensed, getting ready to do something that Nu was certain not even she knew exactly what.Delta tended to be like that; more fly by the seat of things.There was a harsh knocking.There was enough force in each knock that Delta’s protective runes flared brightly, smoking in protest. Delta’s voice spoke out seconds before Nu could give out a warning of his own.“GET DOWN!” she screamed as the creature slammed into the doors with a violent burst of energy, producing strength beyond its previous efforts. It caused the top of the wooden doors to explode out in enhanced sturdy shrapnel, turning Delta’s protective rune-enchanted wood into dangerous projectiles.The Guardgoyles all turned to stone, forming a protective wall around Jack as the trolls roared as the pieces embedded themselves into their thick skin. From the smoking wreck of the door, a massive skeleton dragon stuck its head through the door, half of its skull black and glowing with a red rune that looked like an eye with the ends crossed in a stitch.“Knock, knock,” the Dragon sang out in an unsuitable voice of some child trying to sound bright despite the fury coating each word.Delta stood unphased by the rubble or the dragon; her face pinched in anger.“No? It’s fine, I can finish the joke myself. Who’s there?” the dragon’s jaw unhinged like a demented puppet.“Delivery Dragon. There’s no punchline, but catch!” Marrow said and the massive claw flung something at Delta’s feet, the body rolling limply with a mess of hair., it was followed by a snapped sword, the pieces clattering together loudly.Alpha laid there, his chest was unmoving.“Al...pha,” Delta bent down, hands shaking and around the room... the Dungeon, lights began to flicker. Nu could feel the systems start and end, reacting to the sheer denial Delta was flooding them all with.The dragon tilted its large head before giggling.“Oh don’t be sad. He’s not dead; not yet,” Marrow said playfully before a wispy projection of some sort showed a throne room with some light orange light pulsing inside a dark crystal, it was slotted into the throne’s top.“I’ve decided that this little cold war and being ignored? I’m just not about that, sister. So, to encourage you to get a move on... you