Eight of the 15 [Counterspell] mages got tripped up by that, their Script Second eaten away by one or two of the Bolts Erick had tried to cast, shadows splashing away magic before it could even form. Counter Mages 9 and 10 each unleashed a spark of shadow that multiplied across all of the remaining parts of Erick’s spellwork, their [Grand Counterspell]s shutting down the other Bolts; their prepared Counter and Script Second eaten by useless magic.

Instantly following his first round of Bolts, Erick manually cast six overlapping Domain magic spells, spreading them out from himself and into the air around in an ever-expanding wave of power, taking 6000 mana to do so. He was down from 55,000, to 48,000 mana.

Those Domains are what caused the remaining Counter mages and one of the warriors above and behind Erick, on top of the dungeon keep, to blow their load. In that flashing instant, they attempted to break his Domains. Only two of them succeeded.

Erick had almost broken the first wave of the attack. Erick’s [Water Domain] and [Light Domain] got shut down, showing that those Counter Mages had some impressive Water and Light-based credentials, which was to be expected, since they knew they were attacking a Benevolence dragon, and that Ashes had a Water Domain, at least.

The Fire, Air, Stone, and Shadow Domains all expanded outward, unimpeded and overlapping.

The Air guy stumbled as he struck Erick’s Air Domain, and Erick transformed a tendril of his aura into his Air Domain and ripped at the Air guy’s own control over his own Air. There was a minor struggle. The man had a Domain of his own, and he was very skilled at breaking other Domains, but Erick was better, and then Erick used [Airshape] to truly rip at the guy, seizing total control of his Air and eradicating the man’s Health, before taking him apart at the waist and then removing both of his arms with the same motion.

He would live; Erick would ensure it, once he dealt with the other four assailants, and the seven more waiting behind them.

As the air guy was still falling forward due to momentum, Erick carved away at a pair of Force Warriors who were much less prepared for Erick, and which only looked dangerous with their large swords and quick strikes. The Force warriors ended up slowly falling to the ground, too, as Erick took their legs and arms from them.

By that time another Script Second was here, and the Mages had another moment to act with their full power, but Erick was prepared for that. His expanding Shadow and Air Domains had only gotten ten meters out at the moment, and Erick had swept through all melee attackers in range, just in time for the first salvos of mage destruction to sail his way.

Erick manually cast some rather well-made reflective spellwork and bounced a good third of that dangerous magery up into the air, harmlessly away.

His Domains kept expanding, because that’s what Erick had created them to do. Now, they reached Wess, and then flowed over him.

Erick left him be, as he disabled the remaining warriors, though one of them did manage to break the Shadow Domain with his own Shadow Domain, or a Domain Breaker skill. Hard to tell, really.

Domains, once released from a person and not directly reinforced, could be broken rather easily by someone else’s Domain. You still needed actual Domain magic in order to fight against a Domain, though. Greensoil had a lot of specialists here and so they could do that, so it didn’t surprise Erick when they killed his remaining Air, Fire, and Stone Domains.

Erick had more power than that, though.

Erick switched to Ice Magic and did a few easy take downs here and there, using Ice that was cold enough to inflict the Stop status effect, which he repeated on every downed person, just so they couldn’t get back up under their own power. In the middle of that, Erick flowed out an Ice Domain, like a tidal wave of domination, washing across the entire ironcrystal courtyard, and splashing up and out, catching every mage in its wake.

Erick left Stopped human popsicles all across the courtyard.

Little bits of blood decorated the white ice all over the land, but there were no permanent injuries. Some people even managed to escape the freezing, like Wess, because Erick left him be, and two mages on the walls, because they were that good. Those mages were the ones who had managed to eradicate Erick’s Water and Light Domains. The final survivor was the Green Circle assassin.

Ice, blue and white and meters thick in some places, layered across everyone and everything except those four people, and Erick.

And the monster by the dungeon entrance was fine, of course; Erick didn’t touch the giant spider at all.

In the still of the frozen land, Erick breathed. That fight had cost him exactly 3 seconds of actual time, and about 30,000 mana. If he needed to [Return], he’d get that 30,000 mana back, but not the mana he’d use for [Return], which is why Erick had saved his Script Second for that spell, so the Script could help him reduce the cost of that magic from 10,000 mana to 500. Erick had been rather sure of his victory, but nothing was ever certain when it came to conflict like this.

Erick looked at Wess. “You are coming with me now, and I am taking you to see The Wizard. Will you comply?”

“I will,” Wess said, without hesitation.

The Circle assassin finally revealed himself, as though the space where ice did not touch wasn’t revealing enough. The man’s green robes flowed as he took one step forward, and said, “I would also speak to the Wizard regarding this matter, and other matters.”

Erick looked up to the walls where the Water and Light Domain mages had managed to hold off Erick’s ice. Those two were not nearly as cool-under-pressure as Wess and the assassin, but they were not freaking out either. They could probably hold it together for a little while longer. Erick looking directly at them wasn’t doing them any favors, though. “Are they going to be able to save the people here? Or do I need to do that myself?”

The assassin said, “They are competent enough to save those here, though a retraction of your Domain would be useful after we have left.”

Erick nodded. And then he had Ophiel descend from the sky in a show of complete force, wearing his 5 meter wide form and layered in spellwork and with his signature reflective shield of silver thorns. Ophiel roared in displeasure-flutes as he landed in front of Wess and the assassin, and then he opened a [Gate] to Candlepoint, to Erick’s throne room, which Erick had already made sure was available, and prepared.

It had taken Burhendurur and some Elites a [Hasted Shelter] in order to get ready for this fallout here, though. But they were ready.

And then Ophiel opened another [Gate] near Erick, and Erick had Ophiel say, “You go here. Deal with you later!”

And Erick said, “It appears I am headed somewhere else for the moment.”

Erick walked through the [Gate], and it shut behind him.

Erick took a moment, there in an unimportant but well-guarded transportation room in House Benevolence used for this sort of thing, to collect himself. And then he transformed into the Apparent King with his crown of black horns, and over two meters tall. A quick shift of clothing deposited his Ashes outfit into a trunk, while he put on more normal clothes. He was ready for the meeting in the throne room, but he took a moment to fix what he had done at the Glittering Depths, releasing everyone from the ice and then healing them all.

Wess and the Circle Assassin, whom Zolan had found out was named Vance, waited in the center of the throne room, at Erick’s pleasure.

Erick touched the All-Seeing Eye on his chest, and wondered if he wanted to keep it. That trinket was how these people had recognized Ashes’s disregard for the rules of the Glittering Depths; he had come walking out of there wearing it, after all. The staff had only appeared later.

How long had that taken them to set up? They had to have been watching from the control rooms of the dungeon, or something like that. They had gotten ready rather fast.

But first things first!

Erick grabbed Ophiel and hugged him tight, saying, “You acted so well, Ophiel! I’m so proud of you!”

Ophiel twittered, “I’m actor! I hide and play good!”

“Yes you do, Ophiel. Very good job. Very good.”

And then Erick looked at the not-golden staff floating beside him.

It looked a bit odd, to Erick, like it was waiting for orders, or something.

Erick asked, “Can you transform into smaller forms, like Ophiel here?”

The staff instantly became a circle of golden wheat with a glittering white gem surrounded by golden grains.

… Erick put the bracelet on his right arm, and then held it up. “Okay. That’s good. Thank you.”

The not-staff twinkled.

“… Okay then,” Erick said to himself, “Time to go prevent an international crisis, even though I’m pretty sure they expected it to go this way to begin with.”

Ophiel twittered, uncaring about politics he didn’t really understand, and instead focused on landing on Erick’s shoulder, taking his rightful, happy place.

The not-staff was inert.

If you come across this story on Amazon, be aware that it has been stolen from Royal Road. Please report it.

- - - -

Erick let the warrior and the assassin stew for a good 30 minutes in his throne room, alone, at attention on the carpet in front of his dais. They could still communicate with whoever they wished, though, and they did. While Erick spoke to a few people and to Cyril and Yetta over in Odaali about the Odaari event happening today, he kept an eye on Wess and Vance, and on how they telepathically communicated with a lot of other people.

Zolan watched them too. He assumed they were either getting yelled at by their superiors, or they were doing exactly what they were supposed to be doing, now that Erick had come to the rescue of ‘his Benevolence Dragon’. It was hard for Erick to tell any more than that, too, for they were rather accomplished at not letting their telepathic words come out in the microexpressions of their face, or in the unintended movements of their throats and tongues. Eventually, Erick managed to sort out the schedule for the Odaari hearing happening, and then he turned his attentions back to his throne room, fully.

The Apparent King stepped through a [Gate] onto his throne’s dais, his words a clear accusation against the warrior and the assassin, “You are purposefully interfering with my ability to attend to this Denutha Odaari event today.”

Both Wess and Vance’s eyes got a little wider, before they controlled themselves better than that. Either Wess and Vance were great actors, which was likely true, or else they truly did not know that that was what they were doing.

Wess spoke first, “I do not know your meaning, Wizard Flatt.”

Vance had the decency to at least pretend to honor the position he was in, here in a foreign sovereign's throne room, for he took a bow. With his head still bent, he said, “I am unaware of any plot such as the one you outline, Good Wizard Flatt.”

“Rise.” Erick said, “I have already heard the story from Ashes, and he has already handed over this trinket he made down there.” Erick took out the All-Seeing Eye from around his neck, under his robes, and said, “An All-Seeing Eye. Quite the wonder, actually. It let him see every single part of your attack and also a few more interesting things in that dungeon you have there. I might give it back to him, but it’s a mana crystal, and those are rather interesting.” He put the eye back under his robes, and then he opened a [Gate] to his right, just beyond his throne dais, and Poi stepped out, dressed for diplomatic battle. “Speak plainly, or give a detailed report to my Overseer of Mind Mages. I would prefer both.”

Poi gave a small nod toward Erick, and then stood at relaxed attention to the side.

Wess did not speak.

Vance took a half-step forward. “The Greensoil Republic formally charges Ashes Woodfield with resisting arrest, distribution of magical goods without a license, accessory to murder, accessory to anarchy, and empowerment of demonic forces. Were he less than himself, or not tied to you, we would call for his execution and exile, and accept whichever outcome we could actually enforce, while pursuing the execution option to the best of our ability. But he is a dragon, so we would likely accept exile. Since he is tied to House Benevolence, we would ask for your cooperation in apprehending this criminal.”

The assassin didn’t flinch as Erick ordered him to spill the story, and then he proceeded not to spill any story at all. Vance went straight for the fallout of this whole event, skipping several steps of the normal process of information exchange and thus trying to put himself and Greensoil in a position of better power over House Benevolence.

Erick decided that he wasn’t going to allow them to skip to the sentencing, as he repeated his previous command, but in different words, “I would hear what Ashes has done from your perspective.”

Vance nodded his head politically, and then he stepped back in line with Wess.

Wess took a half-step forward. “Greensoil asks if you are aware of the demonic murders happening in the capital of Greensoil? In Greendale?”

“Mostly. Ashes mentioned those, and I looked into them.”

Wess waited for Erick to say more, but when he didn’t, Wess continued, “Ashes Woodfield has created artifacts of power inside the Gem Dungeon and distributed them for gold to other forces inside the dungeon. This is not a problem, for ironcrystal items are fake magic. But Ashes has also caused items to become real, through Wizardry. This is where the charges against magical item creation come from. It is our belief that Mister Woodfield has done much more than this, though, and has directly given Artifacts of power to unknown demonic sympathizers located in the Gem Dungeon, for the express purpose of undermining the authority of the Viridian Throne, through the systematic murder of judges, Inquisitors, high-ranking merchants, and nobles. The nobles are the only murders which we have not been able to keep out of the Knowledge Mage readers, so we did not try.

“In truth, every murder was a political assassination, with an origin from inside the Gem Dungeon.

“Three out of every 4 persons who were killed were proponents of hardline human-only rule, and staunch supporters of the Viridian Throne. The remaining quarter murders were beloved middle-road proponents, who likely ran afoul of the anti-human murderers.

