“There was one notable exception to this pattern. One lady by the name of Kendraii Waters became a progressive in the High Royal Court after she gained an appreciation for the Wasteland outreach programs of three years ago. After the outbreak of dungeon breaks led to an increase in Quiet War tension and the removal of the direct Greensoil/Wasteland Gate Network two years ago, Lady Waters became much more vocal in her calls for peace.

“She was one of the first demonic murders.

“She was ritually slain in a Church of the Holy Host in northern Greendale, desecrating that church and spawning hundreds of imps that then spread into the surrounding city. Over forty people were injured by those imps, but no one else was killed.

“Perhaps Lady Waters was killed because she would have been able to speak to the demons and talk them out of what they planned to do next. Maybe she was killed for some other reason. We do not know, for her soul resides on Hell now; she is unreachable by us.

“Every single killing has produced a Hell-tainted soul, which has been unreachable, and a few have spawned imps, which have proven to be nuisances.

“Ashes has made artifacts of power, and then made them real, and these artifacts have been noticed in at least 2 incidents. Once, at an attempted assassination at the noble house of the Farfields, and at a recorded killing of a head guard, which we think was an opportunistic killing, and thus the murderers did not take the proper precautions to hide themselves from our mana sensers.

“We have linked his Bracelets of [Hidden Wind] and his Breastplate of Absolute Defense to those killings.” Wess finished with, “And so, we request the relinquishment of Mister Ashes to Greensoil and to the Viridian Throne, so that he might answer questions for us.”

Erick pretended to give their words some thought, because that’s what you did in situations like this. And then he said, “Greendale’s request for Ashes is denied. I will now be involving myself directly.”

Wess stepped back.

Vance stepped forward. “Then we rescind our request for Ashes, ask you to leave us to our own affairs, and request that you keep Ashes out of our territory from now until forever.”

“It’s easy for me to honor the request to leave your problems to you, but then you go and attack my dragons with unproven accusations.” Erick stared, as he added, “Don’t ever attack my dragons ever again. Come to me if you have a problem with one of them.”

Vance calmly stated, “Your request will be forwarded to our Grand Viridian King, Darundi Raivo, may he reign on Veird as Adavido does on Celes.”

Erick said, “I require your full report on these demonic murders in order to investigate Ashes myself, and I require your full report on the Riamite incursion into your lands. Whether you choose to give me these reports or not will dictate my response to finding out all this information for myself.”

Wess and Vance betrayed nothing when Erick mentioned ‘Riamite incursion’.

Vance and Wess both bowed instead of giving an answer.

“This meeting is over.” Erick asked, “Where would you like to be deposited?”

“The Gem Dungeon, Wizard Flatt,” said Vance.

Erick opened a [Gate], and the Inquisitors departed.

He closed the [Gate], and frowned.

Poi said, “Wess was truthful as far as he knew.”

“… So Vance knew more, but Wess did not.”

“The Green Circle often knows more than the Viridian Inquisitors, but they’re really just different hands of the same throne, and sometimes those positions of knowledge are reversed.”

Erick thought for a moment about everything that he had heard. Then he said, “I require Burhendurur and Enforcement to do some investigating. Let them know the contents of this meeting.”

“Should I tell them about Ashes?”

“Burhendurur, yes. The rest, no.”

Poi nodded, as he sent out tendrils of thought.

“Thank you, Poi.”

Poi smiled a little, as he nodded again.

Erick had two large events to prepare for, now. This thing with the demonic murders was just one event. The other was over a decade in the making.

- - - -

The prosecution consisted of the King of Odaali, Cyril Odaali, and his grandmother, Duchess Wilhelmina Dominair, Lady of the High Court, eighth cousin of the Viridian King. It was hard to say which one of them were more politically powerful in this particular venue. Erick hadn’t interacted with Wilhelmina in well over a decade, back when he had worked with Odaali-in-Exile to take back their white-walled city from the Halls of the Dead. He didn’t interact with her much this time, either, but she was the main way in which Odaali was actually able to speak at the High Court, here in Greendale.

An older human woman by the name of Ilulia Whitefield was the royal barrister for many of Odaali’s legal cases, and she was the prosecutor for Odaali versus Odaari. She was good at her job, Erick thought, but she was facing impossible odds, so she would likely fail to make Odaali’s case for them.

Those three people sat on one side of a large wooden table.

On the other side of the table sat barrister Tadd Greenfield; an older man of strong eyes and declining physicality, but who had a strong voice and his health wasn’t that bad. He represented the Viridian Throne’s interest in keeping Odaari under Greendale control.

Denutha Odaari wasn’t actually in attendance. Instead, two Inquisitors stood behind Tadd Greenfield.

None of them had spoken more than a few perfunctory words, because the actual people in charge in this room were Erick, sitting at one end of the table, flanked by Poi and Burhendurur, while the Viridian King sat at the other end.

Grand King Darundi Raivo was a 75 year old man of pale skin, midnight black hair, and a strong body, who wore a green and white suit, and a subtle wreath of emeralds for a crown. He had been in power since long before Erick fell to Veird. He was flanked by Vance, the Circle assassin, and some man in dark green armor.

Darundi had arrived ten seconds ago, as the last person to arrive, and only after Erick had sat down.

Erick spoke first, “Greetings, Darundi.”

“Greetings, Erick,” said Darundi. “Two things: One: I want Ashes in custody answering questions for me. Two: I want you to give up this quest for information on Odaari.”

“I want Ashes to be allowed to return to the Glittering Depths, and to be allowed to clear his own name, to work in this land without threat from Inquisitors or otherwise and to discover this demonic threat and put it down himself. And I want Odaari to publicly explain herself, as she wants to do, and as the victims of her crimes want her to do.”

Darundi paused. Then he asked, “Vance? Your opinion on Ashes?”

“We’ll allow Ashes to come back if he agrees to Inquisitor accompaniment. Wess Clover will be that accompaniment.”

Erick said, “Inquisitor accompaniment outside the dungeon, only. Not inside. I will be watching closely when I feel like it.” He added, “I still haven’t gotten that full report on what actually happened with the dungeon artifacts and the demonic murders.”

Darundi said, “Done. Vance will turn in that information to your man Burhendurur as soon as this meeting is over. Ashes will be read in at the dungeon. He is not allowed outside the dungeon lands without accompaniment, but he shall not be infringed outside of the dungeon as long as he doesn’t do any infringing himself.” He went on, “Odaari will explain herself to ten people selected by Odaali. It will be a sealed testimony. No one will be allowed to speak of it outside of that room.”

Erick looked to Cyril, because ultimately the Odaari outcome was his choice.

Wilhelmina eyed Cyril, too, silently urging him to consider the deal.

Cyril shook his head.

Darundi frowned at the man.

Erick said, “That deal does not seem to be acceptable. I would like to know why this is still a problem at all. Why not let her put her story out there to as many people as Odaali desires? Surely her story cannot be that bad.”

“It’s the typical story of a disenfranchised noble who went to an enemy in order to get what they wanted. There is nothing special to it at all, but I will not have stories like that spread, giving other people ideas about how to do the same.” Darundi asked, “Do you want her dead, Erick? Or do you want her transformed? Reborn and Blessed? I will allow any of that, but if she does not die, I want her back. What I will not allow is Odaali to claim that their vengeance is above the authority and needs of the Republic itself. I would also prefer that Odaali never went and got you involved, but I suppose that event has come and gone.”

“I went to them because of a conversation with Atunir; they did not come to me.” Erick continued, “And what ‘needs’ of the Republic do you mean? Is Odaari working on more Plant Magic?”

Darundi didn’t wholly believe that Odaali didn’t contact Erick directly, but he was willing to accept Erick’s words on that at face value. As for the rest, he answered, “Academically; yes. Denutha Odaari is working on Plant Magic. We don’t allow her to cast actual magic, but she is allowed a hundred mana per day, no more than 5 mana per spell. This allows her modicum of self-reliance, for she is almost completely a theoretical researcher now; teaching approved students and living a modest life on palace grounds, under the eyes of the Inquisition. Maybe after a few more years of prayer and repentance her plea of forgiveness from Atunir will actually be heard, and that Quest will close.”

Erick was a little conflicted now, and he let it show, because he was about to just end this intrigue now…

Cyril saw, and he could not help from showing his sudden sorrow at that.

Erick said to Cyril, “Atunir has personally told me that if I [Reincarnation] and Empathy Odaari, that this is acceptable to her. She just wants to close the Kill and Exterminate Quest, and if Odaari is truly repentant, then the only problem is here, among the people in this room.”

Darundi seemed to accept that.

Cyril and Wilhelmina were more accepting, because Erick had told them all of this earlier, and Yetta confirmed it. But Yetta wasn’t here right now, and Cyril… Well.

Cyril solidly said, “Odaali is due our bowl of blood. We will have Odaari speak her reasonings for what she did to all of us, and we would have her unsheltered by any other forces. This includes the Viridian Throne, and House Benevolence.”

“So the sticking point is you want a public announcement with yourself in total power over the situation,” Erick concluded, spelling out the absolute depth of their conviction. “Even if Darundi increased his offer to a thousand nobles and commoners, it would still not be enough.”

“The entire population of Odaali deserves to know what happened,” Cyril said. “Any sealed room report is not good enough.”

“That’s all they want, and that’s not what I’m giving them,” Darundi said, standing. “So now it’s time for the lawyers to talk. Would you like to speak to Odaari yourself, Erick?”

Erick stood, saying, “I suppose it’s time.”

Darundi gestured to the side, and the large armored man at his back opened an orange-colored [Gate] to elsewhere. This was how Darundi had arrived to this meeting, and how Darundi got around Greensoil. The armored man was one of those who had gotten to the Worldly Path part of the way to [Gate], but he had just purchased that spell instead of Walking the Path… Probably. Must have been hard for him since Melemizargo had locked down all Spatial Magic across the world of Veird. He didn’t look old enough to be from before the Teleport Exodus, and it was still possible to set up special zones where one could still learn that magic, so that’s probably what happened there. Kiri had needed to set up places like that when she chose to walk The Worldly Path.

Darundi walked through the [Gate], his men followed him, and then Erick followed them, with Poi and Burhendurur taking up the rear. Ophiel remained behind so Erick could check on what the lawyers would say when he left, while a different Ophiel came along for the ride on Erick’s shoulder. For the most part, Erick focused on what came next, as he stepped down the wide white road leading to the Green Palace of Greendale.

Erick walked with Darundi, saying, “The palace looks as good as ever.”

Darundi said, “I would ask for your men and my men to go deal with the paperwork and otherwise, while you and I walk, Erick.”

Erick nodded.

Vance and the armored guy stopped walking and bowed. Poi and Burhendurur did the same. Then the four of them veered off toward the right, following a small path across the grass between hedges of roses, toward another building beyond the flower gardens.

Erick and Darundi walked toward the palace. The main structure was like a wide apartment building, and almost reminded Erick of a french palace; made for entertaining and luxury, instead of for defense. The gardens out front were filled with small nooks and large open areas with gazebos and small ponds. Gardeners maintained everything, constantly, while a node network and specialty spells provided generalized stabilization for the entire system.

That was all a lie, though, because what the node network really did was make the Grand Green Palace of Greendale one of the most secure locations in this world, with every spell keyed to Darundi and a select few others to allow them complete access, while denying all outsiders.

Darundi led Erick through several arches of those sorts of spells, as they approached the front stairs to the front doors of the palace. The last time Erick had been here, these spells had prevented even him from being able to mana sense everywhere, but now, this All-Seeing Eye allowed him to see past the doors, and to see through the layered spellwork on the other side. There was no trap, or anything like that. There was just a butler waiting to open the doors and a small group of people standing on both sides of a green carpet, in front of a grand staircase in the back of the entrance hall.

And then the doors opened from the other side, revealing what Erick had already seen.

Darundi walked forward, asking, “Are you able to spend any great length of time, Erick? Or only a short while?”

“A few real hours won’t cause any harm.”

“Excellent. Let us adjourn to the White Room.”

A few servants out of the lineup bowed and then broke off from the main room to head toward the servant hallways, behind curtains near the stairwell, as Darundi led Erick toward the left wing.

