The white room was, as the name suggested, white. White walls, floor, furniture, ceiling. Accents of gold and silver and green held here and there in the moulding and the ribbing of the furniture, while the light of the world outside streamed in, adding a vibrancy to the space that it otherwise lacked.

A whole bunch of refreshments on a tea table, between two couches, provided more color. Finger foods, mostly, with meats and cheeses and fried options, but also chocolates and cookies. Two tea cups had already been poured and sat steaming next to a teapot filled with more tea, if they wanted more. The staff here worked fast.

Darundi sat down on one of the couches, while he gestured at the other couch, saying, “Please sit with me, and let us speak more freely behind all these layers of power.”

Erick smiled a little bit, and then sat down, flicking aside his robes so they laid beside him instead of under him, revealing a deep black inner lining contrasted with the entire rest of the room, as if the black lines on his robes weren’t already deeply different. “Are you sure we’re not being spied upon? What about that string of power leading from here into your basement? Where a man and woman sit, listening in; and now they are breathing deep and worrying about everything… And now they are apologizing.”

“I trust them with my life, but I don’t exactly trust you, Erick. They will stay.”

“As long as they can keep some worldly secrets, then that’s fine with me.”

“They can.” Darundi said, “Let us begin with how you are Ashes.”

Erick smiled. “Ah! Good. I’m glad I don’t have to explain that, and we can skip ahead—”

“You don’t deny it?”

“You’re the one who agreed to let Ashes come back, and so he shall, and so I shall get to the bottom of this Glittering-Depths/demonic-connection thing happening therein. You will be informed of the outcome, of course.” Erick accused, “To that end: What’s up with Greensoil killing Lady Waters in a false flag operation at the start of these demonic murders?”

Darundi sat back on his couch, and said, “That’s one of many rumors going around, but it’s not actually true from my end.”

“It’s hard to read you, Darundi. It’s one of the things that impresses me about you, but what doesn’t impress me is that someone who was calling for reforms of interactions with the Wasteland winds up dead and imps fly out from that death. It speaks of Quiet War trouble, and that distresses me.”

“We are similarly distressed, then, for I have heard that you plan on unsealing Yggdrasil in the coming months.”

“Resealing. Not unsealing.” Erick said, “Surely you have summoned a demon of your own to find out what they know of these murders. I plan to do so later. Now I ask you true: are these ‘demonic murders’ actually ‘demonic murders’, or are they something else?”

“Someone is killing nobles and turning them into demons. Someone in the Gem Dungeon is involved. Perhaps a lot of people. These are but a few of the major facts of the case. If you can solve this matter through approaching Hell directly, then I’m fine with that, but so far our overtures to Hell have been met with nothing… And a lot of hate, both on our side and theirs. Nothing conclusive either way.” Darundi asked, “Have you heard of what happened in the Gem Dungeon 15 months ago?”

“When the Riamites infiltrated Greendale and got rather far before they were noticed?”

“They didn’t get that far. But they did begin to influence some local politics in the off-color districts. They were drumming up support for various integration policies that would have left us vulnerable to demonic infiltration. Their face-stealing was found out because they misunderstood our various ‘tyrannical policies’, as I have heard you call them, and thought that they could… do whatever it was they were planning on. We’re not entirely sure of that ourselves. The only thing we’re sure of is that those Riamites had gotten away from the nobles responsible for letting them out of the Glittering Depths, and begun to make their own plans.” Darundi said, “When that happened, the nobles prostrated themselves before the Throne, detailing every part of their involvement with the Riamites that did not show them in a bad light, and we dismantled that issue.”

Erick’s eyebrows went up a little, in surprise. “Ah. I assume that the nobles got off with a slap on the face, and nothing more, and then they tried again, and this time they got killed instead.”

Darundi said, “That is what we’ve been able to put together. Every single noble family tied to that original Riamite intrigue and many lesser clerks, judges, guards, and otherwise, have all been killed. The Manfields were first, then the Chesterfields, then the Waterroads, Adamsmiths, and 4 Farfields. One Farfield survived. She is in protective custody.

“Lady Kendraii Waters was among the first to die. All the heads of the noble families followed her same execution style; the transformation of the target’s soul into that of a demon, and the release of hundreds of imps.” Darundi said, “A few of the judges received the same treatment.”

Erick had a few ideas of what might be happening already, but he wasn’t sure. “I need to see the full reports.”

“I would ask you to limit your interference in our affairs, Erick… But I have heard stories of the Riamite menace. That is the only reason I am allowing ‘Ashes’ to continue to exist.”

“That is the only reason I am planning on interfering exactly as much as I need to in order to prevent the worst from happening.” Erick frowned as he lightly demanded to know, “How have you not destroyed the Gem Dungeon by now, simply for the threat the Riamites pose?”

Darundi smiled at that. “It keeps people on their toes to know that ultimate evil does exist. If the Manfields and all the rest would have taken that lesson to heart, instead of trying to profit from it, then they wouldn’t be dead right now. And honestly, I am fine with them being dead; I don’t need idiots like that in my Republic.” He shrugged. “Even not counting that it’s Atunir’s dungeon, that Grand Dungeon brings in too much gold and power for me to discount it that easily. It’s like Spur and how Ar’Kendrithyst used to be, but with much more manageable evil.”

Erick realized something else. “… You’re already making metaweapons and bringing them out of the Gem Dungeon.”

Erick knew how Greensoil would do this, too. All it would take is some minor Wizardry from a person who had made a core and gained base mana production from killing big bosses in the Dark. That was one of the original reasons that Melemizargo made the dungeons, after all; to allow people to actually increase their base mana production. With enough base mana production, and with a core to hold that mana, one could easily make some minor Wizardry.

Enough minor Wizardry to turn metamonds real.

Erick stated, “Other people truly have been turning my own metaweapons and otherwise real, and using them in those demonic murders; Wess wasn’t lying about that.”

Darundi lightly stared, as he said, “Transforming the metaitems of others into all-world items is not as easy as you are thinking. Someone else has figured out the perfect process, though… Unless it has truly been you supplying weapons to my enemies.”

“I’ve accidentally made one real item, and then purposefully made a second.”

Darundi’s stare hardened for a moment, and then he pulled back, saying, “Then you should know that someone else has figured out that process, and they’re able to apply it to items made by others. I wish you luck on finding out who has transformed your Breastplate of Absolute Reduction into a real item. Perhaps you will have better luck tracing that transactional history than us.”

“I made ten of those.” Erick said, “They weren’t hard to make and they went everywhere.”

“… Well that’s disappointing news. You probably have no idea of the transactional history of that item at all, do you?”

“I haven’t given any thought to those items, because I was rather sure that it was difficult to make an item real.”

“Well, it is.” Darundi sighed. “Congrats on the Iron Bandits ripping through floor 200 to 229, by the way; they couldn’t have done it without you.”

“… Do you think that the last Farfield will be targeted for execution by the killer, or killers?”

“Likely not; she wasn’t important at all, but perhaps she will be and the killers will target her, but we have her in protective custody now.” Darundi said, “Every single noble who worked with the Riamites before now is dead, along with at least 28 softer targets, so we believe the killer or killers will likely go into the shadows, to wait before implementing their ‘phase 2’, which we assume will be another political takeover of some sort. We’re prepared for that, though.”

Erick sat back on the couch and had a deep think. “How much actual collateral damage was there?”

“The bursts of imps at each major death has caused collateral damage… But not much. You would have to read the reports yourself to see if you disagree.”

After a moment, Erick said, “I appreciate your candor, Darundi.”

“You’re one of the few people I can trust to be yourself and not lie when it’s important, Erick.” And then Darundi conversationally declared, “I hope that by this exchange of information and by the allowances of your person to return to the Glittering Depths that we shall continue to reaffirm a positive relationship between House Benevolence and Greensoil.”

“House Benevolence appreciates and understands the positions of Greensoil.” Erick said, “I would see Odaari, now.”

“She’s on her way.” And then Darundi picked up a chocolate and ate it, saying, “I hope I had them make your favorites.”

Erick smiled a little, and then picked up a small, blackened scarlet king fish sandwich, saying, “From Yggdrasil’s fish farm?”

“Only the best for the Wizard.”

Erick smiled a lot more at that, and then he ate the small bit of a much larger fish that his son had raised himself, up by Treehome.

The conversation moved on to less important topics, which were not actually less important at all. Like how Erick found the experience of the Glittering Depths, and what was happening down at Storm’s Edge, and the functionality of the Gate Network and how it could better suit Darundi’s needs, and the needs of Greensoil.

As they spoke, Erick confirmed a few things in roundabout ways, just as Darundi was doing as he spoke to Erick.

Darundi had suspected that Erick was trying to undermine the Republic for various unknown reasons, through the use of the Gem Dungeon’s resources or people. He suspected, in the beginning, that Erick had been behind all of these recent murders, for the majority of deaths were of hard-line human supremacists, and Erick was very much against that sort of thing. The Viridian King was also worried about Erick simply pulling the plug on their access to the Gate Network, or doing something else equally horrible.

Erick had always assured people that he would never use his authority over the Gate Network to control the politics of other nations, and he had never broken that promise. He reaffirmed that promise today, though it irked Erick that he needed to do that at all.

Erick was pretty sure that Darundi was feeling insecure about his reign for multiple reasons, only some of which were because the hard-line human supremacists were likely some of Darundi’s staunchest supporters. And now some of those supporters were dead.

On the surface, their whole conversation had been fraught with question and concern, but neither Erick nor Darundi went into the depths as far as they could have gone. Sometimes discretion was preferred when it came to worldly powers.

Both of them knew most of what the other was up to, anyway.

Darundi was a tyrant of and for humanity.

Erick was a cosmopolitan progressive.

Erick wanted to punch the man every time he visited, but he refrained. It would do no good to depose Darundi anyway, for the Viridian King only had a majority control over the politics of Greendale and a federal-level of control over all the rest of the Republic. Even that overarching level of control was only due to his state-sanctioned Green Circle of Assassins; he could legally kill or have killed anyone he wanted in the entirety of Greensoil, but he couldn’t enact legislation or otherwise without the consent of the nobility. That’s how the Republic was set up.

The problems of Greensoil were better solved through grassroots movements, Erick had found, or, as Erick actually preferred, having a bunch of the progressives from Greensoil move out of Greensoil and come to the Crystal Forest…

Which actually brought up a very good point.

One he almost asked Darundi about.

Had Darundi ordered the deaths of those hardliner human-supremacists, himself? Because, with Erick pulling out all the other progressives from his land, those nobles started calling for something too dangerous? Perhaps open war against the Wasteland? Such a step would prove disastrous if it were ever allowed to get off the ground.

Or was Darundi actually hurting for having a sizable chunk of his base murdered out from under him?

Hard to know.
