“We were just as shocked when we first arrived. Luckily, Master Azh’Rezak found a thigh to grab onto before we were robbed blind,” Ventus said while frantically tapping away at his abacus. “Still, we shouldn’t linger. We need to be gone before the big shots return. Mistress An’Azol, I’d appreciate it if you donned the cloak. Even with proper credentials, your grace will stand out in those clothes.”

“So what’s going on?” Zac asked, already draped in the crude garment.

“You’ll understand soon,” Ventus said, leading them back into the building he escaped. From there, he took them down an underground corridor. The stench was overwhelming. Then again, the streets above weren’t much better. “I know you have questions, but please be patient. This place is complicated, and the walls have ears.”

The Numerologist led the two through the labyrinth of misery in silence, navigating alleys and indoor corridors within the jam-packed buildings. Occasionally, they cut straight through people’s living quarters. Strangely, the inhabitants merely shot the trio an annoyed glance before going about their business.

The cramped buildings eventually gave way to a more orderly city. There was still no sky, and the Cosmic Energy was inferior to most E-grade worlds, but Zac finally felt he could breathe again. He was shocked by the sheer size of the slums; there had to be millions upon millions living inside.

After another round of calculations, Ventus guided them up a flight of stairs for a better view of the city beyond. Zac took a deep breath, feeling as if he’d emerged from a toxic lake. The streets were wider, and likely due to some ordinance, the buildings only reached three-quarters of the way to the ceiling.

The lightbulbs were evenly mounted in the ceiling like spotlights, rather than haphazardly placed. Beyond the city, there were terraced farmlands and a few massive structures larger than entire districts in the slums. The vantage also revealed a surprising number of D-grade guards patrolling the streets.

Overall, the shelter was much larger than Zac had expected, to the point where he couldn’t see the other end. Only a faint glimmer of Imperial Faith confirmed they were still within the memory domain. The area was far larger than what they had seen above ground and among the largest domains he’d visited if the other directions looked the same.

Zac barely had time to absorb the scene before a massive explosion erupted in the distance. It was followed by three flashes of light, and three concentric shockwaves swept toward the city. Zac exhaled as the blasts scattered, with no follow-up to the initial clash.

“What the hell was that?” Zac whispered. “That had to be a clash between Late Monarchs.”

“That would be the negotiations between the Pathfinders and the Rosemore Sect falling through,” Ventus said, furiously scribbling on a parchment. “Let’s go.”

Back on the street, Ventus used his Numerology to avoid as many guards as possible. When they were eventually stopped by a group of Early Hegemons, he presented a certificate bearing an insignia matching their equipment. While exchanging pleasantries, the Elf also handed over two uncut crystals that Zac didn’t recognize.

They emitted a chaotic mix, dominated by the Inverse Dao of the Lower Planes. It was completely different from the unusually unattuned atmosphere. The captain gave the certificate a cursory glance before waving them on with a smile, and Ventus stopped in front of one of the high-rises shortly after.

“We’re here,” Ventus said, leading them down into a cellar after checking his left and right.

A narrow path led to a small basement without windows or other exits. A group of five played cards on a table that took up half the room. They looked just like the gangsters they’d taken out just minutes before. It was clearly a disguise. Zac could tell the mobsters were highly trained and ready to strike at a moment’s notice. He even felt a vague threat from the leader.

“Your buddies came looking for you, after all?” the leader said, giving Zac and Tavza a pitying look. “The Heavens are ruthless, so what’s the point of nostalgia? You should have burned some incense instead of looking for trouble.”

“What if they’d found some treasure and ran off in the night? Couldn't take that chance,” Zac said with a slight smile, seeing that the leader was just joking around.

“Aye, greed is just as dangerous as a soft heart,” the captain laughed as a hidden door opened behind them. “Anyway, welcome to the mousetrap. I’m Halvar. You two look like you’ll be useful in a scrap. That’s perfect; we’re woefully short-staffed.”

Ventus had handed over his notes during the exchange. Halvar skimmed through them, and his lazy expression turned into a somber frown. “So it’s already come to this.”

“My companion?” Ventus asked.

“He’s investigating the refinery. Eighth gate,” Halvar said. “Be careful. It’s going down today, so quickly catch your friends up to speed.”

Ventus led them down the hidden path. The gate closed behind them, and Halvar’s parting words became an echo traveling by their side.

“If they’re going to die, they should at least know why.”
