[Unleash] – A master of cursed items never fights alone. Meld your power with that of an item bearing a soul, allowing it to temporarily manifest itself. The effects and duration of this ability depend on the strength of the targeted item. Stronger items will require increased amounts of magical energy to maintain their bond, and this ability is ineffective on items whose requirements exceed the magical energy you can supply.

Energy prickled within Arwin. His jaw tightened.

The pain shooting through him was not real.

His bones were not broken. His body was not destroyed. He was not defeated.

This was his mind.

The Wyrm stepped to the side, giving Arwin to room to rise.

Arwin rose.

“Your existence is a plague on all that know you,” the Ashleaf Tree roared. “You killed your men. You killed Blake, and you will kill the rest of your guild. You press ahead without thought or calculation. You are a hypocrite, a fool, and a plague on all that know you, Arwin Tyrr.”

“You’re not entirely wrong,” Arwin said, spitting blood onto the ground and baring his teeth. “I’m an idiot. I’m not a planner, and I don’t think many of my decisions through. Guess I never got the practice when I had the Adventurer’s Guild’s hands up my ass and using me as a puppet.”

“Then accept your—”

“Be silent!” Arwin roared. “I will not be talked down to by a goddamn tree. You aren’t wrong, but I will do everything I can to honor my guild, both living and dead. If I can avoid it, I will not dishonor Zeke by gifting the ally of his killer with anything that I have ever held. Our plan is dangerous, but we have not killed ourselves. You’re conveniently passing over the agreement to return the Dungeon Heart to the Dawnseekers should we decide we cannot handle Twelve.”

“You cannot defeat Twelve,” the Ashleaf Tree said, a derisive laugh echoing through the clearing. “You will—”

“I told you to shut up,” Arwin snarled. “We don’t know what we’re capable of until we try. We will put every scrap of power we have into victory — and then, only then, will I decide if we are capable of fighting Twelve. If we are not, then I will protect the living. If we are, then I will honor the dead.”

“You will fail.”

“You won’t be there to find out,” Arwin said, his fists tightening at his side. Pain still pulsed in his mind, but it had started to recede. He wasn’t sure if that was because the materials in the arm were giving way or if he was just too pissed off to notice it.

“You think you can defeat me? I am an Adept Tier!”

“Yeah?” Through a force of will, Arwin forced his right arm into the air and held it horizontally at his side. “Well, I’ve got a fucking Wyrm.”

The Wyrm’s claw flashed.

Not toward the tree, but toward Arwin’s arm.

Hot agony screamed in Arwin’s mind as his right arm was severed, ripped apart at the shoulder. His expression didn’t so much as twitch.

Then he felt his right hand close.

That generally should have been impossible, as the arm in question rested on the dry leaves at his feet.

Arwin lifted his right hand — and found wood in its place. A perfectly sleek arm of polished wood, devoid of any metal or clunky joints, was attached seamlessly to his shoulder. Power throbbed within it like a heartbeat, synchronizing with Arwin’s body.

His gaze moved from the arm to the tree.

“Okay,” Arwin said, flexing his new hand and baring his teeth. Beside him, the Wyrm’s lips pulled back and it let out a low, rumbling growl that sounded like a truck starting up. The last of the pain slipped away from Arwin. It seemed the materials were giving him a chance, and he wasn’t about to waste it. “Now I’m going to kill you.”
