“Stay your shot,” Val’korr said, reaching over to rest a hand gently on her forearm. “I will release his soul to the afterlife.” The ancient troll waved his other hand, sketching out several intricate magic formations into the air, and then began to use his Soul Drain.

“What are you doing to him?”

“Spirit Banishment with Soul Drain. When combined with the proper Ritual Infusion, it can release the soul of an undead. Provided it’s performed soon enough, and the soul is willing.”

“An exorcism?” Was such a thing honorable? Were they desecrating his memory?

“He fought well. I would send him to his Ancestors without the indignity of serving that monster,” Val’korr said, answering the unspoken question in her heart.

Lyeneru found that she agreed with his sentiment, regardless of her uncertainty about his methods.

A softly glowing blue figure emerged from the writhing, fresh undead monster, and the body dropped lifeless to the ground. Rezan’s spirit paused, hovering for a few moments above his own corpse, as if fixing this place in his memory. Then he bowed to her and Val’korr and turned and walked off, slowly growing more and more indistinct, more transparent, until she could no longer make out anything other than the dull gray of the spirit realm.

He was… smiling?

Naia huddled in a crevice far below the ground, summoning slime after slime in a vain effort to stem the tide of monsters pouring through the Gate.

But she was almost out of mana.

A horrid creature had suddenly appeared from nowhere and destroyed the dungeon. Then it had sent Ali-friend fleeing for her life. Ali-friend had told her there were monsters much stronger than she was, but Naia hadn’t believed her. Not truly. Still, she didn’t care how powerful it was; the next time it showed up, she was going to swallow it and dissolve it into mana.

But I have to survive. First, survive. Then I will help Ali-friend.

Several more of the big fungus monsters burst through the Gate, shredding her dwindling defenders with their endlessly powerful jaws and tearing claws.

Just then, the Gate began to shimmer and suddenly, it vanished, leaving just a cloud of mana in her mana-sight.

Ali… friend?

A sense of dread overwhelmed her hope. Ali had been looking out for her, trying to save her from the Blooming Rot. But the Gate was gone, and Naia had no way of helping Ali-friend now.

Something had gone terribly wrong, and there was nothing she could do to help.

Naia’s membrane shook with the force of an immense rumbling that crashed through her tremor sense, feeding her the image of a gargantuan wyrm tearing its way through the rock from far below.

Rift monster!

In panic, Naia threw herself deeper into the crevice, abandoning everything in the hope of hiding from the coming behemoth. Deep in the darkness, she hid, assuming the shape of a rock and trying not to tremble while the wyrm tore its path through the ground. Its very presence ripped at her membrane with enormous magical power, but it rushed past, heading straight for the city above, leaving Naia trembling and alone in her hiding place.

Ali-friend. Please be ok!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
