swer back“This makes 34-0 to the Mime,” he mused. The crabs snapped their claws, annoyed. Renny had to admit, he was running out of pocket space for all these rocks. Rale smacked Renny’s back hard and nearly moved Renny.That frog’s strength was insane. Renny was glad he was contracted before Rale evolved. Fighting a furious river lord would not be fun. A bush nearby rustled.The form of Devina manifested as if created by shadows and green leafs. Her usual calm expression looked a little... displeased. Her bird, Delbird, was there but he too looked annoyed.It wasn’t hard to see why when both of them looked to be covered in tiny fluffy darts.“Ran into the munchkins? Great little things, right?” Rale beamed. There was a crackle of mystic energy as Devina’s eye twitched. The bird on her shoulder puffed up.“They are little as-” the bird began and Devina softly shut its beak with her fingers.“As ironic as Delbird’s comment is, they mistook me as an evil goddess coming to seduce their… god. Have you seen Mushy? He has evolved! He looks... he talks!” Devina informed the group. Rale was gone in an instant, swallowed by the water and a cheer.Renny was almost tempted to follow but Devina walked up to him.“I require... assistance to remove the darts. The crabs would pinch and Bob...” she looked up the creature.He sang to her in confusion.“Bob is here for emotional support,” she finally said.Renny eyed the frog and the bird.He would say to anyone, if he ever spoke, that the second floor was no slouch in drama compared to the first floor, and he would fight anyone who would argue.---Delta looked down as Kemy, the girl who just left her dungeon, wandered back in. The oddest thing was the pure white cloth around her eyes. A golden symbol of a hand stitched into the cloth, a little lopsided. Delta guessed that Kemy had stitched it herself.“Oh Goddess of Truth, guide my path!” she called and began to slowly walk forward. Her hands stretched out in front of her as if to ward off bad vibes. The girl’s robes were a little dirty, signs that she may have tripped on the way to Delta’s; or Delta’s stairs needed a bit of a cleaning if she had that much dirt from one fall.“I have no idea what you’re doing,” Delta stated bluntly to the girl that couldn’t hear her. Thankfully... maybe... Cois was on his way to act as a mouthpiece. Kemy managed to slowly walk into the tunnel but she was moving erratically. She stepped slightly right and the pop-out sign Nu had designed, missed her by inches.“May the truth find me in this darkness. May I find the light in truth,” Kemy whispered to herself quietly. Cois rounded the corner, blinking as he saw a blind human walking with her arms stretched out.He rubbed at his eyes and blinked, looking again to see he had indeed not gone insane.“Cois do something, she’s going to walk into the wall!” Delta urged. Cois gave her a side look before he grinned.“I live to serve,” he promised and Delta felt tingles of panic rising up. Cois slid across the wall and waited until Kemy neared, repeating her prayer over and over.“Cois?” Delta both asked and warned. The goblin inhaled and with an attempted sweet and motherly tone that came out as crooked and sickly, he spoke.“Turn left, my child!” he breathed, making his voice seem distant. Kemy almost stumbled there and then.“Who... Who... hello?” Kemy stood still, holding her arms to chest as if to shield herself. Cois’s evil smirk made Delta regret this.“Cois, don’t you dare confuse her!” she said with a frown. Cois shrugged before he continued.“It is me, your Goddess... I have heard your prayers. You must turn left!” he crooned again. Kemy’s body shook just a little.“M- my Goddess?” she breathed in awe before hesitating.“You sound... odd,” she pointed out. Cois sniffed.“The goddess has a cold, now child-”“Gods can get colds? How does that work? I thought you existed as a light within us all?” Kemy mused to herself. “Magical colds exist and I have a tough job!” Cois fired back, voice returning to normal for a moment.“I think you’re lying. I know when people lie. Who are you?” Kemy responded, firm but not unkind. Delta sighed with relief, the girl had seemed rather aware of things.“Well... I could have been a god!” Cois sniffed. Kemy bowed, but didn’t remove her blindfold.“I don’t think you need to be a god. I find being a person is just as good. You can eat things and sleep. They are very nice things to experience!” Kemy said with honest feelings. Cois looked down at himself.“Person, right. Okay, fine. I’m not a god but I’m better. I am Cois of the flame! Servent and warrior of Delta the Dungeon. I shall burn the cruel and feed their ashes to mother’s kindness and mushrooms,” Cois growled.Kemy gulped a little.“I... had enough of fire for now. I’d like to do a special ritual in the Dungeon if Delta is okay with it?” Kemy asked, fingers intertwined and nervously fiddling across each other. The goblin looked at Delta and she peered closely at her guest.Not matter how deeply Delta looked or searched, Kemy gave off no ill-will. “Sure, if she doesn’t mind explaining,” she finally answered.“Mother said you can do it but we wanna know what’s gonna happen,” Cois repeated her words in a manner that was close enough. Kemy perked up.“Oh, thank you! Delta is a really nice Dungeon! I’ll bring some mushrooms for her. I saw she really likes them!” Kemy bowed again and Delta felt a deep stab of pain in her chest.“C-Cois, tell her no more! Tell her I don’t like them, not... most of them!” Delta pleaded and Cois dug into his ears with a claw.“Hm... kinda... went deaf...” he mumbled with a grin.Delta would ban the damn goblin from the tavern! Fera would understand. “My seek...” Kemy began and touched the necklace she wore.“I am conflicted about my time in Delta’s Dungeon. On one hand I felt nothing but a peaceful trip where the only issues came from my groups over thinking... but the Grove was different and I want to know what happened and experience the Dungeon in a new light. I will not trust my eyes for they see what they wish. I will trust my voice... my ears... and my heart. The Goddess of Truth will guide me as I travel the Dungeon once more,” Kemy breathed out and she seemed to gather a little more confidence about herself.Delta stared then she couldn’t help but smile.“Thank you... thank you for giving me a chance,” she said so quietly but the emotion made her choke a little.A breeze brushed past Kemy and she jumped.“Wh-... was that a woman?” Kemy asked, turning slightly as if to follow the breeze.She shrugged as Delta held a hand to her throat.“Hello?” Delta called but Kemy didn’t react. Cois looked around.“So, what? What do we do? Stay out of your way?” he scratched his nose and Kemy shook her head.“Do as you wish, I am not here to alter things but to learn. My Goddess will guide me to where I must be,” Kemy responded with courage before she faltered...“But... I would… appreciate some guidance through the spider room... I don’t want to mess up their webs if they’ve just started to fix them,” Kemy murmurred, head a little low as if burdening the blame of her team on to herself.Delta wanted to keep her. The girl was just too much.Cois shrugged before remembering that Kemy was blind.“Follow the sound of my soothing voice,” he instructed gruffly. Kemy giggled and moved forward before she almost tripped on her robe.“Okay! Mr. Cois, I am in your hands!” she said brightly. The goblin paused.“Master Cois,” he corrected. Kemy faltered but she perked up.“M-master Cois!” she corrected herself.“Cois, don’t go making random girls into your students or slaves,” Delta chided at the smirking Goblin.“Mother would like to remind you that she would like 10 mushrooms for the privilege of my guidance,” he said and Kemy frowned.“I’m not sure you’re telling me the tru-”“Look, you almost stepped on a spider!” Cois pointed to empty air. Kemy attempted to hover by lifting both feet off the ground, she managed to obtain flight for about three seconds before crashing down.“Less backchat and more listening to my wisdom,” Cois said haughtily.Delta was doing her best to ping Numb or Billy but both seemed to be passed out. Hob and Gob were gone as well....Fera wouldn’t leave her bar. Boary was sleeping like a coma patient... Waddles couldn’t speak, and Maestro was everywhere but nowhere.Lordy would be so helpful here…Delta watched, following as Kemy re-entered the spideroom and all the little silver beings watched with surprise.One danced the dance of ‘A guest!’. A fellow one nearby responded in the famous ‘I have eight eyes, I’m not blind’ dance.Truly, this was a culture of great grace.Muffet’s hidden form, much weaker and frail without the condition of the other spider’s deaths casually dropped on to Kemy’s head. The girl squeaked, raising her hands delicately to feel the soft form.The chittering chat of Muffet must of been familiar because Kemy’s other hand went to the white earmuffs around her throat.“The white spider... Muffet. That’s your name, right?” Kemy asked and Muffet raised one leg and the other spiders did a dance that was both a ‘Hail muffet’ and ‘Is it time for tea?’.Kemy was careful in not moving her head to avoid making Muffet fall. Muffet slowly reached down and tapped Kemy’s nose with a frail leg and the action caused Kemy to giggle.“Thank you for the gift!” Kemy breathed which Muffet chittered and clacked her fangs with a casual tone.Delta was pretty sure Kemy couldn’t speak spider but the scene was fun to watch. Still, Delta’s eyes wandered to the rest of the Dungeon. The challenges that awaited Kemy’s journey. The Mudroom... the Grove... the fortroom.It was… not easy for someone without eyes. The other route would be easier but that meant introducing Kemy to Maestro...Which would work! Kemy was blindfolded and couldn’t see Maestro. He was a fantastic monster but he was slightly...Nightmarish but in a good way.Delta just needed to get Kemy past Waddles... and Merry... and...Fera.What if Kemy went into the boss room? How would that work?Delta silently turned back to the giggling girl as Muffet began to tie her hair up and use her eight legs to make a rather nice bun for the girl to show off her face more.It would work... Delta just had to take a cue from Kemy and have faith.Faith that Delta’s own hard work would pay off.---
