Arielle ended up telling Elric about the dean’s surprise trials and asked what he thought she should do. He was undecided.

He said he didn’t trust the dean but that he knew a few people who spoke well of the final trial, as it had given them clarity on their goals and had helped them explore their skillsets more fully.

While they had hated it in the moment, they came to appreciate it with time. Elric didn’t think Arielle needed to do it, but he didn’t think it was necessarily harmful either.

Elric told Arielle one more thing before he left: Inara was staying with Vittoria. Since Gio Li was officially in charge of the sect now, he had granted her leave, though the blood covenant tying her to the rest of her siblings had not been broken. Apparently no one, not even Gio or Yseult himself, could break it.

Arielle was glad that Inara had not gone back to her abusive family, but the fact that she was still tied to them by blood magic did give her pause, because it still gave them a layer of control over her.

If Ari could somehow figure out a way to break it by investigating Yseult's blood, she would do it.

After the visit was over, he took the vial Elric gave her back to her room, using her sensate-aura-reading combo to investigate it deeply and scan its components.

Unlike with Elric's cursed body, where she saw multiple twisted orb complexes, Yseult's blood showed nothing. Not a single essence.

She compared it to the drop of Lyra's blood she collected, which also showed nothing.

No Vacu components as she had expected, nothing to suggest that it even belonged to a mage, much less a blood mage.

Perhaps the blood magic only activated when it came in contact with the other object under the covenant, in this case, the black book.

Or Yseult had altered his own blood in a way that removed all its magical properties.

The issue was that she could not test it out by using the blood to activate the diary, because if she were wrong, then it could damage the entire thing. She levitated a drop of blood, floating it over the leatherbound book, getting it as close as she possibly could in an attempt to call forth the layer of spells that made up the oath.

Perhaps if she could visualize it, then she could break it without necessarily using the blood.

But nothing happened.

Hmm.

If she let the blood make contact, would the book open or would it self-destruct?

She needed more time to think about this, and she needed to understand more about blood covenants.

She briefly visited the library and used Orion to search through texts from the restricted portion, revealing different tales of blood covenants and their purported histories.

It was enough to fill up a small book, and she took it back to her room to do some light reading later.

Then, she spent most of her free time that afternoon observing the people she had chosen for her study. She had selected Telip and Professor Valeria, the two people she would be working closely with, and whom she could freely ask questions if she needed to. She had also considered Professor Graham and Lacey, with whom she was going to be taking combat classes later, but that wouldn’t start until after the tests were over, and possibly not until after the break.

Not to mention that Telip was usually eating at the same time that she was, and he had a much more predictable meal routine than anyone else on her list.

Today, as always, he endeavored to sit alone, and when someone else joined him, annoyance skittered over his face. However, he didn't tell them to go away. He simply acted like they weren't there, and they didn't attempt to talk to him either.

He ate methodically, but he would also blink vacantly frequently and stop chewing as though interrupted by a thought he had.

He murmured at times, too, between bites. Was he thinking so deeply that he was talking to himself, or was he communicating with the ghost of his lost friend?

Probably the former. The latter was too far-fetched.

Ari watched Telip’s expression change suddenly, his fork freezing on the way to his mouth, body strung tight.

Selena had slid in beside him, along with the other fourth-year girl whom Arielle had levitated out of her way. She sat opposite Selena, and it obscured Ari’s view of Telip's face somewhat, but she tilted her head to the side to properly watch his expression.

Selena was saying something to him.

She was smiling while she was talking, tossing her luxuriously glossy hair over her shoulder. Telip did not smile back. If anything, his annoyance grew more palpable. He murmured something out of the corner of his mouth, and the smile slipped from Selena's lips, replaced by sparking anger.

Ari wondered what they were talking about.

You could listen in on their conversation.

She pursed her lips and almost did…but she decided that would be going too far for the sake of the assignment. She had already offended Telip once by attempting to pry into his business when she shouldn’t have.

She didn’t want to do it again.

Instead, she simply watched his body language. He really did not seem to like anything Selena was saying. Perhaps he did not like Selena at all, because even before she opened her mouth, he appeared annoyed by her presence.

Or was it that he didn't like people around him when he was eating? Did he find them to be overstimulating the way Arielle often did? Did he not understand their jokes? Or was there more to it?

Maybe he did not like people in general.

He had no problem helping them, but he didn’t seem to want to talk to them at all. So how did he form a friendship with Plutarch? Or was it a friendship? Was she right in her assumption that his obsession with portals was because he was looking for Plutarch?

She didn’t know.

After lunch, Arielle went to meet Professor Valeria briefly to discuss more of the abyssal spells they would be practicing.

Together, they finalized the base structure for what she titled Grade 1 Abyssal Spells – Curses. Excitement radiated off Professor Valeria as she sketched out samples of these spells for them to attempt.

“Now that I've solidified my counter spell in case things go wrong, I think we can try these out in the cave today,” she said. “And discover more abyssal creatures. I've taken the liberty of crafting possible spell scripts that I believe will give us interesting creature combos."

"Yes," Arielle responded. "And when we're done with that, we can look into other classes of abyssal spells. For example, rifts." Valeria had mentioned that rifts often had different structures, but Arielle thought she might have found the similarity in their base structures, just from the examples Valeria had given. Ari would likely classify these as Grade 2 Abyssal Spells – Space Between Worlds.

She also wanted to eventually look into the third type of abyss, the type that apparently held knowledge that the Li’s accessed.

"Rifts would be too dangerous to study in the cave. We would certainly need a lab for that, but with our current discovery, we can get access easily." Valeria shook her head. “You have no idea what you’ve just unlocked, Arielle. No clue.”

“I think I have some clue,” Arielle said, and Valeria smiled.

“This is going to shake the magical world,” she said. “When I publish this, everything will change, from the way we categorize abyssal spells to the identification of the Vacu isotopes. I can’t even imagine what that’s going to do.” She sighed. “The issue is going to be explaining my discovery to them.”

“Can’t you just explain it how I did?” Arielle asked.

“Probably not,” she said. “Because then I would have to explain to the entire scientific community what a mini-orb is, and how exactly I know what patterns they form in an essence, and that’s just going to be a non-starter. I mean I can barely understand it myself." She paused and thought. “Perhaps there’s something we can do, though."

“Is there?”

“Maybe. What you’ve been able to discover means that our basic understanding of essences is wrong. We saw them as the smallest possible unit that make up magical spells, but if essences themselves can be broken up into even smaller components, then there may be an entire field of magic that we've never considered before," she said. "Though we cannot necessarily visualize essences, we've been attempting for years now to develop magical technology that can draw and identify the essences by their type. There have been a few breakthroughs here and there, and it's because of those that we have the mana-stabilization labs and the like."

Arielle nodded her understanding as Professor Valeria gestured.

"If we can use these machines to identify the essences, then perhaps we can create some to identify mini-orbs. That will go a long way in convincing the larger scientific community of their validity.

"How will we do that?"

“I know of a few of the researchers who were working on visualizing technology. I can reach out to them, and perhaps we can collaborate."

"Do you need my help?" It sounded like an interesting project.

"Perhaps, but I don't want to involve you until we absolutely have to. At least not while I cannot vouch for their silence."

“Okay.”

"For now, let's just focus on exploring as many abyssal spells as we can,” Valeria asked. "And if I'm asked, I'll just claim divine intervention."

She chuckled, suggesting it was a joke, and Arielle took the cue and chuckled too, mirroring her.

She paused, and Ari paused too. Valeria blinked at Arielle.

Just when Ari thought she’d done the wrong thing, Valeria snorted.

The professor was an interesting woman, Ari decided. Intelligent, driven, strict but fair. And she also liked to make jokes, apparently, though Ari did not often understand what was so funny about them.

Perhaps later, she would think about them.

Once they were done, they went to the caves and practiced a few more curse spells. Valeria was able to make a host of shadow creatures, starting small and getting bigger as her confidence grew. She didn't really struggle until she tried to create a wraith again and had to snuff it out when it fought to take control. They still didn't get to attempt the Abyssal Titan, although Valeria was pretty sure she understood the structure, and she showed Arielle as well.

"We'll save that for the lab," she said, exertion showing on her sweat-slickened skin although she beamed nevertheless. “I’ve already added the spells to my Grimoire. At this rate, I’ll be a Master in just a few years.”

Arielle nodded. It reminded her that she should probably be more strategic about her leveling and incorporate spells so she could go up a few more.

After some time, she felt something strange, a whispering in the air. She glanced around, wondering if it was just her imagination.

The mana in the area remained undisturbed, except for her blue orb, which seemed more active than usual.

Why? Was it Valeria's presence? Was it their experiments? She didn't know.

When Valeria wasn't paying attention, Arielle reached out to the orb, and it moved towards her.

What's wrong? she mouthed. It didn't respond, only bobbed, calmer now.

Strange.

However, it remained settled as time passed, retaining its gentle movement.

When they left, Ari looked back one more time to ensure that everything was in place.

It appeared to be. No manalings had been created from their experimentations.

Good.

***

Later that day, Arielle went up to the library to meet Telip. He was sitting at her usual table, reading something when she arrived.

She sat neatly opposite him.

“Hello, Telip,” she said.

“Hello,” he answered, and she read his expression, checking for the typical annoyance she had seen when he was forced to acknowledge people.

It was absent. He seemed distracted but not necessarily irritated by her presence.

“How have things been?” he asked. “I mean with severance.”

“It’s been okay,” she said. “I have passed everything except my creatures and clans presentation and the surprise trial.”

“I wouldn't worry too much about the presentation. As long as Woden perceives that you put in effort, he'll let you pass.”

"What about the surprise trials?" she asked. "Did you take them?"

He raised an eyebrow. "How did you know they were optional?"

"The dean told me. He also told me what they were and gave me the option of whether or not I wanted to go through with it."

He nodded silently.

"Did you take it?" she asked.

"Yes," he responded with a smile. "But not for the reason most people do."

“What do you mean?”

“Seniors don’t like to talk about the trials partially because they don't like to think about it, but also because they like that it scares the first years. The fear is seen as a rite of passage at this point. But my mentor didn't believe in that."

"Plutarch?"

His features tensed. "Yeah. He told me pretty early that the trials are your reality battling the weight of your dreams. The more delusional you are, the more likely it is you will fail. I knew I would fail then because my dreams are pretty darn delusional. But I decided to go along with it anyway, because I wanted to know how I would fail, so I could account for that and work on it. I also wanted to look fate in the face and let it know that I would defy it anyway."

“And have you?”

“I’m trying to.”

She watched him closely, and she said, “What is your dream?”

“I thought it would be obvious. To create a portal.”

That didn’t seem so lofty unless… “Portal to where? To rescue Plutarch?" It wasn’t likely because Plutarch was likely still around when he had his trial.

Unless he wasn’t.

Telip’s face tensed even more, and Arielle could tell he really did not like this topic. "Let's stop talking about that."

"Why?"

"Because Plutarch is gone."

"But not dead. Right?" she said. "Professor Woden told me that he disappeared here in this library. Was it on the second floor? Were you with him when it happened?" She lowered her voice. "Is that why you tried to warn me against looking into the Unmaker?"

He stared at her. "Why are you so obsessed with this?"

"Because I think I might be able to find Plutarch, and all the other missing Vacu-dominants."

His eyes flared open, and he glanced around as though someone might have heard them.

The library was mostly empty, but he still leaned forward when he hissed, "Stop talking about things like that, Arielle."

"What do you mean?"

"People are going to think you're crazy."

"But I'm not crazy." She leaned forward too. "If you help me, I think I might be able to find him."

"No one can find him," he hissed.

"Not if they don't try."

"What are you two talking about?"

The arrival had them both jerking back into place, turning in tandem to find Selena looming above them.

Arielle hadn't noticed her arrival, and even the air was slow to bring her scent forth.

"Nothing," Telip said quickly.

"Oh come on now," Selena said, with a friendly smile. "It can't be nothing. The two of you looked like you were having a pretty heated conversation."

"It was nothing," he insisted. "I was answering a question about runes. That's it."

"Right..." She turned to Arielle. "Ari, I heard that your cousin was here to visit."

She bobbed her head. "Yes."

"He visits you a lot, doesn't he? More than the allotted visiting amount surely."

"He just wanted to let me know he was okay. He was sick recently."

"Yeah, I heard about that too." She crossed her arms over her chest. "Heard that he got poisoned while tangling with demons."

Ari cocked her head. Was Elric's mission common knowledge? They'd summarized the situation with the sect and mentioned the possible increase in demon attacks at the recent school assembly, but hadn't named Elric in particular.

"Something like that," she hedged.

"There was also a strange rumor that he had consorted with said demons."

"Of course not," Arielle said instantly. "Elric would never."

"Right." Selena planted her hands on the desk and lowered her head. "I didn't think he would either. It's just that...you have so many strange abilities, Arielle. I haven't forgotten what you did to that portal."

"Selena," Telip interrupted, but she ignored him.

"Do you know anything about these demons that your cousin found?" she asked. "Have you ever met them?"

"No," Arielle lied, and Selena smirked triumphantly.

"You're lying."

"Selena," Telips's voice was more insistent this time. "Neither Arielle nor I have much time here. If you'll excuse us, we really have to study."

Selena attempted to hold Arielle's skittering gaze for a few more seconds before she straightened.

"Now I see why you wanted Telip as your mentor and not me," she said. "You two are clearly better suited."

"Yes, I think so," Arielle said without thinking, which made Selena's eyes spark and Telip sigh.

"I will find you out, Arielle Blacksoil," Selena said. "One way or another."

And with that, she turned around and strode away.

Telip was shaking his head when she faced him. "You really have a knack for it, don't you?"

"Knack for what?" She thought about it and realized, "Wait, I said the wrong thing, didn't I? When I said we were better suited. I offended her again?"

"It's fine. Let's get back on topic. Tell me what you learned about the runes.”

They discussed that for a while, and Telip helped her explore rune combinations. But throughout their meeting, Arielle still kept thinking about the questions he did not answer.

If Plutarch disappeared on the second floor, then learning the structure of a rift and using it there might help her find him, contrary to what Telip said. If she could find him, then she could find the rest.

That would be good, right? Rescuing everyone from the Drift's traps.

After the meeting, as she was heading to the dorms, she saw that a gilded carriage had been parked on the front lawn. It was drawn by a golden unicorn, with long plaited hair, likely one of the most expensive animals in the world.

Professor Estella, the politics professor, was there and appeared to be arguing with a sharply dressed young man as a row of stewards stood to the side next to exquisite dresses hanging on floating mannequins.

They had attracted a small, whispering crowd, but Arielle was about to pass right by and head to her room.

"Arielle!"

The voice sounded like Wulfric.

She stopped and turned around.

He gestured to the rows of gowns displayed in glittering precious detail.

“Hope you’re not in a hurry,” he said. "These are for you."