The battle was going to shit, but Jorani had a plan.

Course, he always went in with a plan, scheme, or strategy in mind, and they rarely ever worked out as intended, but he had a good feeling about this one even if it was a bit of a gamble. A tricky thing, gambling, especially when betting something as precious as human lives, because it was all too easy to get hooked on chasing the thrill of victory rather than playing for the payout itself. He’d seen it countless times before, rogues and bandits losing entire fortunes they’d just looted only to go out and risk their lives to accumulate more wealth to try and win it all back, and win or lose, they’d just do it all over again. Good fortune rarely lasted a lifetime, and for most, winning big only meant they’d have more to lose the next time their luck ran out. In his transition from street rat to forest bandit, Jorani never got sucked into the allure of dicing, horse-racing, archery contests, or whatever vice the others were into that week, but only because he was too miserly to risk his meagre savings. The pickings were few and far between, and the pauper in him hated not knowing where his next meal would come from, so he always kept what little earnings he had stashed away for a rainy day.

Then Mister Rustram got promoted and left to run his own retinue, so Jorani was given command of the old one, a promotion which came with a sizable pay bump and an unwelcome association with his second-in-command. The vile and villainous Old Bulat was a man whose moniker didn’t match his age as he was probably younger than Jorani, nor did it match his appearance. A strapping, burly bastard he was, one almost as wide as he was tall with a prodigious appetite to boot, with belly a plenty to eat Ral for breakfast and still have room left for dessert. The man turned fat and corpulent in less than a year of retirement, with more chins than most mountain ranges have peaks, though to give credit where it was due, Bulat only needed a few weeks to transform most of his fat into muscle again. He’d never be anything short of hefty though, not even if he ran for a thousand years without stopping, but that wasn’t the important part. No, the thing Jorani both hated and loved about the man was how Old Bulat was always calculating the odds, though he rarely used any sort of math Jorani was familiar with. “Bet against the man,” Old Bulat would say, “Not the dice. The dice will do as they please, but the man? The right man’s a mark just beggin’ to give ye coin.”

Words of wisdom, or at least so it seemed at the time, which was always the problem with Old Bulat. You never knew how wrong he was until things went to shit, which they did more often than not, except Old Bulat always came out smelling like roses. After a few bad bets which cost him a veritable fortune, Jorani finally figured out that he was Old Bulat’s mark and quit wagering in the man’s games, but the damage was already done. The thrill of the gamble had taken root in Jorani’s soul and left him with a mighty thirst for action. Oh how he yearned to hear the tumbling dice, stampeding hooves, or even the clickity clack of the shuffling Mahjong tiles, a game he’d always figured was for the rich and mighty, except he was one of them now and had the coin to spare. What was he saving it for anyways? Retirement? Hardly the most sound investment for a man in his line of work, since a soldier in war time didn’t have the best odds of surviving to a ripe old age. His future wife? Even wealth and status hadn’t helped him none with that, and the girls in the fancy brothels weren’t much better than the cheaper ones he was used to, just wearing nicer clothes and better make up is all.

So why not use his money to make more money and get out of the game early? That’s how Old Bulat framed it, which made sense at the time, but then Jorani put a bit of thought into it and realized how full of shit the fat man really was. If gambling was so easy, like Old Bulat said it was, how come he’d come back from retirement? Loyalty to the bossman, sure, but even a District Mayor couldn’t be makin’ too much more than the second in command to the Legate’s retinue. Besides, while it seemed silly to save up for a retirement which might never come, if Jorani wanted to ever be anything besides a soldier, then he’d need coin to get out. If he just gambled away his sizable salary month after month, then he’d have no choice but to keep soldiering on until his luck ran out and he went the way of the soldier at the pointy end of a Defiled spear, a self-fulfilling prophecy as it were.

But now, he was not just a soldier anymore, he was a commander of five-thousand men, one addicted to gambling their lives away and none too good at it either. Cept this time he had a plan, a good one even, and he figured there was no better time than right now to test it. “Centre, fall back fifty paces,” he commanded, and Silva Sent the orders out, even though Jorani could’ve Sent it himself. “Left and right flanks, press in hard.” A basic maneuver to encompass the enemy forces, but simple and easy didn’t mean it wouldn’t work. Weren’t nothing fancy about clubbing a man over the back of the head, but that didn’t mean it wasn’t effective. Across the field, Jorani’s counterpart responded by ordering his soldiers to flare out on either side, delaying the flanking maneuver while his centre advanced, again, nothing too fancy or out of place. A standard counter to a standard move, which meant so far, things were going well, though one wouldn’t know it from looking. Despite having inherited a crack fighting force that’d been through the Father’s Maw and back, the Warriors of the bossman’s retinue seemed wild and reckless compared to the disciplined forces they faced. Try as he might, Jorani couldn’t keep his lines neat and orderly in the chaos of battle, unlike the enemy forces who fought in straight, uncluttered lines, packed in shoulder to shoulder with barely enough room to swing their weapons. Which they didn’t. Swing that is, as they were armed with spears and shields which they used to great effect by attacking with measured thrusts while hiding behind a wall of steel that only a Honed Spiritual Weapon could cut through.

Time and time again, Jorani’s soldiers threw themselves at the enemy forces to no avail, his numbers in the centre steadily dwindling as his opponent held the flanks and advanced, but he treated the losses as the price of baiting the trap, one which would pay off in spades if everything went according to plan. The biggest issue wasn’t the troop movements, but the individuals making up each formation, because even though Jorani’s blackguards were individually stronger than their opponents, their foes were much better at fighting in groups, even when scaled down to mere three or five man engagements. The seemingly solid wall of steel would bend and curve like a snake undulating across the ground, their foes withdrawing from one fight so their allies could attack the same target in another, and Jorani’s people were getting beat down through superior focus of effort.

Liu Xuande’s work that, with his training exercises that focused more on timing and teamwork than individual strength. If they were to take theses two forces and break this battle down into a series of one on one matches, Jorani was confident his people would come out with an overwhelming victory, but the face of war was changing, which meant it was time to adapt or die.

There was nothing he could do about getting his soldiers to work together, not from where he stood now, so he needed the enemy to over-extend, but the enemy commander was too cunning to do so without reason, which meant timing was key here. Watching with bated breath, Jorani almost gave the order three times before deciding to wait, and then almost missed the perfect opportunity as the enemy vanguard got a little overeager and broke formation to try and finish his centre off. “Split the flanks,” he said, and this time, Silva looked to him in question before passing along the order. “Half from each side fall back to collapse on the centre. Hit them hard and fast, wholesale slaughter.”

A big gamble, abandoning the flanks to hammer the centre, as it could all go pear shaped and end with his forces surrounded on all sides, but he had faith his superior Warriors would hold the line and deal with the centre in good time. Understanding his intentions upon receiving his orders, Chey held the left flank and sent Ral to spearhead the charge, and it was a real treat to watch the big guy crash into the enemy centre like thunder on a dry summer night. On the right, Wang Bao held firm while Ulfsaar fell back to meet up with Ral, the two mighty behemoths making short work of their foes with axe and staff respectively. That was Jorani’s advantage here, the superior quality of his troops, which he needed to use in order to overcome his opponent’s first-rate discipline and impeccable formations. Even under the weight of so many attacks, the enemy centre held fast and formed up in a checker-board square. It was strange seeing so few soldiers make efficient use of what was primarily a large-scale formation, but the principles behind the tactic were sound regardless if it was used by three soldiers or a thousand. Giving ground in one area to take ground in three, the enemy formation wavered but never broke as they bought precious seconds which turned into agonizing minutes as both forces teetered on the brink of victory and defeat. It all came down to this, because if the centre held, then Jorani’s flanks would soon be overrun, but if the centre folded, then the battle was all but won.

Both sides took massive casualties as dead and defeated filed out of the battlefield, some grumbling and others laughing at a match well fought, but Jorani could not afford to let his focus slip. He still had soldiers in reserve which he sent to shore up the flanks, directing them on circuitous routes to try and hit the enemy where it would hurt the most, but his counterpart matched his movements and probed his weaknesses as well, so there was no advantage to be gained by either side. After a long, hard-fought battle, the horn sounded to signal the end of today’s match, and Jorani was left staring at the battered remnants of his retinue and yearning for the sweet taste of victory which had just been denied him. Then again, he hadn’t lost either, as the enemy lines were just as ragged and sparse, with only a few hundred ‘survivors’ in total on both sides being cheered on by their ‘dead’ comrades on the sidelines.

A pyrrhic victory for both sides, as the bossman would say, though he never did explain what the word meant. At least the troops were in good spirits, as these ‘tactical maneuvers’ were a lot more fun than the endless, monotonous training exercises they’d taken the place of. Tomorrow, they’d go back to marching and drilling, but today, they got to sweat and spar on the battlefield in a massive, chaotic melee with no threat of death or dismemberment. There were bruises and broken bones aplenty, but those were all either easily fixed or good practice now that the bossman’s Panacea Healing method was so widespread. Though the soldiers were all free to rest and Heal up, Jorani still had his part to play, so he marched over to the staging table with Old Bulat and Silva to shake hands with his opposing commander. “Thought I really had ye this time around,” Jorani began, shaking his head with a wry smile. “Gotta say, ye turned them Stormguards into somethin’ fierce in so short a time.”

“Not fierce enough,” Mister Rustram replied, though Jorani noted the man’s aide and second-in-command were both beaming from the praise. “Victory should have been yours, but Lixian here was fortunate enough to send Ulfsaar off the field early on, else the centre would’ve collapsed much sooner.”

Was that what happened? Damn it, Jorani had missed seeing Ulfsaar exit the field, though it could be forgiven considering the sheer number of bodies streaming off the field at the same time. Eyeing Mister Rustram’s second more closely, Jorani took stock of the grizzled Lixian, who had the worn, weathered look of a farmer or sheep-herder who spent his days out under the burning hot sun. It made him look much older than Jorani, but there was a good chance Lixian was only in his early to late twenties, or maybe even around the same age. Commoners aged faster than Martial Warriors, and the Stormguard only formed their Cores recently, just over a year ago in fact, which made his achievement all the more impressive. Ulfsaar was a Domain-capable veteran who ranked amongst the strongest Warriors in Jorani’s unit, and even he would think twice before engaging the berserk half-bear in single combat, but Lixian here had done it while looking like he’d be more comfortable leaning on a pitchfork than standing at full attention with spear and shield in hand.

Despite not having seen the fight firsthand, Jorani had to give credit where credit was due. “Damned fine job out there,” he said, offering his hand for Lixian to shake, and Mother bless the poor man, his eyes went so wide he looked ready to bolt or bow as if Jorani were a proper noble or something. It took a little doing, but any man who could face off against Ulfsaar wasn’t lacking in courage, so Lixian eventually found his bearings and took Jorani’s hand in his own. A cold and clammy handshake ensued, but firm and unyielding at the same time, which told Jorani that Lixian had seen some shit before and would bounce back from his awe soon enough.

“Got lucky, m’lord,” the gruff man said, unable to meet Jorani’s eyes due to a lifetime of subservience. “Hit him while he weren’t lookin’ is all.”

