“That’s how I’d hit him too,” Jorani cracked, chuckling all the while. “From a hundred paces with a crossbow if I could, but you? You were right there innit and didn’t just hold yer ground, ye went head to head with Ulfsaar the Voracious and brought him down. That’s somethin’ to be proud of soldier, because between you and me, that man scares me more than most Defiled.”

That earned him a grin from the plucky fellow, which made him look like a fresh-faced kid barely old enough to marry, as well as a subtle nod of thanks from Mister Rustram. The Stormguard were lacking in experience and confidence, which was the whole point of these tactical maneuvers, mock battles to put them through their paces before crossing blades with the Defiled. It wasn’t as good as a real battle, but the Enemy wasn’t so obliging as to send their troops out piecemeal so Mister Rustram could blood his new retinue. Then again, the Stormguard were hardly strangers to the battlefield, as they were Irregulars one and all, mostly volunteers who took up arms against the Enemy before even Forming a Core, which took more courage than sense.

“You’re not giving Lixian here enough credit.” Appearing out of nowhere, the bossman joined their conversation without so much as a how you do, looking regal and magnificent in his blue and white outfit, an embroidered affair full of animals aplenty. Hard to imagine this was the same sickly man from just over a year ago, but here he was, hale and healthy as can be, larger than life yet still humble and gracious enough to look Lixian in the eye and shake his hand, even if the other man tried to avoid his gaze. “I remember you,” the bossman said, emanating an Aura of pride and gratitude. “I remember what you did during the withdrawal from JiangHu, and it is my regret to have not remembered sooner.” Breaking eye contact from Lixian to let him weep tears of joy unnoticed, the bossman turned to face the others and said, “You all know he served as an Irregular during that battle, but what you don’t know is that this man was among the first to come to my aid. A commoner with nothing more than a crossbow and dagger, he sees a force of Demons break through the Death Corps lines to charge headlong at my carriage, and what does he do? He charges right at them to save me. No fear, no hesitation, just grit and courage, so how can he balk before a mere Ulfsaar?” Turning back to Lixian who was all but glowing with pride, the bossman grinned and continued, “I owe you a debt of gratitude, you and all your comrades who came to my aid. Without you, me and my loved ones might well have fallen that day, and I cannot thank you enough.”

“No, no, this lowly one does not dare.” Were it not for the bossman forcibly holding him upright, Lixian might well have dropped to knees to grovel in the dirt. “Legate has done so much for this lowly one, more than this lowly one can repay in a thousand lifetimes.”

“Wrong.” Raising his voice so others could hear him, the bossman declared, “Everything you’ve accomplished and attained was earned through your own efforts. That is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. Take pride in yourselves, for you are not just Warriors now, but men and women who stood up for a cause before you had the strength of arm to defend it. Hold fast to those convictions, for they have brought you far and will continue to guide you ever forward along the Martial Path.”

Conviction. Faith. Two words that seemed similar, but the bossman lauded one while deriding the other. A strange man, Falling Rain was, but genuine through and through, and everyone present knew it. The proof was right there before them, in his words and actions both, the former laced with emotion and the latter, sincerity. Turning to his Death Corps Guards, the bossman motioned one forward who approached with a Runic Shield in both hands, which he then presented to Lixian. “Take it,” the bossman said, his hand still firmly gripping Lixian’s right arm to keep him from kneeling. “I see you have a Spiritual Spear already, so I hope this shield will serve you well.”

That wasn’t the end of it either. The bossman had a few more Runic Shields to hand out, some of which went to Jorani’s retinue, and plenty of Spiritual Spears, most of which went to the Stormguard. It made sense since Jorani’s retinue was pretty heavily equipped already, especially once you took into account stuff like chariots, bows, catapults, and what have you, so there were no hard feelings on his side. Instead, he joined Mister Rustram to follow the bossman around and watch him mingle with the troops, his familiarity with the Stormguards no less than with his old retinue. When the bossman found the time to get to know so many new names and faces was a mystery to all, especially considering most of the Stormguard seemed just as surprised to learn that the Legate could identify them on sight, or even reference Irregulars who died during that same battle, but all this was part and parcel of the bossman’s considerable charm.

He even knew Yazhu, the Stormguard Banner Bearer who kept Ral from making any headway during the match, was the first to sound out the rallying cry to which Lixian responded, a secret the man himself had never once divulged because he wasn’t even sure if it was true. Odd that, but hardly out of the ordinary for a man of miracles like Falling Rain.

Being the busy man that he was, the bossman didn’t have much time to spare, but he took a moment to pull Jorani aside for a private conversation. “Good work out there, pushing Mister Rustram to his limits like that. Aren’t many who can in these maneuvers, where strength of arm matters less than cunning of mind.”

“Thanks bossman.” Not content with the results, Jorani shook his head and muttered, “Should’ve had him though, even with Ulfsaar going down early. That damned checker-board formation is a tough nut to crack, but I’ll get it one of these days.”

“Just remember,” the bossman began, still friendly, using his Legate’s voice, “You won’t be fighting Mister Rustram out on the battlefield. You’ll be up against the Enemy, and you’ll need to adjust your tactics accordingly. Your gambit would’ve cleaned up against Defiled, but I’d advise you take a little more caution and be more risk averse when facing the armoured Chosen.”

Caught like a kid with his hand in the candy jar, Jorani dipped his head down and nodded like a chicken pecking grains. Damn Old Bulat and his gambling ways. No more wagers for Jorani, not anymore. “Got it bossman,” he said. “Will adjust accordingly.”

“Not saying you shouldn’t collapse on the centre when facing Chosen,” the bossman clarified. “It was a good move, but only worth it if Ulfsaar’s boys had their chariots and cattle cavalry to support them. Anyways, I’m setting out for the Central Citadel first thing tomorrow morning by ship, and I’d like you to come with. I’ll be meeting up with certain people, and I want you to be seen by my side so they can familiarize themselves with your face. As my second-in-command, there will be times when I send you out in my place, and I can’t have the nobles ignoring you while claiming ignorance of your station after the fact.”

“Sure thing bossman.” Immediately, Jorani knew something was up, and not just because the bossman was a terrible liar. If this was the case, he’d bring Mister Rustram too, but the bossman made no mention of it, nor had he ever sent Mister Rustram to do any politicking before. No, he had his Consort Zheng Luo for that, which meant the bossman needed Jorani around for other reasons that he’d rather not say. No matter, as Jorani wasn’t going to call the man on his lie, nor did he have any pressing matters keeping him here in the Northern Citadel. Instead, he spent the rest of the day training with his troops and arranging for Old Bulat to watch over them in his absence. When it came time for dinner, Jorani headed back to his barracks suite which he lived in alone, and used his personal stove to cook himself a delicious meal of chicken soup with turnip, cabbage, and lotus roots to pair with stewed pig trotters.

Just as he was about to sit down and eat, a voice sounded out from behind him, one Jorani had hoped to never hear again. “Well lookit you,” GangShu began, plopping himself down at Jorani’s table and helping himself to the bowl of soup. “You’ve come up in the world since I last saw you. Done me real proud.”

Much as Jorani hated to admit it, his head swelled at the sound of GangShu’s praise, because even if the man was a shitty father, he was still blood of Jorani’s blood. There was something primal about wanting to please your father, and even though he would think twice before pissing on the man if he were on fire, Jorani still yearned for GangShu’s approval. In fact, he was so pleased he didn’t even mind sharing the soup, and instead grabbed another bowl for himself and one for Daxian who was lurking nearby. “Might as well join us,” Jorani said, much to his older half-brother’s surprise. “Set this to simmering this morning, and it won’t keep till I’m back, so gotta finish it one way or another.”

Nodding his head a fraction of a centimetre in barely acknowledged thanks, Daxian accepted the gesture and dug in without a word. Telling how the man sat across from their sire rather than beside him, but GangShu didn’t seem to care. “Yea, about that,” GangShu began, pausing to drain his bowl with a slurp before filling his bowl yet again. “You should watch yerself when ye go. Yer Legate got some schemes cookin’, and it don’t bode well.”

“What do ye mean?”

“Case ye haven’t noticed, he’s been buttin’ heads with Shuai Jiao for awhile now.” Crunching on chicken bones and lotus roots both, the Ancestral Beast heaved a tired sigh and set his bowl down, which was the first clue Jorani had that things were not as they seemed. This was the first time he’d seen the old bastard since the battle of Sinuji, when GangShu left alongside the Abbot and Guan Suo to battle it out against three Enemy Divinities. Guan Suo died from his injuries and the Abbot would’ve died if not for the bossman’s assistance, but it seemed as if GangShu still had yet to wholly recover. The man looked well enough, but there was a tired air about him like he’d just sat down after a full day of hard labour. A far cry from the confident and cocksure armoured Warrior Jorani had first laid eyes on, and it left him shaken to see the man so beaten and battered. “Yer Legate’s on the warpath,” GangShu explained, as if this were news to anyone in the Empire. “But Shuai Jiao ain’t one to fall in line. Couple days ago, the Legate quietly ordered Central and South to begin mustering their forces in SuiHua for the western offensive. A direct order, mind you, even though it’d been given in relative secrecy, one that’s gone unheeded, so now the little dragon is of a mind to set the Commander General straight.” Meeting Jorani’s eyes, GangShu pursed his lips and added, “By any means necessary. Ye get me?”

“Not even a bit. What are ye goin’ on about?”

“He knows I’m back,” GangShu explained, and the pieces fell into place. “That’s why he asked ye to go with. He wants to drag me in again and use me as a dagger to threaten Shuai Jiao. Yer Legate’s got a half-dozen other Ancestral Beasts to call on, but he ain’t gonna let me rest and recuperate, no, he’s gotta drag me down into the mud with him, because he knows I ain’t got a choice. I gotta throw in with him, because his protection is the only thing keeping me rivals from comin’ a knockin’ while I’m down and out. The Treaty ain’t what it use to be, and there are plenty lookin’ to profit amidst disaster.”

“No.” Shaking his head, Jorani put aside his bowl of soup and crossed his arms in a huff, his appetite soured by GangShu’s accusations. Everyone knew there were tensions between the bossman and the Commander General, but things could hardly be as dire as GangShu made them out to be. “That ain’t the bossman. He wouldn’t force ye to fight like that.”

“He would and he has, and I can’t blame him for it.” Shaking his head with a wry chuckle, GangShu helped himself to a pig trotter, and for a minute or two, the only sounds to fill the silence were those of his lips smacking. “Yer Legate’s playin’ his part better than anyone thought he would, though I still don’t understand why he’s chosen this hill to die on. Retaking the west sounds nice and all, but what’s the point? If he wanted to distract the Enemy and buy more time for the Empire, I’d understand, but he’s planning an all-out offensive to sweep the Defiled out of the province fer good.”

“What’s wrong with that?” Unable to help but sound defensive, Jorani asked, “What? Ye think we should just let the Enemy have the West fer good now? Turn a blind eye to all the suffering the people of the west are goin’ through?”

