“In a word? Yea, that’s exactly what we should do.” There was no heat in GangShu’s tone, no passion burning in his eyes, only tired resignation from carrying a heavy burden he would rather not bear. “Ye think me cruel, but the west is lost. Ain’t nothing we can do for them, not anymore. Anyone still there has been under Defiled rule fer two years now, so even if everything goes as planned, it’d only mean an earlier end to their misery. Great for them and all, but at what cost? I’ve been around a long time, and care little fer mortals in general, but even I shudder at the thought of putting millions of innocent prisoners to the sword. Retaking the west will not end in glorious celebration, but with the greatest purge the Empire has ever seen, one to dwarf all others, a fact yer Legate seems to have overlooked. He almost broke watchin’ one purge, a tiny one affecting a few thousand at most, if that. How ye think he’ll handle overseeing the greatest purge in history? Or how his soldiers will handle having all that blood on their hands? How many prisoners are there? How many traitors? Millions, easily, and that’d only be the start. Nah, best to leave the West untouched and hold our ground here, but Falling Rain thinks he knows better.”

Taken aback by GangShu’s concerns, Jorani had to fight the urge to laugh in the man’s face. As if the bossman would ever allow a purge to happen on his watch. Anyone who knew the man would know he intended to save the people of the West, but only a few people knew he possessed the power to Cleanse those poor souls of the Defiled taint, just like he’d Cleansed Jorani some years ago. No wonder the other commanders were dragging their feet, they just didn’t know what a miracle worker the Legate truly was, and he had yet to share the news.

“Nah,” Jorani said, elicit a look of surprise from GangShu and Daxian both. “Ain’t gonna be no purge, and ain’t nothing bad gonna happen. Just trust the bossman, he’s got it all figured out, because he does know better.”

Jorani could almost see the pieces falling into place behind GangShu’s eyes, which widened in comprehension after some seconds of thought. “Something to do with the Elemental Spirit? Or maybe the little friend he made out on the Azure Sea?” Seeing as he had no idea what that was, Jorani didn’t even have to feign ignorance, much to GangShu’s disappointment. “Ye don’t know, yet yer still so sure there won’t be a purge? Seems strange is all.”

“I just know.” Shrugging again, Jorani reached for his bowl again, having recovered his appetite alongside his good mood. “If the bossman ain’t said anything, then it ain’t me place to wag me lips, but trust me when I say things won’t play out the way ye expect. If ye don’t trust me, then ye can just stay here instead of followin’ us to the Central Citadel. I’ll explain things to the bossman, and he’ll understand. I doubt he’s draggin’ ye into things like ye think, because he don’t operate like that. Never has, and never will. If he wants yer help, he’ll ask fer it, plain and simple.”

Trading a glance with Daxian, who remained indifferent to it all, GangShu sighed and ate the rest of his pig trotter, bones and all. “Hope yer right, kiddo,” he said, wiping his mouth with the back of his hand. “I really do, but I can’t say I’m confident. Either way, yer Legate’s got a lot of convincing to do if he intends to retake the West, and I’m pretty sure he ain’t heading south to ask nicely. Don’t matter much since my hands are tied, so just know me and mine will be close by during the trip.”

“Yer rivals really that bold as to try and kill ye outright?”

“Nah, but they ain’t against takin’ hostages.” Offering a pained grimace in apology, GangShu explained, “Some think I dote on ye, what with the Runic armour and whatnot, so they figure I’d come out to save ye if ye were in any danger.”

Jorani would’ve laughed if it wasn’t so serious, because he found it absurd that anyone would believe that GangShu would risk his life for anyone, much less a son he barely even cared about. “Well shit.” Heaving a sigh, Jorani glanced at his set of Runic Armour which he kept locked away in the closet, hardly the most effective deterrent to Peak Expert thieves, but considering the bossman’s reputation, there were few thieves foolish enough to risk his ire. If Jorani had known how much trouble it’d bring him, he would’ve flat out refused to wear it when it was first offered to him, but it was too late for regret now. It would prove precious little protection against the might of a Divinity, but he’d wear it anyways in the days ahead.

After dinner, Jorani parted ways with GangShu and Daxian to head over to the Brotherhood encampment, where the monks were gathered for their nightly routine of showing off their handiwork before consigning said works to the fire. There was something poignant about watching such beauty be destroyed, but it also added a pressing need for Jorani to come watch every night, lest he miss out on seeing those precious and short-lived works of art. It took a lot of effort on the bossman’s part to convince Monk Happy to carve all those names into the Tombstone of Heroes, since taking part in the creation of such a monument might be seen as pursuing permanence in legacy, but after a lengthy discussion on the topic, the Brotherhood concluded that since the bossman only wanted Monk Happy’s help because he carved faster than anyone else, so long as he stayed anonymous and carved in a legible but unembellished font, then no harm would come of it. It made sense in a way, given how the monks destroyed their artwork to avoid yearning for permanence in fame, which was one of the three poisons. Jorani could see how a permanent stone marker might well be construed as just that, but it still seemed like a silly matter to lose sleep over.

That was the Brotherhood in a nutshell, so focused on getting the details of getting their Noble Eight-Fold right that it ate into the time needed to pursue it. Trial and error was unacceptable when it came to their Dao, because every step had to be taken with the Right View. In contrast, the bossman believed that the destination mattered less than the journey itself, a sentiment Jorani agreed with. Just because you had a set goal, didn’t mean there was only one way to reach it, for all paths lead to the Dao in the end. Right View, Right Intention, Right Speech, and so on and so forth, those were merely guidelines to live by, not hard rules to stubbornly follow without thinking twice.

Take the Right Livelihood for example, which dictated that one should live a life free of harm brought about by one’s decisions. This meant abstaining from eating meat, crafting weapons, or utilizing anything that had been produced through slavery or other means of coercion, which left the Brotherhood precious few options to work with after leaving their hidden monastery in the Arid Wastes. Everything they used had to be procured by hand, because otherwise, there was no guarantee that the products they needed were wholly free of harm. Thus, rather than buy vegetables at market, or even visit farms to procure product off the vine themselves, the monks insisted on foraging for their own food in the wild, which meant they had precious little to eat here on the border between West and Central. Despite subsisting on grass soups and tasteless tubers, the monks refused to stray from their beliefs and buy a cabbage or turnip from the market, even though the bossman went to great lengths to show that the farmers living along the Western were under no compulsion to work.

A statement the monks clearly didn’t agree with, as they believed the debt incurred by the farmers to purchase their lots of land was coercion, plain and simple. It was in a way, but hardly any harm considering the bossman wasn’t charging interest on a debt and had structured payments so that the farmers would never have to part with cold, hard coin. All they had to do was farm, and even then, if their crops took blight or rotted in the field, nothing would come of it since payments were a percentage of the harvest. The only issue would be if the farmers abandoned their plots of land, at which point the bossman would simply reclaim the land and sell it to someone else, but even this was enough for the Brotherhood to write off the farmers as under duress.

If that was the case, then the entire working sector was under duress, since you gotta work to eat, but no amount of arguments would convince the Brotherhood otherwise.

A stubborn, stuck in their ways bunch, the monks of the Brotherhood, but they made some beautiful art, which Jorani appreciated and mourned as the night wore on. Once the last monk’s artwork had been destroyed, Jorani approached Monk Happy and Monk Bones to let them know about his plans for the next few days, as well as his strange encounter with GangShu, mostly because he just wanted to talk about it. Monk Happy stayed silent throughout it all, listening intently until Jorani had little left to say, ending with, “So er... yea. I dunno when I’ll be back, if I even come back at all. Chances are we’ll head straight fer SuiHua from the Central Citadel, so if I don’t see ye, then I just wanted to say me farewells. Give me best to Asmani and the rest when ye see em, and err, well... farewell, I guess.”

“No need to bid me farewell,” Monk Bones said, sucking his teeth in minor annoyance. “I’ll be coming along with.”

“As will I.” Shrugging, Monk Happy sighed and added, “Whether the rest of the Brotherhood accepts him as Wisdom or Junior Brother accepts his place with us, this monk cannot sit idly by in good conscience while matters of grave importance take place. GangShu is correct; Junior Brother is done ‘asking nicely’, and while this monk cannot claim knowledge of his intent, this monk knows that nothing good will come from conflict between the Legate and Commander General.”

Stomach roiling with worry, Jorani swallowed hard and wondered if maybe things were more serious than he thought. Surely the bossman had some plan in mind, something to win Shuai Jiao over without butting heads with the man. There was no way he’d risk falling out with the Commander General just before a major engagement, one that needed the support of all three provinces to succeed, so with that in mind, Jorani headed home to rest his head and woke up bright and early to catch the ship.

And upon arriving at the docks in full Runic Armour, he felt the world crumble away beneath his feet as he spotted a familiar face waiting to board the bossman’s ship. “Siyar,” Jorani said, hoping against all hopes that his fears were for naught. “What are ye doin’ here? Got a message fer me or the bossman?”

“Nah,” the hardened killer replied, standing at what appeared to be ease but with one hand always close to his sword. “The bossman asked me to come along with. You too huh?”

“Yea.” Hard to believe that Siyar was coming along for the same reasons, or at least not the ones the bossman admitted to. Resisting the urge to close his eyes and weep, Jorani scanned his surroundings and found several more familiar faces waiting nearby. Some stood out at first glance, famous figures like Colonel General Nian Zu, Lieutenant General Akanai, Lieutenant General Baatar, and other notable Warriors, but it was the figures who didn’t stand out that scared Jorani so. Some were sailors, and others were dockworkers, and still some posing as generic soldiers alongside Siyar, but none of them were truly what they appeared to be, nor were they members of the bossman’s retinue. Though Jorani had only seen them once or twice before, he’d marked their faces as ones to remember, because they were fanatical members of the Aspirants, the Bloody Confessor’s former base of power. Most telling of all was the presence of the spymaster MuYang, disguised as a porter moving cargo aboard the ship wearing a fake beard and dirty eye-patch. With these disguised fanatics riding alongside the heaviest hitters the bossman could call upon, it showed that he was truly on the warpath, only a war of a different sorts. Though done in service to the war against the Enemy, the bossman was prepared for a war in the shadows, which was exactly where a stone-cold killer like Siyar excelled. Try as he might, Jorani could think of no other target at the Central Citadel besides a particularly stubborn Commander General who refused to support the bossman’s efforts to retake the West.

Mother have mercy on them all if their conflict should come to daggers in the dark, but Jorani could see no other explanation. The bossman would try everything short of bloodshed to accomplish his goals, but if push came to shove, then perhaps as early as tomorrow morning, the Empire might well be mourning the loss of yet another Colonel General.

And for the life of him, Jorani couldn’t understand why things had to be this way.

Chapter Meme
