A smaller gang, the Ascendants rely on superior skill and equipment to carve out their place in the north, their estimated numbers at less than fifty total. The difference is, each Ascendant owns at least one spiritual weapon and they carry a multitude of runic devices, the origins of which are shrouded in mystery. Their identities are also unknown except for the two newest members, Lord of Thunder, former Lieutenant Colonel Lei Gong, and Major Daxian the Virtuous. Although I'd love to raid the Ascendants' armoury, with those two on the roster, I'd rather not cross swords with them any time soon. Lord of fucking Thunder, no thanks. Who knows how many other experts they have, I'll pass.

Upon reaching the first village in the mid-afternoon, I send Rustram out to find someone for me to speak with. An aged village chief arrives and I question him along with Fung and Huu about the local conditions. The cove is calm and relatively safe, with a natural seawall keeping out the more dangerous aquatic creatures, but even normal fish are dangerous around here, sharp fins and pointed teeth part of the standard package.

No threat at all to roosequins. Diving into the waters, they quickly clear the area of danger, surfacing with all manner of ferocious and disgusting looking creatures clamped between their jaws. A voracious pack of apex predators by land or sea, quins take down their prey through strength of numbers and instinctive cooperation, which is what makes them great for warfare. Watching them crack open molluscs while floating on their backs in the water is a bonus.

By the end of the day, we've made contact with a dozen other villages, setting camp outside the 'main' village where the Council's payment will be arriving. For five days, we help the villages prepare for bandits, building defences and planning escape routes. Other me sleeps through it all, comatose for the second time since his emergence, worrying me greatly, but there's little I can do but wait. Two messages arrive from Ravil, each bringing news of another successful heist. We also receive word from Yuzhen of the Council's growing demand for mercenaries and the first bandit incursion into the farmlands, Yuzhen taking victory with few casualties. Things are getting heated, but the fishing villages are quiet and peaceful, passing the days drinking with my brothers, playing chess with Li Song, and flirting with my little wives.

This would be a nice place to live if I didn't hate seafood so much. Minus the bandits and merchants of course, but I'm working on that.

On the sixth day of our arrival, Rustram interrupts my early lunch. “Officer Rain, longboats have been spotted less than half an hour away.”

“Excellent, gather the troops Mister Rustram. Time to earn our keep.” Thank god, I thought I was going to have to choke down more salted fish. Blergh.

Time for some good old-fashioned bandit killing.

Chapter Meme
