Rain smiled. “For everything. For saving me multiple times. For tolerating my stupid questions. For being my friend… Ameliah, I don’t deserve you. I’ve done nothing for you; all I do is take, take, take. From you, from Tallheart... I’m making both of you do all the work, and I can’t even… I want to be able to give you something back, but the only thing I could think of is a book, and it’s going to take me too long to—“

“Stop,” Ameliah said, cutting him off.

Rain stopped, breathing heavily as he stared at her.

“Do you really believe that?”

“What?”

“That you have nothing to offer,” Ameliah said, shaking her head. “You always do that. Talk down about yourself. You might not see it, Rain, but you’ve given me more than…” She looked away, her throat feeling suddenly tight. She hadn’t been prepared for this conversation.

“More than what?” Rain asked, sounding similarly affected.

“You’ve given me a home, Rain,” Ameliah said, meeting his eyes. “Tallheart, too. I’m sure he feels the same way. I have friends now. You, Tallheart, Jamus…the others. I haven’t had friends since…” She shook her head. “So stop it. Stop saying you haven’t given me anything. Now come on. I didn’t come in here to share my feelings. There’s work to be done.”

“I—” Rain began, rubbing at his neck. “No, you’re right. This isn’t the time for this. I need to go talk to… When did you move the door?”

Ameliah laughed, pulling aside the curtain that led to the room where Rain had stashed his desk. The wooden door that had been in the bedroom was now in here, leading out to the company hall. Additionally, there was another curtained passage on the far wall that led to the room she’d made for Tallheart. Some sheets of paper were scattered across the floor, having been blown off the table by the wind overnight.

“What?!” Rain gasped. He pulled free of her hand and rushed for them, falling to his knees. “How did this happen?!”

Ameliah’s brows knit together in confusion. Those papers, she knew, were nothing. It was just the ‘ruined’ sheets that Rain had left piled on the desk. The important stuff was with Vanna, who was still trying to make sense of the intimidatingly thick stack of rules he’d left her to sort through. Despite this, Rain looked as if he’d been personally attacked. As Ameliah watched, he scrabbled across the floor like a rat, collecting the papers as he muttered to himself.

She narrowed her eyes. “Rain?”

“Hmm?” Rain said, not looking at her.

She shook her head. “Have you noticed that you’ve been acting a bit…odd?”

“Odd how?” Rain asked, standing with an armful of papers. He moved to the table, then placed them down and began straightening them into a neat stack.

Ameliah gestured vaguely. “Odd like hanging blankets on the walls and sending Mlem to buy potted plants because they ‘tie the room together’. Odd like asking Tallheart to reforge a fork because one of the tines was slightly longer than the others.” She gave him a pointed look. “Odd like having a fit over a pile of trash on the floor.”

Rain blinked, looking up. “He told you about the fork?”

Ameliah nodded. “People have been noticing things, Rain. I thought it was just you trying to cope with what happened, but…are you okay?”

“I…no, I’m not okay, but I’m getting there.” He hesitated. “What are you trying to say?”

“Hmm,” Ameliah said to herself, walking over to the desk. She picked up the topmost page from the newly straightened pile, glanced at it to make sure it wasn’t anything actually important, then crumpled it up and tossed it on the floor.

Rain’s eyes widened as if he’d just watched her kick a puppy, and he dove after it.

“What did you do that for?!”

“To prove a point,” Ameliah said. “It’s trash, Rain.”

“No, it can be recycled!” He snapped, flattening the paper out on the ground. “Damn, it’s all crumpled now…”

“Rain, that level of reaction isn’t normal, no matter how expensive that paper is,” Ameliah said. “When you were in your soul…was there anything different? Anything that wasn’t supposed to be there?”

“I…what?” Rain asked, still fussing over the sheet of paper. With a visible effort, he looked up. “I told you about the mana mist. That’s pretty different.”

Ameliah shook her head. “Not like that. Something else. Something familiar.”

“I…don’t think so?” Rain said, getting up. He looked at the stack, perfectly aligned with the desk, then at the crumpled sheet in his hand, then back at her. His eyes widened as he made the connection.

Ameliah nodded. “Revive Bound Monster. Monster Taming, tier two.”

Rain sat hard against the side of the desk, letting the page fall to the ground. “That’s— I don’t have—no, that can’t be possible, can it? Maybe… Yes. If the system has a provision for it…then…”

Ameliah nodded. “There’s a hole in your paling, right? What if that let Dozer get into your soul somehow, after he died, even though you don’t have the skill. Now he’s… I don’t know. Influencing you somehow. Making you want to clean and sort things.”

“The link!” Rain gasped, pushing himself up off the desk. “The link is still there, Ameliah, but it isn’t leading anywhere! That’s just like when I was trying to find the link between my body and my soul! I can’t just follow it because it isn’t going to any one spot. It’s everywhere! Dozer’s not dead, he’s…blended up with the rest! I just need to strain him out of the chaos, and then…shit, how can I build him a new body without the skill?”

“One step at a time, Rain,” Ameliah said, laying a hand on his shoulder. “And don’t…” she shook her head. “You should prepare yourself in case we’re wrong. Some things ARE impossible.”

Rain shook his head stubbornly. “No! Depths take my eyes and call me a fool! I didn’t even realize how I’ve been acting!” He blindsided her with another hug, squeezing hard enough that she had to exhale sharply. Had she been unawakened, she would’ve likely had a few broken ribs from the experience. “Thank you, Ameliah! Thank you! I need to—”

There was a knock at the door, which opened before either of them could react. Romer entered, carrying Nibs in his arms. “Rain, Staavo wants to know—” He stopped, blinking. “Oops. I’ll, uh…come back later.”

Rain laughed, releasing Ameliah and dashing for the bedroom, ignoring Romer completely.

“Um…” Romer said awkwardly, “What just happened? Is he okay?”

“He’s fine,” Ameliah said, smiling.

He’s fine.
