All of this is confusing as hell. At least things are stable enough now that I can actually think down here. I just wish I had someone to explain any of this to me. Aren’t I supposed to have found myself a Dumbledore by this point? What kind of fantasy adventure is this, anyway? I demand a refund.

Rain wobbled again. Bah. He gently nudged his thoughts in a more productive direction, reviewing what he’d learned so far.

Things had been straightforward at first. He’d reformed the Bastion without issue and then repeated his trick, bringing himself up to two essence. Another conversion got him to three, and then another to four. At that point, he’d tried purifying two essence at once and had failed horribly. Undeterred, he’d started again, this time trying to skip three and go straight to four, intent on doubling each time. That had failed even harder, and after a few more fruitless attempts, he’d given it up and resigned himself to adding only one essence at a time.

That had gone swimmingly for a while, with each conversion being easier than the last, but then, things had started to get…weird.

As he’d neared one hundred units of essence, the concepts of light, darkness, and color had begun seeping into his reality. Rain didn’t have eyes, but that didn’t seem to matter. Somehow, he could see anyway. Essence was matte white, while the chaos was a violent puke-orange kind of color. Void was black, smoky, and yet somehow transparent. It was odd.

His point of view—mind, consciousness, core, whatever—had become more defined. Before the appearance of color, he’d been able to perceive everything in the Bastion in a blurry omniscient sort-of way. Now, his vision was locked to a single point and direction, bringing him the ability to see detail but narrowing his focus. The gradual transition between the two had been disconcerting, to say the least.

His core was now acting like a physical thing. It had inertia, everyone’s favorite property of matter, and it glowed vibrantly, the color changing to reflect his thoughts. The glowing was a good thing, as he saw it. Light couldn’t exist without the concept of darkness, and it sure was dark in here.

All of that was strange, sure, but not really a problem. He was still able to manipulate the essence-matter with his perspective locked; the way that he did it had merely changed. Now it was more like…reaching out with invisible hands. He’d pull a bubble of chaos in through the wall, then squeeze it like a lemon until the void dripped free and he was left with a glob of essence.

The problem had come in when the void itself began to change its nature. At first, it had exerted pressure, inflating the bubble he’d built like a balloon. At around two hundred units, however, that had started to change. It had begun acting more like, well, nothing. To his perception, it had lost the feeling of having color, becoming transparent in truth. It had quickly worsened to the point that Rain had feared the Bastion would crumple like a submarine at the bottom of the Marianas Trench. To prevent that, he’d shrunk it down, thickening the walls.

Unfortunately, that hadn’t worked so well.

The Bastion’s stability seemed to correlate not only to the strength of the outer wall but also to the volume it enclosed. The smaller it was, the more it shuddered in response to his thoughts. When he made it bigger, the outer wall became too weak to stand up to the turbulent chaos. It began bending and rattling like aluminum siding in a hurricane. Not good.

To get around the issue, he’d shrunk the Bastion down as much as he dared, then spent a few hours trying to think as little as possible while he played with essence matter. Getting it to hold a shape had been the real difficulty. Once he’d finally managed to make beams that didn’t melt when he looked away, he’d spent another few hours welding a bunch of them together into a geodesic dome inside the Bastion’s outer skin.

This idea wasn’t anything new to him. In tenth-grade geometry, he’d given a presentation titled: Applications of the Tensegrity Vacuum Bottle in Fantasy Airship Design. He’d gotten an A.

He’d also gotten made fun of by the popular kids, but that was neither here nor there.

What mattered was that the pattern of triangles allowed you to build a stronger sphere using less material. It meant he could keep expanding the Bastion, pushing through the inflection point created by the loss of void pressure until the square-cube law took over once more. It was a shame that the added complexity made expanding the structure a giant pain in the ass.

Fortunately, Rain wasn’t working with that many polygons yet. While it was true that his sphere did look a bit like PS1 Hagrid, the structure was working. It was even strong enough now that he didn’t need to use each piece of converted essence immediately. At present, there were several dozen globules of it floating haphazardly in the mist, waiting their turn to be added to the triangular webbing.

Rain bobbed up and down uncertainly as he considered them. Should I add some cross-bracing? I wanted to get to a thousand units, but this might be enough. I just need this damn thing to hold together when I leave so I can come back and work on it again…

Exerting his will on one of the beams, Rain watched as the whole structure flexed alarmingly, conveying an ominous creaking noise despite his lack of ears.

Damn it.

He relaxed, removing the pressure.

I don’t think it’s there yet. I just wish I had some frame of reference. Is five hundred units a lot? How much chaos is out there, exactly? For all I know, I could stay in here for ten thousand years and not even unblock my first wood meridian.

Pink light flickered as Rain laughed at his own joke.

His thoughts were strange in here. Without his pesky physical body and all those icky hormones, his emotions flowed freely. He couldn’t really have a mood. Instead, he could shift from happy to sad to angry in an instant, depending only on what he was thinking about.

There was an advantage to existing as a being of pure thought. He could be sad, yes, but depressed? Not really. He didn’t have a brain, and thus it couldn’t wallow in a vat of misery juice for hours on end. Time would tell if that would remain true as he converted more and more essence.

Rain wiggle-shrugged.

Speaking of hours on end, it’s been…some number of them.

Damn, it would be nice if this place ran on soultime, but I tested that weeks ago. No such luck.

HUD!

…

Balls. Still nothing.

Rain’s color faded to a fearful blue.

How much longer do I have until someone wakes me up? I’ve made some fantastic progress… I don’t want to lose it all and have to start again, and I must be almost out of time.

He wobbled.

Maybe this is the wrong approach. If I’m going to lose all this anyway, what I should be doing is trying to understand. That way, I can do things faster next time. For example, what the hell is this damn mist supposed to be?

Focusing again on his surroundings, he paused. The mist had definitely gotten thicker since he’d first noticed it. That had been while he’d been trying to figure out how to stick two essence beams together. Its appearance seemed to be a function of time, more so than the quantity of essence he’d converted. At first, he’d thought it had been some of the chaos leaking in, but that wasn’t it. The chaos had a flavor, and that flavor could best be described as rage. The mist, on the other hand, tasted like…

Grape? Maybe raspberry?

Pink light flickered again as Rain laughed, spinning in a happy circle. He froze, gawping in golden wonder at the spiraling vortex that this had created. It was easier to see patterns in the smoke now that it was getting thicker.

He summarily promoted it to fog.

It almost seems like… Hang on a damn minute!

Rain stopped moving, then waited. The fog gradually calmed, but not completely. Even after he counted to sixty, it was still moving. Squinting as hard as a formless point of thought could squint, he swept his gaze around in a circle, then up and down. The fog was wafting gently away from him in all directions, despite the fact that he was completely motionless.

It’s coming from me! I was right! As I build structure, things start to emerge. My core is generating this stuff!

…

Is this what mana looks like inside the soul? I…don’t….hmm.

Hmm.

Hmmmmmmmm.

Okay, so I’m a glowing point of light that thinks and generates mana…

…and I live inside a domain that is really just more of me in a different form…

…

Am…

Am I a lair?

Rain flashed orange with irritation.

No! Never mind that! That’s silly. Damn it, even disembodied, I can’t stay on topic!

He did a few playful swoops to clear out his thoughts, then returned his focus to the problem at hand.

So this mist, I’ll assume it’s mana. It follows that there’s health-mist and stamina-mist too. All of that would be…where? All blended up with the chaos outside? What about my attributes like Strength and so forth? They’re properties of my soul, too, right? Shouldn’t they exist in here as…something? Or are those properties of my core? And what the hell is essence anyway? Is it experience? If not, what’s the difference? Where are my skills in this? I can still feel the patterns with Mana Manipulation back in my body, but I’ve never seen anything like that in here. Do skills live in the body and not the soul, or are they here and just too scrambled for me to see them? Are there other things mixed up in the chaos? Accolades, maybe? What about those damn trauma land mines I’ve been making out of my memories? Where are those?!

Rain blazed with scarlet frustration.

I HAVE SO MANY QUESTIONS!

The Bastion groaned, and one of the beams began to buckle under the pressure. Frantically, Rain pressed his core against it, shoving it back into place and holding it there until the horrible noise stopped. Wafting himself away, he admonished himself for his stupidity.

Ugh! This is confusing, and I hate it! I miss the system. It might not have had an instruction manual either, but I at least had some numbers to look at. All this metaphysical bullshit is driving me insane! As soon as I get blue boxes working in here, I’m building an essence panel or something… Ooh, maybe I can do that from outside.

…

I’m distracted again, aren’t I?

Rain let himself sink down to the bottom of the sphere, suddenly sad. His light turned blue, deepening and taking on a purple tinge.

I miss Dozer.

With a thought, he pulled all of the globs of essence with him, pretending like gravity existed, though it didn’t as of yet. He spent a few minutes glumping them together into a single blob. This only made his color deepen further, and in a fit of crimson rage, he kicked it away. Moments later, he was back to the sunny yellow of curiosity as he watched its passage through the mist.

So, this maybe-mana stuff. How can I tell that’s really what it is? I can’t access the system, so I can’t activate spells from in here like I could in soulspace. Damn. If I could do that, I could just try using some mana to see if it got used up.

Hmm.

It shouldn’t be JUST mana, right? If I’m right and my core is generating this fog, then it should actually be health, stamina, and mana, all mixed together, just much less of the other two. Can I filter it somehow? I could check the ratio to confirm—

What was that?

“Rain.” Ameliah sighed, walking over to the side of the bed. Gently, she placed a hand on Rain’s shoulder. “Hey. Wake up.” When he didn’t react, she jostled him slightly. “It’s time to get out of bed. Weren’t you the one who was complaining about there being too much to do? You’re really going to sleep all day?”

Rain’s head flopped to the side bonelessly. He still hadn’t shown a single sign that he’d heard her, and Ameliah’s face froze, concern worming its way into her mind. Urgently, she pressed her head against his chest, listening for—there it was. A heartbeat.

She sighed, closing her eyes. She raised her head, then shifted her weight so she was sitting on the edge of the bed.

“Come on, Rain. I need you to wake—“

Rain spasmed, almost tossing her off the bed as his body bucked beneath the blanket, his spine arching like a bridge over a narrow river. After a moment, he fell back to the bed, then groaned. He lifted a hand to his face, covering his eyes.

“Wow, okay. Didn’t miss this.”

“Rain?” Ameliah asked, leaning over him, having recovered from the shock. “Are you alright?”

Rain jerked again, opening his eyes. “Woah! Ameliah! You scared me!”

Ameliah snorted. “No, you’ve got that backward. You scared me. What the depths was that just now?”

“I—sorry. I was in my soul.” Rain hesitated, then grinned. “Ameliah, it was amazing! I figured out how to split the chaos into void and essence more than once, then I found a way to shape essence, then I made a geodesic sphere, and then there was this mist which I think was mana and…sorry.” He chuckled, then grunted, laboriously pushing himself up into a sitting position. “Maybe I should start with ‘good morning’.”

Ameliah smiled. This is the most Rain Rain’s been in weeks. “What did you not miss?”

“Huh?”

“It was the first thing you said when you woke up.”

“Oh.” Rain ran a hand through his hair, activating Purify moments later. “The headache. It was gone down there. I’ve had it for so long now that I’d almost forgotten what it was like to be without it.” He sighed. “It was nice. I was making some real progress.”

“I shouldn’t have disturbed you then,” Ameliah said, biting her lip.

Rain shook his head. “No, it’s fine. If anything, you should have woken me up hours ago. I’ll work on my soul more later. Wix wasn’t built overnight.”

Ameliah stood, allowing Rain to free himself from the blanket, then offered him a hand to help him to his feet. It hurt just watching him in the mornings, sometimes. She could barely imagine what he must be going through with his soul as damaged as it was. She looked up at the mid-morning sky for a moment and was caught by surprise as he suddenly wrapped his arms around her. She quickly returned the embrace, closing her eyes. It felt much better than it had yesterday, now that her soulstrain had faded away.

“Thank you,” Rain said into the side of her neck.

Ameliah released him, tilting her head as they broke apart. “For what?”

