Hod ended up eating until he was swollen. A large part of that must have been his eldritch half, spurring him towards consumption. Krog, Kessiah, Chrona, and Schema's personnel exchanged war stories. Kessiah mentioned how she tackled a Hybrid off of Krog at one point.

It was inspiring to hear how far she'd come.

At the same time, I stayed as an outsider during it all. It was the role of a leader in some ways, being viewed as different and being unable to mingle. On the other hand, Torix was the same, though for different reasons.

He stared longingly at the food, something he desperately desired. After a few minutes, he shook his head,

"It is a sad thing to lose a sense. Though at first, I thought little of the delights of feasting, I must admit - it does pain me to watch it so closely."

I shrugged, "I was never one for eating."

Torix scoffed, "You've nearly eaten all of my rations, in fact."

I scoffed, "I don't know if I'll eat after they're gone. I don't need food anymore."

Torix nodded, "Perhaps one day you'll find yourself desiring food once more. Do me a favor and enjoy it enough for two should the urge strike you."

"Will do."

We watched the others enjoy themselves for a few more minutes. I turned towards Torix,

"There aren't many more gialgathens we can save, are there?"

Torix stared forward,

"Few remain."

I nodded, "Yeah, I guessed as much. They've nearly finished the Hybridization of them all. We aren't saving people as much as culling their numbers some before Giess's glassing."

"That is our intended purpose, outside of saving who we can. It's unfortunate we couldn't have saved more, though we did what we could given our resources. I'd say we did a miraculous amount of work considering."

Torix's eyes turned from blue to black,

"At the same time, we made enemies with a rather potent enemy faction. We may come to regret it."

I sighed, "I'll be honest, it made me sick to my stomach thinking about it sometimes." I gestured to the others,

"When I look at this though, it makes me feel better."

Hod did a bouncing dance to a backdrop of music, his swollen belly bouncing to the beat.

Torix scoffed, "Ah, yes, the most excellent of energizers. I feel so rejuvenated seeing Hod do...whatever that is."

I remembered why Hod had his mind so shattered. I murmured,

"Hey man, try to give him a break. He's doing the best he can."

Torix stared at me, making sure I was serious. After seeing I was, he went back to staring forward. He sighed, "Well...perhaps you're right."

Another moment of comfortable silence passed. Under the surface, both of us wished to get to work. Even taking this much of a break irked me. The others here were unchained from the drudgery of their everyday. We were, in turn, chained to this freedom, each of us itching for more.

I crossed my arms, "How many more sieges do we have left before the glassing?"

Torix deadpanned, staring forward while planning them,

"Three."

I pushed myself off the stone floor, turning towards him, "They won't plan themselves, will they?"

Torix flicked his wrist up, pushing himself up with magic,

"I doubt they would. Perhaps we should intervene?"

"Let's."

I turned towards his temple lair, walking up the steps. Torix followed, each of us ready for a long night ahead. As we passed the halfway point, a call opened in my status. I went to hang up, but I decided to check the caller on a whim.

My eyes widened as the name revealed itself.

"Obolis Novas, huh? I wonder what he wants."

Torix leaned over, "Ah, I do as well."

I pointed towards the temple's entrance,

"Well, let's find out."
