Personally, I don’t see the big deal. If they don’t wanna chit-chat, then I won’t force the issue, but there’s undoubtedly something important about this response that I’m not picking up on. It might have something to do with how I verbally eviscerated Ken-Shibu and Gulong and no one wants to risk it, but I’m a little bummed out, because I came prepared to mock and insinuate, not win a popularity contest. I expected to be repeatedly challenged by some idiot or the other, but aside from Yari Tetsudo’s half-hearted attempt, the young idiots of the Empire have left me well enough alone. Oddly enough, a good number of those snubbing me are still trying to ingratiate themselves with my staunchest allies, not just Nian Zu, Yuzhen, and Marshal Yo, but with Zian, BoShui, Taewoong, and even Taduk of all people. Weird, but again, I neither mind nor understand what the big problem is, so I mentally shrug and soldier on.

And before I know it, the banquet is finally over and done with, leaving me free to go visit the Legate. Unlike entering, everyone is free to leave in whatever order they please, but I bring Mom and everyone else aside to let them know about my upcoming meeting. I had to commit a faux pas and put up a Sound Barrier to do it, but I don’t think the big kahuna would take kindly to word of our meeting getting out, else he wouldn’t have gone to so much trouble having his Seneschal tell me through Sending.

None too pleased by the news, Mom scrunches her nose in an adorably squirrelly manner, which sets me to hoping I one day get to meet a half-squirrel. “I do not like this,” she says, fixing my perfectly straight collar to settle her nerves. “It would be all too easy to have you killed in a dark corner somewhere and lay the blame on some footpad or ruffian.”

“As if anyone would believe I was killed by a thief.” Taking her hands to offer reassurance, I smile and explain, “The instructions were to come alone, but that doesn’t include the Death Corps, so I’ll have them to keep me safe from footpads and ruffians lurking about in the heart of the Citadel.”

“A bold boy you are, mocking your mother like this.” Flicking my hands aside so she can pinch my cheeks, Mom glares around at the other guests in obvious displeasure. “I am understandably apprehensive after tonight’s reception, so I will thank you not to make light of this. This banquet was hardly worthy of a hero’s honour. You were a bystander at best, and inconsequential at worst, only saying a handful of words with no one mentioning any of your various contributions.”

“I thought things went fine. I mean, no one tried to outright murder me, and that’s already better than most public events I attend.”

“Things are not so simple, Lord Husband.” Coming to my rescue once more, Luo-Luo explains, “By ignoring you all night, your opponents have shown they no longer intend to give you face, which bodes ill for our cause.”

“Right. No face for me. That would be... terrible? Because...?”

“Because face is bestowed not only to the individual, but to a community as a whole,” Luo-Luo explains, repeating something Dad once told me. “By outright ignoring you, they are not giving face to the Imperial Clan, which is almost unheard of. Their disdain is a carefully crafted message, one that says they do not recognize your Imperial Peerage, and thus do not see you as someone worth interacting with. This is not solely about you, but your title, and they are collectively working as a group to force your Patron to action. When Shen Zhen Wu hears of this, he must either treat their lack of face as a calculated insult to the Imperial Clan and publicly support you, or ignore it and tacitly admit your title is of no value.”

“Oh. Well...” Fuck. Right, right, right, I forgot this whole banquet wasn’t about me. I mean, it’s hard not to feel that way with my life on the line and everything, but there is more to this whole shindig than my continued existence. The gathered nobles and merchants want to know if Imperial Peerage is really worth it before they commit to a side, so they’re forcing the Legate to take a stance. Damn me if that isn’t a ballsy move, but at least now they’ll know if my title is worth anything. As an Imperial Consort, I am either an Imperial Scion afforded all the rights and respect as any other Imperial Scion, or Imperial Consort is an empty title and I’m just Falling Rain. Personally, I’m not entirely sure which outcome I would prefer. On the one hand, being an Imperial Scion has its perks, especially if I had the Legate’s backing to force the issue. On the other hand, I would like nothing more than to wash my hands of all this Imperial Clan nonsense and head back to the village to recuperate, or even just stay in the Northern Citadel without fear of being assassinated as a slap to someone’s face.

So I guess this is why the Legate wants to see me, because he expected this power move. I suppose it’s also why he cut out early, so he wouldn’t have to make a decision on the fly and look weak. I hope he doesn’t want a list of names or anything, because I totally didn’t keep track. Luo-Luo knows, but the Seneschal was very clear about me coming alone. With nothing left for me to do, I pass Pong Pong over to Mom, say goodbye to Ping Ping and everyone once again, and head deeper into the building with the Death Corps in tow, all the while praying this isn’t the last time I see my family.

And to think, right up until a few minutes ago, I thought the banquet had gone pretty well. Shows how much I know.

I just hope that lady luck smiles down on me from high above, because the Mother sure as shit hasn’t been looking out for me.

...Sorry, just kidding, don’t smite me please.

Chapter Meme
