In the other provinces, this would pretty much be par for the course, but to the glory-hungry ladder climbers of Central, this sort of mindset is almost unheard of. Everyone does what they can to make the connections required to score that next promotion, to the point where Central’s army is bloated with useless Field and General Officers. Hopefully Hongji’s example inspires more soldiers to follow his example, but I doubt it.

Also, not to toot my own horn, but he’s not wrong to thank me for his success. It’s not just the fire-trap and other ideas I passed along, but also because the introduction of cheap cast iron helped speed construction along to the point where we had more labourers than materials for them to work with. Since the workers had nothing better to do, the powers-that-be set them to putting up rammed-earth fortifications all along the front lines, which again were only possible because we could build them around an iron skeletal framework.

So yea, you could say I gave the Empire a huge advantage in this war by making cast iron readily available, but sadly, no one seems to really care. All they talk about is how I made a vast fortune doing it, most of which went into funding the Tyrant’s ill-fated experiments...

After hearing about his family (who are conspicuously absent) and exchanging news about Rustram and Major Sun Qiang (who recovered from his injury and recently scored a promotion to Lieutenant Colonel), I finally turn to greet the Sword King. “Apologies Colonel General Ryo, in all my excitement, I’d forgotten my manners.”

“Hmph. Forgotten manners are easily forgiven, but what of forgotten protocol?” Interrupting with a pointed snort, Mitsue Juichi studies his long, painted nails with far too much interest before continuing in a piercing falsetto which is utterly at odds with his burly, barrel-chested figure. “Even as low as my expectations were, you still somehow managed to slink underneath. Think carefully, and perhaps you might remember that despite our equal ranks, I hold seniority here, which means...?”

“Ah of course. My apologies, for I meant no disrespect.” Not true, but it still needs to be said. “Greetings, Colonel General Mitsue. I am pleased to make your acquaintance.”

“That makes one of us then.” Still refusing to pay me any attention, Juichi continues studying his nails. They’re very long and painted prettily, but I have no idea how he holds his honking big maces hanging from his bejewelled belt without digging his nails into his palms. Maybe he doesn’t, because he certainly isn’t dressed for battle, wearing several layers of ornate, multi-hued robes and so much jewellery he could open his own store.

I’m still not quite sure what to make of this oldest Colonel General. Like so many others of Central, he dresses ostentatiously with face-paint and long feathers aplenty, which really kills the whole ‘deadliest warrior’ vibe. Despite the makeup and puffy clothes, it’s hard to ignore his chubby cheeks and rotund paunch, not to mention the many, many wrinkled lines on his aged, spotted skin, all signs of a man well past his prime. I mean, I kinda figured as much, seeing as how the dude is a hundred and eight years old, but compared to his contemporaries, Juichi seems to have let himself go quite a bit. Where Grandpa Du and the Seneschal are the very picture of a grizzled old veterans, Juichi looks more like a kindly old grandfather who likes to dress real fancy and has put on a little weight, a joyful, artistic spirit who I’ve somehow sorely disappointed.

Don’t feel bad for him. He’s been badmouthing you all week dude. So what if he lost a nephew and a Disciple? That doesn’t mean he can talk shit about you.

Knowing this could horribly backfire and end in horrific bloodshed, I decide it’s probably worth the risk and go ahead with it anyways. “My condolences on your loss, Colonel General Juichi.” Despite my efforts to sound heartfelt and genuine, Juichi’s gaze is ripped away from his nails and settles on me instead, and I can almost feel his bloodthirst pressing down on me from above. “Although we might not have been friends, I was honoured to serve beside Hideo, and the Empire is lessened by his loss.”

For long seconds, Juichi stands utterly still as the heat of his anger pours off his broad, bulky frame, and I wonder how I could have ever thought he’d let himself go. A little flab, a couple of wrinkles, and long, painted nails won’t get in his way if he wants to reduce me to a meat paste, and considering Ryo Dae Jung just signalled his wife to step back, I’m not sure the youngest Colonel General could stop him either. “You,” Juichi hisses, packing the pronoun full with all his venom and hatred, “Are not worthy to speak his name. Not after what you’ve done.”

Well... this is going great.

I can see why he doesn’t believe me though, since it seems like I purposefully targeted Hideo back during the Grand Conference, but in my defence, it’s not like I intended to shame him. We all picked lots and Hideo was unlucky enough to face off against Dastan. It could have been any one of us, myself included, but I don’t think this counts for much in Juichi’s eyes. Intentions mean nothing, and it’s results that matter, and the result was Dastan defeated Hideo, shaming Mentor and Disciple both.

So I guess Juichi will never stop hating me now. Butting in when he tried to take Taewoong as a Disciple a few minutes ago probably didn’t help either, but rather than apologize, which would be wrong and look weak, I simply salute and offer my condolences once more. Since there’s no point in continuing the conversation, I simply greet the Sword King a second time, which judging by Luo-Luo’s fingers tensing around my bicep was probably rude and uncalled for, but Juichi hates me already, so it hardly matters.

Or so I think, until I realize Dae Jung is trying to decide if he should acknowledge my greeting or leave me hanging in the wind.

...Because I just disrespected a superior officer by ending the conversation without being dismissed. Right. Shit.

What did I say? It’s the familiar unfamiliarities which always trip me up.

“Oh?” There is no enraged outburst or screams of ‘you dare?’, not from the Obsidian Shadow, Mitsue Juichi. Instead, he raises a single, painted eyebrow, and speaks in a quiet, even tone. “So a mere private thinks it his place to dismiss a Colonel General? Such gall.”

The conversations stop all around me, and though I dare not turn around to check, I suspect this little kerfuffle has garnered the entire audience’s attention. Unable to think of a better move, I simply smile and inwardly pray this works out for the best. “I may be a mere private, but this is a social affair, not a military one, which means...” Trailing off just like he did, I shrug and leave it at that. Essentially, I’m pointing out that I’m here in my capacity as Imperial Consort, which means that technically, I stand above a ‘mere’ Colonel General, what with me being an Imperial Noble. However, given the precarious nature of my status, it would be stupid to push the issue, because it could really go either way. The Legate could support me and take Mitsue Juichi down a peg for impugning upon the honour of the Imperial Clan, or he could kick me while I’m down and have me lashed for insubordination.

Knowing this is not the hill he wants to die on, Juichi simply sniffs and shakes his head in muted disapproval. “Such thick skin,” he declares, making no effort to hide his disdain. “Most in your position would be ashamed to brandish title without strength to support it, but I suppose shamelessness is a different sort of strength.”

Scoffing at how ridiculous he sounds, I refrain from pointing out the glaring flaw in his logic out loud and settle for a pointed look at the flustered Watanabe instead. Who says I can’t be subtle? Juichi gets my drift well enough, how his entire family is every bit as shameless as I am, and it does little to endear myself to him, but even he can’t argue that his children are less than exemplary. Personally, I would have thought that if anyone could empathize with my position, it’d be Mitsue Juichi himself, because without a Peak Expert to stand up for them, the Mitsue Family will fall once he’s gone.

Pain and affection intermingle in his eyes as Juichi tears his gaze away from his son. “Such is life,” he whispers. “Might makes right.”

“Where might is master, justice is servant,” I quote, though I’ll be damned if I remember where it’s from, and for a moment, it feels like I might have gotten through to Juichi. In a just world, his wealth would pass down to his children and the law would protect them, but here in reality, Juichi’s allies and enemies will divide the spoils amongst themselves the moment he bites the dust, and if he’s lucky, his children will be left with just enough to get by. Might does not make right, it only oppresses the will of others, but once that oppression disappears, well... payback is a bitch.

Then, Juichi looks away and waves a hand in outright dismissal. This could be seen as him giving face, or it could be construed as uncertainty as to how far my patron’s goodwill will stretch, but either way, it allows me to safely wander off to greet the Sword King’s wife, Jeong Hyo-Lynn, a lovely and intimidating woman who terrifies me to no end. Now, my actions have shown I’m still willing to lean on my Imperial title, and it’s about damn time it was good for something, but it still takes a few minutes before Luo-Luo finally relaxes her death grip. Pong Pong, being the cautious coward he is, is tucked neatly inside my collar and behind my neck, no doubt intending to use me as a physical barrier between him and anyone who might threaten him. Honestly, I kinda wish we were having these conversations on the ground, because then Ping Ping would be happily hovering around.

Then again, I don’t think I’d ever recover if she’s injured or killed while keeping me safe. Floofs are friends, not warriors, and were it not for me, Ping Ping and Pong Pong would be happily splish splashing away in their choice of pond.

After making my rounds through the guests of honour, I resist the urge to check in on Watanabe and see if I’ve got a promotion coming, though I sincerely doubt it. At the very least, I would like to not be a soldier anymore and get Dastan’s death sentence lifted. He and his people all seemed resigned to their deaths, but that’s no way to live a life, especially not in this world where depression comes bundled with malevolent and murderous ghosts. I’ve yet to see Dastan smile since we returned from Sinuji, and for good reason too. Of the hundred warriors who pledged themselves to his service in Sanshu, there are now only a mere six survivors, with a good twenty-six of them lost just over two weeks prior in defence of Sinuji. Now here they are at a banquet meant to honour their efforts, to honour the sacrifice their comrades’ made, yet not a single stranger will ever appreciate what they’ve done or suffered through, for no other reason besides the fact that they’re slaves. Instead of enjoying the food and festivities, Dastan, Sahb, Camsul, Saida, Balta, Rithy, and Khin have been standing at full attention and watching my back because I can’t trust the Death Corps guards in the Legate’s presence.

It’s a bum deal, and the worst part is, there’s nothing I can do to help them besides dig myself out of the political snake pit I stumbled into exactly one year ago today.

To do this, I need the support of my allies, so I step down from the stage and begin the most exhausting portion of the night: the mingling. Marshal Yo is my first target of the night, as it would be insulting to approach anyone else first. That said, this shouldn’t stop others from approaching me, so it comes as something of a surprise when I make it to the Marshal’s side unaccosted. I’m not complaining, it’s just weird, because even if the other guests are giving face to the Marshal, there should be other, less friendly bystanders trying to pick a fight, especially considering how the first few rows had been packed with Mitsue family sympathizers.

And at the very least, Nian Zu should’ve smiled or something, or you know... not ignored me...

As the night wears on, I notice a growing trend of people outright ignoring me, which on the whole I do not mind at all, save for the few times it happened when I walked up to greet someone. Dienne at least flashes me an apologetic shrug before turning away, and I’m not shameless enough to ask the back of his head for a favour. The other Southern delegates are even less cordial, carrying on their conversations as if I’d never spoken up, while a few of Central’s people also do the same. Strange that everyone would pick the cold-shoulder as their weapon of choice in this diplomatic war of words, but it beats verbally fencing with people I barely know and have no reason to like. Luo-Luo doesn’t see things the same way though, as she grows visibly more agitated with each snub we encounter, but I have no way to ask her without being looked down on by everyone in the freaking Empire.

