“Aye, but at least you're still breathing. Defeat seems to be a common theme of late. Lost Kaliyan and a few others, but our former guard captain survived, running away with his tail tucked between his legs.” At Yo Ling’s taunt, Jianghong’s eyes flashed with anger, his hand jerking towards his sword hilt before catching himself. Ignoring the danger, Yo Ling turned his back to them both and strode to the rail, looking over his army of Butchers. Raising his voice to a booming echo, he spoke to everyone present. “You’ve all disappointed me these past few days. A city primed and ready for the taking, yet we’re still stuck in this first district, something the enemy gave up without a fight. Disgraceful.”

The silence was deafening as every warrior in earshot stopped what they were doing, their full attention given to Yo Ling. Glancing slowly across the crowd, every eye turned away from his gaze, too ashamed to meet his eye. “You can make excuses all you want, blame it on all the riffraff coming out to defend Sanshu, but I know your measure, and so far, you have been found lacking. I look out from this balcony, and you know what I see?”

Monsters. A small voice in Gen’s mind piped up but he ignored it without thought, hanging onto Yo Ling’s every word. “I see my Butchers, my comrades, my conquering army. Some of you worry we’ve been trapped inside the city now that the Marshal’s little pet is at our door, but I tell you, you’re wrong. Some of you gaze upon our enemies and despair, seeing soldiers, guards, Corsairs, Militia, and Bekhai all arrayed against us. I tell you again, you are wrong, but talk is cheap.”

Leaping from the balcony, Yo Ling landed with a heavy crash, brandishing his mace with a grin. “Come my comrades,” he roared, pointing to the north. “Beginning with our oldest rivals, the Crossbone Corsairs, we will destroy our enemies one by one, and before the sun sets tonight, Sanshu will be ours. Let us show the traitor surnamed Liu the error of his ways. For Butcher Bay!”

“For Butcher Bay!”

Leading the way, Yo Ling marched towards the northern bridge, lifting the mood and dispelling all doubts through sheer charisma, a general leading his troops to victory. Emerging from the shadows, a half-dozen Transcendents surrounded him, an honour guard for the greatest warrior of his generation. Gen's heart soared at the sight and he leaped down to join them, though far less gracefully. Knowing they would need Bei’s strength, he sent her away to heal her wounds, instructing her to return with all haste.

This was history in the making, and Gen was lucky enough to see it with his own eyes.

Chapter Meme
