294 (II)

Path of the Chefless [I]

In the end, Radio found itself assigned as an aide to one Sister Quartermaster Mira Kulvens, Siggy’s friend, who Shiv was honestly surprised had survived all the shit that had gone down in the gate since Shiv had waltzed into the Republic consulate a few weeks ago and taken her hostage. He, meanwhile, continued his campaign to help the Gate in whatever way he could. His legions of logistical golems swept through the refugee quarter near the surface gateway. Implanted with Aegis of Assimilation on top of his Physicality skill, Shiv and his golems provided healing and support wherever they went.

Afterward, he helped deal with some of the overflowing waste as well. He picked up massive bags filled with refuse and briefly considered heading to the surface and launching them over the horizon into the Pacific Ocean. In the end, he decided to burn the waste instead. It seemed insulting and pointlessly cruel to pollute someone else's living area. The Pacific Ocean was filled with monsters, but even so, Shiv didn't have any intentions of starting a fight with them at present.

Upon completing that chore, he descended from the refugee corner and moved to see how the mercenaries were doing. The Arachnae Order had proven kind and wise as they created a compound for the mercenaries, and they didn't spare that many expenses either. The buildings were of good quality, and their interiors spacious, giving the mercenaries room to wander and places to gather. Shiv found them entertaining themselves in a variety of ways, some playing board or card games, some simply sitting around and chatting, some sparring and wrestling.

However, the moment Shiv approached, the mood within the small community changed. Immediately, heads snapped to attention, and cries rang out declaring the return of the Deathless One.

Time and time again, the hidden World Quest notification made itself known to the people around him, promising invaluable rewards and provoking all other Pathbearers in the area to make an attempt on his life.

No one moved. Shiv hovered in the air and loomed over the many mercenaries. Though they were devoid of weapons, there were still many mages amongst them, and they still had their armor. He knew some of them were considering their odds. But in the end, he was also certain it was just that—intrusive thoughts they would never act upon. What made him so confident were the fear chains extending from them. Near solid chains. Chains that Shiv could drag on at any moment, ripping them from the ground into his grasp, where their fates would be his to decide.

But Shiv didn't come here to inflict any harm. He just watched, bobbing up and down as his Shapeless Tides kept him aloft. He'd been through too much to care about these mercenaries anymore. Whatever he felt toward them after the liberation of Gate Theborn had all but vanished now. He needed to talk with Adam and see to the release of some of them to whatever nations they hailed from. It wasn't wise to keep them inside the Gate indefinitely, and even if Shiv didn't have so many negative thoughts towards them anymore, that didn't mean he trusted them either.

"Get out of the way! Get out of the way!" a feminine voice cried, piercing through the choked silence. The corner of Shiv's lip quirked as he realized who was coming. Siggy pushed her way out between two looming automaton mercenaries, both of them resembling iron bunkers held up by tiny legs. Siggy, meanwhile, had undergone a change of attire since Shiv had last seen her. She had foregone her armor in exchange for a waistcoat. It was a mix of burgundy and blue, and it gleamed bright beneath the azure light of the Gate’s core. Shiv noted that the light curved and poured in unnaturally, even with the refugee quarter built directly over the mercenary compound. Siggy's short legs moved in a blur, and she ran across the open-air gymnasium where most of the mercenaries spent their time. She arrived just under Shiv, and she waved up at him.

"Deathless? Deathless? You don't need to worry! We behaved ourselves!" Her fear chain was a magnitude denser and thicker than all the others. Shiv had left an impression on her, a deep and traumatic one.

Slowly, Shiv descended, and as he did, he collapsed his helmet, revealing his face. He could see her take a step back, see all the other mercenaries bunch up into groups, and slowly retreat. As soon as he landed, Shiv leaned down and smirked fully at the little goblin. "Yeah, I can see that. How you guys doing? Any problems around here? Anything you need done?"

Several mercenaries gawked at him, taken aback by his friendly demeanor. Elves, humans, goblins, Umbrals, and even automata reacted the same way: their bodies tensed, wondering if this was a trick. And in part, it was. Shiv had shown them that he was capable of both generosity and extreme violence, and they had to consider both possibilities. It was his edge when dealing with them, but he didn't want to build a continued relationship on those terms. Eventually, exhaustion would overtake fear, or he would find himself in a situation where they would be granted an opportunity to strike back. Shiv didn't want to be running a prison camp, and he was pretty sure Adam felt the same way.

"Haha, nope!" Siggy said after catching herself, speaking a little too enthusiastically and loudly. "We're perfectly fine here. Everything's been great. The Arachnae Order has been taking care of us. We've had no problems, none whatsoever. Right, guys?" She looked at the other mercenaries, and an agitated glare made them tense all over. "Right?"

An uncoordinated series of confirmations and agreements flowed out from all sides. Some of the mercenaries were nodding so hard that Shiv was worried they might hurt their necks. He let out a breath as he took in the exaggerated display. "Alright, alright. I'm not here to kill or scare any of you. You can relax."

They didn't relax. Shiv didn't blame them.

However, his next words provoked a much more positive reaction. "I am here to bring some good news. You guys will be getting the chance to leave soon. The surfacers can leave through the surface gateway once we get you registered with the Gate Lord. Once he clears you, and if you're ready to go, we'll let you cross through the bunker. Understand that you'll be in Republic territory, and you'll probably have to deal with the Prismatic Guard, though. If you have a problem with them, then I suggest you wait or you leave through the Abyssal gateway, though that might take a while longer—unless you want to risk getting involved in a little war between the orcs and the vampires."

And suddenly, a great many nodding heads turned to desperate shakes. Shiv scoffed. "Yeah, that's what I thought. Anyway, Siggy, if you could do me a favor, gather up all the mercenary leaders, have them write down where they're planning to go, what they need, and if there's anything else we need to know. You give that note to one of the Sisters, and they'll see that the Gate Lord receives it. Oh, and I want to talk with the mercs from Lone Star before they leave. I got a special request for them.”

Shiv immediately spotted the mercenaries in question with how much more fear suddenly flowed across several chains.

"Alright, got it, boss!" Siggy declared breathlessly. But Shiv also detected something else in her voice. A hint of hope that she might soon be free. And that reminded Shiv of why he disliked her so much before. These people were slavers, or a party to slavers. Shiv considered if it was justice simply releasing them, but decided that he didn't want to participate in the System's bloodletting. There was little justice in the world, but he could still do good.

"There is a final thing I want to say to you," Shiv said. Once more, everyone around him tensed. Was now the moment he would unleash his wrath and leave them in ruins? Take one of their lives? Play with them?

Shiv cleared this throat. "I understand what you guys were. I understand what you were doing. Understand that you could have justified it in any number of ways. Slavery is disgusting. That's what I think. And if I run into another slaver, I'll probably kill them all over again. Me letting you go is not forgiveness. Me letting you go is my exhaustion. It's us deciding that we don't want to host a prison camp, which means you get a second chance. Deserve it? Don't deserve it? Doesn't matter. You're getting it. But I'm going to ask you something, as a favor for us giving your lives back to you: Do the right thing next time. Find a better business. You want to make some money? Cool! Just don't make money using someone else's suffering. The world's got enough of that. I hope you understand and remember how easy it was and is for me to hurt and kill you. I didn't do it. Sometimes I thought about it, but I didn't. I don't want to be some monster. I don't want to be some animal. We can be people. All of us. We can make our skills matter. We can use them for something that's good. Compact’s Lords of Law wouldn't have given you this choice. Lord Scorn wouldn't have given you this choice. Most people wouldn't have given you this choice. Don’t make me regret this."

His words rendered the mercenaries glass, just like they did Cripple. Using Rhetoric in tandem with Sticks and Stones felt right. It was more satisfying to make someone brittle with speech alone and leave them shaken. As much as he loathed Veronica, Rhetoric really was a wonderful skill.

Rhetoric 10 > 17

With that said, Shiv gave the wide-eyed Siggy a final nod and blasted up into the air. But the moment he left, he heard her call out to him, asking him to stay, saying that she wanted to tell him something. Shiv didn't. If she wanted to speak with him, she could find him later. He'd done enough service for a day. It was time to fulfill his own needs. It wasn't just the orcs that had an itch to scratch. Just because Shiv didn't want to kill and bleed for the System didn't mean he was beyond a little bloodletting if his allies were more than willing.

He reached the bunker bottlenecking the Tutorial Gateway in little time. And the moment he touched down, he found the Culturist waiting for him, arms folded, a serene smile on his face, and eyes hidden beneath his cowl.

"Culturist," Shiv grunted. “You wanna do some iron-on-iron? I got some time now.”

"Deathless," the orc replied. "There is a new air about you. Gentler, yet also more purposeful. Have you understood something about yourself?"

"It's more like I stopped giving a shit about a bunch of things, especially what the System wants. Listen, I'm planning to head over to the Tutorial. You want to scratch your itch? You wait a while, and I'll be there. But before we get down to the blood and the guts, I'm going to have to do something with my Court Leviathan."

"Want some help?"

Shiv nearly jumped at the new voice coming from behind him. Turning, he found Gone standing there, flanked by Five, Tulveg, and Candles, who was currently more ash than flame. The poor Pyromancer looked and sounded like someone going through withdrawals.

Studying the former prisoners, Shiv raised an eyebrow. "With what? The orc killing or the Court Leviathan?"

"Both, either," Gone said with a shrug. Her fingers twitched. "Tired of standing around, tired of having nothing to do."

Shiv nodded. He could empathize. "Alright, well, I think I'm going to make a kitchen out of a Court Leviathan."

"A kitchen?" Five said, tilting his lupine head like that would help him decipher Shiv's words. "Is this code for something?"

"No, I'm literally going to start a restaurant inside a Court Leviathan. I'm going to fly it across the land. I'm going to cook people food, and they're going to eat inside my Court Leviathan. That's what I'm intending to do in the future."

"And you… intend to do this while the Republic is still hunting you?" Five asked.

"Yep. Doesn't matter, and I don't care."

The Aviary agent blinked. "Well, that's respectable, if a little foolhardy. Are you sure you are alright? You’ve been through a lot.”

"Getting real tired of people asking me that,” Shiv replied. “If that's the response you want to hear.”

Five held up his hands, metallic claws glinting in the light. "I meant no offense, of course."

"You never do, Five," Shiv said with a light sneer. "As far as I'm concerned, you're all free. You can do whatever you want to whomever you want, so long as you are ready to deal with the consequences. If you head over to the Tutorial with me, I won't make you fight the orcs. However, I would appreciate your help with setting up the kitchen."

Rhetoric 17 > 19

"Any of you ever work in a kitchen?" he added.

Gone shook her head, the movement a blur. "Nope. But wouldn't mind trying." She stared at Shiv, and a strange expression played across her face. "Would I get paid?"

That took Shiv off guard. "Yeah, sure, I can pay you. I'll need to figure out how much. I never handled that stuff, but I think Georges' old notes should give me an idea about fair wages and all that." That made Shiv wince. If there was a part of running a kitchen he didn't look forward to, it was wages and other accounting. Shiv wasn't that good at math. He wasn't that good at a lot of things. Still got a lot of skills I need to improve.

Shiv considered the rest of them. "Tulveg, why are you here?"

The Legendary vampire shifted awkwardly, running a hand through his curled, raven-black hair. "Ah, yes. Mettabon's daughter... She is avoiding me. That strange elven Headmaster claims she needs more rest and sends me away when I attempt to speak with her, but I have seen her receiving various other people…"

Shiv pinched the bridge of his nose. "Are you trying to get me to set up a meeting between you and my girlfriend to discuss your sort of romance with her dead mother?"

Tulveg cringed slightly, but nodded.

